

Middlesex Yeomanry
Natoine
P




MIDDLESEX YEOMANRY MAGAZINE
CENSORED MATTER
VOL. I. No. 6.
JUNE, 1918
Foreword
For nearly four years the Colonel has commanded us.
England, Egypt, Gallipoli, Salonika, Palestine; in training, in
the fighting line, resting —whereever we have been and in
whatsoever circumstances, he has done his utmost to give us
the best possible time. We do fully appreciate this, and we
are very grateful for it. We were indeed sorry to bid him
goodbye, feeling that each man lost a personal friend and
the Regiment something of its character with his departure.
We wish him God-speed, and hope that his recall to the
House of Commons augurs a speedy reunion in England.
The photograph on page II is of particular interest. It
represents three Middlesex men who were wounded and
captured on “The Twenty-seventh”. It was taken presumably
by a Turkish photographer in Beersheba or Jerusalem, and
copies were obtained in Jerusalem since the British occupa-
tion, together with photographs of Turkish cavalry operating
in the vicinity of Beersheba—probably the troops opposed to
us at 720 and 630. We hope to reproduce these photographs
in another number.
The Editor.


The late Lt.-Col. O.C. Watson D.5.0., of K.0.Y.L.1., who
displayed the most conspicuous gallantry, self-sacrificing de-
votion to duty, and exceptionally gallant leading during a
period when the enemy were continually attacking and try-
ing to pierce our lines. The position was under constant rifle
and machine-gun fire. Lt.-Col. Watson led the remaining
small reserve to the attack and organised bombing parties,
he leading the attacks under intense fire. Being out-number-
ed he finally ordered a retirement remaining himself to cover,
facing almost certain death. The assault that Lt.-Col. Watson
led saved the line. Lt.-Col. Watson was killed while covering
the withdrawal.
LONDON GAZETTE.
Lt,=Col. O.C Watson, V.C., D.S.O.


Personal
We were glad to find the Colonel’s name in the King’s
Birthday Honours List as the recipient of the Distinguished
Service Order and congratulate him upon this well earned
reward.
All additions to the effective strength of the Regiment are
welcome now-a-days, but particularly so is Maiorß.M. Dawes,
whom many of us knew in the second line.
We regret to have to record the death of Cadet H.W.
Hunt in a flying accident at Ismailia. Our sympathies are
extended to his brother.
Lieut. Watson has been killed in France.
Our one time trumpeter, H. W. Thompson, has been
awarded the Military Medal for carrying despatches under
fire while serving with the Imperial Camel Corps.
Tempera Mutantur
A rosy bower, a rustic seat,
The coo! night air with perfumes sweet,
A summer moon, a world of peace;
A stalwart youth, a winsome maid,
Their feelings by their looks betrayed ;
A shy embrace, a loth release —
An engagement (1913).
A waste of dust, untouched by green,
Crouching soldiers, unkempt, unclean ;
The white sun baking a world of war;
A sharp report, a broken cry,
A smothered groan and then a sigh,
A corpse still warm in a pool of gore —
An engagement (1918).
S.G.H.
3


Stockpot
Truly the march of Science is wonderful, and it is a
privilege for us to have evidence of its progress at our bivvy
doors. One ponders with admiration over the mental grand-
eur of our doctors and sanitary experts, who have evolved the
complicated but marvellously ingenious single ridge system
(which has recently replaced the obsolete four area system)
from the rudimentary methods of previous wars.
Many are fearful that after the war they may unconscious-
ly embellish their remarks with the habitual flowers of speech
culled from the lines. Slips of the tongue generally lead to
awkward situations, but humour was the predominant feature
when a sergeant, informed by his Colonel of his impending
departure on leave to England, unthinkingly ejaculated the
latest camp catch-word, “What, again ?”
The recent peregrinations of the Regiment, from camp to
camp, it and across,” have led us to the conclusion
that our title “Duke of Cambridge’s Hussars” is a mistake.
Surely our first Colonel was that Duke immortalised in the
famous song:—
There once was a Duke of York,
And he had ten thousand men ;
He led them up to the top of the kill ,
And he led them down again.
“Police” seemed a strange term to apply to the members
of the Sanitary Section, but the use of it was justified a short
time ago when a would-be divulger of valuable information,
in the form of envelopes bearing his name and address scat-
tered behind bushes in temporarily-0.E.T., was brought to
justice by their chief of staff. It is suggested that, in the event
of Tunlock Holmstall’s efforts proving unsuccessful, the task
ot investigating the loss in the same neighbourhood of a cer-
tain portfolio dear to the hearts of the orderly room staff
should be handed over to this Section.
It is understood that the authorities will consider favour-
ably applications for compassionate leave which are authen-
ticated by letters from home. Yes, our pen and ink have been
in great demand lately.
JAT.


Serum
Jack Burblebury was quite an ordinary kind of man. At
the out-break of war he was carrying out in a perfunctory
manner the duties of a bank clerk. He was frankly
uninterested in his work, and spent not a minute longer at
it than he could help. In his spare time he played tennis and
cricket or football, according to the season, attended cinemas
and music halls, the latter for preference, and frequented the
haunts of the flapper. It is difficult to describe his character.
He had none—no characteristic which singled him out from
the multitude of his fellows. Not even his socks and ties were
distinctive. He was simply Jack Burblebury, bank clerk.
He enlisted within a week of the declaration of war. He
did not know why. He was not actuated by any patriotic
motive ; he had no love of fighting, in fact he very much
disliked the idea of such a dirty, uncomfortable and dangerous
business ; he was not covetous of honour; he had no personal
grievance against Germany and her allies. None of these
things impelled him. He never discovered what did. He
simply felt that he had to go, he could not be out of it, it was
the right thing to do.
He joined a Fusilier regiment, and after a few months
training, was drafted to Egypt. Before he left England he
was vaccinated. In Egypt it was thought necessary to
inoculate him against cholera and typhoid. Later, he went
to Gallipoli, was stricken with dysentery and cured by
inoculation, spent several months convalescing in Malta, and
eventually rejoined his unit on the Canal. His regiment was
one of those which marched through the desert into Palestine,
fought at Gaza and took part in the triumphant advance to
Jerusalem. In those days, he was inoculated against typhoid
every six and cholera every three months. He had also been
re-vaccinated. In the fighting round Ramleh he was hit in
the foot. The wound was painful and the doctor gave him
some injections of morphia on the way to the C.C.S. There he
received an anti-tetanus injection and later, in hospital, three
more. After two months he was sufficiently recovered to
rejoin his unit. Through all these experiences he had remained
just Jack Burblebury, indistinguishable from all the other
khaki-Clad men with whom he lived.
Shortly after his return to the regiment, he contracted
boils. They were persistent, and increased and multiplied, to
his great discomfort. The Medicals, having found the usual
foment treatment inadequate, decided to give him anti-
streptococcus injections. After six, he seemed to be cured,
but a seventh was given to make it absolutely certain. Where-
upon the trouble began.


There has always been something uncanny about the
number seven. It has figured prominently in the magic spells
of all times and all countries, and as doctors and scientists
have acknowledged themselves unable to explain the
mysterious happenings in the case of Burblebury, it cannot be
deemed unreasonable to attribute them to the magic potency
of the sacred number seven.
Burblebury no longer remained an average man. He
became a freak, a monstrosity. It would seem that this seventh
injection of anti-streptococcus serum set free hitherto unsus-
pected powers that were latent in the numerous other vaccines
he had received.
The first manifestation of this appalling chemical activity
within him was that his facial expression changed to one of
bovine stupidity, his face became covered wtih large pimples
so that it resembled the reverse of a piece of repousse work,
and when he attempted to speak he merely lowed. Also he
found he could not walk. When his boots were removed it
was discovered that he possessed cloven hoofs. Special boots
were made for him, and he soon became proficient in walking.
These changes were thought to be in some way due to
vaccination.
All the metamorphoses occurred within a few hours after
the unfortunate injection. They Came at short intervals in the
order related, but no satisfactory reason has been discovered
for their occurrence in this order.
During the investigation of the phenomena resultant from
vaccination, Burblebury’s jaws suddenly began to work with
amazing rapidity, so that he resembled a ventriloquist’s doll
being manipulated at cinematographic speed. This was one
of the greatest trials poor Jack had to endure, as it made his
lowing just an unintelligible series of staccato moos, and
taking nourishment became a feat of prestidigitatic art.
( Bransdon, the greatest smoker of the battalion, immediately
contracted with him for his cigarette issue.) He obtained
relief from this distressing habit, which the doctors attributed
to anti-tetanus serum, only when the morphia injections made
themselves felt in the form of a heavy sleep, to which he
succumbed at every third hour of the day and night. When
under its influence he was like a drugged man and nothing
could wake him, but at other times he could not sleep and he
found the sleepless night hours very trying.
Strangely enough the cholera and typhoid inoculations,
of which he had had most, affected him very little, outwardly
not at all-
The last and strangest metamorphosis was that produced
by the anti-streptococcus vaccine which apparently set up
chemical action within his body similar to that which takes
place in a plant, so that chlorophyl granules were formed in


the skin tissues and all parts of his body which were exposed
to the sun became green. The military authorities sought to
make use of him as a naturally camouflaged sniper, but his
other idiosyncracies made this impossible, and eventually he
was allowed to wear gloves and a mask, and he always bathed
and washed at night.
It is remarkable that with all these disabilities, his mind
remained unaffected. Indeed, it was discovered from his
writings, by which means he communicated with people, that
his brain had been somewhat stimulated. Poor Jack ! he bore
his afflictions very bravely and found a certain amount of
consolation in the D.C.M. and handsome pension which were
given him on his discharge.
He now appears twice nightly at the Pollusium, as “Serum
Sam, the Victim of Vaccine”, and it is said that he is drawing
a larger salary than Charlie Chaplin. But he is not happy.
Poor old Jack ! FESTE
Chez Nous
Palestine,
June, 1918.
Dear Julius,
A few mornings ago I was seized with a sudden desire to
promenade in the sunshine. So, removing the damp towel
from my head and the spare socks from my hands, I bade
Teddie, our tame tarantula, an affectionate farewell, exhorted
Sydney, the scorpion, to mount guard over the larder, disen-
tangled myself from my mosquito net and sallied forth. With
a score or so of flies frisking around me, I felt like a spinster
exercising her spaniels. “ The boys ” were endeavouring,
each by his own particular method, to enjoy a siesta. I
sauntered easily through the lines, pausing here and there to
unravel a tangle of rope and horseflesh, but I saw nothing
unusual until I turned the corner into the Headquarters drive.
Here a group of inquisitive yeomen was gathered around a
diminutive prisoner-of-war mounted on a donkey.
“ Morning, prisoner!” I commenced, having been informed
that this was the recognized form of greeting. The dwarf
ignored it. I tackled him in Arabic —“Ismakay?”—but he
■ stared unwinkingly in front of him. “ Qu’est-ce que c’est que
vous’vous appellez ?”, I persisted politely. Signs of intelli-
gence illumined his features. “ Abdul ”, he replied and I was
not surprised. “ Abdul Tich, I suppose ? ” I queried, and, the
ice broken, we conversed. I offered him a “ Ruby Queen ”,
but he declined politely and drew a “Deßezske” from an
olive-wood case.
“Ask him what sort of mungari they get”, urged a
bystander. I complied, and Abdul commenced casually:
“ Petit dejeuner—coffee, seedcake. Dejeuner—grilled chops,


asparagus, fruit compote. Lunch — ”. “ Stop 1 ” I cried,
wondering if the insignificant object of our inquisition was a
Turkish Brass Hat in disguise, “Then why on earth did you
desert ? ”
He produced a letter from a friend in the prisoners-of-war
cage at Kantara, and translated the following extract:
“ 1 pen you these few lines in the hope that Allah will
convey them safely to you and guide you here to share with
me my paradise. Your best method of procedure is as follows.
First evade our outposts by any method you can devise. That
done, your path is rosy. The British posts will greet you
cordially and convey you to Headquarters where you will be
lavishly entertained. Then you will be set on a goodly horse
and conveyed to the presence of Pachas of greater importance
and equal hospitality. Many questions will be asked you and
the more fantastic your answers, the better their reception.
Eventually, you will proceed by easy stages to this camp of
rest and plenty, which I will not describe here for fear of
spoiling the pleasure you will feel on arrival.”
Carefully folding and replacing the letter, Abdul con-
tinued: “ So, monsieur, the plans of our Generals for the
invasion of Egypt not being complete, I sewed myself up in
the skins of a couple of oranges, and rolled into your lines.”
At this point, our conversation was interrupted by an
orderly who carried Abdul away to the officers’ mess to enjoy
the first pleasures of his triumphal journey to Egypt.
So you see, Julius, what the Y.M.C.A. is to us, so are we
in turn to our adversaries. We are winning the war by
kindness —a truly Christian spirit worthy of modern Crusaders.
Yours,
Cassius.
Alone
As a mariner, wrecked on a sea of sand,
Sunbaked and thirsty, alone I stand,
Left on a desert, sans even a tree,
With one day’s rations in lieu of three ;
Alone in the waterless dreary waste
That kills ambition and laughs at haste.
Alone, and yet not quite alone —
With a £6O kit I can cricket all day,
With gramophones droning the time away,
Beds, camp (officers’), restful at night,
Stores of the Regiment, drinks infinite,
Boxes of fiction, dispelling the hump,
Alone on the desert, but in charge of a dump.
H.C.


Interviews with Notorieties
V. The Sphinx
The most anxious time in the routine of an Interviewer is
when he sets out to interview a notoriety, because he may be
welcomed in all manner of ways, from being entertained
lavishly with wine and cigars, to being thrown violently un-
der a passing limber. It will be readily understood, therefore,
that as I proceeded on my way to interview the Sphinx my
mind was heavy with doubt. That the Sphinx was noted
for impassiveness did not reassure me at all, for long exper-
ience as an Interviewer had taught me that just as a boulder
dropped into the crater of a sleeping volcano will sometimes
be shot up to the skies in a vomit of fire, so the Interviewer
who enters the sanctum of one of these strong silent men will
often emerge in the vortex of a swiftly moving cloud of dust.
Nor could I glean any welcome in the memo, sent by
the Sphinx in reply to the Editor’s request for an interview.
There was no refusal in it, nor was there cordiality—
“ Without prejudice. Ref. yours 29th ult. your attention is
drawn to 8.R.0. 7619 A. Also, any infringement of 1375/13/26
will be severely dealt with.”
I passed the dismounted orderly as he came off duty and
went on his way to return his gleaming bandolier to the
owner, and soon my steps brought me to the tent of the
Sphinx. After a pardonable hesitation on the threshold, I
took my courage in both hands and entered.
A subdued religious light held the place save where on
one side a couple of candles mounted on cigarette tins broke
the gloom and imparted to the Sphinx’s face, as he pored
over some documents, a Rembrandtesque effect of high light
and shadow.
My fears of a boisterous reception were not to be realised.
For over an hour I stood there without the Sphinx making any
sign that he was aware of my presence. Occasionally I scraped
my feet or coughed to attract his attention, and twice when
my impatience got the better of my prudence, I remarked
“Good evening !” but without avail.
I determined, however, to persevere, reflecting that at
least when the time came for him to retire for the night, he
would very likely lift his gaze from his desk as he disrobed.
Meanwhile, I settled myself comfortably on a box and looked
round with curiosity at my surroundings.
Neatness was the keynote of the place. The multitudi-
nous papers and books proper to such an office were ranged
in trim array, as if on parade, and close to his hand (where
the papers lay thickest) was the telephone by means of which
the Sphinx keeps in touch with the outer world, and conversely
the outer world keeps in touch with the Sphinx.


In one corner, twinkling blackly, lay a japanned tin box,
within the narrow limits of which are the records of our
characters. Each one of us has there his page, many spotless
and innocent, others, alas, soiled with the terse black state-
ments of crime or gaudy with the irrevocable red entries of
“drunk” —inevitable harvest of our wild oats.
There, too, in the central position was the table before
which offenders are brought to justice. Quite a simple table,
bearing nothing more than black and red ink, with pens (as
mentioned above, the one colour for crime and the other
for frolic) and the regulation sized blotting paper for
concealing the crime sheet of the accused until the dramatic
moment of the trial.
On the floor of the forward side of the table was the spot
where the accused stands. In some regiments there is a deep
depression worn by many feet, but here, it is a pleasure
to record, the floor was little worn, and there was nothing
to mark the spot save a whitish patch where tears had fallen
and, in drying, had left salt crystals on the floor.
Suddenly, the hands of the Sphinx, apparently of their
own volition, withdrew a cigarette from the tin and placed it
in the Sphinx’s mouth : then these white sensitive hands
searched his tunic, breeches and the limits of his desk for
matches, performing all this without disturbing the brain of
the Sphinx as it grappled with big problems in the document
before him.
The hands of the Sphinx were unsuccessful in their
search, and quick to seize the opportunity, I sprang forward
right up to his desk with matches in my outstretched hand.
He gazed blankly at the box, his brain still unconscious of
his need of a light.
“I have come”, I said hurriedly as he took the matches in
a dazed fashion, “in the hope that you will satisfy the wish
of the Regiment with a few notes on your official and private
life, which by all accounts ”
“I have nothing further to add to my memorandum to
your Editor on this subject”, he broke in coldly, gazing at me
unblinkingly with eyes that seemed to look through me at
some object on the horizon.
He struck a match and the blazing head flew off and fell
on his hand. A flicker of emotion illuminated his face.
“But consider”, I said
“I have spoken.”
There are times when one must bow to the inevitable. I
put my notebook away with a sigh. A repeated cry of
“Lights out” was borne into the tent on the gentle evening
breeze with the invariable answer “Certainly, Sergeant”.
“Do you know Brigade time ? ” I asked, as I reached the
door.
“I do know”, he replied, “but I must not tell you.”
INTRUSO.


In a Turkish Hospital
Cairo
Appalling noise and bustle, trams and shops,
The slashing gharry-driver’s raucous yell,
Streets, people, womenfolk (the demoiselle,
The Sister and the bint) and tarbushed fops,
Iced drinks at Jimmie’s, Groppi’s, Anzac “slops”
And other nuisances the men who sell
Cheap fly-whisks, boot-blacks, guides and
maitres d’hotel,
All whose solicitations nothing stops.
And then hotels, with cleanliness, a bed
And comfort, meals well served, and slaves
at call,
And blessed freedom —hours unlimited
For morning sleep and nightly music-hall.
Thus Cairo did its varied self present
To one who months in Palestine had spent.
SPY.
Unknown Sgt. BROSTER Tpr. DAVIES Cpl. PACKMAN


Encyclopaedia Yeomannica
FAQ—FOR
Fag: A paradoxical term for the feeling of inertia that
succeeds strenuous labour and for the aromatic weed
which helps to dispel it. The sentimental attachment
felt by the men for this great consoler is shewn by the
poetical names it is given, such as “Ruby Queen,’’
“Wild Woodbine,” etc.
Fanati : A portable water tank on which, in the absence of
the water cart, the R.S.M. sits by day and sleeps by
night during a stunt.
Farrier: A gentleman who may usually be distinguished by
a bottle, a more normal manner of dress and a
professional bearing from the be-slacked and aproned
shoeing-smith. He usually resides in a bivvy strewn
with bottles. The uncanny precision with which he
picks out those required for his night practice from
those in use during the day amounts to a positive
instinct. With untiring devotion to duty he regularly
visits the lines whenever the Squadron Leader appears
at stables.
Fatigue: By a graceful compliment to the improved stamina
and increasing industry of the new armies, what was
formerly “ a fatigue ” can now be performed by a
“ working party ”. It was tardily realised that the
former description was untactful, and that the antic-
ipatory horror it induced had brought to a state of
premature exhaustion and disability many a sensitive-
minded lad who, had gentle diplomacy been observed,
might have survived to win the very highest honours
of military service.
Feed ; The four pounds odd of good provender a man
hangs on his horse’s head just before he sets forth to
discover who is working first shift in the tin of bully
in which, as his day’s rations, he has a reversionary
interest.
Feeling : A just handling and tension of the reins much
practised in the riding school. The term is felt to be
somewhat misleading, as the order to “ feel the
horse’s mouth ” has prompted many an earnest but
literally disposed recruit to shift his seat on to the
horse’s neck.
Fellah: The self-deceiving social aspirant who promenades
the West End flaunting a top-hat and monocle; or
the East, sporting a fumed-oak complexion and a
tarhush.


Feluce : Holed ha‘ pence which calm the cares of the
cadaverous cavalryman in camp as he crowds,
crammed with curiosity, round the canteen counter,
calling for cakes, cocoa, or canned kippers ; banish
the brooding, burdensome brain-fag of the bloated
bounder who basks in a bounteous base billet, bring-
ing balm to his bosom and bearing blessings for his
besotted body as he buys best Burton beer in the bar
of the boozer; and bulge his breast with bravado as
he brutally bullies some benighted Bedouin beggar
for baksheesh as he bargains in the busy bazaar; and
( now for it!) provide a patent passport to the plen-
teous produce of the principal parts of the Palestine
plains and pave the primrose path to the piquant
pleasures of the proverbial place of Pompey’s Pillar
and of the princely piles and palaces of those who
populate the purlieus of the Pyramids.
( That thf perpetrator of this paragraph may he pitted with plague,
pestered with parasites and then, pursuing the punishment, pitilessly
poisoned with prussic just after the proclamation of peace, is the pious
and perferr id prayer in his present perplexed position and pathetic
plight of —the Poor Printer.')
Fetlock: What an infantryman described as “the first knob
up a horse’s leg after you leave the ground
Fever ; A physical state, harbingered by a snap of cold
perspiration into which one falls when he has been
bitten in the field by a mosquito or is about to be
bitten (in the office) by the Squadron Leader. In the
former case the bite may be suffered on any part of
the body; in the latter he usually gets it in the neck.
Field : A term suggestive of games and breezy open
spaces which has hitherto been used, as an insidious
recruiting appeal to the sporting youth of the
country, to denote the area of operations. Though
the innumerable matches they have accommodated
have left the Palestine pitches decidedly worn, we
understand that the sporting aristocrat, Lord
Rothschild, has generously offered to instal regular
groundsmen for their future maintenance after the
conclusion of the present league contests. Now that
the recruiting appeal has been extended to men of
sleek, well-rounded middle age, the cockpit of battle
is of course seductively referred to in all communiques
as “the theatre of operations.’’
Field Ambulance : A seductive siren which by its insidious
attractions reduces the effective strength of a
regiment. The Ulyssean method of resistance, that
of giving men posts to which they can become
attached, has proved successful in some cases.


Field Book : A book in which such sergeants as have
mastered the art write their card-scores and letters.
Field Boots ; See Post Sergeant.
Field Cashier: The benevolent dispenser of feluce (which
see), also the recipient of the N. A. C. B. Canteen
takings. The fortnight which elapses between pay-
days is found to be sufficient for the collection from
the various canteens of the money paid out on the
previous pay-day.
Field Telephone : An instrument, also known as a buzzer,
found at the ends of the various trip-wires which
always beset any field of operations. It is the chief toy
of the signallers, and by means of it those in the field
manage by some mysterious witchcraft to obtain
information from those in camp as to rations, mails,
reading matter. To the unitiated layman it is either
“not at home”(in the concise phraseology of signallers,
“dis” ) or, should it be caught unawares, it will stem
the speaker’s eloquence with a gag of incoherence.
Fife : A military instrument, usually introduced as obligato
to that other melody-maker, the drum. The general ap-
preciation of this beautiful instrument is well illustrat-
ed by the reply of a Colonel, whose regiment was
about to proceed overseas, to the offer of the services
of the local fife band to cheer his troops on the long
march to the station —“Fife certainly, but not for far.”
Filly : An equine flapper.
Flanks ; (a) The extremities of a position or front.
(b) The sides of a horse between his ribs and hind-
quarters. Care should be taken to obtain precise
instructions for any order in which this term occurs,
as the plea of ignorance will not be accepted as an
excuse for any man who, being warned to ride on the
flank, places his saddle on his horse’s side.
Flare : A kind of ruby firework issued for the stunt, to be let
off, as occasion demanded, just before an attack in
order to bring the men into the correct “seeing red”
position. Reported to have made excellent “Tommy’s
Cookers.”
Flask : A title respectfully applied only to such water-bottles
as have attained commissioned rank. Many a luckless
• young officer on probation, who in an ill-starred
moment has referred to his flask in company as a
water-bottle, has been turned down as utterly lacking
in self respect. A similar access of awe-inspiring,
uncondescending grandeur may be observed in the
case of a horse that has been elevated to the dignity
of a charger.


Fleece: A warm lining for officers’ coats obtained from the
flaying or shearing of sheep. It is said that Quarter-
masters—in other regiments, of course —line their
jackets by extending this process to the men.
Flour ; An item of rations drawn collectively. With com-
mendable self-abnegation, the higher ranks insist on
the whole issue being put into the men’s stews, and
sit down uncomplainingly to puddings and pies made
of sawdust and other inferior substitutes.
Fly-trap; The “J. O. T.” type is the best. (Advt.)
Fokka; A place in Palestine with particularly unpleasant
associations for Yeomen, whence the proverb, used
so widely by the natives (probably out of compliment
to us), “mafish fokka”.
Food : The means of vital sustenance. The need of develop-
ing the brain power of the army having been tardily
recognised by the authorities, in providing less food
for the body, they are now, by way of conpensation,
supplying far more for thought.
Forage ; Bales of hay and sacks of grain which provide the
material for beds for the night-guards and, during
its brief annual revival, for the ancient knightly
game of “wisps”.
Forced March : See Pack Drill.
Foresight. (a) An admirable quality of intelligent antici-
pation.
(b) The central member, and amongst expert
marksmen the most highly favoured, of the three
vertical projections above the corridor exit of a
rifle. We understand, however, that officers cannot in
future be excused for any lack of foresight on the plea
that they carry only a revolver.
Ford : A kind of mechanical perambulator which carries
nuts on the seat and, by way of compensation,
sheds them profusely from the working parts.
Forge : A busy rendezvous, usually in the centre of the
regimental arena, where lusty champions of the Black
Squad enter the lists with headstrong horses and
wary mules, and impartially beat a ringing tattoo on
horse-ribs and anvil. The farriers bitterly resent the
imputation that in order to prevent awkward enquiries
they detail cold-shoers to cover their retreat to the
canteen by a sustained barrage on the anvil. As
proof of their unflagging devotion to duty and to the
interests of their comrades they instance the number
of men who even after dark bring billy-cans for
repair to their premises, and go not empty away.


A First Experience of Bombing
After passing lots of exams, and learning all sorts of
things not connected with aviation, I was granted a temporary
commission and two days later sent up to a front line Squa-
dron. Two days after my arrival, I was taken up over the
lines to have a look round, and incidentally to be introduced
to the airman’s pet —“Archie”, in fact. I think my pilot must
have introduced me to all his relatives from the reception we
got. However, after machine-gunning some of Jacko’s tren-
ches and dropping two bombs for luck, we returned safely
to the drome, myself quite content with the afternoon’s
trial trip.
The same night, orders were issued for a bomb raid to be
carried out at a place 150 miles away, past a famous holy city
and a notable inland sea. What excitement when I found
that I was in the stunt !
The time fixed in the morning had to be altered owing to
clouds which make it very difficult to keep formation. How-
ever, we got each machine off independently, got height
and flew around awaiting the Flight-Commander’s signal for
the machines to get into their allotted stations —a formation
very similar to a flight of birds. One learns a certain amount
of drill even in the air. The formation gained, the flight set
off for another drome to be picked up by fast protective scouts
who act as escorts and chase away any Huns should they be
bold enough to attack. The scouts were ready and waiting,
so away we went at a height of about six thousand feet.
After flying for about an hour over very historic country and
not encountering any of the Hun, our objective came in view
and, when within say a few miles of it, at a signal from the
Flight Commander the flight wheeled into Indian file and
proceeded to release their bombs to the accompaniment of
“Archie’’, who was much in evidence. When the bombs of
our own particular machine were released, the old ’bus gave a
jump for joy at being relieved of her load. We leant over the
side and watched them go down (you can see them nearly
all the way), looked for the results, dodged “Archie,” turned
and regained the formation, and tootled home again. The
end of a perfect day ! And, as the papers have it, “All our
machines returned safely”.
This trip with adverse winds took about three hours,which
is going some with a load.
F.S.B.


Bivvy Construction
One of the most exasperating problems which faces the
average trooper on the day preceding a move is the disposal
of his surplus kit. He certainly has the opportunity of return-
ing anything he does not want to the S.Q.M.S., but he rarely
avails himself of this. His feeds are not so large that he
cannot carry a buksheesh shirt or pair of pants in his nosebag,
without attracting attention to the undue bulk of those bags.
But it is not the disposal of his personal kit that worries him.
It is the larger impersonal property that demands
such serious thought—the stuff that has made his bivvy so
comfortable, commodious and waterproof during the last
month or six weeks. What is he going to do, for instance,
with those two angle-irons which have given such height and
stability to his and his half-section’s bivvy ? He certainly
cannot take them on his own horse, nor on one of the troop
packs, and it is out of the question to expect to get them
carried on the transport. No matter how resourceful he is,
he finds that he is compelled to dump these cherished angle-
irons, and it is not merely the transport of the more unwieldy
portion of his bivvy that perplexes him: he often finds that
there is a difficulty in getting along those spare tilts, bivvy
sheets, ground sheets, saddle sheets, sand-bags, etc. etc. that
he has “made” in his progress from camp to camp. His
half-section has probably gone down the line, or on a course,
or is on some detached job,and he is appalled by the quantity
of material that must be brought along if their new home is
to be as comfortable and presentable as the old one.
This is a problem which must be faced with courage
and resource. On reaching a new camp, having dumped or
buried a good deal of old property at the old camp, the aver-
age man has usually to scrounge round for two or three days
before he can secure sufficient material to make a bivvy really
habitable. We shall never forget the joy of our comrades,
when on riding into a certain camp, they found that their
predecessors had made a dump of wood, angle-irons, sand
bags, etc., etc. There was an immediate rush to this dump.
Forty or fifty angle-irons disappeared in a trice, much to the
amusement of the Squadron Leader and the consternation of
the S.Q.M.S., who arrived on the scene as the last remnants
of what he considerered to be his own special perquisites
disappeared under his very nose. In vain did he screech out
some unintelligible order forbidding the removal of “R.E.
Stores”.
To avoid these difficulties, we have come to the conclu-
sion after mature consideration that the Regiment should be
empowered to institute what, for want of a better name, might
be called a Committee of Bivouac Construction. The advan-
tages of this, as will appear below, will be obvious to all con-


concerned. It will save no end of heart-breaking solicitude to
the man in the ranks as to the conveyance of his bivvy ma-
terial from camp to camp ; it will secure in the interests of
public economy that these properties are not wasted or
destroyed at the caprice of windy officials, and it will ensure
that the bivouac lines are laid out with an eye
to decorative effect, and in such perfect dressing as to satisfy
the most stringent demands of regimental eye-wash.
We do not suggest that this official bivouac construction
should be done free of charge, or that outside labour should
be employed to accomplish it. The matter ought to be, as
Orders express it, “under Squadron arrangements”, and should
be competitive and self-supporting in character. Two or
three select parties should be invited to undertake the
work ; they should be excused all guards, fatigues and
stables, and should be allowed a free hand in the choice
of material and design, subject, of course, to the general
approval of the Committee.
Since writing the above, we have broached this subject
to one of our expert bivvy constructors, who received the
idea with enthusiasm. He has even favoured us with a draft
of the advertisement that he and his half-section propose
to issue immediately the Committee of Bivouac Construction
gives its sanction to its employment.
We have pleasure in appending this draft advertisement.
Approved under Cf.R.O. 099, para. 33, d/t/4/1918, and under Resolution or
Roy [mental Committee of Bivouac Construction.
SPITLOCK % G LORY HOLE
Builders and Contractors.
S'pillock and Glory hole, haring been approved official bivouac constructors
to l ’J) ” Squadron of the M.1.Y., respectfully invite the patronage of all ranks of
that squadron. They are prepared to take orders for the erection of new bivvies
or the re-construction of existing bivvies. All bivvies so erected or reconstructed
will be transported and re-erected at the camp to which the Regiment will shortly
more, at a nominal fee.
Estimates free.
All classes of bivvy material and furniture, new and second hand , at
reasonable figures.
Bivvies for honeymoon couples a speciality.
Inspection invited. Come and sec our model P.T. 50 bivvy—awarded the
Gold Medal at the recent Bivouac Exhibition of the B.M.C. Complete with iron
supports, sand-bag walls, waterproof sheeting and awnings. Thoroughly fitted,
inside and out, with every convenience. Spitlocked and drained to meet official
requirements. The best thing of the kind on the desert.
Salvage work undertaken .
A job lot of angle-irons to clear.
18


Souvenirs of the Great War. S. $ O. hare recently acquired a choice collec-
tion of sand-hags, hand grenades, shell cases, cartridge clips and. ammunition,
salved from the Turkish defences of Gaza. Every article guaranteed to he genuine.
Terms ; Troopers — cash.
Officers and Sergeants —special instalment scheme.
S. % G. hare no connection with any Quartermaster, regimental, squadron
or otherwise.
Orders may he left at the Cookhouse or with the Forage Corporal.
W.H.S,
Energy
A Yeoman’s views on energy
Are passing strange to me,
He'll gladly work to improvise
A cute defence against the flies,
But when it comes to digging "slits”
In which to hide from bombs, he sits
And murmurs sullenly.
He’ll climb until his shirt’s wet through
To get a bird’s-eye view ;
He’ll chase a rabbit many miles ;
Set off for far canteens with smiles ;
But volunteers for standing still,
To see that horses meet no ill,
You’ll find, are precious few.
He’ll hew down trees and light a fire
To satisfy desire
For hunce-bunce (meaning soup or tea),
But jibs at fetching greenery
To camouflage his bivouac,
Or walking fifty yards and back
With fanatis or wire.
On stunts, it’s true, he’s at his best,
Enduring toil with jest;
He’ll dig his trench and hold the line,
And bear a wound without a whine,
But, serious business at an end.
He thinks the powers-that-be intend
A standing camp for rest.
S.G.H.


v "■ -s •.
* v "’.'
S| "S'
' 1 f ' r - ■
t TB -4l.'.“
m
That Sun-helmet Feeling - .


Kitty
“What a dainty leg ! ” said my ecstatic companion on
the right.
‘‘What a ripping little bare shoulder ! ” said I.
“She’s a splendid accompanist,” admitted my misogy-
nistical friend on the left.
“Look at that delicious little curl above her ear!”
“Her pert tip-tilted nose and merry eyes !”
This was the prelude to our visit behind the scenes at the
concert given by ‘The Roosters” on the 3rd June. It was one
of the missions entrusted to me by the Editor which I under-
took with alacrity. We found Kitty quite unconcernedly
taking off her corsets, and had great difficulty in diverting
our attention from her, as she tripped about unblushingly in
a pair of black knickers and silk stockings, to the leader of
the party whom I had come to interview. However, we tried
to give expression to the admiration which we felt for his
party and the pleasure we had received from the entertainment.
It was “excellent”, “top-hole”, “the best we had seen”, and so
forth. He was evidently too accustomed to praise to be greatly
affected by our eulogies, but when I mentioned that I represen-
ted the “M.Y.M.” he admitted shyly that he had done some
scribbling in his spare time, even hinting a close association
with regimental magazines (from his knowledge of the diffi-
culties in producing them I should imagine that he had even
edited one) and willingly gave us all the information we
required, suggesting that it would make very good copy. We
learnt that he, Merriman, is the author of the troupe and Kitty
(who figures in battalion rosters simply as Western) is the
composer. They were responsible for the three pretty songs
“Honeymoon time in Farmland,” “Green England” and
“Good old English Ale” in the scena (written by Merriman),
“At the Sign of the Maypole Inn”, which was played so well
by all concerned. I suggested that the two things in which
they excel other parties are their new songs and elocution,
and that I could not doubt that he was responsible for the
latter since he had given such splendid exhibitions of it in“ The
Actor” and other recitations. My ecstatic friend then inter-
rupted with panegyrics upon the rag-times of Kitty and
Fitchmarch, drawing comparisons between them and Clarice
Mayne and “That”, and asserting that the “discovery” song
was the best thing he had heard for years. Merriman admitted
that Kitty and Fitch were generally reckoned the star turn.
My other friend then butted in with a discourse upon stage
effects in general, and in particular “The Roosters’ ” admirable
scenery which consisted in an effective and elaborate scheme
in black and white to match their pierrot costumes for the first


part, and a pretty rustic scene for the sketch. We were
astonished at the amount of scenery and props, which made
up their full marching order, and deplored the fact that so
much trouble in the matter of stage-erection should have been
expended for one night only. I was about to comment upon
the excellence of the other members of the party, when the
sentimental bloke, remarking sotto voce that Kitty had gone,
again interrupted with “It must be nearly Lights Out” and,
with a curt “Good-night” to Merriman, he dragged me unre-
sisting from the marquee.
Reporter.
Our Contributors
(With apologies to “Kia Ora Coo-oe ”)
“ Mr. Burke ”
Major-General Worthington (“Mr. Burke”) was born in a
brewery on April 31st, 1852, and is “still going strong”. He
was nourished from birth on milk-stout, and, in his case,
familiarity with this beverage has not bred contempt. With
the aid of these initial advantages, his life has been an
intoxicating success, with but few bitter experiences. (Of
course, as a Dinkum contemporary remarks, the life of an
author cannot be “all beer and counter lunch.”) “Mr. Burke”
was educated at the Licensed Victuallers’ College, where he
won the degrees known to signallers as “Beer Ack” and “Beer
Esses C.” Most of his relatives are publicans and sinners.
At the outbreak of war, he offered to serve in the
British Army and was eagerly accepted. He was offered a
post in the E.F.C., the official reasons being that his peculiar
qualifications would ensure the “smooth running of the wet
side” without the possibility of an excessive supply of alcohol
to the troops. However, on the grounds that he had been
taking commissions all his life and that he had an extensive
knowledge of barrels, he became an officer in a rifle regiment.
After training at Portsmouth and Ailsham, he was drafted to
Egypt, ultimately arriving at a camp by the Bitter Lakes.
For over three years he led an aimless existence barely
managing to get enough to drink. Then came the Palestine
campaign, where an erroneous impression of the meaning of
“Beersheba” nearly won him a decoration during an attack
on that city. In 1918, on the total failure of the beer supply
in the east, he transferred to the Inland Water Transport,
where he at present holds a position of responsibility.
His favourite diversion is “hopping” and his pet aversion
is “heel-tapping”. His literary efforts include both frothy
prose and sparkling verse. Unfortunately, since he is not a
member of the Regiment, the Editor has had to put the bar
up to him.
Quixote.


Visits to the Regiment
ii. The Rev. Samuel Stiggins
{Portion oj an address delivered before the Bricklaying Branch of the
Grand Junction Ebenzeer Temperance Society. )
It made my heart rejoice to meet this splendid regiment
on its return from its heroic labours in wresting the Holy
Places from the infidel. The Shout of a King was amongst
them. I will leave to history to narrate their achievements
and endurances, and to record with what chivalrous forbear-
ance and moderation they exercised themselves in the
conquered territory. (Cheers). Yet, my brethren, no sooner
were they settled in what I may call a standing camp, than
that Demon —that Demon, I say, my brethren, which it is our
high mission and calling to extirpate from the face of the
earth,—reappeared among them. ( Sensation ). Yes, I repeat,
the Demon reappeared among them, [Groans). Every day it
is brought up to the camp, and retailed under official supervi-
sion. But what can official supervision do to remove the
great temptation that this great iniquity excites in the hearts
of these young soldiers. ( Two mothers of soldeirs— Troopers in the
M.I.Y. — carried out. ) When I see the transport drivers lashing
their teams as they struggle across the dunes with their loads
of barrels, my mind reverts to a great incident of ancient days
and I sigh for a revival of that miraculous power which would
enable these patient beasts to turn in their traces and rebuke
their profane drivers. [Hear. Hear.) The evil is deeply entren-
ched. No matter how bad the day, or how tired the men
and mules, volunteers are always forthcoming to fetch and
tap this worker of iniquity, and rarely is there any prospect
of the supply exceeding the demand, notwithstanding the
exorbitant
{The lights suddenly go out, and we fancy we can detect the accents of
certain members of the Weller family us they grapple with the Rev. Samuel
under the table on the platform.')
W. H. S.
Books Received
Mump’s Lotion, or The Stuff to Give ’Em. F.Q.M.S.
At first glance this little booklet resembles those puffing
tracts that form part of the wrapping of patent medicines.
Nothing, though, could be further from the case. The gentle
reader will soon find that he is dealing with a genuine
contibution to veterinary science. In plain homely language,
F.Q.M.S. tells how in his daily ministrations, he came to hit
upon that ideal lotion which would infallibly cure sore backs,
girth galls, cracked heels, pinched withers, and all those cuts,
sores, scratches, bruises and contusions that equine flesh is
heir to. He cites case after case in which the lotion has proved
efficacious after other and official remedies have failed; and


so sure is he of his ground that we are naturally led to wonder
why the A.V.C. has not adopted the Lotion and authorised its
issue and use. We are quite certain that the authorities could
not afford to neglect such a valuable Remedy, nor is F.Q.M.S
the man to hide his light under a bushel. The reason for this,
we think, will be obvious to thoughtful readers of the booklet.
For, on applying the Remedy it is not sufficient to rub the
Lotion into the affected place. A charm or incantation must
be used, —a procedure, of course, that could never receive the
official imprimatur. In a most interesting chapter, F.Q.M.S.
gives the formula for these incantations. The simpler cases
do not make a great demand upon one’s vocabulary, but the
more difficult cases require a capacity for the expression of
rich powerful language. We should like to quote a few of
these gems of figurative speech, but will not forestall our
readers’ pleasure. We are sure that even our most adroit
professors of stable rhetoric will find something original
here.
W.H.S.
“Ghin-straps Down !” or Raising the Wind. YEOMOFF.
This somewhat sensational title covers a most learned,
but at the same time fascinating, monograph on Military
Aeronomics. The author’s ingenious theory proving the
intimate relation between “drafts” and “wind up” is.convin-
cingly stated.
Next for Leave
This chalky dust, this breathless Jordan heat,
This blinding glare, these flies that buzz and bite,
These daily dust-storms and the flies
That buzz, mosquitos, fever, thirst,
(The heat, the dust, the flies ; the worst
Of these is—which ? I know not. Flies,
I think, that gather round the eyes.)
And Jacko’s noisy shells that singe you as they pass—
All these accursed things compete
To drive me mad. One precious thought, one sight
Envisioned, sound fore-heard, preserves my reason
(Dash the flies!)—
The tinkle, tinkle, tinkle of ice against a glass.
McNoon.
Printed at the Nile Mission Press, 37 Sharia Manakh, Cairo.




