

Middlesex Yeomanry
MaSzine
p
\
1




MIDDLESEX YEOMANRY MAGAZINE
CENSORED MATTER
VOL. I. NO. 5.
MAY, 1918
Foreword
This number appears in a strange guise. The stock of
cover paper, in which the Magazine was wont to be dressed,
is exhausted, and our publisher tells us that the war makes it
impossible to procure more. We think the new garb is quite
satisfactory, but we feel that we can no longer ignore the
fact that there is a war in progress.
The Magazine has contracted a bad habit of failing to
appear until nearly two months after the date it bears. We
have endeavoured to break this habit and were hopeful of
success by the end of June, but the unsympathetic Turk (a
veritable Philistine, despite the Kultur instilled into him by
his German masters) frustrated our efforts. We have been
unable to publish a Magazine for the month of April.
The following lines of Kipling express admirably the
sentiment portrayed in the untitled cartoon in our last number:
ITVtv? rode and fought and ate and drunk, a* rations come to hand.
Together for a year and more around this stinking land:
-Vow you are going home again , hut ire must see it through.
We need not fell we liked you well. Good-hye—good hick to you.
The Editor.


Personal
We regret to have to record the death by drowning of
Trooper C. Cowan. He had served two and a half years in
France and was at Mons.
Lt.-Col. O.C. Watson, V.C., D. S. 0., whom we knew and
respected so highly when he commanded “C” Squadron, has
been killed in France. He was awarded the Victoria Cross
for gallantry during the action in which he was killed.
2nd. Lt. Cecil Mays has been killed in France, 2nd. Lt. N.
Kilby met his death in a flying accident at Dar-es-Salaam,
and the following were killed in action with the Imperial
Camel Corps :
Tpr. Evans, P. H. Tpr. Lyon, L.
Tpr. Stansfield, S. G. Tpr. Thoday, H. S.
L/Cpl. Temple, W.F.
During the same operations 2nd. Lt. L.C. Brothers won
the Military Cross.
We congratulate Lt. A. W. Edmondson on his being
awarded the Croix de Guerre for distinguished work on “the
twenty-seventh”.
Yet another honour has been awarded the Regiment for
work during the advance, R. S. M. Batchelor has received the
Distinguished Conduct Medal.
To “The Tanks”
Whenever we discuss in after years
Our days of foreign service, chief of all
Our happy memories will be the tiers
Of sand-banks round the twin marquee, the small
But gaily-furnished stage where Jackson, Ray,
And Fisher sang, where Riley criticised
The army with his jests, and Thorpe would play
Till §i : Btlfii : i gifig with EdwaFd§, where, digguised
As some seductive bint, was Woodin wooed :
In short, we shall recall with gratitude
“The Tanks.”
With great regret we see you thus depart,
But since war’s mandate may not be denied
We bid you now God-speed, whate’er betide,
And give you, with these wishes from our heart,
Our thanks.
PIP.


Stockpot
There has been much wordy correspondence in “The
Palestine News’’ concerning a suggestion that an institution
should be established by the army to enable those in need of
further education to acquire it. Surely that has already been
done at Kelab.
The difference between civil and military customs is
strikingly demonstrated in the matter of sacks. In civil life one
is taught to do his utmost to avoid getting the sack; here there
is at least one individual who is going grey through the worry
caused by his unsuccessful endeavours to collect sacks.
Furthermore, the Regiment is fined heavily, from time to time,
for not being able to produce men who have had the sack or
sacks. We fear this sack question is very confusing to the
civilian. It must not be thought that the individual referred to
above spends his time “looking for his ticket”.
It is understood that a course is being started at one of the
schools, not merely to afford officers an additional opportunity
of leave, but to instruct them in the use and care of the mosquito
net so that they may be qualified to supervise the pitching,
closing, pegging down, and mosquito-ejecting motions laid
down in “Malaria Training, 1918”. The course also includes
the study of Solomon’s “Book of Wisdom” from which they
learn to solve any problems which may arise in issuing an
even number of nets to an odd and greater number of men.
In order to prevent discontent among the contractors who
supply the Government with paper, it has been arranged that
the paper which the “ Please use this envelope again ” labels
save shall be utilised for nil returns and certificates that
orders have been obeyed.
At various times the Regiment has suffered from fatiguing
attacks of “working party fever”, but few of us will forget out-
second stay at Belah, when the sight of an officer parading
with a led horse (a quiet one) was of daily occurrence.
JAT.


I ■
1 “•■'ir''if •
A Tale of the Secret Service
By Corporal Tunlock Holm stall
Well, of course, I think the Magazine is a jolly good thing
and everyone should do what he can in the way of articles
and so forth, but I hardly think we Secret Service men should
publish our memoirs till after the war. You see the enemy
might learn some of our wheezes and not only spoil our game
but use them on us. Still, this was a very simple straight-
forward affair and I don’t think I shall be giving anything
away if 1 tell you about it.
Well, you see, it was like this. Some of the chaps
laughed when it was suggested that those people were spies,
but then some fellows can’t see anything beyond the ends of
their noses. I knew they were spies—-could tell at a glance—so
I thought I would follow them and spoil their little game. I
went and borrowed some clothes from Hassan, dirtied my
face, and there you are! There are so many syces about that
nobody paid any heed to me and I could go where I liked
without being interfered with.
Some of the Graves.
The White House and a Trench.


Well, when they left our camp they went round all the
other camps in the Division. I had some misgivings as to
how I should get food, but I found no difficulty in picking up
from the bread, bully beef and tins of jam, that are always
thrown away in Yeomanry camps, not only enough for present
needs, but an iron ration and two days’ special emergency.
Then, of course, my experiences at Gallieni had taught me
the value of chestnuts and similar canteen luxuries. While
the spies were employed pretending to sell their rubbishy
relics, I spent my time inspecting the incinerators and manure
disposal systems of the various regiments. We Service men
are never without notebook and pencil, and I was able to
make many notes which have proved most useful in my four-
area work.
Well, after they had been round the whole Division, they
set out north. I must say the M.M.Ps seemed very slack :
we passed any number of them on the road, but none of
them seemed to suspect the people I was shadowing, or me.
I had rather a funny adventure in one of the villages we
passed through. A hint seemed to take quite a fancy to me.
By gum ! I thought everything was up. She came up to me
jabbering in Arabic something about “Ya habibi ” and of
course I didn’t know what she was talking about and couldn’t
answer, so I bolted, but she snatched at my shirt and it tore
right down the back and came off. After that, I had to make
holes for my head and arms in a sack I found by the road,
and wear that.
There was another rather annoying thing that nearly
spoilt all my plans. I happened to be digging a hole one
day to bury my empty bully and jam tins, and other refuse,
when I came across an old jar, It was some job digging with
just a pointed stick, and I nearly broke the jar, but I managed
to get it up whole. It was made of red earthenware and
had little black figures of men and women on it. I immedi-
ately thought of R.O. 97, para. 3, about sending objects of art
and of antiquarian interest to the Orderly Room, but I was
puzzled as to how to get it there. However, I soon solved the
problem. I wrapped up the pot in an old piece of sacking
and using the back of a bully beef label (which I took care to
mark “Please use this label again”), addressed it to the
nearest railway station and left it on the off-chance that it
would be sent on, but it seems never to have arrived. The
station was some miles away and when I returned I found my
quarry gone; but to the trained eye there were many clues to
show which direction they had taken, and before dark I had
caught them up. After this we saw no more British troops
and soon we got to a place called Nablus. Here I found
myself well amongst the Turks and all the carefulness and


cunning of the experienced Secret Service man was needed
to escape detection. I did it all right though. I happened
to remember about King Alfred in the camp of the Danes.
Well, I had often heard syces singing, so I imitated them.
The Turks seemed to like it. I used to sing in officers’ messes
and got bakshee food for it. They lived well, those Turkish
officers, and a lot of them spoke English, so I heard bits of
news now and then. They thought so much of me that they
sent me to their G.H.Q. That was just what I wanted. I
was able to see and hear all that was going on. Of course,
it had been difficult not knowing the language, but whenever
they spoke to me I just shook my head and they thought I was
mad, I suppose, and let me go where I pleased.
Well, one day the C-in-C. held a big Council of War. I
knew he would be working on the information brought by
the spies I had followed, so it was necessary to act at once.
Thanks to the training received from my great master
Pinkerton, and a certain scuffle with Moriarty, I found it
quite simple. The council was held at night, in a room with a
window at one end and a door at the other. The Generals
rode up and tied up their horses outside. After they had
been at work about an hour I went in with a bottle of wine.
I took it to the C.-in-C., who was silting at the window end of
the table with all the plans and orders and a lamp in front of
him. As I put the bottle down, with a quick movement I
dashed the lamp out on the table, seized the documents,
rushed to the window and smashed it, dived under the table
and out of the door. All this was the work of a moment,
and I had cut a horse loose and was galloping down the road
while the Generals were still clutching for me in the darkness
round the window. The sentries took me for an urgent
despatch-rider.
The Turks knew exactly where all our regiments were,
and I easily found out the position of the Middlesex. I rode
hard all night, and by dawn was just opposite our lines.
Directly it was light I rode over, feeling more frightened then
than at any other time during my journey as I was afraid of
being shot by both sides, but neither saw me till I was right
in our lines. I gave the plans to the Brigadier and he got
them translated and was able to carry out the great attack
described in the last number of the Magazine.
Well, that’s all. It was only just a straight-forward little
bit of Secret Service work and, to tell the truth, I should like
another job like it now instead of wasting my training and
abilities on the four-area system which any man could be
taught in time.


Duty Squadron, Duty Regiment
Buxton, squadron orderly sergeant, was smoking a last
consolatory pipe before dropping off to sleep. He had had a
hard day. His squadron had been “duty squadron, duty
regiment”, and he had found it difficult at times to maintain
his equilibrium. The calls for men, apart from the standing
fatigues, had been heavy and continuous. But, on the whole,
he thought he had not done so badly. He had only offended
a couple of officers by putting their grooms on line guard ;
had quarrelled with all the troop sergeants in turn for
.depleting their troops; had had hot words at the regimental
orderly room ; and had made mortal enemies of not less than
a dozen men in the squadron. It might have been a lot worse,
and he felt thankful that “duty squadron, duty regiment’’
would not come round again during his present week of duty
as orderly sergeant.
Presently Buxton dropped off to sleep. Usually his sleep
was profound and dreamless, but to-night, not long after he
had fallen asleep, a young fellow, whom he recognised as one
of the regimental orderlies, stood at the door of his bivvy.
“ Another chit ”, said the orderly, handing in the note.
Buxton read it with disgust. “Corporal and six men to
report to water cart at once for chlorinating duty under the
medical officer ”, he repreated aloud. “ Haven’t got six men ;
and why the * ♦ * do they want six men and a corporal for
chlorinating? Doesn’t the confounded lea taste like a
chemist’s shop already ? ”
But there was no help for it. He would have to examine
his squadron roll before officially replying that six men were
not available. Adams line guard ; Aitken —manure fatigue;
Allen—-loading fatigue; Anderson —cookhouse; Ashton
pumping; Atkins—remounts.” The first dozen names in the
roll did not yield him a man who was not already on some
fatigue or other. “ Balcarres —forage fatigue. He’ll do”,
exclaimed Buxton with relief. The forage fatigue had been
dismissed twenty minutes previously. He looked up the whole
of the forage fatigue, but found that most of the men were
already ear-marked for some other duty. “ Barnes ”
A cough at the door of the bivvy called Buxton’s attention
from his roll to somebody standing there. It was the same
orderly with another chit in his hand.
“ What, back again !” he exclaimed. The chit demanded
“ Corporal and four men to report to Brigade Headquarters
with shovels at 1400 hours”. “Shovels be * . » ”he
muttered. “ Where can I get another four men from ? ”
One of Buxton’s fellow troop sergeants now appeared
beside the orderly. “Are you busy, Tom ?” he asked. “Well,
what is it?” Buxton answered, a bit peevishly. “Got two
urgent chits here already.”


“ It’s only this, Tom. Don’t you think you are swinging it
on me a bit to-day? I’ve only got aline guard, a shoeing smith
and myself to take twenty horses down to water. But Jack
has got at least half a dozen men in his troop.”
“No, no”, replied Buxton, “it can’t be helped. Everybody
is on something to-day.”
At that moment the S.S.M. looked in at the door of the
bivvy. “ Just a minute ”, he said, with an apologetic motion
of the hand. “ The major wants---”.
“What the unfathomable does he want now?” broke in
Buxton roughly.
“You know that return of snipers you promised ”
“ Never seen it, never heard of it ”, replied Buxton
dogmatically.
“ Sure ? Don’t you remember I spoke to you about it last
night ? ”
Buxton was about to make some appropriate reply when
there was a slight withdrawal from the door on the part of
the S.S.M., the aggrieved troop sergeant, and the orderly. “Is
Sergeant Buxton there ? ” asked one of the squadron subs. He
wanted a couple of men with pack mules to fetch up mess
stores.
“Can’t be done, sir”, replied Buxton, “at least, not
from the squadron roll”. The sub. remonstrated. “Haven’t
got a man left, sir”, persisted Buxton, as quietly as his rising
wrath would permit. “ Duty squadron, duty regiment.”
The sub. went away unconvinced, and the S.S.M. was
going to revert to the disputed return, when Buxton caught
sight of one of the medical officer’s emissaries at the door.
“That chlorinating fatigue, sergeant”, said the man. “are
they ready?”
This was too much for Buxton. “ Chlorinating fatigue be
, * » !” he roared. “Get out of this!” He picked up his
fatigue roll book and flung it wildly at the little group in the
doorway. It struck the S.S M. in the eye.
“ By Jingo ! ” bellowed the S.S.M. “Y0u’11......”
And Buxton awoke.
W.H.S.
A Link With the Past
Since the occupation of Palestine by British troops, many
relics of historic interest have come to light, and we are now
proud to be the first to give publicity to a rare find of
the lance-corporal, unpaid, in charge of our Sanitary
Constabulary.
This non-commissioned officer observed a large piece of
brown paper fluttering through the lines, making the whole
camp untidy. He took measures, personally, to secure it, and
on close examination it proved to be not brown paper but


parchment, upon which was inscribed, in quaint Old English,
the Regimental Orders of the Crusaders stationed at Askalon
for “ye fourti days after Epyphanie”. High authority places
the year at about 1190 A.D.
Part I. of these Orders opens with Routine, and though
time has effaced most of the items, one can gather that the
daylight hours of the Crusaders were as well catered for as
they are for the Yeomen to-day. It is interesting to note that
in place of our watch setting, the Crusaders had the ceremony
of sonne dyalle settynge atte sixt hour” (or noon).
The second paragraph appears to be an exhortation on the
preservation of game, and also a set of rules laying down
what species might be killed by each rank. In conclusion
there is the solemn warning to all ranks that they must
avoyde encounteres with Dragons during the close season.
No. 3 is more legible, and is a dissertation on care of
arms and equipment. Mace and battleaxe inspections are to
be held more frequently. Further the Commander’s heart is
heavy within him and “ hys wytheres unwrung ” because it
has again been brought to “hys nottyce ” that “chayn mayl”
buckleis and morions are being used for the purpose of
frazzling, frying or boiling of rations, which is detrimental
to ye sayde accotrementes” and must cease “forthwythe”.
From the next legible order it may be inferred that "the
Crusaders had the old trouble over the night guards not
knowing the exact time. It lays down that night guards will
be supplied with candles, with the hours plainly notched, on
nights “whenne ye moone do notte shyne”.
Part 11. Orders will be of particular interest to students
of Military Law, as the punishments awarded are both varied
and severe. One offender gets 100 strokes of the bastinado,
with an application of salt to follow. He is to draw the salt
from “ye scryvenour atte thyrde hour”. Another is sentenced
to be burnt to death “aftere ye staybles” with seven days
losse offe paye”.
Items under the heading, of “Strengthe” give a quaint
sidelight on the customs of the time. We find that Sir Hilary
Hottespur having met Sir Rufus ffrenche in “mortyalle
combatte” is struck off the strength. Likewise Sir Rufus
ffrenche is ‘‘ admytted intoe hospytalle”.
Thus ends all that Time has spared of these old orders,
given over seven hundred years ago, during an expedition
which had similar objects to our own, but which met with less
success. There remains just a little after order, or notice,
which will bring a twinge of sympathy to the hearts of our
readers. It deals with the Crusaders’ mails, and concludes by
stating that the mail from England of “laste yere alsoe” has
been ‘ loste atte sea”.
A.J.T.


Sport
Cricket. When we had settled down in a camp in which
it was rumoured we were to rest for several months, the
Regiment (particularly Headquarters) suddenly became very
enthusiastic about cricket. Pitches were discovered despite
their camouflage as evacuated horselines, practice nets were
constructed from the remains of the wire road, several people
went to Cairo to get the matting and other material which the
Colonel had generously provided, and then we moved. How-
ever, during our short stay we had managed, with the aid of
a few bakshee stumps and broken bats, to play the following
matches:
Headquarters 41 and 40 Signals 24 and 17
~ 27 and 36 “A”Squadron 24 and 26
~ 28 and 59 for 5 “B” „ 21 and 17
“C”Squadron no Headquarters 23 and 26
“A’’ „ 140 Tank Corps 92
Sports. The results of Jumping and Hotchkiss Gun Competi-
tions, arranged during last month for “B” Squadron, by
Capt. Boosey, were ;
Jumping : 1st —Tpr. Heathman; 2nd —Tpr. Wright;
3rd — Tpr. Ransome.
Best Hotchkiss Section : Troop 4.
V.H.P.
Wire
Now the compass called prismatic is a most expensive toy,
But it’s useful if direction you require,
Yet some officers and other ranks like better to employ
A mile or two of telephonic wire.
Yes, of course, a pocket compass is a handier affair,
But it may not take you just where you desire,
Whereas fools could never wander if there stretched from
here to there
A mile or two of telephonic wire.
Never mind the cost and trouble that the laying may entail,
Or the danger, if it’s reeled out under fire ;
Think how Jacko must be smiling at his trap that cannot fail,
A mile or two of telephonic wire.
Still, if officers and other ranks prismatics will not use,
They must take the consequence however dire,
But as waiting Jacko snipes them they’ll regret their silly ruse,
A mile or two of telephonic wire.
Shush.


Encyclopaedia Yeomannica
EAR EYE
Earth : The theatre of operations.
Ease : Standing with body erect, head and eyes square to
the front, chin drawn in, shoulders squared, hands
clasped behind the back, arms straightened and
stretched to the fullest extent, left foot carried off
eighteen inches, knees braced and feet at an angle of
fourty-five degrees, is known as being at ease.
East : The mysterious land of the rising sun.The romantic
Tommy is thoughtfully given full opportunities of
observing this curious phenomenon, under its appro-
priate conditions, by being roused daily two hours
before dawn.
Easy : The position into which one collapses after five
minutes “ at ease”.
Echelon ; A skew-wise formation. In order to appraise it in
its proper perspective, the Base Echelon is therefore
looked on askance by troops in the field.
Economy : A practical virtue in the interests of which issues,
of clothing, soap, rifle-oil, etc., are nowadays only
made on the occasion of a regimental move.
Editor : A gentleman of unparalleled equanimity, who
maintains a polite bearing to contributors, censors,
and printers, alike, and who, undespairing and undis-
mayed, regularly sees his chickens come home to
roost at least two months late.
Effective The inflated paper currency whose value, like
Strength: that of the Turkish notes, is constantly depreciating.
Egg : An antique delicacy beloved of the dusky oriental—
but oh for the days when the whites need no
longer strain at a foreign yolk!
Egypt: A tremendous dump of sand left lying about at the
creation, after the requirements of the world’s shores
had been supplied ;on which the foolhardy English-
man competes for existence with the camel and the
lizard. With the arrival of the British soldiery the
traditional despotism of “Faro” has given place to the
tyranny of ‘‘Crown and Anchor”.
Embarkation : An enjoyable and unique experience for
troopers in which the sergeants, acting under the
embarrassingly judicious gaze of the senior service,
are for once obliged to give their orders, such as: “Lead
that horse on to the off-fore-quarter of the ship,
second storey,” or “Draw forage from the first hole in
the floor south of the funnel”, in an apologetic whisper.
Emergency Rations : Rations which one is, rather unnecessari-
ly, warned must be eaten only in pressing emergency.


Emma : A lady friend of signallers in general. While
exuberant Pips sing of women and wine, the Dons
of the ranks are content to hymn the lowlier praises
of Emma and Beer.
Empire : The world-wide domains of the British race, for
the security and independence of which we are
fighting ; though it must be admitted that many of
us weave our peace-dreams of the Empire around
a cheerful but much smaller concern not far from
Leicester Square.
Emshi ; Used as a complementary word to “escut”. A dis-
criminating use of these two expressions will gain,
an Englishman the entry to the very highest Egypt-
ian social circles.
Enfilade : A disconcerting dig in the ribs given from the
flanks by a will-o’-the-wisp opponent whom one is
seeking to one’s front. Considered alternately the
best practical joke or the meanest trick in strategy,
as one happens to be operator or patient.
Engagement : A mutual exchange of compliments which
in its military and civilian associations involves a
harrowing interview (a) with the enemy (b) with the
lady’s father.
England : A collection of good brown earth, fields of grass,
hedges, trees, busy towns and pretty villages, which
during the last four years has mysteriously become
a castle in Spain.
Enlistment ; A rash signing of the pledge in a moment of
hilarious or maudlin inebriation.
Entanglements : An imitation thorn hedge which, with the
idea of making his quarters as homelike as possible,
the soldier plants beyond the lawn fronting his
humble habitation in the firing line.
Entertainments : Refreshing interludes in the general
monotony of things provided, as occasion offers, by
regimental vocal and orchestral concerts, the Padre’s
stump speeches, the Medical Officer’s lectures, the
Orderly Sergeant’s rendering of Regimental Orders,
and the Cook’s gyrations on squadron drill.
Entrainment : A boxing-up of horses and mashing-down of
men into the limited accommodation provided for
military movements by rail.
Entrenchment: A sort of elongated roofless basement in
which the foremost infantry resides. Its main
architectural features are a passage and a mantelpiece,
the latter serving as sleeping quarters, dining room,
and business premises. The kitchen will usually be
found half way up the wall of the passage.


E.P. Tent: A double-sailed, square-rigged tent, which
affords a delightfully cool retreat and resting place
from the heat. Usually occupied by Qurtermaster-
Sergeants.
Equipment: A satisfactory handicap imposed on men in
action to prevent them overrunning their barrage or
overreaching their objective. Most men, however,
would prefer to be put on parole in these matters.
Equitation : The development of a spirit of mutual under-
standing and tolerance between the trooper and his
mount, a process usually enlivened by the scintillat-
ing wit and irrepressible humour of the instructor.
The dear old lady, who lives next door to a barracks,
says she is sure that those Yeomanry recruits practise
riding on poor little Shetland ponies, for she distinctly
heard the Sergeant-Major give orders that they were
to be “only four feet from nose to croup.”
Escort: A guard of honour provided for generals, deserters,
prisoners of war, and other notabilities.
Escut; An Egyptian word reminiscent of a fashionable race-
meeting in England. Freely used, in consequence, on
the English and the native race meeting in Egypt.
Evacuation: A term indicating a withdrawal from our
previous positions. The approved description of a
similar enemy move is “retreat” or “rout”.
Exercises: A route march in fatigue order of the horses,
usually in column of nines. A junior trooper placed
on the centre horse of each nine, provides, like a May-
pole on a holiday, the disgusted pivot of a tangled
and ever-interchanging network of ribbons. He is
welcomed back by the N.C.Os of his troop, who,
newly washed and shaved, invariably remark what a
frightfully busy time they have been having in the
lines during his absence.
Expeditionary Force : A party of men exiled from then-
native land for political reasons. They are kept in
close confinement and under strict supervision, and
on no account are they allowed to return home too
enfeebled to be an element of danger.
Explosive : The component parts of a Sergeant-Major’s
speech. The motive force employed in the modern
universal hobby of long-distance landscape garden-
ing.
Eye wash: Now that the jack boot has replaced the sandal, the
beautiful symbolic ceremony of the washing of the
feet of distinguished visitors has perforce been dis-
continued in the army. Nowadays as an abject
token of deference a soothing eyewash is assiduously
prepared against the coming of Brigadiers and
similar dignitaries.


“The Great Fire”
Recent numbers of our esteemed contemporaries,
“John Bull” and “The Passing Show”, refer to the currency of
the misleading reports of a mysterious “fire” at their printers’
premises. This malicious rumour-mongering seems to be
part of the political scheme of press persecution which has
already reached disquieting proportions.
It was hardly to be expected that our influential
journal would escape these malevolent attentions. During
the past few days this office has been deluged with corres-
pondence with reference to an alleged fire at our own
headquarters, and the staff of our enquiry bureau has been
working overtime issuing official denials.
We hasten to assure all our readers that not only are our
own printers’ premises intact, but that fresh up-to-date
machinery is being installed daily in order to cope with our
insatiable demands; while the certified circulation of the
March number, exclusive of voucher and returned copies,
reached the record total of 1137.
Merely as an illustration of the distressing lengths to
which this insidious form of frightfulness may be carried, we
append a few selections from our correspondents.
The following extracts from the local press have been
brought to our notice :
Beeler Bully-tin, 17th April. —“A tremendous fire broke
out in the north-western suburbs of the city at a late hour last
uight. The reports of our local correspondents are not yet to
hand, but we understand that the flames were prevented from
spreading by the timely assistance of some soldiers on leave
from England, who were near at the moment; and that a
considerable bulk of Peat that was lying in the vicinity
escaped injury and has since been removed to a more favour-
able site. Full details and photographs will appear in
tomorrow’s issue.”
The Can-You-Nurse Chlorincle of the 18th has the following
comment The vivid illumination of the northern sky,
plainly visible from these offices, on the night of the 16th
instant, was undoubtedly occasioned by a display of Aurora
Borealis. Allowing for the difference of latitude, this would
be the one which accompanied the Gotha raid over England
early in March. Truly we live in great and stirring times.”
Mr. Alf Lester telegraphs:“ Your methods in show of
16th. disgusting infringement of my own copyright. Failing
full apology shall proceed for injunction and damages.”


The French Consul at Gaza, who has evidently had a
detailed version of the affair, begs to assure us that his
countrymen, ever grateful to the English for their valuable
co-operation in the taking of Jerusalem, share his profound
regret on learning of the calamity. He is distressed to hear
that “M. le Marquis ” was unhappily burned in the midnight
fire, but expresses a fervent hope that “ Mme. la Marquise,” at
least, is none the worse for her trying ordeal.
The corner-man of “The Palestine News” has sent us
two effusions. We shall spare our readers by printing only
the first verse of one of them :
“ It was burning on the hillside
And they found a sergeant then
And- the sergeant found a corporal
Who in due course found, some men.
But two persons merry-malting
When the party 'inarched along ,
Though ’ twas thought their hearts were breaking ,
Shouted forth this cheerful song,
lief ra in : “Keep the fire a-bumi ng ,
Interference spurning ;
Though it seems so far away
We dream of leave.
Clouds , now flames are shining ,
Show their rosy lining.
Naught ails men whose spirit's stout
So refrain to grieve
The other was a poignant S.O-S. entitled, “ Fetch the oil
can, ” entirely unsuitable for reproduction in these austere
pages. Our only apology for giving any notice at all to such
glaring examples of injudicious levity must be our desire to
encourage the official publication in its struggling infancy.
H.W.E.
CHIT HELMETS
What matter if you cannot get a “helmet, sun ” to fit—
It’s a heavy, hot and awkard kind of tile-
just go and get the Adjutant to write you out a chit
And you’ve head-gear of the most convenient style.
A chit ensures protection from the very hottest sun,
It is light to carry, worn by night or day,
And the M.M.P. who’s anxious all the helmetless to run
When confronted with a chit will fade away.
It’s an excellent arrangement, but of one thing do beware—
Imitations —they abound throughout the camp.
A squadron chit is useless. You will perish in the glare
If your chit’s without the O.R.’s mighty stamp.
SPY.


Interviews with Notorieties
IV. Sanitas
It was a fine sunshiny morning when I strolled over to
the incinerators, at the request of the Editor, with a view to
securing an interview with Sanitas. The headquarters of the
Sanitary Section presented an animated and picturesque
appearance. The brown blanketed shack of Ibrahim and
Mohammed, held to the ground by a nondescript collection of
pegs and cordage, formed the nucleus of the scene. Round
and near this were the donkeys of these men ; three or four
smouldering incinerators, formed of sheets of corrugated iron
laid as troughs across the legs of angle-irons ; and numerous
heaps of tins and rubbish sorted and classified according to
the practice of the Section. Half-a-dozen native men and
women, and a dozen or more children, all very ragged, dirty,
and in urgent need of a good meal, were hovering round the
incinerators and rubbish heaps in the hope of discovering a
milk or bully tin in which some scrap of food might haply
still lurk. Ibrahim, who evidently aspired to be the official
egg and orange agent of the regiment, was trying to drive a
hard bargain with a couple of natives over the disposal of
their produce.
Sauitas was not in evidence, but, on glancing round the
camp, I saw him standing, notebook in hand, with the Medical
Officer at one of the Squadron cook-houses. Both were
engaged in earnest conversation, the Medical Officer pointing
at various objects round the cook-house with his cane, while
Sanitas made frequent references to his notebook. This
notebook, I may here mention, is an unique thing in the way
of official notebooks. It contains not only accurate and
complete plans of all the latrines, incinerators, manure areas,
grease traps, rubbish sacks, etc., with which he has been
concerned since taking charge of the Sanitary Section, but
extracts from regimental and other orders regarding sanitary
procedure, precis of verbal instructions of the Medical Officer
on the subject, and full particulars of the service of the men
employed on the Section, with confidential notes on their
characters and qualifications, together with copies of reports
and recommendations made from time to time. Fortunately
or unfortunately a good deal of this material is composed in
hieroglyphics. Presently Sanitas and his chief left the cook-
house in question, with the air of men who, after deep cogita-
tion, had solved the insoluble, and approached the incinera-
tors. Cries of “emshi” and “igri” at once arose, the native
element was put to flight, and even Ibrahim became a little
less noisy in his bartering with the orange-sellers. Judging
by appearances Sanitas was able to make a good report at the
incinerators, the nerve centre of the regiment. There had
been no falling off in materials, and the machinery employed


to dispose of it was working in a satisfactory manner. The
Section was justifying its exsistence and living up to its
reputation of being the most scientifically organised Section
in the regiment.
I found Sanitas in excellent spirits, and prepared to be
communicative as to his work. He was good enough to
explain to me the working of the incinerators, and the signi-
ficance of the various heaps of tins lying about. What seemed
to be chaos was really, to the eye of the expert, order in the
highest degree. He was also good enough to conduct me to
one of the cook-houses, and demonstrate the purpose of the
various receptacles marked “Grease only”, “Burnt ash”,
“Dry rubbish”, etc., also, the general scheme for keeping
the cook-house in a clean and sanitary condition-
“ Your job is evidently no sincure”, I ventured to remark.
“Quite true”, Sanitas replied, carefully weighing his words;
“There is an idea in the regiment that my occupation does
not entail any considerable amount of mental or physical
exertion, in fact, that anyone could do it, but I need hardly
remark that this is quite an erroneous impression. The man
who undertakes the responsibilities of this position must
be prepared to devote his whole time and attention to it; he
must have an intimate technical knowledge of sanitary
science, and he must be a man of adaptability, —able to
adapt his material and methods to new conditions of camp
life, and keep himself conversant with the best and newest
ideas on his subject. It is not sufficient to be able to excavate
a few sullage pits or construct a few incinerators; the health
of the regiment depends on many subtle factors that can only
be elucidated through the perspicacity of the Sanitary
Corporal. It is the same with the men. The old notion that the
Sanitary Section is a refuge for the wash-outs of the Squad-
ron has long been exploded. The men who are now working
under me are keen and energetic; they take a thorough interest
in the Section, and are always on the watch for means of
improving the sanitary arrangements of the camp. They can
be depended upon to precede the regiment to a new camp to
make temporary arrangements or to remain behind to clear
up an old camp. They are, in fact, indispensable, as the
ordinary Squadron people are incapable of taking the simplest
measures. But for the devotion of these conscientious workers,
the regiment would suffer grievously. You can scarcely
imagine what ignorance and indifference exist amongst
all ranks”.
Sanitas now led me to the hessian enclosure. “This re-
minds me,” he said, as we inspected his work, “that we labour
under a grave disability in having no claim on the regimental
transport. Whenever the regiment migrates to a distant camp,
we are forced to relinquish the greater portion of our impedi-


toenta. This entails the duplication of our labour. We have
to improvise and thus cause the men considerable discomfort
and inconvenience until we can secure material for making
adequate arrangements. The allotment of half a limber for our
unrestricted use would produce phenomenal improvements.’ -
“That is all the more to your credit,” 1 remarked, “in
having to work under such disabilities ”,
“ Possibly,” said he, not displeased by my appreciation
of his efforts. “The efforts of the Section are dedicated to the
welfare of the regiment and their object is generally attained
despite all obstacles.”
I ventured to ask whether it was true that Sanitas poss-
essed the Public Health Degree of an American University.
“ The suggestion is entirely lacking in foundation,” he
replied genially. “Neverthless I consider such a qualification
a suit’ qua non for all candidates for this office. You would be
astonished at the amount of technical and scientific knowledge
that is required for the efficient discharge of my duties, know-
ledge that cannot be acquired in facile modo but only through
patient study and research, per arduafac caslra, you know.”
Sanitas now hinted that the interview must come to
an end as he was due at a conference on the subject of flies
and fly-traps. ARCTURUS
Compensation.
You can count yourself a winner by sailing near the mark
And a muff the man whose honesty is plain ;
You can do your living quickly, and as happy as a lark,
Despise the man who stops out in the rain ;
You can get the best of anyone by thickening your skin
The other’s chance is just as good as yours —•
So what’s the use of talking ?—since somebody must win,
It’s up to you to be the one who scores.
It looks a silly business, this soldiering affair,
Discomfort, toil, and eighteen pence a day,
While others mass their thousands, still breathing English air,
By making shells or showing folks the way ;
With one of us a sahib, the other just a slave,
(Perhaps the jobs at home should be reversed)
But what’s the use of talking?—while there’s lives to lose or save
The war goes on in spite of being cursed.
It makes you dazed to think about the “now” and the “before,”
And hopeless are attempts to see the light;
There ought to be a pool for all the efforts of the war,
A compensating balance on the fight;
Where profiteers would suffer and “conchies” take the wall
With the men who saved their skins by telling lies ;
But what’s the use of talking, when the proudest man of all
Is the fellow with the bullet through the eyes ?


ir */
'LkitisH
OFFICIAL
A Turkisi-I
ACP.OPUA/VE
WAS ZROOSHT
Down <3/V
TAIL /cf* INST
3t oort
c,unFt PE- "


Chez Nous
Palestine,
May, 1918.
Dear Julius,
Have you ever realised how important is the sense of
smell, and how helpful to the memory ? From early boyhood,
when the characteristic odours of the chemistry laboratory
were designated “stinks,” certain occurrences and places are
associated with distinctive smells. Perhaps you have heard
the tale of the boy who liked his auntie “because she smelt so
nice.” Similarly our reminiscences of places are pleasant or
otherwise according to their smells—or stinks.
We can discard our diaries and trace our peregrinations
round the globe through smells. For example, who can dis-
sociate Streatley from the smell of frizzling grills at the Lock
House, or remember Norfolk but not old ale ? During our
several sea trips we existed in an atmosphere of brine and
engine oil.
Upon landing in Egypt we were assailed by that
pronounced but indescribable smell of the East, which we
subsequenly met again in Palestine’s summer dust and winter
mud. When 1 first met an Arab syce 1 detected the smell of
garlic and onions before noticing any of his other peculiarities.
Our stay in Gallipoli is connected with the acrid smell of
the smoke from our tiny brushwood fires and the stench of
shallow-buried corpses.
Back again in the desert, we have often experienced the
odourous disadvantage of proximity to camels. Apropos of
the camel smell, there is a story that when a particularly of-
fensive specimen of that quadruped was brought into a desert
headquarters several soldiers fainted. Some Turkish prison-
ers arrived shortly afterwards and the Camel fainted.
Anchored off Salonika, we encountered a familial smell
which we classified as “French”, without knowing quite what
we meant. In Macedonia, the savoury smell of wild thyme
and mint conjured up tantalising thoughts of English
dinner-times ; the perfume of many flowers lecalled things too
intimately feminine to be dwelt upon by isolated men-folk ;
whilst the finest smell on earth, the scent of the soil after a
shower, completed our home-sickness.
The palms of El Abd and the fig groves of El Arish had
their distinctive smell, while a post-war visit to the floiist ot
the fruiterer will always recall the orange groves of Ras
Deiran.
Perhaps our most vivid reminiscence ot cavalry stunts
will be the nauseating smell of putrefaction which indicates
dead horse in the vicinity.


Long and exacting service abroad usually includes at
least one sojourn in hospital where the smell of antiseptics
and anaesthetics imprints an indelible mark on the memory.
Finally, I believe every home has its distinctive smell,
and I write my concluding sentence, at any rate, without fear
of contradiction. Each man’s nose is eager for the in-
comparable smell of home.
What think you ?
Yours as ever,
Cassius.
Visits to the Regiment
I. Sister Susie.
(Extract from a loiter to Sister Dorcas.')
It is so pleasant to be among these nice boys. They have
just come down from the front, and are making the most of
their opportunities to get themselves clean again. Everything
is done to help them; nice new shirts and socks, and all manner
of equipment, are continually arriving and the quartermaster
issues these according to each man’s needs, or saves them up
for a “rainy day”. I wish their mothers could see them, anda 11
that is done for them. There are the nice clean cook-houses,
where eveything is kept so spick and span, and the cooks are
so assiduous in their efforts to make the food as palatable
as posible. And there are the washing benches. It is quite
a sight to see the nice clean clothes hanging out to dry round
the tents and bivouacks. And there is the bath-house too,
where the men can get hot baths from time to time. But best
of all, my dear Dorcas, are the efforts made to get rid of those
pests that are the bane of the soldier on active service. Even
the nicest and cleanest boys are not immune for any length
of time. All this comes under the Doctor’s supervision, and
he is untiring in his efforts to relieve the men. He is such a
dear ! Every Sunday morning he holds what is vulgarly
called a “lice inspection”. The men take off their shirts, and
he examines these most carefully. I believe it is a sight to
see him going down the line, so patiently and good humoured-
ly asking each man whether he is troubled with vermin, and
whether he has had a hot bath during the week. Any man
who is so troubled, or who has not had a hot bath, has but to
mention the matter and he immediately enlists the Doctor’s
warmest sympathy and assistance. Unfortunately, the army
type of shirt encourages vermin. This is where we come in,
my dear Dorcas. It is “up to us”, as these dear boys say, to
persevere in our own good work at home, and to send them
out as many of our beautiful hand-made shirts as quickly as
ever we can.
W.H.S.


Books Received
Field Service Cookery Crossed Dixies
It is very gratifying to have to take notice of the products
of another Course. In our last number we reviewed “Feed
bags”, the result of a cavalry course at Zeitoun ; this month,
we have pleasure in noting “Field Service Cookery”, a handy
and comprehensive little manual compiled by Crossed Dixies
from his notes and observations on a cookery course at
Ismailia. We congratulate him on his modest production;
we congratulate his Squadron, too, on the possession of such
an industrious and accomplished cook. It is quite certain
that the Squadron will not be able to hurl at him that phrase
which expresses the soldier’s last word on cook-house inepti-
tude and laziness,-“He doesn’t know how to cook hot water,”
for the author emphatically lays it down that where, say,
six dixies of tea are required, one dixie at least of boiling
water is essential for a satisfactory brew. Then there is the
vexed question of stew. Crossed Dixies shows how the unpal-
atableness of a repetition of stew can be neutralised by a
variation of the treatment. Here is a suitable table for a
week :—Monday, stew with onions; Tuesday, stew without
onions ; Wednesday, stew with white gravy ; Thursday, stew
with brown gravy; Friday, stew with rice; Saturday, stew
with lentils ; Sunday, stew with dessicated vegetables. Stews,
of course, as the discerning reader will notice, have their
cook-house uses. The inclusion of rice, for instance, obviates
the necessity of preparing that article as a separate dish ; and
whenever the malcontents of the Squadron enquire as to what
has become of the flour issue, one can effectively silence them
by saying that it is used to make gravy for the stew.
Notes on Scouting. Four Eyes
The receipt of this volume reminds us that, in
pre-war days, it was often hinted that recruits were not
eligible for the Scouts Section of this Regiment. There was
an embargo on zeal and keenness, and one had to learn that
the prime qualification for the post was a capacity for getting
lost on field days, and an unerring instinct for locating a
convenient inn where the section could lie perdu until the
operations were over. Nowadays, the glamour and glory of
getting lost have vanished; sterilizers are a poor substi-
tute for mature county ales; and our budding regimental
scouts are required to possess knowledge that would be useful
to an optician or a mathematician, rather than that joyous
off-hand knowledge of the world that enables the truant scout
to wheedle a delicious lunch of new-laid eggs and home-cured
ham out of a landlady who has emphatically declared that
she has not a scrap of food in the house. But this is beside


the point. In this little manual Four Eyes- a promising pupil
of the school of Sexton Blake —deals with the more technical
side of scouting. He lifts the veil from much that is obscure
and obtuse to the ordinary man in the troop, and gives many
little tips that will help him to atone for his ignorance
of mathematics and geometry. For instance, one learns how
to turn kilograms into square miles; how to calculate the
parallax of stars of the first six magnitudes by the aid of a
shrapnel helmet and a bivvy pole ; and how to estimate the
various degrees of “wind-up” by a bacteriological examina-
tion of bully beef. One learns, too, how to detect the approach
of the Orderly Officer when one is on night guard ; and, as
regards tracking, to discern the trail of the quarter-bloke
across the rations.
An Intensive Study of the Fly. Jot
This is a collection of weekly tracts bearing a variety
of titles, including “Fly-traps”, “One to-day saves a million
next month” “Dangerous Amoebae’’, etc. These papers are
remarkable for their wide range of style which varies from
that of a mere advertisement such as “The traps in use have
killed thousands of flies, one alone killing 1500 in two hours”
to the purely scientific, and culminates in an exalted lyrical
strain, as in
“If the plague of flies is to he dialed,
Their breeding places must be located .”
W. H. S.
Essentials.
The powers-that be looked very wise
As they analysed the transport.
“Something must go, you’ll realise,
So give the matter deepest thought”,
Quoth they. We timidly agreed.
A horrid frown suffused the face
Of the biggest red- tab present:
“These polo-sticks must have a place,
This shot-gun and the Colonel’s tent —
And, yes, the mules must have a feed,
But what in Hades may this be ?
He tapped three bottles in a case.
“That’s rifle oil,” soft answered we.
He staggered back a lengthy pace—
“ Dump that! It’s surplus,” he decreed.
Quixote.


Our Contemporaries.
Kia Ora Cooee. This is the official journal of the Anzac Forces
in the East. We have received a copy of the third (May)
number and find it as full of dinkum humour as the
proverbial egg is of meat. It has a coloured covei of
striking design, numerous topping little illustiations,
tales of the Billjim, and many clever verses, amongst
which those of Trooper Bluegum and Gerardy are con-
spicuous. We congratulate the Co-Editors on their
successful publication. .
“Chlorine,” the Magazine of the Old 6th. Mounted Brigade.
The February number mainly consists of a gloriously
long list of awards, a pitifully long roll of houour, and
an interesting account of the Brigade’s experiences
during the advance. There is a clever sketch, Gott
strafe Allenby ! ” and several humourous little articles.
We are sorry to hear from the Editor that this is
probably the last number that will appear.
“Barrak,” the official Camel Corps Review, is somewhat over-
weighted with humourous verse, though much of it is
good. The series of “Arms of Notable Units” is clever
but No. I pleased us most. We have received none
since the February number.
“Cacolet” and “Gnome.” No recent copies of these magazines
have reached us.
“The Palestine News.” We look forward eagerly each
Thursday to “War News of the Week”. News from all
other sources has been so scarce of late that the P.N.
has been as a veritable well in the desert. Our know-
ledge of the ancient history of Palestine is increasing
weekly, and we understand that many find the Double
Acrostic an efficacious homeopathic cure for the mad-
ness with which the Jordan Valley threatens us. There
was an excellent piece of verse, “The Old Caravan
Route,” in one of the recent numbers.
Reporter.
Random Rhymes
“ Weights down ! ” was the order that passed lip to lip,
And the pack-men off-loaded the packs ;
But why a sub. started his saddle to strip —
Did he think it meant “ Get into slacks” ?
Only ten minutes you’ve spent on your horse ;
I admit that the animal’s clean,
But an hour you must groom, as a matter of course,
Before I can pass it as clean.
Rupert.




