





MIDDLESEX YEOMANRY MAGAZINE
CENSORED MATTER
VOL. I. NO. 3.
FEBRUARY, 1918
Foreword
It must be borne in mind that it is no easy matter to
produce a magazine while on active service. The October
number did not appear till Mid-December. To produce it
was like running an interminable steeplechase; no sooner
was one obstacle cleared than another sprang up. Contri-
butors were wounded or fell sick, innumerable censors had
to be appeased, manuscripts had to make the precarious
journey to Cairo, and the eccentricities of the printing
press had to be reduced to order. But chief amongst those
responsible for this regrettable lateness was the enemy.
Since that number was written many of our dearest
friends have given their lives to guarantee the safety of
our hearths and homes.
These laid the world away ; poured out the red
Sweet wine of youth , gave up the years to he
Of work and joy , and that unhoped serene
That men call age ,
We mourn their loss, but we thank God for their heroic
example.
Some have left us cruelly maimed. Our heartfelt
sympathy goes with them and the hope that they may find
consolation at home in England. Others, wounded or sick,
whom we have welcomed back, we congratulate on their
recovery.
We shall watch with interest the careers of those who
have left us to take commissions ; and we heartily welcome
all those who have lately joined us, hoping that, though
they may formerly have been attached to other regiments,
they will soon feel themselves in heart, mind, body, men
of the Middlesex Yeomanry.
Thk Editor.


Roll of Honour
Whose winding sheet is fame which no decay
Nor all subduing time shall fret away.
A.M. Lafone ... Major, V.C.
SJ. Van den Bergh - - Lieutenant
J.H. Jehu, - - - Lieutenant
C.G. Bullen - Sergeant
A.E. Johnstone - Lance-Sergeant
F.J. Frampton - Corporal
E. Cossins - Lance-Corporal
A.E. Milner - „ „
SJ. Hollies - „ „
S. Ashley - Trooper
L.H. Bond - „
J. Brown - - - - „
W.B. Caine - „
E.W. Dodd - „
E.Hudson .... „
E. Luker - „
W.H. Spencer ... H
J.V.Webber - - - „
A.R. Bradley - Sergeant
R. Selfe - Sergeant, D.C.M,
W. Baker, - Lance-Corporal
C. Latham - „ „
W.A. Smith - Trooper
O. Opferman - Lance-Sergeant
H. Legge - - - - Trooper
T. Broster - Sergeant
F. Packman - Corporal
G. H. Mearing - - - Lance-Corporal
(Recaptured)
D. Davies - - - Trooper
A. Williamson ... „


To the
Mothers of the Men
who fell nobly fight big against overwhelming odds
27th October , 1917
The sullen foe still fronts our rolling line
And onwards we must press,
On o’er the path their sacrifice has paved ;
And yet in tenderness
As gentle as your care for them, your sons,
As husband for the wife
Who, wanly smiling, from the pit of pain
Brings back a new-fledged life,
We turn to you, O Mothers, and would bend
O’er each bereaved head
And seek to soothe your deeply-welling grief
For the heroic dead.
...Yet not unknowing grief, for you must know,
You who did plant the seed,
What bravery was theirs, what sacrifice
Waited the hour of need.
The world had known them from the worldly view.
But God, from his high dome,
Looked in the fire and found their manhood good
And called them up to Home.
Happy they died in your and England’s name,
Gladly the call did meet.
Content they rest, O Mothers of Men,
Reflecting gladly, in that calm serene,
They left their task complete.
All Souls’ Day, 1917 H.W.E,


In Memoriam
720—only a number ! but it represents a value—not in
coinage which can fluctuate, but in character which stands
firm ; the character that meets a crisis undismayed: that
smiles at an adventure which must end in death: that
buys up the opportunity for immediate payment: the cost
is not counted : the duty is clear: the duty is done.
Just an outpost: a handful of men ; a couple of
trenches : a white-walled house : the bare slope of a hill : a
number for a name. Horses and safety behind : in front the
enemy and death : the thin line has got thinner ; there is
no water : little ammunition ; but there is Spirit the
Spirit of a man, and the Spirit of his men : he knows them •
they know him ; the post is held : to the last! So they
died —officers and men : so they live ! 720 !
With dying hands still hurl the quivering spear 1
Death takes the hrare and those no less icho fear.
The coward flies the field to find his fate
Crouching to slay him at his father's gate.
He falls with few to mourn and none to praise ,
And crowns with shameful death inglorious days.
These lines were written nearly three thousand years
ago and we thank God to-day that the spirit that they
embody lives on ; we may not have the poets to express
this spirit in undying verse —but we have the men who foster
it and pass it on by deathless deeds.
There is magic in the drum there is magic in a
number : there is more magic in a name. To the men of his
squadron the name of Alexander Malius Lafone will stand
in lasting remembrance. His thoughtful care for them, born
perhaps of his own experience as a trooper in the South
African War, drew from them that affection and devotion
which every leader of men must desire. He did not
worry them, or fuss them, or goad them, or bully them :
therefore he got the best out of them. His decoration, had
he lived to wear it, would have been much less to him
than the place he occupied in the hearts of his men.
“Let us now praise famous men, and our fathers that hegat us. The
Lord hath wrought great glory by them through his great power from the
beginning Their bodies are buried in peace : but their name liveth for
evermore. 'The people will tell of their wisdom , and the congregation will shew
forth their praise.” r j^y


Personal
We are proud to publish the following list of the de-
corations awarded the Regiment during the recent operations:
Victoria Cross
Major A.M. Lafone
Distinguished Service Order
Capt. A.C. McDougall
Military Cross
Capt. R.P. Bullivant
Capt. C.D. Carus-Wilson
Capt. K.O.T, Gossell (Brigade Signal Troop)
Capt. J.O. Thomas (R.A.M.C.)
Lieut. S.H. Matthews
Lieut. L. Abraham
Distinguished Conduct Medal
Sergt. P.S. Randall
Sergt. R. Selfe
Military Medal
Sergt. C. E. Fabian
Cpl. W.E, Cattaneo
Cpl. J.A. Stott
L/Cpl. J.A. Bright
Tpr. H.A.P. Carr
Tpr. P.T. Finlay
Tpr. G.R. Pooley
The many friends of Sergeant “Tom” Broster will be
glad to hear that definite news of him has been received. He
is a prisoner of war in Constantinople and has recovered from
the effects of his wound.
We saw in a recent newspaper that the Croix de Guerre
has been awarded Capt. Wedgwood Benn, D.S.O. for his
work as a seaplane observer while attached to the “Division
de Syrie.” We congratulate him on this honour, the second
he has won since leaving the Regiment.
The following particulars have been collected concerning
past members of the Regiment :
Capt. G, Sears —M.C.
2nd/Lt. J. Wale —Killed.
S.G.H.


Stockpot
The Old Year will ever linger in our memories inasmuch
as it has given us all an answer to that eternal question which
will meet us in after years: “What did you do in the Great
War, Daddy (Uncle, Grandpa, as the case might be)?”
It is a fine thing to have been one of an army riding
through a conquered territory, but all the same the actual
experience was a little disappointing. We were really more
like a Sunday School Treat than victorious troops, and we
we were often harshly treated by the inhabitants, in the
matter of prices.
When it comes to drawing our rations our baser instincts
are aroused to the exclusion of all else. Most of us have been
so keen on ogettur ing share that we have never realised
that Seedless Raspberry Jam marks one more step in the
evolution of war from mere brute force to exact science.
Seedless Raspberry Jam is the forerunner of silent foods for
the army. When the position of a machine gun on the
Dardanelles was given away by the noise of a gunner eating
some thickly shredded marmalade, the Australian Government
at once realised the necessity for inaudible comestibles, and
their scientists were called upon to grapple with the problem,
and after many experiments Seedless Raspberry Jam came
into being. The British Government has taken only a negative
action in the matter by eliminating from our field rations
some of the rowdy eatables, such as clear soup, asparagus,
and stewed rhubarb, nothing having been done to quieten the
army biscuit. The movement is yet in its infancy but in the
next big war there is little doubt that for consumption in the
line we shall be issued with Domes of Silence rations.
With the entry of the Americans into the war the spirit of
hustle may be expected in our own army methods, and there
is probably some truth in the rumour that rubber stamps are
to be issued for every day phrases such as; ‘‘lt has come to
the notice”, “This practice must cease” or “will be severely
dealt with”. Meanwhile a neighbouring unit has innovated a
time-saving method of its own. The words “for the offence
of, whilst on active service” are abbreviated to “ for the
offence of W.0.A.5.” and an average saving of six clerical
hours per week has thereby been effected.


Doubtless our exploits on General Allenby’s truly
“matchless” advance will inspire some of our poets, and the
lonely midnight candles observed nowadays by the second
reliefs may well illumine owners in the ecstasy of divine
inspiration. To all such a timely reminder is given of the
Kipling tradition that all O.Rs. in H.M. Army speak lurid
cockney. They should be warned by the experience of that
promising young poet whose soul was stirred by the events
of 21st. of August 1915. and who, defying the tradition,
voiced the soul of the Division in the pure English it spoke.
His laudable effort was received with scorn and derision, yet
he might have achieved more than local fame had he but
obeyed the rules and written after this manner;
’ Streuf 'ow %oe drived their shot an' pahder
On that there flanh er Chorhlit 'ill.
The old Contemptibles are to be rewarded with a special
decoration in the shape of a bronze star, with a red, white,
and blue ribbon. The colours of the ribbon are to be watered,
which is rather a backhanded compliment to these men
of the Old Army whose pride it was in all they did to have
everything neat.
A.J.T.
Anna Virumque
The camel-driver has his whip.
It’s only right he should ;
The officer a martial sword
With which he can make good.
The bobby has his truncheon and
The cracksman has his tools,
And masters have been often known
To wield a cane in schools.
All this seems reasonable enough ;
But why the (pardon!) hell
C Squadron sergeants, bless their souls !
At stables carry bivvy poles
Is more than we can tell.
Spy.


Encyclopaedia Yeomannica.
CAN CUS
Canteen : An infantry mess-tin. Such canteens
as we have occasionally been allowed do
not hold so much.
Canter ; A common agitation in equitation, greater
than that of perambulation, but not of the
extreme magnification of acceleration which
is the indication of trepidation.
Canvas : A material issued for constructing water-
troughs ; largely used by the Yeomanry, in
the canal zone, for making beds, and up the
line for making “charguls”.
Cap : A comfortable head-dress which, as an
inestimable privilege,one is allowed to wear
in the summer before reveille and after
lights-out.
Censor: Usually described as Base. In order to
pass this mandarin one’s correspondence
should lead its readers to believe that one is
in F on the W front, it being
assumed that one’s presence in P is
being reserved as a terrifying surprise to an
unsuspecting and stubborn foe.
Charge : A staggering blow delivered to the enemy
at close quarters. Having suffered some
terrible ones at the hands of the canteen staff
and the Q.M., we are keeping our swords
bright in the hope some day of wreaking
vengeance on the enemy.
Chatty: (a) A lightly discursive condition.
(b) A physical condition evocative of a
less lightly discursive language. In this sense
frequently associated with Syce —hence the
well-known inn-sign, “Syce and Chatty”,
Chay : A seething viscous mixture of tea, chlor-
ine and water which emerges from the dixies
on the completion of the grand boxing-up
and mashing-down assault.
Chevron : A device in braid on the sleeve to distin-
guish an N.C.O- from a man. In hot climates
where the tunic is not always worn, the shirt
may be similarly decorated with copying
pencil. Tattooing of chevrons on the arms
is not customary, and therefore on a bathing
parade an N.C.O. is only distinguishable
by his manners.


Civvies: A kind of fancy dress still worn, we un-
derstand, amongst the inhabitants of certain
remote islands in the N.W. of Europe.
Click : An army term of varying significance
according to context and occasion. In order
to make it thoroughly clear and intelligible
to civilian readers, it may be added that the
two principal meanings are:
(a) to be in for it, to go on the carpet,
(b) to touch lucky, get a cushy one, &c.
Commission : An Army appointment which —by some
influence outwardly symbolised by the
exchange of the small-pocketed weeds of
the ranks for an ample-pocketed and more
distinguished attire —converts a man into
a demi-god; leads him to imitate the
Oxford manner ;to finish all his sentences
with “What?”; to say “ Demmit ” and
“Doosid” with the innocent and pretty
roguishness of a child toying with fire-arms;
to read extracts from his men’s home-letters
in the mess, and to lose his way regularly
with impunity.
Compass : (a) a bifurcated geometrical instrument
for describing circles.
(b) an instrument used in conjunction
with a map for taking bearings and deciding
directions. Judging from the resultant lines
of direction which have frequently been
taken there would appear to be a lamentable
tendency in certain quarters to confuse the
functions of the two instruments.
Complaint : A never-failing joke about rations in
favour amongst the men. Expressions of
dissatisfaction as to the fare provided—
Quarter Masters and cooks being naturally
averse to mob law —are, according to regu-
lations, lodged with orderly officers. By
the time the would-be complainant has
undisturbedly maintained a sour-tempered
vigil awaiting the arrival of his belated
advocate, he is invariably forced to devour
in bitter hate the diminutive potato, in its
now chilled grease-water, which was to
have formed the text of his carefully
rehearsed and fervid protestations.
Conduct-Sheet : A hideous something which lurks under
the Captain’s blotting paper when one is up
for office,and,with that bravery only attained


in self-defence, striving to give a rosy
hue to a black case. On such awesome
occasions one never fully recovers from the
rough and discomforting handling exper-
ienced in the doorway, when just as one is
approaching the presence in the correct
pose of mingled innocence and confidence,
some hired ruffian in the rear violently
displaces from one’s head one’s hat and
choicely-worded defence at one swoop. As
to the very few who survive this discomfiting
treatment, just as they begin to take fresh
heart, the ghastly conduct-sheet passes, like
a glimpse of the gallows, before their eyes.
As they bow beneath the wreckage of their
hopes a faraway accusing voice calls down
that dirge of doom : “So many days C.8.,
with shortage of feluce.”
Cook : A culinary wizard who,adept in the myster-
ies of the gastronomic art, transfuses in his
magic crucibles the prosaic raw materials of
nutrition into the most ravishing and intrig-
uing dainties and delicacies. (Substituted
for definition rejected by Censor.)
If one is sufficiently tactful and fortunate
to achieve the honour, it is said that by
shaking hands with a cook one can tell
whether “the boys” had roast or stew the
previous day.
Courses: A series of lessons in which men are
instructed in special branches of military
work of which they had no previous know-
ledge, e.g. pigeon-flying, railway construc-
tion, &c. It is understood that certain
officers and cooks are shortly proceeding on
cavalry and cooking courses respectively.
Court of Enquiry: An assembly of imaginative subalterns
convened to invent sufficiently plausible
excuses for the loss of half-limbers, type-
writers &c., to justify the submission of a
replacing indent to Ordnance.
Crawling: The natural function of a certain class of
soldier in the chrysalis stage. For develop-
ment and later forms see “Batman” and
“ Sergeant. ”
Cushy : An Army term of pleasing significance
but frequently of Base associations, especi-
ally when applied to jobs. Also, a “cushy”
wound is generally a Base Hospital case,
in this the comparative degree of the
superlative, a “Blighty one”.


Xmas, 1917
A merry Xmas to you all !
Ihe light,is dim and grey,
Again I hear the watcher’s call —
“Arise ! ’tis Xmas Day.”
I mind me of those better times —
Ihe holly and the snow,
And voices gay, the mellow chimes,
The Yule log’s kindly glow.
Far different here in Palestine
( “With milk and honey blest” )
My tunic hangs, in shapeless line,
All sodden round my breast.
In place of gifts my woollen hose
With ooze and slime is full,
And yonder, where my comrades doze,
An everspreading pool.
The elements, in festive mood,
With one another vie;
The tempest smites the bivvy rude
And whirls it up on high.
The lightning’s gleam, the thunder’s beat,
Behind the clouds prevail,
And, all aslant, the hail and sleet,
Come racing down the gale.
On every rank alike the rain
Impartially doth fall,
Not e’en the Red Tab can restrain
The violence of the squall ;
The Sergeant-Major’s genial soul
Is chilled beneath his “warm” ;
In patience mute the trooper’s poll
Is bowed beneath the storm.
A merry Xmas ! We must all
Approach a prospect grey,
But someday we may hear that call—
“ Arise ! ’tis Xmas Day”,
And wake to find the better times—
The holly and the snow,
And voices glad, the mellow chimes,
The Yule log’s kindly glow.
A.J.T


Toothsome
A Story of a Nutshell
Sybil had a plain face and figure and no money to
speak of. She possessed, however, one redeeming feature, to
wit, a perfect set of teeth. Of these, she made as much as a
large mouth and a sunny disposition would allow. She
cherished them as the means to the end she desired —which
was merely marriage.
As years passed and no lover came her way, Sybil’s
disposition became less sunny, but she smiled as often as
before. Smiling, in fact, became so confirmed a habit that it
represented her only visible expression of emotion. Sleeping,
waking, in pleasure or in pain, she smiled. Other habits, too,
she developed. Thus, whilst others of her sex discussed the
latest hats from Paris, Sybil would discourse on the latest
dentifrice.
Ultimately, abandoning hope of marriage and seeking
to excuse her spinsterhood, she announced to the world—by
confiding in her dearest friend —-that no suitor would find
favour in her eyes who lacked a set of teeth as perfect as
her own.
One day a lover did appear. With him her poverty and
plainness did not count —he was short-sighted and he had
wealth enough for two. What did count with him he alone
could tell. However, he proposed—and Sybil hesitated. Had
he but one diseased molar and she was bound to refuse him !
“But are your teeth quite sound ? ” she faltered. “Perfectly”,
he cried ; and happiness was theirs.
»
The course of true love ran extraordinarily smooth until
one day the happy pair were dining at a restaurant. It was
a meatless day and nuts figured on the menu. Engrossed in
amorous contemplation of his bride-to-be, the lover failed to
see a fragment of shell amongst the almonds.
Suddenly a violent fit of coughing attacked the luckless
swain. A hard substance tinkled against Sybil’s cup and she
glanced smilingly but anxiously at her companion. Her
concern was quickly changed to horror. He had no teeth. Sybil
for once forgot to smile.
S.G.H.


Sport
Cricket. A Regimental Team met and defeated a much-
practiced Anzac side on the 19th January. Mr. McCrudden
batted extremely well and was the only player to reach double
figures, but the form shown throughout was promising. The
Anzacs batted first, but the bowling of Bright, O’Shea and
Mr. McCrudden was so good that the innings closed for 33.
The Middlesex made 50. Mr. McCrudden showed excellent
form in his contribution of 20. We were very glad to have
the Colonel playing for us.
Rugby. On the 29th January a team skippered by Mr.
Brand met the SS. and beat them by one try to nil. Our
pack was good; almost invariably got the ball and dribbled
well. There was a certain amount of good work amongst the
outsides, but as is generally the case with a team that has not
played together before, there was no concerted action. There
was far too much clutching at necks, shirts, shorts, anything
instead of going properly low. Our try was scored rather
far out by Mr. Tanner shortly after half-time, and we were
slightly disconcerted to find, while awaiting the kick, that we
had 16 men. However, we handed the odd man over to our
opponents and cried quits. It was a very interesting game
to watch. Mr. Brand was conspicuous by his übiquity and
dash. If only our threes and halves could get sufficient
practice to enable them to play together, instead of each for
himself, we should have a good team.
Association. On 20th January we were visited by the
2fst A.C. Details. The game opened with a brilliant run up
the field by our opponents’ forwards, but the ball was quickly
transferred to the visitors’ half, and Tyson was unlucky in
not scoring with a fine shot. Play continued even till half-
time. On restarting, despite changes in the M.Y. team and
their strenuous efforts to hold their own, it was clearly seen
that the A.C. Details were the stronger side, and they soon
gave evidence of their superiority by scoring 2 goals. The play
and combination of their forward line are deserving of
emulation. The game ended without any further score.
Result 0-2.
Our opponents on 30th January were -the M.G. Squadron.
From the first our team seemed winners, and, despite
the quagmire round the visitors’ goal, some good play
was seen, during which White hooked a neat goal from a
centre by McCarthy. A determined effort was now made by


the Gunners, and a good shot from Winterbottom, their
mercurial outside right, succeeded in levelling the scores
which so remained till half-time. The second half produced
a dingdong game. Both Tyson and Cpl. Stott narrowly missed
the goal from short range. Sgt. Farenden, our able goalie,
now gave evidence of his skill, but after a brilliant save, the
M.G.s were awarded a disputable goal. Play now became
fast and furious, and again Tyson had ill luck, just grazing
the tape with a fast shot from one of McCarthy’s accurately
placed centres. Sgt. Randall still shines as a veritable
“ Crompton. ”No further score was made. Result 1-2.
We saw a rearranged team opposed to the R.G.H. on the 2nd.
February. Early on, we pressed hard, keeping our visitors’
goalie busy and Cpl. Shulte narrowly missed with a fine drive.
The R.G.H. are indebted to their custodian for his excellent
play as our men were always on the offensive and gave him
little rest. A miskick by Read gave our opponents their
chance and their outside left scored a fine goal. The second
half opened in favour of our visitors and Sgt. Farenden made
some good saves. Our team made great efforts to equalise
and Rangecroft sent in some fine long range shots, one of
which from 35 yards just went below the tape. White,
McCarthy and Rangecroft deserve mention for their excellent
play. Result 1-1.
The 6th of February saw us visited by the unbeaten S.N.H.
who opened with a dash and quickly compiled 2 goals. They
held their superiority all through the first half and added
another goal before half-time was called. Restarting, our men
began by rushing the S.N. centre and were quickly up the
field. Our forwards were playing exceptionally well and
continually pressed. Tyson gained possession and after
beating both backs sent in a shot which gave the goalkeeper
no chance. Rangecroft was again slamming in from long
range and one fine bouncing shot was fumbled by the S.N.
goalie and our second goal was registered. We still kept up
our pressure and a fine ground drive from White was cleverly
saved. No further score was made. Result 2-3.'
Sports. At the Sports held by the S.M. Brigade on the
iqth January our Brigade won all the places in the Divisional
Jumping. The Colonel’s horses, “ Reynolds Bay ”, ridden by
Capt. Boosey, and “Bogey”, ridden by Capt. Gilpin, were first
and third respectively, and Capt. Sheddon, S.S., took the
second place with “ Yellow Acre. ”
R.W.K.


Interviews with Notorieties
11. The Brasso Prince
In the same casual manner in which one might ask for a
match, the Editor gave me instructions to interview theßrasso
Prince, but to me it was no small thing to approach one who
has added such lustre to the regiment, and who throughout
the gloom of a Balkan winter did so much to make things
brighter.
It was with some misgivings, then, that I came to his
bivvy. I received a curt invitation to enter —your artist is
always loth to be disturbed —and soon found myself within
in an atmosphere heavy with the competing odours of many
polishes. The light reflected from bits, irons, bandoliers and
other specimens of his work which were arrayed round the
bivvy, was so strong that my eyes watered and I was
compelled to put on my smoked glasses. I then perceived him
burnishing a pair of spurs which he afterwards modestly
described as a pot boiler.
I explained the errand on which I had come. “I am afraid
you have too high an opinion of my work,” he said, “but
nevertheless I will endeavour to give you for the benefit of the
a few hints on poshing up. Poshing up is an Art
and like all other arts demands years of assiduous study from
its devotees. No matter how one strives, the goal of perfection
seems to recede, and one becomes gradually reconciled to the
fact that the allotted span of the life of man is too short to
accomplish the ideal. Application is the essential thing,
constant application, until the eye and the hand work in
harmony. When I left the Peninsular, for instance, I found
that the rough work there, digging etc., and lack of practice,
had ruined my touch with the burnisher, for the time being.”
To commence with he showed me his cleaning kit, which
always accompanies him, and is marvellously compact and
comprehensive. It was made from a bully beef box divided
into thirtysix little compartments with three large drawers
along the bottom. The drawers contained rubbers, burnishers,
polishes, bianco, etc., and the compartments held delicate
instruments for tricky work. Many of these tools are of his
own invention, the most recent addition to the collection being
a set of nine instruments for cleaning the eyeholes of field-
boots, and a brush for shanks of buttons —an improvement on
one he had bought of an Egyptian policeman.


“ T he w° rk of the Egyptian Police”, he remarked, “is quite
good. 1 hey are perhaps commonplace in their treatment of
steel, but some of their effects in leather are truly marvellous
and lead one to think that the ancient Egyptian recipes for
leatner polish, which have never been discovered, may have
been handed down secretly from father to son through the
centuries.
A account of his ideas and labour saving devices
would fill a book; there were skeleton cartridge clips for
bandoliers reinforced wire for stiffening winter caps and a
bundled other contrivances, but special mention must be made
of his case for field glasses. This case was so fitted that
instead of carrying field glasses it would take a complete
cleaning kit in miniature. “To my mind the wearing of field
glasses gives a pan an indescribable appearance of efficiency”,
ne said, especially when the case has been treated with Kiwi
relieved by dull dubbined straps. Field glasses themselves
can always be borrowed, but it is another question to get the
loan of, say, bianco in the field.”
I was privileged in viewing some of his best work bearing
the stamp of his originality and master touch. Perhaps the
most striking were a pair of ankle boots—a bright study in
sepia and a ceremonial set of bit and irons which he will not
give to the world until the peace celebrations.
As he discussed his work and showed me his treasures
he became more and more enthused, and at length he pulled
something from its hiding place, fumbled with trembling
fingers at the tissue paper in which it was swathed —and out
on to a blanket fell a sinuous thing of lustre. It needed no
second glance to tell me that this indeed was the farfamed
Ruby Queen Bandolier. It is perhaps the finest example extant
ot red Egyptian polish, and as it lay there glowing warmly
with the studs of the pouches gleaming brightly, it reminded
me of five evening stars in a bloody sunset.
I might soon have seen his entire collection, for he was
by now in such a state of rapture that he was quite oblivious
to my presence, but at this moment a loud cry from without of
Roll up for your parcels” brought him to himself again and
so, muttering that he must go to see if some samples of Nugget
had arrived, he pushed me from his bivvy into the compar-
atively pale light of the Palestine sun.
INTRUSO.


Market Day
‘Tis market day at home today,
The streets are thronged with farmers’ gigs,
George has plaited a wisp in the tail of the grey,
And Jack is driving in his pigs—
And for one fleeting moment I see in the heat
The straw-littered by-way, the town’s rumbling street.
The goodwives bring what fresh supplies
The dairy and the poultry yield,
And the children are gazing with wondering eyes
At sights undreamt by farm and field —
And a mocking mirage trembles over the sand
Of the busy old town and the broad smiling land.
And lassies meet and tell their news
With dimpled cheeks and smiles that flash
As the uprisen sun thrills to diamond the dews
That erst were pearls on oak and ash —
And I hear once again stealing over the dune
Their chattering as blithe as a brook’s bubbling tune.
And, business done, they drive at eve
From out the courtyard of the inn
Through the press of the townsfolk, as mistbanks weave
Sunset’s grey shroud and lamps begin
To bestar the dim valley —Ah, homewards to ride
In the soft-lapsing peace of God’s own countryside !
H.W.E


Chez Nous
Palestine,
Dear Julius, February, 1918.
1 recently spent twelve terrible hours on the “midnight
from
£ d l®. \ dwelt on more recent adventures; voyages in the
tit Compartment of the E.S.R., where we endeavoured
S but te mv Ue attlUldes 0n a mattress of eggshells and
melon peel, but my lemimscences were chiefly concerned with
an incident which happened in Macedonia last year
wealthVf 1 u d S pf,!i en at Ga , l . 1 f ieni , lon g enough to discover the
wealth ot useful commodities in the adjacent villages and
wSS’SK* ' Pr ° blem ° f transporting rhe same to our
had htt b f , re not available, and, although experience
had taught us the value of the horse as a substitute for ?he
Necessi'tvjs jhe f" '™ S . f °“" d '»
a sniia/ n f th ffi 0t ler ° f . mvention, however, and ere long
a squad of officers and sergeants produced a vehicle
‘" rdly * ,hi " 8 ° f b <*"'>. speared
invited t0 take a drive with my troop
wilfinMv At the W ?S l T ningly worded and I accepted
willingly At the appointed hour, we led a mule from the
lines and proceeded ro introduce him to the oS we
«rt P T d ch 0 a ', ,aCl ' him ' '‘ This ” said the sergeanh “is a
V° f ’ or . 3 conveyance. In such a vehicle did
oadmea ride against the Romans. Similar objects mav
hm-de 6 Se6 f n U1 London > Yarmouth and Southend, supporting
sniff «e° f °r ter , s ’ whelks , etc,” The mule took a caudouf
sniff semaphored vigorously with his ears, and finally
dopted an attitude which said more plainly than words
Phere is something fishy about this one”. However in less
than an hour we were able to remove the bandage from Iris
eyes and make the necessary repairs.
cntl cal crowd had collected meanwhile, and I was
L™ o HL 6 fr ° m substitute string
ino- Mnr-pl f essential parts of the harness was not reassur-
, 1 . e ,°ver, when attached to the means of traction our
cart looked more grotesque and less secure. The remarks of
whpl PeC J °?, W f ere h3rdly sympathetic and we were over-
helmed with facetious enquiries concerning the price of
?nTa S dkcl! l “, diStribl,,io " ofcal »” da « at Xmas.
ng a discieet silence we prepared for the venture Ultimately


I established myself firmly in the observer’s seat and bade my
comrades a sad farewell, mentioning my preference for lilies
of the valley.
To our great relief the “moke” responded to our first
invitation to proceed and we commenced to weave a geometric
pattern in the direction of the first gully, experiencing, I
imagine, many of the emotions of the man who navigated
the Niagaras in a beer barrel. Our negotiation of the gully
reminded me of happy moments on the scenic railway at Earl’s
Court. We sped towards Paterech without mishap, crossing
the R.R.’s gully under a heavy barrage of cheap wit. Two
paths then lay before us, one wide and smooth, and the other
winding a tortuous way up the face of the gully. The mule
ignored them both and dashed between the two. We climbed
half-way at a terrible angle and then stopped. For one
awful moment we hung in mid-air and then we ascended
laboriously to the top on one wheel. “Jolly fine, eh J” cried
the sergeant, his eyes alight with enthusiasm. I agreed,
moistening my lips and resolving mentally that if things
became much finer I would get off and walk, a resolution
that was strengthened when we leapt a two-foot bank in
very fine style.
We reached Paterech and loaded up. Our cargo consisted
of a score or so sacks of straw, a few stout beams, a quantity
of “Greek” and other fuel, -the whole forming a tall unstable
erection with a strong x-esemblance to the tower of Pisa. We
decided somewhat sceptically that we were ready for the
second spasm and my colleague, seating himself on the off-
side shaft, bade me jump up. I suggested modestly that I
might be more useful if I followed on behind and retrieved
the plunder as it fell. On this point he differed, and I was
exhorted not to “let him down’’. My own opinion was that
if any one was let down it would not be he. Nevertheless I
resigned myself to my fate and scrambled to the dizzy
height of my O Pip. Of the journey home I remember little,
which is not surprising in view of the fact that I was describ-
ing a series of concentric circles whose radii varied with
our speed.
From the nature of the greetings accorded us on our
arrival at the lines, I surmised that our safe return was quite
unexpected and even a little disappointing. This impression
was confirmed subsequently when I discovered that my section
had devoured at my expense, milk, Nestle’s, tin,three-quarters,
and figs, strings, two, these not being considered part of the
“property and effects” mentioned in my pay-book.
This, my dear Julius, is but one incident from the life of
cruel hardships we endured last year, and yet in London at
that time painted ladies were trilling across the footlights : “If
you don’t want to fight, go to Salonique”.
Yours as ever,
Cassius.


“The Language of the Lines”
Good Padre, I do thank thee for that word;
A witty and effective way of giving us the bird
For all the awful curses that at times you must have heard—
The language of the lines.
You recognise, no doubt, the fearful strain,
When some fool-horse treads on one’s toes and makes him
yell with pain,
To keep from reprimanding it in speech most crudely plain
The language of the lines.
When beer is up and fellows on the booze,
You know their life since last they had it and, we hope, excuse
Their tendency, especially in argument, to use
The language of the lines.
And think how long ago we left behind
The great refining influences of home and womenkind !
What wonder, then, if coarse the medium of speech we find ?-
The language of the lines !
But, Padre, take for consolation this,
That once at home again, returned to all that now we miss,
Our joy complete, there’ll be no need to use for emphasis
The language of the lines.
PIP.


Entertainments
Since my return to camp I have heard legends—the
strangeness of the reports leads me to think they cannot be
otherwise—of an entertainment given by (or to) a pipe band.
The hero of all the tales is the bandmaster, and he is spoken
of in conection with a bint, who if she appeared in this camp
must surely have been some fairy princess. In addition to an
amorous disposition, he seems to have possessed some magic
powers for he is said to have vanished suddenly, to have been
“spirited” into an officer’s tent, to have produced teeth from
the sands of the desert, and finally, when exorcised by the
Padre, to have gone away making weird noises resembling a
clipping machine or nutmeg grater. The other members of
the band, apparently of a highly sentimental temperament,
were reduced to tears after the third tune and several refused
to leave the hospitable precincts of the camp, They were,
however, driven from camp as our first parents were from
Eden, and their return is prevented by the fiery sword of the
Padre’s indignation. Yet, ’tis said, it was a merry evening.
On the 25th January the Padre gave us a very interesting
lecture on Jerusalem which he had visited in the earlier part
of the week. He had intended to give his lecture on two
successive evenings, but on asking at the conclusion of the
first part at 9 o’clock whether he should continue, there was
but one opinion; he completed it. The first part was devoted
to the history of Jerusalem from the earliest times to its des-
truction by Titus. In the second part he told us of his expedi-
tion, emphasising the fact that one goes to see Jerusalem more
for its historical associations than to see the City itself,which,
of course, does not much resemble the Jerusalem of our Lord’s
time. The natural features of the place and particularly the
Mount of Olives most impressed him, as they have not
changed at all. On his return, he visited Bethlehem. He
said it was a change here after the invariable request for
baksheesh in Jerusalem, to be told by his guide, a little French
boy, to whom he offered money, that“ce n’est pas pour
I’argent, mais pour I’honneur, Monsieur”. The Padre thought
this seemed the right spirit of the place.
The audience at the impromptu Brigade concert with
which the season opened on the 29th. January was unanimous
in the opinion that the best item was the Padre’s stump


speech. The other artistes, with the exception of Sgt. White,
M.G.C., who recited “The Brand” and “Lasca”, were handi-
capped by the defective acoustics and piano. There was a
preponderance of sentimental songs, but they were admirably
rendered by Capt Catford, R. A.M.C., Cpl. Dawson, M.Y., and
L/Cpl. Fordham, S. S. Tpr. Page, M.Y., spoilt a fine voice by
singing to the platform instead of the audience. If the
humourous element was lacking in quantity, it was not
wanting in quality. Sgt. Thomas, R.A.M.C., was excellent,
especially in his old high hat.
On 31st. January “The Tanks” once more delighted an
overflowing house with their splendid entertainment. The
Manager had spared no pains to make the performance a
success and his efforts were not wasted; it was a triumphal
procession from beginning to end. It was a particularly
praiseworthy achievement to present an entirely new pro-
gramme. It is impossible to single out any individual for
special praise, but“TheTanks”are to be congratulated on their
two new artistes, Sgt. Fisher, and the pianist, Tpr Orchard,
both of the R.R “Miss” Woodin looked more seductive than
ever in some new Paris creations. The topical gags were, as
usual, very “striking”, and were received with roars of laugh-
ter and applause. It must be added that the Padre’s prelude
was not the least entertaining item.
“The Defaulters” gave us a very good concert on 2nd
February. There was the Padre’s opening speech without
which no concert party would be complete nowadays. How-
ever, this concert party was found to need no boosting. The
humourist, L/Cpl Wilson, in his continuous excellence, some-
what overshadowed the rest of the party, but did not prevent
our enjoyment of the singing of Lieut. Gisbourne and L/Cpl.
Carr, nor our appreciation of the clever manipulation of the
timeworn piano by Lieut Martindale. The conjuring of L/Cpl.
Martin bordered on the miraculous, and we must congratulate
Pte Woollaston on his “bintfulness.”
Reporter.


Reflections
Three things are necessary to man. Yea, verily, without
these three is he nought. And they be, to wit, Arms, Clothing,
and Rations. Arms, that he may seriously perturb and annoy
his country’s enemies : Clothing and Equipment that he may
support and transport the burden of the said weapons and
the impedimenta necessary to their maintenance and effective-
ness : Rations that may be somewhat calmed the clamour of
his inner man.
And the importance of these three is relatively in the
order above set out. The prime importance of Arms has been
recognised and acknowledged through the ages from the time
in the far distant past when Arms and their use were a condi-
tion precedent to the obtention of Rations and Clothing—
to wit, meat and pelt. Did not Virgil begin one Book “ Arma
virumque cano”? In the which the drill sergeant fully agrees —
Arms first, the man a long way second, and the other
desiderata purely superfluous accretions.
The relative unimportance of Clothing and Equipment is
sufficiently manifest in that, as all men do know, though oft
indented for yet rarely are they seen. Breeches having
buttons and some sound cloth —are they not “serviceable ” ?
Boots are admittedly unserviceable when the lace holes from
many have consolidated into one and indivisible and the sole
consists of solution of continuity —which last is not yet in the
list of authorised “ in lieu of ”.
The inner man, for some reason known only to Dame
Nature, is probably the most undeniably persistent and
pertinacious of the entities of which consists the complete
Man. Hence for the Man qua Man (that is not including those
who, though bearing the semblance of men yet are not ‘men’,
in witness whereof see the chevrons, scars, crowns, batons,
et hoc genus omnes which they are condemned to expose on
their jerkins : these being indifferent to the clamour of the
inner man and the Ration call) the third and least important
desideratum is apt to assume a totally disproportionate place
in the scheme of his existence. Of it may he say “ This is
Rations”, but never “This is Rational”.
To the thinking mind indeed never was there so excellent
a proof of the richness of our mother-tongue in that two such
divergent concepts derive from the same parent word—Rations
and Rational. Ratio meaning relative proportion in the
comparision of two or more things, concepts, &c. Ratio of
Rations to Appetite ? Unity to Infinity.


Our reason is that which enables us to obtain a clear
Conception of the relative proportions of things, acts, values,
etc: hence ‘Ration’ is synonymous with ‘Reasonable’; but are
rations reasonable ?
Verily the greatest of these is Arms.
H. F.
Books Received
The Rod of Iron, an Essay on Discipline Two Star
(An excellent tannersworth.) Counsel to CaAets Series•
Notes on Signalling, with a special chapter on pigeon-flying
and an appendix dealing with signalling as a farce.
Capt. Gamma.
Professorial Pamphlets Ltd.
(Special abridged edition of the author’s famous
“Treatise on Methods of Communication,” in six vols.)
Answers to Correspondendents
Sergt. Tampin : No, we think it hardly likely that the
piper whom you heard muttering something like
“wee feel” was a German in disguise asking “wie
viel” “how much”.
Puzzled : This is the explanation. So democratic has
England become that even the King has now a
number which, according to a sergeant of “C” squad-
ron, is G.R. I.
Aggrieved : Your fatigue which consisted in putting up jumps
in the Anzac Divisional area was not due to the
slackness of the Dinkums, but was an example of
the graceful compliments with which it has become
customary to encourage our Colonial cousins. We
do not think, however, they showed good taste
in “jumping” the material the day after it had been
erected.
Sport : Some of our Officers show great persistence in
waiting on the edge of the lake for Duck. We
understand the smallness of their bag is due to the
shortage in the salt issue. Of course, some prefer
to go to Cairo for their birds.




