

V' ;i. » ; ‘ v .k •'> .V; y\i -T • ‘ ’ V' ’''' -'. v IK ft' t,'}*,:'. ; ;
•;.■ ."• ;• \ ! ; f A ?> ~ ® ' '■ W’ ■ *'■ \ '/’•■■- * A- i y 'w?* <£./
i A , . <r \ i'| > ,*■ »y* ivfel' toSf \ 1 ' < » t s > ■'
| §gp || | v (vV-r'i >t *.V* ’V *V," .-v' v- ill




MIDDLESEX YEOMANRY MAGAZINE
CENSORED MATTER
VOL. I. No. 2,
OCTOBER, 1917
Foreword
When the first number of the Magazine appeared we
proposed to publish it monthly, but the gods (in tin hats)
disposed otherwise. They moved us to Salonica. On our
arrival, and again later, we tried to bring out another number,
but the Thessalonian system of repression did not admit of
such levity. When we returned to the Canal another attempt
was made, but again the authorities proved unsympathetic.
At last it is our good fortune to serve with those who look
with favour upon such efforts, which aim at supplying pas-
sing amusement and a permanent record of the Regiment
while on service.
Our first number met with some adverse criticism —that
it was too academical, too serious, and was not representative
of the Regiment. We must admit that in the composition
of it we did set out to please ourselves rather than the
Regiment, but our excuse is that the Regiment had not then
given us a taste of its quality, or say rather, had not shown
the quality of its taste. This number, it will be seen, is
somewhat different in style, of lighter vein and contains
more matter. We are glad, too, that more have contributed,
but we feel sure that there is still much undiscovered ability
in the Regiment and appeal to all who can give us contribu-
tions to send them in as soon as possible, so that they may
be in good time for the next number.
Having revived the Magazine, we do not intend to let
it lapse again, and hope to produce it regularly, month by
month, until the Proclamation of Peace puts an end to our
leisure.
The Editor,


Retrospect
Immediately after the publication of the first number
of the Magazine we were moved to Salonica. Every gangway
of the transport was obstructed by submarine guards, and
we lived, to our great discomfort, in lifebelts, day and night,
but beyond this the voyage was entirely devoid of incident.
As we entered harbour, we saw Mount Athos and thought
of monks ; we gazed at “snow-capped” Olympus and mused
upon the old Grecian gods ; we looked at Salonica, its narrow,
cobbled streets, its cypresses, the old Turkish wall, the White
Tower, Stein’s, the Olympos Palace Hotel, and sniffed at the
smell of innumerable French breakfasts. Though the town
was thronged with troops of all the other Allies, it was out
of bounds to the British, but a representative of the Magazine,
who obtained a special pass, assures us that not even Flocka’s
made it worth the six mile walk back to camp, during which
one was challenged in almost every European language.
After having been issued with, our winter equipment, we
set out on a three days’ interesting trek through Macedonia,
looking, with our woolly jerkins, flowing capes and axes, like
a mediaeval pageant. This journey was not without incident,
in connection with packed saddles, lost horses, sporting guns
and Samos wine.
The autumn scenery of Macedonia was rather beautiful,
and we found ideal situations for camps, which, however,
under the influence of incessant rain, soon became quagmires,
against whicn not even field boots were sufficient protection.
Despite the Vardar wind and a somewhat severe winter
we carried on more or less cheerfully. There were trying tim es
such as when we failed to jump the stream swollen with rain,
or had to wade waist-high through the lake at dawn to attack
Brest, or when it rained throughout the twenty four hours we
were on picquet in the wadi. But there were compensating
factors, such as the posh dug-outs and the “Greek coal” sup-
plied at most reasonable terms by the Paterech and Doiran
Furnishing Companies. There was also rum (in toothfuls),


and we have particularly grateful recollections of the Brigade
Bath House, which enabled us to meet, naked and unashamed,
the Doctor’s momentous question : “Hot bath this week ?
Any lice ? ”
We were very sorry to lose the Colonel who, we under-
stood, was recalled to England on parliamentary business.
In the matter of recreation, we have pleasant memories of
that cheery little newspaper, the “Balkan News’’, and that
most excellent concert party, the “Splints”, whose entertain-
ment was on one occasion almost rendered inaudible by the
noise of a tremendous strafe up front.
Then, there was the gardening.
That was in the spring, when we had moved back from
the “front line”. Spring was very beautiful in Macedonia. In
those days there was football, with interesting and keenly
supported inter-squadron matches.
Other things connected with our reminiscences of Mac-
edonia aredogs, poultry-farming, tortoise-racing, wiring, the
gaudy cummerbunds of the Turks who sold us chocolate and
Piou-piou biscuits, and the women who covered their faces at
sight of us as though we had the evil eye. The drachma
had a great advantage over the piastre in its spending capacity,
but we found some difficulty in rapid calculation with the
variety of coins put into circulation by the various Allies
stationed in Salonica. There was constant aerial activity,
and, besides several raids, we witnessed a pretty fight in
which one of our scouts, single-handed, brought down a large
Boche plane. Another young airman, having had the tail of
his machine knocked off in a collision, threw out his
machine-gun during his rapid descent and was found, some-
what dazed, fumbling for a cigarette. It is a pity that our
machine gun section was denied the kudos of having brought
down that plane on Easter Sunday.
One day Rumour became busy, and at one time or another
predicted a move to each of the Allies' battle fronts.
Eventually we did strike camp, trekked back to Salonica, and
embarked for a destination unofficially known to be Alexan-
dria. This voyage also was without submarine interference.


We record with pleasure that Major W. Macdonald,
S.Q.M.S. Lloyd, and Sergeant S.A. Espie were mentioned in
General Milne’s despatches for good work and devotion to
duty whilst with the Salonica Army.
Some of us were sorry to see Egypt again and to exchange
green fields for glaring sand, but it enabled us to escape both
Culex and Anopheles.
We did not see much of Alexandria —more than we
were intended, but less than we wished —but were hurried
off to a camp on the Canal. The chief features of our
sojourn there were bathing, “plenty beera,” continuous
stables from dawn to dusk, and last but not least, leave,
up to thirty six hours, to Ismailia and Port Said, which
gave us a taste of the comforts and pleasures of civilisation
to which we had been strangers for so many months.
After a month in these quite pleasant surroundings, we
embarked on another pilgrimage—say rather, crusade. We
marched about 150 miles, by easy stages, in fourteen days,
and, after a really most enjoyable trek, arrived in this
country of legendary milk and honey. The camp we then
occupied remains in my memory as the worst to which we
have ever been confined. It serves no good purpose to recount
its innumerable evils, but the predominant one was dust —dust
on kit, dust on food, dust turning to mud on sweating bodies.
There were also practice alarms occasionally. But after four
long weeks we moved up to the Wadi camp, of which much
might be said beyond the mere mention of dust —indeed, it
was perhaps the most noteworthy of all our camps —but we
have so lately left it that it must be too vivid in the memories
of most of us to need mention here. There was, however, one
incident worthy of commemoration, an incident of great
importance, especially as it synchronised with the great
movement towards liberty in Russia known as the Revolution.
I refer to the abolition of the “fatigue” and the introduction
of the “working party”.
V. H. P.


Personal
It is with genuine pleasure that we welcome the
re-appearance amongst us of our Colonel.
[We regret that G.R.O. 1909 does not allow us to mention
his name, but we think that all ranks will be able to call it
to mind.]
We have been able to collect the following particulars
of past members of the Regiment who left us to take commis-
sions. Our pride in the distinctions they have won is tempered
by the regret with which we learn that so many old friends
are lost to us for ever.
Captain C.M.Q. Orchardson, M. C, (mentioned in
despatches). Killed in action.
Capt. A. Rahbula, M.C. Wounded and missing.
Capt. E. Sussex, M.C. Killed in action.
Lieut. H. Denyer. D S.O. Killed in action.
Lieut. E. Rahbula, M.C.
2nd Lieut. F.C. Beck. Killed in action.
2nd Lieut. W.J. Watson. Killed in flying accident.
We congratulate Major Watson and Capt. Wedgwood-
Benn, both of whom have been awarded the D.S.O. All will
join with us in wishing them a speedy return to health.
There is reason to believe that the Regiment might claim
a longer list of honours. We shall be glad to receive any
information of this kind.
S.G.H.
Rondeau
Just for a smoke I sit and fret,
Outside the night is cold and wet,
And yonder hangs a drenched cloak,
And midnight’s hour upon the stroke
Puts matters plainly past regret.
Great is philosophy ! —and yet —
With fixed eye and jaw firm set,
In angry impotence I fret —
Just for a smoke.
Thy pictured beauty, fair Jeannette,
No longer lulls me to forget,
For, when life’s but a ghastly joke,
The fairest thing beneath a toque
I’d barter for a cigarette—
Just for a smoke !
P.B.


Stockpot
The year which has elapsed since our last issue has been
quietly spent by us in looking for trouble, but without result.
We were on the verge of bloodshed on Boxing Night, but the
person or persons unknown, who held the village, mistook us
for infantry in the uncertain light, and by fleeing at our ap-
proach robbed us of a possible victory. Our* * casualties were
due to the enthusiasm of the troops we were supporting.
There is as yet no foundation in the rumour that after
the Comb has dealt with Whitehall it is to be applied to us.
There is a posh bandolier in camp which has a fine
record. It has constantly been of great service to Orderly
N.C.Os, gallopers, witnesses in Courts-Martial, etc., and has
won the coveted “stick” with great regularity, averaging 93.6%
“sticks” in 837 main guard parades. It has a still better record
for assistance in obtaining commissions, 149 applicants having
worn it for 783 interviews in connection with their papers,
with such satisfactory results that none of them has as yet
given up hope.
The scarcity of spaghetti, which we are feeling so acutely,
is due to two causes : (a) the insatiable requirements of the
Italian Government, and (b) the limitation of the world’s
spaghetti crop. With regard to the latter cause, the area of
spaghetti cultivation cannot be inceased in a wholesale
fashion like other cereals, for the reason that the crop has
to be hand-harvested. For the curling tendrils of the spaghetti
plant —which makes spaghetti-eating such a fascinating ac-
complishment —defy the inventors of agricultural machinery
and clog the working parts of the self-binders.


The little bits of secret information which go the rounds
amongst us must be very misleading to the Turks. Quite
recently we were refreshed by a strong rumour that “such and
such a day had been a glorious day for British arms”; yet this
started merely by an O.C. coming to the door of his bivouac,
sniffing the sweet early morning air off the sun-kissed sea, and
remarking : “What a fine day for a rifle inspection!”
AJ.T.
Philosophy
With apologies to W. E. Henley
Out of the sand that covers me,
Clogging my progress day by day,
I thank the generous powers that be
For biscuits, bully beef, and “chay”.
In the fell clutch of forceps cruel
I have not winced nor cried aloud ;
Though “ gunfire’s ” stopped for want of fuel
1 have not murmured with the crowd.
Beyond, the Turkish lines appear,
And soon must an advance be made,
But a position in the rear
Finds, and shall find, me unafraid.
It matters not how much chlorine
Is put into the water here;
Others control the water-skin
I am the opener of my beer.
David.


Sport
The Regiment was represented in the only two open
events in the R.B.H. Sports on Saturday, October 6th. The
tug-of-war team was drawn against that of the Artillery,
which was successful in beating us. The final of this event
was won by the B.R.H.A. The other item in which we were
interested, the Officers’open race on donkeys (their latest toy),
afforded much amusement. Between fifty and sixty faced the
tape, and after a false start all got well away. Several
competitors, mistaking the event for the Lloyd Lindsey,
dismounted after going a few yards. From this point a rider-
less donkey led the field, closely followed by Lieut. Brown,
M.Y., and Major Sopper, R.R., the latter going very strong
and eventually winning by a length.
Ist. Major Sopper. 2nd. Lieut. Brown.
A good programme was arranged for our Brigade Sports,
held on Wednesday, October 10th. They afforded good sport
and attracted a large crowd. The first events were the
best - turned - out section and best - turned - out limber. The
entrants in both cases were exceptionally good.
Result: Section; Ist. B. Sqdn,, M.Y. 2nd, B. Sqdn. RR.
Limber; Ist. S.S. 2nd. H.R.H.A.
The next item, the best-turned-out “bint” and “bint” race,
suggested an intimate knowledge of cosmopolitan feminine
apparel on the part of the competitors, who provoked much
mirth amongst the spectators.
Result: Best “bint”; Ist. Tpr. Pooley, M.Y. 2nd. Tpr.Woodin, S.S.
Race; Ist. Tpr. Moore, R.R. 2nd. LCpl.Brown.R.R,
The Brigade Officers’Jumping now claimed attention. The
contest was keen, and great credit reflects on Capt. Stedall,
R.R., the winner, who had to do the course twice and cleared
every jump on both occasions. Capt. Watson of the S.S. was a
close second.
The V.C, Race drew a large field, and after two prelimin-
aries Sergt. Hilton, S.S., gained the first place and Tpr.
Pelton, M.Y., second.


Convincing proof that the Yeoman loves his horse was
given in the Best Conditioned Mobilisation Horse event. All
the horses were splendid, and, considering they have had
three years of continuous work, showed that exceptional care
had been taken with them.
Result: Ist. Cpl. Purkis, M.Y. 2nd. Cpl. Andrew, R.R.
3rd. Tpr. North, S.S.
The chief interest of the afternoon centred in the next
event, Officers’ Jumping, open to E. E.F. After some fine
jumping the number of competitors was reduced to seven. All
these horses showed great promise and over the higher jumps
great rivalry was anticipated. Only one horse, belonging to
the G. O. C., cleared the course, thereby winning. Col, Sir
Matthew Wilson’s “Bogey” was second and Capt McDougall’s
“Old Pal”, ridden by the owner, was rather an unlucky third.
The Lloyd Lindsey Race, which was unfortunately run at
the same time as the open jumping, only attracted a few
sections, thereby losing the interest that is usually attached
to the event.
Result: Ist. B. Sqdn. S.S., 2nd. C. Sqdn. S.S-, 3rd. A. Sqdn. R.R.
Next on the programme was the Mule Scurry in which a
large field melted away from the start, leaving Tpr. McKreel
R.R. to win on a fast chestnut, closely followed by Tpr. Byrne
R.R. and Pte. Grunwood, R.A.M.C., who finished second and
third respectively.
The N.C.Os. and men deserve highest praise for the way
in which they, in the last event of the afternoon, faced the
difficult jumps which had already brought many chargers to
grief. Our old favourite “Liverpool” (Tpr. Mills up) won,
having taken the jumps better than any horse during the
meeting. So evenly matched were the runners that Tpr. Mills
and Sergt. Edwards had to jump a second time for first and
second places, and Sergts. Park and Dickinson, L/Cpl.
Knightsbridge and Tpr. Joyce, ail deserving mention, for third
and fourth places.
Result: Ist. Tpr. Mills, M.Y. 2nd. Sergt. Edwards, S.S.
3rd. Sergt Park, M.Y. 4th. Sergt. Dickinson, S.S.
Wrestling on horseback was won by the H.R.H.A. after
many preliminaries.
A.J.


Chez Nous
PALESTINE,
October, 1917.
Dear Julius,
Censor permitting, I will first touch lightly on the evil
fortunes which have attended our officers here. In previous
campaigns their time has always been fully occupied—tennis,
fishing and yachting at Geneffe, shooting and hunting in
Macedonia, and so forth. This country is not so accommodat-
ing. Moreover, the sporting spirit of the Turk is not so
pronounced this year. In Sinai, we sallied forth in our lightest
armour, confident that “our friend the enemy” would not
interrupt our little picnic. Consequently, after loading our
camel-train with just enough war-material to justify our sortie,
sufficient room remained for certain packages calculated to
lessen the boredom of our squadron leaders; whereas the stunts
of to-day entail such discomforts as fighting order and
curtailed baggage. However, our reconnaissances rarely
coincided with those of our adversaries —a circumstance
regretted only by the unsophisticated.
Two incidents are prominent amongst last month’s ad-
ventures. On one occasion, an officer of this Brigade, having
failed to draw the Turk, dumped a half-limber in No Man’s
Land and reported it as enemy artillery. Another gentleman,
during the proximity of hostile aircraft, seemed anxious to
test the efficacy of a G.S. blanket as protection from bombs.
Fortunately for him, his curiosity was not satisfied.
You will remember that in my last letter 1 told you we
were expecting shortly to spend a month at a rest camp on
the beach. Our expectations have been realised in part,
insomuch as we have a bivouac, a great deal of beach, and a
little rest.
During one of the lectures which figure in our present
programme, the M.O. suggested that beer was one of the
greatest weaknesses of our old enemy the fly. Perhaps he
hoped that the professional jealousy thereby aroused would
expedite the extermination of the insect in this locality. The
fly was not the only pest dealt with; but it is to be hoped that
the M.O.’s reference to certain other varieties as “old friends”
is not to be taken quite literally. Of course, we must speak
as we “find.”


Platoon parades still provide a little innocent amusement,
although many of us would prefer a less strenuous recreation.
The platoon personnel being liable to alteration from day to
day, a hurried consultation is usually held on parade. The
following dialogue is frequently heard: “No. ( 3, you are a
scout.” “But I was a sniper yesterday, sir.” “Don’t argue!
You’re a scout.” Vacancies having been filled in this manner,
surplus individuals are dismissed, and the comedy proceeds.
As we return from exercise each morning we meet an
officer’s groom, whose agility is even more startling than his
age. Somehow he always recalls to me a popular chorus of
Dan Leno’s, a revised version of which runs :
“Fancy me a-ridin’ nags, smokin’ fags and wearin’ bags,
At my time o’ life”.
Write soon to
Cassius.
Bilharziosis
Bilharziosis! Shining star
Of parasitic worms that are,
The tale of vampire tricks you wreak
Is writ in orders, week by week.
You lurk in surface water, and
In sweet canals throughout the land,
Attacking through the eyes or noses
Of careless souls, Bilharziosis !
To peril dire the tempting path
Which leads a hero to the bath,
And brave is he, aye more, a fool
Who slakes his thirst from standing pool.
Bilharziosis ! Vengeful star !
One tires of hearing what you are.
May science track you, out to kill,
And leave to us the other Bill.
A. J.T.


Interviews with Notorieties
I. The Squadron Cook
The Editor gave me four packets of cigarettes, three boxes
of matches, and instructions to interview the Squadron Cook,
As I neared the cookhouse, I was easily able to identify
him, as he leaned against the post directing his assistants. I
felr almost too nervous to approach him, but he himself gave
me an opening, for, as I lit a cigarette, he called out in no
uncertain tone : “ Got a gasper, pard ? ”
Handing him a packet, I explained the mission on which
I had come, and with great enthusiasm he proceeded to show
me the inner workings of the cookhouse. Fortunately I had
arrived just in time to witness one of the chief events of the
day, “ boxing up The issue of tea for the entire squadron
had already been brewed in two dixies, making a super-
essence of tea, which is technically known as the “mash”
(the operation itself is “mashing down”). Sufficient dixies
for the squadron, each full of boiling or hot water, as the case
might be, were now brought up in line facing east, and after
tinned goods for heating up had been withdrawn from the
water each dixie received a quantity of the “ mash This is
the process of “boxing up”. All was now ready for the
finishing touch of sugar and milk, which the Squadron Cook
himself, with his own hands, performed with a few deft and
masterly movements.
The squadron’s tea was now “up ”,
After casting his eye around, much in the manner of the
captain of a liner before leaving the bridge during a lull in
the storm, he took me into his office and regaled me with tea.
This was a special make known as Sergeant-Major’s tea, and
was indeed a culinary triumph, reminding me of tea as mother
used to make it.
Lighting a fresh cigarette from the butt end of the old,
he showed me his library of cookery books, prominent amongst
which was Mrs. Beeton’s, with the latest supplements. He
believes in keeping up to date, and while he himself has little


need of written recipes—cooking with him being more a
matter of instinct than of rule of thumb—yet he always
encourages his assistants to study these volumes in their
leisure evenings, for even if it fails to make cooks of them it
at least keeps them out of bad company round the Crown and
Anchor boards.
Working his way through a new packet of cigarettes, he
became very communicative, and I gathered much of his life
story. At an early age he showed a precocious talent for
cooking a talent he developed later in the old army, when
he went everywhere, always cooking. In fact it is no
exaggeration to say that he has followed the meteor flag of
England ail over the world with his meatier stews. Leaving
the army, he continued to practise, and of course, at the out-
break of war was chef in a large hotel where his originality
surprised the gourmets.
While he had been talking all this time, and playing the
host in a courtly fashion, his senses were nevertheless on the
alert to detect any sound from the cookhouse which might
indicate that the great machine was not running smoothly.
Now and again he would give an order or a caution,
unintelligible to me, such as ; Give the old fire some high
hat ” or “ Go light with the you and me, boy ”,
I was impressed by his modesty. lo become a cook is
possible for almost any man of ordinary intelligence,” he said,
but he must have a cool head and a ready tongue to deal
with complaints. In the army especially he must be
obliging and consider nothing too much trouble if it is for the
benefit of the boys ”, A knowledge of mechanics is useful
in a standing camp where there is often a great deal of
machinery for mincing meat, etc”.
Upon honesty in the cookhouse he laid special stress. He
had a man once in charge of the bones, which were sold by
the army to a contractor. When the bones had meat adhering,
the contractor used to tender this man little marks of esteem!
Now when it came to sharing out, the man would only own up
to about half of what he must have received. That sort of
thing caused friction and was not playing the game straight.


“ You can tell the boys from me ”, he said, in farewell,
“ that as they come here in turn for a week, I shall spare no
pains to teach them, all they can learn. A young fellow who
studies hard under me can learn to make tea, if not an
elementary stew, in the time ; and tell them also that while it
may be the custom in other parts to drop the instructor some-
thing, I always do my best without any ulterior motive. Of
course, if a bottle of beer or so or a tin of cigarettes wouldn’t
hurt them—well, there you are ! ”
With that we parted, he to check the jam and I to hand
in four cigarette pictures and my “copy” to the Editor.
INTRUSO.
Books Received
With Gun and Cook in the Balkans
“ A Squadron Leader ” Barnes Publishing Company
More Leaves. M.P. Pills and Meat
(A sequel to “ Some Leaves ” by the same author. The
publishers lead us to anticipate a third volume entitled
“Budding Leaves”).
Ave fltque Vale Major Bigton
Printed at the Sign of the Bear with the Ragged Staff
The Sins of a Seraph “Despatch Rider”
Provisional Library of Lurid Literature
Old Friends, the Unlicensed Researches of a Medical
Student
“ Didymus ” Health and Purity Press
The Indiscretions of a Midshipman
“ Semper Eadem ” Published by the “ Spectator ”
Squadron Tactics, from A to B
Capt. Mark Hughes Yeo Publishing Company


A Ballad of Moses
Let Sandhurst o’er Napoleon pore,
And tribute pay to Caesar,
Each in his own line given to score;
I trust that you’ll agree, sir,
That regimental records burnt
Or lost, and much a mystery,
Still many a lesson may be learnt
Of strategy and history
From tales in the Old Testament
Of that stout Colonel Moses,
And Aaron, eke, his adjutant,
Of whom this lay proposes.
’Twas thus : a foundling Moses, reared
On a Barnado farm, he
So strong of frame and wit appeared
They put him in the Army.
Him (Colonel now) his Brigadier
Incessantly did chivvy
Because his men were slow to make
Bricks for the latter’s bivvy.
The Colonel bade his “ Number Threes ”
Go bring up the lead pencils;
Wrote : “ Brig., How can we hope to please
Sans tibbin or utensils ?
We’re sick of this —aye, all fed up
Each to his nether molar,
Submit that we’ve been sold a pup,
Have reason due for choler ”
The note, at last complete, he sent
(’Twas full of scorn and railing)
His batman to the Brig.’s own tent
To hide it in his brailing.


At dead of night they struck their camp,
Also the road to eastward,
With stores and zeal that nought could damp —
At first. But soon the least word
Of question into grumbling grew,
Till when, restraint side-tossing,
The Red Sea, reached at last, they dammed
And made a dry-shod crossing.
The dam burst on the raging Brig.,
All hot-foot in the rear;
Who, handing in his spirit, got
(In lieu) a watery bier.
Supplies ran short and then quite stopped ;
The men began to plan a
Return, when rations on them dropped
In a most miraculous manna.
They ate their fill and spake of thirst.
The Colonel, bored completely,
A rock bent to his mood ; and cursed
Water (and men) gushed sweetly.
One day as he from office came
He spied, with rage and rancour,
The Adjutant amongst the men,
All playing Crown and Anchor.
The Adj., whose fancy was the brown,
Excuses tried to stammer ;
The Colonel flung the orders down,
And tore them with a hammer.
The Adj. soon got a hint, I grieve,
The King could do without him ;
Was offered unexpected leave —
No more was heard about him.
Their sporting idol gone, the men
Kicked up increasing rumpus ;
And grief on grief, it was just then
The Colonel lost his compass.


So four decades they roamed about—
'Twere kind to hold from scrutiny
Of their behaviour, which no doubt
Savoured some whit of mutiny.
Til! chanced two widely wandering scouts
An E F-C. to find
Which straight they stripped of beers and stouts
And soon to grief grew blind.
They bent a spiral campward way,
Told how a wondrous victualler
Did keep, besides, a brave array
Of Nestle and of Tickler.
The Colonel said (as such will do)
“ I told you so ! ” (Much laughter—
And cheers)... They all, if soldiers can,
Lived happy ever after.
Now you might read of other things
Like unto these if you’d a
Fancy to read the Book of Kings
And Chronicles of Judah.
Instance, that house-and fort-topped wall—
How Joshua, in his glory,
Cried as he marked its gradual fall,
...“But that’s another storey. ”...
Envoi,
Fire-eaters o’er Napoleon pore
And tribute pay to Caesar;
Moses’ slow ways and sure suit more
The likes of you and me, sir.
H.W.E.


Encyclopaedia Yeomannica
BAC- BUT
Backchat : A form of greeting popularly used by men
to N.C-O.s ; when the greeting is returned in
kind by N.C.O.s, it is known as “main-
tenance of discipline”.
Ball; The equine “number nine”; a remedy
for laminitis, glanders, farcy, splints and
girth galls. A recent experimental effort by
two of the heads of our veterinary staff to
induce artificial respiration by administering
a couple of balls to a dead horse is reported
not to have met with the complete success
anticipated.
Bandsman : See Orderly Room at once. (Advt.)
Vide also “Comb”, “Fanati”, “Organ,
mouth” etc.
Batman : The chrysalis stage of the genus sergeant.
Battalion : An assortment of men, some having plain
jobs, others coloured, provided by Yeomanry
Regiments for the game of patience as played
by Brigadiers.
B eer ; The liquidation of a trooper’s pay. It is
commonly called “ pig’s-ear ”, and is always
at the base when one is in the firing line and
vice versa. It still is cheaper than cham-
pagne. It is impossible to make a silk purse
out of a sow’s ear, but many a canteen
manager has made a fat purse out of pig’s-
ear. Local brews, such as Sheba Beer and
Lake’s Bitter, cannot be recommended.
Bird; (a) An inarticulate noise signifying
admiration. A more fully flavoured variety
is known as a “ Raspberry,” whilst the
superlative form is called “ The Royal
Richard ”.
(b) A soft, warm, feathery little thing,
the object of gun or chase; a delectable
delicacy when warmed up.
Biscuit A disciplinary food for “ terriers ”. The
(Army) grave of many a fine upstanding molar.


Blighty : A desert mirage of an El Dorado which is
said more particularly to attract soldiers
who have done considerable service abroad.
The persistent but pathetically vain hopes
and aspirations of such men may be said to
be “ blightied ”,
Blighty One : A small corporal puncture, or the abrasion
or removal of a not indispensable portion of
the anatomy, which by some peculiar coin-
cidence is understood frequently to material-
ise the visionary longings referred to under
“Blighty”. Though the practice of
collecting “Blighty Ones” as souvenirs from
the enemy is still in favour, the home-made
variety receives but scant encouragement in
higher military circles.
Bowler Mat: An adornment for broken heads.
Bread : Nuggets of a baked mixture of flour, sand
and water.
The beautiful ancient ritual of
“breaking bread” is, out of regard for the
associations of the country,most scrupulously
and solemnly observed at the base supply
camps. The native camel transport men
have grown wildly enthusiastic over the
ceremonial and gleefully practise its observ-
ance while conveying rations from one
dump to another.
Brigade A School of Instruction in the game of
Refilling “lieu’’for RQ.M.S.s. It also serves as a
Point : rendez-vous for lost camels, mules and asses.
Brigadier : See “ G.O.C. ”
Bully ; (a) An efficient sergeant.
(b) A Yankee product, being the in-
dissoluble residue of carcases, which have
been converted into meat extract. This is
never associated in the mind of its victims
with the Yankee adjective “bully”.
Button : A metallic appendage of military clothing
used by the elite as an adornment, and by
the disillusioned merely for the secondary
purpose of fastening. See “ Brasso ” under
“ Headquarters ”. Consult also “ Burnisher
versus Brains : a Book for Beginners ”.


Entertainments
On 26th September the Padre opened a series of en-
tertainments, which he kindly arranged for us, with a lecture
on “Napoleon in Egypt and Palestine”. It was short, but
full of interesting facts. The chief impression it left upon
us was that all would-be world-conquerors are apt to adopt
the theory that necessity knows no law, and that in compar-
ison with the French Army of those days and the conditions
in which they lived some of us have little cause to boast
and less to grouse.
We had the pleasure of hearing a most interesting
lecture on 28th September by the Rev. V. Paton C.F., of the
S. M. Brigade. The subject was “Australia”, and being
delivered by a typical native-born Australian, the lecture was
particulary well worth hearing. After a few concise remarks
as to the discovery of the continent and the foundation of the
colony, and a brief description of its geography, industries
and politics, Mr. Paton presented the aboriginal in a new
light to most of us, and pleaded the cause of the “swanker”
with clear but hardly convincing arguments, while the account
we heard of the gentler sex “down under” should do a lot
towards counteracting the pre-war scarcity of “partis” in the
antipodes.
Our thanks are due to the N.M. Brigade, who sent a
concert party to entertain us on the 2nd October. If anyone
is to be singled out for particular praise, we think it should
be Pte. Rees, R.A.M.C., whose fine tenor voice was heard
to advantage in “Watch with me Love to-night”, “Land of
My Fathers”, and other songs.
We were sorry that the cinema entertainment promised
by the Y.M.C.A. was unsuccessful owing to the “light that
failed”.
Few of us had visible or aural proof of the presence of
Tanks on this front until Saturday, 6th October, when we
received both. No account we have seen or heard can do
justice to the entertainment they afforded us. The heavy
artillery took the form of a number of humourous topical items,


the originality of which delighted the large audience. Each
hit registered with unfailing precision. Tpr. Riley was
responsible for this part of the programme and was ably
assisted by Tprs. Thorpe and Edwards. The latter was as
usual irresistible in that “murderous” song he has made
particularly his own. Tprs. Jackson, Ray and Nobbins pro-
vided sufficient sentiment to enable us fully to appreciate
the humourous side of the programme. “Miss” Woodin is
to be warmly congratulated on “her” excellent and realistic
make-up and truly feminine voice and mannerisms. Tpr.
Hitchcock with great skill coaxed melody from a somewhat
bashful piano.
We heard a further display of topical ingenuity on Mon-
day, 9th October when we were provided with a splendid
entertainment by the concert party from the S.M. Brigade.
Special mention should be made of Capt. Wiston’s excellent
impersonation of George Robey, and Sergt. Jones, who took
pains to make the most of a particularly fine bass voice.
The concert on Tuesday, 10th October, was a fitting
conclusion to a day which reminded one of a general holiday
in civil life. The first part of the programme was contributed
by the band of a neighbouring infantry division, which
rendered some excellent selections in splendid style. These
were interspersed with vocal items by representatives of all
the Brigade units, Capt. Catford, R.A.M.C., being especially
appreciated in his excellent rendering of two “Indian Love
Lyrics”. In the second half of the evening we were again
entertained by the redoubtable “Tanks”, who scored a possible
in direct hits. “The Trial of Private Curricomb”, an excellent
skit on regimental routine and the orderly room, evoked
a continuous roar of laughter by its witty allusions.
As we go to press we are looking forward to a concert to
be given by an Anzac Mounted Brigade.
Thanks are due to Cpl. Thomas for the trouble he has
taken in adapting the Y.M.C.A. tent to the various uses to
which it has been put,keeping it tidy, and above all construct-
ing a platform so excellent in its design, lighting and
decoration (in which he has been assisted by Tpr. Corke).
D AVID.


Baedecker Bits, 1920
I. Botany Bay had its prototype in El Arish, a desirable
spot in the desert for the Egyptian undesirables, who had
annoyed their Ethiopian George” by their craving for social
reform, expressed by the simple method of annexing peoples’
properties and murdering the conscientious objectors. The
younger sons who were wrong in their heads were sent there
to learn planting; they have left their mark on the land in the
shape of fig groves, which no visitor should miss. The tree
under which the versatile Napoleon sat in 1799 and planned
his opium scheme in view of a possible retirement, can be
pointed out by the local receiver of backsheesh.
2 - The village pump, for which England will always be
justly famous, had its origin in the wells, which the thirsty
traveller in the east should on no account fail to visit ; the
slightly brackish flavour of the water is easily overcome by
the application of Orosdi Back’s Sterilizzatori di Acqua (also
useful tor cleaning steel work). The wells at Ber Sheba are
not unlike other wells, and will at once conjure up entrancing
visions of eastern romance : here the lads and lassies whis-
ei'r w^a^'n °t s and plighted their solemn troth : here
the old men dreamed their dreams, smoking their anachron-
'®tlc Flags” amongst the local harmonies of the flocks : here
the old wives mourned the merry past and traded the local
gossip of the village : here the luckless Esau received his stew
in lieu of” something better.
The picture postcards to be obtained at the Sheba P.O.
(I.P.T. each) depicting the triumphal entry of the Groppi’s
Hussars into the town in the fifth year of the Great War will at
once call to the mind of the student those times of terror when
Abimelech and Isaac fought for the water rights, and as in
those days war was followed by peace, so today history has
wonderfully repeated itself.
3- “Good wine needs no bush” —Hebron needs no ad-
vertisement when we remember that it was the original seat
of the vine and therefore, of course, the earliest seat of
civilised life in Palestine. Here the visitor can see the ‘‘tra-
ditional” tree —now almost venerable with age—under which
Abraham pitched his tent; also the cave of Macpelah, which
he bought for four hundred shekels of silver as a burial
place for himself and his wife. A mosque now stands over
the site and contains a stone on which the footprint of
Mahomet can be clearly seen. The student will of course
be conversant with that chapter of history in which
Adonizedek, King of Jerusalem, made alliance with Hoham
King of Hebron, in order to prevent Joshua from consolidating


his galamehan empire, but the forces of the central powers
weie caught in a deadly hail barrage ; and they were dis-
comfited ; and they died. If other central powers had only
taken warning from their fate and remembered that history
does repeat itself, all the awful horrors ....
We must not forget that Caleb, Joshua’s second in com-
mand won Hebron for himself and his family after strenuous
fighting in the field (seconds in command were giants in those
days and earned their pay).
Visitors will find that Hebron, though a town of hoary
antiquity, is a hive of industry. It manufactures water-skins
from goats’ hides, it possesses a glass factory, and the
German Jerusalem Society conducts a Protestant service in
Arabic.
MAC.
Financial Chatter
Ihe Palestine Market of late has assumed a brighter
aspect. This is thought in the House to be due to
the changes in management. Other influences at work seem to
have cleared the air.
The Pay-book Market, on the arrival of news from London
is very bullish, owing to the report of the Government’s in-
tention to raise soldiers’ pay ; but prices eased towards closing
time, which may be due to the Markets’ (Soldiers) small faith
m the new measure.
American Market News from New York is scarce but
WaU Street is very encouraging. The news of a large consign-
ment of Sammies” sent War Stock soaring.
It is believed that Allies Limited will show a better
result this year than has been known in the history of the
Company.
Last night’s closing prices :
Peace 1917 Bonds UO Pm
Army Jam Co., Ltd. 6 to a tin.
Blighty Leave Debentures Discount.
Turkish !0/ o Nothing doing.
Ihe £ shares of the Bully Beef Concern have risen during
the week to 5 %, owing to the prevailing fashion of “B.B.”
breakfasts. The Parent Company, Machonnachie, Very
Limited, are unobtainable.
F.H.P.


Answers to Correspondendents
Thought - Reader: We can fully credit your statement
with reference to the thoughts of the syce who fled
from the Doctor crying: “Finish, Johnnie.” What
would you have done in the circumstances ?
Mess President: We too have heard that our sergeants
have discovered a method of converting biscuits into
bread, and bully beef into M. &V. rations. We regret
we cannot send you the recipe, but the guarding of
this secret is the one thing in which the sergeants
are unanimous.
Spearmint: Do not worry. It is hardly likely that the
substitution of handkerchiefs for chewing gum will
become general.
Constant Reader: Many thanks. We are very gratified
to know that at least one reader had sufficient faith in
us to be confident of our reappearance. Doubtless
your eyes have had a very salutary rest, but is it quite
broad-minded to “eschew all literature other than the
Magazine” ?
Sartor- London : We are unable to explain why so many
officers on leave from this front show a predeliction
for felt headgear.
Marker: The quotation you have in mind is apparently :
“ When grouping exercise is to be done,
The sergeant’s pen shoots straighter than his gun.”
But are you quite sure of your facts ?
An interesting arrival in London during the week was
Miss Maud Allan, who tells me she is going to dance on the
London stage again this season. On her way over from
America she managed to lose most of her belongings.
The Sunday Pictorial, Septembet 16th. igij
We sincerely commiserate with Miss Allan on the loss of
her earrings.






