

»> V<p-, m
■ Vv\ \ 'm
Bfc-sX / jt4H
;; '" :.' ’■ ;
y; , ' r* a ■ y ' | *
&gaF ;i'vjfi’ ■; -,. w/'l
. '




MIDDLESEX YEOMANRY MAGAZINE
CENSORED MATTER
VOL. I. NO. 4.
MARCH, 1918
Foreword
Our intention is that the Magazine shall reflect as far
as possible the life of the Regiment. The last number made
it evident that we had recently been engaged on a stunt, and
this one, in the amount of space given to the chronicling of
sport, plainly shows that we have been keeping ourselves
fit during our term of recuperation after it.
The enthusiastic reception accorded to the February
number encourages us to hope that the “M. Y. M.” is now
regarded as a firmly established regimental institution. The
support given us in the purchase of copies is excellent, but
we are sure there are those who could, but do not, give us
assistance in the form of “copy”. We think they should
regard it as a duty to the Regiment to do what they can for
the improvement of its Magazine.
We hope that henceforth the Magazine will be illustrated.
We can procure the services of artists from other regiments
of the Brigade, but prefer that the “M.Y.M.” shall be depen-
dent on none but the Middlesex for its existence. We
therefore make a particular appeal to all who can sketch,
asking them to give the Regiment the benefit of their skill.
It is with pleasant recollections of “The Balkan News”
that we welcome the appearance of “The Palestine News”.
Such an enterprise, intended for the information and amuse-
ment of the troops who so frequently find themselves in
places which are inaccessible to news and devoid of all
kinds of amusement, deserves the utmost encouragement and
gratitude. At present “The Palestine News” seems to be in
the clammy grip of the dead past, but doubtless as it grows
older and stronger it will break free and give itself over to
the full-blooded activities of the present. Whatever else, may
it never be deluded into making vain attempts to learn the
features of the shrouded future !
The Editor


Personal
There is yet another honour to be added to our list for
the recent stunt. Sergeant N. J. Gray has been mentioned
in General Allenby’s despatch for distinguished work during
the advance. We are also glad to learn that the following
awards have been made to past members of the Regiment
who transferred to the M.G.C.
Lt. H.D. Roberts Military Cross
Tpr. W.J. Boughton Military Medal
We regret to have to report the death of Lt, W. J. Brown
who was killed in a flying accident in Cairo. Our sincere
sympathy is extended to his brother.
Flight-Commander Wedgewood Benn, D.5.0., is once
more to be congratulated, this time on receiving a bar to his
D.S.O. We are glad to see he has recovered from his
illness and is engaged with the Flying Corps on the Italian
front.
2nd Lt. P. Bidmead, who did so much towards the
inauguration of the Magazine, is to be congratulated on the
successful production of a revue while a cadet at the Cavalry
School, Netheravon.
Stockpot
The Mons Star is a reality, and now come chevrons for
service in war zones. There is still talk of a Gallipoli medal,
and there is also in the air a decoration for those who,
during the qualifying period of the Mons Star, were under
arms in England, straining at the leash. As to the question
of leave....
At home speeches on food economy are a daily
occurrence, and columns of weighty matter appear in the
papers on food and food values, but so far no mention has
been made of the sustaining qualities of tea. Yet this virtue
of tea is common knowledge in the army. When we arise
at 4.30, take our marching order paraphernalia to the horse-
lines a mile away, turn out and do strenuous manoeuvres


until 8.0 (the thermometer rising by leaps), groom our
sweating chargers and those of the sick until 9. 30, bring back
our kit over that dusty mile —do we need to fortify ourselves
at the outset with cocoa and poached eggs or port wine
and milk? No, a mug of gunfire tea is all we want. And
since the value of tea is not known to the public at home,
it would seem that there is a lamentable lack of co-operation
between the War Office and the Food Controller. Even now
it is not too late, and, although we should miss them, some
of our experts might well be spared to demonstrate to the
public the merits of tea properly mashed down and boxed up.
It is possible too that the public is unaware that shortage,
or absence, of sugar and milk in no way impairs the value
of tea as food.
We are all human beings, and as such, when we rankle
under some minor injustice at the hands of those placed
in immediate authority above us, we long for some means
of relieving our feelings without bringing ourselves within the
scope of the disciplinary sections of the Army Act. Poetry is
often a solace, and there is an abundance of English verse
which with but slight alteration can be adapted to suit
individual cases. The following lines from Gray’s “Pindaric
Ode” (amended) will be found refreshing to those who,
having little faith in the roster, find themselves on guard
or fatigue.
Ruin seize thee, JV. C. 0!
Confusion on thy 'progress wait.
While thou dost hid us come and go
Thou modi'st the air in idle state.
Gin, not Burton's bitterest ale,
Nor e'en thy chevrons, Sergeant,* shall avail
To save thy secret soul f rom nightly fears,
From Blog gin's curse, from Blog gin's tears ,
Apropos of the remarks on spaghetti in these columns
of October last, a correspondent writes that there is a very
strict order in the Italian Air Service to the effect that no
spaghetti or kindred delicacies shall be partaken of outside
the messing area. It appears that the intrepid Italian
airmen had been accustomed to take spaghetti with them on
long flights, by way of a snack, with the result that accidents
were frequently occurring through the propeller, controls,
or some vital part, becoming thrown out of order by the
snake-like embrace of some stray strand of the sinuous cereal.
A.J.T.
*Or Major, Corp’ral, Lance-jack, as the case may he.


A Page of Secret History
Sometime ago there came into camp an old native, a
donkey and a little boy. There was something remarkable
about each of them. The native, who wore the usual
indescribable garments of the peddling Arab, also had on
an old German tunic, the buttons of which were embossed
with a plain crown. This fact was of the greatest interest
in view of subsequent events. The donkey, instead
of bearing the usual load of oranges, carried olive-wood
relics of Jerusalem, each of which was plainly stamped with
the mark of its German origin. The boy, about eight years
of age, was clad in a white cricket hat, grey coat and
breeches and khaki puttees. He had a pale complexion, was
obviously European, and on being questioned was found
to speak Arabic and German fluently with a word or two
of English.
An inquisitive crowd soon collected round them but as
the little olive-wood album containing views and pressed
flowers of the Holy Land was priced at P.T. 25 there was no
trading. One or two bystanders laughingly suggested they
were Turkish or German spies, but the police-corporal did
not smile. Having made a thorough inspection of the three
intruders, he stole quietly away to his four area farm
unnoticed by the crowd.
When the three had been interviewed by everybody in
camp, yet had sold nothing, they went away, followed by a
dirty but stately syce.
Next morning, when the four area working party repair-
ed to the scene of its daily labours, there was no police-
corporal to give encouragement and expert advice. This
disastrous impasse was reported to the Orderly Room and
an orderly was sent out with a chit for Corporal Tunlock
Holmstall. He could not be found. His shack was searched
but the only clues discovered were that his blankets had
been left out all night and his half-inch (acting unpaid lance-
corporal’s) allowance of candle had not been used. Parties
were immediately detailed from the duty squadron to search
the trenches, shell-holes, gullies and canteens in the neigh-
bourhood, patrols were posted along the beach, enquiries
were made at the adjoining camps —all to no purpose. After
a week he was posted as a deserter and a purse of five
hundred piastres was put up for his apprehension. At the
end of a month, when we were stunting again, it was thought
a good opportunity to advise his next of kin that he
was missing.


It was while we were near that a wild-eyed native,
frantically waving a white flag, galloped through our line of
outposts. He. apparently knew from the disposition of our
posts exactly where to find regimental headquarters. Flinging
himself from his horse, he tied it to the officers’ mess limber,
and called loudly and repeatedly in excellent English for
the Colonel. He was taken between two troopers with drawn
swords to the Colonel and proved by his voice, knowledge
of incineration and identification discs that he was the
missing Tunlock Holmstall. He then demanded to see the
General at once on business of the utmost national importance.
On being interrogated he stated that it was not in
reference to a commission in the R A.F. So importunate was
he that the General was roused from his afternoon siesta to
receive him. The Corporal requested and was granted an
audience in private. Half-an-hour later he emerged with a
proud smile percolating through the dirt on his face and the
General’s hand placed fondly on his shoulder. The General
called one of his staff and said : “See that this hero has
everything he requires; he has wrought a great deed for
England and his name shall be engraved upon the scroll of
fame”. He then summoned the Colonel to a council of war.
An hour later we moved. It was then, you remember, we
pushed out into the hills on the right, surprised and outflank-
ed the enemy, and before dawn had captured the famous
town of - and 5,000 prisoners. It has since been
described as the most wonderful coup of the war. It was
even hinted that we were assisted by the Angels of Mons.
And it was for this glorious achievement that the N.C.O.s
of the Regiment were granted the signal honour of wearing
a crown above their chevrons.
Feste.
(We hope to publish next month an account of Cpl. Tunlock Tfulmdall's
thrilling experiences during his absence from the Regiment, Edf)
Chez Nous
Palestine,
March, 1918.
Dear Julius,
When we rode into these parts just over a week ago, we
gazed with satisfaction at the broad, verdant land, we listened
to the birds’ blithe song of “milk and honey”, and for
a few seconds we sniffed the cool, sweet breeze and
basked in the pleasant sunshine. Then we picketed our


horses in an exact square with the precision and rapidity for
which we have become famous. Next we dressed our saddles
and arms as soldiers should, and proceeded to construct our
dwelling places.
Bivvy-building is an art. The common-or-garden bivvy
holds two, and the materials for its construction are two water-
pi oof-sheets, two poles and six pegs. The structure when
complete is a tunnel about 6 feet long of triangular cross-
section. In order to increase its air-space, the floor of the bivvy
is usually dug out. Men of science and foresight take
measurements ana make calculations before commencing the
excavating movement. Others dig their ’oles and erect the
bivvy to fit. In constructing our last home, my partner and t
adopted the latter method which is the preface to this story
Shortly after our arrival here it commenced to rain. (The
assuring message received from the Mayor of Wadi Henein
that it was the last burst did not lessen the severity of the
storm nor increase its popularity.) Confident of the weather-
proof qualities of our “shack’’, we turned in quite happy and
unapprehensive. I must tell you lam noted for the rapidity
with which I woo the Goddess of Sleep. The very touch of a
pillow acts as an instantaneous and effective anaesthetic.
This characteristic of mine has often led to matutinal words
with the Oiderly Sergeant. Therefore when I was awakened
on this particular night by a douche of icy water, I immedi-
ately blamed the O. S. and groped for a missile. I found a
boot and, raising it above my head, received a second cold
shower. Fearing the worst, I struck a light. I was lying on
an island, the surrounding water being fed by several cas-
cades pouring over the sides of the dug-out. Several more or
less indispensable articles of my kit were floating around me,
I regarded them much as the hen in the story surveyed her
aquatic offspiing. My partner’s condition was similar to my
own and, after a short consultation, we grabbed our least
moist blankets and adjourned to a neighbouring tent. In order
that those whose custom it was to share our joys might share
also our sorrows, we sang lustily as we went “Swim Sam
swim.” ’
We rose at reveille, after a restless night, and examined
our surroundings. The green, verdant land had become a
quagmire, the cool, sweet breeze was blowing a gale, and the
birds and sun were conspicuous by their absence.
All of which proves, dear Julius, that the clerk of the
weather is by no means our least formidable enemy in
Palestine.
Yours as ever,
Cassius.




Encyclopaedia Yeomannlca
dan DUT
Dandy-brush : A deciduous cousin of the evergreen body-
brush. The latter, however, is more generally used,
being the better cleaner (both for cottons and
woollens).
Danger; The Yeoman’s magnet.
D. C. M. : (a) A decoration awarded to men for gallant
conduct in the field u Perhaps the most illustrious
recipients of this honour during the present war were
a cook-sergeant at the base and a baker in France;
who with a supreme contempt of the traditions of the
service and an amazing coolness of initiative had,
the former, a clean kitchen, and the latter, a full com-
plement of bread production.
(b) A different form of award which in the unani-
mous opinion of the ranks should be made, by way
of consolation, to all other cooks and bakers on
service.
Dekko : A military exclamation which will readily be
recognised as an abbreviation of “Will you grant me
the inestimable favour of displaying before my
enraptured gaze the article to which you are
referring ?”
Demobilisation: A restoration to sanity. A full strength
fatigue to be executed as peace work, for which,
nevertheless, the Army to a man is impatiently
awaiting the opportunity to volunteer.
Dirt : See swords, bits, shirts and horselines.
Division : The arbiter of our hopes and director of our
destinies. Members of the Divisional Staff are
always popular guests, in regimental and brigade
messes, for their strong sense of rumour.
Dixie : The chief instrument in the armoury of terror used
by that sinister society which holds the whole British
Army in its toils—the dreaded Black Hand gang.
Revolutionary songs addressed to it, like those of the
French Revolution to “La Guillotine,’’are even openly
sung amongst the troops. Much inside information
concerning this iniquitous organisation may be
gleaned from “ The Autobiography of a Cook’s
Mate”, by Dixie Lid, winner of the world’s light-
weight boxing-up championship.


Doctor; (First see Bird) An officer who hears daily, with
marvellous self-restraint, the most poignant assertions
of physical disintegration : and in the intervals of
dispensing “number nines” and cold foments delivers
intimate lectures on parasites, sanitation and the
probabilities of an epidemic of cholera.
Doings : The general result of cookhouse activities. The
corresponding civilian term “eatables” is very occa-
sionally used for courtesy.
Donkeys: A late train provided for the supporters and
followers of the regimental team for its occasional
matches on the opponents’ ground; the major part
being usually reserved for officers’ luggage.
Dough: The soldier’s emolument As matter is theoretically
indestructible, even in the armv, it was not to be
wondered that the recent increase ot dough from the
pay authorities coincided with a corresponding
decrease of dough from the commissariat. However,
the rise in the former has exceeded general anticip-
tion and an ex-choirmaster was recently compelled
to admit, in the beautiful language of profession,
that he did not expect the authorities “to rays me
doh soh fah”.
Draft : (see Dorsets).
Draw: (a) to sketch or reproduce in line. We earnestly hope
that some of the numerous Black and White artists
among the sergeants will be moved to respond to the
Editor’s appeal under Foreword.
(b) to receive necessities of life and maintenance
previously indented for through the Q. VI. We must,
however, in all fairness, confess to a faint suspicion
•that the trooper who complained that all he had
recently done in this line was drawing sighs and for
night guards may have been feeling somewhat
cynical at the time.
Dressing : An emergency medical ration which may, when
one is hard pushed for space, be carried in the little
matchbox pocket in the off-fore quarter of the tunic.
Drill ; A machine, usually operated in straight lines, by
which the seeds of military efficiency are implanted
in the soldier’s mind.


Driver: A gentleman of the transport who in his evolutions
displays a haughty contempt for tent-ropes, grease-
traps and saddle-racks. There is, we understand, a
strong feeling of bitterness among the fraternity
because it was robbed of adequate opportunities of
displaying its prowess during the recent advance,
owing to so many villages being in ruins before its
arrival. It is most pathetic to observe the look of
infinite yearning and regret that will suffuse the
expression of a driver, schooled in the high traditions
of his calling, on hearing recited that moving poem
“The stately homes of England,
How beautiful they stand.”
Drum : An instrument of a cylindrical shape which accounts
for its rolling. It comes into action at critical periods
of the music in order to enable the cornet and the
piccolo to give their instruments a pull-through and
inhale for a fresh onslaught.
Dubbin : A softener and preservative of leather. As unpre-
cedented efforts are now being made to curtail the
waste of war material we make no apology for
passing on a novel but seemingly feasible suggestion
that any dubbin left over after the boots have been
adequately treated should be applied to the girths
and sweat-flaps of the saddles.
Duff ; A cookhouse production which for the time induces
in its victims the symptoms of tetanus and a distres-
sing impediment of the speech. The appearance of
this effective gag therefore usually synchronises with
avisit by the Orderly Officer for complaints.lts scarcity
is further explained by the short issue of aprons to
the cookhouse staff.
Dug-out: A small artificial lake, the bed of which is occa-
sionally used in the dry season as a bivouac site.
Duration : The riddle of the universe. An era of prophets
and profiteers into which mankind in an insensate
frolic has plunged, presumably for the same reason
as the lunatic whose recreation was hitting his head
with a hammer “because it feels so grand when I
leave off.”
Dust : The cloud by day behind which we latter Israelites
concealed our strength, movements and intentions
from the infidel last fall. A generous cruet provided
gratis with all our meals.
Duty : A sequel to medicine liberably dispensed by the
Medical Officer. In the interests of economy it is
proposed shortly to introduce a tabloid combining
the ingredients and properties of the two to be known
as the “M. and D.” ration.


Interviews with Notorieties
111. The Professor.
Through the high class residential district of Head-
quarters I wended my way to the Professor’s shack, bearing
over my shoulder in a sandbag a little mark of esteem to him
from the Editor. It was the hour of sunset and all nature lay
hushed and tranquil save for the laughter and mirth of the
nightguards as they relieved the lineguards.
I had come by appointment, but it was no surprise to me
to find the Professor away from home as I knew full well that
his time was ever at the disposal of any horse, mule or donkey,
which called for his skill, and that he was, in consequence,
liable to be away at any time on some errand of mercy.
I therefore made myself comfortable on the threshold of
his shack, and lay there indolently awaiting his return and
enjoying the sunset. My wait was enlivened in an enjoyable
manner by the Trumpet-Major—
When the toil of a long day is o'er.
forgetting the vexations of army life in the pure ecstasy of
harmony. Clear and true the notes of his trumpet rang out, and
I marvelled at the perfection of his technique and the restraint
of his delivery, whether in the triste movement from the
Angel’s Whisper” or when, with many a flourish and
cadenza of his own, he played the aria from the more popular
Reveille” music.
In the midst of this the Professor returned, and gravely
bade me enter. He seemed pre-occupied, as if his mind were
revolving about some puzzling symptom in the illness of one
of his long-faced patients, and while he was a model of
courtesy, yet he maintained that indescribable aloofness and
cold politeness which is known in his profession as the bed-
side manner. However, when I became seated, and accidently
kicking the Editor’s little mark of esteem, there came from
the sandbag the tinkle of bottle against bottle, the Professor
unbent, and soon over our charged mugs he commenced to
discourse in an affable manner.
Partly on account of his modest estimate of his own
capabilities, and partly on account of his disinclination to
talk shop after a long day of healing and prescribing for his
dumb charges, I had enormous difficulty in bringing him to
speak of his profession at all, and the more the bumpers
went round the more he avoided veterinary subjects, loving
to dwell instead on home life and an old fashioned cottage
with ivy round the door.
II


With tact and roundabout feelers I gathered something
of his history. As a youth he was fond of racehorses and
was accordingly brought up as a Vet. He rose in the pro-
fession until he was compelled to abandon ordinary
practitioner’s work and devote himself entirely to consulta-
tions. On the outbreak of war he immediately offered his
services to the War Office, and was given practical work,
which, although not quite in his line, he has taken up with
such marked success.
As I busied myself from time to time doing the honours,
I had a good view of the forge from the door of his shack.
With its slowly smouldering fires and the farriers’ weighty
tools strewn around the ponderous anvils, it seemed to me
the very embodiment of slumbering strength- I tactfully
questioned the Professor on this department and he spoke
very highly in praise of the Farrier Staff. They are a fine
body of men. They are painstaking and sober, and when on
occasion the shoeing falls behindhand say after a long
stunt —it is of little use for me to order them to cease work as
long as light lasts, or to forbid them to shoe animals all day
long on Sunday”.
I was leading the Professor on to give a few hints on
medicine and remedies, and the first aid for horses, and he
had indeed already commenced a discourse on lead lotion,
its use and abuse, when we were disturbed by a cry That
lovely mule has got the lovely colic again ’. The Professor
drained his glass, and arose, transformed from a delightful
companion to a cold man of science. Silently he selected
from his medicine chest some lead lotion, iodine and oil, and
and as he donned his greatcloak he motioned to me to put
the death sentence on the last bottle. He wished me good
health, with a flicker of his eye and an upward inclination of
his head, and then together we set out into the night.
It was now 2300 hours —I had passed four enjoyable
hours in his society ! The night was pitch dark and twice he
had to enquire the direction from one or other of the night-
guards, and still we plodded on, sometimes amongst thicker
patches of darkness, which resolved themselves into sleeping
horses, or again we stumbled into piles of forage or G. S.
wagons materialising in a disconcerting manner from black
nothingness. Once more he enquired and I heard a night-
guard replv, “ I’ve told you twice before —over there.”
At length we came to our destination. In the feeble light
of a smoky oil-lamp a mule was lying. Some nightguards
were standing impassively by, and the owner was sitting on
its head sobbing as if his heart would break. The Professor


stepped forward to diagnose the case while I stood in the
background considering myself lucky in being able to witness
him at work.
After an interval the Professor returned. “ Colic ”, he
remarked. “I have tried all the remedies, and we must now
await the crisis and hope for the best, but I fear the mule is
beyond human aid. If he lives half-an-hour, it will do no
harm to try the oil.”
Scarcely had he spoken when the mule got up and
leisurely stretched himself, took alarm at the lantern, and
dispersing the guards with a threatening movement of his
hindquarters dashed off to the nearest forage dump, violently
upsetting the Professor and me as he passed.
I emptied my mouth of sand, congratulated the Professor
on the success of his treatment, and then we wished each
other Godspeed as we set out on the perilous passage to our
respective shacks
INTRUSO.
The Last Post
The mail was up ; and I was standing by
Where troopers reading hushed awhile their row,
What news, O Cobber ? —Came the sad reply
“Buy National War Bonds NOW !
—My A.B. 64 is running red
With Quartermaster’s charges—Oh, allow
Me just five minutes with that sorter’s head !
Buy National War Bonds NOW.
The parcel’s had a cruel knock-out blow;
This wrapper’s all that I’ve received, I vow.
Me lovin’ wife don’t write like this, ye know —
‘Buy National War Bonds NOW.’ ”
I tried in vain to soothe him —on the verge
Of tears he left me; and my fevered brow
Still throbs to that most melancholy dirge :
Buy National War Bonds NOW.
H.W.E


Sport
Association. Second Round, Divisional Cup. It would
have been inconceivable that such an unsportsmanlike spirit
as that exhibited on the 3rd. March, could have existed in the
Regiment had we not witnessed it. Even if the referee were
not all that could be desired and the R.A.M.C. chose to save
the game by kicking off the field, which after all is only
professional cup-tie football, the scenes which accompanied
the game and were prevalent after the finish were not what
one expects of exponents and followers of that fine old
English sport. No one can deny that the better side won,
and it little behoves us, therefore, to be such bad losers.
The results of matches played since the publication of
the February Magazine are as follows :
H.R.H.A. I M.Y. I
M.Y. I S.S. I
M.Y. o B.H.Q. i
M.Y. 2 Q.O.D.Y. 3
M.Y. 0 R.A.M.C. I
The thanks of all those interested in Soccer are due to
Capt. Boosey, not only for his generosity in providing many
things which the team required from time to time, but chiefly
for his enthusiastic support of the game as a sport, whether
played by troops, squadrons or the Regiment.
Boxing. In the first series of the io stone open ( Y.M.D.
and A.M.D.) competition, Tyson, M.Y., met Springer, R.8.H.,
and after a good three round fight beat him by a clever left
hand and superior footwork.
In the final Tyson met Ford (Staffs) in a six round
contest. Ihey were evenly matched as regards weight and
size, Ford being if anything the taller. It was a good fast
fight but was spoilt by holding on the part of Ford who was
cautioned several times by the referee. Tyson being weakened
by continual body punching, was knocked out in the fifth
round.
Races. At the N.M. Brigade Races and Steeplechases on
the /th. March the only two horses from the Regiment were
Mr. Hudson’s “ Cocotte ” and Capt. Brodrick’s “ Magic”. The
former being badly drawn on the extreme outside ran a very
good race to be third, thanks to the jockey, Capt. Boosey. In
a field of about twenty-four runners, “ Magic”, drawn in the
middle of the track, was one of the first out of the slips and
lead for half a mile, then putting her foot into a hole she lost
her stride and never regained it, finishing about seventh. She
was very ably ridden by Mr, Curry.
Only one of our Officers who went down to the 7th.
Brigade Races had any luck. He returned with a sporting gun
and umpteen brace of birds. We fear there must have been
some duck-shoving somewhere.


Rugby. On the 7th. February we played the Warwicks.
The first half was all scrums and touches. Mr. Tanner got
well away once but had no one to back him up and was pulled
down by their back. In the second half our opponents had a
strong wind at their backs and pressed hard. Despite a very
strenuous defence they managed to score two unconverted tries
and won by six points to nil. Mr. Brand, Blott, Buckingham
and Clapp were conspicuous for their good play.
Our play against the R.R. on the nth. February was still
somewhat scrappy. The only score was made by Mr. Brand’s
intercepting a pass, getting right through to the goal line and
passing to Sharman who touched down. Mr. Parker converted
with an excellent kick from near the touch line. Blott played
a good game at back and nearly got through with a fine run
up the field. Farenden, Scott, Clapp and Kent in the forward
line and Mr. Parker as three played excellently. Result, 5-0.
The improvement shown in our team in the game against
the S.S. on the 14th. February was remarkable. They had
gained the one thing that had been lacking in former games —
combination ; and also in tactics, as shown by the tries scored
by Blott and the two which resulted from Mr. Brand’s throwing
far out from touch. In spite of a plucky defence by our
opponents we repeatedly broke through, Mr. Parker scoring
three tries and Mr. Brand, Mr. Tanner, Blott and Clapp one
each. Four of these were converted by Mr. Parker, giving us
a score of twenty-nine points to nil.
Sports. The much-postponed Brigade Sports materialised
on the I2th. February under ideal conditions. A tremendous
crowd gathered, but Younger’s side-show proved the chief
attraction. “ Poshness ” being the order of the day, a new
item was introduced in the form of the Best Turned-out
Hotchkiss Section. The jumping, doubtless owing to the
difficult and new style jumps, produced a series of tumbles.
“ Reynolds Bay ”, whom we look upon as a “stone ginger”
these days, cleared in his usual inimitable style and Major
Stedall, winner of the Brigade Officers’ Jumping, and second
in the Open Jumping, gave an excellent display. Greatest
credit is due to all place men in the N.C.O.s and
men’s jumping for their brilliant performances. Intimate
touches of femininity were shown by the bints but
unfamiliarity in the wearing of the apparel caused many
upsets in the race and the competitors witnessed their own
event transformed into a playground for stray donkeys. Those
responsible for the organisation of the meeting are to be
congratulated on the excellent arrangement of the ground.
Results :
Best Turned-out Section: Ist, B Sqdn. S.S., 2nd, A Sqdn. R.R.
Best Turned-out Hotchkiss Section : Ist. B Sqdn. R.R., 2nd,
D Sqdn. R.R.


Best Turned-out Limbered Wagon : Ist, A.C. H.R.H.A. 2nd,
L.M.B.F.A.
Brigade Officers’ Jumping: Ist, Major Stedall, 2nd, Lt. Sheddon.
Best Turned-out Bint: Ist, Sgt. Tampin, M.Y. 2nd, Tpr.
West, R.R.
Bint Race: Ist, Dr. Hallock, H.R.H.A. 2nd, Tpr. West, R.R.
Officers’ Open (D.M.C) Jumping: Ist, Lt-Col. Sir M. Wilson,
2nd, Major Stedall.
Best Mobilisation Horse (Y.M.D.): Ist, Tpr. Haskett, Q 0.D.Y.,
2nd, R.S.M. Rickaby, E.R.Y., 3rd, Tpr. Brough, S.I.Y.
Brigade Other Ranks’ Jumping : Ist, Sgt. Dickinson, S.S., 2nd,
L/Cpl. Redmayne M.G.S. 3rd, Tpr. Maycock, S.S.
Wrestling on Horseback : A Sqdn. S,S.
Mule Scurry: Ist, Cpl. Smith, A.S.C, 2nd, Pte. Bromley, A.V.C.
Officers’ Donkey Race (D.M.C.): Ist, Lt. Cramer-Roberts, 2nd,
Lt. Hudson, 3rd, Lt. Bayley.
Farrier-Corporal Hall was awarded two dixies of beer for the
best turned-out desert-worn full marching order
At the 3rd, A.L.H. Sports on the 2nd. March “Reynolds
Bay,” ridden by Capt. Boosey, took third place in the Open
Jumping and on the 9th. March at the Aust. Div. Sports the
same horse and rider won a cup for second place in the Open
(D.M.C.) Jumping.
The sports organized by Capt. Boosey for B Squadron
were held on the 10th. March, and proved one of the most
interesting meetings we have attended. There was a great
variety of events and for once “ other ranks ” had the biggest
show. The V.C. Race, Wrestling on Horseback and particu-
larly the Tug-of-War were well contested,and much amusement
was caused by the Sack Race, Boot Bace and Orange Race in
which S.S.M. Dixon was conspicuous.
Results: —
Tent Pegging: Ist, Cpl. Cattaneo, 2nd, Cpl. Roberts, 3rd,
Capt. Boosey.
Jumping (Troopers): Ist, Tpr. Mellor. 2nd, Tpr. Stark, 3rd,
Tpr. Fraser.
Jumping (N.C.Os): Ist. Cpl. Chapman, 2nd, Cpl. Smith, 3rd,
S.S.M. Dixon.
V.C. Race: Ist. Tprs. Brooks and Pellant, 2nd, Cpl. Green and
Tpr. Roxbury.
Wrestling on Horseback: Ist, 2 Troop, 2nd, 3 Troop.
Sack Race : Ist, Tpr. Theiss, 2nd, Tpr. Brooks.
Boot Race: Ist, Tpr. Brooks, 2nd, L/Cpl. Brushette.
Orange Race: Ist, Tpr. Ransome, 2nd, Tpr. Bartlett.
100 yards Flat Race: Ist, Tpr. White, 2nd, Tpr. Theiss, 3rd,
Tpr. Bartlett.
Tug-of-War: Ist, 1 Troop, 2nd, 2 Troop.
R.W.K.


Brigade Sports—Officers’ Jumping
Capt. BOOSEY on “REYNOLDS BAY”
Capt, GILPIN on “BOGEY” Major STEGALL on “RISKY
Me. SHELDON. Capt, HARRIS.


Orders
Have you ever considered, gallant reader, the possibilities
of Regimental Orders? Can you imagine them playing the
same part in your civvy post-war life as they now play in
your regimental life, —a record of your joys, sorrows, aspira-
tions and achievements, your pettiness and your greatness?
Perhaps you object to the lingo of orders, or you have that
strong British objection to the importation of anything
savouring of the regimental into your private and family
concerns. Yet we fancy that you might do worse than take a
leaf out of the Orderly Room’s book. Suppose, for instance,
when you are a middle-aged man, you are turning over the
leaves of an old diary and you come across the entry “ Matty
naughty ”, With a wistful smile you wonder what this
darling boy, now a brilliant scholar at the Varsity, and a
promising sub. in the new M.1.Y., could have done to cause you
to make this entry. But if you had adopted the regimental
order method you would have been saved this trouble; you
would have had it pat —
■ Punishment : Matthew Allenhy Wilson Dobson this day awarded 3 days
Domestic Punishment No. 2 with loss of Pocket Money, for ( 1 ) being late at School
Parade, (a) Disobeying an Order, (3) Insolence, under S.D. 0. para sa. and D. 0.
303, para Ob.
Or, suppose there has been an increase in the establish-
ment. A suitable order would be, —
Strength: Persian Tabby,“ Bint”, haring given Birth to fire Kittens, the lat-
ter are taken on the Strength and posted to the Kitchen for Nations and Discipline.
Or, again, we will imagine another circumstance affecting
the domestic establishment It might be expressed as follows,
Promotions and Appointments: Anna Maria Moggs, Housemaid, promoted
Cook, rice Dobbs, married. To date 15th. July, 1925. Vide D.O. No. 73. para 3,
of 16th. July, 1925.
Then there is the question of general discipline and
internal economy. Young Mat, for instance, has acquired the
habit of leaving the Bath-room taps running. You might
caution him and other offenders as follows, —
Waste Water; Complaints hare been recently received that the Bath-room
Taps have been left 'tunning. This practice causes serious Waste and must cease
forthwith. Any infraction of this order will be severely dealt with.
The daily round of domestic duties would not be a difficult
matter. They could easily be disposed of, —
Parades: In accordance with Programme of Work.
We admit, of course, that this regimental order system
could not cover the whole ground. There are many little
happenings in life that look best in the brevities of a waist-
coat pocket diary. How, for instance, could we stretch
‘‘ Orders” to cover the following,—“ Took new typist to lunch”.
“ Cambridgeshire,—won £lO on Sandbag ”, “ Squadron
dinner, spent night on Embankment ” ?
W.H.S.


Beni Sela in History
With apologies to “ The Palestine News”
Beni Sela is a place of great antiquity. It first appeared
in literature in the Psalms where it is mentioned repeatedly,
sometimes at the head of a Psalm, sometimes interpolated
between verses. Obviously, the village, known in those days
simply as Selah, ( “sela”, a rock or hill) was the birthplace
of the Psalmist who found that even psalmody could not
soothe the ache of homesickness. From these ecsiatic
ejaculations, however, it is impossible to glean any data
concerning the size of the village or the habits of its inhabit-
ants, but an invaluable discovery made during some recent
trench excavations enables us to publish some hitherto
unknown information on this point. The discovery took the
form of a stone tablet bearing a Hebrew inscription which
when translated proved to be “The Standing Orders of the
League of the Sons of Selah”. This league, it appears, was
formed by the young men ( “beni” or sons) of Selah in order
to strafe Samson who at that time was playing the jackal
with the crops of their relatives up country. (There is a local
legend to the effect that Delilah was the daughter of the
barber of Selah, but as we can find no confirmation of this
fact in history we must disregard it). It is evident from the
war diary found on the reverse of the tablet that they proved
themselves men of great prowess, wherefore, the Mukhtar
(headman) of the village had it renamed Beni Selah in com-
memoration of these warriors.
We next find the village mentioned in Plutarch’s Lives
where there is an interesting note telling how Mark Antony
was commanded by Cleopatra, whom he sent to Jericho, to
go to Bene-si-Lares for crocodile’s eggs, plainly showing that
it was then famous for these delicacies.
From this date Beni Selah is lost to history. Josephus is
silent concerning it. Mukadassi ignores it in his famous
history. Certainly in his less-known but equally valuable
“Treatise upon the Flea ”, wherein he tabulates the towns
and villages of Palestine in order of their “fleafulness”, we
find Beni Selah twenty-third on the list with the terrible
record of 76-374 fleas to every inhabitant. Still, this proves
nothing except the hospitable disposition of the villagers.
Beni Selah found no place in the lyrics which Blonde! sang
to the imprisoned Richard. Napoleon passed it by on the
other side. And even Professor Bill Sykes, in his “Skeleton
Key to the Stately Homes of Palestine,” shows himself un-
acquainted with the fine Suleyman II manor house of this
village.
The war has once more brought Beni Sela ( as it is now
spelt) into prominence. It is as a toll-gate whereat the inhabit-
ants extort baksheesh from those who journey from Abasan
to the canteen at Khan Yunus.
19 Feste,


Books Received
Feed Bags CAPTAIN E.E.G. MENTAL.
This scholarly volume has grown out of a paper on
feed bags that Captain Mental contributed a year ago to the
magazine of the Cavalry School. In it our readers will find
an interesting account of the origin and development of
nosebags from the time when the prehistoric Yeoman sallied
forth with his bag slung from the hump of his megalocephalus
to the present day. when the article, in a handier but less
durable form, can he obtained from DADOS by the gross on
indenting for “Bags, nose, canvas, G.S.” But Captain Mental
has a greater object in view than to entertain us with an histori-
cal causerie. He has had a vision of the possibilities of the
feed bag as a decorative element in military life. He seeks
to propagate what we might call the “ Cult of the Feed
Bag”. “What can be worse”, he says, “than to see feed bags
dumped in the troop lines like heaps of old clothes in a rag-
and-bone-man’s back yard; or to see cavalry on the move with
the bags attached to the saddle like the pictures on the
furniture van of a low-principled family in the crisis of a hur-
ried flit ?” Captain Mental would place the care of feed bags
on the same footing as the care of arms. When full, he would
have them dressed in line with the saddles, —the current day’s
feed on the left of the saddle, facing the horses, and the spare
bag, containing the ‘ Desert Column Ration” on the right.
On this point our erudite author has taken great pains to
glean the opinions of the great leaders of the ages. Hannibal,
it seems, was for placing the current day’s feed on the left of
the saddle, Caesar on the right, while Cromwell and Napoleon
seem to have been indifferent. The necessary detail is given
for this dressing. It is admirably worked out, but will it
involve a repetition of that biting, kicking and plunging, that
breaking of ropes and springing of shackles, and that general
hullabaloo that recurs every time the sonorous cry goes up of
“Stand to your feeds”?
Mumbo Jumbo, or How to Dodge the Orderly-Sergeant
ANON
This tattered, battered, weather-beaten manuscript bears
obvious marks of an extensive, private circulation. When we
came across it at the forage-dump the other da}-, we thought
we were accidentally rescuing a literary curiosity from
oblivion; but it has since come to our knowledge that,
knowing our movements and habits, the professional
leadswingers of the Regiment had deliberately placed
it in our way in order that we might bring to the notice of
their more patient but less acute comrades that there are
ways and means, legitimate enough in themselves, of easing


their own burdens and increasing those of the squadron
Orderly Sergeants, those natural enemies of all good soldiers.
Whether or not the reader agrees with the authors’ (the
various styles of caligraphy betray the multiplicity of au-
thorship) methods, he will not deny that there is not a
dull page in the whole book. Take, for instance, the chapters
on secondary dodging, or dodging when one has been
definitely detailed and paraded for a fatigue. In these we
read, for instance, that a Line Guard can still get his after-
noon’s kip by detailing the senior horse to act for him. In
the celebrated case of Rex v. Muggins this was held to be
illegal, but our anonymous comrade shows how this ruling
can be overcome. The most interesting section of the book,
though, is that dealing with camouflage. Orderly Sergeants,
when pushed, have a habit of detailing the first man they
come across. To provide against this, one can have recourse
to camouflage. Our ingenious author describes how one can
detect that homicidal gleam in the Orderly Sergeant’s eyes
that denotes that baksheesh fatigues are flying about, and
how one can effectively disguise oneself as a heap of feed
bags or a bale of tibbin, or a bivvy sheet, until the danger is
passed. We wish we could quote a few of the devices of
this kind by which men have been saved from irksome or
inconvenient fatigues. One must suffice, and that briefly.
Mercurous, one of our acutest authors, when badly chased
one day by the 0.5., got over his difficulties by disguising
himself as a saddle-rack. While exulting in his triumph,
the Squadron Leader and the S.S.M. came down the lines, and
leaned on the camouflagic saddle rack while they discussed
questions of promotion. Mercurous is a strong lusty fellow
and bore the weight of the squadron leader and S.S.M.
without flinching, but he confesses that the burden was too
much for him, when the former, in the course of his discus-
sion, mentioned that Mercurous was “a damned good fellow”.
That saddle-rack came down with a bang and Mercurous
accidentally received a nasty kick in the ribs from the S.S.M.
W.H.S.
A Thorough Sportsman Captain Buzzey
Gentlemen’s Library
We advise all would-be sportsmen to take a leaf out of
the Captain’s book.
“Middlesex Ball ! ’’ or Hustle Wins R.N.A.S.
A brand new theory of Rugby Football which we can
recommend to all who are interested in the game. It has been
tried with success by our own team.


Martial Nuptials
A Captain and Adjutant home, on leave., after a long period of unbroken
service in a very hot climate , is asked to act as best man at the wedding of a friend.
He does so.
Scheme of operations for Wednesday, —th inst.
General Idea: The Dryden —Stoneighs are being very
hard pressed all along the line and it has become necessary
to effect a juncture with the Goldenheims.
Rendez-vous : ST. GEORGE’S., S.W.
Bridegroom will parade at 1045 hours under the first E of
ST. GEORGE’S. Dress, review order. He will carry ring
in near vest pocket. Wearing of the umbrella will be optional.
Guests will be warned to attend by Bride’s Mother from
Bride’s H.Q. They will proceed to the rendez-vous independ-
ently.
Bride and Bridesmaids will parade as strong as possible
at Bride’s H.Q. at 1000 hours. They will proceed to the Church
in charge of Next-of-kin at 1040 hours in the carriages provid-
ed for that purpose. On arrival at rendez-vous the party
will be met by the Verger who will guide them to a spot
under the first E in ST. GEORGE’S.
The Bridegroom will take up his position. No complim-
ents will be paid.
The Verger is responsible for the good order of Guests
and will take any disciplinary steps necessary.
Special Idea : The union of Lt. Aubrey Dryden-Stoneigh
and Miss Alwys Goldenheim.
Breakfast will be provided at 1200 hours at Bride’s H. Q.
Rations will be drawn for Guests supernumerary to the
establishment.
Bride and Bridegroom will parade at 1355 hours with all
personal kit.
6 Guests will parade under Senior Guest at 1355 hours.
They will be provided with confetti and one old shoe with
string attachment, for the purpose of speeding the happy
couple.
A.J.T.
Conscience Week
We read in the newspapers that a Conscience Week is
being held at home during which food-hoarders can hand
over their illicit stores without fear of prosecution. It has
been suggested that a similar Regimental Conscience
Week might lead to the restoration of the numerous horse
blankets, head-collars, surcingles and pads that have
been lost lately and perhaps even the R. S. M.’s nickel
stirrup irons.


Entertainments
At the concert given by“rheTanks” on the llth February
we were pleased to hear again many of our favourite songs
from their previous entertainments. We were sorry that Tpr.
Riley’s propensity for chicken and stout prevented him from
taking his usual share in the performance, but his Showman
turn was as good as ever. Tpr. Edwards found his correct
medium in “Captain Ginger” and “Miss” Woodin becomes
more girlish and winsome every time she appears.
On the 28th February at an impromptu Brigade Concert
the Padre’s speech received the greatest mead of applause.The
Northants String Band was the chief feature of the evening
and they gave us unsparingly of their best. Great surprise was
expressed that so good a comedian as Tpr. Simpson, S.S.,
should have remained so long in obscurity.
“The Tanks” undoubtedly gave their best performance on
the 2nd March. The programme was similar to that of one of
their entertainments on the beach, but the two concerts are
not to be compared. “Shepherds Bush”, “Wnlla Wulloo”,
“Chu Chin Chow”, “Samoa”,“London Town”, “Carolina Jane”
were all excellent songs and went with an irresistible swing.
Tpr. Riley, in the batman scene and “Aboard the Aeroplane,”
supplied amusing criticisms of the army in general and the
Brigade in particular. Tpr. Jackson’s fine singing was as
usual thoroughly appreciated. “Miss” Woodin —well, we fear
we have exhausted our store of laudatory phrases. And the
concluding sketch, “Shall We?’’, with “Hello, my Dearie”,
“Good bye-e”, and“ The Bing Boys”was admirable. Tpr. Bloss,
the manager, is indeed to be congratulated.
The 4th A.L.H. on the 7th March demonstrated the true
meaning of a dinkum concert party. Every item was excellent-
tenor, baritone, conjurer, ragger, pianist, all of them.
Gerardi’s verses, both sentimental and humorous, were par-
ticularly appreciated.
“The Tanks” scored a great success on the 9th March with
an entirely new programme. The fact that the audience seem-
ed more appreciative and less coldly critical may have made
things easier for the performers. Particularly good items were
“Just a little bit” by Tprs.Jackson andWoodin.the skit on regi-
mental orders by Tpr. Riley, Sgt. Fisher’s disagreement with
the pianist and Tpr. Thorpe’s one minute tragedy. In the final
sketch “Shall We? ” the shuffling of parts which made Tpr.
Woodin the waiter,Tpr. Riley the girl, and so forth, added to
the fun immensely. A collection which was made during the
performance for the purpose of providing “The Tanks”
with new costumes for their Cairo tour exceeded £32.
Reporter.


Correspondence
To the Editor.
Sir,
I have seen no notice in your justly popular Magazine to
the effect that you do not identify yourself with views
expressed by contributors. This however must be the case;
otherwise you would, I feel sure, never have published such an
article as the “Reflections”—on me amongst others.
One ignorant of the ways of the Army might form the
impression that Q.Ms have not the interest of the men deeply
at heart; that they do not sit up late o’ night, work like galley
slaves all day with the sole object of winning extra rations
and comforts for the men. Is it not a well-known fact that
Sergeants’ Messes are run on stingily economical lines
to increase the proportion served to the troops; that cooks
always have more stores, like milk, sugar, etc. than they can
possibly use for the men ? As for boots, breeches, spare laces,
I have seen Q.M.Ss. press them on the men with tears in
their eyes.
I agree, in a sense, with your contributor that Rations may
not be Rational: Rations are issued in excess of requirements.
Look at biscuits : we can never get the tins back, it takes the
men so long to empty them. Sometimes there is a complaint
of short issue, but that is no fault of mine—the Mess Orderlies
eat them on the way.
I could give you the figures of the millions and millions
of pounds of meat, bacon, rice, oatmeal, flour, etc., which are
dealt with by Supply: I could show you by Algebra how it
is that the fruit issue works out exactly to 1.014 dates per
man: but I think I have said enough to counteract any
adverse effect the article may have on the public at large.
Yours etc.
Q.M.S.
Answers to Correspondents
Sport : In our reply to you last month it would seem we
underrated the skill of our sporting Officers one of
whom has assured us that he has achieved the grand
total of five ducks.
Headquarters; Yes, we are sure the Colonel would be grati-
fied if he knew how many there were ministering to
“Bogey, sick” on the first night of Lights Out.




