

BUILDING
LIGHTING, ENGINEERING
Registered at G.P.0.. Sydney, for
transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australian Institute of Builders
24 1954
THE C.S.I.R.0. TRIBOPHYSICS LABORATORY, MELBOURNE.


k
ANDY’S of 268 George Street have a wide range of products to assist
you in home designing and decorating. Sandy’s own line the all
aluminium Sandy Louvre is the ideal louvre for home, office or factory.
Rustproof, weatherproof and rattleproof, the Sandy Louvre is the best
for any job. Then there’s Sandy’s wide range of well-known paints. These
include Sandy’s own brand Aurora flat and Aurora full gloss.
All your glass requirements can be attended to by James Sandy. Whether it’s plate
or figured glass, or glass cut to your own requirements Sandy can help you there.
The wallpapers stocked by Sandy’s come in a thousand different patterns of the
latest designs, assuring you that Sandy’s have your particular taste in wallpapers.
Call at Sandy’s head office showrooms and examine these lines for yourself.
o/ "SANDY"
r 100 YEARS OF SERVICE ■
268-270 George Street, Sydney. Phone 8W1941
123 Scott Street, Newcastle. Phone 82780
II
BUILDING, LIGHTING, ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


SPECIFY AND USE
CERTIFIED CONCRETE
DEPOT: WIGRAM ROAD, ANNANDALE. PHONE MW 2180
M,
5: ,
im
CERTIFIED CONCRETE;
5.000 YARDS AS LA.D I* THE PU.UC ENCLOSURE AT THE SYDNEY CR.CKET
1
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


MORE POWER
FOR EVERY JOB
INTERNATIONAL wheel
tractors are designed for in-
dustrial application ; the
Super AW-6 is powered with
a 45 b.h.p. kerosene engine
i
and the mighty Super AWD-6
with a 50 b.h.p. diesel engine.
Balanced power gives more
economy and more pull on the
drawbar for every industrial job
The SUPER AWD-6
tractor , fitted with
Hough Front End Loader
and 5/8 yd. hydraulically-
controlled bucket.
INTERNATIONAL
Industrial Power
SUPER AW-6 tractor with
the economical kerosene
engine , powers the Fowler
5-ton hydraulically-operated
crane.
Available immediately from Industrial Sales and Service (ISAS) in your Capital Citv
international Harvester Company o. Australia Pty. Ltd. Works : Candenong and Geelong. P1P457-24
2
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


is part of
a mighty
lighting team
PHILIPS Starter Switch:
An essential component of
the Philips fluorescent team.
Manufactured to traditional
Philips standards of pre-
cision from polystyrene in-
sulating- material, the Philips
starter switch fully complies
with the SAA wiring code.
Available in two models—
P 4 (illustrated), suitable for
starting both 20 watt and 40
watt tubes using correspond-
ing ballasts; P 2. for starting
2o watt tubes in series
connection arrangement us-
ing a single 40 watt ballast
for twin 20 watt fittings.
. . . its leadership
in the lighting field
is ensured by a
63 year old tradition
PHILIPS
USE
domesti? ifc fh consciousness in industry, in commerce, even in
t hi,™ ■ f f ,he need for good 'ighting. It finds expression in
‘j! n B r'"k acceptance of Fluorescent installations with their more
even distribution of light, more economical use of light.
‘ he ' igh i in « fie,d for over 60 >' ear< " maintains its
equipment f range ° f Fluorescent lam Ps and matched auxiliary
F r ° r .'P ecify , Phldps is . to facilitate efficient and economical lighting
arrangements adapted to the needs of the user. Apply to you?
nearest Philips branch for full information.
PHILIPS
philips electrical industries pty. ltd.
Sydney Melbourne* Adelaide* Brisbane* Perth
THE AUSTRALIAN MADE LONGER LIFE TUBE
PLIOD-54
3
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


£v
i
f
N
0%
ACC
Sr,
r f
/qua/W
80
/
S'!
ADJUSTABLE GLASS LOUVRE
®
®
$ D
3 NEW Features
1 PATENTED SAFETY LOCK of neat,
■ exclusive design, automatically secures
windows so that they cannot be opened from
outside: maintains completely tight water-
proof closure.
2 SPRING CLIPS firmly hold each glass
• louvre in position ensuring freedom from
rattle in any weather, while allowing for
expansion.
STURDY, RUSTPROOF 16 gauge steel
t)l frames can never warp or jam—save the
necessity and cost of wooden mullions —give
larger glass area, better light and ventilation.
Naco Air Control Windows now incorporate
3 NEW features; Automatic Safety Locks,
Spring Louvre Clips, and Sturdy, Rustproof,
16 gauge Steel Frames. These improvements
plus many other advantages maintain Naco Air
Control Windows as the First and still the
Best Adjustable Louvre type window. Versa-
tility of application and low cost make Naco
the invariable choice of architects for all types
of buildings. Factories, office blocks, ware-
houses, schools, hospitals, private homes, gar-
ages, all achieve a distinct modern note when
Naco Air Control windows are featured. For
supplies contact Frank G. O’Brien Ltd., whole-
sale distributor for New South Wales.
CONSIDER THESE IMPORTANT POINTS:
• Free working bronze bearings.
• Easy, smooth, fingertip control.
• Will stay in any position.
• No draughts; Fresh air, even when raining.
• Simple and quick installation; just one
pair of fittings.
• Attractive and efficient; cost less.
• Made by the largest and oldest manufac-
turers of Louvre windows.
Macc
i
ten
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.
ALLEN ST., WATERLOO.
’Phone: MIX 3271
4
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


Imeto oas of
mumoOMm
e
V f.
J
///"'
There's a "Meggiff Ltd." or "Blundell Spence'
Linseed Oil for every painting or manufacturing
purpose. Wherever first quality linseed oils ar»
required, specify either of these long-established
end uniformly reliable brands, "Meggitt Ltd." o'
"Blundell Spence."
Manufactured by
LINSEED OILS
MEGGITT LI MITED
H,ad Office: 67 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, Box 1555, G.P.0., SYDNI
WORKS: PARRAMATTA, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
5
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


SLIDE DOORS
ON
[ M
(Above). This outstanding house by Sulman Brize-winning Architect,
H. Seidler, features a 10’ x 10' plate-glass door that slides effortlessly
on Bangor Track. This installation seems tricky, but was easy for
a builder experienced in using Bangor.
(Ax Right). This modern home—designed by Industrial Designers
Edmund Dykes and Donald Johnson, has four sliding doors, interior
and exterior, on Bangor Track.
More and more architects and designers are
II
mm
You'll find BANGOR Sliding Door Track easy to install
BUILDERS! Find out all you can about installing Bangor.
Be sure you can suggest the track best fitted for the job.
Be sure you won't be wasting valuable, expensive
Contract time working out details you should KNOW.
The trend of modern home design is toward more,
space-saving, beautiful sliding doors. And every one of
these doors will be carried on one or another of
Bangor’s Sliding Door Tracks.
DEPENDABLE! Once you have installed a Bangor Track
you can be sure you’ve finished with that particular job.
Bangor gives trouble-free service for years. There’s no
chance you’ll be called back to make time-wasting and
troublesome adjustments.
PROFITS IN RENOVATIONS, TOO! Every month an
average of 800 people write to Wormald Brothers
enquiring about Bangor Track. The greater number
BANGOR SSS-.
,»PU_ST»/„
A product of
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
SINCE 1889
ill Available at all Hardware
and General Stores
ask about replacing old hinged doors with sliding ones.
This indicates a tremendous potential in renovations.
Contact your hardware store. Let them know that
you are able to advise about Bangor and can install
the Track. They will then be able to give your name
to customers seeking their advice.
MENTION SLIDING DOORS on your letterhead in
your local advertisements—on your signboards. Sell the
idea of sliding doors to your clients. It’s the modern
trend, creating more jobs, more profits for you.
FOR INFORMATION, ask your hardware store or send
this coupon to Wormald Brothers.
1 Wormald Brothers (East) Limited,
Box 1578, G.P.0., Sydney.
i (If you live in another State look up nearest
j Wormald Brothers address in ’phone hook.)
i Please send me the brochure which tells me about
i Bangor Sliding Door Track and its installation.
! NAME
■
j ADDRESS
6
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


Ns,
At the
PLANNING
STAGE
is the time to call in
OTIS
The building and its function must deter-
mine the type and design of vertical
transportation whether it’s a department
store, railway terminal, office block or an
industrial plant. That’s why it is so im-
portant to use the expert knowledge of Otis
when planning any new project that in-
cludes lifts or escalators—because the Otis
approach to any problem is basic and prac-
tical, backed by extensive experience, com-
plete facilities and a world-wide reputation
for making and installing the best in
vertical transportation.
W
COMPANY
(Incorporate d in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY * MELBOURNE * ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
7
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


$
§
£
Ui
O
mm
Save time, money Hand labour
by using formatubes
formatubes
g FOR BETTER POURING OF CONCRETE FORMS
Formatubes are made of tough paper-board,
laminated and impregnated. They provide a fast,
economical method of constructing concrete forms.
For one time use only, Formatubes are available in
inch sizes from 3" to 24"
inside diameter up to 25
foot lengths. They can be
cut with a hand-saw to any
required length they're
light, easy to handle they
require a minimum of brac-
ing and can be used for
angle pouring and the pour-
ing of vertical pipes.
Two views of concrete pillars poured m ' rormatubes" at
Sheridan Close, St. Kilda Road, Melbourne.
TEXTILE CONES & TUBES PTY., LTD., Victoria: 243 Smith Street, Fitzroy. MELBOURNE. JA 5027.
E'rn'nghem Streot and E*Ms Avenue, Alexandria, SYDNEY. MU 2530.
N.S.W.: Corner oI
8
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


f
i*
m
r
Vff
%
m
. >
H
1
%
r
I?
&
RUST PROOF AND
CORROSION RESISTANT
* NO WARP OR ROT
ALWAYS WEATHERPROOF
*
NO COSTLY
MAINTENANCE
Aluminium
Window Frames
More and more architects, more and more
building and construction people
selecting aluminium windows for resi-
dential, commercial and industrial
construction.
available in all designs f
FROM REPUTABLE SUPPLIERS. ✓
are
6334 a
Aluminium Window Frames are
better looking—easily installed—
need not be painted under normal
conditions of exposure—give lifetime service.
AUSTRALIAN ALUMINIUM COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria)
Nsw ■ > n . , SALK OFFICES:
9
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


p
/
*
?A •
*V
fOA PROTECTION
FOR PRESERVATION
FOR HIGH REFLECTIVITY
Almost every surface that is exposed to corrosion by salt atmos-
pheres, or the smoke and acidity of industrial regions, can be
protected and preserved by the superior resistant power of
"Alpaste” Aluminium Paint.
"Alpaste” is an aluminium paint pigment in paste form which,
whilst avoiding the drawbacks of powder pigment, retains such
desirable properties as "leafing” and high reflectivity. In addition,
"Alpaste” gives more complete opacity (a layer of only 1/2,000th
of an inch thick will completely obscure the underlying surface,
however dark and dreary). Moreover, "Alpaste gives 10% to
20% greater coverage power.
"Alpaste” is recommended as a preservative for wood, brickwonc,
concrete, aluminium, steel, magnesium, plaster, stucco and asphalt.
Made by a patented process in a convenient paste form, "Alpaste’
Paint Pigment is composed of thin flakes of aluminium which, when
mixed with a suitable medium, "leaf” and form an opaque and durable metallic shield. Moreover,
"Alpaste’s” high reflectivity and low heat absorption factor help to maintain a temperate interior
wherever it is used externally.
mmmm mm m
(Incorporated in Canada)
Principal British Commonwealth Distributor of Aluminium
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney. N.S.W.
An ALUMINIUM LIMITED Company
Hr'FFr S °P-r t h RAMSAY PTY ' UD ' Me ' bOUme ' SydneV ’ French JSS&
MCCA6E S CO ' LTD " KTc.M-,.. and New Hebrides: AGENCE ALMA, Noensea.
Fiji, Western Samoa and Tonga: MORRIS HEDSTROM LIMITED. New Caledonia.
SUV 3, R,i Territory of Papua-New Guinea-BURNS PHILP (NEW GUINEA) LIMITED. Port Moresby. ~
Top illustration: View of the plant where
"Alpaste” is produced, showing cyclones
into which atomised oowder is drawn.
Lower illustration: This chimney a f the
Nantgarrw Coke Ovens, South Wal:s,
has been finished with "Alpaste” paint
as a protection against fumes evolved n
the carbonisation of coal. Its bright
appearance, which matches perfectly th ?
asbestos of the conveyor housings, w U
be retained for a long time.
by courtesy of 1.C.1. Ltd,, Paint Divis on,
Slough, Bucks., and the National Coal
Board, London.
n
*i!
LONDON
MONTREAL
CALCUTTA
SYDNEY
KAR A C H
10
June 24. 1954.
BUILDING; LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


A complete technical advisory service
is available at all ROWCO Branches.
There is no obligation and your en-
quiries will be welcomed.
THE TINSLEY POLAROGRAPH
An instrument for rapid and accurate chemical analysis. It produces current-
voltage curves called polarograms, which are obtained by the electrolysis of any
solution containing electro-reducible or electra-oxidisable substances. The con-
centration and species of the elements in solution can be directly and accurately
determined from the characteristics of the curves.
The development in recording Polarographs of D.C. amplification to the current
passing through the solution in the polarographic cell, permits the use of a pen
recorder, which gives a direct and instantaneous record of the change in current
during analysis. The recorder is undamped and the exact value of the maximum
current at the instant of fall of the mercury drop is shown. The Tinsley High-
Speed Ink Recording Polarograph is the only Polarograph on the market which
can do this. In addition, a damping device is incorporated, which enables the nor-
mal type damped poloragram to be taken without altering the sensitivity of the
recorder.
NEW DERIVATIVE POLAROGRAPH
This latest development enables elements to be distinguished when close together
on the elecrochemical scale, and when the first element Is present In much
greater concentration than the second.
Sole Australian Agents:
H. ROWE & CO. PTY. LTD.
•SSK. ...STL. ...iSVfft.
oil 1 5 Elizabeth Street ppp, Mark F,,-. •** Elizabeth Street
H. H. Bamford & Sons, PTY. LTD.,BI BrisbaneSt..Hobart. Interstate Agents: S.Y.Garnsworthv Mt. .rutliW.A.
Til 541
11
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


INSTALL
CAST IRON TAMS
LONG LIFE
UTILITY
APPEARANCE
I
.•4
I
, £%
4--
%
: /
mm
...
m
:'v>
;■ v;
Four-Compartment Cast Iron Tank. 20 ft. x 10 ft. x 4ft. hieh. installed in the Maritime Services Board’s New Head Office.
Syd ncy.
Similar tanks of almost any shape and size with capacities ranging from 200 gallons
to many thousands of gallons can be constructed from our standard 2 ft. square
cast iron plates accurately machined for perfect joints, strong for long life yet
light enough for easy handling. With or without divisions—inside or outside
bolting—with connections for any size pipes where desired.
GORDON MARR & SONS PTY. LTD.
BOURKE 8C McEVOY STS., WATERLOO, N.S.W. Tel. MX 2578
Specialists in C.I. Pipes and Valves of All Sizes.
12
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


*
□
LATEST
ton
CLAYTON EQUIPMENT IS WORLD TESTED
New U. 5. design saves time — money!
INSTANTANEOUS!
ECONOMICAL!
Z———__T_. M W W w •
rk^ B^H°w S r Cr h i^ r or more (depending on temperature
Ei e t ddlVered mstantly the tap is turned on. "
Imagine time savings possible! And what’s
more, supply is continuous.
Clayton s proved system of forced re-circulation
guarantees thermal efficiency of 15%, means savings
of fuel consumed. Costs only 1/2 for 100 gals.
Direct connection to underground storage oil
tank, if desired, eliminates coke bunkers, etc.
1 hermostat control ensures no wasted
running time.
EFFICIENT!
COMPLETE!
Maintenance costs are slashed, no labour is
required to fire and dispose of ashes from unit,
and “on-off” system ensures that fuel is
only burnt when hot water is being used.
Longer life is possible, less servicing
required. U.S. designed and tested,
Clayton Water Heater has been proved
to be the cheapest, most efficient
method of heating water in the world
ijs l .j? complete, no extras are required. Installation
r !.u 11 n only a matter of minutes before unit is ready to start
pouring forth gallons and gallons of cheap, steaming hot water.
Restaurants” SSS* H w ater -A as P™ ved applications in Laundries,
mtnv wf’ Hostels. Offices, Factories, Canteens and
Wrfti Why ,r ot B et all the facts about this mighty unit?
Write, phone or call your nearest Westeels’ office.
Wesieels
INDUSTRIE
LIMITED
SYDNEY: 513-515 Wattle St., Broadway.
M 6811.
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE: 752-754 Ann St. ( Valley.
L 1497.
LAUNCESTON: 89 Charles St.
MELBOURNE: 123-129 Victoria Pde,
7 97 P
13
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


The 'DULUX WALL
COLOUR” GUIDE gives
a choice of 15 basic
colours ond 30 blends,
making 45 illustrated
colours. All these col-
ours ore available in
Matt, Satin or Full Gloss.
With these new and
irresistible colours com-
bined with the well-
known ond unvarying
”DULUX" quality you
are sure of a perfect
job that will create
customer goodwill with
a minimum of non-pro-
ductive effort on your
part.
... short cut to
customer goodwill
The new 'DULUX WALL COLOUR" GUIDE ensures
colour harmony, together with customer harmony.
Until now colours had to be chosen from a colour
card, with only limited choice, or specially tinted
on the job, in an attempt to obtain a colour
vaguely described by the customer. Now the
thrilling, new and unbelievably lovely "DULUX
WALL COLOURS" offer a choice that is almost
limitless. Your customer can "pin-point" the exact
colour desired, involving at most a simple blend-
ing and eliminating trial-and-error mixing.
m f
*
... i
Regd.
matt satin gloss
ev
14
Tune 24, 1954,
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


TYPES OF
MILLS
TUBULAR SCAFFOLDING
No.l
the
putlog
as the work progresses it pro-
vision is made for the putlogs
while the brickwork is green.
Approximate quantities of tube and fit-
tings required for every 100 square feet
of wall area to he covered are:
Sometimes called the single
I scaffold as against the inde-
I pendent or double scaffold. In
I this construction, one end of
the putlog is fixed between the
courses of the brickwork, the
other end to the standard by
90° clip or else to the ledger by
putlog clip. For normal work,
the standards are spaced at
approximately 7'6" intervals,
and the height of lifts kept to
4'6". A minimum amount of
bracing is required, as use is
made of the wall itself. The
scaffold can be rapidlv erected
Your enquiries regarding any scaffolding problem are always
welcomed and will receive prompt attention. ‘MILLS” Tube
and Fittings are available for Hire OR Purchase.
The analysis of fittings for scaffolds esti-
mated from the above table is as follows:
lliAiSl SCAFFOLDS
A Division of John Lysaght (Aust) Pty. Ltd.
Depots at: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Fremantle, Newcastle. Port Kembla.
15
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING.
June 24, 1954.


Sell
the kitchen
and you
sell
the house
a modern
electric range
starts the sale
THE SYDNEY
COUNTY
COUNCIL
The kitchen of a house can tilt the balance in
favour of a sale—and a modern, attractive electric
range included in the kitchens you build is a
salesman in itself. Most women prefer to cook
electrically, because of its cleanliness, its simplicity,
QUEEN VICTORIA BUILDING. GEORGE ST., SYDNEY its economy. Build all-electric! The assistance of
anc * at the Svdney County Council is readily available . . .
«„ crowQNEST B 2 U S R ,r a °- K ring B 0259 for the answer ,o most electrical
149-151 Oxford street, BONDI JUNCTION. problems.
SYIS-53
16
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


ADVERTISING RATES.
Per Inch per issue
i-Page
i-Page
i-Page
f-Page
1 Page
One Month
Three Months
Six Months
Twelve Months
1 2 0
6 5 0
8 2 6
11 15 6
15 15 0
22 0 0
1 1 0
6 0 0
7 15 0
11 5 0
15 0 0
21 0 0
10 0
5 15 0
7 7 6
10 15 0
14 5 0
20 0 0
19 0
5 10 0
7 0 0
10 5 0
13 10 0
19 0 0
CONTENTS FOR JUNE
BUILDING : LIGHTING : ENGINEERING
IN ITS FORTY-SIXTH YEAR OF PUBLICATION
OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE MASTER BUILDERS’ FEDERATION OF AUSTRALIA
THE ILLUMINATING ENGINEERING SOCIETY OF AUSTRALIA (N.S.W. SECTION)
THE AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE OF BUILDERS
JUNE 24, 1954.
Australian Institute of Builders lg
Annual Conference, Brisbane, 1954 19
Annual General Meeting 22
Presidential Address 27
Second Annual Meeting (N.S.W. Chapter) ’ 39
Constitution Details 47
Recent Developments in Concrete Technology, by T. J. Cavanagh 28
Some Thoughts on Latest Building Methods and Design Trends, by E J A Weller
F.R.1.8.A., F.R.A.I.A ’ 33
From Shell To Skyscraper in 14 Hours 35
New Church for Castlecrag, Sydney 37
Coles Cranes Ltd 41
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd ’42
New Sydney Button Factory 43
Illuminating Engineering Society of Australia 44
Let There Be Light, by Douglas N. Linnett 45
Adelaide Newsletter 51
Queensland Newsletter 57
Svdney Newsletter 55
Melbourne Newsletter 67
Edited by FLORENCE M TAYLOR 0.8. E., AR.A.I.A L.R.1.8.A, M.S.E.(Civ.), A.Struct.E.Eng.. Lond..
Hon. Life Member, Town Planning Association of N.S.W.
Associate Editor: ADRIAN ASHTON, F.R.1.8.A., F.R.A.1.A., A.A.S.T.C., M.Mech.E.A.
Advertising Manager: R. H. V. AKERMAN.
Size of page (type space) B|in. deep by 6iin. wide (three columns 2in. wide)
Colour: Each additional colour £4/0/0 per insertion extra.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS £2/0/0 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE. SINGLE COPY 5/-.
17
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.
Head Office: 20 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA BW 1548
London Office: Queensland Representative: • n
EFFINGHAM HOUSE, ARUNDEL STREET, Mr. F. O. NIXON Victorian Representatives:
STRAND, LONDON, W.C.2. BRISBANE BUILDING CENTRE PTY. LTD.. 379 COLLINS T£?J?A f tom*
’Phone: Temple Bar 8131. QUEEN AND EDWARD STREETS. BRISBANE 9 C ° LL int STR x^’^^F LBOURNE *
’Phone: B 4689. * Phone: 4725 *
IMPORTANT: Please address all communications to the Firm and not to individuals.


EDITORIAL:
Australian Institute of Builders
SOLID PROGRESS RECORDED.
With the foundation of The Australian Institute of Builders in 1951 an organisation of
considerable importance to the Building Industry in Australia came into being. Modelled upon
the Institute of Builders in Great Britain that has been in existence for 137 years, its intention
is to create an organisation that only admits to its membership those who have had appropriate
training and experience.
There seems little doubt that in time the new Institute will be destined to do for its
members what bodies like the Royal Australian Institute of Architects and the Institution of
Engineers, Australia, have over the years performed for members of those professions.
Being primarily concerned with the training of the Builder of the future and the con'
solidation and maintaining of the status of their calling, it covers an entirely different field
to the Master Builders’ Associations that are concerned with the industrial side of a builder’s
operations and advise and help him in the day'tO'day problems that he meets in the employ'
ment of labour, relations with unions, and the hundred'and'one other difficulties that tO'day
are continually arising. The M.B.A. is guide, philosopher and friend to the reputable
practising Builder, be he a single individual or a large modern company. The new Institute
will concentrate on education and status of the individual.
The Australian Institute of Builders has just had its Third Annual Meeting in Brisbane,
and it has every reason to be proud of the progress that it has made in this short period.
It has indeed been fortunate in its leaders. The Foundation President was the late Fred
Wilson, who had dreamed for many years of the foundation of such a body, which he had
become convinced over his many years of experience in the Industry was vital for its
consolidation and stability. The Inaugural Dinner at the Hotel Australia on November 23rd,
1951, over which he presided, was honoured by the presence of the Prime Minister, Mr. R.
C. Menzies, who accepted Honorary Membership.
On the passing of Fred Wilson, the Presidential mantle descended upon Mr. M. R.
Hornibrook, one of the outstanding builders and contractors of Australia, who has directed
his great drive and initiative towards the furthering and advancing of the Institute.
Some of the fruits of this work were apparent in the Annual Report presented in
Brisbane, which showed that organised Chapters have been established in every State, that
membership throughout Australia was already 251, while in addition complete rules and
syllabus for examinations to enter the Institute had been established. Where appropriate
technical training courses are not in existence, the Institute is cooperating with educational
authorities to inaugurate them.
Mr. Hornibrook, early in his leadership, formed the opinion that it was vital that the
new body should have its own Headquarters, and what could be more appropriate for this
body, embracing many of Australia’s major builders, than that they should erect their own
builidng. He was emphatically not going to let it be like the cobbler’s children.
Perhaps, therefore, the major achievement to date was the announcement in Brisbane
that the first step in this development had been taken with the acceptance of a tender for
the erection of a new Headquarters Building in Sydney, the cost of which will involve an
expenditure of some £65,000. The new building will embrace Lecture Hall, Library, and
all other appropriate facilities, for such an organisation and many other similar bodies which
have been in existence for many years will undoubtedly be envious of the new Headquarters
of the Australian Institute of Builders.
With characteristic energy and confidence, Mr. Hornibrook announced at the Brisbane
Dinner that the next Annual Dinner would be held in the new Sydney Headquarters. With
this solid achievement already recorded, there is no doubt that this will indeed be the case.
Members of the new Institute have every reason to be proud of their first three years
of existence. It indeed augurs well for the future.
18
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING; LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


Australian Institute of Builders
SUCCESSFUL BRISBANE CONFERENCE.
LEADING BUILDERS ATTEND.
The Conference of the Australian
Institute of Builders held in Brisbane
from Tuesday, 22nd Tune, to Thurs-
day, 24th June, proved an outstanding
success, being attended by some fifty
builders from all States of the Com-
monwealth.
Dedication of Memorial
Gates.
The Conference opened with the
dedication of the Memorial Gates at
M. R. Hornibrook Pty. Ltd., Bulimba,
which had been erected in memory of
the late Robert Clark, a well-known
figure in the Australian Building In-
dustry and a Director of M. R.
Hornibrook Pty. Ltd. for twenty-four
years prior to his death in New
Zealand in 1946. The dedication
ceremony was performed by the Rev.
T. Smith, of the Baptist City Taber-
nacle, an old friend of Mr. Clark.
Following this ceremony, afternoon
tea was served and the remainder of
the afternoon was devoted to the in-
spection of various works in progress.
Methods and Materials
Symposium.
The whole of Wednesday was de-
voted to a Symposium on Methods
and Materials, this being held at the
premises of the Queensland Master
Builders’ Association and Builders’
Exchange in Wharf Street, Brisbane.
The Symposium was officially open-
ed by the Queensland State Minister
for Works, Mr. P. J. Hilton, and the
following Papers were subsequently
delivered:
“Recent Development in Concrete
Technology,” by T. J. Cavanagh,
Director, Cement and Concrete
Association of Australia, and
Hon. Secretary of the Master
Builders’ Federation of Australia.
‘The Latest Trends in Design and
Use of Interior Building Boards,”
by M. H. Jones, Technical Ad-
visor of Building Materials Divi-
sion, Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Ltd., Sydney.
Recent Developments in Building
Materials Rese a r c h,” by lan
Langlands, Chief, Division of
Building Research, Council for
Scientific & Industrial Research
Organisation, Melbourne.
“Some Thoughts About Latest
Building Methods and Design
Trends,” by E. J. A. Weller,
F.R.1.8.A., F.R.A.1.A., President,
The Royal Australian Institute of
Architects.
[Two of these are published in this
issue; the others will follow.]
Annual Meeting.
The following day, Thursday, 24th
June, the morning was devoted to a
meeting of the Council of the In-
stitute, followed at 3 p.m. by the
Annual General Meeting at which
Mr. M. R. Hornibrook was re-elected
unopposed President for his third
term.
Mr. G. A. Winwood, of Melbourne,
was elected Vice-president; Mr. J. M.
Gosper, of Sydney, Hon. Secretary;
and Mr. D. A. Hutchinson, of Sydney,
Honorary Treasurer; all these gentle-
men being re-elected.
Council of the Institute for 1954-55
is as follows:—Chapter Presidents: A.
W. Edwards (N.S.W.), P. Cousins
(Qld.), W. Essery (S.A.). Fellows:
S. D. C. Kennedy (N.S.W.), C. J.
McDougall (Vic.), H. Wilckens
(S.A.), L. C. Burne (Vic.), H. O.
Doust (W.A.). T. M. Lipscombe
(Tas.), K. D. Morris (Qld.), C. F.
Gage (N.S.W.). Associates: W. R.
Buchanan (N.S.W.), G. F. G. Mackey
(N.S.W.), J. G. Kilby (N.S.W.), O.
S. Lindsay (N.S.W.). Licentiates: R.
C. Madgwick (N.S.W.), L. Thompson
(W.A.).
Mr. M. R. Hornibrook subsequently
announced that the Council had ac-
cepted the tender of H. W. Thompson
Pty. Ltd., of Sydney, of £55,805 for
the erection of the Institute’s new
Headquarters building at Alfred St.,
Milson s Point. Ten tenders, rang-
ing from £55,805 to £63,580, were
received.
Annual Dinner.
The Second Annual Dinner was
held at Lennon's Hotel at 7 o’clock
and was attended by all the visiting
builders and a number of important
official guests. It was an impressive
and enjoyable function in attractive
surroundings, all present being in
dinner jackets.
The toast of Parliament was pro*
posed by Mr. L. C. Burne, a member
of the Council of the Institute, who,
in a thoughtful speech, emphasised
the importance of Parliament and all
it symbolises in the democratic way
of life. He stressed the fact that we
were too prone to accept these great
privileges with complacency and em-
phasised that in these troublous times
it was the duty of every citizen to be
fully conscious of the British Parlia-
mentary system which had given and
preserved our freedoms.
The Hon, J. E. Duggan, M.L.A.,
Deputy-Premier and Minister for Tran-
sport, revealed himself as an orator
of outstanding ability in a fine speech
in response to the toast of Parliament,
It was stimulating, he said, to hear
comments such as those made by Mr.
Burne and to realise that thoughtful
people appreciated the privilege of
living under the conditions that were
enjoyed in Australia. Too many
people, however, were engaged in the
pursuit of their own day-to-day tasks
and personal pleasures and gave little
attention to their duties as citizens.
If everyone gave the subject a little
more thought and lived up to their
obligations, the problem of keeping
Australia free and safe from aggres-
sion would be furthered. He paid
tribute to the building up of this new
Institute of responsible builders, who
were performing a great task in the
development of the Australian nation.
Toast of the Institute.
The toast of the Australian Institute
of Builders was proposed by Mr. E.
1. A. Weller, President of the Royal
Institute of Architects, and Mr. 1. C.
Mathison, Chairman of the Brisbane
Division of the Institution of En-
gineers, Australia. Mr. Weller con-
gratulated the President and members
of the Institute of Builders upon the
progress that they had made in such
a short period.
Continued overleaf.
Mr. M. R. HORNIBROOK, F.A.I.B.,
President, Australian Institute of Builders
19
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


“The Deputy Premier,” said Mr.
Weller, “has just spoken of the im-
portance of politics and political in-
stitutions in the community, and I
think it is equally important that what
might be called the political implica-
tions of building should have their
parliaments. The Institute of Builders,
along with the Royal Australian In-
stitute of Architects which I represent
to-night, and the Institution of En-
gineers, provide such parliaments for
the crystallisation of thought in the
industry apart from technological con-
siderations.
“Your Institution has produced an
interesting set of Articles and Regu-
lations, and I notice that your first
object is to advance the study of
practice of Building. That is a most
important task, and from what I have
heard from members of your Institute
here to-night, it is a task which you
are approaching with a sincere idea of
building up technical ability in your
industry.”
Mr. Mathison reiterated Mr. Weller’s
good wishes to the new Institute on
behalf of his engineering colleagues.
He expressed appreciation of the
honour which had been accorded the
Institution of Engineers by the Insti-
tute of Builders by the provision in
its Articles of Association for the
nomination by the Engineers of a
Committeeman to the Chapter of the
Institute of Builders in each State. A
similar honour had been conferred on
the R.A.1.A., which nominates two
members in each State Chapter.
The building profession generally
was held in high regard and enjoyed
considerable prestige within the com-
munity, and many builders had al-
ready acquired a personal reputation
for constructing very good quality
work under all circumstances. It was
therefore refreshing to find that the
senior members of. the profession were
prepared to set up an organisation
which would make available to junior
members the accumulated knowledge
and experience of the older members.
It was pleasing also to note that the
personnel of the State Chapters was
drawn from the building profession
on a widely decentralised basis. This
arrangement had great merit as it
would maintain a State rather than a
Metropolitan atmosphere in Institute
affairs.
The Architectural, Engineering and
Building professions, said Mr.
Mathison, were not unlike the three
sides of a triangle in their relation to
each other and any accession of
strength to one also strengthened the
others.
Tender Accepted for New
Building.
The President, Mr. M. R.
Hornibrook, when he rose to respond
to the toast of the Australian Institute
of Builders, was greeted with great
acclamation, which was renewed when
he announced that in the afternoon
the Council of the Institute had for-
mally accepted the tender for the erec-
tion of the Institute’s new Headquar-
ters at Milson’s Point, Sydney.
Next Dinner in New
Headquarters.
“Our next Annual Dinner,” said
Mr. Hornibrook, “will be held in our
new Headquarters,” and anyone know-
ing Manuel Hornibrook, and the great
drive that he has put into the Insti-
tute, has no doubt that this claim will
be achieved.
“When I was in London last year,”
he continued, “I visited the Institute
of Builders, upon which our own In-
stitute has been modelled. They have
been in existence for 137 years and
still occupy rented premises at 47
Bedford Square, London. When I
told them that our body, which was
but two years old, would have its own
Headquarters next year, they were
amazed, and some said that they would
have to consider coming to Australia,
as this indicated the prosperity of the
Australian builder.”
JA little good-natured banter went
on between the Lord Mayor and Mr.
M. R. Hornibrook. when the latter
had announced that a contract had
been entered into between the Insti-
tute of Builders and a Sydney com-
pany of builders for the erection of
the Institute’s offices in Sydney. The
Lord Mayor’s good-humoured inter-
jection“ Why not build by B.C.C. day-
labour?” was not lost upon those who
have followed the Press comment con-
cerning the refection of a tender sub-
mitted by M. R. Hornibrook Pty.
Ltd. for a big job at the new Tenny-
son power house, which the City
Council decided to carry out by “day
labour,” notwithstanding that the cost
estimated by the City Council’s en-
gineering staff was higher than that
of Hornibrook’s tender.!
The toast of the guests was pro-
posed by Mr. W. G. Grigg, the Presi-
dent of the Queensland Chapter of
the Institute, the response being in
the hands of Alderman the Hon. F.
Roberts, M.L.A., Lord Mayor of Bris-
Lord Mayor Responds.
Mr. Roberts said that when one
analysed the present position obtain-
ing in the building industry it was
obviously not right that anyone at all
could carry out building operations.
“The architect,” he said, “is register-
ed; the surveyor is registered, the
plumber, drainer and electrician are
registered, and yet the builder, who
carries out a major part in building
operations is not required to have any
specific qualifications.” The founda-
tion and development of the Austra-
lian Institute of Builders would correct
this position.
The Australian Institute of Builders
was founded in 1951, the first Presi-
dent being the late Fred Wilson, it
having been a dream of his for many
years to develop such an organisation,
his experience in the industry over
a long period convincing him that
some such body was overdue for the
development and maintaining of the
status of the industry in Australia.
The Inaugural Dinner was held at
the Australia Hotel on November
23rd, 1951, the Prime Minister, the
Rt. Hon. R. G. Menzies, being the
Guest of Honour.
On the death of Fred Wilson, Mr.
M. R. Hornibrook was elected Presi-
dent, and this outstanding leader in
the Australian Building Industry has
been responsible to a large extent for
supplying the initiative and drive for
the rapid development that has sub-
sequently taken place. His re-election
unopposed as President marks his
third successive term of office.
AT THE OFFICIAL TABLE.
President, M. R. Hornibrook, at the Second Annual Dinner of the Australian Institute
of Builders at Lennon's Hotel on June 24th, with Hon. J. E. Duggan, M.L.A., Deputy
Premier of Queensland on his left and the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Aid. F. Roberts,
M.L.A., on his right
20
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


The Australian Institute of Builders
TENDER LET FOR NEW HEADQUARTERS.
The President of the Australian Institute of Builders. Mr. M. R. Hornibrook, announced at the
Annual General Meeting of the Institute, held In Brisbane on June 24. that a tender had been let
to H. W. Thompson Pty. Ltd., for £55,805, for the erection of the new Headquarters in Alfred
Street, Mi'son's Point, Sydney. There were ten tenders received, ranging from £55,805 to £63,580.
The Architect is E. W. Andrew. It is expected that the foundation stone of the new Headquarters
building in Sydney will be laid in September next.
21
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


The Australian Institute of Builders
THIRD ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Held in the Rooms of The Queensland Master Builders’ Association, Brisbane,
on 24th June, 1954, at 3 p.m.
The President, Mr. M. R.
Hornibrook, opened the meeting and
then said: “I would like to take the
opportunity of welcoming to our meet'
ing all the members of the Institute
from Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney
and Hobart, as well as from Brisbane.
I hope that you will enjoy your stay
in Queensland and that the weather
will continue to be kind to you.
“Our Vice'President, Mr. G. A.
Winwood, who is abroad, has sent a
cable of apology and wishing success
to this meeting. Further apologies
have been received from Messrs. Kilby,
Edwards, Mahoney (N.S.W.), Doust
(West Australia) and Wilkinson and
Essery, of South Australia.
During the year we were unfor'
tunate to lose two of our members —
Mr. Tait, from Tasmania, and Mr.
from Queensland. These
two gentlemen passed away during the
last year, but we have not had an op'
portunity referring to this loss in the
Annual Report. As set out in the
Annual Report, we have also lost Mr.
Fred Wilson, who passed away this
year. I would now ask you all to
stand for a few seconds’ silence in
respect to their memory.”
The Chairman then called on the
Secretary to read the minutes of the
Second Annual General Meeting,
which were adopted unanimously.
Lt was further moved and seconded
that the President’s Report, which
had already been circulated to mem'
bers, be received. [Published in full
on page 27.}
Mr. C. F. Gage (N.S.W.). in
speaking of the report, said; “This
Report submitted by our President sets
out the progress made by the Insti'
tute, and we have every reason to be
proud that an Institute of this sort
in such a young country has made
the progress it has in such a short
time. Our Institute has not set out to
build up in a great way as far as num-
bers are concerned —quality is what
the Institute has decided is necessary
for its proper functioning, and at the
present time, although our numbers
are not startling, there has been an
appreciable increase in membership.
The cream of the building trade of
Australia has grouped itself on the
side of the Institute, which bids well
for its future.
“I think that the force that our
President has put behind the Institute
has been the means of consolidation
of all the different States into one
body, and we have had the good sense
to plan to build ourselves a home
from which to administer this force.
Before long, we will be able to gather
together in a home where we can
always go for information and from
whence information will emanate.
The builders in this Institute are band'
ed together for the purpose of raising
the status of the building trade and,
with our President at our head and
with the help of the various States,
we feel we will advance to greater
success and the amelioration of the
whole of the building trade.”
A motion that the President’s Re'
port as circulated be adopted was then
carried unanimously.
Financial Statement.
In presenting the Statement of Ac'
counts, the Treasurer said:
“Our finances at the moment are
in a fairly healthy state. You will
notice we have in our Accumulation
Account a balance of about £3OOO at
the date of the Report. Our Prize
Fund stands at an amount of £550
11s. Od. and these moneys have been
invested in gilt'edged securities and
we have a balance of about £35 still
in hand.
“The income from subscriptions for
the year ended 31/12/1953 was
£1678. During the Council meeting
earlier to'day, because of the proposed
new building, we had to look very
carefully into our finances to see what
we might expect in the future. We
took out some figures which, I think,
might be of interest to you.
“On thing I would like to bring
to the notice of all members is the
percentage of the various grades of
membership. At the moment we have
a total membership of 251, of which
111 are Fellows —I would say they are
pretty good fellows, because they are
substantially responsible for that £1678
income. The Fellows represent 45%
of total membership. We have 95
Associates, which represents 35% of
total membership. In the grading of
Licentiates we have 10% of total
membership and Students comprise
another 10%. I think those figures
are significant because they tell a story
that through the year there are less
applications for the grading of Fellow
and a great increase in the grading
for Students and Licentiates. As you
know, the purpose of the Institute is
.to encourage and train the younger
people, and it is gratifying to see that
Licentiates and Students are creeping
un*in numbers. We should have a
substantial membership at the end of
the coming year.
“For the year we have looked at
an approximate budget and we think
that at the end of this year now com'
mencing our income from subscrip'
tions will be something of the order
of £2300.
“We went further and looked into
the possibilities of what income might
be expected from the new building
when erected, so that we could assess
our position when the building is com'
pleted and serving its purpose. Ah
though the figures are approximate. I
think they are somewhere near the
mark, and it does seem we will have
a reasonable surplus to help to finally
pay off the building and leave sufih
cient funds to operate most of the
activities of the Institute. There has
been a further expenditure of moneys
since the Revenue Account was pro'
duced in December. They are sun'
dry small items and proportionately
they add up to the same type of ex'
penses and income as in the previous
year.
“I think our President and others
on the Council are quite pleased with
the financial position, which can be
said to be healthy but not too pros'
perous. I know there are still a lot
of problems in connection with finam
cing our new building, but I think we
can look forward to a very interesting
year.”
Mr. Hutchinson then moved the
adoption of the Financial Report,
which was seconded by Mr. Buchanan.
Chairman: “I would like to take the
opportunity of thank Mr. Hutchinson
for his good work in connection with
looking after the finances of this In'
stitute. He does not need to make
any apologies for the Balance Sheet
—he sees that the money goes where
it should and I would like to con'
gratulate him on your behalf for the
good work he has put into the In'
stitute.”
The adoption of the Financial Re'
port was then carried unanimously.
The Chairman then called on the
Secretary to announce the result of
the elections for the executive posh
tions on the Council. These were as
follows: —•
President: Mr. M. R. Hornibrook.
Vice'President: Mr. G. A. Winwood.
Hon. Secretary: J. M. Gosper.
Hon. Treasrer: Mr. D. A.
Hutchinson.
Mr. Hornibrook said that in con'
nection with the election of officers
there was only one nomination for
each position, so that there was no
ballot.
“As you know, this is my third year
of office and our Articles of Associa-
f’on only provide for two years as
President; as our Articles are not regis'
tered as yet, that will only operate
22
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


from the date of registration. In the
formation of an Institute of this
calibre, you cannot get things right
the first time, but by means of elimina-
tion we have got it into shape whereby
we think the Registrar will accept our
Articles. They will be presented in
the near future for approval.
“I also wish to say that the main
reason for my remaining in office for
another year is that we have before us
the building of the headquarters of
the Institute. It was considered ad-
visable that we did not ’change horses
half-way across the stream’.
“The work of the Council in the
past year has been very heavy, brought
about by the number of new mem-
bers that we are bringing into our
Institute; also the building of the new
premises and the amount of work that
was necessary in endeavouring to get
our Articles of Association and Rules
in order. We have only just got to
the stage of getting them approved.
“On your behalf I would like to
thank Councillors for the amount of
work they have put in during the past
year and the travelling they have done
—quite a lot at their own expense.
I also wish to thank the President and
members of State Chapters for the
good work they have done. The
N.S.W. Chapter in particular has act-
ed on behalf of the main body in
connection with the construction of
the new building and they have had
quite a lot of work to do in connec-
tion with that.”
The Secretary then stated ths.t the
Articles of Association provided that
the Council should consist of 4 Feb
lows, 2 Associates and 1 Licentiate,
and that as a result of the postal bah
lot the following had been nominated.
It was now necessary for someone to
move that these people be elected to
the Council for the period from 1954
to 1956.
It was moved, seconded and carried
unanimously that the following be
elected:—
Fellows: L. C. Byrne, Vic.; H. A.
Doust, W.A.: T. M. Lipscombe,
K. D. Morris, 0- Associates: J. G.
Kilby, N.S.W.; G. S. Lindsay, N.S.W.
Licentiate: L. Thompson. W.A.
Election of Auditor.
It was moved and seconded and
carried that Messrs. Stewart &
Cadogan be re-elected as Auditors with
the same remuneration.
Election of Scrutineers
1954/55.
It was moved, seconded and carried
that the present scrutineers, Messrs.
I. A. Benson, C. W. Anderson and
D. L. Beatty be re-appointed.
Rules and Syllabus for Institute
Examinations.
The Hon. Secretary stated that the
Council at its meeting that morning
approved our standard of education
by approving Rules and Syllabus for
Preliminary and Membership examina-
tions. This means that this Institute
has adopted a standard of education
and in its wav is making history, for
the Institute is also of great impor-
tance to the community at large in
that, by adopting a standard of educa-
tion for young men coming into the
industry, it is providing the means
whereby its members shall be ade-
quately trained technically and by ex-
perience.
The Articles of Association pre-
scribe the qualifications and experience,
which are very stiff and do provide a
very high standard. Now, we have
gone a further step by adopting Rules
and Syllabus for Preliminary and
Membership Examination.
The President; “I would like to add
a word of thanks to those gentlemen
who have been responsible for the
preparation of the Syllabus. There is
a good deal of work to do and one
of the main difficulties we had was
that the educational system differs in
the various States. However, they
have been able to iron out most of
the problems and I was happy this
morning to see them come to final
PROMINENT SPEAKERS AT THE INSTITUTE OF BUILDERS' DINNER.
Left: The President of the Australian Institute of Builders. Mr. M. R. Hornibrook,
F.A.I.B.; Right; The Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Aid. F. Roberts, M.L.A. Mr. T. M.
Lipscombe, President of Tasmanian Chapter is seated on the right.
23
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


agreement whereby a syllabus could
be adopted by our Institute.
“It is a fine thing that we have
been able to get a syllabus completed
because it now gives all States an op'
portunity of getting their classes form'
ed and allowing the examinations to
take place, which will enable us to
have our young membership come
forward to keep the Institute alive in
the future.
“We are entering into a very big
proposition as far as our Institute is
concerned. In N.S.W. we have the
technical classes already established; in
Victoria they are established and in
South Australia they are just about
ready to commence. In Queensland,
we hope in the near future to be able
to have classes established, and that
leaves Western Australian and Tas'
mania to get their classes established.
“Mr. Lipscombe, President of the
Tasmanian Chapter, is here with us
tO'day. It is only a few months since
the Chapter was formed in Tasmania
and they have set about to do every'
thing possible for the formation of
their classes. In that direction, I am
afraid they will be ahead of some of
the other States. I take this oppor-
tunity of congratulating the small State
of Tasmania for the good work they
have been able to do. I am pleased
indeed with the progress that has
been made in connection with the
establishment of the classes in the
various States.’’
Mr. Lipscombe: “As regards our
State, I must say that it was rather
difficult to make the Educational
Authorities (not necessarily the Tech'
nical College, but schools in general)
realise the opportunities there are for
the boy who is able to follow higher
education in the building world.
“We have already made one can'
vass for boys to follow the higher
course, but we have only received two
applications for the course. We feel
that is because of lach of knowledge
on the part of educational authorities
to advise the boys of the opportunities
there are in the building industry.
They do not seem to realise the
strength of the industry. Bovs who
should be very capable in the building
industry are being channelled into
other jobs which appear to be more
glamorous on the surface.
“I feel it will be necessary for us
to bring before the educational
authorities in the various States the
necessity for enlightening the school'
boy at the right age that he should
take an interest if he is inclined to'
wards the construction industry, and
the advantages of that industry should
be pointed out. We have found boys
are going into other industries, but
when we go and talk to the educa'
tional authorities from the point of
view of training a builder, their idea
of the industry is that you start off
as a tradesman and that is the only
way you become a builder. I trust
our Institute will be able to do some'
thing with the educational authorities
in the various States.’’
Mr. Buchanan: “It is over twenty
years in N.S.W. since the hard work
was done of getting the Authorities
there to implement the higher stan'
dard of education in the building
trade. It will take hard work on the
part of Chapter executives, but I have
no doubt that we have men of the
calibre and force enough to bring that
about, just as those men did whom
we have to thank in our own State.’’
Mr. Emmett: “The President has
mentioned that we in South Australia
have everything ready to commence
our classes. I would like to correct
that a little. We have now actually
started in South Australia on both
the Master Builders’ Course and also
the Foreman’s Course. I do not know
the exact figures, but I think there
are something like 12 foremen and
6 of the Master Builders doing the
courses.’’
Adoption of Memorandum
and Articles of Association.
Secretary: “These were fully ex'
plained at the last Annual General
Meeting by convening a By'Laws
Committee, but at that time they were
not in printed form and insufficient
time had been given members to con'
sider them properly.
“At that General Meeting these
two documents were adopted for a
limited period of twelve months, pro'
vided that they be in printed form
and circulated to members and then
brought up for adoption at this meet'
ing. These documents have been dis'
tributed to all members and notice
given, and it will now be necessary
that they be approved.’’
Mr. Gage moved, seconded by Mr.
W. G. Grigg, that the Memorandum
and Articles of Association be adopt'
ed. Carried unanimously.
NEW BUILDING.
President: “The next business is to
acquaint you with the news that we
have let a tender to the lowest ten'
derer, H. W. Thompson Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney, amounting to £55,805.
“There are other things to be con'
sidered - ventilation for the lecture
room to seat about 250, which will
require another £IB9O, and the elec'
tncal work will run into £2528. With
the Architect’s fees and everything
pertaining to building we will have
an expenditure of £65,000.
“The site of the building, as most
of you know, is on the North side
of the Sydney Harbour Bridge, ad'
iacent to the Milson’s Point Railway
Station. We were a long while trying
to locate a suitable site in Sydney, but
unfortunately, all the sites available
which would suit us came into con'
flict with the County of Cumberland
resumptions, and it made it a most
difficult problem to locate a suitable
site. However, we located the site in
Alfred Street, which is immediately at
the approach to the Sydney Harbour
Bridge. It is a good address, and.
easy to locate; there is room for park'
ing; it is easy to get at by tram and
train, and we consider ourselves ex'
ceedingly lucky to have such a site.
“The next business was to get per'
mission to put up such a building as
we wanted, because the area was a
residentially proclaimed area, and it
took quite a time to convince the
Council that we were suitable people
to be located in the district. After
a considerable time, the Council first
of all would not grant permission;
however, we were able to purchase
from the adjoining property a wedge'
shaped piece of land so as to make
our block parallel. The block runs
from one street to the other and has
a frontage of 41 feet.
“The Council eventually gave per'
mission to put up a building and we
then appointed an architect. We ap'
pointed the President of the N.S.W.
Chapter of the Australian Institute of
Architects in the person of Mr. G.
W. Andrew, who was given the job
of preparing plans. We appointed a
Building Committee to go into all mat'
ters in connection with the erection
of our headquarters, and I want to
thank and congratulate all the builders
who took part in connection with this
proposition. I think it is a remark'
able thing that we could get a body of
builders to agree as to the type of
building we should erect.
“We received twelve tenders for the
job, the lowest of which was H. W.
Thompson Pty. Ltd. of £55,805. The
highest tender was £63,580, and so we
consider we have received a very good
price for the work. In that direction,
I wish to congratulate the lowest ten'
derers; the head of the firm is also a
member of the Institute and is im'
mediate Past President of the Master
Builders’ Association of N.S.W.
“I have asked Mr. Gage, who is
Chairman of the Building Committee,
to send a telegram advising of the
acceptance of the tender at tO'day’s
meeting.
“It is only right that you should
know the full facts of everything in
connection with the job. We have
tentatively arranged for a loan of
£50,000 from the M.L.C. Insurance
Company in Sydney on a basis of
thirty years, qnd we have borrowed
that money at a rate of 5%, which
is, in mv opinion, a very fair rate
tO'day. We have to repay that amount
in thirty years, and the way in which
we intend to do it is as follows:
24
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


“The main building has three floors:
the Institute Offices will be on the
ground floor and the site falls from
Alfred Street to the street at the back
—some 16 feet, which will allow a
good lecture hall below whereby we
can accommodate 250 people.
“The first floor will be available for
letting, and above that will be a flat
for the person who will be respon-
' sible for looking after the building;
seeing that it is closed up at night, etc*
“We hope to get a rent of approxi-
mately £2OOO per year, or a little
more, for renting of the first floor on
the basis of the rents being received
in North Sydney at the present time.
We also hope to get, by way of rental
of the lecture hall, an amount of ap-
proximately £lOOO per annum. That
will give an income of approximately
£3OOO per year, and we should re-
ceive about £2OOO per year in connec-
tion with our annual subscriptions—
they will increase as time goes on.
You will see that we should then have
an income of approximately £5OOO per
annum. Expenditure will be an in-
terest bill of £2500 and we have to
pay back the £50,000 loan in thirty
years to do that will require an
average of £lOOO per annum. With
that income, we should be quite quali-
fied to return that £50,000 within the
thirty years Against that income we
will have certain expenditure by wav
of maintenance of the building, sec-
retary's fees and the general running
of the Institute, but I want to say
that we have a proposition that is
sound, and it will, without a doubt,
prove to be a wonderful asset to our
Institute because we will have some-
thing to give a good foundation to
work from, and with that headquarters
we should be able to build our In-
stitute to something of greater mag-
nitude in the future.
“It was intended in the early part
of the year to have the Prime Minister
to lay the foundation stone; however,
it took quite a time to get the plans
completed, which brought about quite
a delay and we were not in a position
to have anv work carried out by the
date on which we had intended to
lay the foundation stone, i.e., 21st of
this month. The Prime Minister has
now sent me a letter in which he
states he will be happy to lay the
foundation stone for us at a future
date. We look forward to having our
Prime Minister, as he is our honorary
member and is taking quite an interest
in our Institute, which is a very fine
thing.
“We do hope that the builders will
be able to have the building com-
pleted in twelve months. If all goes
well, we expect to have it completed
between 9 and 10 months’ time, and
that will al l ow us to hold our next
annual conference at our own head-
quarters in Sydney next year.
“The loan from the Insurance Com-
pany has to be backed up with a
guarantee, and I want two other per-
sons to come forward, as well as my-
self, to sign that guarantee to allow
the loan to be obtained. I am quite
sure I will have no difficulty in find-
ing those two persons.
“We also have to find an amount
of £ 15,000 between now and twelve
months’ time, and I must say I was
delighted when in Sydney three weeks
ago to call on one of Sydney’s lead-
ing contractors. I called on him on
behalf of the Australian Institute of
Builders and stated that I wanted some
help by wav of donations from some
of the more wealthy builders to whom
the industry has been kind in the past.
Mr. Allan Lewis, of Concrete Con-
structions, has now given consideration
to my proposal and has written to
me stating that he is prepared to sub-
scribe £lOOO provided that members
subscribe between them the sum of
£lO,OOO.
“I am not appealing to you to-day,
but I would like to say to those from
N.S.W., where this building is being
constructed, that it would be a very
nice thing indeed if the members from
N.S.W. were to come forward. In
a State like N.S.W. I think there
should be no difficulty in raising
£15,000. Some of the members from
other States may care to subscribe,
but we are not asking members of
the Institute outside N.S.W. to sub-
scribe because some day we hope a
similar structure will be built in each
capital cfty of Australia, and they will
then have their opportunity of sub-
scribing to that at some future date.
We are very happy and feel very
proud that, being such a young In-
stitute, we have got to the stage of
letting a contract this afternoon for
the building and completion of a
structure in our third year of office.
I do not want to say this egost'callv.
but the London Institute of Builders,
which has been in operation for 135
years, are renting a building in Lon'
don where they have been ever since
they commenced. We can therefore
consider ourselves fortunate that wc
haYe been in the position to have this
new home let as a contract so early in
our existence.
“I wish to thank everyone for the
support they have given in connection
with this proposition. Peculiarly
enough, no-one came forward to pour
cold water on the idea; everyone has
realised that to-day is the time to
build, not to-morrow, because to-
morrow will be dearer.”
Mr. Hutchinson: “In our Memoran-
dum of Association we have approxi-
mately thirty objects for which the
Institute was established, and we have
many members working very hard to-
wards those things. One gratifying
thing is the fellowship that has sprung
up between members: I would remind
you of the fun that we had during
the Snowy River trip, and visits we
have had to other places.
“We from N.S.W. are very happ?
to be up here at this general meet-
ing, and we have to thank Mr.
Hornibrook for his philosophy and
wisdom. He has given me permission
to announce to you this afternoon
that he has made a donation of <£looo
towards our general funds, and I
would like you to join with me in
saving thank you to him for his
guidance and generosity.” Acclama-
tion.
Mr. Day: “Being the only member
of the old Council not to serve for a
further term, I wish to say how happy
I was to serve under Mr. Hornibrook’s
leadership on that Council. I felt I
did not make a 100% job of it be-
cause I missed many of the meetings,
but I am very glad that Mr. Morris
has been accepted to fill the vacancy.”
Mr. Byrne: “I would like to move
a vote of thanks to Mr. Hornibrook
ENJOYING THE DINNER.
Obviously enjoying the Institute of Builders' Dinner at Lennon's Hotel. Brisbane, are
(left to right) Mr Reg. Goss. Manager. 4BK Courier-Mail; Mr. J. M. Gosper, Hor.
Secretary of the Institute; and Mr. C. J. McDougall, Councillor from Melbourne.
25
BUILDING: ENGINEERING
Tune 24, 1954.


for his able chairmanship of our meet'
ings and to congratulate him, par-
ticularly on behalf of Victoria, on the
extension of his term of office. It is
also worthy of recognition to note the
extent to which he has travelled over
the Commonwealth during the years
he has been in office, and I think the
Institute is fortunate in having his
guidance during these early years.,
“As one of the original founders
of the Institute with one or two
others, Mr. Hornibrook was far-sighted
enough to see into the future, and
he has also devoted considerable
energy to keeping the thing alive, and
to-day we have the fulfilment of a
plan of the proposed erection of a
building. I consider it is most fitting
that he should now continue in office
this coming year, so that he wil] be
there as President when the building
is opened.
“On behalf of Victoria and the
other States, we thaonL him for the
courteous, efficient and pleasant way
in which our meetings have been con-
ducted and I have much pleasure in
moving this vote of thanks.”
Mr. Ljpscombe: “I am very happy
to support Mr. Byrne’s remarks. I
have been fortunate to have been asso-
ciated with this Institute since its for-
mation, and I know the attention Mr.
Hornibrook is always ready to give
on behalf of the Institute. I would
like to thank him particularly, for his
gesture in travelling to Hobart to form
our Chapter for us there —we appre-
ciate the time given to travelling that
distance to us when we have only a
small membership at the present time.
“Mr. Hornibrook’s assistance to the
building industry through his life has
been known and appreciated by mem-
bers of the industry and I have very
much pleasure in seconding this vote
of thanks to him for his conduct of
our activities to-day and for his sup-
port to the industry over the years.”
Acclamation.
Mr. Hornibrook: “I thank you for
your kind remarks in connection with
my activities in the Institute. I do
want to say that what I have done for
the Institute has only been a pleasure.
I have said before that I want to do
something for the building industry:
I entered it from the employer’s point
of view 43 years ago, so I have had
a lifetime in it. The industry has
been reasonably kind to me. I have
had to work hard for it, but I feel
I have been fortunate enough and got
sufficient out of it to put something
back into it for those who have to
follow, and I think that those who can
afford it have this opportunity of
doing likewise. I thank you, gentle-
men. I thank you for your atten-
dance and look forward to seeing you,
in our new Headquarters in Sydney
next year.”
Memorial Gates to the Late Robert Clark
AT M. R. HORNIBROOK PTY. LTD., BRISBANE.
Dedication of Memorial Tablet.
At the dedication of the memorial
tablet to Robert Clark, placed on the
entrance gateway to the South Bulimba
workshop of M. R. Hornibrook Pty.
Ltd., if was appropriate that Mr. M. R.
Hornibrook should have entrusted the
honour to the Rev. T. Smith of the
Baptist City Tabernacle, who had
known the late Mr. Clark for many
years as a pillar of his church.
Mr. Smith, at the unveiling of the
tablet, said that it was fitting that so
eminent a builder should have his
memory enshrined in steel and con'
Crete for all time as a characteristic
inspiration to his fellow men. These
great works could only have expanded
since the establishment of the Horni-
brook Proprietary in 1912, to its
present dimensions with really great
...en directing its progress. As a direx.
tor of the Company for 24 years prior
to his death in New Zealand in 1946,
Mr. Clark played a great part in an
industrial organisation, since also estab'
lished in Sydney and carrying out im-
portant industrial works throughout
Australia.
Eloquent Address.
In his address of simple eloquence
Mr. Smith spoke of the symbolism of
gateways down through the ages: the
gateways to cities that protected those
within from foes pounding at the gates
of the gateways to great homes and
institutions where some control was
essential. This Hornibrook gateway
was one that many had good reason
to bless as che gateway to human hap'
piness and progress that Robert Clark
had thrown open to many des&rvmg
men who would remember him for the
rest of their lives.
At the end of Mr. Smith’s calm and
inspiring address, which did not evoke
hand'dapping applause, one was re'
minded of the memorable speech made
by Abraham Lincoln after the battle
of Gettysburg, when his listeners were
too dumbfounded by its real greatness
to applaud at the moment of impact.
This came later, as it did on this occa'
sion.
Mr. M. R. Hornibrook stated that
in 1912 Robert Clark was a quantity
surveyor in the Public Service before
joining his company, and at his pass'
ing in 1946, in New Zealand, where
he was on a visit, he had been a direc'
tor for 24 years. In his career he had
been President of the Queensland Mas*
ter Builders’ Association, and Vice'
President of the Master Builders’
Federation of Australia. In inviting the
ladies and gentlemen present to partake
of refreshments, he stated that the ex'
ample of temperance the late Mr. Clark
had set would be honoured by the kind
of refreshments the Company had pro'
vided.
F. O. NIXON.
MEMORIAL GATES.
The Memorial Gates at M. R. Hornibrook Pty. Ltd., Bulimba, Brisbane, to the late
Robert Clark, Director of M. R. Hornibrook Pty. Ltd. for twenty-four years, that
were dedicated on June 22nd.
26
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


Australian Institute of Builders
PRESIDENT’S REPORT FOR 1953-54.
Presented at the Third Annual General Meeting of Members held at the
Queensland Master Builders’ Association, Brisbane, on Thursday, 24th Tune,
1954.
During the year your Council has
developed the educational side of the
Institute’s activities. In addition, steps
have been taken to establish a per-
manent Headquarters for our or-
ganisation. Concurrently with those
activities a considerable volume of
work has been done in setting up the
various procedures necessary to im-
plement the Articles of Association,
and also to safeguard the standing of
our entrance requirements. It is in
the early years of an organisation that
a sound basis is established for the
development of the Institute on lines
in keeping with recognised profes-
sional bodies.
It is difficult in this brief report to
set out adequately the great volume
of work that has been done by mem-
bers of the Council, the various Stand-
ing Committees, and individual mem-
bers of the Institute who have assisted
in our activities during the year. The
demands upon the time of these men
have been great, but their services
have been given generously. Their
efforts will only be fully appreciated
when the Institute takes its place in
the community and is accorded the
recognition given to similar organisa-
tions in the Commonwealth.
Membership-
Membership at' the end of 1953
comprised: One (1) Honorary Mem-
ber, One hundred and Ten (110) Fie-
lows. Seventy-one (71) Associates,
Fifteen (15) Licentiates, and Twenty-
one (21) Students, making a total of
218 members.
Membership by Chapters was as fol-
lows:—N.S.W., 113 (42 Fellows, 42
Associates, 11 Licentiates. 14
Students); Victoria, 41 (29 Fellows.
6 Associates, 3 Licentiates and 3
Students); Queensland, 24 (21 Fel-
lows and 3 Associates); South Aus-
tralia, 25 (8 Fellows, 17 Associates);
Western Australia. 6 (5 Fellows, 1
Licentiate); Tasmania, 8 (5 Fellows, 1
Associates). Membership increased by
43 members during the year after
taking into account one death and
one resignation.
As can be seen from the above
Membership statistics, the proportion
of Fellow members to total member-
ship is high compared with other
similar Institutes. The Australian In-
stitute of Builders has been formed
primarily to advance the study and
practice of building and of all kin-
dred matters, arts and sciences and
to improve and elevate the technical
and general knowledge of persons en-
gaged in, or about to be engaged in,
the building industry or in any em-
ployment, manual or otherwise, in
connection therewith. Consequently,
the Institute is concerned with the in-
dividual. The aim, therefore, of all
Chapters throughout Australia should
be to strengthen our membership by
encouraging applications from the
young men in the industry. The
drive for membership should be de-
voted, in large measure, to those
qualified for Student, Licentiate or
Associate membership. It should be
emphasised that the Institute is not a
close preserve for the “chosen few,”
but is open to all who have the quali-
fications prescribed in the Articles of
Association,
Chapters.
During the year the original five
Chapters, established in accordance
with the Articles of Association, were
increased to six, a chapter being form-
ed in Tasmania. The Committees of
the various Chapters were as under;—
New South Wales: President, C. F.
Gage, F.A.1.8.; Vice-President,
A. Wl. Edwards, F.A.1.8.: Hon.
Secretary, J. A. Benson.
A.A.1.8.; Hon. Treasurer. G. F.
G. Mackey, A.A.1.8.; Com-
mittee. C. E. Thompson,
F.A.1.8.; N. R. Smith, F.A.1.8.;
C. Davis. F.A.1.8.; S. O.
Edwards, F.A.1.8.; A. Menkoff,
A.A.1.8.; and D. L. Beattie,
A.A.1.8.
Victoria: President, G. A. Winwood,
F.A.1.8.; Vice-President, A. V.
Jennings, F.A.1.8.: Hon. Secre-
tary, C. E. Hocking, F.A.1.8.;
Hon. Treasurer, T. W. Morris
F.A.1.8.; Committee, J. W. Chal-
mers, F.A.1.8.; W. R. G. Long-
muir, F.A.1.8.; J. A. Taylor,
F.A.1.8.; C. E. Daw, A.A.1.8.;
D. R. Tait. F.A.1.8.
Queensland: President, W. G. Grigg,
F.A.1.8.: Vice-President, D. S.
Cousins, F.A.1.8.: Hon. Secre-
tary, J. Hutchinson, Jnr.,
F.A.1.8.; Committee, G. O.
Boulton, F.A.1.8.; J. G. Har-
greaves, F.A.1.8.: W. C. Kynas-
ton, F.A.1.8.; H. McMaster,
F.A.1.8.; R. C. B. Schrock,
F.A.1.8.; and H. Taylor, F.A.1.8.
South Australia: President, W. Esseiy,
F.A.1.8.; Vice-President, J. G.
Emmett, F.A.1.8.: Hon. Secre-
tary and Treasurer; H. Wilckens,
F.A.1.8.: Committee R. J.
Nurse, F.A.1.8.: G. H. Fricker.
F.A.1.8.: E. F. Marshall,
A.A.1.8.; and G. F. Brimble-
comb, A.A.1.8.
Western Australia: President, H. A.
Doust, F.A.1.8.; Vice-President,
J. B. Hawkins. F.A.1.8.; Hon.
Treasurer, W. Fairweather,
F.A.1.8.; Hop. Secretary, L.
Thompson, L.A.1.8.
Tasmania: President, T. M. Lipscomb
F.A.1.8.; Vice-President, G. R.
Hutton, F.A.1.8.; Hon. Treasu-
rer, E. C. Dunn, F.A.1.8.; Act-
ing Hon. Secretary, J. E. Braitlv
waite; Committee, C. E. Daw,
A.A.1.8.; C. Cooper F.A.1.8.;
and L. E. Fraser, A.A.1.8.
THE ETHEREAL CANOPY.
Described in a recent Issue of the I.E.S. Lighting Review as a new approach to
cove lighting, these American examples also indicate that such pronounced ceiling
patterns can be disturbing in spite of the claims to being ethereal. Lett is the
Atlantic Athletic Clubs at Atlanta and the other is the Armstrong Linoleum Show
rooms U.S.A.
27
BUILDING; LIGHTING; ENGINEERING
Tune 24, 1954.


Council of the Institute.
At the Annual Elections the follow-
ing were elected to the Council; —
President: M. R. Hornibrook,
F.A.1.8. (Queensland).
Immediate Past President; F. Wilson,
0.8. E., F.A.1.8. (N.S.W.).
Vice-President: G. A. Winwood,
F.A.1.8. (Victoria).
Hon. Treasurer: D. A. Hutchinson,
A.A.1.8. (N.S.W.).
Hon. Secretary; J. M. Gosper,
F.A.1.8. (N.S.W.).
Fellows: L. C. Burne, F.A.1.8. (Vic-
toria); G. H. Day, F.A.1.8.
(Queensland); H. A. Doust,
F.A.1.8. (Western Aus ralia); A.
W. Edwards, F.A.1.8. (N.S.W.):
S. D. C. Kennedy, F.A.1.8.
(N.S.W.); T. M. Lipscombe,
F.A.1.8. (Tasmania): C. J.
McDougall. F.A.1.8. (Victoria);
H. Wilckens, F.A.1.8. (South
Australia).
Associates: W. R. Buchanan, A.A.1.8.
(N.S.W.): G. S. Lindsay,
A.A.1.8. (N.S.W.); I. G. Kilby,
A.A.1.8. (N.S.W.); G. F. G.
Mackey A.A.1.8. (N.S.W.),
Licentiates: R. E Madgwick, L.A.1.8.
(N.S.W.); R. E. Mahony,
L.A.1.8. (N.S.W.).
Chapter Presidents; C. F. Cage,
F.A.1.8. (N.S.W.); W. G. Grigg,
F.A.1.8. (Queensland); W.
Essery, F.A.1.8. (South Aus-
tralia).
Obituary.
It is with great regret that the death
is recorded of Fred Wilson, 0.8. E.,
F.A.1.8., Foundation President of the
Institute. It was, in the main, due to
the efforts of the late Fred Wilson
that the Institute was founded. Few
fully realise the work he did in the
formation stages. It was an honour
greatly deserved when the Institute
crowned his achievement by electing
him its Foundation President.
Headquarters Building.
The decision to build a Headquar-
ters Building to house the Institute
marks a further stage in the develop-
ment of the Institute. Your Council
decided that the appropriate place for
a Headquarters Building would be in
Sydney and that all efforts should be
made to erect such a building at the
earliest possible date. After a long
search of Sydney and suburbs an ex-
cellent site was located in Alfred St.,
North Sydney. The land has a double
frontage, a harbour view and is with-
in convenient distance of public tran-
sport facilities. In addition, there is
ample room for car parking near the
site.
A Building Committee has been
formed and Mr. Eric W. Andrew,
President of the N.S.W. Chapter of
the Royal Australian Institute of Archi-
tects, was appointed Architect for the
design of the building.
A Building Fund has now been
opened and we hope our members
will support it in generous measure.
In this regard it should not be over-
looked that the Institute has been
formed primarily for educational pur-
poses—better to equip the young man
in the industry for his future work.
There is a moral obligation for those
who have done well out of the in-
dustry to put something back into it,
and what more worthy cause than the
training of our young men.
Prize Fund.
Donations to the Prize Fund estab-
lished in 1952 continue to be received.
As can be seen from the balance sheet,
the fund now stands in bonds and
cash at £550/11/-.
Memorandum and Articles of Associa-
tion and Chapter By-Laws.
A By-Laws Committee has revised
the proposed Memorandum and Ar-
ticles of Association in the light of
the operation of the Institute during
the past three years. A revised set
of articles was submitted to the
Annual General Meeting held on the
14th May, 1953, and approved pro-
visionally for a period of twelve
months so that they could be set up
in printed form and distributed to all
members. The new Memorandum
and Articles of Association have been
forwarded for your consideration and
adoption at this meeting.
Chapter By-Laws also approved pro-
visionally, have now been printed and
forwarded to members for considera-
tion and appproved.
Rules and Syllabus of Examinations
of the Institute.
The Board of Examiners established
by the Council has drawn up suitable
Rules and a proposed Syllabus of Ex-
aminations which will be considered
also at this meeting. In drafting the
Rules and Syllabus of Examinations
consideration was given to the exam-
inations of the Institute of Builders in
Great Britain and also the require-
ments of the various technical colleges
throughout Australia in respect of
their Diploma in Building courses.
The Rules and Syllabus were sub-
mitted to the Committees of the
various Chapters of the Institute for
consideration and were revised in the
light of recommendations made. The
present draft is considered to meet all
our requirements at the present stage.
Snowy Mountains Inspection.
A visit of inspection to the Snowy
Mountains Hydro-Electric Scheme was
attended by a group of 50 members,
his proiect was the first of a series of
visits to maior works that have been
planned as part of Institute activities.
The five days’ trip was very instruc-
tive and served as a means of getting
members to know one another and'
also as a means of exchanging views.
Finance.
The Financial Statement for the
year ended 31st December, 1953, in-
dicates that the finances of the Insti-
tute are in a satisfactory condition.
The yield from subscriptions and en-
trance fees amounted to £1,943/11/-,
whereas the expenditure was
£534/18/-, leaving a surplus of
£1,433/14/2 to be transferred to the
Accumulation Account, which now
stands at £3,001/14/1.
It can readily be appreciated that
with the expansion of the Institute
and also the development of the
activities of State Chapters, the sur-
plus each year will become progres-
sively smaller in order to give better
service to members.
General.
As can be seen from the foregoing
comments, much progress has been
made during the year under review.
As soon as the new Headquarters
Building is completed, however, an
expansion of service to members is
proposed and it is then that the In-
stitute will be able to render service
to the community by providing an
opportunity for educational facilities
within our industry.
To the Committee of the various
State Chapters, the Council of the
Institute is grateful for the enthusiasm
that is being displayed in the various
activities. To members of the Coun-
cil and the executive officers, I desire
to extend my thanks for help and
assistance in the year’s operations, I
know that the Institute will go for-
ward to greater strength, but it must
always be remembered that our duty
lies in taking care of the individual
and not in dealing with matters that
more properly belong to other or-
ganisations, such as the State Master
Builders’ Associations and the Master
Builders’ Federation of Australia.
M. R. HORNIBROOK,
Federal President.
THE INDOMITABLE SCOT.
At the ceremonial unveiling of the
Robert Clark Memorial Gates at South
Bulimba, on 22nd June, an old friend
of the deceased gentleman referred to
his uncompromising attitude—like most
Scots—in any matter upon which he
had set his determination as the cor-
rect one. On one occasion, Mr. Clark
had been in a lengthy discussion with
an engineer—now retired —of an im-
portant Government department over a
controversial item of £5,000. When
the engineer had been convinced of his
department’s liability, he offered to
agree to £4,995. Mr. Clark thereupon
accepted, and asked, '‘when will we
meet again to discuss the other £5?”
28
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


Recent Developments in Concrete Technology
By T. J. CAVANAGH.
One of the Papers delivered in the Symposium on Methods and Materials arranged
by the Australian Institute of Builders at their Annual Conference held in Brisbane
on June 23rd, 1954.
Concrete progress has been so
tremendous, even over the past quar'
ter of a century, that one could not
hope to encompass it all adequately
within a short address. I will en-
deavour, however, to give you
glimpses of that progress.
Before I tell you what we are doing
in Australia perhaps you would like
to hear briefly something of the his'
torical background of cement in order
that you may appreciate better the
remarkable progress that has been
made.
Historical Background.
Portland cement is a comparatively
recent discovery, so recent indeed that
when the Portland Cement Association
of America turned the first sod of its
new concrete research laboratory in
Chicago, appropriately the person that
it invited to perform this act was the
great' great' grandson of Joseph
Aspdin, the English bricklayer, who
is universally credited with being the
inventor of Portland cement. And
so, when we talk about Portland
cement concrete let us not confuse it
with the cement of the pre' Aspdin
times.
Our history of architecture tells us
that the Assyrians were probably the
first to use an adhesive material in
the form of asphalt and bitumen ob'
tained from natural deposits. Then
came the Egyptians with their mixture
of 80% gypsum and 20% lime. As
the Egyptians discovered the use of
gypsum, the Greeks made extensive
use of lime, and so in turn, both dis'
coveries were passed on to the
Romans, who used the first hydraulic
cement, a poszolanic material consist'
ing in the main of lime and volcanic
ash. It was probably the hardness of
the walls and durability of the struc'
tures built by the Romans that has
led to the impression that we some'
times hear expressed that the secrets
they possessed have been lost.
The truth of the matter is that the
cements have been replaced by a
superior product that has made
modern concrete structures possible.
It is important, however, that we
should consider the durability of
Roman structures if only for the
reason that much of the modern re'
* Director, Cement and Concrete Associa-
tion of Australia.
cent concrete research points to the
value of pozsolanic materials as an
aid to concrete durability.
When Europe passed into the Dark
Ages with almost complete cessation
of building, the development of
cements was neglected and practically
forgotten, until 1756, when an Eng'
lishman, fohn Smeaton, was called
upon to build a cut stone lighthouse
on Edystone Rock. Knowledge of
hydraulic cements that would set and
harden under water was at that time
extremely meagre, but after much ex'
perimenting Smeaton found that the
best results were obtained from a lime
that contained some clay as an im'
purity. Thus, inadvertently, was
hydraulic lime discovered.
Out of Smeaton’s work came the
knowledge that a better cement could
be made in those days from soft,
clayey limestones than from hard,
dense rock. At first, the material was
only lightly burned to expel carbon
dioxide, use being made only of the
material that slacked in water, and no
attempt was made to fuse it and grind
it to a fine powder.
Aspdin Granted Patent.
Investigations of a desultory nature
followed for some years until 1824.
when loseph Aspdin was granted a
patent for his process which consisted
of calcining a mixture of quick lime
and clay in a lime kiln, and crushing
the resulting lumps into a fine
powder; but he used a comparatively
low temperature, much lower, of
course, than is used to'day.
Some time after this, Isaac Charles
Johnson, another Englishman, ob'
served that the ground overburned
lumps in kilns, previously discarded,
made much better cement than the
product used up to that time, although
it was slow setting. Using these
modules as a basis for study, he found
the correct proportions of limestone
and clay to use for a higher type
cement and in 1851 he took over the
old deserted Aspdin plant, where he
began to manufacture Portland cement.
Thus it would appear that Johnson
was the first to recognise the impor'
tance of the chemical composition of
the raw material, and of the higher
temperatures necessary for the actual
clinkering of it. Basically, his cement
was much more similar to our modern
product than that produced by Aspdin.
Modern Cements Revolutionise
Construction.
In the short space of less than 124
years, and more particularly during
the last 50 years, Portland cement has
completely revolutionised the world s
technique in civil engineering and
building construction. The fundamem
tal reason for the rapid and universal
adoption of such a new material is,
of course, its adaptability to the manu-
facture of concrete and to the facility
with which this product may be
moulded.
The secondary reasons are:
(a) The development of the science
of reinforced concrete design,
by which steel is incorporated
in concrete in such a manner
as to take advantage of the best
characteristics of the two mate'
rials, namely, the tensile
strength of the steel and the
compressive strength of the
concrete.
(b) The progressive improvement
in the strength characteristics
and reliability of Portland
cement; improvements that are
markedlv noticeable when we
compare present'day cements
with those of even fourteen
years ago.
The criterion of strength in Aus'
tralia is the Australian Standard Sped'
fication. In 1926 this specification
called for a strength of 2850 lbs. per
sq. inch at 28 days, but to'day that
specification calls for 4500 lbs. per sq.
inch.
Origin of Name
“Portland Cement.”
I have told you that Aspdin is
generally accredited with being the
founder of Portland cement. At the
time that he took out his patent a
grey building stone known as “Port'
land Stone” was being quarried on the
island of Portland and Aspdin’s pro'
duct made a concrete so similar in
colour to this stone that it becarrm
known as “Portland Cement.”
Aspdin, like all inventors, really had
a tough time. In making his experfi
ments he swept up materials from
surrounding roads and naturally got
into a lot of trouble with the authori'
ties; but he finally succeeded in get'
ting together an establishment where
he burnt a mixture of chalk and clay
29
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


in open pans and ground up the
clinker into cement. I wonder if he
really had any idea of what he was
starting!
It is, of course, impossible to cata-
logue, much less to describe, in any
detail, all the developments in con-
crete technology, and in design and
construction methods, which have
taken place in the past few years; it is
equally difficult to decide which of
these developments are really new, and
which have contributed of will con-
tribute something lasting and worth-
while to progress in concrete tech-
nology.
Lightweight Aggregates.
Lightweight aggregates for struc-
tural concrete have been extensively
developed overseas, these generally
being foamed slags and expanded clays
and shales: commercial production of
this class of aggregate in Australia can
be expected in the near future.
Such materials permit the produc-
tion of concrete with 28-day compres-
sive strengths of 3500 - 4000 p.s.i.
weighing only 95 - 105 lbs. per cu. ft.
The saving in dead loads and conse-
quent economy in cost of multi-storey
buildings, bridges, etc., in which the
dead load/live load ratio is high, is
self-evident.
The use of admixtures, once frown-
ed upon by most concrete technolo-
gists, has assumed a greatly increased
importance and status. The reason
for this change in outlook is the de-
velopment of new classes of admix-
tures —primarily air-entraining agents
and pozzolans.
Air-entraining Agents.
The use of air-entraining agents —
whether interground with the cement
or added at the mixer—is generally
rated as one of the most important
single advances made in concrete tech-
nology since formulation of the void-
cement or water/cement ratio: strength
law. Its value in improving both the
handling qualities of the plastic mix
and the durability of the hardened
concrete is now well-established. The
use of surface-active agents generally,
and air-entraining agents in particular,
is the subject of a current C.5.1.R.0.
investigation.
The use of pozzolans is actually a
reversion to early Roman practice.
Here again, improvement in durability
is the major objective; there is good
reason to believe that use of a suitable
pozzolan will improve concrete quali-
ties —especially for mass-concrete con-
struction —in the following manner:
(a) Reduce temperature rise.
(b) Reduce thermal shrinkage.
(c) Develop early strength slowly,
but give high ultimate strength.
(d) Increase impermeability.
(e) Improve extensibility or crack
resistance.
(f) Increase plasticity or stress ad-
justing characteristics.
(g) Reduce drying shrinkage.
(h) Increase resistance to sulphate
attack.
(i) Reduce solubility of paste.
(j) Reduce water content.f
(k) Improve workability.f
t In some cases only.
The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation
has also used pozzolans in an attempt
to prevent or limit expansive alkali-
aggregate reactions where economics
compelled the use of potentially reac-
tive aggregates.
Fly Ash As A Pozzolan.
An excellent pozzolan—fly ash from
East Perth power station —was used
extensively in concrete work during
the raising of Mundaring Dam in
Western Australia, where the Public
Works Department has also used this
fly ash experimentally in concrete ex-
posed to aggressive attack, with pro-
mising results.
The C.5.1.R.0. is conducting a
basic investigation into the mechanism
of pozzolanic action, and proposes
ultimately to survey potentially poz-
zolanic materials available in Australia.
This investigation should be of great
importance, both technically and eco-
nomically, to the Australian concrete
industry, and more particularly to
those authorities concerned with mass-
concrete construction on a large scale.
The major objectives in hardened
concrete strength, durability and
economy remain essentially un-
changed; knowledge of how best to
achieve these objectives has, however,
undergone considerable change with
an improved appreciation of what may
be termed the anatomy of concrete.
Additional Characteristics.
Whereas in the past compressive
strength was generally the sole
criterion of concrete quality, to-day's
interest in high quality concrete, par-
ticularly for pavements, dams, and pre-
stressed work, has, focused attention
on the following additional charac-
teristics:—
(a) Flexural strengths (especially
for pavements).
(b) Density.
(c) Permeability.
(d) Modulus of elasticity.
(e) Moisture movement (shrinkage
on drying out).
(f) Creep (plastic deformation un-
der load).
(g) Workability.
(h) Durability.
Certain of these characteristics are,
of course, very closely associated; the
manner and degree of that association,
and factors influencing these charac-
teristics, have been and are at present
the subject of intensive research, espe-
cially by the P.C.A. in the United
States.
Durability of Concrete.
Until about twenty-six years ago,
the durability of concrete was seldom
called to question. It was generally
felt that if it was well made and of a
strength suited to the loads it was to
carry, nothing more was necessary.
About this time a number of more
critical engineers observed that much
concrete work which appeared satis-
factory when the forms were first re-
moved later fell short of the expecta-
tions of its designers, both in appear-
ance and in structure. This resulted
in the Portland Cement Association of
America, in conjunction with user in-
terests, making a widespread survey of
existing structures to determine the
facts about concrete behaviour in ser-
vice. Thus began what is probably
the most thorough attempt ever made
by an industry to “third degree” its
own product—an investigation which
is still continuing, and which has
already made many notable contribu-
tions to our knowledge in this field.
An extensive investigation relating
especially to the behaviour of concrete
in sea water was also initiated by the
Institution of Civil Engineers. The
results of these investigations are now
being made public for the benefit of
concrete users.
Until 1918 practical concrete mix
proportioning was entirely by arbi-
trarily selected volumes, and the
criterion of concrete strength and
quality went no further than the ratio
NEW U.S. HOSPITAL
Simple lines characterise this new
Hospital recently completed at Green-
wich, Connecticut, the main character
to the long elevations being given by the
continuous concrete sun hoods. Archi-
tects were Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
—"Progressive Architecture," U.S.A.
30
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


of cement to aggregate: this was in
spite of earlier work by Feret, Talbot
and Richart, and Fuller and Bolomey.
Professor Duff Abrams’ postulation of
the water/cement ratio: strength law
in 1918 really marked the beginning
of the scientific knowledge of con-
crete behaviour. It was realised for
the first time that the water, previous-
ly regarded as unimportant, was in
fact the dominant factor; and the ag-
gregate, previously regarded as domi-
nant, played only a secondary role.
There followed the development of
many methods of mix design, largely
based on attempts at some type of
“ideal” aggregate grading curve. To-
day, however, grading of aggregates
is recognised as important only in so
far as it affects the workability of the
concrete and renders it easier to tran-
sport, place and compact as a homo-
geneous mass with a minimum of
work.
Two Vital Factors.
Freyssinet summed-iip to-days ideas
on improvement of concrete in the
following words —it “depends on two
factors, all others being of importance
only in so far as they modify these
essential factors, which are:
“(1) The volume of voids remain-
ing between the solid particles
at the conclusion of casting,
progressive filling of which
by hydrates constitutes the
phenomenon of setting.
“(2) Ability of the cement to pro-
vide these hydrates, which is
a function of its quantity and
of its quality.
“Improvement of a concrete thus
reduces itself to an improvement in
the ratio of voids to cement. This
v/c ratio is usually replaced by the
water/cement ratio, which, in prac-
tice, has the same value. Thus, ’other
things being equal, the strength of
concrete increases with its compaction
—a proposition which, it seems to
me, hardly needs proving.’
“The volume of voids existing be-
tween the solid elements at the begin-
ning of the set depends on the rela-
tive arrangement of these elements
more than on any other factor, even
the grading. . . . Grading thus be-
comes a secondary factor as soon as
an effective arrangement of particles
can be obtained; more precisely, grad-
ing should be considered only as a
function of the arrangement.”
Reference to an aggregate of uni-
formly - sized spherical particles indi-
cates, however, that some degree of
grading is essential in any practical
aggregate—but the major proposition
remains that provided adequate com-
paction can be achieved, over - insis-
tence on close compliance with some
theoretical or arbitrary grading curve
is not warranted.
One result of this changed outlook
•■as been the permitted—and in so."
cases the preferred—use of gap'graded
aggregates, especially for relatively dry
concrete, mixes. However, their use
in plastic mixes should be encouraged
only when economically necessary, as
they tend to increase the risk of segre-
gation during handling and placing of
the concrete.
Increases in Strength.
The practical effect of the increased
“know-how” in the concrete construe'
tion industry can be seen in the sue'
cess with which standards of concrete
quality set in specifications are met.
Before the war the minimum specified
cube crashing strength of high grade
concrete of about 1 : 6 proportions
was often no more than 3000 Ibs/in. 2
at 28 days. At the end of the war,
when a minimum strength of 4000
lb/in. 2 was set for airfield runways,
there was some doubt whether it could
be consistently met with mixes leaner
than 1 : 6, but the specification was
in fact satisfied with a mix of 1 : 6.25
by weight (530 lb/yd. 8 ), which gave
an average strength of about 5750
lb/in. 2 at 28 days. In 1952 runway
construction similar strengths were ob'
tained with mixes of 1 : 7.25 proper-
tions (475 lb/yd. 3 ).
High Strength Mixes.
Work carried out on the design of
very high' strength concrete mixes
(richer than 1 : 4) has shown some
essential divergence from normal mix
design practice to be necessary. The
design of high-strength mixes appears
to be governed by the fact that for
given materials it is not possible to
obtain a wide range of workability for
a particular strength (or vice versa)
by varying the richness of the mix
and the W/C ratio; within close limits
the one property seems to be fixed
by the other. Also, the quality of
the materials appears to affect the
strength and workability to a greater
extent than for normal concrete: de-
sign tables and figures, therefore, can
serve only as a guide.
The very dry mixes used for high-
strength concrete require special com-
pacting methods; high-frequency vibra-
tion and vibration plus pressure are
now commonly used, especially where
very high early strengths are required
for rapid re-use of moulds. By these
means allied to suitable curing
methods strengths of 4000 p.s.i. at
3 - 4 hours and 9000 - 10,000 p.s.i. at
one month are now commonplace.
Much work remains to be done, how-
ever, on the techniques of very-high-
strength concrete.
Volumetric Instability.
Volumetric instability of concrete
and resulting cracking and movement
are often major problems in struc-
tures. Investigations are proceeding
in Australia and overseas to determine
the basic reasons for this instability,
which is related not only to the
cement paste, but also in many cases
to physical and chemical differences
between the aggregates and the mat'
rix of the concrete. There is a real
chance that this problem may be large'
ly overcome in the future as a result
of basic research being conducted to'
day.
There has been great progress in
structural design and structural form.
Brief reference to this must encompass
the prestressing and thin shell con'
struction.
It is impossible, and probably un-
necessary to dwell on prestressed con'
crete in any detail here. It is now an
established construction method, but
its apparent simplicity and everyday
use should not hide the fact that its
possible range of applications is ah
most without limit; in combination
with precasting and with other struc'
tural forms (such as shell construe'
tion), it shows promise of even more
spectacular applications in the future
than to date.
Quality Control on Jobs.
Complementing recent developments
in cement and concrete technology
and in design procedures, the past
ten to fifteen years has produced many
notable developments in construction
techniques.
Many of these developments are
concerned with quality control on the
job. Among these may be mention'
ed increased use of weight'batching,
even on smaller jobs; refinements in
the equipping of large batching and
mixing plants, often with fully auto'
matic control of batching, graphical
recording of each constituent in every
batch, and automatic recording of
consistency; development of improved
methods of consistency measurement
for dry mixes; improved mixer de'
signs to give increased efficiency, espe-
dally for dry mixes; and, in some
cases, more attention to crusher equip'
ment to improve aggregate particle
shape.
A growing appreciation of the ad'
vantages inherent in better controlled
concrete from a larger plant has caused
remarkable development in the ready'
mixed concrete industry throughout
the world in recent years, "in effect,
this places the advantages of the large
central mixing plant at the disposal
of the relatively small concrete user.
Bulk Cement Use.
The use of bulk cement is incrcas'
ing rapidly, for both large and
medium-sized jobs. Considerable sav-
ings are effected both on cost of bags
and in on ' the ' job handling costs.
Methods of hauling and handling bulk
cement have been improved to the
stage where it is almost as flexible as
the handling of liquids. Actual hand'
ling methods will, of course, dictated
by individual job circumstances.
31
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


Air' entrainment, mentioned as a
concrete ' making technique, could
equally have been included as a con'
struction technique. While not uni'
versally applicable, there is no doubt
that its use under certain conditions
can be a potent aid in concrete con'
struction work.
Transporting and Placing.
Transporting and placing of con'
Crete has undergone considerable
changes to adapt itself to tO'day’s drier
mixes. Chuting, once commonplace,
but always a potential cause of segre-
gation, has become impracticable with
the use of drier mixes. Trucks or
“rickshaws” on short distances and
belt conveyors or buckets carried by
trucks or aerial ropeways are in gene'
ral use to'day. Actual choice of plant
will depend on many factors, but
ability to handle dry mixes should be
a major consideration. Great flexi'
bility in operation is provided by con'
crete pump units, which are particu'
larly valuable for tunnel lining and
similar work in awkward or confined
locations. A high degree of worka-
bility is required in the mix and usual
operational conditions require a slump
of not less than three inches.
Compaction Methods.
Drier mixes have likewise caused a
revision of methods of compaction.
Thorough compaction—so essential to
the development of high strengths and
to durability—became impracticable by
hand rodding and tamping methods,
and use of high'frequency vibrators
has become widespread. In fact, use
of low-slump concretes and adoption
of vibratory compaction must be re'
garded as complementary develop-
ments. For the very dry consistency
mixes common in precast, prestressed
work, high frequency vibration in con-
junction with pressure (of the order
of 50 p.s.i) is now used.
It seems certain that the use of
vibration for the compaction of con-
crete is in its infancy—Freyssinet has
stated with good reason that there is
a lifetime of work for a first-class re-
search engineer in this field.
European pavement construction
now commonly uses mixes of such
dry consistency that the only possible
means of compaction is by ramming
special paving machines employing
this principle are used. (The Ameri'
cans, for increased speed of construe'
tion, prefer the use of wetter mixes,
and are putting their faith in air'
entrainment to give durability.)
Space will permit no more than a
mention of such developments as the
use of sliding forms for multhstorey
building construction, membrane and
high'temperature curing (the latter
especially in precast, prestressed
work), vacuum concrete, shock'
concrete and the use of absorptive
form linings especially in architec-
tural concrete work.
One of the highest developments
of construction techniques is that now
almost universally adopted in the
building of massive concrete structures
such as dams. We have already seen
that certain inherent properties of
concrete tend to cause troubles —due
to volumetric instability—when it is
used in massive structures. Construe'
tion procedures have been developed
in recent years to offset these proper'
ties and ensure sound structures.
These methods include:
(a) Provision of adequate expan'
sion joints.
(b) Pre'cooling of the mix.
(c) Artificial cooling of the con'
Crete in place.
(d) Use of keyed construction
joints.
(e) Grouting of construction joints
when the mass has reached a
stable temperature.
(f) Limitation on height of con'
struction lifts.
and are allied to the use of low'heat
cements, poszokns and/or other ad'
mixes such as air'entraining agents.
Precast Structural Units.
Possibly the most outstanding recent
development in construction methods
has been the swing to precasting of
structural concrete elements for a verv
wide range of structures. This tech'
nique shows important advantages in
simplifying and speeding up construe'
tion in certain fields, and develop'
ments in general construction methods
have overcome most of its disadvan-
tages. Many reasons have contributed
to the rapid progress of this construe'
tion method: among these are the cur'
rent very high costs of formwork, the
complexity of shape of many struc-
tural members, the general reduction
in weight of members resulting from
the use of higher stresses, lightweight
aggregates or prestressing and the
greater availability of efficient mobile
erection cranes.
By using precast concrete, work can
begin on many parts of a job simul-
taneously, and one mould can often
be used instead of the many which
would be required for normal in-situ
casting without any diminution—and
possibly some improvement—in rates
of construction. As a result elaborate
formwork does not become urn
economic when the requirements of
the structural design call for it, allow'
ing greater freedom to the designer.
This method was originally applied
to single-storey, rigid'framed huts and
factory buildings, but has now been
extended to multistorey framed build'
ings many types. Shell roofs,
lamella roofs, bridges, hangars and
even a power station have been con'
structed by this method. The ice
plant at Warragamba Dam (N.S.W.)
is an outstanding local example of this
type of work, used fin conjunction with
prestressing.
The “tilt-up” method of construe'
tion, extensively developed in the
United States and the process in which
floors are cast at ground level and
then raised by jacking them up the
columns, also developed in the United
States, are other examples.
Precasting.
In combination with prestressing,
which allows structural continuity to
be easily obtained with separate units,
precasting has become almost the ac'
cepted construction method overseas
and has allowed complicated structures
to be erected with ease and economy
in a fraction of the time required for
in'situ construction and at a much
lower cost. Extensive further develop'
ment in this field must be expected in
Australia.
Architectural concrete is probably
the most important of those develop'
ments which may be classed as “mis-
cellaneous.” By the use of suitably
finished formwork, or appropriate
treatment of the concrete surface after
stripping of the forms, many pleasing,
durable and inexpensive effects can
be obtained. Surface treatments em-
ployed are generally variations of three
main processes; exposing the aggre'
gate, tooling the surface and casting
the concrete in shaped moulds —pos'
sibly with absorptive surfaces—to pro'
duce fine or coarse'textured or pat'
terned surfaces.
DOVER SPEEDS THE CARS.
The Port of Dover (England) has a new car ferry terminal for cross-channel traffic
which cost £750,000. The terminal building shown here is on modern lines, neat
in appearance and spacious—to handle a through traffic of 240 cars per hour.
The service was officially opened in August. 1953. ("London Calling.")
32
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING; LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


Some Thoughts on Latest Building Methods & Design Trends
By E. J. A. WELLER, F.R.I.B.A., F.R.A.I.A.,
President, The Royal Australian Institute of Architects.
One of the Papers delivered in the Symposium on Methods and Materials arranged
by the Australian Institute of Builders at their Annual Conference held in Brisbane
on June 23rd, 1954.
As the title of this talk suggests, it
is proposed to direct some thoughts to
the broader questions involved in new
materials, new construction methods
and new design. There is, of course,
a very close interrelation between
these three phases of building progress.
Craft Basis Persists.
The building industry is not popular
with a whole flock of scientists, inven-
tors, planners and wise men generally.
Some even suggest that the craft basis
of building persists as much as any-
thing, because it requires less direction
either from the builder or the archi'
tect.
The assumption is that a tradesman
knows what he is about and if paid
his weekly wage can be depended
upon to produce the work required.
Quite nicelv, it is suggested, at least
by inference, that architects and build'
ers are tooo lazy to change. The en-
gineer seems to escape although, good'
ness knows, he is conservative enough.
It is a fact that so long as the in-
dustry adheres more or less to craft
processes the results are predictable
within the range of normal ability.
Experience is a Reasonable Guide.
An architect who has designed many
hospitals is likely to produce a design
for another that may lack any new
design attributes, but is none the less
a first-class hospital. Similarly a
builder who has built several large con-
Crete structures is likely to build many
more because he knows how. It is
not surprising, therefore, that what
is proven is not discarded lightly.
Important too, is the reservoir of
skill both in materials production and
in the field. Do we, in our quest for
new materials, new methods and in the
putting out of new designs, ignore what
we can do, and jettison all this for
what somebody els e thinks we ought
to do? The scientist says that building
in most countries is one of the most
conservative of industries. That it is
highly resistive to change. I think we
can agree that that attitude is to some
extent inevitable.
Clients are normal people wanting
to buv normal buildings and wanting
to know what their building is going
to cost. Not many clients want to be
the subject of experiments. They are
willing to follow fashion, good or bad,
or to accept experiment to meet a
definite requirement, but a man spend'
ing money on a building is not apt to
gamble on the result.
In the report of the British Working
Party on building operations, it was
stated that the architect should be
capable of advising his client, not only
on matters of planning and design,
but also upon the financial implica'
tion of a project and his proposals. He
must also advise upon th e method of
construction, the materials to be used
and the extent to which advantage is
to be taken of new developments in
materials and building techniques.
Since it is for the architect to recom'
mend, he must naturally be competent
in so doing. He must, in his advice,
take cognizance not only of any short-
comings of new materials and tech-
niques but he must also advise his
client of any consequential problems
which would be likely to arise if the
new and unfamiliar be embarked upon.
Not the least of these would arise from
builders being unsure and therefore
conservative in their pricing of a job
involving too much novelty.
Are Architects Over-Conservative?
Architects are accused of a tendency
to be over-conservative and reluctant
to adopt new ideas. There does seem
to be a need for closer technical liaison
between architect and builder. It is
only the builder who can say what he
can do. On small works particularly
the architect lacks assurance that tech'
nicological awareness is sufficiently de'
veloped so that he might confidently
proceed to the design of a building
where the satisfactory performance of
the work cannot be assessed by inspec'
tion.
It is for this reason that development
of high strength concrete, pre-stressed
concrete, noffines concrete and gap
grading has been small.
Welding is gradually overcoming
fear of bad results that had nothing
to do with the architect’s faith in weld'
ing but had a lot to do with his confl'
HANDSOME FACADE TO FLAT BUILDING
This handsome facade to an eight storey steel frame block of flats at Thionville,
France, illustrates the use of precast "Samiex" cellular concrete panels supported in
three-leg steel gantry framework. The stability of the building is secured against
wind pressure bracing and horizontal bracing to the floors.
-I'ossaline metallique
33
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


dence ‘ that all the welds on his job
would be satisfactory.
Move from Field to Factory.
But most new thoughts to-day are
directed to the idea that building must
inevitably move, quite substantially
from the field to the factory. New pro-
cess spoken about mostly involve rapid
assembly of precision - made com-
ponents. In this case the sicentist com-
plains that basically good ideas have
failed because they have been handi-
capped by traditional design methods
and by traditional organisation.
We are told that the designer must
learn the art of defining the degree of
precision required in terms of the
method of manufacture and the build-
ing organiser must learn how to make
real use of the potential speed of
assembly of the precision-made article.
Unfortunately, most theorists neglect
the basic elemental fact that the build-
ing site is the factory where a building
is built and however the units are
supplied, big or little, few or many,
whole or in many parts, the site is
the place of actual production of the
building. The capacity of the factory,
which is the building site, is material
in our present considerations.
Why Change?
Let us examine building under a
microscope. Why should there be
change. After all, the Arab house is
much the same to-day as it was in
Biblical times. Ancient materials
still have their usefulness. Buildings
do not cease to be used merely be-
cause they are old. Is it not therefore
more logical to move from need to
change, from cause to effect, from un-
derstanding of the problem to solu-
tion?
Change may stem from three or four
factors:—
1. Materials and methods that per-
mit that to be done which could
not previously be done.
2. The dictates of economic cir-
cumstance.
3. The nature of the building site.
4. Peculiarities of the Client’s need.
New Materials and Building
Scope.
Glass typifies the effect of materials
limitation. The window - pane has
grown from snipits from glass bubbles
to that mighty sheet 50ft. long used
for the first floor gallery of the Power
and Production building at the Festi-
val of Britain.
Once we could not have a window
without many divisions into very small
panes. Now we can have this one
huge sheet of glass if we are pre-
pared to face the problem of getting
it into position.
Steel was responsible for much ado
in the building industry just a hun-
dred years ago, and like glass, it per-
mitted something to be done that
could not be done before. And con-
cerning a recent development in steel
buildings (the Hill’s multi-floor light
steel frame), I was interested to see
that the open web joist, which is a
feature of that system, would do some-
thing that couldn’t be done before.
It would let pipes pass through jt any-
where along its length.
There are also the new develop-
ments in timber engineering made
possible by the engineering of joint
connections and by the development
of adhesives for lamination. Similarly,
the emergence of the shop-made con-
crete component and the lightweight
concrete building elements.
All such developments combine to
the theme that materials may release
building design to follow some course
it has always wanted to follow but
which previously was not possible.
Architects will be quite prepared to
use products of this description de-
pending upon two things: (a) upon
their being kept aware of develop-
ments, and (b) upon assurance of
availability at reasonable prices. To
this must normally be added on-the-
spot availability.
Dictates of Economic
Circumstance.
The dictates of economic circum-
stance often leads to the introduction
of new materials as a substitution for
old ones. The incidence of this in'
fluence is more obscure when one old
material substitutes for another. I
shall turn again to glass as'an example
in this instance.
As you are probably aware, the
Great Fire of London still has its effect
upon what we may build to-day. This
is because that fire gave a good prac-
tical demonstration of what happens
to a crowded city where there are no
fire-breaks.
After the fire, London became fire-
break conscious and our by-laws to-
day are rather more influenced by
the behaviour of brick walls when sub-
jected to the heat of an intense fire
than with the mere structural con-
siderations involved.
Walls v. Windows.
But there was and always has been
acceptance of the fact that a building
must have windows and, moreover,
that the size of windows was so much
a matter of need in terms of daylight
that no authority has presumed to dic-
tate their size or nature except in the
case of windows exposed to an ad-
joining property.
It is at least coincidental that the
area devoted to glass in buildings has
increased as the rising cost of build-
ing wallincr and the relatively stable
price of glass has made it cheaper to
have windows than not. The use of
metal in conjunction with glass is a
varient of the same theme.
Of course, a saving on the building
which involves the client in a rather
formidable outlay in blinds and soft
furnishings, causes excessive fading,
bakes the occupants and exposes the
strictly intimate to the public gaze may
not always lead to the best results.
We can hope for better balance in this
as craze is modified to custom.
It is unfortunate that so many good
things are spoiled by- senseless imita-
tion. You do something in one build-
ing because you have a very good
reason for doing it, and before your
building is finished copies are spring-
ing up all around. Many good ideas
in this way become cliches. I would
sooner see an uninspired but com-
petent building in sound good taste
than suffer to inspect so many present-
day buildings that meaninglessly em-
body the cliche of the moment.
[I have a particularly personal
reason for being appalled by the way
everything recently built on our south
coast leans sloping fronts sloping
posts, and so on. It can’t be the pre-
vailing wind because they slope in all
directions.]
A HOLLYWOOD SUNROOM
This design for a club sun-
room is a composite of indoor
comfort with outdoor sur-
roundings. The semi-marquee
shelter as a permanent roof
with walls of rustic finish, in
keeping with the environment,
makes it an attractive en-
semble, for leisure moments.
34
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


I read where a building scientist
said recently that “Modern architec'
ture is beset by cliches.” He went on
to say that before a cliche becomes
components in the new vernacular it
must find a secure basis in the rational
explanations of science.
This rather supports the idea that
much of tO'day’s building research is
like trying to establish a taste for
brandy as a mathematical formula.
Speedy Building.
Perhaps the most significant develop'
ments due to economic circumstances
have arisen in cities where ground
values and taxes are very high and
where, in particular, an existing
monev'earner is pulled down to make
way for something bigger and better.
This is where the much'published
American speed comes in. Some
pretty fast building operations have
been carried out in Australia, but it is
still popular to trip over to the States
to see and, no doubt, hear how it is
done.
Both the British Working Party and
the Anglo ' American productivity
building team have stressed the desira'
bility of a building being fully de'
signed before construction commences.
An example quoted is that a job that
would take two years from instruction
to architect to building completion
in Britain would probably be com'
menced on the site from six to nine
months after the architect was com'
missioned, and the actual building time
would be from fifteen to eighteen
months. In America, the architect
would probably take the fifteen'
eighteen months to fully work out the
plans and details, the work on the site
taking the six months.
To keep a site out of production
for a minimum period, preparatory
time is necessary, for rapid on'site
work can be accomplished only by
having materials, drawings and every'
thing else ready at the right time, by
working to a carefully drawn-up pro'
gramme and by everybody keeping
strictly to the times set in that pro'
gramme. The need in this instance
is economic.
It could be that the cost of human
labour is so great, the cost of time is
so high and the cost of delay so disas-
trous that speed is essential and effi'
cienev is essential for speed.
When the building site is conceived
as a factory, the maximum production
possible thereupon will clearly have
limits set by the work face available
to the labour force. In a limited space
only so many men can work without
confusion.
As limited times set by economics
squeeze the building process into
fewer and fewer weeks, so must more
men work on the project. To the
extent that portion of this work force
can work away from the site the less
is the congestion and confusion.
The various flooring and cladding
systems whereby the floors and walls
of buildings are factory made stem
from the economics of particular sites
and not from a need equally evident
in New York and Bitdsville.
Use of Local Materials.
The effect of the building site upon
building methods has been touched
upon in so far as a site is restricted.
In Australia there is, of course, another
major factor: distance.
I have heard it said by a man who
advocated factory production of build'
ing components that it was wrong to
send factory'shaped stone to Canberra,
although it seems that it is all right
to bring an aluminium wall panel
from any distance. However one
looks at it, it does not seem sound
for rural communities to become even
more dependent upon city building
resources than they already are. For
this reason if no other I believe there
should be a re'birth of regional in'
dieenous building.
There is an aspect of factory pro'
duction that gains little publicity and
that is that many of the reasons why
factories first were established no
longer exist. Factories were estab'
lished centrally to use power, which
they generated for themselves. To'
day, a power machine works just as
well in one place as another, and the
more general use of power tools is ac'
cordingly advocated in several quar'*
ters. With rural power more gene'
rally available, the benefits of power
tool equipment need not be limited to
major jobs.
The final element in this question
of change is the Client. Industrially,
he needs large floor areas clear of
obstructions, and with this need has
come the long span nonTerrous truss.
Client needs have made daylighting
an important science, allowing the
architect to predict sun penetration
and lighting values during the design
stage.
Colour is now understood to have
more than aesthetic value and its
effect as a source of radiant energy
emission is now known to have physi'
cal and psychological significance.
The bold use of colour, both for
interior and exterior finishes is a
notable development and tends to
make up in character for what
ecenomy may have done to the build'
ing fabric in terms of quality.
Reduction of Mass.
The tendency in modern building
is to reduce its mass, and this is, of
course, particularly significant in the
case of very tall buildings. Reduction
of bulb reduces the cost of transport'
ing the building to the site in what'
ever form it may come. Reduced
loads reduce size throughout the struc'
ture. Floor space is less absorbed by
structure.
But the cost of precision work
comes high. Controlled concrete em'
ployed in housing projects (mam'
moth flat buildings) by the New York
Housing Commission shows only
slight savings over greater bulk of less
exacting specifications. The cost of
care comes high, but the undisclosed
dividend of greater floor space re'
mains.
Costs and Experience.
The same problem arises with thin
shell structures of reinforced concrete.
Can we afford the necessary care?
Can we get builders to tender for such
work? Will they understand the need
for care and price accordingly? Will
they price too high? Will they price
at all?
A quantity surveyor can measure a
job, but only experience can give a
builder confidence, and experience
only comes after a first time.
Standardisation of Materials.
The standardisation of building
materials and components has prob'
ably been carried further in Great
Britain than in any other country,
and the British Standard Handbook
No. 3 lists summaries of 240 British
Standards concerned with building,
and very many of these are dimen'
sional standards.
Development of standardisation was
sharply accelerated by the shortage of
materials during and aince the war.
There seems every reason to suppose
that building materials and manpower
will remain scarce for many years to
come in that country, and so long as
this is so, standardisation is likely to
increase.
Since the war, a very high proper'
tion of the total building in Great
Britain is sponsored directly or in'
directly by local or central govern'
ment, and concern for the national
economy leads these bodies to en'
courage and sometimes require the
use of Standards in their work.
Standard components are usually
cheaper than those especially design'
ed, and therefore frequently have to
be employed in buildings sponsored
by private individuals.
Generally, the prejudice against
standard products in Australia is not
against standards as such, but against
standards that have little relation to
present'day concepts of what is proper
to use on better work. The makers
35
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
Tune 24, 1954.


of standards do not always realise that
standardisation is not an excuse for
ugliness.
Specialist Sub-contractors.
If the building should ever become
as simple to put together as a mecanno
set, the things that go into it will re-
store the balance of difficulty.
The client demands of to-day may
involve every kind of service and re-
quire everv kind of specialist to work
on the job. And be it said quietly,
the builder, and often the architect,
have to take a lot of this work on trust
and guarantee.
The mystery of their work seems
to give some sub-contractors a degree
of importance which thev should not
have, and it often happens that a
builder takes the attitude that the
architect nominated the sub-contractor
so its up to him to keep him in check.
The architect’s view is that the
general contractor is, under the con-
tract, responsible for organising the
sub-contractors and should not expect
the architect to organise them for him.
When nominated sub-contractors have
been appointed, it is expected that the
organiser of the work, who is the
builder, will explain to him what will
be required of him to meet the pro-
gress schedules set for the work and
of which it is presumed he has had
had some prior knowledge.
As a counter-view the following is
interesting:—-
It is believed that the great success
of the American Building Industry
lies in the fact that the nominated
sub-contractor does not exist in
America. If the architect requires
something of the kind, the contractor
who is successful in connection with
the tender gets the prices himself and
organises the work from the begin-
ning.
Some believe that the separation
caused by the nominated sub - con-
tractor plays havoc with the building
organisation in this country; instead
of being closer together, there is a
tendency to break apart.
Quantities.
On Quantities, the working party
had this to say: —
“Whilst we accept the practice of
having Bills of Quantities in general,
there is, we think, a danger that if
their use is insisted upon indiscrimi-
nately on the smaller jobs or on jobs
of a repetitive nature, the result mav
be an increase in the contract price,
particularly if the pricing of bills is
done by a tenderer who is not well
acquainted with this procedure.”
For this reason, a modified system
of measurement which reduces the
number of separate items has been
drawn up by the R.I.C.S. and the
N.F.B.T.E. for housing contracts in
England and Wales, i.e.. The Code
for the Measurement of Building
Work in Small Dwelling Houses.
Concerning building industry or-
ganisation generally, the tendering sys-
tem, contract conditions and so forth,
no recent investigation has recom-
mended change.
Quality in Building.
There is a thought I would like
to leave with you. Once there was
a term called Jerry-building. We
don’t often hear it these days.
We may be amused by Ruskin and
his times and the futility of aristocrats
and antiquarians vainly trying to stem
the avalanche of non-traditional build-
ing techniques. But we must deplore
the present place of economics in
modern building considerations. Does
not a good building inspire some con-
fidence in its owner. Has it no value
in an intangible way? Is it necessary
that a wealthy company should not
house itself properly for fear that such
a building would not pay?
I think that the answer is that
Australia needs quality building for
its own self-respect lust as it needs
useful and inexpensive structures for
other purposes.
It should be the ambition of this
nation that its development shall be
marked by good buildings each regis-
tering the passing of the years and
leaving for the remote future some
evidence that a virile nation had its
pride as well as its being in this con-
tinent of Australia.
From Shell To Skyscraper in 14 Hours
SPEEDY WORK IN NEW YORK.
New York construction workers re-
cently put the walls and partitions on
a 22-story office building in 14 hours.
A team of 36 men transferred a
steel and concrete shell into a tail
Park Avenue office building.
The workmen bolted the skyscraper’s
wall of nearly 700 two-storey-high pre-
fabricated aluminium sheets and win-
dow panels to steel brackets previously
welded to the framework.
Six trained crews of six. men each
worked from the interior of the sky-
scraper and without exterior scaffold-
ing.
The aluminium panels were about
4ft. 6in. wide, over 23ft. high, one-
eighth of an inch thick and weighed
over 200 lb. each.
All panels have two reversible, ver-
tically-pivoted, six-foot high windows.
The construction company used a
new two-way communication system to
co-ordinate operations between the
superintendent and workmen on all
floors.
When completed the new building
will contain over 220,000 square feet
of floor area.
WHAT IS IT?
Once upon a time it was fairly easy to assess the purpose of a building by its
external appearance, in particular architectural style. With the advent of the
Contemporary Style, however, this ceases to be the case and as an example we
wou'd ask you to "quiz" yourself as to what this is. Is it a hospital, a technical
college, or a production unit. It is, in fact, Spillers Silo, at Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Britain. See what we mean!
—"Building," London.
36
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


New South Wales
Building Statistics
Upward Trend Maintained
Buildings valued at £26,712,000
(private, £23,239,000; Government,
£3,473,000), were approved in N.S.W.
for the March quarter this year. A
total of £30,142,000 worth of build'
ings were commenced, and buildings
valued at £23,292,000 were completed.
These figures show a considerable
increase over those of the 1953 March
quarter.
The total for the 1954 March quar-
ter included houses and flats worth
£19,127,000.
These totals are part of the build'
ing statistics issued on June 9 by the
N.S.W. Bureau of Statistics and
Economics.
They are the highest recorded for
any March quarter since before 1946.
It is also interesting to note that
private approvals (£90,224,000) for
1953 were highest since 1951 (£97,'
711,000), while Government approv'
als for 1953 (£21,361,000) were also
highest since 1951 (£22,387,000), a
total of £111,585,000 for 1953, com'
pared with £120,098,000 in 1951.
Commencements for 1953 at £B9/
627,000, were the highest recorded
since before 1946, and completions
(£101,302,000) were likewise the
highest in over eight years.
These official statistics show that
the N.S.W. building industry has
staged a remarkable recovery since
the September, 1952, quarter, when the
first effects of the recession became
evident.
A total of 6048 new houses were
completed in the March quarter, be'
ing 3055 by contract builders and
2993 by owner'builders. In the same
period 7197 homes were commenced,
being 4253 by contract builders and
2944 by owner'builders.
Prefabs
During the year ended March 31,
400 imported prefabs were com'
menced, and 817 were completed.
Construction Workers
The number of men engaged on
construction (35,285) at March 31,
shows an increase over the December
16, 1953 figure of 34,014. This is the
highest total since September 30, 1952
(36,930) and is indicative of the
recovery made by the industry.
NEW CHURCH FOR CASTLECRAG, SYDNEY
SEVERAL UNUSUAL FEATURES.
A church that has unorthodox
features is to be built at Castlecrag.
Its purpose, says the architects,
Davey and Brindley, harks back to the
days of the old temples when the house
of prayer was also a meeting place.
Essential design as a place of wor'
ship, it will serve a dual purpose as a
theatre or concert hall for the parish'
oners.
The model, illustrated here, has a
sanctuary at one end and a raised stage
at the other. In place of pews, port-
able reversible chairs will provide seat-
ing.
One wall of the building is practic-
ally all glass, so that the congregation
will see the natural bushland.
The bell tower stands separately
away from the main building, adjacent
to the entrance vestibule.
The Architects Model.
THE UNUSUAL PLAN.
Showing the Sanctuary at one end and the stage at the other.
37
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
Tune 24, 1954.


THE OVIFORM COMPLEX.
One would be excused If one came to the conclusion that the mother of the designer of the upper
house had been frightened by an ostrich egg, for he certainly seems to have an advanced oviform
complex, tor each room is oval In shape. No doubt it would be fine for the housewife who finds
corners hard to keep clean. The attractive little designs tor the two lower cottages would find
much more favour with the average person; they would also be much easier on their pockets for
curves cost money.
38
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


Australian Institute of Builders
SECOND ANNUAL MEETING OF N.S.W. CHAPTER.
Austin W. Edwards Elected President.
The second Annual General Meeting of the N.S.W, Chapter, Australian
Institute of Builders, was held at the Hotel Australia on June 28th, 1954.
There was a large attendance of members, Interstate Chapter members,
and distinguished visitors. The outgoing President, Mr. Charles F. Gage,
occupied the Chair.
The ballot for the 1954-55 Chapter Executive resulted as follows: President,
Mr. Austin W. Edwards (unopposed); Vice-president, Mr. Denver Hutchinson;
Hon. Secretary, Mr. J. A. Benson; Hon. Treasurer, Mr. G. F. C. Mackey;
Committee; Messrs. N. R. Smith, C. G. Davis (Newcastle), D. L. Beattie, S. O.
Edwards, A. Menkoff, and C. E. Thompson.
The incoming President, Mr. A. W.
Edwards, is at present overseas on a
visit to the U.K. and the U.S.A.
Annual Report.
In presenting the Second Annual
Report, the President, Mr. C. F. Gage,
said that N.S.W. had made a worthy
contribution to the Institute Head'
quarters building committee with five
members, Messrs. C. F. Gage, A. W.
Edwards, J. Kilby, D. Hutchinson and
W. Buchanan.
Membership in the N.S.W. Chapter
now stands at 117, being 42 Fellows,
44 Associates, 10 Licentiates and 21
Student members. This represents a
gain of two Fellows, the loss of one
(Mr. Fred Wilson), four Associates,
one Licentiate and five Students, a net
increase of 11 since the last report.
This figures take into account a gain
of two Associates and the loss of one
Student from or to other States.
Five applications for membership
are in the process of being dealt with.
As previously, the Chapter held
four meetings during the year, in June,
September, November and March.
Average attendance of members at
meetings was 28, in addition to visitors.
Technical College students in the
Building Diploma Course attended two
lectures.
Special speakers who addressed
meetings were Mr. M. Jones, Tech'
nical Officer of the C.S.R. Building
Materials Division, who spoke on
“Observations of the Building In'
dustry Overseas”; and Mr. H.
Zipfinger, on “Laminated Timber Con'
struction.”
Programme of Visits.
Referring to various visits made
during the year, the report said:—
As Part of our policy for providing
opportunities fo r broadening our
knowledge of what goes on’ in the
Building Industry, visits to places of
interest were arranged for members.
In August, 1953, a party visited the
Port Kembla Works of Australian
iron & Steel Ltd., and Lysagb«-s Ltd.
In November we visited the site of the
Warragamba Dam in course of con'
struction, and in April a party inspect'
ed the Rosehill Works of Wunderlich
Ltd. to learn something of the manu'
facture of architectural terracotta,
ceramic, asbestos cement products,
glazed stoneware, and roofing tiles.
New Headquarters Building
For Institute.
“This report would not be com'
plete without some reference to pro-
gress made towards the erection of
new headquarters building at Mih
son’s Point..
“As previously stated, a Building
Committee was set up in Sydney to
assist the Institute President, Mr.
Hornibrook, or to act in his absence.
This Committee was ably assisted by
Mr. Murray Gosper, Hon. Secretary
of the Institute, whose initiative and
drive proved of inestimable value by
keeping everyone fully informed, and
the undertaking of many inquiries and
assignments. As the happy result of
100% co-operation the Building Com-
mittee is now in a position to report
to Council that —
1. A suitable building site has
been purchased.
2. Plans and specifications have
been prepared.
3. Tenders have been called and
will be given consideration at
Brisbane on 24th June, 1954.
“For further particulars of the Build'
ing, Members are referred to the Presi'
dent’s report, 1953/54.
This Chapter desires to congratu-
late and thank Mr. Hornibrook, Mr.
Gosper and the members of the Build'
ing Committee for the thorough and
expeditious way in which they have
carried out their assignments.”
Sub-committees.
The report said that Sub'committees
have drawn up suitable rules and pro'
posed Syllabus of Examinations, and
the present draft approved by the
Chapter is considered to meet all re'
quirements during the year.
The Qualifications Sub - committee
was active throughout the year, and
careful consideration was given to all
candidates for admission.
General.
Concluding his report, the Fresh
dent said:—
“I am fully aware that the fore'
going report only skims the activities
of this Council, and to do justice to
all who have assisted during my term
of office could not adequately be dealt
with in a report such as this.
I desire to thank Executive Officers
and members of Committees who have
contributed so much to the success
of this Chapter. I leave this Chair
happy in the knowledge that the
future of this Chapter is built on the
good foundation of knowledge. Urn
der the guidance of capable men who
rise to office in this Institute, it will
succeed, and take its place with other
Institutes of the Commonwealth.”
Welcome To Visitors.
In welcoming distinguished visitors
to the meeting, the President, Mr.
Gage, said the Chapter was greatly
honoured by the presence of Mr.
Michael Miller, Vice'President, Kaiser
Engineers Inc, and Mr. John Tacke,
Resident Manager in Australia for
Kaiser-Walsh ' Perini ' Raymond, con'
tractors to the Snowy Mountains
Hydro ' Electric Authority for the
60,000,000 (iA.26,670,000) contract
recently let. (Mr. Tacke later ad'
dressed the meeting on many aspects
of dam engineering.)
Apologies were received from the
Premier, Mr. J. J. Cahill, the Minister
for Conservation. Mr. J. B. Renshaw,
Mr. S. D. C. Kennedy, and Mr. W.
Conde.
Mr. Gage said he regretted the
absence of Mrs. Florence M. Taylor,
Editor of this Journal, through in'
ability to attend. He had desired to
thank her personally for her gift of a
large number of valuable books to the
Institute’s library; a gift which would
be of lasting benefit and value to all
members. (Applause.)
U.S. DAM CONSTRUCTION.
Address by American Experts.
Mr. Michael Miller, Vice'president
of Kaiser Construction Co., was then
introduced to members.
Mr. Miller said the Snowy Mourn
tains project includes construction of a
26'foot diameter concretedined tunnel
14 miles long; a 100 ft. high, 250 ft.
long diversion dam, and a concrete
arch dam 290 ft. high and 715 ft. long.
The Australian Government award’
ed the £26,670,000 contract to the
Kaiser'Walsh'Perini'Raymond group
39
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


of American contractors after world-
wide competition. Kaiser Engineers’
Division of the Henry I. Kaiser Com-
pany was the sponsoring corporation
of the group.
Mr. fohn Tacke, who has been ap-
pointed resident manager for the
Snowy Mountains project, was, until
recently, in charge of the Kaiser con-
struction contract at Harford, Wash-
ington, plutonium works, Mr. Miller
said.
Mr. Tacke has had more than 33
years’ extensive heavy construction ex-
perience, and he performed super-
visory functions for Kaiser in the
building of the Hoover Dam. Bonner-
ville Dam, and Grand Coulee Dam,
some aspects of which would form the
subject of his address, Mr. Miller
added.
Problems of Dam
Building,
Mr. Tacke’s address, given in a
breezy, humorous manner, dealt very
fully with the problems, hazards, and
difficulties met with in large-scale dam
construction. He said he had been
associated with some of the largest
jobs in the U.S., including the mighty
725 ft. Boulder Dam, on the Colorado
River, and the Grand Coulee Dam
on the Columbia River, in the State
of Washington.
The Boulder Dam—now known as
the Hoover Dam —presented enor-
mous engineering problems in locating
the site of the dam, and driving the
network of tunnels required. The
largest tunnel was four miles long, and
subsidiary tunnels were three miles in
length.
The Boulder project was the first
job to use “pump-crete” machines to
handle concrete.
“Hard labour, perseverance, and the
will to do won out, and then we had
to divert the river for excavations,”
Mr. Tacke said.
“And then we had to drive a tun-
nel through the mountain to get rid
of the muck!” he added.
Huge Gravity Dam.
The next big job was the Grand
Coulee Dam, a one-mile-long gravity
dam across a canyon. Construction
problems were much different to Boul-
der because its length was almost
5000 ft., and it was necessary to build
trestles from which to pour the con-
crete.
“This method of placing concrete
was very successful, as we could not
use cableways,” Mr. Tacke com-
mented.
“The most spectacular part of con-
structing Grand Coulee was the rapid
speed with which concrete was placed.
In one record day, 20,000 yards of
concrete were poured in 24 hours.
“It was not uncommon to pour
15, 16, 17, or 18,000 yards in a day.
In all, over 11,000,000 yards of con-
crete went into the dam, which now
serves 25 powerhouses,” Mr. Tacke
added.
He dealt at length with methods
used for freezing the concrete by
using ammonia plants and networks
of pipes.
In the case of Grand Coulee Dam,
the whole hillside was moving, and
the engineers actually “froze” the hill-
side into place, and later “froze” the
dam across the moving mass of the
hill.
A similar technique was used in
constructing the Boulder Dam, with
a network of pipes placed within the
structure to cool the concrete and get
the shrinkage out of it. Pipes were
laid every sft. to cool the concrete
down to 40 degrees in the prevailing
Colorado temperature of 60 to 70 de-
grees, Mr. Tacke said.
War Work.
He concluded his talk by relating
experiences when Kaiser Co. went into
shipbuilding in World War 11.
Mr. Taske was general superinten-
dent during the construction of Kaiser
Shipyards, and then was placed in
charge of ship construction. A total
of 2090 ships were built by mass pro-
duction techniques, by using heavy
cranes to lift prefabricated ship sec-
tions and setting them in place on
the slipways.
Later, Mr. Tacke was appointed
works manager in charge of Kaiser
automobile production.
Vote of Thanks.
At the conclusion of the talk, Mr.
I. M. Main, Director of Public Works,
thanked Mr. Miller and Mr. Taske
for their very interesting discourses.
He added that the Conservation Minis-
ter. Mr. Renshaw, regretted being un-
able to attend.
“You have undertaken a very big
job, and we all wish you well. We
hope you carry it through in quick
time to a successful conclusion.
“We are sure nothing but good will
result from your efforts in the Snowy
Mountains project,” Mr. Main con-
cluded, amid applause.
ALL-ALUMINIUM SUBSTATION.
Extruded aluminium angles and bars are used exclusively In this high tension
switch yard at the Wellington substation of the New Zealand Electricity Authority.
This structural material has a feature which recommends it for such applications.
It will never need painting. ABOVE. A general ghost-like view of the switch yard.
BELOW. A close-up showing the fabrication.
40
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHIING: ENGINEERING


COLES CRANES, LTD.
DEMONSTRATION OF FIRST AUSTRALIAN-BUILT CRANE.
subject of much favourable comment.
Another model to be shortly pro'
duced here was also demonstrated. It
is known as the Si2lo, and this crane
has a lifting capacity of 10 tons. Both
models are also available as truck'
mounted units.
Two Types of Drive.
As with all “Coles” cranes, either
diesel-electric or petrol-electric is em-
ployed, and all four motions are by
means of independent electric motors.
A wide range of jib lengths is avail'
able and all models incorporate full
circle continuous slewing superstruc'
tyres.
The sole Australian distributors are
Production Plant Ltd., whose Head
Office is in Sydney, with sales branches
and service depots in all Stattes.
Following the demonstration, Mr.
Burden entertained the visitors to re'
freshments.
An event of considerable interest
and importance to the building, con'
tracting and engineering industries was
a recent demonstration of the first
Australian'made Coles Crane.
Built at the Bankstown plant of
Coles Cranes Ltd., the machine, known
as Model 8810, is understood to be
the first self-propelled, fully-slewing
crane to be made in the Common-
wealth.
It has a lifting capacity of six tons,
and its weight is 13? tons and was
subsequently delivered to the Austra-
lian Iron and Steel Ltd. for use on
their Keira Colliery, Wollongong.
U.K. Organisation.
Coles Cranes Ltd., which was form-
ed in April, 1953, is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Steel Group of Com-
panies, a U.K. organisation which
operates a number of engineering
plants in England and a factory in the
U.S A.
The Group has shown considerable
enterprise in establishing the Banks-
town plant, which occupies a con-
siderable area in Milperra Road.
The staff works under ideal condi-
tions in an exceptionally well-lighted
and laid-out factory, ably directed bv
Mr. P. B. Burden, the company’s
managing director.
Coles Cranes have been manufac-
tured overseas for 75 years, and the
first whollv-mobile. full-circle slewing
crane in the world to be constructed
and marketed was a “Coles.”
The policy of the company is to use
as much Australian-made material as
possible in the cranes. Even the huge
tyres are made locally.
Gathering Greatly Impressed.
The six'ton model which was de-
monstrated impressed the large gather'
ing of experts invited for the occasion.
The machine was put through its
paces, slewing, backing, turning and
lifting weights to its full capacity.
Its special safety features, such as a
bell, which rings to indicate when the
lift is beyond its rated capacity and
actuates a mechanism which automati'
cally cuts out the machinery, were the
T.V.A. TWENTY YEARS OLD.
Tennessee Valley Authority has
completed the first twenty years of its
challenge “the use of the earth for
the good of mankind.”
In its first year 15 of the fifty electric
generating units were in operation and
the installed power capacity will, by the
end of 1956 be 9,939 MW.
kilowatt hours during 1953 of which
just over 13,933 million kWh were
from hydroelectric plants. It served
1.3 million consumers of which
585,000 were rural workers. The aver'
a<*e residential consumer of electricity
used 4,314 kWh in the T.V.A. area
while the average in the United States
was 2,257.
—Times Review of Industry.
FIRST AUSTRALIAN-MADE
COLES CRANE
The Model SBIO, which has a
lifting capacity of six tons
and weighs approximately
13¼ tons.
COLES CRANES LTD.
Milperra Road, Bankstown, Sydney.
41
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
Tune 24, 1954.


International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
DANDENONG WORKS. VICTORIA.
Architects: HASSELL &> McCON-
NELL, Adelaide.
This splendid plant is located on a
56 acre site at the junction of the
Prince’s and South Gippsland high-
ways a mile rom Dangenong, Victoria.
Four models of International motor
trucks suited to Australia’s severe trans-
port needs are being manufactured.
Buildings so far erected are the first
factory unit and the administrative and
amenities buildings.
Engine assembly, machining of chas-
sis comnonents and assembly of trucks
and utilities are the first operations
carried out in the new plant. The bulk
of the engine components will be
machined at the company’s Geelong
work; castings for these and for
chassis componen's will be cast there in
the modern mechanised foundrv.
The Factory Building
Consisting of two main sections —
Master Builder: E. A. WATTS, Mel-
bourne.
a crane bay and the working floor—
the factory building is of steel frame
construction, walls being brick to a
height of 4 ft. 6 in., and then corru-
gated fibro-cement, the latter material
also being used for the roof.
The crane bay is 240 ft. by 88 ft.,
and the factory working floor 440 ft.
by 240 ft.; in effect there are six bays
each 240 ft. by 88 ft. of clear working
space. A double gable roof covers the
crane bay, the upper gable being
glazed over most of its surface. The
working floor has a saw-tooth roof
with ample glazing for good natural
lighting. In addition to the overhead
lighting, windows are spaced along the
whole of the eastern and northern
walls.
A feature of the factory building is
the provision of roller shutters along
the full length of the southern wall,
which serves two purposes—to allow
goods to be taken in or out at any
point in the building and secondly, so
the whole of the side can be opened
and ventilated in hot weather.
Truck Assembly Line
There are 14 stations on the pro-
duction line, the first two being at
right angles to the main line. Move'
ment on the main line is by endless
chain conveyor, hooked on to which
are wheeled dollies running on rails,
evenly spaced for locating the chassis
being assembled.
At the first station the frame side
rails and cross members are located
in a jig and rivetted together by cold
squeeze method and from station 1
the frame is transported by overhead
mono'rail to the second station where
the road springs and shock absorbers
are fitted; from here is passes over to
the main line where it is attached to
the chain conveyor upside down.
In the first two operations the frame
moves sideways so that when it comes
to the main line it is in the correct
position to move forward.
Materials Handling
Fork trucks and tow motors are used
for transporting materials in the fac'
tory, but in addition there are over'
head mono'rail hoists at points where
it is necessary mechanically to handle
components for assembly.
Running the full length of the
southern side of the building is a
crane bay 80 ft. wide, served by a
10'ton overhead gantry crane span'
ning the full width. This area is also
the rail siding where incoming and
outgoing goods, transported by rail-
way, are handled.
Administrative Building
Facing the Pacific Highway the ad-
ministrative building is situated at the
main entrance to the factory. The
building is single storey, brick con-
struction and is heated throughout by
high pressure hot water. The indust-
rial relations officer and his staff are
housed in a separate wing, with its
own entrance, an arrangement that
allows all employee relationships to be
conducted in their specialised section.
Amenities Block
Situated in front of the factory
building but divided by the main road-
way, a single storey brick building
houses the amenities. It is divided into
two main sections, the male change,
wash and toilet rooms and canteen and
shop area. In the canteen section are
the executives’ dining room, shop,
canteen and kitchen and the female
locker room.
Future Expansion
All these buildings lend themselves
Continued on page 48
A GENERAL VIEW OF THE DANDENONG PLANT.
The administration building in the foreground, the amenities building, extreme right,
and the main building of the works in the background, were all designed so as to
enable further extension and consequent increased motor truck production, as
demand requires.
42
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


NEW SYDNEY BUTTON FACTORY
NEW CONSTRUCTIONAL METHODS.
This model of a new factory to be
erected at the corner of Gibbes and
Short Streets Willoughby, possesses
several unusual features.
It will have a floor area of 30,000
sq. ft. with provision for an additional
20,000 sq. ft.
It has been adapted to the sloping
site, which allows a large basement
under the nothern end with a separate
access from Gibbes Street, the entrance
to the main factory floor being from
Short Street.
On the first floor will be the admin'
istrative offices and board'room, and a
large canteen with a modern cafeteria
for serving hot meals.
The construction of the building gem
erally is of a steel frame with orthodox
sawtooth roofing.
The first storey has a floor construct'
ed of steel decking, with bituminous
paving felt as an underlay for the
future floor coverings.
The roof over this portion is of
similar construction, carried on open
rod trusses, of the “clearspan” type,
the deckine being insulated and finished
with aluminium foil on bituminous felt.
A major point in the economical de'
sign was the decision to use a ‘'liquid
envelope” for the finishing of the ex'
ternal walls above the texture brick
base.
This allowed the use of plain as*
bestos cement sheets, which are simply
butted together with no interrupting
or projecting cover strips.
A feature is the main entrance which
has a large stone'flagged forecourt as
an approach, and the stone flagging
flows through the doors and glass wall,
as do the flovrer beds set in the floor
of the entry porch.
Architects are Davey 6? Brindley, and
builder P. Cussel.
PART OF THE ASSEMBLY LINE.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS BEING ASSEMBLED.
NEW SYDNEY BUTTON FACTORY.
For A. G. Herring (Aust) Pty. Ltd.
43
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


Illuminating Engineering Society of Aust.
Report of the General Meeting of The Illuminating Engineering Society of
Australia, held at the G.U.0.0.F. Building, 147 Casdereagh Street, Sydlney,
on Thursday, June 3, 1954, at 7.30 p.m.
Minutes of the previous meeting
were read and confirmed.
Report from Council
The President informed members
that it was hoped that the Society
would stage suitable celebrations of
the 75th Anniversary of the incan-
descent lamp later in the year. Mr. Falk
indicated that a special Committee was
examining the question and members
would be advised of further details in
due course.
The President also advised members
that the Ninth Annual Conference of
the National Council would be held in
Perth from the 3rd to the Bth of
November, 1954.
Next Meeting
The next meeting will be a Joint
Meeting with the Institute of Op*
tometrists, the Speaker being Mr. J.
Lederer and the subject, “3D Cinema
Projection and Some of Its Problems.”
The subject for the evening was
“Aerodrome Lighting in Australia,” the
Speaker being Mr. K. Alberthsen of
the Department of Civil Aviation.
A lively discussion followed the lee-
ture in which many pertinent questions
were directed to Mr. Alberthsen indi-
eating the wide interst by members in
this unusual aspect of lighting. Mr.
Alberthsen dealt ably with all queries
and concluded his remarks wih an in'
viation to members to visit Sydney Air-
port, at a later date to be fixed where
examples of the equipment described
would be demonstrated.
The vote of thanks was proposed by
Mr. J. Blunt, seconded by Mr. 'G.
Brown and carried by acclamation.
Discussion
Details of the Discussion were as
follows:
Mr. Falk asked whether the system
which had been adopted by the De-
partment of Civil Aviation in this
country was the universally accepted
standard throughout the world.
Mr. Alberthsen in reply pointed out
that in the case of the approach lights
the configuration illustrated during his
lecture was that devised by Calvert in
England and it was generally agreed
that this was the most satisfactory sys-
tem. Although it had been endorsed
by 1.C.A.0. there was still a certain
amount of argument particularly in the
U.S.A.
Mr. Falk again asked whether there is
any standard ruling on the use of ob-
struction lights on tall buildings and
structures, away from the immediate
precincts of the airport.
Mr. Alberthsen pointed out that un-
der these circumstances there was no
specific ruling except that any radio
tower or any structure over 200 feet
must carry lights irrespective of its lo-
cation.
Mr. Knight sought information as to
the reason for the flashing lights com-
monly seen on aircraft approaching
Sydney, pointing out that this condition
seemed to apply mainly to the larger
type of aircraft.
Mr. Alberthsen in reply explained
that this was an indication to other
pilots of another aircraft’s coming in
for final approach to an airport and
although it had not been the practice
to equip the smaller aircraft such as
the DC3, this would become mandatory
as from the end of the current year
for all new and existing types.
Mr. Watson drew attention to the
very bad series of fogs which closed
Mascot airport several days in the pre-
ceeding week and asked Mr. Alberthsen
whether it would have been practicable
to keep this airport in continuous on-
eration if it had been equipped with
the navigation aids described in Mr.
Alberthsen’s lecture.
Mr. Alberthsen in reply stated that
this would have been possible but point-
ed out that the assumption was based
on necessary skill in emploving these
aids on the part of the pilot. Even when
an airport is equipped with modern ap-
siderable period must elapse before
pilots gain skill and confidence in their
proach and runway lighting, a con-
use.
Mr. Jeffrey commented on the con-
fusion which could arise on a busy air-
port with many different taxiways and
asked Mr. Alberthsen how the pilot
was kept on course whilst taxiing at
night.
Mr, Alberthsen pointed out that the
system adopted by DCA in this country
was the centre taxiway type using
specially shielded flush mounted fittings.
The effect of these was to give the
pilot seated in the cockpit of the plane
a visual indication of the correct taxi-
path provided the aircraft is kept with
its nose more or less on the centre
of the taxiway. None of the taxiway
lights could be observed by other air-
craft in the vicinity, thus avoiding con-
fusion.
Mr. Knight enquired as to any plans
the DCA may have for installing ap-
proach lights at Rose Bay.
Mr. Alberthsen explained that there
was no plan envisaged for this area in
view of the complexity of the result-
ing floating equipment which would
not be a hazard to harbour craft. It
was also doubtful whether the expected
traffic warranted this type of naviga-
tion aid.
Mr. Hyatt enquired as to any ex-
perience on the question of street light-
ing, particularly mercury, causing con-
fusion with aerodrome navigation aids.
Mr. Alberthsen reported that in his
experience street lighting had practi-
cally never caused trouble but where
any light might constitute a hazard
the Department had the power to re-
quest its shielding or repositioning.
Mr. Falk in a final question raised
the interesting point as to which colour
of light it was considered was the most
quickly observed when approaching
from a distance.
Mr. Alberthsen in reply stated that
in his experience green without ques-
tion was the most readily visible colour
pointing out that in the case of an
approaching aircraft starboard naviga-
tion light is always seen some time
ahead of the port light.
LIGHTING FROM NEW SURGE
GENERATOR
The new high voltage surge gener-
ator, producing 3,200,000 volts at the
National Physical Laboratory, Tedding-
ton, England, produces a flash of a
50 millionth of a second. In that time
it releases energy that could light up
a whole town. This new equipment,
which cost £30,000, is the largest in
Britain and will be used for testing
electrical equipment and its ability to
withstand natural lightning disturb-
ances.
LIGHTING IN S.S. “ORSOVA”.
All cabin lighting fittings in the
new Orient liner “Orsova” (28,500
tons) have been supplied by the
General Electric Co. Ltd. Their firm
is represented in Australia by the
B.G.E. in all States. Those in the
first-class cabins of the “Orsova” and
most of those in the tourist class are
of Roanoid, a solid coloured material
adaptable to any decorative scheme and
resistant to the effect sof all climatic
conditions. Die-cast fittings are also
used to some extent in the tourist
class, and throughout the crew cabins.
The swimming bath has been equip-
ned with fourteen B.E.C. 200 W. flood-
light fittings for under-water illumina-
tion. Some 120 decorative fittings
were specially designed for suite
rooms.
A G.E.C. fire alarm system has been
installed in the ship with a 32-way
indicator on the bridge. Telephone
instruments stored in the indicator per-
mit communication between the
bridge and the point of origin of a
call over the fire alarm system circuit.
44
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


LET THERE BE LIGHT
By DOUGLAS N. LINNETT.
The invention —or, rather, the dis-
covery—of fire is regarded as one of
the milestones in Man’s long journey
along the road of progress. Fire fur'
nished not only heat to cook foods
and to keep warm, but also light to
illuminate the cave in which primitive
man lived with his family. More re'
cently, fire has produced steam and
the age of power, with all its breath'
taking ramifications and impacts upon
Man’s existence.
But fire, as a source of light, has not
been very satisfactory. More general'
ly, the heating of refractory materials
to incandescence has been a rather
inefficient means of producing light.
Even the light from a fire is due to
incandescent particles of carbon in the
flame; at the usual temperatures of
these particles, more infrared or so'
called heat radiation is obtained than
radiation in the visual end of the spec'
trum. Moreover, the visual radiation
is more reddish or yellow than white
in colour, owing to the preponderance
of the longer visual wavelengths in
the flame.
The higher the temperature of the
body, the more of the shorter wave'
lengths (blue and violet colours) are
radiated, and hence the whiter the
light. Moreover, the percentage of
light or visual energy radiated in'
creases, so that the efficiency of the
process improves. Thus, if we heat
a piece of unslaked lime (calcium
oxide) in an oxyhydrogen flame, we
cause this refractory material to glow
at a white heat, and this dazzling
source of light was used by our fore'
fathers in the theatre spotlights.
Hence the expression “To be in the
limelight.”
Later on, the carbon arc came into
favour, and to'day is unsurpassed as
a small (point) source of dazzling
white light. Here an electric current
is used to heat carbon electrodes to
incandescence; the result is an exceed-
ingly bright source of light for search'
lights, motion'picture projection, and
the like.
However, the carbon arc requires
complicated equipment to regulate its
performance; it is rather temperamen-
tal, too dazzling and hardly suited for
illumination in the home. So Edison
in the U.S., and Swan in England
experimented with heating a wire by
the passage of a relatively large cur*
rent through it, thereby heating it to
incandescence. Since the chemical
energy of combustion was not neces'
sary to keep the wire hot, and indeed
would only tend to consume it, it was
found preferable to enclose the wire
in a vacuum or in an inert gas, in
order to preserve it as long as possible
while it glowed. Thus was born the
incandescent lamp; a symbol of the
early decades of this century, and still
a faithful servant in the home.
Mercury-arc Lights.
The main criticism of the above
methods of producing light is the in'
efficiency of the process. What we
are doing is shaking a bunch of mole'
cules (heat energy) to such a degree
that some of them, or the orbital
electrons within their atoms, radiate
some energy in the visual part of the
spectrum.
To do this, we have to accept a
far larger amount of radiation in the
infrared part of the spectrum, which
merely heats us, but does not enable
us to see. One is reminded of Charles
Lamb’s essay on roast pig; the
Chinese at first used to burn down a
house with a pig in it in order to
roast the pig, merely because an acci'
dental conflagration of this sort first
disclosed this delicacy to them.
If we could only get to the proper
orbital electrons more directly, we
could obtain mainly their radiation
(which is the visual and ultra-violet
portions of the spectrum) and for-
go the production of heat. To get to
these electrons, we require projectiles
of comparable size, namely—other
electrons.
This, then, forms the basis of the
mercury ' arc and new fluorescent'
mercury lamp, as well as the ordinary
fluorescent light, and the television
picture tube. It will be of interest
to investigate these modern sources of
light.
If electrons are passed through low'
pressure mercury vapour, they bom'
bard the mercury atoms, cause certain
orbital electrons to jump to outer
orbits, and when these electrons jump
back to their original orbits they emit
light of a characteristic colour and
frequencies These frequencies as dis'
crete radiations in the orange'yellow,
the yellow'green, the blue, and the
violet parts of the spectrum, as well
as several lines in the ultraviolet. The
resultant colour is the familiar bluish'
green hue so characteristic of these
tubes hanging in photographic shops.
However, if the pressure of the
mercury is increased, the frequencies
radiated become more nearly a con'
tinuous band ranging from the red to
the violet (as well as into the ultra'
violet) and the resultant colour is
more nearly white. Such mercury'arc
lamps have been used for large'scale
lighting and also for television studios,
where their high luminous efficiency,
not only cuts down the power require'
ments, but also the heat liberated.
The dissipation of heat is quite a
problem in television studios employ'
ing incandescent lamps. Nevertheless,
these high-pressure mercury-arc lights
liberate considerable heat in a con'
centrated space, and at first required
water'cooling, although later on air'
cooled lamps were successfully built.
Continued overleaf.
GOOD LIGHTING - LOW ACCIDENT RECORD
Effective lighting is credited by Seattle Engineering department for the keeping of
the £36.000 Alaskan Way Viaduct, virtually accident tree since its opening 12 months
ago. Peak traffic runs to 2,500 cars per hour on the 7,660 ft. double deck structure.
—"Engineering News Record."
45
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


Continued from previous page.
However, at the pressure employed
(about three atmospheres) more than
half of the radiation is in the ultra'
violet, and hence wasted for visual
purposes. Fortunately, Westinghouse
has found a way to convert this radia'
tion into useful light. The trick is
to make the ultraviolet cause a suit'
able coating to fluoresce red, thereby
obtaining a useful luminous com'
ponent.
The new lamp uses a newly de'
veloped quartz arc tube, which not
only has a higher melting point and
can withstand higher pressure, but also
transmits ultraviolet to a special fluores'
cent coating on the inside of a glass
envelope. To prevent the quartz from
being attacked by sputtering of emis'
sion mixtures from the electrode, the
latter are made of thorium, which re'
quires no coating. Thus the quartz
tube has a long life. The fluorescent
coating or phosphor is magnesium
fluorogermanate, which produces the
red component mentioned previously
and thus helps to “whiten” the other'
wise more grfenish light.
The ordinary fluorescent light
operates on much the same principle,
but it does not employ a high-pressure
mercury arc operating also at high
temperatures. The application of
phosphors to the high-pressure mer-
cury - arc light is a development of
great significance, particularly in large-
scale lighting of factories, turnpike
toll gates, searchlight-type units for
cloud-height measurement at airports,
and perhaps in motion-picture studio
lighting and in the field of photo-
lithography.
Fluorescence and
Phosphorescence,
This brings us to the question of
phosphors; what are they and what
do they do? It appears that certain
crystalline compounds, when ener-
gised or excited in certain ways, have
some electrons in the outer shells of
the atoms driven from their normal
orbits. Upon return to their normal
orbits, these electrons emit the absorb-
ed energy in the form of radiation,
often in the visual portion of the
spectrum.
If the electrons flip back in less
than one-hundred-millionth of a
second, the luminescence is called
fluorescence; if they flip back to a
so-called “trapping” state, and then
—upon receipt of more energy—to
their original orbits, so that the light
emission takes place after 10.8 sec.,
we have phosphorescence. The de-
lay may even exceed a day in dura-
tion;
The excitation may be produced by
X-rays, neutron bombardment, ultra-
violet, or even visual light, and it
may also be produced by direct elec-
tron bombardment. The latter is the
method employed in the television
picture tube; the number of electrons
in the scanning beam determine the
brightness of the spot of light on the
screen, and the position of the beam
at any moment determines which ele'
ment of the screen is glowing. Thus,
successive elements of the picture are
traced out on the screen so rapidly
as to be perceived (by persistence of
vision) as a complete picture.
Cathode ray tubes are also used in
oscilloscopes, which portray electrical
voltages in visual form. In the tele'
vision picture tube the phosphores'
cence must be of fairly short duration,
to prevent overlapping of moving ob'
jects in the picture. In the oscillo'
scope tube, however, the phosphores'
cence may, in some cases, desirably
be of much longer duration, so as to
catch and record transient phenomena.
This gives rise to short, medium and
long'persistence phosphors, as the
screen material is called, for the various
uses of cathode ray tubes.
Phosphors are made up of crystal'
ling compounds having a slight ex'
cess of one component or the other
to act as an impurity. In addition,
another compound or impurity is or'
dinarily required, and is called an
activator. Manganese is a favourite
chemical for this purpose. The amount
required is at most several hundred
parts per million; sometimes but a few
parts. In certain instances two activa'
tors are required, and it is also true
that activators for some phosphors are
“poison” to other phosphors.
So you see that the subject of phos'
phors is indeed a vast one, and physi-
cists are still groping for the answers
to many questions concerning them.
It is therefore all the more remark'
able that so many practical results and
applications have already been obtain'
ed in this field, of which the fluores'
cent' mercury lamp is a distinguished
example. As our knowledge of phos'
phors increase, we can look forward
to more and more light in both a
figurative and literal sense.
FLOODLIGHTING IN LONDON.
Many Famous Buildings.
The summer programme of flood'
lighting Government buildings in
London commenced on May 15.
Buildings and monuments which will
be flood'lit each evening until Sep'
tember 30 are:
Nelson’s Column. Admiralty
Arch. Admiralty Old Build'
ing. Horse Guards, National
Gallery, Houses of Parlia'
ment, Carlton House Ter'
race, Tate Gallery, Somer'
set House, Trafalgar Square
fountains and flower beds.
In addition, the Tower of London
will be flood'lit from June to Sep'
tember inclusive.
H.T. direct current
TRANSMISSION
The increasing use of electricity, not
only from an increasing population,
but a higher use per head of popula'
tion is causing engineers to look for
methods that will add to the capacity
of equipment without increasing its size
and will also cheapen distribution costs.
Figures published, both in Great
Britain and in U.S.A., show that it is
more economical to transport energy,
when distances over 150 miles are in"
volved, than to transport coal by rail,
or even se?..
Hitherto Alternating Current, 3
phase, has met all demands and the
greatest achievement so far accom'
plished is that of Sweden in which the
world’s longest transmission line of 600
miles has beeen successfully operated
at 380.000kV for some two years.
Direct Current offers greater capacity
of line with the same sized conductors.
The voltage with D.C. can be stepped
up for equivalent insulation by 1.63
times that of A.C. The combination
of increased current and voltage would
offer with D.C., on two conductors
1.34 times the capacity of A.C. with
threee conductors.
The main difficulty at the present
time is that of power inversion, for
D.C. Voltage cannot be transformed
by static equipment. However, pro'
gress is being made with valve inver'
ters at one end and rectifiers at the
other and the solution of this prob'
lem should not be too far distant.
—■"'Times Review of Industry.”
BRITAIN’S STEAM POWER
EFFICIENCIES.
The British Electricity Authority
has issued a statement showing power
station thermal efficiencies for 1953.
The overall average of 300 stations
was 23.22 per cent. Twenty stations
had an average efficiency of over 2§
per cent. Portobello (Edinburgh),
Stourport (Worcs.) and Dunscon
(Newcastle'on'Tyne) were over 30
per cent.
One of the reasons for the high
price of electricity in New South Wales
is the low average efficiency of the
power stations taken over by the
Electricity Commission. In the 1952
annual report the Commission gave
the following figures of the N.S.W.
Power Station efficiencies:
Bunnerong A....; .... 16.34 percent.
Bunnerong B 21.99 „
Pyrmont A 9.58 ~
Port Kembla 15.96 ~
Yanco 10.44 ~
Canberra 10.29 „
Cowra 10.65 ~
46
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


Australian Institute of Builders
CONSTITUTION DETAILS AND MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENTS.
The objects and purposes for which
The Institute is constituted are to pro-
mote and advance the study and prac-
tice of building and of all kindred
matters, arts and sciences, and to
facilitate the exchange of information
and ideas in relation thereto.
Constitution.
The Australian Institute of Builders
was formerly constituted in Sydney, on
November 23, 1951. A foundation
dinner was held on the same date, at
which the Rt. Hon. R. G. Mensies,
C.H., Q.C., M.P., Prime Minister of
Australia, was presented with a Cer-
tificate of Honorary Membership.
The formation of an Australian In-
stitute of Builders was considered at
the Perth Convention of the Master
Builders’ Federation of Australia in
1947, when a committee was set up
to investigate the question. This com-
mittee discussed the matter with rep-
resentatives of the Royal Australian
Institute of Architects and the Insti-
tution of Engineers, Australia. The
committee reported back to the 1948
Convention of the Master Builders’
Federation when authority was given
for the preparing of a draft memor-
andum and articles of association for
an Australian Institute of Builders. The
draft memorandum and articles of
association were approved in 1949 at
the Brisbane Convention of the Master
Builders’ Federation. When sub-
mitted to a general meeting of Foun-
dation Members, held in Sydney on
November 23, 1951, the draft memor-
andum and articles of association were
adopted with only slight modification
of a few articles.
Foundation Membership.
Foundation membership of the In-
stitute was selected by State Com-
mittees comprising two representatives
of the Master Builders’ Federation of
Australia two representatives of the
Royal Australian Institute of Archi-
tects, and one representative of The
Institution of Engineers, Australia.
Members of the Building Diplomates’
Association of N.S.W. were also
admitted as Foundation Members.
Membership.
A candidate for admission to mem-
bership of the Institute is required to
possess certain qualifications which are
laid down in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association. Hereunder
are extracts from the Articles:
4. There shall be the following
classes of Membership:
(a) Honorary Members who
shall have no financial lia'
bility to the Institute shall
be:
1. Persons of eminence
station and distinction.
2. Persons distinguished
by Scientific, Artistic, Liter'
ary or other cultural attain-
ments.
The number of Honorary
Members shall not at any
time exceed 5 and not more
than one Honorary Mem-
ber shall be elected in any
one year. At least three-
quarters of the Councillors
present at the meeting at
which the nomination is
considered must be in
favour of the nomination to
secure its approval.
(b) Fellows who shall be:
1. Persons who have made
notable contributions to the
advancement of the building
industry in achievement,
construction, literature, edu-
cation or service and who
are principals in a firm,
partnership or company
trading as Master Builders.
2. Associates of the Insti-
tute who have reached em'
inence in the industry and
who have given distin-
guished service to the In'
stitute and to the building
industry generally and who
have not less than tea
years’ service as an Associate
of the Institute.
(c) Associates who shall be:
1. Persons who have given
distinguished service to the
building industry and who
are principals or general
managers in a firm, partner'
AIRPLANE'S TAIL-PLANES SOAR.
The large size of modern aircraft and their vertical tail-planes necessitate special
work stages for their assembly, inspection and maintenance. This picture shows
the multi-landing stage required to handle the vertical tail-plane of a delta
wing design plane.
47
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


to ready expansion, and are the first
units in the development of the area.
The first extension will be a duplh
cation of the present factory building
and crane bay to the north.
Future development of the remain'
der of the area will be undertaken by
the company in stages.
ship or company trading as
Master Builders.
2. Licentiates of the InstL
tute of two years’ standing
and who are principals or
holding a responsible execu'
tive position in a firm part'
nership or company trad'
ing as Master Builders or
who hold a responsible ex'
ecutive position in a
Government, Local Govern'
ment or public utility or'
ganisation which is engaged
in building and have passed
such further examinations
as the Council may require.
3. Persons who have had
not less than two years’ ex'
perience as a principal or
general manager in a firm,
partnership or company
trading as Master Builders
or who hold a responsible
executive position in a
Government, Local Govern'
ment or public utility or'
ganisation which is engaged
in building and who have
satisfied the Council that
their technical training is
not inferior to that required
for a Licentiate.
4. Licentiates who have had
not less than seven years’
experience in the building
industry and who occupy a
responsible position teach'
ing subieetc directly related
to the building industry in
a technical training estab'
lishment approved by the
Council.
(d) Licentiates shall be persons
who have not less than five
years’ experience in the
building industry and who
have passed prescribed series
of examinations approved
by the Council.
(e) Student Members shall be
persons engaged in the
building industry who, in
the opinion of the Council,
are qualified to be admitted
to the Institute in that
grade. Unless otherwise
determined by the Council,
a Student Member cannot
remain as a Student Mem'
ber after the age of 30
years.
5. The Council may elect to any
class of Membership any person
who is, in its opinion, a person
of sufficient standing in the
building industry and qualified
by experience or by examination.
Applications for Admission to
Membership.
Applications for admission to mem'
bership must be made on a special
application form prescribed by the
Council and must be submitted in
duplicate.
Every proposal for election of a
member of any grade shall be signed
by a proposed and two seconders, all
of whom are in the grade or superior
to that of the proposed member of
the Institute. The proposal shall also
contain a statement signed by the
candidate.
Experience in the building industry
and examination qualifications must be
initialled by the sponsors, in the
column provided on the application
form, or evidence of examination
qualifications inthe case of applicants
for admission as Licentiates and StU'
dents must be submitted with the
application.
Fees and Subscriptions of Members.
A member on election shall pay an
entrance fee equal to the figure fixed
for the annual subscription in each
particular grade of members. Annual
subscriptions payable by the various
classes of members are as under:
Fellow .... ‘ ,£lO 10 0
Associate 7 7 0
Licentiate 4 4 0
Student 110
Membership Certificates
A Certificate of Membership under
the Seal of the Institute will be for'
warded to each member upon his
election. A Certificate of Membership
always remains the property of the In'
stitute and must be returned to the
Institute by a member terminating his
membership.
Initials Denoting Membership.
The various classes of members
may use after their names initials to
denote grades of membership as
under:
Fellows: F.A.1.8.
Associates: A.A.1.8.
Licentiates: L.A.1.8,
Students: Stud. A.LB.
It should be noted that membership
of the Institute is personal and
initials cannot be used to describe
any firm or company as being mem'
bers of the Institute. Principals or
associates of firms or companies who
are members may, however, use the
initials to which they are entitled
should their individual names be
printed on letterhead paper.
Chapter Membership.
A member is attached to one Chap'
ter of the Institute only. Except as
may be prescribed by the Council, he
shall be attached to that Chapter
within the area of which he resides
and if he changes his place of resi'
dence to the area of another Chapter
he will be transferred to that Chapter
Chapter Membership.
At the present time there are six
Chapters, as under:
Queensland Chapter includes
the whole of the State of
Queensland.
New South Wales Chapter—in'
eludes the whole of the State
of New South Wales to-
gether with the Australian
Capital Territory.
Victoria Chapter—includes the
whole of the State of Vic'
toria.
South Australian Chapter—in'
eludes the whole of the State
of South Australia and the
Northern Territory.
Western Australia Chapter—in'
eludes the whole of the State
of Western Australia.
Tasmanian Chapter—includes the
whole of the State of Tas'
mania.
Institute Office is at 34 Martin
Place, sth Floor.
BOOK REVIEW.
'‘Effect of Edge Insulation upon
Condensation on Concrete-Slab
Floors.
By Harold R. Martin, Paul
R. Achenbach, and Richard S.
Dill, National Bureau of Stan'
dards Building Materials and
Structures Report (20 cents, plus
one'third extra for overseas mail'
ing), Government Printing Office,
Washington, D.C.
As a result of economic conditions
and construction material scarcity, the
number of basementless houses in the
U.S.A., construction in recent years,
has greatly increased. The floor most
generally used in this type of house is
the concrete slab, sometimes placed on
the ground but more often on a fill
of gravel or similar material.
Heat transfer in such floors merits
consideration on account of its effect
upon comfort and condensation.
During the tests described in this
report attention was concentrated on
the determination of the effect of edge
insulation on floor'surface temperatures
for different outside temperatures.
The exposed edge abutted or over'
lapped a foundation typical of that
around the perimeter of a house: the
other threee edges were insulated for
reduction of heat exchange to a neg'
ligible amount. The report gives
descriptions and results of the tests.
48
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Continued from page 42.


bank
UMITIa
»na
NEW PREMISES, A.N.Z. BANK LTD., ASHFIELD, N.S.W.
ARCHITECTS; JOSELAND & GULINS.
BUILDERS; J. S. PETTIGREW PTY. LTD.
. . . and the ARCHITECTURAL METALWORK supplied and
fixed by WUNDERLICH LIMITED includes
• STAINLESS STEEL ENTRANCE DOORS AND FRAME
• WROUGHT IRON GRILLES
• ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAMES AND LOUVRES
• LETTERING IN CAST BRONZE
• CAST BRONZE VITREOUS ENAMELLED CREST
• BRONZE VITREOUS ENAMELLED NAMEPLATE
Architectural metalwork
/ I IN BRONZ€ - ALUMINIUM - STAINLESS ST€€L • €TC
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE (N.S.W.I • HOCA&r • LAUNCESTON
49
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


THE MODERN HOME IS A GAS HOME
V.
» > •
COOKING . . . Only gas gives you such even heat at
low cost —quickly controlled at the touch of a tap. Gas
ranges cost much less—are cooler, safer, last longer and
are more dependable. That is why more people in Sydney
cook with gas than any other fuel.
REFRIGERATION . . . Only gas gives you refrigerators
that last a lifetime. They have no motors or moving parts.
This makes them silent, wear free and repair free. Thermo-
static control gives the temperature you wish. Special
reduced rate for gas used.
1
ill
n
w
n
WINTER WARMTH . . . Only gas gives you controlled
warmth—a cheerful glow that fills the whole room
instantly. A gas fire gives you exact heat . . . turn it up or
down to suit yourself. No work, no worry, and it's so easy
to change to a gas fire.
HOT WATER . . . Only gas gives you hot water all the
time for all the family. You can turn on all the hot taps
in the house at the same time with a gas hot water system
and there will still be hot water to spare. Gas never lets
you down.
EFFICIENCY
is the reason why
GAS COSTS LESS
Gas is the efficient willing servant in 400,000 Sydney homes. In Bathrooms, Lounges, Kitchens,
Laundries—and in every room where gas can be used—it does a better, cheaper job. Gas gives
you hot water all the time for your bath, shower, shave, dish washing, cleaning and clothes
washing. Gas warms your rooms, does all your cooking, and gives you perfect, trouble-free
refrigeration. The price of gas here is amongst the lowest in the world for manufactured gas.
Despite increased costs in all commodities, your gas company's modern planning and production
methods have kept the price down.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY . . . SYDNEY AND MAIN SUDURDS
50
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING. June 24, 1954.


FOR INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS
PLASTIC
PAINT
IT'S DIFFERE
IT'S PLASTIC RESIN)
Mural-Tone Plastic Paint Is unrivalled tor ease of application. It flows on smoothly
from brush or roller . or can be sprayed on if desired. The result .. . smooth
matt loveliness to delight your customers with its perfection.
Because of superior covering capacity. Mural-Tone Plastic is economical to use
and speedy to apply. The excellent colour range gives endless scope for colour
harmony Fifteen beautiful colours, and white, which mix easily together, are
displayed in the new Mural-Tone Plastic Paint Colour Card. Ask for one from
your supplier.
MURALO Compony (Aust ) Pty. Ltd.. Adelaide Melbourne. Sydney. Perth, a Subsidiary of
British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE NEWSLETTER
ADELAIDE’S LARGEST BUILDING TO COMMENCE
Construction of Adelaide’s biggest
building-—a twelve'storey structure in
Grenfell Street —will begin next year.
The estimated cost is between
£BOO,OOO and £900,000. Ths build'
which will have a frontage of about
100 ft. on Grenfell Street and 140 ft.
on Gawler Place, will be put up by
St. Peter’s College. It will be on the
northeast corner of the intersection
and will be an outstanding feature of
the city’s skyline. The council of
governors of the college decided this
month to go ahead with plans. The
new building will be 132 ft. high—the
maximum allowed under City Council
regulations.
It will have shops on the ground
floor, eleven storeys of office accom-
modation, an extensive basement, the
main area of which will be let, and a
sub-basement for servicing purposes.
There will be three fast lifts and a
goods lift. Construction is expected
to start early next year and the build-
ing should be completed within two
and a half years. Woods, Bagot,
Laybourne-Smith and Irwin are the
architects. The site of the proposed
new building was bequeathed to the
college by Mr. Benjamin Mendes Da
Costa, a wealthy Adelaide merchant in
the early days of the colony, who died
in England in 1868.
More than £2,000,000 will be spent
during the next few years on city office
buildings. In the suburbs, many thou-
sands more will go into factory con-
struction. This will overtake a 15'year
lag in building activities. Construe'
tion work in progress in the city now
totals about £500,000. It includes pre'
liminary work on the ten'Storey Sav-
mgs Bank building in Hindley Street;
a start on the £87,000 building for
Radio Corporation Pty. Ltd. on the
old Dunlop site in Flinders Street; and
construction of a new factorv for
Waverley Vinegar Co. Ltd. on North
Terrace. Renovations have begun on
several city buildings and a start has
been made on the £30,000 extension
to Burnside municipal offices.
There is the St. Peter’s College pro-
ject, also an eleven-storey building on
the corner of Franklin Street and Vic'
toria Square, planned by The Mutual
Life and Citizens’ Assurance Co. Ltd.
it is expected to be completed next
year at a cost of about £560,000.
Other insurance companies also have
major building programmes under con'
sideration. Work on the six'Storey
Elizabeth House on North Terrace is
expected to start soon, and other big
construction jobs are now under wav.
Reconstruction of the Dunlop Rub'
ber Co. Limited's former premises in
Flinders Street, City, has begun. The
building was burnt out in October,
1940. A new four-storey structure
will rise from the ashes at a cost of
.£87,000. The work is being done for
Radio Corporation Pty. Ltd. New
offices will be built with a showroom,
wholesale store, and a modern service
station for the installation of car radios.
The showroom will be on the ground
floor with a ramp from street level to
the basement allowing easy access for
cars needing radio installation. The
contractors, Hansen &? Yuncken Pty.
Ltd., have begun clearing debris from
the basement. The new building, de-
signed by Melbourne architect Peter
Spiers, should be completed in twelve
to fifteen months. The supervising
architects, P. R. Claridge 6? Gunn,
of Adelaide, estimate that nearly
£lO,OOO will be saved by making
use of the foundations and part of the
walls of the existing building.
Weather conditions may hinder met'
ropolitan beach councils in their drive
to complete main foreshore repairs by
June 30. Glenelg is the only council
which expects to have all foreshore
repairs completed by them. The
Government granted £200.000 for the
work, but June 30 is the final date set
for councils to claim reimbursements
for damage done by storms in May
last year. Weather during the next
Cont. on page 53
51
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1934.


B
brick-veneer constructions ceilings of
FIBROUS
PLRSTER
Brick Veneer is rapidly becom-
ing the most popular method
of construction throughout
Australia. It combines the ad-
vantages and good appear-
ance of both brick and timber
houses at lower cost. The most
outstanding feature of Brick
Veneer is the use of Fibrous
Plaster interiors. This unique
material is Ideal for the pro-
duction of any style of mod-
ern, distinctive and durable in-
terior design. Fibrous Plaster
will fill every requirement of
quick erection, low cost and
enduring construction.
FIBROUS PLASTER ASSOCIATION OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
24 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. BW 2829
52
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


MILLARS’ TIMBER AND TRADING GO. LTD.
Sawmiilers, Timber Merchants and Shipping Agents
PRODUCERS AND EXPORTERS OF WEST AUSTRALIAN HARDWOODS
(JARRAH AND KARRI)
EXPORTERS OF NEW SOUTH WALES HARDWOODS—SAWN, HEWN AND ROUND
(IRON BARK, TALLOWWOOD, SPOTTED GUM, TURPENTINE, ETC.).
IMPORTERS OF PHILIPPINE MAPLE, OREGON, YELLOW PINE, BALTIC AND
NEW ZEALAND PINE (INSIGNIS).
NOTE OUR ADDRESSES:—
HEAD OFFICE: St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
BRANCHES: MafFra Street, South Melbourne, Vic.
Scottish House, 19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Epworth Building, Adelaide.
ALSO WELLINGTON, and DUNEDIN, NEW ZEALAND.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE SOUTH AFRICAN GOVERNMENT LINE OF
STEAMERS.
Cont. from page 51
two months could have a big effect on
the progress of the work. Brighton
and Henley may be hard hit.
Work has begun on the £60,000
Albion Hotel in Churchill Road, Kil-
burn. It should be completed by
Christmas. The building will be two-
storey, with saloon and public bars,
two cocktail bars, two lounges, and
fourteen bedrooms. Materials used
will be mainly steel, concrete and
cream brick. Caradoc Ashton. Fisher,
Woodhead 6? Beaumont Smith are the
architects, and the contractors are
Emmett 6? Son Ltd.
The shells for three of the world’s
biggest roasters a vital part of the
£2,000,000 Port Adelaide acid plant
are nearing completion. Produc-
tion of sulphuric acid from pyrites out
of the Adelaide Hills is expected to
start early next year. The plant will
make South Australia’s super - phos-
phate supply more secure and will
make the State self-sufficient in indus-
trial sulphuric acid. Mr. J. C. Cody,
resident engineer for Simon - Carves
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., who are the prin-
cipal contractors, said this month that
structural steelwork to house the
roasters had been erected and sheeting
of the roaster houses was well under
way. The cylindrically-shaped roasters
will be 60ft. high and will burn pyrites
railed in from Nairne.
The gas formed by burning pyrites
in the roasters will be processed into
acid in another section. The 90ft.
high roaster houses are enclosed by
75ft. long steel columns fabricated in
Adelaide. These columns are among
the heaviest steel fabricated in S.A.
since the war.
A New Aus ralian who arrived in
South Australia four years ago has
opened a modern garage ' restaurant-
sleeping house on Glen Osmond Road.
Frewville. He claims it is one of the
most up-to-date in Australia. Mr. S.
Zsolt, the 46-year-old proprietor,
worked night and day at two jobs to
save the money for his project. The
garage will cater mainly for inter-
state transport drivers. Besides the
latest in garage facilities there will be
a shower room, a “leisure room” with
bunks, and a restaurant to be run bv
Mrs. Zsolt. The project cost about
<£30,000 and a petroleum company
helped with finance.
The State Government has approved
a grant of £50,000 to Adelaide Uni-
versity to add a floor to the Medical
School in Frome Road. The Medical
School building consists of seven
floors in a third of the building facing
Frome Road and four floors on the
rear two-thirds. The grant will finance
construction of another floor on the
rear portion. The Commonwealth
Government has agreed to contribute
£12,000, part of which will be used
on the new floor, and part on altera'
tions to the top floor in front of the
building to house a special Govern'
ment research project. Architects for
the work are Woods, Bagot,
Laybourne'Smith & Irwin.
Tenders will be called within the
next two months for construction of
the terminal building at West Beach
airport. Cost will be more than
<£loo,ooo. The Director of Works and
Housing (Mr. W. T. Haslam) says
plans are modelled on the latest over'
seas trends. Work is near completion
on the meteorological building. The
store building, canteen, and Civil Avia'
tion Department workshops are almost
finished and progress on No. 2 hangar
is well advanced.
A five-year beautification plan, in-
tended to make West Branch airport
one of the most attractive in the
world, has begun. Included in the
scheme is a comprehensive tree-plant-
ing proposal aimed at reducing noise
from jet aircraft. It will be the first
attempt made to beautify an Australian
aerodrome on such a scale. Special
funds have been allocated by the
Cont. overleaf
53
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


been
Oiuftor
•V.
LAMPS
AND FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
0
..
k , clearer
■S
7. *
SPECIALISTS
IN LIGHT
SINCE 1889
Condor Lamps Australasia Pty. Ltd., Distributors throughout Australia | st^M.iUS™
CL4-54
Continued from previous page.
Commonwealth Government and work
will be done by a labour force sup-
plied from the Department of Civil
Aviation.
Adelaide contractor Mr. Fred Fricker
donated the foundations for the new
Baptist Sunday School at Hawthorn-
dene, and is supervising the work —
much of which is being done volun-
tarily. More than 300 people attend-
ed the laying of the foundation-stone
on May 15. The new school, with
more than 60 pupils, will be at the
corner of Myrtle Road and Pasteur
avenue.
More than £35,000 will be spent
on renovating and improving the main
building of Yatala Labour Prison.
This section has not been used for
some time. Specifications for the
work, which includes the renovation
of 80 cells and the building of new
staircases and balconies, are now being
prepared by the Architect-in-Chief’s
Department. Tenders will be called
shortly. The present staircases and
balconies are made of wood, and will
be replaced by steel and reinforced
concrete units. They will be made
in sections outside the prison, and de-
signed to allow closer supervision of
prisoners in their cells. The slate roof
is being replaced with corrugated iron.
All the contractor’s gear will be lock-
ed in a special cell at night, and any
files or broken hacksaw blades handed
personally to a goal official. A number
of prisoners from overcrowded Darwin
Gaol are awaiting transfer to Yatala.
This is the main reason for the reno-
vations.
fifty architects and engineers from
South Australia and interstate will at'
tend the third Australian Town Plan'
ning Congress in Adelaide from
August 10 to 14. The Congress will
be opened by the Premier (Mr.
Play ford) in the University Staff Club
rooms. Speakers will include the visit'
ing English architect, Professor
Gordon Stephenson; the chief planner
of the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works, Mr. E. F. Borrie;
and the general manager of the S.A.
Housing Trust, Mr. A. M. Ramsay.
The first sod has been turned in
preparation for building the John
Flynn Memorial Church in Alice
Springs. Well-known N.T. builder
Jim Richards, who at present is en-
paged on several big construction jobs
at Alice Springs including the
£250,000 new school - has the con'
tract. The proposed new building
will present a polished white marble
front in massive 20ft. high walls, and
pink marble set in recesses will off'
set the white. A solid block of white
and pin! - marble has arrived in
Adelaide from Alice Springs. It is
being cut, polished and inscribed as a
foundation-stone. Architects for the
project are Evans 6? Bruer, Philpot
& Partners, of Adelaide.
A. W. Baulderstone, of Kensington,
has the contract for building a new
male tuberculosis block at Parkside
Mental Hospital. Cost will be more
than .£70,000. The block is scheduled
tor completion within a year and will
accommodate 30 patients. It will be
a single-storey brick construction, with
a tiled roof.
The new Keith Hospital will be
completed early in November. Work
is well under way and the cost will
total about £24,800. The design, by
architect Gordon Brown, provides for
nine beds, and main construction
materials are brick, Mount Gambier
limestone and asbestos. The State
Government will contribute £1950
toward a central heating system. A.
W. Baulderstone is the contractor.
The State Government will subsidise
work to be done on the Thyne
Memorial Hospital. The subsidy will
cover an extension of the nurses’
block to provide additional accommo-
datio for six trainees, four sisters and
a matron’s sitting room and bedroom,
plus hot water systems and com
veniences. The contract —at £16,081
—has gone to D. M. Mann, of Mount
Gambier. A State subsidy has also
been approved on an estimated ex-
penditure of £l5OO for retiring the
present hospital, and £l2OO for a hos-
pital hot water system.
A Women’s Memorial Centre for
the benefit of women and children
from outlying districts will be built by
the Murray Bridge Community Asso-
ciation. Tenders are now being called
54
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


.nj m.i
MLS
2C
.j
2'oi
2 0
N*~y BAR
S urJob/e. /or i/p /o 9' O 4
Tf /ron /f'\ Aj'.j •
N° 8 BAR
Sut/oA/e /or taunt iso /o o'o'
7n /ron // ' • /y '
»o»
Vt*TKAC
• AM.
i*OviCo
> H
•»ow<ie
*©•
M? 9 BAR
Stst/oh/t /or rportt up Jo J‘o'
Srrr 24 f yj/y non j
HOJL.
Alt CAM AVAILA.SU. M -
Calv Ison 7s*canncal amp Jhc
JiMsry Jo/*/ Oort/r €t urn/ Jo
tsgor rAorrrt un/en o/Jormte. ’nr/rucJot/
At At! Jot W*wk it uttt/ unt/tr Jit,
off Aorf
Ors<JJ»
OKt nitiJti
(or* 1 rtf U ,roJ
*
~£l' - I'jJ
Aff jjro mo)
r J>t r/eaoec /or u/o
rtrtn Ortr/tflO,n<f fit"
Jen+Jit aen/rofff
r/ttJ p
trL
ZJ7t»
m
?-o|
f.o|
Horn onJtrnry
type, numr&tr *
CoA Arm
iuf */ ’. ,2f
- L 34*
' <frr* fype rusmjytr *
Jtny/A of Aon ft). A/m
<m ~ p~~Jr JA,
Mf«M «» tOt IO)
ABUNDANCE OF
NATURAL LIGHT
is ensured when Wunder-
lick Glazing Bars are
employed in saw - tooth
roots, g ass-houses, studios
and e’sewhere.
Wunderlich Glazing Bars
provide an all-time
weather - proot day - light-
ing area without the need
for perishable caulicing
materials. Service sheets
and details on request to
Wunderlich Limited,
G.P.O. Box 474, Sydney,
or Interstate Branches.
WUNDERLICH
GLAZING BARS
for the first part of the project.
Accommodation will include rooms for
the Mothers’ and Babies’ Health
Centre and meeting rooms for the
various women’s organisations of the
town. The completed structure, estb
mated to cost up to £15,000, will in'
elude a hall to accommodate 200, a
kitchen, dressing rooms and store.
The architects are Milne, Dawkins,
Boehm and Ellis of Adelaide.
Among small jobs let recently is a
new stone and brick clinic for the
Mothers’ and Babies’ Health Associa'
tion of S.A. at Wood Park, Linden
Park. The walls are now being con-
structed. It will have a waiting room
16ft. by 12ft., a consulting room 14ft.
by 12ft.. and will cost about £2OOO.
The architects are E. H. McMichael
and Harris.
After many months of research, five
Yugoslav migrants have discovered a
deposit of brickmaking clay near the
Little Para River at Salisbury. Test
boring bv Mr. A. Gibson, a Mines
Department geologist, has confirmed
the extensive nature of the field and
the C.5.1.R.0. has tested the quality
of the material with promising results.
The New Australians Messrs. J.
Clean, A. Obercann, V. Burger, M.
Kemereni and T. Komeroni have
pooled their savings to design and
make the complete brickmaking plant.
INDIVIDUAL LIGHTING FITTINGS
The policy of producing fittings to suit the interior rather than to apply standard
fittings has been common practice in England for many years. The illustration of
the treatment of the banking chamber in the heart of St. James' London, is a
case in point. Here elaborate cornice with decorative carvings is picked out
faithfully by the pendant fittings, provided with 8-40 watt fluorescent tubes.
The full effect of the light distribution, upward as well as downward, is evident
by the shadowless illumination of the chamber. Control boxes are in the ceiing
box. Although a chamber of this ornateness would have been considered an
appropriate interpretation of the bank's richness and stability only 50 years ago,
it would no wbe considered, by the on-coming group of architects, as fussy or
spotty and restless, for only the severest of the severe would now be considered
as dignified and appropriate.
—International Lighting Review.
55
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


FOR THIS
SIGN OF
QUALITY
STEWARTS and LLOYDS
MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS
S & L Malleable Pipe Fittings arc manufactured by Stewarts and Lloyds in
Australia to British Standard Specification No. 1256.
The use of high-quality steel, combined with modern manufacturing methods
and rigid and continuous inspection through all stages of manufacture,
guarantees their consistent high quality and lasting efficiency.
For further particulars enquire from your nearest warehouse or agent.
Stewarts and Lloyds "Manufactured Lines"
S & L Welded and Seamless Steel Pipe for Gas, Water. Steam, Ammonia and Hydraulic
Pressures: S & L Weldless Steel Boiler Tubes; S & L Steel Pipe with Victaulic Joints, etc.
Stewarts and Lloyds "Merchant Lines"
Steel Bars and Steel Plates Structural Steel Sections; S & L Welding Electrodes and Welding
Equipment; B.T.M. Precision Steel Tubes; Galvanised Iron Sheets, Guttering and Downpipe;
Brass Valves and Saunders Diaphragm Valves; Copper and Brass Tube; Steel Bolts and
Nuts; Ermeto High-Pressure Pipe Fittings.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong. New South Wales: Melbourne. Victoria; Brisbane
and Rockhampton. Queensland; Perth and Fremantle. Western Hobart i .nd
Launceston, Tasmania; Stewarts and Lloyds (South Australia) Ltd.. Kdburn. Soufh
Australia; Agencies at Cairns. Townsville. Mackay. Darwin. Alice Springs, and Kalgoorlie
56
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


ANTIDOTE FOR
NIGHT GLOOM
Siemens Lamps are the logical
answer—lncandescent or Fluo-
rescent. You can't b<*/ better.
tfEMElft
LAMPS
Use the
Australian-made
Longer-Life Tube
*m
I;-
#
There are types and fittings for
every industrial, commercial
and domestic requirement.
SIEMENS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY * MELBOURNE * ADELAIDE ★ BRISBANE * NEWCASTLE
H C. UTILE & CO. PTY LTD.. PERTH. W. & G. GENDERS PTY. LTD.. TASMANIA.
LAMP AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
QUEENSLAND LETTER
By F. O. NIXON.
TWO NEW INSURANCE BUILDINGS
The sight of two building barricades
in the main city area reminds one of
pre-war years, when large new build'
ing construction was normal. The
two referred to are insurance build-
ings one for the Mutual Life 6?
Citizens’ Assurance Co. Ltd., and the
other, a block away, for an insurance
building also. The latter is the last
section of the six-storeyed State In-
surance Building facing Ann, Ade-
laide and Edward Streets and Anzac
Square. As the crane will operate
with a very lon£ wire rope, from the
roof of the sixth floor, where it has
been idle for a number of years, an
inspector from the Machinery and
Scaffolding Department, having sensed
a risk in the dogman’s whistle being
mistaken for the guard’s whistle of
the Central Railway Station opposite,
and vice versa, has had substituted
an inter-communication telephone to
the crane driver. A dogman swing-
ing in mid-air high above ground
cannot risk uncertain whistling.
Provided the Brisbane City Coun-
cil is not frustrated in its financial in-
tentions in respect of loan moneys,
it plans to spend £7,800,000 in the
year beginning Ist July, 1954. This
sum is just £2,000,000 more than the
present year’s allocation ending 30th
June. 1954. If the loan money re'
quired is not forthcoming, the 1954'55
budget will have to be reduced by
£1,500,000, and much necessary work
with it. Large undertaHngs, such as
the Tennyson powerhouse planned for
completion in 1958 and other related
electricity undertakings entail expen'
diture of £4,500,000.
A hinted alternative of raising the
already inflated electricity tariffs, if re'
sorted to, will be an unfair tax upon
the present generation to provide more
luxurious standards for future ones.
Sewerage works, begun unduly late,
for a growing city like Brisbane, are
much behind requirements, and the
inadaptability of some of the suburban
soils to septic systems has created a
problem. Seeing that the construction
of more sewerage, requiring £600,000,
which, immediately on completion,
produces revenue to begin to pay for
it, it does not indicate a very com-
monsense monetary system. The same
disability can apply to the provision
of further requisite water reticulation.
to cost £400,000, and to produce a
return on capital when functioning.
Hitherto, every new move in the
Sugar Industry betokened a new re-
tail figure—upwards, of course —in the
retail price of sugar. The latest move
is expected to allow for a lower retail
price, and the move has got beyond
the mere suggestion stage, since ten'
ders have been called for a bulk sugar'
handling terminal in Mackay, at its
City wharves on the nearby coast,
where large ocean liners berth. Under
the new set-up, it will enable sugar
to be loaded into steamers at the rate
of 600 tons per hour; whereas at
present it takes a gang of 16 men
to load less than 20 tons an hour.
The saving in bags, as well as in
labour, will, as time goes on, be a
large set'off against the £1,250,000
that the terminal will cost for its four
or five sections of plant, for which
separate tenders will be called.
The progressive Mackay Harbour
Board has called tenders for the first
section of the terminal, which will
store 150,000 tons of sugar. It calls
for 13,000 cubic yards of concrete for
roads, foundations, floors, and walls.
It is hoped to complete the terminal
in three years. The plant is the only
one of its nature to be laid down in
Cent, on page 59
57
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


AGAIN - JENSON & NICHOLSON LEAD
THE WAY . . . THIS TIME WITH-
ROBBIALAC
SATIN FINISH
A
SUPERLATIVE
SATIN
SHEEN
ENAMEL
FOR
ALL
INTERIOR
SURFACES!
n/V/sh
<«
“•to
WSIDE
USE
ONLY
wv
AS EASY TO USE AS ROBBIALAC SUEDE WALL FINISH
AND MADE IN THE SAME DELIGHTFUL COLOURS
ycuM &f>pteeicdc
ROBBIALAC
JENSON •& NICHOLSON (AUST.) PTY. LTD., ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. Also at London, Calcutta, Johannesburg
58
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


A
i
SAVE MONEY on the
errors you don’t make
Enjoy the time-saving benefits of
mechanical calculation with the
(JJUdto)
ONE-HAND-ACTION CALCULATOR
MULTIPLIES, DIVIDES, ADDS, SUBTRACTS
SIMPLE. You can operate Multo efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice. Only one hand is needed.
FAST. You will race through all types of routine calculation. Multo MULTIPLIES, DIVIDES, ADDS,
SUBTRACTS. Time-saving is enormous.
CONVENIENT. Multo is only 6£” wide, 5” high. Carry it from your office desk to the factory, to the
warehouse or to your home.
Multo is guaranteed and serviced by the oldest and largest Office Equipment House in Australia. Arrange
for a demonstration in your own office. See how Multo saves valuable man-hours. Immediate delivery.
CHARTRES LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH,
ADELAIDE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
Cont, from page 57
Australia, and it is anticipated that
the next port to follow will be Lucinda
Point.
On May 29, Evans Deakin & Co.
Ltd., engineers and shipbuilders,
launched their 31st steamer at their
yards at Kangaroo Point. The
euphonic aboriginal name “Inyula”—
meaning “babbler bird” —was given
to this 7000'ton freighter. It has its
bridge set aft to allow the maximum
of space for bulk cargo holds operated
from grabs, which dispense with hoists
and derricks once inseparable from
the gear for the discharging of
steamers. Three more steamers of the
same pattern are to follow.
A strike, which continues after 13
weeks’ idleness, at the shipyards and
engineering works at Walkers Ltd.,
Maryborough (Qld.), has been disas'
trous in stopping work in the indus'
try which can be regarded as the
mainstay of this city of 17,000 people.
Essential work on sugar-mill machinery,
with mills starting their busiest period,
diesehelectric locomotives and an 800'
ton boom vessel for the Australian
Navy, have been delaved, and at least
£lOO,OOO in wages lost in idleness.
Meantime, the Industrial Arbitration
Court has granted an increase of 18/'
per week for skilled, 9/' for semi'
skilled and 6/' for unskilled labour,
which would have come in due course
without the goading of a strike. The
loss of wages will take families on
very sparse strike pay a long time to
recover, even though a resumption
will add overtime to the new wages
award. Secret ballots—the democratic
way—are not in vogue in the union
to which the 300 striking workers
belong. About 300 more—mostly urn
skilled—lost their employment because
G f tL e dislocation of the skilled work.
An enquiry into certain aspects of
the life of prisoners in Boggo Road,
our suburban prison, part of which
was built 100 years ago, but now in
the heart of South Brisbane, has assist'
ed the Attorney'General (Mr. Power)
in coming to a decision to have a new
prison about 30 to 40 miles out of the
city—a rural “home from home,’’ as
it were. A prison farm conducted
for some years has come to be regard'
ed as so complete a success that the
Government intends to end the old
tvpe of prison, except for “lifers’’ and
hardened criminals who would miss
the high walls they had been accus-
tomed to. A large area of 100 acres
or more, to provide farm lands, will
be the objective of the new place of
detention. No matter how much the
need for the imprisonment of our
fellow'men and women is deplored,
the dictum of a renowned judge that
criminals convicted of offences on
more than one occasion could never
go straight, is unfortunately supported
by the experiences of the police.
There appears to be as much need to
treat our prisons as “crime hos'
pitals” as it has become the practice
to alter the term of “lunatic asylum”
to the present term of “mental hos'
pital.”
Wharfage.
In the near future, new wharves
added to those at Hamilton, at a cost
of nearly £500,000, will be completed.
One of these extensions of 500 ft. is
for the Harbour and Marine Depart'
ment to be leased, and all of these
new wharves have concrete decking.
So large has the trade of this ship-
ping port grown that the State Gov'
ernment is giving its attention to the
creation of a very large wharfage and
docking area on the South side of
the Brisbane River at Colmslie, direct'
Iv opposite Hamilton. Already, the
Cairncross dry dock adioms the river'
bank, where these new wharves would
be built. The bottlenecks caused by
the wharves on the North Brisbane
River frontages will become intoler'
able in time, and the Government is
looking well ahead, as South Brisbane,
Cont. on page 63
59
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
Tune 24. 1954.


To help
them see
'
mm
in office
or factory
FELSTEAD
CAT. L 4309
DORIC
CAT. L 4350
ft
*
; 0S: d^' ! " ', '-' „
LOUVRE
L 3603, 2 lamp 40 w.
L3603/3, 3 lamp 40 w.
L 3607, 4 lamp 40 w.
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING FITTINGS
Whether your employees are office workers or plant
operatives they will see better . . . work better . . . work
faster under A.G.E. Fluorescent Lighting Fittings. No
fittings are kinder to the eyes, no fittings are better made
for the conditions under which they will be used. For
lighting problems of any kind see your nearest A.G.E.
Branch or Agent NOW!
CAT. L 4350: 2 lamp 40 w. "Doric" 4’ fitting with perspex diffusers,
held in position by easily removable Anodised Aluminium end covers
in gold or other colours. For ceiling or suspension use Single Lamp
fittings and 20 w. 2’ fittings with I lamp and 2 lamps also available.
L 3603, 2 lamp 40 w.; L3603/3, 3 lamp 40 w.; L 3607, 4 lamp 40 w.;
Louvre units with vertical diffusing glass panels, reducing dust collec-
tion. Adequate cut-off to avoid glare. Also available with patent
perspex ends for single or in-line mounting. All louvre fittings can
be used for suspension or ceiling mounting. 20-watt 2' units both
2 and 3 lamp also stocked.
L 4309: 3 lamp "Felstead" 40 w. ceiling fitting with streamlined clip
on ends, covering holders and starter switches which may be removed
without disturbing lamps. The complete "Felstead" range covers
I, 2, 3 and 4 lamp 4' 40 w. fittings and I and 2 lamp 20 w. types.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL 111 ELECTRIC
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, WOLLONGONG.
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON. TOWNS-
VILLE, ADELAIDE, BROKEN HILL. HOBART. LAUN-
CESTON. AGENT IN W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD
LBAP
60
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING. June 24, 1954.


INDUSTRIAL EXPANSION IN VICTORIA.
In the post-war years, despite many restrictions, shortage of materials, etc., a remarkable industrial expansion has taken place
in Australia, and particularly in Victoria, where building figures climb higher each month. The policy of decentralisation
in Victoria is playing dividends, by taking factories to the pec pie. In the Dandenong district, nestling at the foot of the
Ranges, many large plants have been built, or are in the process of building. The industries range from condiments to
farm equipment, from carpets to plastics, and many fine stores are lining the thriving Dandenong business area.
61
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


mi
JLj»
K
Pioneers in the Craft, R Fowler Limited have served the com-
munity for well over a century with a highly diversified range
of quality clay products:
Modem and hygienic bathroom fittings and kitchenware for the
home—tiles, basins and lavatory fittings in city buildings and
hotels—special hospital equipment—acid-resisting containers
and plant for industry—resistant floor-tiling for power houses—
stoneware pipes and electrical insulators for community services.
These are only a selection from the range of
Fowler Ware Ceramic Products, made for
endurance and functional perfection.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Established 1837
LOTTERIES: M arrick ville, N.S.W.;
Thomastown, Vic.; Alderley, O'ld.;
Edwardstown, S Aust.
nSBHEZ*
€Hxmanzn
cfnnmjin-na
am
m
TANNER MIDDLETON
PTY. LTD.
TIMBER MERCHANTS
LOG AND PLANING MILLS
Head Office:
CONCORD, N.S.W.
Branches:
AUBURN HURSTVILLE KOGARAH WOMBO CLIFFDALE
62
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


already the home of the Abattoir and
large meat works, continues to expand
and develop in importance.
The Medical Benefits Fund, which
has been carrying on its business in
the Strand Building and elsewhere in
quite inadequate premises, acquired
some time ago a substantial two-
storeyed building at the corner of
Edward Street and Arcade Lane that
adjoins the A.M.P. Building. Tenders
are to be called in a few weeks for
an additional storey. The work should
be completed in the first quarter of
1955, when the staff of 80 will be
working in one building. The most
notable permit to build issued in May
is that for Emmanual College at St.
Lucia. Estimated cost is £220,000.
Additions to Wunderlich’s factory are
to cost £12,500. A Roman Catholic
school and church is to cost £17,000,
and a school for the same denomina-
tion is to cost £5916. Alterations to
a service station are set down at
£12,000, and another station at £2OOO.
Three new office blocks will cost
£5OOO, £6OOO, £4OOO, respectively;
additions to two factories will cost
£2OOO in each instance; a new factory
£5OOO, and a small block of flats
£2OOO.
Extensions to shops with dwellings
- and without - will cost £5400,
£4OOO, £2500 and £4500 respectively.
Two blocks, each of four homes, to
be built by War Service Homes Com-
mission, will cost £19,015 in all.
Dwellings to cost less than £2OOO were
numerous, but of the 40 that w' 1 l
each cost more than that sum, one will
cost £6BOO, two others £6OOO each,
one £5lBO, two at £5OOO each, seven
range from £4OOO to £4500, and 27
homes will cost between £2OOO and
£4OOO each. The total number of
building permits in May 655 is
somewhat below the average in recent
months. Rain, as well as the dis-
turbance of the Federal election, may
be a cause.
at South Coast resorts con-
tinues to be very active, and in order
to cope with the increasing popula-
tions, a water supply scheme, to cost
£1.500,000, is to be undertaken on
the Nerang River. The South Coast
Council expects that amount of money
within six years. Already, Mr. W.
A. Peek, water supply engineer, is
resigning his position as Engineer for
Water Supply, Local Government De-
partment, to take up the new post at
£2OOO per annum as from Ist Tuly.
A consulting engineer has also been
appointed. Both of these engineers
have been working on the planning
of the Nerang Dam in the official
positions thev are vacating.
It is believed that in years the
work will have progressed sufficiently
to have overcome the cause of the
water shortage that occurs on the
South Coast from time to time, when
the rainfall has been too meagre.
The Nerang River is the catchment
from the MacPherson Range, the
chain of mountains that contain
National Parks.
With the retirement of Sir John
Kemp, Co-ordinator General, whose
term of office had been extended be-
yond the arbitrary retiring age, Mr.
J. A. Holt, a highly valued engineer
associated with the Co-ordinator Gen-
eral, and who has travelled abroad on
official business, now becomes the Co-
ordinator General. A new move has
been made in creating an advisory
council to plan and control State
Public Works, with the Premier,
Deputy-Premier, the Treasurer and the
Minister for Lands, with the Co-
ordinator General and three commis-
sioners constituting the Committee.
The object is to avoid overlapping.
The Royal Australian Institute of
Architects (Queensland Branch) has
moved into a commodious office in
the basement of the A.M.P. Society
leased by the Brisbane Building Centre
Pty. Ltd. On the same floor the
Moreton Galleries is a tenant also.
ALASKA HYDRO-ELECTRIC
PROJECT.
The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation,
spending iAI(H million on the
Ekluma H.E. scheme in Alaska, will
provide more than 140 million Hlo'
watt'hours of electric energy a year.
The project includes a reservoir 7
miles long, 1 mile wide, regulating
he flow from Lake Ekluma with a
capacity of 123,000 acreTeet.
One of the principal items in the
project is the construction of a tun'
nel 22,800 feet long and 12 feet
diameter leading to the power plant
on Knik Arm. This tunnel pierces
the 5,340 ft. Goat Mountain. The
penstock of the turbines is 900 feet
long at an angle of 53 degrees.
It is estimated that more than
700,000 lb. of industrial explosives,
with 400,000 lb. of dynamite, will be
used on this work. Many trouble'
some pockets in the geological forma'
tion have presented considerable dilfl'
culties. In one case reahfreezing
water overran the drainage course and
back'filled the tunnel for 450 ft.,
washing out rail power and air lines.
. —“Civil Engineering and
Public Works Review.”
The four-jet crescent wing “Victor,’’
a Handley Page bomber, has been
through exhaustive, tests in the Strato-
sphere and close to the sonic boun-
dary. Its speed is said to be 700 miles
per hour, with a range of 8000 miles
and an ability to climb to 55,000 ft.
Its performance has been so outstand-
ing as to surprise even its designers.
ROTORUA’S THERMAL POWER
To Heat New School.
Heat from Rotorua’s world'famous
geysers, boiling mud, hot pools and
steaming earth is to be used to heat
its high school.
Workmen are laying a miledong
pipeline from a year'old bore in the
Kuirau Reserve, with its weird boiling
mud pools and natural soda water
foot baths, to take the geothermal
steam to the school.
The 500 ft. bore gives off steam at a
pressure of 951 b. to the square inch.
Underground steam is already used
in Rotorua for heating homes, and at
Wairakei, some distance away, a hotel
is heated in this way.
Steam For Paper Mills.
A search is being made for geother'
mal steam for use in the £28,000,000
Kawerau pulp and paper project.
To be able to secure and harness a
good source of steam would save
£200,000 a year in coal bills when
production from the giant mill begins
operations in the middle of 1955.
BRILLIANT ARCHITECTURAL
STUDENTS.
What Becomes of Them?
In his criticism of work submitted
for the R.1.8.A. Prizes at a recent
meeting of the Royal Institute of
British Architects, Mr. Basil Spence,
0.8. E., said: “I often wonder when
I look at students’ work why this high
standard is not maintained after they
go into the jungle of private prac-
tice. If you go upstairs and look at
this work, you will see that it is ter-
rific. One’s first impression is that it
is absolutely wonderful, and I think
that impression is maintained despite
a thorough examination of the draw-
ings. But quite often when the
students who have done so well here
go out, somehow it fades.
“You must cling to your beliefs.
Each prize-winning drawing shows be-
lief. There is integrity. These things
must be nursed as precious jewels.
They should not be allowed to be
lost.”
NUCLEAR POWER.
Nuclear power will for some time
be supplementary to conventional
power production said Sir John Cock'
croft, Director of the Atomic Energy
Research Establishment last week. The
cost of nuclear energy would prob'
ably be just under or about one penny
per kilowatt'hour by present methods.
Stations now being constructed will
come into operation between 1965 and
1970, and be useful as hydroelectric
systems reach the limit of their
capacity.
—“Electric Review”, 12/3/54.
QUEENSLAND NEWSLETTER
Com. from page 5 9


Partition exhibit at the Wunderlich Showroom, Redfern.
MODERN SPACE SAVING, RE-ARRANGEABLE
Wunderlich Flush Steel Partitions are ideal for the subdivision
of floor areas of new or old buildings, offices, stores, factories,
hospitals, etc., because they occupy a minimum of floor space,
are fire-resisting and permanent, quic'dy erected, easily dis-
mantled and re-erected, re-usable, hygienic and available in any
colour to match any decorative scheme. The hollow units
permit concealed yet accessible service wiring; the standardised
units ensure economy and rapidity of planning.
FLUSH STEEL PARTITIONS
STOVE ENAMELLED • FIRE RESISTANT • RE-ARRANGEABLE
For further details, apply to WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, BRISBANE. HOBART,
LAUNCESTON. NEWCASTLE.
PERTH ASSOCIATES—H. L BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
64
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


M. R. HORNIBROOK (PTY.) LIMITED
CIVIL ENGINEERING AND BUILDING CONTRACTORS
BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
a
4
...
New Building Erected at A'exandria. Sydney, tor York Motors Pty. Ltd. Built by Hornibrook McKenzie Clark, Pty. Ltd.
We specialise in Bridge Building Wharf and Harbour Works Power House and Industrial
Bui ding Deep Foundation Air Lock Work Submarine Engineering Tunnels
Pile Driving and Heavy Lifting.
Brisbane Office; NEWSTEAD
Brisbane Works; BULIMBA
Branch Office: TOWNSVILLE
Sydney Engineering Works: ENFIELD
N.S.W. Subsidiary Company:
HORNIBROOK McKENZIE CLARK PTY. LTD.
Office: Summer Hill, Sydney.
Works: Enfield.
Branch Office & Works: Port Kembla.
SYDNEY NEWSLETTER
June was ushered in with news of
a speed-up of the Circular Quay Rail'
way loop between Wynyard and St.
James Stations.
Work began on this loop 36 years
ago. The tunnel portal at the eastern
side of the Quay is dated 1918. The
first excavation on the Quay Station
was made in September. 1936. Work
was stopped in 1941 because of the
war, and began again in 1945.
In August, 1951, work was again
suspended. It was carried on for
about eight months in 1952, and got
under wav again in July last year.
Much of the underground work on
thhe loop is now complete. A
chain tunnel has been constructed
from Wynyard Station lower level to
the start of the viaduct on the wes'
tern side of the Quay. A 52'chain
tunnel has been driven from the
eastern side of the Quay to St. James’
Station. Work on the loop and the
new Quay* railway station is expected
to be completed in 17 months —by
the end of 1955.
Building in N.S.W. is maintaining
its upward trend, and a prosperous
period is indicated, judging from
latest official statistics.
At December 31 last, a total of
108,595 new buildings were under
construction in N.S.W.
In the December, 1953, quarter,
18,342 houses were begun in N.S.W.,
18,968 were completed, and 68,865
were still under construction at
December 31.
These figures show a considerable
lead over the other States. Victoria
comes second with starts (14,014);
completions (16,130); under con-
struction (53,379).
At December 16, 34,014 workers
were engaged in the N.S.W. building
industry, an increase of some hun'
dreds over the last official figures.
Continued on page 67
65
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


MODERN TRANSPORT FOR MODERN STORES
/I
if
■
SPRINGVALE
Escalators by J. & E. Hall are known throughout
the world. Users include such widely differing
services as large office buildings, hotels, cafes,
department stores and underground railways.
J. &. E. Hall ST type escalators built in Australia
by Springvale Conveyor and Engineering Company
incorporate all the latest developments in escalator
design and establish a new standard of perfection
in vertical transportation.
Manufactured by
SPRINGVALE CONVEYOR
AND ENGINEERING COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Division of Malcolm Moore Industries Ltd.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM:
Springvale Conveyor & Engineering Company Pty. Ltd., Dandenong Road, Springvale.
66
jkhl
r ĥ


Continued from page 65.
A plan to build a civic centre at
Hurstville, N.S.W., “the city in a
suburb”, has been formulated by the
Mayor, Mr. Hedley Mallard, who is
also Secretary'Manager of the St.
George and Sutherland Builders’
Exchange.
The centre will incorporate the
Town Hall, Municipal Offices, Coun-
cil Chambers, Public Library, Baby
Health Centre, Women’s Rest Rooms,
etc.
It is proposed to conduct a com'
petition among architects for designs,
Aid. Mallard told this journal.
Manly-Warringah Branch of the
M.B.A. of N.S.W. is contemplating
erecting a Builders’ Exchange on the
lines of the one recently completed
by the go-ahead Main Southern
Branch at Miranda.
A £750,000 100'bed T.B. block is
being built at Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital as part of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s campaign to wipe out tuber-
culosis in 25 years in Australia.
The block, which will be one of
the world’s most modern hospitals,
will contain the latest equipment. It
is being paid for by the Federal Gov-
ernment, which will also meet the
full cost of maintaining it under the
Commonwealth-T.B. agreement.
The North Shore Hospital 48-bed
block is being increased to hold 100
beds, and a 28-bed unit is going up
at Royal Alexandra Children’s Hos-
pital.
Work on a £1,000,000 car parking
and business office building in Sydney
is expected to begin about September.
Work on the lower floors, which in-
cludes the parking space, is expected
to be completed in six months, and
the building ready by Tune, 1956.
Total floor area will be 250,000
sq. ft., of which 100,000 sq. ft. will
be used for office space. Parking
will be available for 450 cars.
Buildings valued at £30,142,000
were commenced in N.S.W. in the
March quarter of this year. This
total included houses and flats worth
£19,127,000. In the same quarter
buildings worth £23,292,000 were
completed.
BRITISH DEFENCE
EXPENDITURE.
British estimated expenditure for
defence this year is £1,040,000,000.
Greater emphasis is to be placed on
the R.A.F. jet medium bombers, cap'
able of using the atom bomb are to
be built up—more attention is to
be given to guided missiles, more
money will be spent on defence re'
search and development.
MELBOURNE NEWSLETTER
DROP IN HOUSE BUILDING.
From the peak of 28,293 houses
under construction in Victoria at the
peak period September 30, 1951, the
number dropped to 21,358 at March
31, 1954. This represents a decline
of 25 per cent.
There is little difference between the
number under construction at the
same March quarter last year. Figures
are:—
March March
1953 1954
Metropolitan .... 10,879 10,221
Ex ' Metro 11,627 11,137
Total 22,506 21,358
During the March quarter, 1954, the
number of new houses completed in
Victoria was 4,776 (2,567 Metropoli'
tan and 2,209 Extra'Metropolitan)
compared with 4,905 (2,558 Metro'
politan and 2,347 Extra'Metropolitan)
in the March quarter 1953, and 5,994
(3,055 Metropolitan and 2,939 Extra'
Metropolitan) in December quarter
1953.
March 1954 has the lowest number
for any quarter since March quarter
1951 when 4,689 new houses were
completed.
During March quarter, 1954 the
number of houses completed (4,776)
was exceeded by the number com'
menced (5,234) for the first quarter
since March quarter, 1952.
There is little difference in the num<
ber of houses completed during the
nine months ended March 1954 and
the same period in 1953. Figures are:
Nine months ending March,
1953 1954
Metropolitan .... 8,042 8,564
Ex'Metro 8,102 7,832
Total 16,144 16,396
The figures for the number of
houses commenced during the March
quarters of 1953 and 1954 were:—
March March
1953 1954
Metropolitan .... 2.193 2,809
Ex'Metrop 2,425
Total 4,423 5,234
For the December 1953 quarter the
figures were:—
Metropolitan .... 2,741
Ex'Metrop 2,432
Total 5,173
The value of new buildings complet'
ed in the State in the March 1954
quarter was <£19,636,000 of which
houses represented £12,840,000. The
same figures for the March 1953 quar'
ter were £18.453,000, £13,540,000.
It is interesting to note that 69.96
per cent, of the houses under construe'
tion at March 1954 were being built by
owner-builders. Government instru'
mentalities were erecting 12.20 per
cent, of the total.
The number of persons (27,271)
working on jobs carried out by build'
ers of new buildings at March 31,
1954. was 500 more than at the cor'
responding date in 1953. The decline
since the peak of 35,818 in Septem'
ber 1951 is over 8,500 or 24 per cent.
The different types of buildings
under construction at March 31, 1954;
Houses: Bk'ven.,
Brick Comite 6,480 21,272,000
Houses: Wood 11,979 28,423,000
Houses: Other,
incldg. Fibre'
cement .... 2,899 5,379,000
Flats 730 2,005,000
Shops and dwel-
ings 171 740,000
Shops without
dwellings .... 358 1,270,000
Factories 380 21,555,000
The Belfast Hotel in Hargreaves
Street, Bendigo has been purchased by
the Commonwealth Bank. It is to be
demolished and the site will be used for
a branch bank, shops and public offices.
Work is to be commenced immedi'
ately by the Gas and Fuel Corporation
on the building of its 90'mile pipeline
from Morwell to Dandenong. The
line will later be extended to Tooronga
and willl carry gas to the city from
works now under construction at
Morwell.
The State Government has an'
nounced the appointment of Mr. J. B.
Mulvany as Chairman of the Latrobe
Valley Water and Sewerage Board.
Mr. Mulvany is 47 and a Bachelor of
Engineering. He was sent by the
Government recently to Europe to
s'udy disposal of gasification wastes, the
handling of stream pollution problems
and sewage treatment. The rapid in'
dustrialisation of the Latrobe Valley has
created a major problem for the new
Board.
A large three'Storey factory is to
be built by Electronic Industries Ltd.
on a site recently purchased fronting
Miles, Sturt and Dodds Sts. South
Melbourne.
Mr. Shepherd. Minister for Edu'
cation, has announced a programme
of school building by the State Gov'
ernment. It is proposed to erect nine
new secondaary schools, six new tech'
nical schools, and 23 new primary
schools.
The Australian and New Zealand
Bank, Ltd., has demolished a group of
oM buildings on the southeast oerner
of Lonsdale and Queen Streets. A
67
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


E. D. PIKE & CO. LIMITED
Specialist
POLES
PILES
GIRDERS
SLEEPERS
SAWN
Stock Always
on Hand
WHOLESALE TIMBER
MERCHANTS—EXPORTERS
SAW MILL OWNERS
Saw Mills:
Cloud’s Creek Grafton
Wooloolga Repton
Camelback
Head Office:
ELAMANG AVENUE,
NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Box 1375 J., G.P.0., Sydney.
Cable Address: Timber.
’Phones: XB 1056 (3 lines).
Established Nearly 50 Years.
I
CHAIN FOR ALL PURPOSES
Tested Crane and Pulley Block Chain, Coil Chain, Agricultural
Chains, Load Binders, Non-skid Chains, Hooks, Rings, etc.
Suppliers of Chain to Government Stores and Railways.
BENNETT CHAIN CO. PTY. LTD.
ALFRED STREET, FORTITUDE, VALLEY, QUEENSLAND.
STATE REPRESENTATIVES:
WEST AUSTRALIA: T. R. Lewis, 140 Murray Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: S. W. Scrymgour, Box 813 G. Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Howard Vaughan (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 346 Johnston Street, Abbotsford,
N. 9, Victoria.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Howard Vaughan (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 261-263 Pacific Highway,
North Sydney.
TASMANIA; Eric T. Meagher, 147 Liverpool Street, Hobart.
branch bank and office building will be
erected on the site.
The following members of the Royal
Victorian Institute of Architects have
been elevated to Fellowship. Messrs.
Raymond Berg, E. E. Milston, Noel
B. O’Connor. John W. Overall, R. G.
Parker, Phillip F. Pearce, Frederick
Romburg and Norman E. Schefferle.
The tender of McDougall and Ire-
land Pty. Ltd. for £292,000 has been
acccepted for the Olympic swimming
and diving pool for the Olympic
Games. The architects are Borland,
Murphy and Mclntyre. McDonald
and Ireland Pty. Ltd. are busy com-
pleting the Dyravers Street subway and
the big telephone exchange building in
Flinders Lane East.
Tenders will be called early in July
for the erection of the new Wilson
Hall at Melbourne University. Archi-
tects are Bates, Smart and McCutcheon.
It is expected the new building will
cost about £220,000.
It is announced that a weaving mill
costing about £250,000 is to be estab-
lished at the suburb of Box Hill by
the Belgian Company, Ivo, Bekaert 6?
Sons. Houses for 25 Belgian tech-
nicians will also be built.
Plans are being prepared for exten-
sions to the Freemasons’ Hospital, East
Melbourne. A new building will pro-
vide a further 48 beds and a new
operating theatre. Architects are
Meldrum and Noad.
The Public Works Department has
let a building contract for £64,400
to Costello and Marr, of East Bruns-
wick for the completion of the new
Chemistry School at Melbourne Tech-
nical College.
The Commonwealth Department of
Works has let contracts for Army
Training Depots at Cobram for £35,000
to Clements Langford Pty. Ltd., Rich-
mond; at Ringwood for £27,880 to R.
D. Hannah 6? So,ns, North FiUroy; at
Swan Hill for £32,480 to L. B. Petti-
grove. East Ivanhoe; at Bairnsdale for
.£32,270 to D. and I. M. Black; and
at Balcombe, for new buildings and
additions to the Apprentices’ School,
for £67,255, to F. G. Kerr Pty. Ltd.,
Frankston.
A. C. Leith and Bartlett have in-
vited tenders for earthworks paving,
etCt, for two new drive-in theatres at
Preston and Moorabbin.
A contract has been let by Walker
and Auty, Architects, of Geelong, for
£53,000, to Mr. C. D. Gardner, of
Warrnambool, for extensions and
additions to the Grand Central Hotel,
Warrnambool.
A building permit has been issued
to Lewis Construction Co. Pty. Ltd.,
140 Queen Street, for the erection of
a brick showroom and shops on the
Nicholson Street-Paisley Street corner
at Footscray, for Woolworths.
Five cottages on the site of the
Masonic Homes, Prahran, are to be
demolished and a block of 44 bed-
sitting rooms and bathrooms built, at
an estimated cost of £60,000. Archi-
tects are Godfrey and Spowers,
Hughes, Mewton and Lobb.
The Brotherford of St. Laurence, a
Church of England organisation
which has a settlement in the form
of cottages for old people at Carrum
Downs, is to build a community
centre to be known as “Queen
House”. The new building will in-
clude a main hall, with a sanctuary
at one end for church services and a
stage for concerts and entertainments
at the other end. A dining room
and kitchen is included for the ser-
vice of meals to dwellers who do not
wish to do their own cooking.
A library will rehouse the present
collection of reading matter and there
will be a crafts room for the use of
the elderly residents.
At present a co-operative store is
run by the residents of the com-
munity. This will be extended in a
new site in the “Queen’s House”.
A welfare worker will be able to
“live in” in a flat included in the
building.
The architects for the work are
Chancellor and Patrick, of Frankston.
NEW MELBOURNE PLANT.
Kelvinator Australia Ltd.
A new ultra-modern servicing plant
has just been opened at Port Mel-
bourne by Kelvinator Australia Ltd.
The new plant will enable the com-
pany’s sealed unit refrigerators to be
serviced in Victoria, thus saving time
and transportation costs.
It is part of a chain of modern
plants being established by Kelvinator
which will ultimately make all its
branches self-contained in servicing
their products.
A new servicing plant was opened
by the company in Sydney last July.
Specialised servicing equipment is now
68
Tune 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


BAIN’S EXTERMINATE White
Ants and Borers, pre-heat structural
timbers.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
EXTERMINATOR PTY. LTD.
Famous since 1894.
12 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
BW 9269. Night: XL 3054
Tiles for Walls
and Floors
SUPPLIED AND FIXED
ALSO SANITARYWARE
AVAILABLE
’Phone M 2343, call personally
or write
INDENT TILE
PTY. LIMITED
295 SUSSEX ST., SYDNEY
(a few doors from Bathurst St.)
Agents: Earp Bros. & Co. Pty.
Ltd., Newcastle. B 3231.
Thone BU 1804 For Quick Service ’Phone BU 1804
PLAN COPYING
DYELINES, BLUEPRINTS, PHOTOSTATS.
H. E. Garraway, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney
WALL AND FLOOR TILES
OF COLOUR AND CHARM
FOR BATHROOMS, KITCHENS, HOTELS, CAFES,
SHOPFRONTS, ETC.
ALSO SPECIALISTS IN BUILDERS HARDWARE
Sanitary Ware is stocked in Colours to match Tiles.
•
ALL CLASSES OF WORK SUPPLIED AND FIXED COMPLETE
ZIEMAN, PARKER & GRAHAM
PTY. LTD.
201 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Between King and Market Streets
Tel.: BX 5566
being installed in a new building in
Brisbane.
Before the Sydney and Melbourne
plants were opened, all sealed units
had to be serviced at the Company’s
servicing plant in Adelaide.
Main speakers at the opening were
Kelvinator’s Melbourne Manager (Mr.
R. D. Taylor) and the general tech'
nical manager (Mr. F. S. Daley).
A number of Melbourne business
men, refrigeration engineers and Vic'
torian and Tasmanian distributors and
dealers inspected the plant after the
opening ceremony.
True Education
In the columns of the local Press
during recent months there has been
some controversy on the subject of
University education in the older ac'
cepted sense of the word and the
education as dispensed by some of the
more recent Technical Institutes and
Technological organisations.
Many feel that the new conditions
that have made such radical changes
in our modes of life over the past
fifty years must naturally be reflected
in the type of education, both primary,
secondary and University, that is pro'
vided for the youth of tO'day, and
obviously there is a considerable
amount of truth in this assertion.
Others feel, however, that there is
a danger in the training of techno'
logical specialists of producing the
man who may be an expert in his
particular avocation, but, perhaps,
totally unfitted to take his place in
the wider spheres of life. One recalls
the “reducto ad adsurdum” story of
the expert who specialised more and
more until he knew everything about
nothing.
This problem was more recently
brought to mind by the opinions ex'
pressed by the Archbishop of York,
Dr. Cyril Garbett, preaching at a
Leeds University Jubilee Service in
Leeds Parish Church, when in one
sentence of succinct wisdom he epito'
mised what is required from the true
University:
“From the universities there should
go into the world a continuous stream
of men and women who refuse to be
hypnotised by mass opinion, who have
the courage and knowledge to make
their own decisions, who welcome re'
sponsibility instead of shrinking from
it, and who are ready to be leaders
of thought and action.”
That men and women measuring up
to this high specification are vitally
needed for the propagation and pre'
servation of our heritage is patent to
all. In this materialistic age there is
a strong tendency to measure every'
thing against the yardstick of com'
mercialism. Many of the great men
of the British race would quite pos'
sibly have been bad businessmen, but
their thought, action and leadership
made contributions not measurable in
materials terms. It it the equipping
of the young man and woman to be
able to meet the challenges of the
future to which Dr. Garbett refers
with such knowledge and insight.
Australia, in the preservation of
her ancient seats of learning and in
the developing of the new, should
always remember these fundamental
truths.
NEW POTATO HARVESTER.
A major industrial development is
disclosed with the announcement that
a revolutionary potato harvester, de'
veloped over the last 14 years by an
English agricultural engineer, is to be
mass produced in Britain.
The harvester works on a complete'
ly new principle of soil separation and
potato collection, entirely avoiding the
use of chain belts and sprockets.
There are no bearings or rubber parts
in contact with the soil. Handling of
the crop is gentle, with rubber
“fingers,” and the machine has a rub'
ber separation carpet. Five tons of
soil are handled every miute.
69
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


£S& 2.5& £S& 33.5& &9.&Z.5.& &S.& SS.S.& 35.9.&
b&3si
a
No matter what the job—it it's a question of over-
coming inertia—set the rotors of B.G.E. "Fractionals"
a-buzzing and start moving.
For there are no "drones" amongst B.G.E. "Fractionals 1
—they're ALL "workers".
They come from a hive of industry where nothing is
left to chance—no, not even the "Fractional" driving
your plant at this very moment . . . there's a spare
one ready to make a Bee-line for you when you need it.
That’s B.G.E. SERVICE with a capital BEE.
c GmefcJ Stiecfiuc Cc.
Sydney • Newcastle • Melbourne • Geelong • Adelaide • Brisbane • Perth • Hobart • Launceston • Townsville
REPRESENTING THE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD. OF ENGLAND
8G155.
70
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


"FLOORATEX”
i
COMPOSITION FLOORING AND UNDERLAY
Serviceable, Comfortable, Many Patterns, Laid on Wood,
Steel and Concrete.
Thousands of yards have been laid in Industrial,
Commercial, Domestic Buildings, etc.
Manufactured and Installed by
KEPPIE MACMAHON PTY. LTD.
37 ALFRED STREET, ROZELLE. WB 2465.
** MAHBALINE”
ART MARBLE WALL SHEETING
"LYTHOID 99
MONOLITHIC FLOOR FOR ALL WALLS
AND FLOORS
Manufactured by:
GRAHAM, WARD & CO
Office and Factory:
52-60 FRANCIS STREET, GLEBE
MW 2386
GRACE BROS.
CARRY EXCELLENT STOCKS OF
WHITE AND COLOURED PORCELAIN
ENAMELLED AND EARTHENWARE
BATHROOM EQUIPMENT
(Department now located on GROUND FLOOR,
FURNITURE BUILDING
GRACE BROS.
PTY. LTD.
BROADWAY, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 6506.
New Industrial
Lubricating Service
International Advisory Division
Formed
The Atlantic Union Oil Co. Pty.
Ltd. has announced the formation of a
free international lubrication advisory
division dealing with all aspects of
industrial lubrication.
This is the first occasion in Atlantic’s
history that an advisory service of such
ramifications has been offered to in'
dustry.
The service is unique and is backed
by the world’s largest network of oil
research laboratories. It is already solv'
ing problems which were once con'
sidered insurmountable.
Expert, Practical Advice
The advisory division, the Sales Em
gineering Division of Atlantic Union
Oil Co. Pty. Ltd., who formed to meet
the demands of industry for expert and
practical advice on major and complex
lubrication problems arising in modern
industry.
Overseas Links.
In instances where the problem
extends to other lands, the division
enlists the services of their overseas
engineers and scientists to thoroughly
investigate the case, and pass on their
findings to Australia, where practical
assistance can be given to the industry
concerned.
Progressive Policy.
The establishment of this new divis'
ion is in keeping with the progressive
policy of Atlantic Union in maintain'
secondary industries.
It is predicted that the service will
prove invaluable to all concerned with
lubrication and its problems.
The manager of the service, Mr.
F. D. Marshall, is widely known in
the engineering world, and is respom
sible for many new developments in
technical lubrication and its applica'
tions. He is assisted by the well'
known automotive engineer, Mr. Lloyd
Pomroy.
ALUMINIUM AND ELECTRICITY
ihe production of one lb. of aim
minium requires an average of 9 kilo'
watt hours of electricity with a world
production of just over million tons
of the metal a year. United Nations
report estimates the figure of mil-
lion tons for 1955 and 4\ for 1960.
The amount of electrical energy for
this industry alone will absorb the out'
put of a substan'ial proportion of the
new plant now being installed in the
world’s power stations.
71
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
PLEASE MENTION "BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING" WHEN CONTACTING ADVERTISERS


‘Clearspan’
OPEN LATTICE
25'-0” to 64'-0
SPANS
OPEN WEB
a
4' -6" to 32'-0
SPANS
J
. . . for upper floor, skillion, and
flatroof construction and sawtooth
buildings
Developed to provide econom'
ical and lightweight floor and
roof construction, Standard
Steel “Clearspan” Joists replace
expensive timber and concrete
methods in light occupancy
buildings such as flats, hotels,
offices, hospitals, schools, resi'
dences and factory structures.
Designed in accordance with
Standard Specifications and
Building Codes, these joists are
easily and quickly erected to pro-
vide a floor or roof system to
carry any required loading up to
300 lbs. per sq. ft., concealing
all plumbing, lighting, ventilat'
Ing and other services.
Apart from great savings in cost,
the elimination of intermediate
column supports over wide
areas, with flush ceilings unem
cumbered by projecting beams
or girders, are advantages of
“Clearspan” Joist construction
that every architect and builder
will appreciate.
STANDARD STEEL CO.
PTY. LTD.
439 KING ST., MELBOURNE. VIC.. FJ 9339.
310 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY, N.S.W.. BU 2237.
Manufacturers of the famous range of
CLEARSPAN BUILDINGS AND GENERAL STRUCTURAL
STEELWORK
J
m
n
£lp|
72
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING; LIGHTING: ENGINEERING.


m- ' ■*'
till
'tl "*
****** *• —■ m " "■ i|l? ■■
- •««■::■;.. ■-' ';• .*i ; :-•!'■: v : >: ■' ' >
A
OVERHEAD TRAVELLING CRANES OF ALL TYPES
(@)
Manufactured to specification
C. J. Hasemer Pty. Ltd.
6 RICH STREET, MARRICKVILLE
’Phone: LM 5437
Building Research and Development
IN AUSTRALIA AND ABROAD.
Bloated Clay Aggregate A New Use For An Old Method.
The lack of good quality aggregates
for making lightweight concrete has
led to a search for other materials suit'
able for this purpose. In addition to ex'
amining materials that have not been
used in building before, research
scientists are also studying materials
that have been used in building for
centuries. Included in this latter cate'
gory is brickmaking clay, of which
there are plentiful supplies in most
parts of the world.
Several years ago clay technologists
in the U.S.A. discovered that certain
clays, when expanded or bloated, are
suitable as lightweight aggregate for
concrete. Some clays contain the fluxes
and gasTorming minerals required for
good bloating while others need the
addition of other minerals to assist
them to bloat. As the result of its
work on Australian clays the Divi'
sion of Building Research of the
C.5.1.R.0. has evolved means for cm
verting some local clays into light'
weight aggregate.
Method of Manufacture of Bloated
Clay Aggregate
The clay is partly dried and ground
to ensure uniformity of composition.
It is then fed into a rotating cylim
drical pelletiser and a fine spray of
water is played on it and pellets of
clay are formed round the droplets by
the rotary action. The size of the pel'
lets can be controlled by varying the
proportion of the water the size of
the droplets and the rate of rotation
of the Pelletiser .In this way both fine
and coarse aggregate may be produced
with a rounded, sealed surface. The
pellets are then fired in a rotary Hln.
each size ran<*e of pellet being fired
separately with different firing times
and temperatures.
This method is different from that
generally in use abroad where the
“fines” is produced by crushing the
larger aggregate. This exposes the
cellular interior of the aggregate which
fills with cement paste during the mak'
ink of concrete and results in denser
and less workable concrete.
Pellets for coarse aggregate are pro'
duced in two sizes, and iin.'
ih’n. and for fine aggregate from
down. The pellets expand about
50 per cent, by volume on firing.
The light weight of bloated clay
aggregate produces abnormal working
characteristics compared to normal con'
Crete, but by mixing thoroughly and
providing extra “turning” when hand
mixing, a uniform concrete can be
obtained. Providing the mix is well
proportioned there should be no ten'
dency to segregation during either mix'
ing or placing.
The use of bloated clay aggregate
in concrete reduces the dead load of
a building. For suspended floor work,
where the live load is of the same
order as the dead load, this will reduce
the volume of concrete used by about
15 per cent.
Experience overseas shows that
handling costs can be 15'20 per cent,
lower with normal concrete used under
similar conditions.
The compressive strengths of con'
Crete made with this aggregate are
comparable with those considered satis'
factory for normal structural concrete,
for example in the region of 3,000 lb.
per square inch.
Clays from the Ipswich area of Bris'
bane, Queensland, Wianamatta and
Hawkesbury in N.S.W. and some Mel'
bourne clays have proved suitable for
bloating for use as lightweight aggre'
pates in concrete. A commercial firm
in Sydney has set up a pilot plant
in prenaration for going into produc'
tion of this type of aggregate.
Compiled by Building Research Liai'
son Service, P.O. Box 2807 AA, Mel'
bourne, to whom enquiries for further
information on this subject may be
addressed.
Prestressed Concrete
Lintels
Australia’s Largest At Manly.
The biggest prestressed concrete lim
tel ever made in Australia was recently
placed in position to span a block of
shops in Condamine Street, Manly,
Sydney.
The lintel, which is 30in. deep and
18in. wide, spans a clear opening of
36ft., its overall length being 38ft. Sin.
Prestressing was done by Concrete
Industries (Australia) Ltd. for the
Ardini Construction Company,
Method Adopted.
Prestressing was done by passing
small diameter high'tensile steel wires
through holes running from end to
end of the beam. The wires were then
stressed to about 70 per cent, of their
ultimate strength, anchored to the ends
of the beam and the holes through
which they pass filled with concrete.
The lintel was built to carry a uni'
form load of 40 tons. If it had been
reinforced with steel rods it would
have measured 47in. by 20in.
The number of people employed in
the Netherlands has increased from
1.800.000 in 1930 to over 2,500,000
today. They are spread over 400,000
establishments. Total machine power
used in the Netherlands has risen from
1.900.000 h.p. to about 4,500,000 h.p.
73
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
fune 24, 1954.


TO
BUILDERS
AND
MASTER PAINTERS
Ever since the Berger Group of
Companies pioneered the estab-
lishment of a Paint and Colour
Advisory Bureau known as the
Mayfair Colour Centre, this unit
has proved of great assistance to
Builders, Master Painters. Con-
tractors, Architects and others
interested in the problems of
surface treatments on buildings,
new and old.
To-day throughout Australia
thousands of homes, factories,
offices, hospitals, banks and other
institutions have been colour
schemed by Mayfair, with results
that have always reflected credit
on the Contractor concerned.
TfiQ services of the Mayfair
Colour Centre are given com-
pletely without charge. Skilled
colour consultants prepare colour
schemes for smaller buildings and
carry out a complete pre-paint-
ing survey for larger projects
where paint and colour are used
not only to beautify and protect,
but also to improve working
conditions, assist in traffic control,
help prevent accidents, increase
production efficiency and fulfil
numerous other functional tasks.
The Mayfair Colour Centre is
always available to help in
YOUR painting problems. May-
fair is a SERVICE unit and
wants to be of service to YOU.
All you do is ’phone, call in or
write to . . .
THE
MAYFAIR
COLOUR CENTRE
lie CASTLEREAGH ST.
’Phone; BW 1781
"BAILEY” BRIDGE CROSSES THE RHINE.
One of the outstanding wartime developments In welding was the construction of
welded-high-tensile-trusses, designed by Sir Donald Bailey, for rapid assembly to
replace damaged or destroyed roadways and bridges. Here the "Bailey” truss is
put to a peacetime and more permanent use in this Bridge across the Rhine.
UNIQUE SCHOOL HALL CONSTRUCTION.
The new Methodist Hall, Crawley, Sussex, has been constructed by the unusual
method of completing the frame work and the roof before building the brick screen
walls. ABOVE: The external appearance of the building, incorporating hall and
school class rooms. BELOW: The main hall (to be temporarily used as a church)
32ft. wide of pre-cast portal frames with coffered ceiling. Large metal frame
windows are a feature of the hall.
A MECHANISED CRAFTSMAN.
This rather complicated looking machine is the Barber-Greene Olding 44C ditcher.
It is possible to manoeuvre it to trenching and ditching at all angles. It can
dig straight down into the ground leaving no ramp or step to be excavated by hand.
74
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


No. of
Telephones
Calls
per
per annum
Telephones.
100 persons.
per person
45,636,437
30.3
382
1,788,874
26.4
306
3,140,000
22.9
389
952,450
20.9
157
394,565
20.9
—
760,244
18.1
257
1,439,244
15.3
121
—‘
‘Tele'Com”.
HARDWOODS
ALL DESCRIPTIONS AND SIZES—HEWN AND SAWN
GIRDERS JOISTS
PILES FLOORINGS
SLEEPERS POLES 6? CROSSARMS
ALLEN TAYLOR & CO. LTD.
WHOLESALE SUPPLIERS AND EXPORTERS
Cable Address: “Tuxedo”
ROZELLE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Codes: Bentley’s Complete and Second Phase, and Private.
ARCHITECTS STILL LACK
RECOGNITION
Views of British Association
President
In his presidential message to The
Incorporated Association of Architects
and Surveyors, Lt.'Col. A. E. Henson,
F.R.1.8.A., F.I.AA. & S„ A.l.Struct.E.,
said that since he had joined the As-
sociation as a founder'member in
1926, the professions connected with
building had endured great vicissitudes,
and even tO'day architects and sur'
veyors lacked that measure of public
acceptance and recognition that was
accorded to many other professions.
“The incidence of war, threats of
war and the aftermath of war are no
doubt in part accountable for this,”
stated the president. “But not wholly.
The responsibility in some degree is
our own. We have not succeeded in
impressing upon the public imagination
the importance of our work—its value
to the community both in physical
well'being and in its contribution to
our national prestige and greatness.
Interests Not Sufficiently Protected.
Speaking as an architect, I am con'
vinced that this is partly because we
have not sufficiently protected our own
interests. We have not been strong
enough or united enough to resist
encroachments upon our indepen'
dence, either as private practitioners or
as salaried officials. We have not
made our voice heard in Councils of
State when building matters were at
issue. Neither have we been vigorous
in opposing at their outset practices
and tendencies—too many to enumer'
ate —that were manifestly injurious to
the cause of architecture and building
in general.”
“As I see it, the architectural pro'
fession, and some branches of the
surveying profession too, are suffering
from an entirely artificial division be-
tween the private and the official
practitioner. The latter class has grown
enormously since 1939. Many have
elected to join it, but others have been
forced into it by the dearth of private
work.
Vicissitudes of Private Practices.
“In private practice a few large
offices have a steady flow of work, but
the majority—especially of architects
—depend on sporadic commissions
which make the maintenance of assist'
ants and economic office management
difficult propositions .
“The smaller practitioner and young
men starting on their own account run
into especial hardships, for they often
have to encounter competition from
unqualified persons who are permitted
to advertise their services, and some'
times, I fear, from employees in local
government who undertake commis'
sions at cut rates. I would like to
see a numerical balance agreed and
maintained between private and official
practitioners. I am convinced, in any
case, that an adequately patronised
quota of private practitioners is to the
advantage of the whole of the pro'
fessions.” “The Contract Journal,”
London.
ENGINEERING EXHIBITION
AT THE SHOWGROUND
The Sydney Engineering Exhibition
is to be held at the Showground from
July 5 to 10 next, and will be open
from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Pro'
moted by the Industrial Public Rela'
tions Service of Australia, its slogan
is “A thousand ideas to speed produc'
tion.”
SNOWY POWER AVAILABLE
SOON.
VaSt Project Proceeds Apace.
Within seven months the Munyang
power station, perched high upon the
blizzard'swept snowlands, will begin
feeding the first Snowy Mountains
hydro'electricity into New South Wales’
interconnected system.
The first phase of the enormous
Snowy scheme, the self'Contained
<£7,000,000 Guthega'Munyang project,
is now nearing completion, and the
State will soon draw its first tangible
benefit from the .£400,000,000 Snowy
Mountains hydro'electric and irrigation
scheme.
THE WORLD'S TELEPHONES
Australia Seventh
Since the end of World War II
Australia has made steady progress in
improving its communications system,
yet she only rates seventh among
world countries in telephone facilities.
The latest survey showed 79,400,000
telephones in world service, with the
United States well out in front with
more than 45,000,000 telephones.
Sweden ranked second with a 26.4
per cent. figure on population.
Canada followed a close third—22.9.
Switzerland ranked equal fourth with
Country.
U.S.A
Sweden
Canada
Switzerland
New Zealand
Denmark
Australia
New Zealand with a percentage figure
of 20.9. Sixth is Denmark with 18.1
telephones per capital. Seventh is
Australia with 15.3 per 100 of popula'
don.
Here however comes an interesting
development in the statistics. In
countries having more than one million
telephones, Canada leads U.S.A. on
telephone conversations with 389 con'
versations per 100 persons as against
382 in U.S.A. Australia ranks fourth
with a figure of 121.
75
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


THE NEW DOOR AND WINDOW TRIM
SUPPLIES READILY AVAILABLE
BARTON STAGGS PTY. LTD., Rothwell Avenue, Concord West • UF 3290
and Stockists and Distributors throughout Australia A.P.3
GRANITE, FREESTONE,
TER R AZO, MAR RLE
For Youi Requirements Write to
P. J. LOWTHER & SON PTY. LTD.
QUARRY OWNERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Commonwealth and State Public Works Contractors.
Suppliers of Freestone and Terrazzo.
108 LUTWYCHE ROAD, BOWEN BRIDGE, BRISBANE
’Phone: LU 3151 (3 lines) Box 105, P. 0., Valley, N.l
Workers’ Compensation
Insurance
NEW SOUTH WALES
Insure with the Timber Industry’s own Company, which
caters specially for the Trade. You will benefit from our
Lower Rates, Prompt Service, and Specialised Knowledge
of the Industry’s problems.
Timber Trade Mutual Insurance Ltd.
“STRATHKYLE,” 19/23 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
G.S.R. Chairman
Reports Progress
Building Materials Sales Higher
COMPANY HAD GOOD
TRADING YEAR
At the annual meeting of share'
holders of C.S.R. Ltd., on Wednesday
last, June 9, the Chairman, Mr. E. R.
Knox traced the progress of the affairs
and industries in which this company
is engaged.
The balance sheet for the year end'
ed March 31, 1954, disclosed a net
profit of £ 1,417,943. approximating 7
per cent, on the authorised capital of
£20,000,000, as against £1,366,394
last year. The assets of the company
now amount to £54,104,891.
He said Australian raw sugar pro'
duction for 1953 was 1,213.000 tons;
297,000 tons or 32 per cent, greater
than the previous highest.
Of this record Australian output, the
Company’s seven mills made 235,800
tons. Included in this is 33,000 tons
from the N.S.W. mills, a recovery from
the 13,800 tons of the previous year,
but still below normal.
As a result of the large programme
of capital work, begun in 1950, work
tensions has been heavy; over the four
Queensland mills is nearing com'
pletion. The cost of these major ex'
tensions has been heavy; oveh the four
years 1950'54 the fixed asset value of
Australian mills has risen by nearly
£5,000,000.
Building Materials Division
The value of sales of building mat'
erials was 18 per cent, higher than for
the previous year, Mr. Knox said.
“The building industry has re'
covered from the severe recession of
18 months ago and the rate at which
new homes are being built in Austra'
lia is now 19,000 a quarter, compared
with the peak rate of 22,000 in 1951.
“For the first time since the war,
office and commercial buildings are
being erected in most States. The sales
prospects for the current year are
good.
“The Commonwealth and W.A.
Governments and our subsidiary com'
pany, Australian Blue Asbestos Ltd.,
have spent slightly more than £2,000,'
000 developing the asbestos industry at
Wittenoom of. which A.B.A. has pro
vided £1,650,000. Production is now
4500 tons of fibre a year."
Continuing Mr. Knox said:
“As forecast in my address last year,
the market overseas for asbestos fibre
has deteriorated and the selling price
of the asbestos we produce at Wit'
tenpom is now 20 per cent, above
world price for this grade of fibre.
“With greater production our seh
76
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


WINDOW FRAMES
MADE TO SPECIFICATION
• STEEL
• BRONZE
0 ALUMINIUM
-
J. CONNOLLY LTD.
43 MOUNTAIN STREET,
P.O. Box 49, BROADWAY
’Phone M 2587 for Expert
Advice
N to
<u :
® ® = Z-i ;
o c ® “ i
-C-C -L _
2 «J-D ;
O *0
15 5 iJ
JS o =
2 i
Out CO o
cr
W
ft
N
S
S
g
~U
>:
>*
a
s
< =
o =
x =
Q
cr
>•
o =
< =
DC
o =
y*
s
o m
W
~a
< =
s 3
FiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinrH
ling price can be reduced to current
world price, but for this important em
terprise to continue with some measure
of stability, it is necessary to obtain
protection on the Australian market.
“At present Australia uses about
30,000 tons per annum of asbestos
fibre of various types imported duty
free.
“In these circumstances 'we have
asked the Tariff Board for a duty on
imported fibre, but have proposed
complete rebate of such duty provided
Australian blue asebstos is used with
the imported material to the extent of
15 per cent, of the total fibre.”
Building Materials
The following C.S.R. building mat'
erials are marketed by the company in
Australia:—
• Canedte insulating interior wall'
board, made in three finishes: natural,
primed, and ivory. Sold in 12 sizes
from 6 ft. x 3 ft. to 12 ft. x 4 ft.
White ant proofed.
• Timbrock wood fibre hardboard;
flexible, splinterless, grainless. White
ant proofed.
• Gyprock interior wallboard. Its
hard mineral finish is resistant to
borers, white ants and vermin. Fire'
proof.
• Fibrock asbestos cement building
products, in corrugated roofiing, gut'
tering and down pipe; flat sheets and
accessories; and exterior wall sidings.
• Canedte Acousti'Tiles; 12in. x
12in. made of Canedte. Each tile has
484 small holes which absorb sound
and reduce noise.
• C.S.R. Floor tiles, in 17 different
colours; long wearing.
• C.S.R. Building Plasters, manufac'
tured in N.S.W. by Concord Plaster
Mills and in Victoria by Brunswick
Plaster Mills.
C.S.R. Chemicals
The Chairman reported that sales
of most chemicals marketed by C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty. Ltd. showed a progres'
sive incerase throughout the past 12
months. The demand for laquer sol'
vents has been very keen and new
plant additions have been fully engaged
supplying the demand.
The new cellulose acetate plant at
Rhodes operated very well technically,
but sales have not yet reached expect'
ations, and the selling price has been
low.
An application has been made to
the Tariff Board for protection, but the
finding has not yet been known, the
Chairman’s report added.
FLUORESCENT OUSTS GAS.
Fluorescent lighting has ousted gas
in London’s 1 argest street lighting
scheme. New Oxford Street, the new
route to the west through Holborne,
has for 100 years been lighted by gas,
but now 108 fluorescent lamps, made
by General Electric Co., have trans'
formed the night appearance. This
installation extends into St. Giles
Circus and part of Kingsway.
—“Electric Times”, 18/3/54.
New Sydney Building
£1,000,000 PROJECT.
Work on a £1,000,000 car parking
and business office building in Sydney
is expected to begin about September.
Wbrk on the lower floors, which
includes the parking space, is expected
to be complete within six months and
the building completed by June. 1956.
It will be located on the western
side of Kent Street near the Harbour
Bridge approach. The building will
be 120 feet above the Kent Street
level and 150 feet above the rear level
which opens on to Jenkins Street.
Total floor area of the building will
be 250,000 square feet, of which
100.000 square feet will be used as
office space. Parking space for 450
cars will be provided.
It will be known as the Collings'
Power Centre.
A feature of the construction will
be the nine storeys of office space
supported on columns projecting from
the parking and garage space.
It will be the first time that this
type of construction ha§__been used
on a major building in Sydney.
In the offices, the walls will be
almost entirely of glass and no desk,
however placed in the offices, can be
more than 25 feet from natural light.
Builtdn sun hoods on each floor will
control solar heat and glare.
The lower portion of the building
will cover the entire area of the site,
20.000 square feet, but the office block
above will only cover about 10,000
square feet.
The first floor, which will be the
car showroom and roof parking area,
will be accessible by internal ramps.
Each of the lower ground floors will
have direct access from a graded road
level. E. M. Nicholls is the Architect.
[See illustration on page 79.]
77
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


Air Rail
Miles Miles
Brisbane to Syd. 471 hrs.) 613
Sydney to Canb. 181 (1 hr.) 202
Syd. to Melbourne 455 hrs.) 590
Canberra to Melb. 312 hrs.) 519
Melb. to Adelaide 404 (2£ hrs.) 483
Melb. to Hobart 381 (2 hrs.)
Adelaide to Perth 1415 hrs.) 1622
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
IN MANY FIELDS THE NAME IS NOT OF
GREAT IMPORTANCE BUT IN THE FIELD OF-
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR
LIFTS
THE NAME OF -
STANDARD - WAYGOOD LTD.
816-822 BOURKE ST., WATERLOO, N.S.W. PHONE MX 3481
IS THE HALLMARK OF QUALITY & DEPENDABILITY!
INTERESTING FACTS.
Australia is 2,974,581 square miles.
Inside Australia you could squeeze 32
United Kingdoms, 24 Norways, 29 Ne
Zealands, 4 Mexicos, or 4 Indonesias.
The population density compares with
other countries as follows:—Australia,
2.9 persons per square mile; Nether'
lands, 764.6: Belgium, 731.3; United
Kingdom 534.6; Germany 497.5 r
U.S.A. 49.4; Canada 3.7.
Distances
Transport is the largest single in'
dustry in Australia as can readily be
seen by the following table:
Air Statistics
Australia operates 78,919 miles of
internal air routs. The above tables
gives indication of the enormous dis'
tances between cities.
(From Watson Victor Ltd’s. “House
Bulletin” in telling the close liaison
maintained between their organisa'
tion.
EFFECTIVE PLANNING.
An octagonal building suitable for a lecture hall, an orchestra, a dancing school,
or a dressmaker's salon. Clear visability from the steeply ascending gallery is
assured: whilst light, subdued by vanes, is augmented where required by a few
spotlights.
78
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
Tune 24, 1954.


Survey of Manufacturing Activity
INDUSTRY WARNED TO CUT COSTS.
Owner-builder Serious Threat To Building Trade.
In a survey of manufacturing activity in Australia, the Division of National
Development warns that the progressive lowering of Australian manufacturing
costs is imperative.
The Division says that production
and sales made new records in March
and April this year. But it points out
that industry cannot much longer post'
pone the issue of post' inflationary
adjustment which import licensing
shelved. Future prospects hinge on
industry’s ability to trim costs and
prices.
The Division states that production
probably will level off on a high plane
after the second quarter of 1954.
The problem for manufacturers in
heavy engineering industries is com-
petition for a dwindling supply of
large developmental works.
Building Materials.
The problems for industries supply'
ing metals and building materials is a
labour scarcity. In a comprehensive
survey of building materials and build'
ing construction, the Division says the
number of employees in the 47 Aus'
tralian terracotta tile works is between
1300 and 1400.
In response to demand, output is
continuing its uninterrupted increase
over the last few years to record levels.
Production in the eight months end'
ed February, 1954 (42,000,000 tiles)
represented a 13% increase on the
corresponding period of 1953
(37,200,000).
Sales, moving with production, are
also at an all'time high.
The industry is operating at close
to practical capacity. Any further in'
crease in roofing tile demand will have
to be met by the cement tile industry,
failing works extensions or setting up
of new plants.
Fibrous Plaster Sheet.
Australia now has some 400 fac'
tones, employing 3500 workers. Out'
put continues at record levels—ll.l3
million sq. yds. in the eight months
to February, 1954, compared with
14.13 million sq. yds. in the corres'
ponding period last year or 11% in'
crease.
Assuming adequate labour is avail'
able, the Division forecasts a con-
tinuance of rising production for the
balance of this year.
Clay Bricks.
More than founfifths of buildinp
bricks used in Australia are made of
clav. The 250 clav brickworks env
pW some 5000 workers.
Production has mcreased in the last
six months and currently running
at about 750,000,000 a year, almost
80% full capacity.
For the seven months ending
January, 1954, the output of
453,000,000 bricks was 23% higher
than in the equivalent months of the
previous year.
The growth of activity is common
to all States, but particularly in Vic'
toria and N.S.W. Lack of sufficient
labour hinders reopening of idle kilns
in these States. This position is
creating recurring brick shortages.
Asbestos Cement.
Four companies, operating 10 works
employing some 1500 workers, pro'
duce flat and corrugated asbestos
cement sheets in Australia.
Output has risen from 15.9 million
sq. yds. in the eight months ended
February, 1953, to 17.2 million sq.
yds. in the same period to February,
1954. Most plants are running at
about 75% of capacity, but labour is
hard to obtain.
Current record production is a little
in excess of demand. Prospects are
that output will remain at about its
present level this year. Demand will
increase if galvanised iron becomes
scarcer.
Cement Roofing Tiles.
Cement tiles currently supply almost
40% of Australia’s roofing tile re-
quirements; two years ago, when terra
cotta tiles were in very short supply,
cement tile output for Australia
(66,000,000 in 195L52) exceeded
terracotta tile production.
The cement tile industry is strongest
in S.A. and W.A. Victoria and
N.S.W. each have four to five large
works, and numbers of “backyarders.”
Continued overleaf.
£1,000,000 PARKING AND OFFICE BUILDING TO START SHORTLY.
It is expected that this new building to provide parking space and office accom-
modation will commence in September. It is located on the western side of Kent
Street, near the southern approach to the Harbour Bridge. It will be known as the
Collings-Power Centre.
79
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
June 24, 1954.


Continued from previous page.
The increase in building activity has
revived the cement roofing tile indus-
try particularly in N.S.W., where
shortages of terracotta tiles have re-
curred.
Galvanised Iron.
The supply of this commodity has
deteriorated since October, 1953.
Plain and corrugated galvanised iron,
and further processed products, such
as guttering, down pipes, tanks and
domestic goods, are in very short sup-
ply.
The demand for galvanised iron is
estimated to have increased from about
160,000 tons a year in October, 1953,
to 165,000 tons at the present time.
Although distribution of galvanised
iron has been decontrolled in all States
except Victoria, the pressure of de-
mand is such that all available iron is
still distributed to users who had
priority when controls were in force.
Manufacturers, in other words, still
allocate to each State the percentage
of production they were entitled to
under control.
Serious shortages appear to be in-
evitable in the next two years if the
current general level of industrial
activity is maintained, without exces-
sive recourse to exports, the Division
warns.
Cement.
There are 13 cement works in
Australia, employing 2500 workers.
Two new plants are in course of erec-
tion. Portland cement production has
never been higher. Output in 1953,
at 1,575,300 tons, was over 18%
higher than in 1952, and was achieved
principally by new kilns coming into
use in most States.
The Division reports that the Aus-
tralian Portland cement industry con-
tinues to be prosperous and stable.
Improved production has reduced
shortages and lessened the need for
imports. Prospects are favourable for
the balance of the year.
Building Construction.
Housing completions in the first
half of 1952-53 were maintained at
the same level as in 1951-52 and 1952-
53, about 80,000 a year. Dwellings
commenced in July-December, 1953,
totalled 38,170, a 22% increase over
the previous year, but 14% less than
in July-December, 1951.
Owner-builders in the last half of
1953 were responsible for nearly 40%
of housing activity.
Commercial and industrial building
maintained a high level. Although
the value of these new buildings did
not fluctuate greatly up to March,
1953 (between £55,000,000 and
£65,000,000 per year), there has been
a marked improvement in the com-
pletion rate in the past three or four
years.
In 1949-50 the value of non-
residential buildings completed was
only £18,400,000. Last year it was
£66,000,000, and in the first half of
1953-54 nearly £40,000,000. Since
March, 1953, there has also been a
substantial increase in commencements.
This year the commencement rate has
been equivalent to nearly £80,000,000.
Owner-builders.
The Division warns that the owner-
builder continues to be a serious com-
petitor to the house-building industry.
“As the industry appears to be un-
able to reduce prices sufficiently to
attract demand away from people who
become owner-builders, any substantial
increase in its output seems to be con-
tingent upon greater availability of
finance on terms suitable for persons
without a large cash deposit,” the
Division states in its Survey.
FLOODS IN CAPRICORNIA.
Capricornia Regional Electricity
Board area, in Queensland, was re'
cently flooded in a cyclonic storm
which submerged a large proportion
of its 32,000 square miles. The Board
has made a virtue of its difficulty by
making an aerial survey in selecting
flood-free sites for substations and
transmission lines. The Board has a
<£l million works programme this year
and an even larger one for 1955.
—“Electric and Radio World.”
INDEX TO ADVERTISERS
Aluminium Union Ltd 10
Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia) Ltd —■
Austral Bronze Co. Pty. Ltd
Australian Aluminium Co. Pty. Ltd 9
Australian Blue Metal Ltd 77
Australian Gas Light Co 50
Australian General Electric Pty. Ltd 60
Australian Paper Manufacturers Pty. Ltd. 8
Australian Tesselated Tile Co. Pty. Ltd.
Australasian United Paint Co. Ltd
Bain’s White Ant Exterminator Pty. Ltd. 69
Barton S'taggs Pty. Ltd 76
Bennett Chain Co. Pty. Ltd 68
Berger, Lewis, 6? Sons (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. 74
British Australian Lead Manufacturers
Pty. Ltd 14
British General Electric Co. Pty. Ltd. .. 70
Broken Hill Pty. Co
Budge, James, Pty. Ltd —■
Cable Makers Australia Pty. Ltd
C.C. Distributors Pty. Ltd
Cement 6? Concrete Association of
Australia
Chartres Ltd 59
Chubb’s Australian Co. Ltd
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd
Condor Lamps (Aust.) Pty. Ltd 54
Connolly, J., Ltd 79
Cooke, Sidney (United Nail), Pty. Ltd.
Cyclone Tubular Construction - Division
of Cyclone Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd.
Fibrous Plaster Association of N.S.W. .. 52
Fowler, R., Ltd 62
Garraway, H. E 69
Grace Bros. Pty. Ltd 71
Graham Ward Co 71
Hardie, James, 6? Co. Pty. Ltd
Hasemer, C. J., Pty. Ltd 73
Highways Pty. Ltd
Hornibrook, M. R. (Pty.) Ltd 65
Indent Tile Pty. Ltd ; 69
Insulwool Products Pty. Ltd
International Harvester Company of
.Australia Pty. Ltd 2
Jenson &? Nicholson (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. 58
Keppie McMahon Pty. Ltd 71
Lowther, P. J., & Son Pty. Ltd 76
Lysaght, John (Australia), Pty. Ltd
Marr, Gordon, 6? Sons Pty. Ltd 9
Masonite Corporation (Aust.) Ltd
Mathwin, Wm., Son (Newcastle) Ltd.
Meggitt, Harold, Ltd iv.
Meggitt Ltd 5
Melocco Bros. Pty. Ltd 1
Millars’ Timber 6? Trading Co. Ltd 53
Mills Steel Scaffolds (A Division 'of
Lysaght Pty. Ltd.) 15
Moore Crane £?* Engineering Co. Pty.
Ltd
Morris Hedstrom Ltd -
Muralo Co. (Aust.) Ltd 51
Neuchatel Asphalte Co. (A’asia) Pty. Ltd.
Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd
Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Ltd
O’Brien, F. G., Ltd - 4
O’Donnell Griffin, F. T., 6P Co. Pty.
Ltd
Olympic Cables Ltd
Otis Elevator Company Pty. Ltd. 7
Philips Electrical Industries of Australia
Pty. Ltd 3
Pike, E. D., 6? Co. Ltd 68
Ponsford, Newman 6? Benson Ltd
Roof 6? Building Service Pty. Ltd
Rowe, H., 6? Co. Pty. Ltd 11
Sandy, James, Pty. Ltd ii.
Siemens (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. 57
Springvale Conveyor &? Equipment Co.
Pty. Ltd 66
Standard Steel Co. Pty. Ltd 72
Standard Waygood Ltd 78
Stewarts 6? Lloyds (Aust.) Pty. Ltd 56
Steelbilt Ltd
Sydney County Council Electricity Under-
taking 16
Tanner Middleton Pty. Ltd 62
Taylor, Allen Co. Ltd 75
Textile Cones 6? Tubes Pty. Ltd 8
Thompson, H. W., Pty. Ltd
Timber Trade Mutual Insurance Ltd 76
Westeels Industries Ltd 13
Wilkinson, Heywood fe? Clark
Wormald Brothers Industries Ltd 6
Wunderlich Ltd 49, 58, 64
Zieman, Parker 6? Graham Pty. Ltd 69
80
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING


EXPANSION IN VARIOUS FIELDS
At the present time it would seem that Australia is on the brink of great building activity and this series of illustrations
We pre P ared various facets of this expansion. At the top is St. George’s Antioch Orthodox Church at
Redfern Sydney which is about to be erected, the architect being R. Lindsay Little. Opposite it is the well-known
Chevron Private Hotel St. Kilda Rd., Melb., which has recently been sold to Stanhill Pty. Ltd., for £215,600. In the centre is
an architect's sketch showing the great expansion that is Projected by Rootes (Australia) Ltd. whereby the factory space
in Melbourne will be doubled to give a total of 300,000 square feet. At the bottom is Albert Hall, Canberra, at which
history was recently made when the first sessions of the Petrov Inquiry were conducted therein.
III
Tunc 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING; ENGINEERING


m
ISA [LEO
c
1
■*«
&,
Oil
LINSEED OIL
HAROLD M EGG ITT LTD.
PUNT ROAD, GLADESVI LLE—TELEPHONE: WX 3231
No connection with any other firm of similar name.
IV
June 24, 1954.
BUILDING: LIGHTING: ENGINEERING
