

Solid Earth Geophysics
Newsletter issue 28 June 2002
New Geophysical Fluid Dynamics
Laboratory at the ANU
Dr Ross Kerr and Prof, Ross Griffiths
Research School of Earth Sciences, The Australian National University
ross.kerr@anu.edu.au ross.griffiths@anu.edu.au
(or see: http://rses.anu.edu.au/gfd/)
In March last year, the Federal Minister for the Environment Senator Robert Hill officially opened
a new geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory at the Australian National University. The purpose-
built premises includes a 300 m 2 main laboratory (Fig. 1), a 30 m 2 temperature-controlled
laboratory whose temperature can be maintained in the range 2-30 C, a darkroom, and a support
area for the construction of equipment. The laboratory brings together staff with fluid dynamical
expertise in the modelling of a range of ocean circulation processes and geological flows. This
breadth reflects the wide-ranging importance of fluid dynamics (through the transport of heat,
mass and momentum) in geological, geophysical, oceanographic and environmental phenomena.
Recent fluid dynamics research in the new lab and of interest to the Solid Earth Geophysics
community includes an investigation of the dynamics of the growth of lava domes, by PhD student
David Osmond and Prof, Ross Griffiths. They have investigated the shape of very slowly growing
lava domes extruded onto slopes when the highly silicic lava has a yield strength. Laboratory
experiments were performed using slurries made from a mixture of polyethylene glycol (PEG)
wax and kaolin clay extruded on to a sloping plane (Fig, 2), and the results compared with their
Fig. 1: One of 9 bays
in the main
geophysical fluid
dynamics laboratory.
SGSEG NEWSLETTER 28 June 2002


analytical and numerical solutions. By using the ratio of the cross-slope width to the down-slope
length of the flow, they have found a means of estimating the yield strength of highly silicic lava
flows on simple slopes.
Another study, by Dr Ross Kerr, addressed a recent geological controversy over whether laminar
lava flows are able to thermally erode the ground over which they flow. To answer this question,
experiments were performed in which hot PEG wax flowed down a sloping channel over a layer of
cold solidified PEG wax. The experiments demonstrated the growth and meltback of an initial
chill layer (Fig. 3), at rates in good agreement with theoretical predictions based on forced
convective heat transfer during laminar channel flow at large Peclet numbers. The results have
already been used to explain field observations of thermal erosion by basaltic lava flows at Hawaii,
Mt. St. Helens and the East Pacific Rise, and by natrocarbonatite lava flows at Oldoinyo Lengai in
Tanzania.
Prof. Ross Griffiths, Dr Ross Kerr and Prof. Katherine Cashman (University of Oregon, USA)
recently began an investigation of solidification on the surface of long channelised lava flows. In
their experiments, PEG wax flows down an inclined, open rectangular channel immersed in cold
water. They have found two regimes, depending on the flow velocity and on the temperatures of
the wax and water relative to the freezing temperature of the wax (Fig. 4). For sufficiently high
flow speeds and temperatures, a solid surface crust develops in the centre of the channel some
distance from the source. The crust remains separated from the walls by crust-free shear regions as
it is carried down the channel. Under these conditions solidification also occurs very close to the
source within the sidewall boundary layers, where the solid phase is continually sheared and
broken into small pieces. At lower flow speeds and temperatures the solid creates a stationary roof
and flow continues through an insulated channel beneath. It is already clear that a detailed
understanding of these processes will be crucial for the modelling of lava flows that resurface
much of the Earth’s crust.
Fig. 2: Overhead photoglyphs of slurry domes flowing down a slope (towards the bottom of the
page). The white circles indicate the source locations.
2
SGSEG NEWSLETTER 28 June 2002


■M**- RH I [
Fig. 3: Views up the channel towards the source, showing the formation and meltback of a chill
layer in a thermal erosion experiment. The first photograph (left) was taken after 2 minutes, and
shows the white chill layer that has formed on top of the original cold ground (dyed blue). The
second photograph (right) was taken after 36 minutes, and shows that the chill layer has been
completely eroded along the centre of the channel but still remains along its sides.
Fig. 4: Overhead photographs of the two regimes of flow with surface solidification along a 44
mm wide channel. The flow is down slope from left to right. The upper photograph shows the
formation of a mobile central crust with sidewall shear layers. The lower photograph shows
complete surface solidification leading to a stationaiy roof with underlying flow. The photographs
show distances from the source of 0.5 mto 1.1 m and 0.2 m to 0.8 m, respectively.
Next year, the temperature-controlled laboratory will be used by Prof. Christopher Kincaid
(University of Rhode Island, USA) and Prof. Ross Griffiths, in a project aimed at understanding
the three-dimensional dynamics and thermal evolution of the plate and the mantle wedge at
subduction zones. They will carry out experiments that will explore different subduction modes
(both longitudinal and rollback subduction) as well as the relative motion of the back arc plate.
3
SGSEG NE WSLETTER 28 June 2002


Particle-in-cell finite elements and
geodynamic modeling
Dr, Rich Albert
Division of Geology and Geophysics, University of Sydney
albert r#es.usvd.edu.au
Just about all geodynamicists and geophysicists have heard of Finite Element Analysis (FEA), and the
benefits that we’ve gained by its use are staggering. Originally developed for use in the aerospace
industry in the 19605, this method has become one of the powerhouse techniques to explore the
mechanics of solids and fluids in numerous applications. It is a pleasure to note that geoscientists have
applied it creatively and successfully to situations that are outside of the realm of the most common
engineering applications. But in spite of its successes, there are still limitations to the standard finite
element technique that have necessitated the development of other approaches to problems in
mechanics. These limitations often apply to geodynamic problems, so by attempting to tackle the
complexities of geologic systems, we need to advance the “cutting edge”, and take advantage of the
latest developments in numerical analysis.
In a nutshell, the standard FE technique of discretization or ‘meshing’ to solve a solid mechanics
problem (such as a bending oceanic lithosphere) suffers from a limitation on the allowable distortion of
the mesh. In this Lagrangian formulation of mechanics, the mesh deforms with the body as it is loaded,
and at some point the calculations will get less and less accurate if the elements’ aspect ratios and/or
internal angles are altered toward troublesome values, until a point is reached where continuation is
impossible. In contrast, the Eulerian formulation of the continuum is often used for the mechanics of
fluids (such as convection in planetary mantles or atmospheric motions), where the mesh is fixed and the
fluid flows through it, and information about the flow is calculated at the fixed nodal points of the mesh.
The focal point in this formulation shifts from following individual parcels of fluid (as per the
Lagrangian approach) to ascertaining the properties (velocity, pressure, etc.) of the fluid at specific
locations. This approach removes the problem of mesh distortion and allows analysis of extremely large
deformation at the expense of some computational complexity, but by using it we sacrifice the ability to
track individual portions of fluid as they advect, and similarly there is no capacity to track the
deformation of interfaces within the body of interest without significant modifications to the method.
The limitations mentioned above have been addressed in various ways, such as allowing some distortion
of the mesh, but not completely following it (Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian methods - ALE), and
remeshing the body as it deforms (the Dynamic Lagrangian Remeshing- DLR). Another avenue is to
not mesh the body at all, but simply model it via a collection of separate points, instead of “point-
connected” elements (Smooth Particle Hydrodynamics - SPH, Reproducing Kernel Particle Methods -
RKPM). Geoscientists (Braun, Beaumont, Fullsack, etc.) have successfully utilized some of these
alternate methods in recent years.
Another method is the Particle-in-cell method (PIC), which takes the strength of the Eulerian technique
(allowing large deformation of the body without having the mesh deform - i.e., keeping it fixed), and the
Lagrangian formulation (tracking the paths and deformation history of individual parcels of the
material). From this description, one can visualize the PIC method as a collection of particles that
constitute the body, flowing through the elements of the mesh that are fixed in space (Figure 1). The
4
SGSEG NEWSLETTER 28 June 2002


V 4
U ± U 3
** 'm ►-
• * I • u -
» •• - *
• • • m • •
•%•••• ••
» » • • • ♦
• %•••••
•.* I.* ♦!•••
information (such as the nodal velocities) that is solved on the fixed mesh is mapped to the particles to
ascertain their (and the body’s) response, such as calculating the strain and/or its rate (depending on the
rheological model(s) involved) and hence the stress for each particle, although the details are not within
the scope of the present article, as one might expect. By using the mesh’s cells purely as a computational
convenience, and modeling the stress and deformation of the body via the particles, the body can now
undergo extensive deformation and yet the individual particles, material types, interfaces, etc., can be
easily tracked. This is the beauty and the strength of the method. It is also clear why this method is so
well-suited for problems in geodynamics, because often the geological system of interest involves
tremendous deformation yet there is the necessity of tracking what happened to individual materials.
Examples include the convection of Earth’s mantle over billions of years (where did that subducting slab
go, anyway?), or the compression and buckling of a stratified rock mass (what happened to that
quartizite layer? How has it deformed relative to the layers that were above and below it?).
A well-established Particle-in-cell Finite Element code, “Ellipsis”, written by Louis Moresi of
CSIRO (and now Monash University’s School of Mathematical Sciences), has been used
extensively by researchers at CSIRO (Miihlhaus, Dufour, Wijns), and currently handles 2D
viscoelastic/brittle rheologies. As part of a nationwide effort, our work at the University of Sydney
has involved extending the code from 2D to 3D and we are continuing with various alterations and
benchmarking. One of our 3D models involves the extension of an upper crust/lower crust/upper
mantle system, to inspect the stresses and deformation that develop under several phases of
multidirectional loading. A sample plot of plastic strains from a two-layer simulation is shown in
Figure 2. Although the application of the 3D code is still in it early stages, there is much promise
in its potential for unraveling a bit more of the complexity that characterizes geodynamic
problems. We have also incorporated the code in a “Modeling Earth Processes” class at the
University of Sydney, where thirty students will apply the code to supplement lectures and see the
beauty of geophysics at work. Attendees at last year’s Chapman Conference in Exploration
Geodynamics in Western Australia, saw numerous applications of Ellipsis to problems on multiple
length and time scales (see Report below) and animations of PIC simulations ca be found at:
http://www.es.usyd.edu.au/Geophysics/Marine_geophysics/Resprojects/index.html
Fig. 1. A schematic representation of PIC
methodology with 9 elements and 2 different
materials (particles of different colors). Shown are
sample local nodal velocities for one of the
elements (from the Eulerian part of the
calculations), which are to be interpolated to the
particles within that element. This is just one of
many steps in the solution procedure for PIC
FEA.
5
SGSEG NE WSLETTER 28 June 2002


FURTHER READING
Less-technical: L. Moresi, M. Gumis, and S. J. Zhong. Plate tectonics and convection in the earth’s mantle: toward
a numerical simulation. Comput ScL Eng., 2:22-33,2000
Technical: L. Moresi, F. Dufour, and H.-B. Miihlhaus. Mantle convection models with viscoelastic/brittle
lithosphere: Numerical methodology and plate tectonic modeling. Pure AppL Geophysics, In Press, 2002
Report
Chapman Conference-Exploration
Geodynamics
The SGSEG was an important sponsor of the AGU
Chapman Conference on Exploration Geodynamics
which was held in Dunsborough, WA during
August 2001. The meeting brought together
Australian scientists from Universities, CSIRO and
Industry with their counterparts from overseas. The
main theme of the conference was the way in which
quantitative numerical modeling in geodynamics can contribute to the fundamental understanding
of geology and, in particular, drive the next generation of exploration geoscience.
An important step along the way to that goal is the development of a broad understanding within
the geological community of the capabilities of quantitative modeling and the limitations. Equally
important is the need to develop a wide understanding within the modeling community of the
needs of geologists and the important problems which could be addressed by modeling.
Over 5 days the participants focused on a range of topics from the global scale, through the basin
scale, to the deposit scale, and, in the process, explored the state of the art in geological
simulation. During a day-long field trip, modellers unaccustomed to any physical activity more
demanding than reaching for a cup of coffee were taken around the granites of the Leeuwin
Complex. The final sessions of the meeting were wide ranging discussions designed to bring
together different groups of people to begin new collaborations.
The abstracts from the meeting, and many of the presentations are currently archived on the web at
http://www.es.usvd.edu.au/Geophvsics/geophvsics.html/
Fig. 2. Two plots of particles and their inelastic strains for one of the 3D simulations with
multidirectional extension. Only the top layer (which had upper crustal properties) is shown, at the
initial (left) and final (right) times, and the plasticity was localized at the start by creating two weak
zones that were slightly offset. The locations of the weak zones are seen in the plot on the left, but in
order to make these zones more easily observed, the material occupying them has been removed.
6
SGSEG NEWSLETTER 28 June 2002


Conference Announcements
ASEG2OO3 Conference, Feb. 2003 Adelaide
Session "From Solid Earth Geophysics to Exploration" Conveners: Louis
Moresi and Dietmar Mueller
Contact: www.aseg.org.au/conference/Adelaide
ASEG 16th Geophysical Conference and Exhibition
Growth Through Innovation
16-19 February 2003
Adelaide Convention Centre
Abstracts (no more than 300 words) are due by June 30,2002.
This session provides an opportunity for Solid Earth Geophysicists and Geodynamicists to
present what they see as exploration implications of their work to industry. We would like to
bring together experts in crustal and mantle seismology, potential fields, and geological and
geodynamic modeling to assess where the blue sky research of today might lead to
applications tomorrow. Two of the most important issues we have to face is (1) the
development of a common understanding of the capabilities of modeling among data-oriented
geophysicists and geologists and (2) the development of a common understanding of what
types of data and data analysis methods are available that can feed back into modeling.
Topics of interest for this session may include:
> New methods for joint analysis of active source seismic reflection and refraction data:
how a better understanding of crustal structure can aid exploration
> New approaches in the analysis of magnetotelluric data and how they may be applied to
shallow/sub-salt exploration problems
> Textural analysis and artificial intelligence applications for image analysis (potential
fields, downhole images such as FMS)
> What has the mantle been doing to the crust: Implications of seismic tomography and
geodynamic modeling for exploration
> Tectonic reactivation through time: New methods for integrating large-scale geodynamic
modeling, basin modeling, structural data analysis/inversion, and well-seismic data integration
> Advances in simulation of geological processes on the computer. How do we model fluid
dynamics and solid mechanics jointly, with the complexity of pervasive reactive fluid flow in
the crust which dissolves, precipitates and alters the rocks as they deform?
The 10 th International Symposium on deep seismic
profiling of the continents and their margins
January 6-10, 2003, Taupo, New Zealand
First Circular is out
E-mail: seismix2oo3(a),GNS. CRI.NZ
Web page: www.gns.cri.nz/news/conferences
7
SGSEG NE WSLETTER 28 June 2002


■
I i ’ ~■
W ■Jj'JCT -«-“ v..„ u t, ;■ I
a wi i
'M*' 1
rir I
From the Treasurer
SGSEG financial balance in June 2002 is $16539.42. ($12822.31 in a 6-month term deposit
account, and $3717.11 in a cheque account). In the past year we had an income of $1546.15 from
outstanding capitation and reimbursement from GSA and $461.74 interest from the term deposit.
In the past financial year we have sponsored three conferences: the Chapman Conference
(September 2001, Perth) with $3300, the 10 th International Simposium on Deep Seismic profile (to
be held next year in New Zealand ($2500), and Victorian Universities Earth Science Conference
(VUESC) to be held in September in Melbourne ($300). These sponsorships are used as student
travel grants or prizes.
The SGSEG last year’s contribution of $3OO to the 15th Victorian Universities Earth Sciences
Conference (VUESC- La Probe) was divided into two $l5O cash prizes and awarded to the Best
Oral Presentation and Best Poster Presentation in the category of “Geophysical and Analytical
Methods”. The Best Oral Presentation was awarded to Hashim Carey, and the Best Poster
Presentation was awarded to Brian Barrett, both Honours students from the University of
Adelaide.
From the Editor
The Newsletter will be sent yearly, with the next edition to be released in June 2003. If you would
like us to include a feature article, an announcement of general scientific interest, or a question to
the SGSEG community don’t wait. By sending your material now, it will be uploaded to our
website straight away. Act now!
Contact Roberto Weinberg frweinber@geol.uwa.edu.au).
Chair: Dietmar Muller, The University of Sydney
Co-Chair: Louis Moresi, Monash University
Hon. Treasurer: Carmen Gaina, The University of Sydney
Hon. Secretary: Richard Albert, The University of Sydney
Newsletter editor: Roberto Weinberg, University of Western
Australia
Winners of the Best Oral Presentation
and Best Poster Presentation at 15 th
VUESC: Hashim Carey on the right
and Brian Barrett on the left. In the
middle is Michael Wall, another
student from the University ofAdelaide
won the Best Overall Poster prize.
8
SGSEG NEWSLETTER 28 June 2002
