

Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 15.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1912.
Peace with Honour.
Strike Committee and Employers
Negotiating.
Conference Refused.
After the most, careful deliberation, ar-
rangements were made yesterday by the
Strike Committee for the opening of the
way to negotiations with the Employers’
Federation, with a view to, if possible,
bringing about a settlement. The rea-
sons which actuated the Committee were:
(1) The vital principle around which
the whole battle has been waged, viz., the
recognition of the Union has been practi-
cally secured. (2) A proper respect for the
Arbitration Court. (3) An earnest desire
to see business operating once more in all
directions.
The Employers’ Federation met to-day,
and a letter received from their secretary
late this afternoon, flatly refuses to meet
representation of the Combined Unions in
Conference.
The responsibility for any further pro-
longation of the trouble is thus thrown
entirely upon the employers themselves.
The Strike Committee have all along been
ready for a fight to a finish, and will now
further prepare for this without flinching.
The following letter was sent by the
Strike Committee to the Employers’ Fede-
ration yesterday. A reply was received
this morning, and is being considered by
the committee:—
Trades Hall, Brisbane,
15th February, 1912.
The Secretary, Employers’ Federation,
Brisbane,
Sir, —On behalf of the Combined Unions’
Strike Committee, I beg to notify you that
representatives fr,om my committee are
prepared to meet an equal number from
your federation, with a view to arranging
for a resumption of work by the men who
are now out of work—with the exception
of the members of the Tramway Union,
whose case will be heard in the Arbitration
Court to-morrow (Friday).
Awaiting your reply, yours respectfully,
J. Harry Coyne, president.
Last Night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL.—Packed to
overflowing.
IVORY STREET, VALLEY.—A record
attendance.
PINEAPPLE GROUND.—One of the
largest meetings held there during the
struggle.
CLARENCE CORNER, STANLEY
STREET.—A very* large and enthusiastic
meeting was held here last evening. Mr.
C. W. Martin presided. The following
speakers addressed the meeting :—Messrs.
J. H. Sherry, H. McMinn, and C. Boulton,
members of the General Strike Commit-
tee, and Messrs. H. Bezant and John
Huxham. Stirring addresses were de-
livered. There was no interference by the
police, who were as orderly as the rest of
the large crowd. The meeting broke up
amidst loud cheejring.
WHY THE OMISSION?
The “ Courier ” this morning became
lachrymose because last night’s “Strike
Bulletin ” did not supply it with certain
official information it wanted, and 1 sym-
pathised with strikers in being also left
in the dark. Let us tell the old dame that
the men on strike are kept well acquainted
wfith all matters wherein they are in-
terested—the various union secretaries see
to that. But there are a few things the
“ Courier ” overlooks in its daily reports.
We have never yet seen in its columns any
reference to the brutal outrages that peace-
able citizens have been subject to at the
hands and feet of the police, ordinary and
special. Yesterday it stated that no less
than three persons were treated by the
Ambulance Brigade, who were seriously
injured by assaults.. It did not say by
whom the assaults were committed, but
we heard of more than three cases in which
the special pets were the aggressors.
HOW WOULD THIS APPLY TO
THE TRAM LOCKOUT?
“ Tarry, Jew; the law hath yet another
hold on you. It is enacted in the laws of
Venice.—lf it be proved against an alien,
that by direct or indirect attempts he
seek the life of any citizen, the party
’gainst the which he doth contrive shall
seize one half his goods; the other half
comes to the privy coffers of the State.”—
‘ ‘ Merchant of Venice. ’ ’
SIR GEORGE.
LANDLORDISM
The worst features of the old-world
curse are appearing here in this great
Southern land —more’s the pity. The gene-
ral strike and the ‘ ‘ food before rent ’ ’
order have made property-letters here
show their real characters. Let them be
careful; there’s another day to come yet.
One Valley landlord has given a lady notice
to quit from his house in Arthur-street,
Valley, although she has been in it for
three years, and always paid the rent quite
regularly. The reason seems to be that her
two sons—members of the Waterside
Union —were manly enough to stand by
their mates instead of scabbing when the
fight began. Union morals may not be
military morals, but in this case the neigh-
bours swear by the former..
V.O. stands for Valiant Orderlies.
Arbitration Court Proceedings.
Adjourned Till Monday.
The Chairman of the Strike Committee
received a wire to-night from Mr. Peter
Al‘Lachlan, in Melbourne, to the effect that
the Arbitration Court proceedings regard-
ing the right of the Tramwaymen to wear
their medals had been adjourned till Mon-
day.
Russian Comrades.
Our Russian fellow workers are taking
a very keen interest in the present general
strike here. At the request of several Rus-
sian comrades, a representative of the
A.W.A. met the Russian-speaking com-
rades of Brisbane in their club room, and
explained the present strike to them. They
showed the greatest interest in the position,
and had many pertinent questions to ask.
The following resolution was carried with
the greatest enthusiasm:
“ We, workmen, who speak Russian,
send our fraternal greetings to the work-
men of Australia, who speak another lan-
guage. We wish that more workmen Would
realise that an injury to one section of the
working class is an injury to all workers;
we trust that the present struggle will be
crowned with victory for the workers on
the present occasion, and that it will pave
the way for the final victory of the work-
ing class, when the world’s workers will
gain possession of the means of production,
and at last obtain real freedom.”
Our Russian comrades do not lose sight
of the final conflict, and it is the inspira-
tion of the final victory of the working
class which makes them such staunch and
valuable comrades in the present strike.
May the same inspiration take possession
of us all, and victory will be ours in this
and future struggles.
What Does It Mean?
The following document was picked up
in the streets to-day by one of the Strike
Committee‘s “scouts”:
[copy.]
C.I. BRANCH.
The Department of the Commissioner
of Police dr. to Bernardt Alunter.
For the undermentioned SERVICES
performed for the Department, viz : —To
amount due for services as special agent
from 7th l3th February, 1912, inclu-
sive, at £3 per week (£3). Re Strike
matters. I certify that the above claim
is correct, being the amount due and owing
to me for the Services above mentioned;
and I hereby authorise the same to be paid
on my behalf. —B. Alunter. I certify that
the Services charged in the above account
were satisfactorily performed according to
agreement by the abovementioned indivi-
dual. I further certify that they were
necessarily required for the Public Service,
and that the rates charged were the most
reasonable for which same could be pro-
cured at the time they were stipulated for.
—M. O’Sullivan, Sub-Inspector.
[A copy has been taken, and the origi-
nal returned to the police authorities. —Ed.
S.B.]
THERE ARE LOTS LIKE HIM.
A practical unionist sends us the follow-
ing instance of what unionists have to con-
tend with:
A non-unionist carter working in the
Valley is going round among his customers
telling blood-curdling stories about having
to work under a permit, and his shop hav-
ing two different bakers every night; also
about a non-unionist working over*Boggo-
road way, who joined the Union, then
asked for a permit to go back to work, and
is now lamenting his hard fate because it
didn’t come off. I asked him what wages
he was getting as a carter, to which he
replied, £2 ss. I again asked him what
wages he got, say four years ago, to which
he replied that he did not know. (The
answer is obviously an evasion.) I gave
him some solid advice about getting the
benefits of what other people had done for
him, and giving nothing in return.
THE DUTIES OF SPECIALS.
It would be interesting indeed to get
an official statement as to just what duties
police and their brave allies, thq specials,
are instructed to carry out. Some of them,
such as bludgeoning and batoning innocent
citizens, often defenceless women and
children, we know of, but one mounted
man on Wednesday night was busy hug-
ging a lady on the National Hotel veran-
dah, while his mate was valiantly holding
the spare horse outside. If a “ red rib-
bonite ’ ’ with a redder glare in his eye
had arrived just then a catastrophe must
have h*appened, for with two horses to
manage the disengaged ‘ ‘ arm of the
force” would have been helpless.
BOY SCOUTS.
Do parents realise that unless they
carefully watch the Boy Scout movement
there is a danger of even it being contami-
nated with the ethics of the ‘‘force” con-
cerning the strike. Only last night Scout-
master Muir of the Curlew Patrol, which
met at Park Church, South Brisbane, was
armed with a murderous-looking heavy six-
chamber’ed revolver. Father out on strike
and ‘ ‘ sonny ’ ’ learning revolver practice
isn’t altogether an alluring spectacle for
free-born Australians.
FOUND.—Shpet of tram employees’
concession tickets. Apply V.O. Office,
Trades Hall.
FAITHFUL ALLIES.
Sydney Comrades Determined.
The Strike Committee is in receipt of
wires to-day to the effect that the Sydney
Coal Lumpers and Waterside Workers are
absolutely solid, and will not work any
ship touched by ‘ ‘ scab ’ ’ labour, nor
handle Brisbane cargo.
The Faithless Loco. Men.
Comrades, what are you thinking about ?
The Tramwaynien, after years of intimida-
tion and victimisation, at last were forced
to fight for their very existence as men.
Their fellows in industry nobly answered
their call, and are in the fighting line with
them to-day. All ranks are bravely suf-
fering that victory may be theirs.
Loco, men, what are you doing? While
the miners have downed tools, and will not
hew coal to help defeat their mates, you
are hauling the coal already hewn, al-
though you know it is going straight to
Badger.
Is it too late yet for you to be men ? Re-
consider your position, and see if it isn’t
worth while even now to swing into line
with the brave men on strike. Remember,
it’s the Tramwaymen’s battle to-day, but
it may be your’s to-morrow. “An injury
to one IS the concern of all.” Do try
and live up to that ideal loco. men. Your
comrades are looking to you.
Strike Committee and
Finance.
The liars of the Daily Press are much
concerned as to the financial strength of
the Strike Committee. Wouldn’t they like
to know ? As honourable men, the Commit-
tee is keeping an accurate record of all re-
ceipts and expenditure, and will publish
a balance-sheet, duly audited, at the proper
time. Further, no paper —either in cou-
pons or cheques—will be issued which the
Committee cannot honour upon presenta-
tion. It will interest friends and annoy
foes to know that the Committee can sit
tight for weeks to come yet, as far as
finances are concerned, and that they will
not flinch in doing so if employers are at all
unreasonable or attempt any victimisation.
THE GOVERNMENT AND THE
TRAMS.
The Editor ‘ Strike Bulletin/
Sir, —I see by this morning’s “Daily
Mail ” that the Treasurer (Mr. Barnes) re-
ceived a deputation yesterday afternoon
from the late employees of the Govern-
ment Printing Office. I don’t want to
take up space attempting to criticise the
results of that deputation, but one thing I
do wish to point out in regard to Mr.
Barnes’ attitude is his statement to the
effect “ That their duty is to the office and
not to any outside influence.”
Now, Sir, when Mr. Barnes made that
statement, I wonder if he had in his mind
the action of his Government at the time
when the Tramway Union applied for
registration in the Arbitration Court over
12 months ago, when his Government went
to the trouble and expenditure of public
money to employ legal advice to prevent
the registration of the said Tramway
Union. I ask the question, how much out-
side influence was brought to bear on his
Government in that instance, and how
much does he, as a member of that Govern-
ment, feel his responsibility for the pre-
sent disastrous state of affairs which it has
brought about?
The matter appeared in the Press at the
time it happened, and was ably placed be-
fore our meeting a few nights ago by Mr.
Ryan, M.L.A.
Without taking up more of your valu-
able space, if you should consider this mat-
ter worth notice, I think that in one year
of his life Mr. Barnes, in conjunction with
his colleagues, has more to answer for to
that Great Master, Christ, that he claims
to be such a humble follower of, than any-
thing else that he could ever have done. —
Yours fraternally,
E.McIVER.
Bruns wick-street, Spring Hill,
February 16.
A BUILDING TRADES FEDERATION.
A valued correspondent asks “ What’s
wrong with a federation of the building
trades?” This paper replies: “ Nothing,
except that a Federation of Labour, includ-
ing all trades, is a much better ideal, and
just as easy of accomplishment.
EMIGRATING.
Two lino-operators have left for the
South. Half a dozen more are seriously
considering the question of migrating, and
there is a possibility that Brisbane will be
a place taboo for the key-tappers unless
something is immediately done by the news-
paper proprietors to stay the exodus.
A WOMAN COMRADE S APPRECIA-
TION.
To Mr. Coyne,
Dear Sir, —I am proud to belong to
Queensland when we have such a fine bo_dy
of men as the Waterside Workers who have
helped us so much in our great trouble. I
am proud of them all.
Wishing you every success in this jight.
—I am, yours respectfully,
CARRIE MARSDEN.
LOST.—Tan pouch, containing a few
shillings, four penny stamps, and key for
kit bag, at Ivory Street, Valley. Finder
please return to Secretary Tramway Union,
Trades Hall.
Sydney Waterside Workers.
Will not Handle “Scab” Cargo.
It will be remembered that some days
ago a wire was received, signed by one
Laurence, purporting to come from the
Sydney Transport Workers’ Executive,
condemning the Brisbane strike and refus-
ing assistance. The authenticity of the
wire in question was much doubted by the
unions here, and subsequent happenings
have fully justified the confidence placed in
our Southern comrades. The “ Courier ”
of course, made haste to score off the tele-
gram, but their joy is very short-lived, and
it will be amusing now to watch their antics
when they read the sequel conveyed by a
wire which reached the Strike Committee
this morning. This reads as follows:
“ Sydney wharf labourers have decided
unanimously to refuse to handle any cargo
loaded by scab labour in Queensland, and
to contribute towards your support during
president trouble.
HARRISON, Secretary.
HILLYER, President.
MORGAN, Vigilant officer.”
Comment is surely needless. Our south-
ern waterside comrades have defied their
spineless leaders, and unanimously declined
to carry the ‘ scab ’’ ‘ stigma, even though
instructed by their executive to do so.
Bravo! it is only what we expected. The
fort is still ours, and will be held till the
flag of victory floats from its tower.
Latest from the Ranks.
WELL DONE, PLUMBERS.
A very large meeting of the members of
the Plumbers’ Union was held this morn-
ing, when the following motion was car-
ried unanimously: —“That this Union
has continued confidence in the Strike Com-
mittee, and pledges itself to stand out till
ordered back to work by the Strike Com-
mittee.”
The members are more solid and deter-
mined than ever, one man who returned to
work for one day has again returned to
the fold of the Union disgusted with what
he had done, and determined to stand out
to the end.
The “ Telegraph ” reports that the Plum-
bers have returned to work, but the mem-
bership is 80 more to-day than it was when
the strike commenced.
All members have made up their minds
to secure “ Loyalty Badges.”
The Union is seriously considering the
question of establishing a Co-operative
Plumbing Works, to be owned and con-
trolled by the Union.
BAKERS AND PASTRYCOOKS.
At a meeting, held to-day, of operative
bakers and pastry cooks it was unani-
mously decided to ask the editor of flie
“Strike Bulletin” to publish a list of
union bakeries in each issue of the ‘ ‘ Bulle-
tin.” A unanimous vote of confidence in
the Strike Committee was also passed.
Signed. A. E. WEBER, President.
J. McCarthy, Secreary.
[We will publish list occasionally, but
could not do so each issue for space
reasons. —Ed. B.]
TRAMWAY EMPLOYEES.
This Association, at a large meeting,
unanimously passed the following resolu-
tion :
“That this meeting endorses the ac-
tion of the Strike Committee up to date,
and further, that we will be loyal to the
committee right up to the end. Further-
more, we endorse the action of the different
secretaries in protesting against the use
of Commonwealth accoutrements by spe-
cial constables and other persons.”
Mr. Joe Codings was present at the meet-
ing, and addressed the men. He was
very much impressed with the determined
unyielding spirit displayed.
Federated Stage Employees.
A meeting of the above branch was held
to-day and largely attended. The follow-
ing resolution was passed:—“That this
meeting endorses the action of the general
Strike and intends to remain
loyal to the end.”
Storeman and Packers.
The most numerously attended meet-
ing of the above unon yet held took place in
the Trades Hall yesterday. After Pres-
dent M £ Minn had addressed the members
in connection with the work of the Strike
Committtee, the following motion was
unanimously carried : —“That this union
endorses all work done_hy the Strike Com-
mittee, and pledges itself to abide by the
decision of such committee until the
termination of the trouble.”
The seretary, Mr. Will Bertram, who
has been in North Queensland for some
time, has returned and was present at the
meeting.
Shop Assistants.
A meeting of the Shop Assistants and
Warehouse Employees’ Federation was held
this morning, when the following resolu-
tions were carried unanimously:—“That
we have full confidence in the Strike Com-
mittee; that the action of our secretary re
forwarding protest to Minister for Defence
re military accoutrement be endorsed.”
FOUND.—A pair of pince-nez, in Trades
Hall. Owner can have same by applying
to V.O. Committee, Trades Hall.
FOUND.—Small parcel of ribbon, in
Queen Street. Owner can have same upon
application to Vigilant Office, Trades Hall.
“Bishop” Barnes’ Tyranny.
Comrade Henderson and the Marine
Board.
How Justice is Travestied.
The following correspondence shows to
what lengths “ Bishop ” Barnes is prepared
to go in order to vent his spleen upon any
person, coming even occasionally under his
jurisdiction, who has the courage, in spite
of his official position, to stand for the
rights of the working class. Mr. Peter
Henderson, secretary of the Seamen’s
Union, has had a seat on the Marine Board
as a representative of the seamen for some
years, but has been despotically removed
therefrom, as the following correspondence
will show, simply because he is a working
class advocate, and not a sycophant,
smoodging to the unspeakable Barnes-Den-
ham-Cahill trio. Bulimba electors, mostly
of the working class, should have rid the
House of the sanctimonious individual,
Barnes, years ago, when they had the
chance, and thus saved themselves and tfie
State from the antics attaching to the
administrative acts of this callous hearted
middleman. Will Captain Collins, who
has been so active on the shipowners’ side,
also be removed from his seat on the
Board ?
‘ ‘ The Treasury,
Brisbane, 14th February, 1912.
Sir, —I have the honor, by direction, to
inform you that the Treasurer’s attention
has been drawn to a paragraph, copy of
which is enclosed, appearing in this day’s
Brisbane “Courier,” in which it is stated
that you visited the Queensland Govern-
ment steamer Cormorant at the Marine
Department wharf last Monday morning
and asked the crew to cease work, with
the result that the firemen left the ship.
“I am to request you to furnish the
Treasurer not later than 11 o’clock
to-morrow morning, the 15th instant, with
a letter stating if this report is correct.—
I have he honor to be, sir, your obedient
servant,
“W. L. FOWLES,
“ Under Secretary.”
“Mr. P. Henderson, Brisbane.”
Mr. Henderson replied to the Trea-
surer’s communication as follows:
“ 61 Edward Street,
City, February 15, 1912.
“Mr. W. L. Fowles.
“ Sir, —I have the honor to acknow-
ledge receipt of your letter of 14th inst.,
informing me that the Treasurer’s atten-
tion has been drawn to a statement in the
Brisbane “Courier” to the effect that I
had visited the Queensland Government
steamer Cormorant and asked the crew to
cease work, and that you were directed to
request me to let the Treasurer have a
letter not later than 11 o’clock to-day ad-
vising whether the statement in the
“Courier” was correct, and in reply I
have to say that I regard the request that
you have been instructed to make to me
as impertinent.
“P. HENDERSON.”
Mr. Henderson’s outspoken retort
evoked the following :
‘ ‘ The Treasury,
Brisbane, 15th February, 1912.
“Sir, —I have the honor, by direction,
to inform you that His Excellency the
Governor-in-Council has been pleased, in
pursuance of the provisions of The Naviga-
tion Act of 1876 (Section 5) to remove
from your office as a Member of the Marine
Board of Queensland.
‘‘ I have the honor to be, sir, your
obedient servant,
“ W. L. FOWLES,
“ Under Secretary.
‘ ‘ Mr. Peter Henderson,
Edward Street, Brisbane.”
SLIMY PRESSMEN.
A little while back it was suggested to
some members of the literary staffs of the
Brisbane papers that a branch of the
Artists and Writers’ Association should be
formed here, that association in conjunc-
tion with the various typographical unions,
occupying a very sound position in other
parts of the Commonwealth. But what a
rumpus immediately followed ! The sugges-
tion was even too preposterous to contem-
by these ultra-respectable pencillers.
What was there in common between them
and the ordinary comp, or operator? Posi-
tively nothing. So they straightaway fore-
gathered to form a branch of the Australian
Journalists’ Association, the real 18-carat
union. However, when trouble arose in
the composing room we find some of these
superior persons, who claim to be profes-
sionals, responding to the call of their task-
masters and making a puerile attempt to
fill the places of the men who had sufficient
independence to protest in the only way
open to them against a Yankee tyrant be-
ing allowed to crush the spirit of some of
their fellow-unionists. Thus we have the
spectacle of people who could not tolerate
being mentioned in the same breath as
members of the Q.T.A., being compelled
in their abjectness to put their pride in
their pocket (as a rule they have very little
else there) and make a show of doing the
work the self-respecting comps, had left.
We have known pressmen, and know some
still, who would prefer being decapitated
rather than sell themselves completely for
a few pieces of gold per week, but then
they were gentlemen, while for the others:
“Some neither can for ‘comps’ nor writers
pass,
As heavy mules are neither horse nor ass.”
V O stands for Vanishing Oppression.
