

Official Bulletin, No. 26.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee,
No. 26.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1912.
Mr. Coyne’s Morning Address.
This morning Strike Leader Coyne an-
nounced to the waiting crowd that there
were no fresh developments to report as far
as the Employers’ Federation was con-
cerned. Certain employers were attempt-
ing to carry on a policy of victimisation;
but the unions concerned were dealing
with each case as it rose. He commented
on the yells of the enemy for a balance-
sheet, and explained that the Strike Com-
mittee would do everything in*good time
and in proper order.
Mr. Coyne announced an alteration of
the route of the funeral of Comrade
Craker, of the Carters’ Union, which was
to take place that afternoon. The police
had agreed with the undertakers on a cer-
tain course yesterday afternoon, but had
altered it since. However, they only de-
sired to pay a last tribute of respect to a
dead comrade, and would not be disturbed
over a question of route. He urged them
all to attend the funeral and to disperse in
an orderly fashion afterwards.
Coal Miners Solid.
Coal Owners Plans Frustrated.
“TELEGRAPH” A FALSE PROPHET.
The delegates on the Strike Committee
from the Queensland Colliery Employees’
Union, were present this afternoon from
Bundamba, and report ‘ ‘ all’s well ’ ’ with
the miners. How the poor old “Telegraph”
must squirm. Day after day she prophecies
disunion among the men, just to please the
Fat Gas Monopoly magnate, but it
doesn’t come off!
THERE AND HERE.
In the cables each day from England
we are told of the efforts of all classes of
the community to avert the threatened
strike of coalminers. Every member of
the Imperial Government is exerting him-
self to stave off the calamity. The Prime
Minister and other members of the Cabinet
have alternate interviews with the em-
ployers and men, and only to-day we read
of Mr. Asquith being in conference with
the representatives of the miners for over
three hours at one sitting. What a con-
trast to the conduct of the contemptible
crew who, owing to the lethargy of the
people, have been given charge of the helm
of our unfortunate State. Not only did
they do nothing themselves towards avert-
ings industrial war, but actually, when
Capital and Labour did measure swords,
they got behind the back of the former,
like a modern Mephistopheles, with naked
blade in hand, watching every opportunity
to give Labour a deadly thrust. At the
outset of hostilities they were asked by
leading members of the Opposition to call
Parliament together to deal with the situa-
tion. But they wanted no Parliament—
Badger, Cahill, and Denham could manage
matters much better than the people’s
representatives—squads of uniformed
batoners and mounted and foot ragged
specials formed up in Market Square, or
chasing unarmed citizens through the
streets, were more to their liking than a
peaceful conference around a table. But
perhaps we are doing them an injustice.
They—or at least those of them that were
not enjoying themselves elsewhere—met,
and the best remedy they could discover
to overcome the trouble was to suspend
the only piece of anti-sweating legislation
that had been placed on the statute book.
“What will they say in England?” Wel-
lington is reported to have exclaimed at
Waterloo when things were not going too
well with his men. We again ask: “ What
will they say in England?” when the
actions of the sweat-producing Government
become known there.
# UNBALANCED.
The dismal, unsightly “Mail” keeps
on wailing because the Strike Committee
won’t go to its office each night and tell
it what money they have received and how
much they have expended. The “ Mail,”
presumably, is trusted by the Federated
Employers’ Executive, and perhaps may
have subscribed to its funds. Suppose it
puts the spurt on that body first for a
balance-sheet. An enthusiastic N.S.W.
pastoralist, a little while back, sent them
a whole £lO note. Have they disbursed
that yet? Or, while waiting for that
document, it might furnish us with the
last balance-sheet of the P.P.L. Shortly
after the last Federal elections, the Com-
monwealth Attorney-General stated that
he had excellent authority for asserting
that the employers of N.S.W. had sub-
scribed £lOO,OOO in order to defeat the
Labour party at the polls. Their balance-
sheet should be ready by now. After the
eye-strainer has published that document,
the Strike Committe will be only too
pleased to state to what use it put the
monetary assistance it received from the
“ Mail ” and the other barrackers for
Badger and Boodle. If these people
didn’t contribute to the Strike fund,
whence their anxiety?
EIGHTY TOO MANY.
It is stated in to-day’s papers that
there were 80 amateur bobbies drawm from
the Public Estate Improvement Branch,
the Head of 'which was in charge of the
Executive Building contingent when Cahill
was seized with his panic-stricken funk.
If their presence in the branch could be
dispensed wdth then, why is it required
now ? Another query when Parliament
meet 8.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Centennial Hall.
The attendance last night showed no
diminution, and the enthusiasm was well
sustained. Mr. Joe Sherry spoke first.
Mr. J. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., made an ef-
fective speech, showing plainly the folly of
having rejected the National Government’s
referenda proposals.
Mr. C. Boulton delivered a fine address
on Socialism, which was attentively listened
to and much appreciated.
Mr. B. Allen, M.L.A., and the chairman
(W. Bertram) also spoke.
Stone’s Corner.
A large and enthusiasic meeting was
held at the above place, presided over by
Mr. J. Sharpe. Stirring speeches were de-
livered by Mrs. J. Huxham and Messrs. C.
Martin, J. Huxham, and the chairman.
Regret was expressed that Bro. Brock
(Sydney) was not able to be present.
These meetings are not to be dropped,
so as to keep up the fire for the coming
elections.
Cheers were given for the speakers and
the victory for the badge.
Clarence Corner.
A very large crpwd assembled here* The
first speaker was Mr. Joe Collings, whom
the audience were evidently delighted to
hear. “Joe” shook them up pretty lively
for over half an hour. He was followed
by Mr. T. Whear and Mr. Andrew Ander-
son, both of whom were vigorous and to
the point. The usual cheers closed the pro-
ceedings.
Bulimba.
A fine gathering assembled near the
School of Arts. The speakers were Mr.
Gwynne, Mr. H. McMinn, and Mr. J. S.
Codings. All three delivered effective ad-
dresses, and three hgarty cheers were given
for the strikers at the close of the meeting.
SHIPPING TROUBLES IN SYDNEY.
The members of the Boilermakers’
Union in Sydney informed the manager of
Morts Dock yesterday that they will not
work on any ship which is regarded as
“black” in connection with the Brisbane
strike. The members of the Ships’
Painters and Dockers’ Union have already
taken up this attitude. The Wollowra
(Adelaide S.S. Co.) was stuck up by the
wharf labourers when she arrived from
Cairns, via ports. In addition to the
wharf labourers and coal-lumpers refusing
to work her cargo, which is a general one,
the crew declined to go into the holds; so
that the company’s constant hands could
not be put on to land the goods on the
wharf. The crew of the Marloo were paid
off. The Burrumbeet, running under the
auspices of the A.U.S.N. Co., left for
Cairns, via ports yesterday. She carried
a full cargo from Melbourne and Sydney.
The Kanowna arrived in Sydney yesterday
from the west and will be despatched
again on Saturday in place of the Pilbarra,
which is delayed in Queensland waters.
AND THE GOVERNMENT ARE
SMILING SERENELY.
The fact that the coalminers had not
returned, and had not decided when they
would return, was mentioned to the Presi-
dent of the Water and Sewerage Board
yesterday, and Mr. Manchester w T as asked
how* he viewed the position as it stood. In
reply, he said that the supply was getting
very low, and although they had procured,
and were procuring, \firewood as fuel, the
position was serious. The Premier had
promised to let them have some coal if they
were stuck up, but he was unable to say
how much was available from that source.
He thought, however, that the present sup-
ply would last for another week, by which
time it was hoped that the miners would
be back at work. Mr. Manchester may
have to keep on hoping if the Federated
Employers keep on being sulky.
MORE DANCER.
Another very serious tram disaster was
narrowly averted yesterday. It seems
that a “dreadnought” car was going across
Victoria Bridge towards Stanley-street at
2 p.m. when it ran into a Logan-road car,
smashing all one side of it. A woman,
who had a baby in her arms, jumped off,
as well as a number of other passengers.
The motorman of the “dreadnought,” it is
alleged, did not apply the brakes until told
to do so by some people in the street. It
is stated that the driver had not had much
experience.
TROUBLE THREATENED IN
MELBOURNE.
On Monday afternoon one of the men in
the service qf the Melbourne Tranrway and
Omnibus Co. was dismissed, the reason
given for his discharge being neglect of
duty. 'The man is a member of the Vic-
torian Tramway Employees’ Association,
and it is stated by some of the officials of
that body that the real reason for his dis-
missal was that he gave evidence at the
recent Arbitration Uourt proceedings re-
garding the treatment meted out to a
non-unionist w r ho was not wearing the
union medal. The matter is now under
consideration by the executive of the
branch. It is stated, on the part of the
men, that if there proved to be no legal
remedy the association would take action
in another direction.
A Carter’s Funeral.
COMRADE WILLIAM CRAKER.
One of the 'most eloquent and impres-
sive sermons ever preached in Brisbane
was that embodied in the great silent
funeral procession which followed the re-
mains of Brother William Craker to his
last resting place this afternoon. The long
cortege moved from the deceased’s home at
Swan Hill punctually at 2.30 p.m., and
reached the Toowong Cemetery shortly
after 4 o’clock.
At the graveside the service was con-
ducted by the Rev. Mr. Lavers, while the
vast crowd sang a verse of the well-known
hymns “ Rock of Ages ” and “ Nearer, My
God, to Thee.”
Fully 5,000 Uniqnists, including several
hundred women, walked the whole dis-
tance. The long line of silent, tramping
men and women marching four abreast,
each wearing the red ribbon of the Strike,
draped over with black crepe, spoke more
eloquently of the great spirit of brother-
hood which is just now stirring the hearts
of Brisbane men and women to their very
depths, than any sermon ever spoken. All
along the line of route stood hundreds of
onlookers with uncovered heads, and every-
where the grim faces and solemn mein of
the determined marching Unionists spoke
to the great heart of the people, and moved
many to silent tears.
At the cemetery the crowd formed an
avenue on both sides of the pathway lead-
ing to the open grave, and through this
splendid tribute passed the pall-bearers
selected from the members of the de-
ceased’s Union, carrying their dead com-
rade to his last, long sleep, fallowed by his
sorrowing widowed mother and other mem-
bers and relatives of the family.
Many handsome wreaths were received,
amongst these being one from the Strike
Committee, who also have despatched a
letter of condolence to the mother and
other members of the family.
The attendance at this funeral undoubt-
edly is the largest ever seen in this city,
and the workers are to be admired for
their magnificent tribute to their departed
comrade.
The Latest from the Ranks.
BOOT OPERATIVES RESTIVE.
We learn just as we are going to press
that a good deal of unrest exists amongst
the members of the Boot Trade Union
who have only recently returned to work.
It appears that the Master Tanners are
refusing to allow their workmen to come
in except they renounce their union, and
are even talking of a ‘Tree labour
society.” Naturally, the members of the
Tanners and Carriers’ Union. are resent-
ing this, and their comrades in industry,
the boot men and women, are, of course,
sympathetic and desirous of helping them.
It is hoped wiser councils will prevail
amongst the Master Tanners, two of whom
are also boot manufacturers.
FEDERATED WATERSIDE WORKERS.
A mass meeting of this staunch union
was held in the Maritime Hall this morn-
ing, which was as usual. Messrs.
Brock, Thompson, and M‘Cabe addressed
the meeting. Everybody was in good
spirits. Several questions were asked and
satisfactorily answered.
Moved, ‘ ‘That members of this branch
meet the funeral of our late comrade Wm.
Craker at the Exhibition and march down
to North Quay.” Carried. It was also
moved “That we have every confidence in
the Strike Committee up to date; also that
we remain solid until a satisfactory settle-
ment is arrived at by all unions concerned.
No surrender whatever.” Carried.
Iron Trades.
The follgwing motions were carried by
the Iron Trades at their meeting held to-
day : “That this meeting of Iron Trades
strongly protest against the action of a
portion of the Employers’ Federation in
victimising their employees, and trust that
they will reconsider their actions and place
the men back in their employment.”
That this motion be forwarded to the
Iron Masters’ section of the Employers’
Federation.”
2. “That this meeting brings under the
notice of our unions the great need to pre-
vent each other riding in the trams while
they remain “black.”
Carters’ Union.
At a meeting of this union held yester-
day it was resolved “That this meeting,
having heard the opinion*of the Waterside
representative, requests that union to
communicate with the Strike Committee
asking that they call upon the Carters’
Union to again cease work, as we deem
their action detrimental to the best inter-
ests of unionism.”
This was placed before a meeting of the
Waterside Union this morning and it was
decided to bring the matter before the
Strike Committee as soon as possible.
YANKEE GRAB.
A cable message received from New
York stated that the Stars and
Stripes had been hoisted on Palmyra
Island, a small island in the Pacific, which
is claimed by Great Britain. Queensland
is also claimed by Great Britain; but, if
its rulers were not arch-hypocrites, the
Stars and Stripes would be floating oyer
the seat of Government here also, with
“Badger and Monopoly” emblazoned on
them.
Unionist Rally.
'lmportant Notice.
Only one public meeting will be held
to-morrow (Friday) night, and that will be
the
GRAND TRADE UNION RALLY
at the Woolloongabba Cricket Ground, at
8 o’clock.
Every unionist and every sympathiser
should make a special effort to be present
at this great gathering.
Exhibition Grounds.
Refused to Strike Committee.
The following letters need no com-
ment :—
Federal Members’ Room,
G.P.O., Brisbane.
C. A. Arvier, Secretary National Associa-
tion, Brisbane.
Dear Mr. Arvier, —On behalf of the Com-
bined Unions Strike Committee, I beg to
apply for the use of the Exhibition
Grounds for the holding of a public meet-
ing this week or early next week. Will
you kindly advise me as to the dates open,
and the charge for an evening meeting,
running from about 7.30 to 10 p.m. The
favour of an early reply will oblige.
Yours very truly,
W. F. FINLAYSON.
Brisbane, 27th February, 1912.
W. F. Finlayson, Esq., Federal Members’
Room, G.P.O., City.
Dear Sir, —In reply to your undated
favour received to-day, I am instructed to
inform you that the Exhibition Grounds
are occupied by the Mounted Police, and
it is not considered advisable to let the
Grounds at night for any other purpose.
The picture show on Saturday nights was
arranged prior to the rental of the Grounds
by the Home Secretary’s Department.
C. A. ARVIER, Secretary.
TOOMBUL W.P.O. BEWARE.
The following circular came into the
hands of Mr. Joe Codings to-day. Com-
ment is needless.
[copy.]
Queensland People’s Progressive League,
Toombul Branch.
10th. January, 1912.
Dear Sir or Madam, —Your attendance
at a meeting of above branch to be held
in the Hamilton Town Council Chambers,
Hamilton-road, Breakfast Creek, on
Thursday evening, 25th inst., at 8 p.m. ? is
particularly requested. Many socialists
are drifting into the electorate, especially
about Doomben, Eagle Farm, Pinkenba,
and Breakfast Creek, and as they are well
organised it behoves us to put our house
in order and meet organisation with or-
ganisation. If we don’t we are going to
get a thorough beating at the coming elec-
tions. Spare no effort to attend, and help
the good work of keeping our country free
from socialistic tyranny. G. S. Hutton,
President, per G. S. Foord.
[Toombul workers know Mr. Foord, we
fancy, and his political record. In
sympathy with the P.P.L. well might we
exclaim “And these be your gods, oh
Israel.—Ed. “S.B.”]
REJUVENATED.
About three weeks ago the apology for
a paper that was issued from the musty
“Mail” office assured us that the strike
was about ended. On Monday last it had
recourse to black type to tell us that the
strike would be declared off that day, and
now, with its usual accuracy, it tells us
this morning that—“ It is understood that
some of the men still on strike are receiv-
ing strike pay—but not from the strike
committee. In such cases the money is
being granted by the respective unions to
which the strikers belong. This is known
to be the case with regard to some of the
more wealthy unions, and the pay varies
according to the wealth of the union, rang-
ing from £2 for married men down to 15s.
for single men.” It may have to say the
same thing a month hence if employers
don’t see the folly of their obstinacy.
FISH MARKET TYRANNY.
Can Secretary Longbottom Explain?
This paper has the signed testimony of
two respectable citizens, that they were at
the Fish Market on Wednesday morning at
5 o’clock, with a view of purchasing fish,
when, after being inside for fully ten min-
utes, they were very rudely ordered out
unless they would remove the red ribbons
they happened to be wearing. This they
refused to do, and they were turned out.
Will some member of the Board, seeing
that this Market is a public concern, in-
quire into this act of petty tyranny with a
view to bringing the responsible parties to
book? It’s up to Secretary Longbottom to
explain!
GENUINE SYMPATHY.
The Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —The following is an example of
how Trades Unionism stands by the wives
and children of its members who have the
misfortune to lose their breadwinner:—
“Received from the Brisbane Water-
side Workers Union the sum of £25 on ac-
count of the death of my late husband G.
Cooper, and for which I herewith tender
my heartfelt and sincere thanks.
(Signed) MINNIE COOPER.
Saturday Night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL.
IVORY STREET, VALLEY.
KELVIN GROVE.
WEST END.
ROSALIE.
STONE’S CORNER.
SAMFORD.
Master Tanners Imitate the
“Boss.”
It appears that the master tanners
adopted a very and high-handed
attitude with regard to the return of their
employees to work, as the following resolu-
tion, adopted by them, will prove. This
resolution was carried at the employer s’
meeting, and sent to the secretary of Tan-
ners and Curriers’ Union :
“ That the men, on application for work,
be informed that they would be engaged
as non-union men, and that a new ‘ free
men’s ’ association would be formed as
soon as possible, and that the masters
would give the new ‘ free ’ association their
sympathetic countenance and assistance.”
This resolution was duly considered by
the men, with the result that they took a
very firm attitude, and sent along the fol-
lowing ulimatum: —
“ We, the members of the Tanners and
Curriers’ Union, hereby resolve and deter-
mine, that, in view of the decision of the
master tanners to deny the employees the
right of combination, and thereby their
liberty and freedom, which every Britisher
holds dear, as being characteristic of their
nationality, beg to state that we are not
prepared to resume operations until such
restrictions are removed and the men
allowed to return to their former positions
as the arbitrators of their own rights and
privileges. Further, no member of this
union will return to work, under any cir-
cumstances, where men are employed who
have violated their pledges to, and broken
faith with, this union, and while they are
so employed. In the event of no satisfac-
tory arrangement being arrived at by 6
p.m. on Monday, March 4, steps will be
taken to avail ourselves of the promises of
moral and any other support that may be
found necessary made by the Bootmakers’
Operatives, Saddlers, Waterside Workers,
and Butchers’ Unions, and others.”
Evidently the Strike Committee have
been wise in ordering that all men return-
ing to work should hold themselves in
readiness to cease work if victimisation is
continued.
THE ETERNAL FEMININE.
A slightly hysterical lady, who evi-
dently has been a constant reader of the
“Official Bulletin” —We don’t charge for
it—wants to know in to-day’s “Courier”
what were the men doing when the police
were knocking children and women about
on “Black Friday,” and as none of the
police were seriously hurt, she implies that
unionists are cowards, and she advises all
girls not to marry one of them. Had that
lady been around when the police
were behaving like a lot of savages on that
infamous occasion we are certain she would
not be writing in the present strain. We
may tell her, however, that several men
were compelled to seek medical attend-
ance because of their interference to rescue
victims. One instance occurred in Leich-
hardt-street, where a father, on seeing
his child struck by a policeman, whose
name we can give, ran unarmed to take it
away when the brutal policeman hit the
father in the mouth with his baton, break-
ing all his front teeth. If this man had
taken the law T into his own hands this lady
probably would be one of the first to say
he should be sent to prison because he ob-
jected to his child being bludgeoned. She
will also most likely endorse this scoun-
drel’s conduct by voting at the next elec-
tion for the Government that authorised
his actions.
SCRAMBLING FOR SCAB MONEY.
7 The Silvertails’ Stampede.
A daily paper reporter who “does” the
wharves was attracted yesterday by a big
crowd of dandified whipper snappers and
unwashed scum, mixed up inextricably to-
gether, who were wildly fightihg outside
the window of the A.U.S.N. pay office. It
took two water policemen and the wharf
constable to keep in order this well-bred
lot of hoodlums and outcaste white thrash,
and the permanent staff were disgusted
at the unseemly scramble for the scab
money. The reporter was simply non-
plussed at the spectacle; but when he was
told that these excrescences of our civilisa-
tion, bank slaves, and several rats, had
pillaged more cargo during the last few
weeks than the good, solid Watersiders
were blamed for during the last two years,
he went away thinking, because he had re-
cognised his boss’s son amongst the refuse.
A FUNERAL INCIDENT.
Whilst the funeral cortege of our late
comrade, Brother Craker, was proceeding
through Petrie-terrace to-day, the Gover-
nor’s motor, occupied by a lady (?), drove
through/ the procession, and was saluted by
a policeman on duty. Of such is the King-
dom of Snobocracy!
