

Official Bulletin, No. 42.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 42.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, MARCH 19, 1912.
Strike Committee.
SPECIAL MEETING.
All members of the Strike Committee
are hereby notified that a special meeting
is called for Thursday morning next at
10 o’clock. The business is most important,
and a full attendance is desired.
J. A. MOIR
Secretary.
RAILWAY INQUIRY FARCE.
The board of six railway officials, ap-
pointed to cross-question the men previ-
ously in the service, who went out on
strike, is hot stuff —hotter, in fact, than
the Durham or Oswestry Grange Board of
Inquiry. Presumably for political pur-
poses, the first witnesses called are men
who appear to be easily cornered, and the
interrogators are evidently out after pro-
motion. They ask questions in a way that
would induce an unwary witness to give
answers that will suit the stand taken by
the Commissioner and Denham, Cahill,
and Co., and the men have neither repre-
sentation on the Board, nor anyone to
fight their battle, or so much as ask a
question. G. A. Allen and R. T. Wills are
presented in the print of the daylies in a
way that might make them to appear as
representatives of railway men on strike,
but they’re not. These two members are
among'the loyalists, and the men say they
distinguished themselves in the C.C.
strike-breakers’ committee.
The men would be justified in refusing
to give evidence under the circumstances,
especially as the branches that didn’t
strike are represented on the Board, while
th& branch that decided to strike has no
representation or power to question wit-
nesses. Shorthand writers take the evi-
dence for the Commissioner, but the par-
ties on trial are not recognised in this con-
nection either. The Commissioner for
Railways and the Government evidently in-
tend to make all the capital they possibly
can out of the inquiry, otherwise it would
not have been thrown open to the press.
No greater publicity should have been
given to the doings of this Board than to
those of ordinary boards of appeal in the
service. It is greatly to be regretted that
men should be placed in the humiliating
position now forced on them by officials
who are eager to pose in the limelight
while throwing the thickest of shadows
around their victims.
THE WORM WILL TURN.
The wharf and shipping clerks of Syd-
ney agreed yesterday to a log of claims to
be placed before the shipowners with a
view to a conference. The question of an
agreement with the Wharf Labourers’
Union not to work on the wharves with
non-union clerks was discussed, and a
course of action decided upon. The mat-
ter of refusing to w r ork with clerks who
were not wearing the union medal within
a stated time was also considered. The
secretary reported that the organisation of
clerical workers on the wharves w T as now
on a solid footing, and that within a few
weeks it would be of a thorough descrip-
tion.
There is a good lead here for the Bris-
bane shipping clerks. Surely they do not
intend to always remain mere individual
tools for employers to play with. They,
like their fellow-clerks in, Sydney, have
seen to what a large extent the manual
workers have improved their position by
unionism. No better opportunity will ever
present itself to the Brisbane clerks to
emancipate themselves than the present
one. Let all of them, at all events, vote
for Labour at the coming elections, and if
they assist in ousting a Government tha4
would keep them for ever in industrial sub-
jection, they w T ill have greater confidence
in themselves as workers and less dread
of the whims of their employers.
THE MARVELLOUS EIGHT
THOUSAND.
The Denham crowd and the day-lials
have made bold attempts to make people
believe that the Strike Committee cut off
the food supply and barbarously tried to
starve citizens. Well, the “Courier,” at
the time the starving was supposed to have
been experienced, published slabs of
“Strength of Unions,” and the following
will be found in the print of the angry old
dame of Friday, February 2:
“ It is estimated by competent authori-
% ties that of the 100,000 adults in the
s metropolitan area there are probably
little more than 8000 who are members
of trade unions. It is desirable that this
should be known in order that the rela-
tive positions of trade unions and people
be understood.”
Of course the estimate is like much
else that was published about the strikers.
It is absolutely wrong, but the figures
prove that the compilers of dav-liars are
reckless in their records and they insult
the intelligence of their readers outrage-
ously.
Imagine 8000 wealth makers tying up
the port of Brisbane, closing down the
tram service, winging the railway service,
dethroning the Backslider Butterboxers’
Government, crippling trade throughout
the State, taking a city of 140,000 without
using a cartridge, almost extinguishing
one metropolitan daylie, seriously wound-
ing the two big guns of Capitalism, induc-
ing cow cockies to desert their cowyards,
and then on top of the lot putting the lid
securely on Bung for several days and cut-
ting off the food supply of the whole city.
Why, the worst in Woogaroo would not
perpetrate as silly a slander on sane
citizens.
Who Closed the Hotels?
DID DENHAM DO THE DEED?
Denham picked out two items in Coyne’s
speech at Toowoomba and said that the
strike leader claimed what wasn’t correct
for Labour. Digby actually asserted that
his Butterbox Backsliding Brigade closed
down on Bung at the beginning of the
strike, and the daylie press printed what
was not true about the substantial tem-
perance lecture. Just to show how even a
pious person like our Premier gets wrong
notions into his noddle, the following ex-
tracts from Brisbane’s daylies will suit
nicely:
(“Courier,” January 30.)
RETURN OF THE PREMIER.
‘ ‘ Questioned yesterday, the Acting-
Premier (Hon. A. Jd. Barlow) said he had
no official communication to make public,
and in reply to inquiries relative to the
Premier, stated he had no idea when Mr.
Denham was likely to return.”
From this it will be seen that Denham’s
deputy Premier didn’t know Digby’s move-
ments at the time the Labour men were
striving to have the hotels closed, as the
next gem will show, thus:
(“ Telegraph,” Wednesday, Jan. 31.)
CLOSING THE HOTELS.
“ Speaking to-the mass meeting this
morning at the Trades Hall, Mr. Bow-
man, M.L.A., said that they had made
an application to the Commissioner of
Police to have the hotels closed, because
they recognised the danger of anybody’s
becoming irresponsible at such a time.
Major Cahill hfid informed him that he
thought it was premature to take ac-
tion in that direction just now, but if they
brought evidence that it was advisable
he would have no hesitatioh in ap-
proaching the chief magistrate with that
end in view. (Applause). It is under-
stood that the Licensed Victuallers’ As-
sociation is also considering the matter
at a meeting this morning, and it is be-
lieved that they will voluntarily agree to
close.”
From this it will be seen that the Lab-
our members and the Strike Committee
endeavoured —on Tuesday evening or early
on Wednesday morning—to induce Com-
missioner Cahill to close the hotels. The
next two daylie extracts prove that Den-
ham was not in Brisbane at the time.
DENHAM’S RETURN TO BRISBANE.
(“Telegraph,” Wednesday, January 31.)
The Premier returned to Brisbane
last night. It was his intention to re-
main in Sydney until the end of this
week, but presumably the industrial
troubles in Brisbane hastened his re-
turn.
(“ Courier,” Wednesday, January 31.)
The Premier returned to Brisbane
last night by mail train from Sydney.
When communicated with at his _ resi-
dence Mr. Denham declined to be inter-
viewed, and said he had nothing then to
convey to the press.
The next and last daylie gem proves
conclusively that President Coyne stated
correctly, and that Denham has been de-
luded. He had not been attending to duty
and didn’t close the hotels until they had
practically closed themselves.
(“Courier,” Thursday, Feb. 1.)
“CLOSING ALL HOTELS.”
“ The Hon. D. F. Denham, in the
course of an interview yesterday, said:
The question of closing the hotels occu-
pied the attention of the Cabinet this
morning. At the close of the Cabinet
meeting I was advised that the president,
solicitor, and secretary of the Queens-
land United Licensed Victuallers’ Asso-
ciation desired to see me, and they pre-
sented the following resolution passed at
a meeting of their association this •morn-
ing, with iwo dissentients:' ‘That all
licensed victuallers’ premises within the
metropolitan area be closed during the
time of the strike, and progress be re-
ported on Thursday next. That this
resolution be presented to the Premier
with a view to giving it effect.’ ”
Labour candidates will be charged
nothing for these extracts, which should
be cut out and pasted inside their hats.
Though daylies lie about strikers and all
things Labour, they are recognised as the
official organs of Capitalism.
AN APOLOGY.
I regret the statements made concern-
ing Mr. J. O. Thomas, and apologise for
same.
(Signed) J. S. COLLINGS.
Brisbane, March 16, 1912.
“ OFFICIAL BULLETINS.”
Six thousand extra copies daily of the
“Bulletin” are at the disposal of the
W.P.Os. Do you want them, comrades?
If so, send properly-credentialled persons
for them, stating the number you can
effectively distribute daily.
PEOPLES SUNDAY SERVICE.
Friends will kindly note a continuation
of these services is being duly arranged
for. All particulars will be announced in
this paper.
Mr. Tom Mann, in a speech at Birming-
ham (Eng.), stated that unless the Govern-
ment was prepared to compel the mine-
owners to grant the minimum wage, he
would urge the railway men and transport
workers to strike.
Lady’s Hat found in Gymnasium on
Saturday last. Owner can have same by
applying at 180 Wharf-street.
A Special Bulletin Coming.
Look out for our special “ Bulletin.”
It will be published in a few days, and will
be hot election stuff. Later we will tell
you when, where, and how to get copies for
free distribution.
LABOUR DAILY.
A meeting of the sub-committee will be
held in the Trades Hall on Thursday night,
at 7.30. Important business
LABOUR IN THE SOUTH.
The N.S.W. State Government has de-
cided to seek workmen from abroad. The
Minister for Lands on Saturday last said:
“We find we cannot construct the railways
in this country under the present con-
ditions of the labour market. We have
always given preferei ce to Australia’s
workmen, and the Government now has
decided to send two men, one a business
man, and the other a tradesman, to Eng-
land. Their mission is to find us 2000 nav-
vies and bridge carpenters, whom we must
have, if we are to go on with railway con-
struction. We are in a position to guaran-
tee these men work for two or three years
without displacing anybody. We are send-
ing a local business man, also a local trades-
man. The Government definitely is pledged
to this, and the men will leave for Eng-
land withing the next few days.”
The Queensland State Government won’t
give those men who are on the spot, and
for whom plenty of work is available, any
employment that they can possibly avoid.
Are they afraid of offending the Employers’
Federation, or are they relying on the
forlorn hope that they may induce an occa-
sional unionist to scab?
Whatever the reason, the fact stands
out very clearly, and voters should bear
this as well as many other enormities m
mind when asked to give their support to
a nominee of this party who sink the in-
terests of the State and the welfare of the
people in order to placate the plunderers
of the toilers.
TROUBLE WITH THE TRAMS.
Two tramcars in the West End to
Hamilton service came into collision at
Hamilton yesterday afternoon. One of the
cars, it seems, was waiting at the end of
the double track for another that was com-
ing on the single set of rails, when a third
tram collided with it at the rear. One of
the passengers, a single woman named
Phoebe Moore, received fin juries which were
treated by the Ambulance Brigade. She
was removed to her home* and her relatives
were advised to secure medical assistance.
Miss Moore resides at Seymour-road,
Hamilton.
At about 6 p.m. yesterday anothef
accident, which might have resulted fat-
ally, occurred near the junction of Wick-
ham and Ann streets, Valley. The parties
concerned were Mrs. Rebet, of New Farm,
and tramcar No. 154, of Light-street depot.
It appears that Mrs. Rebet was driving
along Wickham-street towards the Valley
with three other occupants in a sulky, when
the tram approached them, in the same
direction, and without warning crashed
into them. The result was that the four
occupants were thrown out, and both
shafts, splash boards, and front of the
sulky were completely smashed. It is said
the motorman travelled 100 yards before
he pulled up after a man had called out to
him. Eye-witnesses say the motorman
never sounded his gong until he hit the
sulky.
Another tram is said to have hit a dray
or milk cart at Con stance-street, and after
the accident the motorman is alleged to
have inquired from the passqjigers where
the vehicle came from
TO CORRESPONDENTS AND
SECRETARIES.
We would again ask correspondents and
secretaries to condense as much as possible
any communications they may send us.
Our sheet at present is but small, and as
we wish to be thoroughly impartial in the
matter of space, we can only devote a cer-
tain amount to each contributor. We
hope, however, secretaries and others will
send along any items they may think will
be of general intei est to the cause of
Labour or that may assist to return our
candidates at the forthcoming elections.
Later on we hope to be in a position to
give contributors greater scope.
OATES OF INTERESTING EVENTS.
The following dates in connection with
the elections should be kept in mind by the
different organisations. This applies more
especially to nomination day. Let no
branch be caught napping:—^
Nomination Day.—Thursday, March 28.
Polling Day.—Saturday, April 27.
Return of Writ. —Thursday, May 30.
Mr. F. Hall, Labour M.P., speaking at
Rotherham (Eng.), on Sunday, stated that
the miners would not resume work until
the Minimum Wage Bill was passed, and
then only for a month, pending the fixing
of district figures.
Since the strike of the transport
workers in England last year the member-
ship has rapidly increased, and 250,000 are
now enrolled.
Mr. Fisher declared yesterday that if
any State or the whole of the States de-
sired the Federal Parliament to take
charge of education, the Government would
respond. He looks upon the intellectual
development of the youth as of the greatest
value.
An Open Letter to Mr. Denham.
Your letter in Saturday’s daylie press
to the members of the Legislative Assembly
is on a par with all other transactions by
your government in connection with the
late strike. Its low-down lying and cun-
ning tactics are very plain to all sane-
minded unionists and non-unionists. You
say that it brought thousands of people to
the verge of starvation, when you know
that the Strike Committee provided for
the wants of all. Then your Government
allowed a foreign syndicate to rule and try
to destroy the union workers, and if they
had had their way the only end to that
would have meant starvation to many
thousands, as you know that under the
present system of living with the high
prices of food and rent, even with appar-
ently good wages it was only an existence.
What would you or your Government have
cared so long as you were allowed to mis-
represent the people and draw your large
salaries? Now, because you did not get all
your own way, you are crying and blaming
the Opposition members of Parliament,
who were the champions of the people, and
excusing yourself under pretended concern
for the people for not calling another ses-
sion, when you know in your heart that
you are a coward, as you were at the com-
mencement of the strike, when Mr. Bow-
man and his colleagues waited * on you to
ask you to. call a session to see what could
be done to bring the strike to a 'peaceful
issue, and were refused.
You were afraid to meet those honest
men, and all that you did was to. suspend
the Wages Board Act* thus giving to your
accomplices the power to further crush and
starve the people. You also handed over to
the police full power to baton and bludgeon
the people to submission; but what was
the result of that? Why this: that the
people had their eyes opened to the true
characters of the men who were in power,
and it caused them to think, and then to
act; and when you bring those unworthy
members to the higher tribunal of a general
election, then the people will give you such
an exhibition of their good sense that will
.surprise you, as they will stick to the men
who have stuck to them through the strike,
and not to your Government and those
special things who batoned the people and
disorganised law and order; and to show
you how we appreciate their courage in
laying low innocent men, women, and
children, and in doing everything possible
to bring about ruin and disaster, note how
they are shunned by all respectable citi-
zens, and rightly, too; as a man who would
lend himself to help a Government like
yours to crush his fellow-man is nothing
short of a social leper, and should be
loathed and shunned as such by all clean-
minded people.
If you are trying to make the people
forget the incidents of Black Friday, I tell
you that you never will, as the memory of
the dastardly attempts to cause a riot will
never be forgotten, and as history will be
handed down to our children as a dark and
stinking blot on the present Government
and their accomplies. •
As for the farmers’ voi;e bogey, we
never had it, so will never miss it, and we
know that it w r as from among the farmers
that you chose those specials to do your
dirty work. You may pose as the saviour of
the people as much as you like, but if’is no
good. The game is up, so the sooner you
and your gang are politically dead the
better for the people.
If the strike was caused by such a
trifling thing as the tramway men wanting
to wear a badge, as you would lead people
to believe, why did you not call a session,
when our leader wanted you to, to try and
bring the strike to a close, as you could
have done ? But you know that that was
not the reason, but that it was a blow
struck at unionism by the masters’ associa-
tion, of whom you are one, to destroy it.
But what have you done ? I will tell you :
You have sent all the unions back tenfold
stronger than when they came out, and
have made more converts to the Labour
movement than we ourselves could have
done in ten years, because the people have
seen for themselves who are their friends,
and are convinced that with all your boasted
home rule and birthright policy, they will
get nothing but oppression from you, and
they have had such a lesson that they will
never forget.
ELLEN HEWETT.
WINDSOR W.P.O.
A largely-attended meeting of the above
organisation was held in the Temperance
Hall, Albion, on Saturday, March 16. Can-
didate Crampton addressed the meeting.
Mr. Griffiths was appointed chairman of
campaign committee. The president and
secretary were instructed to procure a cen-
tral committee room, and also to try and
procure a permanent campaign secretary,
and report to next meeting. A committee
of four was appointed to divide the elec-
torate into different working sections.
Volunteers undertook to deliver “Official
Bulletins” to the number of 200 daily.
The meeting was adjourned until Thurs-
day next, March 21.
Federal Parliament has been further
prorogued to May 1.
FEDERATED TIMBER WORKERS’
UNION.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
A MASS MEETING of the FEDE-
RATED TIMBER WORKERS’ UNION
will be held in the TRADES HALL., TO-
MORROW (Wednesday) NIGHT, at 8
o’clock.
Every member is requested to attend.
R. C. ANDERSON, Gen. Sec.
General Elections.
METROPOLITAN POLLING PLACES.
Subjoined we give a list of the metro-
politan polling places. We give elsewhere
the dates of the three most important
events in connection with the returns.
Workers should make themselves thoroughly
acquainted with all details in connection
with the elections,, so that no votes may be
lost through misunderstandings. The poll
on election day will not close till 6 o’clock,
and as the eventful day falls on Saturday,
there should be a record vote polled for
Labour:
Brisbane Electorate. —Brisbane.
Bulimba. —Belmont (Shire Hall), Bris-
bane, Bulimba (A to Y), Coorparoo
(School), Galloway’s Hill, Hemmant
(School), Lytton-road, Manly, Morning-
side, Stanley Bridge Estate (May’s Store),
Stone’s Corner (Knowsley Hall), Tingalpa
(School). Also the groups: Bulimba (Z),
Bulwer, and Tangaluma; Cleveland
(School), and Dunwich; Wellington Point*
and Capalaba; Wynnum (School), and St.
Helena.
Buranda. —Brisbane, Dutton Park
(School), Stanlev-street East (Alliance
Hall), Thompson Estate (Carl-street Hall).
Enoggera.—Ashgrove (School), Bowen
Bridge-road (Bick’s Store), Brisbane,
Ennogera-terrace (Ithaca Eire Brigade
Station), Grove Estate, Ithaca Creek
(School) Kelvin Grove (School), Red Hill
(Norman Hall), The Gap. Also in group:
Alderley (Raymont’s Store), Groveley
(Keylar’s), Upper Kedron (School).
Fortitude Valley.—Brisbane, and
Valley State School.
Ipswich.—Brisbane, Ipswich (court-
house), Blackstone, Bundanba (School),
Dinmore (School), Riverview, Silkstone.
Ithaca. —Bardon (Church School), Bris-
bane, Kennedy-terrace (Council Chambers),
Paddington, Rosalie (Milton School).
Kurilpa.—Brisbane, West End School
of Arts, West End School, Hardgrave-road.
Maree. —Brisbane, East Brisbane
School, Kangaroo Point School.
Merthyr.—Brisbane, and at the Social
Service Institute.
Nundah. —Bald Hills (School), Bris-
bane, Everton Park (Tucker’s Store), Nud-
gee (School), Nundah (Shire Office), Sand-
gate (Court House), Stafford-on-Kedron
(School), Strathpine (Shire Office), Zillmere
(School of Arts). Also in groups: Albany
Creek (School), Bunya (School), and
Warner (School), Parker (School), and
Samford (School); Chermside (School), and
Aspley (School).
Oxley. —Annerley, Brisbane, Cooper’s
Plains, Corinda (School of Arts), Fairfield
(Junction Hall), Goodna, Greenbank,
Junction Park (School), Oxley, Redbank
Plains, Redbank School, Rocklea (School),
Moorooka, Yeronga Hall.
Paddington.—Brisbane, Leichhardt-
street, Park-road (Milton, Siemon's Store),
Petrie-terrace (Boys’ School), Petrie-ter-
race (Oddfellows’ Hall).
South Brisbane. —Brisbane, Dutton
Park (Pavilion), Glenelg-street (School,
South Brisbane (Technical College).
Toombul.—Albion, Brisbane, Breakfast
Creek, Clayfield, Eagle Farm (corner of
Schneider-road and main Pinkenba-road),
Hamilton, Hendra, Pinkenba.
Toowong. —Auchen flower, Brisbane,
Brookfield, Figtree Pocket, Irongate (Allen
Guyatt’s house), Kenmore, Indooroopilly
(Stanmore Hall), Moggill, Pullen Vale,
Taringa, Toowong.
Windsor. —Brisbane Lutwyche (Wind-
sor Town Council Chambers), Newmarket
(Hall), Swan Hill (Oddfellows’, Hall, Bowen
Bridge-road), Wooloowin (Guild Hall).
TRAMWAY EMPLOYEES’
ASSOCIATION.
A SPECIAL MEETING of the above
Association will be held in the TRADES
HALL, TO-MORROW (Wednesday)
AFTERNOON, at 3 o’clock.
All members are earnestly urged to at-
tend, as special business will be dealt with.
R. CHAMP, Secretary.
SOUTH BRISBANE LABOUR
CAMPAIGN.
Trade Unionists, Labour Supporters,
Sympathisers, and all others resident in
the above Electoral District interested m
the return to the Legislative Assembly of
the endorsed Labour Candidate, Mr. J. H.
Sherry, are cordially invited to attend a
meeting to be held in the Committee
Rooms, Stanley-street, South Brisbane, on
THURSDAY EVENING *NEXT, 21st
March, 1912.
Business important. Ladies specially
invited.
H. R. HUXHAM,
Hon Sec. S.B. Lab. Committee.
STOREMEN AND PACKERS.
Members of this Union are reminded
that important business is to be dealt with
on THURSDAY NIGHT, at the Trades
Hall. Every member is urged to attend.
W. BERTRAM, Secretary.
METROPOLITAN COUNCIL OF W.P.O.
The deferred MEETING of the above
Council will take place in
MR. LLOYD’S ROOMS, KENT’3
BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE ST.,
TO-MORROW (Wednesday) EVENING,
20th March, at 8 o’clock.
Delegates are urgently requested to be
present, as the business is important.
LEWIS MCDONALD, Hon. Sec.
