

Official Bulletin, No. 33.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 33.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1912.
Unionist Rally.
Prepared for Another General Strike.
A big gathering of Unionists was held
in Wickham Park last night, when great
enthusiasm was again manifested.
Mr,. P. McLachlan presided.
Mr. Harry Coyne gave a lucid account
of what had happened in strike quarters
recently, and-again, laid stress on the fact
that the only victimisers were the Tram-
way Company through whom the strike
originated, and the Denham Gov-
ernment, who backed them up.
The Strike Committee • would con-
tinue in harness, and see things to a
finish; and had made a special appeal to
the Unions of Australasia on behalf of the
Tram and Railway employees.
Mr. J. Payne, M.L.A., J. Moir, and
J. Collings also made telling speeches.
The meeting lasted till after 10 o’clock.
One feature of the proceedings was the
emphatic pronouncement that if the work-
ers w r ere called on to again relinquish their
labour in the cause of unionism, they were
prepared to do so.
Waterside Workers.
TROUBLE AT PINKENBA.
As anticipated, a difficulty has arisen
over the discharging of steel rails from the
steamer Elvaston, which arrived from Liv-
erpool yesterday. The non-unionists sent
down by the Railway Department to take
delivery of the rails from the ship’s slings
arrived at Pinkenba at 8.45 a.m. to-day.
A number of waterside wmrkers arrived in
a lighter subsequently, but the work of dis-
charging the rails had not been commenced
at a late hour this afternoon, the unionists
claiming the whole of the work or none at
all.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
W.P.O.'S Please Note!
The Strike Committee desires to ask
that, on account of the immense amount of
wmrk they have now in hand, the W.P.O.’S
throughout Brisbane and suburbs will take
charge of the work of continuing the pub-
lic meetings which have been held during
the strike.
The committee suggest that at least one
meeting each w 7 eek should be held in every
important centre of each electorate. if
this is done, and a list of capable speakers
provided, all metropolitan seats will come
into Labour’s net. Look to it, comrades;
it is of the utmost importance.
POLICE REPORTS ON THEIR
OWN ACTIONS.
Yesterday we showed how the police
stood condemned out of the columns of
their favourite “ sooler,” notwithstanding
the carefully-prepared reports they had
furnished concerning their own actions.
Elsewhere we publish a letter from a Valley
citizen who, with many other reputable
people, witnessed the outrageous conduct
of the police in Leichhardt-street, on Black
Friday; and Mrs. E. Bailey of Paris-street,
West End, writes to us stating that the
portion of the report referring to her is
entirely false. Mrs. Bailey states that she
has not got the use of her arm yet through
the injuries she received from the blow of
a baton on that ill-omened day. She
attended only once at the Mater Miseri-
cordise Hospital, but was attended to by a
private doctor afterwards. She hopes,
however, to be able to record her vote at
the ballot-box.
P.P.L. NEW BOGIE.
Socialistic Anarchists.
The following circular was handed to
“Joe” Collings yesterday; it needs no
comment
“Dear Sir, —You are earnestly invited
to attend a meeting to be held at the Al-
bert Hall, city, on the 7th instant, at 3
o’clock. Our State elections will take place
immediately, and the party of Socialistic
anarchists declare they will then seize the
reins of Government. Imagine the laws
you would suffer under should that take
place. Can we forget the days when the
Socialistic anarchists usurped the powers
of our Government, and took forcible pos-
session of the city, preventing all business
operations, and cutting off food supplies.’
Can we forget the party who are at the pre-
sent time boasting that they have “blocked
our ports, and destroyed our commerce.”
Employers and other business men are be-
ing invited to attend this meeting for the
purpose of considering the best means of
raising the necessary funds required to
fight the forthcoming State election cam-
paign, and enable us to defeat this party
of Socialistic anarchists, who have caused
and are causing such extreme distress and
disastrous loss of business and money to
the whole community. It is to your per-
sonal interest that you attend. No en-
gagement is of more importance to your
welfare. The Premier and the Hon. R.
Philp will address the meeting.—Yours
faithfully, A. ROBINSON, General Secre-
tary.”
Last night, Colonel Foxton, addressing
some of the men on parade, before dismiss-
ing them, told them that politics would
not be allowed to be discussed while sol-
diers were in uniform. We would like
to know if this order emanated from the
Minister for Defence.
Mr. Ken. Grant as Apologist.
POLICE REPORTS OUTDONE.
BRISBANE’S BARON MUNCHAUSEN.
The Minister for Education has been
the first to become public apologist for the
Government for the way in which it handed
over the control of the city to Commissioner
Cahill and his bludgeoners during the
strike. Surely he # must think his Rock-
hampton audience were beyond the means
of having the true state of things told them
impartially or he would never have im-
posed such a huge bundle of gross mis-
statements on them. Here is one extract
of what he said, according to to-day’s
1 ‘ Courier ” :
‘ ‘He noticed that a number of Labour
members had spoken of the bludgeoning
of women and children. That was
nothing but lies—absolute lies. He de-
fied anyone to find any woman who was
maltreated by the Brisbane police that
Friday. He admitted that one or two
men got cracks on the head, but they
were not serious. No map was seriously
hurt on that Friday, but a number of
special constables were very seriously
hurt. Those were the only serious cases
that happened on that Friday.”
Just read this in connection with what
we published from the “ Courier ” files yes-
terday, and with what we publish, to-day,
as well as the letters that have appeared
in our columns from day to day, and then
let us fervently hope that the children at-
tending the State schools will not take
example by the Minister for Public
Instruction in the matter of veracity.
We now learn from Mr. Grant that it
was the Government, and not the tram
company, who prevented the trams from
being run at night, and the Government’s
action was caused through a plug of gelig-
nite being found on the New Farm tram-
line. If we don’t mistake, there was a
policeman riding on that particular car,
and everything turned out just as some
people wanted it to do. Now, the trades
unionists have been subjected to most vil-
lainous abuse from many sources, but it
has remained for a member of the
Denham Government to go into Central
Queensland and practically tell the
people there that the men who made
such heroic sacrifices rather than sub-
mit to the tyranny of a foreign money-
grabbing, slave-manufacturing syndicate
were nothing more nor less than reckless
destroyers of property and perhaps would-
be murderers. Is it any wonder now that
Denham wouldn’t face Parliament?
Would he or his Education Minister have
dared to get up in their places there, and
say that Badger had nothing at all to do
with the stoppage of trams at night—the
Government became quasi-directors for the
time being, and their knowledge of what
the unionists of Brisbane were capable of
would not allow them risking the running
of trams at night? We don’t think either
of them would. At the same time, as he
took such a large part in the conduct of
the tram service then, Mr. Grant might
have gone further and told us how many
“ men” the company had to carry on the
traffic with.
Here is a further extract from Mr.
Grant’s manifeso, which has also a lie # in
nearly every line of it:
“ Now, there were about 10,000 men
in those processions, and at meetings
and processions which were held to
intimidate the general public and
frighten men ‘from going back to work,
the Commissioner of Police decided that
it was safest that processions should be
stopped. Accordingly they were blocked,
and since then things had been remark-
ably quiet. As a matter of fact the
strikers themselves were exceedingly glad
that the processions were stopped. On
Thursday night, when he walked down
Queen-street, it was packed with people,
and there was a bad tone in the air. On
Friday night there was a marked differ-
ence, the crowd then having quite a holi-
day appearance ,and many people, in-
cluding the red ribboners themselves,
were glad that at last law and order
prevailed.”
It will be news to trades unionists to
learn that they held their processions for
the purpose of intimidating people, and
that having so intimidated non-unionists,
they were glad when they were prevented
from intimidating them further.
We have not space to follow Mr. Grant
through all his mire-like journey, but if
this is a specimen of what we may expect
from these members of the boodle-booming
Government,. the patience of intelligent
workers are about to be severely tested.
AN APPRECIATION OF UNIONISM.
Kedron Park Pictures.
Mr. Landers, of the Kedron. Park Pic-
tures, states that he is prepared to give ar
benefit to any union man in the district
who has suffered through the strikef He
said that he would also donate two guineas
himself. Unionists should recognise this
generous action.
FEDERATED CARTERS’ UNION.
The General Meeting of the above
Union will be held in the Trades Hall To-
morrow (SATURDAY) Night, February
9th, at 8 o’clock.
All members are requested to attend.
G. LAWSON, Secretary.
The Tramway Badge.
That the Strike Committee properly
gauged the minds and intentions of the
Tram Monopolising Syndicate when
they decided that nothing short
of a general strike would force
them to the Arbitration Court,
is further shown by applications made yes-
terday to the Full Court for an injunction
to prevent the recent award of the Arbi-
tration Court being enforced. We give the
full report of the proceedings, as
they will be of interest to unionists: —
The application was made on behalf of the
Adelaide Municipal Tramway Trust and
the Brisbane Tramways Co, and the Bench
consisted of their Honours the Chief Jus-
tice and Justices Barton and Isaacs.
It was contended Mr. Mitchell,
K.C., for the Brisbane Company that
there was no dispute or threatened dis-
pute likely to extend beyond the limits
of a State, and that there was no indus-
trial dispute as defined by the Constitution
or the Arbitration Act. A dispute about
a badge, which was only a convenience of
the men, was not a dispute about an in-
dustrial matter.
The Chief Justice : It may be within
the Act, but not within the Constitution.
Mr. Mitchell raised the issue also that
section 16A of the amending Arbitration
Act of 1911 was not unconstitutional.
Mr. Justice Isaacs : Supposing an em-
ployer said that men should wear a cer-
tain kind of badge, and the men said that
they would not. Would that be an in-
dustrial dispute?
Mr. Mitchell : I do not think that it
would.
Mr. Justice Barton : Say a company
said that a man should wear a cocked hat
and the man said that he would not?
Mr. Mitchell : Mr. Justice Higgins
said that a man had a common law right
to wear what he liked.
Mr. Justice Barton : Subject to de-
cency.
The Chief Justice : Is it a common law
right for a maid to wait at table in a low-
necked dress?
Mr. Mitchell said he was not prepared
to say.
Mr. Glynn (for the Adelaide Tramway
Trust) took the additional point that the
trust was an instrumentality of the Gov-
ernment of the State of South Australia.
The court granted the order nisi in
both cases, and made it returnable on the
first day of the next sittings of the Full
Court in Melbourne (May 21).
Further Remembrance.
WHO STOPPED THE FOOD SUPPLY?
The day liars have fooled foolish
people, and basely slandered the Strike
Committee. The big guns of the Capitalist
oppressors poured out tons of print during
the trouble, condemning the Strike Com-
mittee for cutting off the food supply. All
kinds of harrowing tales were concocted to
discredit Coyne, Moir/ Collings, and Co.,
and ’tis not at all surprising that many
worthy citizens have been made to believe
that Unionists are no more humane than
cannibalistic savages, and that they stop-
ped the food supply, and caused women and
children to feel the pangs of hunger.
Well, the “Courier” would scarcely
tell lies about the Traders’ Association, to
benefit the Unionists on strike, or the
Strike Committee, and the following beau-
tiful pearl from Granny’s collection in
“ The Strike ” casket, is just “it,” to prove
wlio put the lid on the tucker box: —
(“Courier,” Friday, February 2, 1912;
page 5, sixth line from top of last column).
ALL RETAILERS CLOSE.
It has practieallv been decided by
ALL SHOPKEEPERS to CLOSE their
premises FROM THIS EVENING
UNTIL THE STRIKE IS OVER. A
meeting of the Traders’ Association is
being held this afternoon.
How does that show the contemptible
tactics of the Capitalist Press prints in
their true colours, and the callousness of
the profit-plunderers to the sufferings of
the wealth makers, who were fighting in
Freedom’s Cause?
THE CLOVEN-FOOT OF
CAPITALISM.
In the nominee chamber of the New
South Wales Parliament on Wednesday,
another instance was given that, notwith-
standing how the people may vote to be
represented in the popular chamber, it is
still in the power of adherents of Capitalism
to thwart their wishes. The Arbitration
Bill was being dealt with, after having
passed through the Assembly, and on Clause
24 being reached, which contained a sub-
clause giving preference to unionists, a
motion for its elimination was carried by
22 votes to 5. The people turned Wade out
of office owing to his coercive legislation in
connection with the Newcastle miner’s
strike, but their emancipation won’t be
complete until they clear out the supporters
of boodle who have blocked all the pro-
gressive legislation they possibly could.
The representative of the Government in
the Upper House abruptly ended the pro-
ceedings, saying the matter would not end
there.
TO UNION AND ELECTORAL
SECRETARIES.
We would be obliged if union and elec-
toral secretaries would furnish details of
proceedings in connection with their
branches that would be of interest to the
members.
Water and Sewerage Board
Election.
~ 5
Citizens of Brisbane Water area are
again informed that the election for repre-
sentatives on the Board takes places on
Wednesday next, 13th inst. The three
endorsed candidates are:
ALD. T. WILSON (Labour represen-
tative).
ALF. S. WATERFIELD (Amal. En-
gineers’ Society).
JOHN BARKER (Plumbers’ Union).
These three men stand in the interest of
Labour and unionism, and every worker
who is a liousehoulder should roll up to the
poll and vote for them and one other can-
didate. You must vote for four to make
your vote effective.
Although the Brisbane District Council
has endorsed three candidates only, Mr. R.
D. North has accepted the platform, and
voters are requested to couple his name
with those of Messrs. Barker, Waterfield,
and Wilson.
The roll can be seen now at the Water
Board Office- Waterside Workers’ t Union
Rooms, and Trades Hall. Every working
man and woman householder should see at
once that their names are on the roll.
Do not forget that Walkeden, who was
last time returned on the Labour ticket,
was a most ardent “special” constable
during the strike.
We wish to impress on all workers that
they should make a final effort before 12
o’clock to-morrow to see if their names are
on this roll, and if not to have them put
on a supplementary list that is now being
prepared. If tenants can’t go to the Water
Board’s offices in Albert-street personally,
they should send their wives there; but be
sure to get there before 12 o’clock to-
morrow, otherwise it will be too late.
IS THIS A CANARD?
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir,—In connectioji with a Police report
appearing in the ‘ ‘ Telegraph ’ ’ of even
date of what took place at Enever’s bakery
on Friday, the 2nd February, I wish to
state the true facts of what took place on
that evening, and I am prepared to make
the same statement on oath if necessary.
On the evening of the 2nd February,
after tea, I started out to go to the bakery
for the purpose of sending my boy (who
was already there) home, and to see if 1
could get some bread. On leaving home,
a friend of mine, who holds an important
position in a leading city house, joined me.
When we arrived at the bakery we found
about 100 people there, mostly women and
children, but certainly no sign of the larri-
kin element was present. While standing
on the opposite side of the street we
noticed a policeman coming along Leich-
hardt-street from the direction of the
Jubilee Hotel, who, on seeing the crowd
waiting at the bakery, came along and
asked the people to move off the footpath,
which they started at once to do. While
so doing a mounted constable came along
and stopped for a few minutes, and, seeing
everything was quiet, moved on towards
the Exhibition. A few minutes afterwards
the policeman also left, and proceeded in
the direction of the Valley Corner. Soon
after he left, the bakery began to sell
bread, and, as was only natural, there was
a bit of a rush for the fence. One of the
men called out, “Now, chaps, let the
women and children get the bread first,
and we will get what is left,” and he also
asked the men present to lift the little
ones up to the top of the fence, which was
being done, and the best of good order pre-
vailed, when all of a sudden there was,
without the slightest warning in any shape
or form, a mad rush by the police, led by
the policeman already mentioned, who all
seemed to have lost their reason and
started to hit, push, shove, and scatter the
crowd in all directions. I here now state
that batons were used—not only drawn,
but used. One policeman used his fists
freely. One man stepped forward to pro-
tect his two children. This policeman then
set on him, and ordered him back, at the
same time striking him several fierce blows
in the mouth, with the result that he
loosened nearly all his bottom front teeth,
at the same time crying out, “You are
b well the cause of this; you will get
no bread here.” The constable who did
this has charge of a station. Yours, etc.,
GEORGE HAMER
Fuel Merchant.
139 Kennigo-street, Valley,
March 6.
[We have the names of eight respect-
able witnesses of these foul actions, who
are prepared to substantiate Mr. Hamer’s
statements on oath.—Ed. S.B.]
Yesterday the “Telegraph” said it would
be interesting to know why the ‘ ‘ Strike
Bulletin” should be continued, seeing
that the strike was declared off. We are
not going to gratify the curiosity of the
“Telegraph” or any other Capitalistic
Woomer as to why the ‘ ‘ Bulletin ’ ’ should
be continued; but there is further work
for the Strike Committee to do, so also is
there for the “ Bulletin.” One thing we
will state is that we hope never again to
leave the workers of Brisbane entirely at
the mercy of their newspaper oppressors,
and that in the near future it will not be
necessary for the wealth producers of the
State to subsidise the literary jackals of
Capitalism in order to learn what events
are happening elsewhere.
The editor of the “ Bulletin ” has been
asked by the residents of Soudan Estate,
Paddington, to thank the Strike Commit-
tee for the “Bulletins” sent daily, and also
Y.O. Schmidt for delivering them.
PEOPLE’S SUNDAY AFTERNOON
SERVICE.
CENTENNIAL HALL,
Sunday Afternoon Next, at 3.
Sermon by REV. J. S POLLOCK.
Hymns from Presbyterian Hymnary.
EVERYBODY WELCOME. t
All Trade Unionists and sympathisers
should hear this sermon.
Ice and the Hospitals.
The day liars made a great song about
“No ice for the hospitals,” and they
blamed the Strike Committee for acting
like barbarians. Well, here is conviction
of the ‘ ‘ Courier ’ ’ and Co. from two places
in that print, dated Fedruary 16. (Extract
from “ The Strike Broken,” “Courier,”
February 16): —
‘ ‘ It is a source of gratification to
know that Birt and Company’s cold
stores in Stanley-street did not sus-
pend operations during the strike. In-
quiries elicited the information that
the butchers’ rooms were open, butter
was stored, and ice was manufactured.
In fact* during the industrial trouble,
the routine work continued as if noth-
ing out of the way had occurred.”
Neat, eh ? And here is a more interest-
ing slab (from “Courier,” February 16),
which needs no explanation :—-
STRIKERS AND THE HOSPITALS.
INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPLIES.
“ At a meeting of the committee of
the General Hospital yesterday, the
Medical Superintendent reported that
the strike had affected the hospital
only in respect of »the stoppage of work
on the new pavilion. . . . They had to
do a little carting of ice, butter, coal,
etc., but the contractor had seen that
the hospital suffered little inconveni-
ence. The work of the hospital had
been very quiet. The closing of the
hotels was to the advantage of the hos-
pital. The refractory ward, which had
been occupied for months past, was en-
tirely out of commission until the ho-
tels were reopened. It had been re-
ported that the hospital had been
crowded with casualties, but admis-
sions, both indoor and outdoor, had
been few, there being only two cases of
importance connected with the disturb-
ance.”
Dr. McLean deserves a .special pat for his
home thrusts. “Granny” ought to get her
gums singed at a scab shop
SECTARIAN TEACHING.
To the Editor of the “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —Now that the elections are near
at hand, let right minded parents be be-
ware of the silver-tongued orations of the
Liberal (P) party. Let them keep in
mind the attempts of the daily Press to
draw a cloud over one of the greatest blots
in Queensland legislation. I refer to the
Bible in State schools.
The “Selected Bible Lesson Books” are
a disgrace to any respectable community.
Many persons may wonder why the major-
ity of parsons have such brazen impudence
as to always call in at meal times and
although they are treated well they very
seldom give anything in return. Well,
here may be a reason. At the front of
the books, the following is a part of what
is printed : “Forgive us our debts as we
forgive our debtors.”
Apart from the substance of the les-
sons, where is there one particle of com-
mon sense in placing Biblical words in
front of infants and expecting them to
read. Nothing could be more absurd.
It would almost break the hearts of
right-minded parents to see the undigni-
fied, yet impertinent entry of some of the
black coat fraternity. They have
brought nothing but disorganisation into
the schools; but what do they hare ? They
are planting the seeds of sectarian strife
and are quite contented with the tone they
are instilling into the young. For the
sake of your children, and our children’s
children, the sooner these Bible lessons
are stopped the better for all.
R.D.
TRAMWAY MEN’S BENEFIT.
The postponed benefit towards the
Tramway lock-out will take place on 16th
March, in the Gynasium Hall. Ticket
holders, please note, and all Unionists
should roll up.
According to the “Daily Mail” this
morning, the Hon. K. M. Grant, Minister
for Education, made the extraordinary
statement, that in consequence of the
general strike several unions had dis-
banded and the Typographical Association
was broken up. This is an absolute lie.
Not a solitary union is disbanded, and
although a few weak-kneed members of the
Q.T.A. either stayed in or resumed work
before being authorised by the Strike Com-
mittee, the union went back numerically
stronger than it came out, as the number
of new members exceeded the number of
backsliders.
