

Official Bulletin, No. 22.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 22.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1912.
The Morning Address.
The same big crowd turned up to listen
to the Strike President this morning. He
» again referred to the unblushing, insolent
* lies dished up daily by those capitalistic
papers that were afraid, even if they were
willing, to tell the truth.
He also stated that the secretary of an
important union had received the following
letter from a former employer: —“Sir, —I
hereby request that you inform the mem-
bers of your union employed by me that
their positions are open to them, and they
can resume work unconditionally when
your Union thinks fit.” There was no
crawling about that union. He had half
a dozen letters written in the same strain,
but that would do for a sample. He once
more stated that the Strike Committee had
ample funds to feed the strikers and their
families, and if there was anyone hungry
owing to the strike it was there own fault
for not making the fact known. He re-
ferred to the threat of the pastoralists of
the Warrego to out him from his seat in
Parliament, and assured his hearers that
that was just what these gentry had been
trying to do for the past four or five years;
but- they were considerably further away
from their ambition now than when they
started. He urged his hearers to make up
their minds to fight on if necessary, and
at the conclusion was accorded three ring-
ing cheers.
Mr. John Adamson in a lengthy ad-
dress gave the very ordinary daily press
a pretty rough handling. He contended the
greatest success they could achieve was to
win their fight peacefully, and compli-
mented the strikers on the manner in which
they had conducted themselves—conduct
that was a very pleasing contrast when
compared to that of the paid uupholders of
law and order. With reference to the
statement that he had been a Christian
minister before he was a politician, he em-
phatically stated that he had never sought
the position, and mentioned the Revs. A.
M‘Killop of Warwick, and J. S. Pollock as
clergymen who could substantiate what he*
said. Mr. Adamson was also warmly ap-
plauded at the conclusion of his speech.
DAVE BOWMAN GETTING BETTER.
The many friends of Mr. Dave Bowman
will be pleased to hear that his health has
greatly improved during the past few days.
ARBITRATION AWARD.
It is not expected that Judge Higgins’s
award on the badge question will be given
before Tuesday next.
LOYALTY BADGE.
The Strike Committee invite designs
for a Loyalty Badge to commemorate the
present struggle for industrial freedom.
Designs to be sent in not later than Wed-
nesday afternoon next.
WARWICK UNIONISTS PLEASE NOTE.
Certain bravos from Warwick who
ran amok in Brisbane, as members of
Policeman Cahill’s “special” police
brigade, went back boasting of their brave
deeds. One boy of 17 years even talked of
having batoned “Dave” Bowman, the
sick Labour Leader. Needless to say all
this tall talk -when they got back was all
there was in their exploits. It is still
talked of amongst the “specials” here what
a very youthful and cowardly lot the “kids
from Warwick” were. One of,them cried
at night for “mother.” How proud
“mother” must be of such a son.
A SPLENDID RECORD.
Chatting yesterday with Acting-secre-
tary Wrench, this paper learns that to-day
the Waterside Union has more members—
and all on strike—than on the day when the
general “call out” was made. We can
win with solidarity such as this against all
obstacles.
INVITING TROUBLE.
An obnoxious “special,” minus his
badge, elbowed his way into the Centen-
nial Hall last night, and suggested to a
couple of men with whom he tried to talk,
that they should “scab.” A V.O. man
appeared and told the men to have noth-
ing to do with Cahill’s willing pupil. The
latter then pulled his bed-ticking badge
from his trouser’s pocket and threa-
tened to arrest the V.O. man. How long,
O Lord; how long.
THE TRAMS OF MONOPOLY.
Our attention has been called to the fact
that many people who are very sympathetic
in their talk towards trades-unionists and
the noble cause for which they are now
struggling, don’t seem to realise that they
are largely aiding tyrannical monopoly
by patronising its trams. We know of
several others besides unionists, as well as
their female relatives, who would walk any
distance to their homes rather than sub-
sidise a syndicate that is doing everything
in its power to humiliate the citizens of
Brisbane. If no other conveyance than a
tram is available, a little walking exercise
might serve two good purposes. When
people feel as if they would like to board
one of these vehicles of monopoly just let
them reflect on the sacrifice the former
tram men made in order to retain a modi-
cum of independence, and then ask them-
selves if they are justified in indirectly con-
demning these men.
A Voice from the South.
St. Leonard’s, North Sydney, Political
Labor League.
The following welcome messages have
been received at headquarters. They speak
for themselves:
Mr. J. Moir, Secretary Combined
Unions, Brisbane, Queensland.
21st February, 1912.
Dear Sir, —At the last meeting of the
members of St. Leonard’s P.L.L. held on
20th instant, I was instructed to forward
to you the following motions, which were
carried : —“That this League demands that
the Federal Government shall take action
to prevent the Government of Queensland
enrolling and maintaining armed bodies of
troops. That such action is in direct con-
travention to the Federal Constitution.”
“That this League views with the ut-
most abhorrence and disgust the action of
a portion of the people of Queensland in
descending to the low and despicable posi-
tion of organised scabs and blacklegs in
assisting their class enemies to bludgeon,
and, if possible, defeat the Trades Union-
ists of Queensland.” —Fraternally yours,
CARL AKHURST
Secretary, St. Leonard’s P.L.L.
A MORAL FOR MOTHERS AND
OTHERS.
Yesterday a lady who has been a good
customer of a large drapery house in
Queen-street, went in to make some further
purchases. She asked a young man with
a subdued aspect who offered to serve her,
if he were a Unionist. He replied he was
not. She inquired if she could not be
served by a Unionist. Just then the man
who struts majestically around and sees
that none of the assistants should so far for-
get themselves as to smile, came along,
and wanted to know the difficulty. The
lady gave him a list of the articles she
wanted, but said she wished to do business
per a Unionist employee. “That you
can’t get in this house, and never will; we
don’t employ them,” at the same time
taking the lady rather roughly by the
shoulder. She told him he was not a
special, and he must not put his hand on
her. The dandified marionette gave the
lady a look that said plajnly that he would
like to do, and told her to leave the shop
as quickly as possible. Now, mothers,
wives, and sisters of the workers, there is
a very plain moral for you here, which
you should not overlook. See where you
spend your money.
MEETING AT ROSALIE.
A public meeting was held at Rosalie
under the auspices of the Ithaca W.P.O.
last night. A large and attentative aud-
ience was present and stayed till the close
of the proceedings. A motion was unani-
mously carried protesting against the em-
ployment of inexperienced persons on the
wharves at Brisbane with a consequent ex-
cessive lot of accidents and loss of life, and
further protesting against the callous in-
difference of the Queensland Government
for the welfare of the people.
The meeting closed with ringing cheers
for the Steike Committee.
UNFOUNDED RUMOURS.
We have received an official letter from
the Tramway Employees’ Association stat-
ing that rumours circulated to the effect
that Messrs. M. Handran and W. Wilson, of
that union, had broken faith with their
fellows is entirely without foundation.
CRICKET MATCH.
Teams representing the Coalies and
Bootmakers met at the Pineapple Grounds
yesterday, resulting in a victory for the
former team by 130 runs. Fielding of coal
Lumpers was excellent. The Booties ap-
peared to be recovering form towards the
“last.”
Is the rumour true that Denham is so
sick at the sight of red, that he is doing
away with all red tape in the Government P
During the Strike Leaders’ address this
morning he announced that the Ithaca
Town Band had offered to-give a benefit
in aid of the Strike Funds at the Padding-
ton Picture Pavilion on March 4th.
A former employee of a large South
Brisbane firm went this morning to draw
some money owing him. He was refused
admission to the premises until he had
doffed his red ribbon. This he declined to
do.
When the steamer Wyandra, from Syd-
ney, was being moored at the Mary-street
Wharf, one of the big bosses was heard to
say : “We can’t do everything at once;
you know we are very short-handed.” And
yet the daily Press liars, say eriiployers are
perfectly satisfied with the labour at their
command.
The hearty response of the “noble bush-
men” to act as Specials during the strike
is just the same as the hearty response they
gave to go and fight in the Boer war.
They fell in then and they’ll fall in again.
The Daily Press said they were fighting
for “British Freedom.” After the war,
those that were left, found out that they
had been fighting for the British capit-
alists. Bushmen specials will scratch their
heads when Fat Interest-mongers
start to squeze them for the mortgages they
hold on their farms. See then if their
loyalty counts for anything.
The Latest from the Ranks.
THE FIGHTING A.W.A.
At a meeting of the A.W.A. yesterday,
23rd instant, considerable resentment was
expressed against the action of a respon-
sible officer of the Bricklayers’ Associa-
tion in asserting that members of this as-
sociation were doing scab work on the
Telephone Extension Work. On inquiry
this turned out to be entirely false, and
the following resolution was passed unani-
mously passed : “That this branch of the
A.W.A. ask the Strike Committee to see
that the Bricklayer’s representative with-
draws his assertion that members of the
A.W.A. were scabbing at Albion, and we
strongly resent any such statement that
cannot be properly certified to.”
The following resolution was also passed
dealing with deserters who hold A.W.A.
tickets: —“The members of the A.W.A.
here present recommend that the attached
names be struck off our roll, and that a
note be inserted in the “Worker’” to that
effect. The members present were as
determined as ever to stay out until the
end of the strike.
The following resolution and explana-
tion carried at a meeting of the A.W.A.
have been sent to the Chairman of the
Strike Committee:
“To the Chairman of Strike Committee.
“That the Strike Committe be asked to
withdraw the permit granted to the Tele-
phone Extension Workers.”
In explanation of the foregoing resolu-
tion, we find on undoubted authority that
the aforementioned permit has been grossly
abused, used indiscriminately, and to cover
various gangs other than those mentioned
in the permit. Trusting you will immed-
iately consider this matter.
Yours fraternally,
ERNEST H. LANE
President A.W.A.
PLUMBERS AND CASFITTERS.
Practically every member of the above
Union was present at the meeting in the
Trades’ Hall this morning.
A secret ballot was taken and it was
decided by a three to one majority to stand
firm till the conclusion of the strike.
A further resolution, expressing full
confidence in the Strike Committee, was
unanimously carried.
A photograph of the members will be
taken on Monday morning at 11 o’clock,
and all those participating will be entitled
to Loyalty Badges.
RAILWAY EMPLOYEES.
The Railway employees have challenged
the Carters’ Union for a game of cricket.
The challenge has been accepted and the
match will be played on the Albert Park
wicket on Monday afternoon.
CARTERS.
At a well-attended meeting of carters
held this morning, the following resolution
was carried unanimously: “That this meet-
ing of carters has every confidence in the
Strike Committee in their actions up to
date, and are prepared to stand by same
until such time as the strike is declared off
in favour of our comrades.
Mass meeting of carters will be held To-
morrow (Sunday), in dance-room, Trades
Hall. All members are urgently requested
to attend.
Butchers’ Union.
The Redbank Branch of the above
carried the following motion at their meet-
ing this morning:—
“That this meeting gives our executive
absolute power to treat, in any way it
thinks advisable, towards bringing
the present struggle to an honourable
and successful termination.”
Shop Assistants’ Union.
The shop assistants met in the Trades
Hall on Friday and to-day, when unani-
mous votes of confidence were passed in the
Strike Committee.
CRICKET MATCH.
SHOP ASSISTANTS v. BAKERS AND
PASTRYCOOKS.
Win on first innings for Shop Assist-
ants by 113 to 64. The match was played
at Milton.
The Shop Assistants are now open to
accept a challenge from any other Union
out on strike.
COALIES ON THE WARPATH.
The Coal Workers are anxious to try
conclusions in a Tug-of-war with either
members of another union or an equal num-
ber of outsiders, Cahill’s “speshuls” ex-
cepted.
The contest to take place at Pineapple
Grounds on Monday afternoon, 26th in-
stant.
Little Bill Bluffitt,
Who never could rough it
Went as “A Special” one day,
There came a wharf lumper,
Who looked a good thumper,
And frightened poor Billy away.
A weed of a conductor was seen devour-
ing a bob’s worth of lies for one penny, in
the shape of the “Daily, Mule,” while on
his car (Red Hill), near Caxton-street.
Is this one of Badger’s future concessions
shown to loyalists P
THE INSOLENCE OF OFFICE.
Protest by Intelligent Workmen.
The following resolution, which speaks
for itself, has been handed to us for public
cation:—
Trades Hall, Brisbane,
February 22nd, 1912.
A. J. Cumming, Esq., Govt. Printer.
Sir, —By direction, I herewith forward
to you the following resolution, which was
unanimously passed at a meeting of the
Government Printing Office Companion-
ship held to-day:—
“That this meeting of the late em-
ployees of the Government Printing Office
formally lodge an emphatic protest against
the action of the Treasurer, the Hon. W.
H. Barnes, in taking advantage of the pre-
sent dislocation of industry to bring about
an increase of working hours and conse-
quential reduction of wages in the office ;
and in further protests against the victim-
isation of certain members of the Govern-
ment Printing Office Companionship after
having received an assurance from the
Minister that there would not be any vic-
timisation.”
Yours respectfully,
G. H. THOMPSON
- j
Father of Companionship.
COMMENTS BY A LADY.
To Editor of “Strike Bulletin.”
Dear Sir, —I have heard a report that the
“Specials” are being kept in Brisbane until
after the general election. If it is true, it
will help the people to remember the in-
sults that they have received from the
Government during this great strike, and
some people, I am sorry to say, have very
short memories with respect to political
affairs; but I think that in the present
case they will never forget, and I hope, will
resent it by voting out a Government who
have proved that they will stoop to any-
thing to try and make believe that the
large display of police all over the city and
suburbs, are necessary. I think that the
forbearance of the strikers and their
families under the greatest provocation has
been splendid, and has gained them friends
even from the ranks of the enemy. I am
quite convinced that the Government did
not want peace on that memorial Black
Friday. They wanted war, and when the
people refused to Ijave war the police made
it by blocking the streets and refusing
people to pass quietly home as they were
requested to do by their leader.
I was one among the thousands who
were addressed by Mr. Bowman at the
Trades Hall on that day, and every one to
a man, was willing and did take his advice;
but when we were blocked in Market
Square, Mr. Bowman came there and asked
Mr. Cahill to let the people pass, but he
refused, saying that the road was closed
by order. Mr. Bowman then asked us all in
the presence of the police, to go quietly
to our homes. Well, Mr. Editor, was it
not a reasonable conclusion to come to that
if the police wanted to keep the peace,
they, after hearing the people say that they
were going home quietly, would have
opened up their ranks and allowed them to
pass P Instead of that they chased them
with fixed bayonets, and later on batoned
defenceless women and children like the
savages they are.
There is always a silver lining to every
cloud, and in this case, it is the number
of converts to our great movement by this
enforced propaganda work in this battle,
by the noble men and women who are giv-
ing their time and energy in so noble a
cause. May their reward be a victory for
manhood. —Yours, &c.,
ELLEN HEWITT.
OUR MERCURIAL JUSTICE.
The Editor of “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —I would like to draw your atten-
tion to the inconsistency of Police Magis-
trate Ranking. He had before him a case
where a man was tried for obscene language
and was discharged, on the plea that he
was given provocation by a Unionist. Now,
in the ordinary course of events (no strike),
that man would be fined £2, or a month.
Mr. Ranking todk a case the following
day where a man (Unionist) was charged
That man was fined £2, with costs amount-
ing to £l, or a month’s imprisonment. Mr.
Ranking is a paid public servant to dis-
pense justice, not injustice.—l am, sir, &c.,
A. S. MORLEY.
Brisbane, February 24.
Sporting fixtures by Unionists now
locked-out will be announced through the
columns of the “Bulletin” each day during
next week.
It is reported in the daily papers this
morning that some very select Clay field and
Wooloowin specials have offered their
services for a further term, with a view to
prevent intimidation. This is as good as
anything yet. Only a few nights ago a
stripling special told three young ladies
who were standing close to Wooloowin
Station to “Move on.” One of the girls
passed her parachute to a chum, got a
firm grip of the featherweight special,
planted him on the ground, and all three
sat on him. There is not a tinge of ex-
aggeration in this.
Twenty-five tramway probationers were
assembled at 9 o’clock this morning, and
marched by an inspector to the North Quay
police headquarters to be sworn in as
specials. One young man, a complete new
chum, when spoken to, said if he did
consent to be sworn in he would lose his
job. “The Land of the Free,” etc.
Public Meetings for Next Week.
CENTENNIAL HALL, every night at
7.30 p.m.
All other meetings at 8 p.m.
IVORY ST., VALLEY, every night.
PADDINGTON, Monday and Thursday.
RED HILL, Tuesday and Friday.
KELVIN GROVE, Wednesday and Satur-
day.
ROSALIE, Wednesday and Saturday.
PINEAPPLE, Tuesday and Friday.
EAST BRISBANE, near East Brisbane
Hotel.
IPSWICH RD. JUNCTION, Tuesday and
Thursday.
CLARENCE CORNER, Monday, Wednes-
day, Friday.
STONE’S CORNER, Wednesday and
Saturday.
WEST END, Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturday.
Additional meetings as may be arranged
will be duly announced in “Bulletin.”
Duly accredited and capable speakers
will address each gathering, and any im-
portant information that may come to hand
after the “Bulletin” has gone to press will
be announced. Bring all your friends,
those with capitalistic leanings, in particu-
lar. They will hear some interesting and
solid facts that they would never be allowed
to read in the public-deceiving news sheets.
Important to Unionists.
The establishments mentioned in the re-
spective lists below are working with union
labour. It is most important that this fact
should be carefully noted by all unionists.
The lists will be added to from time to time
as we are able to do so.
BAKERIES.
F. Wuersching, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
A. M‘Leod, Queen-street.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valley.
Hanlon, Valley.
H. Hugall, Spring Hill.
Annan and Day, West End.
Bragg Bros., Valley.
J. Enever, yalley.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
E. G. Bedgood, Milton.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., all Robb, W. <
shops. Snelling, T.
Baynes Bros., all Witham, L.
shops. Crump, C.
Woodcock, W. Moore and Co.
Beven Bros. T. Cock.
Watts, W. Preston, W. D.
Witham, A. Bohl and Higgins.
J. Ashcroft. H. Young.
Murphy & Brodie. Summerville.
Lewis. Scarborough Bros.
Sparkes, A. Voisey Bros.
Chugg, G. Hamilton, R.
Marshall, W. Land, W.
Barstow, E. Jowett Bros.
Car dell Bros., George Street.
CAFES AND RESTAURANTS.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
Exchange Cafe (Berry’s), Queen-street.
Exchange Restaurant (Merton’s), Ed-
ward-street.
Chas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
I.X.L. Boarding House, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane.
GROCERS,
Queensland Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street.
Murray and Magee, Stanley-street.
earney, Boggo-road.
D. J. Stewart, Kangaroo Point.
Miss L. Morley, Logan-road.
C. Martin, Arthur-terrace, Red Hill.
J. R. Blane, Fiveways, Woolloongabba.
A. Lawrence, Ipswich-road.
Brown, Logan-road."
Eccles, Leichhardt-street.
Pedler, J. K., Caxton-street.
Hanlon, Paddington.
HAIRDRESSERS.
C. S. Dickson, Petrie-terrace.
Livingstone, Queen-street.
Yates, Joe., Brunswick-street.
Latham, R. W., George-street.
' Aitchison, Queen-street.
Leggett, Queen-street,
iowndes, George-street.
McLellan, George-street.
McMahon, George-street.
Hennesey, Wickham-street.
Mrs. Leggett, Wickham-street.
Johnson, Wickham-street.
O’Connor, Brunswick-street.
Ferguson, Stanley-street.
It has been reported to us that three
non-union shop assistants whose names
have been given, engaged in a large Valley
emporium, have been working on the
wharves at night, after standing at the
counter all day. Has the Press-gang been
at work here, too ?
