

Official Bulletin, No.9.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 9.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1912.
Employers’ Threats.
The Employers’ Executive Committee,
evidently not having their anticipation
realised as to the duration of the General
Strike, are threatening to bring certain
Acts, Statutes, etc., into force to bring the
workers to subjection. Will they permit
us to say once more that this industrial
war can be settled at a moment’s notice
if any persuasion or power can be used
which would cause Mr. Badger to give ut-
terance to the five words: “I RECOG-
NISE THE TRAMWAY UNION.”
Strike Leaders’ Pay!!
Some comrades desire that the virulent
Press lies about the handsome salaries
strike leaders are alleged to be receiving
should be denied. Is it necessary? The
very fact that the enemy says so is our
best possible answer. Anyhow, here are
the facts: NO STRIKE LEADER JS
GETTING ANY PAY WHATEVER, and
ALL UNION SECRETARIES stand on
exactly the same footing as the rank and
file which elects them. Even the issuing
of this “ Bulletin” is not costing the Strike
Committee a solitary cent; all engaged on
it being honorary workers. Their duty is
their reward.
Authorities Shirking Their
Duty.
Sending Their Destitute Poor to Strike
Committee.
Which Doesn’t Turn Them Away Unfed.
Dick Reilly, a well-known darkle, some-
time employed by Police-Inspector
Geraghty, came to-day to the Coupon Com-
mittee for food. He brought with him a
slip of paper, given him by a constable di-
recting him where to go. Comrade M‘Cor-
mack promptly supplied him with meat
■coupons, and made a note of the fact that
the Government is evidently shirking its
duty to feed its own poor.
The Partiality for “Pubs.”
We have received further information
concerning the free-and-easy way in which
the order to close hotels was observed in
some instances. It seems that the rule of
Commissioner Cahill has superseded that
of the usual licensing authorities, and the
permits he so prodigally supplied to his
“special” wasters was sufficient to enable
them to obtain as much alcoholic refresh-
ment as they wished at certain favoured
*‘pubs,” which no doubt will be let down
lightly by the police when licensing time
comes round.
The Open “Pub.”
Strike Leader Coyne’s order to all on
strike to keep out of the “pubs” while
the strike continues is being splendidly
obeyed. We cannot hear of a Unionist
having disobeyed, while the V.O. men are
a positive credit to any movement. Many
letters are pouring in from strikers and
citizens, not on strike complimenting the
committee on the stand taken. Com-
rades, keep up the good record—DON’T
ENTER THE HOTELS TILL THE
STRIKE IS OVER! !
Colliers’ Mass Meeting.
To be Held To-morrow.
A large meeting of delegates from the
various branches of the Queensland Col-
liery Employees’ Union was held in Ips-
wich last evening. The proceedings com-
menced at 7 p.m. and terminated shortly
after 10 o’clock. Subsequently the execu-
tive met, and at the conclusion of their
meeting it was ascertained that the fol-
lowing resolutions had been adopted by
the delegates:—
‘ 1 That this meeting of delegates of
branches of the Queensland Col-
liery Employees’ Union decide to
stand firm and continue the fight,
and that this resolution be placed
before the miners in meeting on
Saturday morning, at 9 a.m., at the
Bundanba racecourse.”
“That we convey congratulations to
Brisbane Unions for the solid
stand they are continuing for jus-
-tice and liberty.”
There is a probability of action being taken
to call out the colliers in other districts,
the object, presuably, being to put a com-
plete stop to all coal supplies.
The Day-Lie Press.
The Devil, he wanted to have a laugh,
So he went and he bought a “Telegraph.”
He read for a while, and a great surprise
Came over the face of the Father of Lies;
He chucked the paper aside, and said:
Xi When the creature who edits this rag is
dead,
And comes down to blazes, I’ll have to, 1
see,
Look after my laurels, the devil,” said he.
Then he picked up the “Courier,” let cut
a yell,
And screaming: “Worse, worse!” he
rushed back into hell.
J.S.
Strike Leader’s Morning
Address.
The usual dense mass of men and
women assembled this morning in Turbot-
street to hear Harry Coyne’s progress re-
port. The most important development
he had to report was the Strike Commit-
tee s decision to request the strikers in
the North to return to work. “ Our ob-
ject,” Mr. Coyne said, “was to demon-
strate to the enemy the absolute solidarity
of Labour throughout this State. This
was duly accomplished with the splendid
response made the day before yesterday,
a response which simply stagnated indus-
try in all quarters, and paralysed every
important Northern centre of population.
Last night it was decided to resume work, I
as far as these Northern bodies were con-
cerned, with the important proviso of
course that no cargo of whatever sort
should be handled either to or from Bris-
bane.” It is admitted on all hands that
this is a fine tactical move on the part of
the Strike Committee; and in the ranks
of Brisbane merchants and employers to- I
day it has been regarded as the most
serious blow the Combined Unions have
yet struck. It may be mentioned that so
splendid is the loyalty and fighting spirit
of our Northern comrades that many
failed at first to understand the move, as
the following sample, taken from wires re-
ceived to-day will show:—
“Received wire. Request confirmation. I
I don’t wish to be tricked.”
Mr. Coyne concluded his address with I
an appeal for continued good order and I
his confidence in certain victory.
Put it to the Proof.
The metropolitan papers tell us every
day that the strike is fizzling out, workers
are rapidly returning to work. etc. Let
these papers use their influence with Com-
missioner Cahill to have the embargo on
processions removed, and we will then see
how many strikers have seceded.
History Repeating Itself.
Peter Lalor, on December 3, 1854, ad-
dressed the men who appointed him their
leader at Eureka: —“ Men of the Southern
Cross,—Have ye made me your commander
to make sport of me ? Am Ito be obeyed ?
Or am I but a leader of mullock ? This be
no time to be haunting the shanties and
the brothels! This be no time to be danc-
ing or gaming ! ’ ’
* # *
“Within three days of that fateful day on
Eureka all the old forms of fossilised squat-
ter rule had vanished. No longer were the
destinies and the welfare of the colony of
\ ictoria —aye, and of Australia —in the
hands of a bigoted and arrogant aristocrat,
or of the wealthy land owners. The great
democratic system of government which
Australia enjoys to-day is the outcome of —
one might say was won on —the slopes of
Eureka. *Did Waterloo win more for the
victors ?”
• * *
What a peculiar analogy between the do-
ings of those days and the events that are
taking place now I The present leaders
merely ask Unionists to trust them and
obey them. Instead of using a few old
guns, a few pikes and
spades, you are now asked to use the more
elective blue pencil at the ballot box, and
cast into oblivion once and for ever* those
capitalistic tools who tamely stand aside
while a foreign mercenary is trying to
crush your spirit, and rob you of your in-
dependence—nay, more, wJio are setting
Australians against Australians to assist
this adventurer in his man-destroying
work.
(We are indebted to the current issue of
the ‘ ‘ Lone Hand ’ ’ for the Eureka ex- j
tracts.)
THE TWO “MISTER BADGERS.”
The Editor “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir,—According to this morning’s
u Courier,” Mr, Badger has allegedly re-
ceived the following piece of cheerless
drivel:—“ Dear Mr. Badger,—Will you
please put on our car ? It is so hot walking
home for dinner. One girl says she null
learn to drive it, and I will collect the
money for the tickets if you don’t mmd.
They are your cars, so you can do it. and
we will thank you. With love from the
children of Gregory-terrace.
I don’t want to waste time by
out the utterly abandoned and bl-.pk eved
idiocy of the thing, but I must Aiint the
finger of scorn at the Badger person’s
squeamish reply to this “sweetly worded”
missive. Thus the reply:—“I don’t see
how 1 can resist that,” said Mr. Badger.
Then the putty-hearted old philanthropist
tells how the cars will run to Gregory-te T -
race henceforth. In the name of sweet hy-
pocrisy, tell me of the heartfulness and
kindly nature that depr* es 500 men, aod
probably twice the number, of women aud
children of bread and butter, simply !e- ]
cause the men wear upon their watch-
chains the emblem of their lawfully r<*gj&-
tered association! And, further, tell me,
for the sake of hare-brained stubbornness,
of the “ can’t-resist-that ’ sympathy which
plunges a State into industrial war!
Which causes the bread of life, to be with-
held from hundreds of thousands of inno-
cents? Speak of the power which is su
mercifully used to strangle a civilisation
and use a Government? Enough!
Enough!
“ASTERISK.”
V 0 stands for Vigorous Organisation.
The Innocence of the Dove.
The acme of sarcasm has been about
reached in the statement published in this
morning’s papers that the Executive Com-
mittee of the Employers’ Federation hac
expressed the opinion that it was the duty
of any one who witnessed such outrages as
that which was perpetrated on defenceless
women and children outside Enever’s bak-
ery in Leichhardt-street on Friday evening
last by uniformed police and their hirec.
minions to report such conduct to the
Police Department, so that inquiry coulc
follow.
Are we to assume from this that all the
members of this committee are stone
blind, or that they got a hint to keep away
from Brisbane on this notorious Black Fri-
day, if they themselves did not witness the
diabolical conduct of the police in some
part of the city ? What kind of a recep-
tion was any citizen likely to receive were
he to go to their headquarters and say he
thought the police were overdoing it?
Were not some of the senior officers of the
police the greatest offenders in the brutal
business —some of them apparently becom-
ing temporarily demented?
Just let us draw the attention of these
sedate employers to the following sentence
from the leading article in this morning’s
“Courier “As a matter of fact, all
hope of ‘ winning all along the line ’ went
when the police taught the Hooligan ele-
ment the very salutary lesson of Friday
last,” We hope the Employers’ Executive
will ask the “ Courier ” what kind of citi-
zen is classed in the “ Hooligan element,”
or what it calls a very “salutary lesson”?
With regard to this and many other out-
rages inflicted on Brisbane citizens on Fri-
day last, we may state that it is intended
that a comprehensive inquiry shall be
wrung from the present Government or its
successor after the pending elections.
Further, that before receiving the letter on
this subject from the persons whose names
were appended to it, we had already infor-
mation of the atrocious business. We were
told by a well-known Federal official that
little boys, who were sitting on the fence
waiting for bread to be handed to them,
were felled to the ground by batons and
kicked when lying there. Also that women
were caught by the shoulders, their backs
turned to the policemen, who then sub-
jected them to the gross indignity as well
as the brutality of kicking them. The
leader of this band of uniformed ruffians
was a policeman, who usually does
duty m civilian clothes. Other reliable wit-
nesses substantiated this statement.
More Press Lies.
Yesterday’s “Telegraph” has the fol-
lowing:—“Coopers Coming.—We learn on
good authority that the members of the
oopers’ Union, at one establishment at
all events, are likely to return to work. It
is stated by some of the men that work
most likely will be resumed but
if not, the men will certainly go back on
Monday.” The members of the Coopers’
Union ask the “Bulletin” to state em-
phatically that not one member has gone
back, nor intends to do so till the strike
is over. Like the rest of their comrades
out on strike, they are out to win, and
will stay out till the finish.
Where Strike Coupons can be
Exchanged.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., Red Hill.
Trout, R., Petrie Terraoe.
Trout, R., Enoggera.
Trout, R., Paddington.
Lewis, C., Paddington.
Land, W., Toowong.
Land, W., Rosalie.
Preston, Stanley street.
Higgins & Bohl, Valley.
CAFES.
Cafe Exchange, Queen street.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
Chas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
BAKERIES.
F. Wuersching, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valley.
* Hanlon, Valley.
J. Enever, Valley.
Simpson, Toowong.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
A QUESTION FOR POLITICAL
ECONOMISTS.
The real ruler of political and capitalis-
tic Queensland at the present time is a
foreign industrial tyrant, an unnaturalised
British subject, who disdains to have his
name placed on the electoral roll of the
State or Commonwealth. Can Queensland
then be said to have Home Rule?
It would not do for Denham to have a
rough sea trip just now. He would feel in-
clined to throw up the Premiership.
The Latest from the Various
Regiments in Labor’s Army.
Australian Plumbers and Gasfitters’ Em.
ployeess* Union (Queensland Branch).
At a large meeting held last night, the
following motion was carried unanimously
and with cheers:—“ That this Union en-
dorses the actions of the Strike Committee,
and pledges itself to stand out to the end.”
E. J. HANSON, Secretary.
Our Vaudeville Comrades
The Associated Vaudeville Artists of
Australia, the White Rats of Ame-
rica, and the Vaudeville Artists’ Federa-
tion t/ . En S land ar6 the bodies controlling
the Union ranks of our Vaudeville com-
rades. With a few exceptions all the ar-
tists here are “ out ” with the rest of our
unions. Some, unfortunately, are “scab-
bing at one house of entertainment.
Bakers, Pastry Cooks, and Bread Carters.
At a meeting of bakers, pastrycooks,
and bread carters to-day, it was unani-
mously decided: “No surrender.”
Federated Timber Workers’ Union of
Australia, Queensland Branch.
A great mass meeting of the members of
the above Union was held in the Temper-
ance Hall this morning, when the attend-
ance constituted the record m the history
of the Union, over 500 members being in
attendance. After addresses had been de-
livered by Messrs. Creyton (State Presi-
dent), Joe Codings, Hamer, Croll, Stewart,
Humphries, and Anderson (General Secre-
tary), the following motion was carried
unanimously amid thunderous applause :
That no work be resumed until the pre-
sent dispute has been brought to a success-
ful finish for Unionism; and, further, that
this Union endorses the actions of the
Strike Committee, and places implicit con-
fidence m them.”
Waterside Men.
A mass meeting of the above was held
m the Maritime Hall, Eagle-street, to-
day. The hall, as usual, was packed, with
hundreds outside. MF. Finlayson,
M.H.R., addressed the crowded gathering.
Every member is solid, being more deter-
mined than ever to maintain the fight. A
resolution was unanimously passed, endors-
ing the work of the Strike Committee.
Saddle and Harness Makers.
This Union held a most enthusiastic
meeting in the Park this morning, and
carried a resolution of confidence in every
ac j Ean °f the Strike Committee to date.
All hands declared themselves “stickers.”
The secretary reported 26 new members
since “ the peaceful holiday” started,
and the Union now comprises practically
every saddler and harness and collar
maker in Brisbane and suburbs.
“Good luck to you, boys.”—Ed. “5.8.”
Charleville Indignant.
Comrade Mackinnon wires to-day from
Charleville to Strike Leader Coyne as fol-
I lows:—“Report ‘Courier’ Western peo-
ple not interested strike utterly false,
| both money and men available. Wire
1 office to-morrow.”
The Honour Roll.
The editor is informed that some Unions
feel hurt because others have been speci-
ally mentioned as “standing solid.” Per-
haps where all are so splendidly firm, it is
unwise to particularise, but the Strike
Committee wishes to say to-day that THE
SOLIDARITY OF ALL RANKS IS BE-
YOND ALL EXPECTATIONS, and that it
is inspiring them to go forward wAh the
work, perfectly confident as to the final re-
sult.
Queensland Typographical
Association.
A General Meeting of the above Asso-
ciation will be held in the Maritime Hall,
Eagle-street, To-morrow (Saturday)
Morning, at 10.30 o’clock.
Business; Important. All strongly
urged to attend.
GEO. HALL, President.
W. P. COLBORNE, Sec.
LOST AND FOUND
Found, umbrella, in Trades Hall.
Owner can have same by applying to V.O.
Committee.
Found, handkerchief, containing money,
in the \ alley. Owner have same by giving
a description to the V.O. Committee.
Found, a pipe, with a plate attached on
it: “ Make your troubles end in smoke.”
Owner have same. Apply to V.O. Com-
mittee.
Found, a pipe in the School of Arts.
Owner have same by applying to the V.O.
Committee.
Lost, gold Elgin watch. Finder kindly
return to the V.O. Committee.
The Devil, he came on a quest to earth,
A freak he wanted to find,
For of mean-souled skunks there was a
dearth,
Where the Damned were all confined.
We searched awhile, then he made a grab,
And cleared back to hell with a motorman
scab.
Queensland Messages.
Thf. Rowing wire arrived too late for
Bulletin No. 8 :—Cordalba, January 7.
I platelayers, bridge builders,
and carpenters, pick and shovel men,
sleeper choppers, and axemen, all ceased
work to-day m sympathy with their fel-
low-unionists in Brisbane. Isis Central
Mill, Haps burg, Linwood, and many farms
are deserted, all members having struck
yesterday. One of the largest meetings
held in Cordalba since the sugar strike
! unanimously carried the following
™ ls branch agrees to any pro-
ceedmg deemed advisable by the Brisbane
iT?, in the accomplishment
of the objects of the strike.” Hotels are
closed, and the town has a somewhat som-
bre aspect.—-H. J. Flynn, representative
ihompson s Gang, Cordalba.
The following wire was received by the
President of the Strike Committee to-day
from Rockhampton ‘ ‘ Workers abso-
lutely solid. Splendid showing in proces-
sion this morning. Mass meeting to-night.
Will announce your wire.—O’Brien, secre-
tary.”
Police Bravery.
We are inundated with signed letters
giving detailed accounts of the vile anc
brutal conduct of the police—particularly
the sad and degrading incidents of Black
triday. We are unable to print more than,
a tew, but they are a sample of the dozens
daily coming to hand:—
Sir, —While looking over your “Bulle-
tin No. 5,” I noticed an article headec
more Baton Bravadoes,’ ’ so if you wit
allow me space in your valuable paper 1
will give you another instance of this baton
fever, to which I was an eye witness. 11
occurred on Saturday morning, the 3rd
mst, outside W. H. Ashton’s butcher’s
shop on the Paddingtcn-road. I was on
m .y the city after spending the
night with a relative in that district, when
nearing the shop mentioned I saw a largo
crowd of women and children, with a few
men also, moving about on the footpath,
so 1 stopped to see what was going on.
And what did I behold but a local con-
stable using his baton freely on the peo-
ple that were trying to obtain meat. It
seemed that he did not get enough baton
exercise on the previous day in the city,
but had to come out and use it on these
defenceless women and children. Or, may
be, he had not pluck enough to use it in
the city for fear of retaliation. I may
state that since the strike began Ashton’s
waggons have been coming in from the
slaughter-yards with an escort of mounted
police, so these bobbies were perched on
their horses on the footpath, amused at
the operations of the constable with the
baton fever. Had there been a few more
rne 1 1 l the crowd, there might have been
a different tale to tell. This goes to show
brave our police are among a lot of
children. lam no red ribbonite, but after
witnessing this incident I shall know how
to record my vote when election day comes
round.—l am, etc.,
Tr „ „ AMELIA WILSON.
Valley, Feb. 7, 1912.
r refe T ence to Friday, 2nd inst,
I wish the public and all concerned to not©
the following I was quietly wending
my way along Edward-street at about 12
o clock, when no less than three mounted
police rode right over the top of three of
us, myself and two more friends. We
came up to go in the procession as we did
the two days before. Then it was given,
out at the Trades Hall that no procession
allowed. Then some more police cam©
with batons, and one whacked me across
the arm, and I have got a fractured arm,
so you must excuse the writing. I sup-
pose that is what we keep the police for
To knock us about, but I hope we will
win the day all the same.
. ELIZABETH BAILEY.
Fans-street, West End.
Another “ law-and-order ” body in
Brisbane have become a law unto them-
selves within the past week. The Auto-
mobile Club that so hurriedly shut up its
garrages prior to Black Friday has
emerged from its lairs to carry nondescript
specials and other would-be oppressors of
the people to their various haunts. The
bylaws, which usually guide these people
in the matter of speed, have been cast to
the winds, and it is very unusual now to
see one of these cars travelling at any-
thing less than 20 miles an hour—over 40
miles is often attained. If the streets or
roads happen to be wet and muddy, and
a few pedestrians can have their clothing
covered with dirt, the enjoyment of these
law-breakers amounts to exhilaration.
To-night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL, CITY.
PINEAPPLE GROUND, E. BRISBANE.
IVORY-STREET, VALLEY.
U is the Ukase we flung down to Fat,
N is the Nightmare he had after that;
I is the Ink that the Press Liars use
(Black as their hearts when our Cause
they abuse);
T is the Triumph we’re going to win,
\ is our Yell when old Boodle caves in;
And the lot of it just stands for this:!
STICK TOGETHER!
FOR FAT IS FAST REACHING THE
END OF HIS TETHER.
J.S.
