

Official Bulletin, No. 44.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 44.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1912.
Strike Committee.
SPECIAL MEETING TO-DAY.
An important special meeting of the
Strike Committee was held this morning.
There w 7 as a full attendance, nearly every
member being presents The meeting last-
ed fully three hours, and a deal of urgent
and important business was transacted.
A matter which occupied a lot of time
and thought was reports from various un-
ion secretaries as to members who are still
being victimised by certain employers. It
is understood that a certain course of ac-
tion was decided upon in the interests of
the men concerned.
Official Notices.
Notice to Union Secretaries.
Secretaries are requested to supply in
writing a list of names of those to whom
certificates are issued each day, and also
the value of same for the guidance of the
Strike Committee.
Notice.
Coupons shall be issued between the
hours of 10 a.m. to 12 noon each day. Not
later. They will also be redeemed be-
tw r een the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 noon
daily.
HARRY COYNE IN HIS
ELECTORATE.
Harry Coyne spoke in the School of
Arts, Charleville, on Tuesday night to a
very big audience, comprising persons of
various political opinions. In giving his
version of the strike he said that the Strike
Committee had fed many people. He also
declared that the richest man in Brisbane
could not procure a loaf of bread without
the Strike Committee’s permission, and
that even the Government Departments
had to apply to the Strike Commitee for
permits. He also stated that the Strike
Committee held the butts of the permits,
and other evidence, to prove that Mr. Den-
ham had never given one ounce of food to
anybody. Mr. John M‘Neill (secretary of
the A.W.U.) said that any man who was
not a member of some industrial union w as
not worthy of the name of an Australian.
MR. GRANT AGAIN ROMANCES.
Mr. Ken. Grant, Ministerial head of the
State Department that supervises the giv-
ing of Bible lessons in the State schools,
on being interviewed yesterday in the city
after relieving himself of that memorable
Munchausenism at Rockhampton, is re-
ported to have said, among other things,
that “ the mines in the North were doing
just as well as before the strike, with less
labour, for many men who were previously
kept on for sentimental reasons had found
that their places were filled and they were
not required.”
Just fancy mine managers keeping men
on far sentimental reasons, and then filling
their places when they left off for a few 7
days in sympathy wdth men who were fight-
ing to make a foreign industrial tyrant
relax his enslaving grip. Will Mr. Grant
tell us, was it sentiment that caused him
to import 10 highly-paid school teachers
from England wdthin the last few days, to
be located around the city, w'liile several
well-deserving men were wearily waiting in
Queensland for some slight recognition of
their long services?
WHAT WAS TO BE EXPECTED.
Here is one instance of how the work
of the railways is being carried on at
present. On Tuesday last the Postal
authorities asked for a waggon to be at
the Central Station early in the afternoon,
so that parcels mails could be taken to
Pinkenba for all-sea transit by the Orient
steamer leaving for London next morning.
The postal waggon, however, did not get
to the Central Station till late at night,
and when the parcels mails arrived at
Pinkenba it was too late for them to be
taken on board the mail steamer. Conse-
quently the mail waggon had to return to
the Central with the mail matter still on
board, w 7 here it was unloaded and placed
in the mail room, there to remain till the
departure of the next Orient liner a fort-
night hence. No doubt considerable dis-
appointment will be experienced by the
two-weeks’ delay, but, then, the business
of the raihvay court-martial, w 7 hich is doing
so much to hold up to ridicule former em-
ployees of the department not to
speak of the opportunity it is affording
some of the senior officials to display their
legal acumen, must be gone on w 7 ith, even
were the service to become more demoral-
ised than it is at present. When the pub-
lic bear this fact in mjnd they will, doubt-
less, submit to the inconvenience they and
their friends w 7 ill be subjected to quito
willingly.
PADDINGTON ELECTOR ATE—PLEBIS-
CITE ON SATURDAY.
Comrades in the Paddington area have
got a hustle on, and on Saturday a plebis-
cite will be taken at Mr. T. Carroll’s
tobacconist shop, opp. the Police Depot.
Messrs. J. S. Collings and J. Fihelly, both
well known to Labour supporters, the one
as a speaker, the other as a writer, are the
respective candidates, and the polling will
be conducted between the hours of 8 a.m.
and 8 p.m. Those entitled to vote must
produce credentials, and if any voter is
challenged the organisation reserves the
right to make full inquiries from union
books.
The Ministerial Rampage.
DENHAM AND GRANT OUTDONE.
We give a lengthy extract from an ad-
dress given by Mr. Appel, Home Secretary,
to his constituents at Beaudesert, on Tues-
day night. We do not know of any better
w ay of exposing for public condemnation
the members of this ignorant, callous Gov-
ernment than by allowing them to gloat
over their actions in their strongholds,
and giving as much publicity as possible to
their untruthful utterances. Workers wull
know how to appreciate the actions of the
Home Secretary, who seems to glory in
the fact that it was he wffio gave the order
for the batoning of citizens on Black
Friday.
He also states that lie saw 7 from the
Treasury Buildings on the Thursday pre-
ceding Baton Friday men leave the pro-
cession and forcibly take lorries back to
the wharves and dump the contents on the
ground. If the Home Secretary saw this
he saw a great deal more than anyone else,
as the police report stated that only one
lorry w as interfered w ith, which was taken
charge of by a single policeman. He fur-
ther adds that had he not given orders to
stop the procession on Black Friday there
would have been bloodshed. What a cal-
lous statement. Will this humane politi-
cian tell us what did happen in Brisbane on
that darkest of days?'There was a lot of
bloodshed, but as it was only the blood of
citizens of all ages and both sexes and not
that of infuriated policemen and rag-tag
specials, it was not, apparently, worth
noticing.
No greater insult has ever been offered
to the women of any country than that be-
stowed on them by the Home Secretary.
We see men prosecuted in the police court
for applying the w ord “ scab ” to the dregs
of the labour w orld. What legal punishment
should be meted out to any individual oc-
cupying the position the Home Secretary
does who can find no better term for the
waives, daughters, and sisters of the w orkers
than that of “ men-women.” We hope all
the w omen of Queensland, no matter wffiat
political camp they be in, wall resent this
vile insult to their sex at the ballot-box on
the 27th April, and show’ this poltroon poli-
tician that if he has lost all respect for
them they are still capable of respecting
themselves.
The Home Secretary is reported as hav-
ing dwelt at considerable strength on the
recent industrial crisis in Brisbane, and
said that ‘ ‘Between 50,000 and 60,000 boxes
of butter were held up in Brisbane, and
had it been impossible to get it to the mar-
ket the loss would have been a very great
one indeed to the primary producers. It
was evident, he said, that the people who
organised the strike had not the interests
of the farmers at heart. There was a reign
of terror in the city on the Thursday prior
to Friday, when processions were prohibi-
ted, and from the Treasury Buildings he
saw’ men leave the huge procession, obtain
possession of lorries, and take them back
to the wharves whence the} 7 came, dump-
ing the goods on the whaves. He thought
the time had then arrived when law and
order should be maintained. Next day he
gave orders that no more processions should
take place, and invested the Commissioner
of Police with full powder to maintain law
and order. Such action was absolutely war-
ranted. Had that action not been taken
there would have .been bloodshed on the
following day. Jt was the most painful
dutv in his nolitical career to have to
GIVE THE " ORDER TO SEE HIS
FELLOWMEN BATONED, but it was
necessary. They were now’ telling the
people that the children and w omen were
batoned by the police. That was a
falsehood. They all respected their
mothers and wives, but when “ men-wo-
men ’ ’ w T ere prepared to use eight or nine
inch hatpins on men and horses they must
admit that the police exercised consider-
able tact and patience in dealing wdth
them, and the people of the State ought to
be very proud of their police force. THEY
DID SPLENDID WORK ON THAT
PARTICULAR FRIDAY. They were
Eroud of the young men who left their
omes in the country to assist the Go-
vernment in maintaining law and order
and upholding the Executive. The young
men were subjected to all kinds of abuse
from the ‘ red raggers.’ The very fact
of the young men going to the aid of the
Government in such large numbers had the
effect of breaking the strike.”
ANOTHER RAILWAY VICTIM.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —Permit me, through the “ Bulle-
tin,” to try, in a plain way, to expose the
sweating system carried on in the Railway
Department. If a man works 60 hours a
w 7 eek, he is only paid for 48. He must cut
out 12 hours by staying at home. He is
notified to cut out any time w’orked over
48 hours. If he refuses to cut out the time
he will, for a certainty, be severely pun-
ished; he will have to answer a “blister,”
and show cause why his position should not
be considered.
Mr. Davidson, at the lob-sided tribunal
yesterday, put a question to a witness as
follows: ‘ ‘ Do you consider it dishonour-
able to break an agreement?” Mr. David-
son should remember that circumstances
alters cases. It is very dishonourable for
the Commissioner or his satellites not to
pay men for time worked, which is prac-
tised every day at Roma-street. It is to be
hoped all victimised men will work hard to
secure the return of a Labour Government
on the 27th April.
I am, etc.,
VICTIMISED.
An Interesting Circular.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
TAKES SIDES.
A CITIZENS’ SOCIETY ADOPTS A
PARTY ATTITUDE.
Seeing that the National Agricultural
Association is supported by citizens of
Queensland of all shades of political opinion
and that many of its members and sup-
porters have no special sympathy with one
party or the other to the recent strike,
while others are divided between both
parties, it is, in the opinion of most fair-
minded persons in the community, dis-
tinctly unfair and impolitic for that Asso-
ciation to be lending its premises, its paid
officers, and its countenance to the move-
ment which is afoot to reward the special
constables enrolled by the Government
during the recent strike. Yet this is w 7 hat
has been most flagrantly done, as is proved
by the following circular which reached us
to-day through a valued correspondent w ho
was appealed to for funds but who “ isn’t
taking any special constable just now thank
you!”
The circular reads as follows:--
“ CITIZENS’ RECOGNITION OF
SPECIAL CONSTABLES.
“ (Mounted and Foot)
“ c/o National Agricultural Association
“ ‘Courier Buildings, Brisbane,
“ 14th March, 1912.
“Dear Sir.—There is a very general
feeling that the citizens of Brisbane should
mark their appreciation of the services ren-
dered by the special constables who volun-
teered to aid the permanent constabulary in
keeping the peace, and protecting property
during the recent industrial disturbances,
which it is hoped are now approaching a
settlement. A meeting of citizens has been
held, and it was decided to issue to the
2800 specials (mounted and foot) a souve-
nir card in recognition of their services.
For this purpose it is necessary to raise a
sum of money to finance the matter, and
this appeal is made, particularly to those
whose property has been safeguarded by
the aforesaid special force. The committee
hope that your sympathy lies in the direc-
tion indicated, and that you may be relied
upon for a contributon. Will you kindly
fill in and return the accompanying form
with your subscription, so as to enable the
committee to know 7 the amount of money
they may have at their disposal for carry-
ing out the proposal.
“Yours faithfully,
“H. J. DIDDAMS, Chairman.
“D. J. ABERCROMBIE, Treasurer.
“C. A. ARYIER, Hon. Secretary.
“ To the Hon Secretary, c/o National Agri-
cultural Association, Courier Buildings,
Brisbane.
‘ ‘ Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in
contributing tow ards the re-
cognition of the special constables (mounted
and foot), and enclose cheque for the same.
Yours faithfully,”
RAILWAY EMPLOYEES.
At a meeting of the railway men held
this afternoon, the following resolution
w r ith reference to the Board of Inquiry
was carried unanimously :
“That, in the opinion of this meeting,
the method of conducting the Railway In-
quiry is humiliating. # Neither is it in
Accordance with the principles of equity
and justice.
A COMINC POLITICAL TREAT.
It is stated to-day that the Premier
will make his “policy” speech at Corinda
on this day w r eek, when, no doubt, the
Labour cause will receive still another im-
petus, as it has done at the conclusion of
every Ministerial utterance. The electors,
also, will probably have some pertinent
questions to put to the Premier.
TOO OLD AT FORTY.
“ Too old at forty ” is the cry. Quite
right, says the smart business man. “If
you’ve worked as hard as you ought to
have worked you are used up at forty. If
you’re not used up w 7 hen you reach forty,
it means you haven’t worked as hard as
you ought to have done, and so w r e’ve no use
for you any way.
The Musicans’ Union in Sydney is
dealing with a comprehensive log of claims
w 7 hich, if adopted, w 7 ill apply throughout
the Commonwealth.
The attention of the Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs has been drawn to the fact
that the New' South Wales Government
is to import 2,000 railway workmen from
Great Britain. Mr. Thomas was asked
whether applications for the importation
of these men had been made by the New 7
South Wales Government to his depart-
ment. Mr. Thomas replied in the nega-
tive, but he added that if the New 7 South
Wales Government imported labour under
contract, it w 7 ould, he thought, be necessary
under the provisions of the Federal Act
to obtain such permits. It was pointed
out to the Minister, how 7 ever, that if no
contracts were entered into, the New
South Wales Government could act inde-
pendently. “That is so,” said the Min-
ister, “ but it would I think, be a difficult
matter to obtain the services of 2,000 men
without entering into proper arrange-
ments with them.”
That Iniquitous Inquisition.
Any doubt that might have existed as
to the real reason why the expensive and
entirely unnecessary railway board was ap-
pointed to deal publicly with departmental
matters was repaoved by a question put to
one of the applicants for reinstatement
yesterday.
The question w as: 1 ‘ Did you read the
statement of Mr. Coyne in the ‘ Courier ’
this morning?” No answer, it seems, was
given to this query, for which we are sorry,
as it might have made the inquisitors still
further show' wffiat is behind this barbarous
Machiavellian business. Had the victim-
ised railway employee been asked if he had
read the price of tallow that morning, or
the quantity of produce that arrived at
Roma-street, one could perhaps find some
relevancy in the question, but to interro-
gate him as to w'hat the “Courier” that
morning had alleged Harry Coyne to have
said w 7 as about on a par with asking Cap-
tain Amundsen if the discovery of the
South Pole had anything to do w T ith the
coal strike in England.
A RETROSPECT.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —In view of the strenuous efforts
now being made by the public Press (?) to
shirk the facts relating to the actions of
the police during the now memorable
events of the past strike, the thought
passes through my mind, why not review
what I saw myself, and let it compare
with other statements put forth, and, with-
out any embellishment, state facts as seen
coming within the limits of our own imme-
diate observation? The point I wish to
bring home is the unjustifiable use by the
police of their batons on that historical day
to be known as “Black Friday.” Drawn
by curiosity to see the display of force
brought against us, and passing from the
display of cold steel at the Turbot-street
entrance of Market Square, via Albert St.,
I walked straight into the front line of
spectators, and as there was only one line
to pass through here I stood. It will
give you some idea of the enormous crowd
there was (I don’t think). A large number
were women. I only stood a few minutes,
and had just turned aw ay towards Queen-
street when a troop of mounted police rode
right in and commenced to round up the
comparatively few people who -were there.
As the brutal action of Major Cahill on
that occasion has been freely commented
on I will pass that except to say that he
had most of them crushed on to one side of
the street and was riding amongst them. On
the other side, where I happened to be,
near the second side door of the Australian
hotel a constable had planted himself with
one foot aganist the w r all and, spread
eagling himself across the footpath, deliber-
ately batoned five or six people w’ho were
running past him to reach safety, as not
more than a dozen people were on that side
of the street, and they had been forced to
get away. I want to ask wffiat right a
constable had to intercept them and use
force, or rather violence, tow’ards them?
I stood about 12 feet off and w atched him
do this, with a frenzied look in his face. I
should think that the police duty at the
most would be to clear the street, but not
to hem citizens in and belt them. This is
a statement that I am quite prepared to
swear to, and could almost identify the
constable in question, after this lapse of
time.
Getting into Queen-street, I saw 7 the
people being driven about in such a manner
that there w as no chance of them getting
clear of the police. I have had j:his borne
out by various people w r ho were in different
places to tell the tale. I wonder if the
citizens of Brisbane really understand the
suppression of liberty which took place in
this city on that day; because even if the
general strike might be proved unnecessary
or w 7 rong, it was a w r hole-hearted and an
open protest against a system which, if
allowed to continue, would make the con-
ditions in this fair land as bad as it is
possible for them to be anywhere. The
w T hole affair is only one remove from the
historic massacre of Peterloo, and I believe
that was committed by the (special) yeo-
manry of that time.
It is disgusting to read the present day
cackling of our political Nero, Denham,
about lying back and saying nothing. If
he w as a man of any real force of character
we might be able to extend him some re-
spect, even as an enemy. It is an acknow-
ledged fact that the very safety of the
British nation has been the right of open
speech or demonstration against injustice,
and in whatever nation that is disallow r ea
there is alw T ays revolt and bloodshed. I
have been told by Germans that a few
years past trade unionists and Socialists had
to meet in secret places in that country.
But has that had any retarding effect?
Present day results deny that. Then, does
our political Nero (Denham) imagine him-
self capable of suppressing the aims and
aspirations of our democracy ? I think not.
Yours etc.,
COACHBUILDER.
TOOMBUL W.P.O.
Owing to Mr. J. J. Macartney having
withdrawn his candidature, the taking af
a plebiscite to select a Labour candidate
for Toombul has been rendered unneces-
sary. The plebiscite arrangements an-
nounced in yesterday’s “Bulletin” have
been cancelled, Mr. D. C. Dowling, who
was the only other person nominated, hav-
ing been given the endorsement of the
C.P.E., and will therefore stand as the
Labour candidate.
Strike Coupons.
One of the men interrogated—perhaps
“intimidated” w*ould be the more correct
word to use—by the railway inquisition
yesterday stated that he had received a
certain amount of coupons each w*eek, but
that the supply had been stopped. On
this matter being referred to Mr. Moir,
secretary to the Strike Committee, that
gentleman said the statement that the
issue of coupons had ceased is entirely
false. Any unionist w*ho brings a note
from his association to show his bona fides
will have coupons supplied him. Coupons
will continue to be issued as long as there
is a single unionist in need of them.
THE REAL LAW BREAKERS.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —The leader in Monday’s “Daily
Mail” on the general election is another
diabolical attempt to mislead the people
with regard to our Labour members and
the Strike Committee, and supports Mr,
Denham in his cowardly attack on them.
It accuses them of illegal conduct in sanc-
tioning what they call the lawless proceed-
ings of the Strike Committee, and gives
that as an excuse for Mr. Denham not
calling another session of Parliament. May
I just ask, was it lawful for Mr. Badger to
interfere with his employees with what
they wore, and whether they joined a union
or not, also to break his contract with re-
gard to running the trams from 7 a.m. to
10 p.m., in which he got the Government
support? Was it lawful for Mr. Denham
to hand over to Mr. Cahill the power to
baton the people w hen there w as no Riot Act
read, for the simple reason that there was
no riot? Was it lawful for the police to
try to cause a riot by riding among peace-
ful citizens, and trampling them down with
their horses? Was it lawful for them to
block the public roads with men armed
#ith batons and firearms on Black Friday ?
Was it lawfful for the Government to sus-
pend the Wages Board Act, seeing that it
w 7 as on the statute book? Was it lawful to
use the men and property of the Federal
Government to strike the people down
w T hen that Government had refused them
because they were not necessary? Was it
lawful to take away our right of public
meeting w r hen these were carried out in a
peaceful manner, and also to stop our
right of a peaceful procession?
A more lawless lot never held the reins
of Government than our present Govern-
ment. They would also lead the people to
believe that the Strike Committee were
acting against the wishes of the people,
but instead of that they had the confidence
of the strikers all along The Government
thought the people were still sleeping,
while they crept in like a thief to steal
away their rights and privileges; but they
got a shock when they found that the
people were very much awake; and I am
very much mistaken if they do not get
another shock on April 27. If the people
only remember Black Friday and do their
duty, they wall get that shock. Then we
will have law-makers who are not law-
breakers in our Parliament.
If the employers are determined at all
risks to discountenance the unionism of
the Trades Hall, the unionists are equally
determined to discountenance the unionism
of foreign syndicates and money-grabbing
absentees, and to support only men who
ar3 pledged to legislate for the worker, and
not for capitalists, who live in luxury on
the wealth produced by the workers, the
workers themselves only getting just w 7 hat
keeps them wffiile they are working. A
w 7 eek or two out of w 7 ork throws the domes-
tic machine out of order.
I am, etc.,
ELLEN HEWETT.
AN ORGANISER’S ADVICE TO
HIS MEMBERS.
Never run down blacklegs. God made
blacklegs just the same as He made bugs,
worms, toads, slugs, and all other creepy,
slimy things. What He made them for God
Himself only knows.
Mrs. Kerr, restaurant keeper, George-
street, wishes to contradict the rumour that
she is buying meat from a “ scab ”
butcher.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A meeting of members of the above
organisation and sympathisers living in the
Rosalie district who will form a committee
to secure the return of Mr. J. T. Gilday,
the endorsed Labour candidate, will be
held on Tuesday night next, 26th inst., at
8 o’clock, at Mr. Bryett’s residence, corner
Nash-street and Baroona-road.
Also a meeting of those in the Padding-
ton district (for the same purpose as men-
tioned above) will be held on next Satur-
day night, 23rd inst., in the committee
rooms, Given-terrace.
The POSTPONED PICTURE SHOW
at the RED HILL PICTURE PAVILION
in aid of election funds will take place on
MONDAY NIGHT 25th inst. Special
films of a very interesting character will
be shown. Workers, roll up.
MAREE W.P.O.
Unionists and Labour supporters are
urged to attend a MEETING to be held in
INNES’ HALL, WELLINGTON ROAD,
on SATURDAY NEXT at 8 p.m.
specially invited.
SID. BARROW, Hon. Sec.
