

Official Bulletin, No. 49.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 49.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 1912.
Strike Leader Coyne.
If we allowed ourselves to form an
opinion on the biassed reports that appear
in the Brisbane news sheets, w*e would
almost have to conclude that Harry Coyne
was not having too good a time in his elec-
torate. Nothing, however, could be further
from the truth.
On March 20 the Strike Leader held the
largest meeting in the Charleville School
of Arts that has ever been held there. The
report of his speech occupied six columns
of the “Charleville Guardian,” and there
is not a dull sentence in it. Mr. Coyne
was asked questions which could only be
put to him by people who had been reading
the gross lies that were circulated by the
capitalistic Press agency. Harry replied to
them all good-humouredly, and scored
heavily for Labour at the same time. At
the close of his address a vote of confidence
in him was proposed, when only four hands
were held up in dissent.
A message in a Queen-street truth-
distorter from Charleville this morning
says: “Mr. Coyne spoke to a big crowd in
the Stadium last night. His address was
uninteresting to the public, as he referred
principally to his stew ardship and what he
had done.” Now, in the name of all the
political gods, what would be interesting
to the public? Here, we are told, is a man
w'ho, judging by the prominence given him
by the papers while the strike w T as on,
was the observed of all observers, who goes
to his electorate to give his experience to
the people who sent him to Parliament,
and yet this crazy capitalistic rag says his
speech was uninteresting. A Sunday school
union meeting is more to their liking.
A Cutting Contrast.
The under-paid, under-fed, overworked,
long-outraged coal miners of Great Britain
have suffered severe hardships for many
years, but at last they united, and de-
manded a minimum w f age of a miserable
crown a day. The paunchy parasites who
plunder these impoverished producers of
great wealth w r ere horror stricken. They’d
starve the inhabitants of the United King-
dom before they’d pay 60 paltry coppers a
day to the men who go down into the bow r els
of the black, hungry earth, and win prince-
ly fortunes for theiu. As a consequence,
about 3.000.000 breadwinners are workless
wanderers in dire want in the wealthiest
country on earth; millions of w eak women
and innocent little children there are feel-
ing the pangs of hunger, where there is
more than enough for every human crea-
ture in the community, and the blood-
thirsty dogs of war are in readiness to
shoot down their own flesh and blood at the
bidding of the Capitalist oppressors.
But what happens when the plundering
parasites make demands on the community ?
Do the powers of plutedom enforce ‘ ‘ law
and order ” to protect the people’s inter-
ests ? Is there a howl of horror in the Capi-
talist prints throughout this barbariously
civilised world?
A few items of interest from to-day’s
cablegrams will make the contrast conspicu-
ous. Here they are :
“ Ow ing to the coal strike, the Nord-
deutscher Lloyd and German-Australian
Steamship lines have raised freights to
Australia by 2/6 per 2,200 lbs. on first
and second class goods, and 1/ per 2,200
lbs. on others.”
‘ 4 The price of coal in LonjJon has been
increased by 5/ per ton. (The poor min-
ers only ask 5/ for a whole (lay’s hard
toil in death-dealing mines).”
‘ ‘ The Denaby Colliery has sold to the
Cunard Steamship Company 50,000 tons
of coal at 34/ per ton, the usual price
being 10/. This colliery has a reserve of
200,000 tons, and is selling smaller quan-
tities at 46/ a ton to the public.”
The grind of greed would be as great
in this country, in the not far-distant fu-
ture, if the workers of Australia were not
wise in their generation. If the workers
were not organised, the employing class
w r ould exploit them as savagely as the pam-
pered parasites now plunder the coal
miners of Great Britain. Gold is the god
of the Capitalistic class. Denham,
Barnes, Macartney, Appel, and all that ilk
w r orship the golden calf as surely as do the
coal kings of merry England.
Working folk who cast votes for the
Boodler - Barrister - cum - Butterbox - Back-
sliders ought to get their heads examined.
They certainly cannot be securely roofed.
’Tis the workers who return the capitalist
class to power, and don’t you forget.
ANOTHER EFFECT OF VOTING “ NO.”
A request reached the Prime Minis-
ter from the Sydney Health Society, on
Tuesday, that there should be a Federal
health bureau. “There will ultimately be
co-operation between the Commonwealth
and the States with regard to health mat-
ters,” said the Prime Minister, in reply.
“We dovetail now to some extent in the
matter of quarantine. Ido not think that
we have pow T ers under the present Consti-
tution to extend our authority as regards
public health except in the direction which
the quarantine permits. That there is an
immediate likelihood of a health bureau,
therefore”—and Mr. Fisher regretfully
shook his head.
RAILWAY LOYALISTS.
Previous to the general strike, men em-
ployed by the traffic branch of the railway
were paid for meal hours on Sunday. This
has now been altered, and all Sunday meal
hours are deducted from the total time
worked. This is how the Railway Depart-
ment serves its employers who came to the
alleged rescue of the bosses.
The Great Monopoly.
The Toowoomba Chamber of Commerce
held a banquet last night, but the heading
put to this function in large letters by one
of the jackals of capitalism this morning is,
“ Law and Liberty.” This is w r hat public
bodies are now used for in Queensland.
Here is what should be regarded as a purely
commercial body of men having a social
evening, and one of the encouragers of
batoning is so much obsessed with the sup-
pression idea that it makes it appear to be
a gathering for further discussing how to
hoodwink the wage-earner and whitewash
a brutalising Government. That legal
puzzle, the Attorney-General, was the lion
of the evening, and in the course of a care-
fully-prepared speech he said:
“The Government was accused of
having taken sides in the recent strike,
but he would like to point out that the
primary duty of the Government in every
civilised country was to maintain law
and order, and protect the rights of the
public. The question the Government
had to ask was this: Were the citizens
of Queensland, and Brisbane particiu-
larly, interfered with in carrying out
their undoubted legal rights?”
The primary duty of 'a Government is
to protect the people first, and to see that
they are not enslaved or exploited by any
local or foreign tyrant. Did the present
Government do this? Weren’t they aware
that attempts had been made, month after
month—and with a certain amount of suc-
cess, too—to keep a splendid body of men
in industrial bondage? Didn’t they even
go so far as to instruct a State official in
Victoria to assist the tram monopoly, before
the Federal Arbitration Court, in keeping
these men in subjection? Was that pro-
tecting the people? Again, when the citi-
zens of Brisbane were seriously interfered
with through the action of a foreign syndi-
cate declinmg to fulfil the conditions of the
contract under which they were foolishly
given control of the principal traffic of our
streets, did this “ law and order ” Govern-
ment see that citizens got their undoubted
legal rights? Had they done so, all the
turmoil through which we have gone
since the end of J anuary last would
have been avoided, and Brisbane would not
have come to be regarded as the happy
hunting-ground of the Commonwealth for
scab labour.
MR. APPEL, PLEASE NOTE.
The following letter, sent to Mr. Peter
Henderson, secretary Brisbane branch of
the Federated Seamen’s Union, and a mem-
ber of the Strike Committee, will serve to
show that the contemptible conduct of
people dressed in a little brief authority is
not endorsed by the citizens among whom
the hard-working Peter lives: —
“ Kelvin Grove Amateur Athletic Club,
Kelvin Grove, March 9, 1912.
“Aid. P. Henderson,
“Dear Sir, —At the seventh annual
meeting of the above club, you were again
elected a vice-president, and the club will
deem it a great honour by your again
accepting that position. Thanking you for
your past support, yours truly, Harry W.
Massey, hon. sec.”
Bravo, Kelvin Grove. You, at all events,
know when you have a good man.
YOU SHOULD VOTE LABOUR.
To the Editor of »“ Official Bulletin.”
Sir, —Well do I remember the time when
the Capitalistic Press in general warned
the electors of Australia that a national
calamity would result; Capital—good old
Capital —would be driven out of the coun-
try, the marriage tie would be broken,
business ruined, workers thrown out of
employment—in fact we were given to
understand that this country would become
as barren as w T e understand the moon to
be—should the Labour party be entrusted
with the reins of the Federal Parliament.
And for a time the electors believed that
lying jade—the Press —and a majority was
returned to that Parliament representing
the Capitalistic party, with what result?
Why, in a few years, this party the Press
told us would do so much and was composed
of such strong men got affairs into such a
mess that our standing as a nation was
slowly but surely going to the wall.
The electors had given such heaven-
born statesmen as Deakin, Reid, Cook,
Forrest, Groom, and their like a chance.
They were tried and found wanting. The
thread-worn bogey —Socialism, confiscation,
anarchy, and such like headlines in the
Press —became of no avail. The electors
at last wiped the dust of misrepresentation
from out of their eyes and returned our
Andy Fisher with a strong following, and,
I ask, has the sacred marriage tie been
broken? Has Capital left us, or has busi-
ness been ruined? I don’t think. In fact,
I only need repeat what the Press is con-
tinually telling us —business throughout
Australia was never more proseprous; in-
vestors never flocked into Australia in
larger numbers than has been the case dur-
ing the reign of the Labour party.
On the 27th April next the electors of
Queensland will have the opportunity of
sending to our State Parliament the class
of men who have, and are serving us faith-
fully in the Federal House. I only ask
the electors to carefully consider this, and
if satisfied that Labour has served them
faithfully in the Federal House, and we
were justified in sending Andy Fisher in,
Queensland will be justified in returning to
power, on the 27th April, Dave Bowman
with a majority.
Yours etc,.
G.E.F.
Campaign Items.
TOOMBUL W.P.O.
The Toombul W.P.O. is now in good
working order. The branch lately formed
at the Hamilton is increasing by leaps and
bounds, and is now larger than the head
branch. Mr. Dan Dowling, the selected
candidate for Toombul, will speak in the
Hamilton Towui Council Chambers to-
morrow' (Thursday) evening, 28th instant.
He is opening his campaign on Tuesday,
April 2, and expects nothing else but suc-
cess at the coming general election.
MAREE ELECTORATE.
The Labour Women’s Committee in this
electorate held a meeting in Innes’ Hall,
Wellington Road. Arrangements in con-
nection with the social and dance to be held
in the German Hall, Vulture-street, were
reported to be well forward, and Mrs.
Mitchell was thanked for her splendid w ork
in connection therewith. Canvassing and
other work was arranged for. A pleasing
feature of the meeting was the way in
which volunteers came forward to do w r ork.
A.W.A.
The monthly meeting of the Brisbane
branch of the A.W.A. will be held in the
Trades Hall, oh Saturday night. As a
good deal of important business is to be
dealt w r ith, President Lane urges members
to attend.
LOGAN W.P.O.
At the meeting last night of the Logan
W.P.0., Mr. Arnold was selected as the en-
dorsed Labour candidate. The meeting was
a great success, and committees were
formed. The women workers rolled, up in
good strength, and arrangements were
made for a canvass of the district. It w r as
decided to open the campaign on Saturday
night next, opposite Miss Morley’s store,
near Dunellan School, w r hen several good
speakers would assist the candidate. After
enrolling 22 new members, the meeting
closed at 11 p.m.
DENTISTS AS SPECIALS.
The “ Commonwealth Dental Review”
for March has the following paragraph on
the late strike, which may be of interest to
many Brisbane citizens :
“The year 1912 in Brisbane will not
only be remembered by the Third Austra-
lian Dental Congress, which eventuates in
July, but also for the General Strike,
which temporarily paralysed all business
recently. Many prominent members of
the Odontological Society and other prac-
titioners were sworn in as special con-
stables, and carried their ‘ baton and
badge ’ sometimes all day or all night.
This special duty and the cessation of
the tram service forced many dentists to
either close their rooms or to carry on with-
out some members of their staff. The list
of ‘ braves ’ includes Dr. E. T. White
(President-elect, Dental Congress), Drs.
Walker and Gibson (Joint Congress Secre-
taries), Dr. Martin, Dr. Le Case, Messrs.
Frew, A. U. McNaught, Pickburn, Street,
Sagar, Burston, Armstrong, and J. F.
McNaught. Dr. C. W. Hurworth placed
his motor car at the service of the Com-
missioner of Police for emergency calls at
night.”
WHAT IS JUSTICE?
To the Editor of “Official Bulletin.”
Sir, —I notice that Mr. Denham is try-
ing to make a great case against the Strike
Committee about the so-called waste of
butter —butter going bad. Well, sir, as
Mr. Denham is in the butter trade I would
like to ask this question, if butter was going
bad why did he and the butter merchants
of Roma-street raise the price of butter
during the strike nearly £1 per cwt when
the stores were full up of butter, and then
lower it nearly £1 a cwt as soon as the
strike was over? It was not because they
could not get it out*of the cold stores, nor
was it because they could not get it from
the factory, because the train was running
all the time and storekeepers and others
took delivery of butter at the stores. I
hope, sir, that Mr. Denham will explain
this, as he is supposed to be an authority on
butter.
And another question is this, I under-
stand that the Government is great on law
and order —in fact, sir, the Government
gave Major Cahill unlimited powers
to knock law and order into defenceless
people.
But what is law? The law we have been
getting lately is ruination to anyone who
is trying to get justice. We get plenty
of law and order but very little justice.
I am, etc.,
A MERE WORKER.
It is stated to-day that the Federal
Prime Minister will leave Melbourne for
Sydney, en route to Queensland, at the be-
ginning of the second week in April. He’ll
be welcome.
The British Transport Workers’ Fede-
ration of the Sailors’ and Firemen’s Unions
are being urged to join with the Miners’
Federation in a general strike, by way of
retaliation against the arrest of Tom
Mann, the Socialist leader, who has been
charged with having been connected with
the publication of certain seditious articles.
There have been demonstrations in Man-
chester, Salford, Liverpool, and Glasgow,
protesting against Mann’s arrest.
Balance-sheets Galore.
A moulting Queen-street sheet is once
more displaying anxiety over what it para-
doxically calls a “secret” balance-sheet,
which it wants to have prepared; it is in
such a w T orry over the matter that it even
suggests that an interim balance-sheet
should be prepared. We have already
asked, how much has this paper or its sup-
porters handed to the Strike Committee?
We don’t think we are far astray in say-
ing that this anti-Labour production w ould
have been better pleased if not a solitary
copper had been given to assist the
workers. If it didn’t subscribe itself, and
if it didn’t want others to subscribe, why
does it work itself into a fury over the mat-
ter? We might just as well ask for a
balance-sheet re some law costs that were
incurred by internal wrangling in the same
office about six months ago.
A few weeks ago the secretary of the
Strike Committee authorised us to state
that their balance-sheet would be ready
wfiien the Employers’ Federation gave the
word that their statement of accounts
in the hands of the printer. That
hasn’t arrived yet. There are still a few
other business transactions concerning
which many of the public w r ould like to
know r a little more. When the official fever
had reached its climacteric while the strike
was on, a big boom business was done in
forage, cereals, etc. Now, it is common
talk around the Roma-street Markets that
almost the whole of this business was
placed in the hands of two firms not un-
connected with the Government. It is prob-
able more will be heard about this affair
before another Queensland Parliament as-
sembles.
A LEAD FOR QUEENSLAND.
The N.S.W. Legislative Assembly and
Legislative Council met in conference on
Monday regarding the disagreement of the
Assembly from the amendment of the
Upper House, in the Arbitration Bill. After
a sitting which extended over five hours
an agreement was arrived at, whereby the
preference to unionists clause was granted
with certain restrictions.
AN OUTCOME OF THE COAL VEND
INQUIRY.
Yesterday, in the Melbourne District
Court, charges by the Customs Department
against James Paterson and Cq** Proprie-
tary, Ltd., and the Melbourne Steamship
Co., Ltd., coal merchants, were called. The
allegation against the Melbourne Steamship
Co. is that it failed and refused to answer
questions submitted to it by the Customs
officials in relation to what is known as the
coal vend inquiry. The information in the
of James Paterson and Co. sets out
that the answers given to somewhat simi-
lar questions were false in fact to the
knowledge of the acompny. Mr. Stark, who
appeared for the prosecution, applied for
an adjournment in the case of the Mel-
bourne S.S. Co. to April 12, and in the case
of James Paterson and Co. to a date to be
fixed. Mr. M‘Arthur, who appeared for the
defence, raised no objection, and the cases
were adjourned accordingly.
NOMINATIONS.
Nominations closed this afternoon at 4
o’clock. So far as is at present known,
66 endorsed Labour candidates have been
nominated, and everything appears en-
couraging for a successful issue at the
polls.
A correspondent sends us the follow-
ing :—ln walking along Roma-street, oppo-
site the Transcontinental Hotel, on Sun-
day, I saw on the tram rail a bolt project-
ing at least tw r o inches. This bolt was
used for fastening a plate on to the outer
flange of the rail, and had apparently
worked loose. The attention of a constable
then on duty was drawn to the matter.
This is a serious menace to both pedestrian
and vehicular traffic, as writer in walking
over the road kicked the obstruction.
In the House of Commons on Monday
Mr. J. C. Wedgwood (Liberal) moved the
rejection of the Consolidated Fund Bill as
a protest against the Government’s syndi-
calist prosecutions. He said that,the work-
ing classes were suspicious of the Judici-
ary, and the sentences imposed upon the
journalist Bowman and the two printers
named Buck —the former was sentenced to
nine months’ imprisonment and the other
two to six months each for having incited
soldiers to mutiny if called upon to shoot
strikers—confirmed their belief that there
was no chance of justice to those who ex-
pressed syndicalist opinions. Mr. G. Lans-
bury (Labour) seconded the motion. Sir
Rufus Isaacs (Attorney-General) said that
the only alternative to the use of military
was anarchy. If a petition was presented
to him, showing that the accused had acted
in ignorance, he would be inclined to re-
ocmmend the reduction of the sentences.
Mr. Keir Hardie (Labour) warned the Gov-
ernment not to pursue a policy of exaspera-
tion. There was no telling what the result
would be if the forces of revolt were let
loose.
MEMORIAL SERVICE.
A MEMORIAL SERVICE to the me-
mory of late WILLIAM HENRY
CRAKER will be conducted by the Rev.
W. H. W. Lavers at the Joyful News Mis-
sion, Brunswickstreet, on SUNDAY
EVENING, 31st March, at 7.30 o’clock.
Special singing. All are cordially invited
to be present.
That Policy Speech.
Before our next issue is in the hands
of the electors of Oxley, Premier Denham
will have made a start with that great
policy speech which he braved the angry
waves on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday
to put into shape.
Here are just a few questions that
might not inappropriately be put to Capi-
tal’s complacent Premier:
Why did you not endeavour to bring about
a conference, as did the Prime Mini-
ster of England?
Why did you not call Parliament together
to discuss the matter, considering you
had a majority there?
Was it necessary for you to sacrifice the
Liquor Bill, which you said you would
see through, because you were afraid
to discuss the cause of the strike in
Parliament ?
If you had called Parliament together, and
a request had been sent by both
Houses for military assistance, do you
think it would have been refused ?
Why did you permit the Tramway Com-
pany to ride roughshod over their con-
tract with the public, and so dislocate
the passenger traffic of the metropolis ?
Do you agree w r ith what the Minister for
Education said at Rockhampton—that
you stopped the trams running at
night because of some explosive being
found on the tram line, although
the trams had failed to keep their
correct time before then?
Do you think the term —“Men-women”—
used by the Home Secretary towards
the women of Brisbane a correct one ?
Why did you suspend the provisions of
the Shops and Factories Act, whereby
children and girls were kept working
till all hours of the night?
Why has the Tramway Company been ex-
onerated from all blame in connection
with defective roadways?
Is it true that squads of irresponsible
youths were armed with five rounds of
ball cartridge, and placed in Market-
square to fire on their fellow-citizens?
Are you aware that several of those en-
rolled as special constables and armed
with deadly weapons were convicted
felons ?
Are you also aware that these people had
the use of hotels while they were sup-
posed to be closed, with the result
that many of them became intoxicate
ed?
Are you aware that several policemen
boasted about the number of people
they bludgeoned ?
Are you in favour of the railway men be-
ing kept out of employment, although
the railway traffic is very much con-
gested ?
Do you think it right to be bringing
people here from Europe when your
own Press organs are boasting about
men not being able to get work in
Brisbane ?
What amount was paid to special con-
stables, and who will be taxed to pay
it?
Are you in favour of nationalising the
trams ?
Did certain members of Parliament receive
payment for acting as specials?
SHAKE OFF THE SHACKLES.
To the Editor “Official Bulletin.”
Sir, —Many workers to-day persuade
themselves that they are free men and
women, and that slavery is a thing of the
past. Men and women in the street would
be highly indignant were one to even in-
sinuate that they were still in the bonds
of slavery.
I would like to enlighten them through
your columns as to the error they have
fallen into, owing, doubtless, to the system
of so-called education they have received.
We will take a section of the community
who are at present being punished by the
slave masters for alleged insubordination.
I refer to the railway and tramway em-
ployees, who had the courage to revolt at
the extra chain of bondage the master class
were attempting to place around them in
the shape of trying to destroy unionism.
These slave masters are now using the lash
to whip the men into subjection. The lash
in this instance is a far more torturing
weapon than that used in the olden days.
The men have been prevented from resum-
ing work, which entails the loss of the
necessities of life and to most of them a
large amount of mental agony.
In the old days the whip was adminis-
tered as punishment, but the slave was not
denied the necessities of life, or he would
not be fit for further use to toil, and slaves
in those days cost money. To-day men are
cheap—in fact cheaper than horses or
machines, and to the masters of to-day a
life is nought. The amount of mental tor-
ture that the women folk, who are depen-
dent on the men, have to bear no one
but themselves can estimate. Even the
children are made to suffer in an indirect
way. Fellow-men, are you going to make
an attempt to work out your own emanci-
pation. Make a start, and at the ballot
box next month strike the first blow for real
freedom.
I am, etc.,
“JUSTICE.”
TIMBER WORKERS' UNION.
A Special Mass MEETING of the
Federated Timber Workers’ Union will be
held in the Trades Hall on SATURDAY
AFTERNOON NEXT, the 30th inst., at
2.30. A full attendance of members is
requested.
R. C. ANDERSON, Gen Sec.
