

Official Bulletin, No. 46.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 46.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 1912.
The Railway Inquisition.
We publish two replies given yesterday
by ex-railway employees to their inquisi-
tors. These are a little more candid than
others that have escaped the censor. We
hear that several of the men have given
answers to questions that would put them
in a difficult light before the public than
that in which they now stand, but these
replies have been suppressed. The proce-
dure, it seems, that is adopted in the Star
Chamber, is for the statements to be taken
down in shorthand. These are afterwards
transcribed and typewritten. They are
then read over to the applicant, who signs
the statement. While the notes are be,ing
got into readable order, the inquiry is at
a standstill, and so is the work which the
inquisitors are paid big screws for perform-
ing. One man, who was summoned to at-
tend the august tribunal this morning, had
to wait for at least half an hour before put-
ting his signature to his statement.
We have also been informed that any
answers that would not suit the case that
it is evdently intended to try and make
out are not published in the accommodating
Press by request of the president. The
public will therefore know what value to
attach to the accounts of the evidence that
is permitted to appear.
Here is an item from yesterday’s busi-
ness :
“Would you observe an agreement
now, if you signed it ?—Obviously I mean
to by my humiliating myself in public
like this.”
Here is another :
V He had been reading the evidence,
and knew that the men, from the bot-
tom of their hearts, did not mean what
they said.”
And this is all done with the object of
pulling the Government out of the hopeless
mess they have got themselves into, and
also to whitewash the Railway Commis-
sioner for keeping 300 valuable men idle
while the work of the State is crying out
for their services. There is a stout stick
in pickle for somebody.
Official Notices.
Notfoe to Union Secretaries.
Secretaries are requested to supply in
writing a list of names of those to whom
certificates are issued each day, and also
the value of same for the guidance of the
Strike Committee.
Notice.
Coupons shall be issued between the
hours of 10 a.m. to 12 noon each day. Not
later. They will also be redeemed be-
tween the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 noon
daily.
LABOUR DAILY PAPER.
An important meeting of all union secre-
taries and others interested in the above
project will be held in the Trades Hall
to-morrow (Sunday) afternoon, at 2.30.
The business is urgent, and includes con-
sideration of the special sub-committee’s
report, which is now ready.
IN MEMORIAM.
Federated Seamens' Union.
In memory of the MEMBERS of Hie
above Union who lost their lives in the
ill-fated Yongala, March 23rd, 1911. We
sincerely extend the sympathy of our mem-
bers to the relatives of those who are mlt
to mourn the loss of those most dea' to
them’
P. HENDERSON, Secretary.
J. REICH and F. YOIGT.—In sad and sor-
rowful memory of our dear brother arid
nephew, J. Reich and F. Voigt, who lost
their lives in the ill-fated Yongala on
March 23rd, 1911.
Inserted by their sorrowing sister and
brother-in-law, N. and J. Shaw.
[Our departed comrades were both
and true Unionists.—Ed. 0.8.]
THE COMMISSIONER’S SYMPATHY.
Railway Commissioner Evans said, he
had sympathy for the wives and families
of the railway men who didn’t stay out
long on strike at Ipswich. What sympathy
has he, or the engineers of the Six-barrelled
Board of Inquiry, for the wives and fami-
lies of the Brisbane railway strikers who
are being made a public exhibition of for
political purposes? The day liars are in-
tensifying the outrage on decency by pub-
lishing only what will reflect on the trapped
innocents.
HAWTHORN’S HOLIDAY.
Hawthorn, the Knight of the Basket,
has again entered the arena and is wooing
the electors of Ithaca. He was haw-haw-
ing in the Ithaca Forester’s Hall last even-
ing and among other things remarked that
“It was about 12 months since he had re-
signed from the Cabinet in order to have
a holiday.” The electors of Ithaca ought
to make sure of giving the mild-mannered
lawyer a long holiday. Of course he re-
signed from the Ministry. Legal lights
usually do decline large pickings.
HE KNOWS.
Premier Denham, in the House, stat-
ed that he was prepared to stand or fall by
the Beer Bill. What’s happened to the
Beer Bill ? What will happen to Den-
ham ?
An Appeal to Women.
Now that the general election is decided
to take place on April 27th, I would make
an earnest appeal to the women of Queens-
land to do their share to help put in a Gov-
ernment who will legislate for the workers
and not for the capitalists and absentee
money-grabbers. I think that the late
strike has proved to everyone that that is
what the present Government has done all
along; in fact, they are not therb by the
will of the people at all, but by the treach-
ery of a man who, by posing as a democrat,
was, at the last election, placed at the head
of the Government, who, for love of power
and position, deceived the people, and sold
them to the old continuous Government.
To continue in they will do anything
—nothing is too base for them to stoop too
to gain their ends, as has been proved by
the stand they have taken to crush the
workers and to uphold capitalistic rule;
they have used the daily Press to mislead
and misrepresent the actions of our lead-
ers ; they gave the power to the police to
do what they liked, and if it had not been
for the good advice given us by our leaders
there would have been what the Govern-
ment wanted—a riot by the people. But
the people did not retaliate, so the only
riot there was was made by the police.
You will have the Government canvas-
sers calling on you, asking for your vote,
but remember Black Friday, and ask your-
selves are you going to resign your child-
ren’s interest to.a Government who would
treat you like that? If you have any love
for your children, remove the obstacles that
have been in your way, and make it easier
for them to live in decency and comfort.
All the best years of your life have been
spent in bringing up your children, and are
you going to let them struggle to get a
living as you have done, or are you going
to make it pqssible for them to get what
they are entitled to—full return for their
labour? not, as it has been in the past,
men becoming millionaires by wealth pro-
duced by the workers, while the worker has
had to be satisfied with what would, in
many cases, not allow him to live even de-
cently. If you saw your child attacked by
a snake or any animal who would devour it
if allowed, would you not do your level best
to drive it away, and get your child out of
danger ? I think you would; well, I tell
you, and I challenge any contradiction, that
if you help to return this present Govern-
ment to power you are striking a blow at
your own husband and children.
Do not let the Press mislead you as it
did at the last Federal election, when, by
voting “No,” as the papers advised, you
voted for combines and monopolies. And
what have they done for you ? What is the
Tram Company but a combine and mono-
poly, and see how the Government has
helped it to crush you. All these things
you can remedy if you vote for the man
who stands in the interest of Labour, and
who is pledged before he is accepted as a
candidate to sign the Labour platform,
every plank of which is for your interest.
A great many of these planks are on the
statute book at the present time, such 'as
the Early Closing Act, Shops and Factory
Act, Arbitration Courts, Workman’s Com-
pensation Act, Old Age Pensions, and
others, that, although the Labour Party
have not been in power, pressure has been
brought to bear on the Government that
caused these measures to be passed.
That being the case, how much more
could they do if they were in power?
This strike has done a great deal to-
wards helping the return of Labour mem-
bers, as not a day goes by but I hear of
cases where persons were staunch Govern-
ment supporters in the past, but who are
so disgusted with them and so enlightened
as to their characters, that they have now
joined the ranks of Labour. This is not fic-
tion or hearsay, but solid facts. Again I
appeal to your maternal love, and remem-
ber that an election was never lost by the
votes cast, but by the votes which were not
cast. Go to the poll yourself, and take
your neighbour with you. Help with the
children; remember, that on that day you
are controller of the situation, and work as
you never worked before to return a Labour
Government, and put to flight the lying,
scheming, and spineless men who are now
in power. It will not only be to your in-
terest to do that, but for the benefit of the
whole community.
Yours in the Cause of Humanity,
ELLEN HEWETT.
HELPING THE CAUSE.
Mrs. Finney desires to thank those
members of various unions who have made
inquiries from her as to which are the
union shops, so that they may support
those houses that employ union labour,
knowing that, if we intend strengthening
the Shop Assistants’ Union, we must insist
on being served by unionists only. There
are no shops that are entirely union, and
some of the shop assistants in a Valley firm
who are unionists are without medals, only
having their pencecards to prove that they
are unionists, and some there are unfinan-
cial; but there is nothing to prevent them
from either obtaining a medal or being
financial, if they wish, as Mrs. Finney has
plenty of medals to distribute, and as or-
ganiser for the union, she is authorised to
collect dues from members. Mrs. Finney
would make an earnest appeal to these
members to come along and pay their dues,
and obtain a medal. She also appeals to
the Brisbane women when they go shop-
ping to make sure that they are being
served by unionists. The way to find that
out is to ask to see their medals. That
will not only help her in her work, but will
strengthen the union, and as we know that
a great many employers are against the
union, it may have the effect of employers
giving preference to unionists.
Campaign Items.
SOUTH BROSBANE LABOUR CAM-
PAIGN.
A meeting of electors interested in the
return to the State Parliament of Mr. J.
H. Sherry (endorsed Labour candidate)
was held on Thursday night, 21st inst., at
the committee rooms, Stanley-street (op-
posite Stewart’s Carriage Factory), S.B.
The rooms were filled to overflowing by en-
thusiastic Labour supporters, including a
large number of ladies. Mr. H. R. Hux-
ham, as convener, took the chair, and af-
ter explaining the objects of the meeting
called upon the candidate for an address.
Mr. Sherry spoke briefly, after which
all present resolved themselves into a com-
mittee to secure his return to Parliament.
Election of officers : Chairman, Mr. L.
L. Noonan j vice-chairman, Mr. E. N.
Free ; secretary and treasurer, Mr. H. R.
Huxham ; members of executive, Mrs.
Rosendorff, Misses E. Sherry and J. Sharp,
Messrs P. R. McGrath, I. Hansen, Rob-
erts, A. Salter, W. Cremin, J. O’Brien,
and J. McCarthy (each to be in charge of
a canvassing district), and Mr. J. Holliday
(in charge of committee rooms). Finance
and printing committees were formed, and
a scheme adopted for a thorough canvass
of the electorate.
VALLEY AND MERTHYR W.P.O.’S.
Labour supporters and intending mem-
bers are invited to the combined meeting
of the Valley and Merthyr W.P.O.’s in the
Social Institute, on Monday evening. Lab-
our Leader Bowman is carrying Labour’s
banner in the Valley contest, and his
former colleague, Peter McLachlan, is
Labour’s selected champion in the Merthyr
ball at battle. They’re a pair of the most
fearless fighters for freedom anywhere, and
every enthusiastic worker is wanted to roll
up and help win a triumph for the party.
A PROSPECTIVE SITUATION.
Here is one of the questions put to an
applicant for reinstatement at the rail-
way inquisition yesterday :
“ Would the Commissioner or the asso-
ciation come first with you if reinstated ?”
Now, in the face of the congested state
of traffic in connection with the railways,
and the general demoralisation that exists
while some seven or eight of the prin-
cipal officials are earning their high sal-
aries by heckling unfortunate men who
have been wantonly victimised for some
interior purposes, let us throw our minds
about 12 months ahead and imagine our-
selves reading something like the follow-
ing :
Chairman of Parliamentary Select
Committee to Railway Commissioner :
If your suspension is removed, and you
are reinstated in your position, are you
prepared to give an assurance that you
will never again allow your duty to the
service and to the people of the State to
be influenced by either political or
splenetic motives ?
Labour’s Selected Candidates.
Endorsed by the C.P.E.
Balonne E. M. Land.
Barcoo T. J. Ryan.
Bowen Ferricks.
Bremer W. V. Hefferan.
Bundaberg G. P. Barber.
Buranda Tohn Huxham.
Burke Charles Collins.
Burnett Alfred J. Jones.
Burrum A. E. Whitford.
Cairns W. McCormack.
Carnarvon Thomas Crawford.
Charters Towers .... J. Mullan.
Chillagoe E. Theodore
Cook H. J. Ryan.
Dalby Robert Turnbull.
Drayton J. J. Desmond
Eacham W. N. Gillies.
East Toowoomba Geo. Walden
Enoggera W. F. Lloyd
Fitzroy C. W. C. Bluett.
Flinders John May.
Fortitude Valley .... David Bowman.
Gregory Wm. Hamilton.
Gympie Geo. Ryland.
Herbert Wm. Lennon.
Ipswich W. J. R. Maughan
Ithaca J. T. Gilday.
Kennedy J. O’Sullivan.
Keppel .. J. Larcombe, jun.
Leichhardt H. F. Hardacre.
Mackay C. Tait.
Maree W. Bertram.
Maranoa J. M. Hunter.
Maryborough Wm. Mitchell
Merthyr P. A. McLachlan
Mitchell John Payne.
Mount Morgan James Stopford.
Mundingburra T. Foley.
Murilla B. F. S. Allen.
Murrumba G. G. Dennis.
Musgrave Samuel Rowe
Nanango Morris Harland
Oxley C. W. Martin.
Pittsworth M. Dwyer.
Port Curtis E. I) .1 Brash* n.
Queenton V. Winstanley.
Rockhampton John Adamson
Rosewood Patrick Madden.
South Brisbane J. H. Sherry
Townsville A. F. Austin.
Toowoomba M. P. Alke
Toowong Lewis McDonald.
Warrego J. Harry Coyne.
Wide Bay Andrew Thompson.
Windsor J. R. Crampton
Warwick Angus Sinclair.
The Home Affairs Department has de-
cided to call for tenders for 30 ballast wag-
gons for construction trains for the West
Australian railway. The trucks are to be
delivered and erected at Port Augusta.
A Special Bulletin Coming.
Look out for our special “ Bulletin.”
It will be published in a few days, and will
be hot election stuff. Later we will tell
you when, where, and how to get copies for
free distribution.
The Railway Travesty
The Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir,—-The Railway Badgering now in full
swing is a disgrace to the Railway Depart-
ment and the service. Men that are em-
ployed, and even the non-unionists working
on the railway feel humiliated and dis-
graced by such despicable and Goodna-made
questions being put to men by servants of
the public. What are men thinking about ?
Tlieir right was to return to their employ-
ment without question or victimisation, or
obtain other employment.
I am., etc.,
J.E.T.
WHO ARE THE STRIKE ANARCHISTS?
Extract from the account of Robert
Philp’s farewell shivoo last night :: —
Mr. Philp : On those days of riot in
Brisbane I lost my self-respect.
Mr. Barlow : I didn’t, I bought a re-
volver. (Laughter.)
There is some justification, then, for
Major Cahill becoming temporarily de-
mented, when the jovial Bob lost his bear-
ings. It is a pity he did not tell us what
it was it was that so affected him. Was
it on seeing the merciless manner in which
his fellow-citizens were being bludgeoned
and ridden over by the forces of capital-
ism ? Supposing those people who received
such brutal treatment at the hands of the
police had followed the Honourable Bob’s
example and armed themselves with revol-
vers, what a different tale there would be
to tell to-day. The smallest or weakest of
the bludgeoners’ victims would have
been able to pull the trigger of a revolver,
and the baton would have had to play sec-
ond fiddle then. Would this legislator
like the people to follow his example next
time P
But what about the septuagenarian
anarchist who said he didn’t lose his head,
but bought a revolver instead. It is just
as well none of the meddlesome specials
ran against, him with their iron bars or
lengths of heavy chain. How does the
Police Commissioner like the idea of the
frolicsome Barlow going around with a
loaded revolver in his belt ? Should he
not compel him to provide sureties for his
future good behaviour ? It looks like a
severe vote of censure on the guardians of
law and order when a man who has reach-
ed his fifteenth lustrum, and who embrac-
ed pretty well a whole Cabinet in his own
person, had to fall back on himself for pro-
tection against the onslaughts of highly-
paid mercenaries. Had this frequenter
of banquets applied to the Trades Hall a
couple of V.O.’s would have been placed
at his service, who would have saved him
the trouble of hawking round a fully-load-
ed pistol, with no small risk to himself and
peaceably-inclined citzens.
THE ENEMY IN THE HOME.
Out of a vote of £600,000 passed in the
Federal Parliament for the purpose of
carrying out telegraph and telephone im-
provments, it was proposed to set aside
£28,400 for work in Queensland. Refer-
ring to this matter one jaundiced capital-
istic rag remarked yesterday:—
‘ ‘ Reports have gained currency dur-
ing the last week that the Common-
wealth Government have specially order-
ed the expenditure of a large sum of
money on public works in Queensland,
and that strikers were to have prefer-
ence in employment. Inquiries have
failed to elicit a complete confirmation
of all these statements, but one out-
standing fact is patent. It is that there
lately has been an extra spurt in federal
works, more particularly in connection
with telephone and telegraph extension,
and that unionists have had a prefer-
ence.
Now, this is a sheet that thrives al-
most entirely on the offerings of the work-
ers, and yet it whines piteously because it
sees a prospect of some temporary work
being provided for men who are being vic-
timised of the dictation of this scurrilous
sheet and the Government it supports.
It discerns some sinister object in the
Commonwealth Government carrying out
works for which it and others of simi-
lar kidney have been howling for
years past, at a time when the State
Government is doing its utmost to pau-
perise the people and bring them further
under the heel of the Employers’ Federa-
tion. Could vindictiveness go further ? Per-
haps if the Federal Government held the
work back till a few more boat loads of emi-
grants arrived this non-union sweater
would applaud them. Workers, make the
result of the elections on April 27 a cer-
certaintv for Labour legislation, and you
won’t have to rely on the Commonwealth
Government for the means of earning a
competence.
PRODUCE MERCHANTS AND THE
RAILWAY.
Several of the produce merchants who
met at the Roma-street markets yesterday
morning were commenting on the disgrace-
ful proceedings going on in the Star Cham-
ber, and were wanting to know how much
longer the agony would be prolonged.
Some of them gave a very emphatic opinion
of the whole proceedings, which was not
complimentary to the railway officials.
Absent Voters.
Subject to the Act, any elector who on
polling day during the hours set apart for
polling is absent from the district for which
he is enrolled may vote as an absent voter
at any polling-place which is not a polling-
place for that district.
In every such case the presiding officer
at such polling-place, before giving a bal-
lot-paper to the person claiming to vote,
shall put to him the questions following,
that is to say—
For what electoral district are you qualified to
vote ?
Have you within the last preceding seven months
been bona fide resident within the abovementioned
electoral district for a period of one month?
What is your name (surname and Christian name
in full)?
What is your occupation?
Where is your usual place of residence?
What is your present address?
The presiding officer shall then endorse
the answers to such questions upon an
envelope, and the person claiming to vote
shall sign the same, and the presiding
officer shall witness such signature.
No person so claiming to vote shall re-
ceive a ballot-paper unless or until he has
answered the said questions to the satis-
faction of the presiding officer, and has
signed the said envelope.
The voter shall record his vote by writ-
ing on the second page of the ballot-paper
the name of the candidate or the names of
the candidates for whom he votes.
When the voter has voted, he shall not
himself place the ballot-paper in the bal-
lot-box, but shall deliver the same, folded
up, to the presiding officer, who, without
unfolding the same, shall, in the presence
of the voter, place the ballot-paper in the
said envelope, and after securely fastening
the envelope shall place it aside for separ-
ate custody.
BENEFACTORS’ REWARD.
There is one State Cabinet Minister
who has been attributing all sorts of dia-
bolical crimes to. the Labor Party,
even accusing them of trying to starve the
weaklings of the community. Now, this
is nothing short of base ingratitude.
The bestowal of old-age pensions is now
the law of the Commonwealth as well as of
the different States. This simple act of
justice to those who have helped to enrich
the country while those who are nqw de-
nouncing their class were despoiling it
was brought about solely by the exertions
of the Labour Party. No one for a mo-
ment would ever accuse the advocates of
black labour with bestowing a thought on
those white people who had got beyond
the working stage of life. Now,
at a time when this particu-
lar Cabinet Minister was call-
ing the members of the Labour Party all
sorts of ugly names, his own father was
enjoying the fruits of this Party’s exer-
tions in the shape of the old-age pension.
Anyone who has the time and wishes to
satisfy himself on the matter can do so
by inspecting the names of the recipients
of the pension about three years back. Is
not this ingratitude more strong than
traitor’s aims ?
DATES OF INTERESTING EVENTS.
The following dates in connection with
the elections should be kept in mind by the
different organisations. This applies more
especially to nomination day. Let no
branch be caught napping:
Nomination Day.—Thursday, March 28.
Polling Day.—Saturday, April 27.
Return of Writ. —Thursday, May 30.
OXLEY W.P.O.
All workers on Thompson Estate are re-
quested to attend Committee Meeting
in Carl-street Hall on Monday night at
8 o’clock.
Great Public Meeting in Junction Hall,
on Wednesday, 27th March, at 8 p.m.
Labour Candidate Martin and other prom-
inent Labourites will he present.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A meeting of members of the above
organisation and sympathisers living in the
Rosalie district who will form a committee
to secure the return of Mr. J. T. Gilday,
the endorsed Labour candidate, will be
held on Tuesday night next, 26th inst., at
8 o’clock, at Mr. Bryett’s residence, corner
Nash-street and Baroona-road.
Also a meeting of those in the Red Hill
district (for the same purpose as mention-
ed above) will be held next Tuesday
night, 26th inst., in Mr. Rees’s resi-
dence on Enoggera-terrace, near traiii ter-
minus.
The POSTPONED PICTURE SHOW
at the RED HILL PICTURE PAVILION
in aid of election funds will take place on
MONDAY NIGHT 25th inst. Special
films of a very interesting character will
be shown. Workers, roll up.
SOUTH BRISBANE LABOUR CAM
PAIGN COMMITTEE.
Under the auspices of the lady mem-
bers of the above Committee, a GRAND
SOCIAL AND DANCE will be held in the
Merton Road Hall, off Stanley Street,
S.B., on MONDAY EVENING, 1st April,
1912. Good Music. Tickets 1/- each.
Refreshments provided. Proceeds in aid of
Campaign Fighting Fund.
H. R. HUXHAM,
Hon. Sec. S.B. Lab. Campaign Com.
