

Official Bulletin, N o. 25.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 25;
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1912.
MANIFESTO
OF THE
Combined Unions’ Committee.
The following manifesto was issued to-
day by the Strike Committee :
The Combined Unions’ Strike Commit-
tee was appointed by and from 43 unions
which met at the Trades Hall, Brisbane,
on January 28th ult., to manage the fight
for the recognition of Trades Unionism,
which was denied the Brisbane Branch of
the Australian Federated Tramway Union
by the manager of the Brisbane Tramway
Company.
The strikers and their committee quite
recognised the magnitude of the fight they
■were about to engage in, and in order to
avoid any injury to public health or any
interference with the care of the sick or
with infant life, at once issued what
may be termed “ a proclamation,” setting
out what their intentions were in these
connections.
These intentions were carried out to
the very letter.
The tramway men’s case —the cause,
originally, of the whole trouble —was
brought before a compulsory conference
called together by Mr. Justice Higgins on
Tuesday, February 13.
This proved abortive. The Judge there-
upon ordered the parties to appear before
the Arbitration Court.
Immediately this order was issued, the
Strike Committee, realising that what they
had set themselves out to accomplish, viz.,
the recognition of unionism, was then
secured, immediately communicated with
the Employers’ Federation requesting a
conference with the view of the whole of
the men and women out on strike —apart
from the members of the Tramway Union —
resuming work at once. This request was
spurned by the Executive of the Em-
ployers, and this constituted a declaration
of a protracted war.
The Strike Committee were prepared
for such an emergency, and took up the
challenge, more particularly because many
of their constituents considered that hos-
tilities should not cease until the verdict of
the Arbitration Court was given.
This was delivered yesterday morning,
and in due course was received by Ibe
Committee.
The verdict itself was a complete justi-
fication of the actions of the combined
unions.
As was to be expected, the trade of the
port had to suffer from the moment the
general strike commenced; but, so far as
the strikers were concerned—seeing that
they invoked every other means to secure
justice for the tramway men before declar-
ing the general strike, though without
success —they accept no responsibility fo
that position.
That this state of affairs has continued
for the past two weeks is attributable to th
position taken up by the aforementionec
Employers’ Federation, who, from a false
sense of their position as opposed to that
of the strikers, or some other equally un
warranted motive, refused to meet the
representatives of the latter.
Since that time until the present, the
various employers, with a few honourable
exceptions, have given evidence of their
intention to victimise many of the mei
who hitherto worked for them, and in
various ways have shown vindicitiveness
with the result that anything approaching
an honourable settlement was out of the
question.
Notwithstanding all this, and the faco
that, from the financial standpoint, the
Strike Committee are as strong as at any
time during the battle, they are desirous
that the port of Brisbane should be
opened, commerce once again assume the
normal, and a better understanding be-
tween employers and employees be estab-
lished.
Nevertheless they cannot possibly shift
from their present safe and strong posi-
tion, unless they can secure an honourable
undertaking from the employers, either
separately or through their federation,
that no victimisation shall be attempted,
and that they will reciprocate the desire
to bring about once again perfectly amic-
able relations between the two sections.
When the employers feel disposed to
meet this Committee on those terms, the
blockade of the port will be lifted, and
trade permitted to assume its previous
activity; but should the former, from a
spirit of malice or other cause, wish to
continue the contest, the Strike Com-
mittee are ready to join issue with them.
Signed. J. H. CGYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Trades Hall, Brisbane, Feb. 28, 1912.
The Light-weight “Wharfies” beat
the Light-weight “Coalies” in a tug-of-war
contest at Kangaroo Point this afternoon.
They now issue an open challenge to
“Trammies,” Carters, and “Coalies” for
same ground on Friday afternoon next, at
2 o’clock. Now, whose afraid?
The Strike Committee have received
several designs for the forthcoming
Loyalty Badges, but no decision with re-
gard to them will be arrived at till the end
of the week.
The Wollowra is due to arrive at Syd-
ney to-day from Queensland ports, but
will be treated as a “black” ship, and no
idea can be formed when she will get on
to Melbourne.
Here is a simple sum for unionist cal-
culators. If 20 wharf scabs discharge
one case of iron from the hold of a s-atb
steamer in 20 minutes, how much will
it cost the company to work 10 steamers
with scab schoolboys?
Tram Car Collides with
Sulky.
Unionist Dies from Injuries.
This morning at about 9 o’clock a col-
lision took place in Queen-street, Brisbane,
between a tram car and a sulky
containing three men, which resulted
in the death of a young man
named William Craker, a member
of the Carters’ Union. The sulky was
crossing Queen St. to go into Albert St. in
the direction of Albert Square when the
tram car ran into it. An eye-witness of
the occurence, W. Hoffman of Hill End,
West End, states the motor man, just
previous to the collision, let go the two
handles in front of his tram car, and after
exclaming “look out,” jumped back from
them. The result was that the vehicle was
overturned and the three men were thrown
on top of each other on to the roadway.
W. Craker was thrown backward on his
head, but still held the reins in his hand.
Hoffman then rushed over and asked some-
one to help him to carry the injured man
on to the side walk. The ambulance ap-
peared on the scene shortly afterwards, but
the deceased died on his way to the hos-
pital.
Mr. Hoffman called at the Worker
office and vouched for the correctness of the
above statement.
The funeral of the deceased unionist
will leave his home, Green-terrace, Swan
Hill, to-morrow (Thursday) afternoon, at
half-past two o’clock, for Toowong Ceme-
tery. The route will be along Bowen
Bridge-road to Brunswick-street, to
Leichhardt-street, down Wharf-street, to
Ann-street, thence on to North Quay to
Toowong. All comrades able to attend can
either assemble at Swan Hill, or fall in
with the funeral at other convenient
places along the route. Messrs. Cannon
and Cripps will cohduct the funeral ar-
rangements.
The Latest from the Banks.
The Federated House and Ship Painters.
The following resolution was unani-
mously carried at a meeting of this
union: “That the members of this union
decide to stand firm by the Strike Com-
mittee until the strike is officially de-
clared and no surrender.”
Coal Workers and Lightermen.
The following resolution was carried
unanimously at a meeting of the above
union on Monday : — 4 ‘That this union con-
veys its sincere thanks to the Strike Com-
mittee for the able way in which the
general strike has been carried out.
LOST PROPERTY.
Unclaimed articles lying in V.O. Office:
—1 pocket knife, 1 set of false teeth, 1 oii j
feeder, 2 pairs spectacles, 1 ladies’ hand-
bag (with money), 1 vest, watch and
chain, medal, knife, and pencil, a hand-
kerchief containing money, 1 parcel of
ribbon, 1 handkerchief (red), 1 glove, 2
pawn tickets.
Lost, at West End strike meeting last
night, Lady’s Peggy Bag containing small
purse and some money. Finder please
return to “V. 0.” Office, Trades Hall.
THE CAPITALISTS’ CONCLUSIONS.
Here is what one peace-disturbing, cap-
italist-driven news sheet says about the
Arbitration Court award:—“The fact is
that this judgment leaves matters exactly
where they were before the case was heard.
Union men are out, and they cannot get
in again by the aid of any law or court of
law.” According to this dictum, all the
time, trouble, and expense attendant on
the Arbitration Court proceedings have
been wasted, and Mr. Justice Higgins’s
award is so much idle talk. As to the
statement that the men are out, and no
law can reinstate them, that may be a
little premature in the face of future Ar-
bitration Court proceedings. Not one
of these truth-distorting papers has re-
ferred to the injustice that has been in-
flicted on the fine body of tram men who
helped to bring the profits of the company
to the large amount of over £77,000 in 1910,
nor to what action Mr. Badger should take
so as to make amends for his tyrannical,
callous conduct. The Court has decided
that he treated the tram employees harshly
and unjustly, and if there is an iota of
ground for the many good qualities his
fawning flatterers claim for him, he would
at once admit his error and reinstate the
men in the positions from which they
should never have been taken.
As to the law not being able to force I
him to do so, it may yet be found that
there is a higher power than the law that
will compel the just claims of these men to
be recognised. Public opinion and public
patronage are two very effective levers for
readjusting industrial dislocation; and if
the public of Brisbane make a resolve to
refrain as far as possible from using the
trams until such times as the wrong done
the tram employees has been remedied and
the award of the Court given full effect to,
it may be driven home to the directors of
the monopolistic syndicate that the com-
pany is paying too dearly for their auto-
cratic manager’s whistling.
Cahill’s milkherd mercenaries are dis-
tinguished by butcher-blue neckties. More
need not be said to warn self-respecting
unionists. |
Strike Leader’s Morning
Address.
Mr. Harry Coyne stepped on to the
balcony in Turbot-street punctually at 10
o’clock this morning, and addressed a very
large crowd of men and women. Mr. Joe
Collings also spoke. Bpth dealt with the
verdict of the Arbitration Court and the
great victory thereby secured, and also
outlined what the fighting policy of the
Strike Committee now was. This is duly
set out in another portion of this paper.
The greatest enthusiasm was displayed
when the announcement was made that the
Bundamba miners had again parried a
resolution “to remain out until the Strike
Committee orders us back.”
Quite a gloom was cast over the gath-
ering wdien the news came to hand that a
comrade—William Craker, of the Carters’
Union—had just been killed in a tram
smash.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Centennial Hall.
At the Centennial Hall Air. L.
M‘Donald presided over a packed house. He
opened proceedings by announcing the
verdict of the Arbitration Court in favour
of the members of the Tramway Union
and claimed that the verdict had justified,
all that had been done* not only by the
Tramway’s Union, but by the Combined
Unions.
Mr. Joe Collings folio w r ed, and having
dealt briefly with the award of the Cou:t
reported a mass meeting of the Bundamba
miners that afternoon, at which they hac
announced their intention of standing oun
until ordered back to work by the Strike
Committee. Air. Codings also dealt very
trenchantly with a letter in the “Courier*
signed “T- Jones, Indooroopilly.”
The subsequent speakers were Mr
Alyles Ferricks, AI.L.A., and Mr. R. Sum-
ner.
Pineapple Reserve.
At the Pineapple Reserve, Mr. A. Skir-
ving presided, and read a telegram an-
nouncing Mr. Justice Higgins’s verdict in
favour of the Tramway men, which was
received with much cheering.
Mr. Will Bertram traced the history of
the present strike, and told the story of
the splendid solidarity of the toilers in the
Northern part of the State.
Mr. J. Mullan, M.L.A., was in his
usual rousing form, and gave a fine ad-
dress, dealing both with the industrial aid
political phases of the struggle.
Airs. Finney appealed to ad unionists
to ask in all shops for the right to be
served by Unionists wearing a badge. Only
in this way, she said, can you help your
victimised mates, the Shop Assistants and
others.
Mr. Jack Crampton was the last
speaker, and he was particularly effective.
He held his audience till quite 11 o’clock.
Not one seemed tired of listening to his
recital of his Melbourne experiences
amongst our Victorian mates, and at times
he had his hearers in tears, while at
others he roused them to the greatest en-
thusiasm.
The meeting concluded with cheers for
the strikers.
Ivory-street, Valley.
A very large meeting was held here.
Mr. J. A. Moir, Secretary of General
Strike Committee, presided, and the fol-
lowing speakers addressed the meeting:
Alessrs. J. Adamson, M.L.A., and E. J.
Hanson and Joe Sherry, members of the
General Strike Committee. Great en-
thusiasm prevailed. The decision of the
Arbitration Court, when announced by
the Chairman, was loudly applauded.
The meeting terminated with cheers for
Industrial Unionism and Socialism.
West End.
At West End a very fine meeting was
presided over by Mr. Sam Whear. The
speakers were Mrs. Miller, and Comrades
Joe Collings and Charlie Boulton.
The Waterside Workers.
Our brave comrades the Waterside
Workers are making history these times,
and making it particularly well. Their
meetings this week have been character-
ised by splendid attendances of members,
| and by remarkable enthusiasm and solid-
arity. Our old friend, Secretary Mat
M‘Cabe, met with a splendid reception on
his re-appearance after his illness and so-
journ in hospital. It was found neces-
sary to hold a meeting on Monday night
in the Trades Hall, as their own rooms
were nothing like able to contain the great
crowd of members, who desired to attend.
The result of their deliberations this week,
and of the rousing speeches delivered by
President “Bob” Thompson, Secretary
Mat M‘Cabe, and Comrade Brock (Syd-
ney Waterside delegate on Strike Commit-
tee), are: —(1) That they have every con-
fidence in the Strike Committee; (2)
that they are delighted with the splendid
stand made by their mates, the Bundamba
miners; (3) that they appreciate very
much the valuable assistance rendered by
Comrade Brock; and (4) —best of all —that
they will not return to work until all em-
ployers of labour in Brisbane cease vic-
timisation. A proposal for a secret bal-
lot got one supporter only. All others
positively refused to touch it.
Arbitration Award.
Full Text of the Judgment.
Vindication of Unionism.
Rebuff for Badger.
We give the full text of Mr. Justice
Higgins’s conclusions and award in the
i ram ways Arbitration case, as no doubt
many unionists would like to retain it for
reference:—
6 re . s ident °f the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court in Melbourne decided yesterday
that the tramway men may wear their
badges. After giving a long history of the
dispute, Mr. Justice Higgins went on to
remark that Mr. Badger had givfen the men
the choice between their billets and their
badges It was idle to affect that that was
not a dismissal for wearing the badge, but
it was absurd to call such a dismissal a
strike, whatever name might be given to
the conduct of the unions. “Perhaps I
should say here,” he continued, “that I
have nothing to da with the conduct of the
otiier unions in striking work in sympathy
with the Brisbane tramway men. What is
called a general strike ’ does not extend
leyond one State, and however fatuous and
rutile the device of making a quarrel with
innocent employers, because the tramway
men have a quarrel with their employer,
oi : the device of taking the public as an
additional antagonist when you are fight-
mg a powerful company,' I cannot use any
oi the powers of the Court. It is gratify-
ing, however, to find that none of the
unions, which have had an award, or an
agreement made by or under the auspices
of the Court, has broken that award or
agreement. The respondents, who have
raised objections to my jurisdiction, may
rest assured that I have not omitted to
consider the objection. It is, unfortunately,
an incident of our constitution that in
place of giving all the energy I have to
make a consideration of what is right and
expedient to be done in an industrial
struggle, I have, in every case, to puzzle
out as best I can, what is constitutional to
be done, and in this case I find the facts,
so far as they affect the objections, in
favoui of the associations. Mb*. Badger
has a quaint theory that he has a common
law right to tell an employee what he
should wear. Apart from the power to
make regulations, I know of no such com-
mon law right. A servant has to obey law-
ful commands, not all commands. The
does not commit a breach of duty
if he 1 efuses to attend a particular church,
or wear a certain maker’s ringlets. The
common law right of an employee is a
1 lght to wear what he chooses in matters
not affecting his work. Prima facie, a
man may wear what he likes so long as he
does not offend against decency, and the
burden lies on the employer to show the
contrary. At first sight it must seem
cunous that the employees are so keen to
wear the badge and the employers so keen
against its use. The employees are
proud of the badge as an emblem of
fidelity to their comrades, and to other
common interests, and when they chat they
like to know whether they may talk freely
on matters relating to their union to or
m the presence of particular men trans-
ferred from other lines, or “battlers,” or
casuals.” The badge is a danger signal
when both men are not wearing it, and
line clear” when both men are wearing it
or where neither wears it. There are
other uses of the badge, and instead of it
being a cause of quarrelling, it is more
likely to conduce to peace, for it is a gro-
tesque, as well as a baneful, mistake to sup-
pose that unionists of this type are always
spoiling for a fight with non-unionists,
lhe men employed on these tramways are
evidently steady, sober, and peace-loving
men. They are selected because of these
qualities. They have far too much to
suffer by a strike, and they are far more
likely to treat a non-unionist with silence
than with abuse. It is pleasant to find
that several of the non-unionists admit,
notwithstanding the bitter feeling which
exists, that they have never been sub-
jected to insults or violence by their
unionist fellows. The badge has other
functions, and no one will pretend that the
wearing of it comes within the definition
of a nuisance. The badge does not intimi-
date in itself ; it is no Gorgon’s head. I
find that the forbidding of the badge is,
in the case of Melbourne and Brisbane,
merely part of the policy of the company
to suppress unionism, and especially feder-
ated unionism. In the case of Adelaide,
the position is somewhat complicated. It
is an old device to first keep away unionism
as long as you canJ, and then when it must
come, create a dependent union, and at-
tract men to it by favours. Mr. Badger
and Mr. Wilcox frankly admit that they
have tried to prevent unionism among their
men, and I have no difficulty in finding
that they have granted indulgences, privi-
leges, benefits, and attractions of all sorts
to men to retire from the union, and they
have encouraged and bolstered up rival
unions—what the men call ‘The Company’s
Union’—in order to injure tho men’s union.
The company’s union could not last but
for the company’s coddling. A company
could easily get rid of bitterness by ceasing
to bestow exceptional favours on a com-
pany’s union. From the point of view of
the companies the endeavours to stifle
unionism may seem justifiable, but from
the point of view of this Court, the en-
deavours cannot be treated as legitimate
or reasonable, for the very Act which
creates this Court expressly sanctions and
encourages unions. My award is, there-
fore, distinctly against the attempts to for-
bid the union badge. It is monstrous to
think that a union should be forbidden to
use such an influence as the badge in its
favour, while the companies, with their
greater resources, their command of money,
of employment, of place, pay, and privi-
leges, use every effort against the unio 1
and in favour of a parasitic growth which
they plant and foster. I make no refer
ence in the award to the Adelaide regula-
tions. I understand that there was no
definite regulation on the subject of the
badge.”
THE AWARD.
The President then delivered his aware
as follows : /
The. claimant, undertaking on its own behalf
and on' behalf of its members respectively, who were
in the employment of the Brisbane Tramways Com-
pany, Limited, on January 18 last, that the members
respectively will accept reinstatement by the com-
pany in the same or equivalent position, if so re-
quired by the company, and if they still remain out
of employment I determine the award, and order
that any regulation, by-law, or order made by any
of the respondents which either absolutely or under
the conditions appearing in the regulations here-
after mentioned, or of the verbal order given by the
general manager of the Municipal Tramways Trust,
Adelaide, forbids tramway employees when perform-
ing their duties to wear the badge on their uniform
is unreasonable; that the regulation dated May 3,
1311, purporting to be the regulation of the Brisbane
Tramways Company, Ltd., is both unauthorised and
unreasonable; that the regulation purporting to be
regulation No. 75 of the Melbourne Tramwavs and
Omnibus Company, Ltd., in so far as it forbids the
wearing of the union badge, is unreasonable; that
an order should be made, and is hereby made, against
the respondents declaring that the members of the
association ought to be allowed to wear the badge,
even while in uniform or on duty, without interfer-
ence, and to effect hereinafter mentioned, and this
Court doth, on the application of the Australain
Tramways Employees’ Association, a party to this
award, restrain the respondents respectively, and
their respective agents, managers, officers, and ser-
vants, from forbidding any of their employees to
wear the badge of the association, and from hinder-
ing or interfering with any of their employees in
the wearing of the same, and from dismissing or
discharging any such employee, or injuring him in
his employment, or altering his position to his
prejudice, by reason (in whole or in part) of the
tact that he wears the said badge, and doth restrain
the respondents respectively, and their respective
agents, managers, officers, and servants, from en-
forcing their regulations, or order, or alleged regu-
lations or order, in so far as they purport to forbid
the wearing of the said badge, or from treating the
said regulation or order to the extent aforesaid as
valid.
As to the validity of the regulations, I have seen
the Queensland Tramways Act of 1882, the memoran-
dum and articles of association of the Brisbane Co.,
the power of attorney from the company to Mr.
M c llwraith, and the substitute power to Mr. Badger.
Mr. Badger has power to do whatever Mr. M‘ll-
- had power to do, but it is by no means clear
to me that the Act or the articles of association
enable the compahy to transfer its power under the
Act to make by-laws.
Assuming, however, that it could transfer its
power, the notice issued by Mr. Badger on May 3,
1911, as it was not approved by the Governor in
Council, or published in the “ Gazette,” was, in my
opinion, unauthorised and invalid. (Section 73.) An
employee who disobeyed it was not guilty of any
breach of his duty. Parliament, in giving the mono-
poly to the company, has evidently recognised that
regulations affecting the conduct of the servants of
the company affect the peace and order of the com-
munity, and has therefore stipulated for the ap-
proval of the Government before any such regulation
can take effect.
It may be urged that although the notice is not
binding as a regulation under the Act, it is binding
on each employee, by virtue of his contract. The
employee agrees to be “ bound by, as well as to
observe all the clauses of the rules, and regulations,
which relate to the employees now in force, or pub-
lished from time to time.” This raises a more diffi-
cult question, but so far as I can form an opinion
in the time at my disposal, I think that these words
must refer to the rules and regulations of the kind
which the Act mentions, and allows. The power to
make by-laws is “ subject to the provisions of the
Act ” (Section 71), and if the Act permits by-laws
which pass a certain ordeal, it seems, by implication,
to prohibit by-laws which do not.
The same reasoning and conclusion apply, in sub-
stance, to the verbal order and to the published
order of the general manager of the Adelaide Muni-
cipal Tramways Trust. The position of the Mel-
bourne Tramway and Omnibus Co., Limited, is dif-
ferent. Under the Act of 1883 there is no express
power to regulate the conduct of servants, although
there is express power to make regulations as to
nuisances and " for regulating the travelling in or
upon any carriage belonging to the company. I
do not feel justified in saying, without further in-
vestigations, that under such an Act a contract to
obey any regulation such as rule 75, would be invajid
and inoperative.
As to the last question of the case, the question
of reinstatement of the men who were dismissed in
Brisbane, I included it in the dispute which was
referred to the Court as it was rais’ed at the con-
ference, but I feel still, ap I felt then, that I can
do nothing. In the first place, the dispute as to
the dismissal or reinstatement is confined to one
State. It does not seem necessarily incidental to or
part of the interstate dispute as to the badge. I
seem to have no power over the matter under the
Constitution. In the second place, no evidence has
been tendered to show me facts on which I could
make an order that would not make confusion worse
confounded. Mr. Badger has, no doubt, appointed
other men to a considerable number, and incurred
obligation to them, and I should be very loth to
thrust upon him a number of angry men to take
the places of the new employees. Even if I had
jurisdiction, I should hesitate to make an order
under the circumstances, but I am glad to have ob-
tained from Mr. Prendergast an undertaking, on be-
half of the association, that all the dismissed men
who are still out of employment will resume their
functions if required by Mr. Badger. This ought to
dispose of he wild and ridiculous threats that none
will go back unless all are taken back. It is my
principle to interfere as little as I can with the dis-
cretion of an employer in selecting his employees,
and I hope that the substantial success achieved by
the association with regard to the wearing of the
badge will allay the embittered feelings, and induce
the members of the association to let bygones be
bygones.
The President further said that he
thought the award and order should
operate against the three respondents at
once.
It was intimated later that proceed-
ings would be taken before the High Court
to test the Arbitration Court’s jurisdic-
tion.
A wire received from Sydney yester-
day stated that the shipping companies
in Sydney were doing all they could to
maintain trading connections with
Queensland ports. Up to the present,
however, they had not been able to accept
any cargo for Brisbane.
