

Official Bulletin, No. 43.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 43.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 1912.
The Railway Inquisition.
What object can be served or benefit
accrue from the inquiry farce that is being
carried on in connection with the Railway
Department? That a great injustice is
being done the men who are compelled to
go through this public cross-examination
cannot be doubted. They are on their
trial before several prominent officers of
the Department, and whether their evi-
dence will satisfy those officials or not de-
pends largely on the amount of sorrow the
men express for what has happened, and
how much blame they can attach to their
fellow-unionists for the action they took
in connection with the strike.
That these men were in sympathy with
the tramwaymen and the other unionists
who took such an effective way of showing
their dislike of tyranny must be acknow-
ledged, otherwise they would not have
joined the ranks of the great majority of
their fellow-workers; but were they to say
so at the inquiry they know they would
irretrievably shut themselves from out the
service—they know that there is only one
kind of answer that will keep them from
being further victimised.
This Star Chamber business is not only
unjust to the men who are called before it;
it is disgracefully unjust to men whose
names are mentioned at it, but who have
no means of contradicting or explaining
what may be said concering them. What
sort of an adjudicator is he who asks lead-
ing questions about a man who will not be
allowed into the room to hear the reply, or
who is refused the right of vindicating his
impeached conduct? Will the inquisitors
permit the men whose names have been
mentioned to attend and place their side of
the question before the public ? The evi-
dence given in the inquiry is not on
so any unfortunate man who is prepared
to slander or tell lies about a fellow-worker,
with the object, perhaps, of securing a bet-
ter billet than he previously held, can do
so with impunity. Thus is sycophancy sug-
gested and the seeds of future slavery sown.
Then, again, why should the of
the Railway Workers’ Unions be gone into ?
Are they usually brought up at departmen-
tal inquiries? Again, we say if there is
the slightest pretension to fairness about
the inquiry the officers of the union should
be allowed an opportunity of placing their
position before this lob-sided tribunal.
One effect, at all events, this inquiry
will have, it will serve to show the public
the wages the railway servants of the State
have been receiving. One man, who is
married, and wl\o was in the service for
three years as a ledger-keeper, was paid
the princely amount of £llO a year, or
a fraction over £2 2s per week. It is safe
to say that in no other part of the Com-
monwealth are such low wages paid to men
in similar positions. Just let a few more
instances be given of how railway workers
are rewarded, and all the Agent-General’s
arguments to induce people to leave the
old country for a State on whose railways
sweating is practised and scabbing is en-
couraged will be thrown away.
It is stated that there are some 300 men
to be reinstated, and their cases are being
dealt with at the rate of seven a day. With
Saturday as a dies non , it will thus take at
least two months before the farce is
finished —or about the time the new Parlia-
ment will be assembling. In the meantime
what becomes of the work these high offi-
cials are paid big salaries for performing,
or of the work these men should be doing,
who have to go through this preliminary
keel-hauling before being allowed to do it ?
Is the work of this great department to be
at a standstill while the nominees of the
Commissioner are endeavouring to humili-
ate the men in the eyes of the public in the
hope that in the process they may be able
to disparage the members of the Strike
Committee or deal a few foul blows at
unionism ? There will want to be an in-
quiry into this inquiry later on.
LUCKY SOUTHPORT.
The Home Secretary, according to this
morning’s paper, addressed a meeting in
the Pacific Hotel, Southport, on Friday
night last. The main reason of Mr. Appel’s
visit, it was stated, wa% to clear up certain
dark hints which some of his supporters
had been throwing out concerning his dis-
appearance from Brisbane when the strike
was at its height. A satisfactory ex-
planation, it was alleged, had been already
submitted THROUGH THE LOCAL
PAPER. Another accusation was denied
by Appel —that be bad sent to the Trades
Hall for a permit to send rations to St.
Helena.
How happy the Southport people should
feel after having “ a satisfactory explana-
tion ” given them, “ through the local
paper,” of Mr. Appel’s action in "freeing
himself from all strike worries and going
for an extended trip while Major Cahill
and a mob of all kinds of constabulary’were
making Brisbane a good place to get out of.
Of course the Home Secretary was not the
only Minister who kept out of harm’s way
when the streets of the city assumed the
air of an armed camp. The trouble was to
get hold of the head of any Government
Department, who now disclaim all respon-
sibility for the outrages perpetrated on the
people. Mr. Barlow certainly was acting
for several of them at the one time, but
even this frisky and versatile politician
could hardly act as substitute for the whole
Cabinet. What have the city papers to
say of Mr. Appel’s ignoring them and tak-
ing the Southport Press into his confid-
ence ? Surely the reasons for his finding
it necessary to leave his post at such a
time would have been of interest to their
readers.
The General Elections.
ROLLS NEARLY READY.
The printing of the rolls for the State
electorates as redivided is nearly complete.
These rolls will represent the result of the
February revision of the November regis-
trations. An additional roll will be printed
covering the work of the Revision Court on
April 2. It is now too late to secure regis-
tration. The April Revision Court will
deal with the February registrations.
There will not be any delay in issuing the
final rolls after the April revision, as the
necessary preparations will be made to
enable the printing to be done as soon as
the Revision Court has done its work. It
is anticipated that the rolls will be fairly
complete, there having been great activity
in the registration, as a result of the re-
cent industrial troubles.
REV. J. S. POLLOCK.
Last night a meeting of the Sherwood
Presbyterian Church congregation was held
to consider the resignation of their late
pastor, in explaining; his reasons for the
step he had taken, Mr. Pollock said that
while he could not give the exact reasons
as he gave them to the Presbytery, sub-
stantially they were as follows: —On more
than one occasion, when he had exercised
his right as a citizen of saying things on
a public question, or writing letters on pub-
lic matters to the Press, certain members
of the congregation took strong objection
to his exercising his liberty in that way.
He thought that everyone could say that
he had not used his pulpit to give his
opinions on economical, or political ques-
tions, except when hp had urged that re-
ligion should be in their political, their
family, and their commercial life. He did
not think that he had given them his
opinions in his position of administrator,
but he claimed and continued to claim, the
right as a citizen to exercise that right. As
a minister of the gospel, and as a public
man, who had received an education that
fitted him, or should fit him, to discuss
public questions he had the right, or, he
might conceive it his duty to take part in
the discussion of public questions. He had
explained in the public Press—when he had
the opportunity—his position in reply to a
letter criticising his action in regard to the
strike. The strike was the act of the unions,
and thay were not prepared to receive ad-
vice from outside. He did go to some of
their meetings, and exercised his right of
speech. He did not regret that he had
taken part either in the discussion of pub-
lic matters or in the Press. His parting
would be a wrench, and a very severe one,
for he had worked with them for over 27
years. He hoped that the congregation
would go on prosperously. Mr. Pollock
added that one of his reasons for tendering
his resignation was that it was his strong
conviction that the economic order of
things was inherently inequitable. He
thanked them for the opportunity they had
given him, and again expressed regret that
the parting was necessary.
CAN HE VOTE?
The following correspondence has been
handed to us, which may be of some interest
considering the great efforts the Govern-
ment are making to rake in every possible
vote: —
Commonwealth of Australia.
Minister for External Affairs.
Melbourne, 14th March, 1912.
Dear Mr. Finlayson,—Re the natura-
lisation of Mr. Badger, we have no record
of his having been naturalised, but of
course our records only go back to 1904.
If he were naturalised prior to that year,
the State authorities would have dealt with
the matter.
Yours faithfully,
JOSIAH THOMAS.
W. F. Finlayson Esq., M.P.,
Parliament House, Melbourne.
FOLLOWING GRANT’S LEAD.
As we suggested would be the case when
dealing with Mr. Ken. Grant’s fabrications
at Rockhampton, other Cabinet Ministers
are handling the truth as roughly as some
of their janissaries handled the citizens of
Brisbane recently. Mr. Appel is reported
as saying at Southport that “he” did not
send to the Trades Hall for a permit to do
certain work. To be sure it was very little
work at all that the Home Secretary did
while excitement was high recently; but if
“he” did not ask for a permit—and was
granted one—some of his officers did. A
permit was asked to allow the Otter to be
worked, Mr. Appel’s denial notwithstand-
ing, so he has now the option of saving
whether his Southport statement should be
ascribed to ignorance or inability to observe
the truth.
LOGAN ELECTORATE.
A well attended meeting of Labourites
resident in the Logan electorate, was held
at the Dunellan Estate last night, when it
was unanimously decided that all present
form themselves into a W.P.O. It was de-
cided to call for nominations from persons
willing to contest the electorate in the Lab-
our interest, such nominations to close on
Tuesday, 26th March, at 6 p.m., to be sent
to J. Monaghan, Sackville street, off Logan
road, Mt. Pleasant. The. meeting was very
enthusiastic, all recognising that a Lab-
ourite has a good chance of capturing the
seat. After the election of officers the
meeting closed with three ringing cheers
for Labour.
In the Ranks.
BRISBANE W.P.O.
An important meeting of this organisa-
tion was held last evening. There was a
good attendance, %nd Mr. M. J. Kir wan
occupied the chair. Mr. T. Finney (secre-
tary) presented the financial statement,
which disclosed a satisfactory balance. The
election of officers was then proceeded with,
and resulted as follows: —President, Mr. J.
Evans; vice-presidents, Messrs. W. Sauer
and J. Ellenden; secretary and treasurer,
Mr. J. J. M‘Laughlin. Mr. M. J. Kirwan
was unanimously selected to contest the
Bi is bane seat as the Labour candidate at
the forthcoming general election. Arrange-
ments were subsequently made for the de-
vising of a plan of campaign, and in this
connection the assistance of trade union-
ists resident within the electorate is in-
vited. A meeting of the Election Campaign
Committee will be held at the Trades Hall
on Sunday afternoon at 2.30 o’clock. Those
desirous of assisting are invited to send
their names to Mr. T. Finney, Trades Hall.
VALLEY AND MERTHYR W.P.O.’S
COMBINE.
Point Secretaries u. Urawford and J.
Roycroi* report that the combined execu-
tives of the Valley and Merthyr W.P.O.’s
met in the large room behind Mr. J. Mor-
gan's shop, in Brunswick street, last even-
ing, when Mr. J. G. Enright presided, and
the following were present:—Labour
Leader Bowman, Labour member McLach-
lan, and Messrs. T. Wilson, G. Hamer, G.
Thompson, and J. Morgan. Preliminaries
for the campaign were discussed, and much
important business was transacted. The
next meeting of members of the joint or-
ganisations was fixed for Monday evening
next, at the Social Institute. A progress
report will be prepared and read at the
meeting, to which Labour folk of both
sexes, who are desirous of joining in the
fight, are cordially invited. A committee
room has been secured in Brunswick street,
near the Social Institute, and rolls will be
there for inspection.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A meeting of the above organisation was
held on Tuesday night last, to secure the
return of Mr. J. T. Gilday, the endorsed
Labour candidate. There was a large at-
tendance, and arrangements were pushed
forward for the conducting of the cam-
paign. Messrs. Bulling and De Hayr were
appointed delegates to represent the above
organisation at the meeting of Met. Coun-
cil of W.P.O.’s, to be held to-night (Wed-
nesday).
The Combined Workers’ League are
holding a social in the Trades Hall on 30th
instant, in aid of election funds.
RAILWAY VICTIMISING.
The following is a copy of the discharge
given to a man who was waiting reinstate-
ment in the Railway Department, but who,
on reading how the inquiry was being con-
ducted, decided at once to separate himself
from the service for ever. When or where
will this vindictiveness finish?
“ Southern and Western Division Queens-
land Railways, Form No. 63.
“General Traffic Manager’s Office,
“ Brisbane, March, 1912.
“ This is to certify that joined
the service of this department as porter on
, which position he held until Janu-
ary 31st, 1912, when he went out on strike
and vacated his position. During the time
he was in the department his conduct was
satisfactory.
“ J. G. BROWN,
“General Traffic Manager,
“ Southern and Western Division.
“ Per J.T.L.”
The man who holds this precious docu-
ment writes as follows:—“Comrades, look
at the nice discharge we get from the
Queensland Railways after several long
years’ faithful service. Anyone who gets
one ought to frame it, and keep it till 27th
April next, when we hope to have our own
back.”
ANOTHER SEESTU BOY OF THE
BARROW.
THE FEDERATED HOUSE AND SHIP
PAINTERS.
The matter re the appointment of a per-
manent secretary and organiser of the
above society was dealt with at a special
meeting held on March 13th, when it was
decided that nominations should close on
Tuesday, March 19th, for the position.
Three nominations were received. One of
these was ruled out of order, and a second
retired, which left only Mr. T. J. Foat eli-
gible for the position. Consequently Mr.
Foat, who has been acting as hon. secretary
for some time past, was elected to the posi-
tion, and will in future be located at the
Trades Hall.
LIVING ON THEIR FELLOWS.
It was announced at a master builders’
meeting in Sydney last night that an effort
had been made to induce the employers of
plasterers to dismiss workmen who would
not join the union. The Plasterers’ Union
had written, it was said, to the effect that
it regretted that the employers considered
it necessary to defend men who accepted
the benefit of unionism without contribut-
ing to it.
A Special Bulletin Coming.
Look out for our special “ Bulletin.”
It will be published in a few days, and will
be hot election stuff. Later we will tell
you when, where, and how to get copies for
free distribution.
HOW SHALL CIVIL SERVANTS VOTE?
To the Editor “Official Bulletin.”
Sir, —That wonderful genius, Ken.
Grant, Minister for Education, stated at
a P.P.L. meeting that there was an ugly
tone in the air before the processions were
prohibited, etc. That noble hero would
be better occupied if he tried to do away
with the ugly tone that exists in his own
Department, the Department of Public
Instruction. For a long time there has
been mutterings of discontent as regards
salary and conditions of service.
It was only the other day that ten Eng-
lish trained teachers were brought out
here from the Old Land and given positions
in the service. Perhaps that in itself is
not very important, but here is where the
insult to all Queensland teachers comes in.
These important pedagogues have been
gazetted as Class II teachers —a direct
breach of regulations—and the lowest
of them is to receive £162 per annum, and
they have been appointed as assistant
teachers in either the High Schools or the
large State schools. Appointing them as
Class II teachers has a twofold purpose.
In the first place they are receiving too
large a salary to be sent out to the back
blocks in charge of small schools; and in
the second place they will be given the
plums of the service, as occurred before
when the Englishmen were imported.
Kennie wants to be'nice to them or they
may go away and say uncomplimentary
things about him.
Now, sir, a Queensland teacher has to
serve five years pupil teachership, and when
he classifies he has to be content, for some
time, with £lO2 per annum, i.e. 395. 3d.
per week, i.e., aboivt 6s. 6*d. per day, and
yet the calling is called a profession. In
any other calling, after an apprentice has
served his time he receives from 9s. to 11s.
per day. When this is pointed out to the
Departmental heads they say that a teacher
can get more than that. Quite true, but
he must pass another examination first,
which takes about another five years to get
through, so in reality a Queensland-trained
teacher has to undergo a second appren-
ticeship to receive the same as the imported
teacher.
Now, how can Queensland teachers be
loyal to an individual like their present
figure-head ? I am sure they will not
tolerate such an insult as has been given to
them lately so Denham, Grant and the rest
of that crowd need not expect to get many
of the teachers’ votes, for they will not be
gulled by the Minister for Education or any
one who sides with him.
I am, etc.,
R.D.
SEAMEN AND SCABS.
The executive council of the Federated
Seamen’s Union of Australasia, now sit-
ting in Sydney, yesterday had under con-
sideration the question of crews being com-
pelled to work cargo when the other labour
has refused to handle goods which, through
labour troubles, had been tabooed. Under
the ships’ articles at present all members
of the crew, from the captain to the cabin
boy, have to work cargo or coal if required,
and this means that the union is involved
in every dispute occurring in Australia.
The following motion was carried:—“We
now definitely declare that we shall abide
by the law as laid down by the Merchant
Shipping Act of 1906, and by the award
made by the Commonwealth Conciliation
and Arbitration Court, and such determina-
tion shall be upheld by the executive coun-
cil until such time as we can achieve an
alteration of the law or variation of the
award.”
A WORTHY EXAMPLE.
Mr. T. M‘Court, of Hove street, South
Brisbane, writes to us to the effect that
his landlord, Mr. James Carnegie, declined
to take any rent for the time his tenant
was on strike, and thinks the action is
worth recording. We entirely agree with
Mr. M‘Court, and would also mention that
if employers and landlords would show the
same consideration for others as did Mr.
Carnegie, there would be very little social
or industrial trouble in the community.
STRIKE COMMITTEE SPECIAL
MEETING.
All members of the Strike Committee
are hereby notified that a special meeting
is called for To-morrow (Thursday) morn-
ing, at 10 o’clock. The business is most
important, and a full attendance is desired.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Mr. Paul Creyton, president Federated
Timber Workers’ Union, and a member of
the Strike Committee, has just returned
from a week’s organising tour in the Al-
bert electorate. Mr. Creyton did some
good w r ork for his own particular union,
after which he turned his attention to poli-
tical matters, and was instrumental in lay-
ing the foundation for the formation of a
W.P.O. in the electorate. He gave two
effective addresses at Canungra, and gave
Mr. Appel a very rough handling at Beau-
desert last night. He would have done
still greater service were it not that heavy
rain interfered with his movements.
The Duty of Workers.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —The present Government, during
the recent industrial dispute, showed such
a class-bias and hatred that, in order to
defeat the aims of the workers, laws on
our statute book were one after another
suspended without consulting the people’s
Parliament who made the laws, so that the
capitalistic class would have a free hand.
I think, sir, it is just as well, in view of
the approaching elections, that these mat-
ters should not be lost sight of, and, ih
order to show Denham and his party up
in their true colours, it is necessary that
we should state a few of his (Denham’s)
actions during the past five or six weeks,
when the labouring class withheld their
labouring power from the capitalistic class,
of which Denham is one. We all know
how the Labour party fought to get for
the workers the Shops and Factories Act
on our statute book, in order to prevent
unscrupulous employers taking unfair ad-
vantage of the workers, and we also know
what a blessing that Act has been to the
hitherto overworked employees. Now,
when it came to showing the class Denham
was in power to serve, which class was it?
Why, the employing class. Was not the
Shops and Factories Act suspended during
the recent trouble in order that the em-
ployer would have a free hand to keep his
place of business open and work his em-
ployees as long as he thought fit? Was
not the Wages Board Act also suspended
in order that the employer could deal with
his employees as he thought fit?—in fact,
it put us back to*'the good old low wages
and sweating days with a vengeance, and
it just goes to show what ends the present
Government will use in the interests of the
exploiting class.
Then we come to some more law-break-
ing by Denham, which I think is a very
serious one. I refer to the Brisbane Tram-
ways Co., Ltd., v. Nielsen appeal case to
the Full Court. This case has shown us
that Denham has once more flouted the
will of tjh'e people and broken the law, this
time to suit the despotic tramway
monopoly. By suspending a certain sec-
tion of the Tramways Act the Denham
Government have secured the monopoly
from any liability for risks incurred by
allowing its tramlines to project several
inches above the roadway, whereby should
any person come in contact with those lines
and get thrown out of a vehicle or off a
bicycle and suffer injury he can get no re-
dress from the monopoly.
Now, sir, where do the people come in ?
Is it not plain to them what their duty is ?
Would it not, with Black Friday still fresh
in our minds, and the wholesale suspen-
sion of humanitarian Acts by Denham,
be to our everlasting discredit to give the
Denham-Barnes crowd on April 27 a further
lease of power? If on April 27 we go to
the ballot box and record our vote for the
party that is of us (the Labour party),
then we need have no fear of our interests
being safeguarded in the future.
I am, etc.,
G.E.F.
THE DEATH OF WILLIAM CRAKER.
Close of the Inquiry.
The magisterial inquiry which opened
nearly a fortnight ago concerning the death
of Albert William Craker, aged 21, was con-
cluded this morning. Deceased was thrown
from a dogcart at the intersection of Queen
and Albert streets on the morning of the
28th February. The vehicle was struck by
a passing tramcar. The deceased lived at
Swan Hill, and was a carter. Joseph
MTntosh, tailor, of Makerston street, con-
cluded his evidence, and Sergeant Bell gave
evidence as to the marks on the cart. The
inquiry was then closed.
RAILWAY EMPLOYEES.
An IMPORTANT MEETING will be
held on THURSDAY, at 3 p.m., in NO. 1
ROOM, TRADES PI ALL, Full attend-
ance requested.
T. MORONEY, Secretary.
ITHACA W.P.O.
The POSTPONED PICTURE SHOW
at the RED HILL PICTURE PAVILION
in Aid of election funds will take place on
MONDAY NIGHT 25th inst. Special
films of a very interesting character will
be shown. Workers, roll up.
TOOMBUL W.P.O.
Plebiscite Notice.
A PLEBISCITE to select a Labour
candidate will be taken by TOOMBUL
W.P.O. on SATURDAY NEXT 23rd inst.,
between the hours of 1.30 p.m. and 6 p.m.
Polling places: Pinkenba (Bottger’s
Shop), Hamilton (Mrs. Banks’ Shop).
The candidates whose names will be sub-
mitted are:
DOWLING, DANIEL C.
MACARTNEY, JAMES J.
W. LITTLE, Hon. Secretary.
STOREMEN AND PACKERS.
Members of this Union are reminded
that important business is to be dealt with
on THURSDAY NIGHT, at the Trades
Hall. Every member is urged to attend.
W. BERTRAM, Secretary.
