

Official Bulletin. No. 31.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 31.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1912.
Strike Declared Off.
Unionism Safeguarded.
No Victimisation Permitted.
This Morning’s Addresses.
Almost as great a crowd as any that has
gathered around the Trades Hall was wait-
ing this morning to hear the momentous
announcement to be delivered by the Strike
Leader. And enthusiasm and determina-
tion in the cause of Unionism were as
fully displayed by the huge gathering as
if the incentive to cease work had only oc-
curred yesterday. No greater tribute to
the successful way in which the Strike
Committee had conducted the campaign
could be forthcoming than the demeanqur
of the men while the Leader was delivering
his address and outlining the course the
Committee had followed and their inten-
tions as to the future. More particularly
was this the case when Mr. Coyne, to-
wards the close of his speech, announced
that the Strike Committee would continue
in office, and if the necessity should be
forced on them again, would be in a posi-
tion to once more block the port of Bris-
bane, and stop the supply of coal. The
Strike Leader is to be congratulated on
the tactful and earnest manner in which
he handled his subject, and the sympathetic
cheers that punctuated its delivery showed
to what great extent his hearers were with
him. \ m
In opening his address, Mr. Coyne said
that in the bulletin last night the Strike
Committee invited their comrades to the
Trades Hall this morning to hear what
Uiey regarded as an important announce-
ment. That day five weeks ago they com-
menced the memorable battle, and they had
fought a gallant fight, probably the best
industrial battle in the world’s history.
(Cheers.) They had had arrayed against
them probably a greater force than had
even been arrayed against a body of work-
ers in any part of the world, including
Russia. They had had armed forces with-
out any cause for them, and they had had
the greatest exhibition of brutal ferocity
that had ever been exhibited to any human
beings, when there was no need for it. They
had a lying Press that misrepresented every
word, not only here, but throughout Aus-
tralia, and the world. There was no
force of capitalism that could be brought
against them that had not been used. And
what did they have on their side? They
had splendid discipline right through the
strike, and that was their great mainstay.
They had had confidence in the men whom
they had placed in the position of leaders,
and they obeyed every order and instruc-
tion given to them. Were it not for that
they would not be to-day in the position
they were in so far as this battle was con-
cerned. (Hear, hear.) They exhibited
the greatest courage that had ever been
witnessed by human brings in the face of
the provocation they had received. When
they the ferocity and the brutality on
“Biack Friday,” and every day during the
struggle they were courageous enough to
restrain themselves. That was the great-
est exhibition of courage that had ever
been seen or heard of. (Cheers.) There
was one other thing, and that was their
abiding faith in the grand cause of union-
ism, which they set themselves out in the
first place to fight for and defend. They
had love for their people. That was pro-
ven when 500 men from amongst them
came along and offered their services to go
out and protect their people. Five hun-
dred men were enrolled as vigilance offi-
cers, and they w r ent out in the face of
great brutality and defended their people
well and ably. That would stamd to their
credit as long as they had a civilised world
and history could be read. He had al-
ready told them that when the compulsory
conference w r as called together they opened
up negotiations with the employers, but
the latter turned them down, and he felt
sure they were very sorry they did so. It
w as not the committee’s fault that the port
of Brisbane was -closed up for such a long
time, and it was not their fault that trade
and industry had been thrown back. The
committee moved to alter that state of af-
fairs, and the blame could not be laid a*
their door. He thought that they would
recognise the big task the committee had
had when they set themselves out to find
food for those who were in need of it
amongst them. They had done that by
the assistance that was generally forth-
coming from every part of Australia and
New Zealand. There was no gainsaying
this fact, that the old saying that the in-
jury of one was the concern of all, so far
as labour was concerned, had been exempli-
fied to a greater degree in this fight than
probably ever before. In the matter of
financing the strike, that had been done
by their comrades throughout Australia.
One of the steps the .committee had to
take was to block the port of Brisbane.
There was no getting away from the fact-
that the employers of Brisbane were back-
ing up the Denham Government, who, in
turn, were backing up Mr. Badger. They
were the people they had to fight, and
fighting the battle of the workers it was
their duty to use every legitimate weapon
that was at their disposal, and the best
weapon at that time was the blocking of
The port of Brisbane, and they blocked it.
(Loud cheers.) Proceeding, the Strike
Leader, said it was not the workers who
committed offences against the law. It
was those who were alleged t«. be the de-
fenders of law and order. \Vhen the Ar-
bitration Court gave its decision in the
tramway case the commbtee again opened
negotiations with the Employers’ Federa-
tion, and on that occasion the committee
asked that no victimisation would be prac-
tised so far as the men engaged in the fight
were concerned. fhe empJoyers r< plied
in what the committee regarded a rather
vague way, stating no victimisation
Xvould be practised. Still, it was fairly
satisfactory, but the committee
thought there was something more to be
done before they could call the strike off.
While the employers’ reply was fairly satis-
factory, still there was something more to
be done. The workers had been slipped up
by promises before. So far as he had
known, the workers never had broken their
promises or their word. It was necessary
that the committee should have more safe-
guards besides more promises, and in order
that the workers would be fully protected
in event of the employers’ promises not
being kept, the committee set themselves
out to ensure their safety by getting
pledges from the coal miners and transport
workers of Queensland, and, further than
that from the transport workers of the
south that in the event of those men—the
Employers’ Federation—not adhering to
their promises the port of Brisbane would
be closed again. (Hear, hear.) That was
the best way the committee could ensure
the safety of the strikers. They had suc-
ceeded in securing those pledges. It had
been stated that Mr. M‘Cabe had gone to
Sydney to weaken the position in Brisbane
The exact opposite was the case. Mr.
M‘Cabe had returned, and assured the com-
mottee that if they liked to go on for six
months, the transport workers in the south
would act exactly as they had done during
the last month (Applause.) Mr. Coyne
then read the letter which had been re-
ceived from the Employers’ Federation.
Continuing, he said that on the previous
day his executive had gone very carefully
into the matter, and had come to a certain
conclusion which it now was his duty to
communicate to those present. They had
had assurances from the Employers’ Fed-
eration which covered most of the trades
and callings involved_in the dispute, with
the exception of the tramway and railway
employees. The master tanners had been
trying on some monkey tricks, and the
committee would take action unless the
master tanners took a more sensible view
of the matter than they had been doing.
One result of the strike was that most of
the bakeries around the city were union,
and the operatives in this trade were will-
ing to fight on until all the remaining
bakeries were included in their ranks.
Another result of the strike would be the
establishment of a comprehensive co-oper-
ative system of bakeries in Brisbane. As
to the tramways, he vowed that he would
not again use these vehicles until they
were worked by unionists. >The tramway
and railway men who still were out would
not suffer. They would be provided for
for some time to come. As they felt
themselves absolutely secure now, having
received the assurances previously referred
to, he had to inform them that the com-
mittee’s decision was that the strike now
be declared officially off. (Loud cheers.)
After eulogising the Strike Committee, he
said in order to further ensure the safety
of the worker, the committee had no in-
tention of disbanding, because the trans-
port workers all along the coast and the
coal miners of Queensland were going to
come out when the Strike Committee in-
structs them to do so. The committee
trusted that it would not be necessary to
do that, but they would not shirk their duty.
He then, on behalf of the committee,
thanked the men and women engaged in
the battle for their splendid efforts, also
the Parliamentary Labour Party, the sec-
retaries of the Unions, and the “Worker”
and the “Patriot” for the splendid
service they had rendered. He
also referred to the noble work of the
vigilance officers.
Mr. Moir next addressed the meeting.
He was certain that the events of the strike
would tend to make many of them Soc-
ialists who hitherto had not belonged to
that body,'and a better understanding
would now be engendered amongst them.
Although the work in connection with the
strike had been very heavy, he was pre-
pared to go on with it for another six
months if necessary.
Mr. Mat M‘Cabe had a great reception
on stepping on to the window sill. He re-
ferred to his mission to Sydney, and made
merry at the many mysterious matters the
unreliable Press had connected with it. He
went South for the.purpose of strengthen-
ing the hands of the Strike Committee, and
had the assurance of the Sydney Transport
Workers that no “black” ship from Bris-
bane would be touched by unionists there.
It was generally understood that Mr. Den-
ham had offered to provide some free
labourers for the shipping companies, but
the latter would not listen to this, as they
knew the fate of the vessels right along
the coast line of Australia. Had they de£
sireji to stop all work in the other ports of
the Commonwealth a simple wire to that
effect would have secured their object. But
they only wished to block the port of Bris-
bane, and they had done that effectually.
His union consisted of 1504 members at
the beginning of the strike, and now they
had 1539 members. Out of this number
they had only had one scab.
He also referred to a vile lying statement
in a capitalistic paper that a waterside
worker’s child had died and the man, whose
name he mentioned, had not the means to
provide it decent burial. The father of the
child was a man in comfortable circum-
stances, who could, if his principles de-
manded it, remain out for six months.
Apart from this, the Waterside Workers’
Union was always ready to provide for any
of its members who should be in necessitous
circumstances. The contemptible state-
ment referred to was a libel on the workers
as well as on the undertakers of Brisbane,
several of whom had stated that they were
perfectly willing to carry out the funeral
rites free of charge if the parents of the
child were not in a position to pay them.
Mr. M‘Cabe concluded by stating that he
was sorry his illness had prevented him
from taking a more active part in the
strike, that the Strike Committee had done
their work well, and that his union were
still prepared to obey their instructions.
(Loud cheers.)
Mr. “Joe” Collings also had a big re-
ception. He told them to bear recent hap-
penings in mind, and act accordingly. He
trusted we would soon have a co-operative
bakery in Brisbane, and also a Labour
daily paper. He hoped to see Labour in
power after the next general elections, and
the railway men and the tramway men, if
any should be unemployed then, would be
reinstated, as the Government would re-
sume the trams. He would never enter a
tram until the men on them were wearing
their badges.
Mrs. Miller also addressed the gather-
ing, which separated after giving three
hearty cheers for the Strike Committee.
The Latest Message.
The Strike Committee forwarded the
following letter to the Federated Em-
ployers : —
Trades Hall, Brisbane, March 6, 1912.
Frederick Ranson Esq., secretary, Em-
ployers’ Federation, Queensland
Branch, Brisbane.
Sir, —Your favour of 4th instant has
been further considered by my committee,
the result of which is that I have been
instructed to reply to you notifying you
that my committee accepts the assurance
of your executive on the matter of vic-
timisation, and also that I am to offi-
cially declare the strike at an end at 10
a.m. to-day, and advise the men to re-
turn to work to-morrow, or at the ear-
liest possible moment.
Yours respectfully,
J. HARRY COYNE.
President, Combined Unions Strike
Committee..
Strike Committee Will
Continue.
Although the strike has been officially
declared off the Committee has still an im-
mense amount of work to do, and will eon-
tonue its sittings for many weeks yet.
Public meetings will also continue in many
centres as announced, and the “Strike
Bulletin” will still be issued.
A Humane Clergyman.
RESIGNS HIS POSITION IN THE
CHURCH.
The Rev. J. S. Pollock, who has taken a
somewhat active part in the strike, and
given valuable assistance to the workers,
resigned his charge of the Sherwood Church
last night.
Mr. Pollock said that his reasons for
doing so were as follows : —(1) That strong
objections are taken by several members of
the congregation to the exercise of my
personal liberty, publicly taken as a citizen
in advocating my views upon economic and
industrial questions; (2) my own personal
convictions, not only of the rightness of
the views I entertain, but the duty I con-
ceive resting upon me, on public platform
and in the Press of giving expression to
these views; (3) that in particular my
strong conviction that the present relations
of capital and labour are inherently in-
equitable and urgently demand radical
change, and that the outcome of them in
the distribution of wealth, and what grows
out of this distribution forms a serious
obstacle to the realisation of the Kingdom
of God in the world; and that my efforts to
proclaim publicly and show that this is so
have on several occasions, and especially of
late, been the cause of offence to those who
do not see eye to eye with me on these mat-
ters; (4) that I believe that the demission
of my pastorate would open up the way for
my own great liberty of conscience in the
discharge of what I conceive to be an im-
portant part of my duty as a minister of
Jesus Christ, and faithful citizen of the
State, and also that there may be possible,
under other ministerial guidance, a har-
monious condition in the congregation as
between minister and people.
Mr. Pollock added that there was
nothing that he knew of between any
member of his congregation and himself
but the most cordial friendship. These
things had been existing more or less for
the past 22 years, and for the reasons he
had given, it would be in the interests of
all parties that he should resign, and so
open up the way for what he had referred
to. He had been for 27 years the minister
of the congregation in Sherwood. He
wished that the presbytery would accede to
his request that his resignation should take
place at the end of April.
TRAMWAY AND RAILWAY MEN.
These brave comrades will still be in
the caj*e of the Strike Committee. An
appeal for a continuation of financial sup-
port is being made to all Australian
Unions in order that these and other vic-
timised men shall be properly provided for
until they can return to work honourably.
THANKS TO "V.O.” OFFICER.
The residents of Thompson Estate
sent the Editor a letter to-day thanking
the Strike Committee for the “Bul-
letins” sent daily, and also “V.O.” of-
ficer Beard for delivering same.
A FURTHER APPEAL
to Australasian Unionists.
Comrades,
As we have at last received from the
Employers’ Federation their assurance
that no victimisation will be practised, we
have to-day, after a battle 1 extending over
five wrecks, officially declared the strike off.
The fight from the commencement has
been a strenuous one, and, as usual, all the
weapons of Capitalism were arrayed
against the workers wffio set out, originally,
to defend the Employees of Bris-
bane, whose rights as unionists w T ere denied
them by the manager of the Tramway Co.
Those rights we have secured for the tram-
way unionists, and it is safe to say that
were it not for the stand taken up by their
comrades, it w r ould be months yet ere
the aforesaid tramway men could breathe
the air of industrial freedom.
By hanging up the port of Brisbane,
and, for a time, all other Queensland ports,
the unionists of Brisbane forced the case
of the above comrades into the Arbitra-
tion Court, from whence industrial union-
ism emerged crowned with unquestionable
victory.
During the progress of the General
Strike and for some two weeks previous,
the tramw T ay men w T ere out of work —some
claim they w r ere locked-out —and realising
that prior to that time their w 7 age was not
a princely one, and that the manager of
the Company assiduously filling their
places up to the time the Court sat, it can
be readily understood that they are now
very much in need of financial assitance.
To their credit be it said, that although
they w r ere sorely in need of financial help,
not one of them attempted to take the
place of the other men who laid down tools
in defence of them, although many and
various inducements were held out to
them. For some time to come, then, see-
ing that they are still “locked-out,” they
will require financial aid from their union-
ist comrades throughout Australia.
The Employers’ Federation disclaim any
connection with the Tramway Co. or the
Commissioner for Railways, 350 of whose
men are also being victimised, they having
manfully ceased w T ork on behalf of their
comrades, and we now appeal to the
unionists of Australia to assist us in main-
taining in reasonably comfort those good
and true men and their wdves and
families—about 3000 in all —until such
time as employment can be secured for
them.
Regarding victimisation in the trades
and callings of the other men who have
been engaged in this battle, we have, not-
withstanding the assurance of the Em-
ployers, secured a pledge from the Trans-
port Workers and Coal Miners that if vic-
timisation should be practised on the
trades and callings mentioned, they, the
Transport Workers and Miners, will again
down tools and re-close the port of Brisr-
bane. 1
The men, women, and children on jvhose
behalf we are now appealing, were the em-
ployees of a foreign syndicate on the one
hand, and a heartless, bitterly anti-Labour
Government on the other, and we feel that
the same generous response which we have
received from you during what was, prob-
ably, the greatest battle for the principles
of unionism within the memory of any man
alive to-day will be continued on behalf of
our comrades, who received w r ounds in the
struggle, until they have reached the con-
valescent stage of re-employment.
J. HARRY COYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
A SPLENDID EFFORT.
The Ithaca Town Concert Band very
generously organised a benefit concert in
aid of the unionists on strike. The con-
cert took place on Monday last, 4th inst.,
when the sum of £l6 6s. 9d. was realised.
This sum has been handed to the Strike
Committee. The thanks of all unionists
are due to Mr. C. R. Knight, bandmaster,.
and the members of the band, also to
Messrs. Stevens and Ogilvie, proprietors
of the Paddington Picture Ground.
MARYBOROUGH STRIKE SETTLED.
A letter was received yesterday morning
by the Federated Employers’ Association
of Maryborough as follows: —“In.theevent
of the waterside workers resuming work,
and all classes being reinstated not later
than Monday, would the employers guar-
antee in writing that there will be no
victimisation, and that all the men re-
quired will be taken from the members of
the Carters’ Union who have been dismissed
and called out from their employment ?
If the employers also, owing to slackness of
trade do not consider it necessary to em-
ploy the same number of men now as before
the lock-out, would they guarantee, in the
event of trade increasing, to give prefer-
ence to the Carters’ Union if extra labour
is required ?” The general committee of the
Employers’ Association met yesterday,
and after consideration, decided to accept
the terms of the letter, and also that the
carters should report for work on Monday
morning next. The reply was presented
officially to the men, who were waiting out-
side, and was received with great cheering.
The wharf labourers were to go to
White Cliffs this morning to unload the
Oswestry Grange. Some of the carters
returned to work to-day ,and the bulk of
them will return on Monday.
Blackstone Miners and Coal Workers
met and played a cricket match on the
Pineapple Ground on Tuesday afternoon,
the miners being victorious by nine
wickets, after a good and enjoyable match.
Monster Trade Union Rally.
WICKHAM PARK.
To-morrow (Thursday) Night,
at 8 o’clock.
SPEAKERS :
STRIKE LEADER HARRY COYNE,
M.L.A.
MR. JACK MOIR.
MR. JOE COLLINGS,
and others.
All Trade Unionists and sympathisers
roll up and make this gathering a Bris-
bane record.
PEOPLE’S SUNDAY AFTERNOON
SERVICE.
CENTENNIAL HALL.
Sunday Afternoon Next, at 3.
Sermon by Rev. J S. Pollock.
Hymns from Presbyterian Hymnary.
EVERYBODY WELCOME.
All Trade Unionists and sympathisers
should hear this sermon.
To-morrow Night’s Meetings.
Only one meeting will be held to-morrow
night, viz., the
1 HE MONSTER RALLY IN WICKHAM
PARK.
Be suio and be present as important an-
nouncements will be made.
SYDNEY SHIPPING.
Unionists Firm.
Yesterday the wharf labourers at Syd-
ney refused to load cargo intended for
Brisbane at the Central Wharf, Miller’s
Point. Several vessels had left oversea
cargo there, and it was intended to send
it to the northern capital in the Hector,
but the men declined to touch it, and when
the union office was telephoned to, a reply
was received that the men were following
instructions. A member of the union
executive said that no cargo would be
handled for Brisbane, as it was an in-
ducement to men th§re to “scab.” He
said that they expected the Brisbane
trouble to be settled by a compulsory con-
ference on Friday, but anything might
happen if an attempt was made to utilise
free labour.
The Darling Island strike was revived
yesterday. The wharf labourers started
loading the various wheat ships, but
before long they knocked off again. A
meeting of the men was held in one of the
large grain sheds, when it w as decided not
to start again until the Norddeutcher
Lloyd’s steamer Schlesien had left the
island. Some of the men said that at a
meeting of the wharf labourers to-night a
proposal would be brought forward that
the men should refuse to handle any more
wheat for shippers concerned in the pre-
sent trouble.
THE POLITICAL FIGHT.
Preparing for Business.
The South Brisbane W.P.O. has secured
committee rooms in Stanley-street, oppo-
site Stew r art’s Carriage Works, which will
be used as headquarters during the coming
election campaign, and as a distributing
centre for the new Labour daily news-
paper. The first meeting in the new
rooms will be on Tuesday next, March 12th,
at 8 p.m.
PADDINGTON W.P.O.
The Paddington W.P.O. has decided to
call for fresh nominations for a plefiseite
to be held at a future date. Nominations
of candidates must be in the hands of the
hon. secretary, Mr. C. S. Dickson, at his
shop, 62 Petrie-terrace, not later than
8 p.m., Tuesday, March 19, 1912. All
nominations must be in accordance with
the rules and regulations as laid down by
the Queensland Labour Party.
One of the immediate results of the
General Strike has been the victimising of
our Comrade Joe Collings, whose brave
work during the last five eventful weeks
has brought down upon him and his busi-
ness the w r rath and spleen of the commer-
cial community. Joe’s friends in Brisbane
have determined that his Boot Manufac-
turing concern shall not be allowed to
suffer, and a proposal is well afoot to float
the w r ell-known Wattle Brand Boot Fac-
tory into a real co-operative concern.
Comrades can do good work now and help
one who has so nobly stood by industrial
unionism in this great struggle by taking
shares—(see particulars in our advertising
columns) —in the proposed company. All
particulars can be had on application to
Mr. J. S. Collings, Valley, Brisbane, who
will forward prospectus and application
forms at once.
