

Official Bulletin, No. 16.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 16.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY* FEBRUARY 17, 1912.
Newcastle Coal.
%
Straight Message from the Miners.
The chairman of the Strike Committee
received the following wire from Mr. Bren-
nan, secretary of the Newcastle Coal
Miners’ Union, to-day :
“Not aware of any coal being supplied
to Queensland. Have guarantee from in-
terstate boats that no coal will be taken to
Queensland. Send particulars.”
More lies are thus knocked on the head.
Harry Coyne’s Morning
Bulletin.
Yesterday and this morning Strike
Leader Coyne addressed the huge crowd of
men on strike from the Trades Hall win-
dow. This morning he dealt fully with the
negotiations for a- conference which had
been opened up with the Employers’ Fede-
ration. “They have rudely spurned our
proposals,” said Mr. Coyne,* “and there is
nothing for it now but a prolongation of
the trouble. If you want the strike called
off you’ll have to get some one else to do it,
and appoint a new strike committee. We
have the necessary funds behind us now,
and the Sydney and NeAvcastle coal miners,
and lumpers and waterside workers are in
the fighting line with us; so while you
men are prepared to remain solid we are
prepared to fight on indefinitely.” This
courageous pronouncement was cheered
again and again, and there is evidence
now that ad ranks are preparing for a long
and bitter struggle.
Important to Unionists.
The establishments mentioned in the re-
spective lists below are working with union
labour. It is most important that this fact
should be carefully noted by ad unionists.
The lists will be added to from time to time
as we are able to do so.
x BAKERIES.
F. Wuersching, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
A. M‘Leod, Queen-street.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valiev.
Hanlon, Valley.
H. Hugall, Spring Hill.
„ J. Enerer, Valley.
Simpson, Toowong.
J. Leach, Zilln^ere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., ad Robb, W.
shops. Snelling, T.
Baynes Bros., all Witham, L.
shops. Crump, C.
Woodcock, W. Moore and Co.
Beven Bros. T. Cock.
Watts, W. Preston, W. D.
Witham, A. Bohl and Higgins.
Lewis. Scarborough Bros.
Sparkes, A. Voisey Bros.
Chugg, G. Hamilton, R.
Marshall, W. Land, W.
Barstow, E. Jowett Bros.
CAFES AND RESTAURANTS.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
A. M‘Leod, Queen-street.
Exchange Cafe (Berry’s), Queen-street.
Exchange Restaurant (Merton’s), Ed-
ward-street.
Chas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
I.X.L. Boarding House, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane.
GROCERS.
Queensland Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street.
Murray and Magee, Stanley-street.
Kearney, Boggo-road.
Eccles, Leichhardt-street.
Pedler, J. K., Caxton-street.
Hanlon, Paddington.
HAIRDRESSERS.
C. S. Dickson, Petrie-terrace.
J. Cavill, Edward-street.
Livingstone, Queen-street.
Yates, Joe., Brunswick-street.
Andrews, W., Paddington.
Latham, R. W., George-street.
A VICTIM TO DUTY.
We regret to have to state that Dr.
Hirschfield has advised Labour leader
Bowman not to address any public meet-
ings. If he does, it is at his own risk.
“EACH FOR ALL AND ALL FOR
EACH.”
“The quality of mercy is not strain’d;
it droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
upon the place beneath. It is twice
bless’d; it blesseth him that gives, and
him that takes.”
Shakespeare has shown me my duty,
and I hasten to remit the sum of £2 10s.
This is more than half my earnings since
returning to work, and until this trouble
ends half my earnings, be they small or
large, will be handed over in support of
men fighting not for blood, but principle.
“Touch one, touch all.”
SIR GEORGE CALDERWOOD.
(Well done, comrade! Official receipt
has been sent you.—Ed. S.B.)
Coming Events.
The Strike Committee having invited
the Employers’ Federation to confer with
them w 7 ith a view to a general resumption
of work now that the Tramway men’s case
was being dealt with by the Arbitration
Court, and the invitation having been al-
most scornfully declined, it has become ap-
parent to a large number of trade unionists
that employers generally are bent on pursu-
ing a starving-out policy. These men, how-
ever, are not going to play the ignoble part
their erstwhile employers have assigned
them, consequently a large number are go-
ing South, while others are going North,
where it is expected, owing to the large
volume of trade that will be diverted there
from Brisbane, work will be plentiful.
A good many skilled artisans left this
afternoon by steamer for Sydney, and it is
expected a large exodus will take place dur-
ing the ensuing week. As these men are
all experts at their trades, they will have
no difficulty in finding work. Several of
them came from the South, and are now
returning there accompanied by Queens-
land natives. Business at present is very
brisk in the other cities of the Common-
wealth, and "as employers have been asking
the various State Governments to import
skilled labour from the old country, the men
now going from Brisbane may to some ex-
tent obviate the necessity for this being
done.
The men so leaving are under no appre-
hension as to how their families will fare
in their absence, as the Strike Committee
will perfect arrangements, through the
various union secrearies, by which food
in plenty will be supplied them until the
bread-winners are in a position to send for
them.
Immigrants arriving at the Southern
ports from England will be interviewed,
and the position of affairs existing here ex-
plained to them. Cable messages will also
be sent to the more populous centres of Eu-
rope advising intending immigrants that
unless they are prepared to bow the knee to
Baal —which in this instance means Badger
—they will have their luggage labelled for
some other part of the Commonwealth than
Queensland.
A number of late arrivals from the old
country, who have still some love and re-
spect for the Union Jack, have already
written home advising their friends of the
position to which that emblem of liberty
has been relegated in this “new Britannia
in another world,” where an unnaturalised
British subject has been allowed —in fact,
urged by the Government and the capita-
lists —"to create industrial chaos, and peace-
able citizens have been brutally bludgeoned
by infuriated policemen and other hired
bullies.
One highly-skilled, sober, intelligent
operative, who only recently came from
Ne w South M ales, speaking to a represen-
tative of this paper yesterday, said he was
going back there, where “We can get higher
wages, and there is no callous-hearted Yan-
kee alien down there, backed by a capitalis-
tic Government, trying to down the
unions.”
Several unionists who vacated their posi-
tions in sympathy with the Tramway men
have gone back to their employment with
the sanction of the Strike Committee, on
the same terms as existed previously. The
fact of these men being out could not as-
sist the question now at issue in any way,
while they will now be able to subscribe sub-
stantially to the strike fund, and thus in
a double sense, help to relieve the respon-
sibilities of the Strike Committee, who are
prepared to continue the struggle indefin-
itely should the Federation re-
main obdurate.
THE QUEENSLAND TYPOGRAPHICAL
ASSOCIATION.
When strike matters arrived at the
stage during the past at which the
Strike Committee considered they could
relax the order somewhat that all unionists
were to refrain from w 7 ork, the Typograph-
ical Association w r as given a free hand as
to the terms on which the members would
return to w 7 ork, providing those terms
were in no case antagonistic to the prin-
ciples of unionism. At a general meeting
of the Q.T.A. it was decided that each of-
fice or companionship should act on its
own behalf, and report subsequently to
the association executive. In several in-
stances the men returned to their employ-
ment to the same number and on the same
conditions as obtained before the strike.
Some of the jobbing offices, however,
stated they could not find work for ad,
owing to the dislocation of business hav-
ing decreased the printing required.
Several of the compositors for whom work
was not waiting have gone South, and
others will follow their example within the
next few days should the slackness con-
tinue.
The “Daily Mail” companionship are
returning to their positions to-morrow
(Sunday) night, under the association con-
ditions, and it is to be hoped, now that the
Strike Committee has held out the olive
branch, other employers of this highly
skilled labour will place no obstacle in the
way of this important industry retaining
its former prestige.
DUNWICH RUMOUR.
It is rumoured in the City this morn-
ing that a comrade at Dunwich, who was
instrumental in collecting and forwarding
that fine donation of £l5 to the Strike
Fund, has been gaoled for months
over some trivial charge arising out of the
collecting of the money. Enquiries are
now being made and results will be pub-
lished as received.
V.O. stands for Valiant Orderlies.
Last Night’s Meetings.
These were everywhere a magnificent suc-
cess. At the Centennial Hall, Mr. C. W.
Martin presided. Messrs. Boulton, Joe
Codings, and others spoke. The very large
crowd were aroused to great enthusiasm
when, after 10 o’clock, Mr. J. Brock, re-
presenting the Sydney Waterside Workers,
arrived on the platform, accompanied by
several members of the Strike Committee,
and announced the full loyalty and support
of his members. “Go in and w 7 in,” he ad-
vised in no unmistakable tones.
At Ivory-street, Valley, a very large
crowd assembled, and some good work was
done by the various speakers.
At Kelvin Grove, Mr. J. S. Codings
spoke to a big crowd, which included an un-
usual proportion of ladies. Mr. Watt pre-
sided. Comrade “Joe” was in good form.
His final appeal evidently moved his audi-
ence very much. Other speakers were to
follow 7 , but the heavy rain intervened.
A w r ell attended meeting w r as held at
West End (corner Vulture and Boundary
Streets). Mr. T. Nevitt, M.L.A., occupied
the chair, and the following speakers ad-
dressed the meeting: Mr. GWynne, of the
Australian Tramway Employees’ Union,
and Mr. Jim Sharpe; also Mr. Joe Sherry,
member of the General Strike Committee.
Amongst the large audience were a few 7
“special” scab protectors, who endeavour-
ed to disturb the meeting, and otherwise
provoke trouble. Their efforts were, how-
ever, unsuccessful, and they made them-
selves scarce amidst jeers from the crowd,
after being informed by one of the speak-
ers that he came there to address the
respectable portion of the community, viz.,
the wmge-earners, not the “special con-
stables” or scabs. Despite a heavy shower
of rain the crowd remained to the close
and a most enthusiastic meeting broke up
with cheers for the Strike Committee and
the Labour movement.
At the Pineapple ground a very large
crowd gathered. Mr. A. Skirving presided.
The speakers were: Messrs. Will Bertram,
M. McMinn, and Geo Ryland, ML. A. It
w 7 as a most enthusiastic meeting. The
heavy rain made an early finish necessary,
although the crowd desired the speakers
to keep going.
MORE PARTISANSHIP.
Lieut.-Col. Moore once more distin-
guished himself in the Central Police Court
yesterday. Addressing a man in the dock
he is reported to have said: “I- think it is
a matter for regret that married men, with
children to support, do not consider their
position before entering this reckless busi-
ness —I can call it nothing else.”
Putting aside the merits of the case at
issue—a case which depended solely on the
evidence of some nauseating specials—is it
right or proper that a magistrate
on a bench wffiere he is placed to administer
justice and belch forth his partisan opinions
to the public ? How can any trades union-
ist go to that court and expect his case to
be impartially considered. When Colonel
Moore tells the police—ordinary and rag-
tag —that he is imbued with these senti-
ments, can it be w ondered at that they are
so reckless in their attitude towards the
great bulk of citizens? Mr. Peter Hender-
son was removed from his position as a
member of the Marine Board, and Mr. Joe
Codings’s name was erased from the list
of justices of the peace for displaying far
less partisanship than is here attributed to
this stipendiary. Small wonder the Premier
prefers to keep the doors of Parliament
shut, and allow the city to be governed by
a hare-brained policeman and his ignorant
and special helots. Were Parliament
now ? sitting the civil records of Brisbane
would not bear the unsavoury complexion
they have lately assumed.
AN EXPLANATION.
The Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —The Strike Executive forwarded
to the secretary of the Federated Stage Em-
ployees’ Association a permit for the staff
at the Theatre Royal to resume work. Two
of our members approached Mr. Simpson,
the manager. He called one to his office,
leaving the other member to cool his heels
outside. Simpson’s decision is as follows:
That he will re-employ four whose names
he gave; that there are still a few positions
vacant, and these will have to be applied,
for; that he has already filled certain posi-
tions with non-unionists, and these he is go-
ing to keep on. After getting this decision
the staff resolved not to go back unless every
member w 7 ere reinstated.
I may mention that at the commence-
ment of the strike the manager of the
Theatre Royal had notices posted up on his
theatre stating that he had given his staff
leave of absence during the strike, but
would not employ non-union labour. Some
time back Simpson reiterated the statement
that as soon as the strike was over his staff
would be reinstated. The secretary of our
union received a letter from the secretary
of the Melbourne union, and the latter gen-
tleman informed him that he had approach-
ed the Brennan management in Sydney,
and was promised among other things that
the staff out on strike here would
b© taken on agaim Brennans (who
have 7 or 8 shows going) will, if they are
sensible, overrule their manager here, and
impress upon him very clearly that if his
method of dealing with an affair of this
kind is the correct thing in his country, it
w r ill not suit the Australian temperament.
A few of the members of the old orchestra
are back wmrking wdth men who have filled
the places of their mates. Everyone else
who works there is not connected with this
union.—l am, etc.,
MORGAN H. CONYERS.
February 17.
Latest from the Ranks.
BOOT TRADE EMPLOYEES.
Press liars and others who prate of the
Failing Strike” w ould do well to make
themselves acquainted w 7 ith what is actu-
ally happening in the ranks of the strikers.
To-day’s meetings have been eye-openers.
Greater numbers and more enthusiasm, if
that were possible, have been the rule, this
morning. This was particularly so as far
as the Boot Trade Union is concerned. Sec-
retary Harris reports “the biggest meeting
of the trade ever held in Brisbane.” A re-
solution to the effect that “We do not re-
turn to work until ordered to do so by the
Strike Committee,” was carried unani-
mously Subsequently Mr. C. A. Boulton,
himself a bootmaker, and one of the Strike
Committee, delivered a stirring address.
Mr. J. Brock, from Sydney Waterside Wor-
kers, was received with wild enthusiasm,
cheered when he assured
them that his union would stand by Bris-
bane comrades, both morally and financial-
ly. Ringing cheers concluded the*^meeting.
Waterside Warriors.
Acting-Secretary Wrench reports: A
mass meeting was held this morning in the
Maritime Hall. Hundreds were unable to
gain admission. Mr. Brock, a member from
the Sydney branch, addressed our men at
some length on the different aspects of
the strike, and pointed out that the Sydney
men would support the Brisbane men, both
morally and financially; also that he w 7 ould
i emain here until a settlement is arrived at.
Mr. 1. J. Ryan, M.L.A., also ad-
dressed the meeting, and stated that he
would be going up to Rockhampton, and a
resolution w 7 as moved that he let the men
know there of the solidarity of the men in
Brisbane, and that we had no doubt as to
°f • th e Rockhampton branch.
following resolution w r as then mov-
* we have every confidence in
the Strike Committee up to date, and con-
sider that they have done everyhting in
their pow 7 er to bring the tramway dispute
to a successful issue.” This was carried
unanimously, with three ringing cheers for
Ai trike Committee. Three cheers for
M* • Brock, our comrade from Sydney, con-
cluded oi r meeting.
Federated Timbers Workers.
A mass meeting of the members of the
a )ove Lnion w r as held in the Temperance
hlall to-day, and the following resolution
was caiiled unanimously:—“That no mem-
bei of the Timber AVorkers’ Union return
to work until a final settlement of the
present dispute has been arrived at by the
Strike Committee.” About 500 members
were present.
Queensland Tinsmiths.
At a general meeting of this union, held
this morning, the following resolutions
were carried:—“For standing firm,” 82
for, 5 against. “Confidence Strike Com-
mittee,” unanimous.
Iron, Brass and Steel Moulders.
AH hands “solid.” Big meeting this
morning. Secretary Mulvey reports: “Re-
solution of complete confidence in Strike
Committee carried unanimously.”
House Painters.
A unanimous vote of confidence in the
Strike Committee was carried at a meeting
this morning, and it was decided to stand
by any decision of the Strike Committee
till they were ordered back to work.
INDUSTRIAL FEDERATION.
To the Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir,—A correspondent in yesterday’s
“Bulletin” asks, “What’s wrong with a
federation of the building trades?” I
think a good deal is wrong with it. Per-
sonally I am and my union are opposed to
a federation, because craft; autonomy would
still exist. But we do want to see a Build-
ing Trade Industrial Union formed, com-
posed of the whole of the craft unions en
gaged in the building industry.
If this is practical in the butchering,
.bootmaking, tanning, and other industries,
it is just as practical in the building
trade.
The Plumbers’ Union will make one to
accomplish this. Who’s next?
E. J. HANSON.
Secretary Plumbers' Union.
[We presume said Building Trade Indus-
trial Union'would affiliate with the A.L.F.
“The Union of Unions” is the final goal or
the collective control of industrv.- —Ed.
S.B.]
ADVERTISEMENTS,
SHOP ASSISTANTS.
A SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING of
the Shop Assistants and Warehouse Em-
ployees’ Federation will be held in the
TEMPERANCE HALL on MONDAY,
19th INST., at '8 p.m
FEMALE MEMBERS PLEASE NOTE
SPECIALLY.
Business: Levies and other important
matters.
T. FINNEY, President.
ARTHUR E. HALL, Hon. Sec.
CARTERS’ UNION.
A SPECIAL MASS MEETING of the
above Union will be held TO-MORRO w
(SUNDAY).
All carters are requested by Secretary
McCormack to attend at Trades Hall at
3 o’clock to-morrow (Sunday) afternoon.
Mr. Badger is Religious.
At last we have got to the bottom of
the whole trouble at Brisbane. We have
been favoured with a character sketch of
the great Mister Badger. Here we are,
good sirs, here’s the milk in the cocoanut
at last:—‘‘Mr. Badger is of the stuff that
old Pilgrim Fathers were made of and
the Covenanters. He is a stern man, a hard
man, and yet a deeply religious man, with
Presbyterian leanings. On top of his desk
continually lies a Bible. From its appear-
ance one would judge that it is not there
as an ornament. Mr. Badger uses it, reads
it in his office, and takes the stern pre-
cepts of it and his faith into the daily
round and common task of workaday life.
His Bible is his companion. He is the
same, stolid, placid Badger, despite all ad-
versity ; going down to his office day by
day, doing his duty by man, and read-
ing his Bible with God.” —Now 7 we know
all about the Brisbane strike. How could
any man possibly do his duty by God and
consent for a moment to allow any set of
common workmen to wear a simple, little
Union badge on their watchchains? He is
only said to have “Presbyterian leanings.”
He might really be a devout Douieite, and
there might have come to him an inspired
revelation that he is the reincarnation of
one of these Pilgrim Fathers of old. These
noble martyrs fought and bled for liberty
freedom to buy and sell slaves; freedom
to drive the common herd, with stockwhip
and bloodhound, to the very last ditch of
human endurance. Surely it behoves such
an one to buckle on the armour of the
prophets and resist with his very life’s
blood the encroachments of these sacri-
ligeous ranters who talk about the privi-
leges of the labourer. We really owe a
lot to the scribe who let us into the know r .
As soon as ever the gets abroad all
the strikers will cover themselves in sack-
cloth and ashes and crawl back to the
great Badger, beseeching him to mention
them in his prayers, and extend to them
the privilege of creating millionaires of
the people who ow r ri the Brisbane Tramway
Company. Why didn’t we know all this
before? Not a man would have dared to
strike. That w 7 ell-used Bible on top of Bad-
ger’s office desk would have conquered all.
\ erily righteousness covereth a multitude
of transgressions, and w 7 e certainly w r ould
have besought Mister Badger to cover all
ours up, and only let us continue to be
his humble servants. Here we have all
along been thinking that Badger merely
wanted to prove himself a Union-smasher,
and now-we know 7 that he is simply burst-
ing with a devout desire to save all our im-
mortal souls, and prepare us for entrance
into that place where wages are of no con-
cern, and union badges are unheard-of. We
apologise to Mister Badger. He has taken
the stern precepts of his Bible and his
faith into the daily round of his life, and
that, somehow 7 or another, seems always
to count for a good deal in labour troubles.
—.“The Co-operator,” N.S.W.
THE TERROR CONTINUES.
To the Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —1 wish to state that I was eye-
witness to another brutal assault perper-
trated by a few of Cahill’s brave defenders
upon a respectable citizen in Brunswick
Street, Valley, this afternoon at about
1.45. Three men were standing on the
foot-path outside of Dunlea’s Hotel, talk-
ing, when a police constable came up
and joined in the conversation. The men
were wearing red badges, and after a while
the policeman told one of them to take his
off, and put on a blue one. This he prompt-
ly refused to do. Then the limb of the law
began to pass insulting remarks about the
man’s mother. * The man tried to defend
his mother verbally. Then the policeman
struck him a blow with his fist which
knocked the man out, and while he was
on the ground the policeman deliberately
kicked him. Then I noticed a ‘special con-
stable’ standing in the middle of the tram
line, and, judging by his appearance, he
wished he was round in the next street.
Another ‘special’ came out of Dunlea’s
hotel, wiping his mouth as if he had been
enjoying himself, and became brave all of a
sudden, and went to the assistance of the
man in blue, and between the three they
managed to get him into a cab and drove
him off to the lock-up, after he had been
subjected to brutal treatment at the hands
of the trio. I think it is coming to some-
thing when a respectable citizen cannot
wear whatever colour he fancies, without
being bounced and assaulted by such cow 7 -
ards as these! Cannot something be done
to prevent these brutal assaults p
Yours, etc.,
New Farm, Febr. 15.
F. N.
POLICE NOT WANTED.
One of Cahill’s “pets” sought accom-
modation this morning at a certain board-
ing house. The money for a room had
been paid over, but was promptly returned
on his identity being established. The pro-
prietor, himself a unionist, has seven
unionist boarders in the house, and rightly
refused the prof erred insult.
Found, a Gold Chain Bangle, Corner
Ivory-street. Owner can have by describing
it. Apply, 45 John-street, Valley.
Lost, in vicinity of Trades Hall, silver
watch and chain with locket. No. of watch
55932. Initials, A.S. £1 reward. Return
to V.O. office.
Found, in Trade Hall, a Canvas Belt.
Apply V.O. office.
