

Official Bulletin, No. 45.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 45.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1912.
The Polltaxers.
Mr. Denham in the “ Daily Mail ” of
Thursday, 21st inst., says: “They (the
workers) want something more than glit-
tering promises to fill empty cupboards.”
Did Denham, a few years ago, do anything
to fill empty cupboards when he, with
twenty-eight of his gang, imposed a tax of
ten shillings on every working man in the
State?
For the benfit of our readers, and to
refresh their memory, we give the names of
those who voted for the tax: BARNES,
Bell, Cameron, Campbell, BRIDGES,
DENHAM, Forsyth, HAWTHORN,
MACARTNEY, Philp, T. C. Cribb, T. B.
Cribb, Dalrymple, Foxton, J. Hamilton,
Kates, Lamont, J. Leahy, P. J. Leahy,
Lyons, Rutledge, Story, Thorn, TOLMIE,
Mackintosh, M‘Master, O'Connell, PAGET,
and Hanran. Twenty-nine beauties, many
of whom will be “up against it ’’ on the
27th of next month if the workers of
Queensland do their duty.
Alleged Victimisation.
MINERS DOWN TOOLS AT IPSWICH.
When the Ipswich miners agreed to re-
turn to w ork, it was stated that some trou-
ble had occurred at Mr. Wright’s Tivoli
colliery over the question of the reinstate-
ment of three draymen. They had previ-
ous to the trouble been non-unionists, but
during the strike had joined the union.
When work was resumed Mr. Wright in-
formed these three draymen that he would
only reinstate them if they came back on
the same conditions as when they left —
that was as non-unionists. This the men
refused to do, returned to their homes, and
reported the matter to the secretary of the
union (Mr. Gledson). Numbers of depu-
tations waited on Mr. Wright regarding
the matter, but without any definite re-
sult beyond the fact that it was understood
that the men would be reinstated as non-
unionists, the question of their joining the
union to stand over till rules had been
drawn up dealing specially with draymen.
No such rules were then in force. Messrs
L’Estrange (president) and Gledson (sec-
retary of the union) interviewed Mr.
Wright, and, thinking the matter was set-
tled, sent word to the draymen to resume
work, but when they came it is stated that
Mr. Wright asked to see their clearance
cards, and, the men not being able to pro-
duce them, he is understood to have in-
formed the carters that they could not
start. Clearance cards are only granted
to a member going from one branch to
another to show 7 that he is financial. The
question was then considered by a delegate
meeting, and it w 7 as decided to ask
Wright to submit the matter to arbitra-
tion. This was communicated to him, and
it is understood he refused to have any-
thing to do w 7 ith it. A meeting of the
colliers of the mine affected w 7 as next held,
when it was decided by 41 votes to 5 to
cease work when called upon to do so until
the three draymen were reinstated.
Later in the day Mr. Wright received
a letter from the secretary of the Colliery
Employees’ Union, notifying him that un-
less the three draymen were reinstated this
morning the colliers would not start. In-
terviewed as to w 7 hat action he intended to
take, Mr. Wright said that he would not
reinstate the men. He further stated that
when the colliers came up from below that
afternoon, he informed them of his decis-
ion. Consequently, the colliers did not
go to work at that pit to-day.
ITHACA ELECTORATE.
A morning paper referring to the Min-
isterialist candidate for Ithaca (Mr. Haw-
thorn) speaks of him as having ‘ ‘ voluntar-
ily ” resigned the position of State Treas-
urer some months ago. How is the word
“ voluntarily ” now defined ? Would Mr.
Macartney kindly tell us ?
LABOUR DAILY PAPER.
An important meeting of all union sec-
retaries and others interested in the above
project will be held in the Trades Hall on
Sunday afternoon next at 2.30 o’clock.
The business is urgent, and includes con-
sideration of the special sub-committee’s
report, which is now ready.
MORE RAILWAY MISMANAGEMENT.
That the Railway Department is blun-
dering in many directions is being made
evident every day. Yesterday we exposed
gross carelessness which resulted in cer-
tain mail matter being delayed in Brisbane
a fortnight. To-day another instance of
unpardonable incompetence has been
brought under notice. The railway
authorities have come to the conclusion
that scalping to a considerable extent w 7 as
carried on in Sydney with Queensland rail-
way tickets. Consequently they told off tw 7 o
officials to go dowm there and trace the cul-
prits. These ticket-hunters spent a fort-
night in the harbour city, and succeeded in
obtaining several illegally-sold tickets.
They returned triumphantly with their
captures; but so far as regards any prac-
tical result coming from their expensive
exertions, they might just as well have been
doing their ordinary duty on the trains
here, as it turned out that the Queensland
laws in this connection do not apply to
N.S.W., and that consequently these offi-
cials had been on a wild-goose chase at the
expense of the public.
Argument in the engine-drivers’ special
case was concluded in the High Court at
Melbourne yesterday. Judgment was re-
served.
The Trail of the Serpent.
The crafty cunning of Premier Denham
is again in evidence in the methods he is
adopting to foist certain nominees of his
own on to certain'constituencies.
Men are pushed forward not because of
their fitness to serve the people ably and
well in Parliament, but because in some
cases of personal friendship, in others of
Cabinet influence, and in others to catch
sectarian votes. All this in an allegedly
democratic community is much to be de-
plored, although it is no more than might be
expected from the head of a Government
which recently flooded this city with thou-
sands of pliant tools whose “ special ” mis-
sion it was to incite peaceful unionists on
strike to forget their cause and their man-
hood and give way to deeds which would
have brought them within the pale of the
law. —•
It is to be hoped, however, that work-
ing-class electors will not be gulled by any
tricks of the kind alluded to. Let us all
stand unitedly by our own working-class
candidate. Let us select, wherever we are
able, men of ability and courage; men
whose work for, and devotion to, our great
principles is undoubted, and return these
to Parliament and the great struggle car-
ried on so bravely during the past two
months will be finally and successfully con-
cluded on the floor of the Legislative
Assembly.
BU RAN DA AND OXLEY W.P.Os.
A conjoint meeting of the Buranda and
Oxley W.P.Os. was held in the Carl-street
Hall last night, when the hall was filled to
overflowing. Mr. Jorgensen presided, and
in opening the meeting explained that
owung to the two electorates bordering on
each other, it was thought that all living
in the district could assist in the return
of the two endorsed Labour candidates,
Mr. J. Huxham for Buranda, and Mr. C.
W. Martin »for Oxley.
Mr. John Huxham made a very telling
speech, pointing out the many evils that
would result if the present Government
got back to power. Mr. C. W. Martin
also addressed the meeting, and explained
the boundaries of the two electorates, and
urged systematic canvassing. Mrs. Hux-
ham, in a practical address, told of her
oganising work in N.S.W., which resulted
in the return of a Labour member. She
also exposed some of the tricks Govern-
ment canvassers resorted to.
The formation of sub-committees to
thoroughly canvass the electorate was then
proceeded with, and all present decided to
immediately get to work, with the result
that over 60 workers were enrolled. Be-
fore the meeting closed the following reso-
lution was carried with applause:—“That
this meeting being representative of the
electors of the district of Thompson Es-
tate, are of the opinion that the time has
arrived for a change of Government to be
brought about, and pledge ourselves to
work for the return of the endorsed Labour
candidates, Messrs. Huxham and Martin.”
The president announced that another
meeting would be held in the Alliance Hall
on Saturday, w'hen all would be welcome,
and anyone who desired any information
could obtain same from Mrs. E. Lane or
Mr. J. T. Barnes, the respective secretaries.
HOW EMIGRANTS ARE TREATED.
A young Scotchman, who arrived in
Brisbane a few days back, applied in answer
to an advertisement for a position in a
well-known Queen-street restaurant. He
started straightaway at 10 in the morning,
and worked till 2. He then had something
to eat, and worked again till 6, when he
left off, but waited till 8 o’clock to see the
owner of the concern, but had to leave
without doing so. He was at the hash-
house at 8 o’clock next morning, when he
had to wait again till 10 to interview his
employer. He was then told he did not
suit, and was offered 1/ for his eight hours’
labour. He declined to take this magnifi-
cent remuneration, when the purse-strings
relaxed, and he was given 2/. This young
man, who is now wondering how he can get
home again, says it is disgraceful that
people should be told such terrible lies in
the old country about the state of affairs
here, and he will advise all in his district
to express their opinion w r hen next an im-
migration agent goes there.
ALLEGED SEDITIOUS STATEMENT.
John Munro, who was found guilty
yesterday on the second count of an indict-
ment with using seditious words, was
brought up for sentence this morning.
Messrs. Arthur Joseph Deacon and John
Huxham said defendant was, as long as they
had known him, a man of good character.
Other testimonials as to his reliability were
also tendered.
Judge Rutledge passed a sentence of six
months’ imprisonment, but on the applica-
tion of Mr. Ryan, execution of the sentence
was'suspended till the decision of the Full
Court on a point taken by defendant’s
counsel was obtained, and defendant was
released at 12.30 to-day on bail, himself in
£150 and two sureties of £100 each.
DATES OF INTERESTING EVENTS.
The following dates in connection with
the elections should be kept in mind by the
different organisations. This applies more
especially to nomination day. Let no
branch be caught napping:—
Nomination Day.—Thursday, March 28.
Polling Day.—Saturday, April 27.
Return of Writ.—Thursday, May 30.
Campaign Items.
SETTLING DOWN TO THE STRUGGLE.
Plebiscites will be taken in the Aubigny,
Toombul, and Paddington electorates to-
morrow for the selection of a Labour can-
didate. Arrangements are well in hand for
providing candidates for the Bulimba, Coo-
roora, Kurilpa, Nundah, Logan, and Mi-
rani electorates in the interests of the
workers. It is also probable that endorsed
Labour candidates will contest the Lock-
yer and Stanley seats. Encouraging re-
ports have been received from nearly all
centres, and it only requires a true account
of the recent actions of the Government to
reach the electors to render hopeless the
return of any of its supporters.
PADDINGTON LABOUR PLEBISCITE.
The plebiscite to select a candidate to
run in the Labour interest for the Padding-
ton seat takes place to-morrow (Saturday)
at Mr. T. J. Carroll’s boot shop, Petrie-
terrace, opposite Police Barracks. The poll
will be taken between the hours of 8 a.m.
and B_p.m. Those eligible to vote are the
financial members (of six months’ standing
prior to date of nomination) of the following
bodies who are on the Paddington electoral
roll: Paddington W.P.0., Waterside
Union, Butchers’ Union, Carters’ Union,
Boot Trade Union, Typographical Associa-
tion, Plumbers’ Union ? Progressive Carpen-
ters and Joiners’ Union. The candidates
are Joe Collings and J. Fihelly.
TOO WONG W.P.O.
A meeting of the combined organisa-
tions in the Toowong electorate will take
place on Monday evening next, 25th inst.,
in the Oddfellows’ Hall, Toowong, when
arrangements for the campaign in support
of the endorsed Labour candidate, Mr.
Lewis McDonald, will be made. All mem-
bers of both Taringa and Toowong branches
and intending members are requested to be
present so that a strong working committee
can be formed and the necessary work of
canvassing, meetings, etc., entered upon at
the earliest possible date.
TOOMBUL ELECTORATE—PLEBISCITE
* NOTICE.
It has now been finally decided by the
Toombul W.P.O. that a plebiscite to select
the Labour candidate for Toombul will be
taken to-morrow (Saturday), between the
hours of 12 noon and 6 p.m. There are two
candidates, viz., D. C. Dowling and J. J.
Macartney. The polling places are at
Pinkenba (M. H. Little’s residence), and
Hamilton (Bank’s Shop).
All persons entitled to vote must pre-
sent credentials from their organisation or
union, or their membership tickets or
cards.
STOREMEN AND PACKERS’ UNION.
At a meeting of the above union held
last night, Mr. C. A. Boulton, A.L.F. Or-
ganiser, addressed the meeting on the ad-
visability of affiiliating with the Austral-
asian Labour Federation. Mr. Boulton
made a convincing speech, showing plainly
the necessity for a federation of unions.
The secretary, W. Bertram, in moving a
vote of thanks to Mr. Boulton, empasised
the need for a linking up of the unions.
He believed that great good would accrue
from such an affiliation as Mr. Boulton ad-
vocated, but thought that in the interest
of the members it would be perhaps better
to become a section of the A.W.A., a body
that is already affiliated with the A.L.F.
It was decided to defer consideration of
the matter till following meeting.
Reports concerning the conditions un-
der which men are being engaged by mem-
bers of the Wool Selling Brokers’ Associa-
tion and merchants were tendered. It
was decided to bring the matter under the
notice of the Strike Committee, and to
request the Waterside Workers’ Union to
assist in remedying some grievances.
STRAIGHT TALK AT BOWEN.
Myles Ferricks addressed a large gather-
ing of Bowen electors on the subject of the
recent strike. He said he was quite pre-
pared to share with his party the responsi-
bility of calling out the workmen in the
electorate, and he expected his opponent
in the coming election to take his share of
the Government’s responsibility in keeping
them out for five weeks. Myles should go
in flying.
PEOPLE’S SUNDAY SERVICES.
Comrade Joe Collings desires us to
state that arrangements are now being
made to continue the services recently
initiated by the Rev. J. S. Pollock. A
good deal of preliminary work is necessary,
and most of those interested are very busy
just now with strike and other urgent mat-
ters. Mr. Pollock himself is not yet free,
but early next week a definite announce-
ment will be made in this paper as to time
and place of next gathering. In the mean-
time, any person willing to help who has
not already given in his or her name and
address should send same along to Rev.
J. S. Pollock, “ Glenalbyn,” Corinda.
Mr. Robert Turnbull has been definitely
chosen as the Labour candidate for the
Dalby electorate. The party is already
making active preparations for the con-
test. Mr. Turnbull resigned a good Gov-
ernment billet in order to contest this seat.
We hope his self-sacrifice will be suitably
rewarded.
The Railway Inquisition.
When we first drew attention to the
manner in which the Railway Board that
was appointed with the alleged object of
inquiring into the eligibility of certain ex-
employees for re-instatement was being
conducted we characterised it as a farce.
In the light of fuller developments we have
no hesitation is saying that it is nothing
more nor less than a cunningly-devised con-
spiracy to influence the ensuing election.
That the time of seven or eight highly-paid
officials should be taken up with such an
object is manifestly a scandal; the effect
that such conduct will have in the future
working of the service cannot at present be
estimated. The men who are now com-
pelled to answer questions on entirely
extraneous subjects v are being placed in a
very unenviable position with their fellow-
employees. The members of the t*>ard
might just as well take their places on the
platforms of the various Government nomi-
nees as to do their political work under
cover of departmental duty. Preference to
unionists is now the recognised rule in the
Commonwealth service, but it would re-
quire no ghost to tell us that, under the
regime of the present administrators, pre-
ference to non-unionists will be the estab-
lished law in the Queensland railway ser-
vice. We sincerely trust that before a
great many months have passed, some of
these pampered officials who are now sub-
jecting their former fellow-employees to
such public humiliation will themselves be
placed in the pillory to account for the
political bias they are now displaying.
We give some of the questions asked by
the precious board, which will serve to
show how the welfare of the service is
subordinated to the political exigencies of
the moment:
There is a statement in the Press that
there is not a dissatisfied striker in
Brisbane to-day. Is that correct?
It was stated in the Press that every
one of the strikers had better billets than
before. Is that correct?.
It was also stated in the Press that
every striker was well satisfied?
Now, is it fair or honest to ask a man
looking for work if certain statements pub-
lished in the papers, for which he is in no
way responsible, are correct?
Here is a sample of what men were ex-
pected to do who did not want to be dis-
missed :
Alfred Blake (25, married), said that
he was a learning guard, and had been
nearly four years in the service. He
had been quite willing to do his own
work, but could not see his way to do the
work of a porter. He came to work on
January 31, but his train was cancelled.
He waited for half-an-hour, and then
went home. He was asked to do porters’
work that afternoon when he came for
his money, but he declined to do so be-
cause the porters were out. He was not
intimidated in any way.
As we said yesterday, a searching in-
quiry will have to be made later on into
this disgraceful business.
“SPECIAL” BOUCHARD, EX-M.L.A.
The decision of the electors of South
Brisbane as to how they should vote has
been made easy for them by one of the
candidates. The report of a meeting held
there last night says :
% “ Mr. Bouchard said that it was a good
thing for the people of the metropolitan
area that the law-abiding citizens came
forward at a time when the poorest of
the community were threatened with
starvation. The special constables had
taken good care to see that every person
in the community had the opportunity
of obtaining that which was necessary
for his (or her) sustenance. His oppon-
ents had said that the people of South
Brisbane would not forget that he had
been one of the special constables. If
that was the only thing that they could
urge against him, then he gloried in the
fact that he was one of them.”
Any candidate who is capable of giving
utterance to the above cannot possibly ex-
pect any sane elector to vote for him. Rag-
tag specials obtaining sustenance for those
in need of it is pretty lofty. We know, that
if obtaining alcohol could be regarded
as sustenance when hotels were supposed
to be closed. “ Special ” Bouchard is en-
titled to his boast. But we also know of
cases where men, women, and children
were bludgeoned while waiting for bread
outside a baker’s shop.
THE RAILWAY INQUIRY BOARD.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —I would like, through your col-
umns, to deny a statement made by a
member of the Railway Inquiry Board in
reference to Joe Sherry and myself. The
statement which was told to me by one of the
men who had been examined, was that Mr.
Sherry and myself had handed in our uni-
forms a fortnight ago. The statement is
a deliberate untruth, as Joe Sherry only
handed his uniform to the station master
at Central on Tuesday, and I handed mine
in yesterday evening. The statement
having got abroad amongst the railway
men who went out on strike, I trust you
will publish this denial.
Yours, etc.,
M. J. KIRWAN.
[We have seen the receipt for the uni-
form returned by Mr. Kit wan, which is
dated the 21st inst., consequently can en-
dorse his statement that the remark made
by a member of the Railway Inquiry Board
is false.—Ed. 0.8.]
Eight Hour Day.
The following has been handed to us,
and will be read with interest by unionists •
Readers, on Monday, May 6 next, Bris-
bane s Eight Hour Anniversary Sports and
Labour Demonstration will be held, and we
wish to draw your attention to same. We
are holding a purely Labour unions’ day’s
sports. Every race will be open to mem-
bers of trades unions only. We find the
time has arrived for this. Our numbers
have so greatly increased as to compel the
committee to take this action this year,
therefore, we want all union officials to
make note of same and see that their mem-
bers enter for the races. Good prizes will
be given.
We wish, further, to draw your atten-
tion to the art union, and request members
to take tickets and sell them. All the pro-
hts g° to the building fund of the Trades
hi all, and the Board of Management re-
quires money this year to extend the build-
ing. So come along to the secretary, get
tickets, and push the sale. We need your
help this year more than ever. We also
lvant you all to get ready#for the proces-
sion and join m with your union. Make
tins the largest dispay on record. Show
those that are opposed to our great move-
ment that unions are solid.
The first prize in the art union will he
of the value of £2OO. The total value of the
50 prizes given is £451.
So remember the 6th May, and help to
make it a success.
R. J. MULVEY
secretary.
SCIENTIFIC UNIONISM.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
ki r > —I think the time is ripe to com-
mence to teach the people the scientific
side of the Labour Movement. I believe
we can find young men and women who
are willing to become students of Social-
ism. Classes should be formed as soon as
possible. It is necessary for the future of
our movement to have missionaries who
have a thorough understanding of the
movement. Trusting my letter will result
m a move in the direction \ indicated.
Yours, etc.,
A. ELLIOTT.
DID THEY EARN IT?
It is stated to-day that members of the
regular police force doing duty in connec-
tion with the recent strike have been paid
double the usual rates. A large proportion
of this reward for bludgeoning will come
out of the pockets of those who were blud-
geoned, besides those who are still being
victimised by the Railway Department ana
the I ram way syndicate. However, when the
people return their own Parliament to
power, and the w 7 ealth produced by the
workers is more evenly distributed, amends
will to some extent be made for the pre-
sent glaring inequality. The whole matter
is m the hands of the workers themselves,
wffio are having it hammered home to them
every day that there is no possible escape
from industrial and social slavery unless
they bring about an entire alteration per
medium of the ballot box.
BURANDA W.P.O.
A MEETING will be held in the Alli-
ance Hall on Saturday night to definitely
settle (Jistricts for canvassers and collect-
ing cards for Lighting Fund. All sympa-
thisers and workers (women especially) are
requested to roll up at 8 o’clock sharp.
Don’t forget, Mr. Martin’s Shop is the
depot for “ Official Bulletins” as well as
Committee Rooms for both Oxley and
Buranda.
SOUTH BRISBANE LABOUR CAM-
PAIGN COMMITTEE.
Under the auspices of the lady mem-
bers of the above Committee, a GRAND
SOCIAL AND DANCE will be held in the
Merton Road Hall, off Stanley Street,
S 8., on MONDAY EVENING, Ist April,
1912. Good Music. Tickets 1/- each.
Refreshments provided. Proceeds in aid of
Campaign Fighting Fund.
H. R. HUXHAM,
Hon. Sec. S.B. Lab. Campaign Com.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A meeting of members of the above
organisation and sympathisers living in the
Rosalie district who will form a committee
to secure the return of Mr. J. T. Gilday,
the endorsed Labour candidate, will be
held on Tuesday night next, 26th inst., at
8 o’clock, at Mr. Bryett’s residence, corner
Nash-street and Baroona-road.
Also a meeting of those in the Padding-
ton district (for the same purpose as men-
tioned above) will be held on next Satur-
day night, 23rd inst., in the committee
rooms, Given-terrace.
The POSTPONED PICTURE SHOW
at the RED HILL PICTURE PAVILION
in aid of election funds will take place on
MONDAY NIGHT 25th inst. Special
films of a very interesting character will
be shown. Workers, roll up.
MAREE W.P.O.
Unionists and Labour supporters are
urged to attend a MEETING to be held in
INNES’ HALL, WELLINGTON ROAD,
on SATURDAY NEXT at 8 p.m.
Women specially invited.
SID. BARROW, Hon. Sec.
