

Official Bulletin, No. 28.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 28.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 1912
Negotiations.
Careful consideration has been given
to-day to the letter received yesterday
from the Employers’ Federation. A
reply from the Strike Committee has been
forwarded to the employers, and further
developments may be expected on Mon-
day.
Strike Funds.
What About Election Expenses.
The “Telegraph” this afternoon con-
tains the following under the above head
lines: —
“At a meeting on the Pineapple sports
ground, Kangarpo Point, last night, Mr.
Harry Coyne, M.L.A., indicated that when
a settlement of the trouble was effected,
the Strike Committee would not be dis-
banded, but would labour in other direc-
tions. Secretive as the committee may
be some information filters through. This
morning, it came to the ears of a “Tele-
graph” reporter that things are not al-
together happy in the ranks of the Par-
liamentary Labour Party. A breach is
stated to have arisen between the Social-
ist and non-Socialist sections over the
strike, and from union circles it is gather-
ed that a movement is on foot for the
socialists’ election expenses to be fur-
nished from the strike committee’s funds.
This probably accounts for the announce-
ment that the Strike Committee do not
intend to disband, and also for their re-
fusal to publish a balance-sheet.”
The Strike Committee begs to state
that the above is a tissue of falsehoods.
Will the “Telegraph” say who stated that
“a breach had arisen between the Socialist
and non-Socialist sections over the strike,”
and from what Union or Unionist or
Union circle it gathered “that a move-
ment is on foot for the Socialists’ election
expenses to be furnished from the Strike
funds.”
If it will not then it is branded both
as liar and coward.
It is needless to remark that strike
funds cannot, and will not, be used for
any but strike purposes.
MORE BADGER TYRANNY.
Brisbane Cricket Ground Despots.
Last Night’s Mass Meeting.
All arrangements having been properly
completed for the mass meeting of strikers
and sympathisers, an immense crowd num-
bering several thousands of persons as-
sembled last night at the entrance to the
Woolloongabba Cricket Ground. Those
who had the arrangements in hand arrived
at about a quarter to eight o’clock only to
find that the grounds had not been lighted
and were not opened. After hurried en-
quiries and a look round for some one in
authority Messrs. W. Finlayson and J. S.
Collings found Alderman Geo. Down and
Mr. Jas. Thorpe. The former was the
person who had let the grounds, and the
latter had arranged for the lighting.
Mr. Sharpe explained that he had paid
for the light and was quite powerless in
the matter and regretted very much the
unpleasant situation which had arisen.
Alderman Down refused to let the crowd in
in view of the fact that the grounds were
in darkness. Messrs. Collings and Finlay-
son offered to give any necessary guarantee
for the good behaviour of the people, but
Alderman Down refused this and shielded
himself behind Badger’s breach of con-
tract.
Naturally, a good deal of indignation
was expressed by the big crowd of people
who evidently felt that this petty act of
tyranny was only one more of the many
dastardly acts now standing to the debit
of our opponents in this struggle. If the
intention was to provoke disorder, the
authorities failed once again most miser-
ably as they have done all through the
strike.
Finding that Alderman Down could not
be prevailed upon to open the grounds
even though an appeal to his honour was
made by pointing out his breach of faith
with the promoters of the meeting, the
thousands present adjourned to the Pine-
apple Reserve a few hundred yards away,
and a most successful meeting was there
held. A report' of same appears in another
column.
AMALGAMATED ENGINEERS.
The following notice was posted in the
Trades Hall to-day :—
Amalgamated Society of Engineers.
Notice to members of Brisbane branch.
You are hereby requested to resume work
at the usual starting time on Monday, 4th
March, 1912. You return to work to
occupy the positions held by you on 30th
January, 1912, without any alteration in
your rates of pay or conditions of employ-
ment, and without making any application
for re-engagement. This notice does not
apply to those members who were with-
drawn from the Tramway Power House on
19th January, 1912. By authority of the
District Committee. ROBERT J. CAR-
ROLL, Acting Secretary.
[The Engineers are to be congratulated
on the manner in which their well-organ-
ised association has carried them through
They are returning to work with colours
aloft and to remain there. It only requires
the same conditions to be offered to other
unions to bring the present industrial
strife to a finish.—Ed. S.B.
To-night’s Meetings.
On account of the continued rain, all
open-air meetings will be abandoned to-
night. There will be, however, THE
USUAL MEETING IN THE CENTEN-
NIAL HALL.
Mass Meeting Last Night.
AT PINEAPPLE RESERVE.
In spite of the Brisbane Cricket
Ground authorities refusing to allow the
mass meeting to take place in the grounds,
although all arrangements had been com-
pleted for its hire, a huge gathering took
place on the Pineapple Reserve, Kangaroo
Point. The evening was both dark and
wet, and yet the audience, numbering
many thousands of people, remained till
close upon 11 o’clock, and even then seemed
loth to depart.
Mr. Alec. Skirving presided, and the
speakers were Mr. J. H. Coyne (Presi-
dent Strike Committee), Mrs. J. Huxham,
Mr. W. Finlayson, M.P., and Comrades
Boulton and Collings. All the speakers
were in good form, and the enthusiasm
of their hearers was continually manifested
throughout the evening. Hearty cheers
were given for Harry Coyne, and for the
Strike.
Mr. Coyne stated that as that was
his first appearance upon the public plat-
form since the strike began, he would de-
tail the history of the struggle. This he
did, from the very commencement of the
strike, and the election of the committee,
up to the latest developments of that day.
Mr. Coyne was most attentively listened to
and cheers and applause punctuated his
remarks.
THE COMING ELECTIONS.
Preparations for the coming elections
are, it is stated, well ahead. The courts
for revising the supplementary lists of
voters will be held early in April, and al-
though there will be a considerable number
of names added to the rolls, no difficulty
is expected in having everything ready.
ARE THE TRAMS OBSOLETE?
“A Working Engineer” writes:—ln my
opinion, in another ten or eleven years’
time science will have advanced so far
as to make it far cheaper to run motor
’buses than the electric cars we now have.
It will mean a saving of laying down lines,
and posts and overhead wires, which are a
danger to the people in many ways; also
the traffic can be diverted (we will say)
into Ann, Queen, and Elizabeth streets,
and will save overcrowding. Then, again,
in war time, the motors would be very
useful to carry supplies anywhere. Taking
all things into consideration, I think
Badger ought to take his rubbish away to
America when he goes himself. I think
it would suit the people of Brisbane to have
a start made now. They could ride further
out than Badger will take them, also half
as cheap as they now can. Then, I dare
say, Badger would be glad to sell out and
would not get any more for his plant than
scrap-iron value.
I am sure the people of Brisbane would
feel proud of beating so great a tyrant as
he has proved to be. He should get a
certain time to clear away his rubbish and
repair the streets after him, under a heavy
fine for each day over it.
There could be a lot more said, but it
is hardly worth while to waste more space
over him.
P.S.—Does Badger pay anything to
the Government for running his cars
across the bridge to South Brisbane? If
not, why not? If he was given the use of
the old bridge (it was washed away), was
the right renewed*with the new bridge?
VALUED KINDNESS.
The thanks of everyone connected with
this great strike are due to Mr. Jack De-
laney of the Pineapple Hotel, Kangaroo
Point, for the use of his large paddock
known as the Pineapple Reserve. This has
been available all through the strike for
public meetings and sports without any
charge whatever, and has been used by
many thousands of our people. At no time
was it more valuable than' last night when
a great concourse of people found them-
selves locked out of the Cricket Ground at
Woolloongabba. Mr. Alex. Skirving at
suggested that use should be made of
the Pineapple Reserve, and Comrade Joe
Collings then announced that the meeting
would be held there, and the people were
not slow in mustering at the new spot. All
concerned tender hearty sincere thanks to
Mr. Jack Delaney.
THE RAGGED BRIGADE.
The last of the foot specials were turned
adrift yesterday by Commissioner Cahill,
and the hitherto neat little reserve at the
Executive Buildings will know them no
more. Just fancy this well-cared-for rest-
ing place being taken from the citizens and
handed over to a lot of mean-spirited, card-
Jdaying, and altogether objectionable hood-
urns. Cahill is not over particular in his
choice of tools to carry out his baton work.
Those who are on horseback, however, will
continue to obscure the streets of Bris-
bane for some time longer with their pre-
sence.
How would a sermon on strike-breakers
and scabby scabs, at the Cahill contingent-
ers’s camp to-morrow, by Butterbox Den-
ham, “Bishop” Barnes, or the “painted
Adonis,” draw?
The Latest from the Ranks.
Boilermakers and Iron Shipbuilders.
Secretary John Wighton reports this
morning as follows :
At a special meeting held this morning
it was unanimously carried by our members
“That a vote of confidence be passed io
the Strike Executive endorsing their
actions all through the strike, and we
woula especially mention the arduous
labours of the President J. H. Coyne, and
Secretary J. A. Moir, and hope their
labours will be crowned with the success
they deserve.”
Waterside Workers.
Acting Secretary Wrench reports that
a mass meeting was held in the Maritime
Hall yesterday morning. The hall was
packed with men in good spirits. Several
questions were asked and satisfactorily ans-
wered. It was announced that Mr.
M‘Cabe had gone down to Sydney to lay
the position fully before the Waterside
workers there. Comrade Brock also went
by the same train.
Proposed: “That Mr. P. M‘Lachlan,
M.L.A., be asked to come down to-morrow
morning (Saturday) and address the mem-
bers.” It was also moved: “That we have
every confidence in the Strike Committee
up to date,” and this was carried with
three ringing cheers and the meeting
then closed.
THIS MORNING’S MEETING.
Unfortunately, Acting Secretary Harry
Wrench was absent through illness. The
meeting was held, however, and a resolu-
tion declaring unabated confidence in the
Strike Committee was carried unanimously.
Other routine business was concluded be-
fore the proceedings closed.
Railway Employees.
No morning meeting of this union will
be held on Monday, but an important will
be held in the afternoon at 3.30 o’clock.
Business urgent. Full attendance of men
on strike requested.
T. MORONEY,
Secretary.
SHIP PAINTERS AND DOCKERS.
Important Notice.
The Executive of the Ship Paint-
ers and Dockers’ Union are requested
to meet at the A.U.S.N. Company’s work-
shops at 8 o’clock on MONDAY MORN-
ING.
(Signed) THOMAS KELLY.
Vice President.
A GOOD EXAMPLE.
“J Must Have a Union Carter.”
The following memo has just
shown us and we heartily endorse the
action taken, and feel sure if Brisbane
citizens would adopt this attitude, strikes
would be a thing of the past:—“Railway
Hotel, South Brisbane. A load of goods
was brought to my house by a non-union
carter which I refused to take unless
brought by a union carter. B. Miller,
Manager for Mrs. D. Evans, Railway
Hotel.
AFFAIRS AT MARYBOROUGH.
At 6 o’clock on Thursday night all the
members of the Carters’ Union came out
on Strike at Maryborough. During the
day the employers received an ultimatum
to the effect that unless the men who had
been paid off were reinstated by 6 o’clock
the whole of the Carters’ Union would
cease work. Very great difficulty is. ex-
pected in connection with the bakers. If
they employ non-union carters the journey-
men bakers in their employ will not bake
the bread. Master bakers announced yes-
terday that customers must call for their
bread. It is stated that the Waterside
Workers’ Union has decided to handle no
cargo, union or otherwise, their reason
being that it would afterwards be handled
by non-union carters.
CHATAWAY AS MAYOR.
Senator Thomas Drink water Chat-
away got into the limelight in
the “Courier’ ’ yesterday morning.
He wrote a letter to “Granny'’
and got a cheap advertisement. He will
be appealing to the electors of Queensland
for votes again at the next Federal elec-
tions and no harm will be done just here
by mentioning that Chataway, when mayor
of Mackay, ordered the arrest of a number
of sugar workers for camping in a public
park. The usual camping-ground was
leased by the council to a Chinaman, and
the heavens were weeping profusely when
the stranded sugar slaves sought shelter
in the place where cows and horses are
shown.
The daily liars are terribly anxious to
know all about the finances of the Strike
Committee. They’re dying to get their
noses into the business of the combined
unions. Seeing that the alleged union
which the pimping pressmen pay
into is scabbing in every office in the city,
]tis like their cheek to attempt to obtain
information about what does not concern
them in any way. The combined unions
have every confidence in the Strike Com-
mittee and the contemptible trickery of
the daily liars is not likely to breed dis-
trust among unionists.
The Light That Failed.
Czar Badger Pleads Ignorance.
The Facts Against Him.
The “Courier” dealing this morning
with the latest despotic act of the man-
ager of the Brisbane Tramways Company
says: “Mr. Badger subsequently explained
to a “Courier” representative that he had
had no request for light for the ground up
till 5.30. The usual procedure was for the
Tramways Company to be notified when
the ground was required to be illuminated,
and the current was provided. Had the
order come through the light would cer-
tainly have been there. The ground was
a public one, and it did not matter to him
for what purpose the light was required.”
The Strike Committee desires to say
that it holds the company’s receipt for the
light and their printed official form, duly
stamped and signed by James Cryle for the
company. The receipt is for £2 Os 6d, is
dated February 27 ult., and specifically
states that it is for lighting Woolloongabba
Grounds for March 1, 1912.
Readers will please note that an exaqt
facsimile of the receipt in queston will
appear in the next issue of the “Bulletin.”
It is worthy of note that in spite of Mr.
Badger’s peculiar denial, and his state-
ment as published that “He had no request
for light up to 5.30,” Alderman Down
made no secret of the fact that he knew
the light was not to be forthcoming, and
that he had ’phoned to the Trades Hall to
that effect. Strange to say no such
message ever reached any member of the
Strike Committee or any other person in
authority anywhere at the Hall.
Brisbane citizens may judge on the
facts. Evidently, even the usual code
of morals prevalent in Brisbane commercial
circles is suspended on occasion by the
mighty Badger and his greedy monopoly.
AN AUSTRALIAN ANTHEM.
(Air: “God Save the King.”)
God speed you one and all
That answered Union’s call
For Liberty.
May you who checked the tide
Of Yankee capitalistic pride
Long live, and, side by side,
Fight for Freedom.
God speed your noble wives,
In whom we take a pride;
Long may they live.
Wives who knew we were right,
Helped us to win the fight.
May God in all His might
Defend their homes.
May all their children dear
Long live and have no fear
Of batons or of .swords.
May they all bye-and-bye
Denham’s special scabs defy,
And trust in Him on high
To defend their rights.
Three cheers for leaders true,
Who so nobly fought for you;
Forget them not
Hip-hip, hip-hip, hooray,
United be alway
Success will surely crown the day,
Hip, hip, hooray.
ANTI-SCAB.
By the way, does not that Paget-pro-
posed-superannuation scheme in the rail-
way service prove that Denham & Co. be-
lieve railway men to be spineless creatures,
whose votes can be purchased by the hope
of personal gain ? A shallower plot never
has been perpetrated. What guarantee,
anyhow, have railway men that Denham &
Co. will be returned to power again?
Asked by the writer what C.C. on the
gold medals presented to the railway
“loyalists” meant, a prominent railway
striker adroitly replied, “Contemptible
crawlers.”
Among other things, Denham, Cahill,
& Co., have robbed citizens of their right
to enter recreation reserves in the city.
The Boodler§’ buccaneer barnacles have
broken camp in the Executive recreation
reserve, and citizens will not risk being
batoned if they seek fresh air in that public
lung.
The peaceful conduct of Unionists and
citizens of Brisbane is convincingly proved
by the fact that there was only one arrest
in the metropolis during the first ten days
Cahill’s specials were menacing the people
with batons and rifles and bayonets.
Notwithstanding all the lies of the
Capitalistic Press about “tyranny of
Labour, Mob Rule,” &c., &c., the “ruin”
during the general strike wouldn’t cost
£50 to repair. The damage done to pro-
perty can safely be summed up as a few
broken windows, and this was done by
pimps of the plundering class. Proof of
this statement can be produced.
Fat’s Sycophants.
These, too, the tyrant serve, who, skilled
to snare
The feet of Justice in the toils of law,
Stand ready to oppress the weaker still;
And right or wrong will vindicate for gold,
Sneering at Public Virtue, which beneath
Their pitiless tread lies torn and trampled,
where
Honour sits smiling at the sale of truth.
Shelley.
The Carters.
THE “TELEGRAPH” AT SEA AGAIN.
The “Telegraph” this afternoon says,
“Inquiries amongst members of the
Carters’ Union, this morning disclosed that
the men who had resumed have been
called out again. A meeting of the union
will be held to-morrow morning, when it
is understood the reply of the men at work
will be considered. A member of the union
admitted that there was little likelihood
of the call being obeyed.”
Secretary M‘Corinack asks us to state
that the above is a lie. Further comment
is needless. Ed. “S.B.”
THE VALUE OF REFERENCES.
One. of those whom Mr. Badger deemed
competent to take the place of the men
whom he removed for doing what Mr.
Justice Hggins has decreed they had a
perfect right to do was, we have been in-
formed on undoubted authority, a lad 18
years of age, who two weeks before the
strike, got thrown from a horse—through
no fault on the horse’s part—and sus-
tained concussion of the brain. A clergy-
man saw the youth a day or so after the
accident for the first time in his life (so
the boy’s mother stated), and when the
latter recovered he was given a reference
by the clergyman as a suitable person for
employment on the trams.
BADGER’S ELECT.
To the Editor “Strike Bulletin.” •
Sir, —I cannot refrain from addressing
a few words to you anent the trying time
we are passing through just now as
unionists. I should like to ask why the
yellow press reporters made no mention of
the meeting at Hamilton last Saturday
night. Was it because their puny at-
tempts at interrupting and interjecting
met with such a determined repulse, or
was it because their ignorant tool got his
conge so early in the meeting. This man
(?) so far forgot himself as to keep on
laughing and coughing with the set pur-
pose of interrupting. Knowing this, and
wishing to get all I and others could out
of the meeting, I handed the man a few
cough lozenges bought specially for him.
I asked him to use them, and perhaps he
would give the speakers a chance. Others
present will bear me out in what I say. The
offender crept out of the ground like a
whipped cur and did not interrupt again.
A word anent scabs. One of these
was mad drunk just two weeks before the
strike galloping round the streets of Noble
Estate endangering the lives of little
children on their way home from school.
He was ultimately thrown against a fence
and fell an inert mass on the roadway. The
Ambulance was called, and the bearers
said he had concussion of the brain. A
fortnight later we find him on the cars
as conductor. What woman who valued
her life or the lives of those dependent on
her could trust them on a tram car with
such a person? Then, again,
this youth brags he is a special constable.
Within the last week, and as late as Tues-
day, 27th February, after four youths had
been in my place of business for soft
drinks and then went outside to talk with
my son, who, I may say is in the Storemen
and Packers’ Union, this special
came up and said he was looking for the
b who had called him a scab, saying
if he had to wait till 3 o’clock in the morn-
ing he would get the b cow, adding he
had intended punching him, but that now
he would pinch him as he had got his
badge. Are these the kind of men Mr.
Badger hopes to regain his lost patronage
with? —Yours, &c.,
MINNIE MOLE,
“DEGENERATION.”
To the Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir,—-A par appeared in yesterday’s
“Bulletin” in which it is stated that the
State car forced its way through the
funeral procession. Now, sir, I remember
reading some time ago about an incident
which occurred when the late Queen Vic-
toria was in the South of France. She
was out for a drive, and coming to a cross
roads met a peasant’s funeral. The
peasants, recognising Her Majesty, made
way for the carriage to pass through. But,
lo! she insisted on her coachman driving
the carriage to one side while the mourners
passed, and—then followed in their wake.
How different to the conduct of those
on this occasion.
A great deal has been said in the daily
papers about “degeneration.” A large
amount of it must exist in the “Hupper
Ten.” When a tree degenerates it is im-
proved by pruning some of its useless
branches. The Sate of Queensland
politics may be likened unto a diseased
tree, and it is to be hoped that the Labour
Party may soon be given the opportunity
of doing away with some of the useless
branches of the political tree.—I am, sir,
etc.,
RESPECT FOR THE DEAD.
March 1,
Citizens are notified that any person
paying £2O per year in rent is entitled to,
and is enrolled on the Water and Sewerage
Board roll for the election of board mem-
bers. Just now, ratepayers will have an
opportunity of voting for Labour-endorsed
candidates for the board. The names will
be announced within a couple of days.
