

Official Bulletin, No. 54.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 54.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 1912.
Great General Strike.
Its Genesis and History.
Something to Ponder Over.
The follow ing is the concluding portion
of Mr. T. J. Ryan’s telling speech as to
the causes that led to the great general
strike, delivered at Rockhampton on Feb-
ruary 26 last, the first instalment of
w hich w e gave yesterday :
Meanwhile (continued Mr. Ryan), the
Queensland Government looks complacently
on, and says : 44 Our only duty is
to maintain law and order.” And
w 7 hat do they do ? Wliat law and order
do they maintain? I was in Brisbane
throughout this trouble, and I can honestly
assure you it was marvellous to see the law
and order maintained throughout by the
strikers. There was, it is true, a few hood-
lums—as everyone know s there always are
hoodlums about the large centres of popu-
lation—who may have been a little noisy,
but they did not do much damage. The
Government called out a lot of special
constables, and on that memorable morn-
ing—Black Friday, it is called, and I think
well called, by the people of Brisbane—
these hundreds and hundreds of police, un-
accustomed to the duties they w r ere to per-
form, w'ere ordered to charge the people
with their batons. It is a thing, ladies and
gentlemen, I shall never forget. Ido not
care if the Labour Party goes back with
five, six, or ten members, no man who saw
that outrage will ever be anything but a
Labour man. (Loud applause.) I saw un-
fortunate men and women knocked about
with these batons for having done nothing
woise than come out to w'alk about the
streets. The newspapers came out next
day (Jeclaring that women should not have
ventured out) into the streets on such a
day. Possibly it is desirable that our
women should not be in the streets on oc-
casions of such strife if they can help it.
But is that any justification why they
should be set upon and beaten with drawn
batons ? I say no, and say it most emphati-
cally. (Applause.) We have been accused
by men in high places of committing of-
fences against God and man in this strike,
but if ever there was such an offence it is
those who were responsible for this charge
upon an inoffensive people w'ho should be
charged with it. I know 7 there have been
some deaths, that some have lost their lives
during these troubles. But they have not
lost them at the hands of the strikers.
(Applause.) There are some things you
have not seen in the newspapers yet. I
myself a few days ago had a conversation
with a Brisbane merchant—l can give his
name if anyone has the temerity to sug-
gest that I am not stating what is a fact.
He told me that just before the strike his
brother had come up from Sydney Univer-
sity for the long vacation. During the
strike he happened to be sauntering down
Queen-street when he saw an old man fall
dow'n in one of the rushes that they w 7 ere
forced at times to make to get out of the
w r ay of the police. He w r ent oyer to pick
him up, and was rushed by policemen and
beaten, and w'hen he tried to get aw'ay he
was knocked down and beaten a second
time. That man is going to vote Labour
next time. (Applause.) And I know a
w'oman, of South Brisbane, too. Mr. Den-
ham also knows her, and I challenge him
to produce a letter he has from her. Prior
to this strike she was a member of a branch
of the P.P.L., but after w 7 hat she saw dur-
ing the strike she has written to the Pre-
mier, as president of the P.P.L., and
asked him to remove her name from the
books of that body. In future she is going
to support the Labour Party. (Loud ap-
plause.)
You may be told, and so may many
think, that this upheaval is going to injure
Labour. (Voices: “Not at all.”) There are
some people who say these things, and are
misled because there is a little bubbling on
the surface, because there has been a little
inconvenience suffered by the people. But
w'hen you look to the cause at the root
of it, or the reason for it, I say you can
only come to one conclusion, and that is
that the blame for the whole thing, for this
gigantic protest, this gigantic eruption, lies
at the feet of the Government. I can as-
sure you there were hundreds and thou-
sands of names put on the electoral roll in
Brisbane during this trouble. ITieard a
man speaking to a Minister in Brisbane,
who is not a member of the Labour Party,
say that if there was an election to-mor-
row the Government would lose every seat
in the metropolis except two (Voices : “So
they ought to.”) That is the opinion held f
by those who do not belong to us, at all’
events, and you can take it from me that
it is a fact, too. If the people of Rock-
hampton, and the rest of Queensland, only
had the opportunity of knowing the cause,
I am certain that the same effect will take
place in Rockhampton and the rest of
Queensland, as I feel sure will take place
in Brisbane. It may be argued that it was
unnecessary for us to get so many people
to go out on strike. That may be so, ladies
and gentlemen, but I am not here to argue
whether 1000, or 500, or 1500 men should
have been called out. I am here to get
to the root of the thing, and to endeavour
to put that before you. I was at Ipswich
the night before the 1300 men returned to
work there, and Mr. Ryott Maughan and I
addressed them. I may tell you I was
pleased w'ith that meeting. What I urged
upon them was to be members of an or-
ganisation, to be associated strongly to-
gether, and if they went back to work to
go back as one united body. (Applause.)
Because that is the lesson which this
trouble teaches Would I call those men
scabs? Certainly not. One man may
think, and rightly think, “I may assist
these strikers better by staying here and
contributing to their support while they
are out” I am not going to say that that
man is w rong, because I do not happen to
hold the same opinion. But w'hat I do say,
and v 7 ould impress it upon you workers of
Rockhampton, is that whatever move is
taken, move in bodies, move in unity.
Unionism has been for centqjries. and it
will be for centuries to come. Let us hope
and trust that this action will strengthen
it. The experience in the past in Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Western Queens-
land, and in other places has been, whether
successful or not, attended with good re-
sults. It awakens the people and leads
them to think. In the ’9l strike the Gov-
ernment tried the same remedy as they
wanted to try in this strike in Brisbane,
and what w r as the result? All the Western
and Northern seats are now in the hands
of Labour, and are going to remain Labour
seats. (Applause.) And that reminds me
of something I heard of a while ago, that
the other side are going to spend thousands
of pounds to throw me out of the Barcoo
and to throw other Labour men out of their
seats, at the next election. But they can
spend their thousands, and throw me out
if they can. I shall not alter the opinions
I hold, and it shall not prevent me on oc-
casions like this j to say w'hat I think.
A few words more, and I have finished.
Occasions like this give you an opportunity
of thinking about other things as well—
about things that arise during the strug-
gle. One thing that recurs to me is this:
During this strike in Brisbane the Govern-
ment suggested that they would distribute
flour at cost price through the local authori-
ties. Why cannot they do that at all
times? (Laughter and applause.) Unwit-
tingly the middle men on the Treasury
benches have given an object lesson of a
plank in the Labour platform. Did they
think w r e w 7 ould stand upon the platform
and point out that fact to the people? If
they are prepared to supply flour at cost
price, where is the need of the middleman
at all. I am not, mind you, speaking of
the shopkeeper, but of the wholesale mid-
dlemen, the Denhams and Co., and the
Barnes and Co. I pointed that out in Bris-
bane, and others pointed it out too; but I
never heard of any flour having been dis-
tributed at cost. It was announced in the
newspapers that now that the shops were
opened, the Government did not think there
was any necessity for flour.
Also, when the strike w as declared in the
North, at Townsville, Mackay, and Rock-
hampton, the Government came down with
a proposal to take in hand what private
enterprise could not do—they were going to
charter a steamer, and send her north with
supplies to the people. If they can do that
in these times, cannot they do it at other
times? That also is another plank of the
Labour Party’s platform. (Loud applause J
Occasions like this give you opportuni-
ties of thought. In my opinion, the great
problem that is going to face the people, not
only the wage-earners, but the whole of
the people, is the question of prices. Wages
are going up, but prices are going up more.
Wages can be raised, but what is the use
of the rise in wages, what is the use of
Labour legislation, if you cannot control
monopolies. There is only one course to
take—appoint a board to fix the prices of
tea and butter, and get into competition
with the middleman by running a line of
steamers, by having your warehouses, and
by having your union stores. (Applause.)
These are the sort of things that the Lab-
our Party intend to do, and it is, as I say,
occasions such as this that give you people
opportunities of thinking about it. At the
Hobart Labour Conference the other day
a plank was inserted in the platform urg-
ing the establishment of a Commonwealth
line of steamers. (Applause.) That will
spoil the shipping ring, and will make fares
and freights more reasonable. But the
DenhanL Government did not run the
steamer to the North; they did not find it
necessary afterwards.
Now, let me tell you something about
the Brisbane Tramway Company itself
that perhaps you do not know. When
I w 7 ent to Brisbane some years ago, the
Brisbane Tramway Company’s ordinary
shares —there are 375,000 of them —were
275. per share. The day before the re-
cent strike IJooked at the Stock Exchange
quotations and found that they were
w 7 orth £B/12/6. That was the price asked
by the lowest seller. The shareholders of
the company, bear in mind, reside princi-
pally in London. What does that mean?
The company has been paying dividends all
the time, latterly 8 per cent., and the shares
have risen over £7 per share. In other
words, they are now' w'orth nearly
£3,000,000 more than the value then put
upon them. How many people are there in
Queensland? We will say 600,000. Well,
the increased value of those shares means
over £5 per head for every man, woman,
and child in the State. If the Labour
Party had their way the Brisbane tram-
ways wquld never have belonged to that
company; they would have belonged to the
State, and tliere would to-day have been
£5 per head for every man, woman, and
child in Queensland. (Applause.) Now it
goes to London to a few shareholders. Is
not that worth fighting about? I wonder
if Mr. Badger ever thought that Labour
agitators like myself and others would
draw the attention of the people to such
facts as these in order to give them an op-
portunity of knowing the true position in
regard to the company. If you are in Bris-
bane at holiday time, as I have no doubt
many of you have been, you are put on a
special car, and the privilege you get for
being on that special car is that you pay
a double fare. (Laughter.) Anyone who
has been in Brisbane knows that the system
is “double fare in holiday time.” But
what is our railway system ? It is reduced
fares (Voice : 4 4 And ride in bullock
waggons.”) You can thus see that the
Brisbane Tramway Company, quite apart
from the Government, who are the main
people in this business, not only want to
sit on their men and crush them, but they
want also to sit on the public. The public
of Brisbane had an opportunity of seeing
that now, and of finding out who are their
friends and who are not.
These are a few matters, ladies and
gentlemen, that I thought it well to bring
before your attention on this occasion. The
other side will doubtless tell you when they
come here that he called so-and-so scabs
and so-and-so scabs —(laughter)—in order
to raise the feelings of those men and make
them opposed to Labour. But I have too
much confidence in the good sense of the
men of Rockhampton —no matter in whose
employ they may be, whether it is the
Railway Department or a private em-
ployer—to believe that they will take any
notice of any such statements. It may be
that some people in the heat of the moment
may have said such things. But, person-
ally, I never believe when I have a good
cause that abuse is necessary. The strength
of your case and a reliance that the reason
of the people who are listening to you is
sufficient to convince them that you are in
the right is enough. In this particular in-
stance let us look at the root of the trouble,
at the cause of this industrial upheaval,
and I trust that every wage earner, even
if a non-unionist —but if he can see his way
to do so, let him become a unionist ; if he
cannot through circumstances preventing
him, though for my part I cannot see any
circumstances under which a working man
should not become .a unionist —then let
them see who their friends are. Then we
are likely to prevent such upheavals as this
in the future. The wage-earners through-
out have had the Labour party for their
friends. Look at any of the advances they
have ever achieved —the Women’s Vote,
Adult Suffrage, Wages Boards, and
Workers’ Compensation Act —all these
things were brought in at the instance of
the Labour party. Therefore, I say, it is
your duty not to allow the Press, not to
allow little prejudices or inconveniences, to
blind you to the fact that you have a great
cause at issue. There are some people who
say that as a result of this strike, the
Labour cause has been thrown back for
years. Some think two years, some think
three, some five years. One man told me
ten years, and I even heard one man say
as high as 25 years. (Laughter.) But these
statements come as a rule—in fact, all of
them I have heard —from persons who never
voted Labour. I was told the other night
by a person for whom I have a great
respect, that this strike had alienated his
sympathy from the Labour party. I asked
him if he had ever voted Labour, and he
admitted that he had not. I said,
44 What?” 44 Oh, he said, he had a strong
leaning towards Labour.” Ladies and
gentlemen, there is no sympathy with
Labour except a vote for Labour. (Ap-
plause.) These are the people the Labour
party wants. The Labour party put their
cause to your reason and common sense. I
don’t wish to bludgeon jua into thinking
that my conclusions are right. I merely
put before you the facts from which I draw
my conclusions, and allow you to draw
yours.
We have been subjected to a lot of abuse
such as that we are breaking the law 7 of
God, and that we will have to render an
account of ourselves. Well, Mr. Chairman,
I have not very long to live —I suppose that
no man or woman has very long to live. But
I feel this, that I do not care w'ho the man
is if he says I break the law of God, or the
law of man either, in the action I take.
I feel that when the time comes for me
to shuffle off this mortal coil, and go for
judgment, nothing I have said or done will
count against me. (Applause.) I trust
that those w'ho hold such views as that
w'ill first take the trouble to acquaint
themselves with the facts, and then I do
not think they will say w 7 hat they have
said about us. I think I have occupied
the time of the meeting sufficiently long.
It only remains for me to thank you for
your presence here, and the patient hear-
ing you have given me. Ido not think
I have ever addressed a more patient or
attentive audience in Rockhampton dur-
ing the long time I have been amongst
you. And Ido not think that any occa-
sion demands it more than this. There-
fore I again thank you very much for your
patient hearing. (Loud Applause.)
DEPRECIATED GOVERNMENT
PROPERTY.
A little time back we stated that the
Government dredging plant was being ra-
pidly destroyed through being left idle and
neglected. That there is any amount of
work for twice the plant now at command
is well known, but in order to victimise
some of the men who fell into line with their
fellow unionists, it is stated, the Har-
bours and Rivers Department point blank
refused to reinstate the men. The result
of this asinine and vindictive conduct is
shown by an intimation published to the
effect that—
‘4 The Treasurer stated yesterday that it
was proposed to start the Groper about
Easter Tuesday, and the Casuarina will
be put into commission as soon as pos-
sible after docking. As pointed out some
time ago, some of the plant requires at-
tention, and this vessel is one that can-
not be put into work until she has un-
dergone an overhaul. These repairs are
expected to take two or three weeks.”
The worst kind of anarchy and vandalism
is brought home to officialdom in this state-
ment.
Campaign Items.
BURANDA JELECTORATE.
Mr. Huxham starts his campaign on
April 4, in the Alliance Hall, at 8 p.m.
All Buranda Labour electors and others
should roll up and show their interest in
this momentous contest. Other meetings
wjfl in quick succession. Mrs. Lane
wishes to notify that on account of the
evening meeting she w ill meet the women
convassers on Thursday afternoon at 4
o’clock. She also wishes that as many
books as possible be brought in for Mr.
Doyle’s perusal. She would again notify
that Mesdames Huxham and Hewitt ad-
dress the women electors at the Harriers’
Hall on April 18, and at the Nile-street
Hall on April 15, at 3 p.m. It is hoped a
large attendance will be present on both
occasions.
BULIMBA W.P.O.
A meeting of Balimba Labour sup-
porters will be held in the ante-room School
of Arts, Bulimba, to-morrow (Wednesday)
night, at 8 o’clock. All wdio want to see
Labour score at Bulimba should attend this
meeting and give the campaign a good
start.
MAREE ELECTORATE.
The Labour campaign will be opened in
the electorate on Wednesday night at the
Pineapple Picture Pavilion, w'hen candi-
date Bertram and other Labour speakers
will address the meeting. Seats will
be provided, a large number of wdiich
will be reserved for ladies. A special invi-
tation is issued to anti-Labourites to be
present.
BRISBANE W.P.O.
Mr. M. J. Kirwan, the endorsed Labour
candidate, w ill open the campaign on behalf
of Labour in the Protestant Hall, Ann-
street, to-morrow (Wednesday), at 8 p.m.
Alderman T. Wilson will preside. Roll up,
electors, and hear a vigorous speech, and
a strong indictment of the Denham admin-
istration.
ORGANISED PADDINGTON—EVERY
VOTE TO BE POLLED.
Last night Mr. J. Fihellv, the endorsed
Labour candidate, presided at a splendid
committee meeting in Mr. Andrews’ shop,
Given-terrace. Canvassers were appor-
tioned to their respective sub-districts, and
excellent work was accomplished. Mr.
Dickson presided at a similar meeting at
the committee rooms on Red Hill, and the
Spring Hill gathering was conducted by
Mr. Nugent. Committees are now in full
swing in a house-to-house canvass in every
section excepting Milton, and that quarter
has already been invaded by the ladies’
branch. The ladies’ committee are going
satisfactorily, and every part of the elec-
torate is being vigorously scouted.
Mr. Fihelly speaks to-night at the
corner of Hale and Regent streets. All
invited.
TOO WONG ELECTORATE.
It was announced in a previous issue of
the “Bulletin” that Mr. Lewis McDonald
would open his campaign in the Oddfellows’
Hall to-morrow (Wednesday) night, but it
was subsequently found that Mr. Macart-
ney (the Government candidate) was an-
nounced to speak in Toowong on the same
evening. As both Mr. McDonald and the
organisation are desirous that the electors
should be afforded an opportunity of at-
tending the meetings of both candidates, it
was decided to postpone the meeting at
Toowong till after the Easter holidays. The
date will be duly announced and advertised.
On Thursday night Mr. McDonald will
address the electors in the hall at Kenmore,
and a full plan of further meetings in dif-
ferent centres of the electorate will be car-
ried out after the holidays up to polling
day
On Mondaly night a meeting was held at
Mr. Joe Chimes’s house, Indooroopilly,
when a strong branch of the W.P.O. was
formed. Mr. H. Nieve (chairman of the
campaign committee) opened the meeting,
and was supported by several members of
the Taringa branch. Mr. Lewis McDonald
(the selected candidate) was also present,
and delivered an inspiriting address, the
whole proceedings being characterised by
the utmost enthusiasm, the competition
for every office on the new branch, even to
that of secretary, being keenly contested.
The election of officers resulted as follows,
ballots being necessary in each case:—
President, Mr. A. E. Shortis; vice-presi-
dents, J. Chimes and C. Wheeler; treas-
urer, Mr. O’Sullivan; hon. secretary, F.
Andrews. Canvassing areas were mapped
out, and the work readily undertaken,
everyone present evincing the greatest en-
thusiasm in the work of the campaign. It
was decided to hold the next meeting on
Tuesday, 9th instant, when it is expected
that the ranks of the new organisation will
be further strengthened. At the conclu-
sion of the business refreshments were
handed round, and a hearty vote of thanks
to Mr. Chimes concluded a most successful
meeting.
PEOPLE’S SUNDAY SERVICES.
It has been definitely decided to hold
the second service on Sunday afternoon,
April 7 (Easter Sunday). The Rev. J .S.
Pollock will deliver the sermon, and the
collection will be devoted to the British
Coal Strike. It is hoped to have a choir
lead the singing, with probably an orchestra
as well.
A TRIBUTE FROM COMRADES.
At a meeting of the North Brisbane
branch of the Queensland United Railway
Employees’ Association, the following reso-
lution was carried:—“That the members
o| this branch congratulates Mr. M. J.
Kirwan on his selection as Labour repre-
sentative to contest the Brisbane seat, and
are confident that he will put up a good
fight; and hope that his efforts will be
crowned with success.” A tribute which
all admirers of pluck and appreciators of
worth will endorse.
The following letter, which is sufficiently
explanatory, has been sent us:—
44 Booval, via Ipswich, April 1, 1912.
The Editor Official Bulletin. Sir, —I have
pleasure in enclosing tv r o resolutions which
were passed by Council on Saturday. We
sincerely trust that Messrs. Kirwan and
Sherry (tw o of the most highly respected
of our members) may be able to carry on
the good work in the House which they
have ahvays done for the railway men.
through their union.—Yours faithfully, T.
E. Brown, act. gen. secretary Q.U.R.E.A.”
The following are the resolutions:—
‘ 4 That this meeting of Executive and
Council of the Q.U.R.E.A. congratulate
our president, Mr. M. J. Kirwan, on being
chosen as the Labour candidate to contest
the premier electorate of Queensland, viz.,
Brisbane, and wish him every success in
the campaign.”
‘ ‘ That this meeting of Executive and
Council of the Q.U.R.E.A. congratulate our
late fellow employee, Mr. Joe Sherry, on
being chosen as the Labour candidate for
South Brisbane, and wish him every suc-
cess in the coming fight.”
AN APPRECIATED OPPORTUNITY*
Last night, at a meeting of the Con-
servative-Capitalistic crowd who had
gathered at Taringa to hear Mr. Macartney
engage in a rough-and-tumble with facts
and fairness, for which he proved entirely
unequal, an incident happened that recalled
the events of a few T weeks back when hired
“ specials ” went prowling round with bars
of iron or heavy batons up their sleeves
on the look-out for someone to use them
on. A supporter who occupied a seat on
the platform while the Minister for Lands
was speaking, and who was very demon-*
strative in his applause when any reference
was made to “ law and order,” w r as indulg-
ing in some high-falutin tw T addle while giv-
ing reasons for a vote of confidence being
passed to the Minister-lawyer, when an
elderly member of the audience asked him
to connect his talk with the object which
brought them there. Being apparently en-
raged at the old man’s audacity in inter-
rupting such an all-absorbing appeal, the
alleged lover of law and order rushed from
the platform and, it is stated, forced the
septuagenarian to the floor. Fortunately
the son of the latter was close at hand, and
when he saw his father being thus roughly
handled he shot his fist straight from the
shoulder, and the would-be ejector imme-
diately collapsed. He returned to the plat-
form again, but had then to pay more at-
tention to an injured optic than to oratory,
and another forcible instance w 7 as given of
those who prate about law and order being
the quickest to destroy both. Offers of 20
to 1 tha~ the Macartneyite was a “special”
were plentiful in the hall, but there were
no takers. The old man’s son had a sound
night’s sleep after.
Yesterday was All Fools’ Day ; but
that hardly accounts for the many idiotic
mouthings of certain Ministers and their
supporters last night, as their extra silly
season started about the end of last
January.
Walsh’s women canvassers have been
instructed to interview 7 the labouring
men’s wives during the absence of their
husbands, and explain that it was the
Labour party which made it difficult to get
supplies during the strike. They won’t
say that it is the labouring party who will
foot the £200,000 Special Constable bill.
Notice.
A SPECIAL STRIKE COMMITTEE
MEETING will be held at the TRADES
HALL on WEDNESDAY, at 10.30 a.m.
Business important.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
KDRILPA - STATE ELECTION,
1912.
Mr. J. bTsHARPE,
fTLABOUE CANDIDATE,
will Open his Campaign in the
WEST ENDf SCHOOL OF AETS,
TO-MORROW (Wednesday) EVENING, APRIL 3,
at 8 o’clock.
Alderman Burke t (Mayor of South Brisbane)
will preside.
A SELECT ASSEMBLY will be held in
the TRADES HALL, TURBOT STREET*
SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 20th, at 8
o’clock. Tickets, one shilling. Good musie.
Workers, roll up in aid of campaign
