

Official Bulletin, No. 55.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 55.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 1912.
Labour Leader's Address.
GREAT MEETING IN THE
VALLEY.
The first real spontaneous outburst of
popular feeling in connection with this
great Parliamentary campaign was mani-
fested last night when Labour leader Bow-
man and his Valley colleague, the popular
Peter McLachlan, addressed the electors —
or as many of them as could pack them-
selves inside the building —in the Foresters’
Hall. Brunswick-street, last night.
There was nothing forced about the
cheers that reverberated through the hall
when the lion-hearted David disclosed the
treachery and incompetence of the present
hypocritical Conservative crowd that have
so outrageously besmirched the name of
Queensland; and were it possible for the
voters of the 72 electorates in the State to
have been present last niglpd, the majority
of those who have come forward and asked
the people to return them to Parliament
to perpetuate the outrages the present
Government have so flagrantly been guilty
of, would run a very big risk of forfeiting
their £2O desposit.
Alderman Tom Wilson occupied the
chair, and several members of the Labour
party, including Senator Turley, were pre-
sent on the platform.
Mr. Peter McLachlan was the first
speaker, and, needless to say, got the re-
ception characteristic of the Valley when
the members speak. He gave a brief resume
of the tram trouble; and showed how lax
the Government were in not taking action
to avoid the big upheaval. He also stated
that should a change of Government take
place there would be a change in some of
the high positions held under Government.
Mr. McLachlan quoted some words used by
the present Premier with reference to the
Labour party at Indooroopilly on July 28,
1904, as follows: “It was repeatedly said
that the administration was under the con-
trol of the Labour party. Well, if it was,
it was a high tribute to the Labour party,
because of the highly beneficial adminis-
tration. The Labour party, as he found it,
was a straigthforward and considerate body
of men; it was loyal to its obligations and
faithful to its trpst. He had no hesitation
in working with the Parliamentary Labour
party.” Mr. McLachlan concluded by
saying that he was confident the result of
the coming elections would be a Labour
Government sitting in Parliament under
the leadership of Mr. Bowman.
On the Labour leader rising, it was some
minutes before he could proceed owing to
the unbounded enthusiasm of the audience.
After having thanked Mr. Cook for his
kindness in lending them the hall, he said
he was sure he voiced the
opinions of all when he expressed deep
sympathy with Mr. McLachlan in his re-
cent bereavement. (Hear, hear.) Owing
to the state of his health he would not be
able to go to other parts of the State, but
he was determined to help in other metro-
politan electorates. (Applause.) Refer-
ring to the recent industrial trouble, he
said that according to the morning papers
he seemed to be the one responsible for it.
Mr. McLachlan had given them a clear
exposition as to why the strike which was
referred to by Mr. Denham in his policy
speech took place. One could read in that
speech at a glance the sentiments of the
Under Secretary; but Mr. Denham had
shouldered it, and had to bear it. On the
Friday / morning after the strike many of
those in the hall were present in front of
the Trades Hall, and without egotism he
(the speaker) believed that he had more in-
fluence in preventing a riot in Brisbane
than any man who was there. (Cheers.)
Yet he had been condemned because he
didn’t let them go. (A voice: “That is
what we wanted.”) That was what they
might have regretted had it been so. Yet
they had Ministers—and one, Mr. Appel,
who, he had thought, was always honour-
able—descended to say that he came back
from the old country and found it conve-
nient to be sick and go to the hospital.
(“Shame.” He thought that the people
of Fortitude Valley and Queensland knew
that he was not a cur, and never had been
one. (Cheers.) Of any part that he had
taken in the strike he was prepared to ac-
cept the consequences at the hands of the
electors. (Hear, hear.) There was one
man more largely responsible for the strike,
and that was Mr. Badger, and it was not
a new thing for him. He had been at the
game for the last seven years. When they
went as a deputation to the Premier to ask
him to call Parliament together their re-
quest was refused, and why ? Because Mr.
Denham was in sympathy with Mr. Badger
on the Brisbane Tramways Company. Let
them mark the contrast in the very big dis-
pute that had been going on in Britain.
The Prime Minister of England considered
it his duty to try to affect a settlement be-
tween the colliery owners and the coal
miners. As for Black Friday, Mr. Denham
in his policy speech, said: “That-there were
several.encounters before the disturbance
was finally quelled, but fortunately there
was no loss of life.” Yet they knew that
there were old ambulance men at the back
of the Trades Hall on that day busily en-
gaged bandaging those who had been
struck by batons. In his policy speech Mr.
Denham said that there were three things
which interested him, viz., immigration,
land settlement, and railways. Immigra-
tion had practically ceased at the present
time, and the Government had already
spent about £lOO,OOO on immigrants,
which included £42,265 unauthorised ex-
penditure. He objected to the system of
scalp money which was being paid to agents
in Britain. He objected to those thousands
of men and women being brought to
Queensland, and when they arrived here
found that they could not get
employment. To him the present
policy of the Government seemed to
be to “borrow, boom, and burst.” Loans
amounting in the aggregate to 14 millions
were due in a little over three years, and it
would be interesting to know from the Pre-
mier or from the Treasurer what they pur-
posed doing. At the present time no effort
was being made, and yet they boasted about
the hundreds of miles of railway being con-
structed, the number of men and women
they were bringing out from the old coun-
try, and the people they were settling on
the land. He did not think that it was
generally known what the amount of the
public debt of Queensland was to-day. Her
indebtedness was £44,296,467. (Cries of
“Oh!”) The interest on that amount was
£1,635,501. the debt per head of the popu-
lation being £76 11s. 4d., which wag the
second highest in Australia. The interesi
was £2 16s. 6d. per head per an-
num. The building of railways was one
of the great policies that Mr. Denham had
laid himself out to accomplish. He thought
that the Premier and his Government had
just bitten off a little more than they could
chew. He (the speaker) contended that the
railways should be built through good agri-
cultural districts to encourage closer settle-
ment. They talked about the number of
men they were settling on the land, and yet
for practically every 50 portions there
were 400 applicants. Mr. DenliaQi spoke
about his sympathy with the wage-earners,
but a little incident in the House,* which
occurred during the discussion on the
Wages Board Bill, would dispel that. One
clause read : “Any industry can be brought
within the province of the bill if the ma-
jority of the employers and the employees
are united.” He (Mr. Bowman) moved an
amendment that the word “or” be substi-
tuted for “and,” which would make it pos-
sible for either a majority of the employers
or the employees to be affected by the bill.
The Labour party was anxious to give the
farm labourers a chance to come under the
provisions of the bill. That honourable
gentleman, Mr. Denham, said: “What
will our farmers do if you establish a wages
board for these men ? How can they com-
pete with the farmers in Siberia?” He
asked Mr. Denham whether he thought
that the Australian labouring man should
be brought down to the level of the Siberi-
an serf, who earned only a few pounds a
year. (Applause.) Mr. Denham saw that he
had made a mistake, and said: “I didn’t
mean it.” But there was the test of the
man. Why? Because he was a middleman
—(applause)—and Mr, Barnes was a mid-
dleman. This fight would probably be one
of the keenest that Queensland had .ever
experienced. They had had a lesson which
they would never forget. The Labour
Leader concluded by appealing to those
present to work for the success of the La-
bour party on April 27.
A vote of confidence in Messrs. Bow-
man and M‘Lachlan as Parliamentary can-
didates was unanimously carried, and
votes of thanks to Mr. Cook and the chair-
man concluded the most successful meeting
that has yet been held in the Valley.
DAILY NEWSPAPER GENERAL
COMMITTEE.
A meeting of the above committee will
be held at the Trades Hall, TO-MORROW
(Thursday) NIGHT, at 8 o’clock.
Business urgent and important.
A. SKIRVING, Secretary.
A GRAMOPHONE PREMIER.
When did Denham become interested in
the works of John Henry Newman? The
chairman of the Irish Association, who is
also Principal Under Secretary, and spent
three days at sea with Denham when the
unfinancial policy speech was being pre-
pared, might be credited with acquaintance
with the sayings of the great churchman
and learned master of the English lan-
guage ; but when a man whose life has been
mainly influenced by the dimensions of a
butter-box quotes extensively from the
author of the “ Apologia,” one is forced to
the conclusion that he is merely giving ut-
terance to words put into his mouth by
somebody else.
SPECIAL CONSTABLE BOUCHARD.
(“Hansard,” No. 36, 1907, page 1777.)
Labour-Leader Dave* Bowman, in refer-
ring to Baton Bouchard, said: “I would
not be surprised at what the hon. gentle-
man says. He is also as topsy-turvy as
the hon. member for Oxley (Denham). . . .
All I can say is this, that we had him
(Baton Bouchard) sitting behind us as a
coalition party last Parliament, and he did
all he knew against the man he was pledged
to support. He was like a rat running
from a sinking ship. He thought there was
a chance of getting in with a stronger
party, and at the last election he fled from
the party he pledged himself to and went
with the present Government party. . . .
But the hon. gentleman thought, as I have
truly stated, that he was going to be left if
he went under the Kidstonian wing, and he
flew to the Hon. Robert Philp, and he
happened to retain him for a time. I
think it will be a short time. I think the
electors of South Brisbane, at anyrate, will
give him his quietus if the elections take
place at an early date, and here is one who
is going to do his best to down him if I
can.” (Hear, hear.) Unfortunately, Dave
failed to down him on the occasion referred
to, but Joe Sherry will do the trick this
time.
Valleyites are informed that “ Official
Bulletins ” can be obtained from Mr. Neil-
son, pork butcher, Brunswick-street.
Campaign Items.
ENOGGERA W.P.O.
A special meeting for ladies will be held
at Lloyd’s Committee Rooms, Bendal’s
Buildings, to-morrow afternoon, at 3
o’clock.
TOOMBUL W.P.O.
Mr. D. Dowling, the Labour candidate
for Toombul, opened liis campaign at Ham-
ilton last night before a large gathering,
many ladies being present. The speaker
received a splendid hearing throughout, and
a vote of confidence was carried with ring-
ing cheers.
WINDSOR W.P.O.
A large meeting under the auspices of
this organisation was held in the Oddfel-
lows’ Hall, last night. Aider-
man Peter Henderson occupied the chair,
and very effective addresses were delivered
by Labour Candidate Crampton, C. Boul-
ton (organiser A.L.F.), R. Sumner, and E.
M. Hanlon. Good reports were received of
campaign work up to date, and every
energy is to be infused into future elec-
tioneering. Jack Crampton will be one of
the most popular and valuable members of
the new Assembly.. A further meeting of
this W.P.O. will be held on the Albion
Flats to-night.
SOUTH BRISBANE W.P.O.
A social and dance in aid of campaign
funds was held in Merton-road Hall on
Monday evening last, when there was a
large attendance, both the standing and
seating accommodation being taxed to the
utmost. The well-ordered arrangements of
the energetic committee of ladies passed off
without a hitch, and a most enjoyable even-
ing was spent. Mr. J. Evans (president
Brisbane W.P.0.) officiated as M.C., and
the dance music was suppiled by Mrs. Mar-
tin, Miss M. McCarthy, Mr. A. M. Hux-
ham, and Mr. C. Glegg. Vocal items were
contributed by Messrs. H. Blackburn and J.
Gamble, and were greatly appreciated.
During the interval the gathering was ad-
dressed by Mr. J. H. Sherry (candidate),
after which refreshments were handed
round. Dancing was continued till mid-
night. The function was a great success,
and much benefit should result. The com-
mittee desire to thank all who assisted to
bring the effort to such a magnificent con-
clusion.
PADDINGTON CAM PAIGN—OPEN ED
LAST NIGHT.
Mr. J. Fihelly, the endorsed Labour
candidate for Paddington, opened last
night at Hale-street, Petrie-terrace. Mr.
Fihelly, in a forcible and logical speech,
dealt with the great truths of the Labour
platform, and trenchantly criticised the
sins of omission and commission of the
Denham-Barnes infliction. Messrs. Mat
McCabe, and Seymour were in
fine fettle, and the exceptionally large
audience were held from start to finish.
Although the recognition received from the
daily Press was in sharp contradistinction
to that of the Government candidate, the
attendance was infinitely greater and more
enthusiastic.
LOGAN W.P.O.
Labour candidate Arnold held his open-
ing meeting at Dunnellan on Saturday
evening last, with very promising results.
Effective addresses were delivered by the
candidate and Messrs. Mat Cabe, Sumner,
and Anderson (secretary Timberworkers’
Union) to a large and attentive audience.
The Labour candidate for the Logan
electorate also held a very successful meet-
ing at Mount Gravatt on Monday night.
BULIMBA AND LOGAN W.P.Os.
A very successful combined meeting of
these organisations was held in the Belmont
State School last night, when the speakers
were the two Labour candidates (Messrs.
M‘Minn and Arnold), and Messrs. H.
Bezant and A. G. Wallis. Arrangements
were made to work both electorates as
effectively as possible on behalf of Labour,
and confidence was expressed in the result.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
There will be no issue of the “ Official
Bulletin” after to-morrow (April 4), till
Tuesday next, 9th inst.
GOOSEBERRY DENHAM.
(Extract from “Hansard,” No. 36, 1907,
page 1777.)
Mr. Bowman said: “We were also told
on one memorable occasion, when the Fed-
eral election was taking place, that the
fight was to be anti-Socialism against So-
cialism, and the hon. gentleman (Denham),
who occupies the position of Home Secre-
tary to-day, was the individual who told
the ladies in South Brisbane at ,a public
meeting that FOR THE TIME BEING
THE LADIES OF BRISBANE WERE TO
MAKE FRIENDS EVEN WITH THE
WORKING MEN’S WIVES that ride in
trams or omnibuses, so that they might
elicit their sympathy. This was a man play-
ing the hypocritical part of a politician, and
you know, Mr. Speaker, as an old Parlia-
mentarian, WHAT THE RECORD OF
THAT HON. GENTLEMAN IS.”
In the Firing Line.
Note the unholy rush of sundry
briefless barristers to join the great party
of law’ivorder. Where the carcase is, etc.,
etc.
* * *
The organ of the bewhiskered Cowlishaw
regrets that Denham didn’t speak in a more
populous centre. In other words, two men
and a few goats formed the vast multitude.
No, I forgot; there were thirteen reporters
present.
* * *
The policy speech may be described as
a series of fool remarks by a fool person,
to fool an allegedly fool people.
* *" * *
There was much disappointment that
the Bottle O question, which Appel jour-
neyed to Sydney to study, wasn’t men-
tioned. Contrary to rumour, Paget’s
mystic wheelbarrow—the lucky railway-
opener—wasn’t on the platform.
* * *
Nothing was said in the speech about
the necessity of social and economic reform.
The science of statesmanship appears to
have evolved itself into a calculation re
borrowing and immigrating
* * *
Considering that the Bishop and Iscariot
Hysteria have been on a political financial
jag for the last couple of years, one would
have welcomed just a few of the reflections
of the morning after.
* * *
A chap is generally worried at that
peculiar time if there is a hazy recollection
of his having put up a score at the local
pub. It has to be paid. Several millions
of loan money fall due in 1913. Have these
political jaggers any ways and means for
repavmentP Have they any scruples.
* * * ‘
Macrossan and Wrjsh are gentlemen by
Act of Parliament. Thus it isn’t surpris-
ing that they are appealing to the “ toffs.”
Note how they will hob-nob with the horny-
handed for the next few weeks.
* * *
Macrossan mentioned at Windsor that
he didn’t want the three hundred. Walsh
is probably of the same kidney. But we
haven’t noticed any case where these sums
have been repaid into the Treasury. Wien-
holt did disburse his screw in such a pecu-
liar way that there was quite a lot of talk
over the matter.
* * *
Wonderful the fascination of those perks
which lurk in the Ministerial box. Poor
public, no wonder you breed a Conservative
class in your lawyers and well-paid civil
servants.
* * *
Macartney and Mrs. Hawthorn’s half,
but actual quarter, are also appealing to
respectability and the toffs. The husband
of the lady with the personality raised a
roar of laughter at the declaration of nomi-
nations by saying that he was appealing to
the intelligent section. Ye gods!
* * *
It is a pity to see a young man like
Macrossan on the sidj of reaction and
Anti-Nationalisation. • When Jack Cramp-
ton has finished the campaign no doubt the
ambitious little advocate will feel sorry that
he isn’t on the same platform with progress
and humanity.
* * *
This Walsh has already inundated the
electorate with his photograph and a
lawyer’s letter. His main recommendation
seems to be that he is respectable and
stodgy, decent and mediocre, patronising
and a church-goer. Those attributes would
be an excellent recommendation in Eng-
land, but the boys of Paddington aren’t
having any. Walsh is a philosophic
batonist.
* * *
A man was seen the other night—
rather late —who was carrying a parcel. A
mate asked him the contents. He said,
“The Premier’s policy speech.” Further
and searching inquiry elicited the fact that
it was a pound of tripe wrapped up in the
“ Courier.”
* * •*
Macartney wasn’t going to bother about
speaking or canvassing. He lent the latter
to Walsh and the Enoggera lady’s hus-
band—indeed he lent the speaking also.
But with Lewis McDonald’s advent the
scene has changed. The six bob and several
pennies can’t forget poor dead Dick
Cottell.
* * *
Will the Toowong electors remember the
indecent haste with which Macartney
rushed to the pocket borough from North
Brisbane ? One would have imagined that
North Brisbane was a pork shop and
Macartney a Jew.
* * *
When Jack Gilday’s photo, was screened
at Paddington on Saturday night the ap-
plause was deafening. When Jack Fihelly’s
followed, the crowd went mad. Signs of
the times these, mine brethren.
* * *
Both looked the good young Austra-
lians that they are, and the character,
ability, and determination that was de-
picted in those intellectual faces fairly
surprised the older people.
* * *
Bouchard is a champion bowler, but
Parliament is no more a rink than it is a
reserve for special constables. South Bris-
bane ought to put on its coat, and go down
on the 27tli, and vote in a thinker. Let
bowlers keep to their greens and their
whisky.
* * *
Undoubtedly the Enoggera electorate
will have a huge problem on election day—
Lloyd or Trout! Suppose, for the sake of
argument or for mere absurdity’s sake,
that you, Stodge, and I, Hodge, had a job
to offer as canvasser or scrutineer or book-
keeper or manager or secretary, to whom
would we give it if Trout and Lloyd were
the only two available. Still it is said that
Trout has a chance!
* * *,
Everybody is r&marking on the brainy
young men who are carrying Labour’s ban-
ner in the city. Never have we been so
lucky in our apostles. It is the era of
youth, iu the metropolis at any rate.
*• * *
Wait until you hear Mick Kirwan on
sugar. He will tell you a few things about
the price and about the present Royal Com-
mission. Little pomposity and his sugar
bag will sag in the middle. After Mick has
had his say on the matter, the three Jacks
(Crampton, Gilday, and Fihelly) will tell
their electors a fcit of the tale.
* * *
Ask Billy Wobbly Stephens what T. J.
Byrnes thought of him when the tricky
South Brisbaneite was supposed to be a
faithful follower. The reply will be interest-
ing to students of veracity. By the time
the Buranda Huxhams are tired, the
chameleon William will feel weary.
* * *
How the political imposition ever foisted
himself on the public is a mystery. Cer-
tainly his father owned a tannery, but
William was not turned out or developed
there. This is inserted so that Mr. and
Mrs. John won’t feel indignant at Willy’s
bark, and his hide.
* * *
A number of fairly sensible men are
going to vote for Bouchard, a man who
always had sufficient nous to see the im-
pending storm and get in out of the wet.
Yet vigorous Joe Sherry is available.
* * *
Then there are Billy Bertram and
Jabber Hunter! All of these three-
cheers-for-Bob-Philp candidates are merely
appealing to the toffs. They should be
called the silvertail party.
* * *
A number of people down New Farm
way who mean well will vote for Tom
Welsby, the last thing in politics. The
honest and energetic Peter Mac is going to
he downed for fighting humanity’s battle.
He is an “agitator and an anarchist.”
Well, we shall see what we, etc., etc.
* * *
Allan, the “ special,” wants to go back
into Parliament. In his modesty he doesn’t
attempt to conceal the fact that he has
done good work there. Poor old derelict ;
he was a worse failure than Mount Morgan
circular Ferguson was in the first Senate.
* * *
What a pity it will be if Labour’s mag-
nificent city bodyguard miss Parliament.
How inspiriting it would be to see Bob
McCormack, Jack Jack Fihelly,
Jack Gilday, Mick Kirwan, Lewis
McDonald, Billy Bertram, Joe Sherry, and
Hugh McMinn in Parliament, as the fight-
ing guard of Labour. Bowman and Hux-
liam and McLachlan and Martin Dowling
would be an ideal ballast for the developing
genius of the party.
* * *
About those specials: As a layman, I
raise all the money on the table to bet
that an action against the Executive Coun-
cil for not gazetting the Parliamentarians
out of office would be maintained in the
Full or High Court.
* * *
That cleverly-written, original, and
brilliant paper, the “Sun,” remarks, inter
alia, that J. J. Walsh was born at Bowen,
where T. J. Byrnes first saw the light. It
isn’t generally known that when T.J. died,
both Tom O’Sullivan and Jack Walsh de-
clared themselves the legitimate successors
of Byrnes. Walsß really had faith in the
idea until Kidston snubbed him. It trans-
pired then that the learned Doctor re-
garded himself as the next man of brains,
and his shoulders were shaped for the
mantle.
* * *
Denham and his satellites are appealing
to Caesar—the new Caesar—The Toffs!
* * *
The “ Sun ” ventures : “ Hawthorn
(meaning the husband of Mrs. Hawthorn)
touched the button that will ring the elec-
toral victory bell when he said, ‘ There
must be no sitting down and saying suc-
cess was assured. Every woman must go
to the booth herself, and bring her neigh-
bour with her.” The men can paste the
same observation inside their hats, too.
* * *
Well George IV. once remarked in Dub-
lin that every peasant should have his cow,
his pig, and his cottage, and all would be
prosperous. He didn’t mention that nobody
would want to buy a cow or a pig, and that
some of them would eventually have two
cows and two pigs—but the statement
brought him tremendous popularity.
* * *
If the lady’s partner will kindly explain
who the neighbours are or could possibly
be, if ‘ ‘ every woman goes to the booth her-
self,” we will admit that he has touched
the button or rung the bell. In the mean-
time we must respectfully ask the “ Sun ”
to please refrain from the obviously absurd.
Lost, between E. Sachs & Co’s., Warren
Street, Valley, and Bowen Bridge, a nickel
watch and silver chain. Finder please
return to T. Finney, secretary, Trades
Hall. Reward.
A SELECT ASSEMBLY will be held in.
the TRADES HALL, TURBOT STREET.
SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 20th, at 4
o’clock. Tickets, one shilling. Good music.
Workers, roll up in aid of campaign
fund.
