

Official Bulletin, No. 38.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 88.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 1912.
Water and Sewerage Board
Elections.
LABOUR S PRELIMINARY SKIRMISH.
GREAT VICTORY FOR THE
WORKERS.
We must congratulate the workers of
the city and suburbs on the great victory
they won yesterday in returning the three
endorsed Labour candidates, one of them,
the popular Tom Wilson, at the top of the
poll. The significant silence of the two
morning papers, neither of which makes
any reference in its leading columns to
the elections, is more expressive of their
defeat than if they wasted pages trying to
account for their rout. However, it would
not require many words to make known
why the workers aroused themselves just a
little yesterday. It was because of the
rousing they received on Black Friday aud
many subsequent days at the hands of the
brutal police and their contemptible
auxiliaries; of their being denied the right
to walk the streets of the city free from
molestation by a rag-tag lot of hoodlums,
armed with lethal weapons; of the avowed
intention of certain members of the Em-
ployers’ Federation to make victims of
such workers as came within their power;
and, perhaps, more than ail, of the eager-
ness with which the Government took ad-
vantage of the occasion to suspend the pro-
visions of the anti-sweating legislation that
had been enacted for the protection of those
workers who had not themselves the benefit
of trade unions to shield them from
avaricious employers.
The result of the polling was declared as
follows:
Wilson, Thomas 3534
Hertz berg, Adolphus Marcus 2999
Barker, John 2767
Waterfield, Alfred Samuel 2611
Reid, John 2537
Sutton, Alfred 2418
North, Robert Dundas 2369
Diddams, Harry John Charles ... 1991
Jackson, Robert 1740
Cowley, Sir Alfred Sandlings 1655
Walkenden, Albert Ernest 1249
Lackey, John 802
Watson, John Douglas 789
Hardgrave, Philp 376
Mr. Hardgrave forfeits his deposit,
having failed to poll one-fourth of the
total votes recorded for the lowest success-
ful candidate.
Now, workers, you have got the enemy
on the run; you have routed them at Quatre
Bras ; you will shortly face them at Water-
loo, and if you use your weapons with the
same effect then as you did yesterday, you
will send this pettifogging, obstructive,
and tryrannical Government along with
their sycophantic supporters, to their poli-
tical St. Helena, from which they will
hereafter be unable to escape.
Tramway Arbitration Case.
ONUS OF PROOF ON EMPLOYERS.
James Y. O’Connor, conductor on the
Melbourne Tramway Company, and Presi-
dent of the Tramway Association, gave
evidence in support of the employees’
claims in the Federal Arbitration Court
yesterday. The President asked the wit-
ness how it was he managed to get off so
much. He replied that he had asked the
line managers to let him away during the
Court proceedings. Witness complained
that the employees had no opportunity to
refute the inspectors’ reports.
The President said that few businesses
could be carried on if there was to be a
trial between the inspector and an em-
ployee.
Mr. Prendergast: We wish to have the
opportunity of confronting the inspectors.
We also desire an appeal board.
In reply to the President, respondents
stated that they intended to show that the
industry could not stand the claim as sub-
mitted by the Association.
The President: I am open to conviction,
but at present I think the claim is an
extravagant one.
Mr. Prendergast: We take it that the
onus of proof that they cannot pay the
claim rests with the respondents.
The President: That is so.
THE TRAM SERVICE.
An observant worker who has taken
considerable interest in the running of the
trams during the last few weeks, sends us
a few items of what came under his ter-
sonal notice, just as he jotted them down in
his diary:—Sunday, March 3, 4.45 p.m.,
car stuck up in Queen-street, great excite-
ment and much running round car, in-
spector at last takes charge and starts
tram, six other v trams tied up ; similar
state of things near Breakfast Creek same
date, 10 p.m. Sunday. Sunday, March 10,
10 p.m., car broke down corner Wharf and
Leichhardt-streets, three others tied up.
Monday, March 11, 1.15 p.m., car off rails,
lying half way across street in Wharf-
street, corner Queen-street. Tuesday,
March 12, 2.55 p.m., Toowong car missed
points George-street, much delay. Wed-
nesday, March 13, 10 p.m., trolley pole
came off at the depot, Woolloongabba, 10
minutes lost in fixing. The number of the
trams is given in each instance, but is with-
held.
The sum of £lOO was voted at a meeting
of the Butchers’ Employees Union in Mel-
bourne on Tuesday night for the assistance
of members of the Brisbane branch who
had been on strike. This brings the total
received from the Butchers’ Federation to
close on £BOO.
What To Do With the Trams.
THE MAYORS CAST-IRON CHEEK.
The Local Authorities’ Conference on
tramway matters met last night at the
Town Hall. Alderman A. J. Raymond
(Mayor) was in the chair, and pointed out
that five local authorities out of 12 were
not represented.
Councillor King said it was possible the
attendance was small because it had been
rumoured that the meeting would ad-
journ.
Alderman Diddams moved that the
meeting be adjourned for at least one
month.
Alderman Lugg seconded the motion on
the understanding that the conference be
adjourned for two months. If held in
April it would clash with the general elec-
tion.
Alderman Horan moved that the meet-
ing be adjourned for a fortnight, which
was seconded by Councillor Stanton.
The chairman complained that all the
local authorities who had come to a de-
cision had not forwarded their resolutions
to the secretary. The conference should
know what councils were going to remain
parties to the B'll. He thought it would
not be fair for who were in favour
of State control to come to the conference
and oppose the bill.
Several delegates demurred at the atti-
tude of the chairman, and claimed that
each council had a right to attend the con-
ference, whatever its views might be.
The amendment was defeated, and the
motion carried by eight votes to five.
[His Worship the Mayor evidently
wants matters made easy for him. Asking
those not in favour of the bill to keep away
is pretty cool.—Ed. 0.8.]
WEST AUSTRALIAN OPINION.
We give a few extracts from a letter
received from the secretary of the West
Australian Branch of the Australian
Saddlery Employees’ Federation to the
secretary of the local branch. It will be
interesting as showing how strike matters
appeared or were represented to people on
the other side of the continent:
‘ ‘ Dear Comrade, —Received wire also
letters and papers issued by the Committee,
and I gather therefrom that you are get-
ting in some good work and making a gal-
lant stand against the tyranny of pluto-
cratic hirelings and the capitalistic brood
in your State. Ido not think it necessary
for me to say that the W.A. Branch is
proud of your action in this first great
challenge to the boodling class, who batten
on the life-blood of the toiler. Comrades,
my heart rejoices at the manner in which
you have thrown down the gauntlet to our
common enemy —the robbers of the weak
and the legal exploiters of the helpless. I
regret that I’m not with you to have the
honour of being a humble unit in the
initiation of this great principle, an event
which will become historical and more cele-
brated than the Eureka Stockade. I have
sent you a small amount by wire. Wire me
again if funds are required. Trade being
practicaly stagnant here at present a lot
of the men are on half time, and a great
number are out of work; but rest assured
we will do whatever possible to aid you. It
would cause you to weep (if you did not
deem it too ludicrous) to see the report
published in the capitalistic organs here.
You are referred to as ‘ rabble,’ ‘ hooli-
gans,’ etc., who violate the divine pre-
cepts of ‘ Law and Horder ’ endeavouring
to get the social machinery into your brutal
keeping. Why, a respectable citizen is not
safe amongst you. Best regards to all
true comrades. I have not the pleasure of
knowing Harry Coyne; but I greatly ad-
mire him. He is the stuff that ‘ heroes ’
are made of —not the kind of heroes we had
in Perth during our late tram strike,
where the scabs were dubbed heroes by the
plutes. They tried a testimonial dodge,
but it practically fizzled.”
A PREMIERS VERACITY.
Mr. Denham is alleged to have stated
to a Press representative on Monday last,
when discussing Harry Coyne’s speech at
Toowoomba, that the Strike Committee was
wrong in taking credit for the hotels being
closed during the strike; that it was the
licensed victuallers and the police authori-
ties who caused the stoppage of the sale
of drink. A very conclusive answer to
this is recorded in the minutes of the Strike
Committee of Wednesday, January 31,
which states that Mr. P. McLachlan re-
ported, at 10 a.m., that he, in company with
Mr. Bowman, interviewed the Commis-
sioner of Police on the subject, and also
that he had received the necessary permit
for the procession. Trot out anther, Mr.
Denham, please.
THANKS.
A resident of Windmill-street, Valley,
writes as follows: —“Will you kindly re-
turn thanks to Mr. Jim Price, of the
Waterside Union, for his untiring efforts
in delivering daily to the Valley residents
your ‘ Strike Bulletin.’ He has done great
service by his kindly act throughout all
the upheaval, and I wish to convey thanks
to him and also to the Strike Committee for
their kindness.”
Subsequent to a meeting of the Com-
monwealth Cabinet yesterday, the Prime
Minister stated that questions of policy
would not be considered until May, and
Parliament would be called together to-
wards the end of June. Mr. Fisher also
said that he is making arrangements to
deliver the Budget statement in July.
In the Ranks.
SOUTH BRISBANE W.P.O.
Arrangements have been completed by
the above organisation with the Strike
Committee for its Committee Rooms to
be used as a distributing agency for the
“ Bulletin.” Residents of the South side
city are requested to make a particular
note of above. “ Bulletins ” come to hand
about 9.45 each evening.
A pleasing feature and one showing
how much the enterprise of the W.P.O. is
appreciated by citizens of South Brisbane
is the large amount of ppblic patronage
that has been afford the rooms thus early
in the campaign. The rooms are open
daily and in charge of some responsible
person, and all volunteers in any capacity
are requested to drop in and "add their
names to the already long list of willing
workers in Humanity’s Cause.
Trade unionists, please note that Mr.
J. H! Sherry is, and has been for years, a
leader in the trade union movement, and
South Brisbane electors are to be con-
gratulated on having so able an advocate
of the working class cause seeking their
suffrages. Mr. Sherry has just concluded
a successful year as President of the
Queensland Railway Employees’ Associa-
tion, during which time hje gained the
respect of all employees throughout the
length and breadth of the service.
Trade unionists, lend us your aid, enrol
on our list of workers, and help us to place
him w r here he richly deserves to be —at the
top of the poll. Subscriptions to the fight-
ing fund will be received and gratefully ac-
knowledged by the secretary, c/ o Commit-
tee Rooms.
The opening shot of the campaign, as
far as the Labour party in South Brisbane
is concerned, will be fired from the cliffs of
Clarence Corner on Saturday evening next,
March 16. Mr. Sherry and others will ad-
dress the meeting/and ladies are specially
invited.
The prospects of winning the seat were
never brighter than at present. Mr.
Bouchard’s action in enlisting as a
“ special ” having left a sour taste in the
mouths of Southsiders, whilst a goodly
number of his erstwhile admirers vow that
they anxiously await the approach of elec-
tion day, when they will demonstrate in no
unmistakable manner their wl*ple-hearted
detestation of conduct such as he has been
guilty of.
Committee Rooms —Opp. Stewart’s Car-
riage Works, Stanley-street, S. Brisbane.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A very good open-air meeting w as held
at the Rosalie tram terminus last night.
Messrs. Ryan and O’Sullivan spoke. Mr.
Ryan dealt severely with Mr. Grant, who
said at Rockhampton that the reason the
Government did not compel the Tramway
Company to run the cars was that a stick
a gelignite was found on the line, and the
Commissioner of Police decided that it was
not safe to run them. He pointed out that
the trams had ceased to run a few days
before the gelignite was supposed to have
been found on the line. He further stated
that Mr. Grant had said that he told lies
about the above; he hurled the statement
back in his teeth. He said that 400 or 500
men had been thrown out of w ork by an
illegal act. He pointed out that the Gov-
ernment were opposed to unionism ow r ing
to the fact that they opposed the registra-
tion of the Brisbane Branch of the Tram-
way Employees’ Union, and that unions
were encouraged by Commonwealth law.
The results of the Water Board elections
were received with great pleasure. Mr.
O’Sullivan said that the Tories were being
routed from every place, and the next
should be the Legislative Council. The
meeting concluded with three cheers for
unionism.
OXLEY W.P.O.
Oxley folk are getting under way. Last
night a meeting at Ipswich Road Junction
was held, when Mr. Hardacre and Mr.
C. Boulton advocated the claims of Labour
which are to be represented, after the elec-
tions, by Mr. C. Martin.
BRISBANE W.P.O.
A very important meeting of this or-
ganisation will be held in the Trades Hall
on next Tuesday evening, March 19, at 8
o’clock. With the near approach of the
general elections the question of selecting
a candidate will form the chief business.
Unionists who reside within the electorate
are invited to join and help in the return
of a candidate pledged to support their
interests. Mr. T. Finney, Trades Hall, will
be pleased to receive nominations of in-
tending members.
Mr. J. T. Gilday, endorsed Labour Can-
didate for the Ithaca electorate, returned
to the city this morning. After trans-
acting the business in connection with the
Butchers Union, Mr. Gilday made a very
effective speech at a large open-air meet-
ing, for which he received enthusiastic
cheers. Ken. Grant won’t have it all his
own way up there, by a long chalk.
Mrs. M. A. Craker, mother of the young
man who was killed in collision with a
tram, forwards us a receipt for £3 3s. 6d.,
which sum she received from Miss Martin.
A correspondent writes to us with refer-
ence to a small trader in the West End,
whose business, he states, is entirely
carried on with workers and their families,
yet this man is constantly running down
the Labour party, and has even gone so
far as to tell children not to wear red
ribbons. Our correspondent suggests that
this is one of the cases where unionists, at
all events, should bestow the* patronage on
somebody more deserving of it.
Nemesis Awaiting.
A TOUCH OF THE AFTERMATH.
THE VALLEY LEADS OFF.
The annual meeting of the Valley Foot-
ball Club (Queensland Rugby Union rules)
was held last night, when a foretaste was
given of what certain people who made
themselves officially important during the
late strike may expect in future.
On the chairman (Mr. H. Chapman)
announcing that the first business would
be the election of officers,
Mr. T. H. Sewell announced that he
had a resolution to bring before the meet-
ing.
The chairman said that unless the
resolution related to the election of officers
he could not accept it at that stage.
Mr. Sewell insisted on his right to
speak, and the chairman agreed to hear
the resolution so as to judge whether it
was in order or not. Mr. Sewell then read
the following motion: “(1) That in the
opinion of the members of the Valley
Rugby Union Football Club, it is desirable,
in the best interests of the whole club, to
expel all those who were guilty of ‘ scab-
bing ’ in the recent general strike; and
(2) that similar treatment be accorded to
those who acted as volunteer constables
during the same period.” Mr. Sewell
added that he was not actuated by any
personal animosity, but he had been urged
to take this action in the interests of the
whole club.
The chairman said that he could not
receive the motion at that stage, and
called for nominations for the position of
patron of the club.
The retiring patron, Mr. T. C. Beirne,
M.L.C., was nominated.
Mr. Sewell said that he did not want
to disturb the meeting, but he wished to
propose Mr. D, Bowman, ML. A., who
would make a suitable patron, and pro-
ceeded to give his reasons for making the
nomination, but was called to order by the
chairman, who pointed out that this was
not a political meeting, but a football
meeting. At that stage he could only re-
ceive nominations for the position of
patron.
Mr. Sewell then nominated Mr. Bow-
man.
The chairman said that Mr. Bowman
had formerly been a vice-president of the
club, but had subsequently become asso-
ciated with the Rugby League. Having
done so, Mr. Bowman became ineligible
for office in the club, under the rules of the
Queensland Rugby Union. He (the chair-
man) bore no personal animus in the mat-
ter. He knew Mr. Bowman personally,
and knew that he was a good ‘ ‘ sport. ’ ’
He also had had experience of Mr. Bow-
man’s willingness to do favours when he
could. They must understand, however,
that there had to be rules to combat the
opposition to their game, and one of the
rules was that officials in the League could
not hold office in the Union. He was in
an unpleasant position, but could not ac-
cept the nomination of Mr. Bowman.
Mr. Barnes then nominated Alderman
Tom Wilson.
The Chairman: Any other nomination P
A Voice: Major Cahill. (Loud laughter.)
The nomination of Mr. Wilson was then
put and carried by an overwhelming
majority.
When it came to the election of vice-
presidents, Mr. Sewell nominated Mr. P.
M‘Lachlan, M.L.A., but the chairman
ruled this out of order, on the ground that
Mr. M‘Lachlan had also been a League
official.
Mr. Atthow moved that Mr. T. C.
Beirne be a vice-president, but the motion
was lost.
When miscellaneous business was an-
nounced, Mr. Sewell again moved the reso-
lution which he had moved at the outset.
He repeated that he was not doing this
from any feelings of animosity, but be-
cause lie had been approached by a large
number of senior and other members of
the club.
The chairman said that he had thought
over the matter during the progress of
the meeting. He was speaking as one of
those referred to in the motion. After
thinking over the matter, he felt that he
ought to point out that they formed a
sporting club, and that no outside influ-
ence should be allowed to interfere with
the work of the club. After careful con-
sideration he had decided to rule the
motion out of order, and he could not put
it to the meeting. They might be angry
with him for it, but he assured them that
it was not as a result of any animosity
against anyone present. He did not mind
admitting that he himself had been a
special constable, and if similar circum-
stances arose he would be one again.
A Voice: Did you baton anybody?
(Laughter.)
The chairman, continuing, said that the
special constables were on the side of law
and order, and took no sides in the strike.
(Loud and prolonged uproar.)
Mr. Sewell again rose to speak, and de-
clared that the club had a right to ex-
clude anybody it liked from its member-
right to enter the club. (Loud cheers.)
Mr. Chapman had said that the specials
were on the side of law and order, and
that their positions were purely neutral.
But the part those men had taken in the
strike was well known. (Uproar.) Any-
body who knew anything about the
strike
The Chairman said that he could not al-
-1ow t Mr. Sewell to discuss the strike at that
meeting, and he ruled him out of order.
Mr. Barnes: I move that Mr. Sewell
b© allowed to have his word. (Loud
cheers.)
The Chairman said that in view of the
feeling of the meeting he would allow Mr.
Sewell to continue speaking, on the under-
standing that no other member spoke, as
the motion was out of order.
Mr. Sewell said that he was going to
insist on a vote being taken on the motion.
He knew a number of members who would
not associate themselves with those mem-
bers who had acted as special constables.
He had had handed to him the names of
eight senior players who had decided not
to play again with the Valley Club.
The Chairman again ruled the motion
out of order, and there being no further
business he declared the meeting closed.
Mr. Sewell made further attempts to
have a vote taken, but the Chairman again
informed the members that the meeting
was closed, and that the caretaker of the
hall would be notified accordingly so that
he could turn out the lights.
ARE TRAMS OBSOLETE?
The following article, taken from this
morning’s “Daily Mail 55 of all papers,
would make it appear that those tram men
who were locked out by Badger do not stand
to lose a great deal after all. From ap-
pearances in every direction, it would seem
that the days of trams are numbered. It
only requires a progressive democratic
Government to inaugurate a regular sys-
tem of motor buses in order to give the
monopolistic syndicate its conge in the
very near future. The “Mail’s” article
says:—
“ In London it is being seriously con-
sidered whether the tram rails in the
streets will not soon have to be taken up,
for the motor ’bus promises to do, equally
well, all the work done by tramcars, and
lessen the obstructions to traffic. The pro-
truding rails are a serious disadvantage,
and the rigid route taken by the tramcars
operate as a further obstruction. The im-
proved motor ’bus can keep to the left-hand
side of the street, take up or set down its
passengers /dose to the kerb without com-
pelling them to risk collision with the
vehicles on the roadway, and, more easily
than a car on rails, can get out of the way
in time of difficulty. Every month the
motor ’bus is being improved, and it is far
more under command of the driver than
either a tramcar or a vehicle drawn by
animal power. Some of our larger country
towns are contemplating costly tramlines
through their principal streets. Better for
them would it be if they spent half the
money in street improvement, and allowed
the traffic to be carried by licensed motor
’buses and other vehicles not rigidly con-
fined to the middle of the road.”
WAGES BOARDS.
C. E. Banville (employees’ representa-
tive) has been appointed a member of the
Ironworkers’ Assistants’ Wages Board
(South-eastern division) in place of W.
Mitchell, resigned.
J. Cavill and C. A. Spurgin (employers’
representatives) and T. W. Robins and
H. A. Steel (employees’ representatives)
have been appointed members of the Bris-
bane Hairdressing Industry Board.
J. R. Frith and W. Inglis (employers’
representatives) and J. Manderson and T.
E. M‘Govern (employees’ representatives)
have been appointed to the Brisbane Tin-
smithing Trade Board.
It is announced that it is intended to
constitute a special board for the men’s
and boys’ clothing trade, south-eastern
division, to consist of eight members and a
chairman, the representatives of the em-
ployers and employees respectively to con-
sist of two representatives of makers of
readymade clothing, and two of makers of
order clothing. Nominations for the board
close on April 17, at 4 p.m.
Nominations of representatives on the
special boards for storemen in! wholesale
and retail warehouses and shops (exclu-
sive of salesmen, shop assistants, artisans,
and carters), the carpentry and joinery
trade, and carters (exculsive of those em-
ployed in the agricultural industry), all in
the Central Division, close on April 11,
April 4, and April 4 respectively. All
these boards are newly constituted.
It is intended to constitute a special
board for chemists’ assistants in the Bris-
bane district, and nominations of repre-
sentatives close on March 20, at 4 p.m.
METROPOLITAN COUNCIL OF W.P.O.
The deferred MEETING of the above
Council will take place in
MR. LLOYD’S ROOMS, KENT’S
BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE ST.,
on
WEDNESDAY EVENING NEXT,
20th March, at 8 o’clock.
Delegates are urgently requested to be
present, as the business is important.
lewis McDonald,
Hon. Secretary.,
BURANDA ELECTORATE.
Labour Supporters and Sympathisers
interested in the return to the State Par-
liament of the endorsed Labour Candidate,
MR. JOHN HUXHAM, are invited to
attend a MEETING in the ALLIANCE
HALL, FIVEWAYS, WOOLLOON-
GABBA, on SATURDAY EVENING
NEXT, 16th March, at 8 o’clock, to make
for the conducting of the
campaign
J. T. BARNES,
Hon. Sec. Buranda W.P.0., Convener.
