

Official Bulletin, No. 29.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 29.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1912.
Are the Tram Men Sacked?
WILL ATTORNEY-GENERAL HUGHES
TAKE ACTION?
What is “Boss” Badger’s position as
regards the locked out tramway workers?
Have the men been dismissed ? These are
questions that are puz2jling people, and
no harm will be done by looking back-
wards.
On the authority of the Badger mouth-
piece, “The Courier,” we have it on re-
cord that at 3 o’clock on the afternoon
of January 18th last
(1) A deputation of nine tramway men
was admitted to see Mr. Badger and the
balance of the crowd took up a position.
. . . opposite the office to await re-
sults.
(2) After an interval of about fifteen
minutes the men came out and informed
the waiting crowd that Mr. Badger had
told them their work would be available
next day if they attended without their
badges.
(3) Mr. Badger, seen for a few min-
utes by a representative of this journal,
said he had drawn the attention of the
men to the notice prohibiting the wear-
ing of the badge. . . . Continuing,
Mr. Badger informed the men that he
would not dismiss any of them. He had
heard their views and expressed his own.
He had no desire to part with men,
many of whom were old and tried ser-
vants of the company. The work was
there for them to take, subject always to
the rules of the company with which
they were well acquainted.
(4) Questioned as to the position at
the power house, Mr. Badger said no
trouble had arisen there. The men
there do not wear uniforms, and the
question of the badges had not presented
itself. “The company does not recede
from the position it has taken up,” said
Mr. Badger, “I think the men are be-
ing seriously misled in this matter. A
little calm reflection may lead to
their realising the position better. I
have put it to them as fairly as I can.
WE DISMISS NO ONE. The work
is there for them as it always has been,
subject to the company’s regulations,
which is the same now as before.”
The foregoing will be found in cold
print in “The Courier” ur January 19th,
1912, last column of page 7 and first col-
umn of page 8.
In the Arbitration Court, “Boss Bad-
ger affirmed that he did not dismiss the
union men, and, surely the sworn testi-
mony of the manager of the foreign com-
pany cannot be false.
Judge Higgins ruled that the excuse
of “Boss” Badger was unauthorised and
unreasonable, and the alleged regulation
can scarcely be enforced unless “Boss”
Badger has determined to continue to
openly defy the clearly-defined law of the
Commonwealth and ja special order of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court.
Right away back at the end of last year
when the sugar workers were on strike,
Attorney-General Hughes was approached
by Representative Finlay son on behalf of
the Brisbane Tramway men, who were al-
leged to have been intimidated. On that
occasion Mr. Hughes talked plainly.
These are his words, reported in a Mel-
bourne paper: —
“Mr. Finlayson, M.P., of Brisbane,
saw me to-day and put before me certain
complaints made with reference to the
Brisbane Tramway Company. It stated
that the company had informed its em-
ployees that those members who remain
in the employees’ union will be closely
watched, and will pay the penalty of
dismissal. He gave a number of cases
where such statements had been made
and suggested that the Government
should take some action. I informed
him that if these allegations are sub-
stantially correct the company has com-
mitted an offence against section 9 of
the Principal Act of 1909, as amended.
Under this section no employer shall dis-
miss any employee from his employ, or
injure him in that employment by
reason of the fact that the employee is
an officer or member of any organisa-
tion. I told Mr. Finlayson that I was
prepared to take action directly any
facts were brought before me. The At-
torney-General’s department will do
whatever is necessary to see that the
men are not harassed in this way and
the law set at defiance.”
That is plain talk, and let us hope that
Attorney-General Hughes will start to do
what he said he would do and prevent
“Boss” Badger from setting the law at de-
fiance.
To-night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL.
IVORY STREET, VALLEY.
CLARENCE CORNER.
CARTERS’ UNION.
In this morning’s “Courier” it is
stated that a further effort was made to
induce carters who had gone back to work
to leave it again. We are informed offic-
ially that there is not the slightest founda-
tion for this statement. The carters have
held no meeting since Tuesday last, nor
has any change taken place in the state of
affairs since then.
Denham, Barnes, and Paget have made
a cunning attempt to use the railway
strike-breakers for political purposes and
the promised superanuation in the service
is purely and simply political bribe which
will not fool any excepting service slaves
in the service.
How Employers Fare.
Urgent Need for Assistance.
The Power of the Toiler.
We have just received by wire from our
special correspondent in Melbourne the
following copy of a letter, dated March
1st, issued by the Employers’ Federation.
It speaks eloquently of the power of the
toilers, and their latest defensive weapon,
the “peaceful holiday.”
The Employers' Federation,
325 Collins-street, Melbourne,
March 1.
THE BRISBANE STRIKE.
Dear Sir, —I am instructed to notify
you that a general meeting of members
and other gentlemen will be held on Wed-
nesday evening, March 6, at 8 o’clock, at
above address. Your attendance is earn-
estly requested. Yesterday a delegation
from the Queensland Employers’ Federa-
tion, who had come down especially from
Brisbane to put the present position of af-
fairs before the employers of } Melbourne,
had an interview with the executive, to
whom they explained the seriousness of
the existing situation. Since the end of
January the employers have been carrying
on a hard fight, and, although no business
is doing, they have been paying full wages
to their loyal employees. This burden they
are now finding exceedingly heavy. They
could end the trouble in 24 hours by giving
away to the demands of the Trades Hall,
which would amount to the re-employment
of all the men who went out on strike, and,
in order to make room for them, the dis-
charging of a number of loyal employees.
The employers refuse to do this, on the
ground that it w T ould be neither fair to
themselves or their present staff, nor to
the employers of Australia generally. A
very grave phrase of the situation is that
the port of Brisbane is blocked up by the
unions. While that condition is maintained
the unions have trade and industry by the
throat, no matter how many men go to
work. This condition of affairs raises the
still more serious question, which will have
to be considered by the employers of Mel-
bourne and Sydney of opening the port of
Brisbane to trade. The present meeting is
called so that the position may be fully ex-
plained to the merchants of Melbourne and
to employers in general, as a very import-
ant principle is involved. The president
(Mr. R. W. Blackwood) will preside. Mr.
Percy T. Berry, of Brisbane, and other
gentlemen, will speak.
Don’t forget time and date—8 p.m.
Wednesday, the 6th of March, at 325 Col-
lins-street.
Yours faithfully,
C. WARNE SMITH
Secretary.
A FORCED PERMIT.
Scab carters have been up to all sorts
of dodges to hoodwink Unionists. They’ve
actually gone the length of forging bogus
permits, and one of these bearing the
names of Messrs. Lawson and McCormack,
secretary and organiser of the Federated
Draymen and Carters’ Union, is in the pos-
session of the persons concerned. It is
likely that Secretary Lawson and Organiser
McCormack will be given orders by their
Union to prosecute the contemptible forger.
He was very foolish to write ‘ ‘ bottle lime-
juice and soda” on the back of the forged
permit, and send it with a messenger to
a Union shopkeeper.
For the information of Union support-
ers, it will be well to state that all Union
carters’ permits are on red cards, which
bear the Union seal and the signature of
the Union officials.
This Morning’s Addresses.
As the Strike Leader was not present
this morning, the customdry announce-
ments were made by Mr. P. A. McLach-
lan, who referred to the last message re-
ceived from the Employers’ Federation,
and said that a definite statement with re-
gard to it would be made to-morrow. He
also touched on Mr. Mat. McCabe’s mis-
sion to the South, and said that reference
to it would be made by Mr. Coyne to-mor-
row morning. Mr. McLachlan also re-
ferred to the compulsory conference be-
tween ship owners and waterside workers,
called at the instigation of the former by
Mr. Justice Higgins, and strpngly urged
the great need for energetic political ac-
tion.
Mr. W. F. Finlay son also addressed the
gathering, and referred to the strike of
coalminers in the old country, the non-
lighting of the Cricket Ground on Friday
night, and the lesson to be deducted as to
the strength of the workers from the pre-
sent crisis. Mr. Finlay son also impressed
on his hearers the necessity for paying
full attention to political matters. He fur-
ther announced that he would be leaving
for Melbourne to-morrow morning in his
capacity of president of the Federated Hair-
dressers’ Association
PILING ON THE ACONY.
The following is sufficiently explana-
tory :
To Mr. Fredrick Heinrick Walter, 6f
Arthur-street, Teneriffe, Brisbane.
I hereby give you notice that the rent
of the dwellinghouse and premises sit-
uated in Arthur-street, Teneriffe, Bris-
bane, which you occupy as a weekly tenant
of me, will be eighteen shillings (18/) per
week, commencing from Saturday the
ninth day of March, 1912.
Dated at Fortitude Valley, Brisbane,
this Twenty-ninth day of February, 1912.
R. A. ROBERTSON.
Mr. F. H. Walter called at this office
to-day and showed us his rent book. This
proves that he has occupied this house for
twelve months and has all that time paid
13/ per week rent.
Owing to the strike he got a bit in ar-
rears, but on February 26th —a week ago
—paid all dues right up to that date.
Now he is served with the above notice.
This is how the fight is waged by the
enemy. Honest workers call it hitting
below the belt, other people call it “busi-
ness.” Any way, it is tactics such as
above which educate the toiler.
SHIPPING IN THE NORTH.
At a large meeting of waterside men,
held at Townsville on Saturday morning,
it was decided to stick to the former de-
cision, not to handle Brisbane cargo. The
union officials, on being asked if they did
not think a different decision would be ar-
rived at if a ballot were taken, replied that
they were sure no difference would result,
and the true opinion of the men had been
obtained.
In view of the action of the Townsville
wharf labourers in refusing to handle any
cargo from the Wyandra, inquiries were
made at Cairns if the lumpers would adopt
the same attitude there. It was learnt
that a meeting of the men had been held,
at which it was decided to work all cargo
with the exception of Brisbane cargo. The
Wyandra arrived at Cairns with 100 tons
of Brisbane cargo, which, it was stated,
would be discharged by the company’s
office staff. The vessel is expected to sail
for the South at noon to-day. There was
no Southern mail from Cairns on Saturday
night.
The value of Government ownership de-
pends upon who owns the Government.
Waterside Workers.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS ANXIOUS.
Conference Ordered.
Mr. Mat. McCabe is expected back from
Sydney to-night. His mission there has
been eminently successful. Particulars of
it may be announced to-morrow morning
by the Strike Leader.
The Commonwealth steamship owners
have represented to the Registrar of the
Industrial Court that a dispute has already
occurred in Queensland and in Sydney in
connection with interstate shipping, and
that there is a grave danger, if something
is not done immediately, that the dispute
may extend to Melbourne and other parts
of the Commonwealth. An affidavit was
lodged in support of the application by C.
M. McDonald, secretary of the Steamship
Owners’ Association. After consideration,
the President of the Court decided to sum-
mon a conference for Friday afternoon next
in Melbourne. The following have been di-
rected to attend : —Robert Thompson and
Harry Wrench to represent the Brisbane
branch of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion ; Robert Hillyer and Sidney Harrison,
to represent the Sydney branch of the fed-
eration; Joe Moriss and J. B. Tucker, to
represent the Melbourne branch of the
Federation; and Edward Northcote, F. C.
Barnes, and C. M. McDonald, to represent
the steamship owners.
Water and Sewerage Board
Election.
Important to Workers.
Every worker who is a householder
paying £2O a year rent or over is on the
roll for the Water and Sewerage Board
election to take place on Wednesday, 13th
inst. There are four representatives to be
elected, and some 20 nominations have been
received for the vacant positions, amongst
whom are —
ALD. T. WILSON (Labour represen-
tative).
ALF. S. WATERFIELD (Amal. En-
gineers’ Society).
JOHN BARKER (Plumbers’ Union).
These three men stand in the interest of
Labour and unionism, and every worker
who is a householder should roll up to the
poll and vote for them and one other can-
didate. You must vote for four to make
your vote effective.
The roll can be seen now at the Water
Board Office, and from Thursday at Water-
side Workers’ Union Rooms and Trades
Hall. Every working man and working
woman householder should see at once that
their names are on the roll.
Do not forget that Walkeden, who was
last time returned on the Labour ticket,
was a most ardent 1 ‘special” constable
during the strike.
THE COMING LABOUR DAILY.
Important Meetings.
Mrs. E. Hewitt, hon. secretary to the
Women’s Labor Bazaar Committee, asks
us to announce that on Wednesday after-
noon next, at 3 o’clock, a very important
meeting of members will be held in Mr.
Lloyd’s rooms, Adelaide-street, in connec-
tion with the above matter.
A meeting of representatives from the
various unions has also been held regard-
ing the coming paper, and encouraging
reports were received. A further meeting
will be held next Saturday afternoon,
when it is confidently expected a definite
proposition will be submitted and acted
on almost immediately.
Those Unlighted Lamps.
WHO TELLS THE TRUTH?
Czar Badger of the tramway monopoly,
specifically denied that the light had been
ordered or arranged for the mass meeting
of last Friday night at the Woolloongabba
Cricket Ground, and, further, said that up
till half-past 5 on Friday night no word
that light was required had been received.
Alongside is an exact facsimile of his
company’s receipt, issued on Tuesday
last, from which it will be seen that the
date for which the light was ordered and
paid for is specially set out.
Important to Unionists.
At a meeting of the Bakers and
Pastrycooks on Saturday it was unani-
mously decided to fight on. Several
bakers have applied for clearance cards
and are departing for the South, and one
pastrycook is leaving for New Zealand on
Wednesday. Preparations are being
completed for starting a union pastry-
cooking shops, so union shops and
union members will be able to re-
ceive these luxuries made by union labour.
It was reported by Mr. Purnell from Rock-
hampton that a union bakery is now es-
tablished in Rockhampton.
There are 22 bakeries in Brisbane
working with union bakers and where
bread is delivered by union carters. In
South Brisbane there are only five non-
union bakeries. Appended is a list of
union bakeries, and all union members are
requested to take note of same:
BAKERIES.
F. Wuersching, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valley.
Hanlon, Valley.
H. Hugall, Spring Hill.
Annan and Day, West End.
Bragg Bros., Valley.
J. Enever, Valley.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
E. G. Bedgood, Milton.
PASTRYCOOKS.
Bowd and Wright.
Other Union Businesses.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., all Robb, W.
shops. Snellmg, T.
Baynes Bros., all Witham, L.
shops. Crump, C.
Woodcock, W. Moore and Co.
Beven Bros. T. Cock.
Watts, W. Preston, W. D.
Witham, A. Bohl and Higgins.
J. Ashcroft. H. Young.
Murphy Sc Brodie. Summerville.
Lewis. Scarborough Bros.
Sparkes, A. Voisey Bros.
Chugg, G. Hamilton, R.
Marshall, W. Land, W.
Barstow, E. Jowett Bros.
Cardell Bros., George Street.
CAFES AND RESTAURANTS.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
Exchange Cafe (Berry’s), Queen-street.
Exchange Restaurant (Merton’s), Ed-
ward-street.
Chas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
I.X.L. Boarding House, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane.
GROCERS.
Queensland Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street.
Murray and Magee, Stanley-street.
Kearney, Boggo-road.
D. J. Stewart, Kangaroo Point.
H. Barkley, Stone’s Corner.
Miss L. Morley, Logan-road.
J. Davey, Boggo-road.
J. Paine, Moorooka.
C. Martin, Arthur-terrace, Red Hill.
J. R. Blane, Fiveways, Woolloongabba.
A. Lawrence, Ipswich-road.
Brown, Logan-road.
Eccles, Leichhardt-street.
Pedler, J. K., Caxton-street.
Hanlon, Paddington.
J. Lenahan, Stanley-street.
HAIRDRESSERS.
C. S. Dickson, Petrie-terrace.
Livingstone, Queen-street.
Yates, Joe., Brunswick-street.
Latham, R. W., George-street.
Aitchison, Queen-street.
Leggett, Queen-street.
Lowndes, George-street.
McLellan, George-street.
McMahon, George-street.
Hennesey, Wickham-street.
Mrs. Leggett, Wickham-street.
Johnson, Wickham-street.
O’Connor, Brunswick-street.
Ferguson, Stanley-street.
Brisbane District Council, A.L.F.
A MEETING of the above Council will
be held on WEDNESDAY EVENING
NEXT, at 8 o’clock, at the TRADES
HALL.
J. A. MOIR
Secretary.
