

Official Bulletin, No. 13.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 18.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1912.
Arbitration Court to Meet on
Friday.
Compulsory Conference Abortive.
Immediately after the declaration of the
general strike every effort was made to
secure the intervention of the Common
wealth Arbitration Court to compel Badger
TO RECOGNISE THE UNION AND
MEET ITS REPRESENTATIVES IN
CONFERENCE, a course which he had
consistently and persistently refused to
take.
A declaration was made by Mr. R.
Champ, secretary-of the Queensland branch
of the Australian Federated Tramway Em-
ployees’ Association, and filed Avith the
local Deputy Registrar of the Common-
wealth Court. This declaration set out
fully the question in dispute, and ieques-
ted the President of the Arbitration Court
to intervene in the public interest and to
issue a summons compelling Mr. Joseph
Stillman Badger to meet Mr. ietei
McLachhlan and Mr. R. Champ m confer-
ence as representatives of the Queensland
branch of the Association.
This declaration Avas wdred to Melbourne,
and a similar declaration w 7 as made in Ade-
laide, Avith the result that Mr. Justice Hig
gins Avas enabled to issue the summons as
requested.
Consequently Badger was compelled by
this summons, under a penalty of £ooo, to
meet the very men in conference and to
recognise the Union that lie has flouted
from the very inception of the trouble.
On Tuesday last the conference met in
Melbourne, in the presence of Mr. Justice
Higgins, but no agreement was amoved at,
and the Judge thereupon exercised a power
conferred upon him by section 10 of the
Amending Act, passed last year, uv the
CommonAvealth Labour Government, by
which he is given ppo r er to refer the mattei
to himself to decide sitting as an Arbitra-
tion Court. As the matter Avas urgent, Mr.
Justice Higgins appointed Inday next ao
the day Avhen he will proceed to decide the
question himself.
No doubt many arguments will be
brought forward as to the power f the
Court to deal w 7 ith the quest on, as at pre-
sent the Commonwealth has only
jurisdiction to settle and prevent industrial
disputes extending beyond the limits of one
State. The threatened action, however, of
the men in the South to come o it should
get over that point.
It must not, therefore, be fcrgotte i that
it was Badger’s refusal to allow men wear-
ing union badges to earn a living on the
trams that caused the combined unions of
Queensland to strike in support of their
tramway union mates. Neither should
it be forgotten that it was not until there
was a danger of a Commonwealth general
strike that the Arbitration Court forced
Badger to recognise the Tramwav Em-
ployees’ Union by compelling him to put
in an appearance at the abortive compul-
sory conference. It was the stand of the
brave and loyal unionists ot Queensland
that compelled the recognition < t the
Tramway Union and hastened the fiction of
the Arbitration Court by making the dis-
pute an interstate matter. All honour to
the union men and women of Queensland.
Is This Tripoli, or Brisbane ?
In the display of brutal force in Market
Square yesterday there Avas no bluff nor
purpose of mere intimidation. It was
THERE FOR BLOODSHED. For an
hour and a-half previous to the parade, in
the court-yard of the Executive Buildings,
practice in bayonet exercise and volley-
firing w r as indulged in by “ specials ” under
military officers. Five rounds of ball
ammunition were then handed to each in-
dividual, some of w 7 hom are yet in their
middle teens. The whole proceedings were
kept strictly secret, no strangers being ad-
mitted. We may yet require the military
to protect the strikers from a tyrant who
is usurping our constitutional rights.
BRISBANE’S SPECIALS.
(With Apologies to Mabel Forrest.)
Down the street, down the street
March our men Avith sturdy feet,
Hearts are burning Avith the wrong,
Pulses throbbing fierce and strong.
Shad one man refuse our right?
Just because he has the might,
Hoay can one straight from the land
Of trusts, and combines understand ?
Are Ave slaves because Ave Avork ?
They are slaves Avho labour shirk.
On Ave march to freedom’s cad,
Parents, brothers, sisters ad.
Not to break our country’s laws
Do Ave march, in freedom’s cause,
DoAvn the street, down the street
We the specials kindly greet,
So wondrous kind of the poAvers that be
To provide them thus Avith a picnic free,
Would that Ave, too, could also stay,
Picnicking gaily on tAvelve bob a day;
But Ave, alas, must stern duty face,
Not yet for us, the sinecure place
Down the street, down the street
Still Ave march, Avith tireless feet,
And may we find success at last,
To make amends for the A\ 7 eary past.
A. GATES.
V O stands for Valuable Opportunity.
We have been notified that Mr.
M‘Leod, pastrycook, Queen street, is work-
ing with a staff of union waitresses and
cooks.
Strike Committee’s Plans.
First Part Matured Successfully.
Now Awaiting the Final Victory.
The great audience in the Centennial
Hall wms aroused to a fine pitch of enthu-
siasm last night Avhen the telegram w r as
read from Tramwmy President MacLachlan
giving the first day’s result of the Com-
pulsory Conference. Justice Higgins had
decided that no agreement could be ar-
rived at; that the cad wrns evidently
urgent—wms, in fact, menacing ad the capi-
tal cities of Australia, as w 7 ell as Newcastle,
and that therefore he referred the vital por-
tion of the plaint—the right of the men
to Avear their Union Badge to the Court,
and ordered the Court to commence its sit-
tings on Friday next.
The Strike Committee had thus accom-
plished the first of the tw o important things
it set out to do.
These Avere: (1) To secure recognition
of the Union. This has now been done in
spite of Mr. Badger, who protested that
he would never recognise the Union, and
never go before the Arbitration Court;
and it is certain from the steps he took to
prevent registration of the Union and the
threats he made as to fighting the Court’s
decision that had the “ general call out”
not been made the traimvay men’s troubles
Avould not have reached the Court for
many months.
The second point the Strike Committee
have set out to accomplish is the reinstate-
ment of ad hands without victimisation.
This should now be within easy reach.
Once the Court decides that the men were
justified in their claim for recognition of
their Union the road is open for the con-
clusion of the final stages of the struggle.
Negotiations may then be opened up for a
general cessation of hostilities, and if the
employers are fair and reasonable and de-
sire to see trade channels again open and
flowing freely for the benefit of all con-
cerned and the advancement of the State,
they can say the word and ad will be well.
But—THERE MUST BE NO VICTIMISA-
As far as the Combined Unions and the
Strike Executive are concerned, the fight
has been for a great principle, a principle
incorporated in industry all over the w 7 orld
and in the Statute Law of this Australian
Commonwealth. Once recognition of that
principle is secured the remainder should
be easily accomplished. In the meantime,
comrades of ad ranks must sit tight and
await orders. 7
The Chain Gang.
Well-known Citizen Protests.
The following letter is to hand just as
we are going to press. It speaks for
itself—
This (Wednesday) forenoon about 10.30,
my business took me to near the NeAv-
market Hotel, there I saw something that
made my blood run cold. I saw one of the
special constables, the last man but one
at the end near the Municipal yards. The
man was on horseback, and had in his right
hand a bar of iron or steel about 18 inches
long, and attached to the bar Avas about,
say 2 feet, of chain AA 7 ith a SAvivel at the
end. I pointed the and his weapon
out to at least 50 persons. This at the
beginning of the 20th century.
T. B. TRONSON.
Mr. Joe Codings states that he also saw
this special thug and his brutal weapon.
He describes it as an arrangement used
to lead a stallion or bull with, and states
that it would be easy to put a hole through
a boiler w 7 ith it, while even a mild blow
Avould kill a man outright. Mr. Codings
also saw “ specials ” armed in one case with
a murderous knife, and another with a
plumber’s heavy soldering iron.
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
Lieut.-Colonel Moore, speaking to a de-
fendant in the Central Police Court yester-
day, said: “ You take my advice and
don’t interfere with a member of the Police
Force w 7 hen he is on duty. He won’t
trouble you unless you interfere w r ith him
or happen to be breaking the law.” This,
indeed, will be neAvs to some people who
have been in Brisbane since Black Friday.
Those citizens w 7 ho got thumped with
batons, trampled on by horses, and in-
sulted by scalawag specials can now go
into some quiet corner and cudgel their
brains to discover Avhen or how 7 they trans-
gressed the law—the gallant colonel says
had they not done so they w r ould never have
been molested. Next, please.
FOR THIS, THANK COD.
For this, thank God, the people own
Themselves at last, the proof have shown
To tyrant men of tyrant deed,
To henchman of corrupting greed.
Henceforth their laws and they are one,
The course of scaly scabs is run,
And men walk straight in Freedom shod—
For this, thank God!
For this, thank God! No more some
knave
Enrobed in crime shall be slave
To foul corruption, do its will,
And heed its basest mandate still.
For we, the People, will be heard,
And these shall cower at the word,
Disowned and scourged beneath the rod—
For this, thank God.
ELLA WHEELER WILCOCK.
The Latest from the Various
Regiments in Labor’s Army.
Queensland Tinsmiths.
This Union held a meeting this morn-
ing. The secretary reported 19 neAV mem-
bers since the strike began. A secret ballot
Avas taken on the question or returning to
work. Result, 63 for standing firm till the
finish, four for giving in. There were 71
members present.
Waterside Workers.
A large meeting of this Union Avas held
this morning in the Maritime Hall—in fact,
more outside than inside. A resolution Avas
unanimously carried ‘ ‘ That this Union has
every confidence in the Strike Committee ;
and, further, Ave mean to stand firm and
remain loyal to the cause of Unionism.
No surrender.” Three ringing cheers Avere
given for the Strike Committee.
Port Brisbane Shipwrights.
At a meeting of the above union, held
this morning, a resolution wms unanim-
ously carried endorsing the action of the
Strike Executive up to date, and it was
also resolved that the members stand firm
until the present industrial trouble is over.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Open-air meetings w ere off on account of
the heavy storm and rain. The Centennial
Hall was, hoAvever, crowdedAo excess. Mr.
J. Huxham presided, and Mr. T. J. Ryan,
M.L.A., and Messrs. J. S. Codings and M.
KirWan spoke. Splendid enthusiasm w r as
manifest, especially w r hen Comrade Boul-
ton arrived from the Strike Committee and
read an important telegram from Mel-
bourne regarding the Compulsory Confer-
ence.
More Senility.
The senile, venom-spitting “Courier ”
has once more been wheezing pitifully.
Just listen to this from to-day’s leader:
“The law has been triumphantly vindi-
cated against Avould-be revolutionists.”
What IaAV has been vindicated ? Is it
Cahill’s or Badger’s? Those are the only
laAA 7 s that appear to hold SAvay here just
noAV. Then, aa t lio are the reA r olutionists ?
Does the cranky otd hag mean the .trade
unionists of Brisbane, or does she libel the
soldiers of the Commonwealth, who undergo
their regular drills so as to be prepared for
any enemy that may invade us ? Almost
all these men are also to be found in the
ranks of our industrial army to-day. A
word to the “ Courier ” and those Avho echo
its croAving: When the next Easter en-
campment of our volunteers takes place,
just go along and have a look at it, and
then ask yourselves Avhat Avould become of
those braggadocio bullies and sans-cullotes
that masqueraded in Market Square on
Tuesday morning before an imaginary foe
were the men who form it to take it into
their heads that the taunts of these
mountebanks had gone beyond endurance.
Unionists All.
HouseAvives, union men, and all inter-
ested, please note, —You can help the cause
greatly by refusing at all times to be served
in any shpp by assistants not wearing the
Medal or Union Badge, or failing this in-
sist that they must be Unionists.
This would not only encourage the timid
assistant, but would force the hands of the
“boss,” w r ho would soon see the value of
a union staff and a union badge if the pur-
chasing public demanded it. Try it. lou
can do no harm, and may do much good.
MUCH APPRECIATED.
Sir, — As a protest against the tyran-
nical action of Premier Denham and Police
Commissioner Cahill in refusing a proces-
sion, or a meeting,, to-day, wuthout even
the courtesy of a reason in the latter’s let-
ter, I enclose you £1 toAvards the Strike
Fund, and more will shortly be sent you
from this household, wdiich comprises seven
electors. I would also add that a friend
and I—though Ave don’t belong to unions,
being professional men—are immediately
discontinuing our subscriptions to the
“ Courier,” and refusing to ride in the
trams. As a business man, lam con-
vinced of the gentlemanly and managerial
Avay in w-hich the Strike Committee are
conducting their business. Their actions
are a monument to their ability and cap-
ability for hard Avork, and an example to the
incapable public officers of the present Go-
vernment and Public Service. Wishing
your committee all success in its humani-
tarian work, and praying for the upholding
of the right.—Yours sincerely,
BULIMBA ELECTOR.
Brisbane, February 13.
[The £1 has been paid, to the Strike
Fund, and Mr. J. S. Codings holds the
official receipt. The Strike Committee de-
sires to express its thanks both for the
subscription and the kindly letter. (Ed.
S.B.)]
OUR HONOUR BADGE.
Two ladies noticing that many strikers
had lost their ribbons, or Avorn them out.
got busy this morning with 80 yards of red
ribbon. Their stock was speedily exhaus-
ted, and they are arranging for more. Well
done sisters! That is the true spirit of
our movement. Voluntary effort Avherever
good w 7 ork can be done.
Plenty of Work for Strikers.
One of the “ Bulletin” scouts was down
among the scabs at the wharves and was
pleased with the picture he saw.
Howard Smith’s Wharf is stacked from
end to end with potatoes, horse feed, salt,
and a great assortment of all sorts of mer-
chandise. Some of the perishables are
under cover of canvas, and the storing
space is taxed to its full capacity, even the
platforms being stacked with weighty pack-
ages.
Badger’s armoured waggon was backed
into the shed while the writer was there,
and no less than 15 of Cahill’s piti-
able mercenaries were with it. Four of
them wrestled with a few cases and man-
aged to load up about two tons of ma<
chinery. Cahill came along in a motor car
to direct operations, and it wrns as humor-
ous as a Chinese opera to see the armoured
Avaggon snorting up the hill Avith the 15
cowherd cash chasers riding in front, on
either side, and at the rear of the ugly
thing.
The Buninyong was being unloaded by
about 20 parrot-chested, calf-kneed images,
all of whom were sagging at the hips
and Avobbling like lame ducks while they
were attempting to do the toil of the stal-
wart Avaterside men. The score of scabs
would not shift as much cargo in a wrnek
as 10 heroes of the hook Avould handle in a
day.
The Tinana was being unloaded at the
Mary-street wharf. Bags of rotting pota-
toes Avere spread over the eastern end of
this wharf, and about 30 scabs w 7 ere mak-
ing feeble attempts to do the work of men.
The daily liars ought to take pictures of
their friends —the scabs —and then citizens
would have a chance to learn how they are
being misled by the press of the capitalistic
class.
With the railw r ay and the shipping al-
most completely hung up, there is not much
fear of the bosses breaking doAvn the
strike. The rank and file of the strikers
are as cheerful and solid as they w 7 ere a
fortnight ago, and the leaders have their
fullest confidence. Victory for Unionism
IS ASSURED, and it is coming along at
express speed.
Cahill’s Lambs.
A most disgraceful scene was enacted at
Paddington on Tuesday night, 6th instant,
at about 8.30 o’clock. Fifteen specials,
wanting something to do, ran wild. It ap-
pears that a number of boys were sitting
alongside the Continentals chatting quietly
over various matters. About 20 or 30
yards away from them four or five
well-known residents of the district w 7 ere
talking over the daily topics. Two of the
local police had passed by a few minutes
before and found nothing wrong. Judge
of the surprise of these residents when a
number of young men, accompanied by a
regular constable, rushed round the corner
into the midst of the boys. There was a
wild stampede and much screaming as one
or other was struck down wfith a baton. It
w r as at first thought there was going to be
a push fight, but one of the residents above
referred to seemed to take in the situation
at once, and ran across, followed by others.
He spoke pretty straight to the Specials,
telling them that they were only there to
do their duty, and that the boys were doing
nothing, and that they (the Specials) had
acted very cruelly. The specials climbed
down considerably, each one saying, “ I did
nothing,” but one of them was brave
enough to say “We got a telephone mes-
sage to the effect that there was stone-
throwing going on in Church-street.”
“Why,” replied the resident, “Church-
street is over in Milton.” The precious
specials had run away with the idea that
because a church once stood where the Con-
tinentals are now located, the name of that
particular street must be Church-street. At
all events it was a most blackguardly act
and calls for inquiry by Commissioner
Cahill.
Among the specials was an ex-policeman,
who had been discharged from the force
for assault, and had also lost his position
as a tram motorman. This particular in-
dividual used his baton most freely. It is
hard to realise that, in a civilised country
such as Queensland is supposed to be, any-
one should be allowed to charge wildly with
batons for no provocation whatever. One
would have thought that the specials would
have had the commonsense to ask the boys
what they w 7 ere doing. But no, they pre-
ferred to rush at the lads, w r ho were sitting
down, and walloped them as a black would
strike his gin with a nulla nulla. Ones
life is hardly safe with these irresponsible,
legalised bludgeoners knocking about. But
it is a long road that has no turning, and
they may some day find out the blun-
der of not inquiring where Church-street
was dearly. ' *
This is only one of many instances of
brutality by the specials.
Word has been sent to us that 25
sleeper-getters the travelling truck
(sawmill) who were out on strike at the
Caboolture bush siding got notice last night
to come in and cut firewood for the locomo-
tives. The men refused.
With regard to the statement in to-day’s
“ Courier ” that some 30 men had returned
to work at the Government Printing Office,
we have been asked to state in fairness to
the large number of unionists who fell into
line at the beginning of the strike with
their workers, that only three unionist com-
positors went in. A few others did go
back, but these were not unionists, but
stopped work in sympathy with those who
were.
Brutal Assault by Specials.
The Injured Man’s Story.
Supported by Well-known Citizens.
“The Bulletin” has received from Mr.-
C. J. Burke, of Victoria street, West End,
a signed statement as to a cowardly and
brutel assault perpetrated upon him on
Saturday last by two brutal “Special”
constables. These beauties are well known,
and reside at Hardgrave road, South Bris-
bane. Apparently no justification was
given for the brutality displayed, for on
this point w r e have also the signed state-
ment of one eye-w 7 itness who avers that he
can bring others who saw T the occurrence,
and w r ho are whiling to testify.
Mr. Burke is a member of our local De-
fence Force, and plays one of the chief in-
struments in the band. The assault not
only loosened his teeth, but so injured his
mouth as to make playing impossible and
eating a painful operation. The tAvo brutes
Avaited behind the closed door of their
workshop and stole up behind Burke and
cruelly beat him. He had no chance to pro-
tect himself, as he Avas carrying a large
parcel of food supplies for his family, and
had no knowledge or warning of the in-
tended assault. Mr. Burke is a quiet, un-
assuming man, thoroughly respected in the
neighbourhood in which Tie lives. luquiries
made go to prove that the same cannot be
said of the two cowardly brutes Avho as-
saulted him. Will Commissioner Cahill
please instruct his ordinary police stationed
in the district to inquire into the matter,
and deal with the offenders as they should
be dealt w r ith.
TRAMWAY EMPLOYEES.
There are other liars besides those on
the capitalists’ papers in Brisbane to-day,
that is w r hy the follow ing is necessary :
We, the undermentioned members of the
Australian Tramway Employees’ Associa-
tion (Queensland Branch) do hereby abso-
lutely deny the report spread about by un-
scrupulous persons that w r e had gone back
on our mates, and Avere scabbing on the
railway.
(Signed) C. H. Perry, W. H. Perry, A.
W. Perry.
An Open Letter to Civil Servants.
Fellow-officers, —If you can look upon
your conduct during the past week or two
without a blush of shame, you have indeed
fallen victims to the false environment of
official life.
Not many days ago, men and women
looked upon it as an honour to be doing
the civil work of the State, and you so en-
gaged took pride in being civil servants.
But now all this is changed. The blackest
blot of degradation lias been cast upon the
“service,” when thousands of you volun-
teered to do the most hireling and servile
work ever allotted to men. Without con-
science, you took up arms and marched in
martial array against the toilers engaged
in their gallant and arduous struggle for
elementary liberty. You bludgeoned heads
without scruple and under the slightest
pretext, and some of you were concerned
in the most atrocious outrages committed
during the present strike. You now take
a vile delight in, and openly boast of the
part you played. The few among you who
stood alone, challenging the issue of sum-
monses, preferring St. Helena to the loss
of their manhood and self-respect, you
brand as dynamitards and revolutionists.
And w r hy ? Because, at the outset of your
official career you have had inculcated
into you the idea of being “eminently re-
spectable ’’; that the toilers are not of your
class, and are your political and social
enemies, and you fall victims to the lies
which rapidly form the basis of your future
ideas. But you are all w orking men of the
same class as those striking for their
hood. Their aims and aspirations should
be yours. Your idea of superiority is born
of your own ignorance. You are shut out
from the sources of life, and are doing work
for w r ages, which it pleases you to call
salaries, and which barely cover the cost of
living. You are as much bridled and sad-
dled for the few r to ride who claim a right
to the material resources of life as any
striker. Almost all of you think in the
same rut, and any one daring to burst the
soul killing cerements of civil service en-
vironment, you shun as an object of hor-
ror. But, here and there men are now ap-
pearing among you with the worker’s man-
hood radiant in their eyes. They are ra-
pidly breaking from the capitalist class tra-
ditions, out of the soul-slaving surround-
ing of the civil service, into the full light
of the Socialist ideal.
MARIEN RICKARDS.
HOW CONSIDERATE!
Two regular mounted police and four
prickly pear “ traps,” at 5.40 p.m. yester-
day, 13th, rode under the veranda of a fruit
shop in Petrie-terrace while the rain lasted.
Pedestrians were thereby prevented from
seeking shelter there, and, besides, had to
walk around those heroes (?) of the Mar-
ket Square on the muddy road over their
ankles in mud. Of such is the kingdom of
scabdom.
V O stands for Vanishing Oppression.*
