

Official Bulletin. No. 51.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 51.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1912
“Honest” Unionism.
There have been reams of paper used in
the past in the discussion of such subjects
as ‘ 4 On what part of this eccentric orb of
ours was the lost city of Atlantis situated ?”
14 Who discovered Australia?” “When did
Chinamen first wear pigtails?” “Was
Julius Caesar bald?” Another question
that is in a fair way to cause a lot of con-
troversy is, “ What is ‘honest ’ unionism?”
Is there any hope of securing the services
of a modern Diogenes to go in search of
and definitely locate this mystifying entity.
We have shrivelled news sheets, with claw-
like finger nails, pulling to tatters what
has had to pass muster for Unionism in
Queensland for many years past, all the
while they have been shrieking for
“honest” unionism-some of them, in
dread of getting the spurious to kind, have
declined to deal with any brand; business
houses that have waxed fat on the wages
of the worker, but who won’t allow their
assistants to wear the symbol of any asso-
ciation, assert they have several travellers
flying through space and 'scanning the
horizon in search of the “ honest ” article;
society women who recently had to send
out for various household items, and w*ho
consequently vowed a vendetta against any
man, woman, or child who subscribed a
copper to any union fund, have, while can-
vassing for votes, declared that an
44 Jionest ” unionist is simply “a dear”;
a Black Friday bludgeoner, on being asked
w r hy he sent a man to sleep w ith his baton,
replied it was simply because he (the man)
w 7 as not an “honest” unionist; a magis-
trate, while sentencing a prisoner to three
months without the option, judicially de-
clared that if the accused had been an
“ honest ” unionist he w r ould have returned
him to the bosom of his family in his own
motor car; a railway commissioner neg-
lected to forward mails to London at the
proper time, and is allowing goods traffic
to become congested simply because of the
dearth of 4 4 honest ’ ’ unionists ; dredges
and barges in Moreton Bay have become
the apparently fixed abode of many species
of crustaceous animals because certain
Government officials say none but ad-
herents of “honest” unionism will be
allowed to go on board; one highly-salaried
civil servant, who cut a very prominent
figure as a special, w r hen found belabouring
his wife wdth a riding wffiip fin a recent
Sunday evening told a meddlesome magis-
trate who compelled him to desist, that it
was all because of the absence of 4 4 honest’ ’
unionism that the rumpus was raised; it is
further alleged that the reason why 44 the
badge ” was debarred from being displayed
in public was just because the union it re-
presented was not considered to be of the
“honest” description; and now Cabinet
Ministers and certain other seekers of Par-
liamentary honours are telling us in adver-
tisements and from the stump that they
would not dream of standing were it not
for their unsatisfied desire to grasp “hon-
est ” unionism by the hand. Ordinary
unionists, w T hen you lay hold of the pencil
on April 27, let these people see that their
hypocrtiical mouthings won’t save them
from extinction.
"BISHOP” BARNES AGAIN.
When a deputation of Government
Printing Office compositors, who went out
in defence of unionism, waited on Mr.
Barnes in connection with reinstatement,
he (Barnes) stated there would be no vic-
timisation, and that the first duty of the
men, if allowed to return to work, would
be to the Government. Now, as to the
first point—victimisation. He has victim-
ised a number of men to the extent of six
extra hours’ work a week without extra
pay. As to the second point—duty to the
Government. What did he about
loyalty to the Government when he said
that the late Premier (Kidston) was
drummed out of Falkirk? A most con-
temptible and lying statement, and one
which nobody but the ‘ ‘ Bishop ’ ’ could be
guilty of. The Government compositors
could never expect justice from a man of
that kind—a man who never had the
decency to apologise to Kidston, although
called upon to do so by those sitting with
him. The 27th of next month will, we
hope, bring along the justice the Harbours
and Rivers workers, the Railway workers,
and the G.P.O. compositors deserve.
BRITISH FREEDOM (?)
Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman (late
Prime Minister of England) said he would
do his best to “prevent England being
made a playground for the idle rich ” ; also,
that “13,000,000 people in Great Britain
were alw*ays on the threshold of starva-
tion.” Consequently it was with no sur-
prise we read the following cablegram in
Thursday’s papers: “A constable saw a
man stealing a loaf of bread, and captured
him. The thief pleaded to be released, and
cried, ‘ Please, sir, I am starving, and so
is the missus. Come and see.’ Accord-
ingly the policeman accompanied him to
his home, vdiere they discovered the man’s
wife cooking a small dog.” Sir Henry’s
statement, made some time ago, shows con-
clusively that the destitution existing in
England cannot be put down to the coal
strike. It is essential that the workers of
Queensland should send to Parliament on
the 27th of next month men vdio will do
their best to prevent such as stated above
from happening in sunny Queensland.
The Premier w r as treading on very dan-
gerous ground last night when he referred
to how some South American States were
governed. Brother Jonathan and his citi-
zens are very sensitive about slurs on their
nationality.
The Baton Still Prevails.
For some w r eeks now the grotesque
iniquitous railway inquisition has been pa-
rading its victims before the public eye,
much in the same manner as convicts were
formerly compelled to labour on the roads.
The game of the cat and the mouse has
been indulged in by certain superior railway
officials to their heart’s content. They were
made use of to disclose the policy of the
Government long before the Premier opened
up at Corinda, and the usual despicable tac-
tics have been followed—just allow so much
information to reach the public as you think
will serve your object; the Press will prove
complacent to your wishes. j
As we have already remarked, it is not
only the men who are being flagellated by
this railway cat-o’-nine-tails—the travel-
ling public and country producers also come
in contact with it when transacting their
business. But undoubtedly the greatest
sufferers are the former employees, who are
well aw*are that if the affairs of the State
were properly attended to they would have
been back at their posts over a month ago.
But the interests of the country have to
give way to Government exigencies and de-
partmental vindictiveness.
The 300 ex-railway employees who have
been refused reinstatement, and who have
seen the unfair reports of the statements
made before this Brisbane Star Chamber,
and who can direct attention to the ob-
stacles placed in the way of trade, made
application to Commissioner Cahill for per-
mission to hold a public meeting to-morrow
night, in order to make known the true
state of affairs. This, however, did not
suit the ticket of the forces of Capitalism,
as the following letter will show: —
“ Office of the Commissioner of Police,
“Brisbane, 28th March, 1912.
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter of yester-
day’s date, applying for permission to hold
a public meeting in Albert Square on the
evening of 30th instant, I have the honour,
by direction, to inform you that the Com-
missioner cannot entertain this applica-
tion.
“I have the honour to be, Sir, your
obedient servant,
“H. M. CHALLINOR, Secretary.
“Mr. J. L. McCarthy, Secretary Railway
Strike Committee, Trades Hall, Brisbane.”
THE CAPITALIST.
The Capitalist cried his achievements to
the four corners of the earth.
“ We have annihilated space,” he said,
‘ 1 we travel ten miles while our fathers
travelled one.”
“Are you wiser?” asked the philoso-
pher.
“ Industry is dispensing with labour,”
he pursued; “ the machine can make a score
of things while the hand of man make
one.”
“ Are you happier?” mused the seer.
“ We make more goods and cheaper
goods than our ancestors made, and we, as
a class, have power and riches.”
“Are you nobler?” questioned the
sage.
—After Scott Nearing.
CRACKERS.
It may not be generally know n that the
occupancy of any office of profit under the
crow 7 n debars a person from holding a seat
in Parliament.
It is a moot point whether Bouchard,
Jimmy Allan, the Woolloongabba Wobbler
Hunter, and the balance of the Parlia-
mentary mimic John Hops didn’t auto-
matically lose their seat when they
specialised in the only thing their intel-
ligence w r ould allow them to specialise in—
the constabulary.
The office of scab constable, whether
remunerated or not, is distinctly an office
of profit under the Crown. It is little dif-
ferent to the Chiltern Hundreds of John
Bull’s country.
MORE RAILWAY SWEATING.
Short extract from to-day’s Inquisition
report:—
“Timothy Moroney, 21, clerk in the
goods office, said he had had no respect
for the departmental rules since the de-
partment broke rule 56 with him. Rule
56 said that a man doing work in a
higher grade would be paid the lowest
salary of that grade. He should have
been "paid 5/6 a day, but got only 1/8.
He u 7 as only 15 years of age at the time,
but he considered he was doing a man’s
work, and doing it well.”
Where will this thing stop if the sweat-
ing Government is for another
three years?
AN ECHO OF ANARCHISM.
Those who rushed to the aid of Capital-
ism in the late industrial upheaval were
called upholders of “law and order the
men who wished to be men, and who made
a big sacrifice to assert their manhood were
officially characterised as anarchists.. The
evidence of one man hailed before the rail-
way inquisition shows in which camp the
danger to life and property lay. Here is
an extract :
The Board : What union did you be-
long to ?—I did not belong to any union.
He was indignant at the action of the
Government. A certain night-officer had
made himself very obnoxious, flourishing
a revolver in a threatening way, and the
witness left his work as a protest against
anarchy.
Campaign Items.
ITHACA ELECTORATE.
An Ithaca correspondent sends the fol-
lowing Allow' me a little space in your
“ Bulletin” to state a few extracts at the
declaration of candidates at Ithaca. Mr.
Gilday, on rising, stated that he was
pleased to have the pleasure of standing for
Ithaca as a member of the Labour Party.
He said that it was his intention to put up
a good, clean fight, and hoped his oppo-
nent would do likewise. He also stated that
judging by the result of his contest with
Mr. Macartney a few months back £pr the
Toowong by-electorate, he had hopes of
gaining the Ithaca seat for the Labour
Party. Mr. Haw-haw Hawthorn, in answer
to this, said that it was his intention to
act fair and square in this fight, as Mr.
Gilday had stated. He then went 013. to
say he was pleased to be representing the
party that upholds law and order, and not
the party that believes in mob rule. He
said that he was convinced there w 7 ere
enough electors in Ithaca who believe in
law and order to return him at the head of
the poll. At this juncture there was inter-
jecting from some of Mr. Gilday’s support-
ers, and Mr. Gilday told Mr. Hawthorn
that he was making an early start to put
up a clean fight. But, nevertheless, de-
spite all Mr. Hawthorn’s talk of mob rule
and his afternoon teas, we’ll show him w r e
hold the political baton this time, and will
baton him into political oblivion on the
27th April with our votes.
TOOWONG ELECTORATE.
The combined executives of Toowong
and Taringa branches met last evening in
Mr. W. Landsbury’s house, when arrange-
ments were further advanced for the cam-
paign. It was decided that Labour Candi-
date Lewis McDonald should hold the open-
ing meeting of his campaign on Wednes-
day night next, 3rd April, in the Oddfel-
lows’ Hall, Toowmng, when Federal Labour
Member Finlayson will also speak. Mr. W.
Strickland will preside. A plan of meet-
ings in the different centres of the elector-
ate was mapped out, the dates and places
of wdiich will be announced in the “Bulle-
tin ” and in other ways. Reports were re-
ceived that the w r ork of canvassing was
being enthusiastically undertaken, and
several promises of financial and other as-
sistance w 7 ere received. A meeting will be
arranged to form a branch at Indooroopilly
on Monday night next, in Mr. Chime’s resi-
dence, Musgrave-road, when all persons in-
terested in the return of Mr. McDonald are
invited to be present.
MAREE W.P.O.
A meeting of the Labour campaign com-
mittee will be held in Innes’s Hall, Wel-
lington-road, on Saturday, the 30th inst.,
at 8 p.m.
Electors willing to assist in the return
of the Labour candidate, Mr. H. Bertram,
are invited to come along and join the com-
mittee.
SID BARROW, Hon. Secretary.
BURANDA W.P.O.
A good lot of the canvassers, etc., met
at Fiveways Committee Rooms last night,
and splendid and hearty work was reported.
Very little of the electorate is left uncam
vassed now, and only a few more women
are needed. Mesdames Beard and John-
son, to save time, will take a report on
Wednesday nights at the Thompson Estate
end, at Mr. Bowker’s (committee rooms),
and report to the Central (Fiveways ) on
Thursday evenings, wiiere Mrs. Lane meets
the canvassers. It was resolved to get
Mesdames Huxham and Hewdtt to address
the women on Mondays, the Bth and 15th,
if rooms are procurable. This will be noti-
fied in the usual way later on. Mr. Hux-
ham opens at the Alliance Hall next Thurs-
day, and meetings will follow 7 in speedy suc-
cession. If possible, near the end of the
campaign, a special meeting for women
w r ill be arranged for the three electorates
(Buranda, Maree, and Oxley), and our
women must be induced to vote.
On Saturday night the committee rooms
will again be available, and on Monday Mr.
Doyle will go through the women’s books,
and Mrs. Lane wishes as many as can do
so to bring in their books to her at 4 p.m.,
to be ready for Mr. Doyle in the evening.
Collecting cards are still available. Re-
ports on this subject are very favourable.
WINDSOR W.P.O.
A general meeting of the above organi-
sation, to further the candidature of Lab-
our Candidate Crampton, will be held at
the Good Templars’ Hall, Stoneleigh-street,
Lutwyche, to-morrow (Saturday) evening,
at 8 o’clock. Sympathisers and friends of
both sexes invited.
J. G. HALL, Hon. Secretary.
NUNDAH W.P.O.
The adjourned meeting of the above will
be held on Saturday night at R. Wyllie’s
Bowling Green, at 8 o’clock.
All interested in the return of the Lab-
our candidate in the Nundah electorate are
invited to be present,, and use their en-
deavours to bring others along also.
The Premier went to sea for three days
to prepare his policy speech; he was very
much at sea last night with his facts and
figures, and he wdll find himself as much
at sea after the 27th April next as did the
capitalistic clique at the Water and Sewer-
age Board elections.
In the Firing Line.
A FEW BULL’S-EYES.
Labour has a magnificent array of
talent in the metropolis. The standard of
its representatives indicate that ultimately
we must win.
# * *
Never before have so many virile young
Austraians, brainy and intellectual off-
shoots of the soil, carried the great and
noble banner of humanity.
* * *
Like in the strike campaign, we out-
manouvered the Denhamites at every turn,
and our young Parliamentary candidates
are of an infinitely superior calibre to
theirs.
* * *
When Denham realised that we were
going to capture the capital city from
capitalistic tyranny, by the infusion of new
blood, he became hysterical in rushing after
similar material.
* * *
But there was none available, and he
had to depend upon Costs, that great para-
sitical institution, which, amongst other
evils, the English courts have handed
down to us.
* * *
The political body of Mrs. Hawthorn’s
husband, which wa'B indecently interred by
Macartney and Honest Bob many months
ago —Kidston and Barlow snivelling during
the obsequies—was at once exhumed.
* * *
No greater reverence could be paid by
and Henry II at the tomb of an a’Beckett
than is now being offered at the unseemly
exhibition of the political Corpse.
* * *
Ithaca, Toowong, Windsor, Fortitude
Valley, Paddington, and South Brisbane
are all represented on the Boodle side by
the wig and gown —the notorious six-and-
eight-pence of toryism and reaction.
* * *
But Labour’s active henchmen will un-
mask these legal hypocrites whom Denham
had to turn to in his dire distress.
* * *
Just imagine; the Government can only
get graball barristers and out-of-work
solicitors to spread its precious law’n’order
policy in the city and its environs.
* * *
The people of Windsor should feel
honoured in having the services of Jack
Crampton offered them. Jack has a know-
ledge of most things political and social,
and he would adorn any legislative cham-
ber in the world.
* * *
Try and think how the vote of an in-
telligent man or woman will go in Enog-
gera—the candidates are poor old Dick
Trout and able little Billy Llovd! Nuff
said!
* * *
Jack Gilday is typical of our land, racy
of the soil. He knows the problem, knows
the Alpha and Omega of organising, and
alongside him Mrs. Hawthorn’s husband
looks an inanimate object, a veritable Rip
Van Winkle with seed in his hair and cob-
webs where the grey matter is supposed to
be.
* * *
Brisbane has an opportunity of dis-
carding its unwieldy sugar bag of pompos-
ity and being represented in Parliament
by something that smacks more of ballast
and responsibility than the ‘ i come-and-
have-a-drink-old-chap ” sort of capacity.
* * *
It is taken for granted that Toowong
is a pocket borough for Tired Jim
Macartney. But when Lewis McDonald
has finished with the dummy of the A. J.T.
firm, there won’t be too many flowers.
* * *
Lewis is of the Labour movdteient, and
he is a good young Australian who has
made his name as an organiser. Whether
successful or not he will be heard of, and
that prominently, when the little six-and-
eight imposition will be resting in the
political Toowong cemetery. L. McDonald
followed an exceptional secretary, Albert
Hinchcliffe, as C.P.E. secretary and when
it is said that he has done it with eminent
success it is enough.
* * *
McMinn will give the hypocritical poli-
tics of the “ Bishop,” with its thin veneer
of statecraft sanctity a shock that even a
big majority won’t neutralise.
* * *
Tom Bridges and Bob McCormack!!!
Is comment necessary? Bob is one of the
most promising of the Australian national
guard. He carries a Parliamentary baton
in his knapsack. Bridges carries a Cahill
one in his sleeve.
* * *
The Paddington electorate is a decep-
tive proposition, and it mustn’t be taken
too easy. However there isn’t much of a
problem in the choice. Labor’s candidate
is a student who knows life and has met
all the big Labor leaders in Europe.
Jack Fihelly is one of our most bril-
liant young men, and you all know the
caustic and clever pen he has used for so
long in the district and know*s or is known
by every man, woman and child.
* * #
Mrs. Hawthorn’s husband as a Council-
lor is known as the “ guardian of
goat.” The goat question is just up to
his intellectual level, as the Bottle O in-
dustry suffices to cloud the gigantic brow
of Appel.
* * *
Joe Sherry’s effervescing energy is a
delightful contrast to the antideluvianism
of the discredited Bouchard.
* * *
Dan Dowling, one time Mayor of Gym-
pie, and the man who made North Rock-
hampton Brennan look white about the
gills a few years hack, is up against An-
drew Petrie at Toombul.
* * *
Andrew forms one of those political
tragedies which meanders sorrowfully
along on life’s stage, spasm after spasm,
on the strength of the public’s charitable
disinclination to throw the brick of the
not wanted at the inoffensively inane.
* * *
Walsh at Paddington is of the tribe—
pampered children of fortune who have
had the pleasure of sitting at the table of
Fat and getting one or two of the crumbs.
He has just enough ability to brush the
dust from the coat of capital and his re-
ward is a victory over Pepper-and-salt
Sweetman.
* * *
Macrossan is a smart youth with con-
siderable goods of a gaudy description in
the shop window. At present he is one of
the small political dogs—the poodles—who
bark for the big dog. In the legal Jargon, he
was “devilling” for give-Jimmy-a-job ”
Blair when the latter refused a judgeship.
Now, of course, that Jimmy is married he
has turned Denhamite. Wonderful how
the moment a man marries he wants a
“ Stiddy Job.”
* * *
The “ Stiddy Job ” is at present occu-
pied by Tom O’Sullivan. That awful
mediocrity is to be sacrificed as was Mrs.
H.’s husband, and quite a formidable ar-
ray of Costs is after the job.
* * *
Macrossan and Walsh and O’Rourke
know that it is Jimmy’s forty pieces of
siller, but they are all hoping that Jimmy
and the other fellow generally will be
beaten.
* * *
Billy Bertram should stretch the face
of the Raucus Hunter more than ever ,and
probably the latter will again draw on his
deep well of vituperation and ridiculous
shrieking.
* * *
Looking over the names of the metrop-
olitan candidates, Labor men can pat
themselves on the back. Win or lose the
cause has practicaly a monopoly of the
brains of the younger generation.
* * *
Mr. E. N. Arnold is yet another of the
virile young idea who stand for Labour
first and Labour all the time. It will be
exquisitely amusing to the cynical if the
obsolete old Millaquin and Zengarie
Stodart beats him in the Logan.
MEETING OF CANDIDATES.
A meeting of all endorsed Labour can-
didates in the metropolitan area has been
arranged to take place on Monday after-
noon next in No. 9 room, Trades Hall, for
the purpose of discussing matters in-
cidental to the campaign. The time of
meeting is 3 o’clock and all the candidates
are urged to be present as important mat-
ters are to be dealt with.
The Prime Minister (Mr. Fisher) will
leave Melbourne for Brisbane on 10th
April. He anticipates being absent from
Melbourne for about a month.
The capitalistic Press of the city don’t
show too healthy an appearance at present i
with all the Government subsidising. One
that formerly boasted about being perma-
nently enlarged now seems to be perma-
nently shrunken ; another has to have most
of its electioneering matter linotyped in a
city jobbing office. But then it always dab-
bled a lot in jobbery.
The Premier of New South Wales yes-
terday afternoon despatched a cablegram to
the Agent-General in London, giving him
authority to expend £lOOO in the direction
of providing meals for 50,000 persons in
provincial towns in Great Britain, in which
the suffering, caused by the strike is most
acutely felt. An Australian character will
be given to these meals by using only Aus-
tralian mutton, beef, flour, butter, and
other available commodities.
One of the morning papers, describing
the hall in which the Premier got rid of
his policy speech, said that “the hall was
tastefully decorated, British, Australian,
and Queensland flags proving fitting em-
blems of fhe party representing responsible
Government.” Is it not rank ingratitude
that the Stars and Stripes, to which one of
Denham’s best friends owes allegiance, and
who assisted in no small degree to give him
the opportunity of slang-whanging his fel-
low citizens, were not displayed at this
meeting.
A gentleman who was in the vicinity of
Normanby about 2 o’clock this afternoon
states that a car was coming down towards
the park at the rate of 10 or 12 miles per
hour, and that the motorman was sitting
on the front seat of the car, with arms
folded, talking to the conductor, who was
standing with one foot on the platform and
the other on the running board. Our cor-
respondent, wdio gives the number of the
car, very pertinently observes that the fre-
quency of tram mishaps is easily accounted
for when this is the idea some of the em-
ployees have as to how they should per-
form their duty.
TIMBER WORKERS’ UNION.
A Special Mass MEETING of the
Federated Timber Workers’ Union will be
held in the Trades Hall on SATURDAY
AFTERNOON NEXT, the 30th inst., at
2.30. A full attendance of members ift
requested.
R. O. ANDERSON, Gen Sec.
