

Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 4.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1912.
14,000 Additional Men Out.
VICTORY ASSURED.
The following wire was received from
Townsville as we were going to press:
“Mass meeting here to-day; 2000
workers decided cease work 8 a.m. Monday;
all members of A.W.A. from Charleston to
Bundaberg, totalling 12,000, will down
tools Monday in support Brisbane strug-
gle.— M’COR MACK.”
To-day’s Developments.
The Strike Committee reports tb-night
that to-day’s work has been unusually
heavy, though mostly of a routine nature.
The Government and the Police have no
solution to offer for the very difficult situa-
tion but force, but the Committee is satis-
fied that now that the sphere of influence
is extending so rapidly their programme—
The Peaceful Holiday”—must triumph.
Sunday’s Programme.
A DAY OF REST as far as possible.
UNION MEETINGS if already arranged
for.
ALL PICKETS TO CONTINUE DUTY
AS USUAL.
Monday Morning.
Every Striker to attend in Turbot
Street at 10 o’clock on Monday morning,
to receive
PROGRESS REPORT.
Food Supplies.
The Strike Committee desires to notify
that arrangements have been made witj
the following establishments to supply fooc
to all desiring it, viz. :
BAKERS.
WUERSCHI NG, Spring Hill.
SHE AD, W., South Brisbane.
PRUDENCE, J., Melbourne St.
CO-OPERATIVE BAKERY, Valley.
ENEVER, Valley.
MRS. LANE, Paddington.
Me EARL AN E, V alley.
McMAHON, Heal St., Valley.
McMAHON, Peel St., S. Brisbane.
RYAN, Jane St., Valley.
Amounting to 40,000 loaves per day,
manufactured strictly by Union Labour,
under Strike conditions. Six more shops
nre expected for to-morrow.
BUTCHERS.
ROBERTSON, New Farm.
BYRNE, Valley.
CHUBB, West End.
ASHCROFT, Mt. Pleasant Road.
YOUNG, Annerly Road.
BE VAN BROS., Prospect Terrace.
FLOUR,
At all Municipal and Shire Council
Offices and Divisional Boards throughout
Brisbane and suburbs.
RESTAURANTS.
“ JUBILEE,” Wickham Street.
“ GREEN’S ” (2), Albert Street.
“EXCHANGE CAFE,” Queen St.
All Unionists who can possibly pay for
what they require are urged to do so, as
the Committee desires to hold its funds in
reserve as far as possible for those needy
comrades who cannot afford to pay. To
"these “Strike Coupons” will be issued,
and no Unionist should apply for a Coupon
if he can possibly do without it. “Help
your Committee to help you.”
Ipswich and Bundamba.
Comrades March into Line.
IPSWICH, Friday.
A vast meeting took place at Ipswich
Workshops to-day. The miners marched
from Blackstone, headed by the band, to
the Railway Workshops gate. Dave Gled-
son, secretary of the Miners’ Union, and
Tom Brown, secretary of the Railway
Labourers’ Guild, led the way, followed by
500 miners. The Railway Gates were
reached at 11.45 a.m., and were addressed
by the two comrades, Gledson and Brown.
At 12 o’clock (lunch hour) the Railway
workers began to file out. The speakers
took their stand on a rise, with the miners
behind them and the Railway men before
them. Stirring addresses were delivered
by the leaders, who included Wm. Hefferan
(endorsed Labour candidate for the Bremer
electorate), Frank C. Cooper, Dave Gled-
son, and Tom Brown. The men concerned
immediately elected representatives to the
Strike Committee.
Later. The Ipswich Railway Workshops
employees have decided to gather at the
gates to-night at 5 o’clock and march into
Ipswich. The solidity of the men in this
great struggle has been unprecedented. A
conference of Unions takes place to-night,
and will undoubtedly mean that all Unions
will be called upon to cease work forth-
with. Already about 1400 Railway men
are out.
“Shooting Begins” was the “Tele-
graph’s ” heading to the revolver shot that
went off “on its own” in Market Square
on Thursday.
Peace and Order.
Objected to by the Police
Authorities.
The following official communications
took place to-day:
Office of Commissioner of Police,
Brisbane, 3rd Feb., 1912.
Sir, —It has been brought under my no-
tice that a number of men in groups with
bands their arms bearing the letters
are stationed about tlie streets of
the City at the instance of some person or
persons at the Trades Hall and that they
purport to be there in the interests of
public order.
I have now to inform you that the pre-
servation of public order is entrusted to
me by the Government of this State, and I
will not allow any interloping or interfer-
ence with my functions. I have now to di-
-1 ect you to withdraw the above-referred-
to persons from the streets, otherwise the
Police will be ordered to treat them as
street-loiterers.
I have th 9 honour, to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
W. G. CAHILL,
n Commissioner of Police.
Ihe Secretary, Combined Unions’ Strike
Committee, Trades Hall, Brisbane.
The following reply was sent to the
above:—
TRADES HALL,
Brisbane, February 3, 1912.
Sir, On behalf of my Committee I
must express astonishment at the tone and
contents of your letter of even date, as we
pi esumed that the police were interested in
the maintenance of peace and order. We
certainly are. It is in pursuance of that ob-
ject that we have sent our men out to use
their utmost endeavours to assist in pre-
serving peace. They have carried out their
duties m an irreproachable manner, and
pi ominent business men have expressed
theii hearty appreciation of the disposi-
tion we have shown in assisting to keep
order.
This being the case, what good purpose
can you serve by taking the drastic step
you indicate in your communication ?
Has it beco/ne a crime for peaceabiy dis-
posed citizens to maintain peace?
My messenger will, if you desire, await
your further communication.
Your respectfully,
J. HARRY COYNE,
President Combined Unions’ Committee.
Further communication from Commis-
sioner of Police :
Office of Commissioner of Police,
Brisbane, 3rd Feb., 1912.
Sir,— ln reply to your letter of to-day’s
date, m answer to my communication of
this morning, I have to refer you to that
communication, to which I have nothing
to add.
I have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servant,
W. G. CAHILL,
T TT Commissioner of Police.
J. Harry Coyne, Esq., M.L.A.,
President,
Combined Unions’ Committee,
Trades Hall, City.
Immediately upon receipt of Commis-
sioner Cahill s first letter as above, instruc-
tions were issued to all Vigilance Officers
to report to headquarters. This was done,
and Strike President Harry Coyne ad-
dressed them. He read all the correspon-
dence, and advised them to go on with the
splendid work they had been doing, work
* ol \ on ly the Strike Committee
and the Unions but all citizens were grate-
ful. He urged them to keep to their work
give the police no technical excuse to ar-
rest them, and, above all, if arrested, to
resistance Whatever. More than
SUU V .O. men were present, and all agreed
to go on duty again at once and obey in-
structions implicitly. The Strike Commit-
tee are acting on the best legal advice in
tins matter.
Our Brave Leaders.
i mem^€rs °f the Strike Committee
iiaye been sitting night and day since hos-
tilities broke out,, each member getting a
tew snatches of sleep as opportunity
offered. Good luck ”to them all.
‘‘The Federal” (Townsville) says:
Badger’s objection to a Unionist wear-
ing a badge is tantamount to an objection
to a man or woman becoming a member of
an industrial organisation, and he uses it
as a lever wherewith to eject the genuine
Unionist from the service of the Tramway
Co. When ho accomplishes his purpose (if
he ever does) he can control the business
as he thinks fit. The wages he will pay,
the conditions he will grant, will be regu-
lated by the amount of profit the cars
yield. However, from latest reports',
things don’t look promising for him ever
achieving his end That the Union-
ists of the Commonwealth wall loyal-
ly support the Tramway men is al-
ready ensured; in fact, the stand
taken by the Brisbane fellow Unionists is
an omen of what is to be anticipated. That
the good seed sown some twenty-five years
ago has yielded sound fruit is amply proven
by the declaration of the butchers and
bakers and waterside men refusing to
handle anything the scab tramway drivers
require to maintain them whilst at work.”
Correspondence.
Black Friday’s Police Riots.
What Indignant Citizens Write.
(To the Editor “ Strike Bulletin.-”)
Sir, I would like to draw attention ■
some absolutely disgraceful incidents whic
were performed by the mighty police fore
of Queensland, who are paid, so I though
to protect the populi and not the patricu
alone, as they seem to have done this morn
mg. It is the populi who pay them the
salaries, and even the salaries of tl
put licit, so 1 think that they (the popul
ouglit to have the greater protection, anc
not be assaulted, knocked down, and ma'
treated by them, as they have been in th
last two days.
While I was working in my busines
tins morning I arrived at the corner o
the treasury Buildings, in George-street
1 was met by a charge of mounted police
and ordered to go back (back where all th
roads were likewise guarded). When th
people did not go back quite fast enoug.
for these bullies, they helped them alon
y ltli baton attacks and blows dealt quit-
indiscriminately right and left. I saw on
man who was coming away from work, anc
who had not even the red badge, knockec
down and out by a mighty arm of the law
itven the women were not exempt and ii
seemed to me that the police made a poin
of attacking them rather than the men.
A foot constable, on ordering a womar
down from some steps of the bank, and
being told by her that she was waiting for
her husband, said, “ You will find him deac
down the street. I wish you were dead
YVe have plenty of money to bury the lot
of you. Presumably Government money
fleeced from the people. It is a pity they
do not spend the money elsewhere, say ir
taking the tram company over and nation-
alising it.
It appears to me that the police are out
to make the people riot instead of keeping
the peace. On the advice of Mr. Bowman
the crowd outside the Trades Hall began
to disperse orderly, in all good humour,
ant 1 ! suddenly, on rounding the corner into
the Market Square, they beheld the police
drawn up m battle array with fixed bayo-
nets and loaded revolvers, as if they were
out against savages .or a “ Yankee ” mob
instead of own fellow-citizens—nay
more, their own mothers, sisters, and
brothers.
If the Government cannot keep order and
settle the strike except by police charges
and murder, it is time that they were
outed or made to resign, and not wait
tor the general election.
Youis, etc.,
™ 0 A SPECTATOR.
February 2.
How Special Constables are Recruited.
Sir,—The daily press allege that the spe-
cial constables, so numerous in our city
thoroughfares, are purely voluntary. As a
matter of fact they are comprised mainly
jof civil servants, and one of the most
I cowardly methods of intimidation—a ruin-
ed career has been used to enforce
these men.
The head of each Government Depart-
ment received sheets to the effect that a
special constabulary was required to as-
sist the permanent force in preventing the
strikers from over-running and pillaging
the town. Attached to this was another
sheet on which were placed the names of
those prepared to enrol, and after it had
been taken round was returned to the per-
manent head and Ministers of each depart-
ment. To refuse to enlist meant being
black-listed. Coercion could not have been
more* effective. All the men of some de-
partments were thus intimidated, and the
few who dared to stand out were branded
as revolutionists by the bosses. In one par-
ticular case a young fellow has been
threatened with suspension for asserting
that he would act as a “V. 0.” man, but
would not assist the police to incite the
workers to riot.
. MARIEN RICKARDS.
(This matter of intimidation of the Civil
Servants to do this most dastardly work
will be raised in Parliament at the earliest
possible moment.—Ed. 5.8.)
A Fearless Woman Writes.
Sir, —We are now engaged in a great and
arduous struggle for liberty. Let us not
shut our eyes against the painful truth.
We are fighting entrenched Capitalism,
with all its coercive, corrupt, and cunning
forces.
All the evidence of the inhuman out-
rages perpetrated yesterday by the police
on men, women, and children/proves that
there was an organised attempt to incite
us to riot, which would lead to the arrest
of our leaders, disorganise our strike, and
break its back. But fortunately all their
! efforts failed.
Who is responsible for all the shocking
outrages witnessed yesterday? Those who
have everything to gain by crushing the
strike —the employers. THEY ARE THE
FORCE BEHIND THE GOVERNMENT
which instructed the police to carry out
their degrading work —carry it out with
conscience lacking even the moral sense of
the Simon Legrees of Negro slavery. At
this juncture everybody knows the indigni-
ties and inhumanities to which we were
subjected at Market Square and Executive
Buildings. But how many know that
throughout the day assaults by the black
Cossacks of Capitalism were continued
without scruple. In parts of the Valley
red ribbons were signals to strike with
batons. Women, dear to us as sisters and
comrades, were insulted, galloped upon,
and battoned into unconsciousness. I sa\
them implore the interposition of men
arrest the tyrannical hands of Cahill anc
H®, inhuman brutes, but this only producec
additional violence and insult. At James
street, outside the bakery, while men
women, and children were quietly waiting
tor bread, they were ruthlessly charged and
battoned. At Blackall-street, some~distanee
trom the power-house, similar outrages
took place, while orderly citizens were
quietly wending their way home for dinner
At Clarence Corner and North Quay
charges took place in which men anc
women received wounds which will leave
them disfigured for life. We are not to
blame. We did all that could be done to
avert violence.
The elections are drawing near. Let
us not forget to attack the stronghold of
Capital with the full force of the BALLOT
and call to the bar of public opinion the
wreckers of our rights and hard won liber-
ties.
Let us now fight shoulder to shoulder
as comrades m one cause. Let us no longer
indulge in the fond hope of humaneness
from Cahill. We are fighting the fight of
our class through all the world. We are
ail part of the force which is moving man-
kmd towards the. Co-operative Common-
wealth. Every wind which sweeps from
the north, south, east, or west brings to
our ears the inspiring cheers of our com-
rades m other climes. Let us never sur-
render, for peace is not so sweet that it
slavery PllrC iaSe d at the price of chains and
MRS. H. REEDY.
More Brutality.
Sir,-_I had occasion to go in the City
yesterday and witnessed one of the most
brutal exhibitions of “man’s inhumanity to
man it has fallen to the lot of few Queens-
landers to see The men of Cahill’s brigade
sent the people up Queen Street home,
and more of these “blue coats” lashed them
back again, so what were we to do. I am a
woman, and if it is not lawful for me to
walk on the King’s highway, it should be
posted up, so that we can see it. One of
the sworn-in men at North Quay took it
upon himself to lay out a poor harmless old
man who was quietly smoking. This speci-
1 am told, came out in one of the
b e deral boats some weeks back, as a
nominated passenger. Enough said, this
tune. I have been a Ministerialist, but
110 w > RED RED.
To Queensland Unionists.
♦ A Voice from the Dead Past.
RiSE LIKE LIONS AFTER SLUMBER,
In unvanquishable number.
Shake y®ur chains to earth like dew
Which in sleep has fallen on you.
YOU are many—THEY ARE FEW.
—Shelley.
Speaking of inconsistency this morning,
the “Courier” says it would be interest-
ing to know how this week’s “Worker’
was produced. We have, we hope, better
work to do than taking note of vapourings
of the journalistic weaners who contribute
so largely to the columns of the “Courier,’
but we might state that the members o ’
the “Worker” staff joined the ranks o’
their fellow-unionist strikers at 6 o’clock
on Tuesday evening last, no exceptior.
being made in their favour, and will re-
main in them till all other members of the
ypographical Association return to work
But we shall certainly look forward with
interest to hear what actjon the Australian
Journalists’ Association will take with re-
gard to those shandygaff pencillers on the
Courier ’ staff who have been making
such a sorry attempt to do the work of the
Typos, in that office who so magnificently
responded to the call of Unionism.
Some excitement, which might readily
be converted into horror, was occasioned
morning through the word “Danger-
ous ” being posted above a wire surround-
ing the building containing the Tramway
Company’s power-house machinery, there-
by implying that the wire was a live one.
One gentleman who stopped to contemplate
the situation was implored by a tram offi-
cial not to touch he wire, and on the
gentleman asking a policeman who was on
duty close by if such a proceeding was
legal, the latter was suggestively silent.
This wire was within the reach of children.
Does not this matter require investigation P
In front of the Carlton Club Hotel, yes-
terday, one of the sworn-in police was
maniacally swinging his baton (a wheel
spoke) and doing a war-dance at the same
time. One glance at this would-be-police-
man would satisfy the most casual observer
that he had become bereft of his senses,
let I dare say his case was not isolated,
still it goes, to illustrate the class that are
being appointed to preserve law and order
by the responsible officers of the Badger-
Denham Government.
By an oversight the name of Mr. R. J.
Mulvey (Provincial Council, A.L.F.) was
omitted from the list of members of the
Strike Committee.
Important Notice. '
MASS MEETING of Shop Assistants
will be held TO-MORROW (SUNDAY)
MORNING at 10 o’clock.
URGENT STRIKE BUSINESS.
Every Shop Assistant MUST ATTEND.
Baton Friday.
The citizens of Brisbane are law-abidinor
and peaceful. The armed forces of the
State were turned against them on Friday.
February 2nd, and they did not revolt
though beaten brutally with the batons in
S IC places by the foot police, and aggres-
sively menaced by mounted police, armed
with r ®J. olvers ,and swords, and foot police,
dents of 68 a + d Xed bayonets. The inci-
dents of yesterday were indeed exciting
and the disgusting displays of brute forfe
witnessed by tens of thousands in the tho!
gotten areS ° f the ° lty will not be SOOll f°r-
ofSmom th the i “■ B f l,iletin ’.’ will not permit
r moie than brief mention of the brutal
display of armed-authority-run-mad Mr
l h \Y der ° f ft* State Labour
ai ty, had not long concluded an inspiring
address to packed thousands in Turbot-
stieet, m front of the Trades Hall, when
a pi ocession of women-unionists of Bris-
Hfrasf VP r t 0 • mal i h t 0 Parliament
House to interview the Premier. Mrs.
Miller, Labour s fearless grand old woman
ad promised publicly on Thursday night
bend fh aSS meetl PS in Market Square to
head the procession, notwithstanding her
3 years, and the State forces were brought
h/sden P Tbe lt Denh . am being bearded in
fir when V Procession had not proceeded
armed f ' v a\ blocked by a solid body of
doubll f file and h ° rSe ?? Ice > eac -b packed in
louole file across Albert Street Tlta
mounted troopers were armed with swords
and no doubt, revolvers, while the foot po-
lice had bayonets fixed to their rifles The
procession of peaceful citizens was prevent
Pl?Ceedm i g ' Tt turned into Turbot
Street again, and continued along to
George Street and to Parliament House
further menace from armed author-
n!oT hOl + Sa r ds TT n who witnessed the offi-
cml act of intimidation were raging to as-
pei t +n le i lF FlgPt to tlle highways, and only
by the bravery of Mr. Harry Coyne Pre-
StHkA °p t le and Chairman of the
Strike Committee, were serious conse-
rus e he C d eS inlolh d at a ™ rY C ? tical time. He
lushed into the space in the street, be-
tveen the armed police and unarmed civil-
mns, and addressed the seething mass of
excited people. He exhorted them to act as
pofnts'of thfb nS and i led them from the
points of the hungry bayonets.
Labour leader Bowman, Deputy-leader
arv Sour P “ 6mbers of the Parliament-
p Y labour Party were on their way to the
Premier, who was in his office in th«
and C th tly6 Bmldmgs> a hout the same time,
force th of r the Sf t barred the armed
rorce of the State. In fact, they were in
ie thick of the danger, and were unnerved
when they urged the Premier to call Par-
wayetrou t bl g e ether * 0 deal " ith tram-
c bbc Market Square continued in a strife
of ferment while the procession of women
Hou k s e e rS but tb n y Way *° Parliament
riouse, but the citizens subsequently dis-
cheated of -' e baton brigade there were
cheated of their opportunity to win discre-
ditable distinction for the time being. But
ed d Tbon S t r >T g events . had not yet end-
d. 1 hough the procession was permitted
fn l|!'° Ceed to Parliament House without
?h.v„E • poli “
Mesdames Miller and Huxham addressed
the crowd, and then the procession, follow-
rvJ ? a „" um ber of citizens, returned along
Geoi ge Street towards Queen Street. Foot
police, armed with batons, came along in
Stree+ ai +l As th 1- women approached Queen
with the hey r j a i lsed that they were faced
with the armed force, as in Albert Street,
but they did not waver. They did not
have an opportunity to do so, for the com-
mand was given and the baton brigade
onsfv T^ e “V beatin l the women barbar-
usly The police m the rear at about the
same time drew their batons and used them
fieely on the peaceful followers, and then
Uiaidmrt ed /uT Ce, i ed , by Chief In spector
Uiquhart, ruthlessly rode rough shod over
tba ! r°, p e "i T the tbronged thoroughfares of
the City Never before was a more dis-
graceful display of brute force witnessed,
liie people were ridden down on the foot-
paths by armed police offifcers. As men
women and boys made to get away they
were chased and ridden at, or beaten with
batons Several were injured, and the
Idllecf 1S tbat lmul - v citizens were not
TTio incidents of this disgraceful display
of bmte force and ordered attack on the
citizens will not lose its force by keeping.
The notion that the Brisbane Tramway
men came out for a trifle is all wrong (says
Rockhampton “Critic”). The time is ripe
lor every Unionist to be ticketed, for his
own protection. It is a thing a man need
never he ashamed of, and it’s just as handy
to know on sight if a man be a man or
otherwise.
The Brisbane tramway lock-out illus-
trates the foolishness of allowing public
works to depend on Private Enterprise.
Certain Government offices, railway sta-
tions, gaols and factories draw their powder
ri om the local Tramways Co. Why should
the community depend on the caprice of
eil 1 P er Shent, or have to shiver when he
muddles into a family quarrel? asks the
Sydney “Bulletin.”
J. H .COYNE, President.
a , i MOIR, Secretary.
Strike Committee.
