

Official Bulletin, No. 40.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 40.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, MARCH 16, 1912.
A Political Coward.
During the political campaign on which
we may be said to have now entered many
harsh and uncontrovertible facts will be
spoken of Mr. Digby Denham, who, by
one of those peculiar freaks of fortune,
occupies the postition of Premier of the
potential greatest State of the Australian
Commonwealth. That this political make-
shift has worthily earned the vilest epi-
thets that may be launched against bis
Ju,das-like conduct there can be no manner
of doubt.
But if by a superhuman effort the advo -
cates of the rights of the workers could
forget for a few moments the many wrongs
this political mountebank has inflicted on
them and their dependents —if they could
briefly shut out from their minds how he
aided" and abetted a monopoly to bring the
tramway men to the level of serfs; how he
kept the representatives of the people from
assembling in Parliament, although asked
to do so by a large number of members ;
how he handed over the control of the city
to a frenzied policeman and skulked behind
the doors of his office while men, women,
and children were being bludgeoned or
ridden down by brutal mercenaries; how
he became a tool of the Employers’ Federa-
tion and nullified an Act of Parliament
framed to protect helpless workers from
the sweating of unscrupulous, greedy em-
ployers ; how he has lost no opportunity to
politically vilify and slander the people
whom be has so wronged but whose interests
and welfare he is supposed to safeguard—
if the workers could only forget for a brief
space these unforgivable * iniquities, they
might come to recognise in Digby Denham
one of the. best arguments they could pos-
sibly use as to the absolute necessity for
an immediate change in the Government
of the country. In fact, were leader Bow-
man to strip the Premier’s letter, published
in this morning’s daily papers, of a lot
of its verbiage, he might place it before the
electors and say that after such a pro-
nouncement from the Premier he did not
consider it necessary to say anything.
Our space will not permit us to traverse
much of what this political slanderer
has stated. We will, however, give one
extract, which ought to be sufficient to ex-
pose the thorough hypocritical cowardice of
the man who has to such a large extent the
destinies of the people of the State in his
keeping. He says:
“ To all those who, like myself and
those closely associated with me in public
life, are upholders of our democratic in-
stitutions, it is not pleasant to be forced
to acknowledge that at least one-fourth
of the members of the present Legislative
Assembly have no reverence for those in-
stitutions and have in an at-
tempt, happily unsuccessful, to subvert
them. It would be absurd to invite such
men to meet in Parliament and join in
advising his Excellency the Governor as
to the best means of promoting the wel-
fare of the State, after they have paraded
their complete indifference to that wel-
fare and their decided preference of mob
government to Parliamentary govern-
ment. Therefore, it is proposed not to
hold another-session of the present Par-
liament, but to bring these unworthy
members before even a higher tribunal
than Parliament.”
What an absolute acknowledgment of
cowardice. This self-condemned hypocrite
coolly says that because one-fourth of the
members of the Assembly acted in a certain
way, he would not allow the other three-
fourths to assemble and complete work over
w T hich an enormous amount of time and
labour had been expended. Where does
majority rule come in ? Was not Mr. Den-
ham member of a Government that carried
on business and authorised the borrowing
of huge sums of money when it had only a
majority of one —aye, when the Speaker’s
vote was necessary to save it from destruc-
tion? And now he says one-fourth of the
members compelled him to destroy legisla-
tion that he alleged the country was crying
out for. And, let it he borne in mind, that
the men who comprised this one-fourth
had almost gone on their knees to him to
get him fo call Parliament together. This
is paradoxical pleading with a vengeance.
Mr. Denham also accuses these men
of being guilty of almost every known in-
dustrial and political crime in the
calendar. If they were the fearful
ogres he depicts them why did he not drag
them before the limelight of Parliament
and expose their wrong-doing to people who
were shortly to be called upon to give an
opinion of their conduct at the ballot box,
and at the same time afford the supporters
of the Government an opportunity to en-
dorse its conduct during the industrial up-
heaval, and pass a vote of thanks and per-
haps a substantial monetary reward to the
heterogenous 'collection of bludgeoners
whom he and his contemptible clique have
frequently asserted saved the city from
rapacity and ruin ? Digby, it won’t do ;
get another and a little more truthful
reason for muzzling the people’s represen-
tatives when it was absolutely essential they
should have received the confidence of the
Government instead of its being bestowed
on a foreign monopoly and the executive
of the Employers’ Federation.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A MEETING of the above Organisation
will be held in the METHODIST CHURCH
HALL, Given-terrace, on TUESDAY
NIGHT next, at 8 o’clock, to make arrange-
ments for the coming Election. All mem-
bers are urgently requested to attend.
T. W. SPEERING
Hon. Sec.
The tram monopoly does not seem to
t.hink its “ scraggies ” are safe motor men.
It sends out teachers with them yet, which
is practically an admission that the main
thoroughfares are not safe places while its
cars are on the tram track.
General Elections.
* NOMINATIONS, MARCH 28TH.
EXTENSION OF POLLING HOURS.
A “ Government Gazette ” issued this
morning notifies that writs for the State
general election have been issued to-day;
that the date of nomination is Thursday,
28th March, the date of polling Saturday,
27th April, and the date of the return of
the writs, Thursday, 30th May.
The “ Gazette ” also publishes a list of
polling places and places of nomination
and other details connected with the elec-
tion .
It is also directed that the polling
throughout the State shall terminate at
6 p.m., instead of 4 p.m.
Distribution of “Bulletins.”
DO W.P.Os. WANT THE PAPER
CONTINUED.
The Strike Committee desires to state
definitely to officers of all metropolitan
W.P.Os. that if the “ Official Bulletin ” is
to he continued, proper and efficient
arrangements must be made for its efficient
distribution. The present volunteer dis-
tributing staff will continue its present
work, but W.P.Os. must at once arrange
for at least one person for each district in
every electorate who will call daily at the
Trades Hall and take away sufficient copies
for the particular neighbourhood. Every
such person must present authority from
his W.P.O. and a statement as to number
of copies required.
Important Notice.
There will be a Meeting of the Strike
Committee on Tuesday morning, at 9.30
o’clock, when important business will be
brought forward. A full attendance is
urgently requested.
HOW LAW AND ORDER ARE
PRESERVED.
A reputable and reliable correspondent
sends us the following account of an
episode that happened on Thursday night,
which will give an illustration of the sort
of people who are appointed as guardians
of the citizens :
‘ ‘ Last night, while five residents of
Kangaroo Point were standing in Edward-
street, opposite the Labour Bureau, having
a quiet talk among themselves, Constable
No. came up to them and ordered them
away. On the men saying they were not
in any way breaking the law, and should
not be interfered with, the constable
pulled out a revolver and flourished it in
such a way as to endanger even his own
life. The civilians, recognising the danger
of such impetuous men as the constable
showed himself to be being allowed to
carry firearms, went to the Water Police
office and reported the matter. While they
were doing so a water policeman who wit-
nessed the occurrence came into the sta-
tion, and on being questioned by the officer
in charge as to the truthfulness of what
the men had said, corroborated their state-
ment, adding that there was no sign of
disorder when the hot-headed constable ac-
costed the citizens. The man in charge of
the police station advised the civilians to
report the matter at Roma-street Police
Station, as he was powerless to interfere.”
Our correspondent wants to know why
young, inexperienced, and apparently irre-
sponsible policemen are armed with deadly
weapons wherewith to menace the lives of
himself and peaceable citizens.
NO SCABBING FOR CADETS.
At a mass meeting of the watersidq
workers at Wallaroo (S.A.) on Wednesday
night, it was decided to suspend all work
on all ships while the steamer Age was
being unloaded by non-union labour.
In connection with the strike of cadets
at the same place, it is stated that the
right half of the company approachel Cap-
tain Watt (area officer) and told him that
unless Acting Colour-sergeant G. Furner,
who is employed as a junior dark at the
Wallaroo Phosphates Company’s office, was
called out they would not drill. The area
officer refused the demand, and pointed
out the serious nature of a refusal to
parade, but the lads maintained their atti-
tude, whereupon Captain Watt took the
names of the whole 25 and forwarded them
to the battalion commander.
Owing to an important meeting of the
Metropolitan Council of W.P.Os. being
held on Wednesday evening, the meeting of
the joint executives of the Valley and
Merthyr W.P.Os. will held at Morgan’s
shop, Brunswiek-street, on Tuesday even-
ing.
Workers, remember that Saturday, the
27th April, is the day on which you can
ballot out of existence the Government
which organised a force of “ special ” con-
stables to baton you when you were exer-
cising your right as unionists to help your
mates who were being oppressed.
The British Miners’ Federation has
resolved that the minimum wage demands
must be left in the hands of the executive,
hut they are willing to undertake local
negotiation with regard to the wages of
day-men and pieceworkers other than coal
getters. If the miners’ minimum wage de-
mand is first agreed to, the federation
would accept the proposal that a nominee
of the Government should attend the local
negotiations.
Labour Party’s Manifesto.
NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM.
The Only Policy for Queensland.
We publish in full the manifesto of the
Queensland Labour party, and ask our
readers to compare it with the pitiable
whining and lying columnies published this
morning, which the Premier sent to his
followers: ,
Labour’s Manifesto.
To the Electors of Queensland.
An opportunity will shortly be afforded
you of pronouncing judgment on the
Government of this State. Desperate
attempts will be made to influence your
decision in its favour. The newspapers will
teem with lying eulogies of its virtues. It
will be represented to you, in the subsidised
columns of a press notorious for its
venality, as a model of all that a Govern-
ment ought to be.
But one fact, will be carefully hidden
from your sight— that this paragon of
Governments has no democratic authority
to rule the State at all, having won its
way to power, not by your will, expressed
in your votes, openly and above-ground,
but in spite of your will, by the subter-
ranean methods of treachery.
It has no mandate from you whatever.
It is where it is by means of such a base
betrayal of trusi* as puts completely in the
shade all previous efforts of that sort.
Three years ago you returned to power
the self-styled “Democratic” Ministry of
William Kidston. It was not what it
labelled itself. Under effective Politi-
cal Adulteration Act it would have been
condemned as a fake and a fraud.
But you accepted it at its own valua-
tion, believing in the progressive protesta-
tions of its leader, and in his ability to,
turn it to the service of Democracy.
Where is that leader now ? Where is
the “ strong man ” to whom you entrusted
the destinies of your State?
No sooner had you been successfully
duped, and got rid of for another three
years, than political intriguers set to work,
and political traitors started bargaining
for their prices.
In the whole sordid history of treason
to the people there has not been a chapter
exceeding in sordidness that which records
the ‘ ‘ retirement ’ ’ to the Land Court, at
a salary of £lOOO a year, of the man in
whom you had placed your faith, and the
handing over of the reins of power to the
old Philp party, wfiiek you had scorned
and routed at the polls.
This is the Government which now,
when it can no longer avoid the painful
necessity, appeals to you for your suf-
frages—not your Government, not a
Government which you chose freely at the
ballot box but a Government owing its
existence to trickery and treachery.
The resources of public print and hust-
ings eloquence will be exhausted to divert
your attention from the fraudulent origin
of the Denham Ministry.
On the other hand it is the first thing
which the Labour party will seek to impress
upon you, not only because the baseness of
the transaction calls for your condemna-
tion, but for the further reason that the
polluted nature of the source accounts for
for the stream of legislative and adminis-
trative corruption that has flown from it.
Ever since the success of that squalid
intrigue, the Government which thus
sneaked into your House of Political Po\ver
by the back door has been brazenly passing
out the goods to its friends by the front.
Not a single measure for the benefit of
the workers and the vast majority of the
people has been enacted by the Denham
Government. It has struck no blow at a
public evil; it has made the conditions of
life no easier for any man whose labours
have advantaged the community.
It has devoted its entire energies, and
utilised its fullest opportunities, to the
aggrandisement of the class it represents.
In the interests of that class it has
added largely to the indebtedness of the
country, reckless of the fact that three
years hence loans amounting in the aggre-
gate to £14,000,000 will mature.
It matters nothing to this Ministry of
Brisbane Middlemen that the burden of
usury is a continuous tax upon the wealth
producers of the State.
It wanted funds to build railways for
its land monopolist friends, and purchase
immigrant labour for its sweater friends;
and there is always the working class to be
operated on when Shylock demands his
pound of flesh.
The Labour Party calls the most serious
attention of the electors to the financial
situation created by the Denham Govern-
ment.
Expenditure is being piled up with an
utter disregard of the consequences.
Every principle of ordinary prudence by
which men are guided in the conduct of
their own affairs has been cast to the winds.
Right and left the public money has been
scattered; not however with an indis-
criminate prodigality which would have
enabled every "one to participate in the
scramble, but with a cunningness of aim
that filled the hands of the people’s
enemies, and left empty the hands of the
people, while no attempt has been made to
secure the enhanced value of the land,
which value has been created by the expen-
diture of public money.
Millions raised by loan at heavy cost
to the country are being squandered on
railways that no one professes to believe
will pay, that everybody knows will effect
no genuine settlement; that are not, as a
matter of plain truth, designed for any
other purpose than that of putting for-
tunes into the pockets of absentee sheep
and cattle owners, and enhancing the
value of securities held by loan and mort-
gage agencies.
The Labour Party submits that this
money could be more beneficially expended
in promoting the development of the best
parts of the State; in running lines to dis-
tricts suitable for close settlement, and also
to districts already closely settled, and
languishing for facilities of communication
with the markets; in building central sugar
mills and establishing a State refinery to
destroy the pernicious monopoly of the
C.S.R. Company; and in erecting State
batteries to help the working miner to test
the resources of our mineral fields, and
open up new channels of industry and
prosperity.
In every way this Government con-
ceived in treachery has betrayed the stigma
of its birth—in its policy of greasing the
fat-pig class; in its subservience to the
dictates of monopolists; in its cowardly
evasion of the problems of the drink traffic
;in its covert attacks on the educational
system of the State; in its flooding of the
country with imported labourers for whom,
on its own showing, there is no honourable
work, since it was able, and its friends of
the Employers’ Federation able—so
they said—to fill the places of the strikers
with others who obviously must have been
out of employment before the strike
began.
But most clearly of all was the corrupt
genesis of this Government revealed in its
bitterly partisan attitude during the late
sugar strike, when the machinery of the
State was utilised as a strike-breaking
agency, and also during the recent indus-
trial trouble.
Instead of exerting its influence as the
Executive of the State to secure for
Queensland workers and electors the right
that every free man claims—to dress as he
pleases subject to the laws of the land—
the Denham Ministry, from the very out-
set, proclaimed itself the servant of a
foreign corporation, which exhibited its
contempt for our institutions by placing
every possible impediment in the way of its
employees taking their grievances into the
Arbitration Court.
The unnecessary display of armed force;
the brutal assaults of the police on citizens
who were in no way transgressing the laws ;
the bludgeoning of women and children
walking quietly in the public highways;
the abolition, at the instigation of the
Employers ‘ Federation, of the dearly-won
right of public meeting ; —all this, if there
were nothing else to its discredit, would
stamp the Middleman Ministry as the tools
of exploiters who plunder the people
through high prices, and pit them against
each other in the struggle for bread.
We claim that civilisation has emerged
from the times when it was considered
economic heresy to interfere with the
brutally callous doctrine that wage-
earners had only their labour power to sell
and employers should be left free to pur-
chase it as cheaply as possible in the open
market; and we no longer admit that the
chief element in the regulation of condi-
tions of employment ’should be the miseries
of hunger.
The Labour Party think it quite pos-
sible, despite the scoffing of the capitalist
press, to develop an effective system of
arbitration and conciliation that will do
much to avert industrial conflict and whicn
will tend so to improve the conditions of
the toilers as to secure for them a fairer
Share of the necessaries and comforts of
civilised life.
It is not necessary here to enlarge on
the policy of the Labour party. It is well
known. The Party platform has long been
before the electors.
But there are two questions—though
not by any means the most important
planks of the platform—which call for men-
tion in this manifesto, viz., the Liquor
Traffic and Education.
Regarding the former, the Labour
Party re-affirms its belief that only “ State
Manufacture, Importation, and Sale of In-
toxicating Liquor, with ultimate view of
Prohibition,” will solve this problem.
On the matter of Education, the Labour
Party’s platform provides that it shall be
Free, Secular, and Compulsory in State
Schools. The Party holds that the State
has no concern with matters of religion,
and should the Labour Party be returned
to power they will bring about a repeal of
those provisions of the State Education
Act Amendment Act of 1910 which deal
with religious instruction in our State
Schools.
In the wide arena of the Commonwealth,
and the only less important sphere of the
States, that platform already has demon-
strated its efficiency as an instrument for
the attainment of the people’s well-being.
It has given to Australia the most pro-
gressive measures it possesses.
Wherever the Labour Party has had
power it has matched opportunity with
achievement.
It has shown that it has, within the
scope of its ideals and the range of its
organisation, such further measures as
will lift these States and this Common-
wealth to the highest place among the
nations.
The Labour Party aims at no sudden
revolution; no dramatic breaking down of
existing institutions, but at such a gradual
transformation of the evil features of our
social system as will bring to pass a better
state of things, more worthy of human
nature and human genius.
With confidence it submits the issues of
the approaching election to the people of
Queensland, secure in the consciousness of
an unblemished record in their service, and.
m the possession of a Cause which seeks no
s but adopts as its objective
The Greatest Good of All.”
DAVID BOWMAN
Leader of Queensland Labour Party.
Brisbane, March 12, 1912.
INTIMIDATION.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir,—lt is amusing to read of all that
has been printed in the daily Press about
intimidation by the workers on strike.
Perhaps there was, perhaps there was not.
Lven it there was, it was nothing com-
pared with the amount of intimidation
which the moneyed classes imposed on the
workers during election time before the
ballot box was in use.
. The autocratic party will soon have my-
riads of canvassers sallying forth who will
pour into the ear of the unwary that de-
vastation and ruin will spread o’er the land
it the Labour Party be returned with a
majority. We must assert ourselves and
listen not to the vile-tongued vipers who
attempt to rob us of our sense. They
will inform us that our homes would have
oeen wrecked, our lives endangered, nay,
our very souls destroyed, were it not for
the Government’s action in maintaining
law and order.” Such talk may suit the
fat and greasy citizen,” for he will not
hesitate at anything to satisfy his greed
for power and pelf—not even intimidation.
, hill© reflection is necessary to show
the great struggle our forefathers had to
tight tor freedom to exercise their vote,
and to do it secretly.
Even after the" Reform Bill (of 1832),
which extended the franchise, was passed
the merchant classes were still bent on
revenge. Ihe system of recording votes had
to be done openly, and there existed then,
as now, men who were base enough to spy
on those who voted in opposition to their
employer s wishes, thus causing the fear-
less to be victimised. Such a state of af-
fairs could not be tolerated for ever, and,
so, after a great amount of opposition, the
ballot-box was brought into use.
So, comrades, let us remember, that to
the everlasting disgrace of the Denham Go-
vernment, they forced such brutal treat-
ment on a peaceful community, and if
they did not try to intimidate, then I do
not know who did.
I am, sir, etc.,
March 12th, 1912.
R.D.
COUPONS.
No coupons shall be issued on Monday
(St. Patrick’s Day).
ST. PATRICKS DAY.
The “Official Bulletin” will be pub-
lished as usual on Monday next (St.
Patrick’s Day).
THURSDAY ISLAND UNIONISTS.
Mr. Peter Henderson, secretary of the
Seamen’s Union, has received a letter from
the secretary of the Thursday Island
branch, in which he says:—“l received
vour telegram re Warrego all right, and
took immediate steps to stop any union
men from working her, and I am glad to say
that when she came alongside the jetty
there was not one solitary union man there.
A lot of blackfellows were put on, and one
white man who was put out of the union
some years ago for scabbing.”
A member of the Thursday Island
branch of the Seamen’s Union lost control
of himself when he saw a non-unionist as-
sisting blackfellows to work the Warrego,
and called him a “ scab,” with sundry em-
bellishments. The unionist was brought up
at the police court, when the magistrate,
on indicting a fine for the language, told
the defendant that if he had used a good
old British oath instead of the opprobious
epithet he did, he would have let him off.
This wasn’t quite the sort of talk the Bris-
bane P.Ms. used towards such unionists
as were unfortunate enough to be brought
before them during strike times.
Notice to Union Secretaries.
The STRIKE COMMITTEE hereby
notify Union Secretaries that the LEVY
of 10 per cent struck on all Unionists at
work, in aid of their victimised Comrades,
has been LOWERED to 5 per cent until
further notice from the above Committee.
JACK MOIR, Secretary.
METROPOLITAN COUNCIL OF W.P.O.
The deferred MEETING of the above
Council will take place in
MR. LLOYD’S ROOMS, KENT’S
BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE ST.,
on
WEDNESDAY EVENING NEXT,
20th March, at 8 o’clock.
Delegates are urgently requested to be
present, as the business is important.
LEWIS MCDONALD, Hon. Sec.
