

Official Bulletin, No. 48.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 48.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 1912
Important Strike Meeting.
A meeting of the Combined Unions
Strike Committee was held this morning at
the Trades Hall. There were very few 7
absentees. A report regarding the victim-
ised Government employees in the Dredge
and Railway departments was received and
dealt with. The results not being so far
satisfactory, further steps in the interests
of the men concerned were authorised.
The Labour Daily Newspaper Committee
presented a good progress report, and
things in connection with this much-needed
organ were forwarded another stage, all
union secretaries present stating that their
members w 7 ould co-operate financially and
in other ways.
A delegation from the United
Storemen and Packers’ Union, in-
cluding Mr. W. Bertram, secretary, w 7 as
admitted, and stated the case for some of
its members who are being victimised. It
was decided to approach the firms inter-
ested w ith a view to a settlement . Other
routine business was done, and the meeting
terminated at 1 o’clock.
Valley and Merthyr Rally.
SPEECH BY THE LABOUR LEADER.
The gathering of Labour folk at the
committee meeting of the Yalley and Mer-
thyr Workers’ Political Organisations, at
the Social Institute last evening, was the
largest and most enthusiastic at any time
held in the metropolis. More than 200
earnest w orkers in the cause crowded into
the hall and the proceedings were decid-
edly cheering throughout. The report of
the joint executive was read and adopted,
and an announcement made that a com-
mittee room had been secured within three
doors of the Institute, in Brunswick-street.
The tw 7 o candidates delivered spirited ad-
dresses.
Mr. McLachlan, who is carrying Lab-
our’s banner in the Merthyr battle, opened
by explaining how 7 the electorates had been
cut into sections and a systematic can-
vas w 7 ould be made. He outlined the
issues of the contest and urged the rank
and file to assist the joint executive in
winning for Labour a double victory.
Mr. Bowman, who was in fine form,
said the meeting was the best evidence of
the solidarity of Labour in the Valley he
had seen there since 1904. He delivered
a telling address, which w 7 as inspiring and
effective. He said lie had not felt better
.for weeks and he promised that he would
be heard outside his ow n electorate during
the campaign. The Parliamentary Lab-
our Party had told him they did not want
him to go out of his own electorate, but
he had decided that he would lend his as-
sistance to his colleague, Peter, in the Mer-
thyr fight, and to other Labor candidates
who were contesting seats w 7 ithin the
metropolitan area. Mr. Bowman referred
to the fact that the Valley had been the
only metropolitan constituency to consist-
ent return Labour. Ever since W. G.
Higgs and Frank McDonnell were returned
the two seats had been held by Labour and
they were not going to lose them. He
predicted that Jack Crampton would w 7 in
the Windsor seat for Labour, that Willie
Lloyd would wipe Butcher Trout out on
Enoggera, that John Gilday would lose
Hawthorn in Ithaca, and that Jack
Fihelly would put aside the young bar-
rister in Paddington. He had nothing
to say against Walsh personally. He was
us good as could be got as a clean living
man, but his politics not the right
sort. Will Bertram would account for
the Woolloongabba wobbler in the Maree
contest, John Huxham was cer-
tain of success in Buranda, Peter
McLachlan would win Merthyr, “and,”
said David, “I will have a bit of
cold fowl in the Valley.” Then there
were Joe Sherry, who had a big chance in
South Brisbane, and Mick Kirw 7 an, w 7 ho
had hopes of beating E. B. Forrest in Bris-
bane. In concluding, Mr. Bowman stated
that he w 7 ould open the campaign, as
leader of the Labour Party, at some place
to be decided upon in the Valley, on Mon-
day evening next.
A vote of confidence in the two candi-
dates was carried unanimously. Volun-
teers handed in their names for canvassing
and other work, several new members were
nominated for each organisation, and
tickets for Cook’s Pictures, in aid of the
joint fighting fund, were distributed. The
meeting w 7 as certainly a satisfactory indi-
cation of substantial support to the Lab-
our candidates in the metropolis.
“ COCKY ” ARMSTRONG DOES SOME
CROWING.
Speaking at a meeting at Laidley yes-
terday afternoon, W. D. Armstrong, among
other things, said: “ They were up against
Socialism of a spurious kind. One of the
strong planks in his platform was the
amendment of the Liquor bill, on which
he held very determined opinions.” Now 7,
the only inference that can be drawn from
the first sentence is that the late Speaker
is a Socialist; but not one of the spurious
ones. We would very much like to hear
Mr. Armstrong’s definition of “ spurious ”
Socialism, and also what sort he regards as
orthodox. It would be interesting to learn
to which brand of Socialism he bestows
allegiance. As to his holding very deter-
mined opinions on the ill-fated Liquor Bill,
is he going to knock that plank from his
platform or is he going to throw Denham
over ? The latter gave the Drink Bill short
shrift, although he had said he would stqjie
his political life on it. “Cocky” will re-
quire to be a first-class political gymnast
to maintain the perpendicular during his
campaign.
The Railway Inquisition.
The Railway torture chamber is still
dragging its victims before it and the pub-
lic gaze, and is piling on the agony more
thickly every day. Yesterday one appli-
cant for employment gave the board a bit
of his mind, and also mentioned instances
where men had been discharged without
notice. But this is carefully suppressed.
Can anyone conceive of any private em-
ployer taking seven or eight *of his prin-
cipal officials away from their ordinary
w'orjs to sit as a tribunal to inquire into
the alleged misdeeds of other employees?
And yet our railways are supposed to be
run on business lines. Any Government
that is capable of perpetrating this kind
of vendetta is an enemy, not only of those
immediately employed in the service, but
also of those wlio have to use that service,
as well as of the great body of taxpayers
all over the State w ho later on will be called
on to foot the bill. But, then, w-e may be
able to borrow more money from the
Federal Government, or (at a much higher
rate of interest) from the London money-
lenders.
AN OPEN LETTER TO HON. MR.
BARNES.
Sir, —As a politician you are a failure.
What right had you to pass sen-
tence on men who came out on strike » n
principle to help their injured mates?
Your narrowed, selfish mind cannot under-
stand the principles of true unionism.
They are beyond you, and until men like
you are put out of power, the worker w 7 ill
always be oppressed. Do you remember
one night during last election, after ad-
dressing a meeting at Stone’s Corner, you
were asked the question, “ Who brought
in the early closing Act?” You said it was
Foxton, but you know that Frank McDon-
nell was the foster father of the bill, and
the audience told you so.
Your cloak of political hypocrisy has
stood by you for a long time, and has made
you feel sure of your ground, but the time
is coming when you will be stripped of
your cloak, and then you will not be able
to hoodwink the electors any more.
Who were the anarchists on Black Fri-
day ? Not the people, as they w r ent out with
the intention of joining in a peaceful pro-
cession, and were not armed. The police
and the Government were the anarchists, as
they w r ere armed wdth batons and firearms,
and were told by the Government or Cahill
to strike effectively, and the vile specials
did their bidding. Shame on a Govern-
ment who would treat citizens in that
brutal manner because they stood out for
justice against a foreign money-grabbing
syndicate.
Words fail me to express my disgust
and contempt for such a party. Knowing
they did wrong they had not the manhood
and courage to own up to it, but blamed
the citizens for what they did themselves.
ELLEN HEWETT.
THE POLLING BOOTH AS A
LEVELLER.
We have read the poet who tunefully
told us that “ death levels all ranks, and
lays the shepherd’s crook beside the scep-
tre.” The same might be written of the
ballot paper. During the past few days
we have been told on personal authority,
the State Treasurer has been going to and
fro along the railway line hobnobbing
with the navvies w 7 ho are engaged on con-
struction and repair w 7 ork. He has even
condescended to take billy-tea with them,
and his handshake at parting was some-
thing to remember. The identity of Mr.
Barnes was not at first known, but on the
last occasion on which he fraternised with
the men with the bowyangs, he was recog-
nised by one of them —a Bulimba elector —
who gave him a bit of his matured mind.
A great number of these men have votes,
and their names are on the Bulimba re-
gister, which accounts for the milk being
in the cocoanut. W.H. did a bit of feel-
ing, but his power of feeling will want to
be less sensitive later on or he will endure
some political pain.
IS THIS BRIBERY?
Mr. Petrie seemed to be in very con-
genial company at Hamilton last night.
He became quite confidential, and informed
his hearers that ‘ ‘ he intended to put up a
good fight and gain a victory for Liberal-
ism. He hoped to be able to announce next
week that he had secured a good piece of
ground for the site of the proposed School
of Arts. (Applause.)” How far off w T as
the latter statement, w 7 hich w 7 as received
with applause, from political brib-
ery? Any weak-minded voter, with no de-
cided political creed, w 7 ould undoubtedly
be inclined to vote for a man w 7 ho could
make such alluring promises in preference
to the man who had not the backing of
those in power behind him. Why was this
matter left over to the eve of the general
election? Mr. Petrie is quite right in put-
ting up a good fight, but it should have
some pretension to fairness.
POTENTIAL INDIGESTION.
A w 7 ell-known employer of pastrycooks
in Brisbane is at present employing young
women in work where pastrycooks were em-
ployed previous to the strike. This is an
example of what may be expected should
the Denham, Cahill company be’ returned
to power. The pastrycooks of Brisbane
have been greatly victimised, notwith-
standing the repeated declaration of the
Capitalistic sheets that vindictiveness was
unknown in the ranks of the employers. A
new terror is now being added to indul-
gence in pastry.
Campaign Items.
PLUMBERS AND CASFITTERS’ UNION,
BRISBANE BRANCH.
A splendidly-attended meeting was held
in the Trades Hall on Thursday night last,
March 21. Three new members were en-
rolled. A subscription w-as taken up to help
defray the expenses of the endorsed Labour
candidate for South Brisbane. Letters
w r ere received from Toowoomba, Sydney,
Newcastle, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
and Fremantle, stating that the Plumbers’
Unions in those places w r ould give no en-
couragement to those who had scabbed
during the late strike. The union medals
were received from the general secretary
and distributed among the members. The
usual reports were received from delegates
to Brisbane District Council A.L.F., Trades
Hall Board, and Eight Hour Union. A
motion was carried unanimously, con-
gratulating “Jack” Barker, a member of
this union r upon his election to the Water
and Sewerage Board. Mr. Barker thanked
the members for the valuable assistance
they had rendered him, and promised to
carefully w 7 atch their interests. Mr. J.
Barker was elected delegate to the Eighth
Hour Union. At the next meeting, on
Thursday, April 4, Mr. C. Boulton, general
organiser of the A.L.F., will attend and
address those present. All employees in
the plumbing trade are cordially invited to
attend. The strike photos taken by Mr.
Moss in Wickham Park are now T available.
The Committee of Management was in-
structed to prepare a log of w T ages and con-
ditions to place before the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court at an early date.
THE PADDINGTON CAMPAIGN.
The campaign of Mr. J. Fihelly, the en-
dorsed Labour candidate, w r ill not be com-
menced until after the Labour Leader’s
opening speech. Concequently the projected
arrangements for Wednesday night have
been cancelled, and instead of a public
meeting on that night, an invitation is ex-
tended to all interested in the success of
the party to attend a committee meeting
at the candidate’s committee rooms, Cax-
ton-street, near Petrie-terrace. Mr.
Fihelly will address the gathering, and im-
portant matters will be dealt with. The
Spring Hill sub-branch will meet to-night
at Clifford’s tobacconist shop, and it ex-
pects to be in full w r orking swing before the
end of the week. The candidate will be
present.
Ladies’ committees are indispensable in
all the metropolitan areas, and these
should be at once formed. Any inquiries
directed to the committee rooms on Spring
Hill or Petrie-terrace will be welcomed.
In connection with this seat, too much
optimism already prevails. Labour voters
should remember that the name of Padding-
ton, w hich has always been associated with
Labour majorities, is a misnomer, as the
new electorate is really Spring Hill, Petrie-
terrace, with parts of Red Hill, Padding-
ton, and Milton thrown in. It is not the
soft snap that it is generally thought to be,
and if Labour comes out on top it will only
be by hard, solid toil and unstinted loyalty.
By the end of the w r eek it is probable
that the Red Hill, Paddington, and Milton
ends will have committee rooms at their
disposal.
TOOMBUL W.P.O.
A meeting of Labour supporters in the
Toombul electorate will be held in the
Albion Hall to-morrow (Wednesday) night
at 8 o’clock, to form an election committee
for the Albion. All Labourites in this
electorate should make it a point to be
present at this meeting, as it is intended
to make every effort to capture the seat
for Labour.
NUNDAH W.P.O.
A meeting of the Nundah W.P.O. was
held on Monday night to select a candidate
to contest the seat in the Labour interest.
Mr. R. Sumner presided, and fully 50 mem-
bers were present. It was resolved that it
was advisable that a candidate be run in
the Labour interest, and Mr. R. M‘Cor-
mack, organiser of the Carters’ Union, was
selected to carry the Labour banner at
Nundah. It was decided to form working
committees in all the centres, and that the
central committee meet again on Thursday
night to perfect arrangements. After Mr.
C. Boulton had delivered a spirited address,
and a vote of thanks to Mr. Sumner for
presiding was passed, the meeting closed.
TOOWONG ELECTORATE.
A meeting of the combined organisa-
tions in the Toowong electorate was held
in Oddfellows’ Hall, Toowong, last night.
The large attendance of members and the
number of new members enrolled at the
meeting demonstrated the interest which
Labourites are taking in the coming fight.
Mr. Lewis M‘Donald, the selected Labour
candidate, was present, and delivered an
effective address, after which the various
committees for campaign work were elected
and preparations made for a vigorous can-
vass of the whole electorate. It was de-
cided to hold the opening meeting at a date
subsequent to the opening speech of Lab-
our Leader Bowman.
A meeting of the combined executives
of Taringa and Toowong branches will be
held on Thursday night next, at Mr. Lands-
bury’s residence, Toowong-terrace.
The Taringa branch will meet on Friday
night at the usual meeting place, when
further details will be arranged.
List of Candidates.
We give a list of the Parliamentary
candidates as far as ascertainable this
afternoon. L. signifies Labour, and C.
Conservative.
Albert.—J. G. Appel (C.).
Aubigny.-—James Connolly (L.).
Balonne.—E. M. Land (L.), Jasper Harvey
(C.).
Barcoo.—T. J. Ryan (L.).
Bowen.—M. Ferricks (L.).
Bremer.—W. Y. Hefferan (L.), J. C. Cribb
<C.).
Brisbane.—M. J. Kirwan (L.), E. B. For-
rest (C.).
Bulimba,—H. M‘Minn (L.), W. H. Barnes
(C.).
Bundaberg.— G. P. Barber (L.), J. M 4 Leod
(C.).
Buranda.—J. Huxham (L.), W. Stephens
(C.).
Burke.—C. Collins (L.), W. Murphy (Ind.).
Burnett.—A. J. Jones (L.), B. H. Corser
(C.).
Burrum.— A. E. Whitford (L.), C. D. W.
Rankin (C.).
Cairns.—W. M‘Cormack (L.), J. Mann
(Ind.).
Carnarvon.—T. Crawford (L.), D. Gunn
(C.).
Charters Towers.—J. Mullan (L.), Wynn
Williams (C.).
Cliilla^oe. —E. Theodore (L.), A. S. Frew 7
Cook.—H. J. Ryan (L.), H. A. C. Douglas
(C.).
Coooora.—W. F. Jones (L.), Harry Walker
(C.).
Cunningham.—F. Grayson (C.).
Dalby.—R. Turnbull (L.), W. J. Vowles
<C.).
Drayton.—J. J. Desmorifl (L.), W. J. Beb-
bington (C.).
Eacham.—W. N. Gillies (L.), M. Woods
<C.).
East Toowoomba.—G. Walden (L.), T. R.
Roberts (C.).
Enoggera.—W. F. Lloyd (L.>, R. Trout
Fassifern.—A. Wienholt (C.).
Fitzroy.—C. W. C. Bluett (L.), K. M.
Grant (C.).
Flinders.—J. May (L.).
Fortitude Valley.—D. Bowman (L.), E. W.
H. Fowles (C.).
Gregory.—W. Hamilton (L.).
Gympie.—G. Ryland (L.).
Herbert.—W. Lennon (L.).
Ipswich.—W. J. R. Maughan (L.), J. W.
Blair (C.)
Ithaca.—J. T. Gilday (L.), A. G. C. Haw-
thorn (C.)
Kennedy.—J. O’Sullivan (L.)
Keppel.—J. Larcombe, jun. (L.)
Kurilpa.—Jas. Allan (C.)
Leichhardt.—H. F. Hardacre (L.)
Lockyer.—Hon. W. D. Armstrong (C.)
Logan.—J. Stodart (C.)
Mackay.—C. Tait (L.), W. T. Paget (C.)
Maranoa.—J. M. Hunter (L.)
Maree.—W. Bertram (L.), D. Hunter (C.)
Maryborough.—W. Mitchell (L.), E. B.
Corser (C.)
Merthjr. —P. A. M‘Lachlan (L.), T. Welsby
Mirani.—P. Kerwin (L.), E. B. Sw ayne (C.)
Mitchell.—J. Payne (L.), J. M. Cross (C.)
Mount Morgan.—J. Stopford (L.), J. Craw-
ford (Indep.)
Muningburra.—T. Foley (L.)
Murilla.—B. F. S. Allen (L.), G. Morgan
(C.)
Murrumba.—G. G. Dennis (L.), J. Forsyth
(C.)
Musgrave.—S. Rowe (L.), J. White (C.)
Nanango.—M. Harland (L.), R. Hodge
Normanby.—G. W. Martens (L.), G. Fox
(C.)
Nundah.—R. McCormack (L.), T. Bridges
(C.)
Oxley.—C. W. Martin (L.), D. F. Den-
ham (C.)
Paddington.—J. Fihelly (L.), J. J. Walsh
(C.)
Pitts worth.—M. Dwyer (L.), D. Macintosh
(C.)
Port Curtis.—E. D. J. Breslin (L.), J. H.
Kesselis (C.)
Queenton. —Y. Winstanley (L.), F. John-
son (C.)
Rockhampton.—J. Adamson (L.), G. S.
Curtis (C.)
Rosewood.—P. Madden (L.), H. M. Stevens
(C.)
South Brisbane.—J. H. Sherry (L.), T. W.
Bouchard (C.)
Stanley.—H. P. Somerset (C.)
Toowoomba. —M. P. Alke (L.), J. Tolmie
(C.)
Toombul.—D. C. Dowling (L.), A. L. Petrie
Toowong.—L. M'Donald (L.), E. H.
Macartney (C.)
Townsville —A. F. Austin (L.), R. Philp
Warrego.—J. H. Coyne (L.), D. C. M‘Don-
ald (C.)
Warwick.—A. Sinclair (L.), G. P. Barnes
(C.)
Wide Bay.—A. Thompson (L.), C. J.
Booker( C.)
Windsor.—J. R. Crampton (L.), H. Ma-
crossan (C.)
HARBOURS AND RIVERS DEPART-
MENT NEGLECT.
During the strike Mr. Barnes w T as com-
plaining about the men coming out and
leaving the valuable dredge plant unpro-
tected. That was untrue, as there were
plenty of watchmen. Now he states he has
all the men he wants, and refuses to re-
employ old tried servants. Nevertheless
this plant is not properly protected, as two
watchmen are now doing the work three
formerly did. Mr. Barnes’s attitude to-
wards faithful servants deserves the sever-
est censure, as well as being likely to de-
preciate the value of the plant.
Nominations.
To-morrow is the last day for receiving
nominations for the coming elections,
which must be handed to the returning-
officer, together w r ith the sum of £2O, and
bearing the endorsement of not less than
six persons qualified to vote in the elec-
torate, before 4 p.m.
The only seats for which endorsed
Labour candidates have not been nomin-
ated at the time of gping to press are
Albert, Cunningham, Fassifern, Kurilpa,
and Stanley.
Good w ork is being done in the interests
of Labour right throughout the State. The
continued victimisation and bitter vindic-
tiveness displayed fn connection with Gov-
ernment employment is forcibly driving it
home to the workers how necessary it is to
seek their industrial and political freedom
through the ballot-box. With the rejec-
tion of the present capitalistic crowd from
the seat of Government a new era will
dawn for the wealth-producers of the
country, and exploiters of the public col-
lective purse wall not be able to carry on
their depredations with the perfect im-
munity they have so long been accustomed
to. If ever there was a time when Labour
should prove true to itself, that time is
now. Every working man who does not
put forth an effort to be ruled by his own
clkss will proclaim himself a traitor to
that class as well as to himself and family.
We have big odds against us, but with a
little bit of pluck and energy w 7 e can cast
them aside. So, workers, be ready.
THAT POLICY SPEECH.
The Government papers tell us to-day
that Premier Denham went to sea on
Saturday last and took his Under Secretary
with him to prepare his policy speech. He
only got back last evening, so we can con-
fidently anticipate his forthcoming deliver-
ance being even more fishy than usual.
What a splendid thing it is to be a Premier;
you can order a large steamer, fully
manned, to be placed at your disposal to
cruise around while yourself and your
principal State official exchange ideas as to
the most suitable terms to be employed in
the alluring task of bamboozling the elec-
tors. The Member for the Butter-box
should be quite an expert by this time at
the art of saying it was the other fellow
wdio did all the damage; but he will need
to apply the veneer a little thicker on
Thursday night than he did in his letter of
12th inst. to his supporters in Parliament,
otherwise his insincerity and unscrupu-
lousness will be too apparent. Notwith-
standing the disorganised state of the rail-
way service at present, the Commissioner
for Railways has placed a train at the ser-
vice of those wishing to journey from South
Brisbane to Corinda to hear the Premier’s
address. We are inclined to think the
vacillating Digbv will have some knotty
questions to reply to on Thursday, and
that at the end of the election campaign
he will have still further trouble in explain-
ing how he failed to become the member
for Oxley.
ANOTHER RETRACTION.
The following, taking from to-day’s
“Telegraph,” is still another instance of
the leek-swallowing that certain anti-
Labour papers should by now have got
accusomed to:
“During the strike period it was re-
ported in the 4 Telegraph 5 that statements
were circulated as to some of the unions
having instructed their delegates to vote
against a general strike, and the Hair-
dressers’ Union was said to he one of these
unions. Mr. A. Skirving, the secretary of
the union, has been instructed to show us
the minutes of the meeting, held on Sun-
day morning, 31st January. These min-
utes show that the meeting unanimously
decided that in the event of a general
strike, all members of the union were to
come out. The minutes also show that
the delegates were appointed to the con-
ference with no other instructions than
power to act.”
The British Independent Labour party
has framed an official resolution to be sub-
mitted at the Easter Labour Conference in
Merthyr, Tydvil favouring the payment of
a minimum wage to all workers.
MEMORIAL SERVICE.
A MEMORIAL SERVICE to the me-
mory of late WILLIAM HENRY
CRAKER will be conducted by the Rev.
W. H. W. Lavers at the Joyful News Mis-
sion, Brunswickstreet, on SUNDAY
EVENING, 31st March, at 7.30 o’qlock.
Special singing. All are cordially invited
to be present.
OXLEY W.P.O.
A MEETING of the above organisation
will be held in Junction Hall, Annerley,
TO-MORROW (Wednesday). Senator Tur-
ley and Labour Candidate Martin will ad-
dress the gathering. Roll up, workers, and
hear how you can get rid of the capitalistic
Premier.
TIMBER WORKERS’ UNION.
A Special Mass MEETING of the
Federated Timber Workers’ Union will be
held in the Trades Hall on SATURDAY
AFTERNOON NEXT, the 30th inst., at
2.30. A full attendance of members is
requested.
R. C. ANDERSON, Gen Sec.
