

Official Bulletin, No. 18.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 18.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1912.
Present Prospects.
Unions solid. Funds plentiful. Strike
Committee determined. Arbitration Court
proceedings progressing favourably. Em-
ployers frantic at trade and many of the
best of their men going South. Everything
is going forward gaily.
Take heart, comrades, the hour of gloom
and doubt is passed. is assured.
Your splendid order, solidarity, and pluck
must win. The “moral force’ 5 you are
exerting is tremendous, and must ulti-
mately triumph.
The Leader’s Morning Address.
Strike Leader Coyne spoke to an im-
mense crowd this morning. Everybody
seemed happy and bright, and Harry spoke
encouragingly of the prospects. Mr. Col-
lings also said a few brief words and ring-
ing cheers brought the proceedings to a
close.
ENDORSING THE BRISBANE
STRIKE.
The Federal Executive of the Austra-
lian Tramways Employees’ Association de-
cided last week to take a secret ballot as
to the desirability of ceasing work if neces-
sary as a means of having their claims
brought before the Arbitration Court. The
ballot was taken in all the States except
New South Wales. The voting in Victoria
was 1138 in favour of ceasing work if arbi-
tration could not be secured, while only
284 votes were recorded against coming
out. This is a complete endorsement of
the action of the Strike Committee. Had
it become necessary for the Melbourne
tram men to leave the cars, it is more than
probable that the great unionistic wave
would have swept right over the entire
continent.
TRADE UNION MONEY TO TRADE
UNION SHOPS.
The wives and daughters of union men
should remember that every shilling they
pass into the coffers of the capitalist class
strengthens the resources of the enemy
and weakens the resources of their own
breadwinners.
Mothers of future generations, do you
desire your children and your children’s
children to be the slaves of more selfish
sweaters than your husbands and children
are now under ? If you do, spend your
slender savings in the scab shops of the
city. But if you do not, you will not fatten
soulless scabs on the earnings of your hus-
band and children.
INDUSTRIAL SOLIDARITY WITH
POLITICAL ACTION.
In view of the fact that certain entirely
unauthorised persons are just now essaying
to speak in the name of Queensland union-
ists on strike, and, further ; are expressing
sentiments neither scientifically based nor
wisely stated, and that such expression just
now is playing right into the hands of our
enemies and forging for them an additional
weapon with which to beat our brave com-
rades on strike, this paper desires to say !
that the Strike Committee is in no way
responsible for these self-appointed orators
or the sentiments they may express.
Queensland unionists are taking great
strides these days along the path of eco-
nomic emancipation. Schooled in the best
of all schools, union solidarity, they are
learning now the wisdom and necessity of
wise political action, and will, we trust,
finally emerge able to establish by means
of the full control of the political machine
the industrial democracy which we all long
to see.
HARD TO KILL.
The Brisbane General Strike is one of
the sturdiest in the history of industrial
warfare if the Capitalistic Press can. be
believed. It started with “paralysis,”
has had its back broken a dozen times,
most of the strikers have scrambled back
like scared sheep on several occasions, and
the strike hasn’t collapsed yet. In fact,
the men are now as determined to stand to-
gether and fight for right as they were
three weeks ago.
A SPECIAL BOBBY AND HIS
BATON.
Another member of Cahill’s elite corps
of specials made himself conspicuous in the
Breakfast Creek locality on Saturday even-
ing last. After filling up with as much
beer as he could place inside him, he asked
a hotelkeeper there to send six bottles to
the boarding-house which he honours with
his patronage. The victualler told him
any beer he wanted he would have to bring
himself. The newly-appointed peace-officer
considered it was rather infra dig for a
man who was “ promoted ” to carry a baton
to be asked to carry bottles of beer. How-
ever, rather than go without, the special
brought the bottles home, and as none of
his fellow-boarders would drink with him,
he proceeded to get fuller himself by empty-
ing the bottles. While in this condition
he secreted his baton, an4 when the effects
of the liquor left him, so did the remem-
brance of where he planted his woman-hit-
ter. A reward of 5s. to anyone who could
recover it brought no searchers. Yester-
day, however, he received another from
headquarters, for which he said he had to
pay os.
Mr. John Adamson, M.L.A., is expect-
ed from the South to-morrow night.
Coalminers Staunch.
Valuable Suggestion.
The following resolutions were carried
enthusiastically at a mass meeting of the
Bundamba miners yesterday :
1. “ That the union stand to the Strike
Committee, and have every confidence in
them, till the termination of the trouble.”
2. “That this meeting of miners sug-
gests to the Strike Committee that the.
Government be approached with a view to
getting local arbitration to deal with the
re-employment of Brisbane strikers.”
3. “That a delegate be sent to New-
castle to state the position in the local coal-
mining district.”
There will be another mass meeting on
Wednesday.
THE COMMON LAW.
Justice Higgins (in Arbitration Court 1 ):
To forbid a man from wearing what he
chooses to wear needs to be justified by
some law, direct or indirecc
Boss Badger : We claim a common law
right.
Justice Higgins: What next! The
common law right is for every man to dress
as he pleases.
GOD AND MAMMON.
Comrade “Joe” Collings was in excep-
tionally fine form at the Centennial Hall
last evening. He dealt with the published
reports of several pulpit utterances of Sun-
day last, and while these were handled with
all good taste, the mask was ruthlessly torn
from each and they stood revealed to the
immense audience in all their smug com-
placency and cowardly hypocrisy.
“The Labour policy,” said Mr. Codings,
“is the only one which can put real mean-
ing into the words of the Great Carpenter
of Nazareth. ‘Suffer the little children to
come unto me,’ when we rear them in the
unspeakable slums! ‘Love thy neighbour
as thyself,’ and because the combined
unions are actually doing it instead of
prating of it, they are branded as ‘evilly
disposed persons.’ ‘Give us this day o,ur
daily bread’ can only be effective when we
have freed the bread and the means to
secure it from capitalist control. ‘Feed the
hungry,’ ‘clothe the naked,’ ‘visit the sick’
is poorly done by the cold charity of the
Churches, and for it must be substituted
the justice which only Labour’s objective
can make possible.” >
The vast audience was held in complete
silence when “Joe” recited Russell Lowell’s
fine poem “The Parable,” and the opinion
was expressed that such a splendid address
should be preserved for propaganda
purposes. Educational work of a very high
order is being done nightly by many of
our speakers, and its effect, reaching as it
does many thousands of people, will be felt
later by the manifestation of a higher civic
conscience and a better understanding of
our communal responsibilities and conduct.
COWLICRAPH SYMPATHY.
I The captalist Press are greatly con-
cerned about the poor “ starving strikers.”
The “ Cowligraph ’ 5 painted a pitiful pic-
ture of hungry unionists in Wickham Park,
but the journal gold-bugs of gas strike
notoriety is not contributing towards the
commissariat of the strike camp. It J s not
built that way, and the strikers do not re-
quire any pretending philanthrnphists to
feed them or their dependents. The Strike
Committee have taken the sting out of
“the stravation cure for strikers,” and
unionists are satisfied the food supply is
sufficient and satisfactory. That is what
has got goldbugs worrying.
TO THE WOMEN FOLK.
The working women of Brisbane can be
as effective as their Union husbands and
children in the fight for freedom, if they
will purchase only what they urgently need
during this strike. The purchasing power
of the workers’ wives and daughters can
be made effective in the general strike, and
at no time can it be used to greater pur-
pose than while the fight is on.
UNION SECRETARIES PLEASE
NOTE.
Please WRITE AMOUNTS f9r coupons
on your certificates, besides giving the
figures.
J. S. COLLINGS,
Chairman Coupon Committee.
CATCHING COUNTRY WORKERS.
Beware of Frauds.
Two young men were cajoled into com-
ing down from Hendon to work on the
wharves on the plea that the strike was
“off.” On arrival in Brisbane they, of
course, found the strike in full swing, and,
like good Australians, refused to “ scab.”
Their fares were paid to Brisbane by
the boss decoy; but they now find them-
selves without money and with friends only
in the Strike Committee.
' The above is but one of the scurvy acts
of the enemies of unionism. The employers
all round are hard hit, and are now endea-
vouring to get their “ fine work” in. The
Strike Committee will, however, take good
care to score off them every time.
It has been stated that all the coopers
! have gone back to work. The “Bulletin”
has been asked to contradict this, as. a
number of members of the Coopers’ Union
[ 3-re still out.
To-night’s Meetings.
Centennial Hall.
Speakers: —Mr. J. Moir (chair), Mr.
R. Anderson, J. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., J.
Mullan, M.L.A.
Valley.
Speakers: —Mr. J. May, M.L.A.,
(chair), Mr. M. Ferricks, M.L.A., Messrs.
Thompson, Gwynne, J. S. Codings.
Pineapple.
Speakers:—Mr. A. Skirving (chair),
Messrs. W. Bertram, J. Sherry, R. Sumner,
W. Hardacre, M.L.A., Mrs. Miller.
West End.
Speakers: —Mr. J. Payne, M.L.A., Mr.
McMinn, Mrs. Finney, P. Jorgensen, Mrs.
Huxhain.
Red Hill.
Speakers : —Messrs. J. Huxham, W. F.
Lloyd, Boulton, Dowling, Neah.
Ipswich Road Junction.
The largest meeting held at the above
place took place last night. Mr. J. Hux-
ham was in the chair. Stirring speeches
were made by W. Hamilton, M.L.A., Mrs.
Huxham, C. Martin, Sam. Whear, and the
chairman. A number of “ specials” were
present, who received a very bad time from
the speakers. One of these gentry, who
was drunk, had to be removed by his fel-
lows. Three cheers were given for the
speakers and Strike Committee.
TO-MORROW NICHT'S MEETINGS.
Centennial Hall; Ivory St., Valley;
Clarence Corner, South Brisbane; Kelvin
Grove.
Important to Unionists.
The establishments mentioned in the re-
spective lists below are working with union
labour. It is most important that this fact
should be carefully noted by all unionists.
The lists will be added to from time to time
as we are able to do so.
BAKERIES.
F. Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
A. M‘Leod, Queen-street.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valley.
Hanlon, Valley.
H. Hugall, Spring Hill.
Annan and Hay, West End.
Bragg Bros., Valley.
J. Enever, Valley.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
E. G. Bedgood, Milton.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., all Robb ? W.
shops. Snellmg, T.
Baynes Bros., all Witham, L.
shops. Crump, C.
Woodcock, W. Moore and Co.
Beven Bros. T. Cock.
Watts, W. Preston, W. D.
Witham, A. Bohl and Higgins.
Lewis. Scarborough Bros.
Sparkes, A. Voisey Bros.
Chugg, G. Hamilton, R.
Marshall, W. Land, W.
Barstow, E. Jowett Bros.
Car dell Bros., George Street.
CAFES AND RESTAURANTS.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
Exchange Cafe (Berry’s), Queen-street.
Exchange Restaurant (Merton’s), Ed-
ward-street.
Chas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
I.X.L. Boarding House, Stanley-street,
South Brisbanev
GROCERS.
Queensland Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street.
Murray and Magee, Stanley-street.
Kearney, Boggo-road.
D. J. Stewart, Kangaroo Point.
Eccles, Leichhardt-street.
Pedler, J. K., Caxton-street.
Hanlon, Paddington.
HAIRDRESSERS.
C. S. Dickson, Petrie-terraoe.
J. Cavill, Edward-street.
Livingstone, Queen-street.
Yates, Joe., Brunswick-street.
Latham, R. W., George-street.
Aichison, Queen-street.
Leggett, Queen-street.
Lowndes, George-street.
McLellan, George-street.
McMahon, George-street.
Hennesey, Wickham-street.
Mrs. Leggett, Wickham-street.
Johnson, Wickham-street.
O’Connor, Brunswick-street.
Ferguson, Stanley-street.
THIS IS WHAT IT HAS COME TO.
It is stated in the organs of boodle to-
day that a N.S.W. pastoralist has made a
donation of £lO 10s. to assist the Federated
Employers. The people down South are
evidently of opinion that employers have a
bad time in front of them.
The Latest from the Ranks.
WATERSIDE WORKERS.
A mass meeting of this union was held
this (Tuesday) morning in Maritime Hall.
The speakers were Comrades J. Brock and
Mrs. Huxham. The men are as determined
as ever to see the strike through to the
end. New members are being made every
day.
The following resolutions were carried
unanimously:—
1. “ That, on the members of this
Union returning to work after the trouble
is over, they refuse to do any work under
the supervision of a certain foreman.”
2. “That this Union has every confi-
dence in the Strike Committee up to date.”
The meeting closed with three ringing
cheers for the Strike Committee, also for
Mr. Brock and Mrs. Huxham.
Engine Drivers’ Association.
The following resolution was passed at
a meeting of the above union on Monday
afternoon: —
“This Association pledges it's members
to remain firm until the finish, and hopes
that the other Unions engaged in this
great struggle will stand firm.”
Also, —‘ ‘ That the members of this
Association view with disgust the action
of the State Treasurer (Mr. W. H. Barnes)
in causing the removal of Mr. Peter Hen-
derson from his position as a member of
the Marine Board, as it shows to what ex-
tent the Government are prepared to go
to vent their petty spite.”
Masters and Engineers.
At a meeting of the above Association
held this morning the following resolution
was carried unanimously :
“That we are standing firm, and en-
dorse the Strike Committee’s actions up
to the present.”
Storemen and Packers.
Over 400 members of the above Union
signed the attendance book this morning.
A vote of confidence in the Strike Commit-
tee was carried. Every member present
voted in favour of th§ motion. The meet-
ing terminated with three ringing cheers
for the Strike Committee.
Boilermakers and Iron Shipbuilders.
At a large meeting of Boilermakers,
held in the Trades Hall this forenoon, it
was unanimously resolved:—“That we en-
dorse the action of the Strike Executive in
trying to arrange a conference with the
Employers’ Federation re a complete re-
starting of the wheels of industry, and we
as a body are here to stay till our execu-
tive makes the necessary arrangements for
our return to work with our respective
employers.”
United Operative Bricklayers.
Comrade Katterns reports a large
meeting held last evening, when a imani-
mous vote of confidence was carried in the
Strike Committee. The “brickies” are
“splendidly solid.” More power to them.
A.W.A.
The members of the Brisbane branch of
the A.W.A. rolled up in strong force at
the Trades Hall on Monday morning. It
is safe to say that no body of unionists
will abide more loyally by the instructions
of the Strike Committee than the “ fighting
A.W.A.”
Port Brisbane Shipwrights.
At a meeting of the Shipwrights held
this (Tuesday) morning a resolution was
moved expressing confidence in the Strike
Committee. The motion was carried by
a majority of 42 to 4. It was also resolved
to stand firm until the end of the present
trouble.
• Carters and Drivers.
A most enthusiastic and well-attended
meeting of carters was held in the Water-
side Union rooms this morning, fully 800
members being in attendance, all of whom
signified their intention of still standing
loyal to their fellow-unionists until such
times as the Strike Committee declares our
victory. It was also decided, to have a
group photograph taken of all members
who stood loyal during this great strike of
1912, same to be left in hands of the execu-
tive to arrange a suitable time. All mem-
bers please note.
Boot Trade Union.
This union rolled up this morning in
great force at Albert Park to be photo-
graphed, and made a very fine group in-
deed. The resulting pictures should be valu-
able as a memento of the great strike of
1912. Subsequently a splendid meeting was
held in the Trades Hall. Solidarity, en-
thusiasm and a fine “esprit de corps” dis-
tinguishes the very large body of the men
and women now on strike.
V.O. stands for Vicious Oppression.
Secretary George Lawson reports that
the carters and waterside workers decided
the challenge tug-of-war at the Pineapple
Park, Kangaroo Point, this afternoon, and
the carters won by two pulls to one. The
final pull was as solid as the “heroes of the
hook.” And the carters managed to get
|over the line after five minutes of a long,
strong pull and a pull all together. A
great gathering of unionists witnessed the
tug, and the V.O. men kept order in a
creditable manner.
Mr. Fisher and the Strike.
Mr. R. W. Cruickshank writes to
Sydney “ Sun ” under date February 12,
1912: • _ (
“In considering the attitude of Mr.
Fisher towards the Queensland strike, due
regard must be paid to that honourable
gentleman’s point of view. For instance,
you cannot expect the Federal Premier,
who has reached his present exalted posi-
tion along the rough road of manual toil
and arduous self-culture, to view the Bris-
bane workers with the same eyes as a Tory
politician who may understand more about
the manipulation of the money market or
the subtleties of consomme than the aspi-
rations of the labouring multitude. Mr.
Fisher is himself a Queenslander, and has
worked among the Queensland workers,
and I venture to think that he understands
the ‘mob mind’ very much better than Mi.
Denham or the editors of the Sydney morn-
ing papers. That Mr. Fisher was rig tit in
refusing to send troops to shoot and harry
a body of law-abiding, industrious, and
honest citizens of the Commonwealth is
now manifest, and it is equally clear that
the message which the Queensland Govern-
ment sent, in the name of the Governor,
asking for military assistance, is a wholly
discreditable document, about which more
will be heard.
Queensland’s Premier acted like a
hysterical old woman in a blue funk; Mr.
Fisher’s reply was that of a statesman and
a humanitarian. The Queensland people
are as law-abiding as any in the world, ap.d
the Labour leaders in that State are a body
of high-minded, Christian gentlemen. I
lived there for 17 years, and personally
know Mr. Bowman, leader of the Labour
party, and others whose names have ap-
peared prominently during the present cri-
sis, and I have no hesitation in saying that
these men have the best interests of the
workers and the community warmly at
heart.
“The Brisbane Police Court records dis-
close no exceptional lawlessness in that
city, and there can be no doubt that the
strike committee has done more to preserve
order than all the mock heroics of paid
special constables and the posings of alleged
‘strong men’ striking grotesque attitudes
in front of unarmed and inoffensive men,
women, and children. When this country
has serious work to do, to protect its shores
from the foreign enemy, the men whom we
will look to for defence and acts of heroism
will not be the hireling special constables,
but the children of the sterling men who
form the rank and file of the union army of
Australia to-day, and if we were to be at-
tacked to-morrow it would be the much-
despised striker who would cheerfully bear
the brunt of the fight, while some of the
so-called strong men would probably be
making rapid tracks for their native land.”
BADGER IN THE ARBITRATION
COURT.
I Judge Higgins: Why did you prefer
the Brisbane Tramway Employees’ Associa-
tion to the Australian Tramways Em-
ployees’ Association ?
Boss Badger: The Brisbane association
is the sort of union I have always encour-
aged.
Judge Higgir.s: Will you eject the
Brisbane Tramway Employees’ Association
from the recreation rooms if thsy join an
outside association? * #
Boss Badger: I will. At any rate : I
will take such drastic action as I think
necessary.
Judge Higgins: What! Have another
strike, eh?
COMMONWEALTH SERVANTS AND
STRIKE ETHICS.
Is it true that in connection with the
work of the Telephone Branch of the Com-
monwealth Public Service, officers in charge
are putting on unskilled labour to do the
work of the bricklayers now on strike? If
it is so, then Mr. W. Finlayson, M.P.,
should get on to it and inform the Minis-
ter for Home Affairs, while Secretary Kat-
terns, of the Bricklayers’ Union, should
take prompt action to protect his men.
QUEER UNIONISTS.
Our par. in yesterday’s issue under the
above heading appears to have hit several
persons, but as no names were mentioned,
no one is hurt, and the note of warning
struck will, we are sure, do a deal of good.
We may just add that the point raised was
that a certain empty house had been prac-
ically let to a good unionist on strike and
then refused him.
Mr. Crampton is to address the Mel-
bourne Waterside Workers to-morrow
night. -
ADVERTISEMENTS,
* r
A MEETING of all Late Employees of
the GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
will be held TO-MORROW (Wednesday) at
11 o’clock a.m., in No. 2 Room, Trades
Hall.
TO HELP COMRADES ON STRIKE.
Australian Federated Stage Employees’
Association, Queensland Branch.
CENTENNIAL HALL.
SATURDAY, 24th, at 8 p.m.
A First-class Programme of STAR
UNION ARTISTS, assisted by a full Union
Orchestra. »
Popular Prices: 6d. and Is.
