

Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 19.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1912.
The Leader’s Morning Address.
Strike Leader Coyne had another very
large audience before him when deliver-
ing his address this morning, and deter-
mination was fixed on every feature in the
crow r d, which cheered the leader’s remarks
enthusiastically.
Notwithstanding the oft-repeated state-
ments in the fabricating sheets of the
grab-all capitalists that the strike is
“fizzling out,” “men wasting away,” “jts
back broken,” etc., the same set of earnest
wealth-producers are to be found not far
away-from the Trades Hall every morning,
and if employers have determined, with
the assistance of a moribund Government,
to starve these men into subjection they
have taken on a bigger contract than thev
have ever before tackled,
xi T} 16 popular Harry told the people that
the Strike Committee had sat till late last
night discussing plans for an honourable
settlement, and added that developments
that were taking place in the South justi-
fied them in believing that victory was not
far off.
OUR AMBASSADORS IN THE SOUTH.
No message has been received from Mr.
Peter M’Lachlan regarding to-day’s Arbi-
tration Court proceedings up to the time
of going to press.
An important message may come to
hand later on from Mr. Crampton.
SLAVERY IN ITS LATEST FORM.
Me have been informed on very good
authority that the various shipping com-
panies have sent to several firms in the
city, asiving that some employees be sent
to the wharfs in order to assist in the work
thei e. Also, that in at least two instances
cei tain men were picked out and ordered
to go, whether they liked it or not, under
penalty of dismissal. These poor serfs,
haying separated themselves from their
unionist fellows, had to bend their backs
to the lash, and are now unwilling workers
with the riff-raff on the water’s edge that
the capitalistic slave-makers have accumu-
lated there.
BROTHERS ALL.
Ihe Sydney Coal Lumpers would not
touch tip steamers Cornwall, Arawatta, or
Mallina, as they have been marked
‘mlack” ships. The stay, therefore, of
these vessels in Sydney Harbour is some-
what indefinite.
CIVIL SERVICE SPECIALS.
The members of the Civil Service strike
and head-break brigade are receiving, in
addition to their usual salaries, ten shil-
lings a day during the time they degraded
themselves.
This is contrary to the Civil Service
Act and Regulations. But the civil ser-
vants have been appeased and, it is hoped,
their votes secured for the Yankee domina-
ted Government which introduced the first
“Reign of Terror” on Australian soil.
TO RAILWAY LOCO. MEN.
It has been reported that 26 trucks of
coal, consigned to Collin and Sons was to-
day, shunted into Badger’s siding.
Are you listening, loco, men, who so
solemnly pledged yourselves not to touch
the stuff for this autocrat ?
BALLOT VERSUS BATON.
Get your name on the roll. Ballot bul-
lets are more effective than bayonets or
batons, and between now and the April
by-monthly Electoral Court thousands of
electors ought to , qualify to cut off the
political heads of Denham and Co.
A WATERSIDE FATALITY.
i— ■ 1
A wharf labourer, named A. W. Staple-
ton, was killed yesterday afternoon, at
Pinkenba, while loading rails. It seems
that a sling was being lowered on to a
truck/ while Stapleton was getting into it,
when the sling came down too quickly, and
struck him on the head. He was killed
instantly. Deceased was employed by the
Brisbane Stevedoring Company.
AMALGAMATED SOCIETY OF CAR-
PENTERS AND JOINERS.
Important Official Statement.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —Would you kindly insert the follow-
ing in the “Bulletin ,, and “Worker”:
A rumour having been circulated that
a letter was read at a meeting of the
Building Trades’ Council purporting to
come from the A.S.C. and J. to the effect
that the members of this society decided to
return to wmrk last Monday (the 19th inst.),
this meeting assembled strongly repudiates
any knowledge of such communication, and
desires to inform the trade unionists of
Brisbane, through the press, that it is
nothing less than a malicious lie.—Yours
in unity,
L. ENGLISH, Pres. L.C.
C. M. LEGGE, Sec. A.S.C.J.
February 21.
THEY HAVE HAD EXPERIENCE.
Another instalment of £5 has been re-
ceived by the Strike Committee from the
inmates of Dunwich. They are proud of
the gallant fight being put up by the
younger folk who have been in the firing
line for the past three weeks.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Crowded meetings were held last even-
ing m the Centennial Hall, at Ivory-street,
Valley ; Clarence Corner, 5.8. ; and Kel-
vm Grove. Plenty of eloquent, earnest,
and thoughtful speakers addressed the
various audiences, and the increasing at-
tendances at these enlightening and en-
couraging fixtures is undoubted proof of
the great interest taken in them. Many
hundreds of citizens who heretofore did not
concern themselves much about the work-
ers— either unionist or non-unionist
now make their nightly pilgrimmage to
these labour centres, and it can truthfully
be stated that many who came prepared
to scoff remained to appreciate. If these
meetings were to be continued till the
time of the )next State elections the fol-
lowers of the present Government would
be made to feel the force of this new pro-
paganda work, and the blighting influence
of the sycophantic daily press would lose
a lot, if not all, of its evil conseouences.
TO-NIGHT’S MEETINGS.
CENTENNIAL HALL,
IVORY STREET, VALLEY,
WEST END,
PADDINGTON.
Citizens, roll up! and hear the truth
about the position.
LESSONS FROM THE PAST.
«
The Edit 01% “Strike Bulletin. ’’
Sir, I not in the habit of rushing to
print, but cannot refrain from commenting
upon the callous and despicable remarks
of an individual, who desires to be known
writing in the Brisbane
Daily Mail, 5 ’ of Monday, upon the Trades
Hall s acceptance of the most unlooked
for sympathy from the poor old people at
Dunwich.
Of course, all broad-minded people hear
both sides of the question before they
speak. Naturally, “Hawk Eye 55 is well
acquainted with the “Worker,” and will, I
trust, have the opportunity of judging
whether or not the dead in Toowong are
safe. Every man or woman in this city
with the slightest, tinge of sentiment must
inwardly understand that the grateful don-
ation of the old people of Dunwich was
accepted in the same spirit as it was be-
stowed. Is there a man living who would
spurn the sympathy of his most honoured
friends ?
I believe that this action of our old
pioneers is the soundest and most self-
evident proof of the righteousness of the
present social evolution, and ample justifi-
cation for every man to combat emperors,
if necessary, for his rights. These people
with their age and experience, know better
than we do what capital did for them in
the past; and they before all others know
what capital will do for us, their followers.
They know who it was that endeavoured
to make their last days happier, and inter-
mingle a little happiness and comfort with
their sadness; and like the good and grand
old ladies and gentlemen that they are,
have not forgotten us in this unhappy
increasing mass of humanity that will sac-
rifice its comfort, its health, and, if need
be, its life to fight for better conditions
of life for its survivors and offspring; and
there is another force in this world that
will sacrifice everything animate for gold.
Gold is its haven; gold its its god. History
has told us what it has done for gold. No
one knows what it will not do. The
working man’s interest lies in his wife,
children, and fellow-men. He will not
worry the dead; he is not a “hawk” or
any other bird of prey.
Yours, etc.,
_ INDEPENDENCE.
Feb. 19.
(\\ e will pass this letter on to the proper
quarter, and communicate with the writer
later on.—Ed. 5.8.)
SUBJECT FOR INQUIRY.
The hotels of Brisbane were very properly
closed during the heat of the strike; yet
one institution —still in receipt of a yearly
subsidy from the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, though it is nothing more or less
than a drinking saloon —had its doors wide
open to all who were special constables.
The business of this institution should be
investigated.
BENEATH CONTEMPT.
One armed party of specials and their
leader, rank and file, were all of the Lands
Department. They, with one or two con-
spicuous exceptions, were quite innocent
of martial training—and their bumptious
leader was the most innocent of all in this
respect, as the crowd could plainly see.
“SPECIAL” DOCUMENTS.
Is it the open pub. that’s causing so
many of the unspeakable “specials” to
lose documents of private interest about
our streets, only to be discovered by our
“extra special” V.O. men?
On Monday a very interesting paper
concerning the mortgage of a teamster’s
property (said teamster being one of Ca-
hill’s “special cads”) to a local storekeeper
of the district from which this brave cow-
boy hails, was discovered. These sidelights
are valuable as showing how the noble
army of police pimps has been recruited
and the pressure used to rojDe them in. This
paper advises greater caution with these
family secrets or the “ Bulletin ” may yet
give the show away—and—how it would
hurt!
FOUND by V.O.
Newstead. Apply V.
, pair spectacles
0. office.
at
The Latest from the Ranks.
AMALGAMATED WORKERS’ ASSO-
CIATION.
At a meeting of the Brisbane Branch of
the A.W.A. the following resolution was
carried unanimously:—
“That the Strike Committee be re-
quested to immediately communicate with
the Federal Government, and enter em-
phatic protest against the action of the
Federal Government in continuing tele-
phone extension work during the present
industrial crisis, thereby undermining the
solidarity of the men on strike.”
The following resolution was also car-
ried unanimously:—
“That the action of the President and
Secretary in recommending that no permits
be granted to members of the A.W.A. be
•endorsed.” :
The members were as stalwart as ever,
and are in line with the Strike Commit-
tee.
The next meeting was fixed for Friday,
23rd inst., at 11 a.m.
Storemen and Packers.
Yesterday’s large meeting of members
of the above union indicated that there is
no wavering on the part of members.
It w 7 as decided to draw the attention
of the Strike Committee to the cases of
three employers (butchers) who had sent
hides, tallow, and sheep skins into hide
stores, which were handled by non-union
labour. The hope was expressed that the
permits would be withdrawn.
Tramway Employees.
At a meeting of the above association,
at which all members w r ere present, it was
unanimously agreed per resolution to con-
vey to the Combined Unions’ Strike Com-
mittee full confidence, and endorsing their
actions up to date. This union is as solid
as the Rock of Gibraltar.
Masters and Engineers.
At a meeting of the above association
held on Monday the following resolution
was carried unanimously
“That the members are standing firm,
and endorse the action of the Strike Com-
mittee up to the present.”
Carters and Drivers.
Another well attended meeting of car-
ters was held this morning in the Water-
side Union rooms, fully 700 members being
present, every member being determined
to stand by the Strike Committee to the
end. Comrades Joe Collings and Jack
Perel addressed the meeting, after which
three ringing cheers were given for our
comrades the Bundaba miners.
Shop Assistants’ Union.
At a special general meeting of the
above union, held in the Temperance Hall
on Monday 19th inst., it was decided to
affiliate with the A.L.F.
Notice of motion to provide the neces-
sary ways and means was tabled. The
number of new members admitted was 152.
Federated Clothing Trade.
A meeting of the above branch was held
this morning, and a vote of increased con-
fidence was passed in the Strike Commit-
tee, and pledging themselves to remain
solid until the cause of unionism is tri-
umphant.
Federated Seamen.
The following resolutions were passed
at a meeting of the above union to-day:—
“That the Queensland Branch, support-
ed by a number of Southern members on
strike in this port, desire to express a
unanimous vote of confidence in the Strike
Committee, and trust they will retain their
health through the remainder of the
struggle.”
“That the meeting of this union view
with disgust ths action of the State Go-
vernment in removing our Secretary, Mr.
P. Henderson, from the Marine Board,
proving conclusively that they would hang
a man without trial.”
Saddlers.
A group photo, of all members of the
Saddling Trades Union will be taken in
Wickham Park at 9.30 sharp to-morrow
(Thursday) morning. Every member par-
ticularly requested to be present.
VOICES FROM THE SOUTH.
Paddington (Sydney) Labour League.
The Secretary,
Labour Federation, Queensland,
Dear Sir,
I am directed by resolution of the
above league to forward the following reso-
lution to your council: “ That the Padding-
ton branch of the Political Labour League
of New South Wales extends its sympathy
and appreciation of the actions of the
unions concerned in their fight for union
principles in the present crisis, and hope
they will be successful.
Yours fraternally,
FRANK DWYER,
Sec. Paddington P.L.P.
Paddington, Sydney, Feb. 17, 1912.
N.S.W. Storemen.
The United Storemen’s Union of New
South Wales have sent along best wishes to
Queensland battlers for freedom.
The Only Way.
TO THE WORKERS OF QUEENSLAND.
Comrades! “They have rights who dar
maintain them, ’ ’ is an old adage, but neve
did it more aptly apply than at the presen':
moment in Brisbane. Only m so far z
ti e workers are able to maintain whateve: *
modicum of liberty we enjoy, cafli we hope
to prevent the capitalist class from wres >
mg these dearly-bought rights from us. I t
is an accepted axiom, both in the scientifi
and economic world, that stagnation an
inertia are impossibilities. Either w
must advance or we must retreat. Which
shall it be P Barring the path of huma:
progress are arrayed the forces of capita -
ism, which contains within its ranks, th
law, commerce, custom, precedent, police
and all the privileges of wealth that go to
the making of our present diabolical com
petitive system. What have we, the people
to oppose break down, and annihilate thi
formidable and deadly barrier ? Manv
kings comrades- —faith in our cause, hope
of the future, and, above all, comradeship
solidarity, class consciousness—in short
what William Morris finely termed, “the
communion of fellowship.' ’ #
“The wealth of the world for the pro-
ducers or the wealth." Do you realise
wnat that short sentence means? Briefly
it means a complete reversal of the present
system of society. It means the entire
a Volition .of the trust, combine, money-
lender, middleman, and profit-monger, and
the only way to obtain this goal is for the
workers to understand, each individual
within himself, that there should only be
one class in the community—the workers
and that all persons outside that class are
parasites and robbers, who can have no
place whatever in an equitable and just
society. So soon as you workers as a class
realise this, so soon will you come to your
own.
The present desperate struggle in which
we are engaged surely must teach you the
bitter lesson of class privilege power and
oppression. The lying doctrine of Capital
and Labour being brothers is now at last
exposed m all its hideous nakedness. The
bitterness, hatred, and brutality of your
dear masters during the past three weeks
surely has removed the scales from your
eyes at last, and you understand that it is
a physical and moral impossibility for these
two divergent forces, antagonistic at every
point, to blend and harmonise. Therefore
let us go forward. We dare not retreat*
.and ever let our battle-cry be, “Excelsior!"’
Onward!" “Upward!" -and then, surely,
all other things shall be added unto us.
E. H. LANE.
WILL THEY WEAR THEM?
The Editor “ Strike Bulletin/ ’
Sir,—The morning liars and the evening
production have not .published the gratify-
lng intelligence that the Hon. Digby Hen-
ham—the greatest General since Kuropat-
km—has decided to award each Special
Baton-wielder with a bronze medal. On the
obverse side there is to be a “ striking ’’
portrait of Denham; the reverse side wi
show a perfect representation of a baton
Ihe axiomatic inscription is: “4000 blud-
geon bearers are better than 450 regular
police, or 22,000 unarmed peaceful union-
ists. ’
The “ Courier ” isn’t even mentioned.
Oh! what will “Granny” say?
, B l ut tile most coveted prize of all is to be
the b ar awarded to the participator in
battles that sorely tried the bravery o :
cow-cocky constables and thirty-bob-a-week
mkspillers, who have not the courage to
oppose their sweating employers by joining
in a union and compelling the payment to
them of a salary approaching, at least, that
of the lowest paid striker. There are to be
hve anedals in recognition of the following
tearful encounter with the unarmec
enemy”; (1) The battle of the Market
Square, two casualties in retaliation for
brutal battonmg of harmless, inoffensive
citizens. (2) The battle of Ingleside, fought
at Digby Denham’s in the dead of night
(February 3) by 40 specials, armed to the
teeth and striking furiously at an imagin-
ary foe supposed to be bent on wrecking
Denham’s domicile. (3) The Deadly En-
counter at the Power House, one casualty
by a horse fainting on sight of Badger, and
throwing a special. (4) The Terrific En-
gagement at Cahillside, Newmarket. This
also happened in the dead of night 22
specials, armed cap-a-pie, discerned a dark
object on Cahill s fence ; said at once it was
a villainous unionist; fired, and killed—a
lomcat. (5) The Bloodthirsty struggle of
the 13th February, in the Market Square,
by 2000 armed and bayonetted hirelings
and two encited unionists whom the specials
cielighted in battoning. This was a memor-
able fight conducted a la the Durbar by
Cahill m person. One special fainted with
the heat; several hundreds got hot feet from
the asphalt. The force was not sufficient to
jail Harry or Joe, and at 11 a.m.—after
two hours’ tomfoolery—Cahill saw he had
beep hoaxed and gave the order to retreat.
This startling bit of generalship in hold-
ing an unlawful assembly in the Market
Square cost Queensland just a shade over
£lOOO for the two hours’ theatrics! It has
been decided to call it the Battle of the
Frights, to distinguish it from engagement
No. 1. All specials are requested to apply
early for their bars and furnish full parti-
culars of valorous deeds. I must get mine;
I hit an old man, and he lay down to it!
Yours truly.
JOHN HOP.
February 19.
Mr. James Agnew, late of Moxon and
Co s. lighter Garfield, washes to tell all
waterside workers and coal lumpers that
the statement circulated that he is working
is entirely without foundation.
Underground Engineering.
(Editor Official “Bulletin.”)
„ cunning and corrupt forces
or Capitalist society are engineering
scheme to strike at the basis of working
class solidarity. Silently yet effectively
this scheme is maturing. It is to firsi
throw dust m our eyes and discredit on
our leaders; enmesh them in legal coils
and imprison them in an endeavour tc
bieak their spirit. It has been done here
jefore; it will probably be done again.
. n great strikes outrages are com-
by t^ 6 h j relm S s of the capitalists,
and then placed at the door of strike
leaders. Charges are trumped up and con-
victions obtained on the evidence of bribed
ai ? d . Poured witnesses. In America,
v here these methods are rampant, chaos
and terror is at present pervading the
oigamsations. Here the State and private
detectives have been withdrawn and ob-
-Irl°m° m eVG 7 ot i ier P art of Queens-
and. I hey are here for conviction, which
must be gained at any price. They are
now at their degrading work, the prosecu-
readyrf,i,and the c °urts of judicature
waiting. The arrests will be postponed to
as near the elections as possible. The
reason for it is obvious. With our leaders
under arrest, orft- enemies hope to throw
state a k° Ur campai S n into a disorganised
Then others of our leaders are to be
got at by indirect means. The daily jour-
nals, which by instinct are liars and pre-
vancators, are singling them out and
shamefully traducing them. Against them
<ue arrayed the employers, financiers,
speculators, and all the blood-suckers of
i ate enemies of our
class They first do their utmost to induce
? n y, leaders to betray us. They plead,
In 1? ? 6 ’ threaten, coerce. Their screams go
unheard, and their efforts unheeded
.Let us be ever ready to fight and cheat
the gaols of their victims, to stand by our
leaders in adversity, prevent them being
openly victimised or passively persecuted,
they have worked the hardest and proved
themselves strict in integrity to the Cause,
they are fighting our fight: fighting for
that rigorous equality and freedom which
can only be wrenched from the capitalists
at the cost of much sacrifice and suffering.
I am, etc.,
MARIEN RICKARDS.
OUR GREAT NEED.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
, a meetin £ of the Ithaca W.P.O
held to-night (Tuesday), it was suggested
that the present was an opportune time for
the unions and other organisations to co-
operate in the establishment of a dailv
Labour newspaper.
The matter was left in the hands of
Messrs. Colborne and Gilday to take fur-
ther action.
V. W. SPEERING.
Hon. Sec. Ithaca W.P.O.
SPEAKS WELL FOR THE FUTURE.
Yesterday, when the employees of the
Government Printing Office were inter-
viewing the Government Printer, the lads
who came out on strike held a separate
meeting, and decided they would not re-
turn until the men resumed.
TO RAILWAY WORKERS.
All railway men now out on strike are
requested to attend at Wickham Park to-
morrow (Thursday) at 9.30 a.m., in order
to sign the roll, and entitle the members so
signing to Loyalty Badges. '
LIGHTWEIGHT BREAD REPORTED.
i®. reported that some bakers are
selling lightweight bread. It is up to the
authorities to see to this matter.
A FURTHER EXPLANATION.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —In refering to the letter of ex-
planation, published in “Bulletin” No. 16.
J? e £. state that this letter was un-
official and published without the author-
ity or this union, and this union contra-
dicts and is not responsible for the said
letter.
Yours, etc.,
PETER DUDGEON,
Secretary Australian Theatrical Em-
ployees Association, Queensland Branch.
\ xt ND i! one P air scab s ” boots, near
A.U.b.JN. shops. Owner,can have same by
applying to V.O. Office.
The women of Brisbane are standing
firm with their husbands and brothers in
the great struggle for Freedom. They real-
ise the importance of the strike and are
prepared to suffer privation to win better
conditions for present and future genera-
tions. When the best half of humanity
back up the breadwinners success is as-
sured.
The Editor of Fat Tolmie’s Downs
paper says:—
“Our Brisbane correspondent tells an
interesting story of how hostility against
Ooyne is pronounced amongst the workers.
Let s hope, metaphorically speaking, they
rend him limb from limb.”
If that little scribe were game to tell
Harry that face to face there might be
some “rending,” and it wouldn’t be “me-
taphorical” either—we don’t think.
