

Official Bulletin, No. 56.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 56.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 1912.
The People’s Only Friends.
WHAT LABOUR HAS DONE FOR THE
WORKERS.
During the three years that the Labour
Party had an actual share in the Govern-
ment of Queensland —up to the time of the
General Elections of 1907 —and during an
additional period up to the end of the first
session of 1908, it assisted to establish the
following reforms, among others:
1. Adult suffrage, giving every man
and woman a vote, and abolishing plural
voting.
2. Workers’ Compensation Act, where-
by the wives and children and all other de-
pendants are now assured of compensation
for the loss of or injury to their husbands
through accidents while at work.
3. Infants’ Life Protection Actr—a
most humane and beneficial reform, with
the appointment of women inspectors in-
stead of men.
4. Provisions for money payments to
widows to enable them to support their own
children at home, instead of having to send
them to orphanages or board thgm out with
strangers as previously.
5. Wife’s Intestate Estates Act. Under
this, in the case of women having separate
estates and dying without making a wall,
their property comes under the same law
as men’s estates.
6. Abolition of Poll Tax imposed by
the Philp Government, and the raising of
the exemption to £2OO.
7. Workmen’s Lien Act. w r hich secures
to the worker his wages from fraudulent
employers.
8. State Loans to Miners. Under this,
miners and prospectors can 'get advances
from the State for erection of mining ma-
chinery.
9. Protection from seizure for rent, of
sewing machines or other appliances used
by women in earning their living.
10. Raising the exemption from pro-
bate duty to £3OO. Formerly widows w T ho
were left only £2OO had to pay probate
duty.
11. Standard rate of wage in Govern-
ment contracts.
12. Removal of the proof-of-age condi-
tion in the Insurance Act.
13. Removal of the tax on improve-
ments on mining tenures.
14. Abolition of the iniquitous Postal
Vote. Provision for absent voters.
15. Amendment of the Shops and Fac-
tories’ Act, with better w orking conditions
for young people, and improvements iij the
hours of labour in factories and shops.
16. Wages Boards Act, w’\;r’ n * ls al-
realy givingg Inemesed wages, and be\ ter
condlioi is to employees in several indl?"
tries.
17. Inspection of Machinery and Scaf-
folding Act.
18. Old Age Pension Act, a noble pro-
vision for our aged people; forerunner of
the present Federal Act.
19. Constitution Act, doing away with
the necessity for a two-thirds majority of
both Houses of Parliament in the case of
an amendment of the Constitution. A most
important reform, which enables the people
to amend or abolish the Upper House when-
ever they resolve to do so.
20. Referendum Act, by which any Bill
twice rejected by the Upper House can be
submitted to a referendum of the people,
and if approved by them, become law with-
out further reference to the Legislative
Council.
ANOTHER DETRACTOR,
Speaking at Taringa on Mo- night
the Minister for Lands said : - ‘ The ch ief
reason why the Government a d n °t keen
able to call upon the Trar a y s Company
to run the cars after dark ia <* keen that it
had not been safe. T trains had not
been run for the san> feason. Dynamite
had been placed o> the rails.” Just fancy
the feeling that will ccpme over people in
other parts of Australia and in England
when they this calumny from a Ca-
binet Minister. If they placed credence in
that statement they would be quite justified
in saying Queensland be a good
place to keep away from. And that is the
man who asks Brisbane citizens to select
him to frame the laws of the country and
to take a prominent part in administering
them. There are something like 700 rail-
way men and tramw r ay men still away from
the positions they so ably filled up to the
30th Janauary last. The trams and trains
have been running nightly since then, and
has any dynamite been used ? Shakespeare
made Cassio say: “Who steals my purse
steals trash; but he who filches from me
my good name robs me of that which not
enriched him, but makes me poor indeed.”
Toowong electors should see that Macart-
ney won’t be any richer for slandering his
adopted country.
But perhaps there is an excuse for him.
He may have forgotten that he was not still
in Ireland. Several times it has been shown
in that tyrannically-governed country that
the police committed serious outrages and
then arrested innocent men and worked up
a case against tjfem as the perpetrators.
One police sergeant is still in gaol for this
sort of business, while another was allowed
to escape elsewhere. We don’t want this
sort of thing imported into Queensland.
THE “OFFICIAL BULLETIN.”
This will be the last issue of the “Offi-
cial Bulletin” till Tuesday next, the 10th
inst. Although the “Bulletin” will not be
published, propaganda work will still go
on, and we hope to begin next week in
real earnest to fight the political battle of
the workers, and shall do so with every
confidence that the efforts of the Labour-
ites will be crowned with complete success
on April 27th next.
A Welcome Visit.
Mr. Lewis McDonald, secretary of the
C.P.E., received the following wire from
Prime Minister Fisher this morning:—
‘ 4 Propose to arrive in Brisbane on
Sunday night, April 14, from Sydney. Will
be in Brisbane until the morning of the
16th, when I intend to leave for Gympie,
Maryborough, Bundaberg, and Rockhamp-
ton.”
Arrangements will be made to give Mr.
Fisher an opportunity to address the citi-
zens of Brisbane before going further
North.
MISREPRESENTATION.
To the Editor of Official Bulletin.
Sir, —The Capitalist papers are taking
the usual great interest m the electors be-
fore an election takes place by advising the
Government women canvassers to urge the
women to vote the Conservative ticket.
What puzzles me is, how they have the
audacity to ask a working man’s wife to
vote for the Government after what took
place during the strike. I think that all
the workers are convinced that a change
of Government is imperative. One reason
given why women should vote for baton
rule is, that during the strike some of them
could not get food supplies for the familj T
in the usual way. I would just like to ask
whose fault was it that the food supply was
stopped? If the Government had not lent
a hand to the Tram Monopoly and the Em-
ployers’ Association to try and kill union-
ism, there would have been no strike ; and
if there is a repetition of those affairs it
will be because the workers are oppressed
by the employing class. The papers go on
to say that the strikers here may take a
hint from the strikers in Great Britain,
who went on strike for the princely sum
of 5/ per day. I venture to say that if
this Government is returned to power it
won’t be long before we find ourselves m
the same deplorable condition as those poor
miners. As an instance, the suspension
of the Wages Board Act, and the disgrace-
ful way in which those railway men were
treated by the Government in the inquiry.
Mr. Appel alludes to the Labour-women
as men-women. Well, all I can say in this
matter is, that if there had been more
manly men in the Government, the power
to baton w omen w ould not have been given
to the police, and those ‘‘specials” w ould
not have been required to disorganise law
and order.
I heard a Government, man say the
other day that he believed that by form-
ing a procession during a strike, the people
were kept more orderly and peaceful, but
he did not believe in a procession when it
piovl'] that the strikers were masters of
the situation. That is the whole thing in a
nutshell, and the Lovernitient realised
that, so they caused the police disturb
the peace, in order that the Press
make it appear before the w r orld that it
was the strikers who disturbed the peace.
If it other reason than that, the
workei should vote solid fpr Labour, as
they li ve been held up to scorn in other
countr es hy the lying reports of the strike
j n -j-u capitalistic Press, one paper saying
thai tiie strikers ran like curs before the
poJi e. 1 am, etc.,
r TT» TT1?'tTT'nrrrr
E. HEWETT.
A POLITICAL BISHOP'S
PREVARICATION.
Just listen to this piece of political hy-
pocrisy delivered by Barnes at Bulimba on
Monday night:—
“ When he had returned on the first
Sunday after the strike he had strained
every nerve and exhausted every means
to bring about a settlement. And when
they were within reach of settlement the
red tape of the Trades Hall had caused
a general strike to be precipitated.”
Could prevarication go further ?
“ When he returned.” That is what every
Cabinet Minister has been saying. Not one
of them was at his post when the trouble
started. Barnes had to see Sir Thomas
Robinson as far as Melbourne (and bring
back a million of Commonwealth money
with him). Appel had to go South to meet
a newly-acquired son-in-law. Denham had
been rusticating around Sydney after the
Premiers’ meeting. Macartney and Paget
were keeping as much out of Brisbane as
possible—in fact, the revolver-carrying
Barlow was practically left to transact the
business ol the country. Labour members
hunted round to find a Minister who would
take some interest in affairs, and later on
asked Denham to summon Parliament, and
yet this political prevaricator says the red
tape of the Trades Hall had caused the
strike to be precipitated. Unionists have
been taunted with too much red-ribbonism
during the strike, but it remained for this
unabashed political humbug to charge
them with too much red-tapeism before it.
SEND HIM TO SEEK THE NORTH
POLE.
In moving a vote of thanks at Den-
ham’s meeting on Tuesday night, a party
by the name of Reading declared that he
had discovered for a positive fact that the
strike had been fixed up two months be-
fore in order to capture the elections. Was
it he who discovered the stuffed sausage
skin on the tramline? A man who can
talk like that should be capable of discov-
ering anything. But he did not say
whether it was Badger or Denham who
fixed up the strike in order to capture the
elections. The latter has stated that in
consequence of the strike he can’t possibly
lose. However, as he has lost so many
things since he changed the butter for the
ballot box, it wouldn’t surprise people out
Oxley way if he left something behind him
on the 27th.
Campaign Items.
SOUTH BRISBANE ELECTORATE.
Mr. 3 . H. Sherry (endorsed Labour can-
didate), assisted by Messrs. H. Bezant and
Tom Emmerson (Blackbutt), addressed a
largely-attended meeting of electors in
Musgrave Park last evening. Mr. L. L.
Noonan presided. The meeting, which was
enthusiastic throughout, concluded with
cheers for the Labour movement, the can-
didate, and chairman. “Bulletins” were
distributed at the various exits. Next
meeting, Clarence Corner, Saturday next.
NUNDAH W.P.O.
The endorsed Labour candidate, R.
McCormack, will open his campaign on
Wednesday night, the 10th iqstant, in the
Nundah Shire Hall. The meeting will
begin at 8 o’clock, and several prominent
Labour speakers will address the meeting.
There will be a meeting of this com-
mittee at the committee rooms on Satur-
day night, at 8 o’clock.
On Thursday, the 11th instant* the cam-
paign will be continued in the Decker Hall,
Sandgate.
BRISBANE ELECTION.
Mr. M. J. Kirwan, the endorsed Labour
candidate, opened the campaign in the Pro-
testant Hall, Ann-street, to a large and
enthusiastic meeting, at which Alderman
T. Wilson presided. On rising to speak
after a flattering introduction by the chair-
man, the candidate wa3 loudly applauded.
He dealt exhaustively with the facts lead-
ing up to the general strike, and scath-
ingly criticised the partisan attitude of the
Ministry. Reference was also made to the
absence of any financial policy from the
Premier’s speech, and the past financial
administration of the Government was de-
nounced. Mr. Kirwan also dealt with the
Labour platform, explaining several of the
planks of the fighting platform, and after
speaking for an hour and a half, during
which he was frequently applauded, re-
sumed his seat amidst a thunderops out-
burst of cheering. Mr. J. F. Fihelly (Pad-
dington) also addressed the meeting, and
met ivith a hearty reception, and one of
the most enthusiastic meetings was
brought to a close by a vigorous address
from Mr. J. G. Smith. The meetnig termi-
nated with enthusiastic cheers for the Lab-
our movement.
OXLEY AND LOGAN W.P.Os.
These organisations held a very success-
ful combined meeting at the Ipswicli-road
Junction last night, the chair being taken
by Mr. Nott. Labour candidates Arnold
and Martin gave spirited addresses, and
\ several questions were asked and satis-
factorily .nswered.
TOO WONG EL
Labour candidate McDonald wi>2
open his campaign on W ?J^ S( ? l ay G , v^ ll Ap
next, 11th mst., in the Oddfellows’ Hall,
Toowong, when 1 © will be assisted by Mr.
W. F. Finlavson, M.P. Other meetings to
follow will be duly announced.
WINDSOR ELECTORATE.
Labour candidate Crampton had a fine
meeting on the Alhion Flats last night, Mr.
Ricks occupying the chair. The genial
“Jack” excelled himself, and could have
held his audience till midnight. This
candidate broke new ground in ably deal-
ing with the abattoir question, pointing
out the disgraceful —in fact disgusting—
way in which meat is allowed to be sent to
the consumer in Brisbane. He also ex-
plained the method of inspection adopted
in Sydney. Mr. R. Sumner also gave an in-
teresting address, which caused many to
regret that the logical Richard was not also
a candidate for Parliamentary honours.
Mr. M‘Phail was also worth listening to in
proposing a vote of confidence, and the fu-
ture member for Nundah, Organiser Bob
M 4 Cormack, expressed some strong senti-
ments in seconding the vote, which was
carried with lots of enthuisasm.
ITHACA ELECTORATE.
Mr. J. T. Gilday, the endued Labour
candidate, opened his campaign in the
Foresters’ Hall, Paddington, last night.
Alderman W. R. Warmington presided
over the meeting, which was one of the
largest and most enthusiastic ever held in
this district. “Jack” was in the best of
form, and gave a long and interesting ad-
dress on politics generally, touching on the
maladministration of industrial laws, also
the defective immigration, railway and
land policy of the Government. He hoped
that the people would on the 27tli April
resent the treatment meted out to them on
Black Friday. Messrs. Finlayson and
Boulton also spoke, and Mrs. Miller had a
few words to say to the women. Three
ringing cheers for the Labour movement
closed the meeting.
MAREE ELECTORATE.
Meetings will be held as follows:
Tuesday, April 9th, corner Shafston and
Wellington Roads; speakers, candidate
Bertram and W. F. Finlayson, M.P.
Wednesday, April 10th, Fig Tree (near
Horse Ferry). Thursday, April 11th,
corner Didsbury and Stanley Streets.
Saturday, April 13, Clarence Corner;
speakers, candidates Bertram, Huxbam,
and Sherry.
The Women’s Committee will meet in
the Kangaroo Point School of Arts on
Tuesday afternoon, April 9th, at 3 o’clock.
Women willing to work in the interest of
the Labour candidate are cordially invited
to attend.
An ideal night, an ideal meeting place,
and the fact that the Labour candidate
(Will Bertram) was opening his election
campaign, were responsible for over 600
electors attending the meeting held last
night in the Pineapple Grounds. Mr. Alex.
Skirving presided. Mr. Bertram, who was
cordially received, dealt at length with the
Labour party’s platform, emphasising the
necessity for State ownership of trams, coal
mines, sugar refineries, sawmills, etc. He
referred to Mr. Denhams promise to in-
crease the wages of the police on the eve
of an election as a hait to catch the police
vote, and said that neither the police, the
civil servants (who are the lowest paid
civil servants in the Commonwealth), or
any other body of wage-earners could hope
for any betterment of conditions from any
but a Labour Government.
Mrs. Skirving and Mr. Jack Moir also
addressed the meeting. The latter referred
to a vstatement made by Mr. Hunter to the
effect that he (Mr. Moir) had nominated a
number of immigrants to Queensland. He
emphatically denied nominating other than
his fiance, and further expressed his will-
ingness to donate £5 to any charitable in-
stitution should Mr. Hunter be able to
prove the contrary.
Three ringing cheers lor the candidate
and a vote of thanks to the chairman
brought the meeting to a close.
MACROSSAN ON BADGER.
Speaking at Albion on Monday night,
Mr. Macrossan, the Conservative lawyer
candidate, is reported by the “Courier”
to have said :
‘ ‘ln regard to the strike, he took this
ground; that the men had a right to
wear the badges. (Applause.) That had
been decided by a court of law, and he
condemned Mr. Badger most heartily.”
No member of the Strike Committee
could express greater condemnation than
this, and no further justification is re-
quired for the actions of that body. But
how can Macrossan justify himself in sup-
porting a Government that encouraged
Badger ?
WHAT ARE PERSONALITIES?
At the Premier’s meeting at Goodna
last night he disliked certain interjections
so much that he had the assistance of the
police invoked to have the too-inquisitive
elector ejected. To show their disgust at
this muzzling proceeding, several others
left the meeting. After the police too 1 -
' hold of the man and escorted him
the capitalistic who nought ba-
toning w 7 as > ° a d for resumed his
sppwo-i >jy saying he wanted to make it per-
fectly clear that he did not wish to indulge
in personalities. Nothing personal in
ejecting a man fro a a meeting, eh?
PEOPLE S SUNDAY SERVICE.
Owing to the fact that next Sunday is
Easter Sunday it has been thought desir-
able to postpone this service until the fol-
lowing Sunday, 14th inst. All friends
please note. Also make the gathering for
the 14tli widely known. A collection will
be taken in aid of our comrades in the old
land—the striking coal miners-—and we
desire to make it a record. It may be men-
tioned that matters in connection w ith Mr.
Pollock’s affairs are developing and the fu-
ture for a People’s Sunday Service looks
particularly bright.
THE CATSPAWS.
When firing his little pop-guns at the
Strike Committee on Monday night the
Gramophone Premier said that the repre-
sentatives of the Unions were not fit to
lead monkeys. The remark sets one think-
ing. Did not a certain astute individual,
who placed several big nuts in the fire
towards the end of January last, when the
tram demoralisation set in, convert the
members of the Capitalistic Queensland
Cabinet and the Employers’. Federation
into something very much like catspaw 7 s to
pull them out again ?
ABSENTEE VOTERS.
Voters who are absent from their own
electorate on polling day, and who may be
in an electorate which was uncontested,
will still be able to record their vote by ap-
plying to the returning officer at the poll-
ing booth, which should be open from 8
a.m. till 6 p.m.
The C.P.E. has printed a supply of
forms of circulars and instructions to ab-
sent voters, and organisation secretaries
can procure these from Mr. McDonald at
the Trades Hall.
All the women in the Jthaca electorate
are not exactly in love with the effeminate
ex-Trgasurer, who was called on, as a last
resource, to praise up the party that con-
signed him to political oblivion about 12
months ago. Some of them very plainly
showed the fragile Hawthorn at Rosalie
last night that he was about the last man
they wanted to represent them in Parlia-
ment.
Lawyer Fowles was visibly disconcerted
at his meeting last night, when some of
the audience produced dented batons that
it was alleged had done great execution
on “Black Friday.” The blue pencil will
be sufficient to truss the Conservative can-
didate for the Valley on the 27th.
The Railway Inquisition.
RESULT OF w THE FARCE.
The railway inquisitors who were re-
cently appointed at the instigation of the
Government to summon certain ex-employ-
ees before them so that some political capi-
tal might be gained for a bankrupt Minis-
try, have handed in their report to the
Commissioner, who has ticked the follow-
ing minute to it:
“I agree with the recommendation that
the men who expressed their willingness to
comply with the Commissioner’s regula-
tions in the event of their being allowed
to re-enter the service, be re-employed as
opportunity offers, and that married men
should have first consideration; but on no
account are the men who remained loyal
to be interfered with.”
HOLDING THE MIRROR UP TO
NATURE.
Correspondents have been writing to
certain subsidised Government papers sug-
gesting that the names of the Conservative
candidates should be printed in blue ink on
the ballot paper, while those of the Labour
candidates should bear a red hue. Accord-
ing to these contributors some such means
is necessary so that those poor ignorant
people who are capitalistically inclined,\
and who are mere automatons in the hands
of tricksters, should not vote for the wrong
(or right) candidate. But why stop at this
means in the way of making a distinction ?
Why not have separate polling booths with
the Stars and Stripes floating over one and
the Southern Cross decorating the other?
Why not have a few 7 of the dungaree-clad
specials, with blood-stained truncheons,
iron bars, and lengths of heavy chain in
their hands, showing the way into one
booth and a few 7 ex-tramw T ay men, with
their badges on view pointing the way to
the other ? \Y hy not have a truthful re-
presentation of the young boys and girls
who were forced by greedy employers to
w r ork till midnight w 7 hen Denham and Co.
suspended the anti-Sw 7 eating Act, falling
asleep at their tasks while the “master”
is congratulating tlie Premier at the club
on his gigantic statemanship ? Why. not
illustrate an old-aged pensioner drawing
his monthly allowance w hile his son is play-
ing w r ith a cheque for £lOOO for services
for one year as a Cabinet Minister? Why
not have that vivid picture of ‘ ‘ Black Fri-
day ” w r ell displayed “Lest We Forget?”
Why not have a representation of tw 7 o well-
known produce firms with which certain
members of the Cabinet are connected tak-
ing cash over the <mim+o> v r
supplied to spe V'V. Why not put a but-
te 7 X.* me booth tor the reception of
me papers ? But, then, it may be asked,
why should it be necessary to vote at all
when intelligent and patriotic electors have
a crowd placed before them who have
brought Queensland to the verge of bank-
ruptcy, have done their best to make the
workers of the State the industrial out-
casts of the Commomvealth, and who are
seeking every opportunity to slander their
wealth-producing fellow-citizens ?
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT S
PRINCIPAL MOUTHPIECE.
The following extracts, taken from the
March number of the “ Australasian Typo-
graphical Journal,” will not be likely to be
read with satisfaction by any Queenslander
who wishes his State to occupy her right-
ful place in the Commonwealth. The Home
Rule that was so loudly shrieked for by
the Capitalistic newspapers while the refer-
enda proposals were before the electors does
not seem to have added any lustre to the
ranks of journalism in Brisbane. Read
these extracts:—
“Four Brisbane journalists—Knight,
Dahl, and Rabbetts (2) —are still work-
ing as non-unionists in the Brisbane
‘ Courier ’ office—setting type, operat-
ing, etc. It is said that the Brisbane
branch of the Australian Journalists’ As-
sociation, by a majority of about 30 to 8,
refused to deal with them. The action of
the Brisbane journalists does not say
much for their union principles, and it is
very different from the action taken in
Perth by the typographical men when
the journalists there needed assistance.”
* * * *
“ The Brisbane 1 Courier ’ has abso-
lutely failed to get efficient linotype
operators in Australia to work in the
office under present conditions. It is ru-
moured that the management is trying
to get a staff of ‘ rats ’ from the old coun-
try. If this is true, the Federal authori-
ties should prevent any contract labour
coming in. If the Brisbane ‘ Courier ’
management is willing to produce its
paper under similar conditions to those
existing in the Brisbane ‘ Daily Mail ’
and other Australian dailies, a proper
staff of men could be secured almost im-
mediately.”
“Bishop” Barnes’ meeting in Paton's
Hall on Tuesday night was fairly well filled
—Labourites and “Liberals” being about
equal in nujnbers. Barnes stated, in re-
ply te an interjection, over which he got
very excited, that he knew the interjector,
as he had crawled to him (Barnes) on two
or three occasions. During the meeting he
would not withdraw the statement, hut af-
ter the meeting the elector —a well-known
Labour man —went up to the saintly (P)
man, and the Bishop withdrew the objec-
tionable words unreservedly. It was a
comic-opera meeting, and Barnes was the
star performer.
