

Official Bulletin, No. 41.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 41.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1912
Which Is The Liar?
Ken Grant, Minister, for Education,
speaking at Rockhampton as the mouth-
piece of Denham, Cahill, and Co., said
there were no persons seriously injured by
police batons on Baton Friday. On Satur-
day, February 3, the daylie press published
much about the barbarism of Butterbox
backsliders on that day, and a few
“Courier” pearls will serve to prove that
Kenneth is remarkably careless in his
handling of correct statements:
(“ Courier,” Saturday, Feb. 3, 1912.)
“SOME OF THE INJURED.”
“After yesterday’s conflict between
the police and the mob, several injured
heads and other injuries were treated by
the Ambulance Brigade. Among those
to whom first aid was rendered was Hugh
Elder, 35, labourer, in the employ of the
Government. The nature of his injuries
were lacerated wounds oi«l the head. A.
Carter, 35 years of age, and Albert Bart-
lett, 39, were suffering from similar in-
juries. Charles Nelson received a dislo-
cated elbow, said to have been caused by
jumping over a fence to escape one of the
charges of the police.”
That is a substantial slap in the teeth
to “ The Truthful James” of the Govern-
ment, and the second gem is another Am-
bulance give-away, which is contained in
the following seven-line splinter from the
same, source:
‘ ‘ Late in the afternoon the Ambulance
was called out to attend to a woman
named Elizabeth Bailey, who had been
crushed in the crowd. The right shoulder
had been injured. The brigade rendered
first aid and conveyed her to the Mater
Misericordiac Hospital. ’’
[Mrs. Bailey was hit on the arm with a
policeman’s baton. She has not recovered
the use of her arm yet. —Ed. “ 0.8.”]
This is a double-barrelled bit of just
beautiful. The daylies tried to make out
that Mrs. Bailey was not injured, and
Grant proclaimed that no person was seri-
ously hurt on Baton Friday. If Mrs.
Bailey was not injured, why did the Ambu-
lance bearers take her all the way to the
M iter ? Were they merely monkeying
about the metropolis with their litter for
amusement on that dreadful day?
Citizens should not forget that Denham
is primarily responsible for the barbarism
of Baton Friday. He practically com-
manded Commissioner Cahill to do the
“Grate General” in “Law and Order,”
and the “Courier” seemed to know some-
thing before the event.
In “Granny” of Thursday, February
1, 1912, under the heading “ The Last Look
Round,” the following appeared in cold
print:
“Throughout the evening (Wednes-
day) the police were shadowing gangs J
hoodlums. . . . They were simply out
for fun, and were easily dispersed.”
That shows how much disorder there
was, and this will prove the attack on
citizens was officially planned:
‘ ‘ During the last few days ... a
number of women, with their children,
have been in the streets during the pro-
cessions and demonstrations. (None
were injured or even insulted, remem-
ber.) WISDOM SUGGESTS THAT
THIS SHOULD BE AVOIDED, AS IN
CASE OF DISTURBANCE THEY
WOULD BE IN DANGER.”
And they were—DON’T YOU FOR-
GET—on BATON FRIDAY.
CARRYING IT TOO FAR.
A certain civil servant, living in a
popular suburb on the Sandgate line, spent
a lot more of his time as a special constable
during the strike ferment than he did at
his ordinary duties —in fact the baton was
hardly ever out of his hands the while he
strutted around infusing hatred of union-
ists into the minds of subordinates. This
energetic upholder of law and order was
present at some testimonialising that took
place a few Saturday evenings back, when
several superior specials vied with each
other a 3 to who would slobber his fellow-
special with fulsome flattery the thickest.
It is unnecessary to say just what position
this particular special occupied at this
nauseating function. The next evening
(Sunday), shortly after tea, the neighbours
living near the residence of this exclusive
civil servant heard loud female cries
emanating from his abode. These and
other indications of a domestic difference
of opinion continued for some time, much
to the annoyance of the inhabitants of this
otherwise quiet suburb. The cries rose and
fell at intervals. At length, just as some
young fellows were passing, the cries de-
veloped into shrieks for assistance, to the
accompaniment of a noise as if chairs were
being knocked over, crockery getting
smashed, and a general break-up all round.
The young fellows debated for a while as to
what should be done. They could hear
blow being struck and knew that a woman,
from the way she cried out, was being badly
treated. Just as they had decided to make
a simultaneous rush to rescue the lady,
another man —a J.P., too —came up, and on
the cries for help becoming louder he rushed
into the house, when he saw this special
pillar of civil and military authority be-
labouring his wife with a riding whip. It
was not difficult to disarm the coward and
send him to another part of the room.
However, he did not reach there before he
received a severe blow from a chair which
his wife had been holding as a shield from
the blows that had been aimed at her. This
sort of conduct accounts for a lot of the
disgraceful brutality women and children
were subjected to when police authority in
its professional and amateur sections ran
riot recently.
Electorate of South Brisbane.
OPENING OF LABOUR CAMPAIGN.
Mr. J. H. Sherry, endorsed Labour can-
didate, assisted by Messrs. M. J. Kirwan
and T. J. Ryan, M.L.A., opened his cam-
paign for the above electorate on Satur-
day evening last. Mr. L. Noonan presided
oyer an audience so large that it was with
difficulty that the various speakers made
themselves audible on its outskirts.
The Chairman, in introducing the candi-
date, said that it was regrettable that in
the past the metropolis had only returned
two Labour members, more especially m
view of the fact that the large majority of
electors were wage earners. Mr. Sherry
was not altogether a stranger to them,
inasmuch as he had resided in the electo-
rate nearly the whole of his life, and had
been before them as president of the
Q.R.E.A. and more recently as a member
of the Strike Committee.
Mr. Sherry referred to the Objective of
the Labour party as their goal, and the
programme as a means to that end. He
also advocated the establishment of a State
flour mill, sugar mill, and similar institu-
tions owned and controlled at present by
and for the benefit of the wealthy classes.
Referring to conciliation and arbitration,
he said that had such been law the recent
Tramway (and afterwards general) strike
would have been averted. To those who
doubted the honesty of purpose of the
Labour party, he emphasised the fact that
provision was made in the platform, by the
inclusion of the institution of the initiative
and referendum, for the people to be final
arbiters as to whether or not any piece of
legislation (with the exception that no re-
ligious matter shall be introduced into
political controversies) should become law
or not, thus clearly showing that the
Labour party trusted the people. Passing
reference was also made to the piece of
political trickery whereby ex-Premier
Kidston had become a member of the Land
Court at a £lOOO a year, and the con-
sequential accession to power of the present
Premier, who had in days gone by spoken
highly of the very party that he now so
wantonly traduces. Referring to the Pre-
mier’s letter to the members of his party,
Mr. Sherry explained that the powers
sought after, viz., to deal with Labour
members who participated in the general
strike, were already in possession of the
Premier, inasmuch as he had a large majo-
rity in Parliament, and why did he not
make use of it? That gentleman’s coward-
ice in shelving the Liquor bill also came in
for severe condemnation, especially on the
face of the Premier’s own words that the
country was clamouring for that legisla-
tion. He ventured the opinion that the
Premier was using the present time as
being (in his opinion) a most favourable
opportunity for working the strike bogey
to the detriment of the Labour party, and
forecasted a complete failure in that direc-
tion, as “Black Friday would not be
readily forgotten by the people of Queens-
land, and more particularly the people of
Brisbane. He also took the Premier to
task for his hypocritical whining about the
suffering of the women and children of
the men on strike, seeing that the very
Government of which he is the leader con-
tinues to lockout portion of its employees
that participated in that dispute, thus
further intensifying the sufferings of
those whose interests he alleges he has so
much at heart. The candidate further
claimed that it was not the Labour party
that was responsible for the recent strike,
but the conditions under which people
lived, and the Government should be re-
sponsible for the conditions of life. He also
claimed that the Labour party was essen-
tially a party of peace, but industrial peace
would never prevail until such times as the
working class were adequately represented
in Parliament. He also advocated educa-
tional reform on lines laid down in the
Labour platform, local government reform,
including adult franchise with no disfran-
chisement through arrears of rates, and the
extension to all Government employees of
their full citizen rights. Rule 18 of the
railway regulations came in for severe
criticism. The recognition of the right to
work was strongly advocated, on the
ground that assurance against unemploy-
ment was assurance against want. He also
appealed for an Act whereby pensions
would be granted to the infirm and also to
widows and orphans. (Loud cheers.) He
contended that the Government policy
would consist of nothing but wholesale
abuse of the Strike Committee, and de-
clared, amongst enthusiasm, that the con-
duct of the Labour party and the working
class during the recent industrial upheaval
would compare more than favourably with
that of Denham and his satellites of special
constables, many of whom were absolutely
forced to take up arms against the strikers
or suffer the penalty of dismissal.
Mr. T. J. Ryan, M.L.A. (Barcoo), in a
vigorous speech ably supported the candi-
date, prophesying that the Government
cry would be Constitutional Government
against Mob Rule. (Loud laughter.)
Labour renegade Grant came in for rough
handling from the member for Barcoo, who
concluded an earnest appeal by asking all
present to berr in mind the statement of
the Premier in 1910, namely, that in hi 3
(Denham’s) opinion, it was not the prime
function of a Government to promote the
welfare of the people.
Mr. M. J. Kirwan said that ha had been
intimately connected with Mr. Sherry for
many years as a man, workmate, friend,
trade unionist, and politician, and urged
all to roll up on election day and return
him to Parliament.
Mr. Francis also spoke.
In the Ranks.
MAREE W.P.O.
The first general meeting of the Maree
W.P.O. Election Committee was held in
Lines’ Hall, Wellington-road, on Satur-
day night. Mr. Tom Mitchell presided,
and the attendance was large and enthu-
siastic. A number of committees were ap-
pointed, including committees to take
charge of each subdivision, a literature
committee, and a women’s committee, with
Mesdames Skirving and Nixon in charge
of the latter.
The candidate, Mr. Will Bertram, in
addressing the meeting, expressed pleasure
at seeing such a large and enthusiastic
gathering, and said it indicated an interest
which was a splendid augury for success at
the election. Referring to a statement
made by the Premier, to the effect that
he (the Premier) “was not concerned about
the investor or capitalist, but wanted to
accomplish security for the workmen,” he
said that the fact that Mr. Denham had
not allowed hundreds of Government em-
ployees to resume work on the railways
and dredges proved the statement to be a
hypocritical falsehood.
It was decided to meet again in the
same place on Saturday next at 8 o’clock,
and to invite Labour supporters to become
members of the committee.
ENOCCERA W.P.O.
A meeting of the above will be held at
Red Hill Picture Pavilion on Tuesday, 19th
inst. All members are requested to attend.
Several sub-committees have been formed,
and good work has been reported from all
parts.
BURANDA W.P.O.
A public meeting called by the Buranda
W.P.O. was held on Saturday at the Alli-
ance Hall, when fully 300 persons attended,
and, judging by the enthusiasm displayed,
the workers of Buranda are determined to
wipe out the Denham-Barnes-Badger Gov-
ernment and return the ever-popular Jack
Huxham to do duty for them. The presi-
dent of the W.P.0., Mr. Jorgenson, in
opening the meeting, briefly explained the
purpose for which it had been called, viz.,
to form sub-committees, etc., to thorough-
ly organise and canvass the electorate.
Mr. J. Huxham, the. endorsed Labo ir
candidate, in a very stirring speech pointed
out the necessity of leaving nothing to
chance, as the enemy, the P.P.L. crowd,
with their “paid prating liars,” were
already canvassing, and he concluded by
asking the workers of Buranda to revenge
“ Black Friday ” on this occasion in no un-
certain manner.
Senator Turley then spoke at length,
and in a very bright speech, which greatly
impressed all present, asked the workers
to be true to themselves and return John
Huxham.
Sub-committees were then formed, and
about 50 volunteers were immediately en-
rolled to canvass the electorate. Matters
in reference to maps, books, rolls, etc.,
were left to the executive to deal with. It'
was decided to hold a conjoint meeting with
the Oxley W.P.O. at the Carl-street Hall,
Thompson Estate, on Thursday, March 21.
SOUTH BRISBANE W.P.O.
A meeting of the above organisation
will be held to-morrow (Tuesday) evening,
March 19, in the committee rooms, opp.
Stewart’s Carriage Works, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane. A full attendance is re-
quested.
Trade unionists, members of the W.P.0.,
Labour supporters, sympathisers, and all
others resident in the above electorate in-
terested in the return to the State Par-
liament of the endorsed Labour candidate,
Mr. J. H. Sherry, are cordially invited to
attend a meeting to be held on Thursday
evening next, March 21, 1912, in the com
mittee rooms, opp. Stewart’s Carriage
Works, Stanley-street, South Brisbane, to
make arrangements for the effective carry-
ing out of the campaign.
H. R. HUXHAM,
Hon. Sec. pro. tern. S. Brisbane W.P.O.
DATES OF INTERESTING EVENTS.
The following dates in connection with
the elections should be kept in mind by the
different organisations. This applies more
especially to nomination day. Let no
branch be caught napping :
Nomination Day.—Thursday, March 28.
Polling Day.—Saturday, April 27.
Return of Writ. —Thursday, May 30.
One at least of the volunteer fire bri-
gades around the city will have no scabs in
its ranks. It is stated that a member of a
fire brigade not far away took service in
the tramway company from which unionists
had been excluded, and the other fire-
fighters would have no further association
with him.
The tramcars were allowed to block the
route of the procession in Queen-street this
morning to a very great extent. We can,
however, congratulate our Irish fellow-
citizens on the fact that not one of those
employed on the trams exhibited the
smallest trace of the colour that is symbolic
of the Emerald Isle.
Notice to Union Secretaries.
The STRIKE COMMITTEE hereby
notify Union Secretaries that the LEVY
of 10 per cent struck on all Unionists at
work, in aid of their victimised Comrades,
has been LOWERED to 5 per cent until
further notice irom the above Committee.
JACK MOIR, Secretary.
How Shall Civil Servants Vote ?
(By One of Them.)
We, civil servants, are going to vote at
this election in a purely personal spirit.
Which party in power will suit us best?
Of course, I know that some of us are
above such sordid thoughts, and will vote
as our consciences maybe, or privileges
more likely, dictate. These Socialistic fel-
lows on the one hand, and Conservative
fellows on the other, have made up their
minds, and will not change them, I know;
but we, chaps, who take no pig in a poke
nor love our enemies in spite of their faults,
will consider our vote as a commercial
quantity, which will go in the direction of
the greatest return.
We want our salaries raised! Who will
do it quickest and most generously —the
Denham Government or the BoAvman Gov-
ernment? The Liberal or the Labour?
Liberal, as far as this Government is
concerned, has been but a name. The
Ministers have told our deputations during
the last few years that they would raise
our salaries if they had the money. They
admit we are worth more than we are being
paid, but they also admit their inability to
raise the money necessary to pay us our
full value, although they managed to have
a surplus at the end of the financial year
of somewhere about £150,000.
Therefore, let us dismiss the thought of
a Liberal Government getting our vote on
the grounds tbat it is self-condemned as
being unable to raise the necessary. If,
after all these years, they are in that posi-
tion, how many more years would we have
to wait? To tell you the truth, fellow-
civils, we would have to wait for ever, for
the Liberal Government are at the end of
their taxable resources, and have only the
Commonwealth 255. per head, rvith an in-
creasing interest bill, which has to be met
whether we are paid or not. This gives us
no hope from them, although they would,
if they could, do better by us. The will is
no good to us; it is the deed we want.
Now, in summing up the other side, we
have no data to go on as far as the Queens-
land Labour party is concerned, for they
have never held the reins of government
but for a fevv brief hours. But let us look
to other States, and see how the Labour
party treat their servants.
In the first instance, poverty will not
be their excuse for not raising our salaries,
for the Labour Governments, being only
at the beginning of their taxable resources
while the Liberals are at the end, have the
knack of getting their hands on a lot of
coin. Take our Commonwealth Parliament.
With a Liberal Government for nine years,
it was always a ppor .as a church mouse,
but with only one session of a Labour Gov-
ernment it got, by means of its Bank Notes
Act, millions. It pays cash where Liberal-
ism runs the time-payment system. It also
enters into competition with private enter-
prise. What does that mean to us civil
servants ? Let us look to New South
Wales. That State makes and sells bricks
and has its own timber yards, thus bring-
ing down the cost of building material, re-
ducing the value of houses, and lowering
rent. Further, it enters into competition
with the landlord, again bringing down
rent. The New South Wales Labour Gov-
ernment have determined to build a whole
suburb in Sydney.
A Labour Government here will tackle
monopoly and reduce prices; in fact, w T e
will not have to wait for the benefit of
legislation. We will feel the benefit as
soon as they go in, for monopoly will move
more carefully and will not be so glaringly
dishonsst when it knows ihat we no longer
have a Government in power that is hand
and glove with it, but a Government that
has expressly gone into power to protect
the people from it
“But,” you say, “will they give us a
direct rise? These indirect rises are good
things, no doubt, but we want immediate
relief, such as a direct rise.” Well, judg-
ing by what other Labour Governments
have done, I should say “Yes.” New
South Wales has very generously treated
its civil servants, all getting rises, the
teachers alone getting £150,000 per annum
in rises. The Commonwealth Government
also have raised the salaries of all their
servants, and are giving a minimum wage
of £llO per annum.
So, my fellow-slaves, our only hope is
in the Labour Government. We can’t
trust the Liberals again. “Liberal” is a
misnomer. Why, of the teachers of
Queensland 93 per cent are getting less
than £3 per week, and that from a
Liberal (?) Government. Let us try
Labour and see if they will be more liberal.
LOST AT TRAMWAY SOCIAL.
Will person who found Handbag (be-
longing to a worker) containing watch and
chain, social tickets, etc., please deliver
same to Mrs. Finney, Trades Hall; reward.
On Saturday night a very successful
social was held in the Gymnasium Hall in
aid of the tramway employees on strike.
The date originally fixed was the 3rd
February, but owing to the advent of the
general strike the date was postponed to
the 16th March. All present seemed to
thoroughly enjoy themselves. A number
of good songs and other items were inter-
spersed through the dances. A guessing
competition as to the weight of a presenta-
tion cake resulted in the collection of a
goodly sum, which, together with the
takings of the evening, should mean sub-
stantial assistance to the beneficiaries. A
committee of ladies ably superintended
the arrangements, for which they deserve
many thanks.
State Official’s Interference.
THE COMMISSIONER FOR RAILWAYS
AND PARLIAMENT.
According to the “Courier 5 ’ this
morning the Commissioner for Railways,
when addressing the men at the railway
workshops at Ipswich recently, “pointed
out that those who were sent into Parlia-
ment to make our laws were the first to
break them, and to incite others to break
them, and to continue inducing their poor
deluded dupes to keep on breaking them
until the strike was over. 55
We have had State officials during the
last six or seven weeks openly taking sides
in a dispute in which good taste, if not
departmental policy, should have prompted
them to remain neutral. Perhaps they
were acting according to instructions. If
they were that makes the offence still more
gross. After the ensuing elections we hope
to have a new regime introduced into the
State’s offices. If our hopes are realised
will Mr. Evans be prepared to take the
stump and say harsh things about the pre-
sent Ministerial head of the Railway De-
partment and the other members of the
Cabinet? Will he also point out how mem-
bers of the late Parliament (if he was refer-
ring to members of the Opposition) broke
the laws as he is reported to have said they
did? These men may yet have something
to say concerning the Commissioner’s
alleged criticism of their actions. They
would certainly have dealt with it had the
Premier not become seized with panic at
the conduct of himself and his colleagues
during the strike, and kept them from
expressing their opinions in Parliament.
The Commissioner can’t logically com-
plain if men in the lower ranks of the
service follow his example and openly state
their minds with regard to recent and
present events.
BAKERS AND PASTRYCOOKS.
A mass meeting of Bakers and Pastry-
cooks was held yesterday, when three new
members were initiated.
Mr. R. Stevens was elected president
owing to the resignation of Mr. A .E. Web-
ber, who has purchased a business of his
own. Mr. Thomas was elected to repre-
sent the Pastrycooks on the wages board in
place of Mr. Webber. It was reported by
the secretary that a branch of the society
was formed in Toowoomba on Saturday.
The secretary reported that he had
failed to secure a conference with the
Master Bakers’ Association.
The following is a list of bakeries work-
ing with union bakers and carters, and
every unionist is requested to continue to
assist the bakers in their fight by only
patronising the master bakers in the at-
tached list: Mrs. Lane, Paddington; Mr.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove; Mr. Walker, Kelvin
Grove; Co-operative, Valley; J. Enever,
Valley; J. Ryan, Valley; Mrs. McMahon,
New Farm; Mr. Hanlon, Valley; Mr.
Hugall, Spring Hill; Mr. Wuersching,
Wharf-street; Mr. J. Leach, Zillmere;
Mrs. Campbell, West End; J. Prudence,
Melbourne-street; J. McMahon, Peel-
street; J. Davey, Boggo-road; W. Shead,
Gladstone-road; E. Jurgens, Logan-road;
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point; E. Bedgood,
Milton.
Mr. McCarthy, secretary of this union,
recently visited the Downs. He was
present at a large meeting of bakers in
Ipswich on Saturday week, where he de-
livered what the local papers described as
a very spirited address. He also had the
pleasurable satisfaction of forming a
branch of the union in Toowoomba.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A MEETING of the above Organisation
will be held in the METHODIST CHURCH
HALL, GIVEN TERRACE, PADDING-
TON, TO-MORROW (Tuesday) NIGHT, at
8 o’clock, to make arrangements for the
coming election. All members and sym-
pathisers are requested to roll up.
T. W. SPEERING, Hon. Sec.
BURANDA ELECTORATE.
A FURTHER "MEETING of trade
unionists, members of the W.P.0., Labour
supporters, sympathisers, and others resi-
dent in the above electorate interested in
the return to the State Parliament of the
endorsed Labour candidate, Mr. John
Huxham, will be held in the CARL
STREET HALL, THOMPSON ESTATE,
WOOLLOONGABBA, on THURSDAY,
EVENING NEXT, 21st MARCH, 1912,
at 8 o’clock sharp.
Mrs. Lane, secretary of the Ladies’ Can-
vassing Committee, will be in attendance
at the above place for the pur-
pose of meeting and addressing a gathering
of women willing to become members of the
committee, or to in any other way assist in
the carrying out of the campaign. This
meeting will be commenced at 7.30, or half-
an-hour before the beginning of general
business.
J. T, BARNES, Hon. Sec.
METROPOLITAN COUNCIL OF W.P.O.
The deferred MEETING of the above
Council will take place in
MR. LLOYD’S ROOMS, KENT’S
BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE ST.,
on
WEDNESDAY EVENING NEXT,
20th March, at 8 o’clock.
Delegates are urgently requested to be
present, as the business is important.
LEWIS MCDONALD, Hon. Sec.
