

Official Bulletin, No.7.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 7.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1912.
Encouraging Message.
Awaiting the Supreme Moment.
)
Southern States Resolved.
The following decisive message was re-
ceived from Mr. John Adamson, M.L.A.,
this afternoon :
SYDNEY, Feb. 7, 3.20 p.m.
The Executive of the Trades and Labour
Council gives substantial aid immediately
and continuously. Large sums voted al-
ready. Tramway men at large meeting
voted 2/6 per week per man, and will take
more drastic measures when what they
deem the supreme moment arrives. I am
addressing large and enthusiastic meet-
ings daily and nightly. Melbourne will
strike a decisive blow. Do not fear.”
This Morning’s Big Rally.
Strike Leader Coyne’s Address.
The vast crowd in Turbot Street this
morning waited eagerly to hear Harry
Coyne’s progress report. This he gave in
his customary vigorous and straight-from-
the-shoulder manner. He related how em-
ployer after employer dealing in food sup-
plies was breaking through the cast-iron
rules of their Federation, and agreeing to
open their shops under Strike Committee
auspices and Union conditions. All
honour, he said, to the Unionists who had
agreed to keep the supply of bread and
meat going, and who were takipg no wages
for their work, but were paying all into
the strike fund. Referring to the progress
of the fight, Mr. Coyne said every sign was
favourable. All ranks were solid. The
North was all out; the greatest enthusi-
asm prevailed everywhere; the meetings,
both Trade Union and public, were grow-
ing bigger every day; financial support
was pouring in from all quarters, and,
what was better still, the employers were
realising the weakness of their own posi-
tion, and were seeking with bluff and
bounce and bluster to hide the real situa-
tion from the public. Referring to the
compulsory conference which had been
summoned to meet in Melbourne next
Tuesday, “Harry” asked all ranks not to
place much weight or reliance on that.
He pointed out that the men must win out
now, because of their solidarity, while de-
pendence on the Court might tend to
weaken them. It was not now only a ques-
tion of the tramway men, but of all Union-
ists now out, and no settlement could be
accepted Mch did not include victory for
all. Further, Mr. Badger, with his power-
ful monopoly behind him, could and had
publicly stated he would fight the verdict
of the Court in all its stages, and, said
Mr. Coyne, “this may hang up matters
indefinitely, which we don’t intend to
allow.” Messrs. Moir and Codings were
also present, but did not speak, as it was
not deemed advisable to keep the vast
crowd standing. Ringing cheers for the
Strike Committee concluded the proceed-
ings.
Centennial Hall Meeting.
A crowded meeting was held in the
Centennial Hall last night, Tuesday,
after the “Bulletin” had gone to press.
Mr. J. Smith presided over the great
gathering, and rousing speeches were de-
livered by Labor Member Ferricks, Mr. J.
S. Codings, and Mrs. E. Miller. Labor
Member May also spoke.
To-day’s Wires.
Perth, West Australia.—Amalgamated
Engineers, Moulders, and Boilermakers,
West Australia, in conference assembled,
extends hearty congratulations to Queens-
land unionists on their successful efforts
to maintain the peace. With fraternal
greetings, sympathy, and wishes for suc-
cess.—Barker, secretary, Midland Junc-
tion.
Renmark, South Australia.—Good luck
and victory to yourself and comrades in
your fight for liberty.—A. Friend.
Townsville, 7/2/12. —Coyne, Trades
Hall, Brisbane. Splendid meeting held
last night. Feeling good all over North.
All industries at standstill; bitter feeling
against inaction of Government.—
McCormack.
Amalgamated Workers Association of
Queensland.—Coyne, Brisbane. Advices
from A.W.A. centres state that wor'c
ceased at Bowen, Cairns, Wolfram, Einas-
leigh, Elliott, Hampden, Mt. Morgan,
Childers, Nelson, Charters Towers, Sel-
heim, Stannary Hills, Bundaberg, Towns-
ville. Solid.* All hotels closed.—
McCormack.
Chillagoe.—Coyne, Trades Hall. Secret
ballot last night, seventy-five cease work ;
nineteen continue; all works stop at 6
p.m. to-day; railway men out; mail train
continuing pending decision, Government
railway.—Jones, Chillagoe.
Y 0 stands for Vanishing Oppression.
* * «
Several forcible letters on the present
situation are unavoidably held over. They
will appear as soon as space will permit.
Ail Unions Solid.
At many of the trade meetings held
this morning votes of confidence were car-
ried amidst the greatest enthusiasm, and
the following were sent in writing to the
Strike Committee:—
Federated Seamen’s Union (Brisbane
Branch).
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.
“This meeting now assembled does
hereby pass a vote of confidence to H.
Coyne, Chairman of the Strike Committee,
also the Committee as a whole, and trusts
that they will be spared to continue in the
future, as in the past, to carry out their
noble work.—A. Stevens, President; P.
Henderson, Secretary.”
Amalgamated Society of Engineers.
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.
“ That this meeting of the Engineers
of Brisbane heartily endorses every action
of the Strike Committee up to date, and
feels assured that a continuance of the
efforts of that Committee must eventu-
ally result in a victory for Unionism. We
on our part promise to stand solid, deter-
mined on ‘No Surrender.’ ”
Iron Workers.
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.
The following resolution was carried
unanimously at a large.meeting this morn-
ing:—“That this meeting of the Feder-
ated Iron Workers’ Association of Aus-
tralia (Queensland Branch) heartily en-
dorses the action of the Strike Committee
in the work done in the trouble we are
now engaged, and that we have full con-
fidence in the Strike Committee.”—Robt.
A. Young, President.
The Amalgamated Coachmakers’ and
Wheelwrights’ Society.
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.
At a very large meeting of this Society
held this morning the following resolution
was carried unanimously:—“That we
have every confidence in the efforts made
by the Strike Committee to bring this
strike to a successful issue, and approve of
the manner in which they have conducted
the business of the strike.”—C. Millar,
Hon. Secretary.
Australian Tramway Employees’ Associa-
tion (Queensland Branch).
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.
At a mass meeting of the members of
the Tramway Union held yesterday the fol-
lowing resolution was unanimously car-
ried:—“That this meeting expresses im-
plicit confidence in the Strike Committee,
and heartily endorse every action they
have taken.” Wishing the Strike Com-
mittee every success, and may their good
work result in victory.—Yours in unity,
R. Champ,, Secretary.”
Queensland Typographical Union.
Brisbane, 6th February, 1912.
At a meeting of the Typographical
Union held yesterday a resolution was
unanimously carried endorsing the action
of the Strike Committee up to the present,
and expressing full confidence in them.—
W. P. Colborne, Secretary.
Butchers.
Brisbane, 6th February, 1912.
At a meeting of the Butchers’ Union a
resolution was carried unanimously en-
dorsing every action of the Strike Com-
mittee.—J. T. Gilday, Secretary.
Australian Boot Trade Employees’ Fede-
ration (Queensland Branch).
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.»
At a meeting of the above branch held
this morning the following resolution was
carried unanimously:—“That this branch
of the Australian Boot Trade Employees’
Federation hereby endorse all action of the
Combined Strike Committee, and has every
confidence in them. With wishes for a
successful issue,” yours fraternally—F.
Harris, Secretary.
Brisbane United .Coal Workers and
Lightermen’s Union.
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.
The following resolution was unani-
mously carried at the meeting of the above
Union this morning:—“ That the Brisbane
United Coal Workers’ and Lightermen’s
Union endorses the actions of the Strike
Committee in the fight they have put up
in connection with the noble struggle the
Combined Unions are engaged in. We all
admit it is one of the noblest ever en-
gaged in throughout the world, and all
credit is due to the President, Secretary,
and Combined Unions’ Committee for the
way they have handled the matter, and we
decide to support them to the finish.”—
Yours in arms, T. Irwin, Acting Secretary.
Federated Waterside Union (Brisbane
Branch).
At a meeting of over one thousand mem-
bers of our union held this morning, the
following resolution was carried unani-
mously:—“That this meeting endorses
the actions of the Strike Committee.”—
Harry Wrench, Acting Secretary.
Builders’ Labourers.
Brisbane, February 7th, 1912.
At a meeting of the above Union held
this morning I was instructed to forward
to you the following resolution:—“That
the Queensland Branch of the Australian
Builders’ Labourers’ Federation heartily
endorses the action of the Combined
Unions in connection with the present dis-
pute, and its members pledge themselves
to loyally support the committee in any
action which they may take.”—Yours for
victory, W. J. Collins, Secretary.
The Clothing Trade Operatives.
Comrades, —I have to inform you that
at a meeting of members of the above So-
ciety held this morning the following re-
solution was carried unanimously:—“That
this meeting of Clothing Trade Operatives
express continued confidence in the Strike
Committee, and intend to remain loyal to
the end.”—Yours in the cause, W. R.
Peterson, Secretary.
More Floundering.
The inconsistent “ Courier ” can’t allow
one issue to appear without containing
gross contradictions. This morning, in one
column, it tells us that the back of the
strike is broken, normal conditions of busi-
ness have been resumed, etc., etc. Along-
side of this is a statement that a
contingent of “ law-and-order ” bushmen —
180 strong —arrived in the city yesterday,
after a terrible march of 48 hours, during
which time they had only four hours’ sleep,
and that they were received with great
acclamation from the occupants of almost
every house they passed.
If the strike is over, and everything is
going on smoothly, why should these men
be applauded for coming to a city where,
we have been told, scarcely sufficient food
can be obtained to feed those already in it P
What foe is there here to defeat ? Perhaps
the “ Courier ” is wagging its toothless jaws
and rubbing its skinny, withered hands
with glee because the outrageous lies and
slanders it has been fabricating behind its
barricaded doors for several days past have,
in some cases, fallen on gullible ears. If
a true picture of the diabolical outrages
committed on peaceable citizens by fren-
zied foot and mounted police on Friday
last ceuld have been flashed to these men it
is very questionable if they would undergo
the hardships it is stated they have en-
dured in order to sanction or participate
in such dastardly doings.
The “ Courier,” when it slobbers over
these —we will give them the benefit of the
doubt, and call them men —for what they
have done overlooks the fact that there is
a splendid moral in it all for unionists. If
these bushmen are prepared to do all that
is credited to them to bolster up the cause
of capitalism, what sacrifices are not
unionists prepared to make in order to
secure industrial freedom for themselves
and their families, and sunder past repair
the shackles that alien and local tyrants
would load them with. The unionist cause
is as humane and holy as the other is brutal
and hellish.
Distribution of “Official
Bulletins.”
Complaints have been made to us about
strikers not being able to secure copies of
the “ Official Bulletin.” Unfortunately,
owing to our mechanical arrangements not
being as complete as we would like them
to be, we are unable to give each unionist
a copy. However, a number will be handed
to the secretary of each Union, and he will
distribute them to the members.
Central District.
MT. MORGAN, February 7.
The feeling in Rockhampton re general
cessation of work is good. The action of
the Combined Unions has been unani-
mously endorsed by a public meeting of
four thousand people.
Mt. Morgan A.W.A. men and sympa-
thisers ceased work at 3.30 p.m. yester-
day. A large public meeting endorsed the
action and unanimously carried the follow-
ing resolution: —“That this meeting
enters its emphatic protest and abhorrence
of the action of the Denham Government.”
The North Coast and Dawson Valley
construction workers are taking a holiday.
Many Peaks reports feeling good.
BROWNBILL,
Dist. Sec. A.W.A.
The Government Scabbery.
Labour Members Should Investigate.
A number of men who applied at the
Government Relief Depots for food were
told that if they would go to work on How-
ard Smith’s wharf rations would be issued
to them, but if they did not like to do this
tliev would get nothing. To their credit let
it be recorded, the men REFUSED TO
SCAB.
Tfce “Pub” Question.
It is reported to-day that the hotels
are to be opened for a few hours to-morrow.
If this is so, it is, like most other Govern-
mental conduct during this strike, a dis-
grace of our rulers and a menace to the
peace and good order of the community.
Let it be distinctly understood that as the
hotels were closed and kept closed at the
express desire of the Strike Committee, no
good unionist will on any account go into
one until the strike is over.
Y O stands for Valuable Opportunity.
An Alleged Labourite Unmasked.
For the first election to the Metropoli-
tan Water and Sewergae Board the Trades
and Labour Council ran “ a ticket.” On
this were included with our old friend Al-
derman Tom Wilson certain persons whose
sympathies, it was alleged, were with the
workers. Qne of these gentlemen so in-
cluded was Mr. Walkenden. At yester-
day’s meeting of the Board, Walkenden
made his appearance with the badge of
“special constable” on his arm. As
he will be shortly before the public for re-
election, workers should remember this
and knock him out on polling day. Need-
less to say 5 Tom Wilson flaunts the legion
of honour mark, “the little bit of red.”
The Spirit of the Cause.
Dunwich Comrades Speak.
“ The Widow’s Mite.”
One of the most inspiring incidents of
these stirring days was experienced this
morning, when the Strike Committee re-
ceived the sum of £l5 collected from a few
of our brave old comrades in Dunwich by
Messrs. Me Alpine, Watson and Shaw. This
splendid sum was accompanied with en-
couraging words and the intimation of
“ more to follow.”
A movement which inspires devotion
such as this must be pregnant with all that
is best and highest in our common hu-
manity. “ Well done ” Dunwich comrades !
Still They Come.
The ranks of the strikers were aug-
mented by all the members of the Brisbane
Branch of the Tobacco Workers of Austra-
lia “ coming out ” to strengthen the hands
of their striking comrades.
Wellington (N.Z.) Tramway
Trouble.
Complete Victory for the Men.
The following wire appears in to-day’s
Brisbane press:
“ The difficulties in connection with the
Wellington, New Zealand, tramway strike
have been settled under the following
terms: (1) That the removal of Inspector
Fuller to some other position in the tram-
way service as originally requested by the
tramway union, and now desired by that
officer himself, be carried out. (2) That
it be an instruction to the Electrical En-
gineer to have Inspector Fuller placed in
a position where he will not have any
dealings with the members of the tramway
union. (3) That the Council guarantee
that on the resumption of work the men
involved in the trouble shall not be subject
to victimisation, but shall be reinstated in
their employment without loss of status.”
The Brave “Points” Boys.
In the stress and din of battle, some of
perhaps our greatest heroes in the fight are
being overlooked. For example, the brave
little points’ boys who came out-so nobly at
the call of duty to their iocked-out mates.
One of these, a bright lad of 16 years of
age, without father or mother, applied yes-
terday for “ meal ” coupons as he “ didn’t
want his board bill to get any bigger.” His
trouble was quickly relieved. From such*
material will the toilers’ emancipation be
built up.
ADMONITION.
Remember the poor .love their children
They give them a smile, not a frown.
Live and let live he your motto.
Don’t put the poor workingman down.
M. NELSON.
An Immortal Triumvirate.
Queensland’s future nursery rhyme:
B stands for Badger, who at last had to
scoot.
C stands for Cahill, who wanted to shoot.
D stands for Denham, who Parliament
did spurn,
But took orders from Badger and Cahill
in turn.
Our Waterside Comrades.
Acting-Secretary Wrench reports :
Mrs. Huxham addressed meeting of over
800 waterside workers at their rooms this
morning. The meeting was most enthusi-
astic.
Was it the same evil demon that prompt-
ed both of them ? Badger ‘declined the ser-
vices of the Arbitration Court- Denham
wouldn’t meet Parliament and get over the
trouble that way.
Among the many sterling battlers who
have taken a most active part in the pre-
sent industrial conflict, Dan Dowling, of
the Waterside Workers’ Union, has done
his share of good work, both on the plat-
form and in organising duty.
A stranger entering our city yesterday
had occasion to ask a uniformed policeman
if he would kindly direct him to where he
could find the conveniences. The constable
evidently misunderstood his question, for
turning sharply, he said, “ Are you blind,
man ? Look at ’em ! Look at ’em ! ! All
them things standing there with them ere
badges on their left arms are our con-
veniences.” Utter collapse of visitor.
Hotel, Club, and Cafe Em-
ployees’ Union.
The Editor, “Bulletin.”
Sir, —I would like you to grant me space
in your valuable issue to reply to a letter
which appeared in to-day’s issue of the
“Courier” under the heading of “Scab-
bing on Members,” and signed “ William
Saunders.”
In the first place Mr. Saunders states
he is a member of my union ? which I
would like all unionists to know is absolute-
ly untrue, as the person’s name concerned
has been scratched off our books. Firstly,
owing to the fact that he worked at Wool-
loongabba races as barman after my Union
was called out in support of the great
cause of Unionism. Secondly, because lie
was an unfinancial member of my union,
and failed to pay his contributions when
called upon to do so. Again, he was
elected a representative on our Wages
Board, and the surprising part of
the whole proceeding was that Mr.
Saunders was very often seen going
to the home of one or two of the
employers’ representatives after the meet-
ings to dine as a guest. He went
round and canvassed for Mr. T. Wels-
by, the candidate for North Bris-
bane, against our Labour champion, Mr.
Sumner. I might also state that my union
stood by the previous resolution referred to
until such times as our members considered
M. Saunders unworthy of the further sup-
port of any true Trades Unionist.
Yours in unity,
CHRIS. EVANS, Secretary.
Brisbane, February 7.
“A Queensland Mother ’ ’ writes: —
“ Mrs. G. Smith’s experience, as given in
yesterday’s “Bulletin,” is not a solitary
one; plenty of other cases similar to her’s
can be gir u. This lady asks what the
brutes wr do if the people were not
civilised. ime as some police did in
Victoria u \g the time of the Kelly
gang had to be hauled out from under the
bed.”
# # #
Word “ Scab ” not abusive.—Portland
(0.), Saturday. The judge held that the
use of the word “ Scab ” as applied to non-
unionists was not a punishable offence un-
less accompanied by abusive words.
• • o
A carter to-day ventured with a load
from Elliott Bros., wholesale druggists, to
the railway station. After unloading and
returning with horse and dray, he decided
to at once vacate the position. His better
nature appealed to him.
* * *
For consistent misrepresentation in
connection with strike matters, the con-
temptible daily Press of this city has
played a conspicuous part. In every sen-
tence the capitalistic element is most pro-
nounced. In yesterday’s “ Courier ” sec-
tarianism was introduced. We refer to
articles headed “ Pulpit References.”
Knowing the big percentage of Roman
Catholics in the Union ranks, they have
published extracts of sermons preached by
Bishop Duhig, Father O’Gorman, and
Father Brady. Had verbatim reports of
these sermons been published, no objec-
tions could be raised, but the Press simply
confined itself to printing extracts with a
detrimental bearing on Unionism’s splen-
did fight.
* * *
Tram after tram passed along Queen-
street from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m., with only a
few special police as passengers. In one
car were two “specials” and a Mongo-
lian. “ John ” looked uncomfortable, with
a marked “No savee ” countenance.
* * *
In the present great battle the absence
of a reliable daily paper is to be deplored.
Had Unionists made provision for the issue
of a daily paper mnd published full and
accurate accounts of the whole of the pro-
ceedings since the inception of the strike
it would have been a most invaluable
weapon, and would have been a boon gener-
ally to workers.
* # *
Secretaries of the various Unions are
asked to supply news that would be of in-
terest to their members oq of benefit to
the strikers’ cause. All such communica-
tions to be sent to the Editor, “Bulletin,”
care of “Worker” office.
* •* *
“ Pedestrian ” writes :—“ Grand sight
at North Quay. Time, 3.30 p.m. Lorry
load of trusses of hay escorted by 26 bushy
horsemen and one would-be general, sw’ord
at side, all apparently eager to ride down
anything from a child to a scarecrow dis-
playing a scrap of red.”
J. H .COYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Strike Committee.
V O stands for Vigorous Organisation.
Found by a “ V.O.” man, a handker-
chief containing cash. Owner can have
same by affording satisfactory identifica-
tion to V.O. Committee.
Found two pipes, one with badge
attacked —bearing the motto : ‘ 1 Make your
troubles known in smoke.”
Lost, an Elgin watch. Finder please
return to V.O. Committee.
The Queensland Typographical Union,
will meet in the dance room, Trades Hall,
at 12 o’clock sharp, to-morrow, Thursday,
8th inst.
