

Official Bulletin, No. 53.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 53 .
BRISBANE, MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1912
Great General Strike.
Its Genesis and History.
Something to Ponder Over.
The need of an authentic and detailed
history of the happenings w’hich led up to
the recent industrial struggle has been
keenly felt by those most closely concerned.
It was recognised that in those districts
away from the city where only the lying
organs of capitalism circulate, anything ap-
proaching the truth was not likely to be
told. In Brisbane itself the actual happen-
ings were better known, while the ‘ ‘ Strike
Bulletin ” did good w 7 ork in circulating
official and reliable information.
Our comrades in Rockhampton, more
fortunate than we in Brisbane, have a
reliable and influential daily newspaper,
“The Daily Record,” which holds journa-
listic honour higher than party politics,
and at all times publishes fair and just
reports of public happenings irrespective
of party.
On Monday, the 26tli of February last,
Labour member T. J. Ryan delivered, at
Rockhampton what was undoubtedly one
of the finest utterances of the memorable
campaign. We reprint from the Rock-
hampton “ Daily Record ” a report of the
speech verb a turn. We give as much of
this splendid speech in this issue as our
limited space will permit. Our readers
. will have the pleasure of reading the re-
mainder to-morrows
THE SPEECH.
Mr. Ryan, who received a cordial re-
ception on rising, said : Ladies and
gentlemen,—l must thank the Chairman
for having said the few 7 w 7 ords he did in
regard to the physical difficulty in which
I am placed for public speaking to-night.
I do not think I should be speaking at all,
but I do think that this occasion is one
that, whatever difficulties may be in my
w r ay, it is my duty to take this opportunity
of addressing the people of Rockhampton
upon it. (Applause.) Mr. Chairman, we
are in the midst of a great industrial up-
heaval —or, if you like, a bubbling or a
boiling which is caused bv something ; and
it is for us, for the thinking people, for the
unionist, for the non-unionist, and for
every individual in the community, to
examine and find the cause thereof—be-
cause I am not here to abuse people, I am
here to convince you that we are right. I
do not think you can convince people by
abuse ; but I do think you can convince
them by reason —and it is reason, and rea-
son only, which I intend to employ to-
night. It is our duty in the first place
to find the cause of this industrial up-
heaval, and the means by which a recur-
rence may be prevented in the future. Let
us go back 13 months ago. We must be-
gin at the foundation. You will then find
that this industrial upheaval is the result
of a policy which w is undertaken by the
present Governnment in the month of De-
cember, 1910. Anyone who takes the trou-
ble to turn up “ Hansard ” of the 13th of
December of that year w 7 ill see there a
debate upon a motion ‘‘ That this House
do now adourn.” As you are perhaps
aware, in Parliament the control of husi
ness is in the hands of the Government,
and no private member can rise in his
place and discuss any subject unless the
Government are willing that he should do
so, except on one condition, and that is
that the member is prepared to rise and
move “ That this House do now adjourn.”
And he is only allowed to move that under
the Standing Orders if the matter is one
of urgent public importance, so as to
take the business out of the hands of the
Government. It is the Speaker who de-
cides whether the matter is of urgent pub-
lic importance. Well, on the 13th of De-
cember, 1910, Mr. Ryott-Maughan, the
Labour member for Ipswich, rose in his
place and moved, “ That this House do
now adjourn,” to call attention to certain
recent actions taken by the Government.
It this. The Government had briefed
barristers and solicitors in Melbourne to
oppose the registration of the Brisbane
Traimvay Employees’ Union by the Fed-
eral Arbitration Court. There, ladies and
gentlemen, you have the foundation of the
present trouble in Queensland. That is
w 7 here you begin, and in all discussions you
may hereafter hear of, in all the speeches
you may listen to, and which will, I have
no doubt, be given by supporters of the Go-
vernment, you must hark back to the fact
that the Government started it when they
dipped into the public treasury to pre-
vent the registration of the Brisbane
Tramway Employees’ Union, on the 13th
of December, 1910. (Applause.) There
were many Labour members who spoke on
that occasion. I trait the local Press, if
they do their duty—because I do not feel
fit to quote long extracts from “ Hansard”
—will publish that debate, so that you may
read and know the position of the Govern-
ment in regard to unionism from that date
onward. (Voice: The “Bully” will
print it.) The “Courier” has not done
so, nor has any other metropolitan paper.
It is locked away in the sacred pages of
“ Hansard.” But I have sufficient confi-
dence in the Press of Rockhampton, the
Press of both sides, to ask them now to re-
publish that debate for the information
and benefit of the people of Rockhampton.
(Applause.) As I w 7 as saying, many mem-
bers spoke on that occasion. I can only
refer here to what I said myself. I re-
member that I said it was the most im-
portant motion that had come before the
House while I was in Parliament, and the
honourable member for Towmsville (Mr.
Robert Philp) interjected, and his interjec-
tion is recorded in “Hansard :” “Bun-
kum !” (Laughter.) I went on to say
that at the next election, when the Go-
vernment faced the people of Queensland,
that w ould be the most important question
discussed, and you will find as a result of
this industrial trouble that it will indeed
be so. I now say that when the people
have explained to them the true position,
apart from any misunderstanding, or mis-
representation, or little mistakes, or in-
conveniences they may have suffered—
that they w r ill agree that the workers of
Queensland must have taken up this fight
against the Government if unionism was
going to live in this country. (Applause.)
And if unionism does not live, well, God
help the working man ; that is wdiat I say.
(Applause.) There is unionism amongst
the employers It is allowed. In the
older countries of the world, where union-
ism is not so far advanced as it is here,
what do we find ? On the one hand, mil-
lionaires, and on the other hand abject
heart-rending poverty which you have only
to see once to be convinced of w 7 hat the
system means to so many.
Now', when the Commonwealth of
Australia was established there was
placed upon the Statute Book what is
known as the Commonw’ealth Concilia-
tion and Arbitration Act, which pro-
vided that union’s in Australia, extend-
ing beyond the limit of any one State, could
become registered for tlie purpose of ob-
taining an award—that is for the purpose
of testing wages, hours, conditions of lab-
our, and so on. In fact, the law encour-
aged the formation of unions, because it
w 7 as only by the formation of a union that
an award could be obtained, no single mem-
ber being permitted to come forward and
state a case. It w ? as enacted that where 50
men combined they could register. Fifty
Brisbane tramway employees did combine,
and did apply for registration. Then the
Queensland Government, w 7 ith your money y
and my money, and everyone else’s money,
stepped in, and they opposed that
registration. I told them from the floor of
the House “You cannot stop their registra-
tion.” In the argument on the case in
Melbourne the Registrar of the Arbitration
Court remarked that he considered the op-
position to the registration of the union w 7 as
an interference with the liberty of the sub-
ject, and so I feel you w 7 ill understand it to
be too. When the law’ entitled them to
registration there should, I contend, have
been no interference on the part of the
Queensland Government.
There, Mr. Chairman, is your founda-
tion. Now 7, look at the development.
Things go on for a time. In January, 1911,
over 400—I can only call them brave and
gallant men from their subsequent conduct
—members of the Tramway Union turned
out in the Brisbane EighGHour Day pro-
cession. They were not allowed to wear
their uniforms by the Tramway Company,
and so they marched in their ordinary
clothes w earing the Eight-Hour Day badge.
What did the Brisbane Tramway Company
do next day? Turned them out of their
recreation rooms, and ever afterwards no
man belonging to that union was allowed
into the rooms of the association—some
private association, or recreation club (as
I am reminded) that Mr. Badger himself
had formed for a section of his employees.
Things w r ent on. The men decided to wear
—what ? A little badge, to show what they
w r ere; to show that they were union men:
to show that they were bound together not
only for their owm benefit, but for the bene-
fit of their fellow-men of all unions. (Ap-
plause.) Who would object to a motorman
or conductor wearing that badge? (Voice:
“Badger.” Laughter.) One man, Bad-
ger, whose agent the Queensland Govern-
ment w 7 as in the arbitration matter of 1910.
He simply said: “You shall not wear the
badge; and you shall not go to work.” I
declare, ladies and gentlemen, that at this
point the Queensland Government failed in
their duty. I wash you to closely follow the
history of the dispute at this stage, for I
want to convince you of the responsibility
which the Government bear in the matter,
and to convince you where you can avoid
all possibility of a repetition at some fu-
ture time. When the strike impended, the
Labour Pqrty held a meeting, and we de-
cided to wait upon the Home Secretary, in
view of the provisions of the Tramways Act.
As you are aw r are, the Brisbane Tramway
Company has power to conduct its business
under the Tramways Act of 1882. Section
49 of that provides that the company shall
have pow r er to run their trams through the
streets of Brisbane between the hours of 7
o’clock in the morning and 10 o’clock at
night. You can understand why that is—
they have an absolute monopoly of the
tramways over the streets to w 7 hich the Act
applies. Even the Queensland Government
could not run a tram on this line without
the consent of the Company.
But in the Act there is a corresponding
construction that the company are bound to
run their trams from 7 o’clock in the morn-
ing until 10 o’clock at night. So we waited
on the Home Secretary to ask him to see
that the Tramway Company carried out
the law- ; that they did not break the law
of the land. I mention that w r ith emphasis,
because the Government will tell you later
on, when Mr. Grant comes here —(laugh-
ter) —and Mr. Denham, and the others,
that their only duty w 7 as “ to maintain law
and order.” What I say is that if they
are going to maintain law and order, let
them maintain all the law’ and all the
order, and a situation like this would
never arise. (Applause.) Well, we ask-
ed the Home Secretary to enforce Section
49 of the Act. After w r e had spoken, he
said : “I have not looked into the
matter, and I have no official knowledge
of it.” Mind you, this trouble in Bris-
bane had been going on for a week, and
he had “no official knowledge of it.”
However, he added that it was not in his
Department, and referred us to the Min-
ister for Railways. We to the Min-
ister for Railways, and managed to catch
him in his office. He asked us for a few
minutes to look into it. As a matter of
fact, he invited me into his office for a
quarter of an hour, to discover what his
position really was in regard to the mat-
ter. At the end of that 15 minutes, he
was apparently satisfied that he had
something to do with it,” and accordingly
received the deputation. His answer to
that deputation was : “This is the first
time I have ever had anything of this
sort brought before me, and I shall have to
consult with the Crown Law Office in re-
gard to it.” Fancy, ladies and gentlemen,
while this bushfire was threatening Bris-
bane, while the whole place was seething
with industrial unrest, there was not a sin-
gle Minister of the Crown who knew whose
duty it was to see that Mr. Badger car-
ried out the law. (Applause.) After con-
sulting with the Crown Law authorities,
the Minister for Railways never said one
word further to us. We saw by the papers
that lie had interviewed Mr. Badger. We
also saw that the trams did not run, and
eventually stopped altogether. And,
mind you, the Minister for Railways took
a big risk when he acted thus ; for he im-
perilled the working of the Queensland
railway, from the borders of New South
Wales right up to Cape York. (Applause.)
But what would have been the result had
he followed the proper course, and forced
Mr. Badger to carry out the law ? Why,
he would have had to take the men to run
his trams, between the hours of 7 and 10,
Queensland would have been saved this
trouble, and the people of Rockhampton
would have been saved the inconvenience
that I know they were put to. There may
have been mistakes —mind, I do not say
there were —it may have been a desperate
remedy ; but let us always look at the
cause, and see that it does not arise again.
At the same time let us look at a similar
circumstance that occurred in America,
and how it was dealt with. Ex-President
Theodore Roosevelt wa3 faced with a sim-
ilar difficulty in regard to the coal mines
of Pennsylvania, and finding that the com-
panies were not supplying suffici-
ent coal to fulfil their contracts
with the Government and others, he
summoned the directors before him, and
said, in effect : “ How is it that these coal
mines are not going on ?” Of course they
explained about the troubles with the men.
He said : “I have no official knowledge
of your troubles with the men ; but I
know this : That the coal mines of
Peensylvania will be worked within 48
hours, either by you or by the United
States Government. ” (Loud Applause.)
And the coal mines were worked within
48 hours by the company, and the men
were all back at work. That would, lam
certain, have been the position if the
Queensland Government had acted as they
should have done. If it had been found ne-
cessary to call Parliament together
it could have been done, and they
would have said to Mr. Badger :
“You run these tramcars or we
will run them, and thus have
ended the trouble. I wish to mention this
on top of my foundation. I put in my foun-
dation first, and this is the next stone,
showing you that not only did the Govern-
ment initiate the policy against unionism,
but carried it on w r hen the crisis came, and
that they alone are responsible for the
position as it exists to-day. You should
understand this. When the unionists
about Brisbane, of Queensland, and, in
fact, of Australia, realised that the Govern-
ment of a State was out determined to
fight unionism in the State of Queensland,
they at once saw that unionism w 7 as at
stake throughout the State and the Com-
monwealth. If the tramway employees
were defeated the others would follow; the
result would be the defeat of all unions,
and the complete demoralisation of the
Federal Arbitration Court. It was that
strong feeling, that sense of w T rong, that
sense of a ffilow being struck at the very
heart’s blood of unionism that brought the
men out in Brisbane. They came out, you
can take it from me—indeed, you need not
take it from me, because you can think it
out for yourselves—that thousands and
thousands of men would not throw down
their tools and give up their work unless
there was a great cause to be served. (Ap-
plause.) What w r as the Cause P The forces
of the Crown were against them, and
against every union organisation.
Mr. Badger took up the attitude that
he would not meet the men as unionists,
but w 7 ould meet them only as his ow 7 n em-
ployees. There w 7 ere tw 7 o points to be se-
cured against Badger and the Government.
The first was to make Badger meet the
unions, and the second was to secure recog-
nition of the badge. It fell to me, Mr.
Chairman, to try and accomplish the first
point. The secretary of the Trannvay
Union drew out a declaration setting forth
how the trouble arose, and that was w T ired
“ urgent” to Melbourne to Mr. Justice Hig-
gins, who was then on holiday. But as the
dispute did not extend beyond the limits
of one State he could not order Mr. Badger
to come to a conference. The tramway men
of Adelaide and Melbourne then showed
signs of restiveness, because of the condi-
tions prevailing in Queensland, and threat-
ened to come out. The result w 7 as that Mr.
Badger was summoned to meet the unions
before the Court in Melbourne under pen-
alty of £soo—compelled by the law 7 of the
Commonwealth and not by the Denham
Government, which could have done it
sooner, and prevented the whole thing.
Mr. Justice Higgins issued that compulsory
summons, compelling Mr. Badger to go to
Melbourne, and meet Mr. P. A. McLach-
lan and the secretary of the Traimvay
Union; and others like him were compelled
under the law of Australia to meet them
as a union and discuss the matter with
them. Now*, what will be the outcome of
the dispute over the wearing of the badge
is not yet decided, and therefore I cannot
express an opinion on it. But I have an
opinion, and I believe everyone who has
read the papers and followed up this great
struggle also has an opinion on it. So that
you have Mr. Badger, and behind him the
Queensland Government, first defying the
Commonwealth law, and secondly defying
the State law 7 by not runnnig his trams.
(To be continued in to-morrow’s issue.)
Notice.
A SPECIAL STRIKE COMMITTEE
MEETING will be held at the TRADES
HALL on WEDNESDAY, at 10.30 a.m.
Business important.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Campaign Items.
LABOUR LEADER’S OPENING.
Labour-Leader Bow 7 man will lead off for
Labour in Cook’s Picture Palace (Foresters’
Hall), Brunsw’ick-street, to-morrow night.
All v 7 ho can avail themselves of the op-
portunity to listen to the exposure of the
maladministration of the country’s affairs
will have reason to congratulate themselves
afterwards.
A.W.A.
A meeting of members of the Brisbane
branch of the A.W.A. was held in the
Trades Hall on Saturday night. Mr. E. H.
Lane presided. It was decided to donate
a sum of money to the “ Official Bulletin ”
fund. Mr. Lane was appointed branch
representative to the Southern District
Committee. It was decided to take part in
the Eight Hour procession and to procure
badges for members marching. The dele-
gates to the Eight Hour Union Committee
were instructed to protest against the
action of the committee in accepting prizes
from, or allowing employers to advertise in
the procession. It was further decided
to endeavour to get the name “ Eight Hour
Day” changed to “Labour Day.” Jim
Munro w r as elected delegate to the Eight
Hour Committee in lieu of Mr. Ramsay.
BRISBANE W.P.O.
The meeting of the Campaign Commit-
tee w hich was to have been held yesterday
afternoon w as postponed to enable members
to attend Comrade McLachlan’s father’s
funeral. Very satisfactory reports have
been received from canvassers. The mem-
bers of the committee are requested to meet
at the Protestant Hall next Wednesday
night at 7.30, prior to the public meeting.
Trade unionists are invited to co-operate
and assist the Campaign Committee in
securing the return of Mr. Kirwmn, the
Labour candidate.
SOUTH BRISBANE ELECTORATE.
Mr. J. H. Sherry (endorsed Labour
candidate), assisted by Labour leader Bow-
man and other prominent Labour repre-
sentatives will address the electors as
under:
Wednesday, 3rd April, 1912, Musgrave
Park, corner Russell and Edmonstone Sts.
Saturday, 6th April, 1912, Clarence
Corner. Ladies specially invited.
ENOGGERA W.P.O.
A meeting of the above will be held at
W. F. Lloyd’s committee rooms, Bendal’s
Buildings, Red Hill, (Tuesday).
Ladies specially invited. “ Bulletins ” are
obtainable at Bendal’s shop.
ITHACA ELECTORATE.
J. T. Gilday, the endorsed Labour
candidate for Ithaca, will open his cam-
paign in the Foresters’ Hall, Given-ter-
race, on Wednesday next, April 3rd, at
8 p.m. Alderman W. R. Warmington will
take the chair.
Messrs. W. F. Finlayson, M.P., and C.
Boulton, organiser for the A.L.F., will also
address the meeting.
OXLEY ELECTORATE.
The women electors of Oxley are cor-
dialv invited to attend a meeting in the
Junction Hall, Annerley-road, on Wednes-
day, 3rd April, at 3 p.m.
Mesdames Huxham, Craig, Skirving,
Carney (of Rockhampton), and Martin will
address their fellow women as to how to
assist in the return of the endorsed Labour
candidate, C. W. Martin.
MAREE ELECTORATE.
If enthusiasm and a desire to work in
the interest of the Labour candidate can be
taken as an augury for success, the Maree
seat will be won for Labour. Over 100 men
and women attended the committee meet-
ing in Innes’ Hall, Wellington Road, on
Saturday night.
Canvassers’ reports ,were of a satisfac-
tory nature, and a number of additional
canvassers were enrolled
Mrs. Skirving, who is in charge of
the Women’s Committee, reported that
arrangements had been made for a meeting
of women workers in the Kangaroo Point
School of Arts on April 9, when women
desirous of doing work in that portion of
the electorate will be enrolled.
Arrangements for keeping the commit-
tee rooms open every evening were com-
pleted, and all information regarding
election matters can now be obtained at the
committee rooms.
Regret was expressed at the death of
Mr. A. and the secretary was
instructed to forward a letter of condolence
to Mr. P. A. McLachlan.
BU LI MBA ELECTORATE.
A special meeting of the supporters of
Hugh McMinn, Labour candidate for
Bulimba. was held at Morningside on
Friday night last. It was decided that
those present form themselves into a branch
W.P.O. to be called the Morningside
branch. Twenty-nine gentlemen gave in
their names to become members, and the
following officers were elected: Mr. P.
Vines, President; Mr. R. J. Mulvey, Vice-
president'; Mr. E. Crowther, Treasurer;
and Mr. M. Danaher, Secretary. It was
decided to assist Wynnum W.P.O. in form-
ing committees throughout the division.
Mr. McMinn and the officers of the
Wynnum branch w 7 ere also present, and
addressed the meeting. Members are all
pleased to again have the assistance in
W.P.O. matters of Bob Mulvey, who can do
a lot to secure the return of our candidate.
The Morningside committee rooms are at
Murphy’s butcher’s shop, and are open
every night.
PADDINGTON OPENS THE BALL.
The Young Australian Candidate.
To-morrow (Tuesday) night Mr. John
Fihelly, the endorsed Labour candidate for
Paddington, will open his campaign at the
corner of Hale and Regent Sts., Petrie Ter-
race. There will be plenty of speakers
present, and, no doubt, the interest in our
younger generation, who are the standard
bearers in the capital city, will be keen.
All electors should roll up to hear the truth
about the strike and about the notorious
Denham combine.
TOOMBUL ELECTORATE.
Mr. D. C. Dowling, Labour candidate,
will deliver his opening speech to-morrow
(Tuesday) at the Hamilton. The Mayor
will preside. On Wednesday he will speak
at Breakfast Creek; on Thursday at
Pinkenba; and on Saturday at Eagle
Farm.
WINDSOR LABOUR CAMPAICN.
The opening meeting of the Labour
campaign in Windsor will be held in the
Oddfellows’ Hall, Swan Hall, on Tuesday
night, April 2, at 8 o’clock. Mr. W. R.
Crampton, the endorsed Labour candidate,
and other popular speakers will address
the meeting. Ladies especially invited.
Mr. W. R. Crampton will also address
Windsor electors on the Albion Flats, near
McLennon St., on Wednesday night, April
3rd, at 8 o’clock.
A meeting of ladies interested in the
return of the Labour candidate for Wind-
sor will be held at the residence of Mrs.
Macfarlane, Chalk-street, Wooloowin, cn
Wednesday next, at 3 p.m. The candi-
date, Mr. W. R. Crampton, will address
the meeting.
FUNERAL OF MR. ANDREW
McLACHLAN.
The funeral of the late Mr. Andrew
McLaclilan took place yesterday afternoon,
when close on 100 vehicles followed the re-
mains to the Lutwyche Cemetery, where
already a large assemblage had gathered.
The coffin was completely covered with floral
tributes, and nothing was left undone to
show the great respect in which the father
of the popular Peter was held.
At the various W.P.O. meetings held on
Saturday votes of condolence were passed to
the member for the late V alley electorate.
DOC IN THE MANGER.
The committee working on behalf of
endorsed Labour candidate C. W. Martin
at Sunnybank, arranged for a meeting to
be held on Saturday last. The vacillating
Premier, or his satelites, blocked the meet-
ing by commandeering the hall and paeard-
ing the district that meetings would be
held at different centres. The hall was
not used; the meetings were merely after-
noon teas by Denham & Co. chasing around
the district in a motor car, probably the
people’s car.
A few week since a striking illustration
of the police attack on the citizens of Bris-
bane. entited “ Black Friday,” appeared in
the Worker. By permission, the Queens-
land Typographical Association have issued
a lithograph reproduction in colours. The
price is fa. per copy. ‘ Proceeds to go to-
wards payment of banner now being
painted by Mr. Bamicoat for the Typos.
Facsimile postcards Id. each or 9d. per
dozen are also being issued.
Found, opposite Foy and Gibson’s,
Wickham-street, a silver watch, chain, and
pendant. Qwner may have same by ap-
plying to T. Finney, secretary. Trades
Hall.
A SELECT ASSEMBLY will be held in
the TRADES HALL, TURBOT STREET,
SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 20th, at 8
o’clock. Tickets, one shilling. Good music.
Workers, roll up in aid, of campaign
fund.
