

Official Bulletin, No.3
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 3.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1912
Procession Prohibited.
Early this morning it Avas known that
the police authorities had refused a permit
for the usual daily procession. At first the
feeling ran high and the massed unionists
evidently were desirous of marching in
spite of the police. The Strike Committee,
however, determined that no excuse shall
be given for official brutality, as far as
they can prevent it, decided that no breach
of the peace should occur if they could
avoid it. They therefore asked Air. Dave
Bowman to instruct the croAvd on their
behalf to disperse quietly and return to
their homes. Also to re-assemble this even-
ing at 8 o’clock, and again to-morroAv
morning at 10. This Avise action has left
the police no excuse for their brutal treat-
ment of peaceful citizens, which occurred
all through to-day, the onus and the guilt
of which is upon those avlio prevented our
ranks from marching in peaceful proces-
sion.
Progress of the Fight.
All comrades in the ranks are remain-
ing absolutely firm. No sign of Avavering
atoiywhere. The biassed and untruthful
daily press reports as to grocers’ assistants,
railwaymen, and others returning to work
are positively untrue. The daily union
roll call is the only reliable barometer, and
this slioaa 7 s absolute solidity; and a remark-
able feature of the situation is that men
from all trades are clamouring for union
tickets.
Important Announce-
ment.
Tramway Benefit Social.
It lias been decided to postpone the
social arranged for to-morrow (Saturday)
night until a later date. All tickets will
hold good, and the date decided, upon Avill
be announced in the “ Bulletin.”
Question of Food Supplies.
Certain restaurants, also places for the
SALE OF BREAD AND GROCERIES,
will be open to-morrow, and particulars wilt
be announced at-the mass meeting to-mpr-
row morning. The Strike Committee re-
quests persons engaged in this struggle
WHO HAVE NO CASH
with Avhich to purchase food, to apply to
the Strike Committee for coupons, after
9 a.m. to-morrow (Saturday).
Dangerous Situation Saved.
About eleven a.m. this morning, a
cor dog of foot police fully armed and with
bayonets fixed for action, prevented the
croAvds from passing down Albert Street
from Turbot Street. Reports sent up to
the Strike Committee Avere of a highly
alarmist nature, to the effect that there was
grave danger of a very serious conflict.
‘President Harry Coyne, with Joe Codings,
Jack Aloir, Bob Thompson, at once rushed
to the spot and broke into the clear space
between the bayonets and the people.
Harry Coyne, addressing the croAvd, asked
them to obey the instructions of the Strike
Committee as coiweyed to them shortly be-
fore by Air. Bowman, and appealed to them
to folloAv him back to the Trades Hall.
Harry’s brave and well-considered,act saved
the situation, and the hungry bayonets of
the protectors of the people ( ?) were cheated
ef their anticipated meal. Arrived at the
Hall, he again addressed the croivd, advised
them to return to their homes, and this
they did.
Traders Appeal to Strike
Committee for Protection.
A request Avas rec uve'd this afternoon
from one of the largest retail business con-
cerns in Brisbane for a union picket to
guard the premises. A squad of 20 men
with- Vigilance Officer’s badges and prin-
ted instructions Avas at once despatched.
Considering the dimensions of the
present dispute _ and the thousands of
people in idleness, their conduct through-
out is a credit to them. Probably there
is no other civilised portion of the Avorld
under the same conditions that Avould have
behaved so we]L Preserve the same splen-
did demeanour, and the victory for Union-
ism is assured.
• • *
That the Strike Committee have had an
exceptionally busy and trying time there
is not the least shadoAV of doubt, but the
way the Avhole of the business in connection
with this extraordinary industrial up-
heaval is controlled, reflects the greatest
credit on them as a thoroughly capable,
intelligent body of men. Had the State
Government exercised the same common
sense as the men above referred to, there
would be no Badger or men of his ilk
allowed to bring about such a deplorable
statq of. affairs. Nevertheless, Unionism
will win the bkttle, and future generations
will reap the benefits.
Deputation to the Premier
By Labour Members.
The members of the Parliamentary
Labour party Avaited upon the Premier,
Mr. Denham, this (Friday) morning.
Mr. Bowman, the leader of the party,
explained that the object of the deputation
Avas to ask the Premier to call Parliament
together with a vieAv of arriving at a solu-
tion of the present big industrial dispute.
Mr. Bowman said he AA 7 as sure good re-
sults Avoud be arrived at if the AA 7 hole of
representatives of the people of Queens-
land Avere called together.
Referring to the refusal of Commis-
sioner Cahill to allow the usual procession
that day, he said the one result of proces-
sions Avas to keep the men orderly and
under discipline; and he AA T as surprised
Avhen Commissioner Cahill telephoned him
last night and said their AA r ould be no more
processions, and that he would hold Mr.
Bowman and the Strike Committee respon-
sible for anything serious that happened.
Mr. Bowman hoped Mr. Denham would
call Parliament together, and ask Mr.
Cahill that they might have processions.
At the Trades Hall there AA 7 ere thousands
and thousands of unionists, and Avomen
among them, and AA 7 hen the deputation tried
to pass through the streets they were told
they could not come. Mr. BoAvman said the
fact that the police Avere there in force AA 7 as
a danger.
Mr. Ryan said the position AAas unpre-
cedented, and the Labour party AA ere there
to ask the Premier to call Parliament to-
gether. The Avhole of Australia AA r as
affected, and the representatives of the
people of the Avhole of Queensland should
be called together to arrive at some
decision. He explained the action of the
party to the Home Secretary and Minister
for Raihvays Avhen the P.L.P. sought to
have section 49 of the Tramways Act en-
forced as regards the running of the
trams from V a.m. until 10 p.m. Mr.
Ryan pointed out that men in tram
services in Southern States were Avearing
badges. He also pointed out that the
Tramway Company questioned the juris-
diction of the Arbitration Court. He sup-
ported Mr. BoAvman as regards the refusal
of the Commissioner to grant permission
to have processions.
Mr. Lennon, deputy leader of the
party, thought the police with fixed bayo-
nets in the main thoroughfares were in-
citing serious consequences, and Avould re-
sult m the opposite to the preservation of
tim peace. He said Parliament should be
called together,
Mr. neliham : Wliat is the use of calling
Parliament 'together ? Surely you don’t
suggest the passing of a Coercion Act.
Mr. Lennoh : I would suggest the tak-
ing over of the tramways, Avhich would
have the support of the Avhole party.
Mr. Hamilton said the Premier should
call Parliament together, and it was in his
opinion his duty to do so.
The Premier referred to the action of
the Strike Committee as the most brutal
assumption of power. It did not appear to
him that Parliament should be called to-
gether. If the Government did not have
authority to deal AAith the present trouble,
they had Avasted time in the past . As to
the suggestion of calling Parliament
together to discuss taking oirnr the tram-
ways, he Avas not going to do that at this
time at all. Mr. Badger had just done
Avhat any sensible man Avould do. The
Commissioner of Railways had done the
same last night.
Air. Alullan: What about Air. Badger
stepping the trams?
Air. Denham gaid he Avould confer Avitb
the Commissioner of Police with regard to
the processions. Everything Avas being
done that could be done. He realised yes-
terday that a second authority Avas in the
city. Alen with badges Avere going into
shops and stopping the food supply, and
the same thing Avas being done in the out-
skirts this morning. The Government
Avould distribute flour through the local
governing bodies, and a notice announcing
Avhat Avas being done Avould be in the papers
to-day. He Avould consult his colleagues
about calling Parliament together. He
hoped the tramways Avould be running next
Aveek.
Air. McLachlan referred to the fact that
by the actions of Mr. Badger the hearing
of the case in the Arbitration Court Avas
delaved since December last.
Air. Bowman said the root of the
trouble Avas the victimising of men by the
tramAvay company for the past seven years.
There Avas not another employer in Aus-
tralia Avho Avas doing as Mr. Badger did,
and the Premier should prevent Mr. Badger
or any other man from ruling Avith an iron
hand.
Mr. Hamilton: He’s got the Stars and
Stripes floating over the Union Jack.
The deputation AvithdreAV.
Sympathy from Melbourne.
Message from Melbourne:—“Victorian
trade unionists send best Avishes for suc-
cess. Making immediate financial appeal
to affiliations.—Gray.”
The police authorities are busy keeping
the people moving in the streets to-day.
“Move on ’’ is evidently the orders they
have been instructed to carry out.
A remark just now heard frequently:—
“ The closing of the hotels and not being *
able to get a drink has had one effect; it has
made a teetotaller of me, and I think I
will remain one.”
THE BULLETS OF THE POLICE
—a*
MUST BE MET BY
The Ballots of the People!
The Last Day for getting on the Roll
in time for the forthcoming Elections is
Monday Next, February sth, 1912.
MEN AND WOMEN
D© YOOR DUTY!!
The Strike Committee Keep-
ing Order.
& Hundreds of men from the ranks of the
striking unionists have been enrolled a
Vigilance Committee. Squads of ten men
each, under ah officer, will patrol allotted
districts for stated hours. Each man will
Avear a distinguishing badge, and has been
supplied with printed copies of the folloAv-
mg instructions :
That ah officer be appointed to every
ten men enrolled.
That it be the imperative duty of every
member of the Vigilance Committee to
keep absolute order everywhere.
Vigilance officers must report to the
Strike Committee daily, and keep in touch
aa ith that committee, in order to receive
instructions from time to time.
_ Every man appointed must sign the
Vigilance Roll daily, and must implicitly
obey his officers’ instructions.
Any unionist found misconducting him-
self shall be. reported by the Vinilance
Officer to his union, to be dealt with.
Thus does organised La show once
again that it is the only t. y “ law-and-
order ” party.
Press Criticisms of the Crisis.
“ Alackay Pioneer” speaks:—
Because men persisted in Avearing a cer-
tain pendant on their watch-chain, they’ve
been “Badgered” out of the service. Not
that they’ve lost much in escaping from
the militant autocracy of the imported
Yankee, but it’s as well to teach him that
American union breaking methods are of
no earthly use in Australia to-day .
As a fairly intelligent man he should
recognise that fact. The good old reliable
Brisbane Press certainly gave him all the
assistance it could. The good old lie, Avorn
threadbare through long service, that the
strikers desired to return to work, and
that only “agitators” kept them back,
Avas once more offered for the public to
SAvalloAv. The weak-kneed and the weak-
minded are the only ones likely to SAvalloAv
the pill.
Badger told the Press (his company’s
Press) that he had received a letter from
“ a man who signed himself secretary of
the A.L.F., requesting a conference, ’ but
he Avouldn’t agree to it. He will find out
before long, and to his sorrow, Avho “that
man ’’ Avas and Avho are backing him up.
Badger, whatever he may do with the
Brisbane and suburban Councils, can’t run
the bodies and souls of his unfortunate
employees. If he wants fight he’ll get it.
Yankee bluff is worth nothing against Aus-
tralian grit.
“Maryborough Alert” says:—We be-
lieve that a general strike is justifiable
Avhen a vital principle is at stake, as in
the present case, and Ave believe that it
can be made effective even noAv, and as
time goes on and the workers come to
realise their nower it will be still more
effective. The success in the industrial
struggle aa ill point the Avav to success in
the political struggle, and Ave will then see
an end to the anomaly of members of a
Union fighting solidly in a strike against
each other at an election. Let them vote
as they strike, and the Avorld is theirs.
Sympathy from Queensland.
J. Williams,- acting secretary Long-
reach branch of the A.W.U., wired this
morning:—“This branch wishes the tram-
way men every success in their fight.”
Wire from Rockhampton:—“Complete
victory dredge strike. Rockhampton ready
to fight with Brisbane.—O’Brien, A.W.A.”
Further wire from Rockhampton:—
“Strong general sympathy here. Mass
meeting 8 p.m, to decide. Assured exten-
sion.—Purnell.”
Message from Townsville:—“A.W.A.
calling mass meeting workers 2.30 Satur-
day to consider situation.—M‘Cormack.”
The Law of the Baton.
Editor “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —Never in the history of Brisbane
has the coercive force of the State been
used with more brutality than during our
present strike. About midday to-day, ad-
jacent to the Executive Buildings, there
AA r as Avitnessed the most shocking actions
ever perpetrated on Brisbane citizens.
Peaceful men and AA r omen, Avhile quietly
Amending their Way, Avere inhumanly as-
saulted by the police. Strikers and others
m no Avay connected with the present
trouble were struck doAAn and ridden upon,
and their comrades, in attempting to as-
sist the fallen men, AA 7 ere ruthlessly blud-
geoned with batons. The Police Commis-
sioner was in charge of the attacking body
of Cossacks. Throughout the early after-
noon this brutual behaviour on the
part of the alleged protectors of life, limb,
and property AA T as unscrupulously con-
tinued.
Let comrades iioav realise the purpose
for Avhich the police force is maintained.
It exists to intimidate us, to break our
unions and strikes, and help the employers'
to bind and rivet upon us those chains of
ignominy which they have been carefully
forging. Then let us remain calm and
collected; let us not riot nor meet force
Avith force. Disorder is the object of the
employers, the Commissioner, and his
satellites, and the Government. But let
us not forget to reply to their criminal
force Avith the GATLING GUN OF THE.
BALLOT—capture the citadel of Capital-
ism—the State—and emancipate ourseßes.
MARIAN RICKARDS.
LINES BY A UNIONIST.
The fight for Freedom’s taking place to-
morroAv—
Brawn and brains against the “ Yankee
Grab.”
The “Badger” then will boAv his head in
sorrow—
He cannot run his service with a
“ scab.”
The sister then will stand beside the
brother,
A lioness in the fight, no more a lamb,
Uei fears and troubles she AA'ill bra\ r ely
smother
In the fight against the Yank who runs
the tram.
Boodle quivers as the day is brightly daAA Tn-
ing;
He knoAvs that then for mercy he must
cadge;
No longer will the toiler be a-fa\A r ning—
His troubles o’er, he’ll proudly wear
the badge.
Ye toilers, as the victory you are sighting,
Show them what Australians iioav can
do,
And as a body, stand together in the ficrlit-
mg,,
I ill you cnase the Yankee eagle whence
he fleAv.
Teach the American Avorkers, “ inter alia,”
, That the British lion lies not like a lamb
When the Yankee bounder tries here in
Australia
His graft and combine antics on a tram.
No room, then, in Australia, for the
SAveater
Seeking lifeblood to become a million-
aire.
The condition of the toiler must be better—
In the Avealth that he produces he shall
share.
(Composed by Tom O’Sullivan, tram
employee, on the eA~e of the strike.)
The winning of this strike by the Union-
ists means that this State Avill subsequently
be the working man’s paradise.
One conspicuous thing in connection
with the condition of affairs to-day is the
part the Capitalistic Press is playing. A
sound labour organ has never been more
required than at present.
The “Bulletin” and Badger’s
Trams.
Two articles from this week’s “ Bul-
letin,” bearing on Badger and his trams,
are worth reproducing. Here they are :
“ The joy of having a great public
utility like the trains in the hands of
Private Enterprise has become
of late, that the people of Brisbane are
almost liable to burst Avith happiness. In
fact, they may burst unless hooped up.
Ihe row betAveen Manager Badger and his
employees was not, to begin Avith, a matter
of Avide public concern, but it spread till it
became about as public as anything could
be. If the community cordially approves
of Badger and his doings, then it is, of
course, fully entitled to have a general
strike, or any other commotion and incon-
venience that may be available. Every
community has a right to Avhatever incon-
venience it really wants. Unfortunately,
Avhen railways or tramways or water-works
or coal supply or lighting arrangements are
in the hands of Private Enterprise, one
arrogant or tactless person in charge—a
person Avho isn’t in any Avay responsible to
the people—may bring about a fuss on some
matter that the people take no interest in,
and about which they lia\ T e been in no Avay
consulted, and, in the course of his private
i*oav, cooking and Avashing and locomotion
may be suspended and civilisation hung up.
Noav the tramways may belong to Badger’s
company, but the civilisation belongs to the
community, and if any mismanagement on
the part of Badger damages that great pub-
lic property, the community has a right to
complain. It has even a right to demand
that the trams shall pass to the control of
some authority that can run them without
making a hash of the framework of society.
When public utilities are owned by the
State, the people can at least do something
to prevent or to end disturbances. They
have some voice in deciding whether they
will have a great industrial scrimmage or
not. They are, in a measure, voluntary
parties to the fight—not mere onlookers
oeing trodden underfoot by both com-
batants, without any say in the matter.
Just now they are in a fair way to stand
about 99 per cent of the loss and incon-
venience, yet, because of the blessings of
Private Enterprise, they can’t prevent the
shindy; they can’t stop it; their opinion
about it counts for nothing; and they won’t
even have the retrospective joy of throwing
out Badger at next general election, for
Badger isn’t elected. Badger, in fact, has
the right to fight out his personal quarrel
in the State’s china shop, amid the crash
of the State’s falling crockery, and so has
every other man in a similar position. It is
quite possible for the boss of a Private
Enterprise tramway or gas concern to start,
off his OAvn bat, a row of such size and ex-
pense that it would have paid the city
better to stick to the old bullock dray and
the ancient kerosene lamp. And it is a
great deal too much power for any one indi-
vidual to have. He is much in the position
of a monarch, with the right to declare
Avar betAveen tAvo adjacent States, and then
leave them to fight it out.”
“ This little statement of the Brisbane
Trarmvay Co.’s profits probably explains
the Badger’s swollen head:—
1906 ... £24,961 1909 ... £47,977
1907 ... 32,689 1910 ... 77,014
1908 ... 39,858
Of course it wasn’t Badger Avho bounced
the profit up from £24,961 to £77,014 in
five years; it was the gfowth of Brisbane
that did it—that and the fact that Bris-
bane has enough cash in its pocket noAva-
days to hang the expense of a tram-ride.
Also, Badger and his foreign co. are under
no sort of obligation to push their lines out
into newly-settled districts. On the con-
trary, the fool-Parliament Avhich gave
Badger’s co. its rights, distinctly encour-
aged Badger to confine himself to the
croAvded parts and do no development Avork
at all. It practically gave the foreign
Badger’s foreign co. a free fling till 1920
and Avhen a foreign co. and a foreign mana-
ger have a free fling till 1920, aaTio wouldn’t
expect them to kick, if they thought kick-
ing paid best? Unfortunately, the 1895
Parliament is dead, else Brisbane might
get some satisfaction out of a little vigor-
ous kicking exercise too.”
Shortly after 10 a.m. thousands of
men and gathered in the vicin-
ity of the Trades Hall, eager for informa-
tion relative to the present prodigious in-
dustrial dispute. Discussion as to the
situation was indulged in by the immense
Probably that day’s intended pro-
cession was the principal topic. HoAvever,
Avhen Mr. Bowman stepped on the windoAV-
sill, silence Avas called for, and instantane-
ously every voice Avas hushed. The strong
personality of the man about to address
them there Avas no mistaking. His address
Avas brief. Notifying them that the Strike
Committee decided there was to be no pro-
cession, and briefly explained that there
Avere specific reasons for dispensing with it.
He exhorted men and women to observe law
and order, and anyone of the number com-
mitting any act of violence or disorder
would be a coAvard. He then requested them
:o disperse, and his request was promptly
acceded to.
J. H .COYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Strike Committee.
