

Official Bulletin, No. 12.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 12.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1912.
Permission to Process Refused.
Procession and Meeting Cancelled.
As soon as the Strike Committee re-
ceived Cahill’s brutal ukase —that force
would again be used should any Market
Square meeting or procession be attempted
—an order was posted to the effect that no
procession or meeting would be held. The
wisdom of this decision was more than ap-
parent this morning, when a most cowardly
and unnecessary display of force was made
throughout the city. Squads of “specials,”
many of them mere lads, as well as lines of
foot and mounted police, were drilled and
marched and counter-marched in the main
streets of the city, while the general body
of citizens and strikers looked on with
amused indifference or grim disgust. One
squad of raw recruits was armed with car-
bines with fixed bayonets, and on all hands
it was a screaming farce to see respec-
table (?) citizens, bank clerks, cheese mer-
chants, aldermen, councillors, town clerks,
and other alleged men, as well as Mr. D.
Hunter, M.L.A., squaring their shoulders
with heads erect and toes turned out, try-
ing to impart a military appearance to
their otherwise tired and bedraggled air.
Once again the Strike Committee has
scored off its opponents’ bat. Of what use
is all this force with nothing upon which
to exert it?
The discipline, the solidarity, and the
self-sacrificing spirit displayed everywhere
by the striking unionists is to-day a matter
of general comment throughout the city.
Strike Coupons.
Strike Coupons will be issued at the
Seamen’s Union office to-morrow (Wednes-
day) and future days, commencing at 11
a.m. Entrance from Margaret-street; exit
through Edward-street.
J. HARRY COYNE,
President Strike Committee.
Trades Hall, 13th February, 1912.
Casualty Forecasts Verified.
The “Courier” reports the following
casualties this morning : - -
A youth named Percy Sheffield, a clerk
in the employ of Howard Smith and Co.,
whilst assisting to unload cargo in the hold
of the s.s. Chillagoe, sustained a fractured
spine and abrasions on the forehead and
nose.
A man named Joseph Kenny or Collins
was run down by a motor-car driven by a
motor agent named W. B. Govett in Queen-
street, just above where it is intersected by
Albert-street, shortly after 9 o’clock last
night. The glass of the headlight of the
motor was smashed to atoms by the impact.
Kenny was taken to the General Hospital.
In connection with this motor accident,
a gentleman who served for a considerable
time in the ambulance section of the
French Army, left a statement with us to-
day to the effect that on seeing the crowd
in Queen-street last night, he went to ascer-
tain the cause, and on seeing the injured
man lying bleeding and helpless on the
roadway and no one attending to him, he
lifted him up and placed him in a position
which would be likely to lessen the pain he
was in, at the same time asking someone to
get a glass of water. He was about to give
the man the water when two policemen
came on the scene, neither of whom had a
number on, and told him to “ Get to hell
out of this.” This is what baton law has
brought us to in Brisbane.
A few issues back we drew attention to
the fact that motor-cars were now allowed
to travel at any speed they wished. We
have also been informed of instances in
which the numbers of the cars were re-
moved. The traffic inspector apparently
has his hands too full looking after the rag-
tag specials who desecrate our streets to
pay any attention to his ordinary duties.
GOOD WORDS FROM MELBOURNE.
The secretary of the Victorian Society
of Operative Plasterers, writing to his
Brisbane brothers,- says, alluding to the
strike here: —“ You are going in big licks
up there. I see you are all in it. My ear-
nest wish is that you may all handsomely
win. Meanwhile, keep your heads cool.
They will try all they know to make you
break the ‘dear old law.’ Don’t give them
a shadow of a chance. The finish will re-
dound to your credit all the more.”
Straight from the Shoulder.
To the Editor, “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —Are you aware that certain mili-
tary officers and men who belong to and
are paid by the Federal Government have
been sworn in to take up arms against the
peaceful citizens of Queensland ? Is such a
thing allowed ? Why, in England or any
other Empire, they would be an once ar-
rested, tried, and shot for mutiny.
Let the Federal Minister for Defence
or Premier Fisher know at once that they
have got Federal men training specials to
shoot us. Black Friday was sufficient.
I also regret to say that our name
“ Sinclair ” has never been disgraced be-
fore like it has disgraced us to-day in the
“Telegraph,” censuring Mr. Fisher for
saving us from being shot down and the
city reduced to ashes. He advocates a
State defence force. He has his wish.
Look at the composition .of the squads,
pimps of all grades, spineless civil servants,
several from Goodna —“ well,” our regular
police force are disgusted at having to take
a back seat. I regret that my name will
be abused through a Sinclair M.P. I am
known by hundreds as —
HONEST CHARLEY SINCLAIR.
Harry Coyne’s Morning
Address.
Instead of this being delivered as usual
the following
STRIKE-NOTICE
was posted in Turbot-street:
“ Comrades, —
“ In order to foil once again those who
have been thirsting for the blood of the
brave men, women, and children engaged
in this struggle for freedom, the Strike
Committee requests all of our friends who
are present in Turbot-street this morning
~—except those who are attending meetings
in the hall —to return to their homes. The
Strike Committee will arrange for a meet-
ing place, and let you know through the
‘Bulletin’ and by other means.”
Union Bread at Last.
Important Order To-day.
By order of the Strike Committee,
union bread carters will return to work ai
all bakeries where union labour is em-
ployed, so that the staff of life may be
again delivered to our homes. No union
carter will deliver bread made by non-
union bakers, and no union baker wil]
make bread unless where union carters are
employed to deliver it.
All Union Carters will have a permit
issued by authority of the Strike Com-
mittee. Unionists please note.
Bakers who will be delivering bread to-
morrow with Union Carters and bread
made by Union Bakers: Co-operative,
Wuersching, W. Shead, JMrs. Campbell, J.
Prudence, E. Juergens, A. Lewis, Mrs.
McMahon, J. Ryan, J. Hanlon, J. Enever,
Mrs. Lane, A. Lee, J. Leach, H. Hugall.
Commonwealth Canteen.
DENHAM OVERRIDES FISHER.
A correspondent, who gives his name,
assures this paper that the Canteen at the
Petrie Terrace Military Barracks has been
open all through the strike, and that the
ignoble “ specials ” are there being served
with drink. What are the Federal military
officers here going to do about it?
A Labour Evening Daily.
A valued correspondent writes lengthily
as to the need for a Labour Daily. This is
one of the lessons hammered home by this
strike, and when it is over we must go
seriously into the matter, as well as the
questions of Workers’ Savings Bank and
Co-operative Stores.
The united secretaries also dealt with
this question at their usual daily meeting
this morning, and doubtless something
tangible will result as soon as the strike is
ended.
Commonwealth Accoutrements.
Union Secretaries Protest.
At a meeting of union secretaries held
to-day it was unanimously resolved that
the Strike Committee be asked to forward
the following resolution:
“That this meeting of Union secre-
taries here assembled, representing the
various unions concerned in this trouble,
wish to enter an emphatic protest against
the use of Commonwealth accoutrements
by officers and men of the Commonwealth
Forces who have beep sworn in as special
constables.”
‘ ‘ The said protest to be forwarded to
the Minister for Defence, the Editor of the
‘ Worker,’ and ‘ Strike Bulletin.’ ”
Waterside Workers.
Tired of Police Brutality.
At a meeting of the Waterside Union
held to-day it was unanimously carried that
‘ ‘ we have every confidence in the Strike
Committee.”
It was also carried : ‘ ‘ That a recommen-
dation be sent to the Strike Committee
that the time had arrived for them to call
on the Hon. Andrew Fisher, P.C., to pro-
tect the people from being insulted by the
police and special constables.” The meet-
ing closed with three ringing cheers for the
Strike Committee.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We have in type, and are still receiving,
several valuable letters and appropriate
poems on our present struggle; but with
the limited space in our little sheet (which
is being brought out by the voluntary
efforts of members of the Queensland Typo-
graphical Association), it is quite impos-
sible for us to publish them at present.
Were the “ Bulletin ” ten times its present
dimensions we could easily fill it with in-
teresting items supplied us by correspon-
dents. Let us hope that the time is not
far distant in Brisbane when the voice of
the people will be heard per medium of a
Labour daily.—Ed. S.B.
ANOTHER GOVERNMENT SPECIMEN.
A State school teacher from Ispwich dis-
trict, who, besides having acted as a special
constable, was yesterday trying to work as
a wharf labourer, for which he received the
reward of Bs. What teaching is this poor
specimen of humanity likely to inculcate
in the youthful mind?
Bombastes Furioso.
Our spineless Premier has at various
times, when in conflict with the Federal
authorities and other States of the Com-
monwealth, prided himself on Queensland’s
splendid isolation. After the deplorable
spectacle that presented itself to citizens
in Market-square this morning we can
only, in our sorrow and degradation, thank
God that the humiliating position in which
this political figurehead has placed our
State is unique in Australia’s history.
What was the object of this tinpot dis-
play? Stirely it was not intended to over-
awe the liberty-loving and muscular work-
ing men who have brought our State to its
present pitch of prosperity.
Anyone who has witnessed the magnifi-
cent exhibitions made by our industrial
army on Eight-hour Day and since this
strike commenced, can only regard with
ridicule the idea that the gathering of
guerillas that the fire-eating policeman
marshalled this morning could stand
against it for five minutes were physical
force resorted to. What, then, we ask
again, can be at the bottom of this busi-
ness ? Is it an endeavour to embroil the
Commonwealth authorities, and so set
Labour against Labour? That policy has
gone far enough in Queensland alone.
Can Mr. Denham foresee the result of
the slaying of a single citizen of this city
by his and Cahill’s bahzi-bazooks? We
don’t think he can. Therefore we beg of
him, if he has not surrendered all his
authority, to put a stop to this would-be
warrior trailing his coat through the
streets of Brisbane and inviting people to
tread on the tail of it. Some of these
days he might not have even a button of
it left.
In Tabloid Form.
Posse of scab police maudlin a few
nights ago during prohibited hours.
Names of specs (pronounce C hard) can
be given to the Napoleonic one and pub-
lican’s name to bluff George Appel.
Well known athletic spec, arrested last
night for drunkenness —name can be
given.
Four specs, guarding grocer’s store on
Spring Hill sent an emissary inside to
cadge a couple of pounds of biscuits —
names can be given.
One spec, asked well-known citizen at
Hamilton for a traybit. —Name of citizen
can be given.
One Spring Hill publican caught serv-
ing during prohibited hours was served
with a summons. Summons withdrawn
after strings duly pulled—name available.
Cahill had a long interview with
Knight or Stevens in the “Courier”
building last night.
Denham was also in the £ ‘ Courier ’ ’
sanctum during the day, as well as a cou-
ple of nights previously. These facts can
be verified if necessary.
Possibly Stevens and Cahill have a
joint commission from Denham to run the
country. It is certain that they collabor-
ated and arranged the comic opera parade
of to-day.
■ —“ Kookaburra.”
ANOTHER “PROTECTOR.”
To the Editor, “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —The strike is now entering upon
the third week of its career, but no inci-
dent, even the events of “ Black Friday,”
will compare with what happened last
Saturday afternoon on Ipswich-road. A
young man connected with a store on the
Ipswich road, son of a man whom the work-
ing men and women have supported for
years, rode down Ipswich-road on a pranc-
ing pony, accosted a crowd of men, singled
out a young person, drew a revolver, and
demanded an apology —or, to use his own
words, “ If not, I will blow your head off.”
“Are you goin’ to apologise?” screamed
the pale-faced riding youngster. “No, I
am not; you can shoot me if you like,” ans-
wered the calm and cool unionist — a state-
ment which drew warm remarks of ap-
proval from the audience, which by this
time had been increased by several women
and about a dozen little children. “Are
you goin’ to apologise?” shouted the quiv-
ering youth. The unionist stood with his
arms folded, patiently awaiting his execu-
tion, when a very popular resident, seeing
this nervous individual, waving his weapon
to all points of the compass, and fearing
that he might shoot himself, or else one of
the little girls, who by this time were being
called by anxious mothers, thundered out
to him to put the “squirt” back into his
pocket, and like a good, brave Australian,
he got off down the street as quick as the
quadruped could carry him.
Is this part of the scheme concocted by
Digby Denham to subdue the workers ? Is
cowboy rule to be instituted ? Needless to
say that wholesale arming is going on
among the law-abiding residents of this
part of Brisbane, so as to protect them-
selves from the murderous practices of
weak-minded fledglings such as referred to
above.
At a later stage this chosen one of Ca-
hill’s rode up Ipswich-road with a special
constable’s badge pinned on his arm, the
pinning operation being performed by a
girl whose two brothers are out on strike in
sympathy with the tramway men.
Women of Burandah! cut this out and
keep it until election day. Then, when
the representative of the capitalistic law-
breaking combine which in at present in
power comes before you, and attempts to
woo your political heart, ask why did Den-
ham and his satellites allow weaklings to
molest the electors and demand explana-
tion “ at the cannon’s mouth.”
A LABOUR CONVERT.
The Latest from the Various
Regiments in Labor’s Army.
Engine Drivers’ Association.
The members of this Association, by a
solid vote of all members, resolved that
they have the fullest confidence in the
Strike Committee. Furthermore, thev
pledged themselves to stand by them until
the finish. Three members have been ex-
pelled for ratting, who will never be admit-
ted again.—E. SHAW, Secretary.
Boilermakers and Iron Shipbuilders.
At a mass meeting of Boilermakers and
Iron Shipbuilders, held yesterday in the
Trades Hall, a resolution was unanimously
adopted endorsing the action of the Strike
Executive up to date, and expressing every
confidence in them in their future efforts.
Federated Ironworkers.
A large meeting of the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association resolved unanimously,
‘ ‘ That the members approve of the work
done by the Strike Committee up to date,
and that it stand loyally by the Committee
to the end.” Motto: “No Surrender.”
Operative Plasterers.
The secretary of this Union sends us
the following:—“I have the honour by
direction to inform you that my Union con-
curs with every step that has been taken
in the past, and furthermore, that they
have every confidence that whatever your
committee might deem necessary will be
in the best interests of the success of the
present trouble and the workers of Bris-
bane. Trusting that all Unions will stand
solid and firm to the last.”
Nothing Like Leather.
The secretary of the Tanners and
Leather Dressers’ Union writes: I have
been instructed to forward the following to
you, as passed at a meeting on Saturday:
“ That this Union endorse the action
of the Strike Committee up to date, and
further pledge themselves to remain loyal
until a satisfactory settlement has been
arrived at.”
Ship Painters and Dockers’ Union.
At a meeting held in the Trades Hall
this morning it was moved and carried
unanimously: ‘ ‘ That a vote of confidence
be tendered to the Strike Committee, at
the same time assuring them of the hearty
support and co-operation of the Ship ~
Painters and Dockers’ Union.” The
motion to ‘ 4 stand firm ’ ’ was carried with-
out one dissentient.
Queensland Typographical Society.
At a large and enthusiastic meeting of
the above society held this morning a vote
of confidence was passed in the Strike Com-
mittee’s actions up to the present. After
other business was transacted, the meet-
ing adjourned till Thursday, at 10.30 a.m.,
at same place.
Operative Plasterers.
The secretary of this union writes: —I
have the honour by instruction of my
union to inform you that my union concurs
with every step that you have seen fit to
take, and also that every action of yours
will be duly weighed for any future moves
that might be necessary, and also that they
have the utmost confidence that they will
be in the interest of success. As long as
the men stand solid success must event-
uate.”
UNIONISTS AND MEN!
What of the lads of the glorious red badge ?
The unions have proved their might!
The comrades stand shoulder to shoulder
still;
Their watchword, “Union and right!”
What of the lads of the Trades Hall now,
Who argued not whether or when,
But answered the cry of their comrades’
distress,
And proved themselves Unionists and
MEN!
M.H.
“STRIKE FUND” INSTEAD OF
“SHOUTS.”
“ Sir George” sends a further ss. to-
day received for the strike fund instead
of going in drinks. And thus the workers
march towards total abstinence.
A prominent South Brisbane citizen
wrote to us as follows :—A little incident of
which you may make use of if you
deem fit, and I will guarantee
facts. A special constable yester-
day afternoon was accosted by patrol
inspectors and told off for special duty at
South Brisbane Gas Company’s works,
South Brisbane. He refused, stating that
he had done eight hours street duty. Patrol
inspector left him, excusing himself, con-
ferred with four other S.C. s. Result,
returned to special and marched him to
C.I. Depot. There he was drafted into
squad for duty as mentioned, aud stayed
there from 9 a.m. to 6 a.m. this mo:nmg
On completion of duty was told to report
at 10 a.m. He was then taken before Com-
missisoner Cahill, Inspector Short, and
others. Badge and baton was then taken
from him, and he was told to go, and was
lucky he was not prosecuted. The above
are facts, and as tb the genuineness of
this I subscribe my name.
LOST, in Trades Hall yard, a Maltese
Cross trinket. Finder please return to the
Y.O. Committee.
To-morrow’s Developments.
Owing to the desire of the Strike Com-
mittee not to submit the rank and file to
any chance of conflict with Cahill’s bri-
gade, the usual morning gathering in
Turbot-street will not take place to-mor-
row.
The announcement regarding the im-
portant developments expected to-morrow
will therefore be made at the various pub-
lic meetings at night. Will all comrades
please note.
BLACK FRIDAY.
t
To Editor, “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —As a firm believer in police pro-
tection, I would like to say a few words
regarding same. “ Black Friday” in
Brisbane will be remembered for years to
come by the most despicable barbarous
brutality which was meted out to the
peaceful and law-abiding citizens of this
community by the police force of Brisbane.
Defenceless men, women, and children were
driven in all directions by the barbarous
onslaughts of baton charges ordered by
Commissioner Cahill under the direction
of the present ornamental butter-box
Badger-Denham Government and their col-
leagues, and if it had not been for the
honourable and justifiable action of our
noble hero, Mr. A. Fisher, Premier of the
Commonwealth, in giving a decided refusal
to allow the military to be called out, I
venture to say that in all probability the
institutions of this city would have been
over-crowded with the result of their bar-
barous handling, provided the military
were made of the same ‘‘ brave ’ ’ material
as the majority of the Brisbane police
force are composed of.
Denham and his clique must not forget
that our latest arrivals of brothers and
sisters from the mother country to build
up the freedom of this vast territory that
we are living in, were in the same position
as ourselves, batoned and blockaded in
every direction, and the mother country
will resound with letters from these people
of the cowardly, unwarranted, barbarous
brutality meted out to them, ordered by
the despicable leader and colleagues of the
present Government. I may mention, as
Mr. Cook, Proprietor of Cook’s pictures,
did, referring to the way children, sent out
by their mothers to Ennever’s bakery
or Blacker’s for the staff of existence, were
unmercifully driven before the baton
charges, scattered in all directions by the
brutal tactics adopted by certain members
of the police force. ir tb j annals of
history has such an unwarranted assault
been witnessed, and such methods adopted
to cause a rebellion; but I am one of the
proudest individuals in this State to-day on
account of the orderly, peaceful, and
honourable way in which the holiday-
seekers conducted themselves on ‘ ‘ Black
Friday,” and throughout the campaign.
To organise a police force from the ranks
of the unionists who are fighting for their
liberty to-day would be a credit to the whole
universe. The noble, pure, and unblem-
ished characters of our leaders cannot in
any way be criticised by the conservative
hoodlums ; they are a credit to humanity.
These honourable men, led by our noble
leader, Dave Bowman, should and will oc-
cupy the Treasury benches after the next
elections. These men have conducted the
campaign in a most irreproachable manner,
anjl, do not forget, they are proud of the
men and women for whose liberty they are
fighting. One little thing I would like to
place before the conservative canvassers
during this forthcoming election, and that
is this —the moment these people step on to
the verandah soliciting votes for the
enemies of labour, or for the Badger-Den-
ham clique, the women have firmly resolved
to order them off the premises. If they do
not accede to the women’s request, they will
be immediately ejected, not at the point of
the bayonet or baton, but in the true
British style. Women do not forget, and do
not intend to forget, the punishment meted
out to them on “ Black Friday,” and they
are going to give the capitalist crew a dose
of their own physic.
I am, etc.,
W. LEEDING.
Evelyn Street, Newstead.
Badger’s Tramway Co.’s profits are
enormous. If the Government were to
construct motor cars specially built for pas-
senger traffic they would soon realise that
these could be run at a profit, and the
bounce and bluff of Yankee Badger would
disappear. Perth, W.A., has been con-
templating this step, and with such a
strong Labour Government as it posseses
in a short time, in all probabality motor
buses will be competing aginst the Tram-
way Company in Groper City.
Just imagine Japan supplying Queens-
land with coal. The capitalist once more
illustrates what he is prepared to do to
defeat the honest principles of Australia’s
white toilers.
Much has been made by the press of the
starvations and destitution existing as a
result of the present industrial battle. Most
of the rumours are simply fabrications, as
provision has been made for all needy cases.
Those in distress, by making the necessary
application, will have their wants supplied
by those in charge of such matters at the
Trades Hall.
Found. —By a Y.O. man, this morning,
plans of what looks like $ cross between a
locomotive engine, saw-mill, and a show-
man’s travelling van. May be had by giv-
ing description to Strike Committee,
Trades Hall.
