

Official Bulletin, No.8.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 8.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1912.
Employers Desperate.
Using Cowardly Lies.
The “Courier” to-day »ays under the
heading “An Aftermath of the Strike” —
“The following is one of the aftermaths of
the strike which no power, however willing,
can remedy. A well-known and respected
widow of Kangaroo Point, who made a
livelihood by keeping cows, was unable dur-
ing the past few days to obtain feed for
them. Traders were intimidated from sup-
plying her, and she was unable by any
means known to her to obtain a supply.
Unwilling to see the animals suffer, she
parted with them for next to nothing, and
the worry and anxiety resulted in a rup-
tured blood vessel, from which she is ly-
ing dangerously ill. This is glorioys,
liberty-loving Queensland.”
Mr. J. S. Collings informs us, in connec-
tion with the above, that Mr. Alec Elliott,
the son of the lady above mentioned, wait-
ed on him early this morning, requesting
him to publicly deny every word of the
statement appearing in the ‘Courier.”
“My mother,” Mr. Elliott said, “is cer-
tainly lying very ill at the present mo-
ment, and I am quite certain that were she
to know that such a statement had been
made regarding her affairs, it would most
assuredly kill her outright. We had no dif-
ficulty regarding our cows. We have feed
enough to last for weeks, and we certainly
never applied to your committee for any
permit, nor has any difficulty been ex-
perienced as to getting in supplies from
our tradespeople.”
Mr. Elliott is naturally most indignant
that such cruel statements should be cir-
culated without a shadow of foundation or
authority. And we are sure that all self-
respecting citizens will value such tactics
at their true value, and will see in them
only one more evidence of the absolutely
degraded and dishonorable condition into
which Brisbane daily journalism has drift-
ed.
Mr. Alec Skirving, who is very active
in the Strike Circles as Secretary to the
Hairdressers’ Union, and a thoroughly
well-known resident of Kangaroo Point,
confirms Mr. Elliott’s statement, and also
adds that he was personally with the old
lady during Sunday last attending to seve-
ral matters of business for her on account
of her serious illness. The cause that can
be helped by cruel and callous cowardice of
"this nature is, indeed, in sore straits.
Where Strike Coupons can be
Exchanged.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., Red Hill.
Trout, R., Petrie Terrace.
Trout, R., Enoggera.
Trout, R., Paddington.
Lewis, C., Paddington.
Land, W., Toowong.
Land, W., Rosalie.
Preston, Stanley street.
Higgins & Bohl, Valley.
CAFES.
Cafe Exchange, Queen street.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
BAKERIES.
F. Wuersching, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W.'Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valley.
Hanlon, Valley.
J. Enever, Valley.
Simpson, Toowong.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
Another Press Lie Nailed.
The permanent staff employed at the
Howard Smith wharf indignantly deny the
“Courier” and “Telegraph” statements
that the permanent staff are touching the
cargo of the Gabo. It is reported that
THE OFFICE STAFF and two or three
“SPECIAL CONSTABLES” are doing the
work. '(Our brothers the clerks sadly
want a union to put a little manliness into
them.—Ed. B.)
“Suffer Little Children.”
This morning a well known business
man residing in and carrying on business
at Fortitude Valley handed a subscription
of ss. from his children (he had previously
contributed £1 himself). “Give me a re-
ceipt for the ss. in the children’s name,”
he said, “for I want them, when they grow
up, to be able to lookjback and remember
the part they took in this great strike.”
Hurrah for “Young Australia” !
A correspondent writes that yesterday
and to-day he saw the South Brisbane
Council’s water-cart, drawn by two horses,
watering the tram routes along Melbourne
and Stanley streets. He wishes to know
(seeing that Badger has the contract for
the watering of those streets) if the rate-
payers of South Brisbane are to be taxed
for this, or has Badger broken his con-
tract P
Reports from the Ranks.
Everyone Standing Firm.
Splendid Solidarity.
Victory Assured.
The Shop Assistants.
The following resolutions were passed
by the above union at a large meeting held
this morning: “That this meeting of shop
assistants here assembled endorses the re-
solution which was passed at the meeting
held on the 6th February, 1912—‘That this
union stand loyal to their comrades until
this trouble is settled.’ ” A further re-
solution was carried to the following effect,
namely: “That we pledge ourselves not to
enter any hotel during this trouble, and
will use all our influence on all comrades
to do likewise.”
Butchers’ Union.
At a full meeting of the Butchers’
Union held to-day, the following resolution
was carried unanimously: “That this meet-
ing gives an emphatic denial to the state-
ment appearing in the “Daily Mail” and
the “Brisbane Courier” made by H.
Baynes, and gives the president and sec-
retary of this union permission to place
the actual facts before the Master But-
chers’ Association, if asked to do so, and
also endorses the action of the employees
who ceased work this morning.”
The Carters.
At a meeting of the Federated Carters’
Union held this morning, at which 1,100
members were present, the following re-
solution was carried unanimously: “That
this union endorses the action of the Strike
Committee in their efforts to bring this dis-
pute to an early settlement in favour of
all concerned, and pledge _ ourselves to
stand loyal to whatever action the Strike
Committee may take.”
Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and
Joiners.
This meeting has unanimously passed
a vote of confidence in the Combined Strike
Committee, and feels assured that a con-
tinuance of this industrial war must even-
tually end in justice being assured to Trade
Unionism, and we say with that old war-
rior, J. Ruskin: “Workers unite, and
break your chains; you have nothing to
lose, but a world to gain.”
Railway Employees.
At a meeting of the railway employees
at present on strike, the following reso-
lution was passed: ‘ ‘That this meeting en-
dorses in every particular every action of
the General Strike Committee up to the
present time.”
Federated Liquor Trade Employees’ Union
of Australasia (Queensland Branch).
At a meeting held last night, a reso-
lution was carried unanimously endorsing
the actions of the Strike Committee up to
the present, and expressing full confidence
in them.
Clothing Trade.
The following resolution was carried
unanimously: ‘ ‘That this meeting of the
Federated Clothing Trade heartily en-
dorses the action of the Strike Committee,
and pledge ourselves to stand firmly to-
gether until a settlement satisfactory to
Unionism be attained.”
United Furniture Trade Society of Queens-
land.
At a very largely attended meeting of
the United Furniture Trade Society, it was
carried unanimously: ‘ ‘That we endorse all
actions of the Strike Committee to date,
and that this union has full confidence in
that committee.”
Queensland Typographical Association.
At one of the largest meetings yet held
of this union it was unanimously resolved
that its members had still full confidence
in the Strike Committee in its conduct of
the campaign. Notwithstanding state-
ments and rumours to the contrary, every
member of this union is sticking manfully
to his colours.
Citizens in Banger!
Tram Cars and Rails a Menace.
Printers and Boy Labor.
From yesterday’s daily press we glean
the following:
Thomas Mason, thrown from cab, owing
to wheel skidding in tram lines. Ambu-
lance attended to severe injuries to leg.
Robert Taylor, severe injuries to hip
and back, through his cart colliding with
“scab”-driven tram car.
Andrew Ormiston, a 15 years old boy,
injured by machinery at R. S. Hews’ print-
ing works, city.
Harry Coyne’s address to the many
thousands of hearers at the Trades Hall
this morning was sound and logical. He
earnestly appealed to them to refrain from
imbibing.
Leader Coyne’s Daily Budget.
“Harry” addressed his men this morn-
ing in Turbot street as usual, and the
great crowd cheered him to the echo. He
dealt with the cowardly lie appearing in
this day’s “Courier” anent the window at
Kangaroo Point (see article on this page).
Referring to the breach of faith of which
the Government had been guilty in the re-
opening of the hotels, after the distinct
promise given the Strike Committee that
they would be kept closed until the trouble
was ended, “Men,” he said, “this is being
done simply to satisfy the blood-lust which
they have roused in these cowardly
“specials” they are bringing in from the
bush. Don’t be led into the trap, boys.
They are thirsting for a chance to get at
you. Defeat them by resolving not to
enter a ‘pub.’ until the strike is over.”
Mr. Coyne reported “all unions still
solid,” and “financial and moral support
pouring in from all quarters.”
Stage Employees Out to Win.
The Queensland branch of the Austra-
lian Federated State Employees Associa-
tion held a meeting to-day, which was call-
ed at the desire of the Associated Manag-
ers of Amusements of this city, to test the
feeling as to whether work should be re-
sumed or not. Of these 53 voted straight
out to continue the strike until victory was
secured. Several prominent managers and
also the secretary of the Musicians’ Union
were allowed to address the meeting, and
the almost unanimous verdict to “stand by
their mates” is a tribute to the splendid
loyalty of our comrades, the Stage Employ-
ees. We learn later that the Managers
were all desirous of opening on Saturday
night next, but it is not likely they will do
so, for not only are their employees “out,”
but there is no certainty that the indespen-
sible electric light will be forthcoming.
Coal supplies—the all important factor—
are getting low.
Boot Machinists.
All women workers employed as machin-
ists in Brisbane Boot Factories are request-
ed to attend a very important meeting in
the Trades Hall at 10 o’clock on Saturday
morning. Roll up, girls, and hear the good
news.
Timber Workers, Notice!
Mass meeting 9 a.m. to-morrow (Fri-
day) at Temperance Hall. All hands want-
ed on deck.
Finney, Isles & Co.
It has been reported that all Finney’s
staff is working. We have been asked to
state that none of the men who came out
have gone back, and that only about half
of the female staff are at work. Comrades
are anxious that all ranks should know that
ALL Finney’s hands are not traitors.
Badger’s Pets.
The following letter addressed to Mr.
Pat. Glynn, c/o Burton’s Coffee Palace,
Stanley-street, South Brisbane, was picked
up by a “V. 0.” man in the street yester-
day. The writer is a “loyalist” motor-
man. We print it as written, so “pleese
ekscuse spellin.”
“ River-road, River Bank, North Quay,
Friday.
“ Dear Paddy,—Ju6t a few lines to let
you know I am all right. I suppose the out-
side people thinks the are going to do the
divle, but the wont do anything. Mr.
Badger has beatten them in his argument,
and he was up and made A speech to us
all yesarday morning. He said if he takes
back any of the men they have to take
what is left for them, and the men that
are joining now are going to get the best of
it, so I would like if you would come up to-
morrow morning and pass the office by up
to the front gate and enquire for Baker
this is Jack or his brother Pat and join the
cars it will be absolutely the best job in
Queensland all this trouble will be over in
A few days we are as happy as the king
we left the dipo last night at 12 ocock We
are on gard so don’t be frightened to come
up there is plenty to eate there no more
at present hoping to see you in the morn-
ing at 10 oclock.
Philip Glynn.”
A par. appeared in yesterday’s “Bul-
letin” stating that the members of the
Brisbane branch of the Federated Tobacco
Workers of Australia were “coming out.”
We have been informed that the Brisbane
tobacco workers came out at the ge ieral
call-out on the 30th January.
The Builders’ Labourers’ Union will
play any other union a game of cricket
to-morrow (Saturday). Challenge from
P. Whelan, F. Bennett (solid).
The “Courier” this morning says that
shipping is avoiding Brisbane as if it were
a plague-infested port. Perhaps the mas-
ters of the vessels saw the statement in
the lie-carrier that business was being car-
ried on as usual, although all unionists
were forced to strike, and consequently
concluded that Brisbane was literally reek-
ing with industrial leprosy—in other
words, that it was largely inhabited by
scabs.
There are two unions in Brisbane for
solidarity that are a credit to Queensland.
These are the Butchers and Waterside
Workers.
Yesterday’s Public Meetings.
These were larger and, if possible, more
enthusiastic than ever. At the Centennial
Hall Strike Leader Moir presided, and the
speakers were Messrs. John Huxham, Joe
Codings, Boulton, ahd Messrs. J. Hunter
and W. Hamilton, MM.L.A.
At the Valley, Labour members Payne
and May, ex-tramway man Jessop, and
Joe Codings held the fort; while at the
Pineapple Hotel ground in East Brisbane
a fine gathering assembled to hear the
different speakers. At each meeting the
utmost enthusiasm was manifest.
To-night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL, CITY.
PINEAPPLE HOTEL, SOUTH BRIS
BANE.
IVORY-STREET, VALLEY.
Coupons.
Notice to Hotel Keepers and Others.
Coupons are not negotiable for anything
but food, and must not be accepted by
Traders for any other purpose whatever.
J. S. COLLINGS,
R. MCCORMACK,
Coupon Committee.
Queensland Messages.
The president of the Strike Committee
received the following wires to-day:
“Cairns solid. Combined procession,
800 unionists taking part, headed by citi-
zens’ band. Great enthusiasm prevailed.
Press closed down. Forward all informa-
tion press wire to “Trinity Times.” Unions
anxious for latest news. —Brown, President
Strike Committee.”
“Wolfram branch A.W.A. congratulate
you on the stand the men have taken, hop-
ing for big victory. Reply state of affairs.
Miners all out. —Maloney, Acting Secre-
tary.”
Our Ethics.
At the Valley meeting last night, Mr.
Joe Codings, in concluding the proceed-
ings, made a most touching appeal to all
present to realise that the Labour Move-
ment was the greatest moral force of mod-
ern times. He told of many moving inci-
dents which had come before the Strike
Committee during the last few days, en-
larging specially on the splendid action of
the old folks in Dunwich in sending along
£l5, with a promise of more. Many in the
vast audience were moved to tears, and at
the close of his address several voluntary
and substantial offers of help, both moral
and financially, were pressed upon Mr.
Codings.
Medieval Barbarism* Outdone.
Sir, —Tyranny is to-day reigning
supreme :‘n oux’ midst. From every quar-
ter comes news of the outrages committed
on quiet, law-abiding citizens by the petty
tyrants usurping our constitutional rights.
No Government, no king nor his repre-
sentative has any moral or constitutional
right to crush us under an iron heel more
despotic than that exercised in the darkest
days of feudalism. Yet the tyrant Cahill
has usurped this right. He has had
handed to irresponsible, inexperienced
men and boys, coerced into his volunteer
constabulary, firearms. Yesterday a
company of these individuals, com-
posed of civil servants, were sta-
tioned near the Logan road tram depot
with fixed bayonets, when it commenced
to rain heavily. Respectable citizens of
both sexes, many of them in no way con-
nected with our struggle, had taken shel-
ter near by. The lowest animals protect
the female of their species, and never under
any circumstances retaliate on them. But
this company had become so degraded and
incited to hatred and violence by the capi-
talist Press that they so far forgot their
manhood as to move by force men, women,
and children from legitimate shelter, and
then to take their places. I sav are we
men and women to suffer such dishonour,
and not wipe out this dastardly stain ?
Are we going to lie supinely on our backs
and hug “the delusive phantom” of hope
and inaction,” while we are being bound
hand and foot P I will not, for
one, rest till I see Cahill cast
from the position he is so disgracing and
abusing. Let the history of our fore-
fathers, fighting and bleeding for our
liberties, inspire and cheer us on. Let us
fight on and on, my comrades, for there
is only one war worth the while, one fight
worth fighting for, and this fight is
always and for ever—THE FIGHT FOR
LIBERTY.
MARIEN RICKARDS.
February 6.
Cairns “Post” (from whom it was
hardly to be expected) says through its
Brisbane correspondent: “Mr. Badger has
shown a dogged spirit towards unionism,
not yet having realised that unionism is
a power that has come to stay. He is
credited with having tried devious means
of crushing the union which has been
formed by tramway workers throughout
Australia, and his antipathy has engen-
dered a feeling of bitterness towards him
on the part of the union leaders. Unionism
is a fine thing, when it does not degenerate
into tyranny or license. Mr. Badger
should recognise that— perhaps he does.”
Pr’aps not.
Putting on the Screw.
We have been informed that a type#
written circular has been sent round,
notifying certain restaurant-keepers that
9d. per meal is tp be the charge from Mon-
day next, the 12th instant. We have been
further informed that at those restaurants
where union labour is employed the charge
will remain at 6d. Working men, note!
Must be at Mischief.
(The Editor, ‘Bulletin.”)
Sir, —May I draw your attention to the
following matter, which in anticipation of
the “official” importance which will attach
to it, is doubtless of interest to our cause.
The persons whose signatures are ap-
pended, while on their journey home to-
night, came across a body of our irregular
forces wearing bed-ticking bandages on
their arms, and doubtless armed with re-
volvers and a length of iron barrel as a
baton. They were behaving in a childishly
disorderly manner, and were devoting
themselves between jokes to the very use-
ful occupation of placing fragments of rock
about the tram lines. These are obviously
for “discovery” to-morrow morning, and
our venomous Press will find opportunity
for further calumnies of those having
more manhood than themselves—the
peaceful holiday-makers.
Such occurrences as this would have ap-
peared incredible eight days ago, but un-
fortunately the zeal of Cahill’s brigade is
now a matter of common knowledge to all
but literary cadets, and this incident
causes disgust alone. I trust this may en-
able you to circumvent this Cahillism, and
enlighten the public as to the means by
which “law and order” is “restored” by
Brisbane’s Czar.—Yours faithfully,
J. GOZZARD, Bricklayers’ Union.
A. GILL, Annie street, Torwood.
We sign as actual eye-witnesses of the
occurrence mentioned above, which hap-
pened between Irving street and Croydon
street, on the Toowong tram route, at
about 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday.
February 7.
Denham, Cahill, and Co.’s Deputies.
(To the Editor, “Bulletin.”)
Sir, —During the last few days the con-
duct of many of our social constables
(who I, for one, thought little of) has been,
to say the least, most degrading. One can-
not walk the highways or byways without
coming across many —yes, by far too many
—of these specials under the influence of
drink; many with their batons drawn ,and
for what purpose God only knows. Only
last night, between 7 and 7.30, Special
Constable Mr. —-—, commission agent,
passed our house in the presence of women
and children, helplessly intoxicated, not
with duty, but with strong drink, so much
so that he had forgotten even to remove
that bit of rag that denotes he is a ‘ ‘special
butcher.” Such exhibitions as this does
not, in my opinion, tend to improve the
morals of our little ones, and the sooner
this sort of thing is put a stop to, the bet-
ter for all concerned.
Now, Mr. Editor, who, may I ask, is re-
sponsible for such an over-ripe state of af-
fairs—who, in the name of law and order,
is going to allow this sort of thing to con-
tinue? The special under notice is a man
who, in the ordinary way, is a very danger-
ous man when in drink, and now that he
is armed by Messrs. Denham, Cahill and
Co., what may we expect, if at any mo-
ment he may take it in his head to run
amuck, as he has done before. Are we
to take the law into our own hands? You
answer “No!” But may I ask how much
longer is this sort of thing to continue, and
also, who is supplying this drink ? For the
benefit of Cahill I may tell him that be-
sides the liquor that he is supplying (or
should I say the Government?), drink is
being supplied to these miserable things in
men’s clothing by many of our leading
hotels. Now, what of P.M. Rankin’s or-
der? Will his order live as a huge joke, or
will he bring pressure to bear and see that
his proclamation is carried out in its en-
tirety, and thus save any more of thesa
shocking exhibitions of drunkenness by so-
called special constables ?—Yours, &c.,
A V.O.
P.S. —Since penning the above, I hear
that the hotels are to be allowed to open to-
day (Thursday) at certain hours. In all
probability this has been done to allow
others than specials to get drink. This
accomplished, the specials would not be so
noticeable, and the outrageous conduct of
the past might be allowed to wane in the
minds 'of a sober public. However, let us
hope not. —V.O.
(With reference to the above matter,
we may state that many cases of “specials”
being allowed the free use of hotels, while
they were supposed to be closed by magis-
terial order have been reported to us —in-
stances of several of these precious pets be-
ing unable to walk straight in consequence
being vouched for. We have the names of
some of the hotels so offending, and shall
pass them on to the L.V.A. if required, be-
sides keeping a list for trade unionists and
their sympathisers.—Ed. 5.8.)
Several important letters are held over
till to-morrow.—Ed. S.B.
J. H .OOYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Sorefacr*
Strike Committee.
