

Official Bulletin, No. 24.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 24.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1912.
Strike Justified.
Verdict of the Court.
Tramway Men Victorious.
The verdict of the Arbitration Couri
on the question of the Tramway Union
badge, and the right of the men to wear
it, and to recognition of their union,, was
delivered to-day. The result as wired
to the Strike Committee is as follows:
“Verdict badges to be worn. Injunc-
tion granted against Badger restraining
men from wearing badges. Main case Mon-
day, when question of jurisdiction and re-
instatement will be considered.”
The news was received with wild de-
light by the crowd outside the Trades Hall,
when Strike Leader Harry Coyne read the
•wire shortly after mid-day to-day.
Naturally the Strike Committee are
elated, as this verdict is a complete justifi-
(ation of all they have done, and carries
with it the only reward they and the brave
men and women of Brisbane who for fully a
month have so loyally stood by their vic-
timised comrades—the Tramway Union
desired.
The further hearing of the plaint will
be taken next week.
Mount Morgan Strike.
Victory for Men.
A wire received by the Strike Commit-
M- ount Morgan this morning says:
Mount Morgan strike declared off. Man-
agei Richards gave Theodore assurance
that no vindictive action would be taken by
the company.”
THE STRIKE LEADERS.
An Appreciation.
(By One Who Knows.)
From the filthy froth oozing out of the
gutter Press one would imagine that Harry
Coyne is some modern Machiavelli, and Joe
Collmgs a Mephistopheles who have insinu-
ated their blighting figures into the ranks
of Labour, and that they are now simply
exploiting their fellows and deliberately
driving them towards starvation and
m - S ? ry j nonsensical drivel doesn’t,
mislead unionists for a moment. They
know the mercenary motives of the capi-
talist and his Press organs of corruption
and they know that Harry Coyne is sacri-
ficing himself for the solidarity of the great
impending Co-operative Commonwealth.
Ihe bosses are getting their profits.
Harry Coyne isn’t getting a gold watch or
a commonplace medallion for his work.
Neither does he want them.
This scribe says, when all is over and
when the last word has been spoken, that
Harry Coyne’s name will be purer and
cleaner than any strike leader’s, from the
Israelite Joseph of the many-coloured coat
Willett of the bowyangs, and the
English Tom Mann to the Australian Peter
Bowling.
t .Mhen the strike is won or lost—and
Labouif can win and Labour can lose, and j
either won t interfere with Democracy’s
ultimate victory—when posterity
adds up the sum total, and the analytical
brain of the man who comes after scru-
tinises the facts, Harry Coyne’s name will I
come out unbesmirched; and with him will
be Joseph Silver Codings. Coyne, like
Lochmvar, came out of the West, and we
in the city are proud of him. Codings is
one of our own, and we are proud of him
too.
APPRECIATION.
The following appreciative letter was
received by the Chairman of the Strike
Committee yesterday: —
Grand Lodge of Queensland.
International Order of Good Templars.
Mr - Harry Coyne, M.L.A., President,
Strike Committee.
Dear Sir, At the monthly meeting of
the executive of this Order, held on Sat-
urday evening, I was directed to express
the high appreciation of the members, of
the action of your Committee in the
direction of closing the hotels and wine-/
shops during the continuance of the
strike.
We feel sure that even this short
period of prohibition considerably mini-
mised possible suffering, and hope that it
afforded to many a practical demonstra-
tion or the fact that the traffic in liquor
must be numbered among the factors which
prevent the attainment by the masses of
their full share of comforts and happiness.
I am, Sir,
Yours Sincerely,
A. N. WILSON
Temperance Hall, Brisbane, Secretar ''
February 26, 1912.
Scene in Albert Street: Two kiddies
lighting. Benevolent old gentleman re-
monstrates with them.
: My dear little boys, what are
you fighting about?
First Kid : Please, boss, he started it.
Sec / P n , d .,Kid: Well, what did you call
me a Cahill’s “special” for?
Latest Developments.
Important developments in connection
with the General Strike are maturing in
several directions, but at present no an-
can be made. As soon, how-
ever, as definite conclusions are reached
every publicity will be given to the facts.
c , lae t? elln £ amongst members of the
strike Committee is that the worst of their
share of the struggle is passed, while it is
equally certain that the Employers’ Fed-
eration is only just now getting face to face
with the really serious position as far as
they are concerned. Undoubtedly they are
! being deceived as to the resources the com-
mittee, both in men and money, have at
their disposal.
The fact is the struggle has now reached
a stage where the suspension of Acts of
1 arliament, Royal proclamations, acts of
police brutality, and prevention of public
meetings and processions will be useless.
I he embargo on the port which the Strike
Committee can hold now better than ever
is the key to the position. This the Com-
mittee will not relinquish, and employers,
merchants, and ship owners alike are all
poweiless while this lasts. Even their
peurile army of clerks, scabs, and other
scum cannot avail them. They know, as
does the Strike Committee, that their pre-
sent free ” labour is costly, slow, ineffi-
cient, and highly dangerous.
To-morrow Night’s Meetings.
! CENTENNIAL HALL, City.
IVORY ST., Valley.
KELVIN GROVE (top of long hill)
STONE’S CORNER, Woolloongabba.
CLARENCE CORNER, South Brisbane.
ROSALIE, tram terminus.
BULIMBA, near School of Arts.
PREFERENCE TO UNIONISTS.
Away with the Mockery!
i "^?f eien 9? Unionists is part and par-
th! P® llc .y, of the Labour government.
I, l he j. Courier early m the week, in ex-
tending tne annual glad hand of commen-
dation to the Q.N. Bank, complimented
that institution. on having collared the
Queensland section of the Commonwealth
, n S an d note distributing business—
an r P rofitable items. In addition,
he Q.JN , for a substantial commission,
banks all Commonwealth revenues in
Queensland and handles all sugar bonus
moneys, amounting to hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds.
. Jl ' st at present the staff of the Bank
is outscabbmg scabbery by galloping down
to the wharves and pushing a truck the
moment the clock releases them from their
high-stool peonage. Don’t you think that
Preference to Unionists, just at the present
juncture, when unionism is being crucified
should be more than a mere empty declara-
tion ? It is up to the Commonwealth
Labour Ministry.
OUR CORRESPONDENTS.
We again claim tlie indulgence and con-
sideration of correspondents whose letters
we have have been unable to publish or had
to curtail. Our sheet is, unfortunately, a
very small one, and if we were to undertake
to refute half the palpable lies of the Capi-
talistic jackals we wouldn’t have space left
for even an imprint. however
we would like to tell “A
Unionist’s W 7 ife” that . there is
every promise of her soon being afforded an
opportunity to give her version of political
and industrial matters. A meeting of dele-
gates from all the unions is to be held next
{Sunday afternoon to consider the question
of starting a Labour daily paper immedi-
ately, and when that most important ad-
vance has been made, the cause of the
workers, both politically and industrially
will not be sunk so completely beneath the
interests of grasping capital as is now the
case. In the meantime we would advise
this correspondent to treat the daily papers
as she says she treats the trams —leave them
severely alone. If it were not for the cop-
pers of the workers not one of these papers
could exist for three months. They are
not philanthropic institutions—in fact the3 T
are, every one of them, included iii that
category of corporations that have neither
a body to be kicked nor a soul to be
damned; they do a lot of kicking and slan-
dering with the workers as victims, and the
capitalists and their subservient Govern-
ment as instigators.
WYNNUM LABOURITES.
• IH Wynnum W.P.0., one of the best
in the Labour movement, is holding a meet-
mg m the open air at Wynnum on next
Saturday night. The speakers will be Mr.
\Y. Hamilton, M.L.A., Mr. Jack Moir
(Secretary A.W.A.), and Mr. J. Jessop of
ttie tramway union. We wish our Labour
comrades at the seaside the best of good
luck.
Referring to some men connected with
the strike, the foggy “Daily Mail” said
yesterday that they could be counted on
the fingers of the hand of an infant of
tender years. 7 Now, how many fingers
should an infant of “ tender years ” have
or when does it get the full complement ?
Hus sight-strainer, with the ammoniated
appearance, should try hair, teeth, or
bunions next time.
The Latest from the Ranks.
FEDERATED SEAMEN.
The Federated Seamen, at their big meet-
ing last night, carried a resolution: “That
this Union stand by the Strike Committee,
and remain solid until they issue instruc-
tions for us to return to work.” The meet-
ing closed with hearty cheers for the Strike
Committee, and a further three for the
secretary, Mr. P. Henderson. ‘
WATERSIDE WORKERS.
A mass meeting of this Union was
held in their hall this morning. Com-
rades Brock, Thompson, M'Cabe, and
Dave Gledson addressed the members. The
following resolution was carried unani-
mously : —“That the members of the above
Union congratulate the Bundamba miners
on the splendid stand they have taken in
this trouble.”
Mr. D. Gledson said he would forward
the resolution along, and thanked the
members, and left amidst three ringing
cheers.
The next resolution was:—“That
mem be is of the above TJnion have every
confidence in the Strike Committee up
to date,” which was carried with three
ringing cheers. The meeting then closed.
Federated Carters’ Union.
Mass meeting of the above members will
be heid at Trades Hall TO-MORROW
(YVednesday), at 8 p.m. Business import-
ant. All members are requested to attend.
G. LAWSON, Secretary.
LANDLORDISM.
Might we suggest to some landlords
who are not, we are certain, desirous of
being classed with those who are bitter
partisans in this struggle, that a little of
the milk of human kindness just now would
not be out of place. Numerous cases have
come before this paper, where men and
their families, whose rent has been paid
regularly up to within the last few weeks,
are being cruelly treated simply because
they are Unionists on strike. One case
to-day was reported, where a man who
knows w hat the struggle for existence
means who has been a factory employer
m a big way in the Valley, but has been
squeezed out and now occupies a man-
agerial position only in the same concern —
IS . his rent, which he knows
will be paid as soon as the strike is over,
and is going out of his way to lecture the
tenant s wife. He babbled about unionists
ihke pigs, devoid of sense, stopping
children's food, and talked about the
otrike Committee’s coupons being refused
redemption unless those holding them con-
tributed a portion of their value to the
n n Ti e 11 It . is vei T questionable
whether this talk is not actionable.. Any-
way, it’s distinctly untruthful and un-
manly. Why bully a woman P The husband
can easily be seen, but he might possibly
resent the homilies upon his unionism.
Trade.
All things are sold. The very light of
heaven
Is venal: earth’s unsparing gifts of love,
riiL smallest and most despicable things
{hat lurk in the abysses of the deep-
er j ob i! ects of our life, even life itself,
And the poor pittance which the law allows
°i liberty—the fellowshilp of man,
those duties which his heart of human love
Should urge him to perform instinctively—
Are bought and sold as in a public mart
Of undisguising selfishness, that sets
On each its price, the stamp-mark of her
reign.
—Shelley.
People who are compelled to make use of
the trams should look carefully at the
amount they tender for fares and the
change they receive. Several complaints
have been made since the present trouble
b®§an of patrons of the trams not receiv-
es pioper change. On Saturday afternoon
last a party of 12 young men took a Logan
Road tram to reach a cricket ground. One
of the party gave the conductor 2s. 6d
from which to take four fares. As the
change was short the young man reminded
tiie conductor of the amount he gave him •
but the latter insisted it was a two shilling
piece he got. The cricketer had only the
one coin m his possession, and he and his
mates were certain of its value. Never-
theless, the conductor maintained it was
iT S * S°t, and refused to increase
the change. One peculiar circumstance is
that a third party, who the young men
surmise was a special pimp, and who could
not possibly have seen what coin was
offered, leaned over from another seat and
tola the conductor that he was quite right—
it was only 2s. he had received. So some of
the specials are doing other dirty work be-
sides scabbing and knocking women and
children about.
* * *
Sportsmen generally are white men.
©peaking to a well-known trainer, and
wishing to know if he knew where em-
ployment was to be found as groom, stud
master, or the like in the country, elicited
the following reply : “ Why don’t you make
application to the manager of Badger’s
tramway company. He is looking for men
You don t want to listen to those fools who
are out on strike.” Safe to say this con-
temptible trainer does not pay his fore-
man—in a prominent stable—more than
10s. a week. Stable boys, it is time you
also asserted yourselves.
Special Notice.
GREAT STRIKE MASS MEETING.
WOOLLOONCABBA CRICKET
GROUND.
On Friday next, at 8 p.m., a great mass
meeting will be held in,the Brisbane Cricket
Ground, Woolloongabba. Further \ an-
nouncements as to programme will adpear
m to-morrow’s “Bulletin.” It is.expected
that the roll up of unionists and their
iriends will constitute the largest gathering
of its kind ever held in Brisbane.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Centennial Hall.
This meeting last night was, as usual,
most enthusiastic. Mr. J. Moir presided
and the various speakers acquitted them-
selves well.
Ivory-street, Valley.
At the Valley meeting a very large
I assembled, and the speakers were
Messrs. Finlayson, M.P., Myles Ferrieks,
M.D.A., and Joe Codings. All were in good
auc^ence waited till fully
half-past 10, and even then were loth to go.
Clarence Corner.
i and enthusiastic meeting was
xx t> above place last evening. Mr.
LL. Bezant presided, and the following
| speakers addressed the meeting: Mrs
Finney (organiser Shop Assistants’ Union)*
Mr. J Barnes (president of the Butchers’
Union), and Messrs. E. M. Hanlon and Joe
Sherry (members of the General Strike
Committee). Each speaker was well re-
ceived and loudlv applauded at the conclu-
sion of their speeches.
X 1 T^ e meeting terminated with cheers for
the Chairman, the Strike Committee, and
the Labour Movement.
Bullmba Meeting.
An open-air meeting in connection with
the Strike will be held to-morrow (Wednes-
day) night, near the School of Arts. The
speakers will be Messrs. Gwynne, McMinn,
and Joe Codings. A big roll-up is ex-
pected.
CRICKET.
COALIES v. IRONWORKERS.
This match w r as played at the Pineapple
Ground yesterday. The Coalies won by 92
runs. Scores were: Coalies 216: Iron-
workers, 124.
LABOUR AT PLAY
The Waterside Workers challenge two
teams of Coal Lumpers, light and heavy
weights, in a tug-of-w 7 ar to-morrow r after-
noon under the Fig Tree at the Kangaroo
I oint Hotel. Prize of 30/, given bv Mr. i
Grant. Hoping for a good roll up.
HYPOCRISY.
To the Editor, “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, The other day two women were
travelling in the Manly train to town, and
from their conversation evidently were
I ec^ors i* l Bishop Barnes’s electorate,
they both thought it dreadful for those
wicked strikers to strike because of such a
simple thing as wanting to wear a badge;
they did not care for anyone but them-
selves, they said, and then they call that
Vx 1 x> l3n ro^er hood. They also said that I
[ Mr. Barnes had done every possible thing
[to bring about a settlement, but the
strikers had done nothing but scandalise
him and call him bad names.
Now, I would like to know wdiat either
Barnes or Denham have done tow r ards
bringing this strike to a close, and what
their idea of Christian brotherhood is. If
we must judge by their actions, it must be
the lowering and degrading of their
brothers by making them work longer
hours, thus reducing their wages. From
a so-called professing Christian like “the
Bishop,” we naturally expect better things.
I quite agree with Mr. J. Collings’s
idea of a Labour Church, for in my opinion
he is the more sincere man; he does prac-
tice what he preaches (the betterment of I
his fellow-man), although he is called a
heathen. I think in the matter of a church j
we could beat the other Churches for at- j
tendance, and if we are heathen, we would j
stand a better chance of heaven than some
of the canting hypocrites who call them-
selves Christians. I
. Yours, etc.,
ELLEN HEWETT.
We are informed that an non-union car-
I ter of a non-union baker has been very
busy spreading reports that Mr. Enever
of Leichhardt Street increased the price of
his bread while the strike was in its more
acute stage. Mr. Enever is one of the best
friends the working people had at that
critical time, and as a matter of fact re-
duced his price in certain instances. He
is now reaping his reward by a large ac-
cession of customers, and as many of these
j dealt previously with the baker referred to, I
the latter is taking example from the press
liars and casting slanders promiscuously
about.
A Civil Servant’s Protest.
The Editor Strike Bulletin.
Were not the present Government
so obsequious and acquiescent when smiled
upon by all-powerful Capital, and were not
tnose liberal donations of equivocal opinions
and letters emanating from our most in-
nuential daily journal so effective in their
object to deceive the more credulous sec-
tion of the community, I would not protest.
.but when a newspaper that is continu-
ally expounding the great principles of
Law and Order,” “British fair play,”
and all the rest of it, gives publication to
a letter advocating the persecution and
elimination of all civil servants who refused
to co-operate in the creation of disorder
and declined with thanks a license to fall
upon innocent citizens with the most hos-
tile and violent intentions, must I remain
silent r In the department of the service
m which I am employed (and I know that
ranclles were similarly situ-
ated), the cream remained at its post. It
generally recognised that the country’s
civil affairs were of too serious a nature to
be suspended for awe-inspiring military dis-
plays and holiday-making. Not only that:
the men that remained faithful civil ser-
vants are not inebriates, and look upon
three weeks annual recreation leave with
satisfaction and contentment.
Does the law require a civil servant’s
political opinions to be coincidental with
P art y power, and, if so,
should men be marked and have their sala-
nes tampered with, notwithstanding their
ability, for resenting such outrageous coer-
cion r
Of course I may have an incorrect con-
ception of “bull-dog fair play and law and
order. Allowing this, you do not know
how grateful I would be and what a great
debt of gratitude Iwould consider myself
as owing to the Brisbane Newspaper Com-
pany if it would give us some idea of its
own weird and obscure interpretation. I
take it that the letter written by “Subur-
banite (the individual whose principles
?£ e d . lscas sion) a r© the sentiments of
i?- u ? ouri6r > tor when a newspaper,
which is so careful in the suppression of
all correspondence that is likely to harass
its own divine (?) arguments, gives publi-
cation to a letter, is there not only one
natural and logical conclusion to be drawn,
viz. : that its correspondent’s opinions are
its own opinions?
However, if what “Suburbanite” advo-
cates is fair play, I want none of it, and
ir l thought for a moment a man had to
become a special constable to obtain recog-
nition by the Government I would imme-
diately tender my resignation, for one has
only to allow his mind’s eye to carry him
back to a certain Friday morning, and in
rumination he will perceive how degraded
some men are, he will unconsciously com-
mence to analyse human nature, and will
almost immediately realise with a singular
pungency what a noble animal is the dog!
Yours, etc.,
Brisbane, Feb. 34, IND ®™™CE.
SIR WILLIAM MACGREGOR AT
ALLORA.
•i? ir, rr Isn,t 1 the P ro P a ga n da speech of the
mild oid g entleman with the alphabetica
tan to his name, who represents Kina
George m this State, worthy of some
notice r lhe above-mentioned speech was
w ere i railway station lasl
Wednesday. The “ prominent persons ” oi
that place presented him with a couple oi
addresses and some amount of impromptu
oratory. In reply, the show-opening person
dwelt with pathetic persistence on the
gallant manner in which the cockies of
Allora and other farming districts had dis-
played their desire to see “ law and order ”
maintained. He gave the gaping gum-
leaves the original information that they
were the vertebrae of this country. He was
pleased at the way the Scotchman . had
joined hands, or swapped batons or some-
thing, with the Englishman and the Irish-
man, so that “ law and order ” wouldn’t be
fractured. He metaphorically wept with
joy at the readiness of the country resi-
dent to smite his city cousin with the large
and heavy baton of injustice.
Now isn’t it enough that this State
should have to furnish finances for the
upkeep of these formal figureheads, with-
out having to listen to them boosting the
conduct of the callous hirelings who have
invested the word “special” with a halo
of horror! That it was a propaganda speech
there can be no doubt. With an election
think that the Governor has no
right to enthuse over these special hire-
lings enrolled for the purpose of assaulting
peaceful people. Nor has he the right to
take advantage of a purposeless presenta-
tmn to try and justify the actions of a
cabbage-hearted Government.
Somebody ought to somehow impress
these facts upon this signature-subscribing
and show-opening relic of a tradition-laden
system of government. With the loud
shriek of scorn somebody ought to inform
this Caledonian importation that if he dares
to take sides on any industrial or political
question it is high time he scurried Scot-
landwards. Personally, I object, and object
strenuously.
I am, etc.,
C. S. DICKSON.
A\ e are told daily that employers have
plenty of labourers now. What work were
these people at when the honest workmen
were busy? Did anyone yet ever know a
scab who was a good workman?
