

Official Bulletin, No. 14.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 14.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1912.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Centennial Hall.
Crowded to excess. Mr. Nevitt,
M.L.A., presided, and made a fine rousing
speech. Mr. Joe Collings followed in per-
haps one of the best addresses he has de-
livered during the struggle. Mr. Hard-
acre, M.L.A., and our old fighting friend
“Dick” Sumner followed, and kept the
audience in full sympathy throughout.
Ivory St., Valley.
In spite of frequent showers of rain,
thousands of people attended and listened
to the various speakers. Mr. Geo. Thomp-
son presided. Mr. T. J. Ryan, M.L.A.,
delivered a fine address, which was highly
appreciated. He was followed by Mrs.
Miller, Mr. M. J. Kirwan, and Mr. Joe
Collings. These Valley meetings seem to
grow larger and more enthusiastic as the
time on.
Society’s “Safeguards.”
We continue to receive detailed ac-
counts, duly signed by reputable citizens
and witnessed by others equally respected,
of the most brutal and cowardly unpro-
voked assaults committed upon positively
unoffending persons in the streets by
Cahill’s callous cowboys.
A complaint to hand to-day from Mr.
H. G. Clark, of Woolloongabba, refers in
detail to a case of a man assaulted by a
mounted special without the least provoca-
tion. Several who witnessed it, including
a Justice of the Peace, insisted on getting
the offender’s name, but without success.
A well-known contractor of Morningside
.was in charge of the squad, but refused
the man’s name, and was most insulting
to those who asked for it, saying, ‘ ‘ I have
the law with me, and if you don’t all shift
111 soon shift you.” He Ordered his squad
to charge, and batons were freely used.
Is this justice, or are we living under Rus-
sian Czardom ? Police Magistrate Moore
says the police won’t interfere unless we
break the law. If he got about the streets
a bit these days he would soon discover
that the police are the only law-breakers.
Another instance. About 5.30 o’clock
on Tuesday afternoon a mounted special
distinguished himself in the way that has
become so. familiar to us since Commis-
sioner Cahill clasped these undesirables to
his palpitating bosom. A disturbance took
place in a hotel adjacent to the Roma-
street Railway Station, and while a man
was being ejected from it a woman who
was passing got struck in the face. She
looked around for a policeman to give a
man in charge, and just then a mounted
special, who had been drinking in the
hotel, and who had fastened his horse to a
post outside, came up and threatened to
take the woman in charge. A uniformed
policeman then came along, and told the
special to clear the crowd that had as-
sembled. Nothing loth, the latter mounted
his horse, and started galloping on the
footpath from Mackerston-street to Her-
schell-street, at the same time swinging
his baton furiously, and striking at any-
one within reach. Two men were very
seriously injured. One was able to go
away after being attended to by the Ambu-
lance Brigade, but the other," a one-time
well-known footballer, was laid out for 20
minutes, and was then attended to by Dr.
Dods, who put several stitches in a large
scalp wound. A mounted trooper arrived
after the damage had been inflicted, and
took the special into custody—at all events,
led his horse by the reins to headquarters.
This prime specimen of a protector, pro-
vided for us by a truly law-and-order Gov-
ernment, was plainly under the influence
of drink, and, it is stated, although mar-
ried, has been living apart from his wife
for some time.
ANCIENT HISTORY.
“ Joe ” Codings scored heavily last
night when he referred, both at the Cen-
tennial Hall and Valley meetings, to the
gutter Press comments anent the 1895 Boot
Strike. He denied nothing nor excused
nothing, but faced it like the brave leader
he has proved himself to' be during the 17
years that have intervened and during this
present industrial struggle. He was
cheered again and again when he told holv
the Boot Operatives’ Union only last week
invited him, by special resolution, to ad-
dress them, and also when he expressed his
willingness to receive the judgment of the
workers who knew him and his work rather
than that of the hireling of the Capitalist
Press, who feared and hated him.
“ It is only a personal question after
all,” he said, “ and I apologise to this audi-
ence for detaining you while I deal with it,
but I would not care to have you feel that
there is any criticism I am afraid to face
anywhere and at any time. My enemies
know that, and I want you to know it.”
A Voice from the Dead Past.
Would anyone dare to say that after
having established the laws of property,
justice, and liberty, there was nothing
to be done for the most numerous clas? of
citizens ? “ What do your laws of pro-
perty,” they might say, “concern us? We
own nothing. Your laws of justice? We
have nothing to defend. Your laws of
liberty ? If we do not labour to-morrow we
shall die.” —Necker.
V.O. stands for Valiant Orderlies.
Law and Order.
A line to suggest the advisability of
initiating a civil suit against Cahill
for his unprovoked and brutal attack
on the citizens on Baton Friday. I
understand that the law is clear on the
following: —
(1) The police can only use a baton in
self defence, or while arresting persons
liable to life imprisonment.
(2) It can be assumed that no one per-
son in the crowd was liable to that penalty,
(a) Because the Riot Act had not been
read; (b) because no prohibitory proclama-
tion had been issued by the Governor-in-
Council. Had either line of action been
followed, the murderous tactics would have
been legal.
It is not generally known that one hour
must elapse after the reading of the Riot
Act before an assembly can be dispersed,
unless an assault is made on the police
during the interim. I am sure counsel
would advise that a prosecution in a civil
court could be maintained notwithstanding
that Minister Denham grandiloquently
stated that he had commissioned the notor-
ious “ major ” to preserve peace. Even tin-
pot Premiers can’t give a free hand to
contravene the law.
KOOKABURRA.
The Fighting A.W.A.
A meeting of the A.W.A. took place
yesterday, and it was the most enthusiastic
and largest attended held since the begin-
ning of the strike.
The following resolutions were carried
unanimously: “That this meeting of
A.W.A. members endorses the action of
the union secretaries in protesting against
the use of Commonwealth arms and
accoutrements by some of the special con-
stables.
A motion drawing the attention of all
unionist to the position of affairs at the
Theatre Royal, where non-unionist artists
and stage employees are working, was en-
thusiastically received and adopted.
COMRADE “JOE” COLLINCS AND
THE BOOT OPERATIVES.
Following on the characteristically
brave and vigorous remarks of Joe Colling*s
at the Centennial Hall meeting (and later
at the Valley) last night, when he referred
to the action of the Press regarding his
connection with the Boot Trade dispute of
17 years ago, the action of the Boot Trade
Union at their meeting this morning is of
special interest.
A resolution was moved and carried
unanimously, to the effect that 4 ‘ members
feel no animosity regarding Mr. Joe
Codings’ actions of 17 years ago, but that
we fully recognise and appreciate the splen-
did work he is doing to-day for the Cause
of Unionism.” One member said he agreed
with the motion, but considered it quite
unnecessary. They all knew what they
thought of Mr. Codings, and why should
they take any notice of the ‘ ‘ Courier ’ ’ ?
Seen since by Boot Trade Secretary
Fred Harris, Mr. J. S. Codings expressed
his great pleasure at the action his com-
rades had taken. “It is not what I did
in 1895 that is troubling the cowardly
‘Courier,’” he remarked, “but what I
am doing in 1912.”
THE OPEN PUB.
Important Notice.
If you must drink at all, go only to
those hotels where the bar attendants can
show their union badge. You will help the
union in this way, and help the union em-
ployees as against the other kind.
HOW’S THIS FOR “STRONG”?
The following notice is posted up at the
loco, sheds, Roma St. :
1 1 A meeting of the association was held
last night, 18 “ scabs” and 3 men being
present. The “scabs” decided to shunt
Badger’s coal.”
(Signed) “ UNIONIST.”
THE LITTLE “BRIEF AUTHORITY.”
Policeman Cahill and Others.
No mortal cares twopence for any king
except through compulsion, and society is
not a ship of war. Its Government cannot
always be a pressgang. The “ divine
right ” of squires is equal to the divine
right of Kings, and not superior. A word
has made, and a word can unmake them.—
Carlyle.
WORDS OF WISDOM.
Iniquity alone has created private
property.—St. Clement.
Nature created community; private
property is the offspring of usurpation.—
St. Ambrose.
The rich are robbers. Better all things
were in common.—St. Chrysostom.
Opulence is always the product of theft
committed, if not by the actual possessor,
then by his ancestors. —St. Jerome.
DEAL ONLY IN UNION SHOPS.
Why support the other fellow? It is
quite simple. Your money spent with the
enemy makes him strong to fight you in
times of trouble. Your money spent -with
your friends would help them to help you.
Isn’t it easy? Pass by the stores run by
scab labour or owned by persons not in
sympathy with the workers, from whom
they make their living.
A Parable and a Moral.
A parable: In Sydney or Melbourne,
once upon a time, a religious body deter-
mined upon stopping a lecturer from cast-
ing ridicule on their clerical institution.
Another sectarian organisation proposed to
hold a procession to intimidate the intimi-
dators. To stop the procession the leaders
of No. 1 sect advised their flock to come
into the city on the day of the “ procesh ”
prepared to play hurley. For the game of
hurley a short, stout, hooked stick is neces-
sary. Thousands came in so accoutred.
There was no “procesh,” the lecturer
didn’t “ revelate,” and, strange to say,
there was no hurley. Had the proces-
sionists also come in equipped for a game
of hurley there would have been still no
hurley, but there would have been a
“procesh.”
Just at present the good unionists of the
city are handicapped by a tramway service
which is so unspeakably Yankee-controlled
that they won’t use it. A 2ft. 6in. impro-
vised walking stick, which can be cut from
any old peach or gum, would assist them
amazingly in the walk into town. It would
also serve peaceable citizens to lean on
while watching Durbars like that on Tues-
day last in Albert Square.
When the game is Hurley, play Hurley,
when you are watching Cahill’s Durbars,
watch them in comfort!
AUSTRAL.
PERMANENT ARTILLERY-MAN DIS-
TINGUISHES HIMSELF.
Will the Commandant Enquire?
On Monday last a salute was being fired
by some of the guns of the permanent artil-
lery in honour of the German warship. A
very youthful officer, evidently intoxicated
with his little bit of brief authority, not
only bullied the few people standing quietly
around, but was guilty of most obscene
language as well. Can nothing be done to
teach these boors that they are servants of
the public, and not its masters ? The langu-
age complained of was used in the hearing
of women and children, and this paper has
a signed statement regarding the occur-
rence from two reputable citizens. Are
you listening, Mr. Labour Minister for
Defence Pearce ?
THERE IS GROWTH OF REVOLUTION.
Mother Earth herself is shaken by our
sorrows and our crimes,
And she bids her sons awaken to the por-
tent of the times;
w ith her travail pains upon her, she is
hurling from their place
All the minions of dishonour, to admit the
Coming Race.
There is growth of Revolution, if the word
is understood.
It is one with Evolution, up from self to
Brotherhood;
He who utters it unheeding, bent on self
or selfish gain,
His own day of doom is speeding, though
to toil or thought he reign.
ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.
A TYRANNICAL LANDLORD.
Over in South Brisbane resides a grocer
in a humble way, who is also a property
owner. His customers are all of the work-
ing class, so are his tenants. Yet he is so
foolish, or callous, or perhaps both, as to
be victimising tenants on account of the
strike. One case has been brought to the
notice of the Strike Committeee. A lady
who has been a widow for 15 years pays
him 17s a week rent for a house in which
she keeps boarders. As these are all toilers
out on strike she is naturally not too flush
of cash. And although her rent was fully
paid up on the 12th inst, she has received
a notice from this heartless grocer to the
effect that if is not in future paid
weekly it will be raised to £1 per week.
When the strike is settled matters like
this will be followed up, and greedy, spite-
ful landlords will find that the workers can
use the boycott to some effect. Tenants
and trade may flit together. “Every dog
has his day’ ’ is worth keeping in mind
these stirring times.
A VOICE FROM THE FRENCH
REVOLUTION.
I know but three ways of living in
society—-you must either be a beggar, a
robber, or a stipendiary (i.e. a wage
worker). —Mir a beau.
DON’T FORGET.
Unionists should not forget the actions
of Mr. E. Kanaan, Wilston-West End
motor bus proprietor, during the present
trouble. Fares were not raised, f and
though being unable to carry &\1 passengers
at times, he has generously informed Hie
workers not to walk if they have not the
“ modest copper,” as they had money be-
fore, and he hopes will soon have some
again. Actions of this kind should not be
forgotten by wearers of the red.
V O stands for Vanishing Oppression.
The advocates of temperance will have
a trump card to play when the Prohibition
problem is again presented for discussion.
The closing of hotels during the present
crisis and the unanimous verdict of ap-
proval in this action by the people will
Latest from the Ranks.
UNITED FURNITURE TRADE.
Important Notice.
At another very large meeting of the
Furniture Trade Employees, held this
(Thursday) morning, a motion endorsing
the Strike Committee’s action to date was
unanimously carried.
Another Mass Meeting is to be held on
to-morrow (Friday) evening, at 7.30, in the
Temperance Hall, at which a large attend-
ance is requested.
W. GOLLAN, President.
H. SMITH, Secretary.
TYPOGRAPHICAL ASSOCIATION.
Typos. Want Justice!
At a meeting of the Q.T.A. held this
morning the following resolution was car-
ried unanimously:
“ That this meeting of the Q.T.A.
wishes to form into line with other Unions
engaged in the present struggle in protest-
ing against the brutal and tyrannous atti-
tude of the Queensland police force and its
hirelings towards the citizens of Brisbane
as a whole and the unionists in particular,
and urges that the FEDERAL AUTHORI-
TIES BE ASKED TO PROTECT THE
PEOPLE.”
THE WATERSIDE WORKERS.
A mass meeting of waterside comrades
was held this morning. It was a huge suc-
cess both in point of numbers and en-
thusiasm. “ Everybody solid to a man.”
A resolution expressing emphatic confidence
in the Strike Committee, and promising to
stand by it to the end, was carried unani-
mously amidst ringing cheers. A good deal
of curiosity was expressed as to the bona
fides of the wires appearing in the
“ Courier ” purporting to come from the
Australasian Wharf Labourers’ Union in
Sydney. Acting Secretary Wrench said:
“ Nothing is known about it here. We are
a branch of the Federated Waterside
Workers’ Union of Australia, with head
quarters in Melbourne, and until we hear
something different officially we are taking
no notice of “ Courier ” canards.”
ST. CRISPIN’S SONS “TRUE TO
THE LAST.”
Loyalty Badges.
The men and women of the Boot Trade
Union are amongst the very bravest of the
strikers. They had suffered weeks of en-
forced idleness before the call-out, yet all
loyally obeyed, and not one has wavered.
The Union is calling a mass meeting at
10 o’clock on Saturday morning next, in
the Trades Hall, and all “signing on”
then will qualify for loyalty badges.
Now, men and women of the Boot
Trade, roll up and secure this “honour
badge,” more meritorious than any ever
won on the battlefield.
COAL MINERS DETERMINED.
The Bundamba Miners (Q.C.E.U.) met
again last night. Much enthusiasm
marked the proceedings. It was unani-
mously resolved that they should remain
on strike until such time as the Brisbane
Strike Committee ordered them to return
to work.
(That’s the spirit, comrades. Heroes
are made and victories won by just such
loyalty and courage.—Ed. 5.8.)
FEDERATED CLOTHING TRADE.
A meeting of the above Society was held
this morning, when a vote of confidence was
passed in the Strike Committee. Mem-
bers pledged themselves to stand firm un-
til the end. They also passed a vote of
confidence in their secretary and other
officials, who have done such good service
in the cause of Unionism. These resolu-
tions were carried unanimously by one of
the largest meetings this Society has ever
had, and give the lie to those papers that
state we have gone back to work.
Amalgamated Society of Engineers.
.At a large meeting of the Engineers of
Brisbane, organised and unorganised, held
last night in the Lecture Hall of the School
of Arts, it was unanimously resolved:
“ That this meeting of engineers of Bris-
bane has every confidence in the Strike
Committee, and pledges itself to abide by
the Committee’s decisions.” The meeting
was held under the auspices of the A.S.E.
Storemen and Packers.
This union held another very successful
meeting, and passed a vote of confidence in
the Strike Committee on their actions up
•to date., and wished them good luck in
future. They also endorsed the action of
the Assistant Secretary in protesting with
other sectaries against the use of Com-
monwealth accoutrements by officers and
men of the Commonwealth forces, who have
been sworn in as special constables during
the present struggle of liberty to us.
But never fear, boys, we are out to win,
and nothing short of it will satisfy us.
Roll up to-morrow at 10 a.m.
Geo. W. M.
Lost, Valley meeting, purse containing
silver, gold, and two £d. stamps. Finder
please leave at V.O. Office, Trades Hall.
Reward.
THE “ PROTECTORS ” OF THE
PEOPLE.
(The Editor, “Bulletin.”)
Sir, —As you will see from my enclosed
card I reside in a particularly select and
fashionable suburb of Brisbane, among
the “law and order” class.
Last Saturday night it was my lot to
spend an hour or two in an open-air crowdi
of residents of this locality, and I heard and
saw many interesting things. One man
joined the little knot I was among (a
stranger to me, but apparently known by
the others) whose remarks disclosed that he
was connected with some firm engaging
carters. He claimed that the carters were
anxious to return to work, and recounted
that two carters had that day approached
him to know when they could resume work.
‘ 4 I told them, ’ ’ he said, ‘‘ you can go and
cool your heels, and wait till you are sent
for.” “Of course,” he added, “we can’t
keep that up. It is Only cutting off our
nose to spite our face, but we’ll put up the
bluff for a while.” It is well for the men
to know that the employers are not as in-
dependent as they would make out.
Among the gathering generally, women as
well as men, there were common expres-
sions of glee over the disgraceful police
action of Friday morning. It reminded
one of the unholy delight of black troopers
in shooting down their fellow 7 aborigines.
With laughter and gusto they recounted to
each other in turn the various incidents
they had witnessed, in which defenceless
and unoffending women ctnd men were
driven and batoned by an armed force.
Not one expression of regret for the neces-
sity (?) for such action, or of sympathy
with those injured, which one might natur-
ally expect from persons priding them-
selves on their superior refinement. To
recall the spectacle of the plight of the
women in escaping from the police seemed
to afford special enjoyment to these chival-
rous “gentlemen.” One remarked with
evident satisfaction—“ They have got as
much as they wanted,” implying that the
men on strike have so little manly spirit
as to be cowed into submission by the at-
tack made upon them on Friday morning.
One member of the crowd was an officer of
the Defence Force, as also another (from
his remarks) which plainly indicated he.
would be delighted if the military were
called out to fight the strikers, as they
probably would have been had the State
Government control of them. It is one of
the blessings of Federation to the workers
that the conrol of the Defence Force is in
the hands of the Federal Government; for
whatever party holds the Commonwealth
Government there is less likelihood of hasty
resort to military aid in civil trouble when
when the men in authority are removed l
from the excitement of the immediate
scene of the trouble. With the rest, I was
waiting outside a bakery to get some
bread, and we had to wait on till it was
Sunday morning. Some of the company
remarked jokingly that it was “ illegal
trading,” but I did not observe that any
of the§e ultra-law-abiding persons reli-
giously obeyed the law and went home
without the bread. Yet these people are
very angry because the workers have upset
law and order.” It is positively pathetic
to notice the tender regard these people
ha\e for the law-^—when it is the other fel-
low that is breaking it! Much capital has
been made out of, and much righteous in-
dignation expressed over the acts of irre-
sponsible youths and hooligans during the
present trouble, and the leaders of the
working men are being blamed for such
acts. Many, if not most, of the “gentle-
men” present in that Saturday night
crowd were members of the local Special
Constables Committee, all more or less
armed. (It was w 7 hispered to me confi-
dently and with evident satisfaction that
one of them was carrying a loaded Webley,
and several were supposed to have revol-
vers ; another distinctly illegal act !)
Among the crowd were several brainless
youths, who amused themselves with ut-
terly senseless jostling, regardless of ad-
jacent women and girls, and whenever
some woman would appeal to them to cease
they merely replied with cheap and disre-
spectful witticisms. These were not
Unionists, for some of the youths were, to
my knowledge, sons of people quite out of
sympathy with the strikers. Yet none of
these “gentlemen,” these special con-
stables so keen on “order,” used their
authority to eject or repress the hooligans,
whose conduct at times was distinctly dan-
gerous to those near them. One one occa-
sion some of the gentlemen” themselves
w r ere guilty of similar dliberated unnefces-
sary jostling of some young women who
were not unduly pressing upon them. The
law and order” principle is an excellent
thing—to apply to the other party! “I
speak that which I have seen.” —I am <fec
-q ~ ~ „ , eyewitness. ■'
Brisbane, sth February, 1912.
(Our correspondent enclosed his card.
He is a well known and highly respected
citizen, and we can vouch for the complete
accuracy of his statement.—Ed. B.)
A WORD OF KINDLY ADVICE.
A certain grocer of Melbourne-street,
S. Brisbane—name can be had if desired—
is never backward in his untruthful criti-
cism of unionists and their leaders. Why,
then, leave your hard-earned wages with
him. He’s not on pur “ white list.” Why
support him P The editor would advise
him to be wise in time. Unionists are now
out on a campaign of “Who’s our
friend?” and they’ll get there every time.
