

Official Bulletin, N o. 5
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 5.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1912.
Glorious News from the
North.
The Strike Committee received the
following wire from Mr. Theodore,
ALL.A., this afternoon: —
“Combined Unions Committee, Towns-
ville, proclaimed general holiday for all
workers, commencing this morning, at 8
o’clock. At that hour all work ceased,
with the exception of a few locomotive
drivers. At 8 o’clock waterside workers,
seamen, bakers, typos., carpenters,
dredge hands, timber workers, shop as-
sistants, railway men, A.W.A. members,
and practically all other descriptions of
labour, ecased work. Great procession,
5,000 strong, marched to Ross Island
Park. Seven thousand people were
addressed by Messrs. Theodore, Foley,
Marten, McCormack, and other speakers.
Great enthusiasm throughout. Business
at complete standstill, and industry para-
lysed. Holiday Committee permitting
meat and bread to hospital and orphanage.
Food Before Rent.
The Combined Unions’ Strike Commit-
tee hereby instructs all men now on strike
that until the General Strike is settled
NO RENT IS TO BE PAID.
Signed,
J. HARRY COYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Toowoomba Comrades Fall
into Line.
At a monster meeting of Toowoomba
workers held on Friday night last at which
4,000 persons were present, the following
resolution was carried unanimously “That
this meeting of Unionists and sym-
pathisers expresses its sympathy for
those of our fellow-workers now on
strike in Brisbane, and pledges all present
to render them moral and material support
in order to ensure victory.”
The Strike Committee’s Police.
To Secretary Vigilance Committee.
Sir, —I had a visit from the Special
Police this morning saying that the Vigi-
lant Officers were preventing people from
getting bread at my bakehouse, and the
report is without foundation AS PERFECT
ORDER WAS KEPT.
F. WUERSCHING
Baker.
Strike Leaders’ Brains v. Den-
ham’s Brute Force.
The special constables recruited from
the Public Service—many of them at the
pointed sword of coercion—were to-day
given rifles, bayonets and cartridges in
of batons.
The central Government is now gone.
We are now ruled hy a horde of irrespon-
sible petty tyrants, who in addition to
striking us down like dogs, are now pre-
pared to shoot us.
Bedrock!
The underlying principle of our strike
is the class struggle. _ The workers are the
only essential class in society. We have
the" skill and knowledge and labour power to
produce all the necessities and comforts of
life. We only lack the instruments of pro-
duction. The capitalists own them, and
for their use we pay heavy toll. WHEN
WE HAVE THOSE INSTRUMENTS we
shall have Socialism. Man will then no
longer he exploited bv man. SCIENTIFIC
COOPERATION AND BROTHERHOOD
will take its place, and strikes will be no
more.
Comrades Still Falling into Line.
Under authority and instructions from
the A.W.A. a representative journeyed to
the Sewerage Board’s camps, 8 miles be-
yond Indooroopillv, and held a most suc-
cessful meeting. The camp is comprised of
over 300 men who . were to down tools at
mid-day to-day.
How State Funds? are Spent to
Defeat the Toilers.
The following speaks for itself :
“An Appeal. —Esk, February 1, 1912.
Fellow Bushmen, —The authorities require
immediate assistance to preserve law and
order, and I have been commissioned by
the Government to raise a body of mounted
men in this district to act as special con-
stables. Hundreds of townspeople are
offering their services, and I trust that the
bushmen will not be found wanting. I
appeal to you to respond to the call of
authority and ride with me to Brisbane.
Each volunteer will require to provide a
horse, saddle, and bridle, hobbles, quart
and blanket, with provisions (if possible)
to last for three days, and a pack horse to
«very six men. It is imperative that men
should meet at Esk and Lowood on Sunday
night, 4th February, in readiness for an
early start Monday morning. A camp will
be formed at the Recreation Ground, Esk,
on Sunday night, THE GOVERNMENT
BEARING ALL EXPENSE. Any men
failing to reach Esk by the above date
can follow on. Ernest F. Lord.”
V 0 stands for Vigorous Organisation.
Shop Assistants.
All out on strike are STILL SOLID
and resolved to stand by their mates until
the fight is won. The mass meeting they
held on Sunday was a huge success, and
the greatest enthusiasm prevailed.
The Waterside Workers.
This fine body of militant Unionists
held a mass meeting this morning. Joe
Codings, gave them a fine rousing address,
and their cheers and solidariy were some-
thing to make ad concerned proud of. It
is with regiments like these that victories
are secured.
The Carters’ Union.
This is undoubtedly one of the best fight-
ing sections of our army. The mass meet-
ing held in the large room of the Trades
Hall, which was crowded to suffocation
point this morning, was one of the finest
Union gatherings ever seen in this city.
Mrs. Huxham and Joe Codings addressed
the men, who are as solid as rocks and
determined to win.
Strike in Wellington.
AUCKLAND, February 5.
A serious hitch has occurred in the
negotiations for a settlement of the tram-
way strike in Wellington. In the event of
an agreement not being reached by noon
to-day, the other unions are to be asked
to cease work.
Ipswich Bakers and Butchers.
Advices from Ipswich this morning say
that the butchers and bakers have not yet
gone out, but they insist that employers in
both trades shall obtain a permit from the
executive before .they are allowed to make
or deliver bread, or kill or deliver meat.
Townsville Railway Men.
Latest wires to hand from Townsville
state that all railway workers ceased work
to-day.
Extending the Strike Zone.
To-day the Committee is simply be-
sieged with wires from every large centre
of population throughout the State asking
if it is desired that workers there shc-uld
“down tools.” Up to the time of going
to press the Committee has not authorised
these further “calls out,” but wdl do so
if it seems to them to become absolutely
necessary to do so. They are determined
that this fight shall be to a finish, and that
it shall be won for organised labor.
Theatres and “Scabs.”
The Strike Committee have been
credibly informed that a certain theatre is
about to be opened with non-union labour,
and as both artists and stage nands have
their respective Unions, and are out on
strike, it naturally follows that any house
now open must be run with ‘scabs.”
These can be certain that they will be
treated as traitors deserve. Every name
will be taken, and a command will go to
every Labor Union throughout the State
patronised by workers where such persons
are employed.
To-morrow’s Union Meetings.
All unions are holding meetings to-
morrow, and members are specially ad-
vised to attend.
All secretaries are holding a joint meet-
ing at 3 p.m. to-morrow, and as business
is most urgent “No absentees” is the
command.
Vigilance Officers and Shops.
Reports have been circulated that
vigilance officers have been going into
shops and compelling owners to close. This
is entirely a fabrication. The Strike Com-
mittee wish it to be distinctly understood
that they have in no single instance asked
any place of business to he closed. All they
have done is to request all members of the
various Unions to refrain from work while
the present strike lasts. Those establish-
ments that have shut, their doors have
either done so voluntarily or at the request
of the police authorities.
Badger’s Sorry Farce.
To-day saw a new development, when
a few cars were put on to the track. For
a brief while a few well-known hostile busi-
ness men were detailed to ride in order to
give them an air of genuineness, but as the
supply of these gentry was very limited
squads of “special constabes” were re-
quisitioned, and after removing their
badges they also assisted to make up a
“ paper” house of deadheads. This part
of the farce fell very flat when their con-
freres lounging at the street corners and
in doorway recesses cheered them as they
passed for their great bravery.
The Strike Committee recognises—as
was evidenced by Mr. Coyne’s utterances
at the mass meeting in Turbot street in the
early morning—that the running of these
few cars under such ridiculous conditions,
and with police protection, cannot affect
the situation except in _ favor of tlie
strikers. It not only evidences the utter
'desperateness of Badger’s position, but will
all the sooner exhaust his coal supply. No
Unionist is likely to be other than amused
hy this farcical display.
More Baton Bravadoes.
The following has been supplied us:—
On Friday evening, the 2nd instant, at
about 7 o’clock, I was sitting on the front
veranda of my house in Leichhardt Street,
opposite Ennever’s bakery, where about
150 persons (of whom not more than 25 per
cent, were men, the others being women
and children in about equal numbers)
were at the time being served with bread
by Mrs. Ennever, the bread being handed
over the fence, when without any warning
or apparent cause two or three uniformed
police and a dozen or so ‘special’ constables
made a most vicious attack on these peace-
ful citizens. Blows were struck without
notice or provocation, and in one instance
where a man resented the treatment he was
chased up Leichhardt Street under a
shower of baton blows. I hurried over the
road and appealed to one of the police
not to be too free with their batons or it
might incite peaceful citizens to violent
retaliation.
Since Wednesday last Mrs. Ennever has
been supplying large numbers of men,
women, and children with bread, and on no
occasion has there been any need for
police interference through the crowd be-
ing noisy or disorderly.
I was pleased to note that although
the crowds yesterday numbered several
hundreds there was no appearance of the
police, nor any need for the same; a'num-
ber of men wearing white arm bands bear-
ing “V. 0.” rendering assistance in serving
bread, and thus avoiding
SIDNEY COOK,
Proprietor Cook’s Pictures.
The above report is correct in every de-
tail.
Mrs. JOHN ENNEVER.
C. E. MUNRO, Manager Cook’s Pic-
ture Palace*
Sympathetic Messages.
Mr. R. McCormack, representing the
Carters and Drivers’ Union on the Strike
Committee, has received the following mes-
sages from Melbourne:—
“Federal Council proud of Brisbane car-
ters. Stand firm.—R. Cheney, President
Federation.”
“Will give all support possible; with
you whole-heartedly ; meeting to-morrow.
An injury to one an injury to all.—R.
Cheney, Sec. Carters and Drivers’ Union.
Mr. McCormack also received the fol-
lowing from Adelaide:—“Will endeavour
to get financial assistance, and forward at
once. —B lundell. ’ !
Badge Billets.
The State Government has not risen to
the occasion, and the most Denham can
do appears to be to make a dangerous dis-
play of armed authority in the thronged
thoroughfares of the city. All through
the lock-out and strike the Union leaders
and rank and file have been careful to
guard against unlawful acts of any kind,
but that cannot be said of the opposing
forces.
The display of brute force by armed
authority on Friday last did not cause citi-
zens to rise in revolt, though many of them
were assaulted with batons by the police
in public places.
To-day another attempt to incite the
people to rebellion was made. The State
officials were kept busy during the past
few days swearing in specials and a great
display of weakness was made in the city
while a few tram cars were run through
Queen Street.
The first car was filled with fat men
who cheered themselves. They were “the
heroes of the day.” Riding up and down
the street were mounted troopers
and mounted Specials. Squads of Specials
were scattered along the streets in clus-
ters, and squads of them were marched
about for show purposes. Armed foot and
horse police were posted where “The
Great General” imagined “The Reds”
would break loose. Rifles and fixed bay-
onets were on show in South Brisbane,
and not a citizen showed fear.
The limit of the State powers in the
present trouble appears to be fooled forces
and flour. The flour has not yet
materialised.
Citizens of Brisbane are cheerful. They
realise that Australia is making history
for they are suffering in-
conveniences good-naturedly.
President Harry Coyne is tne man of
the day. No Labour man is ambitions to
be “the lion of the hour.”
Foolish people, who do not know the
power of organised labour, think the
general strike can he smashed with
scare. They do not realise they are up
against a vast army of men and women
who are determined to defend their
citizen rights.
FOUND.
By a Vigilant Officer; Handkerchief
containing cash; can be had mi applica-
tion and identification from Chief of V. 0.,
Trades Hall.
A Mexican silver chain, with medal
attached, has also been found by a Vigil-
ance Officer. Owner can have it on apply-
ing to Vigilance officer in charge, Trades
Hall.
« » •
A lady lost a gold Elgin watch about 8
o’clock on Friday night at the Valley
corner. Anyone finding it is requested
to bring it to the Vigilance Committee at
the Trades Hall.
V 0 stands for Valuable Opportunity.
Items of Interest.
The peaceful methods of the General
Strike men and women have disorganised
the baton and bayonet brigade, and citi-
zens may rest assured that the farce is
played out.
• • •
A special at the Valley Junction was
a source of annoyance to the trained police
there to-day. He grabbed citizens and
tried to gain distinction, but Sergeant
Casey wouldn’t sanction.
* * *
A squad of mounted specials were
ordered to charge citizens who were wait-
ing to enter the State Electoral Office in
the Treasury Buildings this morning, and
they laughed at Cahill. Foot police were
then ordered to a baton charge, but didn’t
obey.
• • •
Is it a fact that a member of the
“Courier” literary staff, who also owes
allegiance to the Australian Journalists’
Association, has been working at a lino-
type machine in that office nightly since
the strike began, with a loaded revolver in
his belt? Is this the “Courier’s” latest
interpretation of law and order ? Has the
pen ceased to be mightier than the—re-
volver ?
« * *
It is evident some of the newly sworn-in
“Specials” are not strict Sabbatarians.
Yesterday (Sunday) afternoon, while some
of the city’s amateur “protectors” were
engaged in erecting tents—with batons
protruding from hip pockets—others were
lying about the Treasury Gardens, be-
tween George and William streets, ’whiling
away the time by playing cards. Appar-
ently they did not bring their Bibles with
them.
* * *
Special constables are a reflection on
the experienced men in the serivee. Sub-
Inspector Carroll, who is admired by all
citizens for the excellent manner in
which he handled the trained troopers
until the Commissioner came from his
lair to command, had disgust written
across his face when he was in charge of
a straggling team of troopers and scala-
wags, one of whom had a tomahawk in his
belt.
« » «
There is a very significant omission in
the list of institutions that benefited by
the free distribution of fruit yesterday
under the auspices of the Home Secretary.
The name of the B.A.F.S. is not included
in those so favoured, though this society
has 8,000 members on its books, nearly all
drawn from the working class, conse-
quently with a large number of women and
children dependent on them. Just now
this institution has all its resources taxed,
and a share of the fruit so pompously dis-
tributed yesterday would have been very
acceptable. Why was it overlooked ?.
# * *
There is at least one lady in the city
who appreciates the good work being done
by the Vigilance Officers. While two of
these were sheltering from the rain in the
doorway of the private entrance to the
Osborne Hotel, Valley, this morning, Mrs.
O’Sullivan, the lady who presides there,
opened the door and invited the two men
to a cup of tea and biscuits. The officers
accepted the kind invitation, and while
they were there so unexpectedly regaling
themselves Mrs. O’Sullivan to <ja uiu v {til-
lage of the occasion to assure them of
the sympathy she had for them in their
good, if unsalaried, work. .
* + *
Discriminating Constables.—When the
first tram was passing the “Courier”
office in Queen Street to-day a number qf
individuals, who apparently prefer the dic-
tatorship of an autocratic foreign tyrant
to the recognised industrial laws of their
own city, raised what was intended for a
cheer. A number of young fellows, attrac-
ted by the commotion, ran to the spot, and
hooted the now novel spectacle. Suddenly
some constables who were standing by, but
who regarded the cheering with complac-
ency, saw an opening for officiousness and
started to scatter those who were not on
the cheering side; the others were left
alone.
« « »
An incident occurred near the Railway
Inquiry Office in George street on Thursday
last, just after the procession passed there,
which the imaginative fledglings who are
entrusted with the task of collecting “reli-
able” information for the Badger-praising
dailies neglected to pass on to their pre-
ceptors. An official from the General Post
Office was driving a horse and sulky, in
which were a couple of mail bags, in the
direction of Roma Street, when a mounted
policeman, after sundry fearful gyrations,
‘ ‘ surrounded ’ ’ the vehicle and told the
driver he would have to go back. The
young man pulled up and told the trooper
he had no right to interfere with him.
The latter insisted that he had. Just then
a lady who is somewhat prominent in
Labour circles who happened to be close by,
interjected, “What, His Majesty’s mails
refused the use of the streets!” A look of
grim determination immediately settled
upon the face of the G.P.O. man, and
without further reference to his intercep-
tor, he whipped up his horse, and left the
discomfited trooper an object of anything
but admiration for those who witnessed
the occurrence.
V O stands for Vanishing Oppression.
TO-NIGHT’S PUBLIC MEETINGS.
Centennial Hall City, and Ivory
Street (open air) Valley.
Who are the Law-breakers
Now?
(Editor Strike Bulletin.)
Sir, On Saturday and Sunday a num-
ber of V.O. comrades were arrested, but no
legal charge could be laid against them,
and they were told to “ Clear to hell out of
this. Everything which can be done is
being done to incite us to break laws —laws
which are relics of absolute tyranny. Police
privates, like petty tyrants, are manipul-
ating the dead powers of feudal despots.
Workers are still being struck down, and
ioi no other reason than because they are
wearing the V.O. badge. If we mean to pre-
vent being basely forced to abandon the
noble struggle in which we are now en-
gaged, and which we have pledged our-
selves to win we must bear much for the
piesent. Let us not retaliate, nor meet
force with force, for if we do ’twill prove a
snare to our feet. Let us remain calm anrl
cool with the knowledge that a great blow
has already been struck, with a greater tine
following at the coming elections. Public
opinion is with us, for we did all that
could be done to avert the storm new
spreading from Brisbane o.er the State
and Commonwealth.
MARIEN RICKARDS.
Who is to Rule?
Sii, The above words came under the
heading of strike news of the ‘ ‘Courier and
“Observer,” Friday, 2nd inst. I should
say by the way the police were carrying on
to-day, the Labour Government will, and
Unionism will also carry the day. I
am a New Zealander, and in all my
travels, have never seen the public
handled with such brutality and
force as I witnessed to-day. Strangers
to this city would certainly think
they had by accident come to some Rus-
sian town, and mistaken the Police for
Cossacks (armed with bayonets and rifles),
and were in the throes of a revolution. Da
the police want some shooting practice
with our citizens as targets ? The situation
was very grave. The way the police were
acting would certainly have caused a riot in
any other country. Is this Commissioner a
ruling Czar, or is it that the Premier of
this State wants some of the voters wiped
out? On perusing the “Courier” one
would think that the citizens of Brisbane
are a lot of wild Indians. I picked out a
few lines here and there, and I am sorry to
say they are certainly not “Gospel”
tiuth, not by a long chalk. For instance,
here is one: “Presently a large squad of
Constables, a fine, athletic looking body,
selected from the Volunteer forces, the ath-
letic clubs, and officers of the Public Ser-
vice. Some of these “athletic” looking
constables would make fine office boys or
telegraph messengers. One was pointed
out as a Militia” officer. Are these “spe-
cials” men, or do they look on their fel-
low-man as a dogp The Vigilance Officers
of the Unions, as far as “athletic-looking”
goes are certainly of a higher standard
than the “special constables,” and they
need no bludgeon to keep their fellow-
woikmen in order. Another paragraph:
For a considerable time, the police re—
framed from any really aggressive move in
the direction of the crowd, admirable re-
paint being displayed by officers and men
alike. “A considerable time,” what does
it mean—six hours or six minutes P The
police were hustling and pushing the peo-
ple all the morning. Still another para-
graph • Commissioner Cahill in person
led the charge in different directions, and
when some of the crowd went as far as to
aim blows at him, too, he drew his baton
and cleared a way round him.” It sounds
like some thrilling war story, or, better
still, some gallant general winning the Vic-
tona Cross. Maybe the aforesaid gentle-
man would probably have liked to have led
the police, with the fixed bayonets at the
people. There are some other remarks,
but as they are like the rest, “Gospels,” I
wdl let them go. Women and children had
flee for their lives from these Police
“Cossacks.” I was a spectator of these
stirring scenes,” but being an ordinary
citizen, had to flee for my life. The re-
peated charges of the mounted police were
like those of wild cowboys. The same pa-
per says: “With his numbers augmented,
the Commissioner rode to the Elizabeth
Street corner.” Is there a truthful re-
porter working for this paper? “Rode”!
Galloped, he means. However, these cadet-
reporters must supply the thrilling tales.
Did this “truthful” paper say anything
about your paragraph that appeared in
Bulletin No. 2 about the girls working at
Thomas Brown & Sons’ shirt factory be-
hind closed doors ? Why don’t they give
the names of the special constables? Per-
haps for fear the citizens and union men
might discover the name of a partner in
the above firm amongst the rest.
I am, sir,
A NEW ZEALANDER.
P S.—-I noticed the flags on all Govern-
ment buildings were half mast, and thought
that the Government had died, but it turn-
ed out to be a member of Royalty.
February 3rd.
As “Vincia Omnia Veritas” did not ap-
pend his name and address to his communi-
cation, we are compelled to omit it, how-
ever acceptable it otherwise might be.
J. H .COYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Strike Committee.
