

Official Bulletin, No. 20.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 20.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1912.
The Leader’s Morning Address.
Harry Coyne was in his usual fine
fettle this morning when addressing the
loyal unionists who turned up as numer-
ously, solidly, and determinedly as they did
at the beginning of industrial hostilities.
Nothwithstanding the pathetic pictures
drawn day after day by the capitalistic
papers without exception, and the doleful
prophecy of what will happen if the work-
ers’ leaders do not immediately strike their
colours the faces of those outside the
Trades Hall this morning were as bright
and full of hope as the sun that was shin-
ing down upon them. These men have dis-
covered that it is not of them the scribes
are thinking when anticipating disaster if
the struggle should be prolonged indefini-
tely—these writers, who should themselves
be unionists, are wondering what’s to be-
come of the business of these unrelenting
employers if they do not shortly recover
their senses, and recognise how fatuous
they have been in lending themselves to
assist an unnaturalised foreigner who
would not concede the right of the work-
ing men of Brisbane to form their union—
a right that the local employers found it to
their interests to recognise.
Mr. Coyne dwelt on the encouraging
wire that had been received from Mr.
Crampton, and also announced that the
workers at Benarkin had refused to cut
firewood for use on the railways.
Mr. Coyne als • dealt fully with the
various further “Courier” lies, and was
specially effective when he commented on
their whining about his use of the words
“to-morrow.” “They seem,” said the
Strike Leader “to have a grave dread of
to-morrow. In this they are like the
Government and Policeman Cahill, when
we asked for a peaceful procession “to-*
morrow,” they got together and issued a
royal proclamation. When we talked of
a peaceful meeting “to-morrow” they raked
together the scum of the city and paraded
it as “specials.”
Dealing with prevaricating “Courier’s”
talk of hunger, Mr. Coyne continued,
“There is no hunger in the Union ranks,
nor shall there be. We are feeding many
whom we should not rather than miss one
genuine case. We are not anxiously in-
viting a conference with the employers. We
did so once, but although we are always
open to negotiate, the next move is theirs.
We will do no crawling, but will always
seriously consider any proposals for an
honorable settlement.”
SYDNEY “ WHARFIES. ”
Will Stand by Brisbane Mates.
Comrade Crampton wired the Strike
Committee from Melbourne this morning,
as follows:
“McLachlan and self addressed wharfles’
meeting last night. Enthusiastic reception.
Assured us every support, moral and finan-
cial/ Leaving for Sydney to-day.”
TIME AND MONEY WASTED.
Government Officers Responsible.
During the past few weeks many heads
of Government Departments seem to have
taken advantage of the wave of irrespon-
sibility which*- has taken possession of
Cabinet Ministers “ for the time being,”
and to have relaxed all the usual means
taken to prevent waste of Government time
and money. Immense additional expendi-
ture has been incurred to feed up and
supply liquor to hundreds of bush-bred
“special” hirelings who came into town
for a good time at the taxpayers’ expense,
while the drought raging in the country had
prevented them following their usual occu-
pations. For this we have at least got
something in return, if only their brutal-
ity, their bad language, and their general
behaviour.
But a more inexcusable and shameless
waste is now being allowed in the shape of
the posting in many of the Government
offices of 13 verses of miserable doggerel re-
ferring to Mr. Finlayson, M.P. Thus
Government stationery, Government type-
writers, and Government time are being
used in a flagrant and disgraceful manner.
Can nothing be done to protect the pub-
lic purse from such daylight and unblushing
robbery? Everyone knows that the State
Government Departments are greatly over-
manned. Hundreds of men can be with-
drawn from their duties (?) for weeks to
act as ‘ ‘ special ’ ’ constables, and no one is
overworked, in fact, as recorded above,
those left to do the woyk can still find time
to heap ridicule on themselves in this
childish way.
TYRANNICAL LANDLORDS.
Landlords throughout city and suburbs
are using pressure on the men now on strike
and locked out by threatening to eject
them from their “humpies,” and at the
same time endeavouring to induce them to
go in scabbing. To their credit, be it said,
they have refused to so disgrace themselves.
This landlord tyranny is, however, a
fine object lesson for the unthinking rent
slaves, which cannot fail to have a good
effect politically in the near future.
A non-unionist tram conductor, giving
evidence in the Arbitration Court in Mel-
bourne on Tuesday, said he had been repeat-
edly insulted by passengers and others. It
was further stated that women were pro-
minent in insulting the men who had no
badges, and that two of them on bicycles
pursued a tram to its terminus, and then
indulged in language which was offensive.
What price Cahill being down there ?
Last Night’s Meetings.
These were everywhere a huge success.
The only report to hand is from the Cen-
tennial Hall. Mr. Nevitt, M.L.A., pre-
sided. The speakers were Messrs. G. Bar-
ber, M. L.A., and C. W. Martin, R. Sum-
ner, and Joe Collings. All were in good
form, especially “Dick” Sumner, whose
address was vigorous and aroused a great
deal of enthusiasm. A resolution condemn-
ing the employers for the deaths and casu-
alties now occurring on the wharves
through the employment of labour unac-
customed to the work was proposed by Mr.
Collings and seconded by Mr. Barber. It
was carried without one dissentient.
Meetings for To-morrow
(Friday) Night.
CENTENNIAL HALL,
IVORY STREET, VALLEY,
PINEAPPLE RESERVE, KANG. PT.,
ROSALIE TRAM TERMINUS.
RED HILL LECTURE PAVILION,
CLARENCE CORNER, S. BRISBANE.
Citizens, roll up ! and hear the truth
about the position.
Another Specimen of Brisbane Justice.
In Central Police Court on Monday,
Richard Faulkner, alias Edwin Edmonds,
47, scene-shifter, pleaded guilty to having
used obsdbne language, but said he received
provocation through being interfered with
by unionists! Mr. Ranking, who was on
the bench, said under the circumstances he
would discharge accused. We have heard
of several iniquities being laid at the door
of unionism, but this is the first occasion
on which we have seen it publicly pro-
claimed that it caused a law-abiding citizen
to use obscene language. However, after
having been used by the scene-shifter with
such (to him) gratifying success, we may
expect to see the same useful excuse do
duty on many future occasions. The burg-
lar, the bigamist, the wife-beater, the gar-
rotter, and the habitual drunk have now
only to plead unionist provocation in ex-
tenuation of their offences. But why lose
time bringing these sensitive citizens to the
court at all ? When they do feel the over-
powering feeling getting hold of them and
a policeman is inconveniently handy, could
they not whisper in his little pink ear, “ It
was one of them unionist fellows made me
do it,” when the soft-hearted Robert would
fall weeping on their shoulder and say,
“You have my sympathy, poor man;
I know what them unionists is; they
would make a man do anything; be
careful of them; I will let Mr. Ran-
king and Colonel Moore know what
they have done.” And thus the latest
victims to unionism would go their
devious ways rejoicing. We fancy we
can recollect cases of other men being
charged with using obscene language, also
objecting to “ pious ” specials knocking
them about with batons. But their private
address for a month or two will be Boggo-
road.
THE IRONY OF IT.
The incidents—tragic, melo-dramatic,
and comic—that occurred on “Baton Fri-
day” are gradually but surely filtering
through. One superior class of Queen-
street commission agent, who is also in a
position to pull the strings of several pro-
vincial newspapers, was almost persuaded
that he had got back to his native heath
when he was not nimble enough to get in-
side before a limb of Cahill’s law landed
him one with his baton. Just fancy
a pillar of the P.P.L. being treated in this
fashion so that the solidarity of Badger’s
brigade might be maintained. Then we had
the spectacle of a doughty and prominent
member of the St. George Society, who
also knows something about newspapers,
fleeing before the upholders of the Stars
and Stripes, and just leaving his coat tails
outside the doorway for the infuriated
“bobby” to belabour with his truncheon.
Having regained his speech somewhat this
candidate for a spare Garter is alleged to
have remarked, “Oh, Denham, this is in-
deed too much.” Let us hope that before-
the next St. George’s banquet will be par-
taken of this redoubtable Briton, who also
claims to be a buttress of Badger, will pre-
serve a little consistency, and have thq
British National Anthem preceded bv
“Yankee Doodle.”
ARE WE DOWNHEARTED.
Talk about a holiday. Employers who
prate about the strike being over should go
out to the Pineapple Reserve and see the
workers at play. During this week crowds
numbering thousands have assembled to
watch tugs-of-war, cricket matches, walk-
ing contests, and other forms of sport, all
carried on with the greatest happiness and
good-fellowship. The strikers’ wives and
families have been amongst the interesting
onlookers.
V.O. stands for Valiant Orderlies.
TO HELP COMRADES ON STRIKE.
Australian Federated Stage Employees’
Association, Queensland Branch.
CENTENNIAL HALL.
SATURDAY, 24th, at 8 p.m.
A First-class Programme of STAR
UNION ARTISTS, assisted by a full Union
Orchestra.
Popular Prices: 6d. and Is.
The Latest from the Ranks.
PORT BRISBANE SHIPWRIGHTS’
UNION.
To Editor of “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —I wish to call vour attention to
the fact that in Mr. Ooyne’s announce-
ment this morning of trades that had not
gone back, he omitted to mention the Port
Brisbane Shipwrights’ Union. The union
is still standing solid and intends to do
so until a satisfactory termination of the
present industrial trouble is obtained.
At the meeting this morning another
vote of confidence in the Strike Committee
was unanimously carried.
J. DUNLOP, Secretary.
February 22.
(With reference to above, Mr. Coyne
wishes to state that he merely mentioned a
few unions that came to his mind at the
moment of speaking. He is fully aware
and very proud of the splendid solidarity
of the unions that are still compact, and
believes their loyalty will be soon re-
warded.—Ed. 5.8.)
THE FAITHFUL FEW.
Our Railway Heroes.
Some people imagine that because the
Loco, men have proved disloyal to them-
selves and their class, that all Railway
men are of the same tribe. In justice to
many of the Checkers, Porters, Shunters,
Lad Porters, Clerks, and Maintenance
Men, let it be said that 375 of them are
still out and standing bravely for the right
to be men.
Secretary Moroney writes to-day, that at
a meeting held on Monday last, a unani-
mous vote of confidence in the Strike Com-
mittee was passed and all their actions en-
dorsed to date.
Well done, comrades, your mates on
strike are proud of you.—Ed. S.B.
IRONWORKERS.
At a meeting held this morning it was
unanimously agreed that this Union has
full confidence in the Strike Committee,
and approve, of the work done up-to-date.
No Surrender.”
Ship Painters and Dockers.
At a mass meeting of this union, held
this morning, which was the largest meet-
mg held since the strike commenced, a
unanimous vote of confidence was passed
m the Strike Committee, and it was
resolved to stand loyal to the end of the
strike. Not one member of this important
Ulas K one back on his fellows*, so all
will be entitled to wear the loyalist badge.
Waterside Workers.
Comrade Wrench reports that, at a mass
meeting held in the Maritime Hall this
morning, it was moved “That this branch
has every confidence in the Strike Commit-
tee up to date, and is of opinion that they
are doing everything possible to bring about
a satisfactory settlement of this dispute.”
Builders’ Labourers.
Secretary W. J. Collins reports that, at
a meeting of the above union held this
morning, the following resolution was car-
ried : - “ That the members of the Brisbane
branch of the Australian Builders
Labourers’ Federation desire to express
through the “ Strike Bulletin,” their
loyalty to the principles involved in the
present dispute, also their confidence in the
Strike Committee.”
House and Ship Painters.
A largely attended meeting of this
union was held this morning, when the
usual vote of implicit confidence in the
Strike Committee was carried.
Federated Ironworkers.
Members meet in Albert Patk at 10.30
on Saturday morning next to have group
photo taken. All “out on strike” please
roll up. The picture will be worth pre-
serving. /
TUG OF WAR.
Coal Workers and Lightermen’s Union
members wishing to take part and assist in
organising a tug-of-war team, please be in
attendance at Union rooms, Edward St.
at 9.30 a.m. to-morrow (23rd inst).
D. KINGSTON, President.
RECOVERING ITS SPEECH.
No sooner has the “Daily Mail” re-
covered its breath after its prolonged im-
mersion, than it begins babbling in the
strain made so familiar to us by its antique
female contemporary at the corner since
that memorable Tuesday when such a sub-
lime stillness reigned in Queen-street. In
its issue of yesterday it talks about the
“damnable iteration” of the “Strike Bul-
letin.” Of course,- it is rather early yet to
accuse the “Mail” of iteration, either
damnable or sanctified. It is Qnly since
Monday it became intelligible at all. For
over two weeks previous to that it treated
us to a column or so of stuff that one day
savoured of Volapuk, then we would have
something that looked as if an earthquake
had struck the Esperanto alphabet, and
finally it produced a jargon that reminded
one of a Welsh dialect. It certainly man-
aged to avoid iteration—or its usual kind
of decent English. Just let us draw the
“Mail’s” attention to the fact that what
does appear in the “Bulletin” is decipher-
able. Latterly some columns of the “Mail”
can only be read with the aid of an X ray
apparatus. , j
Private Enterprise.
Reprinted from Sydney “ Bulletin.”
Brisbane’s Case.
When Private Enterprise is allowed to
get hold of a great public utility like the
tramways of a big city, the iniquity pro-
ceeds by certain well-defined stages.
Usually the concession is for a fixed period,
and then things are bad; very rarely it is
a permanency, and then things are a great
deal worse. At the beginning everything
in the garden is lovely. The concession
may be granted for any one of three or
four reasons, but that makes no difference
as regards the loveliness. Sometimes the
legislators who grant it are ignorant louts
who haven’t read up the history of similar
concessions in other countries, and noted
the usual results. Sometimes they are
surly and furious bigots, who would cheer-
fully rush the country into any sort of
trouble rather than encourage State Enter-
prisey-dike those N.S.W. and Victorian
politicians who would sooner see the out-
lying portions of their respective States go
to ruin than make a huge profit by estab-
lishing State-owned cities beside the Closed
Ports. Sometimes votes may possibly be
bought; as the Auditor-General doesn’t
overhaul the accounts of Private Enter-
prise there are great facilities for bribery.
Sometimes legislators may possibly see their
way to make money indirectly by acquiring
shares —not necessarily in their own names.
No matter for what reason the concession is
granted it generally looks fair and reason-
able^ —at the moment. The fares of the new
tramway —taking that sort of enterprise as
an illustration —are to be a shade lower
than those of the ’bus, or whatever preced-
ing vehicle there might Jbe. The cars are to
run so frequently that they can easily meet
the present demand. There are all manner
of pleasant and satisfactory assurances, and
the smile of P.E. suggests the beautiful
white teeth of Mr. Carker, of “ Dombey
and Son.”
* * *
And for a time, it may be, things go
well enough. But the city grows, and
though P.E. has built all the lines it agreed
to make, it is found, when perhaps 10 years
out of its term of (say) 25 are passed, that
more lines are required. Then the public
holds some such conversation as this with
its P.E. —the thing that used to smile
beautifully like Mr. Carker:
The Public: Will you build some more lines out
into the new suburbs?
Private Enterprise : Well, they aren’t in the con-
tract, you know.
The Public: They couldn’t be in the contract,
for these places didn’t exist when the contract was
made.
P.E.: Well, I’ll build the lines you require, pro-
vided you extend my concession for 10 years.
The Publio: But they would pay you well enough
without any extension.
P.E.: Of course it would pay me to build them,
but you want them more than I want the profits
of them, and it is only by refusing to build them
except on my own terms that I can force you to
extend my concession. That’s what I’m here for.
The Public : Ye-e-s, I see! And supposing I give
you the extension and you build the new lines, what
will happen when the city grows a bit bigger, and
more lines are wanted?
P.E.: Then I’ll require another extension. In
fact, I’ll keep on wanting extensions till the Day
of Judgment.
The Public : And suppose I build and work tjie
new suburban lines myself?
P.E. : Then you’ll have a dozen little scraps of
line each with its own separate outfit and its own
separate staff, and the cost of the working will be
enormous. I won’t connect with your lines, or run
cars over your lines, or let you run cars over my
lines; and I’m not bound to adjust my time-table
to fit yours. Of course, that might be arranged if
I got an extension. My great business in life is to
get an extension.
The Public (desperately) : Look here, will you
sell out?
P.E.: Oh, yes, at my own price. You’ll have to
pay me full value for the 15 years my lease has to
run, and something for the years that I could have
got my lease extended for, if I had been as dis-
agreeable as I might have been.
The Public: Isn’t this blackmail?
P.E. : What else did you think it would be?
Didn’t you see me smile when we fixed up the
original agreement?
That is the situation, roughly speak-
ing—or, rather, it is a small part of the
situation, Private Enterprise has many
weapons. It begins with a cast-iron agree-
ment that looks fair enough. But, when
population and trade increase 50 or 100 per
cent., it is found that the old bargain by
which the trams were to he run up to a cer-
tain hour has become ridiculous. The pro-
vincial city that used to go to bed at 10
p.m. has become an all-night metropolis,
and wants to be treated accordingly. P.E.
recognises this, and is prepared to provide
more facilities on its own terms. The old
means of propelling the vehicles become ob-
solete, and P.E. is willing that the city or
State should provide new means of propul-
sion, provided P.E. is paid its own terms
for allowing the thing to be done. In the
light of new methods the old scale of
charges becomes absurdly high, , and in
cities where the trams are publicly owned,
the rates are cut down perhaps one-half.
P.E. is willing to make some concessions
here also —on its own terms. The commun-
ity can’t possibly see what changes or im-
provements are ahead when it makes its
bargain with P.E., so, however carefully
that bargain is drawn up, its terms pre-
sently become obsolete. Then the city has
either to put up with the disgrace and
inconvenience of a worn-out and back-
number service, which calls down on it the
scorn of visitors and the contempt of globe-
trotters, or else keep perpetually bribing
P.E. to keep up with the procession. The
great chance of P.E. lies in not keeping up
with the procession. Its refusal to do so is
the means by which it extracts new con-
cessions.
* * *
The latter days of P.E.’s lease of some
great public utility are generally a time of
grievous unpleasantness to those who have
to depend on it. These are the days when
P.E. is screwing the last possible copper out
of its investment. Also, they are the days
when it is supplying as much discomfort
as it dare, partly in a final effort to get an
extension of its profitable monopoly, partly
as a final expression of its feelings at not
getting an extension earlier, and partly be-
cause it is so near the end of its job that
discipline is relaxed and nothing seems to
matter much. When it knows its terms is
practically up it develops all the disgraceful
traits of a cantankerous employee who is
under notice to quit, or a bad tenant who is
in process of ejection. Finally, it takes its
departure amid general curses. It has
blocked progress for years, and generally it
has charged a heavy price for doing it.
That was the record of the old, bob-tailed
horse-trams of Adelaide, and it is the record
to-day of the antiquated wire-rope device
which drags the thing like a large candle-
box through the streets of Melbourne. It
was the record of the dreadful horse-trams
of Glasgow, before either Melbourne or
Adelaide had run up against their worst
troubles. And there is no reason to sup-
pose that P.E. will alter its methods. It
wouldn’t be P.E. if it did —not the genuine
P.E. with the signature on the label and
the nartie blown m the bottle, as security
against fraudulent imitations.
Important to Unionists.
The establishments mentioned in the re-
spective lists below are working with union
labour. It is most important that this fact
should be carefully noted by all unionists.
The lists will be added to from time to time
as we are able to do so.
BAKERIES.
F. Wuerselling, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel streetT
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
A. M‘Leod, Queen-street.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valiev.
Hanlon, Valley.
H. Hugall, Spring Hill.
Annan and Day, West End.
Bragg Bros., Valley.
J. Enever, Valley.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
E. G. Bedgood, Milton.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., all Robb. W.
shops. Snelling, T.
Baynes Bros., all Witham, L.
shops. Crump, C.
Woodcock, W. Moore and Co.
Seven Bros. T. Cock.
Watts, W. _ Preston, W. D.
Witham, A. Bohl and Higgins.
J. Ashcroft. H. Young.
Murphy & Brodie. Summerville.
Lewis. Scarborough Bros.
Sparkes, A. Voisey Bros.
Chugg, G. Hamilton, R.
Marshall, W. Land, W.
Barstow, E. Jowett Bros.
Cardell Bros., George Street.
CAFES AND RESTAURANTS.
Kimr Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
Exchange Cafe (Berry’s), Queen-street.
Exchange Restaurant (Merton’s), Ed-
ward-street.
Chas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
I.X.L. Boarding House, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane.
GROCERS.
Queensland Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street.
Murray and Magee, Stanley-street.
Kearney, Boggo-road.
D. J. Stewart, Kangaroo Point.
C. Martin, Arthur-terrace, Red Hill.
J. R. Blane, Five ways, Woolloongabba.;
A. Lawrence, Ipswich-road.
Brown, Logan-road.
Eccles, Leichhardt-street.
Pedler, J. K., Caxton-street.
Hanlon, Paddington.
HAIRDRESSERS.
C. S. Dickson, Petrie-terrace.
J. Cavill, Edward-street.
Livingstone, Queen-street.
Yates, Joe., Brunswick-street.
Latham, R. W., George-street.
Aitchison, Queen-street.
Leggett, Queen-street.
Lowndes, George-street.
McLellan, George-street.
McMahon, George-street.
Hennesey, Wickham-street.
Mrs. Leggett, Wickham-street.
Johnson, Wickham-street.
O’Connor, Brunswick-street.
Ferguson, Stanley-street.
The ‘ ‘Daily Mail” this morning, in a
silly attempt at facetiousness, isinuates
that the Strike Committee should be
ashamed to receive a contribution from the
“poor old folk” in Dunwich. Of course,
the £3,000,000-proprietary of the “Mail”
would be grossly insulted were any of the
“poor old folk” to offer them a penny for
their wretchedly-printed rag.
V.O. stands for Vicious Oppression.
Lost pair spectacles in Montpelier-road,
soldered one side. Reward give on re-
turn to J. G. Cooper, Evelyn-street, New*
stead.
