

Official Bulletin, No. 34.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 94.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, MARCH 9, 1912
The Vapourings of Grant.
Yesterday we show r ed the childish ab-
surdity as well as the unblushing effrontery
of the statements of the Minister for Edu-
cation, at Rockhampton, when speaking of
the actions of the various specimens of
law-and-order guardians that desecrated
the streets of Brisbane* during the cur-
rency of the strike. To-day we would call
attentibn to one or tw 7 o other grotesque
announcements in another, direction, wdiich
the sapient Minister made to his listeners.
Yesterday his statements regarding the
Typographical Association were officially
show 7 n to be devoid of an iota of truth. To-
day we call attention to his statements as
to warehouses. Mr. Grant is reported to
have said: ‘ ■ He could tell them of 20 or
JO big warehouses in Brisbane that would
not now 7 employ union labour.” In the
first place, w 7 here did the imaginative
Minister get his f “ 20 or 30 big warehouses”
from ? They certainly are not in any pub-
lished directory. Then, if these Avarehouses
Avere performing some meritorious action,
such as the crushing of unionism, which Mr.
Grant says has such a effect on the
community, w 7 hy not publish their names
to the w orld, so that their services to the
State will receive due recognition ? We
have lists of houses that carry on their
business entirely by means of Union labour
published every day, and special attention
is called to the fact. Why, then, if there
is something for the State director of Edu-
cation to exult over in the knowledge that
20 or 30 large warehouses exclude unionists,
does he not make known as widely as
possible the names and addresses of these
authors of his jubilation ? He surely would
be doing them and his less-enlightened
fellow citizens a great service, not to speak
of justice, if he would pass along the Avord
that such a w arehouse or shop in Brisbane
does not employ a single unionist. Mr.
Grant know r s just as Avell as he does of his
own existence that w 7 ere he to make such
an announcement the warehouse, in the
first place, might sue him for damage to its
business, and in the next it w 7 ould only be
a question of a few 7 months till that ware-
house would be run by people who Avould
justifiably and proudly boast that no black-
leg labour was tolerated in their establish-
ment. We invite Mr. Grant to test this
matter in any practical Avay he likes.
And yet Mr. Grant says trades unionism
is smashed in Brisbane, and that he knows
of various unions that have disbanded. If
he does know this, he knoAvs more than
any union secretary in the Trades Hall,
and he certainly is more conversant with
union matters than he is Avith those of the
department for which he draws £l,OOO a
year for administering.
By making the statements re the ware-
houses that he has done* Mr. Grant also
deals roughly w 7 ith the employers, as in
almost every case w 7 hen the men declined
to Avork any longer till the tramway men’s
grievances Avere remedied they were told
their places Avould be open to them when
they returned. And we are pleased to say
that in only a very few cases have the em-
ployers proved false to ,their promise.
The Great Strike in England.
A CONTRAST. .
We give the latest news from the scene
of the big strike in England. Just com-
pare the action of the Government there
with the poor, despicable conduct of those
Ave have got here :
The Industrial Council of the Board of
Trade, because of the resumption of nego-
tiations by the Government, has suspended
meetings until Tuesday next.
It is reported at Cardiff that some of
the leading colliery ow ners in South Wales
who hitherto have been restrained by the
extreme pressure of the “no surrenderors,”
will break aw 7 ay and join the English col-
liery owners in effecting a settlement on
the miners’ terms.
It is significant that conferences of the
coal owners are being held in all parts of
the country at the invitation of the Prime
Minister.
The Mayor of Stoke-on-Trent, in Staf-
fordshire, that he is unable to
cope with the distress in the town. Eighty
thousand children are affected, £140,000
per week in w 7 ages having been withdrawn.
(So far King George has not eulogised
the supporters of so-called law and order.
But, then, he is more sensible than his
Queensland representative. —Ed. O.B.)
THE SHIPPING TROUBLE.
The compulsory conference summoned
by the President of the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court, in connection w 7 ith the ship-
ping dispute in New 7 South Wales and
Queensland, lasted three-quarters of an
hour. At the close, an official notification
w 7 as issued by the registrar to the effect
that the parties had informed 'the Presi-
dent that the strike had oeen declared off,
and that matters w r ould go on as formerly.
Some difficulty, however, might arise with
regard to vessels loaded by free labour dur-
ing the strike, or immediately afterwards.
The representatives at the conference
agreed to communicate w ith their branches
to ascertain the true position. If any
necessity arose, the President would re-
sume the conference this morning, but the
indications were that the w hole matter will
he disposed of satisfactorily, and that
w r ork will go on as before the strike.
It is rumoured in the city that a citizen
died in the Hospital to-day, who it is
said, was injured in a tram car accident at
Clarence Corner a few 7 days ago. Does the
daily Press know 7 anything of this, and, if
so, why this unanimous silence?
Lest They Forget.
Baton Friday Barbarity.
Already one small dose of the “Courier”
version of batoning of peaceful citizens on
Baton Friday has been administered to
Mister Paunchy Plunder in the form of
“ Bulletin” pills, and here is a second
dose, without sugar coating :
(“Courier,” Noon Edition, Saturday,
February 3, 1912.)
“DETERMINED BATON CHARGES.
“ALBERT SQUARE SENSATIONS.
“ The unionists w ho had mustered in
force in Turbot street, outside the Trades
H all, displayed the manifest intention of
organising a procession. . . . The
apparent intention of the processionists
was to march into Market Square and
thus round the city. Accordingly the
police w ere drawn up across the roadway
from Roma Street Barracks to Albert
Street Church, a double line of mounted
men, and a few 7 yards in front of them
a double line of foot constables. It
was deemed well to arm the latter w ith
carbines, and in order to make the posi-
tion more secure, bayonets were fixed.
Presently a large squad of
special constables, a fine athletic looking
body from the volunteer force, the
athletic clubs, and officers of the Public
Service, were marched into the Square,
under the command of mounted police
officers.
‘ ‘ It is said that at the Trades Hall
the crow 7 d w ere in that direction exhorted
by some of the leaders to disperse, and
they were informed that arrangements
would be made w ith butchers and bakers
to prevent any shortage of food sup-
plies
‘ ‘ The crowd across Ann-street, on the
George-street side, w r as first driven back,
and Slow ed a desire to resist, some of the
more obstreperous persons staying behind
until the troopers literally rode them off
their feet. . . .
“ For a considerable time the police
refrained from any real move. .
Presently, however, there was every in-
dication of them and the specials being
swept from their positions by the excited
mob, and prompt action w 7 as taken, evi-
dently in pursuance of a w-ell-thought-
out plan
“ Mounted men drove back the crow d,
which surged from the upper end of Ann
street into the square, and another cor-
don was placed across the thoroughfare.
. Commissioner Cahill in person
led the charge in different directions, and
w 7 hen some of the crowd went so far as
to aim blow s at him, he, too, drew 7 liis
baton, and cleared a way around him.
A stirring scene w 7 as witnessed as the
crow d was forced back against the hoard-
ings Avhich surround the Town Hall site.
Many of them stood sullenly against the
wall, and refused to move (they couldn’t
get through the Aval)) until they were
actually forced back by the breasts of the
horses.
“A considerable number of women
wearing the red badge of the strikers
were-in the crowd THE
DETERMINATION OF THE FORCE
MADE ITSELF FELT, the still shout-
ing crowd being steadily dispersed, BUT
NOT BEFORE A NUMBER OF THEM
HAD BEEN STRUCK DOWN.
“THE AMBULANCE BRIGADE
WAS ON THE SCENE ATTENDING
TO THE INJURED PROMPTLY.
“SOME OF THOSE WHO WERE
STRUCK WERE ABLE TO LEAVE
UNASSISTED. OTHERS HAD TO BE
CARRIED OFF BY THE BEARERS.”
That will suit splendidly for the second
dose of 4 “Courier” version. Of course it is
not anything like the real picture, which
will be painted vividly in print at the pro-
per time.
Now 7 , how 7 does this “Courier” version
of Baton Friday contrast w 7 ith the Hon,
Ken. Grant’s denial of the terrible deeds
of that day five w 7 eeks after the event?
Has the Minister for Education, or have
Denham, Cahill, and Co., the courage to
publish the record of cases treated by the
Ambulance Brigade on Baton Friday. The
baton bludgeoning of peaceful citizens in
public places will take a power of covering
up. People do not soon forget baton
whacks.
WHERE IS POLICEMAN CAHILL?
It is reported to us to-day, on w 7 hat we
consider positively the best of authority,
that a- “ scab ” tram employee, w T ho is also
a “ special,” struck a wharf labourer last
night a cruel blow w r ith a baton. It felled
the man to the earth and badly hurt his
head. The Ambulance w ere called, and re-
moved the injured man to the Hospital. A
lady w 7 ho was present asked the constable
w 7 hy he did not arrest the “special-scab.”
The reply w 7 as, ‘‘ If the man dies w 7 e will
have the assaulter arrested!” The man is
now out of hospital, badly hurt and suffer-
ing from slight concussion of the brain.
Apparently the special thugs can do every-
thing short of actual murder w r ith im-
punity. Will Cahill of Black Friday
notoriety inquire into this glaring case ?
Persons who have sent claims into the
Electoral Office to have their names placed
on the electoral rolls should not cease to
inquire as to when their claims will
dealt with. The court, which should have
sat in February, has not been held yet, and
when it does meet, there are a large num-
ber of claims to be considered. Watch,
because these names should be confirmed
early in April to entitle them to a vote at
the forthcoming general election.
Comrade Craker’s Funeral.
POLICE INTERFERENCE WITH THE
BURIAL.
Commissioner Cahill’s Command to Alter
the Route.
Denham, Cahill, and Co. are trying to
cover up the truth about the strike. The
elections are rapidly approaching, and the
State poAvers are being used to make credu-
lous citizens believe that nothing outrage-
ous was done by insane authority. For
instance, statements have been published
denying that Cahill ordered the route of
the funeral of Unionist Craker to be
altered.
The proof that Cahill did command
that the funeral of the young unionist,
who was killed in Queen-street by a tram-
car, should be altered, will be found in the
“Telegraph” of Thursday, February 29,
over the signature of Cahill as Commis-
sioner of Police. The advertisement speaks
for itself, thus :
“THE BRISBANE TRAFFIC ACTS
1905 TO 1910.
“PUBLIC NOTICE.
“Notice is hereby given that on
TO-DAY (Thursday), 29th February, the
route of the Funeral Cortege of the late
William Craker SHALL BE from Green
Terrace, Swan Hill, to Bowen Bridge road,
and thence via Gregory Terrace, College
road, Petrie Terrace, Milton road, Cribb
street, River road, and Sylvan road, to the
Brisbane General Cemetery at Toowong,
and tram car traffic is suspended during
the passage of the funeral procession in
the streets en route used by the trams.
“W. G. CAHILL,
‘ ‘ Commissioner for Police.
“Police Dept., Commissioner’s Office,
Brisbane, 29th Feb., 1912.”
Surely Commissioner Cahill will not
deny an act over his own official signature.
The route arranged in the first in-
stance—by the friends of the young
unionist—was to the Toowong Cemetery,
via Bowen Bridge road, Brunswick street,
Leichhardt street, Wharf street, Ann
street, and North Quay.
Will Commissioner Cahill deny that an
attempt was made to induce the friends of
the dead unionist to alter the time of the
funeral? Will he deny that an attempt
was made to induce the undertaker to
start the funeral earlier than the time ad-
vertised, presumably with the object of
preventing unionists from following the re-
mains of Comrade Craker to their last
resting place ? Will he deny that a
mounted police officer rode in front of the
carter’s comrades who walked to the ceme-
tery in front of the hearse? Will he deny
that mounted and foot police, uniformed
and ragged, were out w 7 ith batons and
sabres, and that the police were practic-
ally in possession of the route which w 7 as
advertised by the friends of the deceased?
Does any citizen know of a similar act of
oppression anywhere ? What would have
happened if the friends of the dead unionist
insisted on the funeral proceeding along
the route advertised by the friends of
Craker? Would the batons have been
used to block the passage of the dead
unionist to the cemetery ?
“ FREE ” LABOURERS.
In the industrial movement the term
‘ ‘ free ’ ’ labourer is the polite name given
to one who, whilst enjoying the shorter
hours, higher w T ages, and other advantages
w on at the cost of and by the self-sacrifice
of his mates, wdll contribute nothing to-
wards the organisation that assists him,
and claims he is free because he does not
join it; one who is ever ready, when his
mates are struggling to better both his
and their conditions, to step in and help
the sweater to down them.
The political ‘ ‘ free ’ ’ labourer is one
who, whilst loudly proclaiming himself “as
good as Labour,” at the earliest opportu-
nity comes out in his true colours, be-
comes the bitterest opponent of the party
who are pledged to loyally support the
Labour platform, and, Judas-like, betrays
his trusting constituents into the hands of
the very party they had elected him to
keep out.
A CORRECTION.
Not the Colonel, but the A.D.C.
We reported last night a speech by
“Colonel” Foxton, in which he had told
the men on parade that politics must not
be discussed by them w r hile in uniform.
We may state that it was “Captain”
Foxton, A.D.C., who made the remarks.
The rank and file must not discuss politics,
but the “ hossifers ” discussed it a while
back in uniform and wdth batons, not
words, for arguments. Why one law for
the private and another for his “ Boss ” ?
NOT SO DEGRADED.
Albert Scanlan, boxer, denies the
rumour that he had acted as special con-
stable during the general strike.
[We are well aware that the popular
Albert did not act as snecial batoner. —
Ed. O.B.]
Through an inadvertence, the name of
Mr. J. W. Case was inserted in the
“ Official Bulletin” as being the delegate
of the Musicians’ Union on the Strike
Committee. It w r as Mr. A. E. Henley who
represented the Musicians on the Com-
bined Unions Committee.
Water and Sewerage Board
Election.
Citizens of Brisbane Water area are
again informed that the election for repre-
sentatives on the Board takes places on
Wednesday next, 13th inst. The three
endorsed candidates are:
ALD. T. WILSON (Labour represen-
tative).
ALF. S. WATERFIELD (Amal. En-
gineers’ Society).
JOHN BARKER (Plumbers’ Union).
These three men stand in the interest of
Labour and unionism, and every worker
who is a househoulder should roll up to the
poll and vote for them.
Mr. R. D. NORTH has also accepted
the platform, and workers are advised to
give him the fourth vote which will be
necessary in order to make the ballot paper
valid.
The roll can be seen now 7 at the Water
Board Office, Waterside Workers’ Union
Rooms, and Trades Hall.
Do not forget that Walkeden, who w 7 as
last time returned on the Labour ticket,
was a most ardent “special” constable
during the strike.
The Baton Brigade.
On Thursday night, when the big fire
was at its most illuminating point, five or
six ex-fire brigade men who w 7 ere present
noticed a few’ firemen struggling w T ith a
hose filled with water that should have
been handled by at least double the num-
ber of men who w ere then available. The
ex-fire-savers, seeing the dilemma of the
men in uniform, and thoroughly under-
standing the strain a hose could stand,
apart from the risk of its being damaged
when carried round an acute angle, w 7 ere
giving some valuable assistance, when a
posse of police, with drawn batons, led on
by two notorious bludgeoners, swooped
down on them, and menacingly ordered
them aw r ay. Were not these policemen
obsessed with a passion for batoning, they
would have seen that these men were well
acquainted with the work, as did many
others of the onlookers, and instead of
chasing them aw ay would have seen that
no obstacle was placed in the way of their
carrying on the property-saving task.
This took place when a hose was being run
into Stew 7 art’s lane, at about the most
critical point in the conflagration, and the
ex-Brisbane Fire Brigade men had no time
to report themselves to Superintendent
Hinton, otherwise it is certain he at all
events would not have ordered several of
his former best men away under threat
of having their heads broken. We hope
the insurance companies will recognise the
services of the police on this occasion, and
reward them accordingly. The classical
quotation, that “Nero fiddled while Rome
burned,” can now 7 be altered when used in
Brisbane, to “The police batoned when
the firemen tried to save.”
CONFECTIONERS’ UNION.
Mr. A. Haysom, president of the Con-
fectioners’ Union, writes as follows: —
Having heard on several occasions that the
Confectioners’ Union had disbanded. I am
pleased to state that quite the reverse is
the case. I wish to state that last night’s
(Friday) meeting w as the best that I have
presided over since the formation of the
union, and that two new 7 members were
placed on our roll. Also, that three more
are coming for enrolment at our next
meeting.
FEDERATED HOUSE AND SHIP
PAINTERS.
Below are given a few points gained by
this association during the general strike.
There was a general solidarity of members,
whose numbers were increased by over 50.
Big meetings were held every day, and the
work of the executive brought about a
large amount of enthusiasm. Co-operative
concerns, the need of a Labour daily, and
many other matters were discussed. It wa§
also decided to appoint a permanent secre-
tary, who will do a lot of organising work.
A special meeting of the union will be held
in the Temperance Hall, on Wednesday
night next, when a complete scheme of
organisation and other matters will be
dealt with. A secretary has been appointed
temporarily, and a full meeting is re-
quested on Wednesday night, so as to make
a permanent appointment.
Does Senator Pearce, Minister for De-
fence, know 7 that the following officers ol
his forces served during the strike as
specials? The refusal of his Government
to order out the military isn’t much use if
Denham can get there all the same : —Dr.
Woolrabe, Dr. Sutton, Major Alfred
Moon, Llew r elyn Stephens, Major Sankey,
Colonel Koch, Captain Stoddart, and
Major Hubert Harris.
All matters in connection with this
stalwart body of men are going on very
satisfactorily, all resuming work on the
same conditions as existed prior to the
strike. Mr. Mat. M‘Cabe had an inter-
view" this morning w T ith the Commissioner
for Railways, when an amicable under-
standing w r as arrived at in connection with
the unloading of railway material. ____
The residents of Kangaroo Point have
asked us to specially thank Mr. Bob Wylie,
Y. 0., for his good work in connection with
“Bulletin*’ distribution. No matter, rain
or shine, Bob has never missed an issue.
It is the army of unpaid enthusiasts like
Comrade Wylie that make our Movement
the noblest the earth has ever seen.
The Wickham Park Rally.
GREAT MEETING.
IMMENSE ENTHUSIASM.
We give a few’ further remarks regard-
ing the big meeting in Wickham Park, on
Thursday night, which were accidentally
mislaid yesterday.
A great crow 7 d, numbering many thou-
sands of men and women, assembled in
Wickham Park, on Thursday night last, to
hear addresses from the Strike Leaders.
Mr. P. A. McLachlan, M.L.A., President
Brisbane Traimvay Union, occupied the
chair, and introduced the various speakers.
Mr. Harry Coyne, w 7 ho was loudly cheered,
detailed the history of the strike, and
claimed that it was an object-lesson to Aus-
tralia and the world in working-class
loyalty and solidarity. He thanked all
ranks for the devotion they had displayed
to their committee, and the splendid obedi-
ence to orders, and also their remarkable
discipline, which, in spite of all the cruel
and cowardly provocation they had re-
ceived, had enabled them to finish a long
and bitter struggle with credit to them-
selves and honour to the great cause of in-
dustrial unionism. He outlined the princi-
pal events of the strike, and stressed
particularly the evil deeds of the Press,
the police, and the Government. He
specially thanked the women folk for their
service during a very trying ordeal, and
also the various members of the State La-
bour party, who had assisted the strikers so
materially. Mr. W. F. Finlay son, whose
name w 7 as loudly cheered, also came in for
special thanks for the brave fight he had
made. Mr. Coyne whs very effective when
dealing w ith the work of the Strike Com-
mittee, and when he asked if they felt that
the committee deserved their confidence a
inightly shout of “ Yes” went up, while on
appeal not a single “No” was forthcoming.
Ringing cheers were given for Mr. Coyne
when he stood down.
Mr. J. Payne, M.L.A., next said a few
words, and he vigorously condemned the
“Government of Policeman Cahill” and
his “specials.” His vigorous remarks
w r ere well received.
Mr. Jack Moir, wTio w 7 as the next speaker,
was loudly cheered. He dealt, amongst
other things with the financial w 7 ork of the
committee, and the frequent frantic yells of
the enemy for a balance-sheet. He ex-
plained that this would be forthcoming in
good time, and expressed the hope that the
Employers’ Federation would be ready to
submit one also. He justified the tactics
of the Strike Committee in the different
moves made, and made a fine point when
he claimed that, as in actual warfare so
in industrial warfare, the general and his
council of planned the campaign.
Knowdng the forces they had at their dis-
posal, the material and money and other
means at command, and that no outsider
had any right to criticise those plans. The
industrial fight was on all the time, and
the general strike was only one of the
necessary moves.
Mr. Joe Codings had, as usual, a
great reception, and delivered a charac-
teristic address. He dealt severely wdth
the lies of the Press, and paid a great tri-
bute to the devotion of the men and women
to the principle they had been fighting for.
He urged the absolute necessity of a politi-
cal victory at the polls, in order to com-
plete the industrial successes already
achieved. He appealed to them not to
patronise any company, w 7 hether transit,
newspaper, or trading which had opposed
the workers in their fight, and asked them
to insist in all shops on being served by
unionists only, and unionists with badges
on at that. He concluded with an earnest
appeal to all workers to understand
socialism and the need for the abolition of
capitalism. Ringing cheers concluded the
meeting, which w 7 as one of the largest and
most enthusiastic ever held in Brisbane.
WHY NOT THEIR PICTURES?
Much prominence has been given in
the prints of Capitalism to presentations
to the “ Special ” force .and C.C. heroes in
the railw ay. Why have not the pictures of
these patriots been published in the day-
lies P They’d cause the Piute papers to be
rushed like “Strike Bulletins.”
TRAMWAY MEN’S BENEFIT.
The postponed benefit towards the
Tramway lock-out will take place on 16th
March, in the Gynasium Hall. Ticket
holders, please note, and all Unionists
should roll up.
PEOPLE’S SUNDAY AFTERNOON
SERVICE.
CENTENNIAL HALL,
Sunday Afternoon Next, at 3.
Sermon by REV. J. S POLLOCK.
bOLOS by MBS. KINGSTON.
Hymn, from Presbyterian Hymnary.
EVERYBODY WELCOME.
All Trade Unionists and sympathiser*
should hear this sermon.
