

Official Bulletin, No. 52.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 52.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, MARCH 30, 1912.
Consistency in All Things.
There is a coterie of black-coated
clergymen within this fair city of Bris-
bane who feel it incumbent on them to de-
nounce members of the Labour Party for
tlieir attitude towards having certain
Bible lessons read in State schools. These
Labour people are threatened with the
political vengeance of some 80,000 voters
who worked themselves into a fury to have
those lessons forced on the pupils. Is
there anything in these Bible lessons about
observing one day of the w r eek for other
than secular or mundane affairs. If there
is these dogmatists should do one of tw 7 o
things —they should either turn that page
down or else turn Premier Denham up.
There surely cannot be much use in telling
children one day that they must be very
nice boys and girls on Sunday, and an-
other day (and night too) belauding a man
as the most righteous in the land who not
only goes down the Bay fishing on Sunday
himself, but also compels some 14 or 15
men to go w ith him—men, perhaps, with
families amongst w r hom they should be
joining in family prayers. Premier Den-
ham’s Press applauders told us last Tues-
day that that gentleman had just returned
the previous day after having a very en-
joyable Sunday down the bay in the Gov-
ernment steamer Lucinda ; if he carried a
clergyman among the crew 7 the fact w 7 asn’t
noticed in the Press.
Archbishop Wright, of Sydney is ener-
getically protesting against the Royal
Agricultural Show’ being thrown open on
Good Friday. Could he consistently vote
for a man to take control of the State’s af-
fairs who passed his Sunday between fish-
ing, &c., and preparing a policy speech. If
Dave Bow 7 in an did this how 7 he would be
denounced !
DEATH OF MR. ANDREW
McLACHLAN.
Trades-unionists and democrats of all
shades of opinion, as well as those w 7 ho
admire a dutiful and unselfish son* will
regret to hear that Mr. Andrew’ M'Lach-
lan, father of the well-known and respec-
ted Peter, who has so faithfully served the
Yalleyites in the Legislative Assembly,
passed away this morning. The deceased,
who resided for many years in Gympie
prior to coming to Brisbane, was over 80
years of age, and had been in delicate
health for some time. We in common,
we are sure, w ith the great majority of the
citizens of Brisbane —and in fact of the
people of the State —tender our sincere
sympathy to the deceased’s son and fam-
ily, and hope the consciousness that he did
his duty to his father, as he has at all
times done to his fellow 7 -men, will go some
way tb alleviate the pain the true-heated
Peter must feel at the separation.
The funeral will leave deceased’s resi-
dence, J ames-street, Teneriffe, to-morrow
(Sunday) afternoon, at 2 o’clock, for the
Lutwyche Cemetery.
The Price of a Badge.
WHAT TYRANNY COST THE TRAM
MONOPOLY.
If the Brisbane unionists who w ent on
strike in defence of their comrades, the
members of the Tramwmy Union, w ould un-
derstand the pow er that organised Labour
can wield when it takes ‘ ‘ a peaceful holi-
day,” let them ponder well over the figures
given below 7 .
These disclose the loss, as far as returns
are concerned, from the first day of the
strike up to February 29 last. Added to
this there is the further loss to date, and it
will be interesting to watch for March re-
turns, for, as everyone know r s, thousands of
men and women are still refusing to patron-
ise the cars, at great personal inconveni-
ence to themselves, “ for conscience sake.”
The figures here given are taken from
the Brisbane Stock Exchange monthly re-
port published yesterday, and are, of
course, authentic and official. Here they
are:—
BRISBANE TRAMWAYS COMPANY, LIMITED.
Table of Monthly Receipts.
Total for
Year. January. February. 2 Months.
.1906 £11,015 12 1 £9,772 16 8 £20,788 8 9
1907 12,464 19 1 11,007 110 23,472 011
1908 14,335 710 13,338 13 6 27,674 1 4
1909 15,358 6 0 13,766 8 3 29,124 14 3
1910 17,090 18 9 15,751 5 10 32,842 4 7
1911 19,158 4 2 17,676 3 8 36,834 7 10
1912 *17,034 4 7 *6,701 18 6 23,736 3 1
Strike for 13 days.
♦Owing to the Strike the total car mileage for
the month was 113,929 miles, as compared with
273,712 miles for February, 1911.
The loss in receipts for the six w 7 eeks is
thus shown to be £13,098/4/9, or £2,183
per w 7 eek. Surely £3OO per day is a high
price to pay, even for a giant monopoly like
the Brisbane Tramways Company, Ltd., for
the privilege of exercising the despotic
power of depriving its employees of a sim-
ple right—the right to wear a badge—which
right has been specifically declared by Aus-
tralian State and Statute law to be dis-
tinctly legal.
We have seen the Jim Crow members
of the Ministry and their abject newspaper
parrots exulting over the ‘ ‘ crushing de-
feat” of the workers and the glorious vic-
tory scored by capital, but another such
victory, and capital w 7 ill just about score
itself off the stock and share list.
A number of deaths from starvation
have occurred in the Potteries districts in
England as a result of the coal strike.
Lest We Forget.
The following letter was sent to the
“ Daily Mail ” close on 11 months ago, but
was refused publication, unless the writer
consented to its being made useless by
emasculation. We publish it now, as it
will serve to bring the minds of the public
back to the beginning of the more acute
stage of the tram trouble. Later
on we may give a synopsis of events that
happened between the men and the tyran-
nical monopplv dating as far back as
1904:
TRAMWAY TROUBLES.
To the Editor of “ The Daily Mail.’ 1
Sir, —I crave space in your valuable
and widely read paper to make an explan-
ation. In Saturday’s issue of the “Cour-
ier ” the manager of the Brisbane Tram-
way’s Company flatly denies having in
any w 7 ay interfered with the band, and
states that at present the same conditions
that hitherto existed remain. Against
this we have 17 union men in the band who
state that at Tuesday night’s Dutton Park
concert, the hand secretary (w ho is a non-
unionist) informed them if they did not
withdraw 7 from the union the band would
be wound up and the instruments, most of
which belong to the company, were to be
returned at the end of the season, as it
was their intention to reorganise on a dif-
ferent basis next season. So, Mr. Bad-
ger’s statement that the position at pres-
ent is the same as formerly applies to the
present season only, now almost expired.
In connection with the recreation club’s
rooms, it is true the different secretaries
were notified that in seven days the com-
pany would require the rooms. Now’ we
do not question Mr. Badger’s right to do
as he thinks proper with the company’s
property, but why does he not state the
whole of the case. He says there is an
organisation of tramway men in Brisbane
known as the Brisbane Tramway Em-
ployees’ Association, and he intends to
have these rooms fitted up for the use of
them and their friends for recreation pur-
poses only. There is considerably less than
100 members in this association ; but the
manager does not say there is in Brisbane
among the tramway men a registered or-
ganisation know n as the Australian Tram-
way Employees’ Association w ith 500 mem-
bers (perhaps he thinks this is well known
after Monday’s demonstration), many of
whom have had the use of the rooms for
the last 12 years, and now’ have to seek
fresh quarters on very short notice for no
other reason than that they dared to form
a union. No demands other than recog-
nition for their union have yet been made.
Now I think, in fairness to all, the
position of the men should be made know 7 n
publicly. We are working at present un-
der a Wages Board award, w hich began on
Ist July, 1909, and which clearly set out
that 51 hours should constitute a week’s
work, all overtime to be paid for at 11
rates. Some time previous to this time-
tables to run as near as possible to 51
hours were drawn up by the company and
submitted and approved of by the Wages
Board members before a determination
was arrived at ; and I might also say this
determination was in almost every in-
stance unanimous. From July 1, 1909,
till March 24, 1910, this was strictly ad-
hered to, but then w ithout consulting the
men a new’ timetable was framed v r hich re-
duced the hours from 51 to 47 in some
instances, or an average of 49 hours per
week. At this time the transportation
superintendent w as absent through a very
serious illness. By reducing the hours of
labour in this manner the overtime in most
cases was paid for at single rates.
It also was agreed that men should
sign off and on at their own depots, but
as it would be a saving of time (also of
dollars) hey signed some of them off on he
road. When the manager was waited on
and the situation explained, he granted
that regular hands be allowed the privilege
(sic) of signing off and on as before, but
casuals should and do sign on and off by he
roadway.
Now we have this registered associa-
tion which was formed after strenuous ef-
forts on the management’s side (and a sec-
tion of the employees) to oppose it, and we
are still unable to get recognition, and
some of the members who in some cases
have from eight to 12 years’ service in the
company are being victimised for belong-
ing to it. Just fancy a man with that
length of service being sent to a doctor for
medical examination. On the other hand,
the other association is being helped in
every w 7 ay that it is possible. Prefer-
ence to non-unionists seems to be the rule.
Under these circumstances we humbly
ask w 7 hat it is to be done if we take ex-
treme measures. The travelling public be-
tween whom and the men the most friendly
feelings exist, w 7 ill suffer extreme incon-
venience and loss, to say nothing about an-
noyance and other things. Our object has
always been to promote the interests of the
company, and the safety, well-being, and
convenience of the community in general,
and we are very loth to do anything which
might destroy this amicable state of af-
fairs. Yet on the other hand we cannot
stand by and see our fellow workers singled
out one by one, to wait for the command,
“ Halt ; your turn next,” without raising
a finger to help them, while at the same
time their places are being filled by w’hat is
know’n as free w 7 orkers, men who have pro-
mised not to join the union.
I have the honour to be
Yours in the interests of humanity
and justice.
R. M. CHAMP.
May 7, 1911.
’Tis not the man but his expressions
that the world honours or loathes.
Campaign Items.
MAREE ELECTORATE.
Labour Candidate Will Bertram will
open his campaign on Wednesday next,
April 3rd, in the picture pavilion, Pine-
apple Grounds. Mr. Finlayson M.P. and
other Labour speakers w ill probably assist
the candidate. Anticipating a large at-
tendance the committee are reserving
about 200 seats for ladies.
OXLEY ELECTORATE.
The women electors of Oxley are cord-
ially invited to attend a meeting in the
Junction Hall, Annerley-road, on Wednes-
day, 3rd April, at 3 p.m.
Mesdames Huxham, Craig, Skirving
and Martin will address their fellow’
women as to how to assist in the return
of the endorsed Labour candidate, C. W.
Martin.
BRISBANE W.P.O.
A meeting of the campaign committee
who are making the necessary arrange-
ments for the return of the endorsed Lab-
our candidate, M. J. Kirw 7 an, will be held
to-morrow T (Sunday) afternoon at 2.30, at
the Trades Hall. Trade unionists are
specially invited to attend the meeting and
assist in the direction of returning a direct
representative of their interests to Parlia-
ment.
Ladies are specially invited to assist, and
in this connection Mrs. Finney (Cottage,
Trades Hall) will be pleased to meet any
women workers who are desirous of making
an effort to return the Labour candidate.
PADDINGTON AFFAIRS.
Jack Fihelly opens Tuesday night at
corner of Hale and Regent-streets. On
Thursday he will probably open at Spring
Hill.
Red Hill Committee meet at Mr.
Lloyd’s rooms, near Norman Hall, on Mon-
day at 8 p.m. Upper Paddington com-
mittee meet at Paddington same night at
same time. All sympathisers are invited.
“Bulletins” are obtainable nightly at Mr.
Dickson’s shop, Petrie-terrace, Mr. O.
Nugent’s shop, Leichhardt-street, and at
Mr. Connolly’s shop Water-street.
ITHACA ELECTORATE.
J. T. Gilday, the endorsed Labour
candidate for Ithaca, will open his cam-
paign in the Foresters’ Hall, Given-ter-
race, on Wednesday next, April 3rd, at
8 p.m.
Messrs W. F .Finlayson M.P., and C.
Boulton, organiser for the C.P.E.. will also
address the meeting. Labourites should
all roll up and hear how 7 the discarded
Treasurer of the Kidston Government is
to he sent back to the Council for another
prolonged slumber.
THE RAILWAY INQUISITION.
This agonising institution continues
to give pleasure to itself and prestige (?)
to the Government at the risk of degrada-
tion to those who are summoned before it,
at great loss and discredit to the Sucre, to
the disgust of the public, and the possible
humiliation of our whole industrial life.
If the inquisitors are endowed with a
superabundance tf ciaft, some at/ least of
those who are being used to make a rail-
way holiday are not devoid of courage.
Had these snags been encountered at the
beginning, it is doubtful if the Star Cham-
ber w 7 ould have lasted so long. The weak-
lings were evidently selected at the start to
show those coming after them the demean-
our to be observed in the presence of the
mighty seven and the representatives of
the censored Press. But that little trick
also failed, as some of the men lately mak-
ing statements have made these railway
lawyers look very foolish.
As might be expected, there were two
Browns figuring in the farce ; but these
must not be confused. One made an en-
viable name for himself at Ipswich ; it is
somewhat too previous to predict w hat the
other w ill yet manufacture. One also act-
ed as the arcli-inquisitor, w 7 hile the other
was the one w 7 hom it w 7 as unsuccessfully at-
tempted to place on the rack. The
name seems to be the only sign of
similarity between them.
SECTARIAN SHE-DEVILS AFTER
SHERRY.
The sliemale Bible brigade are out with
their fangs uncovered, secretly stirring up
the sectarian devil. In the South Bris-
bane contest a sky-pilot’s sheelah is dis-
gracing her sex by the manner in which
she is displaying venomous bigotry. When
it comes to prostituting religious pre-
judices to catch votes, the Butterbox back-
sliders must be thoroughly demoralised.
SOUTH BRISBANE LABOUR CAM-
PAIGN COMMITTEE.
Under the auspices of the lady mem-
bers of the above Committee A GRAND
SOCIAL AND DANCE will be held in the
Merton-road Hall, off Stanley Street,
5.8., on MONDAY EVENING NEXT,
Ist April, 1912. Good music. Tickets
1/- each. Refreshments.
HAROLD R. HUXHAM,
Hon. Sec. L.B. Lab. Campaign Com-
mittee.
In the Firing Line.
SOME SCRAPS OF SHRAPNELL.
Digby Denham’s opening speech is an
outrageous piece of make-believe. It is the
old appeal on the strength of Baton Friday,
wrapped in a more verbal garb.
* * *
What is really suggested is: “I w r ould
have liked to do so many things, but I
haven’t done them, and I’m not going to do
them.”
* * *
It says little for the combination of an
under secretary, the sea, the Lucinda, and
a mannikin Premier.
* * *
A cadet reporter couldn’t have spread
himself over two columns to better advan-
tage on a squalid maternitv case.
* * *
Under secretaries find words, draw sal-
aries, and speak into the Premier Grama-
phone—Edison’s greatest invention.
* * *
The “Courier” is publishing much as-
sorted tripe from tory clerics. Why, the
most bitter opponents of Lincoln’s slavery
emancipation were these saintly gentry.
* * *
According to our great daily, Mr. R.
Trout gave a stirring address on constitu-
tional law v. mob rule. Yet they say it is
a recognised axiom that a fellow never
makes a pal the butt of his little pleasant-
ries. Dick would just know the difference
between a pound of beef and constitutional
law 7, and the only matter he could get into
a stirring mood w r ith would be porridge.
* * *
Alas, these independents! Nice man
McDonald, at the Warrego, has no time for
Denham. McCauley, for Cunningham,
thinks Iscariot Hysteria an excellent man.
One argument is used to help McD., the
other to help Denham !!
* * *
Denham openly admits that he would
give a minister’s ransom to get possession
of the brains which the Labour Party is
placing at the disposal of the metropolitan
elections.
* * *
Mick Kir wan is infusing life and vigour
into the city. He gave pomposity a severe
trouncing on Wednesday, and if he can
only get the voters to roll up he will sur-
prise the three daily liars.
* * *
Mrs. Finney is doing yeoman service,
and the male section of Mick’s committee
are working indefatigably.
* * *
The Railway Inquisition should win a
few seats for Denham. Sample of cross-
examination by departmental heads: —
“Now 7, come on.” “Be honest.” “Be a
man.” Be manly, and tells us.” “Try and
speak up.” “Be truthful.” “Make an
effort now 7 to be honest,” and so on.
* * *
Every third query was an insult, or a
huge lump of gratuitous impudence.
* * *
Leader Dave is assured of victory in the
Valley, but every vote is wanted. Fowles,
of the alphabetical handle, has quite recov-
ered from his Merthyr sandbagging.
* * *
The Windsor Labour people had better
be careful, or they will become recognised
as the cream of organisation. Jack Cramp-
ton’s committee run into three figures. Let
it be hoped they are active. Jack is an able
man, who deserves success.
* * *
Billy Bertram has some enthusiastic
supporters at Maree, and the house that
the angel doesn’t touch with the sword of
an electoral roll is surely empty. The
youngsters of the movement are restless
with unwanted energy.
* * *
Ithaca is responding splendidly. Jack
Gilday has ballast and judgment—and,
listen, mine comrades—the old w r arhorse
smells the battle.
* * *
On the last Saturday in April, w 7 hen
Billy Lloyd says: “It’s up to you now 7,”
there won’t be an elector of Enoggera men-
dacious enough to say he hasn’t seen him
or heard from him.
* * *
Lewis McDonald starts his campaign on
Wednesday, and the little giant of six and
eightpenny intrigue w 7 ill hear a few home
trusts vigorously delivered. The grass isn’t
growing near Labour’s footsteps in Too-
w7ong.
* * *
If you see a young energetically
peddling a bike out Paddington way, and
later on on Spring Hill or Red Hill, or Mil-
ton, or Queen-street —all in the space of an
hour or so—you can understand that Jack
Fihelly is on the warpath. There isn’t a
part of the electorate he isn’t in touch with.
* * *
Joe Sherry’s committee rooms at Stan-
ley-street are a veritable hive of industry.
The history of the Labour movement is
posted all over the wall in a subdued decora-
tive scheme, and the w 7 hole outfit is as busy
as a Queen-street hostelry.
* * *
Mr. John and Mrs. John, of Buranda,
have got going in fine vogue. These tw o
doughty evangelists w’on’t miss much in the
w r ay of stray votes or intelligent argument.
* * *
Walsh is a dull, dreary sort of chap,
whose finest testimony of wmrth is that
nothing can be said against him, and that
he has lived in the district all his life.
Another case of the useful old village pump
rusting itself.
* * *
Mrs. Hawthorn’s husband is afraid of
mob rule. Would mob rule be any worse
than nob rule or petticoat rule—or even
Hawthorn rule?
* * *
Tom Welsby is aghast at the audacity
of the working man. The presumption of
you w anting to rule. Tom is a typical re-
presentative of bingey as opposed to brain
—the triumph of matter over mind.
* * *
It is excruciatingly funny to see these
tw 7 o young barristers (Walsh and Haw-
thorn) joining in the hunt for Tom O’Sulli-
van’s job. Dog eat dog.
* * *
Macrossan has a remarkable facility for
the quip and the jest—so Macrossan
says. When he is finished w 7 ith Jack C.
those jokes will have evaporated.
* * *
Billy Wobbly Stephens back into the
political arena—well, life has its quaint and
weird surprises. No wonder the Picture
Pavilion people bring Captain Kidd and
Bluebeard to life. They have every justifi-
cation.
* * *
Bob McCormack and Dan Dowling are
getting over the Nundah and Toombul
areas. But, woe is me, Petrie and Bridges
represent youth and fire, and dash and in-
tellect !
THE RISKS OF THE ROAD.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir,—I am in a quandary. Which is
the safest way for a man to proceed home
from his daily duties ? A friend informed
me it is not safe to proceed by the trams,
as you never can tell the moment they
leave the rails or bump into some other
vehicle or run over one of the Gilignite
Sausages that the daily liars reported to
be found after their reporter had a bad
turn. Being a nervous person, I have been
in the habit of walking home from my office,
and on Wednesday evening I proceeded on
my homeward journey with a friend. We
passed under the railway bridge in Tribune-
street at about 6.30 p.m., just as a train
came across from Vulture-street station,
when we heard three heavy bumps. I called
to my friend to look out, and we both
jumped aside, when a fairly large piece of
a carriage door came flying over the bridge,
and landed on the ground we had jumped
from.
I do not know T if the Commissioner is
short of employees on the South Side. If
he is, I think he should certainly abolish
the Inquiry Committee during the busy
hours of the morning or night, and put
them at our suburban stations to see that
the trains are not allowed to run with the
carriage doors w ide open. I have only been
a resident of Brisbane 14 months, and I
am quite of the opinion that it is nearly
time the present Government and its offi-
cials should pass from school days to man-
hood, or else hand the reins over to others,
and then it may be safe to proceed home
by tram or train.
I am, etc.,
SUBURBANITE.
FEDERAL PARLIAMENT.
An Extra Seat for Queensland.
Owing to the increase in population
shown in 'the last census, Queensland be-
came entitled to an additional member
in the House of Representatives—lo in-
stead of 9. The work of distributing
the seats was intrusted to a commission.
The work of the commission has now been
completed, and the maps have been for-
warded for exhibition at the various pub-
lic buildings in the divisions.
The basis of the redistribution was
on the number of electors on the latest
rolls of the existing divisions. The num-
ber of electors was 313,888, and the quota
was fixed at 31,388, with a maximum of
37,665, and a minimum of 25,111, being
the margin allowance of 20 per cent., in
accordance with the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Act.
The number of electors in each proposed
division is as follows : —Kennedy 29,494.
Herbert 31,047, Capricornia 34,781. Wide
Bay 28,960, Maranoa 27,090, Darling
Downs 32,890, Moreton 32,750, Oxley
31,679, Brisbane 33,934, new division
31,263 ; total. 313,888.
The number of electors on the latest
rolls of the existing electoral divisions is
as follows : —Brisbane 35,793, Capricornia
35,392, Darling Downs 37,548, Herbert
39,461, Kennedy 20,709, Maranoa 25,282,
Moreton 36,418, Oxley 38,605, Wide hay
34.680 ; total 313,888.
SOUTH BRISBANE LABOUR CAM-
PAIGN COMMITTEE.
Under the auspices of the lady mem-
bers of the above Committee, a GRAND
SOCIAL AND DANCE will be held in the
Merton Road Hall, off Stanley Street,
5.8., on MONDAY EVENING, Ist April
1912. Good Music. Tickets 1/- each.
Refreshments provided. Proceeds in aid of
Campaign Fighting Fund.
H. R. HUXHAM,
Hon. Sec. S.B. Lab. Campaign Com.
MEMORIAL SERVICE.
A MEMORIAL SERVICE to the me-
mory of late WILLIAM HENRY
CRAKER will be conducted by the Rev.
W. H. W. Lavers at the Joyful News Mis-
sion, Brunswickstreet, on SUNDAY
EVENING, _ 31st March, at 7.30 o’olock.
Special singing. All are cordially invited
to be present.
