

Official Bulletin, No.10
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 10.
BRISBANE, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1912.
The Latest Move by Strike
Committee.
Important Developments Coming.
Something to Happen Within Seven Days.
Probably by Wednesday.
The Strike Committee made one of the
most important strategic moves last night
which it has yet taken. Absolute secrecy
must be observed for the present. But
this much may be said —that it is a big
move forward, and that it brings victory
very much nearer, if, indeed, it does not
make it actually certain.
The enemy’s camp is aware that some-
thing important is pending, and is trying all
means to ascertain exactly what it is; but
so far it is completely in the dark.
Workers, Paste This in Your
Hat!
Socialism Your Only Hope!
There is no instance in all human his-
tory where the capitalist has voluntarily
improved our condition, increased our
wages, granted us rights or given us greater
liberties. We have won them as the result
of the never-resting struggle of our class
for emancipation from the domination of
Capitalism. The General Strike is the
latest phase of that struggle, and will ulti-
mately prove the most beneficial.
The Brave “Specials.”
These are as motely a crew as ever mas-
queraded in trousers. Comrade Joe Col-
lings has referred to some of them per-
sonally at the various meetings, and we
could add a lot more did space permit. The
South Brisbane Gas Company’s “loyalist”
staff have all been enrolled and others with
a record more easily obtained at the C.I.
branch than anywhere else are also amongst
their sorry ranks.
LITHOGRAPHERS AT THE GOVERN-
MENT PRINTING OFFICE.
With reference to the statement in this
morning’s “Courier” that the litho-
graphers had returned to work in the
G.P.O. in a body, we have been authentic-
ally informed that the “ ” consists of
four who were induced by the
(State Treasurer, Mr. Barnes, to renounce
their unionism and become mere tools for
the Government of Queensland.
Almost the entire printing staff to the
number of 150 unionists employed at the
G.P.O. are amongst the staunchest
unionists in Brisbane to-day, and it is
simply cruel that such builders-up of the
State’s welfare and clever craftsmen should
have to make such an emphatic protest
against the usurpation by a foreigner of the
rights of the working men of Brisbane.
The day is close at hand when the sacrifice
these men have made will receive full
recognition.
THE ALLIES.
Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir,—-Mr. D. Denham, Premier of the
State, is reported to have informed a
“Courier” representative that if the
miners refuse to work and industries are
threatened through lack of coal, tfip Gov-
ernment will find other sources of sup-
plies. Similarly, if shipping is thrown
into a state of chaos through the strike of
transport workers, the Government will
overcome the difficulty by lending its as-
sistance.
What does this mean? It means that
we are not only fighting Badger and the
employing class of which he is the recog-
nised strongman. But also that defeat
for the employers is an impending reality,
and that the Government intends staving
it off by lending them the financial aid of
the State, as they have openly lent its co-
ercive judicial and civil power.
Throughout the struggle the Govern-
ment have shown themselves to be the bit-
terest enemies of our class, the nominees
of enemies, and their unscruplous in-
struments. The Government, the em-
ployers, and capitalists in general are
directly interested in defeating us. Vic-
tory will bring us a stride nearer Socialism,
and take them an equal distance nearer
their decisive and final defeat.
MARIEN RICKARDS.
Unionists so far have not given much
coin towards the support of hotels. Gene-
rally speaking, all have adhered to the
advice tendered them by Harry Coyne*
Important News.
Bundamba Miners Solid.
Mass Meeting This Morning.
About 800 members of the Queensland
Colliery Employees’ Union assembled on
the Bundamba racecourse at 9 o’clock this
morning. President L’Estrange occupied
the chair.
Messrs. L‘Estrange, Pryde, and Dave
Gledson (secretary) addressed the men.
A resolution (as published yesterday)
was submitted, pledging the men to stand
by the Combined Unions till victory was
won.
An amendment to the effect that a secret
ballot be taken was put before the meet-
ing with the result that only 13 men could
be got to support it.
The original resolution was carried
amidst a scene of the wildest enthusiasm.
Subsequently, Messrs. Tom Brown, Hon.
J. Wilkinson, and F. A. Cooper, from Ips-
wich, congratulated the Miners upon their
splendid solidarity.
Wires have now been despatched to
every part of the State calling out every
member of the Q.C.E. Union.
Insurance Society Considerate.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd., realising the serious nature
of the present struggle, has taken action
which is worthy of praise, and might with
advantage be followed by other insurance
concerns. Realising that its agents can
do little or no business while the strike is
on, it has doubled the weekly salaries of
its agents, and has also decider! chat during
the currency of the strike no industrial
policy shall be allowed to lapse.
THE STATE APPEAL FOR MILITARY
AID.
The Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir,—The “Courier” tells us that a
number of persons bearing military titles
has been appointed special sub-inspectors
of police and that a company of riflemen
with rifles and bayonets arrived in Bris-
bane to do duty as special constables.
These two statements tell us—either the
Queensland Government is suborning
militiamen from their duty to the Common-
wealth, or militiamen have disobediently
taken upon themselves to nullify the re-
fusal by the Prime Minister j?f the Com-
monwealth of military aid by giving for-
bidden services to the Government of
Queensland.
The drill and training of those officers
and men was imparted by Federal drill
instructors at the expense of the Common-
wealth, so that in the face of the Prime
Minister’s decision those officers and men
are guilty of an act of disobedience by
serving in the special police, and a further
breach of military regulations by using
rifles, bayonets, and revolvers, which are
the property of the Commonwealth, for
other than military purposes.
Also, the Defence Act distinctly says
that no man shall be a soldier and a police-
man at the same time by excluding the
police from the military service, which
citizens may be called upon to perform.
And I am of opinion the officer command-
ing the Commonwealth military forces in
Queensland has power to demand posses-
sion of all arms now being misappropriated
by militiamen serving in the special police
of Queensland, on the ground that mili-
tary aid means not only military men but
military weapons.—l am, etc.,
EDWIN EDMONDES.
[Attention will undoubtedly be drawn
to the gross misuse of Federal property
mentioned by our correspondent.—Ed.,
S.B. J
Civil Service Strike Breakers.
Henceforth let it be understood that
all persons entering of the State
Government under the Denham-Philp-
Barnes regime, must, in addition to the
duties they contract to perform, also be
prepared to enlist as “ special-scab protec-
tors.
Both by indirect at first, and later by
direct coercion, Civil servants who do not
desire to become the pliant tools of wicked
men acting under instructions from our
Badger-bossed Government have been made
to enrol as specials. The head of one
large department has been one of the worst
offenders in this connection. In some
cases in the office which he controls men
who objected were threatened with dire
pains and penalties. It is not known by
this paper whether any were brave enough
to refuse. Our Editor would have liked
to have had their chance.
\ 0 stands for Vanishing Oppression,
Strike Leader’s Morning
Address.
The Usual Vast Crowd.
The usual glorious solidarity. This was
what greeted Strike Leader Coyne when he
appeared on the Turbot-street balcony this
morning. “Harry” told his men of a mys-
terious, big new move to mature in about
a week, probably by next Wednesday. He
told them to hold tight to every inch so
far gained, and to press forward all they
knew to certain victory.
Cheers greeted the speaker when he said
“The employers are squealing now all right,
but we’ve a few “shocks” ready to distri-
bute amongst them before the big one we
are specially preparing.”
Mr. Coyne was very rough on the
“ Courier,” and pointed out that the notor-
iously reliable, respectable morning journal
was very busy making misstatements and
equally busy publishing denials of them.
The latest denials were from Messrs. Foy
and Gibson and the “ Mackay Mercury,”
and from Charleville, from which town Mr.
Coyne read a wire denying the “Courier”
statement that no interest in the Strike
existed in the West.
Sydney Unionists Watching
Events.
United Laborers’ Protective . Society,
Trades Hall, Sydney, 6th February,
To the Strike Committee, Brisbane —
Gentlemen, —I have been directed by re-
solution of the members of the above So-
ciety to convey to you the following,—
“That the above Society pledges its sup-
port to a General Strike of all Workers
in Australia if any of the Brisbane Strikers
are shot down by the hired assassins of the
Capitalistic Government of Queensland
Trusting that you will come out of the fray
with flying colours, —Fraternally,
ARTHUR VERNON, Secretary.
Where Strike Coupons can be
Exchanged.
BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., Red Hill.
Trout, R., Petrie Terrace.
Trout, R., Enoggera.
Trout, R., Paddington.
Lewis, C., Paddington.
Land, W., Toowong.
Land, W., Rosalie.
- Preston, Stanley street.
Higgins & Bohl, Valley.
CAFES.
Cafe Exchange, Queen street.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
Ohas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
I.X.L. Boarding House, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane.
BAKERIES.
F. Wuersching, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Co-operative, valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valley.
Hanlon, Valley.
J. Enever, Valley.
Simpson, Toowong.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
GROCERIES.
Queensland Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street.
To-night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL, CITY.
PINEAPPLE GROUND, E. BRISBANE.
IVORY-STREET, VALLEY.
RED HILL, PICTURE PAVILION.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR.
Will all comrades please note:—Space is
so very limited that many letters of con-
siderable interest have to be laid aside.
Where possible the news and ideas in them
are made use of.
DON’T ARGUE.
“Pineapple ” hams and bacon and
other toothsome articles at the Zillmere
Hutton firm are now being turned out by
“Specials” and “Loyalists” as bacon fac-
tory
This Week’s Final Words.
Comrades of all ranks, you are behaving
splendidly. Your conduct is irreproach-
able; your solidarity is magnificent; your
enthusiasm contagious and inspiring. To-
morrow (Sunday) soldiers and leaders alike
will rest as far as that is possible.
Have no fear of the fight. Everything
is well. Victory approaches. The com-
ing week is full of promise. Let no man’s
heart fail him. The real testing time is
at hand; let no one be found wanting.
J. H. COYNE, President.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
The Latest from the Various
Regiments in Labor’s Army.
Federated Seamen’s Union.
The following resolution has been passed
by this Union :—“ That the members of this
union have every confiden.ee in the Strike
Committee, and pledge ourselves to sup-
port them till the termination of the pre-
sent strike.”
Hotel, Club, and Cafe Comrades.
This union resolved yesterday,—“That
this meeting, which is thoroughly repre*
sentative of the Queensland Hotel, Club,
and Cafe Employees’ Union, heartily en-
dorses the action of the Strike Committee
in past, and hereby pledges itself to stand
firm with their comrades during the pre-
sent industrial dispute.”
Painters and Dockers.
At a meeting of the Federated Ship
Painters and Dockers’ Union, held yester-
day morning, it was resolved: —“That mis
union extends its heartiest congratulations
to the Strike Committee for the magnificent
fight they are putting up on behalf,of the
combined unions, and has perfect faith that
their efforts will be crowned with success.
This union also thoroughly endorses the
actions of the Strike Committee in the
work they have accomplished, and pledge
ourselves to stand firm till victory is ours.”
Stormen arad Packers’ Union.
Splendid reports come to hand from this
very fine body of men. Since the struggle
began over 100 new members have been
enrolled, and with a very exceptions every
name is responded at at “ roll call.” Act-
ing secretary Geo. W. Maslen reports to-
day that ‘ ‘ there will be no ‘ going back ’
in spite of the advertisements in the Press
and the personal letters from the employers
to our members. We appreciate the advice
given to us by comrade Peter M‘Lachlan,
and the stirrirng appeal Joe Codings made
to us, and have passed a right royal vote
of confidence in the Strike Committee. We
are out “to win at qjl costs.”
United Furniture Trade Society of
Queensland.
At the meeting of this Society on Thurs-
day afternoon, a, further endorsement of
the Strike Committee’s actions was carried
unanimously.
The Federated Painters.
The following resolution was unani-
mously carried at a very large meeting of
this association held yesterday morning:—
That this union endqrses all actions of
the Strike Committee up to date, and
places all confidence in them for the
future.
A.W.A.
The Brisbane branch met this morning
and unanimously decided that not o»*a
member would return to work until ordered
to do so by the Strike Committee.
Typographical Association.
. At a mass meeting of the above associa-
tion held this morning, another vote of
confidence in the General Strike Commit-
tee was carried practically unanimously.
Mr. W. P. Colborne, secretary of the
Queensland Typographical Association, has
received a further message from the secre-
tary of the Australasian Typographical
Union, in which it is stated "the Council
of the A.T.U. consider it advisable to leave
the conduct of the present strike, so far as
it affects the Typographical Association, in
the hands of the Board of Management of
the local asssociation, endorses the action
of the local body so far, and assures it of
support.
Boot Trade.
A large and enthusiastic meeting of the
above union was held in the Temperance
Hall this morning. Mr. and Mrs. J. Hux-
ham and Mr. C. Boulton addressed those
present, and, as a result, 15 new female
members were enrolled.
It was unanimously resolved that the
Boot Trade would “ stick to the last,” and
the following motion was carried without
a dissentient:—“That no members of this
union shall report themselves to their em-
ployers for work on Monday morning.”
(Well done! comrades from the boot facn
tories.—Ed, “ 5.8,”)


The “Age” on Badger.
“A Reckless Disturber.”
The following from the Melbourne Age
of February 5 is published hereunder to
show fair-minded Queenslanders what the
largest daily newspaper in Australia thinks
about the locking out of the Brisbane tram-
way employees'. When read, it will be
found that the “Age” holds quite a different
view to the anti-national Courier regard-
ing the cause of the general strike :
“ No man can now open his daily news
sheet without being met with the accounts
of half a dozen local or general strikes.
There is a strike in Paris, another in Lis-
bon, a third in Manchester, two or three
smaller flare-ups, and then our own special
and particular Brisbane lock-out and
strike. ... In this case a certain
Mr. Badger, dressed in a little brief tram-
way authority, objected to badges. This
manager Badger could not tolerate badge
employees, and so locked out every man
who put on his badge. Amongst the ex-
tremists of the anti-Labourites there are
people who warmly espouse his stupid act
of tyranny, and the Employers’ Federation
President goes so far as to say that ‘ all
fair-minded people cannot fail to back up
the company.’ When men have got them-
selves into such a mental attitude as that
we cannot wonder very much at any ex-
travagance that may eventuate. What is
manifest to all is that the popular mind has
become so infected with the passions evoked
by the act of the Brisbane anti-badges that
few men can now be found capable of ex-
pressing a judicial opinion on either side.
“ Still,, there are a few facts, quite apart
from passion, prejudice or feeling, that we
may take note of. The first is that the
Badger lock-out of some 420 men, while
undoubtedv tactless and exquisitely absurd,
may or may not have been legal. If
illegal it did not need a general strike to
provide a remedy for it. The president
of the Tramways Employees’ Association
says that the Industrial Registrar in Bris-
bane has granted leave to prosecute Mr.
Badger for an infringement of clause 9 of
the Arbitration Act. That is an invocation
of the law, and as such is a sensible act.
The men say that Mr. Badger has broken
the law by locking out 420 men for wear-
ing badges. Mr. Badger says that the men
broke the law by wearing the badges. Now,
these two facts, taken together, prove two
things. The first is that if Mr. Badger is
right about the men having broken the
terms of their service in wearing a badge,
his duty was to prosecute them, and not
lock them out. If he is wrong in that
legal contention, then it is clear that he
has been guilty of a piece of high-handed
tyranny in becoming a law unto himself.
Therefore, whichever horn of the dilemma
he may choose, he stands impaled as a
reckless disturber of the peace. If, as
he says, his men were legally wrong, he
should have prosecuted them; if they were
not wrong, he had no business to punish
them.
“ The reflection that appears to emerge
from, both these situations is that the ex-
tremist partisans who fly to either side to
justify a wrong done on behalf of their own
cause are not exactly the kind of people
who may be trusted with power in a social
State. The Victorian President of the
Employers’ Federation, who ventures to
say that ‘ all fair-minded people cannot fail
to back up the company,’ shows himself to
be quite incapable of giving a judicial utter-
ance on the subject. No man in times like
these should back up a man who first
breaks the law of peace, and substitutes
the violence of a lock-out for a calm re-
course to a legal tribunal. And in the
same way and for precisely the same rea-
sons, this general strike of 43 trades unions
is a violent act of force following a violent
lead on the part of the anti-badges. In
fairness, perhaps, it may be said that there
is an excuse for the strikers that cannot
be given to the locker-out. Men’s passions
had be3n inflamed by a gratuitous act of
tyranny, and a wrong done under great
provocation, though never to be justified, is
always regarded as amenable to some pallia-
tion.”
Taking Risks*
“Timid” writes:—Had occasion the
other night to visit the “Courier” Build-
ings—not the “Courier” office, how-
ever. On approaching the vestibule saw
two guardians with grim looks on their
faces watching the wicket gate to stop any
‘ ‘ wicked-looking ’ ’ person who might at-
tempt to enter. Walked in, with badge
and red ribbon mounted on the lappel of
my coat. Just near the foot of the stairs
were a number of reels of paper placed so
anyone invading the premises could only
do so at a very slow rate of speed. Wind-
ing our way through this obstacle we
found a large mat placed on the floor at
the top of the stairs leading to the vaults
beneath, where the engines and printing
machinery are kept. This mat is kept
soaked with water. A wire leads from the
floor to the ceiling above, which is said to
be charged with electricity to such an
extent that a person taking hold thereof
will either be knocked down or killed in-
stanter. At the top of each flight of stairs
also are placed a number of reels of paper
as a barricade to prevent the mad onrush
of the invading unionists who may dare to
intrude. No interruption took place; we
proceeded to our destination, transacted
our business, and reached Queen-street
again unharmed. This we learned, how-
ever, that some of the miles of paper used
in . the. dissemination of the “Courier”
daily lies and misrepresentation is being
used by those who run the Fat show,
Brisbane Business Men
Indignant.
Tiieir Trade Going South.
The Strike Committee having ordered
their Northern comrades back to work has
had the effect of opening the Northern
ports to trade. Large orders have been
placed with Sydney for many of the Nor-
thern firms. In the usual way this trade
comes to Brisbane,, but as all Brisbane
cargo in and out is “black,” it must now
find its way South.
Brisbane traders are naturally indig-
nant, and the various sections of the Em-
ployers’ Federations are busy considering
the situation which they regard as dis-
tinctly serious.
The responsibility for this situation rests
entirely upon the Brisbane merchants
themselves. They have the solution in
their own hands, but instead of using it
they threaten and try to coerce and mis-
represent the position through their Press
organs, and so materially increase the seri-
ousness of the trouble.
DENHAM’S DEFENDERS WITHOUT
THEIR NUMBERS
Is it LegaP
To the Editor “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —I have noticed, during the last
two days, many constables on duty with
their numbers'carefully removed. I would
like to know whether they have done so in
order that they may commit other acts of
brutality like last Friday, and so avoid
being reported or marked down. I would
suggest that some sporting Unionist or
photographer take a snapshot of each and
all, and forward copies to the Executive
for identification in case of need.
The so -called Government now in office
make a great show of maintaining law and
order. I believe there is a law in Queens-
land, as there is all over the world, that
every constable, special or otherwise, must
wear his number in such a place as can be
easily observed. I have witnessed many
strikes in the mother country, and have
always noticed that the police there wore
their numbers as if proud of them. I notice
that all the older men, and those who have
joined the force for some time, are wearing
them as if proud to do so, and also have
given occasion to call down shame on their
heads. It is those newly recruited and only
just let loose from their mother’s apron
strings who pretend and ape being “men,”
and who have caused people to call out
shame against the whole force. —Yours,
etc., SPECTATOR.
Paddington, 6th February, 1912.
Black Friday.
The Cry is Still They Come.
On Friday last in the mad rush of the
police a member of the A.W.A. was blud -
geoned by the Slugging Committee of the
Capitalist Class. While standing on
the pavement at George-street he no-
ticed some of the special constables prod-
ding the women with their batons. He
accordingly protested against this action,
and for reply one of the special constables
dealt him a blow with his baton, which
our comrade received on the wrist. This
was followed up by another blow, which
downed our comrade, opening a nasty
wound in his head. It was necessary to
have the wound attended to, and four
stitches had to be put in. He tried to
get some satisfaction from the police au-
thorities, but of course did not succeed.
A South Brisbane citizen, who appends
his name and address, sends us the follow-
ing, the correctness of which he vouches
for : —On Thursday afternoon two special
constables were seen emerging from the
side entrance of a well-known hotel in
Grey-street, 5.8., during prohibited hours,
one of them being under the influence of
liquor. The hotel proprietor spoke to the
inebriated “special,” and induced him to
remove the band from his arm, for what
reason it is not known, but I shrewdly sus-
pect that it was to save the face of both
the gallant special and the publican who
had supplied him with the potion during
prohibited hours. Shortly afterwards two
of Cahill’s uniformed bludgeoners appeared
upon the scene, and ordered the little crowd
which had assembled in the meantime to
“move on.” The other special, who had
not shown any sign of his illegal indulg-
ence, protested to the authoritative “Rob-
ert ” that his mate was “a special con-
stable sworn in by Commissioner Cahill.”
The limb of the law was somewhat incredu-
lous, and stated that he knew the inebri-
ated one to be a fighting one, which was
was denied by the other “special,” who
offered to bet that it was a- case of mis-
taken identity on the part of the police-
men, but John Hop insisted, gmd said fur-
ther that “he had been in the lockup,”
and inferred that he was a bad character.
After some further parley, when the police-
man “ tumbled” to the situation, and real-
ised that he had been “ moving on,” a fel-
low bludgeoner, instead of an ordinary
drunk, he found it convenient to leave the
scene. This is one of the little scenes which
throw light upon the “Courier’s” fine
specimens of manhood who are acting as
“specials” in the present strike.
How many backs has this General Strike
got anyway? According to the Bagger’s
Press barrackers it has had one broken
every day spice it first showed itself. Does
it grow a fresh one each night?
Y 0 stands for Valuable Opportunity.
Sydney Waterside Men
Determined.
Comrade Thompson, President Water-
side Union, Brisbane, and member of the
Strike Committee, received the following
wire from the Sydney Union this after-
noon :
“Meeting of Wharf Labourers Wednes-
day next. Will not touch Queensland load-
ing.”
The Traitor’s Fate.
From Brisbane United Coal Workers anc
Lightermen’s Union —To the President
Strike Committee.
Dear Sir, —I think this Union owes an
apology to yon. I am sorry to say that
one of our members is acting as strike
breaker against the Butchers’ Union. At
a meeting of the Union this morning very
member being present, with the exceonmn
of the one mentioned, it was unanimously
decided that he be struck off our books a*s
a member of this Union, this is what will
happen to any one of our members, who
act as one of Denham’s SCABS, but I
might say I can vouch that every other
man is solid for the cause.—l am, Sir,
Yours for Victory,
T. IRWIN, Acting Secretary.
God and Mammon.
With the exception probably of our
brave old comrade, Rev. J. S. Pollock, not
one minister of God has had a word to
say publicly in favour of the working
classes in revolt. Is it not strange that
these persons of light and leading are
always, when the time of storm and stress
comes, found on the side of Mammon?
It has been an inspiration and an en-
couragement to many in this great strike to
see our de ir old comrade Pollock moving
about amongst us and complimenting our
leaders on their great “moral force ” policy.
He knows and understands the proletariat,
and has never failed to extend his sym-
pathy and support to them in the striving
after justice and righteousness. If only
more of “the Cloth” were like him the
Church would be a mighty factor in our
evolution instead of an object of pity and
ridicule.
On Badges.
Boss Badger, he came to the Pearly Gate,
And stood in the presence of Peter the
Great;
“ You can’t abear Badges,” the door-
keeper said;
u The angels all wear ’em stuck over the
head
In the form of a halo, but —well, you
know,
As YOU don’t approve of ’em —down you
go.”
J.S.
RECIPE.
Acrostic.
S kunks —the part of them that’s rotten;
C rawling creatures —put a lot in;
A 11 the vermin you can grab;
B oil ’em,, and behold —A SCAB !
What’s in a name? The Scab metluills’
Called ‘‘free” or “loyalist” still stinks.
SPECIAL CONSTABLES.
(Dedicated to their Poetic Champion,
Mabel Forrest).
Down the street, down the street,
Come the cockies slouching in,
Tired and cheerless, out of date.
Hoodwinked by a golden bait.
First-class boozers in the team,
In their bleary eyes no gleam,
Looking wliat they were, poor fools,
Being used as Fatman’s tools;
Something to help Denham through
His orders from his “boss” to do;
Old men with unsteady gaze,
Used to dark and sinuous ways.
Strife to make and peace to kill,
“Specials” from the plain and hill;
Not a shout; Derision meets
The “dingo specials” down the street.
Down the street, down the street,
Little cockies slouching in
With the gum leaves in their hats,
Doing service for the “ Rats,”
Farm and cattle left behind,
Work for boodle, never mind.
When ’tis o’er a badge to wear,
If you’re brave, beyond compare.
Shoot the people in the town,
Hit them, chase them, ride them down,
3n the footpath or the street,
Where they gather, where they meet,
Cahill’s orders to obey
Like they did on Black Friday.
Women, children —the aged, too,
Just like Cossacks ride right through;
Never mind what people say
The traitor’s gold will be your pay;
And when ’tis o’er what is the gain—
Contempt, derision, “SCAB” for name.
(A. PLAIN.)
What a large army Strike Leader Coyne
must have commanded at. the commence-
ment of hostilties. According to the
“ Courier ” it has been melting away ever
since it came into collision with “a few
score” police on Black Friday, and it still
amounts to over 15,000, or thereabouts.
Commissioner Cahill, at all events, is afraid
to allow it to show its dimensions.
CAHILL S PETS.
No Citizen Safe.
Peaceful Homes Invaded.
City Business Men Interfered With.
Threatening Language Freely Used.
A well-known citizen of Highgate Hill
(whose name can be had if desired) reports
that his son was interfered with by six
“specials” ; three of whom were residents
of the district, while* investigating, at his
father’s request, noises at the back of the
fowl yard. This occurred on private ground,
and the cowardly “specials” were promptly
ordered to “get,” and they did.
To-day a V.O. reports that a special
walked in to the Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street, and said to the man in charge
that if any of those (customers) in the shop
wearing red ribbons made any noise “call
me in and I’ll force them to keep quiet.”
He was staggered when told to quit, and
non-plussed entirely when informed that
all employees were “ red-ribbonites.”
A special constable living at Baroona-
road, Milton, employed in the Railway
Commissioner’s office, is alleged to have
been guilty of using threatening language.
Mr. J. S. Codings publicly alluded to this
matter at the Centennial Hall last night,
and a prosecution may follow.
S.C.A.B.
Scum Collects Around Badger.
Scurvy Cahill’s Amateur Rludgeoners.
POLICE PROTECTION.
The Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —By kindly inserting the following
you will greatly oblige a resident of South
Brisbane for the last 43 years. We read
in the daily papers how the mounted and
foot police treat the public; first let me
describe what I was an eye-witness to only
yesterday (Friday), in about an hour's
time. My wife, mother-in-law, and myself
had business to do in town. After doing
our business we returned to the South side
at about 1.15, and just coming from his
dinner at J. Grogie’s Adelaide Coffee Pal-
ace, 1 met a butcher who is engaged with
Mr. Preston, butcher, Stanley-street, a
man well known and respected in the butch-
ering trade for *nany years in South Bris-
bane. I wanted to have a word with him.
We had not been talking two minutes when
three mounted police rode up and in the
most insulting manner possible insisted
upon us moving on. We did so, rather
than get into trouble. We were in no
way stopping the traffic, as we were talk-
ing on the edge of the footpath. Then,
when we arrived at the corner of Stanley-
street and Annerley-road another trouble
was brewing. Two old residents of the dis-
trict were surrounded by four mounted and
about six foot special policemen, for not
moving on. 1 can assure you, Mr. Editor,
that both these persons were perfectly
sober, and in no way obstructing the traf-
fic. We hear one side of the question in
the daily papers, and I think it only fair N
we should hear the other side of the ques-
tion also. To quote a chorus of an old
Irish song:
“It’s fine to be a bobby, it’s grand, it’s
grand,
Its a difficult coorse to get into the foorce,
But tv fine 111 C/ I'C/aiij tijLv
They are leading a fine life just now,
hunting down respectable citizens, their
wives, and children.
The writer of the above can bring re-
spectable residents of South Brisbane to
bear out what he has written. —Yours, etc.,
“ EYE-WITNESS.”
Whatever do the metropolitan dailies
want? They severely censured the Strike
Committee for callilig out the Northern
Unionists. Now that these men have
proved their mettle and their loyalty, and
have been ordered back to work, Denham’s
decoys are still thumping the Strike Com-
mittee for not keeeping them out. Are
the Brisbane traders’ pockets likely to suf-
fer ?
* # *
The P.P.L. are plastering the capitalis-
tic papers with big scare-type advts, ask-
ing people if their names are on the elec-
toral roll; if not to get them on and do
their striking at the ballot-box. Have
they coaxed the wily Badger to have his
they answer ?
* # #
V.O. stands for Valiant Orderlies.
LOST AND FOUND
Found, umbrella, in Trades Hall.
Owner can have same by applying to V.O.
Committee.
Found, handkerchief, containing money,
in the Valley. Owner have same by giving
a description to the V.O. Committee.
Found, a pipe, with a plate attached on
it: “ Make your troubles end in smoke.”
Owner have same. Apply to V.O. Com-
mittee.
Found, a pipe in the School of Arts.
Owner have same by applying to the V.O.
Committee.
Lost, gold Elgin watch. Finder kindly
return to the V.O. Committee.
Found, pair Spectacles, apply Boot
Trade Office, Trades Hall.
