

Official Bulletin, No. 23.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 23.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1912.
i
Strike Leader’s Morning
Address.
When Mr. Coyne got on to the Turbot
St. balcony of the Trades Hall this morn-
ing, he was accompanied by Mesdames
Miller and Finney, and Messrs. M‘Lachlan,
M.L.A., and Joe Collings. The crowd in
the street was one of the largest which has
yet assembled at these morning gatherings.
The strike leader spoke in general terms
of the progress of the battle, and dealt with
the usual morning 4 4 inaccuracies ’ ’ of the
daily newspapers. He also commented in
a very humorous vein on the evident fact
that “the men had gone back to work.”
“The time for going back to work hasn’t
arrived yet,” said Mr. Coyne. 44 When it
does, we will give you due notice of
the fact.”
Mr. P. McLachlan next spoke, and gave
a brief but highly pleasing account of his
work with Messrs. Collins, Crampton, and
Adamson in the southern States. He was
loudly cheered when he said that the Aus-
tralian Typographical Association was now
so strong that in future when industrial
trouble occurred its members on the staffs
of the great Southern dailies were deter-
mined not to “set up” at all matter mis-
representing the toiler’s side of the case, or
would insist that that case should be stated
fairly in the same issue. He next dealt
with the proceedings in the Arbitration
Court, but said it would be quite undigni-
fied to anticipate the verdict; but once it is
delivered 44 I will have more to tell you
regarding our experience.” He next told
how splendidly they had been received by
the southern waterside men, and how suc-
cessful they had been in securing their
hearty co-operation and support, both
moral and financial. 44 We got very little
encouragement from some of their execu-
tive officers, but once we got into touch
with the rank and file their response was,
as it always is, magnificent.” These were
Peter’s concluding words, and the great
crowd cheered lustily.
Mr. Joe Collings was the next speaker,
and after correcting the “Telegraph” for
a deliberate mis-statement regarding the
Tinsmith’s Union, he gave a graphic ac-
count of his visit to Blackstone on Saturday
last, and the consequent discomfiture of the
Hon. J. W. Blair, M.L.A.
Mrs. Finney also spoke, asking all
unionists specially to help the shop assis-
tants by refusing to make any purchases
unless served by unionists.
The proceedings closed with the usual
cheers.
HOIST WITH THEIR OWN PETARDS.
All three daily liars have told us em-
ployers are besieged with applications from
persons desiring employment—in fact so
large has the rush for work, especially from
the country, become that Finney, Isles’ old
building, in Edward-street, has been en-
gaged for the accommodation of clerks, etc.,
to cope with the great unemployed
stream. This block of buildings has passed
through many vicissitudes —only lately it
was used to house specials which was de-
gradation enough—but little did the
builder know that it would one day be-
come a rendevous for scab labour.
Even if half what these papers state
is true (and that is allowing them a too-
liberal per centage) should not Sir Thomas
Robinson our Agent-General, be made ac-
quainted with the fact before he finally
leaves the Continent, so that he will have
time to ruminate on his journey across the
Indian Ocean on the lies he has been told
while in Queensland, and thus perhaps
avoid repeating them when he reaches
England? He and the Scotch Commis-
sioner were told that the only thing that
kept us from reaching the Utopian ideal
was the want of population; that labourers
of all sorts were not to be found, and that
he could go as high as £l6 per head to
bring them here. And now, although
several thousands of men are out of work
rather than put their heads in the yoke of
slavery, Brisbane is simply swarming with
a class of worker who has been brought,
through sheer necessity or cravenness, to
that stage of servitude in which he is pre-
pared to work for any wages and under any
humiliating conditions the employer may
dole out to him.
We hope the workers of Queensland
won’t neglect to send plenty of these papers
to the old country, and thus be able to
confront the immigration agent when he
expatiates (for a big fat fee) on the splendid
openings that await the toiler in our
Northern land. We think we can safely
predict a terrific slump in the immigra-
tion business when the news sheets of
Brisbane are scanned by Britishers.
LABOUR’S GREATEST NEED.
The action taken since the beginning
of the present industrial conflict to en-
deavour to produce a Labour daily paper,
is progressing more than favourably.
Several unions have tendered their sup-
port to the venture, and subscriptions to
a considerable amount have been promised,
togther with support in other ways, and
the whole matter has been taken up so en-
thusiastically as to justify the promoters
in believing that this much-needed want
will very shortly be supplied.
A meeting with the object of further-
ing the project will be held in the Trades
Hall next Sunday afternoon, at 2.30
o’clock. Every union is requested to send
a representative.
Mr. Arthur Chessher, of Overend St.,
Woolloongabba, desires us to contradict a
rumour which has been set going that he is
“scabbing” in the tramway power-house.
It is not true and has no foundation what-
ever.
Hoodwinking the Miners.
ADDRESS BY HON. J. W. BLAIR,
M.L.A.
COMRADE JOE COLLINGS
RETALIATES.
(From Our Own Correspondent.)
On Friday last the Strike Committee
learned that at some time on the following
day Mr. “Jimmy” Blair was to address
the miners somewhere in the Bundamba
district. Knowing that they had not au-
thorised Mr. Blair to speak on their behalf,
they naturally argued that the Hon. Gen-
tleman must perforce be an emissary of the
enemy. They therefore instructed Mr. J.
S. Codings to be early on the ground, so
that if the customary misrepresentation oc-
curred, it could at once be dealt with.
Accordingly Mr. Codings arrived at Bun-
damba midday, on Saturday, and after a
walk round incog found that the
meeting was to be held at 3
p.m. at Blackstone. Incidentally he
discovered that officially the miners
weren’t taking any “Jimmy” Blair,
and were not going to the meeting.
About 2.30 p.m. Mr. Codings arrived on
the meeting ground, a beautiful green flat
at the foot of the many hills which abound
in the Blackstone district.
Punctually at 3 o’clock the Hon. James
arrived, with several friends, per motor
car, which, by the way, he subsequently de-
nied was his. About 600 persons were pre-
sent, many of whom had come from some
distance, either by saddle, buggy, or bicycle.
From the outset of the meeting it was very
evident that Mr. Blair was in very bad
odour with the crowd, who good-naturedly
heckled him continuously during the whole
of his speech, which consisted mainly of
a series of mis-statements regarding the
Strike, and feeble retorts to a running fire
of interjection.
Mr. Blair invited Mr. Codings, if he
were present, on to the platform. “Joe”
ascended, and dealt very vigorously with
every charge Mr. Blair had made, much to
the latter’s evident regret. The crowd list-
ened most attentively to every word, and
frequently cheered Mr. Codings to the echo.
When he stepped down, Mr. Blair endea-
voured to reply, but his efforts were re-
ceived with general derision, especially
he asked Mr. Codings to remember
that he had paid for the platform.
In reply, “ Joe ” announced his willing-
ness on behalf of the Brisbane Strike Com-
mittee to pay half the total expenses of the
meeting, at the same time remarking that
Mr. "Blair had done a mean and utterly dis-
honourable act to first invite him on to the
platform and then to talk of payment.
The meeting closed with three ringing
cheers for the Strike Committee and the
Unionists on Strike.
Some notable incidents of the meeting
were when, at the close of Mr. Blair’s
speech, a lady, evidently a warm admirer
of the Honourable Gentleman’s, got up,
and addressing the audience as “Boys,”
proceeded in a shrill voice, and with much
dramatic gesture, to wildly wave a copy of
the Sydney “Bulletin,” and to inform her
hearers that she was no Socialist—was a
stranger “on this field”—but had been
asked to stand for Parliament for some min-
ing town, where there were 400 “of the
boys,” every one of whom had pledged her
their votes. She praised Mr. Blair’s cour-
age in so bravely facing so hostile a crowd,
but the remainder of her flattery of the
Hon. Gent, was lost in the derisive cheers
of the audience, and the loud and insistent
call for 44 Joe” Codings.
When the meeting finally closed, Mr.
Codings, at the request of the President of
the Ipswich W.P.0., moved: “That this
meeting desires to thank Mr. Blair for his
address this afternoon, but at the same
time assures him that it has every confi-
dence in the Labour Party and in the Lab-
our member for Ipswich.” This was carried
unanimously—not one hand being raised
against it.
In reply to a question, “Which Party are
you coming out for next time?” Mr. Blair
said: 44 Wed, the Labour Party is running
a candidate for both the Ipswich and Bre-
mer seats, so, if I come out, I must, of
course, oppose it.” 44 Oh, no,” came the
quick response. 44 You could sit on the rail
as you’ve done before.”
One of the best hits of the afternoon was
made by Comrade Codings at the expense
of Mr. H. Sinclair, M.H.R. Mr. Collings
had stated that 4 ‘not one act of violence had
been committed by any responsible Union-
ist, nor had any Unionist with the know-
ledge or connivance of or at the sug-
gestion of the Strike Committee, commit-
ting any such act.” Mr. Sinclair inter-
jected: “That’s not true; I know better
than that.” Quick as lightning Mr. Col-
lings replied: “On behalf of the Brisbane
Strike Committee I demand from Mr. Sin-
clair the name and address of the Unionist
he knows who committed an act of violence,
the day, and date, and time, and place,
when and where such act was committed,
and the nature of the offence.” Mr. Sin-
clair stood dumbfounded—then Mr. Col-
lings Went on: 4 ‘lf Mr. Sinclair won’t tell
us he’s a coward; if he can’t, he’s a liar.”
Needless to say, the brave and brilliant
Federal member was as dumb as an oyster
for the rest of the proceedings .
LATEST DEVELOPMENTS.
The Strike Committee is awaiting the
decision of the Arbitration Court which
may. be wired any moment. This will be
made public as soon, as possible, either
through this paper or at the various public
meetings. Some important moves are be-
ing made to-day, but details are not com-
plete at time of going to Press.
The Latest from the Ranks.
Ship Painters’ and Dockers’ Union.
A large and enthusiastic meeting of the
above union was held this morning, at
which Comrade Brock, of Sydney, delivered
a fine address. A further vote of con-
fidence in the Strike Committee was passed
with three cheers for them and Comrade
Brock. It was also resolved to fight to a
finish. Not one of the members of this
union is missing from roll call.
Typographical Association.
At a general meeting of the Q.T.A. on
Saturday evening, a unanimous vote of
confidence in the Strike Committee was
passed.
Waterside Workers.
A large meeting of the above union was
held in their hall this morning, and after
lengthy and interesting addresses by
Messrs. Thompson (President), and
Brock (Sydney delegate), adjourned until
7 o’clock to-night, in the dance-room at
the Trades Hall. The usual vote of confid-
ence in the Strike Committee was passed.
It was stated that the men are as solid as
ever, and determined to fight to the last.
Tramway Employees.
A meeting of the Tramway Employees
Association will be held in the Trades Hall
at 3 p.m. to-morrow, for the purpose of
discussing the arbitration results. After
the meeting a photographic group of mem-
bers will be taken, and all in the picture
will be entitled to the much-coveted loyalty
badge.
ADMINISTRATION OF THE LAW.
Employers’ Federation, Please Note.
Criminal Code, Chapter XXVII.
Duties relating to the preservation oL
human life. Duty of persons in charge oS
dangerous things:—
“296. It is the duty of every person who
has in his charge or under his control any-
thing, whether living or inanimate, and
whether moving or stationary, of such a
nature that, in the absence of care or pre-
caution in its use or management, the life,
safety, or health of any person may be en-
dangered, to use reasonable care and take
reasonable precaution to avoid such
danger; and he is held to have caused any
consequences which result to the life or
health of any person by reason of any
omission to perform that duty.”
Does not this apply to the bosses who are
endangering lives by engaging incompe-
tents to handle rails and work cargo at the
present time? Why do not Denham, Cahill,
and Co. put this law and order into opera-
tion ?
THE SWEATERS’ OPPORTUNITY.
That the greedy employers of the city
were not slow to act on the hint given
them by the capitalist-driven Government
was very evident on Friday night last.
Around several of the street coffee stalls
boys not more than 13 or 14 years of age
were seen as late as 10.30 p.m. with shift
sleeves turned up, having a feed before
turning to to do a further stretch of toil in
vile atmospheres. Some of these boys had
been working since 8 o’clock in the morn-
ing. The unusual sight was also witnessed
of girls just released from their shops or
factories, hurrying to get the last suburban
trains home, some of them conveying the
impression that even the little lunch bas-
kets or bags they carried were a burden
to them. This unusual rush was also ac-
countable for many travellers having to
stand during their entire journey. What
a harvest these pitiless employers will reap
during the next three months (that is, the
period for which the Wages Boards’ deter-
minations have been suspended!) The doc-
tors and the undertakers may also be kept
busy, but that does not trouble the con-
science of a Capitalist-ridden Govt. It
could not crush the spirit of the men, so
it would have satisfaction from the
bodies of the children; Mammon must be
appeased somehow. What a retribution
awaits them!
We received a communication from a man
on Saturday last, who also forwarded his
name and address, to the effect that after
coming out of a hotel at Petrie Bight in
company with some friends on the previous
day, he was seized by two constables, who
alleged he was drunk. The man solemnly
declares he has not touched intoxicating
liquor for oyer seven years, and told this to
the officer in charge of the watchhouse, to
which he was brought. He also told this
official that the constables had taken 12
sovereigns from him, and if they were
searched, the money would be found on
them. The sergeant ridiculed the idea of
the policemen playing the role of thieves,
and declined to have the men searched. He,
however, pounced on an A.W.A. ticket the
man had in his pocket, remarking as he did
so: “I see you are a Unionist,” to which
the unfortunate prisoner replied : 44 1 am
proud of it.” The man was brought up at
the police court next morning and dis-
charged. A few weeks back some members
of the Employers’ Federation expressed the
opiniori that those who witnessed the police
outrages on Black Uriday should have re-
ported them at headquarters. More than
i'sely those outbursts of fury will be
ooked into. In the meantime, we call
their attention to this matter.
Wharfies in the North.
Will Stand by their Brisbane Mates.
The following wire, from Secretary
Christie, Townsville Waterside Union, was
received this morning:— 4 4 Men solid will
refuse to handle Brisbane cargo.”
An Open Letter.
To the Hon. E. H. Macartney, Esq.,
M.L.A., Minister for Lands.
Dear Mr. Macartney,
In days agone you were the idol
of all the boys of Gracehill College, Ire-
land. Many years have passed since then;
but to me it seems but yesterday since you
used to call at the old home, and you and
my brother would go together to interview
the “ ol’ swimmin’ ” hole. In those times
politics, industrial disputes, and mining
schemes didn’t interest you much, and I
was not converted to Socialism. Then you
always sided with the weak, the right, and
the just, and what you were and stood for
made us young men and women love you
as few are ever loved.
When you left Belfast after your com-
mercial training, we all prophesied a noble
career. I lost trace of you after that till
chance made me follow in your footsteps
and recently discover you here. But what
a change! ’Twas a heart-rending blow to
me. You now prove yourself hard, in-
different, and even cruel. You uphold op-
pression, being retained for that purpose,
and you are true to yopr clients. You are
no longer a person : you are one of a type—
a type of politician who talks, thinks, and
acts at the dictates of Captital.
The public department which you con-
trol you allow to be permeated with the
atmosphere of a royal court. Snobbery is
rampant, and to whom the permanent
bosses smile, all bow; where they frown, all
frown. In the Survey Office, the sub-de-
partment of which you are also the official
stamp, espionage, crawling, and fear reign
supreme. It is well known that for the
expression of a republican idea in a private
conversation a young officer is being openly
and heartlessly victimised. Yet you raise
not even a finger to right these wrongs.
You are now engaged in a coercive
effort to smother one of the mightiest moral
flames which has ever blazed on earth.
The toilers are up in arms, fighting another
fight in their onward march to Socialism.
You have abused, slandered, vilified, almost
beyond precedent, the heroes and martyrs
of this noble struggle. But they are men
who always side with the oppressed; who
look the whole universe in the face and
boldly advocate their cause without fear.
On the second day of the general strike,
when the Police Commissioner, representa-
tives of the Cabinet, Employers’ Associa-
tion, and “Courier” met in conference, it
was you who proposed that a policy of
coercion and misrepresentation be pursued
which would throw discredit on the
workers, and on the general strike as a
weapon of their class.
You will fail in the end. The workers
must win, as they ever have. They are
inspired and cheered on by the spirit of
their noble fights in the past. In their
hearts is a passionate pleading for liberty,
for right, for justice.
Dear old Mac! I’m ashamed of you;
but I write this little letter in love. I hope
that some of its words may sink deep into
your heart, and echo round the vacuum
where your moral faculties once were. Be
a man of common sense. Be abreast of the
best thoughts and the greatest movement
of the times. Never imagine that the laws
of social evolution, upon which the science
of Socialism is based, will be rendered
neutral in favour of the capitalist regime.
MARIEN RICKARDS.
TRAMWAY PRESIDENT McLACHLAN
HOME AGAIN.
Mr. Peter M ‘Lachlan, M.L.A., re-
turned from the South last evening. He
is looking remarkably well, and is in good
spirits and fine fighting form. All hands
are glad to have him back, especially the
“Traminies.” 4 ‘Peter” promptly reported
to the Strike Committee last
will speak at various meetings during* the
week.
ANOTHER LIE NAILED.
The 44 Telegraph” on Saturday night
last stated that the Employers’ Federation
reports showed that the members of the
Tinsmith’s Union were going to resume
work on conditions laid down by thq Em-
ployers’. This is not true. No member of
the Tinsmith’s Union who came out on
strike has returned to work conditionally.
The following explanatory note was sent
to a working man’s wife a few days ago by
a tinpot grocer, who is also a prominent
member of the Salvation Army:— 44 Not
knowing that it was you who sent for the
flour yesterday morning, we were rushed
by outsiders for our store goods, and not
knowing whether we could get any more or
not, you could not very well blame us put-
ting up the price. Had the person men-
tioned the name, it would have been very
different.” This lady was charged 9d. for
a 21b. packet of flour of which the usual
price is sd. That grocer has lost a good
customer.
Whilst in conversation with a business
man this morning, it was said that nearly
all the second-hand dealers have been
cleared out of portmanteaus during the
past week, so great has been the exodus
from monopoly-ridden Brisbane.
Our Symbol of Royalty.
Why do the taxpayers own a symbol of
royalty? Is our imported ornament given
a princely salary to go about the country
taking sides against the working class, and
prejudicing the minds of one section of the
community against another ? Are we paying
Sir William Macgregor to publicly parade
his political opinions and act the part of
special pleader for the plundering class?
Sir William went to Allora on Wednes-
day last week to open a cow and hog show,
and 44 there was a large gathering at the
railway station to welcome him and Lady
Macgregor,”
Nothing extraordinary about tha,t, but
Sir William, in responding to an address
read by the clerk, “ touched upon the
unfortunate industrial position, and re-
ferred to the splendid manner in which the
farmers had come forward in support of law
and order.”
Now, is Sir William truthful in this
statement? Did not the milkherd mercen-
aries swarm into the metropolis to pouch
public money and assist Cahill’s law-
breakers to unlawfully baton peaceful
people ?
Enlarging on his extraordinary asser-
tions, Sir William said: “It was most
fortunate that districts like Allora had
come forward as they had done. The way in
which the farmers of Queensland had come
forward in support of law and order was
what had been done by the yeomen of Eng-
land for some hundred of years. (Unfortu-
nately true.) The farmers had been the
mainstay of the old countries, and certainly
they had been so in Queensland. The South
African war had been proof of what the
yeomanry could do.”
A t the same time and in the same place,
our imported Governor replied to an ad-
dress which was read by the secretary of
St. Andrew’s Club, at Allora, and he said:
44 They all knew that Scotsmen were not
behind-hand in supporting authority. They
were always to be depended upon to join
hands with English and Irish in uphold-
ing law and order.”
Would King George V. so openly ex-
press his private opinions on the great in-
dustrial upheaval in Great Britain at the
present time ? What kind of reception
would such utterances by the King receive
in Great Britain?
Surely Sir William forgot that he is
a hired neutral, and it is time the people of
Queensland began to think seriously about
ending the reign of State Governor.
The Scotsmen who are prominent among'
the strikers hold different opinions about
the milkherd mercenaries and law and
order.
“JACK” CRAMPTON BACK.
Mr. J. Crampton, who has been doing
Yeoman service in Sydney and Melbourne
(in company with comrades Adamson, Col-
lins, and M‘Lachlan, MM.L.A.), returned
to Brisbane last evening. He came
straight from the Southern mail train and
reported to the Strike Committee. The
journey and the hard work have told on
his health, which is not of the best; but he
is in good form and will tell the history of
his trip at various public meetings during
the week.
ROUGH ON THE TYRANNICAL
MONOPOLIST.
This is how Saturday’s “Telegraph”
sums up the situation :
“ What is the calibre of the individual,
who in the sight of an allegedly Christian
community, possesses a heart callous
enough openly to proclaim, and to glory in
the hideous proclamation, that he has
ruined 21,500 homes, and has brought
86,000 of his fellow beings to starvation.”
WASTING TIME AND MONEY.
Saturday’s 44 Telegraph ” published the
subjoined par. We also publish it for the
purpose of letting the public see how the
highly-paid civil servants put in their time,
and also in the hope that members of Par-
liament will keep an eye on the Agricul-
tural estimates and see who pays for the
piece of canting hypocrisy on the part of
public servants.
“At an improptu gathering of some of
the agricultural squad in the office of the
editor of the 4 Queensland Agricultural
Journal ’ yesterday, Mr. Orr was presented
with a beautiful set of framed views of
many of the incidents in which the squad
had taken part. Major A. J. Boyd, in a
felicitous speech, made the presentation,
explaning that it was through the exertions
of Mr. Mobsby, photograher to the depart-
ment, that the views had been obtained.”
THE “BRAVE” SPECIALS.
One of the notorious Esk contingent of
“ specials ” —William Cook —was / charged
at South Brisbane Police Court last week
with wife desertion. He was spotted in
the infamous Tuesday parade by his
brother-in-law, a member of the Waterside
Union. The law was quickly set in motion,
with the result that after leaving his wife
and child to the care of the wife’s parents
for six years, he has now, by order of the
Court, to contribute £1 a week to their
support and pay the costs of the case.
Nemesis followed the South African farm
burners as it will also these bush hoodlum
specials.
