

Official Bulletin, No. 39.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 89.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1912.
The Strike Leader.
Mr. Jack Moir, secretary to the Strike
Committee, received a letter from Harry
Coyne to-day, in which that gentleman,
among other things, says: —“Please con-
vey, through the ‘ Bulletin ,’ my heartiest
congratulations to the Labourites of Bris-
bane for their continued soldarity as dis-
played at the Water and Sewerage Board
elections, and also say that I feel confident
that that fine display of unionistic spirit
will rather increase than abate until it ousts
from power, at the forthcoming elections,
the Baton Government who, by their con-
duct on Black Friday and succeeding days,
have placed an indelible black spot on the
history of our State. Personally, I resume
hostilities with the Baton Brigade in the
Warrego on Saturday, 16th inst.”
Mr. Coyne also expresses his belief that
a record vote for Labour will be given in
his electorate at the ensuing elections.
Suppression of Speech.
CONTEMPTIBLE CAPITALISTIC
TRICKS.
Messrs. J. Moir (secretary of the
Southern District of the A.W.A.) and W.
Bertram (secretary of the Brisbane branch
of the A.W.A.) had arranged to journey to
Ipswich to-night for the purpose of estab-
lishing a branch of the A.W.A. there, when
also a big open-air meeting was to be held.
The usual permit to hold the meeting
was applied for, but the contemptible wire-
pullers of a contemptible Government set
themselves the task of blocking the gather-
ing, with the result that the permit was
refused.
What the enemies of the people hope
to gain by such despicable tactics it would
be hard to discover, as the meeting will
be held in about a week’s time, when the
petty tyranny* of those clothed with a little
brief authority will be the means of giving
an impetus to the cause of Labour that
could not have been foreseen by the ob-
structionists, otherwise they would have
recognised the fatuity of their con-
duct. Bludgeoning and withdrawing anti-
sweating and other humane legislation won
the Water Board elections for the workers,
and as sure as the day dawns on which the
general elections will be held so sure will
the enraged people resent this latest attack
on their liberties and sweep the parasitical
clique into oblivion.
NATIONALISATION v. MONOPOLY.
To the Editor “ Official Bulletin.”
Sir, —While sitting on my veranda in
the cool of the evening, my mind wandered
back over strike events during the past
five or six weeks, and I could not help
thinking of the many lessons it (the strike)
had taught us. I looked back many years
ago to the time when that Labour cham-
pion, W. G. Higgs, M.P., was an aider-
man in the Brisbane City Council, and how
he fought in that chamber (against over-
whelming odds) for municipal control of
tramways; how, in his fighting speech, he
warned the people and city fathers of what
Avould eventually take place, if the tram-
ways were allowed to go into the hands of
a profit-mongering monopoly, and how the
people would live to curse the day they
gave to the Badger concern those whole-
sale concessions which were then asked for.
I think, sir, one of the greatest lessons
learned during the past few weeks have
been the curse which W. G. Higgs said we
would live to learn. What if the people of
Brisbane had taken Higgs’ advice? How
much better off would they be now ? No
insolent tyrant like Badger; no extor-
tionate fares; no victimising of employees
because they dare to assert their manhood;
and no comic opera display by “special”
constables. 1
Now, Mr. Editor, I think I can say,
without fear of contradiction, the neces-
sity of nationalisation was never more
forcibly brought home to us than it has
been through the late strike. We see the
evils of the monopoly; the length they will
go to keep their grip on the throat of the
public; what wrong influence they wield
over the weak-minded. I think, sir, thanks
to the lesson taught us by the strike, the
nationalisation of the Brisbane tram ser-
vice is, I believe, on the eve of realisation.
But, Mr. Editor, to make doubly sure that
this shall come about and to place beyond
doubt any possible repetition of past
events, the men and women, electors of
Queensland must see that their votes at the
next election go to the party whose policy
is nationalisation.
The only party that advocates such is
the Labour party. Send that party to
power at the first opportunity, and the
nationalisation of the trams is assured.
But if the Badger-Denham-Cahill party
is returned to power, then the people of
Queensland, by allowing it,. will certainly
be inviting a further invasion of Yankee
monopolists. But, I hope, we have learnt
our lesson, and when the ballot boxes are
ready, the verdict will be given, and that
verdict, I feel sure, will be ‘ ‘ down with
monopoly.” I am, etc.,
G.E.F.
AN EXPLANATION.
Mr. E. G. Boucher, proprietor of the
I.X.L. Boarding-house, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane, writes us to the effect that
certain people have been circulating re-
ports that he knowlingly harboured
“scabs” during strike time. Mr. Boucher
states that he is prepared to hand £5 to
the secretary of the Strike Committee for
the benefit of some charitable institution,
if anyone can substantiate these slanderous
rumours, which he alleges have injurously
affected his business.
Parliament Dissolved.
It was officially announced to-day that
Parliament has been dissolved. The
Premier waited on the Governor this
morning, who granted a dissolution.
The Government manifesto will be
issued, it is expected, this evening, and
arrangements for the elections are to be
published to-morrow.
The date for holding the elections, has
not, so far, been made known, but it is
surmised that they will take place on the
27th April.
THE TRAMWAYS CASE.
Companies to Produce Documents.
In the Tramways case yesterday in the
Arbitration Court, the President on the
application of the Tramways employees,
made an order for the discovery of records
and documents having reference to the dis-
pute during the last two years. He directed
that the papers should not include those
relating to the financial position of the
respondents.
WARREGO ELECTORATE.
At a meeting of the P.P. Leaguers at
Charleville on Wednesday night, after a
large amount of talk had been indulged
in, Mr. D. C. M‘Donald was the gentleman
fixed on to measure blades with Harry
Coyne at election time. Mr. M‘Donald is
not altogether enamoured of the weapon
he will be given to wield on behalf of the
bludgeoning and sweating Government, as
he is reported to have said that “If he
was returned to Parliament he would, of
course, give general support to the present
Government, but he reserved his right to
vote against any measure which, in his
opinion, would not be beneficial to all
classes. He would even vote for measures
emanating from the Labour party if he
thought they would be beneficial to the
country.” There is nothing enthusiastic
about Mr. M‘Donald in his candidature—
it is a sort of damning the Government
with faint praise. If this is the strongest
opposition they can offer the Strike Leader,
it is small wonder he smiled when told
of it.
OXLEY ELECTORATE.
What deduction are we to draw from
the following par., which appeared in a
paper this morning: “A meeting of the
supporters of the Hon. D. F. Denham was
held at Redbank last evening, when there
was a good attendance, many of those
present coming from Goodna.” Some time
back it was stated that certain coronated
lunatics, who were also members of the
British House of Lords, were taken from
their Continental seclusion and brought
across the Channel, in charge of keepers,
to cast their votes against Home Rule for
Ireland, after doing which they were un-
ceremoniously hustled back to their asy-
lums. Can it be that Digby is resorting to
the same tactics?
VICTIMISATION.
What looks like a very glaring case of
victimisation was brought under our notice
to-day. We are informed that on three
lorry men, who had been working for a pro-
duce merchant, who hitherto had posed as
a supporter of Labour, returning to work
when the strike, so far as their union was
concerned, was declared off, they were
told that there was no work for them unless
they took off their red ribbons and handed
in their union book, the produce agent de-
claring that he would never employ union-
ists again. One of these men was five years
in liis position, and faithfully and capably
carried out his duties, yet because he fell
into line with his fellow-unionists and de-
clined to join the ranks of scabdom, he is
turned aside and his position given to
someone who may be beneath comparison
with him as a workman,' as is generally
the case when scabs supplant unionists. As
we have already asked, where were these
blacklegs, whom so many employers. are
pampering, when union men were working ?
They seem to be able to secure employ-
ment only when good men are called on to
make a stand for a great principle. This
particular employer, who wished to get all
the kudos he could before the strike as a
believer in unionism, was placed at no
greater disadvantage because of the trouble
than many other merchants who readily re-
instated their men when business was re-
sumed. When a Labour Government is
returned to power after the forthcoming
elections, some of these tinpot tyrants may
suddenly become aware of the fact that
their petty victimising would have been
better left alone.
“STILL HARPING ON MY
DAUGHTER.”
The shrunken “Daily Mail” keeps on
whining for a balance-sheet from the Strike
Committee. A few issues back; in its own
accepted classical style, it said ‘ ‘ The ‘ Skite
Bulletin ’ still ekes out its miserable exist-
ence, and that, perhaps, the acounts of the
Strike Committee want more auditing than
the hair-brained committee is capable of
compassing.” On referring this matter to
the secretary of the Strike Committee, that
gentleman stated to-day that the balance-
sheet had been further considered, and it
was decided to publish it simultaneously
with that of the Employers’ Federation.
While on the subject of accounts, would the
“ Mail ” mind telling us what it has cost
the proprietary for sanitary improvements
since they took possession of their premises,
or how much it might cost them (approxi-
mately).
In the Ranks.
TOOWONG W.P.O.
On to-morrow (Saturday) night, Igth
inst., a meeting of Labour supporters will
be held at Mr. W. Landsbury’s residence,
Toowong Terraces, for the purpose of form-
ing a branch of the organisation. All
Labourites desiring to become members of
the W.P.O. and to secure the return of
Mr. Lewis McDonald, the selected Labour
candidate for the electorate, are earnestly
requested to be present.
LOGAN ELECTORATE.
The members of the old Bulimba
W.P.0., who have now, by reason of the
redistribution, been brought into the
Logan electorate, have arranged for an
open-air public meeting to take place to-
morrow (Saturday) night, at Logan-road,
near Dunellan School (opp. Miss Morley’s
shop). Mr. A. C. Boulton, A.L.F. organ-
iser, and other prominent Labourites will
address the meeting. After the meeting,
names will be taken of persons desiring to
form a W.P.O. for the Logan electorate,
with a view to running a candidate in the
Labour interests at the coming election.
MAREE ELECTORATE.
Mr. Will Bertram, the endorsed Labour
candidate for Maree, opened his election
campaign in the Pineapple Picture Pavi-
lion last night.
The chairman, Mr. A. Skirving, in
opening the meeting, spoke of the neces-
sity of adding to the strength of the elec-
tions’ committee, and invited all union
and Labour supporters to attend a meeting
to be held in Innes’ Hall, Wellington Road,
on Saturday night.
Mr. Bertram said, in opening, that he
intended, during the campaign, to indulge
in no personalities regarding his opponent,
but would endeavour to prove that the
Labour party’s policy was a better one than
that of the Government. He was con-
vinced that just so soon as the majority of
electors understood the aims and objects of
the party, just so soon would a majority of
Labour representatives be returned to
Parliament. In dealing with the strike, he
charged the Government with having as-
sisted the Tramway Company in an at-
tempt to break unionism, and spoke of the
necessity for the State ownership of trams.
He referred in complimentary terms to the
manifesto issued by the Labour party,
and expressed approval of the defiinit
pronouncement of the party regarding the
liquor traffic, and the repeal of the Re-
ligious Instruction in State Schools Act.
In dealing with finance, he quoted figures
to show that Queensland occupied an
unenviable position among the States, inas-
much as she had borrowed more per head
of population than any other State, and
was paying a higher rate of interest than
any State in the Commonwealth. The need
for a Sinking Fund, as the party proposed,
was dealt with. In conclusion, he urged
all supporters to do their utmost to secure
a victory, and success was assured..
Mr. E. Theodore, M.L.A., made a
splendid speech, and created a favourable
impression.
Mr. Hardacre also addressed the meet-
ing, and had a fine reception.
A vote of thanks to the chairman and
Mr Delany brought the meeting to a close.
MERTHYR W.P.O.
The Merthyr W.P.O. is young, active,
and vigorous. Secretary J. Roy croft re-
ports a splendid meeting in the Social In-
stitute yesterday evening, when members
of the Valley W.P.0., including Labour
leader Bowman and Mr. T. Wilson, were
present by invitation.
Mr. J. G. Enright was elected presi-
dent, Mr. Peter McLachlan having retired;
and the following officers were also elected:
Messrs. Morgan (treasurer), J. Roy croft
(secretary), R. Murphy and J. White
(auditors). Messrs. T. J. Foat, W. G.
Campbell, and Pat were nomi-
nated for the. position of vice-president, and
two will be elected by ballot at the next
meeting.
A letter, thanking the organisation for
the assistance rendered by Mr. Peter
McLachlan on the Strike Committee, was
received from President Harry Coyne, and
placed on record.
Labour Leader Bowman delivered an in-
spiring address, in which he urged the rank
and file to exert themselves, as individual
effort contributed largely to victory in the
fight for freedom. He paid a high tribute
to his colleague, “Peter.”
Messrs. McLachlan and Tom Wilson
also delivered addresses, and the whole
meeting went with a swing.
The Valley and Merthyr organisations
have decided to work together, and Bowman
and McLachlan,, though fighting in dif-
ferent electorates, will attack the enemy
from the same platform. The joint execu-
tives will meet at J. Morgan’s shop, in
Brunswick-street, on Wednesday evening
next, when the plan of campaign for the
Valley and Merthyr will be mapped out.
They will arrange and announce the date
of the next meeting of the joint W.P.Os.
Several new members were initiated, and
a lot of business was done at the meeting.
SOUTH BRISBANE W.P.O.
Mr. F. Harris wishes to announce that
he has only temporarily resigned his posi-
tion as secretary of the - South Brisbane
W.P.O. on account of ill-health. We
have Mr. Harris’s authority for stating
that when his health has sufficiently im-
proved he will be only too pleased to again
take up active service in a cause he has so
much at heart.
Labour's Selected Candidates.
Endorsed by the G.P.E.
Balonne E. M. Land.
Bowen Myles Ferricks.
Bremer W. V. Hefferan.
Bundaberg G. P. Barber.
Buranda John Huxham.
Burke Charles Collins.
Burnett Alfred J. Jones.
Bur rum A. E. Whitford.
Cairns W. McCormack.
Carnarvon Thomas Crawford.
Chillagoe E. Theodore
Cook H. J. Ryan.
Drayton J. J. Desmond.
East Toowoomba Geo. Walden
Enoggera W. F. Lloyd
Fitzroy C. W. C. Bluett.
Flinders John May.
Fortitude Valley David Bowman.
Herbert Wm. Lennon.
Ipswich W. J. R. Maughan.
Ithaca J. T. Gilday.
Kennedy J. O’Sullivan.
Keppel J. Larcombe, jun.
Leichhardt H. F. Hardacre.
Mackay . C. Tait.
Maree W. Bertram.
Maryborough Wm. Mitchell.
Merthyr P. A. McLachlan
Mitchell John Payne.
Mount Morgan James Stopford.
Mundingburra F. Foley.
Murilla B. F. S. Allen.
Murrumba G. G. Dennis.
Musgrave Samuel Rowe
Nanango Morris Harland
Oxley C. W. Martin.
Pitts worth M. Dwyer.
Port Curtis E. D. J. Breslin.
Rockhampton John Adamson.
Rosewood Patrick Madden.
South Brisbane J. H. Sherry
Townsville A. F. Austin.
Toowoomba M. P. Alke.
Toowong Lewis McDonald.
Warrego J. Harry Coyne.
Wide Bay Andrew Thompson.
Windsor «, J. R. Crampton
Warwick Angus Sinclair.
LABOUR’S HANDICAP.
To the Editor “ Bulletin.”
Sir, —Being at Toowoomba part of the
time during the strike, I was surprised at
the dependence the people had to place in
the daily papers, and can well understand
the necessity to reach the outside towns as
speedily as possible with a Labour daily.
Reading the same stuff day after day, and
comments thereon, even I, who ought to
have known how utterly unscrupulous our
daily papers are, sometimes felt puzzled.
However, I got two or three “ Strike
Bulletins,” and could draw my own con-
clusions to a certain extent. I remember
one incident, particularly, about a dairy on
Kangaroo Point, and saw how the tale was
disproved by Mr. Skirving’s prompt sift-
ings the next day.
I was invited to attend a meeting of
Labour paper enthusiasts who are fight-
ing to establish a Downs weekly paper. It
seems rather an up-hill battle, and if we
could join forces and get a daily going in
the near future, how much more effective it
would be?
People in Toowoomba would be only too
glad to get “Strike Bulletins” regularly.
The absence of fair play where no Labour
papers circulate in outside towns naturally
places even fair-minded persons at a dis-
advantage, and it is hoped we will be able
to get going before the next election.
Yours in the cause,
W. LANE
RECONCILIATIONS.
In an interview with the Premier, pub-
lished this morning, he is reported to have
said: “In regard to Ithaca, whenever I
have thought of it for many weeks past,
and whenever I have considered the pros-
pects for that seat at the elections, my
mind has turned to the Hon. A. G. C.
Hawthorn. Some days ago I got into com-
munication with that gentleman, and I am
pleased to say that he manifested a fine
public spirit in considering the matter. In
response to the call of public duty he has
agreed to offer himself for election at the
hands of the electors of Ithaca.”
Let us shake hands all round, and go
and have “ one” to celebrate this remark-
able reconciliation. If we don’t make a
mistake, Mr. Denham’s mind also turned
to his dear friend Hawthorn when the
Premier was considering the prospects of
Messrs. Macartney, Grant, and Tolmie,
not so very many weeks back, when Dr,
Kidston was persuaded to accept a nice,
comfortable £lOOO-a-year billet and Mr.
Hawthorn found seclusion from Cabinet
worries and wranglings in the placid at-
mosphere of the Council. Did Mr. Haw-
thorn manifest “ a fine public spirit ” th;gi,
or did his dear friend Digby manifest it
for him We are pleased, however, to see
that Mr. Hawthorn is again ready to im-
molate himself “in response to the call of
public duty,” but we shall be better
pleased when the electors of Ithaca from
“ a sense of public duty ” shall return this
accommodating politician to his present re-
poseful position in the legislative museum
when they are allowed to express their
political opinion of him.
TRAMWAY MEN’S BENEFIT.
The postponed benefit on behalf of the
Tramway lockout takes place to-morrow
(Saturday) night, 16th inst., in the Gym-
nasium Hall. Ticket holders, please note,
and all unionists should roll up.
Water Board Elections.
The poll in connection with the recent
Water and Sewerage Board election was
officially declared at noon to-day by the
returning-officer (Mr. G. H. Blocksidge), at
the offices of the board. A large number
of citizens were present.
Mr. Blocksidge said that there were 425
informal ballot papers representating
1700 votes. The votes cast represented 30
per cent of those on the roll, and the in-
formal votes represented 6 per cent of those
voting. Between 75 and 80 per cent of
the informal ballot papers were made in-
formal by the voters either leaving in too
many or too few names.
Aid. Wilson was received with cheers,
and he said that he had always advocated
that whatever, money could be spent in this
country should be so spent, and he believed
that his return at the head of the poll was
a mandate by the people that that policy
should be pursued.
Mr. A. M. Hertzberg said that the roll
was absolutely rotten, but they must not
blame the board for that. Blame the Gov-
ernment. (Prolonged ahs!). Blame Kid-
ston. (Boos.) He also said the Kidston
Government passed 55 clauses in 15
minutes, so what could they expect.
Mr. J. Barker said that no one was more
surprised at his election than he was. He
thanked the people for their support, and
promised to do his best in the interests of
the ratepayers.
Mr. A. S. Water field said he would say
nothing as to the political aspect of the
question. He was fully seized of the im-
portance of the work which would devolve
upon the members of the board.
Mr. A. E. Walkeden, who was received
with groans and cries of “Where’s your
baton?” said he did not sell himself body
and soul to any living man, and so long as
he lived he never would.
A voice: You sold yourself on Black
Friday.
MIXED.
The “Courier,” in referring editorially
to the judgment of the Full Court in the
case of the Tramways Company v. Nielsen
in Wednesday’s issue, said that “the de-
cision turned upon that question, and the
Judges were unable to come to a unani-
mous decision. The Chief Justice and
Justices Shand and Lukin were of opinion
that the suspension of the sections freed
the company of responsibility, while Mr.
Justice Real and Mr. Justice Lukin held
that it did not.” Now, will the “Courier”
tell us how many Judges of the name of
Lukin there are on the Supreme Court
Bench? We only know of one. If our
knowledge is correct, will the “Courier”
please say just how that one decided, as
the matter is a very important one. If
this erratic rag deals as nonchalently with
members of the Supreme Court Bench as
it did with those of the Strike Committee
for some time past, it may find that the
legal luminaries will not regard its legal
pecadilloes with the same complacency as
did the men who have had to do a lot of buf-
feting with the world. It is evident the
'‘ Courier ” requires other employees be-
sides the lino, operators it has been vainly
advertising for since the Typographical
Association announced that none of its
members would be allowed to work in the
erstwhile fortress.
At the declaration of the poll at the
Water Board offices to-day one of the de-
feated candidates was told to go home and
polish his baton.
SOUTH BRISBANE W.P.O.
A MONSTER PUBLIC MEETING, to
which ladies are specially invited, will he
held at
CLARENCE CORNER,
TO-MORROW (SATURDAY) EVENING,
16th inst.
Speakers:—J. H. Sherry (endorsed
Labour candidate), members of the Parlia-
mentary Labour party, and others.
H D. HUXHAM,
Hon. Sec. pro. tern.
S. Brisbane W.P.O.
MAREE W.P.O.
INNIS’ HALL, WELLINGTON ROAD,
SATURDAY, 16th inst., at 8 p.m.
Every elector desirious of seeing the
Labour candidate returned, is urged to
attend.
SID. BARROW, Sec.
METROPOLITAN COUNCIL OF W.P.O.
The deferred MEETING of the above
Council will take place in
MR. LLOYD’S ROOMS, KENT’S
BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE ST.,
on
WEDNESDAY EVENING NEXT,
20th March, at 8 o’clock.
Delegates are urgently requested to be
present, as the business is important.
lewis McDonald,
Hon. Secretary.
BURANDA ELECTORATE.
Labour Supporters and Sympathisers
interested in the return to the State Par-
liament of the endorsed Labour Candidate,
AIR. JOHN HUXHAM, are invited to
attend a MEETING in the ALLIANCE
HALL, FIVEWAYS, WOOLLOON-
GABBA, on SATURDAY EVENING
NEXT, 16th March, at 8 o’clock, to make
arrangements for the conducting of the
campaign
J. T. BARNES,
Hon. Sec. Buranda W.P.0., Convener.
