

Official Bulletin, No. 27.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 27.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, MARCH <l, 1912
Stating the Position.
Communications Exchanged.
The following letter was sent by
the chairman of the Strike Committee to
the secretary of the Federated Em-
ployers :
Trades Hall, Brisbane,
February 27, 1912.
F. Ranson, Esq.,
Secretary Employers’ Federation,
Dear Sir,—Now that the verdict of the
Arbitration Court has been delivered, and
the matter in support of which the com-
bined unions of Brisbane ceased work has
been decided in their favour, my Commit-
tee feels that it is only proper that we
should state definitely to you what our
position as the Executive Committee of
the Combined Unions now is. As you well
know, the overtures we made to you in
our letter dated 15th inst. were refused,
and in such terms that we had no option
but to make arrangements for a protracted
war.
This we did, and although it is probable
that you will not believe us, we are now in
the strongest and safest of positions as far
as men and money are concerned. Natural-
ly in a struggle such as this the trade and
commerce of the port has suffered. For
this we accept no responsibility whatever,
but can only say now that unless we can
secure from the employers, either individu-
ally or through their Federations an
honourable undertaking that no victimi-
sation shall be attempted we shall not
shift from our present position. When you
feel disposed to meet this Committee upon
those terms the blockade on this port will
be lifted, but not otherwise.
We trust that a right spirit will pre-
vail, but beg to assure you that if a con-
tinuation of the struggle is still desired by
you, this Committee is fully prepared and
willing to fight on.
Yours respectfully,
J. H. COYNE.
President Combined Unions Strike Com-
mittee.
EMPLOYERS’ REPLY.
The following reply to above was re-
ceived by the Strike Committee to-day: —
1st March, 1912.
J. Harry Coyne, Esq., M.L.A., president
Combined Unions’ Strike Committee,
Trades Hall, Brisbane.
Sir, —Referring to your favour of the
27th February, this was laid before the
Executive Committee of the above federa-
tion, and carefully considered by them.
In reply, I am directed to point out
that this federation is not concerned in the
tramway dispute to which you refer as it
has never been consulted in regard there-
to —either by the company or your com-
mittee, nor is this federation interested in
the condition of your funds, or the num-
ber of men controlled by you, as they are
matters which purely concern your organi-
sation —these two subjects are considered
by my executive as quite irrelevant.
With regard to the other remarks as to
the continuance of the “war,” my execu-
tive regret that you should have con-
sidered it necessary to adopt such a belli-
cose tone in your letter, seeing that the
object you had in view was the settlement
of the industrial strife now existent in this
State. Such language is not calculated
to induce the spirit of conciliation which
you ask employers to adopt.
S Setting aside the matters referred to
above, your letter asks for an assurance
that no victimisation shall be attempted.
In reply, my executive disclaim any de-
sire or intention either to victimise any
strikers, or to commit victimisation of
any of the men who are now in employ-
ment.
My executive have no power to alter
the basis of settlement which has already
been arrived at between the employers
and employees in most of the trades
which came out on the 30th January last.
With regard to those trades or call-
ings in which a settlement has not yet
been arrived at, my executive have de-
cided that the most expeditious and
satisfactory method of adjusting the
matters at present at issue is for the
respective unions or members thereof to
apply to the various employers for re-
instatement in their respective positions,
where available.
My executive feel amply justified in
disclaiming any responsibility for the
existing state of affairs, or its continu-
ance; and must throw on the strikers and
those guiding them the entire respon-
sibility thereof.
Yours faithfully,
FREDERICK RANSON
General Secretary.
GUTTER JOURNALISM.
‘ ‘ Skite, ” “ flapdoodle,” “ yapping, ’ ’
“ claptrap,” —these are not from any vile
coster song book, but from an almost un-
readable capitalistic rag that has the
unblushing effrontery to state in double-
column every day that it is “A great daily
paper, well conducted.” The Education
authorities, if they did their duty, would
see that this demoraliser was k6pt from the
children, while at school at all events.
Judging by apologies that have ap-
peared during the last two days in the
morning truth-killing dailies, it would
seem they were sharing a police court re-
porter between them. Were these papers
called upon to apologise for all the lies
they have told about Labour, they would
want to increase the size of their sheets.
To-morrow Night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL.
IVORY STREET, VALLEY.
KELVIN GROVE.
WEST END.
ROSALIE.
STONE’S CORNER.
SAMFORD.
MORNING ANNOUNCEMENTS.
As no fresh developments had occurred,
Strike Leader Coyne decided not to address
the usual morning meeting. A notice was
posted at the Trades Hall to this effect,
coupled with the intimation that all impor-
tant announcements would be made at the
great rally to take place to-night at the
Woolloongabba Cricke Ground.
NEED FQR PICKETS.
A correspondent suggests that the
Waterside men should picket the wharves,
so that those who are “ scabbing” should
be known and pointed out to those who are
running union shops and boarding-houses,
and who^desire to keep them “clean.” In
several instances it has happened that
“ scabs ” have been served or otherwise
accommodated quite unknowingly, and
that union patronage has been promptly
withdrawn. It would be well if this could
be avoided by advising the proprietors as
to who are the “whites” and the
“blacks.” By all means let us all refuse
to deal where “scabs” are encouraged,
but let us be sure, first, that the sin has
been knowingly committed. One South-
side boarding house was badly victimised by
“ scabs ” in disguise.
THE STRIKE BALANCE-SHEET.
And the Virtuously Curious.
There is much talk in the daily Press of
the Strike balance-sheet. ‘‘Pro Bono”
and “Mother of Ten Scabs,” and other
monstrosities, have neglected their fowls,
and seeds, and booze to rush into print, and
the sins of the two cities of the plains, and
the seven deadly enormities are as nothing
to the criminality of the Strike Executive,
which is not baring its soul to its traduc-
ers. The theme inspires the hired literary
pimp of the dailies to tears and dignified
dissertations on honesty and integrity
and other virtues to which they are utter
strangers. Without dilating on the imperti-
nence of these bucketshop dealers and Wall-
street parasites in presuming to inquire
into the affairs of the men they are so
shamelessly robbing and abusing, wouldn’t
it be an excellent scheme for (say) Den-
ham’s corrupt gang to disgorge that secret
agreement of theirs with the Q.N. Bank,
and to say how it is that the latter remains
such a prosperous institution while it still
holds the money of old depositors and re-
tains, with the grip of an octopus, the good
Government loan cash upoji which we are
still paying interest to the foreign Jew.
Likewise, it would be intensely interesting,
nay, instructive, to r* t at the actual sum
spent by the Tramwajs Company, and its
co-operated and subsidiary concerns, on its
stock, construction work, and wages, and
alongside this expenditure place the stock
exchange value of the whole outfit! This
would put the illuminating torch of pub-
licity on such things as preferential shares
and such like, any may be the divi-
dends received by those thoroughly in the
joke would be elicited. The Tramways’
real financial statement would be much
more attractive as a news item than the
Strike balance-sheet, and when the nine
days’ excitement waned, such little matters
as the Gas Monopoly’s transactions and
the method of the State Government in its
loan dealings, would be quite enough to
amuse the people for another term, and re-
main as excellent copy for the denizens of
Grub-street.
We advise those who want to dabble
in the inner workings of many things,
Strike and Cabinet secrets, and the like,
to go the whole animal, and let the virtu-
ousness of their inquisitiveness query into
high finance all round. They will find an
appetising meal.
WORK AWAITING BUILDERS.
In the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
on Wednesday, Mr. Dacey, the Colonial
Treasurer, in moving the second reading of
the Housing Bill, remarked that it was
intended to make a suburb a garden city.
His scheme would not interfere with the
labour market, as the Government intend-
ed to import workmen from Great Britain
to fill the places of the men taken off the
labour market to build Government houses.
Now, then, any builders out of work in
Queensland, go south at once, whei-e the
Government won’t attempt to brand you
with the stamp of slavery, or allow your
children to be sweated.
Peter Henderson, Secretary of the
Federated Seamen’s Union, has loomed
large as a stalwart champion of Right in
the big struggle. Peter is one of the
silent workers who do things, and no man
has been sturdier among the heroes of the
General Strike. He has not been much
in the limelight, but he has been con-
stantly at his post doing effective work '*n
the great battle for freedom.
The following articles are awaiting
owners at the V.O. Office, Trades Hall: —
One pawn ticket, one ticket from a dye
factory, oil feeder, handle parachute, two
pieces ribbon, two pairs spectacles, vest
with watch and chain, etc.
Unionist Rally.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
CRICKET GROUND, WOOLLOONCABBA
8 O’CLOCK.
Every Unionist Should Be Present.
SPECIAL ADDRESSES will be delivered
and Important Announcements made.
NEW LABOUR DAILY.
A MEETING of REPRESENTA-
TIVES from every UNION in the city will
be held in the TRADES HALL on SUN-
DAY NEXT ; at 2.30 p.m., for the purpose
of considering a scheme whereby a
LABOUR DAILY NEWSPAPER may be
produced in Brisbane with the least pos-
sible delay.
Every union is requested to send a
delegate, so that the meeting may be fully
representative.
A.L.F.
Brisbane District Council.
A MEETING of the above Council will
be held on WEDNESDAY EVENING
NEXT, at 8 o’clock, at the TRADES
HALL.
J. A. MOIR,
Secretary.
P.P.L. PIMPS.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —I would just like to send in a few
words to put the workers of Brisbane on
their guard against a man who is going
round with a roll, finding out how many
names are on the roll in each house. He
told me he was employed by the Govern-
ment to find out the feeling of the people
towards them. “ I don’t suppose you have
any ‘ down ’ on the Government?” he said.
I remindec him that the ballot was sup-
posed to be secret. I thought I would hold
back and see how far he would go in his
dirty work, so I said: “Do the Govern-
ment think that the people have any reason
why they should have a ‘ down ’ on them ?”
“ Oh,” he said, “ I don’t know; you might
be red-hot Labour for all I know!” I can
tell you, before he left my veranda, he
found he had struck a hornet’s nest.
Just as I had got that far with him,
Mrs. Miller paid me a visit, and of course,
when he saw her red ribbon, he knew on
whose side I was. I told Mrs. Miller what
he was there for, and she asked him if he
was the ex-policeman who was turned out
of the force. He denied that he was; but
admitted that he believed that that indi-
vidual was working for the P.P.L., so we
said, “Are you the kind the Government
are employing to work for them.” When
he was asked if he was an Irishman and
if he knew the history of his country, he,
said he was, and did know the history of
his country. So we told him that, as an
Irishman, he ought to be ashamed to work
for a Government who were trying to do
in Australia what the English Governments
had done for Ireland in days gone by. I
said, I am an Englishwoman, but I am
ashamed of my country when I read and
know how the Irish people have been op-
pressed by my countrymen.” He also said
that he would work for us if we paid him;
but he was told that the Labour people
worked foe their movement for the love of
it, but that he was one of the traitorous
Irishmen whom the noble Irishmen had to
fight. We then spoke about the specials,
so he saW, so innocently, “I wonder how
long they will be here!” I said, “You
had better ask the Government that ques-
tion ; as a matter of fact, they were never
needed.” “Oh,” he s i, “Mr. Cahill is
paid to keep law and order, and you never
know when a piece of dynamite might be
laid down.”
(Well, if they are all like the specials
in Logan-road they would be a long time
finding dynamite or anything else; you
generally see them lying full length on
their horses talking to someone, or. lying
up against the iron fence at the corner of
Main-street.)
Mrs. Miller next mentioned the depu-
tation of foster-mothers who waited on Mr.
Appel, asking for an increase of Is. per
week per child, as food was at such a high
price. They were told that he did not know
if he could increase the allowance for State
children, but he would consult his Cabinet.
“But,” said Mrs. Miller, “the Govern-
ment can pay 10s. and 12s. 6d. per day,
and keep a lot of idle loafers who are not
necessary.”
When we had finished with him (and
I know you would not have space to print
all we said, so I did not send a full account)
we came in, and left my daughter on #he
veranda. As he was leaving, he said,
“ Those two are too much for me.” Now,
if he pays a visit to any who may see this
letter, I hope he will go away with the same
opinion of them.
Yours, etc.,
ELLEN HEWETT.
Coal Workers.
The members of the Coal Workers’
Union are requested to roll up in the Park
at 10 a.m. in the morning to have a photo
taken.
P. HENDERSON, Sec.
With regard to the statement this
morning that the general elections would
take place on April 27 next, the Premier
said to-day that he did not authorise the
announcement. Parliament is now pro-
rogued to March 12, and Mr. Dejiham said
he would see the Governor before then
with reference to future political events.
A Story with a Moral.
It has been very rightly stated that the
most effectual way of dealing with the
Denham Government and their pliable
and brutal tools is by extinguishing them
per medium of the ballot box; and if the
workers of Queensland don’t do this
thoroughly at the coming elections they
will prove themselves fully deserving the
treatment meted out to them by those at
present m power. In the meantime the
toilers can deal out some nasty knocks to
those who are resorting to every contemp-
tible subterfuge to retain them in a serf-
like subjection.
In the year 1880 a certain Captain Boy-
cott, who had been acting for 15 years as
land agent for Lord Erne, in the west of
Ireland, began to still further fasten the
screw under which he had the tenants fast.
He also had a number of labourers work-
ing for him, and he had a dispute with
them about the miserable pittance he doled
out to them for the weary and long hours
they toiled for him. The labourers re-
volted, and the captain retaliated by get-
ting processes of ejectment against the
tenants and others on the estate. No one,
however, could be got to serve the sum-
mones, and the down-trodden people, re-
alising the power of their newly-found
weapon, refused to have any dealings with
the tyrannical agent at all; the blacksmith
wouldn’t shoe his horses, the baker
wouldn’t make bread for him, nor would
any of the tradespeople from the neigh-
bouring town send him any goods. His
domestic servants all cleared out, and no
one was left to look after his cattle, etc.,
except the lady relatives of his own house-
hold. To make matters worse his crops
were ready for reaping, but no one could
be found at any price to do the work.
At length 50 labourers from another
part of Ireland volunteered to harvest the
crops, and these, escorted by 2000 troops,
duly turned up at the mansion to get the
captain out of his trouble. No one inter-
fered with them; they were left severely
alone, except that the rain was pitiless
while digging operations were in progress,
and the diggers and their escort got soak-
ing wet each day. At the same time
Tommy Atkins (more power to him) was not
idle when off sentry-go, and the land
agent’s stock of fouls, turkeys, geese, suck-
ing pigs, etc., was very perceptibly dimin-
ishing. His well-tended lawns and
nicely laid out grounds were used as
a camping place by the soldiers, and the
last condition of the now distracted cap-
tain was a great deal worse than the first.
The total value of the crops rescued was
£350, and it cost the State £3500 for its
share in the business.
After the departure of the troops and
the volunteer labourers from the place,
the people still refused to have any trucK
with the obnoxious agent, and in less than
a month afterwards Captain Boycott
threw up the agency, and with his wife
and family returned to England.
Now, there is an example and a moral
here for the workers of Brisbane. If a few
brave and determined Irish peasants
without any previous cohesion among them
could thus pull down and banish a callous-
hearted, enslaving landlord from his tyran-
nical pedestal though he had the whole
might of the British army behind him,
what should not the disciplined unionists
of Brisbane be able to accomplish in the
same direction? They have as flint-
hearted, slave-driving, and autocratic
tyrants to fight as was the man whose name
has embellished ( ?) the language of several
countries. If these workers would only
prove as true to each other and as honest
to themselves as did those simple-hearted
Irish peasants who stood to a ten-
fold greater sacrifice than it would be pos-
sible for any city worker to make—they
would make the business atmosphere of
Brisbane too pure for any foreign or local
tyrant to inhale, and in a very short time—
it might not be a question of months —
Brisbane would be rid of their presence, or
they would be compelled to acknowledge
our claim to independence of thought and
action, and act up to it.
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —The suggestion of Mr. King
O’Malley, Federal Minister for Home
Affairs, that the wives and daughters of
the workers should be allowed to vote on
the question before a strike is declared, is
in itself an excellent suggestion. It is only
just that those who have the spending of
the money should have some power to de-
cide the amount available. I have often-
times pitied the poor woman who is placed
in the unenviable position of trying to
make a weekly income of 35s. cover a
weekly expenditure of £2. History has
demonstrated, and every recent strike cor-
roborates the statement, that the wives
and daughters of the strikers are even
more courageous and determined in their
demand for justice than the men them-
selves.
If this suggestion of Mr. King
O’Malley’s is iiftended by him as a hind-
rance or preventative of ‘ ‘ internecine
war,” it is only another instance of the
lack of sympathy and understanding be-
tween the accredited representatives of
Trades Unionism and the rank and file of
that movement. What does Mr. King
O’Malley know of the conditions under
which the workers suffer? What does he
know of the terrible uncertainty and the
eternal grind of poverty which have driven
our womenkind into a state of revolt?
Yours, etc.,
Tfr.H.
Rev. J. S. Pollock and Labour.
The following letter, from the Rev. J.
S. Pollctek, appears in to-day’s “Courier ”
in reply to some remarks from the Rev.
Mr. McLennan. As Mr. Pollock is so
closely idenified with Labour matters, and
as his letter endorses much for which
workers are contending, we give his letter
in full:—
Sir, —Many thanks to my old friend,
Mr. McLennan. His letter is obviously
sincere, and so far as it is personal to me
shows an honest effort to be courteous, if
severe. Let me say, so far as advocacy of
the strike is concerned, I have given no
opinion of the wisdom or unwisdom of it,
and this for two reasons— (1) The unions
were possessed of all the facts upon which
to found a judgment. I was not. (2) Be-
fore, and during the strike, they refused
to be influenced by any party outside their
own circle. This is an understandable
attitude to take up. As to strikes in the
abstract, they ought to be a thing of the
past, and this strike could not have taken
place here if the very parties who are now
crying out so bitterly against it had so
voted on the referendum as to allow of
Federal powers being given to intervene
and settle all industrial disputes. It is to
be hoped better counsels will prevail at
next opportunity. My sympathies are
with the locked-out men, and I cannot re-
frain with Mr. Adamson from admiring the
comradeship which, at the expense of cer-
tain trouble and loss to themselves,
prompted fellow-unionists to down tools in
sympathy with their locked-out fellows.
This, although the act might be shown to
be foolish, or even wrong, as was the
Charge of the Light Brigade.
Mr. M‘Lennan need have no fear that
I preach one thing on the Sunday and
something else all the rest of the week.
My principles are the same all the time,
and, as I speak openly before all men, it
should not be hard to convict me of incon-
sistency if I were guilty of it. Ido not
use the pulpit as a coward’s castle to talk
at people who have no opportunity for
reply. For discussion of all debatable
matters I use the press and the platform,
so far as open to me, on fair terms with
my fellow-citizens.
Mr. M‘Lennan says: “It is high time
for Mr. Pollock to leave no further doubt
in the minds of his friends as to his true
position.” I thought 1 had made that plain
long ago. But here it is: As a minister, I
ever try to declare the counsel of God as
it is revealed to me, and I hope in a man-
ner not inconsistent with the standards of
my Church. As a citizen, I try to give to
my fellow-citizens whatever of light I may
have on all matters that make for
righteousness, peace, and true prosperity
of the community. As a Socialist, I be-
lieve in the gradual extension of common
ownership of public utilities as a means
towards lessening and finally ending the
exploitation of industrial workers, the
more equitable distribution of wealth, and
consequently the more general possession
of life’s comforts and conveniences. I be-
lieve in unionism— united unionism, as a
means of procuring and defending the just
advantages gained by the workers, and
that as a powerful and uplifting factor in
human society unionism must be strenu-
ously kept unimpaired. To this end I
counsel unionists to close ranks to repel
the attack now being made upon unionism,
and to spurn any bribe of offered kindness
as an exchange for this possession.
As to my future, and a Labour Church,
these things are in the hands of God.
That He will make my way plain I have
no doubt. With regard to my association
w ith gentlemen named, I claim to be in a
position to judge for myself. Mr. Codings
I know to be neither atheist nor infidel,
and I do know him for many years to be
a useful and honoured public man. Mr.
Coyne I have known only for a short time,
but I have ample proof that he stands
well with his fellow-unionists—a body of
men than w T hich Queensland has no better
to show, and whose orderliness and self-
restraint during the strike will remain a
matter of history. Apportioning blame
for ‘ ‘ the deplorable condition of affairs
existing at the present,” it is much more
to the point to regard the primary cause
than the proximate. “Offences must needs
come, but woe unto that man by whom
they come.”
I ain, sir, etc.,
J. S. POLLOCK.
February 27.
THANKS.
Mrs. M. A. Craker desires to convey to
the comrades and friends of William Henry
Craker, her heartfelt thanks for their
kindness to her in her sad bereavement
and respect shown to her deceased son.
Mrs. M. A. Craker also desires to con~
vey to the comrades and friends of her
deceased son, William Henry Craker, the
heartfelt thanks of her children, Albert
Edward, Edward, Robert, and Victor
Craker.
Remember, O, my friends, the laws, the
rights,
The generous plan of power, delivered
down
From age to age by your renowned fore-
fathers ;
So dearly bought, the price of so much
blood,
O let them never perish in your hands,
But piously transmit to your children.
—Addison.
