

Official Bulletin, No. 47.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 47.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1912.
The Election Campaign.
Increased activity is being shown in all
directions as the jiay of nomination
Wednesday next—draws nearer. To the
list of endorsed Labour candidates pub-
lished on Saturdav, the names of Messrs.
M. J. Kirwan (Brisbane), John Fihelly
(Paddington), and H. C. M‘Mmn (Bul-
imba) have to be added. The names of
the endorsed Labour candidates for the
Logan, Lockyer, and Nundah seats will
probably be announced to-morrow.
Much enthusiasm and energy are being
brought into action by the w orkers m con-
nection w 7 ith this most momentous battle.
Trades unionists recognise that their very
existence as such is at stake in the forth-
coming struggle, as it is the avow r ed inten-
tion of the Denham Government, if again
given the opportunity, to dance to any
kind of tune the united forces of capitalism
may play —in fact Denham would have no
option, as it is only by the tolerance of the
industrial oppressors, combined with the
apathy hitherto displayed by the toilers,
that he and his clique have an atom of
authority at all.
A stranger coming to our city a few
w r eeks back and seeing the pow 7 er of the
workers to completely paralyse and ren-
der nowerless the entire forces of capit-
alism, backed up by a Government hostile
to the people, would indeed have cause for
astonishment' were he to return after the
27th of April next and be told that the peo-
ple who w 7 ere capable of doing this, and
who form five-sixths of the population sent
back topporerw r er the same class of politicians
as were responsible for all the trouble.
Workers, see that this won’t come about.
WHICH PARTY WILL YOU HAVE?
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —The recent industrial trouble has,
to my mind, shown the people of Queens-
land what class of men at the present time
are running the affairs of the State. We
can now see that such men as Denham,
Barnes, Paget, and their ilk, who hitherto
were posing as friends of the working
class, have been nothing less than 44 wolves
in sheep’s clothing.” Take, for instance,
the present 44 Comic Opera Company”
styled the “Railway Inquiry Board,” or-
ganised by the Denham Government for the
purpose of showing the railway employees
who did not answer the call of unionism
on that 44 memorial Tuesday ” what to ex-
pect if they assert at any time their man-
hood, as did their mates w T ho are still
locked out. The Denham Government are
clearly showing us that to ensure your
position in the railway service it is neces-
sary to crawl, and a good old slave crawl
at that.
Are we as people going to see our rail-
w T ay employees’ lives made one continuous
smoodge ? Are the people of Queensland
going to allow their railway service to be
run by such avowed union-haters as the
present Government, to serve their
own selfish ends and strike a blow" at
unionism ?
The present Government do not hold a
mandate from the people to fight and kill
unionism in the public service. I take it
that the people of Queensland are desirous
of having the public service of this State
kept free from such tyranny as that exhi-
bited by the present Government during
the past few weeks. Private employers
may practise petty tyranny in their own
businesses; but w r e, the people, should not
allow them to introduce such barbarous
methods into the public serice. We are the
masters of the situation, if only we assert
our power.
On the 27th of April next the people of
Queensland will receive application from
men desirous of filling the various positions
of State. Who should be entrusted with
those positions ? On the one hand there is
a party of men known as Denham, Barnes,
and Co. We have had an experience of
their quality during the past few weeks,
and the railway employees are still experi-
encing some of that 44 brotherly love”
which Denham, Barnes, and Co. are so
noted for. On the other hand, we shall
receive applications from men belonging to
the party known as the Labour Party—
men who believe in the right to work; the
right of workers to combine for their mu-
tual protection, and, above all, the injury
to one being the concern of all.
Which, fellow-workers, of these two
parties should we consider it to be to our
interest to appoint on the 27th April next?
I think past events should have clearly
demonstrated to the workers which party
that is—the party of men who have at all
times been ever ready to defend our in-
terests is the Labour Party. Workers of
all grades, especially railway workers, if
you are alive to your interests and desire
that your positions shall not be maintained
at the cost of one continued smoodge,
roll up to the ballot-box on the 27th April
next, and cast your vote for the Labour
candidates. Do this, and free yourselves
from the tyranny of a baton-bludgeoning
Government.
Yours, etc.
G.E.F.
THE WIDE BAY BOOKER.
Speaking at Tiaro on Friday night the
alleged liberty loving Liberal Booker said
“ he would endeavour to have a law passed
to the effect that any person fostering or
inciting a strike should be prosecuted
criminally.”
There you are, workers. No more
protests against alien or local tyranny. You
may yet have a police reporter at your
union meetings if you neglect to return
Labour when you have the chance.
Vote Labour.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —At last the Queensland Govern-
ment have recovered themselves suffici-
ently from the state of hysterical terror in-
to which they were thrown by the late de-
monstration of the power of the workers
to do something else than oppressingly
crush the rights and liberties of the people
by tyranical force, and have therefore de-
cided to precipitate the general election.
They fear the power of the workers whom
they have evidently fooled long enough.
We were told that the House would
meet soon after the New Year and have
a short session and again deal with the
Liquor Bill, and once again submit it at
the general elections. We all know how
the Denham crowd were shivering in their
shoes as to what the result would be. They
did not w ant to displease either Bung or
w 7 owser. Denham told the electors of
Queensland in his circular to the followers
of the Government that it w r as not his inten-
tion to call Parliament together, his reason
being that it would be absolutely unconsti-
tutional ow 7 ing to the manner in w hich mem-
bers of the Parliamentary Labour Party
acted during the late strike; and
further that these members were unfit to
be the lawful advisers of the Governor.
What rot. Denham was too nervous to
face the people. But the electors will not
be fooled any longer by a wowser Govern-
ment of monopolies, trusts, and combines,
and a Government that is prepared at any
moment to crush the workingman in or-
der to meet the demands of the capitalist.
We are told by the Press that there is
no less than 713 deluded dupes of immigra-
tion agents on the water. Of course it is
all the better for the w 7 owser Government,
as they receive from the Federal Treasurer
25/ for every person imported into the State.
And yet we are told that last year no less
than 618 persons left Queensland for other
States. And how many immigrants book
their passages in London for Queensland
and their expenses are paid out of the
Queensland Treasury, and yet they leave
the boat in Sydney? Last year the Den-
ham Party spent £lOO,OOO on immigra-
tion, simply to sweat the workers of this
State. If the Labour Party are returned
to power they will put a stop to that sort
of business. The unconstitutional suspen-
sion of the Wages Board Act by proclama-
tion show s what Denham w ill do. During the
last session a small amending Act of the
Wages Board Act was forced through,
giving the Executive Council power in ex-
treme cases to suspend the Act, and to
sweat the shop and factory hands by re-
ducing their w 7 ages and compelling them
to work longer hours. Remember this, you
shop and factory assistants when recording
your vote at the ballot box on the 27th
April, as a Government who will suspend
that Act will suspend every other Act as
well if given a chance. Return a Go-
vernment to power that will repeal the
Bible Teaching in State Schools Bill ; re-
turn a Government topporerw r er who will
stamp out of existence a despotic Mono-
poly that tried to wipe out trade un-
ionism in Australia ; return a Government
to power who will put an end to borrowing.
Queensland is in debt at the present time
to the extent of £44,276,000, and for which
she is paying interest to the amount of
£1,630,000 a year. And at the end of
1914 another £14,000,000 will mature, and
w 7 ill have to be met. It was only last
year that the Queensland Government said
that they never would borrow a penny off
the Federal Treasurer, and the other day
we find Bishop Barnes obtaining a loan of
£1,000,000 from the Federal Government,
and his reason for so doing w r as that he
was offered the money at 3£ per cent, and
thereby saved underwriters’ commission on
the loan, and they tell us that Common-
wealth Consols in London are worth only
2 per cent, as compared with 3£ per cent,
in Queensland. Of the £1,000,000
borrowed by Queensland, £750,000
was transferred to the credit of
the Queensland Treasurer in London. We
were told that it was to pay for steel
rails for the construction of new railways
in Queensland. More likely it is to pay
the interest on previous loans.
Who is going to foot the bill to pay the
special scabs. It will cost the State some-
thing like £25,000. The farmers will be
taxed to pay it and civil servants will be
retrenched.
Why did the Government give over the
Lady Chelmsford Milk Institute to the
Gowrie Supply Coy ? When this institu-
tion was first started for the benefit of the
young children of the city, the Govern-
ment granted a subsidy of £3OO per an-
num to be placed on the estimates for the
upkeep of this institution, and when the
Denham Government came into pow r er they
reduced the endowment to £l5O, and after-
wards told the committee that they could
no longer subscribe towards it. And yet
they could pay £lOOO for Coronation Day’s
festivities.
Electors, send to Parliament a Govern-
ment that will do away with monopolies,
such as that pernicious monopoly the C.S.
R. Company and the Tramway Company,
and that will bring about the nationalisa-
tion of hospitals and charitable institu-
tions. Get thoroughly organised throughout
the State for the coming battle. Let every
seat be contested by a Labour candidate,
and if every man and woman rolls up to
the ballot box and records their vote, Lab-
our w ill score one of the greatest victories
ever achieved in the annals of the history
of Australia, and will relegate the Den-
ham, Barnes, Cahill, Baton Government
into obscurity.
I am, &c.,
B. J. CULLINAN.
Nominations.
IMPORTANT TO SECRETARIES.
We would again impress on all those in-
terested the necessity of seeing that noth-
ing will be allowed to happen that would
invalidate any nomination for the coming
elections.
All nominations must be in before 4
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon next, 27th,
and will be formally declared on Thursday
at noon. Those whose duty it is to hand
in the nominations should see that all
names and other particulars are correctly
placed on the nomination paper. If we
do nothing to defeat ourselves, all the com-
bined forces of capitalism will be unable to
do it.
OUR TRADUCERS.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —If I may be permitted space in
the “ Official Bulletin,” I would like to
draw attention to a few extracts from the
speeches at Mr. Robert Philp’s farewell the
other night. During the course of his (Mr.
Philp’s) speech he made the following re-
marks, no doubt with the intention of mis-
leading the people of Brisbane:—“They
had had a taste of Socialism in our own
time during the last five or six weeks.”
Now, Mr. Philp and his kidney know very
well that the events of the past five or six
weeks were not Socialism, which means
order, but disorder created through the
weakness of a Government which will T)e
an outstanding feature in the history of
the world. He said, in referring to the
general strike: “It had not been a ques-
tion of wages or hours, but whether a
bauble should be won.” I think the
workers know better than to be soft-soaped
like that. It was decidedly a question of
wages and hours, for had the unionists
taken it lying down their wages would soon
have been reduced and their hours in-
creased. Instance, the suspension of the
Wages Board and Shops and Factories
Acts to enable employers to do so.
Mark you, workers, Mr. Philp is going
home to tell them to “ send us plenty of
able-bodied men and women, who are able
to work.” Yes, the employing class are
anxious to have a large army of unem-
ployed in Queensland so as to be able to
hold you in subjection.
In referring to labour troubles, he said:
‘ ‘ There might be reason for them in Eng-
land, but there was no reason for them in
Australia, in Queensland, because they had
Wages Boards and Arbitration Courts.”
Comrades, we have precisely the same
causes and reasons for labour troubles in
Queensland as in England, and those rea-
sons are excessive wealth on one hand and
poverty and wage-slavery on the other.
The Wages Boards and Arbitration Courts
were at their best only palliatives, and
when administered by an unsympathetic
Government like the Denham-Cahill crowd
they are useless.
The following sentence was made use of,
and it w ill do us good to study it: —‘ £ The
great question was whether they were going
to hand that State over to the Socialists
or hold it for themselves to develop it for
their children.” The Denham gang have
no intention of handing over the State till
public opinion at the ballot-box compels
them to. They intend to “develop it”
(“ exploit us ” w r ould be the right words to
use, comrades) for their (not our) chil-
dren.”
Here is another item which deserves
comment:—“The other party (Labour
Party) were bent on destruction ; they were
bent on construction. The other party
wanted to pull down the whole edifice.”
The Labour Party and all its true followers
will, I am sure, plead guilty to being bent
on destruction, but, the destruction of
what? Our whole aim is to change the
system of society as we know it to-day,
the system that causes w r age slavery and
its sweating; the system that is respon-
sible for all the evils that this world knows.
Whilst the late Government and its sup-
porters are out to “construct” more
wealth for themselves, the Labour Party
are aiming at the construction of a system
of society which will secure to all workers
the right to live a decent, healthy, and
happy life. We will endeavour to “pull
down ” the Capitalistic system, and try to
replace it by a system which will give the
people, not a few individuals, the full con-
trol of the means of production, distribu-
tion, and exchange.
Comrades, do you not realise that your
very lives are in the hands of a few men
whose interests are opposed to yours ?
They, at the uttering of a word or the
stroke of a pen, can commit legalised atro-
cities by withholding from you the means
whereby you live. You can see that around
you to-day. Look at the men who are being
victimised by the Government for insisting
on using their right to cease work in sym-
pathy with a principle which is sacred to
them. These men are prevented from work-
ing, and that literally means no food, and
to withhold food means starvation. These
things can be altered. Make a start to
alter them at the ballot-box, and remember
you have it entirely in your own hands
then. Don’t forget Black Friday.
Yours etc.,
JUSTICE.
On Thusday last, at the A.N.A. confer-
ence in Melbourne, the following motion
dealing with the subject- of immigration,
was passed: “That this conference em-
phatically protests against the administra-
tion of the immigration policy of the State,
w'hich has permitted the recent introduc-
tion of physically unfit or otherwise unde-
sirable immigrants.” Any sort of human
being seems good enough to become a tool
for capitalism.
Campaign Items.
BRISBANE W.P.O.
In connection with the forthcoming
election, the Brisbane Campaign Committee
met and transacted a large amount of
business, in the direction of making ar-
rangements for the various committees to
get to work. The next meeting of the
organisation will be held on Wednesday
evening, at Mr. W. F. Lloyd’s rooms (top
floor), Kent’s Buildings, Adelaide-street.
Those desirous of assisting are invited to
attend.
In connection with this electorate, Mrs.
Finney has requested us to publish the fol-
lowing :
44 The wives and daughters of all mem-
bers of trades unions in the Brisbane elec-
torate are invited to attend a meeting to
be held on Wednesday next, 27th instant,
at the Trades Hall, to help to secure the
return of Mr. Kir wan to Parliament. ’ Now
I sincerely hope there will be a good roll
up of women, as the w omen al 7 e going to
help us to win the fight. I hope you have
not forgotten the awful treatment we re-
ceived during the strike, wffien our women
and children were batoned and run down
on Black Friday. Surely you will come
and help us to turn out the Government
that allowed such barbarous treatment to
be meted out to us. I hope all women shop
assistants will also attend.
44 Yours in Humanity’s Cause,
44 SARAH FINNEY.”
BULIMBA ELECTORATE.
Mr. Hugh M 4 Minn, president of the
Storemen and Packers’ Union, selected
on Saturday night by the Bulimba branch
of the W.P.O. to contest the seat against
the State Treasurer, Mr. Barnes. Active
w ork in connection with this electorate will
be gone on w r ith immediately, and the de-
sirable result should ensue.
OXLEY W.P.O.
Labour candidate Charlie Martin, as-
sisted by Comrade Nott, has been putting
in some good work in the Rocklea district,
and Butterbox Denham w ill find he has not
by any means got a mortgage on the place.
Being up against the Premier has put new
life into Charlie, who has had a good many
years’ hard battling. On Saturday last he
toured the Goodna end of his future elec-
torate, and met a lot of earnest supporters.
A good strong working committee was
formed, which will secure a substantial
majority for Labour in that district. They
also, in double-quick time, put up a good
sum of money to assist in giving the Baton
Premier a political blow he will not forget
in a hurry. If the Labourites in Oxley only
vote their full strength on the 27th April
they will have a representative in the next
Parliament.
The Premier is to deliver his policy
speech at Corinda on Thursday. He has
already supplied his opponents with lots of
political ammunition to fire at him with
good effect. We have no doubt Labour’s
arsenal will receive another large storage
at the conclusion of the Premier’s address.
PADDINGTON ELECTORATE.
At a plebiscite held by the Paddington
branch of the W.P.O. on Saturday, Mr.
John Fihelly was selected as the endorsed
Labour candidate. If workers don’t be
caught napping this seat should be a cer-
tainty for Labour.
MAREE LABOUR CAMPAIGN
COMMITTEE.
Over 70 members of the committee at-
tended a meeting in Innes’ Hall, Welling-
ton-road, on Saturday last, at which Mr.
Alex. Skirving presided. The meeting
place was secured for a committee room,
and arrangements were made for keeping
the room open every evening until 9.30
o’clock. Rolls were distributed, and ar-
rangements made for canvassing. It was
decided to hold a meeting of the Executive
Committee to-morrow (Tuesday), at 7 p.m.
ROSEWOOD W.P.O.
The members of the Rosewood W.P.O.
held a meeting there on Saturday after-
noon, when delegates were present from
many surrounding centres. It w r as decided
that Mr. Madden, the selected Labour can-
didate, should open his campaign at Rose-
wood.
BURANDA W.P.O.
This body held another overflow com-
mittee meeting at the Alliance Hall on
Saturday night. Several items of business
were discussed and decided, chief being the
printing committee’s report and sugges-
tions, which were passed. Senator Turley
briefly spoke about mapping out meetings
for the campaign so as to be able to work
without overlapping. Mr. C. Grimsey’s
offer to print a number of calico signs for
different parts of the electorate w r as ac-
cepted with thanks. Mr. Boker, for giving
the use of his room for committee pur-
poses, w r as cordially thanked.
Several canvassers then took on dif-
ferent parts of the electorate, and the sec-
retaries were kept busy for some time.
Mrs. Lane is anxious to meet any women
helpers, and will be at Fiveways Commit-
tee Rooms on Mondays at 4 p.m. and
Thursdays at 8 p.m. for that purpose. Mrs.
Hewitt and Mrs. Huxham will also address
afternoon and evening meetings, to which
w omen are specially invited.
It w r as also decided that two open-air
meetings should be held this week—one on
Tuesday and another on Thursday, which
w ill be notified by 44 Bulletin ” and dodgers.
TOOMBUL LABOUR PLEBISCITE.
A plebiscite to select a candidate to con-
test the above electorate was held on
Saturday last. Mr. H. Little w r as ap-
pointed at a previous meeting as returning
officer, and he presided at the Pinkenba
booth, while Mr. J. Connors presided at
the Hamilton booth. The plebiscite re-
sulted in Mr. D. C. Dowling’s favour by a
majority of 69. Returning officer Mr.
Little declared the poll at the Hamilton
before a large number of Labour sup-
porters, which w r as received with the best
of good feeling on both sides.
A meeting of this W.P.O. will be held
in the Hamilton Town Council Chamber on
Thursday evening next. All members are
requested to attend.
AN IMPERIALIST ON THE LABOUR
PRIME MINISTER.
Mr. T. S. Fitchett, publisher of the Aus-
tralian monthly, 44 Life,” has come to be re-
cognised as one of the most rabid Imperial-
ists in the British Empire; no one could
well regard him as a champion of Austra-
lian democracy. Yet, with all his professed
leanings towards jingoism, he is honest
enough to point out that the stand taken
by Mr. Fisher, when the Queensland Gov-
ernment, after declining to call Parliament
together, asked him to call out the military
to deal with a situation that was created
solely by the actions of that unpopular Gov-
ernment itself, was the correct one. In the
March number of “Life” Mr. Fitchett
says:—
4 4 Much angry ink has been expended
on Mr. Fisher because he refused the ap-
plication of the Queensland Government
for the assistance of the Commonwealth
forces in maintaining order, and because
he publicly declared he 4 was delighted
with the way in which the men in Bris-
bane behaved. ’ But the newspaper Press
lias not been quite fair to Mr. Fisher. If,
indeed, civil order in Brisbane had actu-
ally broken down, or was in visible and
imminent danger of breaking down, and
Mr. Fisher, the Prime Minister of the
Commonwealth, had refused his assist-
ance, he would have violated the Consti-
tution, and been disloyal to his great
office. When the States surrendered their
military forces to the Federal Govern-
ment it was never intended that they
should have no better defence against
civil violence than their police. The Con-
stitution requires the Federal Govern-
ment to use its military forces for the
maintenance of civil order in any State
on appeal from the Government of that
State. Mr. Fisher judged that the aid
of Federal troops was not necessary in
Queensland; the authorities would be
able to suppress violence by their own re-
sources ; and facts have justified Mr.
Fisher’s judgment.”
LABOUR GREETINGS FROM THE
SOUTH.
The following has been sent to the editor
44 Official Bulletin” by the Mascot (Syd-
ney) branch of the P.L.L. :
4 4 Sir,—I have been instructed by the
member of the Mqscot (Sydney) Political
Labour League to convey to Messrs. Wil-
son, Barker, and Waterfield,. through your
paper, the following resolution: 4 That the
members of the Mascot P.L.L. heartily
congratulate Messrs. T. Wilson, J. Barker,
and A. S. Waterfield on their recent elec-
tion to the Water and Sewerage Board, and
hope that Labour will be as successful next
month in the general elections.
44 Yours, fraternally,
GEO. DEMPSTER
44 President Mascot P.L.L.”
STRIKE COMMITTEE.
IMPORTANT MEETING, TUESDAY,
10.30 A.M.
Members urgently requested to attend.
J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
OXLEY W.P.O.
A meeting of the above organisation
will be held in Junction Hall, Annerley, on
Wednesday next, 27th. Senator Turley and
Labour Candidate Martin will address the
gathering. Roll up, workers, and hear
how you can get rid of the capitalistic
Premier.
WINDSOR W.P.O.—SWAN HILL
BRANCH.
A meeting of the above branch will be
held at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Swan Hill,
on TUESDAY, 26th, at 8 p.m. All sym-
pathisers are invited to attend.
ALLEN STOKES, Hon. Sec.
ITHACA W.P.O]
A meeting of members of the above
organisation and sympathisers living in the
Rosalie district who will form a committee
to secure the return of Mr. J. T. Gilday,
the endorsed Labour candidate, will be
held to-morrow (Tuesday) night, 26th, at
8 o’clock, at Mr. Bryett’s residence, corner
Nash-street and Baroona-road.
Also a meeting of those in the Red
district for the same purpose as mentio]
ed above will be held to-morrow (Ti
day) night, 26th, in Mr. Rees’s r
dence on Enoggera-terrace, near tram ter-
minus.
