

Official Bulletin, No. 35.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 35.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1912.
Strike Leader at Toowoomba.
MORE HARD KNOCKS FOR THE
GOVERNMENT.
Mr. Harry Coyne addressed a large
meeting in TooAvoomba on Saturday night.
Mr. J. P. Considine (president of the
A.W.A.) occupied the chair.
Mr. Coyne spoke for two hours.
Amongst other things, he said that the
Strike Committee began operations with-
out 6d. in their treasury. On Black
Friday, he said, the display of police vio-
lence and brutality Avould disgrace any
civilised country. Subsequently it Avas not
the police but the Strike Committee which
maintained peace and order in Brisbane.
(Loud applause.) Any lawlessness that Avas
in Brisbane Avas caused by the special con-
stables, and it Avas nothing to Avhat Avould
have taken place if the Strike Committee
had not enrolled an army of 500 vigilance
officers to keep order in spite of the police.
The vigilance officers protected the people
against those who should be maintaining
law and order. There would have been
murders times out of number Avere it not
for the protection afforded by the vigilance
officers. He appealed to the Prime Minis-
ter of the CommonAvealth by an urgent
wire to send out the military to protect
the people against the police, but owing
to defects in the Federal Constitution the
Prime Minister could not accede to the re-
quest. Twenty-four hours later, Mr. Den-
ham made a similar request, but he Avas too
late. On Baton Friday the police gal-
loped their horses on the footpaths to try
to provoke the people so that they could
assault them more, but fortunatey the
people had such confidence in the Strike
Committee that obeyed an order to go
home. There Avas a danger of a slaughter
taking place in Albert-street, and Avhen he
was told of it he rushed round and fodnd
a. mass of people Avithin three paces of tAvo
lines of police Avith fixed bayonets, backed
up by mounted constables, armed to the
teeth Avith SAvords and revolvers. There
was also a number of felloAvs in dungaree
pants with sticks and waddies ready to
knock out the brains of the people. If l e
(Mr. Coyne) had not been there there Avould
have been a massacre. The Strike Com-
mittee secured the closing of hotels.
(Cheers.) It was said in the papers that
it Avas the licensed victuallers. While the
hotels Avere closed the only men drunk in
Brisbane were the special constables. He
himself lived for days on scones and tea.
He hoped it w r as not true that farmers’
sons had gone to Brisbane to act as
specials. If any did he Avas ashamed of
them. During the strike one farmer’s
son w as killed on the Avharf at Pinkenba.
Who was responsible for his death ? The
Denham Government. Who Avas to blame
for the strike taking place ? The Denham
Government. (Prolonged cheers.) Going
on to deal with what he called the lessons
of the strike, he asserted that on the
second morning after the strike was pro-
claimed there was not a map in Brisbane
who could buy a loaf of bread Avithout a
permit from the Strike Committee. Would
it be a surprise to them to knoAv that the
Government of Queensland had to come to
the Strike Committee for permits. Would
it surprise them to know 7 that the Water
Board and the biggest merchants in Bris-
bane had to get permits ? The Strike Com-
mittee, he said, carried on the business of
the country better than the , Denham
crow d. The employers and merchants were
the real culprits, because they did not use
their influence on the Government. (Ap-
plause.) In concluding, he said that any
Labour candidate who withdrew* from the
election campaign on account of the strike
Avas a coward and not Avorthy to be a
Labour man. He urged all Avorkers to'sup-
port the candidature of Mr. G. Walden for
East TooAvoomba, and Mr. M. P. Alke for
TooAvoomba.
Mr. Coyne, at the close of his address,
* received a very hearty Aote of thanks.
Important Notice.
DISTRIBUTION AND REDEMPTION
OF COUPONS.
Coupons Avill be issued now from shed
in the yard of the Trades Hall, and only
sufficient for tAvo days’ supply w'ill be given
to any applicant. The hours for issuing
will be from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Coupons will be paid for daily by Secre-
tary Moir from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and
from 2 to 3 p.m.
THE COQUETTING JIMMY.
Blair’s political pussy has at length
emerged from the sack, and Jimmy’s re-
cent attitude on strike matters at IpsAvich
is fully explained. This political acrobat
informed a number of IpsAA 7 ich people on
Saturday night that he Avould accept the
Gov'ernment nomination. He did not do
so, he said, Avithout consideration, but
they must all Avork solidly for him, as the
fight Avould be a strenuous one. He also
discovered many nice things to say about
the Gov'ernment he has so often and so
vehemently abused in Parliament. The
little dandy’s disappointment over the
Judgeship, the Speakership, and one or
tAvo other little perks has apparently disap-
peared, but he may yet find the unstable
ship he is now joining will carry him into
very rough Avaters before final political
disaster overtakes him.
Mr. Harry Coyne, Avho returned to toAvn
from Tooaa oomba this morning, informed
us that while on his way to and at the
City of the DoAvns,* he found a very strong
feeling of resentment against those Avho
had acted as specials.
Cahill’s Ragged Gorillas.
In Saturday’s issue Ave published a com-
munication on behalf of five or six ex-Fire
Brigade men who, Avhen lending valuable
and necessary assistance to the uniformed
fire fighters, Avere menaced by policemen
w'ith naked truncheons to such an extent
that they Avere compelled to beat a hasty
retreat Avhile able to do so. In to-day’s
issue of a Queen-street “ laAv-and-order ”
newspaper a correspondent, who can
scarcely be accused of leanings toAvards
Labour when he seeks such a medium for
ventilating his grievance, has something to
say of the behaviour of some of the irregu-
lar force on the same occasion. Here is
Avhat he states: —“ I should like to knoAv
upon Avhose authority the special con-
stables, who Avere in the streets in the very
early hours of Friday morning, drexv their
batons. Everyone who Avas present at the
disastrous fire w ill admit that the crowd be-
haVed in a splendid manner, typical of
Australians. The regular members of the
police force had no difficulty in handling
the people, Avho appeared to the casual
observer to be only too willing not to ham-
per the gallant fire-fighters in any Avay. At
about 1.30 that morning the ‘ regulars ’
on the corner of Adelaide and All ti t
streets —at that time the fire being prac-
tically OA'er —told the people that there
was nothing more to be seen, and advised
them to go home. In a very short time
the croAvd had almost disappeared, shoAving
that in peaceful times people are quite
agreeable to fall in AA*ith the wishes of the
police. Unfortunately seme of the
‘ specials ’ took it into their heads that
they must shoAV their authority, just as if
''lit citizens needed batons Avaved above
them to keep them in order. lam sure
that if Commissioner Cahill knew* of this
he would soon call the offenders to heel,
and slioav them that the ordinary police
methods are not of this kind.”
With reference to the last sentence of
this letter Ave Avould like to jpoint out that
Commissioner Cahill’s attention Avas drawn
to the outrageous conduct of many of his
regular baton-w ielders, w ith the result that
some of these self-same men Avere told off to
make inquiries, and after exhausting their
inquisitive powers for about a month they
returned to headquarters just in time to
alloAV Mr. Ken Grant to proceed to Rock-
hampton and tell his constituents that the
blood-curdling tales reported in all the
Brisbane papers were so much.moonshine —
it was the police Avho got knocked about.
Perhaps' in another month or a feAv days
before the general elections Ave shall have
an insulted specials’ report sent to the
papers, Avith official endorsement, saying
that the hoodlum antics attributed to them
at the big Adelaide-street fire Avere av ithout
a shadow 7 of foundation, and they couldn’t
possibly imagine how anyone could form
such an opinion of them.
MISUSING PUBLIC FUNDS.
On Saturday afternoon the Government
steamer Otter was placed at the disposal
of some West End committee for the pur-
pose of taking a lot of specials for a blow
doAvn the bay and telling them Avhat good
boys they Avere for preventing the anarch-
ists from massacring all peaceful citizens
Avhile the strike Avas on. There w 7 as a large
number of West Enders at the cheap trip,
and amongst others present w r ere Mr.
Allan, M.L.A., and R. A. Ranking, P.M.
Mr. Allan inflicted a speech on the
party, and said he was proud of
on the party, and said he was proud of
the fact that 3000 “men” had “volun-
teered ” their services to protect the State
against “the inroads of anarchy.” We
know of some experienced officers of police
Avho are prepared to assert that some of
the greatest and most dangerous class of
citizens in Brisbane during the recent in-
dustrial disturbance were to be found in
the ranks of the specials.
MORE CAREFUL THAN CAHILL.
We are told this morning that experi-
ments are being made by the South
Wales Police Department w'ith a neAv baton
Avhich is said to be superior to the one at
present in use. The new baton is made
of a composition Avhich, Avhile having great
flexibility, contains neither rubber nor
gutta-percha. It is slightly longer than
the pattern in use, but of the same thick-
ness throughout, instead of having a handle
at one end. The chief recommendation of
the neAv Aveapon is that, w T hile it is heavy
enough to stun a man or knock him doAvn,
it Avill not inflict any serious injury, OAving
to its soft surface and flexibility. This sort
of Aveapon Avouldn’t at all suit the rag-tag
mob that Cahill called out. A thick piece
of iron, a length of heavy chain, or part of
a stout iron bedstead was quite good
enough for Denham’s Dirty Brigade to use
to send a citizen asleep.
CETTINC OVER IT.
Our shrunken Premier, after a good
look round to see that the coast was clear,
came from his cavern to-day to make cer-
tain funny statements anent the strike
leader’s speech at Toowoomba. His re-
ported remarks are in keeping Avith his
conduct; he is as great a contortionist now
as at any time during his vacillating
career. Before the coming elections are
over there is no telling to Avhat lengths he
will go in order to get voters to believe
that he and Badger are the very best men
to whom to trust the future industrial and
political welfare of Queensland. Let us
prepare ourselves for a good tall yarn
anyhow 7 . It Avill require a big one to top
Ken Grant’s, but Digby will rise to the
occasion.
Water and Sewerage Board
Election.
Once more Ave Avish to impress on all
those Avorkers Avho pay over £2O a year
rent, and Avhose names are on the electoral
roll for this important branch of the
State’s service, the great need for their
alloAving nothing to prevent them from re-
cording their vote on Wednesday next.
Capital is Avorking its hardest to Avin Avhat
it regards as a sort of preliminary skirmish
to the larger contest at the pending
general elections, and is resorting to all
the Avell-known artifices in order to get
its “ticket” through. On no account
should a worker allow himself to be per-
suaded to vote for any name included in
that batch.
Three candidates—Alderman Tom Wilson,
Alf. S. Waterfield (Amal. Engineers’
Society), and John Barker (Plumbers’
Union) —have receded the endorsement of
the Metropolitan Council of the A.L.F.,
Avhile Mr. R. D. North has accepted the
same platform, consequently the ticket for
all workers Avho do not Avish to see their
class still further submerged in the affairs
of the city and State should themselves
vote for and induce others to vote for
ALD. WILSON.
ALF. S. WATERFIELD.
JOHN BARKER.
R. D. NORTH.
If Avorkers, ivho are in a very large
majority on the list of voters, w r ill be true
to themselves and vote as above outlined,
there can be only one result of the election,
and they will have the satisfaction as Avell
as the sense of duty of knowing that they
have retaliated to some little extent for
the many outrages perpetrated, and still
being inflicted on them, during the past
five or six Aveeks, besides placing four prac-
tical, hard-Avorking conscientious men on
the board.
The Coming Labour Daily.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —Herewith please find first monthly
contribution of 2s. 6d. towards abot r e ob-
ject, and I trust that the venture will be
successful, as from my personal observa-
tion nothing will be done for the Labour
movement till Ave get our own Press. Other
contributions will folloAV in due course.—
1 am, etc.,
AN OLD AGE PENSIONER.
[Further contributions towards this
great event will be received by Mr. Alec
Skirving, hon. treasurer pro tern.—Ed.
0.8.]
Price of Bread.
NOTICE TO UNIONISTS.
Certain non-union master bakers, in-
censed at their trade having been very
seriously cut into by the union shops, are
threatening to combine in an insidious
manner, in order to draw 7 trade away from
our union establishments. HousewiA r es
and all unionists are hereby requested not
to be led away by this kind of thing.
Union bakeries paying full union rates,
and employing union labour, both inside
and on the carts, should be loyally sup-
ported by all union consumers of the staff
of life. The “ scab” shop tactics are, no
doubt, intended for the purpose of crush-
ing out the union bakers, and afteiwards
raise the price of the 2-lb. loaf to 4d.
RECOGNITION.
To the Chairman Strike Committee.
Dear Sir, —1 wish to thank your com-
mittee on behalf of the residents of South
Brisbane for the “Bulletins” sent daily,
and also Mr. Roberts for delivering same.
Yours faithfully,
MRS. CREYTON.
Crowm-street, March 9.
LIFE ASSURANCE-IMPORTANT.
It will remembered that attention Avas
draAvn to the action taken by the Colonial
Mutual Life Society in doubling their
agents’ salaries and keeping all policies in
force during strike time. We have been
informed that iioav the strike is over it will
be necessary, where payment of back
arrears cannot be made by the policy-
holders, that the “Special Lien Revival”
should be brought into force. To do this
notices in the terms of Section 25 of the
Life Assurances Companies Act of 1901
must be sent to each.policy-holder. This
notice, hoAvever, gives a further 32 days
from date thereof in wffiich to complete the
Special Lien Revival or make arrange-
ments for payment in cash.
We are assured that no stone Avill be
left unturned by this society’s staff to do
justice to all persons concerned.
IS OUR GOVERNOR NEUTRAL?
Is Governor McGregor a political parti-
san ? If he is not Avby did he visit the in-
jured special constable in the General
\ Hospital, and not visit the grief-
stricken mother of the young union man
Craker, and offer Avords of sympathy to her
in her sad and serious trouble?
Be Avorkmen still to Avorkmen true,
Among ourselves united,
For never but by Avorkmen’s hands
Can Avorkmen’s Avrongs be righted.
People’s Sunday Service.
CENTENNIAL HALL YESTERDAY.
Hie announcements made during the
week to the effect that the Rev. J. S.
Pollock would deliver a sermon in the Cen-
tennial Hall on Sunday resulted in a
crowded house yesterday afternoon.
Mr. J. Adamson presided, and with
him on the platform was the Rev. J. S.
Pollock and Mr. J. S. Codings.
Both Mr. Adamson and Mr. Pollock
read Bible lessons, and engaged in prayer.
Several well-known hymns were sung by
fihe large congregation, Miss May Rein-
hold officiating at the piano. During the
service Mrs. D. Kingston rendered tAvo
sacred solos, Mrs. Harrap acting as accom-
panist. Mrs. Kingston, who is the wife of
Comrade Kingston, one of the members of
the .Strike Committee, has a natural gift
of music and a very sympathetic voice.
Her songs were rendered with much de-
votional feeling, and were greatly appre-
ciated.
A collection taken up during the service
realised £l2 14s. 6d.—a remarkable sum
from an audience of working men and
women who have just emerged from a six
weeks’ strike.
The use of the hall was kindly granted
free of charge, and the music also was
given gratis; and, at Mr. Pollock’s request,
the balance of the collection, after paying
for the very slight expenses, is to be handed
to the Strike Fund.
Comrade Joe Codings made a few r
formal announcements prior to the sermon,
and, amongst other things, said : “At this
juncture it is considered desirable that I
should make some statement regarding the
actual significance of this gathering this
afternoon. I want to say at once that the
Labour Movement as such recognises no
Church and no creed. Within our ranks
are men and women of all shades of re-
ligious opinions, and many who subscribe
to none. Therefore, this service has no
official relation the Labour Movement,
either as far as its industrial or its poli-
tical phases are concerned. But we have
been learning lessons during the stirring
events of the last few* weeks, and Ave are
going to act upon them. The working
classes of Brisbane have at last awakened
to the real meaning of the words ‘ Brother-
hood ’ and ‘ Sisterhood.’ We have at last
realised that ‘ An injury to one is_the con-
cern of all,’ and w r e have realised that when
‘ the crowd ’ decides on a certain course of
action, the crowd is usually right. A few
days since, when our people determined
with a wonderful spontaniety, to attend
the funeral of a deceased comrade the
croAvd decided rightly, and now* that evi-
dently you have concluded to have some
form of Sunday service you are, w r e feel,
again right. The fact is, Comrade Pollock,
like others in the fighting line, is being
victimised, because he has dared to be a
man. Because he has, unlike his brothers
cff the cloth, come out as a champion of
working-class interests he has had, after
many years, to resign his charge for con-
science sake. It is for you to rally round
him, and, if possible, make our brave old
comrade’s future secure. At the close of
this service, we invite those of you who
desire these or similar Sabbath services con-
tinued, to send up your name and address,
or you may intimate A r our desire by letter
addressed to the Rev. J. S. Pollock, ‘ Glen-
albyn,’ Corinda. I agree with Comrade
Adamson w hen he said that the great strike
had called forth an unequalled exhibition
of Christian brotherhood, and I say that,
in my opinion, this magnificent gathering
this afternoon and the splendid collection
are further evidences of fraternalism Avhich
reflect alike honour upon our great move-
ment and credit to yourselves.”
Mr. Collings was loudly applauded.
The Rev. Pollock was received with much
enthusiasm. He took for his text verse
xxxiv of the 14th chapter of the Book
of Proverbs—“ Righteousness exalteth a
nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. ”
He built up his premises with great care,
and marshalled his facts with the skill of a
trained mind. He went deep into the pages
of history, and showed how nations had en-
dured Avhile righteousness had been the
keystone of -their civic life, but had
crumbled to decay and passed into oblivion
as soon as injustice, oppression, and un-
righteousness prevailed. He dealt fully
with the manifest evils of the present eco-
nomic system, stripped capitalism of its
trappings, and showed it to be cruel, re-
morseless and insecure, crushing all that
is good and noble out of men and women,
and developing the selfish and the un-
worthy. He made a powerful appeal to the
workers to embrace co-operative effort in
place of chaotic individualism, and con-
cluded a very fine sermon by stating that
he w r as there as a Minister of the Gospel,
believing in the teachings of his church
and in Jesus Christ, and that if he could
not speak as God commanded him to speak,
he would not speak at all. To him
Socialism Avas applied Christianity, and he
had no faith in or reverence for a Chris-
tianity which could not be, and w T as not,
applied for good to the everyday lives of the
common people. He believed he w r as doing
the Avork of the Master, and would con-
tinue to do so in spite of all obstacles. He
Avanted no quarter, desired no sympathy.
He would go forAvard doing the right as he
understood it though the heavens fall.
Mr. J. A. Adamson, M.L.A., made eulo-
gistic references to his friend Mr. Pol-
lock’s career in the church and his syork
in Brisbane, extending over a quarter of
a century. He praised Mr. Pollock’s physi-
cal and moral courage, and announced his
intention of doing all in his poAver to stand
by him in his hour of trial. Mr. Adamson
appealed for a higher human life, a life of
service—service of the lowest amongst
us—and claimed that Christianity, the real
teachings of Christ, were akin to Socialism,
and properly applied would establish right
relations between men and women.
The whole proceedings were marked by
a wonderful enthusiasm, and at times dur-
ing Mr. Pollock’s splendid sermon many
were moved to tears. The reverend gentle-
man’s evident sincerity and his apparent
earnestness appealed to all.
In the Ranks.
STOREMEN AND PACKERS.
In consequence of some of the ware-
house employees having been refused re-
employment, the matter has been placed
before the Strike Committee to deal with.
A special meeting of the union will be held
o'n 1 hursday next to deal with the decision
of the Strike Committee.
MAREE W.P.O.
At a meeting of the above organisation
held on Saturday last it was decided to
open the election campaign on Thursday
night, March 14, at the Pineapple Grounds.
Mr. Alex. Skirving will have charge of
the meeting, which will be addressed by
Mr. Will Bertram, the endorsed Labour
candidate, and other Labour speakers.
ITHACA W.P.O.
Arrangements are being made to hold a
public meeting at Rosalie tram terminus oil
Wednesday next.
W.P.O. APPRECIATION.
H. Coyne, Esq.,
Trades Hall, Brisbane.
Dear Sir., —The following resolution
was unanimously carried at a meeting con-
vened on Saturday, March 9th, by the
Bulimba W.P.O. (Wynnum Branch):
“ That this organisation of the Wynnum
W.P.O. wishes to express their great ap-
preciation of the gallant example set to
industrial unionism the world over by our
comrades in Queensland during the late
strike. The abstinence, abnegation, con-
trol, and brotherly love engendered augurs
well for the future of the workers of Aus-
tralia. We also wish to convey to the exe-
cutive our keen appreciation of the mas-
terly way in which they handled the situa-
tion in face of unprecedented conditions.”
Yours faithfully,
H. CHANDLER,
President Wynnum W.P.O.
A MESSAGE FOR DENHAM.
To-day’s wires- from the old country
state that the Prime Minister, considering
that the Government proposals are the
fairest means of settlement, invited borh
sides to meet the Govrnment jointly with-
out prejudice, to discuss the whole situa-
tion freely.
Can anyone remember the number of
attempts Denham made to bring concilia-
tion or arbitration to bear in the late
strike? His idea of conciliation was to
endeavour to bring the Federal authority
into the trouble, nothwithstanding his
shrieking for Home Rule when the referen-
dum proposals were before the country,
arid failing to embroil them, he handed
over the control of the city to a peppery
policeman, who in turn mobilised as great
a rag-tag mob as he could collect, and
armed them with all sorts of murderous
“persuaders.” It is any wonder the
enterprising Yankee could recline in 1 is
chair and trust to Denham and his sanc-
timonious crew plunging the State into
confusion and expense to get him out cf bis
trouble.
“LOYALIST” EMPLOYEES.
We read panegyrics in the columns of
capitalism every day of the “ loyal ” men
who came to the rescue of employers when
the men who had been with them for any
time up to 30 or 40 years felt it incum-
bent on them to protest in the only way
open to them against tyranny, and sus-
pend work temporarily. Now, where were
these “loyalists” all those years? Were
they working for some oxner employer, or
were they gentlemen at ease? It seems
there was a very ample supply of them just
when they were wanted, and that they filled
the bill admirably. Do the employers keep
them stowed away in back rooms or cellars
for emergencies such as the late strike ?
We can safely go further and ask, where
will these “ loyal ” men be three months
hence —at the outside. Purely there can
be no more pitiable being alive than the
one who has to trust to his fellowmen
asserting their freedom in order that he
may be allowed to lick the boots of the
industrial tyrant, who would not, but for
the work and sacrifices of the ordinary
worker, pay him sufficient wages to keep
body and soul together. When a battle is
being fought it is the usual sight to see
all the carrion birds of creation hovering
over the ground awaiting the time when
they will have an opportunity to carry on
their repugnant work. So it would seem to
be with certain degenerates of the human
race, who only seem to emerge from their
unknown lairs when their taskmasters find
them suitable food to feed on. Very truth-
fully has it been written that it takes all
sorts to make a world.
Unity of honest working men is the
strength which breaks Oppression’s iron
sword.
