

Official Bulletin, No. 36.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 86.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, MARCH 12, 1912.
Their Troubles.
When the strike was looming, the
Premier went to Sydney, with some mem-
bers of his family, on a visit, and it took
a lot of coaxing to get him back. Then
when the Agent-General was unobtrusively
departing, the State Treasurer had to go
as far as Melbourne with him, lest he
might get lost. Mr. Barnes also had a
prolonged outing, notwithstanding the
Treasury was being called on to pay a lot
of foot" and mounted hoodlums, scraped
together at random, 10s. and 12s. 6d. a
day for displaying to the public how primi-
tive some country people remain in spite
of educative legislation. In to-day’s papers
we are told Mr. Appel has returned from a
visit South, where he went early last w'eek
on some domestic business. When we read
of these things we naturally ask, who is
running the State show ? The heads of
severafdepartments appear to be busy with
many members of their staffs in forming a
sort of mutual admiration society after
their warlike manoeuvring during the past
five or six weeks, so consequently there
seems to be only a messenger or two, with
a couple of junior lads, left to keep matters
right in a State that says it must have
absolute Home Rule. If Ministers keep on
galavanting southwards in this fashion we
shall be forced to the conclusion that they
have designs on Mr. Fisher or the Com-
monwealth Treasury, especially as the
astute financier who keeps our State purse
allowed the loan of a mere million to be
forced on him while gadding around Mel-
bourne. Perhaps now that the general
elections are approaching the P.P.L. will
rope these peregrinating officials in, so
that they will make at least a show of
doing a little work for which they draw
such substantial salaries.
ELECTION CAMPAIGN.
Electors of Maree are reminded that the
Labour party candidate, Will Bertram,
will open the "campaign on Thursday night
on the Pineapple Sports Ground. Mr. Ed.
Theodore, M.L.A., will assist the candi-
date.
PATRIOTISM OR -?
The following letter, taken from the
Esk “ Record ” of February 24, may go
some distance towards explaining the al-
leged love of law and order that prompted
so many inhabitants of the Esk district to
volunteer for service in uncivilised Bris-
bane wdiile the workers were taking a
peaceful holiday. The writer of the letter
is an old and "well-known, dairyman, and
knows exactly what he is talking about:
“ We have read a lot about Mr. Lord’s
special constables. We are told that the
same spirit that sent the several contin-
gents to South Africa monopolised the souls
of the specials when epgaged to deal with
the strikers. Now, sir, the truth is that
hundreds of farmers’ sons have not earned
a shilling for the past six months. Team-
sters were idle for want of grass, and the
working men for miles around here were in
a miserable state, as well as many others
with fairly comfortable homes. In fact, be-
tween redwater, ticks, and drought, we
have all had a miserable time for the past
eight or nine months. These are the facts.
I believe those men wanted a cheque and
a picnic, their horses being well fed and
getting fat. *
“ There is one thing about this matter
that, for the sake of Mr. Lord himself,
ought, I think, be contradicted. It is al-
leged that he got £1 each for getting
specials, 80s. each for travelling expenses
on the way down, and 30s. to come back.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Lord will give
this allegation the lie direct. Now, sir, I
don’t think you will find 5 per cent of the
people of Queensland endowed with the
spirit of patriotism. Touch their pockets,
and patriotism is out of the reckoning. If
selfishness is patriotism, then we have any
amount of it. Solomon, the wise, said that
he did not like too much patriotism, so
that men were most likely looking for
bread.
T. BRENNAN.
ANOTHER TRAM ACCIDENT.
A collision occurred between a tramcar
and a butter cart owned by Mr. Whitelaw,
of Paddington, at 5 o’clock yesterday, at
the corner of Elizabeth and Nash streets,
Rosalie. The car had lately left the
‘terminus for town, when it overtook the
cart, which was driven by Albert E. Gorst.
The tram struck one of the wheels of the
cart and overturned it. The vehicle was
considerably damaged, and the driver was
thrown on to the roadway. The tramcar
had a broken stancheon, a bent brake-rod,
and other damages.
A lady who witnessed the occurrence
has stated that she was forced to protest
against Qie action of the tram officials,
who, she alleges, instead of going to the
injured man’s assistance, ran about
amongst the bystanders asking for the
names and addresses of any who would give
them. She also adds that when the motor-
man of the tram tried to start it again he
was unable to do so, and that on another
tram coming along those in charge of it
were alike powerless to put matters right.
The break-down car was then summoned,
and an inspector on it started the refrac-
tory tram himself in half a minute. This
sort of thing doesn’t require enlarging
upon.
Mr. R. Philp stated in Townsville yes-
terday that he w'ould contest the Towns-
ville seat at the coming elections, although
he would not be present during the cam-
paign.
The Tramway Union.
ARBITRATION COURT PROCCEDINCS.
IMPORTANT EVIDENCE BY MR.
CHAMP.
Further evidence in connection with
the tramway case w 7 as taken in the Federal
Arbitration Court yesterday.
Geo. L. Prendergast (President of the
Australian Tramway Employees’ Associa-
tion) said he had a list of names of em-
ployees who had grievances.
The President: What witnesses w ill you
call in support of the contention that
there is a dispute?
Witness : One employee from each in-
dividual company in Victoria, and em-
ployees from other States, who will show
that at present they are dissatisfied, and
that the demands put forward by us are
in dispute.
The President: I have come to the con-
clusion that the issue where thgre is a
substantial dispute is a very difficult one
to decide, and I shall not make up my
mind until I hear the whole case on its
merits. I have always insisted on the
claimant showdng some prima facie case,
and on hearing the respondents. Mr. Pren-
dergast may call evidence as he thinks fit
on the dispute and the merits of the case,
and respondents may do the same. My
experience is that until we hear the merits
of the case, I can never decide as to the
substantiality of the dispute.
Witness then handed to the court the
list he had promised to give of the men
who had grievances.
Richard Mervyn Champ, secretary of
the Queensland branch of the association,
and formerly a conductor in the Brisbane
Tramway Co.’s service, gave evidence as
to the demand made by the men to their
employers to have grievances rectified.
In 1904 at a meeting about 260 em-
ployees expressed their willingness to
form a union in order to obtain better
conditions. The result was that on the
following day a number of the men were
taken to the head office, and dismissed.
They were reinstated after two days on
condition that they would never have any-
thing further to do w T ith a union.
The President: Do you mean “a
union, ” or “ the union. ’ ’
Witness: I mean a union. In 1908
there was another attempt made to form a
union; but it was defeated. I might say
by the management.
The President: I want something more
specific than that.
Witness : Well, a number of the em-
ployees tried to form a union, ahd some of
the prominent men in the scheme were
dismissed. The men became a little afraid.
The President: Were those men dis-
charged by notice, or were they dismissed.
Witness: Well, that’s a question I
cannot answ r er. All I know is that they
were sent for and all dismissed.
Witness started that one of the men who
had been dismissed had been in the employ
of the Brisbane Co. for only a few weeks.
He informed witness that he had told one
of the company’s officers that he would
not join a union. He did join it, how'ever,
and six weeks afterwards he was dismissed.
When asked by an inspector whether he
had joined it, he answered in the affirma-
tive, and was dismissed a week after he had
given that answer.
The President: Was it a dismissal
notice without notice, or a discharge with
notice ?
Witness: I take it that it w'as dimissal
without notice.
Mr. Stephens (for the Brisbane Tram-
w'ay Company): You say that some men
w r ere dismissed because they were members
of the claimant organisation ?
Witness : Yes, they told me so.
And you believe that that was the
reason ?—Yes.
Did the organisation take any steps
against the management of the company?
—Yes, we sought legal advice. The lawyer
pointed out that it was a very hard matter
to get a complete case of victimisation with
which to proceed.
Witness gave the names of some men
who, he said, were dismissed because they
belonged to the association. A fitter named
Sherwin had been advised to leave the
union if he wanted promotion. He was
receiving 255. a week at the time, and he
w 7 as now receiving £2 ss. as a car keeper.
He left the union and was promoted a
fortnight after he did so.
The President: If this is true, intimida-
tion by the branch is nothing to it. I
think that in accusations as grave as this
w 7 e should get direct evidence upon it.
Mr. Prendergast: We intend to tender
evidence, but it is impossible for us to
bring all the men concerned.
The President: That may be so, but I
cannot take secondary evidence on so im-
portant an allegation.
Witness, continuing, said that a mem-
ber named Bishop w 7 as dismissed for miss-
ing a point. Another man named Cook
w 7 as dismissed for missing a fare. It was
not usual to punish men by dismissal for
such faults.
Witness was cross-examined at length
by Mr. Stephens. He admitted that the
executive of the Recreation Club was al-
lowed to bring grievances under the notice
of the management, but it had not done
so. The men did not bring an action
against the company for victimisation,
owing to the difficulty of getting definite
evidence.
Geo. Bryant, driver and gardener em-
ployed on the Hobart Tramways, gave
evidence as to the formation of the Hobart
branch of the Australian Tramway Associa-
tion, of which he was president. He said
there were 105 tramway employees in
Hobart, and 50 signed the log. There were
20 unionists in the Free Workers’ Union,
which was formed in July last year. One
of the non-unionists told witness that if he
joined the union he would 44 get the sack.”
Water and Sewerage Board Elections.
The following is the ticket all workers
any insiduous or prevaricating arguments
of the capitalistic ticket. By returning the
respect and something more from those
abusing you and your cause for the past
of what they may expect from you when
BARKER, JOHN
LFRBO- «AN
-DIDDAMS, HARRY JOHN CHARLES-
MARDGRAVEi PHILIP.
-mmRG, ADOLPHUS MABCWSr
JACKSONr ROBERT
UN-
NORTH, ROBERT DUNDAS
ISWPON-,— ALFRED"
ALBERT ERN-EST-
WATERFIELD, ALFRED SAMUEL
-•WATSONr-JOHN
WILSON, THOMAS
should vote for to-morrow. Don’t allow
to persuade you to vote for any member
four men left on for you, you w 7 ill compel
whose press organs have been untiringly
six weeks. Give them a taste to-morrow
the general elections come round.
In the Ranks.
BURANDA W.P.O.
A meeting of the above wall be held at
the Alliance Hall, to-morrow (Wednesday)
at 8 p.m. Business important.
J. BARNES, Sec.
TOOWONG W.P.O.
The usual meeting of Toowong W.P.O.
was held at Taringa last night, when the
election of officers, which had been post-
poned from last meeting, resulted as fol-
lows : —President, Mr. Lewis McDonald
(re-elected); Vice-presidents, Messrs. H.
Nicol and J. W. Peacock (re-elected);
Treasurer, Mr. A. Adams; Hon. Secretary,
Mr. V. W. M oiler (re-elected). An execu-
tive committee of five was also appointed.
Four new members were elected. The sec-
retary reported that only one nomination
to contest the Toowong electorate in the
Labour interest had been received—that of
the president, Mr. Lewis McDonald, and
the nomination was ordered to be for-
warded on to the C.P.E. for endorsement.
It was decided to hold a special meeting on
Monday night next, 18th inst., to arrange
a plan of campaign. A meeting will be
convened at an early date to form a sub-
branch at Toowong proper.
ITHACA W.P.O.
A public meeting of this organisation
w ill be held at Rosalie tram terminus to-
morrow (Wednesday) night. It has been
arranged for several prominent Labour
men to address the gathering, and a good
roll up is requested.
AUSTRALIAN TRAMWAY EMPLOYEES
ASSOCIATION.
A meeting of the members of the above
Association will be held to-morrow (Wed-
nesday) morning, at 11 o’clock, when some
urgent and important business will be
brought forward. All members are par-
ticularly requested to be present.
A DENIAL.
Strike leader Coyne has received a let-
ter from Mrs. M. O. Craker, mother of
the young unionist recently killed in the
tram smash, asking him to deny certain
rumours which have got abroad to the
effect that Manager Badger of the Tram-
ways Company had called at Mrs. Craker’s
house and offered to pay all expenses, and
that tw r o union men had prevented him
from gaining access to the house. Mrs.
Craker says Mr. Badger never called, and
further that she has received no communi-
cation whatever from the company. Mrs.
Craker has trouble enough without the
annoyance of receiving and denying these
unfounded rumours.
Important Notice.
DISTRIBUTION AND REDEMPTION
OF COUPONS.
Coupons will be issued now from shed
in the yard of the Trades Hall, and only
sufficient for two days’ supply will be given
to any applicant. The hours for issuing
will be from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Coupons will be paid for daily by Secre-
tary Moir from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and
from 2 to 3 p.m.
The lying daily papers, anxious as
usual to defame the Strike Committee,
have stated to-day that coupons will only
be issued up till to-morrow (Wednesday).
This is deliberately untrue. The Committee
will isspe coupons just so long as it is
necessary, in the interests of unemployed
unionists on strike to do so.
SHORTAGE OF LABOUR.
Trades Unionist writes on the above
subject as follow s :
“ ‘ There is a very marked shortage of
skilled labour throughout Australian in-
dustries. . . Queensland is making special
efforts to obtain immigrants to settle on
the land.’ (See ‘ Telegraph,’ March 11.)
“ Two weeks ago, with 15,000 workers on
holiday, business, according to the above
informant, went on as usual. Employers
were only going to reinstate men as non-
unionists. Now, the Agent-General is re-
quested to point out to the “seditious”
strikers of England that openings exist
for large numbers of skilled artisans.
There is no need to instruct. For years
the unemployed workers of Queensland
have subsidised the shipping combines to
bring skilled workers here. Hew many
immigrants, who are supposed to reside in
the State twelve months, stay that period ?
What inquiry does the so-called Govern-
ment make ? How is it that ‘ ‘ farm lab-
ourers, some blind, some w r ith wooden
arms and legs, are imported? Is it not a
\vell-known fact that people who have re-
sided in congested cities of the old country
are assisted to come here as farm hands,
with characters written by themselves pr
their friends, ostensibly verified by clergy,
and not the slightest inquiry is made by
the Government, who only wants a surplus
labour' market.
“We know' that every immigrant boat
that comes here contains people w r ho obtain
their passages on false pretences. Surely
if we know 7 , the Government should know.
Has not the strike revealed to us many
strikers and strike-breakers who were im-
ported immigrants, and supposed to be
working on the land ?
‘ ‘ Think you, tram and railway men,
think you, victims of capitalism, and let
the result of your thoughts be the return
to Parliament of men of your own class.”
Lord Robert Cecil, speaking at Selby,
England, yesterday, on the great coal-
mining strike, advocated giving the work-
men a share of the profits and of the
management of industries.
The Tramway Appeal Case.
BRISBANE TRAMWAYS COMPANY
v. NIELSEN.
THE APPEAL ALLOWED.
In the full Court this morning before
their honours, Mr. Justice Real, Mr.
Justice Chubb, Mr. Justice Shand, and
Mr. Justice Lukin, the judgment in the
appeal Brisbane Tramways Company,
Limited, v. Nielsen, was delivered.
This was an appeal from a judgment of
Judge Macnaughton, in the District Court
in which he gave judgment for the plain-
tiff (Nielsen) for £147 2s. 6d. The whole
case, it was pointed out by the counsel for
the appellant company, at the hearing of
the appeal, turned on the interpretation of
certain sections in the Tramways Act. In
the absence of the Chief Justice, Justice
Shand read the judgment of the Court
in which their honours the Chief Justice
(Sir Pope Cooper), and Justice Lukin also
concurred. Justices Real and Chubb dis-
sented.
The judgment stated that their honours
thought the clearly expressed judgment of
the learned judge was based entirely on the
provisions of section 33, (1) and in substance
was that when the ground on each side of
a rail became worn into holes of varying
depths, the company were bound to fill
in, in all cases where ordinary traffic
otherwise would be impeded or obstructed,
although the obligation imposed by section
50 had been expressly suspended. Their
honours were unable to accept that view of
the case. Section 33 (1) was construed to
mean that the tramway structure and ap-
paratus, which are the company’s own
property, must be so maintained as not to
constitute any greater. impediment to
traffic than was necessarily inseparable
from their presence in the highway. The
company’s obligation to repair the high-
way alongside the rails, separately, was
dealt with by section 50, of which (unfor-
tunately for the respondent) the provi-
sions had been suspended. In putting the
rails in the street, and keeping them
there, in their original position, appell-
ants did no more than they were legally
authorised to do; and the appellants were,
having regard to the regulations suspend-
ing the provisions of section 50, under no
obligation, and indeed had no power to
interfere with the street, except for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining
or renewing their own property. The
obstruction to traffic was due really to
circumstances, over which the Tramway
Company had no control, and section 33 (1)
had no application, and appellants were
not under any liability to the respondent
by reason of the provisions of that section
of the Tramways Act of 1882, The judg-
ment declared appellants w ere not respon-
sible, but determined nothing more than
that. The difference between the conclu-
sion of the learned District Court judge,
and their honours’ decision was due only
to a divergence of opinion as to the con-
struction and effect of section 33 (1). The
appeal was allowed, and judgment entered
for the appellants, with costs.
A VALUABLE VIGILANCE
OFFICER.
We have received a letter from a large
number of residents of Paris-street, West
End, returning thanks to Mr. Whiteside
for ‘ 4 his untiring efforts in delivering your
valuable 4 Bulletins ’ daily. Wet or fine,
Mr. Whiteside never once shirked his
duty.” [We wish to endorse all these resi-
dents say about Mr. Whiteside. He is
another fine example of the sort of men
who are assisting in Labour’s struggle.—
Ed. 0.8.]
PUBLIC MEETINGS.
Are You Moving, W.P.Gs.?
Workers’ Political Organisations in the
metropolitan area are again urged to keep
the public meetings going. These were a
splendid feature of the strike times, and
should be continued. One every week
should be arranged for in every centre
throughout Brisbane and suburbs.
WHERE IS THE CITY INSPECTOR?
If Mr. Fraser would call inspect
the filthy dog box in Roma-street, near the
Countess-street bridge, where the tram
“loyalists” take meals, etc., he will dis-
cover a startling condition of uncleanli-
ness constituting a positive menace to pub-
lic health.
WATERSIDE CONFERENCE IN
MELBOURNE.
At the compulsory conference of repre-
sentatives of the Steamship Owners’ As-
sociation and the Waterside Workers’
Union in Melbourne, it was reported that
the replies received yesterday to the tele-
grams were that work was proceeding
satisfactorily in Sydney and Brisbane. In
view of this the President of the Court dis-
solved the conference.
TRAMWAY MEN’S BENEFIT.
The postponed benefit towards the
Tramway lock-out will take place on 16th
March, in the Gynasium Hall. Ticket
holders, please note, and all Unionists
should roll up.
