

Official Bulletin, No. 32.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 32.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1912
Strike Matters.
The Strike Committee were very busy
to-day, and have enough work before them
to occupy their time for the next tivo or
three weeks.
Satisfaction has been expressed at the
manner in wffiich those who were idle since
January 30 last have returned to their
former employment. The only victimisers
of the workers, so far as has been reported,
are the foreign tram syndicate and the
Capitalistic Government, but it is thought
the latter will soon see the error of their
w 7 ays, and reinstate those workers w 7 ho
would be most valuable to the State. If
Unionists and their friends will only act
true to their cause, the foreign money-
: grabbing syndicate will also be compelled
to do the late tram employees the justice
the President of the Arbitration Court said
they were entitled to; if no dividends are
forthcoming, shareholders will want to
know the reason why, and this could very
easily be given. The remedy will soon fol-
low.
The Waterside Workers will be all back
by to-morroV 7 . On no account will they
work with non-unionists.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Ivory-street, Valley.
There was a splendid meeting in the
Valley last night; many of those who
usually patronise the Centennial Hall,
which was not available last night, wend-
ing their way thither. The speakers were
Mrs. Huxham, Messrs. P. A. McLach-
lan, and Collins, M.L.A., and “Joe” Col-
lings. Much interest was evinced in what
was said, and the fact that the strike had
been declared off did not lessen the en-
thusiasm of the large audience. Several
telling points were made by the speakers,
and Mr. Collins gave a resume of his
doings in the South. So far as the Valley
is concerned, these meetings could be kept
up indefinitely.
There will be a big meeting to-night in
Wickham Park.
Clarence Corner.
T meeting was held at this point last
night. The speakers were Mrs. Miller,
Messrs. B. F. S. Allen, M.L.A., E. M.
Hanlon, D. Dowling, and M. J. Kerwin,
Mr. H. Begant occupied the chair.
CRIME DETECTING UP TO DATE.
It is officially notified in to-day’s organs
of oligarchy that the statements made over
a month ago that peaceful citizens of all
ages, sizes, and sexes were brutally assaul-
ted by the police—uniformed and ragged—
were totally without foundation. The
police, we are informed, have made in-
quiries, and it has been ascertained that
in instances where people said they were
knocked about by the constables —special
and ordinary—and where various business
people testified they had witnessed acts of
shocking brutality, the police did not even
draw their batons.
Here is a sample of what may be looked
for after this:
Jack Judkins, ex-pugilist, and notor-
ious wife beater who had been reported
some six months previously as having
knocked his wife about with a poker, and
who had also laid out an old man who went
to her assistance, accosted by police officials
in different parts of the city. ‘ ‘ Look here,
Judkins, it was reported some time last
year that you sent your wife to the hos-
pital by hitting her on the head with a
poker, and that the ambulance had to take
an old man away that objected to your
treatment of her. It was only one of them
Labour papers that made a noise about it,
and, of course, we took no notice of it; but
just go and make inquiries if you really
did thump her, and when you have found
out you didn’t, just come around and tell
us so, so that we can flatly contradict it.”
Departure of Judkins with broad grin and
eloquent wink.
Judkins, who meets official a month
later: “I went all round the place about
that there poker business, but no one could
tell me anything about it. Them Labour
papers would rob any man of his good
character. All that happened was this:
The wife was just sweeping up the floor,
when suddenly she took up the poker and
commenced to hit herself on the head with
it. When I went to take it from her she
ran outside, and when the poor old man
interfered she hit him as well. All I did
was to try and separate them. That’s gor’s
truth, no matter what them Labour papers
and those other fellows said.”
“All right, Judkins, I’ll send your re-
port to the “ Lie Carrier,” and the “ Dirty
Mouther,” and people will then see how
vilely you’ve been slandered.”
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD.
Vote for the Labour Candidates.
A meeting of aldermen and councillors
of the cities, towns, and shires, comprised
in the district of the metropolitan Water
and Sewerage Board was held in the Town
Hall last night, for the purpose of con-
sidering the endorsement of Anti-Labour
candidates for election to the Water and
Sewerage Board.
A letter was read from the secretary of
the Employers’ Federation notifying their
action. The Anti-Labour ticket was de-
cided by ballot, as follows: Alderman H. J.
Diddams, C.M.G., Messrs. A. M. Hertz-
berg, John Reid, and Dr. A. Sutton.
All- workers should work their hardest
to secure the return of Labour Candidates
Wilson, Barker, and one
other.
Lest We Forget.
BATON FRIDAY BARBARITY.
The official organs of Capitalism have a
habit of resurrecting the events of “ Fifty
Years Ago” and the like, and no harm will
be done at this juncture bv digging up some
“Courier” gems of five weeks ago. Here
are a few :
“HOT WORK IN GEORGE STREET.”
(“Courier,” Safe., Feb. 3).
“ When the disturbance was at its
height in Market Square, opportunity was
taken by several thousand men, women, and
some young folk to make a dash along Tur-
bot-street towardsAleorge-street. Mounted
and foot police, with batons drawn, were
quickly at their heels. . . George-street
quickly became a seething mass, in which
here and there could be seen intrepid con-
stables keeping the populace on the move.
‘ 1 A portion of the crowd invaded the
grounds of the Supreme Court. The police
here attacked the,rowdies with determina-
tion, and the grounds were soon cleared,
some of the red ribbonites escaping by the
way of the North Quay. . . . and a
number of foot police and some mounted
men paid especially worm attention in that
quarter. In the meantime a section of the
crowd had again taken up a position ia
George-street in ||ie vicinity of the rail-
way offices (old Lands Buildings).
Major Cahill, supported by his men
forced them out. There was another
fierce outburst, and BATONS WERE
CALLED INTO USE WITH SUCH EF-
FECT THAT SEVERAL of the more
vicious MEN BIT THE DUST, and
were taken in hand by the Ambulance men
who were in attendance with the motor
and the large transport waggon (By com-
mand of Czar Cahill, eh?) They mounted
the veranda at the railway offices, and
also in some cases forced their way on to
the colonades of one or two hotels near by.
They were given peremptory orders to dis-
perse, and their sullen refusal necessitated
a further charge by the constabulary.
[’Twas in this famous charge that the
“Grate General” fell off his charger while
citizens of all sexes were being ridden down
on the footpaths.]
“The return of the procession (of
women from Parliament House) was the
signal for a further demonstration of
angry resistance to the rules of law and
order (baton bludgeoning). It was notice-
able that many women joined with even
more heated invective tlian did the men.
At the intersection of George-street,
Mayor Cahill rode into the crowd, which
scattered into Queen-street on the one
hand and Victoria Bridge and North
Quay on the other. With his numbers
augmented, the Commissioner rode to the
Elizabeth-street corner, opposite he police
offices. Here some of the mob made a des-
perate rally, and one constable at least
received a blow which felled him to the
ground.
“BEATEN BACK BY THE DETER-
MINED POMMELLING WHICH THEY
HAD RECEIVED AT THE BATON’S
POINT, some of the crowd broke up Eliza-
beth-street to North Quay, while others
took refuge on the bridge.”
Too large a dose of anything, and par-
ticularly the “Courier” version of the
Denham & Co.’s brutal batoning of peace-
ful citizens on Baton Friday is not good
for the constitution. Small doses, admin-
istered systematically will have the most
beneficial effect on unionists and other
“ists.” The medicine needs to be given
periodically in the form of “Bulletin”
pills, and the patient, Master Paunchy
Plunderer, must take them without sugar
coating.
By the way and by the way of a post-
script, another little “Courier” gem will
form an excellent tail to the story of
“Baton Friday Brutality.” ’Twas pub-
lished in the “Courier” on the morning x>f
Baton Friday (Friday, February 2, and
at the top of the fifth column, page 5), and
here it is in cold “Official Bulletin”
print:
IN THE STREETS AT NIGHT.
“Great crowds surged through the
streets W the city last night, but so far as
Queen-street was concerned THERE WAS
NOT ANY DISORDER. Occasionally a
band of urchins would march along the
highway and then suddenly breaking into
a run reduce the people into the belief that
something serious had happened. Once
or twice this artifice was successful, but
the mounted police, who wore their sabres,
had a quietening effect.”
This “Courier” gem should prove con-
clusively that there was “not any disorder”
until Cahill and his scraggies ran amok
with batons, bayonets, and loaded' maga-
zine rifles in the main thoroughfares of the
city on Baton Friday.
The batoning of peaceful citizens was
purely part of a despicable political plot
and the police were merely the poor duty
tools of Denham, Barnes, & Co., who
dared not deal decisively with the foreign
Tram Trust and “Boss” Badger. They
shirked their responsibilities and handed
over command to the chief policeman of
the State.
THE ROUTE OF THE FUNERAL.
With reference to the route of the
funeral of the young man Craker, who was
killed in a tram collision, and which the
police, according to the morning papers,
say was not interfered with by them, Mr.
Coyne wishes to §tate that his authority
for what he said re the matter is Messrs.
Cannon and Cripps, who rang him up at
9.30 on the evening before the funeral, and
said the police had altered the route to that
which was finally taken.
“Black Friday.”
The lethargy of the police when they lay
the baton and sword aside is proverbial.
This is strongly instanced in the reports in
this day’s Capitalistic papers supplied by
the Police Department, wherein it is stated
that all the talk about people getting hit
with batons and other deadly weapons in
the hands of ordinary and special police
was entirely groundless; that the police did
not even in those cases where the greatest
brutality was laid at their doors, use their
batons at all. It took the police and the
press a very long time to find this out.
However, we will refer them to the columns
of the very papers through which they chose
to make their denial. The “Courier” in
at least three leading articles said the back
of the strike had been broken through ‘ ‘ the
energetic use a few score policemen made
of their batons;” and the poor, murky
“ Mail,” in the “dodger ’’-like sheet it then
charged a penny for, made its funny editor
say that a young man got knocked out by
“ putting his head in the way of a baton.”
Then we had an amateur pressman in the
“Courier” detailing how he had been
. chased by bludgeoners for oyer 20 minutes,
. until he finally escaped into the Domain,
from whence he was afraid to issue for ever
so long. Further, it was no uncommon
sight to see flushed policemen parading the
pavement swinging broken batons, which
presumably were not broken when issued
to them, and there was even rivalry
amongst them as to who had inflicted the
greatest amount of injury on the citizens of
Brisbane. Others have been instituting
inquiries besides the police, and the result
of these will be made known at the proper
time, which is not just yet. When a full
and impartial inquiry which it is hoped to
force from the authorities is held as to the
diabolical doings of Black Friday and fol-
lowing days, we are inclined to think an
emphatic outcry for the resignation of cer-
tain officials will result.
THE TRAM SERVICE.
The tram service seems to be still in a
state of demoralisation. On Tuesday after-
noon last, a passenger who very seldom
rides in the cars ventured in one going to
Stone’s Corner. This tram went right over
the end of the line, bent on extending the
service on its own account. Later on in
the evening, the same man risked a jour-
ney as far as Junction Road, when another
accident happened at the foot of Junction
Hill, causing a delay of three-quarters of
an hour. On the same day, we were
informed, a Toowong tram forgot to go
round George-street corner, and was going
gaily oil its way across Victoria Bridge
when an inspector bailed it up, and the
driver learned he had lost his bearings.
Yesterday a tramcar and a horse-drawn
waggon came into collision near Raymond’s
Sawmills, Valley, as a result of which the
driver of the lastnamed vehicle, a man
named James Strong, was injured. He
received abrasions and bruises on both
arms and on the left side of the groin.
Strong, it was jolted from his
vehicle, a wheel of which passed over him.
The Ambulance Brigade rendered first aid
and removed him to the General Hospital.
He is a single man, 24 years of age, and
resides in South Brisbane.
Complaints have also been made about
conductors indulging in cigarette-smoking
and other objectionable practices while on
duty.
SCHOOL TEACHERS AND THE
STRIKE.
A Suggestive Statement.
That the Tramway men had the sympa-
thy of at least one body of intelligent men
is shown by the subjoined report. It is a
pity that a technical objection should have
prevented a vote being taken: —
At a meeting of the teachers, held late
last month, Mr. Reinbold asked the asso-
ciation’s delegate for an explanation as to
why a motion moved at a meeting of the
executive of the Queensland Teachers’
Union, expressing sympathy with the
Tramway men in Brisbane “who had been
locked out,” had been ruled out of order.
Mr. Carter said that he knew
of the matter; it had not cropped up at the
meeting while he was there.
Mr. Barkell said that, as president of
the Queensland Teachers’ Association, he
might explain what happened. A motion
similar to that outlined by Mr. Reinbold
had been moved, and seconded. After it
had been discussed some little time, rule
3, setting out the objects of the union, was
brought under his notice, and, in view of
what it stated, he had ruled the motion out
of order. A motion was submitted and sec-
onded to the effect that his ruling should
be disagreed with, but this was defeated
by nine votes to four.
Mr. Reinbold thanked Mr. Barkell for
his explanation, and said that he thought
that, as the matter was a union one, they,
as a union, should not have dealt with it
as they had done.
SPRING HILL LABOURITES.
Get into Line ?.t Once.
The Paddington organisation has made
a commendable move in establishing a sub-
branch of their W.P.O. at Spring Hill, and
Messrs. Fihelly, Nugent, and Ross have
the matter in hand. The first meeting will
be held in Clifford’s tobacconist shop,
Leiclihardt-street (opp. Upp. Edward-
street), next Tuesday, ana it behoves every
labouring man and woman who has the
interest of the cause at heart to roll up and
get busy. Paddington includes so much of
Spring Hill that it isn’t quite the pocket
borough so many imagine.
An Open Letter.
To the Employers’ Federation.
Gentlemen, —When years roll by and
historians analyse the phenomena of the
late General Strike, you will stand con-
demned as the most incompetent defenders
of capital in the whole industrial warfare
of the capitalistic regime. All your actions
and inactions constitute a mass of bung-
ling perceptible to the dullest intellect.
Your shallow efforts to deceive the work-
ers have only succeeded in opening their
eyes to your palpable object. You have
made them more class-conscious—dug
deeper the chasm which separates their
class from yours.
I do not love to lay bare the shameful
deceit and trickery of your organisation.
But when you attempt to soil the repu-
tation of working class martyrs actuated
by the purest motives, it is time to tell
the truth. l 7 our society is the sole and
only cause of the present industrial up-
heaval. You forced this fight just as
English aggression forced the South
African war upon a noble, free, and in-
dependent race. Within your class there
was no secret made of your object. All
your meetings and banquets were occupied
with speechifying calculated to inspire a
fighting spirit in your hearts. You cherished
the dream that you would once again be free
to degrade, exploit, and sweat the toilers.
Alas! your judgment played you false!
You did not realise that to-day you would
stand outwitted and discredited, and that
organised labour would be more powerful
than ever in the history of Queensland.
The Tram Monopoly raised the curtain on
the first scene of your plot. The Tramway
men acted like working class heroes, deter-
mined to deliver themselves from an un-
relenting foreign oppression. You played
the second heavy, and showed that you
were the joint partner and abettor in the
scheme. ’Twas then the workers realised
that only a general strike could extricate
them from doubly riveted despotism,
When you saw it breaking in full fury
above your head, and bringing about a
failure of your scheme, you were paralysed
with fear. In utter desperation you
brought your unhallowed influence to bear
on your political mouthpieces—an equally
partisan Government authority—to .per-
petrate the horrifying outrages of Black
Friday. You were not honourable
enough to admit the miscarriage of your
scheme. You opened the columns of
the lying daily Press to reckless mis-
statements, mantled with anonymity, cal-
culated to poison the mind of Australia.
Y 7 ou were wrong in fancying that hold
mendacity would suffice to hide your cun-
ning scheme.
I know that these few exposures, writ-
ten on humanity’s behalf, will not purify
your organisation of its selfishness, nor
prevent it again conspiring to oppress the
workers. I know that you will
again be guilty of endeavouring to
obtain arrests of Strike Committees by the
suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act.
And I know you will again shield your
cunning conduct behind commissioners
of police. Yet, in spite of all, your
conduct will hasten the onward march
of the toilers to complete emancipa-
tion. Their eyes have been opened.
Hitherto they have been content to ask
for palliatives. Henceforth they will de-
mand that you cease from parasitically
living on their toil. Instead of “A living
wage” they have inscribed on their ban-
ner “The World for the World’s Workers.”
MARIEN RICKARDS.
QUEENSLAND TYPOGRAPHICAL
ASSOCIATION.
At a recent meeting of the Board of
Management of the Queensland Typo-
graphical Association it was decided to de-
clare the “Courier” and “Telegraph”
newspaper offices, and Muir’s and
Howard’s jobbing offices non-union. This
means that union men are not allowed to
accept employment therein.
BRISBANE EMPLOYERS IN
MELBOURNE.
Sending Round the Hat.
At a meeting of the Victorian Em-
ployers’ Federation held in Melbourne last
night, Mr. Percy T. Berry, a member of
the Employers’ Federation at Brisbane,
made a statement regarding the Queens-
land strike, and a resolution congratulating
the Queensland employers was agreed to.
It was decided to take up a collection in
the room to assist the Queensland employers
in meeting the heavy expenditure forced
upon them by the strike, and a sum of
£l4OO was received. These were the men
who were prepared to go on with the strike
indefinitely.
SOCIAL LEPERS.
The Capitalistic sheets have been tell-
ing us each day about the great number of
‘ ‘ men ’ ’ that were working on the wharfs
while the strike was on. Here is a sample
of the sort they were, which is absolutely
true. Two young men lodged at a certain
house in Ann-street. One of them joined
a union shortly after the strike started,
and after getting a plentiful supply of cou-
pons, became a scab. The other one, who
came from Lismore, N.S.W., a couple of
weeks later, joined the other as a blackleg;
they both boasted that they were being
paid 16/ and 18/ a day. A couple of days
back both these props of capitalism disap-
peared, one owing his landlady six weeks’
rent, and the other owing two weeks.
MONSTER TRADE UNION RALLY
TO-NIGHT.
WICKHAM PARK.
Every Labourite and Sympathiser should
Attend.
PEOPLE’S SUNDAY AFTERNOON
SERVICE.
CENTENNIAL HALL,
Sunday Afternoon Next, at 3.
Sermon by REV. J. S POLLOCK.
Hymns from Presbyterian Hymnary.
EVERYBODY WELCOME.
All Trade Unionists and sympathis
should hear this sermon.
EDUCATION AND UNIONISM.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —While walking along Edward-
street this afternoon I was astounded to
hear some so-called young gentlemen, who
attend the Grammar School, pass the fol-
lowing remark : “ Phew, look at those two
tram men. Arn’t they fools to wear those
badges and lose their jobs?”
Now, sir, I may not be much of a
scholar, but I think I know enough to class
those youths as idiotic sons of narrow-
minded parents.
To think that although they are at-
tending a secondary school and receiving
a so-called superior (?) education, they were
capable of giving expression to such a
stupid remark, is enough to convince me of
their ignorance. I would like to know if
those young snobs ever studied history
properly. If they have, then they must
know that unionism is on the up grade.
Do they know anything about Magna
Charta (1215) y by which John was forced to
give extended freedom to the nobles.
They forced him, hut how ? * Simply by
uniting.
Then in 1381 the peasants wanted to be
relieved of a certain amount of oppression.
They united, and their only way of ob-
taining their desires was by revolting.
Certainly they were suppressed for the time
being; but the upper and middle classes,
not wishing for a recurrence of the
trouble, granted to the then rising genera-
tion certain reforms.
The same occurred in many other in-
stances and in each case a certain amount
of freedom was gained from the oppressors.
I would advise those young fellows to
think of what they read," and if they do
not understand the first time, read again.
Then, and not till then, can they be
classed as sensible, and know that unionism,
will go ever onward until it reaches its
goal—“ Utopia.”—l remain, etc.,
R.D.
March 5.
THE SWEATING PERMIT.
To Continue Till March 18.
At a meeting of the Executive Council
this morning the orders-in-council which
were issued during the strike, suspending
part viii. of the Factories and Shops Act
of 1900 in the factories and shops district
of Brisbane and Ipswich were rescinded,
as from 18th March. The order-in-council
suspended portions of the wages board de-
terminations in the factories and shops
districts of Brisbane and Ipswich also has
been rescinded, to take effect from 18th
March.
If labour is as plentiful as the day lying
papers allege, whence the necessity to give
employers an opportunity to continue the
sweating?—Ed. S.B.
PARLIAMENT FURTHER PRO-
ROGUED.
A “Government Gazette’ 7 has been is-
sued, further proroguing Parliament from
12th March to 26th March. Mr. Denham
when asked this afternoon, if he had any-
thing to say regarding the date of the elec-
tions, said that Parliament had been pro-
rogued, and he had tendered no advice to
the Governor regarding the date.
“ VERY LIKE A WHALE.”
People attending the meeting in Wick-
ham Park to-night are warned not to use
the seats, owing to the fact that they are
repainted. This is not being done, we are
officially informed, because the Labour
meeting is being held there, but is in ac-
cordance with instructions received some
time ago, and in the ordinary course of the
work of the men engaged on it. *
BRISBANE UNITED COAL WORKERS
AND LIGHTERMEN’S UNION.
At a full meeting of this union the fol-
lowing resolution was carried: —“That
this meeting of coal workers expresses its
appreciation of the management of the
Strike Committee and its own executive
and congratulate them on the success
achieved .” The meeting closed with
cheers for the Strike Committee, the Exe-
cutive, and its secretary.
