

Official Bulletin, No.11.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 11.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1912.
Who’s Afraid?
TEST OF NUMBERS.
________ *
Permission to Show Them Refused.
Processions or Meetings will be Dispersed
by Force.
BLACK FRIDAY MIGHT BE REPEATED.
The following official correspondence
took place to-day : —
Trades Hall, Brisbane, 12/2/1912.
The Commissioner of Police, Brisbane.
Sir, —On behalf of the Combined
Strike Committee, I hereby apply to you
{or permission to hold a public meeting in
the Market Square on Tuesday night, 13th
instant, commencing at 8 o’clock. Also for
permission for a procession for to-morrow,
forenoon, starting at 10 o’clock,
from Trades Hall, along Tur-
bot-street, to Albert-street, along
latter to Adelaide-street, to Petrie’s
Bight, along Wickham-street to Bruns-
wick-street, to Gregory-te*:race, to College-
road, to Albert Square, and disperse.
Yours faithfully,
. J. H. COYNE,
For Strike Committee.
Office of Commissioner of Police,
Brisbane, 12th February, 1912.
Sir, —In reply to your letter of to-day’s
date asking (1) for permission to hold a
meeting in Market Square on Tuesday, the
13th instant, at 8 p.m., and (2) for per-
mission to hold on the same date a proces-
sion starting from the Trades Hall, Tur-
bot-street, through certain streets of Bris-
bane, I have to inform you that (1) I pro-
hibit the holding of a meeting in Market
Square, and that (2) I prohibit the holding
of the procession for which you request per-
mission
I have further to inform you that any
persons attempting to hold, contrary to my
prohibition, either the meeting or the pro-
cession herein referred to, will be dispersed
by force. —I have the honour to be, Sir,
your obedient servant,
W. G. CAHILL,
Commissioner of Police. '
Mr. J. H. Coyne, M.L.A.,
Trades Hall, Brisbane.
Dave Bowman.
While Joe Collings was addressing the
Turbot-street crowd this morning some-
one inquired, “How’s Dave Bowman?”
Comrade “Joe” at once explained that
“Dave” was fairly good, but, said he, “we
are nursing him for the fight in the House
which must come when this is over. We
can do the work now, and we want him to
conserve all his and strength for
the str3nuous time to come when some of
us at least will not be able to assist.” This
statement was received with wild cheer-
ing.
Unlicensed Liberty.
There have been many ridiculous actions
on the part of those who rule us under
Badger during the Strike regime, but the
manipulating of the law as regards closing
and opening of hotels deserves noting. As
we have already mentioned, while Messrs.
Ranking and Macfarlane ordered all hotels
to be closed to the public, Commissioner
Cahill just as easily shut his eyes to certain
of them supplying his nondescript of
‘ ‘ specials ’ 5 with any liquor they should
require. A glaring case of this sort was
a certain hotel in George-street, entrance
to which was obtained through a tailor’s
shop. We know of one man who had no
less than six drinks (at 6d. a time) at this
hotel, while it was supposed to be closed
to the public, and finished up by bringing
six bottles of English ale to his home at
Red Hill.
The effect of this preference to specials
w T as well demonstrated on Saturday after-
noon last, when two mounted specials went
galloping down Queen-street with unre-
strained rein. Had any description of ob-
stacle been in their way it would have been
bad for the obstacle. It was quite appar-
ent that these country hooligans had con-
siderably more alcohol inside than was
good for them. After causing some con-
sternation as they wildly careered along
this thoroughfare, they were intercepted at
the corner of Edward-street by two police
inspectors, who, at no small risk to them-
selves, went into the middle of the street,
and, holding up their arms, brought the
swash-buckling bushmen to a standstill.
After a brief but sharp talk with the riders,
the inspectors ordered them back to bar-
racks.
The Open “Pubs ” and
“ Specials.”
The opening of the hotels has been futile
as far as provoking any Unionists to forget
themselves, and so another Denham-Badger
shot has missed fire.
The “specials' 5 have, however, again
distinguished (?) themselves. We all know
of our cruel “Black Friday,” and the
“specials” have now had their “wet” Sat-
urday. Policeman No. 273, after remov-
ing his number, with the assistance of Ser-
geant Hendry and another “special,” had
to remove a dead drunk “special” from
Perry Bros.' doorway, Queen-street, on
Saturday night, aiT about 6.40 o’clock. His
badge was taken from him, and he was dis-
missed. Of such is the kingdom of “Scab-
dom.”
Harry Coyne’ s Morning
Address.
This morning’s crowd was absolutely a
record. Joyous enthusiasm was on every-
one’s face, and a remarkable demonstra-
tion! took place as Leader Coyne accom-
panied Joe Collings and R. Thompson
stepped out on the Turbot-street balcony.
“Harry” was rough on the morning papers,
exposing their lies with merciless facts and
figures to the great delight of the crowd,
which has grown to detest the Brisbane
daily press on account of its bitter preju-
dice to the workers.
“Harry” briefly outlined the develop-
ments to date, thanked the men for the re-
j markable demonstration that day, and
asked Mr. Collings to say a few words, as
he himself had a cold.
“Joe” had a great reception, and was
very humourous in his recital of the Do-
main incident. He concluded by appeal-
ing to all present to continue the good
fight.
“Bob” Thompson called for three cheers
for the strike leaders, which were given in
real “union” fashion, „and the crowd, the
biggest which has yet assembled, quickly
dispersed. ,
Avaricious Landlords.
Several landlords are showing heartless
cruelty with regard to the question of pay-
ment of rent by strikers. This paper has
names and addresses of many, and will not
hesitate to publish them should matters be
pressed too far. In one case “notice to
quit” has been served, although rent is
paid to date, simply because the tenant is
a “red ribbonite.” In others, where rent
has been paid regularly for years, eviction
is threatened, although the landlord knows
that the tenant is not earning wages while
the strike lasts, and that any arrears will
be promptly paid w T hen it is over.
Police Court Justice.
No Red Ribbons Need Apply.
On Friday last, about 5 p.m., a man
standing on the kerb eating an apple,
wearing the red, was bumped by a .special
constable, and arrested. Several witnesses
asserted that the man had done absolutely
nothing. On Saturday morning two per-
sons attended the court a little after 10
o’clock, and were surprised to find that
the case had been taken first, and disposed
of —£2 or one month, “for wearing of the
Red.”
“ Scab” Bread.
Notice to Unionist Housewives.
No Union Bakers’ Carters are at work.
Every man is solid and “out to the finish.’’
Any bread delivered by carts without ex-
ception is “scab.” Don’t help defeat your
husbands and brothers, but continue to
fetch your bread as before.
More Light.
To the Editor, Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —The want of a daily paper of our
own is sorely felt at the present time, when
the “Observer” and the “Courier” are
spreading their frivolous lies every day un-
opposed.
Is it not possible for the unions to
print “Bulletins” and distribute them
every day all over the town, like the people
in Denmark and other places have done in
times of strife P It would not cost much,
and would surely open the eyes of many
persons who never read the “Worker.”
I have seen many strikes in Europe,
and hope that I am not offending you by
this inquiry.—Yours respectfully,
CLARA JENSEN.
Caboolture, February 7.
Scabs, do not allow yourselves to become
parasites upon honest labour, neither
rob your fellow man by chicanery or mis-
representation. Do not pander to the
“ Courier ” mob. For the most part they
live and talk tommy rot twaddle. But
above all, remember that the final stan-
dard of human value is not the market
price that the daily Press would have you
to believe. Neither does a florid bank bal-
ance always denote a successful life.
A report has been received from the
Vigilance Officers that a disturbance that
took place on Spring Hill on Saturday
afternoon was caused by a billiard marker
and some lads. Not a single Unionist was
implicated.
Badger.—Collins’s Household Dictionary
explains the meaning of the word “Bad-
ger” thus: —“The Badger was so-called
because he carried away his store of corn
from the fields of the peasants; a burrow-
ing quadruped related to the bear. It is
a clumsy animal, with short, thick legs,
and long claws on the fore feet, with an
offensive smell.” There is something in a
name after all.
Vigilant officers have been placed in the
streets of Brisbane to maintain order. I.et
every citizen of Queensland constitute him-
self or herself a vigilant officer from now
on, and see that all working-class friends
and relatives are class-conscious enough to
make the “general strike” felt at the
ballot-box.
To-day, unionists are a most enthusias-
tic crowd, and there is not the slightest
danger of a back-down in any way, as the
daily press is endeavouring to make the
public believe.
Encouraging Recommendation.
Queensland’s Enthusiasm.
All Australia Will Assist.
The following wire was received by the
Chairman of the Strike Committee from
Mackay to-day:
“ Local committee recommends combined
Unions in Brisbane to prolong the struggle
with bitter and stubborn determination.
Fight to a finish, and all Unionists
throughout Australia will be asked to levy
themselves 5 / per week towards same. —
Tilse.”
The Latest from the Various
Regiments in Labor’s Army.
FEDERATED TIMBER WORKERS’
UNION.
At a mass meeting of the above union,
held in the Temperance HalF this morning,
the folllowing resolution was unanimously
passed:
“That this mass meeting of Timber
Workers decide that they shall stand
shoulder to shoulder with their felllow
workers until such time as it has been de-
cided by the Strike Executive for Unions to
return to work.”
The meeting was attended by over 500
memers.
UNITED FURNITURE TRADE.
At the largest meeting yet held of the
Furniture Trade Employees, on Saturday,
February 10, it was unanimously decided to
stand by the Strike Committee until the end
of the preseit dispute, |
WATERSIDE WORKERS
This morning at a mass meeting held in
the Maritime Hall, about 800 members be-
ing present, the following resolution was
unanimously carried:—“That all members
of this Union has every confidence in the
Strike Committee, and pledges themselves
to stand firm until victory is assured.”
SOUTHERN BUILDERS’ LABOURERS.
The Federal President received word
from Queensland that the Builders’ Labour-
ers were all out in sympathy with the
Tramway men. As it is safe to say these
same Builders’ will go back when
the dispute is settled and not before. The
Brisbane and Adelaide Labourers have
lately proved their quality.
FEDERATED CARTERS’ UNION.
G. Lawson writes :—The largest and most
enthusiastic meeting of the Carters’ Union
since the commencement of the present
struggle was held in the Waterside Union
Rooms this morning* Notwithstanding
the threats held out by employers of vic-
timisation the members are still deter-
mined to fight for victory. One employer
was boasting in the columns of a dailiar
that his men had volunteered and returned
| to work without his having to apply to
| the Strike Committee for a permit. This
morning they came to the Union Executive
and stated they had decided to stick by the
Union to the end".
STOREMEN AND PACKERS.
The Storemen and Packers held a meet-
ing this morning that even surprised them-
selves. No. 2 Room was packed to the
doors. Mrs. Huxham addressed the men.
and a further vote of confidence in the
Strike Committee was carried with cheers.
SHOP ASSISTANTS *
A meeting of the Shop Assistants was
held in the Trades Hall this morning. The
attendance was very large and the follow-
I ing resolution was carried unanimously .
“That this meeting of Shop Assistants
here assembled endorses the actions of the
Strike Committee, and we also wish to ex-
press to that body our entire confidence ir
them.”
DON’T DRINK.
Send the Price to Strike Fund.
Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —Conversing with a couple of
friends upon the gallant stand of the class
conscious Unionists, we were interrupted
by a man, who suggested that we should
join him in a drink. He was informed that
all good Unionists must refrain from enter-
ing any public house; but, if he was pos-
sessed of 2/6 that he was anxious to part
with, we were prepared to accept it on be-
half of the Strike Committee, and here it
is. Hoping all Unionists will likwise apply
the acid when asked to drink is the earnest
desire of
SIR GEORGE.
(The half-crown was duly received and
paid into strike fund. Thanks, Sir George,
for the good examnle you have set. —Ed.
“ 5.8.”)
SOCIETY IS COMPOSED OF THREE
DAYERS
Deputies, detectives, and strikebreakers.
Strikebreakers are the dregs at the bot-
tom.
The working-class—the great pay
streak—is the centre.
And the parasites are the scum at the
top.
—Wm. D. Haywood.
Lascar Unionists.
OUR BLACK COMRADES REFUSE TO
“SCAB.”
And March to the Trades Hall.
Coolies Don the Red Ribbon.
When the Ockenfells berthed at a city
wharf to-day 20 mean whites were in
waiting—and they weren’t members of the
Waterside Union, be it said—but just plain
batoners —to help discharge the ship.
The Lascar crew were ordered to work the
cargo, but when they understood the situa-
tion they turned with disgust on the
“mean whites” on the wharf, and flatly re-
fused to “scab.”
Later they marched in a body to the
Trades Hall, where their arrival caused a
great scene of enthii§iasm, and from which
they marched back to the ship proudly
wearing the little red badge, the Unionists’
Victoria Cross.
Thus does Socialism break down the
barriers of race.
Forward, Comrades, the dawn of a
brighter day appears even now on the hori-
zon.
Officious Railway Inspector.
An Ex-South African Sees “ Rod."
Railway Inspector Powell seems to have
constituted himself special protector to
His High and Mightiness Czar Badger. On
Saturday last he put a young man off the
train at Brunswick-street, simply because
he was defending the strikers in an argu-
ment. Shortly after, Powell turned his at-
tention to another man, with a red rosette,
but this time struck “a snag.” One threat
from the “red” individual in question and
Powell quickly subsided.
The River Ferries.
It has been represented to us that cer-
tain persons who have been working on the
river steamers during tJae Strike have
stated that they have had permission from
the Strike Committee to do so. The sub-
joined letter tells another tale:
Chairman of Strike Committee.
Masters’ and Engineers’ Association,
Seamens’ Union Rooms, Edward-st.,
12th February, 1912.
Dear Sir, —The members of this body
wish to make it publicly known, through
the medium of the “ Official Bulletin,’’
that the only ferry running under a permit
is the Bulimba Ferry a where all -the em-
ployers are Unionists.
The Edward-street and Custom House
Ferries are not running under any condi-
tions, or permit, or with the sanction of
members of this Society. (Signed) WIL-
LIAM H. HARRISON, Secretary Masters
and Engineers’ Association.
THE LITHOGRAPHERS.
The Lithographic section of the Typo-
graphical Association held a meeting this
morning, and, in spite of the fall of a few
weak-kneed Government men, the remain-*
der are absolutely solid in their determi-
nation to hold out. Though small in num-
bers, the lithographers have always borne
the reputation of being among the best.
CONVERT THE WAGE EARNERS?
I would rather spend fifteen years win-
ning one wage worker to the Army of the
Revolution than one day in converting a
professional man. Sympathisers may come
and may go, but the workers, who are suf-
fering from wage-slavery must continue
to fight and to struggle until capitalism
is abolished.
—Wm. D. Haywood.
WELCOME HELP.
The Strike Committee acknowledges with
thanks receipt of £3 ss. 3d. from Miss Nel-
lie Finney, proceeds from sale of a table
centre and hand painted scarf made by
our dear old comrade, Mrs. Johnson. Mrs.
Johnson is 76 years of age, but, as usual,
is right in front when Labour needs help.
Stone’s Corner workers can testify to the
old lady’s vigour and sincerity in the Cause.
“NDUSTRIAL LEPERS.”
A Speaking Incident of Loyalty of
Unionists.
A few mornings back a boarding-house
in Wharf-street was deserted by 12 union-
ists, owing to one of the boarders starting
work (scabbing). These men have been
with the same landlady for years, going
where she has gone, and helping her in
every way. They asked that the scab be
turned out. This was refused, and the
consequence was an empty house.
(Of such loyalty to our ideals is our great
movement built. Well done, comrades,
your hand!—Ed. 5.8.)
CRICKET MATCH.
Coal v. Water.
The Coal Workers played the Waterside
Workers a match on Saturday last. The
former winning by 137 runs. The vic-
torious team is now ready to play any other
trade union team.
Domain Incident.
“Red Ribbons” Cannot Enter Here.
**Specials” in Commonwealth Uniforms*
Bully the Public.
Does Senator Pearce Allow It ?
Press Accounts Untrue.
On being informed yesterday afternoon
that at a band performance in the Do-
main, “special” constables were refusing
admittance to all persons wearing “the
little bit of red,” Mr. J. S. Collings, ac-
companied by six other red ribbonites,
strolled into the Domain with a view to
getting the facts at first hand. No trouble
was experienced as far as getting into the
grounds was concerned, but on arriving at
the porch through which entry into the
band enclosure is made, about 30
“specials,” some in decidedly “undress”
uniform, and others in Commonwealth
military dress, barred the way. Strangely
enough, they offered no resistance to Mr.
J. S. Codings, who passed in, and listened
for a brief moment or two to the band,
whose performance just then concluded
with the playing of a bar of the National
Anthem. As he came out, however, he no-
ticed that his comrades had been refused
admission, and naturally asked why? All
that could be gained in the way of infor-
mation amounted to: “We are ‘ special ’
constables; our orders are not to allow any
one in there wearing red ribbons. If you
take them off you can go in; if you take
them off and go in and put them on in
there we don’t know what we’d do, as
we’ve no instructions, but you can’t .go in
with them on.”
Mr. Codings kept perfectly cool, and de-
manded to know by whose authority admis-
sion was refused, especially asking why they
blocked some after allowing him to go in.
At last, after a good deal of persuasion,
Acting Sergeant Struss admitted he was in
charge, and that the “squad” was acting
under his orders. Specials “Donkin” and
Percy Thorn were very talkative, and
threats of “Tear off their ribbons,”
“ Show them whether we’re curs,” etc.,
were valiantly made from various quarters,
but although 30 to 6 is admittedly good
odds on, nothing more serious than talk re-
sulted.
A protest was made, and the matter will
certainly be further sifted. Hundreds of
sympathisers expressed gratitude for the
stand taken by the “Reds.” Comrades
will note the fact for further reference that
the Toowong Band was playing for the edi-
fication of the “special” strike breakers.
A SPLENDID ACT.
The “ Bulletin” has been informed that
a well-known Unionist, who keeps a restau-
rant —Mr. C. Reimers, of Stanley-street—
has not only been honouring Strike Cou-
pons, and also kept his charge at the old
price of 6d. a meal, but has also been sup-
plying “free meals to strikers,” sometimes
up to as many as 35 one day. If Mr.
Reimers’ name was not on the official list
it was an oversight. All hands gratefully
acknowledge his good work, especially as
another house in the vicinity, which was
accepting strike coupons, rose the tariff to
1/, which is not “Union” principle by a
long way.
“ Australia was the continent over
which, as a whole, the Union Jack was
flown.” —Canon Garland to Cahill’s co-
horts in the Gardens yesterday morning.
What is Badger’s opinion of the Union
Jack ?
Speaking to Cahill’s very irregular
cavalry in the people’s Domain yesterday
morning—but from which the people were
illegally excluded—Canon Garland said the
teaching of the Apostles was given at a
time when the King was a monster, and
justice was a farce. King Badger has been
ruling in Brisbane for some "Dime now,
while the administering of justice was rele-
gated to any brutal policeman or his con-
temptible understudy who could wield a
baton.
Lost, a leather sovereign purse, contain-
ing £2 in gold, between Fiveways, Wool-
loongabba, and Lambert-street, Kangaroo
Point. Please return to No. 3 Room,
Trades Hall.
ADVERTISEMENTS.
WANTED FIRST-CLASS SCABS
Bums, loafers, wife beaters, boozers, bur-
glars, safe blowers, deserters from the
navy, and other human degenerates want-
ed, to act as “special scab proctectors.”—
Apply, Denham Government.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
I am not the WILLIAM HARRIS who
is working.—(Signed) WILLIAM HAR-
IilS, Coal Worker.
QUEENSLAND TYPOGRAPHICAL
ASSOCIATION.
A MASS MEETING will be held TO-
MORROW (Tuesday) MORNING, at 10.30
o’clock in the Maritime Hall, Eagle-street.
Important Business.
G. HALL, President.
W. P. COLBORNE, Secretary.
