

Official Bulletin, No. 50.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 50.
BRISBANE, THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 1912.
A Word to the Women.
Women of Brisbane, you will now have
people becoming interested in your con-
cerns who hitherto would have been in-
sulted were you to insinuate that there was
anything in common between you. You
may have read of how the State Treasurer
was travelling up and down the railway
lines shaking hands with the navvies, crack-
ing jokes with them, giving his opinion on
their billy tea, and so far forgettingiiis law
and order dignity as to shake hands with
them. You, working women of Brisbane,
will also have sycophants of both sexes com-
ing to your house, inquiring about your
b/ibies, and even condescending to kiss them
if you’ll allow it. It may have happened to
many of you before; but never has the
kiss been so Judas-like as it will be on the
present occasion. Behind that kiss will be
the determination to sink youself, your
husband, brother, or father, as well as your
children, as deep in the industrial and
social mire as it will be possible to do.
Therefore, act honestly to yourselves and
to those dear to you, and let those con-
spirers against your happiness and freedom
understand that you will never again allow
yourselves to be deceived by oily flatterers.
The trams which the capitalistic class
have compelled you to use were manned by
a fine body men, who were a credit to the
city. These men made an effort to escape
from a sort of thraldom that was under-
mining their manhood, and propagating a
loathsome system of espionage that should
be foreign to the balmy air of Queensland.
Men in all other branches of employment
had the unquestioned right to form a union
for their protection; but a foreign syndicate
not being satisfied with gigantic pro-
fits to which you were forced to contribute
had recourse to all kinds of schemes to keep
their employees from joining the ranks of
their fellow-unionists. The latter, when
appealed to, decided not to abandon these
men to their oppressors, and, after ex-
hausting all other means for bringing about
a settlement, were at length forced to take
the final step of stopping all industry’until
the lawful and just claims of the tramway
men were acknowledged. By their action
the combined unions of Brisbane succeeded
in having a hearing given to the tramway
case in the Federal Arbitration Court,
which promptly decided that the men were
fully entitled to all they claimed, thus
justifying all that had been done in order
to free the men from the industrial slavery
in which it was sought to place them.
You are well acquainted with what sub-
sequently happened—how the law was scan-
dalously violated by those whose duty it was
to see that others observed it; how you
were terrorised by a lot of uniformed and
ragged hoodlums when you attempted to
use the city streets; how the scum of the
State was gathered together, handed
death-dealing weapons, and paid large sums
of money to insult and strike you unmerci-
fully; how the tramway company w r ere
allowed to run to any time-table they
pleased; how 7 the Shops and Factories Act
was suspended so that unscrupulous em-
ployers could sweat your children to death
without official interference; how T you were
surrounded in your suburban homes by
hordes of legalised larrikins who rendered
it unsafe for you to go outside your house;
how the Government are allowing w r ork to
stagnate rather than give it to former em-
ployees, arid are making use of emigrants
as much as they possibly can to take the
places of those who were taxed to pay their
passages out; how the railway men who
applied for reinstatement have been sub-
jected to vile indignity in the eyes of the
public; how 7 a Government that could
squander money wholesale, refused to con-
tribute any further to the Chelmsford Milk
Institute which had done much to preserve
the health of the children; and how Gov-
ernment supporters are even now boasting
that if they are again returned to powder
they will pass such laws against the workers
as shall make the name of Queensland a
by-w r ord for black-legging all over the Com-
monwealth.
Remember all these things, women of
Brisbane, and when the tempters call at
your house tell them you don’t wish to see
your children treated as serfs or your hus-
bands or brothers regarded as mere beasts
of burden.
THE RAILWAY INQUIRY.
To the Editor “Official Bulletin. 5 ’
Sir, —In reading the evidence given
before this ridiculous inquiry yesterday, I
see a certain applicant is reported to have
said that he got leave of absence from the
Railway Department to go round the rail-
way men who were on strike and advise
them to return to work, also that he spent
hour after hour advising them to do so. I
can give this statement a flat denial. Be-
tween 300 and 400 men could be found sit-
ting tight in Albert Park every morning,
and no one approached them with a view of
getting them to return to work. Many
railway men have decided not to make ap-
plication for reinstatement in consequence
of the degrading way in which they would
be dragged before the public.
I am, etc.,
“VICTIMISED. 55
The Sydney branch of the Hotel, Club,
Restaurant, and Caterers Employees’
Union, in common with the wharf
labourers, clerks, and other bodies, is now
issuing a badge to members.
An award has been issued by the Sydney
Board concerning the railway and tram-
way construction and road and water con-
servation employees. This award, which
applies to about J.0,000 workers, gives in-
creases of from Is. to Is. 3d. a day, and
means an increase on the pay sheets to the
extent of nearly £100,000 yearly.
Catting Contrast.
The. cablegrams in to-day’s Capitalist
prints supply some more ‘ ‘ Cutting Con-
trasts ” in trie miseries of the coal miners’
strike in “ Merry England.” The awdul
outrage on the oppressed and innocents in
the United Kingdom needs no embellish-
ment. Here it is in its naked horror, as
taken from this day’s cables:
“After two days spent in persuasion,
the Prime Minister succeeded in inducing
the colliery owners and men to confer.
The meeting, however, was a fiasco. It is
alleged that Mr. Smillie demanded a mini-
mum of ss. 9d. and 2s. 6d. per day for
adults and boys respectively, whereupon
the Welsh owners left the conference.
‘ ‘ The King has cancelled his propose
visit to Liverpool Grand National Meet-
ing at Aintree, as he does not desire to in-
dulge in public jamusement while the coun-
try’s condition is so serious as it is.
‘ ‘ One hundred thousand persons out of
a total population of 250,000 in five towns
in the Potteries districts are now receiving
free meals daily. Thousands gather in the
halls and schools to secure doles of bread,
scones, butter and soup. Special arrange-
ments have been made to provide milk for
infants. Crowds of half-starved children in
other districts are flocking to the soup
kitchens. A constable at Middlesborough
saw a man steal a loaf, and captured him.
‘ Please, I am starving,” the man said, on
being arrested, ‘ and so is the missus.
Come and see ! ’ The constable w r ent to the
house, and discovered the wife cooking a
small dog.”
The Denham gang turned the barbarous
batoners loose on the citizens of this young
country on Baton Friday to strengthen
the grip on the throats of the people. The
gold-grabbing tram trust tyrants and the
callous hearted coal kings who starve women
and children and feed them on raw T dogs,
live to prevent the men who make the
wealth from banding together in an indus-
trial organisation.
All who vote the Denham Government
ticket vote for the coal kings of Britain.
They vote for all the barbarism of Capital-
ism. They vote to chain their children and
childrens’ children to crueller conditions
than those of the British coal miners w 7 ho
are now hungry and poverty-stricken.
A FEW FACTS.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —In a leading article of Monday’s
“ Telegraph,” under the above heading, ap-
peared the following lines:—“We have a
common foe and we shall present to him a
united front. It will be useful to describe
that common foe. We now are observing
more clearly than ever before, that the
late strike proceeded from a head centre
in Melbourne. Its members are anarchists.
Their ultimate object is to subvert the
Government of this country. There is no
hope of their ever doing anything of the
kind. But meanwhile, they may perpe-
trate an immense amount of mischief. Wit-
ness the late seditious strike. ... A vote
for a Socialist candidate is a vote for
anarchy.”
Now let us analyse the above bunkum,
which is printed for the capitalistic class
to wilfully mislead the workers. They are
beginning to at last acknowledge the
worker as a “ common foe.” I am glad to
find that we are beginning to make our
power felt so much as to become the foe
of the capitalistic class. In the past the
workers have been looked upon by them as
tools, to use in a way that suited them
best. That was in the old days of
Liberalism and Conservatism. These two
parties have now combined to fight the
“common foe,” the Labour party, the
workers. They say that the strike “pro-
ceeded from a head centre in Melbourne.”
That they know is a deliberate lie, formed
to try to delude us. Well, what if it did
“proceed from Melbourne”? As long as
a fight is a fight against oppression, does it
matter where it proceeds from ? It sounds
like some of their “home rule ” tricks
again.
Who did “ subvert the Government of
this country ” ? Why, Denham, by refus-
ing to use the ordinary constitutional
method of calling Parliament together.
The Government was taken out of Parlia-
ment’s hands and placed in the hands of
Cahill and the specials.
They call the late strike “ seditious.”
Now, what is sedition? Dr. Annandale
gives the meaning as follows: “A factious
commotion in a State, not amounting to
an insurrection.” There was nothing fac-
tious about the late strike ; it was one of
the insurrections that will appear more
often as the workers begin to understand
their economic position. It was an insur-
rection against the tyranny of the emplov-
ing class.
The last sentence I have to deal with
either shows a deliberate attempt to blind
the people as to the truth, or else gross
ignorance. The sentence reads: ‘ ‘Then a
vote for a Socialist candidate is a vote for
anarchy.” Socialism and Anarchism are
totally opposed, and as far apart in their
methods as are the poles. Anarchy is op*
posed to government in any shape or form.
Let me quote Dr. Annandale on Anarchy:
“Want of government; a state of society
when there is no law; political confusion.”
Socialism stands for government ‘ ‘ of the
people, for the people, and by the people.”
To my mind, Denham, Barnes and Co. have,
by handing over the power of government
to Cahill and his specials, caused political
confusion through their weakness. An-
archy means disorder, and the Denham
Government becajne anarchistic by endors-
ing the action of the Tramway Monopoly
that created industrial discord.
I am, etc.,
JUSTICE.
Campaign Items.
THE PADDINGTON CAMPAIGN
GOING STRONG!
Last night the Spring Hill and Petrie
Terrace branches held committee meetings
at the Leichhardt-street and Caxton-street
rooms respectively, and in each district
canvassers have commenced the actual
working campaign and are methodically
distributing “Bulletins.” The attendance
at Petrie Terrace was an overflow one, and
Red Hill, Rosalie, and Milton representa-
tives undertook to organise their separate
districts. Labour candidate Fihelly was
present at both meetings.
On Saturday night the Red Hill com-
mittee will hold a preliminary meeting at
Mr. Earle’s residence, Vine Cottage,
Wellington-road, and all sympathisers are
invited. This will be followed by a rneet-
ing on Monday at the Red Hill rooms. The
Upper Paddington sub-committee will also
meet on Monday night. The ladies’ com-
mittees all over the electorate expect to be
in full swing by Monday.
BULIMBA W.P.O.
Labour sympathisers are requested to
roll up to a meeting at Murphy’s Shop,
Morningside, on Friday at 8 o’clock, to ar-
range for working the district.
WAGES BOARDS CHAIRMEN.
The following have been appointed
chairmen of wages boards: —H. M. Russell,
Brisbane Tinsmithing Trades Board; J.
Reid, Brisbane Hairdressing Industry
Board; W. D. Grimes, Brisbane Carting
Trade Board; P. Hardgrave, Brisbane
Men’s and Boy’s Clothing Trade Board.
BRISBANE W.P.O.
A meeting of the Brisbane W.P.O. was
held in Mr. Lloyd’s rooms last night. Mr.
Evans presided, and there was a large at-
tendance including a number of ladies. Ar-
rangements were further advanced in the
direction of canvassing the electorate. It
was decided that the candidate, Mr. M. J.
Kirwan, should open the campaign next
week at the Protestant Hall, Ann-street,
Wednesday night, April 3. All Labour
sympathisers and unionists are invited to
become active workers on the Campaign
Committee, the next meeting of which will
be held in the Trades Hall on Sunday after-
noon at 3 o’clock. Mrs. T. Finney (Care-
taker’s Cottage, Trades Hall) will be
pleased to see any volunteers from
amongst the Labour women who desire t-o
assist.
A POLITICAL POLTROON.
Last week the Home Secretary let him-
self loose and told Beaudesert people how
he had watched the bludgeoning of the
populace from the Treasury Building. He
also, on the same occasion, styled the
women of Brisbane “ men-women.” No
doubt this phrase will go further, and be-
come a stigma on the women of Queens-
land all over Australia. Yesterday he was
again at Beaudesert, and here is what he
is reported by one of his ow r n pet papers
to have said concerning the Leader of the
Opposition:—
“ Mr. Bowman, the leader of the So-
cialists, was an estimable gentleman as
a private citizen, but was in no way
qualified to be in Parliament. That
gentleman had recently paid a visit to
the old country, and had come in contact
with the Socialist leaders there. He had
learned Certain things there, and came
back and advocated the general strike.
He led the first procession, but when he
found that the Government intended to
suppress the disorder with a firm hand
he found it advisable to go to the
hospital.”
Can anyone say that any poltroon who
first calls the women of Brisbane foul
names and then talks in the above manner
of a man whose public and private life has
never had a shadow of aspersion cast on it,
and whose courage and courtesy have been
freely acknowledged all over Australia, is
competent to take a seat in Parliament,
much less to be a Minister of the Crown?
It will be a disgraceful slur on the social
and political life of the State if the party
who have to fall back on such an insulter
of women and vilifier of men to form its
executive is ever again admitted to power.
BRISBANE ELECTORATE.
Nominations for this electorate were de-
clared to-day—M. J. Kirwan and E. B.
Forrest being the candidates.
Mr. Kirwan, who was agreeted with a
cry jof “We will make you Minister for
Railways, Mick,” said he fully realised his
responsibility as the Labour candidate. He
was not ashamed of being a Socialist or of
any action he took in connection with the
late general strike, and he was prepared to
defend the actions of those men who had
been much maligned, and a great deal more
misrepresented. (A voice: And victim-
ised.) He certainly was a member of the
railway strike committee, and offered no
apology for any action he took. It was
going to be a straightout fight, and the line
of demarcation had been made more defi-
nite than ever. He would promise the rail-
way men that if he was returned, and his
party was returned, and got the Treasury
benches, he thought justice would be given
to the railway men. Regarding the inquiry,
he said thrft the Cabinet was responsible
for it, but they had burnt their fingers. In-
stead of holding the railway men up to ridi-
cule, they had held the members of the
board up to ridicule.
General Elections.
THE NOMINATIONS.
Nominations for the 72 seats in the new
Legislative Assembly were handed in yes-
terday. There were 147 nominations
altogether, made up as follows6s
Labour, 69 Conservatives (or Capitalists),
and 12 Independents. The formal an-
nouncements regarding the nominations
were made to-day.
One Labour candidate (John May,
Flinders), and four Government candi-
dates (Appel, Armstrong, Wienholt, and
Somerset), wfere returned unopposed. Two
former Labour members, G. Ryland and
D. Mulcahy) were nominated for the Gym-
pie seat, besides G. H. Mackay (Govern-
ment). Geo. Ryland has the endorsement
of the C.P.E.
Candidates can withdraw their nomina- ;
tion up to noon on Monday next.
The Premier opens his campaign at
Corinda to-night, and Mr. Bowman, Leader
of the Labour Party, will fire his first shot
on Monday night next. Several interest-
ing situations have arisen in the present
fight, and it is expected all parties will
make the fight as strenuous as it is pos-
sible to make it. The forces arrayed
against Labour in the present battle "are
as numerous, as powerful, and, needless to
say, as unscrupulous as they have ever
been; but as the workers have been
aroused by the gigantic tyranny exercised
against them for some time past, they may
now be relied upon to decide that there is
only one possible way clear to them to
obtain the slightest shred of justice, and
consequently should allow nothing to debar
them from working themselves and getting
as many helpers as possible.
We give the complete list of the nomi-
nations. L. stands for Labour, C. for
Conservative Capitalist, and I. for Indepen-
dent. An asterisk denotes a member of
the late Parliament The following are the
contested seats:—
AUBIGNY.—J. CONNOLLEY (L.), A. J.
Luke (C.), W. H. Summerville (I.).
BALONNE— E. M. LAND* (L.), J. Har-
vev (C.).
BARCOO.—T. J. RYAN* (L.), A. H.
Cahlone (C.).
BOWEN—M. A. FERRICKS* (L.), E. J.
Caine (C.).
BREMER—W. V. HEFFERAN (L.), J.
C. Cribb* (C.), W. H. Summerville (I.).
BRISBANE—M. J. KIRWAN (L.), E. B.
Forrest* (CO-
BULIMBA.—H. C. M‘MINN (L.), W. H.
Barnes* (C.).
BUNDABERG— G. P. BARBER* (L.), J.
M‘Leod (C.).
BURANDA.—J. HUXHAM (L.), W.
Stephens (C.).
BURKE—C. COLLINS* (L.), W. S.
Murphy* (I.).
BURNETT—A. J. JONES (L.), B. H.
Corser (C.).
BURRUM—A. E. V. WHITFORD (L.),
C. D. R. Rankin* (C.).
CAIRNS—W. M‘CORMACK (L.), J.
Mann* (I.).
CARNARVON—T. CRAWFORD (L.), D.
Gunn* (C.).
CHARTERS TOWERS.—J. MULLAN*
(L.), W. Williams (C.).
CHILLAGOE—E. G. THEODORE* (L.),
A. S. Frew (C.).
COOK—H. J. RYAN (L.), H. A. C.
Douglas* (C.).
COOROORA—W. F. JONES (L.), H. F.
Walker* (C.).
CUNNINGHAM—F. Grayson* (C.), P. J.
M‘Cauley (I.).
DALBY—R. TURNBULL (L.), W. J.
Vowles* (C.).
DRAYTON—J. J. DESMOND (L.), W.
Bebbington (C.), W. Binns (I.).
EACHAM—W. N. GILLIES (L.), M. J.
R. Woods (C.).
EAST TOOWOOMBA—G. WALDEN (L.),
T. R. Roberts* (C.).
ENOGGERA— W. F. LLOYD (L.), R.
Trout* (C.).
FITZROY.—C. W. C. BLUETT (L.), K.
M‘D. Grant* (C.).
FORTITUDE VALLEY—D. BOWMAN*
(L.), E. W. H. Fowles (C.).
GREGORY—W. HAMILTON* (L.), F. J.
North (C.).
GYMPIE. G. RYLAND* (L.), D. Mul-
cahy* (L.), G. H. Mackay (C.).
HERBERT—W. LENNON* (L.), F. W.
O’Rourke (C.).
IPSWICH—W. J. R. MAUGHAN* (L.),
J. W. Blair* (C.).
ITHACA—J. T. GILDAY (L.), A. G. C.
Hawthorn (C.).
KENNEDY—J. O’SULLIVAN* (L.), 0.
J. Fenwick (C.).
KEPPEL—J. LARCOMBEj Junr. (L.), J.
Brennan* C.), J. Lennon (C.).
KURILPA.—B. SHARPE (L.), J. Allan*
(C.).
LEICHHART.—H. F. HARDACRE* (L.),
W. G. Fox (C.).
LOGAN—W. F. N. ARNOLD (L.), J.
Stodart* (C.).
MACKAY.—C. S. TAIT (L.), W. T. Paget*
(C.).
MARANOA—J. M‘E. HUNTER* (L.), A.
Hoskin (C.).
MAREE—W. BERTRAM (L.), D. Hunter
(C.).
MARYBOROUGH—W. MITCHELL (L.),
E. B. C. Corser* (C.).
MERTHYR—P. A. M‘LACHLAN* (L.),
T. Welsby* (C.).
MIRANI—P. KIRWAN (L.), E. B.
Swayne* (C.).
MITCHELL—P. PAYNE* (L.), J. M.
Cross (C.).
MUNDINGBURRA—T. FOLEY* (L.), W.
C. Little (C.).
MOUNT MORGAN—J. STOPFORD (L.),
J. Crawford* (I.).
MURILLA—B. F. S. ALLEN* (L.), G.
Morgan* (C.).
MURRUMBA.—G. G. DENNIS (L.), J.
Forsvth* (C.).
MUSGRAVE.—J. White* (C.), H. A. Cat-
termull (I.).
NANANGO.—M. HARLAND (L.), R.
Hodge* (C.)»
NORMANBY.—G. W. MARTENS (L.) G.
Fox* (C.)
NUNDAH.—R. McCORMACK (L.), T.
Bridges (C.)
OXLEY.—C. W. MARTIN (L.), D. F.
Denham (C.)
PADDINGTON.—J. A. FIHELLY (L.),
J. J. Walsh (C.)
PITTSWORTH.— DWYER (L.), D.
Mackintosh* (C.), D. V. Hannay (Ind.)
PORT CURTIS.—E. D. J. BRESLIN (L.),
J. H. Kessel (C.)
QUEENTON.—V. WINSTANLEY* (L.),
F. Johnson (C.)
ROCKHAMPTON.—J. ADAMSON* (L.),
G. S. Curtis (C.)
ROSEWOOD.—P. MADDEN (L.), H. M.
Stevens* (C.). J. F. Rea (Ind.), W.
Ruhno (Ind.)
SOUTH BRISBANE.—J. H. SHERRY
(L.), T. W. Bouchard* (C.)
TOOMBUL.—D. C. DOWLING (L.), A. L.
Petrie* (C.)
toowong.—l. McDonald (l.), e. h.
Macartney* (C.)
TOOWOOMBA—M. P. ALKE (L.), J.
Tolmie (C.)
TOWNSVILLE—A. S. AUSTIN (L.), R.
Philp* (C.)
WARREGO— J. H. COYNE* (L.), D. C.
McDonald (C.)
WARWICK—A. F. SINCLAIR (L.), G.
P. Barnes* (C.)
WIDE BAY—A. THOMPSON (L.), C. J.
Booker* (C.)
WINDSOR—W. R. CRAMPTON (L.), H.
D. Macrossan (C.)
VALLEY ELECTORATE.
The nominations for this electorate
were announced in the Valley State
School tb-day. Mr. Bowman was the only
candidate present, and delivered a brief
speech. He hoped that the contest would
be an amicable one. They should enter
it with the determination to fight with
all the fairness they were capable of. He
regretted the absence of Mr. Fowles. He
could assure them that so far as he per-
sonally was concerned he would endeavour
to carry out the campaign as he had acted
in the past. He would do nothing that
would reflect discredit on himself or his
party. (Hear, hear.) He trusted it would
be a fair fight, and that there would be
no recriminations on the part of either
candidate. He ended by emphasising
that the fight should rest entirely on the
political aspect, and that no personalities
should be indulged in.
WHY DENHAM WOULDN’T FACE
PARLIAMENT.
Many have been the conjectures as to
why Premier Denham declined to call Par-
liament to deal with the all-important
Liquor Bill, and seize the opportunity to
expose all the misdeeds he stated certain
Labour members were guilty of. The osten-
sible reason he gave for muzzling members
while the capitalistic newspapers were
howling like a pack of dingoes for Labour
scalps was that certain Opposition members
had become so politically depraved that he
could not possibly think of allowing the
ultra-respectable members on the Govern-
ment side to associate with them till they
were purified in the “ dip ” of the ballot-
box. It now appears, however, that on
counting heads, Digby found that so many
on the Ministerial side had taken a position
of profit under the Crown in the shape of
acting as paid special constables, that he
would have been in a minority were their
votes challenged, besides rendering those
members liable to a heavy penalty for act-
ing contrary to their Parliamentary oblige
tions. Thus another instance is given of
the Premier’s inability to refrain from
political hypocrisy—he accused Labour
members of being unfit to sit in the Assem-
bly, while all the time the boot was on the
other foot—those who had constitutionally
and socially made themselves unfit to take
further part in legislation were confined ex-
clusively to his own ranks. The question
next arises, were these members justified
in making use of Parliament House after
having received payment from the Crown
for duties other than those they were re-
turned to Parliament to perform?
LABOUR DAILY PAPER COMMITTEE.
A MEETING of the “ OFFICLAL
BULLETIN ” COMMITTEE will be
held in the TRADES HALL, FRIDAY
EVENING, at 8 o’clock. Business impor-
tant and urgent.
NOTICE.
Strike Committee.
A SPECIAL MEETING of the Strike
Committee will be held at the Trades Hall
TO-MORROW (Friday), at 2 p.m.
Business: “Distribution of ‘Bulletins.’ 99
TIMBER WORKERS’ UNION.
A Special Mass MEETING of the
Federated Timber Workers’ Union will be
held in the Trades Hall on SATURDAY
AFTERNOON NEXT, the 30th inst., at
2.30. A full attendance of members is
requested.
R. C. ANDERSON, Gen Sec.
