

Official Bulletin, No. 30.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 80.
BRISBANE, TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 1912.
The Morning Address.
Strike Leader Harry Coyne in extra
good form this morning when delivering his
address to the lion-hearted men w r ho to-day
are as firm in their resolve to secure indus-
trial independence as they were
at the beginning of last month. If
there is any “In extremis,” or
other signs of collapse, it is not on the
part of the determined workers, who list-
ened attentively while Mr. Coyne dealt
the workers’ opponents some very hard
knocks. He referred to the overtures made
by the Strike Committee to bring about an
honourable settlement after the Arbitra-
tion Court had dealt with their wearing
of the badges. Mr. Coyne re-
ferred to the action of the Master Tan-
ners, who wnuld only take the men back as
non-Unionists. Here w r as a clear case of
victimisation, and the Strike Committee
would not stand that. He next dealt wdth
the letter circulated in Melbourne (which
we published yesterday), asking Southern
employers to come to the rescue of the
Brisbane merchants, some of whom, judg-
ing from the tone of the circular, were “in
extremis.” The employers stated that they
could end the trouble in 24 hours by giving
way to the demands of the men. And w hat
were the demands of the men? asked the
Leader. Simply that they w T ould be per-
mitted to resume their w ork without being
victimised. Was there anything unreason-
able or dishonourable in that? The Em-
ployers had said there was a principle in-
volved. If it were not for a big principle
the workers would not have ceased work
at all. He mentioned the action of the
Bundamba miners in taking a ballot, and
showed how 7 little it influenced the position
at present, although the lying Press had
endeavoured to show 7 it was a sort of a
back-down. The men had held out the olive
branch to the employers, and it was for
the latter to receive it or cast it aw r ay. No
amount of bluff, however, would cause the
Strike Committee to w r aver in the slightest
degree. All outside talk about funds get-
ting low was so much nonsense. The re-
sponse from Labour throughout Australia
was growing proportionately with the ne-
cessity for funds. Mr. Coyne concluded by
announcing that a lengthy and very im-
portant meeting of the Strike Committee
was about to be held, and important de-
velopments might take place at any time.
He was loudly applauded on retiring.
Mr. J. S. Collings also addressed the
meeting, and dealt trenchantly with the
plaintive circular issued by the employers
m Melbourne.
THE MINERS’ BALLOT.
The Strike Leader, in his address this
morning, put a different complexion on
the recent miners’ ballot to that which the
daily papers would like to convey. Mr.
Coyne stated that the vote was not as to
whether or not they would return to work,
but whether they would consent to give 14
days’ notice in future when they do return.
No decision had yet been come to by the
miners as to w r heii they would resume work.
ADELAIDE TRAMWAY MEN.
Following Brisbane’s Lead.
A ballot taken .among the men of the
Adelaide Branch of the Australian Tram-
ways’ Employees’ Association on the ques-
tion “Do you approve and are you pre-
pared to join in a cessation of tramway
work if necessary to secure abitration on
the claims at present before the court,” re-
sulted in 504 voting in favour of a strike
and 38 against.
" HUMANITY. ”
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Previous to the strike some of the mem-
bers of the Humane Society made them-
selves very officious, reports of numerous
cases of alleged cruelty appearing in the
daily papers.
What I want to know, Mr. Editor, is
this: Has this society been disbanded, or
have they been acting as “ special ” con-
stables ?
Since the industrial trouble started I
have witnessed some brutal assaults on
horses by these “specials.” It was only
the other day that one of them, who had
imbibed too freely, kicked his horse unmer-
cifully in the stomach, but never a word
w r as said to him. Oh, no, was he not up-
holding “law and order?” According to
most of the churches he is treading the path
of righteousness. More than that, some,
who had in them more “spirits” than
“godliness,” deliberately rode down two
women who were standing on the foot-path
on Milton Road, but ne’er a word of this
“ brave attack ” appeared in the dailies.
I am, etc.,
R.D.
APOLOGIES.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Sir, —“ I guess ” it will be interesting
to know what all those have to say who
shrieked for Mr. Finlayson to resign, go
to the country, see if he had the confidence
of the country, and a lot of other rubbish.
Will they, now that Badger has apologised
to Mr. Finlayson, shriek for him to
resign, let someone else take his place, or
see if he has the confidence of the share-
holders of the company?—I remain, etc.,
R.D.
Found Certificate No. 1204 (Rank)
Gunner. Name Thomas Joseph Walsh,
Military Forces of the Commonwealth.
Owner can hare same by applying to V.O.
Office, Trades Hall.
More Light on the Darkness.
The following letters on the contretemps
of Friday night last have been handed to
us:
51 Countess Street,
Brisbane, March 4th, 1912.
W. F. Finlayson, Esq., M.H.R.,
Brisbane.
Dear sir,—Referring to the matter of our
failure to supply lights at the Woolloongab-
ba Sports Ground on Friday evening, 1st
instant, for your meeting, I have to ex-
press my sincere regrets that owing to a
misunderstanding in this office the lights
were not supplied, although they had been
paid for.
I have only just discovered this morn-
ing, after lengthy investigation, where
the blunder (which is the only name I can
use for it) came in. I wish to assure you
most positively that no discriminations
would have been made on any account.
While the inconvenience you suffered
cannot be undone, I trust you will accept
my expressions of regret. As an
tion of my desire to set the matter right,
we wull refund the amount which was paia
for lights at that time, and will supply
lights without charge for any evening
w r hich you may name.
I am, dear sir,
Yours truly,
J. S. BADGER,
Manager.
Brisbane, March 4th, 1912.
J. S. Badger, Esq.,
Manager Brisbane Tramways Company.
Dear Mr. Badger,—Your favour of even
date to hand, and I fully appreciate your
recognition of the blunder that was made
in regard to the lighting of the Cricket
Ground last Friday evening.
I confess to being quite unable to under-
stand the remarks appearing in the
“ Courier ” on the 2nd inst. re the matter,
and hope that you will take the trouble to
put yourself right with the public by con-
tradicting your previous statement.
As I w r as acting on behalf of the Strike
Committee in the arrangements for the
Cricket Ground, I am taking the liberty of
sending your letter on to them so that they
may know that the collapse of our arrange-
ments w r as caused through a blunder, and
not through any fault of mine. For as-
sisting me to put myself right in this way
I thank you, and it will remain for them
to accept your offer of free light for a
future meeting, if they feel so disposed.
Believe me to b^
Yours, etc.,
W. F. FINLAYSON.
LESSONS TO BE LEARNED.
To the Editor Strike Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—This strike has been, in
my opinion, a great object lesson to the
workers in more ways than one. One thing
they have learned is, they have found out
where Mr. Denham’s boasted Home Rule
is. Thousands of workers allowed them-
selves to be fooled by him, through the
lying daily press, during the last Federal
election, and where did it lead them ?
Where was their Home Rule on Black
Friday, when he gave the ruling pow T ers to
Cahill, and innocent men, women, and
children were batoned because they were
standing for justice? The press also told
them that if they voted “ Yes” they were
voting their birth-right away. Where
have been their rights during this strike?
We w’ere refused the right on Black Friday
to form a peaceful procession. We have
been refused the right to walk the streets
without being insulted by those “ special ”
things in men’s clothes on horseback. I
know of cases at Stone’s Corner where
girls, going home from work have been in-
sulted by them. We were refused the right
of holding a mass meeting in the Wool-
loongabba Sports Ground, last Friday
night, and because Badger refused the
light, the committee of the Sports
Ground refused us admission, and I hope
that workers will remember that, when pic-
ture shows and other events come on there.
Surely this great battle that we have
engaged in has opened the eyes of the most
ignorant with regard to the Capitalistic
press. The low-down tactics they stooped
to to crush unionism ought to show the
workers who are their friends and who are
not. My advice to people whom I have
come in contact with, w r ho have not known
much about politics was—get the daily
press, and whatever that tells you to do,
“just do the very opposite,” and if they
had done that at the last Federal election
Badger, Government, and Co. would not
have been able to upset the country as
they have done, because by voting “ Yes”
the workers would have done away with
monopolies; but Denham wanted them to
vote “ No ” because he knew that by doing
so he and his confiscating crowd would still
have the power to carry on their anti-
labour work, and this strike has been an
instance of what the present Government
would do for the workers if they had the
power.
Have they not even broken the law by
suspending the Wages Board Act, and by
doing so given the employers powers to
work their employees as long as they liked
without having to pay them overtime.
Where does the workers’ birth-rights and
Home Rule come in there?
Courage, workers! Keep firm and true
to each other, and no matter what obstacles
are put in the way by our enemies, we will
win in the end.
Yours, etc.,
ELLEN HEWETT.
Applicant: “Your foreman has just
fallen into the river. Can I have his job?”
Employer: “ You are too late. The man
who pushed him in has got it,”
Very Important.
All Unionists Should Attend.
Strike Leader Coyne will make a very
important announcement at 10 o’clock to-
morrow (Wednesday) morning.
All strikers are requested to be present
at the Trades Hall.
THE GREAT LIE CARRIER.
In the “Courier” of this morning,
March sth, the following was published:
“The Carters. Inquiry confirms the
statement already published* that an
attempt has been made to induce
those members of the Carters’ Union
who have resumed work to again
leave their employ, but the men have
declined.”
I am in a position to state definitely
that no inquiry was made at the office of
the Carters’ Union by any representative
of the “Courier.” Information obtained
elsewhere could not be taken as authorita-
tive, and should not be accepted by any
self-respecting pressman as suitable for
publication. Tne statement that an at-
tempt has been made to induce those mem-
bers of the Carters’ Union who have re-
sumed work to again leave their employ,”
is absolutely false, and seeing that Mr.
McCormack, the official organiser of the
Carters’ Union, contradicted the statement
in the 1 ‘Telegraph’ ’ of yesterday afternoon,
it is plain that the “Courier” does not go
to much trouble to have haphazard
rumours, which seriously concern a large
number of employers and employees, veri-
fied before giving publicity to them. No
better proof is needed to show that the
“Courier” recklessly makes statements
which are not truthful.
Yours, &c.,
GEORGE LAWSON,
Secretary Federated Carters and
Drivers.
Trades Hall, March 5, 1912.
MORE TRAM ACCIDENTS.
Two tramcars w 7 ere derailed yesterday,
one early in the morning in the Valley, and
the other in the evening in Petrie-terrace.
The first mishap occurred opposite Messrs.
Foy and Gibson’s, in Wickham-street,
Valley, when a Dreadnough (No. 119)
dashed off the rails, running across the
road into an iron post. An iron stanchion,
roof, and destination board were smashed,
and other damage done. A lady who w 7 as
in the tram at the time was throwrn to the
roadwny. The Ambulance Brigade rendered
first aid, and she w 7 as removed to the Mater
Misericordise Private Hospital. Her name
is Mrs. Nellie Windroth, and she lives at
Ithaca-road, Kelvin Grove.
At about half-past 6 last evening a Red
Hill-Bow 7 en Bridge car got derailed in
Petrie-terrace. The car was crowded with
passengers, and as it reached Caxton-
street it jump ed the points, swinging
round on to the Paddington lines. Great
difficulty w 7 as experienced in getting the
car back, and in a very short time a good
many cars accumulated along the terrace.
After some manoeuvring the tram was
swung back, and then another tram took
it in tow 7 , and got it on to the dowui line.
The road was much damaged w T hile the car
was being handled.
WESTERN APPRECIATION.
The following letter was received to-day
by Mr. T. Donovan, acting manager
“ Worker,” from Comrade John McNeill,
secretary A.W.U., Charleville :
I am enclosing cheque herewith to the
value of £8 Bs., being amount of donations
received for Brisbane Strike to date. We
are running off a social next Thursday for
the strikers, and I am sending lists out to
the various shearing sheds to raise some
of the needful in that way, and I sincerely
hope the workers of Queensland wall send
along sufficient funds to enable our brave
comrades in Brisbane to hold out against
Badger and all the other big-girth crow r d
until the strikers gain their terms. We
are delighted with the decision of Justice
Higgins, and may he live for ever. Convey
our best washes to the Strike Committee
and other leaders, and say that we admire
the way in which they are conducting the
strike. The splendid solidarity of the
strikers is an example to the whole world.
Yours fraternally,
JNO. McNEILL.
In the “Daily Wail” of yesterday
appears a paragraph stating that there is
a superabundance of labour available to
cope with the work on the waterside.
Lower down in the same column we are
seriously informed that two steamers with
cargo for Brisbane could not unload it, but
are over-carrying it to Sydney. It is
hardly necessary to comment further on
this incongruity. It surely explains itself.
Scene in Queen-street: Young Austra-
lian (holding on to the post w ith both hands,
to irate mother, who is trying to pull him
aw r ay): “I w 7 on’t go in them trams; the
boys will call me ‘ blackleg.’ ”
Irate Mother: “ Just let me hear them
calling you blackleg, and I’ll show them.”
Young Australian: “They’ll call you
a ‘ blackleg ’ ’ and a ‘ scab, ’ too, and say
dad oughtn’t to give you any money.”
Surrender of mother, who hails. the
motor bus, into which the much-relieved
lad precedes her.
Slavery in Various Phases.
In Mr. W. T. Stead’s character sketch
of that gifted and noble-minded American,
James Russell Lowell, published a few
years ago, a scene is depicted which forcibly
demonstrated the idea held by the ruling
classes then, as now, as to what consti-
tutes liberty, and the relative positions the
ruled and the rulers should occupy. We
also give Mr. Stead’s comment on the
horrible picture portrayed. This should set
the minds of many people thinking in a
certain channel, and should cause some of
our time-serving clericals to search their
consciences and inwardly inquire if it does
not unequivocally apply to them.
The extract is as follows:
A Scene from the Old Slavery Times.
“We talk glibly about slavery, and
few of us realise what it means. But if we
want to understand the extent to which
the Christian creeds, as interpreted by
the Christian Church, have been harmon-
ised with the most damnable negation of
everything that Christ came to teach, it is
necessary to recall such a scene as this,
which I take from a remarkable little book,
just published in America, by the Rev.
Calvin Fairbanks, a stout old Abolitionist,
who for his zeal in the cause of the op-
pressed passed seventeen years in gaol,
where he received no less than 37,000
lashes. It was a scene which he himself
witnessed, and which fortunately did not
terminate as most scenes of the kind did.
But let him speak for himself:
Early in May, 1834, mj sympathy and patriotism
were roused on behalf of one of the most beautiful
and exquisite young girls, only one sixty-fourth
African. She was self-educated and accomplished,
and her jealous mistress doomed her to be sold,
hating her for her beauty and accomplishments.
There were 2000 people at .the sale, representing the
wealth and culture of America. A short, thick-
necked, black-eyed Frenchman from New Orleans
was determined to secure her. Upon the block stood
the auctioneer by his” victim, who seemed ready to
drop to the earth. He directed attention to the
valuable piece of property, calling particular atten-
tion to her exquisite qualities as a mistress for any
gentleman. This he kept prominent in the vilest
manner, outraging all decency. Bids began at 250
dollars and ran up to 1400. The Frenchman from
New Orleans alone bid against me. I bid 1450. My
contestant stood silent. The hammer rose, trembled,
lowered, rose, fell, and the fiend flushed and quick
as thought dropped his hammer. . . .
“ Look here, gentlemen! Who is going to lose
such a chance as this? Here is a girl fit to be the
mistress of a king!”
A suppressed cry of shame rose through that
throng. Southern women blushed. Bids rose to
1475. There was again a lull.
Then the auctioneer turned his victim’s profile to
that excited crowd. . . . exclaiming, " Ah, gentle-
men, who is going to be the owner of this prize?
Who is the next bid?”
The Frenchman bid 1480. The hammer rose high,
quivered, lowered, Eliza gave me an appealing
agonised look.
" Are you all done? Once, twice, do I hear no
more? three,” and the hammer quivered as the
Frenchman’s face flushed with triumph, three, and
the hammer fell down.
"Fourteen hundred and eighty-five!”
The Frenchman turned away. The hammer fell.
She was mine. She fainted.
“ You’ve got her d d cheap, sir. What are
you going to do with her?”
“ Free her, sir,” I cried.
Mr. Stead remarks as follows :
“ That scene took place in a Christian
State. All those who were present had
probably been baptized. The auctioneer
was in all probability a Church member.
And throughout half the Union nearly
every Christian Church and Christian
minister denounced those who protested
against slavery as if they were the very
worst of criminals. Everyone sees to-day
that the doctrines of grace, of the atone-
ment, and of justification by faith had got
sadly out of gear before such an infamy
could be perpetrated in broad daylight in
a Christian land. And the worst of it is
that as soon as these doqtrines get out of
gear, they operate absolutely in an opposite
direction to that in which they were insti-
tuted to work. It is not that they are
false. They are only applied the other way
on, and instead of acting as spurs to urge
men to redress wrong, they act as opiates
to their consciences, and hell is tolerated
on earth because Christians imagine that
they have secured themselves against hell
hereafter.”
* * *
To bring the above state of affairs to an
end required one of the most cruel and
unnatural wars in the history of the world.
Brother fought against brother and father
against son, but in the end the cause of
humanity and justice triumphed. And
who will now say too big a price was paid
for the victory?
Obloquy has been cast on the Strike
Committee and abuse plentifully heaped on
trades unionists in general for the action
they have taken, whereby the usual indust-
rial routine in the business life of Bris-
bane was interfered with. But as surely
as those who were determined to put an
end to the hellish state of affairs that
existed in the days of American slavery
were afterwards extolled for their noble
work, so surely will the members of the
present Strike Committee and those who
assisted them be regarded as benefactors
of their fellows when the full history of
the present crisis comes to be written and
the inner machinations of the foes of in-
dustrial and social freedom are exposed to
the world.
In the scene so graphically described in
the above extract we have the easily-
recognised prototypes of those who are now
ready to subject the workers to any degra-
dation so that others may retain and accu-
mulate money and power. The crowd sur«
rounding the auctioneer’s rostrum were
typical of those alleged upholders of law
and order and pillars of Church and State
who to-day seem to think the remainder of
mankind was placed on this earth to pro-
vide luxury and ease for their would-be
oppressors.
The Latest from the Ranks.
WATERSIDE WORKERS.
A mass 'meeting "of the above Union
was held in the Maritime Hall yesterday.
Hundreds were unable to gain admission.
Mr. Purnell, sec. Waterside Union, Rock-
hampton branch, addressed the members,
as also did President “Bob” Thompson.
Each had a splendid hearing, and every-
thing went off well. It was moved, “That
this branch tender its heartfelt thanks to
the Rockhampton branch for sending Com-
rade Purnell to the seat of war.” Car-
ried unanimously. It was also moved:
‘ ‘ That this branch has every confidence in
the Strike Committee up to date, and we
think everything possible has been done to
bring about an honourable settlement.”
Carried with three ringing cheers.
A further mass meeting of the Water-
siders was held this morning. The speakers
were Senator Turley and Comrades Mat.
McCabe (secretary) and Bob Thompson
(president). The speakers were listened to
very attentively, and frequently applauded.
It was moved: “That we have every confi-
dence in the Strike Committee up to date,
arid that they are doing everything in their
power to effect a Satisfactory settlement.”
Carried unanimously. It was also moved:
‘ ‘ That a hearty vote of thanks be tendered
to Senator Turley and Mr. Purnell for
their attendance.” Carried by three ring-
ing cheers. It was further moved: “That
a committee be formed, and the donations
that had been received towards tug-of-war
and sports be handed over to that commit-
tee, and that it draw up the programme,
and have sports as early as possible.”
Carried. The meeting then closed with
three' cheers. ,
TRAMWAY EMPLOYEES’ ASSOCIA-
TION.
We have been requested to announce
that a very important meeting of mem-
bers of the Tramway Employees’ Associa-
tion will be held in the Trades Hall at
midday, to-morrow, Wednesday, and all
members are earnestly urged to be pre-
sent.
STOREMEN AND PACKERS.
SPECIAL MEETING.
A SPECIAL MEETING of the Members
of the above Union will be held in the
TRADES HALL on THURSDAY NIGHT,
at 8 o’clock, when the victimised men’s
cases will be dealt with.
BOOT OPERATIVES.
At a large meeting of the Bootmakers
held last night the attitude of the master
tanners and carriers was discussed, and
the following resolution was carried unani-
mously:—“That this meeting of the Boot
Trade Union hereby place on record their
intention to refuse to knowingly work any
leather produced by non-Union tanner's.”
A special summoned meeting will be held
to-morrow, March 6th, in the Trades Hall,
to decide future action.
A MESSAGE FROM N.S.W.
The following has been received by the
chairman of the Strike Committee:
Auburn Road, Auburn, N.S.W.,
February 28th, 1912.
Mr. Coyne, M.L.A.,
Dear Sir, —At a well attended meeting
of the Auburn P.L.L. held February 27th,
it was unanimously decided to tender you
and' the unionists of Queensland our hearty
congratulations on the decision of Mr. Jus-
tice Higgins with reference to wearing the
union badge.
Yours in the cause,
W. KERKHOFF,
Hon. Sec. Auburn Political Labour
League.
WORKERS PASTE THIS IN YOUR
HAT!
Man moves forward because he uses his
legs. Not one leg, but two of them. The
working class has two legs—Political ac-
tion and Industrial Unionism. IT CAN
GALLOP TO ITS LIBERATION WHEN
IT FINDS THIS OUT.
TO-NIGHT’S MEETINGS.
There will be no meeting in the Cen-
tennial Hall to-night, it being engaged
for other purposes. The other places or
meeting are Red Hill and Ivory-street,
Valley.
Brisbane District Council, A.L.F.
A MEETING of the above Council will
be held TO-MORROW, WEDNESDAY
EVENING, at 8 o’clock, at the TRADES
HALL. J. A. MOIR, Secretary.
Read a little, then think a little, then
read a little more and thing again, and
you’ll land yourself into Industrial Union-
ism.
