

Official Bulletin, No. 17.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 17.
BRISBANE, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1912.
Harry Coyne’s Morning
Budget.
Mr. Coyne addressed an immense audi-
ence in Turbot-street this morning. He
reported “No change” except for the
better. “All unions were still splendidly
solid on Saturday,”' said Harry, •“ and
funds are coming along very encourag-
ingly.” He dealt with the Press lie about
‘‘ A Mother of Eight 5 ’ (that good old
visionary) and her alleged 3|d. worth of
coupons, and, of course, proved it false.
“Is there anyone in this crowd who is
hungry or who knows of anyone who is?”
queried Mr. Coyne, and immediately an
immense shout of “No!” went up. “I
know I shall get the same emphatic answer
at the end of this strike,” said Harry.
“We are feeding police trackers, special
constables (who got coupons under false
pretences) and immigrant dupes whom the
Government has callously left on the streets
to starve, and when we can do that we can
surely be trusted to care for our own
people.”
Talking about the various newspapers,
Mr. Coyne said “The Worker” and “The
Patriot ” have been our only friends in this I
great struggle, and anyone who has read
the ravings of “Truth” yesterday will
recognise at once the wisdom and foresight
of the Strike Committee in refusing to
issue a permit to that paper.”
Loud cheers were given by the vast
crowd when Mr. Coyne stepped doAvn.
To-morrow Night’s Meetings.
CENTENNIAL HALL,
IVORY STREET, VALLEY,
WEST END,
RED HILL PAVILION,
Citizens, roll up ! and hear the truth
about he position.
BOGUS UNIONS.
It is quite on the cards that attempts
will he made by employers to imitate
“Ross” Badger, and form “associations”
of employees in opposition to the unions.
One such is already talked of by the Licensee
Victuallers’ Association. The idea is to go
going “an association” of Hotel, Club anc
Cafe employees. Certain individuals are
already moving in his direction. Amount
them, we understand, are two men who
were until lately officers of the union, anc
also representatives of the men on The
Wages Board. No genuine unionist will be
deceived by these bogus bodies or their
promotors. The union’s the thing, boys; so
stick to it, no matter at what cost.
RE COUPONS.
An individual with more cheek than dis-
cretion who has been particularly conspicu
ous, and, of course, cowardly, as a street
“special” presented himself at the Trades
Hall this morning ostensibly with coupons
which he wanted redeemed. He was a)
once recognised, although minus his “bit o;’
bed ticking,” and promptly escorted by
“Jack” Moir down the stairs and out
while he was informed that he could no"
have come by the coupons properly, anc
that at any rate he would need to explain
how he got them before his claim could be
recognised.
In this connection publicans are special-
ly notified that coupons must not be ac-
cepted for drink.
UNION BAKERIES.
Amongst the baking establishments
which are on our list as “Union” is that
of Bragg Bros., Valley. That fact implies
that the bread sold by this firm is union
made and is delivered by union carters.
It does not mean that the shop assistants
are unionists, but it ought to mean that
no unionist going into the shop should be
insulted. On Saturday a “red ribbon”
woman was insulted by an individual
at the Brunswick-street shop, with rude
and uncalled-for remarks about the strike.
Please, Messrs. Bragg, issue orders to pre-
vent this kind of thing, as unionists will
surely resist it and go where they are not
likely to be so treated.
A SIGNIFICANT SENTENCE.
From this morning’s “Courier”:
“ The Wyreema remained an exceptionally
long time in Sydney owing to the large
amount of cargo to be loaded for ports in
North Queensland.” The “Courier”
should keej) these lines in type, as in all
probability they can be truthfully repeated
as long as the Brisbane Federated Em-
ployers sulk in their office and say they
are quite satisfied with the present drift
of affairs.
WHAT THEY ARE FED ON.
A lady, who forwards her name and ad-
dress, informs us that between 10.30 and 11
o’clock on Saturday night, while on her
way home, in company* with two other
ladies, they were run into*with considerable
force by a lad who was bringing a small
bucket of beer from a certain hotel to the
Roma-street police station. The lad evi-
dently wanted to get rid of his burden as
quickly as possible, and as the ladies came
in his way he emulated the example of the
batoners, and did his best to knock them
out of it. A policeman in uniform was
waiting in the shadow for the bucket, with
which he soon disappeared inside.
Lost.—Silver Head of Umbrella Top
(Duck). Finder please return to Y.O.
Office, Trades Hall.
State Members and the
Strike.
The Strike Committee desires to place
on record its appreciation of the splendid
work some of our State Labour members
are putting into strike matters.
Messrs. May, Nevitt, Theodore, Fer-
ricks, Mullan, Hamilton, Hardacre, Payne,
Ryland, O’Sullivan, Ryan, Barber, and
others have done and are still doing yeo-
man service. Comrade Finlayson, of
course, is with us all the time arranging
the meetings, speaking at many and assist-
ing all he can.
“Dave” Bowman would be in the
thick of it but for health reasons, while his
mate, Peter McLachlan, John Adamson,
and Charlie Collins are doing magnificent
work in the South. The army of laymen
and women is “ too numerous to mention.”
Anyhow, all hands are working for a great
principle, and will find their fullest reward
in that knowledge.
We are told almost every day by those
local papers that seem to be untiring in
their efforts to create dissension amongst
the workers that certain New South Wales
Labour politicians do not endorse all the
actions of the Strike Committee. Unfor-
tunately for the Cause of Labour all
round, there are other matters in which
these same man do not see eye to eye with
their fellow Labourites; but we will make
allowances for them having to judge the
events from a distance. Were they on the
spot, we are confident they would have
espoused tl;e workers’ struggle for free-
dom wdth as much enthusiasm as any
amongst us. However, when we have such
a capable, sincere, and energetic set of
men in our own State Parliament as those
mentioned above, we need not very much
concern ourselves what others, who are not
conversant, perhaps, with the trend of
events here, think of our method of attain- j
ing the redemption of the wage-earner.
REPORTS OF PUBLIC MEETINGS.
Will someone kindly undertake to send
the Editor brief reports of the various pub-
lic meetings, as otherwise satisfactory re-
ports cannot possibly be published. If the
bare facts are sent along, the Editor will
do the rest.
THAT J.P.-SHIP.
Mr. J. S. Codings informs us that so
far no official notification has been sent
him regarding his position as a Justice of
the Peace, and that he is still acting in that
capacity and will do so until he is officially
advised to the contrary and furnished with
reasons as to why he has been removed.
HOW "SCABS” ARE MADE.
This paper is credibly informed that
the crew of the steamer Buninyong for re-
fusing to scab on their mates in the Water-
side Union were each “logged” to the
extent of os on Monday last. On Tues-
day the “log” was doubled, and on Wed-
nesday the “log” was doubled again. The
fine thus totalled 355. per man. To their
everlasting credit, be it said, they didn’t
scab, and were supported by the Hutch
and German comrades amongst them.
ANOTHER LIE NAILED.
Poor old frantic Granny “Courier”
stated this morning that the Hotel, Club,
and Cafe Employees met yesterday and de-
cided to return to work to-day. Vice-
president Brennan called at the “'Bulletin”
office this morning to say “it isn’t true;
please deny it in this ddy’s ‘Bulletin,’”
and we very gladly do so. Poor old
Granny, the strike is dead but it is still
disturbing your nightmare maunderings.
"BLACK” SHIPS.
Word has been received from Sydney
that the steamer Cornwall, which left
Brisbane a “black” ship, will not be
touched by any member of the Coal Lump-
ers 1 or Wharf Labourers’ Unions.
The same fate awaits the steamer
Arawatta. y
QUEER UNIONISTS.
The editor learns to-day that a certain
lady, a property owner not far from Petrie
Terrace, whose husband is a unionist on
strike, isn’t acting altogether square in
the way of dealing with possible tenants for
a vacant house. Apparently she prefers
persons not on strike to some higly repu-
table mates of her husband’s who are. To
help each other all we can in this severe
struggle is surely right, especially as be-
MISSING FRIENDS
Will the friend “F.N.,” whose letter
entitled “The Terror Continues” was
published in Saturday’s “Bulletin,” please
make himself known to comrade Joe
Codings at the earliest possible moment.
This matter is very urgent.
TRAM PASSENGERS’ DANGER.
One “new” motor-man on a car at
North Quay this morning was evidently
quite unfit for the work, and certainly not
qualified to have human lives in his charge.
He understood nothing of the controller,
and failed to remove the controller handle
until an inspector, who fortunately was
handy, saw his difficulty and got him out
of it.
V.O. stands for Valiant Orderlies.
The Latest from the Ranks.
IMPORTANT DECISIONS.
From Brisbane Coal Workers and
Lightermen’s Union.
To the President, Combined Unions’ Strike
Committee.
Sir, —The following resolutions were
unanimously carried at a meeting of the
above Union this morning, every member
being present:—
“ That the Brisbane Coal Lumpers and
Lighterman’s Union pledge themselves not
to touch any coal that arrives in Brisbane,
either by land or water, until ordered to do
so by the Combined Unions’ Strike Com-
mittee. Any coal so arriving will be classed
as scab coal.”
A resolution was also carried unani-
mously endorsing the action of the Strike
Committee to date.
I am, Sir, Yours,
T. IRWIN, Acting Secretary.
February 19, 1912.
MA STATE LABOURITES SEND
GREETINGS
Nepean Federal Labour Council.
Lumley-street, Granville, N.S.W.,
16th February, 1912.
Mr. H. Coyne, M.L.A.
Dear Comrade, —I have been instructed
by the above Council to forward the fol-
lowing resolution which was passed at the
last meeting held at Glenbrook on the 11th
inst. :—“That this council endorses the
action of the Queensland unionists, anc
congratulates therii on their solidarity anc
also sympathises with them on the assaul t
made upon them by the Queensland Capi-
talist Government, and trust the day is
not far distant when you will have a La-
bour Government with a sufficient major-
ity to be able to wipe all objectionable
laws off the statute-book, thereby benefit-
ing the producer, who is the mainstay o: :
the State.” Wishing you every success,
Yours in the Cause,
E. POMFRET, Secretary.
ROCKHAMPTON WATERSIDERS.
The - following wire is to hand to-day
from comrade Purnell:
“ Waterside decided, enthusiastically,
will not work any coal coming from date.”
SOME WHO HAVEN’T RETURNED
TO WORK.
Secretary Frank McCormack reports:
A meeting of the Carters’ Union, held on
Sunday afternoon; 762 men present. The
following resolution was carried with ring-
ing cheers: “ That this meeting has every
confidence in the Strike Committee, and
desires to tender their sincere thanks to
them and our union officials for the man-
ner in which they have conducted affairs
since the beginning of this trouble.” It
was also decided that they would remain
out till the conclusion of the trouble.
A challenge was issued to the Water-
side Union for a tug-of-war contest, to be
decided on Monday or Tuesday. Same was
accepted by the president of the Water-
side Union, so we may expect a very in-
teresting contest.
SHOP ASSISTANTS’ UNION.
At a large meeting of the above union,
held in Albert Park this morning, a unani-
mous vote of confidence in the Strike Com-
mittee was carried with cheers.
(There is no waning in enthusiasm
amongst our comrades from behind the
counter.—Ed. 5.8.)
MASTERS AND ENGINEERS.
The Editor Official Bulletin.)
Sir, —At a meeting of the above asso-
ciation, held this morning, I was instructed
to forward you a copy of the following
resolution, which was carried unanimously:
“Ihat this association views with disappro-
bation the action of the Treasurer (Hon.
W. H. Barnes) in causing the removal of
Mr. Peter Henderson as a member of the
Marine Board.” v
Signed) William H. Harrison,
Feb. 17. Secretary.
BOOT TRADE UNION.
Important Notice.
A group photo, of all Boot Trade Union-
ists will be taken to-morrow morning at
9.30 o’clock at some spot near the Trades
Hall. Will all members; male and female,
please note ? To be in this picture will be
something to be proud of in connection
with the great 1912 strike.
Federated Clothing Trade.
The following resolution was carried
unanimously by the above Union :
“ That this meeting strongly protests
against the brutal and tyrannical conduct
of the Queensland Police and their hire-
lings to the citizens of Brisbane, more
especially to unionists, and asking the
Federal Government for protection.”
TO MY COMRADES.
Now, brave reformers, staunch and true,
The path of honour still pursue,
The sacred cause depends on you,
Of Freedom and of Labour.
The capitalists have had their day,
The masters, too, have had their say,
But Freedom now comes into play,
Then here’s Hurrah! for Labour.
—Waterside Worker.
Saturday’s Meetings.
Centennial Hall.
Crowded to the doors, everybody en-
thusiastic, especially when Strike Commit-
tee’s determination “to fight to a finish”
was definitely announced %
Pineapple Ground.
Huge crowd, good speeches, unionists
and their families present in large numbers,
all in good spirits and determined to hold
out and win.
Ivory Street, Valley.
The crowd here grows greater nightly.
Mrs. Finney was the woman speaker for
the evening, and she made a fine impres-
sion on her hearers. She talks straight,
and to the point, and gets home every time.
Mr. R. Anderson and “Joe” Codings fol-
lowed, and quickly stirred the big crowd to
enthusiasm. Three ringing cheers closed
the proceedings. At this meeting even
‘ ‘ special ’ ’ constables were asking, as a
favour, for “Strike Bulletins.”
Clarence Corner.
A very large crowd was present. Mr.
T. Nevitt, M.L.A., presided. Speakers:
Joe Sherry of the General Strike Committe,
Messrs. Hardacre, J. Mullan, M.M.L.A.,
and Finlayson, M.P. Great enthusiasm
prevailed. Next meeting to be held on
Wednesday night.
Townsville and Denham & Co.
(From Our Special Correspondent
on the Spot.)
The general strike of the toilers of
Townsville in support o,f their comrades in
Brisbane will long be remembered by the
exploiters of labour in that one-time citadel
of Philpism. Nothing approaching it in
significance and enthusiasm had ever been
imagined by the smug, boodling despoilers
of the North. It struck them like one of
their famous cyclones, only this time, in-
stead of bearing a high-falutin legendary
name, it was “ Industrial Solidarity.” It
came swiftly and irresistibly! The clarion
call from the Strike Committee in Bris-
bane arrived on the Friday midday—Black
I riday a meeting of all Townsville
workers was summoned for the following
afternoon, when, with glorious unanimity
and determination, they took up the chal-
lenge of the Capitalist class, and fell in line
with their mates of the South, thus show-
ing, beyond doubt, their realisation of the
oneness of Labour. The workers simply
folded their arms, took a voluntary holi-
day, and the busy, bustling centre of North
j Queensland was reduced to idleness and im-
potency. It was a stirring instance of both
the fraternalism and the power of the
worker, and taught the haughty, contemp-
tuous exploiters a long-needed lesson they
will not forget in a hurry.
The old Trades Flail was the scene of
enthusiastic meetings of unionists and non-
unionists from morning to night; whilst
the enrolling of recruits, and the formation
of new unions went on apace. No less than
five branches of industry never before or-
ganised came under the banner of the
A.W.A., which organisation, with its
aggressiveness, flourished like the pro-
verbial green bay tree.
Every night there was an enormous
meeting, where the gospel of discontent
and revolt against Capitalism was drunk
m by the thirsting souls of the workers
awakening at last to the true knowledge of
the class struggle. The police, learning
their lesson aptly from their brother Cos-
sacks of Brisbane, spared no effort to ter-
rorise and intimidate, but their brutal tac-
tics were frustrated by the contemptuous
sarcastic reserve of the “ mob.”
One grand thing in connection with the
Townsville demonstration was the com-
plete suppression of the two lying Capital-
istic daylie papers. Not a line was printed
until twelve hours after the workers re-
sumed work. The polluted" fountain of
slander, abuse, arid lies was dammed at its
source, and the air of Townsville for that
week was etheral and pure. Well did
Townsville Labourites demonstrate their
fraternalism and sympathy “ For the Cause
that lacks assistance, for the wrong that
needs resistance, for the future in the dis-
tance, and the good we all can do!” The
command to “turn to” again was as
loyally obeyed as the call out. Though to
their glory be it recorded, the workers
of Townsville were far more reluctant to
return to work than to cease work in aid
of their brother workers of Brisbane.
Stalwarts of Townsville! we salute you.
HOW THE LOCO. MEN ARE RUN.
To the Editor “Strike Bulletin.’,’
Sir, —Permit me to bring before you the
manner in which some of the employees
of the Railway Department in Biisbane
ai e acting. Numerous .clerks and appreri-
ticfe clerks, some of whom are only 17
years of age, are utilised as knights of the
baton, and in addition to being paid for
acting as same, are also paid their ordin-
ary salary. No\y, for years past the clerks
employed in some offices of the service,
especially in the Goods Office, Roma St.,
have experienced no end of trouble with
regard to overtime worked, for which they
received by no means ample compensation.
I think it is a fair question if some of the
employees can be paid for acting as spe-
cial nuisances, why cannot the Railway
Department compensate their clerks for
working overtime under ordinary circum-
stances ?
Yours, etc.,
CAREFUL OBSERVER.
Important to Unionists.
The establishments mentioned in the re-
spective lists below are working with union
labour. . It is most important that this fact
should be carefully noted by all unionists.
The lists will be added to from time to time
as we are able to do so.
BAKERIES.
F. Wuersching, Wharf street.
J. Prudence, Melbourne street, South
Brisbane.
E. Jurgens, Logan road.
Mrs. Campbell, West End.
J. McMahon, Peel street.
Mrs. McMahon, Valley.
Ce-operative, Valley.
A. Lee, Kelvin Grove.
A. M‘Leod, Queen-street.
Mrs. Lane, Paddington.
W. Shead, Boggo road.
Ryan, Valley.
Hanlon, Valley.
H. Hugall, Spring Hill.
Annan and Day, West End.
Bragg Bros., Valley.
J. Enever, Valley.
J. Leach, Zillmere.
A. Lewis, Kangaroo Point.
/ BUTCHERS.
Trout, R., all Robb, W.
shops. Snelling, T.
Baynes Bros., all Witham, L.
shops. Crump, C.
Woodcock, W. Moore and Co.
Beven Bros. T. Cock.
Watts, W. ' Preston, W. D.
Witham, A. Bohl and Higgins.
Lewis. Scarborough Bros.
Sparkes, A. Voisey Bros.
Chugg, G. Hamilton, R.
Marshall, W. Land, W.
Barstow, E. Jowett Bros.
CAFES AND RESTAURANTS.
King Edward, Wickham street.
J. Crogie, Stanley street.
Mrs. Baxter, George street.
Kerr, George street.
Exchange Cafe (Berry’s), Queen-street.
Exchange Restaurant (Merton’s), Ed-
ward-street.
Chas. Reimer, Union Restaurant, Stan-
ley-street, S.B.
I. Boarding House, Stanley-street,
South Brisbane.
GROCERS.
Queensland Co-operative Stores,
Queen-street.
Murray and Magee, Stanley-street.
Kearney, Boggo-road.
D. J. Stewart, Kangaroo Point.
Eccles, Leichhardt-street.
Pedler, J. K., Caxton-street.
Hanlon, Paddington.
HAIRDRESSERS.
C. S. Dickson, Petrie-terrace.
J. Cavill, Edward-street.
Livingstone, Queen-street.
Yates, Joe., Brunswick-street.
Latham, R. W., George-street.
Aichison, Queen-street.
Leggett, Queen-street.
Lowndes, George-street. *
McLellan, George-street.
McMahon, George-street.
Hennesey, Wickham-street.
Mrs. Leggett, Wickham-street.
Johnson, Wickham-street.
O’Connor, Brunswick-street.
Ferguson, Stanley-street.
PASTRY COOKS.
E. G. Bedgood, Milton.
McDonald, Logan-road.
RE REGISTRY OFFICES.
To the Editor “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —My indignation was greatly rous-
ed this morning, being flatly refused a
situation because I had become a member
of our union, notwithstanding that I had
been engaged by the employer through this
registry office, to take up my duties as
cook on Monday next.
1 was afterwards told that as I had be-
come a unionist she (the i egistry office
proprietress) would not give me the ad-
dress of my employer when I asked her for
it. She, the agent, did not know that I
intended to wire to the employer, asking
her if she objected to a unionist serving
her, but as I was refused the name and
address, I told her I would lay the matter
in the hands of our union, and this I in-
tend to do.
1 am, etc.,
Febr. 17. ELLEN HALLAM.
[lf our sister will supply the name and
address of the Registry Office we will bo
glad.—Ed. S.B.]
A certain lodge doctor was attending a
patient in Francis-street on the Thursday
preceding Black Friday when the proces-
sion came along. A lady wearing a red
apron, with some suitable lettering on it,
was in front of the procession, and the
medical man, who had started to write a
prescription, was visibly perturbed at the
“red rag,” and exclaimed, “I would like
to knock her b head off.” Without
finishing the prescription he rushed out of
the house. Next day he came to the house
and asked how the patient felt after taking
the medicine prescribed, and when shown
the unfinished prescription he again burst
out about “ That b woman and her
apron.” If the doctor was not afforded an
opportunity of venting his spleen on the
lady, his place was fully supplied next
(Black Friday) morning by a big 14st.
policeman, who let the little woman feel
the full weight of his baton at the corner
of George and Queen streets.
