

Official Bulletin, No. 37.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 37.
BRISBANE, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 1912
Alleged Serious Situation.
In another column we publish a letter
from a well-informed correspondent, who
alleges that the railway goods traffic is in
a state of demoriolisation because of the
shortage of hands. Guards, we are told,
are doing the work of porters, clerks taken
from their offices to work in good sheds,
and general public and official inconveni-
ence is being experienced. Our corre-
spondent states that he has made minute
and extended inquiries, and that he finds
the various departments are starved, and
the staffs over-worked in their efforts to
cope with the work.
If there is a scintilla of truth in what
our correspondent alleges—and he is a
man who is not apt to allow his imagina-
tion to run away with him —then a very
serious state of affairs has been reached,
and who ever is responsible for it, be it the
Government or the Commissioner, will re-
quire to‘show good cause for their actions
later on if they would escape universal exe-
cration.
If future inquiries divulge the fact that
the Commissioner, through spleen or some
other absurd reason, is keeping about
300 valuable State servants in idleness
while the work of the department is being
neglected, then he is infinitely a greater
offender against the community than it
would be possible for any private em-
ployer to be —in fact, he concentrates in
his own person all the wrathful things that
have been said by the sycophantic Press
hirelings against the large army of recent
strikers individually.
The work around the waterside and at
the coal mines accumulated to an enorm-
ous extent while the strike existed, and it
would be fatuous to assert that a similar
state of things did not exist in connection
with the railways. All available labour has
been absorbed in connection with these
two great industries, as well as other busi-
ness. How does it happen, then, that the
work of the railways can be carried on
with the same number of hands as sufficed
when trade was practically at a standstill ?
The Premier is keeping the doors of
Parliament closed, with what object may
be learned later on. Were they open, it
is more than certain that the autocracy of
certain public servants would suddenly
come to an end; but just as the Govern-
ment seem to have entered into something
very like a conspiracy with the Employers’
Federation to crush, as far as their puny
powers would allow them, all freedom of
action and independence of spirit from
out the workers, so, as far as it is possible
for those not actively engaged in the Rail-
way Department to judge, it is very ap-
parent that the Railway commissioner is
bent on exacting his pound of flesh from
his late companion in the service, no
matter how great their sufferings or the
inconvenience to the public or loss to the
railway treasury may be. The aftermach
of certain happenings will not be fully
reached until a very searching Parliamen-
tary inquiry has exposed them to an In-
dignant public.
WORK FOR A COURT MARTIAL.
The “Courier” in a leading article this
morning speaking of the disbanded specials,
says:—
“ Most of the special mounted con-
stables, however, were military men, in
the sense of being volunteers, and they had
their own officers — both recognising their
responsibilities as citizens of the State
whatever default might be committed by
the Federal Labour Government.”
Is not this open defiance of the mili-
tary 7 authorities ? These specials, the
paper says, were military men, in the
sense of being volunteers. What more
could they be were they on parade before
the commander-in-chief? Thus the De-
fence Department that declined to allow
these men to be mustered in regular order
has been openly flouted, and what looks
like a gross act of insubordination has
taken place.
Let us view the matter from another
standpoint. If it was lawful for these
specials to make use of their position as
volunteers, under their own officers, how
could it possibly be illegal for members of
the volunteer force, who were among the
strikers, to also take advantage of their
military capacity and act accordingly.
There were enough men in the ranks of the
strikers, with military accoutrements at
home —which means rifles, bayonets, and
ammunition —to have cleared Market-
square on that memorable Tuesday when
Cahill marched his ragged brigade there
and marched back again to have com-
pletely cleared it in two minutes had
they become insubordinate, appointed cer-
tain officers to lead them, and attacked
those who were menacing the lives and
liberty of peaceful subjects. And yet, had
they done so, they would, if we accept the
“Courier’s” interpretation of military
duty, be doing nothing deserving of cen-
sure. Perhaps others besides the “Courier”
may have a voice in the questionable
legality of the specials’ proceedings.
Sir Arthur Markham, M.P., addressing
a meeting at Mansfield (Eng.) on Tuesday,
advised the miners to stand firm for a
minimum wage, which cost 4d. to 4|d. per
ton of coal. The Welsh and Scotch col-
liery owners must be forced to give the
minimum wage by Act of Parliament.
Vessels controlled by railway companies
are to be prohibited absolutely from pass-
ing through the Panama canal. A similar
provision affects vessels belonging to any
shipping ring. Uncle Sam is at last recog-
nising that the huge trusts that have been
acting like vampires towards the people
will have to be eventually strangled.
Who Should Run the Trams?
SOUTH BRISBANE WANTS GOVERN-
MENT CONTROL.
The South Brisbane City Council held
a special meeting yesterday to consider the
course which its delegates should pursue
at the conference of local authorities on
the tramway extension, to be held this
evening. The Mayor (Alderman J. E.
Burke), who was in the chair, said the
principal thing to consider was which of
three propositions in a draft Parliamentary
bill for dealing with the tramways should
be supported.
Alderman Savage reminded the Coun-
cil that the three propositions were, to
form a trust to either purchase the system,
enter into an agreement with the Tram-
ways Co. to share profits in consideration
for extension of the company’s powers, or
generally undertake the construction and
working of a tramway system.
Alderman Stephens moved, ‘ ‘ That the
delegates support the purchase of the
Tramways Company’s system.” Care
should be taken to include in the bill
authority to sell power and light. It was
far better for the people to have the con-
trol of the service in their own hands.
Alderman Dowrie seconded.
Alderman Dent moved as an amend-
ment, ‘ ‘ That the delegates should advo-
cate the purchase of the Tramways Com-
pany’s system by the Government. The
Railway Department had expert knowledge
for taking over management, as in Syd-
ney, and he urged that a popularly elected
body would have to work on the advice of
an expert. This plan would obviate com-
petition and clashing of services.
Alderman Gillespie seconded. He had
little trust in trusts. (Laughter.) There
would be no chance of profit for many
years, and probably the ratepayers would
have to meet a tramway rate.
Alderman M‘Cullough favoured Govern-
ment control. The electrification of the
suburban railways, which was bound to
come, was a point to remember as a com-
petitor with the trams.
Alderman Hilton supported the amend-
ment.
The Mayor said he should vote for the
motion. The tramways should belong to
the ratepayers in the metropolis. To ask
the Government to step in was as good as
saying the ratepayers were not capable of
undertaking the work.
The amendment was carried by 6 votes
to 3, the Mayor, Alderman Stephens, and
Alderman Dowrie opposing it.
The carrying of the above motion by
the South Brisbane Council is sufficient
justification for the action of the Tramway
Union and the Combined Unions Commit-
tee, in precipitating matters, even if no
other benefit to the citizens of Brisbane
and the State as a whole would accrue
from it. It seems only a few days since
the Local Authorities and other bodies
were discussing on what conditions they
would grant the Tramway Company an
extension of its lease. The man who would
now advocate the offering of any terms
whatever to the monopoly that has
caused such trouble would be regarded
either as an incorrigible leg-puller or an
escaped lunatic. In a very few years the
directors of this monopolistic company
may find their whole plant an ultra white
elephant. In the meantime it is within
the power of the workers to assist the
locked out tram men by patronising ’busses
and motor cars until such time as the fine
body of men whom it was a pleasure to
come in contact with a couple of months
back, and who, as shown by the action of
the South Brisbane Council, have done
such a service to the State, are reinstated
in their positions, and their right to wear
the symbol of their association acknow-
ledged by the company.
Militant Labour.
THE METROPOLIS AWAKENING.
That the recent industrial upheaval
has awakened workers to a more class con-
scious frame of mind has been amply
evidenced during the last few weeks, and if
the metropolis again falls under the awful
Tory pall which has enveloped it fpr a
decade, it will not be the fault of the vigor-
ous Labour propagandists.
Last night the evangelistic ball was set
rolling on Spring Hill, and the President
of the Paddington W.P.O. (Mr. J. Fihelly)
inaugurated a sub-branch of that body at
Clifford’s tobacconist ship, Leichhardt-
street, opposite Upper Edward-street.
The attendance, owing to the indefatigable
efforts of Messrs. Nugent, Ross, Craig, and
Merry, was excellent, and a particularly
strong bunch of officials was elected.
After the 26th inst. meetings will be
held all over the Hill nightly, and the new
organisation has decided to rely entirely
upon itself for speakers, and it will conduct
the campaign, if necessary, before the
candidate is selected.
Mr. J. Ross is president, and Mr. D.
Nugent secretary, and any who have not
already joined a W.P.O. are invited to
communicate at once with those worthy
comrades, or any enquiry made anywhere
on Spring Hill will find plenty information
available. The ballot boxes are coming
nearer, comrades!
Mr. Albert Stanley, English Labour
M.P., stated on Monday that the owners
of the Cannock colliery have 1 made enough
in the past three months to pay the mini-
mum wage demanded by the miners for 12
months. He added that the miners were
prepared for a three months’ strike.
Who is Now On Strike?
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir,—l trust you will grant nje space
in your columns to say a few words in pro-
test against the victimisation by the Rail-
way Commissioner of the railway employees
who ceased work in common with their
fellow-unionists on that memorable Tues-
day. I have made a thorough examination
in the various railway quarters of the
metropolitan area, and find that there is
a general disorganisation of work. Es-
pecially is this noticeable in the Roma-
street and South Brisbane goods sheds, and
on the platforms of the Central and South
Brisbane Stations.
Now, what do we find? Guards doing
porters’ work, clerks taken from their
stools and put in the sheds, and so on right
through the service we see this inconveni-
ence to the general public, caused through
the silly stubbornness of our Railway Com-
missioner. Now, sir, I want to know if
this victimisation, as practised by the
Government, has not gone far enough, and
ask that some pratical public demonstra-
tion be made against the despotic attitude
taken up by the Railway Commissioner in
not allowing our railway men to resume
their various positions in the service. We
know they are wanted and wanted badly,
and it is well known that the various de-
partments are being starved, and their
staffs over-worked in trying to cope with
the work, just because, I presume, the
Commissioner thinks he would be acting
in an undignified manner were he to re-
instate the men. But I say the time has
now arrived when the Commissioner must
drop his so-called dignity and consider
the people, whose interests he is supposed
to conserve.
Now, there is no excuse to offer. The
positions have not been filled, for the simple
reason that men could not be got to fill
them. This is well known. Therefore, I
say, in the interests of the public (who,
by the way, own the railways) and in jus-
tice to an able and admittedly good body
of men, the Commissioner should at once
allow these men to resume work, thereby
permitting the service to once more resume
its normal condition. Failing this, I
seriously suggest the Strike -Committee to
at once consider the advisability of taking
steps to again close the port. Then and
then only will the Commissioner or Gov-
ernment be brought to a sense of justice
and duty.—l am, etc.,
G.E.F.
VILE INGRATITUDE.
To the Editor Official Bulletin.
Sir, —Some men (?) I know who have
benefited by legislation that has been
forced on late Parliaments by the Labour
party, yet are persons who run down
Labour and ad connected with it, and
side with the capitalist.
A fellow who fed down the hold of
a ship was three months in hospital
through the injuries received. During that
time he received £1 a week through Act
of Parliament, £1 a week from his lodge,
and when convalescent received a lump
sum of £l5O compensation. He has now
developed into a Fat capitalist. He
was sworn in as a special constable during
the late strike, and when the carters went
out, he boasts he went to a wharf and
carted a load of produce, and to a bacon
factory for a load of bacon for a local
grocer. A few years ago he was supposed
to be a staunch Labour man, but when a
prominent capitalistic member of the dis-
trict put up for election, he came to me for
my advice, as he stated he had been offered
10s. per day to canvas votes for this man.
I advised him to stick to his principles, and
reject the 10/ per day offered him. But
he took the silver, and from that day to
this he has been opposed to Labor.
A dapper little man, a life insurance
canvasser, a man who depends wholly and
soley on the labouring classes for his own
bread and butter, a local preacher at
times, or anything he can make any money
at, a J.P. by influence of capitalists and
one who acted as special constable through
the Strike. Bitter against Labour. A pro-
bable future aspirant for Parliamentary
honours.
I feel I could keep on giving you in-
stances of such people.
Women who are widows deriving bene-
fits from the Government in the shape of
monthly payments for each of their child-
ren, old age pensioners and invalids who
are receiving their 10/ per week, run down
the Labour Party which has done so much
for them. Factory hands, shop assistants,
and numerous others, who have benefited
by higher wages, shorter hours, better con-
ditions as regards space, conveniences, and
a host of other things, do likewise.
For three months I would like to see
these people working under the old order of
conditions, where they had to work in
stuffy rooms, up till late hours, with no
overtime pay, go home dog tired, no half-
holiday, at the old rates of pay. Three
months would be sufficient to cure them.
They forget all these benefits now that
their conditions have improved and fur-
ther forget that it was through the dogged
determination of the Labour Party that
they are now deriving these benefits.
But time will prove, and it is my firm
belief that the workers are going to have
their day in the near future, as sure as the
sun shines.
I am, etc.,
HOPEFUL.
(Our porrespondent has a big stake in
the country; but never fails in his duty to
Labour. We want a few more such valu-
able propagandists.—Ed. O.B.)
In the Ranks.
FEDERATED SEAMENS UNION.
The regular weekly meeting of the
Federated Seamen’s Union was held in the
Maritime Hall, Eagle-street, on Monday
night, when there was a large attendance.
The meeting was addressed bv the General
President, Senator R. S. Guthrie, who
occupied the chair, and who was accom-
panied by the whole of the Executive Coun-
cil. The Council, having completed its
business in Brisbane, left for Sydney by
this morning’s mail train.
BAKERS AND PASTRYCOOKS’
UNION.
At a meeting of the Bakers and Pastry-
cooks’ Union on Saturday, the secretary
reported he had endeavoured to arrange a
conference with the Master Bakers’ Asso-
ciation, but such conference was refused.
The committee was further endeavouring
to bring about a cessation of hostilities. At
present there are 26 bakeries working with
union bakers. Big efforts are being pushed
forward to commence a union pastry fac-
tory, where all unions can procure their
pastry, etc., for picnics, parties, and
socials, and which will also supply retail
shops.
Several pastrycooks are making
ments to leave for the South, owing to
three of the principal pastrycook employers
refusing to give them employment.
MERTHYR W.P.O.
A meeting of the Merthyr W.P.O. will
be held in the Institute of Social Service,
Brunswick-street, Valley, to-morrow
(Thursday) night, at 8 o’clock. Messrs.
Bowman and M‘Lachlan, Ms.L.A., will be
present. Matters of interest will be dealt
with.
SOUTH BRISBANE W.P.O.
A special meeting of the above organi-
sation, as announced in the “Bulletin,”
was held in the committee rooms, opposite
Stewart’s Carriage Works, Stanley-street,
5.8., last (Tuesday) night. Mr. C. R.
Thomson, president, occupied the chair,
and there was a large attendance of mem-
bers, including Mr. J. H. Sherry, en-
dorsed Labour candidate. The resignation
of Mr. F. Harris as secretary was accepted
with regret, and Mr. H. R. Huxham was
elected in his stead pro tern. Arrange-
ments were made for keeping open of the
committee rooms for convenience of
electors. A committee was appointed for
the purpose of drawing up plans for the
systematic working of the electorate dur-
ing campaign, such committee to meet on
Monday next, and to consist of Messrs.
Ryan, Rowan, Hanson, Holliday, J. H.
Sherry, H. R. Huxham, and the President.
Another public meeting under the aus-
pices of the above organisation will be held
on Saturday evening next, March 16, at
the Clarence Corner, Stanley-street, South
Brisbane. Speakers, Mr. J. H. Sherry (en-
dorsed Labour candidate), members of the
Parliamentary Labour party, and others.
A further meeting of this live organi-
sation will be held on Tuesday evening
next, March 19, in the committee rooms.
The business will be important, and a full
attendance of members is requested.
BRISBANE TRAMWAYS CO., LTD.,
V. NIELSEN.
In the appeal case to the Full Court
yesterday in which the judgment of Judge
Macnaughton, who awarded Nielsen £147
2s. 6d. damages owing to an accident he
met with at Albion through the tram lines
being above the surface of the street, and
which was successfully appealed against,
Justices Real and Chubb dissented from
the decision of the Chief Justice and Jus-
tices Shand and Lukin, the Tramway Co.
thus gaining the verdict by three to tw r o.
Justices Real and Chubb held that the
company was liable under section 33 (1) of
the Tramways Act to maintain the track
in repair, and that by allowing the rails
to become an obstruction to traffic it was
responsible for any damage that resulted.
THE SORROWS OF A SYREN.
A young woman, stationed at the Albert
Hall polling booth this morning, who was
‘ ‘ barracking ’ ’ very energetically for the
valiant four selected by the “Boss”
clique for the Water and Sewerage Board
vacancies, was visibly discomfited after a
very puerile attempt to take a fall out of
Joe Codings. Having secured an intro-
duction to Mr. Codings, she inquired if
that gentleman had a coupon about him,
as she would ready like to get one. Quick
as a flash came the courteous reply, as
“Joe” raised his hat: “No; I have none
on me, but if you ready need some, and
will come with me round to the Trades
Hall I will see that you are at once sup-
plied.” (Collapse of lady; broad grins on
group of “ red ribboners ” close enough to
have heard the incident.)
It was stated in Berlin yesterday that
35 per cent of German coal miners are on
strike. At Essen, in Prussia, women and
children assembled at the pit-heads, and
prevented many men from descending. The
strike funds amount to £300,000, sufficient
for a fortnight’s strike pay.
An increase of 5 per cent in wages has
been secured by 150,000 cotton and wooden
mid operatives in New England. It is be-
lieved that this will allay the unrest which
has permeated the whole area. Confer-
ences in reference to a strike are being
held.
The Tramways Case.
ARBITRATION COURT PROCEEDINGS.
HOBART CONDUCTOR AND HIS
YOUNG LADY.
The hearing of the tramway claims case
was resumed in the Federal Arbitration
Court yesterday. Mr. Stephens, for the
Brisbane Tramway Co., intimated that Mr.
It. D. Frew, constructional engineer to
the company, had arrived in Melbourne,
and would conduct the company’s case.
Mr. Prendergast (for the Tramways As-
sociation) objected to the change.
The President would not allow the ob-
jection.
Evidence as to the working conditions
on the Hobart tramways was given by
William G. Bryant ,a driver and yardsman
of the Hobart Company. He said the em-
ployees were sometimes called upon to
perform special work.
Mr. Prendergast: Give a case in point.
Witness: One of the conductors was
called upon to do a special at 10 o’clock at
night by an inspector. He was walking
with a young lady at the time, and
said to the inspector, “ That is no good to
me.” The inspector answered, “If that
is no good to you, your job is no good to
you.”
What did the conductor do? —He went
to work, and left the lady in the street.
(Laughter.)
After this witness had concluded his
evidence the President suggested whether
an arrangement could not be made by a
conference to dispose of the Tasmanian
claim by agreement.
Mr. Parker (for the Hobart Company)
asked for time to consider, and the Presi-
dent assented. Mr. Parker added that he
had always wanted to meet the men. He
had asked Mr. Bryant verbally to see him.
The President: I can understand that
being objected to, because the men are
never individually strong enough to stand
up against their employers. I am not
speaking of you, Mr. Parker, but em-
ployers sometimes resort to tricks by split-
ting the men up, and dealing with them
individually. It is very reasonable for the
men to say that they are helpless by them-
selves.
Lionel H. Hill, secretary of the South
Australian branch, gave the Adelaide em-
ployees’ side. On November 22, he said,
the minimum rate was raised to Bs. a day.
Double pay, instead of pay and a quarter,
was asked for Christmas Day and Good
Friday.
The President again advised the repre-
sentatives of the employers to meet the men
with the object of settling some of those
grievances that, apparently, were little
more than matters of business adjustments.
Mr. Prendergast: We are prepared to
meet the employers.
An Elaboration Exposed.
The day liars lied largely about the con-
dition of policeman Malley, who wrenched
his knee in the Mary-street rush on Thurs-
day, February 1. Here is what the “ Cou-
rier” said about Malley’s condition:—
“ He (Malley) had to be taken to the
hospital, when it was found that the
injury was of such a character as to
permanently incapacitate him from
police duty?’
Perhaps “Granny” will get him pen-
sioned? The hospital records tell a differ-
ent story. The entry in the books there
will show that the “injury to joint” of
Cosherman Malley was “not a serious
case,” that Malley was discharged “recov-
ered,” and that there’s no suspicion of
Malley being required to carry “a dead
member.” There is no evidence, anyhow,
that he didn’t fall down and hurt himself.
An incident occurred in a shop in Bris-
bane recently that is worth noting. A
special went into the place to purchase a
leather case in which to put his revolver.
Case after case was tried without success.
The attendant then brought a case con-
taining a revolver, which he withdrew to
allow the special to see if his gun would
fit. The two revolvers were compared,
and the attendant remarked that the trig-
ger of the special’s pistol was harder than
the new one. The special was trying the
new gun, while the attendant took up the
other, and remarking, “This trigger is
very hard,” pulled it. Fortunately the
gun was pointed upwards, as a bullet en-
tered the woodwork. Had it been pointed
towards the purchaser there was a grave
possibility of the attendant, who was a
union man, being arrested for man-
slaughter.
There is great unrest among the wait-
resses employed in the fashionable A.B.C.
Cafe in Pitt-street, Sydney. They want
higher wages. They are now paid 17s. 6d.
per week, and want £l. The girls threaten
to strike if the increase is not granted.
King O’Malley threatens to establish
statistical branches in the various Austra-
lian capitals if the State Bureaux do not
show more celerity in furnishing returns
to the Federal office. Have the officials in
Brisbane been acting as specials?
A cable from Paris yesterday stated
that a strike has been commenced by 70
per cent of the French coal miners.
The postponed benefit towards the
Tramway lock-out will take place on 16th
March, in the Gynasium Hall. Ticket
holders, please note, and all Unionists
should roll up.
