

Official Bulletin, No. 21.
Issued by Authority of Strike Committee.
No. 21.
BRISBANE, FRIDAY, (FEBRUARY 23, 1912.
“Harry’s” Morning Budget.
Mr. Coyne faced a very big crowd at
Turbot-street this morning and reported
“all well” within the camp of the “peace-
ful holiday makers.” He urged continued
solidarity in the ranks, arwd once again
complimented the men and women on
strike on their splendid behaviour and won-
derful enthusiasm. He criticised in detail
the various inaccuracies of the daily Press
regarding the progress of the fight, and
assured his hearers that the enemy was
reduced to the direst straits, and was lash-
ing out wildly and blindly in its fury. He
said the Employers’ Federation were com-
plaining bitterly of the load the Strike
Committee had piled on to them and were
anxious, now that their trade was being
'diverted South, to embroil the Southern
capitals in the trouble, so as to equalise
the burden. “But,” said the Strike Leader,
“we will foil them there as we have done
at every point of the game. There are
three parties opposing you men in this
fight, they are Badger, the Employers’ Fe-
deration, and the Denham-Cahill Govern-
ment. They are the guilty ones, and it is
them we will punish. Your committee has
no intention of allowing the employers to
shift the burden on to the shoulders of
others, but will fight them here, and see
who can stand it the longer.” (Loud
cheering.).
Mr. Coyne next dealt with the suspen-
sion by the Government of the provisions of
the Wages Boards Act, showed how the
suspension was designed to assist the em-
ployers by enabling them to work what
few hands they have got double shifts and
under any conditions, and appealed to his
hearers to remember these cowardly acts
of tyranny at the ballot box.
Mr. Joe Collmgs also spoke and assured
the crowd of his confidence in their final
victory. “I know this is not child’s play
to you; I know that the food question,
which we have successfully solved for you,
is not the only one you have to face. I
understand how homes are suffering in
other ways because of the absence of
wages. I know how cruelly some landlords
are behaving, and how pressure is coming
on you from many quarters, but all the
same,” said Mr. Collings, “I ask you to
persevere, to be of good c-beer, to make up
your mind that it is worth while to make a
little present sacrfice in order to safeguard
and make secure your future. You have
fought nobly, and I firmly believe, as
honestly as I bplieve anvtbing in this
world, that you have only to hold out a
while longer to win the greatest victory
ever won by organised Labour.”
Loud cheers brought this part of the
day’s proceedings to a close and the huge
Crowd dispersed, many going to the various
meetings arranged for in the Hall and in
the Park, others wending their way home-
ward, while some remained to scan the
many official notices posted on the boards
in Turbot-street.
A Stroke of Statesmanship.
GOVERNMENT AT LAST TAKES
ACTION.
NEW WAGES BOARD ENACTMENT.
After having handed over the indus-
trial and social control of Jbhe city to Major
Cahill since Ist February last, sufficient
members of the Government have returned
from rusticating to form a conclave where-
in some means of bringing the present crisis
to an end might be discussed. After giving
several hours’ earnest consideration, a
unanimous decision was finally arrived at.
During the second week of the strike
the Factories and Shops Act was suspended
in so far as the provisions relating to the
hours which shops should remain open. It
is now announced that Wages Board deter-
minations shall be suspended for three
months in the Brisbane and Ipswich areas,
except in regard to the lowest wage or rate
to be paid. What does this mean ? Simply
that the employer can keep the junior (the
apprentice and young worker) working till
all hours of the night and at otherwise
prohibited times, to enable him to defeat
the adult unionist in his endeavour to
maintain the basic principles of unionism.
This legislation was passed, not only to
protect the adult from the encroachments
of unprincipled employers, but to also pro-
tect our boys and girls and enable them to
grow to manhood and womanhood in health
and strength, for the benefit of the Com-
monwealth. Further, all overtime regula-
tions are suspended, and adults and juven-
iles alike may be worked all hours without
extra pay.
This contemptible Government policy of
hitting the workers from behind and sool-
ing the capitalists on to the attack at every
angle, is entirely in keeping with the rest
of their inhuman actions. When we re-
member how many workers there are, all
having votes, and the numerical insignifi-
cance of their oppressors, we cannot help
asking ourselves by what strategy or
trickery did these discord-breeding, slave-
making, and child-sweating politicians man-
age to lay hold of the reins of Govern-
ment. We have heard of how a certain
species of snake mesmerises its victim, so
that it may surfeit, on it. Let us hope that
the many despicable actions of these back-
yard legislators will dispel any hypnotis-
ing influence they may have hitherto exer-
cised, and that after the coming elections
they will cease to have existence as public
men.
It is only a few short months ago that
this same precious Government during the
Referendum Campaign said their Wages
Board machinery could cope with every pos-
sible difficulty, and now, when faced with a
most serious proposition, they have the cold
steel cheek to suspend the Act entirely.
Last Night’s Meetings.
Audiences as large as usual. Enthusiasm
well maintained. Speakers in good form.
Crowd well satisfied with strike position.
Resolutions condemning the engagement
of men which led up to ac-
cidents and deaths, consequent on
the employment of unskilled labour
on the wharves, carried unani-
mously at every meeting. These and the
ringing cheers at close of proceedings were
the outstanding features of the six public
meetings held in the city and suburbs last
night. The propaganda effort now being
put forth must be doing immense good,
amongst the people.
To-night’s Meetings.
Centennial Hall, at 7.30; Ivory St.,
Valley; Pineapple Reserve, Kangaroo Pt.;
Rosalie; Red Hill, Picture Pavilion; Clar-
eite Corner, South Brisbane; all at 8
o’clock.
TO-MORROW NIGHT’S MEETINGS.
The following meetings, with a full list
of speakers for each, will be held to-morrow
(Saturday) night: Ivory St., Valley; West
End, Kelvin Grove, Hamilton, Ipswich Rd.
Junction.
Note. —No meeting will be held at the
Centennial Hall, as the Stage Employees’
Union is holding a benefit entertainment in
the hall to-morrow (Saturday) night.
Public Meetings for Next Week.
CENTENNIAL HALL, every night at
7.30 p.m.
All other meetings at 8 p.m.
IVORY ST., VALLEY, every night.
PADDINGTON, Monday and Thursday.
RED HILL, Tuesday and Friday.
KELVIN GROVE, Wednesday and Satur-
day.
ROSALIE, Wednesday and Saturday.
PINEAPPLE, Tuesday and Friday.
SOUTH BRISBANE, Monday and Thurs-
day.
IPSWICH RD. JUNCTION, Tuesday and
Thursday.
CLARENCE CORNER, Monday, Wednes-
day, Friday.
STONE’S CORNER, Wednesday and
Saturday.
WEST END, Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturday.
Additional meetings as may be arranged
will be duly announced in “ Bulletin.”
Duly accredited and capable speakers
will address each gathering, and any im-
portant information that may come to hand
after the “Bulletin” has gone to press will
be announced. Bring all your friends,
those with capitalistic leanings, in particu-
lar. They will hear some interesting and
solid facts that they would never be allowed
to read in the public-deceiving news sheets.
A. W. A.
After Waiting Ages,
And Working Aimlessly,
Amid Wealth’s Amassing,
At Welfare of All,
All Ways Appeared
Alive With Anguish,
And We Ask
Are Vvorkers AAvare
All Wealth Arises
As Working-class Activity ?
And We Acquire
A Wage Adjusted
According Workers' Actual
Animal Wants And
Another’s Wolfish Avarice,
And We Ask
All Worker’s Army
Approach With Avidity
And Welcome All
Awakened World’s Afflicted.
Aroused, We Are
A Winning Army,
And Will Attempt
A Worthy Aim.
Attack Wealth’s Arsenal,
Agitate With Ardour
Among Workshop Associates,
And We’ll Attain
All We Ask.
SIGNIFICANT.
There were no arrivals in the port of
Brisbane yesterday, and only two small
vessels left. The Government had better
get a purchaser for their lately-acquired
land at the Hamilton before things yet
worse.
CURIOUS INTEREST.
What interest has a certain fire brigade
official not a thousand miles from
Sydney in supplying ‘ ‘ scabs ’ ’ Avith private
notes to Salvarmy restaurants for free
meals. Is he one of the Government’s scab-
bery men? A Avord to the Avise should be
sufficient.
“The Turbot lunatic asylum” is the
best English the dallying “Alail” can use
when speaking of the Trades Hall. But,
Ave forgot it improved on this afterwards
by calling the citizens’ industrial citadel a
“menagerie ” Woqld the Chief Justice
noAv say it is a great daily paper, <fec ?
“What a falling-off was there, Horatio!”
The Latest from the Ranks.
OUR “PEACEFUL HOLIDAY.”
Tug of War.
Watersiders versus Carters’ Union.
At the Pineapple Reserve, Kangaroo
Point, this afternoon, fully 3000 people as-
sembled to witness a tug-of-war between
teams selected from the members of the
Waterside and Carters’ Unions. Two
teams were selected on both sides, viz.,
heavy and light weights. The heavyweights
got to work first, and their pull after 81
minutes’ struggle resulted in a victory for
the Waterside men.
The next pull, minutes, was a w r in
for the Carters. The heavy teams then
spelled and the lighter weights took their
first pull, and the waterside comrades Avon
in a minute and a half. The second pull
was 3 minutes, and the Carters Avon. Then
came the final pull for “the heavies.” This
Avas a most Avonderful struggle, and after
171 minutes Avas declared by the two cap-
tains to be a draw.
The final in the light-weights Avill be
decided on Alonday, and probably the
draw betAveen the heavy teams may be
pulled again.
NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.
Tanners and Curriers.
At a full meeting of this union it was
decided to endorse the actions of the
Strike Committee, with the usual vote of
confidence.
It was also decided to hold a meeting
at Albert Park at 10.30 a.m. on Tuesday
next, 27th inst., in order that a photo
group of members might be taken. All
requested to roll up.
Carters’ Union.
Secretary Law son reports :—Splendid
meeting this morning. Men absolutely
solid. All determined for “a fight to a
finish.” Just beginning to enjoy their
“peaceful holiday.”
Waterside Workers.
At a meeting of the above union, held
in the Maritime Hall this morning, about
600 men were present to hear the addresses
delivered by comrades J. Brock (Sydney)
and President R. Thompson. The good
news was conveyed that Secretary Mat
McCabe would be amongst them again on
Monday, as he is sufficiently recovered to
leave the Hospital. Everyone will be
pleased to see him again well and hearty,
and in the fighting line.
The following resolution was carried
unanimously:—“That we have every con-
fidence in the Strike Committee up to
date.”
SOUTHERN NEWS.
No telegraphic messages touching on
the strike have come to hand before going
to press. Should any important informa-
tion arrive later it will be announced at
to-night’s meetings or by Mr. Coyne at 10
o’clock to-morrow morning.
NOT ALL ALIKE.
Comrade Joe Codings is pleased to be
able to report that some clergymen in the
city of Brisbane —if not on the side of the
strikers —are certainly not in sympathy
with our opponents. “ Joe” tackled the
clerics and their published criticism in one
of his Centennial Hall speeches, and said
that evidently the combined unions were
fighting the pulpit. Of course he excepted
our brave old champion, Rev. J. S.
Pollock, who is never found wanting when-
ever the toilers need a spokesman, no mat-
ter what the consequences may be to him-
self. On Wednesday last a reverned gentle-
man —whose name we do not publish, know-
ing as we do that in the interests of our
friend it is not safe to do so —wrote to Mr.
Codings in these words.
“The ‘Courier’ of to-day reports you as
saying that you and your friends are
‘fighting the Church.’ I hope this is not
correct. You are not, I hope, taking the
few paragraphs that have been reported
in the Press as representative of the
Church. You must remember : —l. That
the daily press is likely to get hold of just
those utterances that are most against
you. 2. That a short report of n sermon
may not be fair to the preacher. 3. That
if ad the preachers were against you that
Would not mean that the Church was.
Archdeacon Donaldson has taken a strict-
ly impartial attitude. I believe the clergy
of our Church have done the same w r ith
very few exceptions. < The Archbishop’s
Lenten Pastoral deals with the question
without a word against the strikers.
Further, many of our church-goers are on
strike, or in full sympathy with the aims
of your friends. The Church does not take
the line that you or I would like to see her
able to take ; but as far as the Church of
England is concerned (cmd I think the
other Churches, too) we have striven to re-
main neutral, and seek for peace %
“Our aims as Socialists can only be at-
tained by winning the majority of the
people over to our side. Unfortunately the
majority of the Church people are against
us ; but I am afraid that statements that
you are fighting the Church wil only tend
to hinder us from winning them over to
Socialism, w hich, I believe, is Christianity
applied to economics.”
V.O. stands for Valiant OrderHes.
A Deputy’s Statement.
Speaking last night in the Centennial
Hall Mr. Adamson said he deprecated
strikes, but he said the present strike was
the grandest exhibition of Christian bro-
therhood he had ever seen. He referred to
his mission in the South, which he said had
resulted in £3OOO being collected for the
strike funds. He had interviewed Mr.
Fisher half a dozen times, and the Prime
Alinister had expressed sympathy with the
strikers, and said it was not possible to do
anything in relation to troops until Com-
monwealth property was interfered with.
N.S. WALES OPINION.
\ To Editor of “Strike Bulletin.”
Sir,—Permit an earnest unionist of
N. S. Wales to publicly thank the men
fighting this battle in union’s cause, for
the noble way in which they are standing
to their guns. During the last 30 years in
this State, I have taken part in many in-
dustrial struggles with the tyrannous forces
of Capitalism, a corrupt lying press, and
Fat-dominated law; but your fight in the
North transcends anything we have had
here in the class savagery and plutish
venom hurled against a loyal, patient, and
law-abiding people. It is hardly conceiv-
able, sir, at this date and in an allegedly
“fine, British, democratic country,” that
such horrors can be inflicted on the masses
by a foul and venal, boodle-driven Govern-
ment. “More power to the unionists of
Queensland,” say we all round here. Nobly,
wisely, and well are they fighting the battle
of Right verses Alight, for us and them-
selves, and win or lose in the struggle, they
have earned the thanks of all true
unionists.
In all the history of industrial wars,
never have we witnessed such a conspiracy
of slander on the part of the Tory press of
the whole Commonwealth. Lies, the most
grotesque and silly, reflecting on the men
and their advisers, and praising Badger’s
pets and * Cahill’s bludgeons, are daily
served up to us—but we know ! Boodle
has made a grand, united, elephantine,
effort to outlie itself, and has only suc-
ceeded in being ridiculous; and we have not
the slightest doubt as to what the final will
be. The batoning of innocent children
and women will be remembered, and the
coming Queensland election will tell a tale.
People now see the kind of biassed, class
legislators they have allowed to rule them so
long, and the lessons learned during this
struggle will eventually be the salvation of
the democracy of Queensland. Thanking
you, sir, in anticipation.—Yours fratern-
ally,
E. J. BOWLING,
Richmond, N.S.W.
THE “SYDNEY BULLETIN.”
How is it that the one time fighting,
democratic, Australian, red-covered “Syd-
ney Bulletin” always talks big on small
issues, but eats its words and crawls down,
and belittles itself and swallows its alleged
principles, and back-somersaults, and does
an elaborate contortion act when capital-
ism gets its back to the wall and looks
like being up against its Waterloo? Seems
as though at such times the Business End
brutally sandbags the Literary End and
keeps it safely stowed away in dungeon
vile until things blow over and the
toilers have been once again bludgeoned,
batoned or bull-dozed into silence.
While slating private enterprise our
rubicund contemporary lashes out against
the fight the Brisbane unions are so nobly
making against said “P.E.” This seems to
us, poor, ignorant, men on strike, as just
a wee bit inconsistent, although we ap-
proach the task of saying so without fear
or humility.
There was a time when the toilers look-
ed for great things from “Bulletin” ethics,
but that was away back in its radical
days.
THOMAS PAINE.
One of the bravest fighters for human
liberty who ever liyed, the author of “The
Age of Reason” and the “Rights of Men.”
Hated by the Church, yet loved by the
People. He it was who said, “The world
is my country, to do good is my religion.”
This great and good man was born on the
29th January, 1737, just a century and
three-quarters ago. His “soul goes march-
ing on” like slave liberator John Brown’s,
and inspires his confreres to-day, still
battling for “liberty, equality * fraternity.”
“Confusion, worse confounded” were
three words very applicable to Badger’s
tramway service between North Quay and
Hamilton yesterday afternoon. Just after
passing Breakfast Creek, and directly oppo-
site Baynes Bros, butcher’s shop, the
motor-man of the Hamilton car be-
came entangled. Did not understand
the points. Bungling and incompet-
ency reigned supreme. Congestion the
result with accumulated tramcars—in-
going and out-going. Motormen and
conductors collected together. Someone
suggested a fish-plate to get the Hamilton
car, which became derailed, back on the
line. Said fish-plate was used, but all to
no purpose. Subsequently the passengers
riding were requested to board a tram that
had previously come from the Hamilton,
and after much hand-waving and electric
bell ringing, the Brisbane passengers were
to be seen rattling towards their destina-
tion on a fresh car. This is what the Bris-
bane “ Courier ” is pleased to call “ a
thorough tram service maintained in the
city.” Bosh!
Arbitration Court Proceedings.
The following is a brief extract from
Thursday’s proceedings in the Arbitra-
tion Court :
The President : Supposing I should find
in your favour, will you and your organi-
sation undertake that the men who are.
asked to return, on conditions that they
are allowed to wear the medal, will re-
turn ?
Mr. Prendergast (who appeared,, for the
employees) : Yes, we will undertake that,
provided your Honor makes an order to
that effect.
The President : You have full powers
to undertake that ?
Mr. Prendergast : Yes.
The President : You understand that
the funds and the property of the associa-
tion will be liable for a breach of the
undertaking ? You undertake that the
men will return to employment, if still un-
employed, and if they are required ?
Afr. Prendergast : We will undertake
that.
The President said he would reserve his
judgment, which he would deliver pro-
bably in a few days.
The Open Port Joke.
“COALIES” TO THE FRONT.
The following wire to hand to-day from
Comrade O’Connor, secretary of the Coal
Lumpers’ Union, Miller’s Point, Sydney,
greatly encourages the Strike Committee,
and puts further craven fear into the ship-
owners and Brisbane employers. It is as
follows:
“ Union assures support. Refused coal
“Arawatta” and “ Marloo.” Require
notifying all scab boats.”
FALSE TEACHERS.
To Editor of “ Strike Bulletin.”
Sir, —In listening to Mr. Joe Codings at
the Valley meeting last night re the
attitude of the clergy in this industrial
struggle, and especially that the Rev. Mr.
Pollock is likely to be driven out of his
living for the noble stand he has taken, is
it not possible for us to start a real Chris-
tian Labour Church, with the rev. gentle-
man, say, for its fiirst pastor? Are we
not as able to do so as the people who stood
behind the Rev. Douglas Price when he
was driven out of the Anglican Church,
who started and have made a success of
the Progressive Christianity movement?
I was myself a member of the Anglican
Church, but am so disgusted with the atti-
tude of its so-called pastors and masters,
that I have sent my resignation as a mem-
ber of that community. What is to pre-
vent a hall being engaged, say, next
Sunday, and some religious services started
Fatherhood of God and Man’s Brother-
hood, and also to give the lie to our
enemies that our movement is an irreligious
one.
I am, etc.,
“A CHRISTIAN.”
Feb. 21.
A MERCHANT’S GLOOMY OUTLOOK.
Speaking per medium of a badly-
printed morning rag, a business man is re-
ported thus: —“As to the trade of Bris-
bane, the prospect is not cheerful, for the
hinterland is practically in the grip of a
drought, and some of the northern trade,
which is being diverted to Sydney during
the strike, may not be recovered when the
industrial revolt has been quelled. Sydney
is so big a market that buyers there have
many advantages.”
THE BOND OF BROTHERHOOD.
At a .meeting of the Sydney Wharf
Labourers’ Union on Wednesday night, it
was decided not to work the Prinz Sigis-
mund on account of the Brisbane strike. It
was also resolved to forward £25 to the de-
fence committee, and to continue sending
a similar sum regularly every week till the
strike was over. Twenty-five pounds is
the largest amount which the union can
pass for this purpose at one its meetings.
On Thursday the union sent £3O in dona-
tions and collections.
HONOURABLE MENTION.
Comrades will please overlook any
omissions from our “ Honour List/’ as same
is so lengthy, and our duties so numerous,
that unions are sometimes quite inadver-
tently overlooked.
The Tobacco Twisters’ Union came out
and are still out and firm in their deter-
mination, although they have only once
been mentioned in the paper; and another
band of heroes, good and true, is the Ex-
port branch of the Federated Butchers’
Union.
V.O. stands for Vicious Oppression.
TO HELP COMRADES ON STRIKE.
Australian Federated Stage Employees’
Association, Queensland Branch.
CENTENNIAL HALL.
SATURDAY, 24th, at 8 p.m.
A First-class Programme of STAR
UNION ARTISTS, assisted by a full Union
Orchestra.
Popular Prices*: 6d. and Is.
