

THE SPORTING TIMES.
44 EVERY MAN TO HIS I HUMOUR."
No. 6.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 1848.
Price 6d.
THE POLICE SYSTEM.
A tempting and seductive notice has been
issued this week by Captain Innes, our ac-
tive and intelligent Police Magistrate, of-
fering a “ Reward 1 ’ of Ten Pounds for
such information as will lead to the ap-
prehension of those rapscallions w T ho at-
tacked St. James’s Watch-house, on the
evening of Friday week, and burned sun-
dry pieces of paper, books, &c. No doubt
the worthy magistrate was fully justified
in taking those prompt steps to discover
the desperadoes who could have dared to
commit such an atrocious assault upon a
“ Station House’ ; and if it had not been
for the fact, that in every country with
which we are acquainted, some little al-
lowance is made for the excitement ine-
vitable on electioneering occasions, we
should certainly be disposed to view the
attack upon “tit James’s as a most se-
ditious proceeding altogether.
But, giving the exemplary Magistrate
every credit for the ability and zeal he
invariably displays in the discharge of
his public duties, and for the vigorous
•measures he took to repress riot and tur-
'bulance at the late elections for Sydney,
we would respectfully beg to intimate to
him, that theie is a wide field left for the
exercise of his powers, as head of the
Police establishment of our metropolis.
It is not long since Mr. Flood in his
place on the Bench, drew attention to the
fact, that portions of the city, particularly
the suburbs, are left almost entuely un-
protected by Police : and that, as might
he anticipated, robberies and other out-
rages are matters of frequent occurrence
in those localities Now, in a city like
Sydney, where “ rogues and vagabonds”
abound, this is indubitably a serious
grievance, and one that requires instant
•(removal. The only way to remedy it,
would be, in our judgment, to increase the
of the constabulary. It is ab-
surd to say, that the present Police corps,
• enumerating only seventy or eighty men, is
a sufficient protection for a city like Syd-
ney, inhabited by fifty or sixty thousand
persons. And if we take into considera-
tion the circumstance that but half the
“ force” can be on duty at a time—the
other portion requiring as a matter of
course some short repose after their labors,
it comes to this, that for every fourteen or
■fifteen hundred residents, there is but one
constable allowed under the presentsystem.
No wonder, then, that the records of our
city furuish innumerable instances of ra-
pine and outrage. Seme steps should be
taken to abolish this nuisance ; but as the
Police are at present under the superin-
tendence of Captain Innes, we feel assured
that he will not leave the citizens any
room for complaint on this ground.
ON THE ANTIQUITY AND ADVAN-
TAGES OF FIELD SPORTS.
[continued from our last.]
“ The Craft of Hunting, set forth by
Mayster John Gyfford and William Twety,
or Twici,,” huntsman to King Edward the
Second, in the thirteenth century, may,
perhaps, be the earliest work published in
England on sports of the field ; but it
is conjectured to be a compilation from
works previously published in France.
Edmurfd de Langely, the fifth son of
Edward 111., Earl of Cambridge, and
subsequently Duke of York (1385), was
author of the treatise, called “ Mayster
of the Game,” a title derived from the
situation he held under his royal father.
He was a celebrated sportsman of that
day. His treatise is divided into thirty-
six chapters, and is described as one of
the few authorities that remain which can
be relied on for a true description of the
ancient English chase. Though the mi-
nutiae respecting hounds are in a language
too obsolete for the present age, yet to
make a careful abridgement, it must be
received as a valuable acquisition to the
lovers of research into our domestic man-
ners and customs. This writer treats of
eleven animals of the chase, viz. •. the
Hare, Hart, Buck, Roe, Wild Boar,
Wolf-fox, Greyhound-fox, Cat, Martin,
and Otter ; as also of dogs under the heads
“ Raches. Greyhounds, Spaniels, Mastiffs,
that men call Carres, small Curres, that
fallen to be Terryers.” Then follows a
a long eulogium upon the chase, and an
assurance that Sportsmen go into Para-
dise when they die, and live in this world
joyful.” The “ Book of St. Albans and
the “ Book of Sir Tristram" being written
in onr own language, are perhaps entitled
to precedence over the.other two.
Dame Juliana Barnes, or Berners, the
author of the “ Book of St Alban's," is
supposed to have been born in the four-
teenth century, at Rodmg-Ber ners, in I
Essex, and the received report is, that she
was (he daughter of Sir James Berners,
of Roding-Berners, Knight, whose son,
Richard Berners, was created Baron
Berners in tho reign of Henry the Fourth,
and that she once held the situation of
Prioress of Sopwell Nunnery. She is
described, by Bale, as an illustrious fe-
male, eminently endowed with superior
qualities both of body and mind. She
wrote rn her native tongue “ The Art of
Hunting, The Art of Ha« king.” “ The
Laws-of Arms (Heraldry);” and is re-
ported to have edited a small work on
rishiiig. She is said to have flourished
in the year of .our Lord, 1460, in the
reign of Henry the Sixth ; and although
there is some uncertainty as to dates and
circumstances, it is not only evident that
she was a sportswoman, but from the
various editions of her works, and the
many compilations from them, that she
was considered authority on the subjects
Ti he n Wrole - The Popularity
0 T^ e Book S‘ r Tristram” was
«*«•-*** generally acknow-
g • Sir Thomas Cockaine, in his ad-
dress prefixed to his very rare “ Treatise
of Hunting,” observes, that “ it has long
been received for a truth, that Sir Tris-
tram, one of King Arthur’s knights, was
the first writer, and, as it were, the
founder of the exact knowledge of the
honourable and delightful sport of hun-
ting whose terms in huntingand hawking,
and measures of blowing, I hold to be the
best and fittest to be used.’ A copy of
Sir Thomas Cockaine’s '• Treatise of
Hunting, complyed for the delight of
Noblemen and Gentlemen ; imprinted at
London, 1591.” is in the British Museum.
He was a gentleman of eminent note in
those days ; and it may be gathered from
his book, one of the rarest publications
on the subject of English sports, that, ex-
cepting for two years which he served jn
the wars, he devoted his whole time to
the pleasures and toils of the chase. He
dedicates his book to Francis, Karl of
Shrewsbury, and dales, “ from my house,
near Ashborne, this last day of December,
1590, styling himself “a professed hun-
ter, but not a schollar.” The names of
George Turbeville and Gervase Markham,
are also known as very early writers on
the sport of the field ; and in 1683, a stu-
pendous work made its appearance uuder-
the title of “ The Gentleman’s Re-
creation, by Richard Blome, Gentleman,
of London,” The expense of this book,
from the immense number of engravings,
executed in a very superior style for that
period of the art, was enormous, that to
guard against loss the King’s letters-
palent,for the term of fourteen years, were
granted to him. The following extract
will shew the value set in those times on
the national sports of England. :
“ And being given to understand by the
certificate of several persons of honor, that
the work will be of great use, and accept-
able to all our good subjects, and especialy
to the nobility and gentry, we have
thought fit to declare our royal approba-
bation to the said undertaking i and out
of our princely desire to promote all such
commendable and useful works ; and the
better to embolden him to finish this
volume now in hand, we do hereby re-
commend his said endeavours unto you,
to the end that by your subscriptions you
may encourage him to perfect and finish
the said Book. And whereas we are in-
formed that the said Richard Blome will
be at great charges to perfect the same by
reason of its being illustrated with divers
sculptures as engines, nets, and the like,
relating to the said sports of hunting,
fowling,. &c.—We do by these presents
strictly charge and prohibit all our sub-
jects to reprint the same in whole, or in
part, within the term of fourteen years,
without the consent and approbation of
the said Richard Blome, &c.,
“ Sunderland.”
“ The British Sportsman, ’ by William
Augustus Osbaldiston, Esq., a work of
considerable magnitude, also appeared
about the same time ; but as the science of
sporting progressed, they both became
nearly fixtures on the liook-stalls. Nothing,
in short, appeared worthy the attention of
sportsmen, until Mr. Beckford published
his “ Thoughts on Hunting.’’ which, re-
ducing the management of hounds and the
art of hunting to a science, has ever been,
and now is considered, a standard work.
With the exception of “ Observations on
Hunting, and the Management of Hounds
in the Kennel and the Field, by Colonel
Cook, London, 1826, ' nothing that has
not been a mere compilation from Beck-
ford has since been presented to the
sporting world. It is said of Virgil, that
he was the delight and despair of all who
cultivate Latin poetry, and this compliment
may be justly paid to Beckford, although
Cook s work is held in considerable esteem,
as the authority of a practical sportsman.
Poetry on hunting ceases to be the
language of fiction ; neither can the sub-
ject be deemed unpoetical, for it holds out
an opportunity to expatiate on the beauties
of nature. That the feelings of nature
have more of rapture in them than those
which are excited through the medium of
science, is a fact which a Stoic must ad-
mit, and thus do we account for the ex-
hilerating passion of the chase. To de-
scribe a chase, however, is a task of no
small difficulty, and perhaps more so ii
prose than in verse, as the imaginatioi
must be powerfully excited by the trans
porting scenes on which it has dwelt, am
cannot well be restrained to a mere re-
cital of facts. When the noise of slit
battle is over, powerful must be the pen
that could revive the clang of arms. “ The
chase is done,” sings Ossian ; ’ “ and no-
thing is heard on Ardven but the torreut
roar.”
Every scene in Ossian relates to hunt-
ing, to fighting, or to love ; and among
the classics, many of the most beautiful
images owe their existence to the chase
Somerville’s poem, “ The Chase,” will
live to the end of time ; for, although tt
was not faultless in the eyes of the too
rigid Johnson, it is written with the spirit
and fire his subject demands, and many
of the instructions are still esteemed by
sportsmen. “ Manners,” says Lord
Kames, “ are never painted to the life by
any one to whom they are not familiar;’
neither could a man have written that
poem unless he were himself a sportsman.
Indeed his descriptions of hunting the
hare, the fox, and the stag, place the very
objects before our eyes, and show that he
has often witnessed with rapture the scenes
he devoted to his muse. The following
passages, uf a master of hounds going
out in the morning, are greatly admired
by Sportsmen, and must be allowed to be
entitled to their praise :
“ Hail, gentle dawn ! mild, blushing goddess !
hail;
Rejoioi d I see thy purple mantle spread
O’er half the skies ; gems pave thy radiant way,
And orient pearls from every shrub depend.
Farewell, Cleora ! here deep sunk in down
Slumber secure, with happy droams amused.
Me other joys invite ;
The horn sonorous calls, the pack awaked
Their matins chaunt, nor brook iny lon# delay ;
My courser hears their voice—See there ! with
ears
And tail erect, neighing, he paws the ground :
Fierce rapture kindles in his reddening eyes,
And boils in every -vein.”
The opening the kennel door and let-
ting loose the pack is exceedingly natural
and poetical.
“ As captive boys,
Cow’d by the ruling ro d and haughty frowns
Ot pedagogues severe, from their hard tasks
If once dismissed, no limits can contain,
The tumults raised within their little breasts,
But give a loose to all their frolic play ;
So from their kennel rush the joyous pack ;
A thousand wanton gaieties-exoress
I hei inward ecstasy, their pleasing sport
Unce more indulged, and liberty restored.
Tile rising sun, that o’er the horizon peeps,
As many colours from their glossy skins
Beaming reflects as paint the various bow
When April showers descend Delightful scene 1
Where ail around is gay—men, horses, dogs,-
And in each smiling countenance appears
fresh-blooming health, and universal joy.
There are several other passages which
denote the hand of a sportsman, particu-
larly those in which the shape and make
of the hound, and attention to the uni-
formity and size in the pack, are pressed
on the attention of the master ; and as the
poem was written at a period when the at-
tainments of country gentlemen were
not held in the highest repute, we are
pleased to see Johnson giving encou-
ragement to those who employ their pens
on these subjects, which even Johnson did
not condemn.
“ It is with regret” says that stern mo-
ralist, who, it must be recollected, went a
hunting once, “’that I find myself not
better enabled to exhibit memorials of a
writer, who at least must be allowed to
have set a good example to men of his own
class, by devoting part of his time to ele-
gant knowledge ; and who has shewn by
the subjects which his poetry has adorned,
that it is practicable to be at once a skilful
sportsman, and a man of letters. '
There is likewise a pretty fragment of
a poem on hunting, by Mr. Tickell, a
poet, although Johnson placed him among
the minor ones, whom Pope thought it not
unworthy to copy, and whom Addison
most highly extolled. It must also be
recollected that he was one of the transla-
tors of the Iliad, and a valuable contribu-
tor to the Spectator, in which he wrote on
the subject of hunting. That he was a
sportsman we have every reason to sup-
pose, from the correct terms he makes use
of in describing the various turns of the
chase; and when he put these words into
the mouth of Addison—whom we may
presume was anything hut a sportsman—
it is evident that he had experienced that
“ elixir of pleasure” which the enthusiasm
of the chase inspires :
Our hare,’ says he—we should have
liked it better had it been a fox, —“ took
a large field under us, followed by the
full cry in tiew. I must confess, the
brightness of the weather, the cheerfulness
of everything around me, the chiding of
the hounds, which was returned upon us
in a double echo from two neighbouring
hills, with the hallooing of the sportsmen
and the sounding of the horn, lifted my
spirits into a most lively pleasure, which
I freely indulged, because I am sure it
was innocent.”
Tickell’s description of the blood-
hound is given with a master’s hand
“ O’er all, the bloodhound boasts superior skill.
To scent, to view, to turn, and boldly kill;
His fellow’s vaiu alarm rejects with scorn,
True to the master’s voice and learned horn 1
Ilis nostrils oft, if ancient fame sing true,
Trace the sly felon through the tainted dew:
Once snuffed, he follows with unalter’d aim,
Nor odours lure him from the chosen game :
Deep-mouth’d ho thunders, and inflamed he
views,
Springs on relentless, and to death pursues.
Nor is the portrait of the deep-mouthed
harrier of his day less faithfully drawn :
“ Such be the dog, I charge, thou meau’st to
train,
His back is crooked, and his belly plain,
Of fillet stretch’d, and huge of haunch behind,
A tap’ring tail that nimbly cuts the wind :
Truss-thighkl, straight-ha min’d, and fax-like
form’d his paw :
Large-legg’d, dry-soled, and of protended claw,
His flat, wide nostrils snuff* the sav’ry steam,
And from his eyes he shoots pernicious gleam :
Middling his head, and prone to earth his view,
With ears and chest that dash the morning dew,
He best to stem the flood, to leap the bound,
And charm the Dryad with his voice profound:
To pay large tribute to his weary lord,
And crown the sylvan hero’s plenteous board.”
MULTUM IN PARVO.
A Man named Obey, while driving a
loaded dray through the toll-bar on
Friday week, unluckily fell off, and his
leg and three of his toes were dreadfully
crushed between the wheel and the posts.
Sir Thomas Mitchell, Surveyor-Ge-
neral of Australia, arrived from London
on Sunday last by the barque Countess of
Yarborough. The expense incurred in
recovering the Great Britain steam ship,
which was stranded on the Dundrum
Coast, Ireland, and restoring ner to the
condition she was in previous to her strand-
ing, amounts to the trifling little sum of
£34,334, 19s Id. A Mr. Wright,
while at a sale of horses at Mr. Stewarts
Repository on Saturday last, was eased of
his pocket-book containing some bank
notes. Mr. Horncastle has been doing
the “ Musical” in Maitland. On Wed-
nesday and Thursday week he had two
vocal entertainments, where he elicited
much applause by his songs and duets, va-
ried with interesting legends and anec-
dotes, which he relates in a quaint pleas-
ing manner. A man named Michael
Flaherty, resident in Cumberland-street,
was fined ten shillings on Wednesday last
for leaving a quantity of wood on the
footway fronting his house- The barque
Jane arrived in port on Wednesday, after
a whaling voyage of twenty months, with
880 barrels sperm oil.-* Mr. Stubbs, In-
spector of Nuisances, is pursuing his odo-
riferous vocation with considerable ear-
nestness and zeal, he had one Gerard,
a cooper, in George street, fined ten shil
lings for burning a quantity of shavings
in a cask in that street ; also a hay and
corn dealer, named Short, living in Ba-
thuist-street, in a sum of five shillings
fine, and fifteen and sixpence costs, for al-
lowing his green stuff to obstruct the bath-
way. A man named Enoch Boaty,
committed suicide on Wednesday by hang-
ing himself in a stable in the rear of his
house, Mary s Lane, Blackwattle Swamp.
It appeared that he was labouring under
nervous excitement, caused by drink.
The residents of Camden greeted the elec-
tion of Mr. James Macarthur as repre-
sentative of that district with blazing
bonfires. -An hospital has been estab-
lished at Port Macquarie, under the pa-
tronage of the inhabitants, the medical
attendant to which is voted the very li-
beral sum of £3O per annum. A wo-
man named Holdsworth met with her
death at Bathurst under the following dis-
tressing circumstances.. She had occa-
sion to go to a well for a bucket of water,
hut being in a weakly state from illness,
she lost her balanoe and fell down a depth
of upwards of 50 feet. A man was soon
after lowered down the well, where he
found the body much injured, the skull
in particular having been bruised in seve-
ral places.—:—A married woman, Mrs.
Grace Linney, was killed at Rol-
land’s Plains, near Port Macquarie on
Friday week, a bullock dray having pas-
sed over her body, from which she fell
while in a state of drunkenness, injured
her so severely that immediate death was
the consequence, her body, about the
chest and arms were completely crushed.
-An aboriginal black, having been
supplied with two much grog in Port
Macquarie, got drunk and slept in the
open air the entire night, the consequence
of which was that the exposure to the
cold destroyed him.—-—A person named
Edward Donaghty was brought before the
Maitland Police Bench, for laying on ex-
cessive impounding damages on four head
of cattle, belonging to one Cavanagh
which Donaghty had impounded from his
cultivation ground, laying the monstrous
sum of 2s. 6d. per head on them. As
part of Donaghty's fence was insecure,
the Bench reduced the damages' to 3d.
per head, and ordered the defendant to
pay the costs. The Port Phillip
been totally consumed by fire. The
building cost £lO,OOO. -The Pen-
tonvillians ’ are pursuing their honest
vocation in Port Phillip with great craft
and dexterity. The town of Richmond
has become a regular rendezvous for them,
and as a natural consequenee, burglaries
and robberies are matters of frequent oc-
currence. Upwards of 200 blacks,
the Melbourne, the Barrabool, and the
Mount Macedon tribes, encamped outside
of Melbourne, and were said to be pre-
paring for an encounter with the Gonl-
burn blacks.——A Farmer's Society has
been established at Port Phillip; on the
model of the Farmer’s Societies in Scot-
land. They were to have their first
ploughing match on Friday week, for
which there were to be three classes of
prizes ; horse and bullock teams to com-
pete separately. A weekly sale of
cattle took place in Geelong at which
several teams of young bullocks sold at
prices varying from £5 15s. to £8 10s.
per pair, without bows aud yokes ; and
bullocks brought from £8 to .£9 15s. ;
and milch cowes with calves at their feet,
warranted, £2 10s. The demand for
bush servants in the Geelong district is so
limited, that numbers of men may be
seen traversing the roads seeking for em-
ployment aGhigher wages than settlers
will engage them for in town. The rate
paid for the old hands averages from £22
to £24 per annum : Exiles receive £3 or
£4 less. 'At a sale of land, near the
township of Wollongong, at Mr. Polack's
Auction Room, on Tuesday, 50 acres
were disposed of at tile rate of £3 per
acre. A 30 acre farm situated at the
Hawkesbury, between ten and eleven
miles from Windsor, was bought in at
£125. The Hobart 'J'own Goardiin
says, that the half-yeerly Report of
the Society of the British Jews, Septem-
ber 5607, states “ The Board, through
the medium of the President, has been m
communication with the Government on
subjects of importance to the Jews in Van
Diemans Land and Sydney. The
S' "'th Aus'ralia-i reports that intelli-
gence from Swansea to the 16th March
uit., mentions that the total quantity of
copper ore sold, 1503 tons, realized
£20,680, of which 429 tons of South
Australian ore brought £10,909, while
1074 tons of South American and Irish
ore disposed of amounted only to ,£9720.
It also states, that “ assays have been re-
ceived of Belvidere ores sent to England
two years ago, which show a proportion
of 90 ounces of silver to the ton of lead,
and SO per cent of lead to the ton of ore.
VARIETIES.
> MRS. FLANAGAN ON OFFICERS.
“ I hoar this is a very nine regiment, Mrs.
Flanagan,” Kitty continued ; loads of siu-
gle men in it.”
‘‘ I desire, Kitty Daly,’’ replied the person
addressed, a tall, sinewy woman, with a
face which only wanted the appendage 'of,a
beard to exclude its owner from all female
privileges—“ I desire that you will never
open your lips to me again about officers—
any of you- • the longest day you live ! They
are a shabby, spunging set—all of their
cloth ever I seen! that will eat your dinners,
drink your wine, dance out your carpets,
and then some fine day march off, without
ever having the manners to make any re-
turn for all the civility they have been
treated with ! I*m heartily sorry I ever
let one of them darken my doors!—a parcel
of idle vagabonds, dressed out at the ex-
pense of the nation—and for what? I de-
clare, latterly, I don’t see the use of an army
at all! To the last I thought we would
have made something of that confounded
sth. After the way they went on, who
could dream they would have the assurance
to march without* with your leave* or* by
your leave!’ My hearty curse after them,
the schemers! wherever they go.”
MRS. FLANAGAN ON HUSBANDS
“ Pooh! nonsetiae, my dear ma’am,’’cried
Mrs. Flanagan, “ it’s neither peace or war
that make men plenty or scarce. Since ever
I can remember, and that’s a good fifty
years* husbands were hard to be had ; and
if left to themselves, ’tis few of ’em ever
you’d see, take my word for it l No ' r but
111 tell you what done it all; the men have
gone to the bad entirely, ever since they
left off drinking and fighting,”
“ VVould’t one think it ought to be quite
the other way?” timidly asked a pretty fair-
haired girl, who sat a little behind the last
speaker, hall-buried beneath her huge
sleeves.
“ Wouldn’t one think !” repeated Mrs.
Flanagan, deridingly—‘'wouldn’t one think
trash. Don’t talk of what you don’t under-
stand, and I’ll be obleeged to you, Anna
Maria.”
Mrs. Flanagan proceeded in her former
oratorical and oracular style.
“ I say ’tis leaving off drinking and fight-
ing that done it; and 1 tell you why. A
man when lie’s drunk says many a thing
he’d think twice of before he’d say it sober;
and that he’d take good care to forget in the
morning, if he was’nt reminded by a father
or brother; there’s nothing in the world
equal to a pistol for refreshing a mail’s me-
mory.”
*• i declare, then, of all things, I’d hate a
man that could be frightened into marrying
me!” exclaimed Kitty Daly.
** Maybe so, dear ; talk’s cheap at any
rate,” rejoined Mrs. Flanagan. “But for
my part, who am not so nice, I’d be glad
every girl I wish well to—and yourself
among the number, Kitty—had a good hus-
band a piece, no matter how you came by
him. Believe it from me, who am old enough
to be your grandmother, Kitty, there never
was a man yet married a girl who wasn’t
frightened or bamboozled into it. Coax, if
you’re able ; why not? But faith, my dear,
if you can’t manage him one way, you must
try the other. All I’m sorry for is, they’re
grown too crafty to say anything a girl’s fa-
mily can take hold off. There’s the devil of
it, ladies ; God forgive me for cursing.’’
MRS r.’s BASIS.
Mrs. Flanagan’s favorite maxim — the
maxim—the grand loading maxim upon
which all others hinged, was this—“ There
never was a man yet who was not the devil
FFvCfe va,lit y» the ugliest creature
that ever hr eat lied, who flattered him, would
have a better chance of getting round him
than an angel from heaven who would take
him asy, and there’s no flattery equal to
seeming dying for love of him.— lbid.
Sheridan’s Pkockastintion. —Much of the in-
convenience to which Sheridan was subjected
arose from iiis procrastination , whether it was a
deed to sign or a tetter to frank, he would still
put off doing it. Nothing was ever done in time
or place. Letters containing money or intelli-
gence of importance, remained unopened. Whe-
tner private or official business demanded his at-
tention, still there was the same indolence, the
same neglect, the same unwillingness to apply,
which eventually led to the most serious results.
Professor Smyth was waiting one morning for
him in his ante-room, and happened to cast his
eyes on a table th it stood in the middle of the
room covered with manuscripts, plays, pamph-
lets, and papers of every description. As he
proceeded to tumble them over and look at their
superscriptions, he observed that the letters
were most of them unopened, and that some of
them had coronets on the seal. He remarked
to Mr. Westlev, the treasurer of Drury Lane,
who was sitting by the fire, having also for a
long time danced attendance, that Mr. Sheridan
treated all alike, wafer or coronet, pau er or
peer, the letters seemed equally unopened.
“Just so,” was the treasurer’s reply; “indeed,
last winter I was occupying myself much as you
are doing, and for the same reason, and what
should I see among these letters, but one from
myself, unopened like the rest—a letter that I
knew contained a <£lo note within it. The
history, sir, was that I had received a note from
Mr. Sneridan, dated Kath, and headed with the
words * money bound,’ and entreating me to
send the first <£lo note I could lay my hands
upon. This I did. In the meantime I suppose
some one had given him a cast in his carriage
up to town, and his application to me had never
more been thought of: and, therefore, there lay
my letter and would have continued to lie till
the housemaid had swept it with the rest into
the fire, if I had not accidently seen it.” Mr.
Smyth could not help, on going down stairs,
telling the story to his valet, Edwards, sug-
gesting to look after the letters ; to which he
replied, “ What can 1 do for such a master ?
The other morning I went to settle his room
after he had gone out, and on throwing open
the windows, found them stuffed up with paper
of different kinds, and amongst them bank notes ;
there had been a high wind in the night—the
windows I suppose, had rattled—he had come
in quite intoxicated, and, in the dark, for want
of something better, stuffed the bank-notes into
the casement! and as he never knows what he
has in his pocket, or what he has not, they were
never afterwards missed.— Memoir of Richard
Brinsley Sheridan.
The Key to Happiness. —A susceptibility to
delicate attentions, a fine sense of the name-
less and exquisite tenderness of manner and
thought, constitute in the minds of its posses-
sors the deepest under current of life—the felt
and treasured, but unseen and inexpressible
richness of affection. It is rarely found in the
characters of men, but it outweighs (when it is)
all grosser qualities. There are many who
waste and lose affections, by careless and often
unconscious neglect. It is not a plant to grow
untended—the breath of indiffereuce, or rude
touch, may destroy for ever its delicate texture.
There is a daily attention to the slight courtesies
of life, which can alone preserve the first fresh-
ness of passion. The e .sy surprises of pleasure,
earnest cheerfulness of assent to slight wishes,
thehibitual respect to opinions, the polite ab-
stinence from personal topics in the company
of others, unwavering attention to his and her
comfort both abroad and at home, and above
all, the careful preservation of those proprieties
of conversation and manner which are sacred
when before the world, are some of the secrets
of that rare happiness which age and habit alike
fail to impair or diminish.
When is your enemy superior to your friend?
When he tells you of faults which your friend
conceals.
The most excellent government is the govern-
ment of our anger.
Corrupt company is more infectious than
corrupt air.— Lord Burleigh.
“ I’ve a sweet prospect before me,” as the
negro said to the'sugar canes.
“ I’ll be shot if I stay,” as the partridge said
to the double barrel.
Murder of a Child by its Father.
—A shocking case of infanticide lias just come
to light, which had been perpetrated in the
neighbourhood of Brechin some three weeks
ago, and of which brutal occurrence the foil ow-
ing are the particulars:—A young woman, re-
siding at luglismald’e,had been the unfortunate
dupe of a man named Robertson (who had been
employed for some time past as a farm servant
at Findowry, in tins parish), to whom she had
born two children at separate times. The mo-
ther being unable to support both of them,
Robertson assumed his readiness to undertake
tile charge of the youngest, for whom, he said,
he had procured a decent person sa nurse, who
resided at Craigend of flares ton, a small hamlet
elose by Findowry. With this assurance the
unsuspecting mother consented to part with
her chi-id, and brought it to the house of one of
Robertson’s sisters, where he was in waiting,
and immediately carried the child away, under
pretence of going to the nurse. A week or so
aiterwards the mother felt anxious to know
how her child was doing, and made a journey on
purpose to the person wnom Robertson had
named as having charge of it; hut, alas ! the
woman neither knew Robertson, nor anything
of tire child. The mother then requested of
her seducer to know with whom tile child was
living, but receiving no satisfactory answer, she
employed a writer in town to procure her thede-
-ired object. Upon the father being informed
that the mother had a legal right to see Iter
child, lie requested her to meet him in Brechin
on Sabbath last, when he wouid satisfy her.
Accompanied by her brother, she set out and
met Robertson according to appointment. On
asking (or her child, he inquired why she was so
anxious to see it ? '‘l nave some elothes to
give it,” she said. “ Ti.e child does not require
them from you,’’ exelaimed the inhuman tuon.
ster, ‘ it is in better clothing than you can
give it.” “But i am determined to see ray
child,” was the reply; when Robertson, taking
the poor woman aside, made the awful disclo-
sure, that lie had murdered the infant, aid
buried it in a drain near Findowry. He hid
carried his poor child from four to six miles
through many trackless inuirs, lonesome woods
and dismantled lor*sts to the spot where he had
committed the fearful crime,—during which
time then el.ngs of his heart and ilia remotse of
I.is soul must have ten as unenviable a* his
pres Tit unhappy condition. After Robertson’s
fearful disclo ure of his crime, the distracted
mother and her brother hurried home to In-
glisrnaldie, afraid, no doubt,, that should they
allow the darkness of night to overtake them,
they might be, waylaid by the murderer, and
share the same untimely fate as the unlortunate
child. The policeman at inglismaldie being
apprised of the circumstance, lost no time in
Coming to Brechin lor assistance ; and about
midnight assailed the, “ bothie” of Findowry,
when tie and his brother officers were innoedi
ately answered by the prisoner, whom they se
cured and brought to jail. As soon thereafter
as possible, Messrs. Black and Strachan, along
with Ur Mai kie, went to the scene of murder
where they f mud file body of the child as Ro-’
bsrts. n a deseri 1 ed, roll, d a i ong a quantity
o str, w, and stuffed into the mouth ot a field
drain. The prisoner, at d the remains of his
innocent victim (which were brought to town
on .Holiday at ter noon) have both been ex-
amined by the proper authorities, and we hear
Robertson is remanded to a higher court The
u ihappy father is a young m in from twenty-six
to.thi ty years ot age, and lias rattier a prepos
sessing appearance.— .Montrose Standauo.
The late Lord Norbury. —lt is sin-
gular enough that, with good humour ever in
his looks, and merriment also ever on his lips,
this man’s nature was obdurate and callous’
He had no sympathy for human suffering, no
feeling even for himself, He valued not his life
at a pin’s fee, and it was as dangerous as it was
difficult to provoke him. His friends new this,
and the tact gave rise t 0 an incident in which
his shrewdness and determination blended
humourously. Towards the close of life, when
the failure of his faculties became manifest, the
then Viceroy, the Marquis Wellesley, decided on
giving him a hint to resign, through the well-
kn iwu under-secretary, Mr Gregory. Norbury
got scent Of it, arid instantly was ills decision
taken. He sent for Gregory, led him to his
library, and, as he turned rite key, assuming
tliat fiery scowl with which Gregory was familiar
as portent,jug mi chief. “ Gregory, I have long
looked on you as my oldest friend, and severely
nIW am 1 about to test that friendship. The
most momentous incident of my life is at hand ;
1 am about to tie publicly and grossly insulted
—i, who never brooked even a saucy look from
any one! Will you believe it, Gregory, our
m jck-king at the castle is actually meditating a
message to me to resign my office! Hid yot
ever hear of such audacity! such poltroonery too !
Of course the fellow wo t’t fight. But my mind’s
ma le up, his ruffian messenger shall have my
life, or never return with his own—no—not
though he was rny brother. Gregory, my old
and valued friend, wilt you stand by ine? The
hair-triggers are as ready as in the days of
Napper Tandy.” That very dty the private
Closet of the castle saw the horrorstrick. n Gre
gory most re peel fully declining the confi e trial
mission, jh ■ blow, thus (or the time averted,
catne at last, it came, howevei, in writing.
All Norbury asked was a postponement, till he
could consult a friend. The promise being
given—the friend was in Inlia—and—a year
was gained. At last, however, falling asleep on
the bench, during a trial for murder, a petition
to Parliament compelled his resignation. His
last act was characteristic He had for his
Height)oar an old nobleman who had been bed
ridden for years. Hearing from his physician,
though he himself was in no immediate danger,
still, in all probability be would never rise from
his bed, he very deliberately rang the bell for
his servant:—“ Ja nes, go next door, and tell
Lord Erne, witli my compliments, that it’s now
a dead-heat between us.” When he was not
on the bench lie was on horseback —Law
Review.
A Laughable Trick. —A few days ago, an
old farmer entered a town not twenty miles
from Stourbridge, and put up at the Blue Pig
Inn. After taking some refreshment, he
entered into conversation with some gay young
sparks, who had been cracking their jokes at
the old farmer’s unsophisticated and country
manners, and who now equally enjoyed his
numerous platitudes and simple observations
Having ascertained that it was his intention to
walk through the town, to which lie was a
stranger, they expressed their tears lest he
should he unable to regain his inn, and while
so engaged one of them affixed a placard to
the farmer’s back, which be had on the instant
printed and pasted, bearing this inscription—
“l put up at the Blue l’ig Inn.” The old
gentleman, perfectly unsuspecting the trick
that had been played him, immediately took
a stroll through the town, and as he p asset,
along the streets he bee .me “the observed o.
all observers ” A gentleman stopped arid reaO
the inscription aloud, “ I put up at the Blue Pig
Inn;” to which the farmer replied, “Du you?
So do I.” A second gentleman met him, and
read, “I put up at the Blue Pig Inn” •• Do
you th ugh, really ?” said the farmer, ratl.ei
surprised at the coincidence. “So do I ” A
third came up, and seeing the placard, read out.
“ I put up at the Blue Pig Inn.” “Is ii
possible ?” exelaimed the farmer, now quit,
bewildered “So do 1.” A fourth, a fi th, «
sixth, a seventh, aud at least a whole crowd
of persons stopped to read the inscription, ana
simultaneously shouted. “I put up at th
Blue Pig Inn.”. “The d—l you do!” cried tin
old farmer, now completely obfuscated. “ Then
the whole town there, and if I don’t
make haste back, I shan’t #et a bed.” Saying
which, the old fellow scampered off towards
his hostelry, pursued by a multitude of voices,
crying at their utmost pitch, “ I put up at the
Blue Pig inn ;” to which, from time to time,
the old fanner, perfectly unconscious of the
meaning of the iteration of the fret, replied,
“ Very well. I teli you, so do I. Do you think
I’m deal, you confounded simpletons? What
are you grinning at, hey The Glasgow
Constitutional';
Why would the Ghost in Hamlet have been
liable to the Window Tax !—Because he had
glazed eyes.
A native of “ down east,” describing with
characteristic exaggeration the remarkable
qualities of guano as a promoter of vegetation*
said that soon after planting cucumber seeds,
the dirt began to fly, and the vines came up like
a streak, and although he started off at the top
of his speed* the vines overtook and covered
him. And on taking out his knife to cut “ the
darned things*” he found a large cucumber
going to seed in his pocket l
Pat Louan was an emigrant* who left thfr
shores of the Liffey for those of the Susque-
hannah. It was the evening of a summer’s
day, and as he sat by the shining river, with his
eyes fixed upon a creek, he espied a turtle
emerging from the stream. “ Och, murder:”
■lie exclaimed, in botheration and perturbation*
u och murder! that ever I should come to
America to see a snuff-box walk !”
Poetry and Provisions —“ Have you the
* Lays of the last minstrel ?” said a city miss*
addressing a young man who stood behind the
counter of a country store. “ No, we hav ’nt
■any of them kind,” said the obliging clerk,
“bat wft have good fresh hens’ eggs that we
can warrant were laid no longer than last
week ”
“ I’m attached to you, and yet I wish myself
away,” as the over-loaded donkey said to the
cart.
“Did yon ever read the Racing Calander?”
“Notexactly; but I’m pretty well acquainted
with that of Newgate, and they’re very much
alike.”
Head Work. —The members of the Pro-
visional Government have become ten years
older since the month they have been in office,
—M. Ledru-Rolin, who had a head of fine btack
hair, is perfectly grey. M. Flocon has been at
the point of death. M. Louis Blauc, who had a
fresh juvenile complection, is no more recog-
nisable. M. M. Larnartiae and Gamier Pages
spit blood. M. Cremieux has lost his voice.
M. Marrast seems worn out with fatigue. In
fine there is only M. Arago, who appears
termed of Pyrrenian granite, who supports the
weight of the Provisional Government, the
weight of two ministerial officies—the direction
of the Academy of Science and the Observa-
tory—he alone has not quitted his post.— Paris
Paper.
A single lighted candle consumes nearly as
much air as a human being.
An acquaintance of the editor of the St.
Louis Reveille, who, it is Charitably, stated has
never “seen an elephant,” recently found himself
in the company of three young ladies, and gener-
ously divid dan o aoge between them. “You
will rob yourselt,” exclaimed one of the damsels.
“ Not at all,” replied the innocent, V 1 have
three or four more in my pocket.”
Miss Smith won Mr. Jones by her cunning.
He was a timid young man, and very bashful;
so after two or three letters had passed between
them, she wrote another, and the artful creature
spelt her Christian name with two R’s, so that
it read thus: “Marrt Anne Smith,” and the
poor creature took the hint and did marry
Mary Anne Smith.
Servants’ Sunday Memoirs.— l have known
poor, tormented chamber and nursery maids,
who could laugh ami dance six and a half days
in Ihe week, on Sunday afternoon be unable to
eat; on that day, their heart and their weary
life were too heavy; then they dwelt so long
upon the memory of their obscure, humble home,
till they found therein some little dark (dace,
even an old neglected grave of father or mother,
and there they sit themselves down, and wept
till the mistress came home again Countesses,
princesses, West-Indiennes baronesses! ye, who,
like true women, rule the slaves of your beauty
more severely than the slaves of your service
be not imperious to the latter on Sunday after-
noon. The people in your service are often
poor country people, to whom the Sunday, which
does not exist for them in cities in the great
world, or upon great journies, was in their
childhood s time, when they were happy, a
blessed day of rest. Willingly do they stand
by thee, on thy festivals, empty and thirsty ;
upon thy marriage and fur.eral feasts, without
any wishes of their own, they hold the plate and
the dress; but on Sunday, the festival of the
people, humanity itself; the day upon which
with them, turn all the hopes of the week, and
the poor believe that some few of the joys of
the wide earth are guaranteed to them ; that
on this day the joys of childhood, of that time
when they really had some part in this covenant
of grace and peace, must return again. That
blessed time, when they had no school hours,
their best apparel, resting parents, playing
children, the evening roast, green meadows, and
a walk within them, where the social freedom
of the fresh heart adorned the whole Iresh
world. Dear ladies, if then on Sundays, these
thy menials, wade less deeply into labour, that
Lethe of the past and the present; if their dark
Me invests them more painfully, and sighing
over the unfi uitfulness of the present, they rc°
cal. the merry sounds of their pure childhood,
which to every man promises an Eden—then
chide not, nor punish their tears; but let tho
longing, homesick soul, wander without thy
castle gate till the going down of the sun.—•
Walt and Vultby Paul Ritcher .
Lady Frankland has offered a reward
of <£'2ooo, with a view of inducing any whaling
ship which resorts to Davis’s Straits or Baffin’s
Bay, to make search for the expedition under
the command of bir John Franklin, respecting
whom tile greatest anxiety has for some time
past been manifested, no tidings having reached
England with regard to the progress of the ex-
peuition or the safety of those who compose it.
Her Ladyship’s notice stipulates that search
shall be made in those parts which are not in the
scope of the expedition sent out by the Govern-
ment ; and that the ,£2OOO is to be divided as
follows:—.£1000 between the owners, captain,
officers, and crew of any ship which shall de-
part from the usual fishing grounds for the pur-
pose of explo.ing Prince Regent’s Inlet, Ad-
miralty Inlet, Jones’s Sound, or Smith’s Sound,
provided such ship, finding the expedition under
Sir John Franklin in distress, shall make up to
and afford it relief; .£lOOO to be divided
amongst the officers, owners, and crew of any
ship which shall at an early period of the whal-
ing season make extra exertions for the above
object, and, in the event of discovering the expe-
dition, should such assistance be required, bring
Sir John Franklin and his party lo England.
Her Ladyship intimates that, in order that there
may be no misunderstanding about the rewards,
the matter shall be referred to the following ge. -
tlemen—Admiral Beaufort, Captain Sir Ed-
ward Parry, and Mr. Ward Times, 28th
March.
Australian Produce—Amongst nu-
merous specimens of manufacture shown at the
Free Exhibition of Select British Manufactures
at the Society of Arts, in London, in March last,
were some samples of soap made from the olive,
the produce of Australia, the first specimen im-
ported into England.


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Dutch Sam. — Hough and Haddiqaddy's second
battle came off at Shark Beach, nearVaucluse
on Tuesday, the 9th of December, 1845.
Nineteen rounds in twenty-six minutes
Bill Sparkes and Gorman attended Hough ;
Dan Donovan and Lucas waited ou his
opponent.
Joe M.— Attended to.
T. S , Campbelltown. — Mr. Hurley's Green
Maiitle , ridden by Cox, took the Farmers'
Purse, beating Prince and Priam.
An Elector. — Messrs. J. R. Wilshire, B. M.
Bobey. G. A. Lloyd, and others, were amongst
the number. We must refer our querist to
either of the above gentlemen for further in-
formation.
J. M.— Half-minute time was introduced by
Mendoza, before whose era the period of
respite between the rounds was more generally
settled by mutual agreement than by any
established rule of the Ring.
HUNTING APPOINTMENTS.
Kelsey’s Hounds will meet on the mornings of
Tuesday and Friday, at Tavernor’s Inn, near
the Bark Huts, on the Liverpool Road The
Pack will be thrown into the Plantations at
eight o’clock each day.
RACES TO COME.
Mail land 9, 10, & 11 August
Mudgee
Oj exporting <Thnts
SYDNEY, AUGUST 5, 18i8.
WITH reference to a malicious ad-
vertisement which appeared on Satur-
day last, in a print edited by Mr Thomas
Revel Johnson—better known as Dr Johnson,
ex-editor of the “ Satirist,” who was com-
pelled by circumstances to retire from the
Proprietary of “ Bell’s Life” on a weekly
pittance at present enjoyed by him—to the
effect that the Sporting Department of this
journal is under the control of Mr Charles
Hamilton Nichols; the public are respectfully
informed that “ Bell’s Life in Sydney” is, and
has been conducted solely by the undersigned
for the Proprietary, since his first connection
therewith, in February. 1847.
In answer to the above advertisement,
which recently appeared in the two daily
Journals, bearing the subscription of one
George Ferrers Pickering, who boasts of
having had an uucle (!) hanged for murder
at Tyburn, and who moreover has net un-
frequently
“ —— deemed his dignity increased"
by the recapitulation of his adventures in
America, from which continent, in a state
of setni-nudity and starvation he bolted to
Liverpool ; and furthermore, by way
wiping off sundry and divers doggrel black-
guardisms with which the undersigned has
been assailed since his secession from that
important organ over whose destinies this
lymphatic genius now presides, the writer
would fain direct the attention of whom-
soever it might concern, in the first place
specially to the provocatives—secondly, es-
pecially to the responses s—since5 —since though
acknowledging himself eminently deficient
in the exercise of more than one of the
cardinal virtues, the undersigned cannot
afford to allow those errors to be blackened
and then thrust before the public by one,
too, who has long, rendered his own name
the very syno-nym of infamy and degrada-
tion. There is no metaphor about that*
Mr. Ex-Editor of “The Muff!”—no adop.
tion of a circuitous line of, so-called epi-
gramatic verse—but a plain homely truism*
calculated to penetrate the most stolid
apathy to reputation, the most blinded in
difference to virtue. The whip has been
proffered—a taste of the lash shall be ad-
ministered. There is metaphor in that—
anon comes its application!
So to proceed : this grammarian starts
as an ablative ass, and “ with reference” to
that opinion no variety of judgment can
exist. Hyper-criticism is not, however, in
place where simply to rebut falsehood and
to expose knavish effrontery is the object
Be it known then that the concocter of the
“ vile trash” which has led to this reply,
was “once upon a time,’’ in his own right,
the Editor of a small but witty production
termed “ The Muff” of New South Wales.
Its size was in perfect keeping with the
purse of its conductor—its wit must be as-
cribed to its short-lived glory, for tis said
that “brevity is the soul” of &c. This pub-
lication was ushered into life, ushered
through existence, and ushered into it<
abidiug place, oblivion, in the space of a few
hours. Not so the literary ardour of its
originator. He pined for goose-quill honors,
Hnd through the instrumentality of the “ Ex-
Editor of the Satirist,” he well nigh had
attained them. By purchase and importu-
nate solicitation he, in 1847 became a share-
holder in Bellas Life ; —soon afterwards
succeeded to the office of reader
and Police reporter;—step by step he
was promotedtill he had insinuated him-
self into the billet of Dramatic critic
to the establishment and from that be
merged into libeller extraordinary to the
firm, without either the concurrence or the
authority of his previous preceptor. By
some extraordinary transition he at once
became a rabid reviler and a rank repudia.
tor. He had taught himself in the same
breath to malign and to cringe—to defame
through one portion of the Press, and to
plead non-applicability of' the dirty inuendo
through another. He calumniated whoever
opposed him, but, coward like, he slunk
from the cost. He destroyed the barriers of
private life, but trembled at the approach
of retribution—and now ho chuckles at the
hope of rekindling that just resentment
which was once manifested against the ex-
Editor of the Satirist. Deeply, and with
indiscribable.poignancy, -shall the writer of
these lines continue to regret that the annals
of this colony were ever tainted with the
publication of so loathsome a print as that
for which he suffered, without repining at the
penalty ; but ill does it become the
man whom he raised from obscurity and
penury to the enjoyment of a liberal income
and partial distinction to renew the shout
of scorn—feeble as was the attempt—True
the undersigned “ has been compelled b y
circumstances to retire’’ from any associa-
tion with this George Ferrers Pickering—
this babbling crawler who wrote the story of
the “Bale of Blotting Paper,’’ aud meanly
shrunk from its responsibility;—who in the
Herald averred its non-applicability—who
“ paid £5O from his private purse,” to
shield him from public odium—who wan-
tonly attacked a defenceless citizen, under
learned advice too, yet cut stick at the re-
turn onslaught, and by way of palliating his
own guilt, endeavoured to euveigble his
partner and benefactor in the snare,
Such is the pigmy sneak who has vainly
tried the “ gall and wormwood’’ of his bit-
terness—such is George Ferrers rickering
—an ingrate, a groveller, and an outcast—
an individual whose fire-side associations,
were the veil to be raised would display, but
*'***•»*
the charity of
T. REVEL JOHNSON.
THE RING.
Two Prize Battles came off oa Monday
last in the vicinity of Lane Cove, when,
although the stakes were not very heavy,
the mo lotting was by no means light.
The first bout was between Bill Pinchem
alias Rockman,and John Cornquake, bet-
ter known as Black Jack who, it is stated,
is closely related to Brown, the late anta-
gonist of Hall ; and the amount of the
battle-money £IOa-side. Preliminaries
having been adjusted to the satisfaction
of the men, they entered the ring, and
sans ceremonie commenced
THE FIGHT.
Round I—Black Jack led off merrily with his
left, but Rockman got * out of the way’ of the
delivery, and then rushed in for a rabv, when
some sharp counter-hits terminated in the Black
■un going bleeding. (First blood for Pinchem)
2—Bill lost not a moment —“ straight as a
bullet from a gun” his dexter-bunch of fives
went in on the threat, and floored his oppo-
nent.
From this to the 20th round a rattling
mill was kept up in favor of Pinchem,
who, at each succeeding round compelled
Cornquake to drop out of the way of his
kindly yet forcible visitations. In the
25th and last rouud, Jack’s seconds,
finding no chance of victory remained,
flung up the sponge in token of submis-
sion—the battle having lasted about 50
miuutes. This is the fourth man licked
by Pinchem on the same spot ; he is,
nevertheless, anxious to have another shy
with any fresh claimant to his honors
weight 9st. He can be backed for from
£lO to £2O. Apply at Donovan s, in
King-street.
After the above, Walerno and Scotchey
peeled for action. Desperate slaughter
ensued ; but the affair terminated in favor
of Waleroo, after 4 hard-fought rounds.
The Enfield Pet purposes being pre-
sent at the Maitland Race meeting. We
understand Harry Peeves has completed
arrangements for Sinclair’s corime, to
enliven the provincials with a display of
the ‘Noble Art’ during each of the four
evenings. There can be little doubt but
that The Fancy of the Hunter River will
patronise the Sports with their usual
alacrity.
THE ELECTIONS.
The care, anxiety, begging, praying, coax-
ing, hoaxing grumbling, treating, lush-
ing, feeding, bustle, excitement, hurraing,
rioting, roaring, pocket-picking, fatigue, las
situde, rejoicement, disgust, (would we
could add paying) the constant concomitants
of a general election are over. They are
but the mere things of yesterday ; and be-
long to the all-devouring Past. The fretful
ness of presumptuous and over-bloated am-
bition, has either been soothed into self-com-
placency by triumph: or stimulated into
bitterness and vexation by defeat. The pa-
triot(rara avis) or the pretender—the ho-
nest, politician or the gambling speculator
—(whose “ dice’’ are men,s “ votes”) have
each had their eauae of exultation and dis-
appointment. A new Council is elected—
new unfledged members are about to make
their debut, — t, e. if their “happy stars” are
not made to droop from their horizon by
the obstinate and maniac proceedings of the
Port Phillippiar.s—in the Legislative
arena, where, no doubt, they wilt “ split
the ears” of the Council with their pro-
found and eloquent bombast. They form,
however, a portion of our Representative
Assembly, and if they should neglect the in-
terests of their constituen s, there need
not he the least apprehension as to t heir
not looking watchfully and wistfully after
“ their own’’ interests. “ Mon are hut men,”
as the old proverb hath it. But how many
among the motley group of our new Legis-
lators, will prove to be honest, independent
men. The problem would be, at present,
as difficult to solve, us the pons assinorum of
Euclid not unfrequeutly proves to tyro’s in
mathematics.
On Monday: the Mayor, as Returning
Officer, declared William Charles Went-
worth and Robert Lowe. Esquires, to be
the duly elected representatives of Sydney.
Messrs Wentworth Lowe, and Bland were
present, and addressed the meeting. Mr.
Lamb did not attend. He wrts rather un-
well. Perhaps, after his self-satisfied as-
surance on the previous day, of being re-
turned. th“ defeat the learned gentleman
encountered, unnerved him so much, that
he shrunk from a second appearance on the
hustings. Mr. Lamb, however, should not
give way to too much dejectfon of spirits.
Time will heal the wound he has received :
change of air—change of scene—a trip to
Port Phillip or Van Diemen’s Land, might
assist in restoring him to his usual sua-
vity and complacency.
Next in importance to the Election for
Sydney, was that for the Metropolitan;
County of Cumberland. For the represen-
tation of this constituency a d sperate
struggle was made. As might have been
J anticipated, Mr. Cowper was certain of
j being returned. The brunt ol the contest
therefore was between Mr. S. Lawson and
; Mr. G. H. Smith, The last named gentle
man, after a variety of electioneering
wrigglings and contortions ; and sundry
i" feints’’ of uniting his influence with that
| of Mr. Lawson, in order to secure both their
returns to the prejudice of Air. Cowper.
’ was at length induced to change his “ tack”
and coal, see with this gentleman. He
“ reckoned without his host” as the event
proved: for the men of Cumberland
treated his pretensions with such indiffer-
ence, that they did not even think it worth
their while to place him on the poll within
sixty of Mr. Lawson, whose election was
greeted in all parts of the County with
the warmest demontrations of approval.
It was rumoured in town yesterday, that
Mr. Smith, like Mr. Lamb, is ‘•unwell’’;
and that he has been under the painful ne-
cessity of calling in some half a dozen of
the “Medical pracitioners of Sydney!'!
Mr. Oakes is the “ new hand” for Parra-
mat a ; having defeated Mr. W. Maoarthur
by a large majority.
For Camden, Mr. James Macarthur
“ walkod the course,” no gentleman having
had the courage to oppose him. All clas .e 0
of our fellow colonists should rejoice in the
return of Mr. Macarthur, who is decidedly
one of the ablest and best informed men in
tbe Colony.
Cook and Westmoreland is represented
by Mr. Martin, who obtained a majority of
49 over Mr. Cheeke.
Doctor Nicholson was unopposed for
Argyle
To Mr. W. H. Suttor the same deserved
compliment for Wellington, Roxburgh, and
Phillip, was paid.
Mu riy, King, and Georgiana, are again
represented by Mr. Terence Aubrey Murray.
There were two candidates’ for the
Northumberland Boroughs, namely, Mr.
G. It, Nichols, and Mr. Moir. The event
resulted in Mr, Nichols having been made
the " happy man.” On the result being
announced, a variety of uprorification en-
sued—the chief feature of the farce being
that the newly elected member was “ shoul-
dered’’ by a body of liis admirers, who car-
ried him about amidst much vociferation.
For Durham, Mr. Stewart A. Donaldson
has been elected; but by a most culpable
blunder of the returning officer, who on the
ground of bis not having had due notice of
the opposing candidate’s intentions, refused
a poll, the, election is now considered to be
void.
Captain Dumaresq gits again for the
counties of Hunter, Brisbane, and Bligh.
Northumberland has for its representative
Mr. Dangar, who had a large majority over
Mr. Vallack.
Mr. George Hill will take his seat as
member for St. Vincent and Auckland,
Mr. Darvall lias been returned for
Bathurst, after the closest contest that took
place in any of the elections, himself and
Mr. F. Lord, the opposing candidate, having
pol ed equally. The casting vote of the re-
turning officer awarded the honor of being
the representative of Bathurst to Mr. Dar-
vall.
LAW REPORTS.
The Queen v. Kinchela,
The defendant in this case had been found
guilty of abducting a girl sixteen years of
age. A new trial was sought for, and the
application was refused by the Court. Their
Honors somewhat diflered as to the admis-
sibility of evidence in relation to the trial.
Mr. Justice Manning delivered judgment,
and in doing so stated, that the Jury did
not find with what intention the defendant
had abducted the girl in question; circum-
stances, hower, went to show that it was for
the purpose of seduction, and not for mar-
riage. The sentence was in accordance with
these views of the case, and to the effect that
Mr. Kinehela should suffer nine months’ im-
prisonment from the day of trial, the unex-
pired term to be passed in Parramatta
Gaol.
John Rose Holden v. B. C. Rodd.
The plaintiff had obtained a rule nisi
calling upon defendant to show cause whv it
should not be made absolute, for having
writen a certain libellous letter, and one
calculated to lead to a breach of the peace.
The Judges having expressed a strong
opinion as to the inexcusable nature of the
communication, Mr. Rodd admitted that ho
“ was not justified in writing the letter.”
The plaintiff, through Mr. Broadhurst, ex-
pressed himself perfectly *• satisfied."
ORIGIN L CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Sporting Times
Sir—As your paper is justly named the
Sporting Times, and as I am at times fond
of sport of various kinds, I therefore
through the publicity of your valuable
columns, wish to acquaint the public, that'l
do not consider it good sport for any man
who is paid to do his duty honestly and
faithfully, to neglect doing so, and thereby
bo tho means of depriving their fellbyv-
citizens of their rights as Englishmen and
colonists. Such, however, has been the
case, by some person or persons, who were
depub d and authorised to ascertain, the
number of persons who were entitled to
vote for in the late election for tho County
of Cumberland, on the North Shore, lor I
assure you, Sir, there were a great many
persons, some freeholders as well as lease-
holders in tnat district who were deprived of
their right of voting as Iree men should do,
when the welfare of their adopted land de-
pends on the electing such men as members
of the Legislature, as they believe would
advance their tights and defend their liber-
ties ; and all this was caused by those paid
servants neglecting to call on those persons,
as they were in duty bound, This. Sir, is
not as it should be—it is decidedly wrong,
and should be.instantly set to rights, and
those persons who are so very careless in
doing their duty, should be removed, and
more trustworthy persons placed in their
Tour’s obediently,
THOMAS FENNELL, R.N.
Blue’s l’oint, North Shore.
August 3.
THE HORSE.
To the Editor of the Sporting Times.
Dear Mr. Editor,— l shall first give a definition
of soundness, that most vague of all vaguely de-
fined terras. So few authorities agree in their
definition, that their want of unanimity is po-
sitively vexatious. There have been various
attempts made to draw a line by which to ena-
ble lawyers to decide the point. Professor
Coleman contended that a horse was sound, if
he could perform the ordinary work of an or-
dinary horse : but you will readily perceive this
was anything but conclusive or definite, and for
this one reason: you may take a horse dead
lame, going almost on three legs, and yet by
dint of whip and spur, get him along the road at
such a pace, as an ordinary horse would not per-
form without any such impediment. Ducrow’s
•definition was four times round the Circus,and
pickup a handkerchief. I consider that horse
I to be sound, who is free from ail disease or effect
of disease, that is likely at any future period, to
render him less useful than he would have been
without it. Now after this definition of sound-
ness, for it is self-evident what is not one, ipust
be the other. Yet 1 will put you in possession
of a few authorities on the subject. In a case
decided before that learned judge, Chief Justice
Eyre, when addressing a jury, he said, “ahorse
labouring under a temporary injury or hurt,
which is capable of being speedily cured or re-
moved, is not for tnat an unsound horse within
the meaning of the warrantry.” How far he
was right I leave you to decide. My opinion is
that though a Top Sawyer on the bench, he was
no bet, for bow could he nr any man say what
would be the result of disease once set up. Lord
Elleuborough decided that, “ to constitute un-
soundness it is not essential that the infirmity be
of a permanent nature; it is sufficient if it ren-
ders him less useful, and may ultimately prove
latal.” Here is a degree of ambiguity, or he
may carry about with him the latent seeds of
that disease, which though not rendering him
less useful for the present, may ultimately prove
the cause of death.
Lord Tenterden gave it as his opinion, that
” a horse that cannot go through the same la-
bour as before the existence of the defect or
blemish in dispute, aud with the same degree of
facility and safety is unsound.” The absurdity
of this doctrine, I need not enlarge upon, but
you will see from the authorities 1 have quoted
something of the difficulty of laying down any
specific and useful definition of unsoundness.
As a general rule, the surest opinion I can offer,
is. should be' free from any disease
or injury, tjlflph could in any way interfere with
his natural functions. But I would here re- t
mark, whaff is generally not borne in mind by ]
the public, that the surgeon is called on only to,
decide as to tho-existence or non-existence of
disease or ipjury in a horse. It rests with the
lawyer to say, what constitutes soundness, and
what unsoundness. If a man asks me to say, if
that eye is pound. I see a speck in it, it mav ho
stationary or not, large or small, in transparent
cornea, in ckpsule, or ohristalline lens, still I see
that speck intercept the rays of fight. The eye
therefore cannot perform its functions, it is tile
consequence of disease, and such being the case
it must be unsoundness,—but my answer is, I
consider him to be diseased : as to the question
of soundness let the Judge decide that.
Some hair-splitting gentlemen of the long
robe, have found out that there are no less
than three kinds of unsoundness, viz , sci-
entific, and practical. I need not adduce an in-
stance of practical unsoundness; I will, however,
of what they term legal and scientific—splint is
held to be unsoundness, and has been so decided
by some lawyers, but it may be a question how
far it is really unsoundness, or not; because in
almost all old horses we find the large and
small metacarssal bones united, forming one
mass and thereby occasioning no harm, provided
the anchylosis does not interfere with the articu-
lation ; but still under the category I have ex-
plained, splent being a diseased action, consti-
tutes unsoundness. I will submit a still more
difficult case. If a horse have a broken leg,
and that leg.be subsequently reunited, and he is
going perfectly sound, then, I say, arises a ques-
tion difficult; to answer; whether that hbise is
sound or not, after ossification has taken place,
and bone has been completely restored, and tbe
animal able to perform all his functions with un-
diminished facility. For after the ossific deposit
is completed, the log may be as entire and ser-
viceable as ever, and therefore it opposition be
complete, tbe horse is at any rate practically
sound, as well as scientifically, if not, indeed, le-
gally so. Change, reader, you are aware, is
the fundamental law of all the complicated
machinery of animal creatio-. “ The very nail
on my hand is only a passing possession.” The
vital processes of nutation, and absorption, pro-
bably go on to a greater extent in bone, than in
any other texture. Hence the leg (at the age
we’ll say of twelve years) is not the same which
was fractured at live.
Correctly speaking, no horse ought to be
warranted sound, as we cannot form a variety of
causes till the various changes going on at the
very flme of warrantry. The animal may have
disease goirtg on in the digestive organs, so as
speedily to render him unsound, or he may have
been inoculated by glanderous matter; and in
that case ought to be considered scientifically
unsound, even before the effects of inoculation
had appeared.
It would be much better if the practice of
dealers and others was to refer all cases to vete-
rinary surgeous, provided they were competent
to decide, and give their decision with that un-
swerving honesty of purpose, which the path of
public duty merits at their hands. And here let
me pause to remark the additional se-
curity conferred on the public by tbe numbers
of educated men, who of late years have enrolled
themselves members of the veterinary, profes-
sion. 11l evidence of the rapid strides in the
improvement of veterinary medicine, I need
only adduce the fact, that in 17(51, tile first ve-
terinary seminary was established at Lyons, un-
der the celebrated professor Bourgelat, and now
similar establishments are to be met with at
Vienna, Berlin, Copenhagen, Dresden, Leipsic,
Prague, Munich, London, Hanover. Naples,
Edinburgh, Alfort, Brussels, &c , &c.
If I were called upon to examine a horse, to
see if he were sound, 1 should begin with his
eyes, then took at his m.mth, and see if that was
all right, examining even his grinders, because
a broken, projecting or carious tooth; would, by
dreventing his feeding, render him unsound. I
should next look to the glands, and secretions
of nose, and see if they were healthy ; and en-
largement of the glands or even tempopary
cold, I should regard as unsoundness. Catarrh,
though generally temporary, and frequently
but little thought of, is yet a cause, that may
involve inflammation of lungs or roaring, and
this should bestated on examining a horse who
is colded. Enlargement of glands about the
throat, I should regard as unsoundness, because
infflammation might extend to the Larynx. In.
flamination of avein I should Regard as unsound-
ness, because it might interfere with the circula-
tion. Shoulder slip and shrunk muscles, inju-
ries of elbow joint or tumours on it, I should
term unisoundness, it is true tbe latter may
be only an eye sore, but yet it is cue you call
only get rid of by an operation, which opera-
tion may end in lockjaw Thoro’pin is gene-
rally considered unsoundness, but tbis I think
Is not always So oorrect, as it is only an increased
secretion of Synovia to lubricate the parts; this
then is an effort of nature to guard agaiiixt dis-
ease-,-aw inerease of healthy- secretion, to meet
the demand caused by severe exercise. It may
arise from injury done to the parts, when of
course it is unsoundness, thus it is you see a ease
admitting of considerable difference of opinion.
Ihoro pin should only be considered unsound-
ness, when it indicates some laceration of sy-
novial membrane, causing increased distention of
Bursa. All injuries of Tendons constitute un-
soundness, and so does contraction of hoof, yet
here agaiu considerable doubt is involved. The
hoof is made to fit tbe foot with mathematical
precision, and so may not produce the effect it
appears to do. If we call contraction unsound-
ness, we may as well call a lengthened toe un-
soundness, as that would render the foot more
liable to disiease, (by throwing a strain on the
tendons. All thickening of joints or ligaments
is unsoundness, so is bog-spavin, and so is bone-
spavin, whether tbe animal is lame or not, because
ossification has locked up some some of the ar-
ticulations ; yet when we see the horse going
sound, enlargement of the same size on both legs,
and ossification apparently settled and
he may do a great deal of work. Fetlock joint
should be distinctly felt, any thickening about
it is unsoundness. Siring bait, corrhcea, stag-
gers, all constitute unsoundness. Stringhalt is°a
morbid action of the nerves, it is, however, tbe
duty of a surgeon to explain what work the ani-
mal is calculated to perform.
In staggers or megrims, the same thing ap-
plies, however if only a temporary or first
attack, it would be perhaps injudicious to pro-
nounce him unsound ; if repetition occurs, the
matter is beyond doubt. On this point then,
previous history will assist us in forming a judg-
mnnt. Another difficult case to decide on, is
cub-biting as also wind-biting, but as both pro-
duce derangement of bowels and stomach, they
may be called unsound. The same may be said
with regard to onanism, very common in this
country, by which the mental as well as bodily
powers are surely vitiated, and ultimate diseaia
frequently induced. Even when called on after
to decide on previous soundness, a prac-
tised eye can generally infer whether disease be
of recent existence, by the degree of disease at
the time of death This in cases of very recent
purchase might be of some moment. For in-
stance, a prick from a nail, (if shod prior to sale)
might bring on supperation, lockjaw, and death,
and so would be clearly returnable, at least the
seller would be' responsible, and a lawyer would
in all probality find him liable for damages. A
bruise is unsoundness; corns are unsoundness;
redness of horn is not corn; though generally
so called, it is merely a secretion arising from a
bruise. A corn is a bruise, though any bruise is
not necessarily a corn. A corn is a morbid
condition of the secreting organs,
EXPERTE CREDE.
PORT PHILLIP.
By yesterday’s overland mail we find that
an insane and childish farce has recently
been enacted in Melbourne, and though the
prime movers of this dodge doubtlessly look
upon the thing as a clever joke, capital I v
carried into effect, every sensible appreciator
of the great prerogatives embodied in a
representative form of government, must
surely condemn its adoption, as not only
puerile and unworthy, but calculated to
check the extension of those privileges the
Port Phillippians affect to seek after.
Without entering upon the question of
separation let us for one moment place in
juxta-position the talents-—the elevation—
the power of Lord Grey, with the insignifi-
cance and moral decrepitude of such nin-
compoops as Mr. Salts and Senna Greeves
and Mr. Thomas M'Combio. Yet these
latter elves, backed by a vulgar cohort of the
southern snobbery, have endeavoured to
ridicule the Secretary for the Colonies.
We subjoin a few extracts from the
Journals.
(From the Port Phillip Herald.)
Mr. 1 homas M'Combie, in a few observations
in which he compared Sydney to a churlish old
father, and Port Phillip to a spirited young son
who did not receive sufficient packet money
from the old raiser, proposed the Right Hon.
Earl Grey as a fit and proper person to repre-
sent the city of Melbourne.
Alderman Greeves briefly seconded the nomi-
nation.
Mr. A. F Mollison came forward, and appre-
hended there was no motion before the chair,
and consequeutly as such was the case, he pro-
posed to bring something under their considera-
tion. (This gentleman was subjected to much
unseemly interruption, but still persisted in ad-
dressing the meeting, and claiming for himself
that which he was prepared to concede to any
other person, the right to express his opinion.)
His opinion was, that a representative should be
elected for the Legislative Council; all the ar-
guments advanced by the other side if they
proved anything, proved too much, and he con-
tended, that if the minority of a Council or an
assembly in all cases, were to rebel against the
majority, the whole social system would fall to
pieces. The gentleman (Mr. Curr) who pre-
ceded him, made a happy illustratiou when he
spoke of cutting off a diseased limb, but he
granted that though he might, if he liked, cut
off his own limb, he should not touch his (.Ylr.
M.’s). There was another point to which he
wished te refer. One of the speakers (Mr.
Fawkner) had alluded to the conditions of two
classes; suid that the poor were men of such
cold and stoney heads, and that the aristocrats
were supercilious and proud ; but in his (Mr.
M’s) opinion no such class existed here, there,
was not a poor man in the community. (Hear,
hear, and laughter.) He repeated he did not
know where to look for one? (Hear, hear,)
Any man inclined to labour, need not be a poor
man; and as to the aristocracy, the fact was
that they were all aristocrats. (Laughter.)
Their purpose here to-day was simply to elect
some person to represent them in the Legisla-
tive Council. 'Phis was not a contest of men,
but of principles; an opportunity to enable
them to record their votes, and lie therefore,
would take the liberty of proposing as a can-
didate for their suffrages, Mr, John F. L. Foster.
The announcement was received with cheers
and hisses.
Mr. John Duerdin, solicitor, appeared to
second the nomination of Mr. Foster, and he
was induced to do so on the principal laid down
by Mr. Curr, that they should avail themselves
of the balacce of good and he believed that it
was a “ balance of good’’ that the people should
have some representative In Sydney. Mr. Curr
thus admitted that some good might be done,
and he (Mr. D.) believed that it was better to
have good done. Mr. Curr had also said that if
Port Phillip refused to elect members, Sydney
w'ould then join the cry of separation ; this he,
(Mr. D.) did not at all believe. The Governor
might adopt one or two courses, he might con-
tinue to issue writ alter writ, or the Council
might meet without Port Phillip Representatives
and then do as they liked. He did not believe
that such a course as the one proposed would
have the least effect tn hastening Separation,
and he believed that that the electors of the
District had been very ill advised to what thev
did. He concluded by seconding the nomina-
tion of Mr. Foster.
Notwithstanding the efforts of the more
intelligent portion of the community his
Lordship wan declared at the head of the
poll : the numbers being for Grey 295—for
Foster, 102—majority 193. But proceed we
with our quotations from the Heuald of the
27th Ultimo.
At noon to-day, His Worshipful the Mayor,
as Retuning Officer presided at front of the
Court House for the purpose of declaring the
official result of yesterday’s election. A toler-
able sprinkling of persons was in attendance;
and the Returning Officer, after a few prelimi-
nary remarks, read a protest against the return
of Earl Grey, upon the several grounds men-
tioned in this moruing’s Herald ; and after
reading the clause of the Electoral Act relating
to petitions against returns, and one or two
passages from Rogers on Corporations, he
decided that it was unnecessary for him to
forward the prospect ot Sydney, more parti-
cularly as the Act pointed out a definite course
to be adopted by those who deemed the return
illegal, and he therefore declared the Right
Hon. Henry Grey to be duly elected to serve
in the Legislative Council as Representative
for the City of Melbourne. After the an-
nouncement had been made, Mr. Foster ascended
the table and addressed a few words to the
electors, but was subjected to several inter-
ruptions from three or four persons in the
crowd. His remarks were confined to the
events of the election ; he deprecated the course
taken in the first instance by the District Elec-
tors, and was of opinion that it would work
injuriously to their interests. With regard to
the present contest, he might state that he was
no party to his nomination—he had been pro-
p sed without either his consent or knowledge,
and it was not until a special messenger reached
him in the country, that he was aware of it;
but when he found he had been placed in no-
mination, and that his committee were resolved
upon a contest, he then consented to co-operate
with them, in order to carry out a principle.
As to the result, be was quite unconcerned,
and those who opposed him on principle he
respected; the contest was one of principle and
not persons; he had no personal interest in the
world in it. It was merely the testing of the
best means of working out Separation. He,
and he believed all there were ardent Separa-
tionists, and the only difference between them
was, tliat they differed as to the -means of
effecting it most speedily. He thought one
way the best, they preferred the other way,
and so let each follow his own inclination. One
thing was rather remarkable, and worth their
consideration, viz , that with one or two excep-
tions, the members of the learned profession
were amongst Mr. Foster’s supporters, and
when their intelligence, talent and rank were
considered, these were facts that should not be
forgotton. As to whether Lord Grey would
look upon his return as a compliment or other-
wise, also remained to be decided yet, but he
(Mr. Foster) was firmly convinced that the
pernicious principles adopted, both at tile
District and City Elections, would unquestion-
ably injure the province, and make it the laugh-
ing stock of the neighbouring colonies, which
are striving to obtain Representative Institu-
tions, and the continent of Europe, which was
at present in a state of revolution. Yet Port
Phillip refused to receive the privileges which
others are anxious for. Mr. Foster having
expressed his opinion that if the election had
taken place one week later, the result would
have been different; also, that from the letters
he received from the District, he would have
carried his former election if he persevered,
concluded with some further observations by
returning his thanks to the electors who sup-
ported him.
Mr. Thomas M'Combie returned thanks on
the part of Earl Grey, and in so doing referred
to a paragraph in the leading article of this
mornings Herald, referring to Mr. Edward
Curr’s boast of his having now succeeded in ob-
taining a nominee council. This he (Mr.
M'Combie) could hardly believe that Mr. Curr
would be guilty of, and the reason he alluded to
the Herald was, because this was the very
journal which had caused the proceedings com-
plained of, by stating that it was in the power
of any one district elector to propose and re-
turn a candidate.
Mr. Edward Curr next addressed the assembly
by referring to the report circulated about him-
self as to his having stated that a nominee
council would be the result of the present move-
ment. He expressed himself one of the
staunchest supporters of Representative Insti-
tutions, but he certainly preferred a nominee
council to the shameful manner in which the
province was at present misrepresented. The
consequence of the present move would be, in
his opinion, the cause of a speedy Separation
Act being passed,—when a nominee council
would for a time accompany it—would be in-
comparably superior to the present constitution,
and by a wholesale ordeal prepare them for the
privileges which thejr would subsequently en-
joy*
After Mr. Curr had concluded, he was fol-
lowed by Mr. J. P. Fawkner, who indulged in
one of his usual personal tirades against the
aristocracy, his adulation of the lower classes,
and his scorn of the “ venal portion of the press
which had been arrayed at the side of the aris-
tocracy.”
Mr. J. S Johnson next made his appearance
and expressed a few witty remarks upon the late
contest, dwelling in a sarcastic vein upon what
had occurred with regard to certain “ intimida-
tion,” which he stated as having been used to-
wards the electors of Lord Grey in Bourke
Ward. His hardest hit was upon the lawyers,
who figured there “from the dignity of the full
blossomed wig of the barrister to the contempti-
ble pettifogging of the Police office attorneys
but he felt bound to except oue honest lawyer
(Mr. Williams). When Mr. Johnson had con-
cluded their was a shout for Mr. Williams, but
that gentleman, upon the principle that the
“ better part of valour is descretion,” disap-
peared by a side door.
Mr. Ebden in reply to loud calls delivered a
brief address, after which.
A vote of thanks were passed to the Mayor
as Returning Officer, and the meetingseparated ;
but previous to vacating the chair, the Mayor
stated that a requisition had been just putin his
hands, signed by several parties requesting him
to o nv ne a public meeting of the citizens for
the purpose of better explaining to Lord Grey
the reasons which led to his Lordsip’s election
for the City of Melbourne. In compliance with
the request conveyed therein, he should call a
meeting for Monday, but the place and hour he
had not yet fixed upon; but this would be duly
announced in the local journals.
(From the Melbourne Argus )
The principle which was started in the Dis-
trict elections, has received its consummation in
the City, after being tested at the poll, and the
province of Port Phillip has now formally cut
the connexion with Sydney, save in the nominal
return of the noble Secretary of State for the
Colonies, as the Member for Melbourne.
Believing the rejection of such a palpable
parody upon representation, as we have hitherto
bad in the i egislative Council, as a wise and
righteous act, we, of course heartily concur in
the course which the City Efectors have pur-
sued, and feel proud that the principle has been
carried out in a way which cannot fail to arrest
the attention both of the Home Government and
the British pnblic.
lt is a mere matter of moonshine whether
Earl Grey’s Election is valid or otherwise, for
the principle sought to be accomplished is fully
borne out, whether the election is set aside or
otherwise. We have no hesitation, however, in
declaring his Lordship as duly elected as any
member that ever served in the Legislative
Council of New South Wales, and that unless his
Lordship himself declares his disqualification,
and refuses to sit for the City, the seat must re-
main unoccupied for a couple of years.
The document which Mr. Foster’s supporters
have got up under the name of a protest, is the
veriest trash that ever appeared in the shape of
a public document, and it is weli for the protes-
tors (the lawyers particularly) that the Mayor
has dete. mined upon putting the document be-
hind the fire, for had it gone to Sydney, there
would have been more than the Judges pro-
nouncing upon the silliness of the objections thev
raise. The “ immortal nine” who sign the pro-
test ra-iy be very goed common law practitioners,
but they know no more of coustitutiohal law
than they do of mesmerism, else they would
never have committed such an act of consum-
mate folly—as affixing their names to such a
document. The Mayor’s “right good law” de-
molished al' their objections at one fell swoop
save that which regards the Noble and Right
Honorable Member’s Peerage, and that needed
no answer among men of common sense, who
know that Peers cannot sit in the British House
of Commons because of themselves they form
a distinct branch of the political constitution,
which not being the case here, our Peers (when
we have any) will be as eligible for election to
the Legislative Council as their neighbours.
The Herald, we observe, takes the paucity of
the vorersas a proof that the non-voting electors
“ looked upon the affair as downright humbug.”
The compliment to Mr. Foster, whom the
Herald supports, is rather a left-handed one,
and it is besides a subject upon which Mr.
Foster’s supporters ought to keep very silent,
for considering that voting for Earl Grey, was
in reality voting for nobody, the holding back of
so many electors is the reverse of eomplimenlary
to Mr. Foster, who is at least somebody.
r I he bugbear of having thrown away the
elective franchise and fastened upon ourselves a
nominee Legislature is scarcely deserving of
notice. It would scarcely be contended that
neglecting to avail ourselves of the right of
sending representatives to the Legislature of the
King of the Cannibal Islands, if such a right
were conferred upon us, would be a renunciation
of the boon of self-government, and yet there
would be nearly as much reason in such an alle-
gation as there is in the present, for there would
be almost as much self-government in the one
case as there is in the other. We have, more-
over, no cause to fear nominee legislation while
the noble member for Melbourne and his liberal
colleagues in office are at the head of affairs.
NON-ELECTION OF MEMBERS FOR
PORT PHILLIP JUSTIFIED.
(I<rom the Melbourne Argus , July 25 )
1. That Port Phillip by sending members to
a Legislative Council in Sydney, had acquiesced
in the fiction that she was “ represented’* in
that Council, the truth being that the District,
instead of being represented was always mis-
represented. The proof of this is, that the
members of Port Phillip, after voting abortively
for the expenditure of her revenues on her own
advancement, always voted effectually for an
expenditure on N. S, Wales Proper, which
could only be defrayed out of Port Phillip
Revenues.
2* So long as the Revenues of Port Phillip
were administered by the old nominee Council,
the ammount withheld and missapplied was
small. The system of spoliation on a great
scale commenced when Port Phillip returned
her six members to the Council, and this spolia-
tion increases year by year.
3. Even the sums voted are often applied to
the least useful purposes. As soon as private
enterprise had built a very sufficient bridge
over the Yarra, the Council voted the erection
of Prince’s Bridge at a probable cost < f
.£20,000, instead of building fifty bridges with
the money on all the roads which brin/produce
trom the interior into Melbourne, Geeloii.r
Portland. The Port Phillip member. B ’w.re
unable to obtain the proper application of this
money, and they could obtain only its misan
plication, which was better for the district thin
its total loss.
4 Members for Port Phillip, when speaking-
in the House on Port Phillip interests, and ea-
peeiaily on questions of expenditure, are habit-
ually answered by scoffs and derision. And our
absentee members deserve to be so answered
and for this reason, that wl ei they are voting
in the minority, in favor of Port Phillip expen-
diture, they are but enacting a notorious and
well understood farce. On the other hand
when the same members vote away Port Phillip
revenues to the purposes of New South Wales
Proper, they are treated, and deserve to be
treated, witn rtspect, because they are sincere.
It avails little that some persons might be ex-
cepted from this sweeping condemnation.
5. The nomii,atiou of members for Port
Phillip has at last come to be managed in the
following manner: A Sydney resident of some
small atnoition, writes to his friends or agent in
Melbourne, in the following words “My Dear
So and So, —if you can find a corner for me in
your list of representatives, I shall be greatly
obliged if you will get me returned. I shall
always vote for separation.*'
G. Ihe lasi election prior to the dissolution was
that of Mr. Lbden. On this occasion, there was
actually no candidate whatever. Ou going to
the hustings, and finding there was no candidate,
Mr Lbdeu was returned without any preconcert)
even between the two electors who nominated’
and seconded him.
t. dbe return of Mr. Airy shortly previous
will suggest to every reflecting mind, painful
considerations which I will forbear to express.
b. i. he returning of members by nominations,
in Melbourne alone, has long since practically
disfranchised the electois of Geelong and Port
land. 1 heir franchise has long been an insult to
their understandings.
9. The announcement by Lord Grey, that Port
Pliillip is shortly to be separated from New South
Wales, has aggravated every evil of the Legis-
lative connexion. As an instance, when a Mel-
bourne building Act was introduced last session,
the object of which was to improve the sanatory
condition of the city, and to prevent the ravage*
of fire amongst buildings which has cost more
than a million of money; the contemptuous
answer was, “ Keep that bill for a Port Phillip
Legislature to grind its sucking teeth upon."
The Council refused to take the trouble to con-
sider it. bo far the Council abdicated its Legis-
lative functions in our regard.
10. The expenditure of Poi-t Phillip revenues
for the year 1849 is already settled, it can only
proceed! from our own lukewarmness and in-
activity if the expenditure for 1850 is not settled
in our own metropolis. The spoilation of Port
Phillip for 1840 is already provided for, by the
Appropriation Act passed in the last session.—
Little can begaiuedby sending Representatives,
(so called), to the Council. Let us see if some-
thing can be gained by not sending them.
11. The popular party in the House is de-
prived of six supporters. The Government, by
its twelve nominee members, will have an over-
whelming majority in the House. The balance
is destroyed, and destroyed by ihe constitutional
right of passive resistance. Whit follows?
New South Wales must now demand Separation
as urgently as we do ourselves. Have we
wronged that colony ? No—the slave has turned
on his oppressor—no more.
12. Nu one apprehends that Separation will be
withheld; yet every one sees that it is luke-
warmly and idly postponed. The object of the
present movement is to b* ing the question to a
crisis. Port Phillip never had the reallity of a
constitutional government —it never had
more than the appearance—the fiction. It has
now repudiated the appearance—the fiction—
and its absolute no-goverumeut stands con-
fessed. We shall not be long It ft in this state;
we shall spee illy have a government, and it
will be a “ separate" one.
EDWARD CURR.
St. Helit rs, July 21, 1848.
P. S.— l venture to request from the Press of
Port Phillip geuerally, me publication of this
document, because the object of the movement
is unquestionably the good of Port Ph 1 ip, and
that may be promoted by a discussion of the
reasons which led to its adoption.
E. C.
GEELONG SPORTS.
{From the Advertiser, 25th July
Yesterday having been the first day of th*
Festivities comprised in the “ Hunt Week,”
and a new feature having been added to the
U'ual routine by tie introduction of a day’s
racing, a very large concourse of the patrons
of the ‘‘chase’' and “turf,” with holiday folk
of all grades and descriptions, assembled by
12 o’clock on the temporary course marked out
between the Point Henry Road and the Bay,
near the Lime-burners’ Point. At about ha 1-
pa-t twelve the trumpet sounded for saddling,
and seven horses were brought to the starting
place, for the
HUNTERS* BTAKKS.
A Sweepstakes of 3 guineas each for all
horses that have hunted with any established
Pack of Hounds in Port Phillip. ,
Weights—3years old, lOst; 4 years old, list;
5 years old, list 10 lbs ; 6 and aged, 12st 4lbs.
Winners of any public money to carry 7 lb»
extra.
The second horse to save his stakes.
One mile and a half heats. Gentlemen
Riders
Mr Thomas Austin’s br. g. Field Mar-
tial, 4 years 1 1
Mr Andrew Murray’s b. g. Richelieu,
6 yrs. 2 2
Mr. Edward Wi lis’s ch g„ Ches, aged. 3 dr
Mr Compden Ferreis’s ch. g. Baronet,
5 yrs.,.. 3 dr
Mr Haines’s b. g. Viscount, 6 yrs 0 3
Mr Greene’s g. g. Trifle, 4 yrs., 0 4
Mr T. H. Pyke’s b. g. Abdallah, 6yrs., 0 dr
Field Marshal was the favourite at starting,—•
his performances at public meetings having
given great promise. Richelieu was the only
other whose name was familiar, but his condi-
tion was bad, and as in too many other instances,
his rider was too much (about a stone-and-a
half) over the# tipulated weight. Between
these two horses the race principally lay, and
they certanly mado a very pretty affair of it in
both heats In tl e first, Field Marshal showed
the way round, lut was hard pushed up tho
straight running, Richelieu, creeping tip, but
without being able to make a challenge. Ibere
was a very pretty race for the third place be-
tween Ches and Baronet which end*d in a
decided dead heat; the rest nowhere. For
the second heat only four horses start d, three
having been withdrawn to keep up lor the
Ladies’ Offering. The two favorites quickly
showed in front, and ran neck-and-neck a
considerable part of the way round. All the
way up the straight running it was difficult to
tell which had the advantage, but the Field
Marshal was there when he was wanted, and
in the last burst shook off his oppone it. Ihe
Viscount was well up, a very fair third, and
Trifle, who brought up the rear, made a
desperate effort to better his pace, but without
effect.
I.ADIES* OFFERING.
Mile and a half, heats.
For this race no less than ten horses started,
all of which we cannot particularism; but the
following is co- rect so far as it goes:—
Mr Charles Willis’s Paul Jones *
Mr Lyon’s jj ~
Mr E. Willis’s Ches * *
Mr Cunningham's Barrister 3 0
Mr \ e cer’s *?
Mr Pyke’s Abdallah t?
Mr Ferrers’Baronet
And three others, nowi ere.
This was an exciting race, and, althoug no
closely contested by the leading horses, ye
afforded many positions of interest to the ac ers
of the others. Paul Jones won by several eng is
in both heats. , .
There were a number of matches run,
none of them were of sufficient importance o
require special mention. „ , , ,
There must have been about four kunar
people present, and we are sorry to say
there was an unusual number of drun
characters among them.


Last night, the members of the various Hunts
fSDorting'about thirty pinks) with a number of
other guests, about 60 in all, sat down to a sump-
tuous dinner at Mack’s. At present we can
merelv say that the usual hilarity pervaded, and
satisfaction filled every breast, and sat on
every countenance.
THE HUNT DINNER.
This affair mustered a much larger number of
attendants than was expected, and went off wiih
a degree of joviality that will tend, we may
hope, to enlarge the company upon the next
occasion.
The chair was taken by Mr. Pyke, master ot
the Werrlby hounds, and Mr. Ferrers, master of
the V'Uiu Mcicer Illinois, acte.l as croupier
The former gentleman was appointed by Messrs.
Stawell, Sladen, Willis, and Byron ; the latter
by Messrs. Haines, Gore, and (joldsinith. I be
dinner had not been prepared for more th.n
thirty,so that some disarrangement occurred in
accomodating the number of additional guests
that unexpectedly appeared; the wines, how
ever, were abundant, varied, and the measure
and mode of enjoyment did justice to the
.occasion
On the removal of the cloth, the chairman
gave the usual toasts to the Queen. Pririce
Albert and the ICoyai Family, and the Army
and Navy Upon desiring the glasses to be
charged with Dumpers, to the Governor’s health
the chairman observed, that their particular
compliments were due to Ills Excellency, as a
sportsman of the most thorough bred character,
and liberal behaviour, —he had done much for
the chase and the turf, on the Sydney si e O'
the country, and his conduct in that respect,
could be best appreciated in this district which
was certainly nor. excelled, if equaled, by any
In the colony, in the promotion of those manly
and useful recreations, sir Cbatles Fitz Boy’s
health was then toasted, with a round ol cheers
and the musical honors
Mr. Thompson, in proposing the health of the
chair, said, that the thanks of the sporting
world in this district were claimed for Mr. Pyke,
.as the original founder of the chase in Port
Phillip, and for having maintained the position
he had placed himself its, hr his eagerness and
staunchness in its pursuit—his manly and ge-
nerous conduct to his brother sportsmen, arid
the style in which he always came forward to
contribute in making that object in any way
•conducive to the pleasure of the public and his
friends
Mr. Pyke answered that as iris services had
been so handsomely acknowledged, he trusted
•lie would always be found “ all there when he
was wanted.” He was happy to observe the
increasing spirit with which the sp. rt of hunt-
ing was carried on, particularly when upon .in
occasion like this, it served to bring together so
many good fellows, who otherwise might remain
in ignorance of each other’s personal qualities,
fur the maintenance of the chase and its accom
panying festivities He was of opinion that
irrespective of its being an incentive to the
breeding of good cattle, sporting of all kinds
tended to advance the interchange of friendly
offices and kindly feeling, and in this, as much
as anything, he expected like all his brethren ol
the pink, to find his reward.
Mr. Haines proposed the health of the croupier,
and stated that amongst the qualifications en-
joyed by Mr. Pyke, in his success as the origi-
nator and establisherof the Huutin Port Phillip,
not the least must he the pleasure of bringing
•into the field, a co-adjutor so promising and so
generally admired as Mr. Ferrers. Althougn a
young sportsman in relation to olr Pyke, vet he
iPad shewn his possession of nearly ail the best
qualities which are required in a Master of
Hounds ; he had met in consequence with suc-
cess as a huntsman aud esteem as a gentleman,
and he was certain that all would agree with him!
in bearing witness that Mr. Ferrers deserved
their hearty approbation.
Mr Ferrers in returning thanks, acknowledged
Thai his ambition in tlie old country had been to
be the Master of a pack ef hounds q he had at
tained his oliject here, and now felt satisfied in
the expression of his brother sportsmen’s good
will and encouragement; certainly lie owed
much to Mr. Pyke, as also to Mr Sladen, for
the manner in which lie had been enabled to
prove his pack and manage I,is kennel. He had
said last year that lie emsidered himsel in
good traiuiiig, and by the number of to ashes
his hunt had taken this season, lie believed lie
could now say that his anticipations were con-
firmed ; he thanked them for the complement
they had paid him, and lie was resolved to con-
tinue his system of improvement so long as
health and means were allowed him for the
purpose.
The chairman .challenged a bumper to the
health of the Ladies, whose “ Offering” that day
had afforded them sport on the Hare Ground
Lovely and loveable as they were at all times,
their favor in this instance was deserving of
peculiar regard ; lie envied the gentlemen who
had walked oft with their ” bag,” but did not
doubt that the winner wouid show himself de
serving of the prize.
The croupier proposed the toast of “ The
Hunt,” when he commented upon the enlarged
number of attendants to their annual dinner,
and his belief that the muster would increase
as they went on improving in their efforts to
maintain the delights of the chaise. Next year
he hoped Separation might have been gained,
and when he looked to it, that something first-
rate would mark the eyent, as connected with
their own style of commemorating its attain-
ment. The stewards would then have the Long
Room for a spread, and the music of their own
band, and if he had anything to do with the
chair, lie would take care it would be a “ fast”
evening and no mistake.
Mr. Ferrers rose again to propose tire ‘ Turt”
which was a sister sport, and at a Hunt Dinner
ought to be acknowledged with the same honors
as the chase; he thought from the show of peo-
ple on the course that day, that the novelty of
the Stakes run for by the Hunters, was a good
feature and had taken well, it had been got up
without much preparation, but the fineness of
the weather, the number of sportsmen drawn
together and the enjoyment which it had
afforded the townsmen, rendered it deserving of
continuation, he adverted again to the number
of pinks that were at the table, and the number
of town lepresentativesby whom their festivity
was countenanced, and was resolved that on his
part, nothing should be wanting to eulaig s the
gain it was, in every way, to themselves and
the community.
Mr. Austen the winner of the Hunt stakes re-
turned thanks.
Mr. Sladen’s health as a judge of hounds and
a promoter of the ehase, was drank with great
applause. Mr. Sladen briefly returned thanks.
The Trude and Commerce of Geelong, being
proposed, was responded to by -Mr. Sheppard and
Mr. Gore successively.
This closed the list of sueii Toasts as we have
had an opportunity of recording, but we should
not omit to notice, that a number of gentlemen,
including Mr. Charles Willis, Mr. Eicke, Mr.
Cullen and Mr. Hitchins, enlivened the enter-
tainment, with a number of characteristic songs,
and that midnight came and went, befote the
revelry drew to a close.
As the Hunt Dinner is now likely to become
an object of increasing annual attraction, we
would beg to suggest, that in making arrange-
ments for its observance on any future occasion,
the Stewards, instead of leaving it as a matter
of speculation to the landlord, should take it en
tirely into their own hands, guaranteeing, as is
usual, a specific sum to the provider, being at a
given price for a certain number, contingencies
to be catered for at the same rate per head.
The duty of ascertaining Ihe number of tickets
likely to be taken, might properly devolve upon
a gentleman resident in town, to he temporarily
appointed “ Clerk of the Hunt,” acting und. r
the immediate authority of the Stewards. We
need hardly add, that the spirit in which the
spirit in which the terms of admission should he
granted, must discard any and every idea of
exclusiveness beyond the ordinary standard of
respectability. Special invitations from the
Stewards to certain parties might advantageously
form a separate feature in tiie management 01
the festival.
Ploughing Match —The farmers on the
Moonee Moonee Ponds have formed themselves
u 0 a 80C ‘®ty under the designation of the
Moone Moonee Ponds Farmers’ Society, formed
OB’ the model of the Farmers' Societies in Scot-
land, and they have so far mature their arrange-
ments as to have had a ploughing match, on the
28th Ultimo, which come off on Mr. Coyler
Robertson's farm, La' Rose, at eleven o’clock in
the forenoon, it is proposed to have three
classes of prizes, and horse and bullock teams
are to complete separately.
VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.
Military Movement.— The head quar-
ters of the 98th regiment embarked on board
the Elizabeth and Henry for Launceston at
•111 early hour on Wednesday morning. The
band of the 99th accompanied them down to
the vessel.—The Thetis was signalized on
Wednesday morning, about a league from
Launceston heads. She takes the 11th regi-
ment on to Sydney,—Captain Conran and
Ensign Cairnduff, with fifty rank and file of
the Uth. are under orders for Melbourne
Hobart Town Courier, July 22.
Address to the Uth Regiment.—
About thirty gentlemen met at tha Cornwall
Hot 1 on Tuesday last, for the purpose of
adopting an address to Lieutenant-Colonel
Bloomfield and the officers of the Uth Re-
giment. Dr. Landale was in the chair.
Ihe expressed feeling of the meeting as to
the unexceptionable conduct, propriety, and
good feeling of the regiment caused the fol-
lowing address to he adopted, and a com-
mittee appointed to obtain signatures:—
“ We, the inhabitants of Launceston, beg
to express our high sense of the uniformjty
excellent and soldier-like conduct of the
olficers, non-commissioned officers, and pri-
vates of Her Majesty’s 11th regiment of
Foot under your command, on the occasion
ot their departure from this island. W’e
take this opportunity of assuring you that
we regret the removal of a regiment which,
during its residence amongst us, has con-
ciliated the respect and esteem of the whole
community. Whatever duty may call the
gallant Uth regiinant, you and those under
your command will bear with you the best
wishes of people of Launceston, who must
ever feel deeply interested in your welfare.’’
The address is to be presented to-day (Sa-
turday).
The Bangalore,—This convict ship,
Arvey, Morris, Esq., Surgeon Superin-
tendent J. A, Martyn master, arrived here
on Frid ly the 14th instant, bringing upward
of two hundred prisoners from Bermuda,
who are to receive tickets-of-leave, not con-
ditional pardons. These men, it is stated,
have been selected by the Governor of Ber-
muda, not only for their good behaviour
during their detention at that island, hut
also for their mechanical requirements.
Favourable reports -are said to have be> n
forwarded to the Convict Department res-
pecting the behaviour during the voyage.
Leiutenants D’Oyley and Hague, of the
Uth regiment, also arrived in this vessel,
having command of small detachments on
tho way to join their respective regiments
in these colonies. The Banaalore ex-
perienced a rather rough but good paseage.
A soldier of the Uth regiment and one
prisoner died on the voyage.
THE IRISH DEPUTATION
TO
REPUBLICAN FRANCE.
The Deputation from the Irish Confederal
tion to France, soliciting aid in procuring a
Repeal of the Union, received the following
right-minded reply from M. Lamartine :
We are at peace, and are desirous of remain**
ing on good terras of equality, not with this o p
that portion of Great Britian, but with Grea
Britain entire. We believe this peace to be
useful and honourable, not only to Great Britain
and the Republic, but to the whole human race.
We w ill not commit an act—we will not utter a
word—we will not breathe an insinuation at
variance with these principles of the reciprocal
inviolability of nations which we proclaimed,
and of which the continent of Europe is already
gathering the fruits.
A Carrier saved being Robbed bv iiis
Dog.— The carrier between Edinburgh and
Alyth was, two weeks ago, on leaving Alyth, at-
tacked on the road by two men, who demanded
his money. The carrier’s dog had gone a little
before the cart, and not hearing its motion, re*-
turned, when he saw one of the fellows holding
the horse’s head and the other wrestling with
his master The dog, which is a powerful animal,
brought down the first and tore his clothes,
which obliged him to quit the horse, and then at-
tacked the second, who with difficulty got away.
The fellows then made the best of their way off,
but the dog followed, and to the ground more
than once. The carrier, on recovering, called
the dog away, who, it may be supposed, inflicted
a punishment more permanent and efficacious
than six months’ imprisonment. The carrier
did not inform the authorities for some; time
after, and the vagabonds have for the present
escaped,— Caledonian Mercury..
Chinese Graves —The flowers which the
Chinese plant on or among the tombs are simple
and beautiful in their kind. No expensive Ca-
mellias, Moutans, or other of the finer orna-
ments of the garden, are chosen for this purpose
sometimes the conical mound of earth—w hen
the grave is of this kind—is crowned with a
large piant of fine, tall, waving grass, At
Ningpo wild roses are planted, which soon
spread themselves over the grave, At Shang-
hae, a pretty bulbous plant, a species of Lycoris.
covers the graves in autumn with masses of
brilliant purple, When I first discovered the
anemone japonice, it was in full flowar among
thegrevesof the natives, which are around the
ramparts of Shanghae; it blooms in November,
when other flowers have gone by, and is a most
appropriata ornament in the last resting places
of the dead. This fine anemone has been
brought to England, and judging from the co-
loured engraving in Maimd’s Botanic Gard n
for Jenuary, it certainly will prove an interest-
ing flower in tho garden of our own country,
A Fooksei.i.eh's Advertisement ohn
Doyle, a New York bookseller, advertises as peo-
) pie only can advertise in-America. He invites,a l
classes of men to visit h s bookstore, and winds
up thus: "The recondite mathematician and
crazy founder of new systems of theology, is each
in his proper niche. Those given to necromanc/,
astrology, alchemy, soicery, and witchciait, wi I
be highly amused ; while the belles let r s
scholar can select from 15,000 fresh vols. the veiy
cream and chefsd' ceuure of Modern English litei-
ature. The best treatises.on every profession
and scien e, from the honest plodding farmer to
the enthusiastic soldier, in every art and sc ence
the best books are here embraced. In the depart
ment of the elementary professional treitises aud
schooi bool s of every kind, his stock s immense.
The subscriber invites all strangers to pay him a
visit before ’ hey leave the eity. in j urchasing
fiom him they 6ave half their money Cleigy
men, literary characters and book colh core ge
nerally, living on lines of railway or steamboat
routes, will do well to put a change of linen in
their valises and come at once to 146,
street. allowed by all swans to be ( the moral
centre of the intellectual world * books selling
at half-price ; literary appliances and conveni-
ences of every kind, gratis, as well as the best
Spanish cigart, and other philosophical instru-
ments for inveterate smokers like the celebrated
Dr. Parr.
A Tall Wedding— We have often heard of
"tall weddings," but we hardly knew what ir
meant. Our ignorance has been enlightened by
the following, which is chronicl d in a paper of
the we.'t—the great west, —" Married, in Mount
Pleasant, lowa, on the morning of the 11th
Jan , by J. T. Morton, Esq. (being six feet three
inches), Silas G. Weeks, Esq , of Warran Couuty,
Illinois (height, six feet four inches), to Mrs.
Mary Robb of Mount Pleasant, lawa (height, six
feet one ineh). making a total height of six yards
and eight inches.,, The " height of their hup.
piness” is not alluded to. —New Orleans Times.
LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
Murder at Port Fairy.-—The Port
Phillip Herald of Thursday the 27th ult. con-
tains an account of the murder of a Mr. John
McDonald, formerly proprietor of the “ Scottish
Chief” Public House, Melbourne. It appears
that Mr. M'Donald, who had removed to the
Port Fairy District, had a daughter, of whom a
young man (whose name is not mentioned) be-
came so enamoured, as to solicit her hand in
marriage from her father. His request having
met with a refusal, the ruffian manifested his
affection and esteem for the daughter by mur-
dering the father. He waylaid Mr. McDonald
in the bush a short distance from his house, and
stabbed him twice with a knife before the un-
fortunate man was aware of his approach. Mr.
McDonald survived his wounds but a short time,
but previous to expiring, he detailed the par-
ticulars ot the melancholy catastrophe. The
murderer had not been apprehended.
Sailors.— The master’s of vessels trad-
ing to Sydney, have frequent reasons to com-
plain of the desertions of their crew on reaching
the colony. In Melbourne this inconvenience is
carried to such an extent that “masters” find
a great difficulty in procuring seaman to na-
vigate their ships. On a late arrival of an Im-
migrant vessel, the entire crew left, and betook
themselves to the interior, where they suc-
ceeded in harbouring themselves.
Aivmy,— 11th Foot—Lieutenant John
Theodore Thomas Boyd, to he adjutant vice
Lewis Alexnnder Boyd, promoted, Lieutenant
Richard Mounsell, from halt pay 62nd Foot, to
be Lieutenant, vice Boyd, appointed adjutant.
Another Important Secession from
the Church of England Green, the hang-
man, has recently become a convert to the doc-
trines of the Presbytery ; he states that he has
long entertained the conviction that Church
Government should invariably' be entrusted to
Lay Members.
Caution to Cabmen.— There have been
so many cases of obstruction of causeways, &c.,
brought before the Police Court by the venerable
inspector of Nuisances (what a title) within the
last few weeks, that one scarcely knows how to
account for it, otherwise than to the pecuniary
whetstone. However it has been promulgated
from tho Bench, on Tuesday, that any cabman
(mark cabman ! the intimation does not extend
beyond the pale) found washing his carriage in
tho street would be mulcted in the heaviest
penalty.
“ Your Eyes and Limbs.”—A seen
of more than ordinary interest occurred at the
county polling room on Tuesday last, between
one of the friends of Mr. Lawson and Messrs.
Covvper and Smith’s supporters. During the
wordy warfare, no less stringent terms than
liar, pot boy, and others equally offensive were
freely bandied about. Oae of our reporters
happened to be present, and informs us that the
fracas arose out of a simple manoeuvre usually
oractised at elections, viz , the habit of sending
in “ dead uns"—a ru e pretty freely idped by
both sides at the late struggle for Cumberland.
Why is the mercantile political influence of
Sydney like their own promissory notes before
a Board of Directors ? Because they are at a
discount
The late Alexander aFLeay, Esq.—
The funeral of the lato Mr. M‘Leay took place
I on Tuesday last. The procession moved from
| the residence of Captain Dumaresq, in Rose
i Bay, shortly after ten o’clock, and arrived at
| St. James’s Church, at twelve. There was a
! very large attendance, the number of carriages
being fifty. Among those present were—The
Commander bf the Forces, the three Judges,
and nearly the whole of the Government Offi-
cers, and a large number of old colonists ot all
classes. The pall bearers were the Colonial
Secretary, the Colonial Treasurer, Colonel Gor-
don, Mr. Barker, the Attorney-General, Mr.
Macpherson, Mr. Mitchell, and Mr. Campbell.
The corpse was met at the door by tile Bishop
of Sydney and the Rev. R. All wood—the latter
lof whom read the service in the church. The
j service at the grave was read by the Bishop,
i The late Mr. M‘Leay was a native of Wick,
in the north of Scotland, where he was born in
j the year 1765. In early life lie proceoded to
| London, and obtained a situation in one of the
government offices, where his probity, and
j those business habits for which he was always
j noted obtaiued him rapid promotion ; and during
| the whole of the Peninsular war he held the
| important office of Secretary to the Transport
j Board, on retiring from which (we believe on
the consolidation of offices rendered necessary
I by tlitt cessation of war,) he received a pension
I of .£‘7so a year. In January, 1826, Mr. M‘Leay
j arrived in this colony as Colonial Secretary,
; which office he continued to hold until suc-
ceeded by Mr. E. L>. Thomson, on the Ist
June, 1837, when he retired into private life.
In 1843, when the first Representative Council
was elected, Mr. M‘J*eay was* returned for the
Northern Counties, and had the high honour
of being elected Speaker* which office he held
for three years, when the increasing infirmities
of age rendered the necessity of constant
attendance in the house irksome,’and lie re-
signed the office, retaining his seat as a mem-
ber, however, until the dissolution of the
Council, in June last. Mr. M‘Leay was a
gentleman of considerable scientific attain-
ments; he was Fellow of the Royal Society,
and of the Linnean Society ; of the latter he
was secretary for many years. He was always
active in the management of Colonial institu-
tions: he was President of the Australian
Subscription Library, of the Benevolent Society,
and the Infirmary ; and was the founder of the
Australian Museum Mr. M‘Leav was a man
almost universally respected, and has descended
into the grave full of years and of honours;
and, from his consistent Christian character, we
may feel assured he has gone to his reward.
Important to Housewives.—-It is not
generally known that the sourness of milk and
cream may be immediately corrected by the ad-
dition of a small quantity of the common car-
bonate of magnesia in powder. Half a tea-spoon
full (about equal to four grains) may be added to
a pint of milk or cream if only slightly sour; a
larger quantity in proportion to the degree of
sourness. Two or three grains to every pound
of flour prevents sourness in bread which is so
injurious to some constitutions. Carbonate of
soda is sometimes used, but produces a very
unpleasant flavour, and, used as a remedy for
milk and cream, is worse than the disease.
Inquests.—An inquest was held on
Monday at the King’s Head, George-street,
North, on the body of a man which was found
lying on the rocks at the north end of Beilhys
beach, and which was that of one of the unfor-
tunates who perishad in the wreck of the Wan-
derer» The body was in a very advanced state
of decomposition i the feet had dropped from
the legs, from the bones of which also the flesh
had gone, The only portion of flesh remaining
on the corpse was that about the middle of the
i body, and that was attributed to its having been
confined by the only vestiges of clothing the
the deceasad had about his person At the in-
quest Water Police Constable Wright, deposed
to having with othars of the force found the
body and brought it to Sydney. The seaman
Smith, the sole survivor of the late catastrophe,
stated that although from the state of decompo-
sition the body was in, he could not swear to the
body, yet from the portion of clothing remain-
ing about it, he believed it to be that of a sea-
man named William MTntyre, who hdd acted as
cook, and perished in the wreck. The Jury re-
turned a finding of death from accidental drown-
ing.—An inquest was held on Tuesday at the
Three Tuns, King and Elizabeth-streets, touch-
ing the death of Catherine Murphy, then lying
dead in the Sydney Infirmary. It appeared the
decesed had been received into the Infirmary on
the evening of the 20th ultimo, with compound
fracture ol the leg, the occurrence of which had
been purely accidental, The fracture was re-
duced, and she progressed favourably until the
29th ultimo, when tetanus supervened, from the
effects of which she sank, and expired at an
early hour on Tuesday morning, The Jury
returned a finding of death from from the
effects of a fracture accidentally received,
Pocket-Picking.—As Mr. Flight, a
gentleman who was sojourning at Mr. Ent-
wistle’s, was, on Saturday last, attending a sale
of horses at Stewart's Repository in York-street,
some person abstracted from his pocket a book
containing j£l3 in notes, and certain memo-
randa.
OUR COLONIAL DEFENCES.
Having last week, like the profound
Sydrophel, the astrologer of Hudibras,'
elongated our Telescope ta the discovery of
coming events ; we shall this week throw out
a few deputary thoughts- Upon the subject of
our defences, and the very sound of the un-
social, and grating words, by a natural asso-
ciation of ideas, presents before us the
w Lawyers/’ taking the Term to compre-
hend, Brothers of the Bench, of the Bar,
Pupils of the desk. Bailiffs, Messengers,
Turnkeys, and Finishers of tho Law. We
should therefore propose that the second
section of these should be retained instan-
teT, to conduct our action of Battery, so
that by
A Conjoint Motion.
We may be early prepared to frighten away
the enemy when he shews himself by the
fearful expectation of their united charge.
When the Duke of Wellington at Waterloo,
cried “ up Guards and at them,the French
flew precipitately before them, and we are
quite sure that immediately the invaders
should discover their Banner floating in de-
fiance above their heads, that they will turn
tail, frightened by the ruinous consequences
of all defence.
The Judges should propose to act as
Pioneers to this powerful Regiment of sharp-
shooters, as they are most effective ill all
cases of disputed Tenancy m
Serving an Ejectment.
Tiny would soon prove to any one who
should unasked attempt to gudgeon us, that
like the gentlemen represented above, they
were fishing in troubled waters. No doubt
that some of our enemies who are fond of
defending an action, regardless of the ex-
pences, might object to the dicta of th-sj
grave and potent seignors, and by
Putting in a demurrer.
Protract the decision in this important
action. Some of them might perhaps put
in a claim to a previous acquaintance with
the Sydney coves, and turn the tables on
the present possessors by proving that they
were alter all the only intruders. This de-
termination would protract the action very
much, but would not eventually defeat the
lawyers. The judges would soon decide how
to defeat this plea, and taking a seat on a
bank to shew that they were sitting in
Banco , bar the assumed right by explaining
The Statute of Limitations.
This is not the most dignified way of satis-
fying a judgment, nor perhaps the most
honest. The defendant in such cases is apt
to feel himself aggrieved by such ruling and
to wish the very Judges at Old Nick.
The last consideration is who is to c6m*
mand this corps of sharpshooters. It, is
always invidious to parcel out of a general
body any particular individual ; but neces-
sity has no law, and therefore iri such a
critical moment as this, delicacy must be
turned upon the street*.
Jeames, if self-eonsqit would give the
qualifications for a header, would be a fit
person for selection 1 but we cannot hut
think that if we are t<?:go tho feathered
tribe, that an eagle and not a.Martin would
be our choice.
To command such a force it should not
only be a man of sharp practice, but one of
gravity, and wo should therefore nominate
the gentleman who has already earned for
himself so famous a name by his Admiralty
dodges ; he would soon put the enemy’s ves-
sels in a fix by his heavy charges, convert-
ing fh*'ir stock and block into property of
his own.
There is one who certainly might dispute
this practical excellency with him ; or per-
haps even in nautical annoyance take even
precedence, but the Coroner of Sydney' we
should think would have sufficient to do in
holding inquests upon the persons the other
would bleed to death by liia
Nautical Practice.
Why is a person with a b-ul memory like a
miser ?—Because he is always for-getting
SIR THOMAS MITCHELL.
We welcome the return of this distin-
guished officer to our shores. Crowded as our
columns necessarily are with the election-
eering topics of the hour, we shall not to-
day enter upon the task, which it will be
our pleasing duty to attempt at a very early
moment, namely, the reviewing of Sir
Thomas’ new work upon 44 Tropical Aus-
tralia.’’ That it is an honor to British enter-
prise, conduct, and the diffusion of know-
ledge, we need not assure those who have
followed the intrepid explorer through his
former Australian Expeditions. It has been
received by tho learned bodies of Europe as
a most acceptable addition to the stores of
Geographical science, and must materially
tend to the increased development of the
valuable and boundless resources of this
vast continent.
POLICE OFFICE, GEORGE-STREET.
Monday, July 31.
Fancy Fair. —The Police Court and avenues
leading thereto were thronged with females of
a certain class this morning, all anxiety to learn
the result of Ann Reynold’s case for threaten-
ing language. Ann, from her long residence in
the colony, and general popularity, being con-
sidered a favorite. The complainant Susan Col-
lins, a lackadaisacal cyprian, declared that
Reynolds and a female named Ann Wells, threat-
ened on Sunday morning last to have her
life. In support of the charge a female named
Eliza Spencer, one of the sisterhood, and a spe-
cimen of unloveliness, appeared in the box, she
kissed the book with a relish which would put
Von Gobert to the blush, substantiated the
charge made by Miss Collins. The result was
that the defendants were bound over to keep the
peace, that there was no lack of bondsmen, and
that Ann was waited upon by a South Sea Is-
lander.
A Pest. —Our readers will have noticed a fel-
low for the last four years, parading the streets
of Sydney bearded like &pard with a pipe stuck
in his mouth; an idle character, who acted the
part of a cranky man to such perfection, that
males and children were intimidated at his ap-
proach. Oh Monday he was sentenced to two
months imprisonment at VVoolloemoolloo Gaol
as a rogue and vagabond. Serjeant M‘Cook
who for the present was primary in clearing the
streets of him, having stated that the prison-
er’s name was William Hayes, and that for some
time back he was in the habit of using awful im-
precations against any persons that refused him
when he demanded relief, and that he was a
dangerous character.
A Female Prowler. —Rosannah Langford,
holding the indulgence of a ticket-of-leave, and
as she stated, the mother of three children, was
charged with attempting to steal a piece of
black silk handkerchiefs, value jfc3 10s., from
the shop of Mr. Perkins, George-street, but. in
which attempt she was detected by the shop-
man. The case being fully proved against her,
she was sentenced to be worked for twelve
months in the third class of the Female Factory,
and her ticket to be cancelled. .Captain Innes
intimating at the same time that there were
three or four other charges of shoplifting
against her.
Conjugal Affection —John Cashtnore was
placed in the dock charged with stealing a
counterpan, under the following circumstances—
A man named William Shaw, a laborer residing
in Castlereagh-street, stated that his wife took
in washing, that about three weeks ago, a coun-
terpane belonging to Mr. Nash had been stolen
from a line in their yard, and that on Sunday
evening, Cashmore’s wife came to his house
about seven o’clock, and told him that if he ac-
companied her she would show him where the
stolen counterpane was She proved as good as
her word, pointed out the counterpane on Cash-
more’s bed, and her husband lying underneath
it. A constable being called the prisoner was
taken into custody and fully committed for trial
he was subsequently held to bail.
Value of Character —Samuel Samuels was
brought up in custody charged with attempting
to Wells ot his watch in Dan
RogerT' ytylf/Mfisc on Saturday evening. The
prosecutor having that at the time the
attempt was made he Samuels
had the benefit thereof, but
propensities being recognized by the
was sentenced to six months* imprisonment fi
rogue and vagobond.
Tuesday.
Assaulting a Constable. —William Hixton,
who appeared when “ primed," to set all law and
order at defiance, was charged by Constable
Timothy Callaghan, with being drunk on the
previous night, and amusing himself by kic king
him on the shins when about taking himinto cus-
tody, tearing his jacket and other freaks of a
similar nature. Hixton looked daggers at Tim
but it was no go, the Janissary stuck to his man,
and the result was, that he was fined «£3 and
costs, or fourteen days to Darlinghurst, and the
possibles not being forthcoming, he put up with
the alternative.
Electioneering fracas. —Richard Crampton
appeared on the floor of the court, charged by a
watch-maker named Benjamin Sims, residing in
Parraraatta-street, with walking into his shop
on Saturday eveuing, and Crampton being a
partizan of Wentworth and Bland, inquired of
Sims, who was a constituent of Lowe, if he had
not made use of some observations reflecting on
Crampton’sconduct during the election; to this
query the complainant not having given it a
direct negative, but an equivocal and by by no
means satisfactory reply to the defendant, with
the rapidity of lightning, he planted his bunch
ot fives on Sims nether lip, from which the
blood flowed in profusion. The remedy sought
from further outrage was protection, and that
was awarded by the court; Crampton being
bound to keep the peace.
Garland v. Enwood. —This was a case of
breach of agreement under the Hired Servants
Act; and all hough a degree of animus appeared
to subsist between the parties, whether from
prejudice or misunderstanding, the facts as
sworn to are as follow. It appeared that Mr.
Garland employed Enwood in his tannery estab-
lishment at 35s per week; that antecedent
thereto Alderman Fisher had an execution in
Enwoods house for <£\2 ; and that on an agree-
ment entered into between the complainant and
defendant, wherein the former engaged to em-
ploy the latter, and to pay Mr. Fisher 6s. per
week out of Enwood’s wages, until the debt was
paid. The defendant not having complied with
the letter of the engagement he was brought
up this morning, and in his defence said that he
was paying Mr. Fisher as well as having it
stopped by Garland, that the latter had “ an-
noyed him in every wav he could by discharging
him off and on, until himself and family were
regularly starved'down." But the magistrates
not being of that opinion, and in consideration
of his having a family, enlarged him until
Thursday, so that he may be enabled to make
up his mind, to return to his employment until
the debt due to Mr. Fisher was liquidatd, other-
wise he would have to encounter the miseries of
the jug»
Moke Electioneering. —ln the case of
Connor against Rise, for an assault committed
under the excitement of the city election, a wit-
ness was called named Aitcheson, who certainly
gave an amusing version of tho affair, amidst
irrepressible mirth :
The Mayor—“ What do you know of this
affair ?
Witness—“ All I know about it is this, that
on Saturday evening hearing a noise, I went
into the yard ; it was then dark, and hearing a
scuffle, and seeing something white at a distance
from me I thought my dog (a Newfoundland)
had laid hold of some one, I was about making
a kick, when I observed the complainant and
prisoner clung to each other, and I had as much
as I could do to separate them.”
Mayor— u Well, that’s all you know ?”
Witness—“ That’s all (turning to the belli-
gerents with a degree of earnestness creditable
to his feelings) I think you had better shake
Hands, and let it all drop.”
The Mayor— rt I think you have been in the
sun this morning.”
Witness —“ So help me Betty (roars of
laughter) I have no interest whatever in the
matter, and I am giving them the best advice I
can.” Aitcheson’s advice was taken, and the :
parties left the court apparently reconciled.
Attempted Pocket-Picking.— Samuel
Samuels was brought before the Police Court
on Monday, charged with an attempt to pick
the pockets of two persons named Gleeson and
Ray; ths former a lodging-house keeper in
King-street, the latter, one of his lodgers They
had been, on Thursday evening last, drinking
together in the Black Boy, public-house, at the
corner of George and King streets, where the
prisoner had sung a song or two. As Gleeson
and. his friend were proceeding home, after
leaving the public-house, Samuels ran after
them, and placing himself between them, in-
sisted on taking Ray (whom claimed as a
friend) home with him atid passingone hand round
his waist, he, with the other, began to search
his pockets, but finding nothing, lie performed a
similar unsuccessful feat with Gleeson. He was
committed for trial on Gleeson's evidence, Ray
having left Sydney.
Advice t} those about to marry—Don't
Why is a gambler an acrerahle fellow ? Be-
cause lie has Winning Ways.
A copuette is defined as an emragritig girl who
wants to enrage tire men without engaging
herself.
The number of hi nil who desert from the
British Army annually is estimated at more
than 2,500
An Irishman, in speaking of a spell of sickness
lie had, said, “ By my faith, I laid spacheless
six weeks in the month of August, and all my
cry was for Wither I watherf”
The press of England and the press of France
are both noted for their convictions—but the
first are moral convictions—and the second legal
ones.
The editor of the Chicago Democrat gives
the following excellent advice:—Wives, love
your husbands and make them take a news-
paper !**
A man's temperature is generally about 98
Fahrenheit. A scientific friend observes, to in-
crease his temperature, all th.it is necessary is
to pull his nose.
A private in the 87th. Regiment, named
Regiment, named James Morgan, lately sta-
tioned at Newport, Ins succeeded to a fortune
of <£lo,ooo
The fortune of the Princess Adelaide, sister
to the King of the French, is estimated at
60,0i)0.0UU francs, about <£2,500,000.
How TO MAKE AM AN MAD — ‘ You look as if
you were biside yourself," said a wag to a lel-
loW who stood by a donkey."
When is iron like a bank-note f When it’s
forged—When is iron like a stone thrown in the
air ? When it’s cast—When is it like a part of
a pubiic house f When it's a bar—When would
it do to make sausages of? When it's pig iron.
A gentleman taking an apartment, said to
the landlady, I assure you, Madame, I never
left a lodging hut iny landlady shed tears "
“ I hope, Bir,” said she, " it was not because
you went away without paying."
At a levee, shortly alter Lord Nelson's ap
point merit to the command of the '-ban »el
Fleet his Lordship, in answer to an observation
from George Hi. relative to the threatened in-
vasion of the French, ** I can assure your Ma-
jesty shey will net come by sea."
The Rabbins teach that “ He who goes to bed
in anger has the devil for a bedfellow.’*' A wag
desires us to say that lie knows a married man,
who, though lie goes to bed as meek and gentle
as a lamb, is in •* the same predicament.
'* A Great liespy* the poet Crabbe, is like
a great fish on dry land ; it may fret and fling,
and make a frightful bother, but it cannot hurt
you. Fou have only to keep still, and it will die
of itself."
SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE.
ARRIVED.
July 27.—William, brig, 121 tons, Captain
Lovett, returned to port
July 27. —Sarah, brig, 130 tonsi Capt. Grant,
from Launceston, the 23rd Instant
July 27-—Ceres, American ship, 328 tons,
Captain Adams, from the Whaling Grounds, left
New Bedford, July, 1840.
July 27 —Maltha and Elizabeth, schooner, 81
tons, Captain irvine, Irom Port Pnillip the 23rd
Instant, in ballast. Passengers—Mr. B Buckle,
Mr. T. W. Clarke, Mr. B. j. Baines, Mr. James
Harvey, Mr. and Mrs. Treleaven and three
Children
£#Ju.y 27. —Dauntless, brig, 218 tons, Captain
Thom, fiom Launceston the 23rd Instant. Fas-
sengeis—Mrs. Thom and son.
July 2L—Thomas Lord, schooner, 72 tons,
Captain Clayton from Auckland the 15ih June,
and Mauranghi the 2nd Instant. Passenger—Mr.
R. Clayton.
July 28 —Bangalore, barque, 860 tons, Captain
Martin, from Hobart Town the 25th Instant.
Passengers—Captain Ward, wife, and child, Lieut.
Wilton, wile, and two children, Lieutenant
D’Oyley, Dr il. Moiris, R. N., 150 rank and file
11th Regiment, 18 women and 27 children.
July 29. —Countess of Yarborough, barque, 437
tons, Captain Bennett, from London, having left
the Downs on the 26th March. Passengers—Mr
Thomas Mitchell, Mr. and Mts. C. Toogood and
son, Mr f'lennan, Mr. M*Donald, Mr. and Mrs.
Othof Gehrecke, Mr. and Mrs Macnab, Mr.
Walters, Messrs J and S. Wilson J. and B.
Lucas, and J. Bidreil.
July 30.—Lord Hobart, brig, 161 tons, Cip-
tain Fraser, from TwoioUi Bay the 25th Instant.
Passengers—Mr Ring and Mr. M'Lnegur.
J lily 31. —Eleanor Lancaster, ba'q-ie, 438 tons,
Captain Lodge, from Auckland the i4th Instant,
in ballast. Passengers—Mrs. Lodge, Mrs. lia *>
trim, Mr. Newman, Mr. Fulford, Mr. Hudson,
Mrs Winnett and three children, Mr. Redpath,
and the stockmen.
July 31. —Fanny Fisher, barque, 250 lons,
Captain Harrold, from Newcastle.
July 31. —Romulus, American barque, 250
tons, Captain Cartwright, from the Whaling
| Grounds. Left Sag Harbour 29th >ept., 1845.
August l —Star of China, schooner, 101 tons,
Captain Dowker, from Port Nicholson the 16 h,
and Taranaki the 23rd July. Passengers—vlrt,
Creagh and three children.
August 1. —Vixen, schooner, 45 tons, Captain
j Currie, fiom Moreton Lay the 6th Instant.
August 2 —Maid of Erin, brig, 152 tons.
I Captain Heslop, from Auckland.
August 2.—Jane, barque, 250 tons, Captain
Fowier, from the South Sea Fishery. Left
Sydney, 31st Oct, 1846.
An, ust 2. —Leocadia, French schooner, 70
tons, Captain Kleury, from Tahiti the 9th April
and Anatarn Ist July.
August 2 —Champion schooner, 54 tons*
Captain Collas, Irom Moreton Bay the 23rd July.
Passengers—Mr. and is. Baker.
August 4.—Thetis, barque, 460 tons, Captain
from Launceston the 28th Ultimo Pas-
sengers—Lieutenant-Colonel Bloomfield, Captain
Mooie, Lieutenants Scott, {Parker, and Boyd,
Ensign M*Henry, Mr. and Mrs. Boyd, Mr. and
Mrs. Grant, Dr. Marshall, 243 rank and file of
the 11th regiment, 45 women, and 77 children.
SAILED.
July 26 —Emma, brig, 121 tons, Captain
Osborne, for Auckland. Passengers—Mr. H
Williams, Mr. J. Sullivan, Mr. T. Curby, Mr. W
Kelly, Mr. J. Casey, Mr. and Mrs. J. White and
two children.
July 26—Tamar, steamer, 130 tons. Captain
Allen, for Moreton Bay. Passengers—Mr. and
Mrs. Freeman and child, Mr George Scott Mr
Pinnock. Mr. Walter Gray, Mr. George M'Catta
fourteen in ti e steerage, and one constable.
July 27. —Raymond, barque, 499 tons, Captain
Hart, for Port Nicholson via Twofold Bay. Pas-
sengers— Mrs. Hart, three children, and servant,
Mr. G. M‘Clvmont, Mrs. Benham, Mr. W. Edds,
Messrs. H. and E Wallace.
July 27 —Susin, schooner. 52 tons, Captain
Piggins, for Moreton Bay. Passengers—Messrs.
J. Joseph aid J. Morrissey.
July 3( *—Chiistina, brig, 126 tons, Captain
Saunders, for Port Phillip. Passengers—Mrs.
John Stephens, Mr. John Clark, Mr. and Mrs.
Egan and nine children. Mr. and Mrs. Kelly and
three children; Mr. Vaughan, Messrs. Jacobs,
Whiting, Paterson, and Grant.
July 80. —Mundford, schooner, 168 tcm, Cap-
tain Hayle, for Launceston. Passengers—Miss
Brown ani servant, Mr. T. £cott, Mr. A. D* Hen-
derson, and Mr. Gover.
July 30.—Julia Percy, brig, 101 tons, Captain
Fawthrop,for Newcastle.
August I.—Fanny Fisher, barque, 250 tons.
Captain Harrold, for Launceston.
August I.—Ann Mary, schooner, 51 tons.
Captain Brown, for Moreton Bay.
August 2.—Sir Edward Paget, barque, 482
tons, Captain Barclay, for Hobart Town, in
ballast. Passengers—Lieutenant-Colonel Jack-
son, Major Last, Captain Armstrong, wife and
daughter, Captaifi Pratt, wife and daughter,
Lieutenant Blamire, Quartermaster M'Donald,
wife and daughter, Dr. Hadley, Mrs. Barclay and
servant, 19 sergeants, 7 drummers, and 277 rank
and file of the 99th regiment, with 8 women and
66 children*
August 2.—Freak, brig. 245 tons. Captain
Simpson, f-.r Liuncestuii, in b«lias f Passengers
Lieutenant Elliott, Ensign Baylis, 3 sergeants, 3
drummers, and 121 rank and file of the 99th
regiment, with 6 women and 12 children.
August 2 —Daniel Grant, barque, 292 tons,
Capta n Edie, for Adelaide. i assengers—Mr.
and Mr 3. Flood, Mr. S. Beckwell, Mr John
Tooth. Mr. Thomas Dunbar, and Messrs. W, and
J. Brown*
August 2.—Diana, brig, 103 tons, Captain
Ball, for P rt Phillip. Pas3«nger.i—Joseph Gregg
and Catherine.Shanahan
August 2 —Rosetta, sehooner, 73 tons, Captain
Winchester, for Port Phillip.
August 2.—Phoebe, schooner, 89 tons Captain
Bennett, for Port Phillip. Passengers—Mr. M»
Woolley, Miss Armstrong, and Mr. Handley.
August 2.—Thomas Lord, schooner, 72 tons,
Captain Clayton, for Launceston
August 2.—Juno, steamer, 364 ton%. Captain
Kirsopp, for Boyd Town and Port Phillip, Pas-
sengers— Mr. W. R. Grylls, Miss Grylls Miss A.
Grylls, Mrs. Thomas and child, Mr. D Long, Mr.
Ferguson, Mr. James Robeits, Mr. and Mrs. Kip-
pine and daughter, Mr. Thomas Bird, Mr. James
Turner, Mr. Smith, Miss Garland, Mr W. Hib-
bard, Mr. E. Whiteside, Mr. D. O’Hair, Miss
O’Hair Mr. G. Bartley, Mr. John Roberts, Mr.
G Rownd, Mrs. White and three children, Mr.
and Mrs Farquhar and child, Mr. Avery, Miss
Emmerson, Mr. Higginbottom, Mr Stevenson,
and Mr. Carter.
Augu t 2.—City of Sydney, brig, 106 tons, Capt.
Tulloch, for Launceston. Passengers—Mr. and
Mrs. T. Walker and four children, Miss Walters,
Maria Jordan, C. Evans, and James Waddingham.
CLEARED AT THE CUSTOMS.
July 29 —William, schooner, 62 tons, Captain
Steel, fjr Moreton Bay.
August 1 —Lady Margaret, brig, 284 tons.
Captain Mihs, for London. Passengers—Messrs.
Williams, and Sandford.
Ausust I. lane Cain, barque, 262 tons, Capt.
Du isford, for London. Passengers—Mr R. Not-
ley, and Mr. Leslie Clarke.
August 1 —Emma, brig, 139 tons, Captain
Pockley, for Hobart Town Passengers—Mrs.
Macpherson, two sons, two daughters, and ser-
vant, MBs Hay, Mbs Hewlett, Mrs Richardson
and two sons, Miss Richardson. Mr. Richardson,
junior, Mrs. Cornell, Mr. Macfarlane. Mr. and
Mrs H ggins, Mrs. Gibbons, and Mr. Charles
Bruce.
August I.—Louisa, brig, 182 tons, Captain
Millton, for Anckland. Passengers—Mr. M‘Gregor,
Mr. andjMrs. Bouveral and child, M.Cunningham,
Mr Newell, Mr. Cutcheoo, Mr. Matthew, Mr.
O Hara, Mrs Bailey, and two stockmen.
August I.—J-hamrock, schooner, 85 tons.
Captain Winter, for Circular Head.
MARKETS, &c.
SHEEP AND CATTLE MARKETS.
CATTLE.
M'Dougal, 85, j£2, Hill and Argent—62o.
W. Laws >n, 80, £3 3s 9d, ditto—7so.
Delhunty, 91, E 2 ss, Sullivan and Blakney—•
700.
HOBART TOWN.— July 21.
Wheat, 5s per bushel; barley, 4s 8d to 5s j
oates, 2s 8d; flour, <£l2 per ton : bread, 4d the
2 lb loaf.
LAUNCESTON.- July 18.
Wheat has been sold at 4s lOd each; 4s 9d
is the average price, 5s at short credit.—Exam-
iner.
LONDON MARKETS, April 10.
MONEY,
From the commencement of business on Mon-
day morning up to its termination on Saturday
afternoon, the fluctuation in prices was in consols
from 81$ to 80, in exchequer bills from 33 to 34
to 44 premium, and in India bouds from 16 to
22s premium.
Consols for the account have been sold at 813
and 80.
WOOL.
The imports of wool into London, since this
day se’nnight, have been somewhat exiensive,
viz., 106 bales from Antwerp, 490 ditto from
Alexandria, 207 ditto from Sydney, 208 ditto
from Monte Video, 40 ditto from Havre, 23 ditto
from Hambro', and 120 ditto from various other
quarters. In the private contract market there
is a slight improvement in the demand for Eng-
land and Colonial wools, at full prices; but all
other kinds are neglected.
TALLOW.
The market is firm, and prices are well sup-
ported, both on the spot and for the Autumn. In
new tallow the quotation is 46s 3d for the last
three months, and 45s Gd for separate months,
with but few, if any, sellers at the prices. Town
is 52s to 53s net cash. Rough fat, 2s 11 Ad per
81bs. v
ft
l
&
ROYAL VICTORIA THEATRE.
Fourth night of Balfo’s celebrated Opera of
THE SIEGE OF ROCHELLE.
THIS EVENING, AUGUST 5,184 S,
Will be presented, the popular Musical Play,
entitled
THE SIEGE OF ROCHELLE.
. With all the Original Music.
Count Rosenberg Mr Rogers.
Marquis do Valmour Mr J. Howson
Michel .....Mr F. Howson
Clara Mrs Guerin
Pas de Deux, by Miss F. Griffiths and Signor
Carandird.
To conclude with the laughable Farce entitled
WHO ’LL LEND ME A WIFE ?
For Characters, see bills of the day.
MR. GRIFFITHS, Manager,
TO STAND, THIS SEASON,
TENTERFIELD, NEW ENGLAND,
“PLANET,”
BY “ ST. GEORGE” OUT OF A WELL-BRED
MARE.
i 6 OLANET ’ is a dark brown with
B- black points, and is an excellent foal
getter. “ St. George” by “ Seagrave,” dam by
“ Governor,” her dam “ Anticipation,” by
Binningborough,” out of “ Expectation” by
“ Herod.” J
Terms, £2 10s per mare.
Apply to the groom at Tenterfield. 75
LOST.
ESTERDAY afternoon (Thursday)
during the storm, between Park-street
and ]the South Head Road, an old wig. The
finder shall receive .five shillings, on bringing it
to John Booth of the Queen’s -Arms, George-
street. 74


POET’S CORNER.
A GENUINE LEGISLATOR
The devil, a Member of Council would be,
But how to get votes was the go,
For though a deep devil in most things, yet he,
For that thing was at loss to know.
So quick he popp’d on his considering cap,
Which way to bamboozle poor man,
And being, as I said, a real clever chap,
He hit on a devilish good plan.
He knew that fair promises went a great way,
Could easy be made or be broke,
And he was not wanting for plenty to say,
And laugh in his sleeve at the joke:
So he told them the land should overflow soon,
With wine, with milk, and with honey,
If they would elect him he’d cherish the boon
Change pebble stones into money.
His religious opinions, he said, were these,
No bigot or vaunter was he;
Eat, drink, and be merry, and do as you please,
Afraid of the grave never he.
The bate was soon swallow’d, he’d voters in a
crowd,
And his proud banner erected;
The mob shouted huzza, he smilingly bow'd,
The pole closed, and he was elected.
He now legislates, talks loud, but is civil,
And always has plenty to say,
But if you oppose him, he plays the devil,
And then there’s the devil to pay.
MORAL.
Thusitis with mankind when they get their ends
And no one attempts to oppose,
They will be, or seem to be, very good friends,
But do so—and they become foes.
THOMAS FENNELL,
Blues Point, North Shore.
BOX-FEEDING.
Perhaps it would not be uninterest-
ing to some of your readers, were 1 to
give an account of the plan adopted for
feeding the stock on the farm where I now
reside. I will tirst give an account of
the manner in which the porridge or com-
pound is made for the horses. Spread 4
bushel-baskets of oat-straw chaff equally
over the floor ; boil ten gallons of water,
put peck of linseed into it, and boil a
few minutes: when ready, spread it over
the chaff; mix the whole together, and.
then put one bushel of meal (buck wheat
and barley mixed) with it ; then mix it
again well together; allow it to cool.
Compound or Porridge for Catti.e
and Sheep. —Spread 17 baskets of chaff,
and 4 baskets of mangold wurzel over
the floor in layers. Boil 30 gallons of
water, putting in a handful of salt with it,
along with a peck of peaches. [A sin-
gular food for cattle. A lot of spoiled
peaches were bought at £5 per ton.] When
it boils put in peck of linseed; and
after a few minutes pour the whole over
the chaff and mangold wurzel : mix it
well together and then put one bushel of
meal [as before] with it. Mix the whole
well together, and let it cool. Our stock
now consists of 4 pair of farm-horses, 37
head of cattle, and 70 pigs, besides the
few remaining sheep of a flock, now nearly
all sold, fat. Fourteen beasts, fatting in
boxes in the house, viz., 10 Herefords, 2
short-horns, 2 cows, are fed four times
per day, viz. : 1 bushel cut mangold wur-
zel, (■£ cwt.) to each, at 6 o clock ; 1 bas-
ket of porridge. (481b5.) between two, at
11; 1 basket of mangold wurzel to each
at 3; 1 basket of porridge between two,
at night. Fifteen beasts, feeding in the
boxes in the yard, viz., p cows and 4 oxen,
which get the same allowance per day at
the same hours as those in the house ; also
7 young cattle : 5 baskets of mangold
wurzel, between 7 ; 4 baskets of porridge
between seven ; 5 baskets of mangold
wurzel between seven ; 4 baskets of por-
ridge between seven, at night. Eight
young beasts, in boxes ; 6 baskets of man-
gold wurzel between eight; 4 baskets of
porridge between eight ; 6 baskets of
mangold wurzel between eight; 4 baskets
of porridge between eight; sheep, fatting
in the lower yard, seven in each pen ; 1
basket of mangold wurzel between
seven; 1 basket of porridge between
seven ; 1 basket of mangold wurzel be-
tween seven ; 1 basket of porridge be-
tween seven. Seventy pigs, of all sizes
and ages, 11 of which are fatting, and
get more meal and less carrots, with
peaches, all the rest get more carrots and
peaches and less meal. The beasts and
sheep are abundantly bedded every other
day, and get their beds shook up every
day. [The pigs get a clean bed every other
day — IV. Win ufite .
Fowls. —M. Sace, of Neufchatel, in
Switzerland, gives an account of some ex-
periments in the feeding of dome-.tic fowls.
He states first, that fowls to which a por-
tion of chalk is given with their food, lay
eggs, the shells of which are remarkable
for their whiteness. By substituting for
chalk a calcareous earth rich in the oxide
of iron, the shells become of an orange
red colour. Secondly, he informs us,
U.atsome hens fed on bailey alone would
not lay well, and they tore off each other’s
featheis; he then mixed up with the
barley some feathers chopped up, which
they ate eagerly, and digested freely.
By adding milk to the food, they began to
lay, and ceased plucking out each other’s
feathers. He concludes that this proceed-
ing arose from the desire of the hens for
azoted foot.
Egg Hatching. —An old lady in
America went to see the egg hatching
machine, and complained of the expense
of keeping fowls, and said that if it were
cheaper she would buy a machine.
After a thousand enquiries, the gentle-
man in attendance proceeded to show
her the drawers in w'hich were deposited
the eggs in different stages The old
lady looked with astonishment. ‘ Dear
me!’ she exclaimed, 1 Do you use enysV
‘ Certainly.’ was the answer. ‘ Then’
said she, ‘ I consider this a perfect piece
of imposition, a downright swindle, to
pick the pockets of honest people! Why,
anybody can hatch chickens with eygs!
I can do it myself, and not charge noth-
ing for the sight, either.’ And the old
lady made her way out in a mighty huff,
muttering to herself, ‘ What impudence
to charge a woman two shillings to see
chickens hatched out of eggs 1’
LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL
INSTITUTION.
(From the Cheltenham Journal, March 6)
On Tuesday evening last, a lecture was
delivered to the members of the above
institution by the Rev. C. H. Bromby,
on the subject of the “ Sun and its pro-
perties.”
The Rev. gentlemen in opening his
discourse, observed that it could not be
expected of him, in a lecture like the
present, on a subject so extensive as that
which had been chosen for him, to do
more than treat it in a cursory manner,
though he would endeavour to do so in
as popular a style as he could, to meet the
capacities of such of his audience as had
no opportunities of extensive study. He
would therefore classify his Subject, and
consider it under the following heads :
namely, as it related to astronomy, optics,
the laws of light, the theory 'of heat,
and the winds. The sun is the source of
all light—heat—and vegetation ;—and,
in fact, is the fountain head of all. the
temporal blessings enjoyed by man ; —it
is by his influence that the planet on
which man is located exhibited all the
signs of the various seasons. Man is
indebted to the Sun for the ripening of
fruits and grain, and for everything that
can make him happy. In fact, if it were
not for the Sun all things would return
to chaos. It was not therefore, at all
surprising, to find the Sun an object of
idolatry in barbarous nations, where the
revelation of Christianity had not been
made known. Ilethens were accustomed
to pay devout orisons to the Sun :—the
Emperor of China claimed to be first
brother to the Sun, and distantly related
to the moon and stars. This was the
custom in the eastern part of the globe ;
and it was somewhat curious to learn that
a similar custom was practised in the
western hemisphere:—on the shoies of
the Alississippi—the Indian chief of a
people calls himself brother to the Sun,
and, hailing him each morning as he
emerges from the east, offers him the three
first blasts of his pipe, and then pretends
to give directions as to the course he is
to steer, that is, from east to west. The
Sun, in relation to the stars, had been
ascertained to be one of that immense
cluster of stars called the “milky way,”
each of which was at an incalculable
distance from the Sun and from each other
—although so numerous as to appear
entirely to stud the heavens. Around
our own Sun, or our own star, a certain
number of planets revolved, not in a
circle, but rather in an ellipsis ; —and
those stars, which at first sight may
appear stationary, are not so, but will be
found to travel, rising in the east and
setting in the west. The Sun follows
the same course, and its meridian may be
ascertained by a person in the middle of
the day holding his stick upright so that
it will cast its shadow. Ihe Sun is the
causeof all the seasons, and of the blessings
we derive therefrom :—the direct cause
of the seasons being the obliquity of the
axis of the earth to the orbit in which he
moves: —if, for example, the earth
inclined, with its axis perpendicular to
the radius of the orbit in which he moved,
there would be equal day and equal night
throughout the year. Thus it will be
seen that the Sun is not the centre of the
system. A subject of astonishment to
those who have not considered the matter
is, that the earth is nearer to the Sun by
four millions of miles on the 21st of
December than she is on the 25th of June :
—the explanation of it is this,—in
December the Sun’s rays fall more ob-
liquely—or rather not so vertically as
they do in June, and therefore there is
less heat in December than in June.
The ray falling in a vertical derection,
gives nore heat than that falling in an
oblique direction—and the oblique ray
also falls on a smaller space than does
the vertical ray : —hence the longer days
in summer, and the longer nights in
winter. The Sun has taught mankind to
divide time—he is the originator and
controller of time—time is, in fact, the
property, or accident of the Sun. Many
people suppose that there is nothing so
easy as to understand what time is. It is
by no means so easy a subject to under-
stand—for whoever should be asked for
a definition of time would be exceedingly
puzzled to give that definition. St.
Augustine said “what is time'? If no
one were to ask me the question I know
well enough; but if I wish to explain it
to any one inquiring of me, I do not
know.” Time has, indeed, no real,
actual existence of itself, but the notion
arises from the motion of events and
objects. Locke, who had considered and
wrote on the subject, confounded time
with eternity, and there are many persons
who think with him now that time is a
part of eternity. The lecturer denied
that eternity is capable of being divided
by time ; for mathematically speaking, a
part is something, which if mulliplied a
certain number of times, will give that of
which it is a part : for example, 2 is a
part of 6, and 3 is a part of 6 .—if 2 be
multiplied by 3 the multiplcation would
be 6 :—but multiply time as long as you
like, it will never become eternity itself.
He would now speak of the Sun in its
two-fold motion, for the purpose of
showing the two-fold division of time.
There was the rotatory motion, and the
progressive motion’. The first or rota-
tory, was the daily motion, when the
earth performs a complete revolution in
24 hours, having half her surface exposed
to the Sun s rays, and half free. That
gave a division which was useful to man
—a time for labour and a time for rest.
With nations but imperfectly civilized,
who were content to count on their fingers,
this was sufficient. It gave 365 days in
the year, which was called the solar year.
Thus the year measured by the Sun was
365 days—whereas measured by the
stars it was 366 days. It was impor-
tant therefore, before attempting to divide
time to know what time was. We have
a day it is true, but what is a day ?
There was the Sideral day and the
Solar day, and both of different lengths.
If the Sideral day was taken it would
not suit the business of mankind ; and if
the Solar day was taken for division,
there never would be formed days and
nights of the same length. Of Winds
the Rev. gentleman said there are three :
—the constant, the periodical, and the
variable. Heat has the property of
expanding the air—and the latter, when
expanded, ascends and becomes rarefied
in which process it forms a vacuum
which vacuum is tilled up by wind—and
the wind’s impetuosity is in proportion to
the degree of rarefaction of the air. The
first of these winds always blow, in one di-
rection, andprevailgenerally in 30degrees
north and south of the Equator. They are
called the trade winds. The periodical
winds blow six months in one direction,
and six months in another, and are called
the monsoons. The variable winds gene-
rally prevailing within the tropics, always
blow, in the day time, towards the sea,
and at night time towards the land. All
persons agree that the land is much more
affected by cold and heat than the sea is,
and that the sea has a more equable tem-
perament than the laud. This is in con-
sequence of the ratification of the air on
land and the constant blowing of the
wind towards the land, from sun-rise to
sunset. At night the reverse takes place
—the earth becomes cool, because she has
lost the Sun’s heat, which rarefies the air,
and creates a vacuum to be filled by
wind, and the ocean has an average tem-
perature. The Sun is also the fountain
of light, as well as of heat and motion.
A ray of light shot from the Sun, travels
to the earth in eight minutes. The dis-
tance between the sun and the earth is
reckoned at ninety-five millions of miles
—so that a ray of light travels at the rate
of about twelve millions of miles in a
minute —or two hundred and sixty thou-
sand miles in a second, or the beat of a
pendulum. There were two theories of
light:—one that it travelled with an un
dulatory motion like sound--or like the
undulations caused in a stream of water
by casting a stone in it; it being through
the undulatory motion of sound that it
reached every ear ; but the theory which
is most prevalent is, that light travels by
an indefinite number of luminous parti-
cles in a straight line, and so, falling
upon the optic nerve, produces the impres-
sion of light. The rays of the Sun fall
in a direct line, and, when they meet a
polished surface, are reflected or cast back
again. This falling of the lay in a di-
rect line produces what is known as the
angle of incidence and the angle of reflec-
tion, which are necessarily equal to each
other. This law was explained by an or-
dinary mirror, which, by means of quick-
silver, reflected back the image of man.
Another law of optics was, that if a ray
of light fell from one medium to another,
meeting an opposition, it was refracted—
—that is broken—or bent—or turned out
of its place. This might be explained
by putting a spoon into a glass of water :
—the spoon would appear crooked be-
cause the ray of light which fell upon
it met with an obstacle—and was turned
aside—or refracted. The reflection of a
ray of light was further explained by
reference to the Sun, which was often
seen before it was in sight—or before it
was said to have risen—because the light
from it was reflected. From this the lec-
turer was led to consider the formation of
the human eye—and the converging and
diverging of the rays of light upon it, ac-
cording to the extent of its convexity.
This portion of the subject was illustrated
by figures, which it would be impossible
to follow without explanatory drawing.
The principles upon which the lenses or
spectacles, were made, were drawn from
a knowledge of the convex portion of the
human eye. The lecturer’s next point
was a consideration of the properties of
the rainbow. According to Sir Isaac
Newton, who had made an experiment
on the subject, a rainbow was a ray of
light refracted into seven different rays,
of as many different colours, The top
ray was violet, and the rest followed in
succession : indigo, blue, green, yellow,
orange, and red. The proportion in
which their colours had been ascertained
was as follows : red, 45, orange 27,
yellow 40. green 60, blue, 60, orange 48,
and violet 80. When blended these co-
lours make a greyish white ; so that
white is not a colour but a compound. A
very critical notice of Lord Rosse’s tele-
scope was given by the lecturer, in illus-
tration of his views on optics. Lord Rosse,
he said, did not send all over the world
for men to assist him in his workman-
ship, but he took his own tenants and
made good workmen of them by his own
teaching.
Filing Newspapers. —One of the many
things which I have to regret, when I re-
view my past life, is, that I did not, from
my earliest youth, at least as soon as I
was able to do it, Jake and preserve—l
believe the technical word is ‘•file’
some good newspaper. How interesting
would it be now to a sexagenarian to look
into the papers which he read when he
was 12 or 16, or 20 years old ! How
many events would this call to mind
which he has entirely forgotten ! How
many interesting associations and feelings
would it revive ! What a view would it
give of past years ! What knowledge
would it preserve by assisting the memory !
And how many valuable purposes of e
literary kind even, might it be rendered
subservient to! Mow much do I wish
that I could look into such a record when
composing this short article. But news-
papers are quite different things now from
what they were 60 or even 20 years ago.
They are unspeakably more interesting and
valuable; in this respect at least, (I be-
lieve in many others,) these times are
belter than the former. Formerly, the
editors of newspapers were obliged to
strain their wits and exhaust their means
in order to obtain matter to fill their
pages ; now the great difficulty is to in-
sert all the valuable interesting materials
that are poured upon them from every part
of the world, and from every grade and
phase of society. Now newspapers con-
tain many of the best thoughts of the most
highlv-gifted men, on the most moment-
ous subjects, and their reports and state-
ments are far more accurate than they
formerly were or could be. They have
repudiated the character for lying they
once had, and have become records of
truth.— Correspondent of the H itish
Bonner.
A single piece of china, before it is
finished, employs forty hands, from the
man who pounds the flint, to the designer
and colourer.
The Past. —Whatever our notions are
regarding the past, one is sure that
nothing but the remembrance is. left be-
hind : there are events and actions that
have made a deep impression upon us,
not easily erased by the Anger of time,
and serve as the connecting chain to other
and minor events, and these shadows
become fainter as we advance in years.
There is a charm-in looking back upon
the past, a great moral truth to be learned
that nothing is surer than death; the
whole life of man is a changing scene,
from his Arst entrance upon the weary
pilgrimage of life to its end. Nothing is
sure. Still more solemn does this appear
when reading the history of the past ages ;
our minds are impressed with awe as we
turn a look upon the remains of those
mighty cities that once existed—cities
where once grandeur and splendour moved,
streets full of bustling life and activity,
where truth and error held conflict with
mighty tongues, and the throne whereon
conquering warriors sat in all the magni-
ficence of pomp. Men then lived, whose
breasts were animated with noble zeal
towards the senate and the common good—
fought, and bravely fought, against des-
potism that long struggled to crush them.
Where are they now? Nothing but an
epitaph is left ; the cities have become
buried and destroyed; and in many cases
no monuments are left to tell us whereon
they stood. As ages have rolled on they
have receded farther in the distance, and
others in their turn have Ailed their places.
Thus life is but a stage, where each one
plays his farce : being done, nought is
again heard of him, and death is the door
whereby he makes his exit; and cities are
but the scenes, and tune the scene-shifter.
Thoughts on the Hoad.
Printers’ Gratuities. —No class of
mechanics, perhaps, suffer more from the
predatory and begging habits of indivi-
duals than printers. They work so hard,
invest so much, and furnish their papers
so low, that people really seem to think
that they actually are worth nothing but
to be given away or to be taken without
leave. Accordingly, nothing is more
common than for people who have the
curiosity to read something that happens
to be particularly interesting, or who wish
to send a newspaper to a friend as a token
of remembrance, to run into a printing
oifice and ask for, or take, a paper just
out of the press, and if the printer should
think of asking him anything for it, the
customer would think himself quite in-
sulted by the niggardliness of the stingy
piinter. With what other mechanics or
business men would people think of taking
the same liberties ? Go into the grocery
and ask the retailer to give you fourpence-
halfpenny’s worth of tea, coffee, or sugar ;
unless you are really an object of charity,
he would probably think himself the one
imposed upon. Or visit a book-store,
and make off with a half dozen sheets
of writing paper, and most likely the pro-
prietor will pursue his customer with a
writ of petty larceny. Go into a joiner s
shop, and ask him to give you six cents’
worth of his wares, and you will feel as
if you were engaged in cheap business.
And yet people will enter a printing
office, take six cents’ worth of a printers’
labour, and really think it is one of that
sort of things which should be given away,
because the paper is printed. A clean
white sheet he would think too valuable
to be extracted -without pay ; and yet it
costs a printer thirty-five dollars every
week to set up the types that are impressed
upon the sheet to make it worthless 1 No
no ; this is not the way to do business.
If you want a paper and will not subscribe
for it, as all honorable men do, just step
into the office, and laying down a silver
bit, say, “ Sir, if you please let me have
one of yonr papers, and take that to pay
for it.” You will be readily accommo-
dated, and then be seated (not looking
over the shoulder of the compositor to
read his manuscript,! or retire and read
your own paper like a man of good con-
science and honourable principles.
Maine Cultivator.
Electric Light. —Numerous experi-
ments have lately been made in Paris with
regard to electric light; the objects of
which were to give the electric spark a
continuous light, which would admit of
its being employed for the lighting of
public buildings, theatres, work-rooms,
&c. By means of a tube constructed upon
a new principle, a placard placed at the
distance of a kilometre was perfectly le-
gible. On the Stage of the Palais Royal,
an electric spark was thrown upon one of
the worst of the scene-pieces, and pro-
duced a light equal to that of day, and
completely overcame that of the lamps.
No less than 4,150 tons of wood and
paste toys are annually exported from the
town of Sonneburgh, in Germany.
Dr. Johnson in his dictionary, defines,
a garrit “ as a room on the highest floor
of the house and a cockloft as “ the
room over the garret,”
An Artist in New York painted an imita-
tion ofa bottle of soda water so naturally,
that the cork flew out before he could paint
the string to fasten it.
A Small Animals’ Friend Society. —Three
full-bodied dandified “ gents” applied at a livery-
stable, before the railway era, fur the hire of a
horse and gig to take them to Brighton and back
in one day. ’■ What 1” exclaimed the job-master,
” you surely would not drive a poor beast un-
wards of a hundred miles in a day?” * Vynot?"
said one of the applicants *• we’ve all got tips ?"
“G' is so very close.” it was observed, • he
will squahble about a farthing ” •• Well,” re-
mark'd W ”1 have always thought that the
less one squabbles about the better ”
ill'Cabe, in his Note-book of a Reporter, gives
the following definition of a gentleman, on the
authority of an Irish cook. “ A raal gintleman
is one that never earned a ha’p’orth for himself or
any one belonging to him ”
Feline Electricity —A correspondent of
the Gardner's Chronicle states that when the cat
is cold in winter, and you are cold too, if you pul
one hand on the cat’s chest, and then rub the
bick with the other hand, you will (a Frenchman
has just found out) receive a sharp shock, and
two or three weeks after the cat will probably die.
A Pleasant Vai kdiotion. — Beforethe Bishop
of New Zealand departed, from England, the
Rev Sydney Smith in raking leave, affected
to impress upon his friend the dangers Of his
mission. ” You willfind,” be srid, ‘ in preaching
to cannibals, that their attention, instead of-bting
occunied by the spirit, wilt be concentrated on
the flesh ; fur I am told that they never breakfast
without a cold missionary on the sideboard ” In
shaking hands with the new prelate as he was
leaving the house, the reverend wit added ‘ Good
bye. We shall never mcetagain; but let us hope
that you may thoroughly disagree with the sa-
vage who eats you.”
Deacon Marvig. of Connecticut, a large land-
owner, and an exemplary man, was exceedingly
eccentric in some of his notions. His court-
ship is said to have been as follows :—Having
one day mounted his horse, with only a sheep-
skin for a saddle, he rode in front of the house
where Betty Lee lived, and without dismount-
ing requested Betty Lee to come to him ; on
her coming he told her that the Lord had sent
him to ra»rry her. Betty replied, “ The Lord’s
will be done.”
On his death-bed, a distinguished humorist re-
quested that no oue might be invited to his
funeral, “ because,” gasped out the dying man,
“ It is a civility I can never repay ”
“ Young women beautiful. What is it that
comes after women !” “ It’s the fellers, to be
sure ; they are always arter the young women.”
“ That will do.”— American paper.
Merit of Goodness. —lt is no merit to be
good when there is no opportunity of being bad.
Remember, virtue should be estimated, not by
its duration, but by the temptations it lias re-
sisted. Reputation is a bright but brittle gem :
while sparkling on the forehead, it dazzles all
eyes with its glittering radiance; but if roughly
handled, shows its fragile nature, and shivers
almost at the first touch.
By a degree of the Landreth of the Canton
of (Haris, in Switzerland, all the young men are
interdicted from marriage before they are 22
years of age, and the females before they are
20. J
l here are in London 2,000 master bakers, and
9,000 journeymen.
lo Clean and Tighten Cane-work in
General.— Turn the chair-bottoms, &c , and
with hot water and a sponge wash the cane-work
thoroughly, so that it may be woll soaked.
Should it be dirty, you may add soap; let it dry
in the open air, and you will find it as tight and
firm as when new, provided the cane is not
broken.
Men are frequently like tea—the real strength
and goodness is not properly drawn out of them
till they have been for a short time in hot water.
A Soldier and afear’d ?” A curious re-
velation is made in the Athenaum of Saturday,
respecting the treatment of an artist by a com-
mittee of the United Service Club. It seems
that Mr. Marshall Claxton painted for the West-
minster Hall competition, a picture, the subject
of which was, the burial of Sir John Moore.
Not having found a purchaser, Mr. Claxton very
handsomely presented the work to the United
Service Club : and it was to all appearance
eagerly accepted. Having been presented and
received, the members of the club seem to have
thought that with the painting they had a fur-
ther right to the artist’s services. First they
requested from him a key to his picture, and this
Mr. Claxton sent. Then they expressed a wish
for an alteration in the costume of the officers :
and that Sir David Baird might make way, in
the picture for somebody else, on some small
point of chronology. Their next demand coolly
suggests that the light should be altered—the
light of the picture, be it observed—to adapt
it (we suppose) to its place, the billiard room
instead of the library, its original destination—
instead of the usual plan of making the place
suit the light of the picture. Next, Mr. Clax-
ton is informed that “some gentlemen had pro-
posed covering up the face of Sir John Moore.”
L istly Mr. Claxton is desirous to take his pic-
ture back again. “ But,” says our conternpory,
“ *>y the richest bit remains behind. The
reason assigned by these soldiers for finally re-
questing the withdrawal of the picture exceeds'
anything we know of in the farce. The chair-
man of the committee informed Mr. C. that it
was to be removed because some of the members
objected to sit in the room with a picture of a
dead body ! It would scarcely have been more
ludicrous if such an objection had come from
Surgeons’-hall. The fop described by Shaks-
peare, who loved civet and could not bear to
have * an unmanly corpse’ brought 4 between the
wind and his nobility’ is intelligible, but a soldier
uneasy in the presence of a dead body (it being
his trade to make them) —yea, more, at the mere
picture of a dead body—it is a suggestion which
have exceeded the limits of caricature. ‘ What
do you come frightening delicate females with
your nasty corpses for ? says the old woman at
Sairy Gamp’s door to Mr. Pecksniff; ‘you are
old enough and ugly enough to know better/
1 his sudden burst of conscientious confession
throws a new and unexpected light on their
desire to hive the jace af Sir Join Moore
covered up.
Synonymous. —Lover tells a good anecdote
of an Irishman giving the pass-word at the
battle of Fontenoi, at the time Saxe was Mar-
shal, “I he pass-word is Saxe, now don’t
forget it,” said the Colonel to Pat. “ Faix !
and I will not, was’nt my father a miller?”
“ Who goes there ?” cried the sentinel, after he
arrived at the post. Pat looked as confidently
as possible, and in a sort of whispered howl,
replied, “ Bags, your honour.”
A Severe Disappointment.— At the meeting
of the British Association at Oxford, the geo”
logical section made an excursion. The natives
of the explored region were very much at a
loss to conjecture what it all meant. The
vehicles, the number and sturday appearance of
some of the excursionists, and, so far as they
could see, the absence of all motive for the
gathering, puzzled the country people exceed-
ingly. At last, when a party, who had formed
a circle round Dr. Buckland to hear his expla-
nation of the conformation of the surrounding
country, had broken up and was leaving the
ground, one wondering native was heard to
remark to another, in a tone of severe disap-
pointment, “ I say, Roger, why, dang me, if it
ar ’nt all over. They’ve broke up the ring, and
there ar’nt going to be no fight arter all.”
Scottish Square Measure. —A public dinner
in Edinburgh had dwindled away to two guests,
an Englishman and a Highland gentleman, who
were each trying to prove the superiority of
their native countries. Of course, at an argu-
ment of this kind, a Scotchman possesses, from
constant practice, overwhelming advantages.
The Highlander’s logic was so good that he
beat his opponent at every point: at last the
Englishman puta c poser. “ You will,” he said,
“ at least admit that England is larger in extant
than Scotland ?” “ Certainly not,” was the
confident reply. “ You see, sir, ours is a moun-
tainous, yours is a flat country. Now, if all our
hills were rolled out /at, we should beat you by
hundreds of square miles.”
Time to Go —An up country gallant, not long
since went over to see his * bright particular,”
and after sitting for nearly half a day without say-
ing a word, at last got up and aaid :—“ Well I
reckon it’s gettin’ feedin’ time—l must be goin/
Well, a good evenin’ to you all, Miss Nancy ”
** Can you swim, air?” asked an Irishman of a
traveller who was about to attempt a swollen ford.
“ Not 1,” was the reply. “ Och thin.” said Fat,
” as its deep in some parts, the only safe plan for
your honour, will be to walk straight back again
as soon ns ever you get out of your depth !*
Graphic —A letter writer says, that if you
would have an idea of the ocean in a storm—just
imagine ten thousand hills and four thousand
mountains, all drunk, and chasing one another
over newly-ploughed ground, with lots of caverns
in it tor them to step into now aud then.
THE EYE PLEASED—THE HEAD
FITTED THE POCKET CON-
SULTED.
Ventilated French «e Beaver Hats.
HAS in stock an endless variety of the
above of the latest fashions. Hats to
any shape or •width of brim finished to order at
a short notice. Fancy cloth or silk velvet caps
of the latest Paris end London fashions. Hat-
ters* trimmings, gold cord, &c.
French Hat Manufactory.
77, Market-street..
REMOVAL.
jjj HOMAS BYRNES begs to apprise
• his sporting fr ; endsand the public generally
he has removed from the “Forbes Hotel” to
those spacious premises at the corner of York
and King-streets, ’recently occupied by Mr,
o‘Dovvd, where he hopes to meet with the same
liberal encouragement which has been awarded
him since bis commencement in business.
The choicest selections of Spirits, Wines, Ales,
03 &c., kept on hand.
[advertisement.)
GENERAL ELECTION.
The writs are all issued, and Dickinson stands
For city and borough, and far squatting lands :
His qualifications cannot be denied
While his principles always are on the right side
Unfurling his flag for a superfine end,
He asks for support as a general triend :
He honors the cloth ; pays his court to the fleece
And adds to the exports’ and imports* increase
He deals with the factor, and ne’er can you find
Such cloths, tweeds, and doeskins made up to
your mind:
East, west, north, south travel—in vain will you
seek
For Wrappers so stylish, and Sacks so unique :
His Codringtons’, Waterfords’, Paletots delight
The wearer by warmth—the beholder by sight;
He has tartans and checks too for Scotia true,
Bright green for Quid Erin, for England true
blue;
While tricolored France and America’s race
Will find for an outrig his shop is the place.
Thus useful to all, he your voices demands,
And looks to be met with a full show of hands
Then rush to the poll with your plumpers and
vote
For Dickinson —sure that he’ll ne’er turn his
coat!
WILL DAVIS,
GAS HOTEL, K K NT-STREET
NORTH,
KNOWN BY THE
ILLUMINATED CLOCK,
BEGS to return his sincere thanks to
his friends and the public, and to apprize
them that he liks taken the above Hotel, where
he hopes, by assiduity and attention, combined
with the best articles in the trade, to ensure
their patronage, which he can with confidence
appeal to the sporting world as having ever
endeavoured to merit.
As an Old Friend under the new appellation
of a Boniface he thus respectfully solicits a
continuance of the patronage of his numerous
riends. * 71
JG. WALLER particularly calls
• the attention ot the public to the follow,
ing Wines and Spirits, &c., with their cash
Wine and Spirit Merchant,
Bank of Australia Buildings, George-street. 6
ON SALE,
AT THE STORES OF
52 □
40, MARKET-STREET.
PEAS, OF VARIOUS BRANDS
A Sugars, raw and refined
kies, Battens
Mustard, Coleman’s
ALSO
The usual assortment of groceries, at the
lowest remunerating prices.
Good salt butter, at 6d. per lb.
WHIPS! WHIPS'! WHIPS!!!
3 ®
WHIP MANUFACTURER,
NO. 382, GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Savings* Bank,
BEGS respectfully to intimate to his
friends, and the public generally, that he
has on hand a magnificent and varied assortment
of the very best whip materials, lately invoiced
to him, and not to be excelled for durability and
beauty, by the first London houses. The silver
mountings are unique and appropriate, and pre-
sent faithful delineations of horses, dogs, birds,
foxes, &c.
PS.—Tandem,gig,.four-horse, riding, jockey,
and every other description of whip, made to
order, repaired, &c.
WAR WITH RUSSIA.
BMOUNTCASTLE hastens to assure
• the public, that the war in Europe has
not stopped his usual supply of materials for
the manufacture of French hats, of which he
has received a large assortment, ex Seringa,
parturn, and other late arrivals ; and he is now
enabled to off«*r his celebrated patent ventilated
Exuder hats (so much enquired after) warranted
to keep the head cool in the very hottest
weather. These hats are absolutely necessary
to any gentleman exposed to the heat of the
sun, and they have the advantage also of being
perfectly watertight.
Best b>*aver hats, ladies* riding hats made to
order. An extensive assortment of velvet and
cloth fancy caps gold navy lace, gold cord,
livery bands, &c«
French Hat Manufactory,
77, Market-street.
NEW AND FASHIONABLE
CLOTHING.
H HAYES AND CO., hasten to
• announce to their customers and the
public generally, that they have received, ex
Seringapat m, a large assortment of now
goods, of the most fashionable description, to
which they respectfully invite an early inspec-
tion.
These goods having been selected expressly
for the Sydney market, H. H. and Co-,-are en-
abled to recommend them to their friends with
the utmost confidence of their giving satisfac-
tion ; especially as it is their fixed determina-
tion to make up the articles at the very lowest
prices—for cash
The assortment comprises, broadcloths of all
shades and colours, fancy doeskins of every de-
scription shawl patterns, upwards of a hundred
varieties; tartan and plaits innumerable, fancy
silks, satins, velvets, operaties, stocks, braces,
&c., &c , &c.
The trade supplied with cut lengths at rea-
sonable prices.
H. HAYES AND CO.,
Naval and Military Tailors,
George street.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
JAMES CHARLES THORNTON,
respectfully informs his friends, and the
public in general, that he has removed from that
part of the labour Bazaar lately occupied by
him, to Mr. George Hill’s buildings, 216, Pitt-
street, where he will be able to work for his
customers at much lower charges than he has
ever been able to make, having reduced his
expenses to one third what they have been.
N.B.—All work warranted as usual, in writ-
ing. No tarred rope used in flax Mattresses,
or dyed flax in hair work.
LO^T,
A N Oil Painting of “ Mine Uncle,”
.IA. in the act of “ taking in ” his faff, [The
soi-disant relative who has forked out halt a
bull for this advertisement, affectionately re-
marked the execution of his gallows clever
“ Nunkey.”
REMOVAL.
MR. GILEILLAN, portrait painter,
' i. £ J
&c. has removed from Gloucester-street
to No. 2 Harriugton-street. 73
Si©® S 3 S3® Q
LUNCHEON, DINING, AND SUPPER
ROOMS,
TAVERN, corner of Pitt
-streets, Economy, variety
niton. N. B._Any hour.
billiards.
The most modem Billiard Table imported
and made to the undersigned’s especial order
hy Thurston is at the Kail,bow Corner of Pitt
and King-streets.
J. w. ROCHE.
OP
THE WOOL-PACK INN,
near the hay Market,
SYDNEY,
OEGS to inform his Friends in town
-U and country, and the Public generally
toat lie lias r.c ntly received, direct from
London and to his eape. ial order, through the
house of Swain, YVebu and Co, an extensive
supply of
REAL JAMAICA RUM,
selected with great care by one of the most
eminent judges of the article, and that he is
now ready to accept orders for any quantity of
the above wholesome liquor, irum a bottle to a
puncheon, either in or out of bond, upon the
MI. wing terms:—
Bottled, per dozen 245.
In wood, per gallon ]2s
Publicans and others in the trade wall, upon
taking a large quantity, meet with a corres-
ponding liberality.
Wpr ell a Brandy, with a choice selection of
Wines, Ales, &c., always on hand.
'I he advertiser would respectfully call the
further attention of gentlemen from the intctior,
to the commodious alteia ions uhich have of
late been effected in his establishment, enabling
him to offer visitors to the metropolis comfort,
able and convenient quarters during their stay
iu Sydney. '
The premises adjoining the WOOL PACK
ate so universally knowu to possess capaciius
yards lor teams, with ample and economical
accomodation for their attendants, that it
seems superfluous here to enlarge upon them.
June 25, 1818
Rainbow
and King
cumforl, and atte
STOCKTON CLOTHS, TWEEDS,
BUCKSKINS, DOESKINS, &c.
MESSRS. FISHER k DONALDSON
BEG to impress upon both wholesale
and retail purchasers of their Cloths, that
great advantages are secured theui hy the lale
arrangement* effected at their
ESTABLISHMENT IN KING STREET,
where transactions take place immediately with
the Mafiirractwers, thereby giving tie pur.
chaser the ben* ht «*f what otherwise would he
thrown into the pockets of Agents and their
deputies
l
THE THOROUGH-BRED ARAB HORS!
iiaswinaiis
(Imported by Mr. Plaistowe,)
STAND, at Wollingary, an
y * travel through Jamberoo, Dapto, an
Wollongong.
TERMS:
For one Mare £%,.
Groom’s fee, sb.
To persons sending more than two mares
(bona fide their own property) a reduotion will
be made.
Application to be made to the owner, at
Wollingary Dapto.
WILLIAM J. BROWNE.
JAMES SPRING is requested to com-
municate with his Imither, in Sydney.
Address, “ Marion *• Cottage, Prince street
North
July 18, I^4S.
To Clerks of Courses—Secretaries of Ycctching,
Cricket , and Rifle Ctubs—Members of Pigeon
Matches—Players at Quoits — Ringers , Wrest-
lers, Pugilists Pedestrians Cockers
Dog Fanciers—and every other species of
sportsmen. fVe shall, at all times , feel
greatly indebted for any authentic infor-
mation, edher past or future , having reference
to the chosen sports of any of the above.
THE SPORTING TIMES is published every
Saturday morning. Country Subscribers will
be received, on payment of Six Months in
Advance, viz.—Thirteen Shillings 'Parties
subscribing in the middle of a quarter will only
be charged from their commencing. Teams
or Advertising—2s. 6d. for the first inch and
under, and Is. for every additional inch, each
insertion. Advertisements must specify on
the face of them the number of iusertions, or
they will be continued, and charged accord-
ingly till .countermanded.
Agents ißbquibed in the Various Disaraicxs.—
Those gentlemen who feel disposed to act, if
not previously known to Mr. Johnson, will
be good enough to forward as early as pas-
sible Sydney references.
TOWN AGENTS.
Mr. I). Donovan King-street, near the
Rainbow Tavern.
„ Moore George-street, oppo-
site the old Burial
Ground.
„ Benjamin Sims ...... Parraraatta-street.
COUNTRY AGENTS.
Mr. £. Mason Parramatta
„ John Anderson* ... Penrith
„ Charles L. Bay ley... Carapbelltown.
„ Michael Doyle* ... Berrima
„ William Hunt* Queanbeyan
„ Wm. Moore, C. Con. Ipswich,Moreton Bay
„ James Powers* Brishane, >»
„ J. M. Townshend ... Wollombi.
„ Joseph Matthews*... Wellington
„ Harry Evans Arraidale, New Eng.
„ John Tait* Bathurst
„ Simpson Gundagai.
~ John Dingwall Wollongong
* Those marked so are Innkeepers.
fiSt' Where Agencies are not formed, gentle-
men wishing to have the papier regularly for
warded must communicat with the Office in
Sydney, and enclose the required advanc, of,
at least , 13s. Our Agents moreover are re-
quested to bear in mind, that in no case nil
the name of a Subscriber be received unless
he has complied with the regulation relative
to prepayment. ,
