

THE SPORTING TIMES.
“EVERY MAN TO HIS HUMOUR.”
No. 2.
SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1848.
Price 6d.
THE LATE EXECUTION.
Tub vengeance of the law was duly car-
ried into effect on Tuesday last upon the
unhappy wretch, Fyfe. A rope was !
placed round his neck, and he was swung
from off a gallows like a dog. Thus, the
cravings of the law was sated with the
blood of another victim. It is neither
our province, nor would it be our desire,
to question for a moment the verdict
which doomed him to such an ignominious
fate. But, there was a circumstance con-
nected with his trial and execution which
is not undeserving of notice.
When arraigned, Fyfe pleaded “Not
Guilty.” After the Jury had returned
their verdict of “ Guilty,"he protested, in
the most emphatic manner, his innocence
of the crime of which he been convicted.
He was brought from the dock to the
felon’s cell ; where he had sufficient time
allowed him to justify himself to his own
conscience, as to the truth or falsehood of
his asseveration. He was there zealously
attended by two Christian and reverend
gentlemen, who afforded him the consola-
tions of religion, and impressed upon
him the sacred duty of making the only
atonement to the community of which he
was a member that he could then offer -
by acknowledging his guilt—if he were
really guilty. To those good Samatitans
he reiterated his protestations of inno-
cence—and at that try ing, terrible moment
when, if a man be possessed of the least
spark of religion, he would welcome the
rope or the dagger, sooner than appear
before his Creator, with the lie gasped from
his lips, as life parted from his body—he
repeated those declarations. Whether he
spoke falsely or truly, the Searcher of all
hearts only can judge.
There was one circumstance, however,
connected with the termination of the unfor-
tunate man's career, which has been made
a subject of public comment, and which
calls for further investigation. It appears
that Fyfe, in the interval of his trial and
death, drew up a document which it was
his desire to read on the gallows. This
paper he placed under his vest before
being led out for execution. On arriving
on the fatal platform he sought for the
manuscript—but sought in vain. Accord-
ing to Mr. Ritchie’s letter in Thursday’s
Herald, he had been “surreptitiously”
deprived of it. In other words, a theft
had been practised upon the miserable
man, by some underling of the gaol.
Now, we should like to know, whence
came the “ authority” to perpetrate such
an outrage upon a dying man’s feelings'?
It may be very well for Mr. this officer
or Mr. that officer, or another public ser-
vant to shelter his misdeeds under the
shield of authority. But the voice of
humanity demand a prior consideration.
It is alledged that it is contrary to the
“ Rules” in such cases, to allow culprits
to read documents from the gallows.
This may or may not be case. But if
it be so, why not inform the prisoner of
fact? Why not undeceive him on the
point? Why not candidly and humanely
tell him that he would not be permitted
to gratify his desire? Why heap addi-
tional torture on his wearied mind by lett-
ing him believe for a moment that he could
address the public in such a form ? And,
after thus cruelly trifling with the wretched
beings feelings. Why, filch the paper
from him as he was leaving his cell to
undergo the dreadful ordeal awaiting
him ?
We must confess that we cannot recon-
cile the trick practised upon Fyfe with
any sense of decency or humanity. It
was a gross outrage upon both. And no
matter how callous or indifferent those
functionaries may be whose duly it is to
officiate over criminals in their last mo-
ments, there is a general feeling abroad,
that the unfortunate sufferer was made the
dupe of an unworthy and inhuman arti-
fice.
THE ENGLISH RING.
THE LITTLE GO
BETWEEN M'GRANE OF BIRMING-
HAM AND SMITH OF CHELTEN-
HAM.
(From Bell's Life in London, Feb. 20.)
This match was evidently got up as a
makeweight to the more serious business
of the day* M'Grane is a sprig from the
Birmingham school—we suspect of Irish
extraction—weighing somewhere about
Bst., and Smith is from Cheltenham,
weighing perhaps some two or three
pounds heavier than M'Grane. £2O
a-side was the sum for which they were
to fight, and for which they were most
anxious to contend, notwithstanding the
distaste with which everybody seemed in-
clined to regard farther proceedings
in the ring. The near approach of the
time appointed for the return of the spe-
cial train was urged as a reason for de-
ferring the contest to some future day ;
but there evidently existed a strong desire
that the men should be gratified, and they
commenced operations with mutual good-
will, M'Grane, attended by Macdonald
and Solid Coates, and Smith by Young
Sambo and M'lntyre. The mill was pro- j
traded for fifteen rounds, during which
the lads peppered away with evident zest j
and, although M'Grane was the favorite
at 6 and 7 to 4, it struck us that Smith
had the best of the game. At this season,
however, time became so precious, and
the probability of a termination of the
battle so remote, that it was deemed ex-
pedient to drop the curtain and leave the
heroes to fight out their battle on a future
day. All then rushed to the station, the
up-train shortly after made its appear-
ance, and the multitude regained those
seats for which they had paid so dearly,
with suah unprofitable results. All were
then safely wafted back to the Kent-road,
and shortly before nine o’clock were dis-
tributed in anxious groups to the quarters
from whence they had come.
To London the news of Walker’s de-
feat had been conveyed through the me-
dium of the electric telegraph soon after
four o’clock, and was published in some
of the evening journals. In spite of this
the wrong “ office” was purposely given,
and those who were ignorant of the truth,
foolishly dropped in the hole which had
been ingeniously dug for their reception,
and we were informed that many persons
lost serious sums in thus backing infor-
mation by which they had been purposely
misled. The conduct of Johnny Walker
was canvassed with unsparing freedom,
and no doubt seemed to exist that he had
wilfully and deliberately deceived his
friends to his own profit. Maledictions
against him were loud and deep, and on
the ensuing day he was not to be seen in
any- of his usual haunts. He did not
make his appearance either at Tom
Spring's or at the Coal Hole, and evi-
dently shunned the presence of those
whom he had so grossly deceived, and to
whosekindnessand sympathies he had been
so deeply indebted. Declarations were
publicly made that bets would not be paid,
and an advertisement appeared in a morn-
ing paper, calling on those who lost money
on the fight to withhold payment until an
investigation takes place.
SUPPLEMENT TO “ OUR GAZETTE.”
Every sporting house in and out of
London has, throughout the week, echoed
with expressions of contempt towards the
“ renowned Johnny,” aud all sorts of
stories have been told to confirm the be-
lief that he was a thief and not a coward.
At Tattersall s the same feeling prevailed ;
but although very diligent, we have been
unable to discover anything tangible on
which to base a sound opinion. It is said
that before the fight came off he prevented
a friend from laying 60 to 40 on him ;
but this may have arisen from an honest
as well as a dishonest desire to save his
friend's money. The thing is altogether
inexplicable. The backers of Walker
lean to the opinion that cowardice was at
the bottom of his voluntary defeat, and
say they do not feel justified in directing
that the stakes shall be withheld, conse-
quently they will be handed over to Lane
on Thursday evening as already announ-
ced, at Johnny Broome’s, unless sufficient
reason shall be previously assigned to the
contrary. 1 he rule of the Ring is, that
“ bets go with the battle money,” but it
cannot be disguised that several persons
“ will not pay.” This is a matter over
which we have no controul ; fortunately
we did not hold any bets. Had we done
so we should have feit ourselves bound to
abide by the rules of the Ring. We shall
be at Broom's on the night appointed, and
we have earnestly to request, if any light
can be thrown on the subject, that no false
delicacy will prevent persons coming for-
ward. We hope Johnny Walker, who has
kept away from his best friends, will feel
it his duty to be present, and, if possible,
explain away the suspicions to which his
conduct has given rise. Men do not like to
face disgrace ; but if his nature, and not
his want of integrity, has placed him in
his present fallen position, he ought to
have no hesitation in confessing the truth,
and throwing himself on the lenient con-
sideration of those who had formed a
wrong estimate of his qualities.
We had written this far when “Miles Boy”
gave us a call, and in justice to Walker we
give the substance of his “ nosings.’’ He
says that on Wednesday Walker was trapp-
ing about trom house to house on the other
side of the water, and at last found his way
to the tap of the Elephant and Castle, then
filled with people “ wot love a fight,” and
who had dropped their “ tin.” These parties
pitched into the “ Bad man,” and accused
him of dishonesty. At first he fenced with
his accusers, and spoke of a pain having
attacked him across the chest (a new dodge).
This only produced a laugh at his expense,
with an observation that his chest contained
something more black than the plague—a
false and deceptive heart. He became a
little more excited, and spoke of licking Tom
Lane in a canter, and offered to fight any
man of his weight, or give half a stone, for
£5OO, adding that he would go and fetch a
1001, to make the match. Further badinage
followed, and in an imprudent moment he
complained that he had been used d—d ill
by his backers, and that it was £5O out of
pocket, not knowing the “ whereabouts” in
time. This was followed at last by a declar-
ation that he had “ chucked” the fight—he
had fought long enough, he said, for the
public, and he had now fought for himself,
and had taken care of what he had got.
Upon being remonstrated with about his
conduct to his noble backers, he threw out a
hint that if they said anything to him he
would “ knock in the front of their heads.’’
Our friend “Miles” added that the same
evening he went to the Surrey Coal Hole,
and was there quite “ at home,” going in
and out of the bar and parlour as if it was
his own crib, and finally “ standing cham-
pagne’’ to all imbibers—a generous pro-
fusion, which he continued till morning had
far advanced. This for a loosing man was a
little enigmatical; but, said “ the boy,” I
verily believe the house is his—that it was
taken for him before the fight, and that be-
fore six weeks have passed away he will, in
his own estimation, be as great, if not as
large, a man as his late friend the host of
the Coal Hole in the Strand. All this,
“ Mile’s Boy” says, there are numerous
witnesses to prove; and we state it openly,
not for the purpose of prejudicing Walker,
but for the purpose of letting him know
what is said and believed, in order that he
may take the earliest opportunity of putting
his traducers to the blush, by proving that
they have indulged iu malicious slander.
That he may relieve himself from such
black and, we trust groundless imputations,
is our most anxious hope ; for. however we
might be disposed to pardon natural pusil-
lanimity, we could never palliate black in-
gratitude.
A distant relation of “ Miles” has also
whispered to us a story which is afloat, that
the losses in the higher circles are much
greater than we iniaginod, and that one
young" Freshman’’just “ come on the town’’
had dropped two thousand! Of this we must
declare our disbelief: nevertheless if "high
game” has been victimised, wo venture to
hope there will be no delicacy in speaking
“ the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth.’’ We have a straightforward duty
to perform, and however incredulous we may
be in reference to all we hear from interested
parties, we shall, as we ever have, stand by
the public, and justify the confidence they
have done us the honour of reposing in us.
We invite the most searching investigation,
and most heartily do we pray “ the saddle
may be put on the right horse,’’ although we
are prepared to believe that nine-tenths of
what we have heard ara mereiy the out-
pourings of vexation, influenced by disap-
pointed confidence.
A rumour reached us that Walker had been
maltreated by some persons in the Borough ;
but this we have reason to believo is not true,
although " a plant’’ waited upon him for that
purpose, but did not meet with the instrument
who was to "do the deed.” This fact renders
us less willing to yield crodence to much of
what wo have heard, and to hope more fer-
vently that Johnny will, as quickly as possible
prove that he has not changed his cognomen
to “ Hookey," and that although Badman by
name, he is not altogether the Bad-man his
enemies would insinuate. It witl take much
to satisfy us, however, that he has paid proper
respect either to his backers or to his friends
on this side of the water, by abandoning
them and figuring away with unblushing"
effrontery on the other,
Tom Lane returned to Birmingham on
Wednesday, where he was received with
open arms. *• Wlio’d a thought it ? cried the
sceptical hardware boys ; and may be they
did regret their want of confidence. He is
to bo at Broome’s again to-morrow evening,
where he will preside at a sing-song.
The Veteran Tom Cribb.— "Look upon this
picture and look on that.’ We mentioned in our
last that a gallant Admiral of the blue in Scot-
land had forwarded £lO to Torn Spring for the
benefit of poor old Tom Cribb, now on the
threshold of the grave, in sadness and distress,
since which we have had the great gratification
of receiving a check for i 20 from a noble Earl,
who in the palmy days of the Ring witnessed and
appreciated the invincible courage and incorrup-
tible honesty of the ex .champion. From the
Bishop of Bond-street, always on the alert to
support true gallantry, we have also received
505., including a sovereign from one of the old
Barclay school. Jem Burns likewise, his heart
always open to melting charity, has given us two
sovereigns, and a promise to put up to raffle a
painting in his possession, belonging to Tom
Cribb, of the renowned Broughton and Slack,
the produce to be handed to the owner. Johnny
Broome has in like manner put his mite of two
sovereigns in “ the lucky bag,” and we hope ere
long to be enabled to prove substantially to the
venerable patriarch of British Boxing, that such
conduct as his has been through life leaves an
impression which can never be effaced, and when
needed is sure to receive the sympathies of his
fellow men, who appreciate honourable conduct
in whatever form exhibited. Let Johnny Walker
and men of his kidney look at this picture and
then look in the glass, and if they do not change
colour it is because their mugs are colourless.
THE ACCOUTREMENTS OF AN
ARCHER.
Sir, —Having in my last letter offered a
few observations on the pleasures and ad-
vantages of archery as an amusement, I
proaeed, according to my promise, to a
description of the proper Accoutrements
of an Archer. I must, however, premise
that the only object of these letters being
to induce the uninitiated and inexperienced
to engage in the practice of archery, I
shall confine myself to a mere sketch or
outline of the art, and not attempt any
thing like a regular treatise. Mr. War-
ing's useful little manual, and the more
elaborate work of Mr. Roberts, have
nearly exhausted the subject, and will
furnish every information that can be de-
sired.
The Accoutrements of a modern Archer
consist of the Bom with its String —the
Arrow or Shaft the Bracer —the
Shaoting-glove—Belt and Tassel.
The Bows used in the present day are
of two sorts, viz., self-bows and backed
bows. Self bows are such as are com-
posed of one entire piece of wood, and
appear to- have been the only kind known
to the English till about the end of the
sixteenth century. Up to that period our
bows were almost universally made of
foreign yew, the growth of the Italian
states, or of some of the countries border-
ing on the Levant, and imported into
England from Venice, at that time the
great emporium for all the commodities
of the East; British yew was seldom
used, being found too knotty and less
elastic or quick of cast, than that grown
in warmer climates. The relative value
of the two sorts of yew may be ascer-
tained from a statute of Queen Elizabeth,
which regulates the price of bows, and
directs that when a bow of English yew is
sold for two shillings, one of foreign yew
may be sold for six shillings and aight-
pence.
When the use of fire -arms became more
general in this country, the enactments
and regulations for securing a constant
supply of foreign bow-staves soon ceased
to be observed, and the bow-makers, after
repeated complaints and remonstrances,
were obliged to have recourse to woods of
native growth for the purposes of their art.
These, however, being found upon trial
to be in every respect inferior, led to the
invention of what are termed backed-
bows, which, instead of being, like a
self- bow, composed of one piece of wood,
consist of two separate pieces, the main
part formed of a springy and elastic wood
with a slip of ash or some other tough
wood glued to it.
Bows are of various lengths, and should
always be adapted to the power to be ap-
plied in drawing them ; ladies’ bows are
in general about five feet long, but for men
they are made from five feet six inches to
five feet ten, according to their strength.
Most bows, it will be observed, have a
mark immediately over the handle, which
shows the number of pounds weight it
takes suspended to the string, to draw the
bow down to the length of the arrow. And
this, perhaps, is the best criterion. Fifty
pounds is the standard weight, and to draw
a bow of sixty pounds requires more than
an ordinary degree of strength ; ladies’
bows are from twenty-four pounds to
thirty.
The handle, in order that the grasp may be
firmer, is covered with velvet or worsted lace.
It is generally about five inches deep, and is
placed, not in the centre of the bow, but under
it. The lower limb is thus rendered shorter
than the upper by the depth of the handle, and
consequently, when drawn to the full extent of
the arrow; is exposed to a much greater strain,
and very liable to be broken. To remedy this,
it is always made proportionably strong, and
requiring greater force to draw it than the up-
per, serves to counteract the inequality in length.
The two extremities of the bow, in which are
the notches or nooks for the eyes of the string,
are cased with horn, the upper one usually longer
and somewhat curved.
Silk and flax, as well as hemp, were formerly
used for bow-strings ; but in the present day
they are generally made of Italian hemp, which
has longer and finer fibres, and is of a stronger
texture than other kinds. The string is made
of the longest threads of the hemp, twisted very
tight, and afterwards rubbed with gum or In-
dian glue, to preserve it from wet. The eyes,
or, mote correctly speaking, the eye aud the
noose (the former being that end of the string
which is inserted in the upper nook, and the
latter in the lower end of the bow) are fre-
quently whipped with silk, ribbon, or glave
leather, to preserve them from wearing; and
the nooking-point—that part of the string where
the nock of the arrow is placed—as well as a
little above and below it, about the breadth of
the fingers used in drawing, should always be
whipped with stout sewing silk. Without this
precaution the string is constantly liable to
break, from the rubbing of the nock of the ar-
row against it. The nocking-point of the string
should also bo waxed before it is whipped, that
the whipping may hold the firmer; and to pre-
vent its collecting moisture or. becoming un-
twisted. the whole siring should occasionally be
be rubbed with bees’-wax. The distance of the
string from the centre, should not in a bow five
feet long exceed five inches: and, in the longest
bow, not more than six inches nor less than five
and a half.
An Arrow, or Shaft, has three principal parts
—the stele , the head or pile and the feather.
The stele is, in fact, the arrow itself, and the
term is seldom used except in treatises where it
is necessary to be precise and mechanical.
Steles, then, or Arrows, are made of different
sorts of wood, according to the distances and
kinds of shooting in which they are to be used;
for roving they are made much heavier, and for
fi(/ht-shooting , much lighter than others. The
woods chiefly used at present are deal and ash
for light, and lime for heavy shafts. Much at-
tention should be paid to the weight of arrows,
which ought to vary with the distances at which
they are to be used, those intended for the same
distance being as nearly alike as possible,
j Arrows are sometimes weighed against silver
at the Mint standard, and are chosen for dif-
ferent distances according to their weight. The
following is the scale given by Mr. Roberts.
Distance. Weight.
Fur 30 yards, form about ... 49. Od. to 6s. Od.
66 3s. 6d. to 6s. 6d
j®® } 3«. Od. to 4s. 6d.
To this scale Mr. Waring (the best modern
authority on tho subject) does not appear to
attach much faith ; he states that arrows should
always be selected according to the strength of
the bow, upon which, and upon the quickness of
its cast, the method of Drawing and loosing, and
various other causes so much depends that no
positive scale or table can be laid down. Obser-
vation, he adds, and practice will avail more
than any rule that can be offered.
The length of the arrow is regulated by that
of the bow. For bows of five feet, arrows of
twenty-four inches are generally used ; under
five feet nine inches, those of about twenty-
seven inches; and longer than five feet nine
inches, arrows of twenty eight, twenty-nine, and
sometimes, but very rarely, of thirty inches.
We read, indeed, of arrows of a cloth yard and
an ell in length; but these measures could not
be such as are now in use, or our ancestors must
have greatly surpassed the men of these dege-
nerate days both in strength and length of arm.
Arrows vary in form more perhaps from whim
and opinion than from the advantages attending
any particular shape ; for if they be well rounded
it matters little whether they are ** high-chest-
ed,” or “ tapered.*' Some are made thickest
directly under the feathers, and taper gradually
to the pile; and thoso are best calculated for
distant flights; for short distances, those that
are thick at the pile and slope towards the nock,
answer equally well. The nock of the arrow
was sometimes made of solid horn, but it is now
merely inlaid ; it should be as nearly as possible
the size of the string, fitting closely, but without
requiring force to fix it.
One of the most important parts of the arrow
is the feather , without which the flight could
neither be distant nor steady. Of the 3 feathers
with which every arrow is furnished, one, it will
be observed, generally differs from the other
two in colour; this is called the cock-feather,
and must always be uppermost on the string, or
the others will, as Ascham expresses it, “ run on
the bow** and impede the flight of the shaft. As,
however, all the feathers are sometimes of the
same colour, the best rule for placing the arrow
in the string is, that the feather which is on the
horn of the nock, whatever be its colour, is to
be considered the cock-feather, and be upper-
most or opposite to the side which rests on the
bow. Feathers, after they are put upon the
arrow, are generally covered lightly with gum-
water, in order to give them a greater degree
of stiffness.
The piles or heads of arrows are made both
blunt and sharp ; certain disadvantages, it is
said, attend both of these shapes; but the only
practical one apgears to be, that sharp piles
penetrate further into the target, and are less
easily extracted, than blunt ones.
The bracer is a piece of stout polished leather,
buckled round the bow-arm, to prevent the
string hurting it; in form it is generally oval,
varying in size according to the method of hold-
ing the bow and the size of the arm.
The shooting-glove consists of three finger-
stalls fastened round the wrist by a button or
string, and may be used with or without a glove.
It should be made of stout pliable leather.
The belt and tassel need hardly be described ;
the former buckles round the waist, and has the
pouch for holding the arrows intended for pre-
sent use fixed to it on the right side, and on the
left the tassel for wiping the arrow-heads when
drawn from the ground.
1 am, Sir, yours, &c.,
TOXIPHILUS.
NOTINGS,
From a rare MS. entitled “Somethings and
Nothings.”
(modernized.)
Now in tho reign of the great Sir Charles Fitz
Roy, in the newly-discovered land of Australia,
it happened that there was a dissolution of the
Council that were wont to assist him with their
strong support and wise deliberations. And the
people were called upon to elect and create
another body in the place and stead of that which
had passed away by effluxion of time. Whereat
divers men and sundry passions were stirred up
and wonderous excitement did prevail through-
out the City, and many rumours were bruited
abroad. Enthusiasts roamed the broad long
streets and darted into narrow lanes and thread-
like alleys crying loudly, “Lowe he cometh!”
—whilst others of a calmer mind replied, “No !
Go-eth he away to distant lands.” And this
diverseness of men’s minds did create much
wonderment, commixed with doubt; and no one
knew the truth.
But it came to pass that there went a noise
abroad that two old faithful servants having
healed the scars of many wounds received in
former fights were about to gird themselves up
and don their armour for the fray, nay to risque
their very lives in the service of the people;
there was a great gathering to ascertain the
why and wherefore—how and when. It was in
sooth a great gathering, and the gathering was
great at the Royal Hotel, in the wide street
known by tho name of George—a truly Royal
name.
And the people mustered there with many
chiefs and leaders whose names are chronicled
in the glorious archives of the City: and one
there was who sat upon the throne and con-
trolled tho gathered, who poured around a Flood
of delight In truth he was a noble mind, and
when the vast assembly waxed warm and roared
themselves into tumultuous strife, he uttered
solemn words in a strange mystic tongue, thus:
“ Vots the use of your all spekin at vunce ?”
which quieted the people, who replied mildly,
“No hodds so long as yer appy !”—and this, in-
deed, unanswerable was. Now silence being ob-
tained, a sharp and knowing man who standeth
well with the people, and is deeply skilled in the
mysteries of attorney lore, did boldly step for-
ward and pronounc judgment in favour of the
two old knights, whose motto ever has been,
was, and is “ Fidelity.” Thereat did rise in
oppesition strong, two dastardly foes, cunning,
withal, in fence, and cast the mire of cavil
against Sir Wentworth and Sir Bland, and yells
and barks did rise from certain clamorous curs
well practised in the noble art of baying at the
moon and biting horses’ heels. And vainly did
folks strive to stop the mouths of Majoribanks
the clamorous and his noisy boon companion.
Then dire disorder spread around ; the mass did
vacillate and wave,; signs most troublous came
upenthem, and cries arose in many parts—“ A-
djourn ! —Adjourn !” And anon came a great
push, a rush, a press, a squeeze, a flight—and
no man knew the meaning thereof. But it was
foretold that such things shall not always be *
*****
Thus is it written in the first page of this old
Chronicle, and they who would seek to know
more of its contents must pledge themselves to
turn over a new leaf.
A TALE OF NEW SOUTH WALES IN
THE YEAR 1834.
“ Well,” exclaimed Gisborne, as he arose
from the breakfast table, “ it’s a fine morning,
so you have no excuse—we must have a kan-
garoo hunt to-day; you know I am anxious to
see one of the hoppers in full fling ; besides I
should relish a burst with the much-talked-of
Toby—l fancy Hay Botany can thrash him; —
what say you, Bill!” addressing my brother;
shall we get out the tits ?”
It was quickly arranged that we should have
a day’s sport. A slight shower or two had fallen
during the night, which made the ground in
prime order for a run, at least for the dogs. The
horses Were soon saddled and at the door.
Our party consisted of myself, my brother,
our friend G, and the Black native, dirty Dick.
We were soon mounted, and after a little chaff
relative to the powers of our respective nags,
turned their heads towards the nearest hunting
ground.
“ Now!” exclaimed Gisborne—“ now, Aleck,
I shall see some of your New South Wales bush-
riding.” “ You shall, indeed : and what’s more,
perhaps you’ll get a good view of Toby’s tail.”
“nous verous , Aleck;” and surely enough I did
see, for the chaff was against me at the day’s
end. Our civilities were here cut short, as with
a scrambling start my brother’s horse shot from
the yard, upsetting one of the dogs, and nearly
performing the same act of kindness to an old jin.
This sudden motion on the part of the horse
was caused by the application of two or three
swinging kicks, and about the S3me number of
sharp jerks of the bridle, he vowing the horse
never knew how to behave himself until he had
administered a few quids and weasers Whether
he considered this necessary on a full stomach,
I’m at a loss to decide; but so it happened—
away ho went at a smart pace, pulling up short
at the mile’s end. We followed at a slow canter,
and on reaching, were rather amused when he
assured us that he had given him (meaning the
horse) his gruel, and that he behaved himself
for the rest of the day. We now walked our
horses—being not quite of old Bill’s opinion,
that a burst from the stable door, after well-filled
rack over night and a bucket of water in the
morning, was a good preveDtative for ‘ bellows
to mend.’
After jogging along a few miles we entered
the forest, and soon crossed the range where we
expected to find our game. We were not long
disappointed, for the black dog took up the
scent, and went away at a long slouching gallop
—the trail was too fresh for any baulk ; the pace
quickened, and in a few seconds the dogs were
at their full strech !
A view hallo from Gisborne at this ticklish
moment might have spoilt the sport, but fortu-
nately the kangaroo was too close, and hearing
the shout, hopped about from side to side with
head erect and ears pricked then, bending
forward, went away with long steady bounds.
u Hold hard, my friend you are not fox-
hunting—no noise until the dogs are well laid
on; and then, as much music as you like—for
1 ’ll warrant you ’ll not hear them open.’*
Another moment, and away they went in the
direction of the flats.
“ Now Aleck, my boy, let Toby take eare of
his tail, for I think he’s likely to lose it.” Yoics!
and away we split, at top speed, the ground
being quite clear on the flats.
Bay Botany strained to pass Toby’s tail, but
my bit of gallop was not in a humour to give
him the chance, and maintained his vantage.
The kangaroo now took the range, crossed
and descended a steep gully, in direction of the
river. The whip and spur was now not spared.
I still kept the lead ; but Toby, though fleet and
honest, was not made of the same steel as the
bay, and but for my lighter weight, would have
been passed before gaining the summit of the
hill. Here we halted for a second, in order to
view the ground.
“ Halloa, my buck, do you funk on it ?” cried
Gisborne, and dashed down as ugly a place as
any rider would wish to face. I watehed him
scrambling among the loose stones, expecting
his horse to give at every step, but he reached
the bottom in safety, and looking up, flourished
his whip, shouted, and made for the river. I
returned his salute, and for the first time in ray
life felt convinced that it required pluck, as well
as head, hand, and seat, to make a crack horse-
man.
I had just placed my foot in the iron, having
dismounted for the purpose of tightening my
horse’s girth, when a cooey attracted my at-
tention, and looking in the direction, perceived
my brother and the black boy, Dirty Dick, ap-
proaching at their best pace.
“ Well, Aleck,” was the first question, on
their pulling up, “ where’s Gis—have you lost
him ? Why the devil did you not stick to him—
he *ll lose himself in the gullies, and sore throats
we shall have yelling after him.”
“ Ho may lose himself if he likes, Bill, but he
was not fast enough to kid me down such a
break-neck hole as that; besides, I *ve too much
respect for Toby’s legs.”
“ Toby’s tail, Aleck.”
This taunt was not at all plaasant, more
especially when joined by Dirty Dick, who,
taking up the cue from my brother, and opening
his jaws to their full extent, laughed immode-
rately, interlarding his mirth with ejaculations
such as “ Mr. Gisborne—best fellow—murry
gerrin you.” “ What for Sydney cove laughin
you—give me Stoby; Ise ride him down.”
Disappointed and annoyed, but not wishing to
acknowledge my want of pluck, I took prudence
for my comforter, and parrying their mirth as
well as I was enabled, we quietly walked our
horses in the direction the kangaroo had taken.
In this we had little or no difficulty, for the
ground having been previously moistened by
the rain, the native easily tracked the game to
the river.
A yelping from one of the dogs soon brought
us to the spot where the kangaroo had , taken
refuge. He had made the water, as was antici-
pated, and already had cut severely one of the
dogs. The poor thing was moaning piteously
on the bank. I was soon alongside my poor
dog, and with a few stitches closed up a deep
wound in the creature’s flesh. Tho other dogs
were too young to master him, although Gisburn
had given them all the assistance in his power,
by patting and encouraging them, but it would
not do; the crack dog had been disabled at the
first, and the others were unable to make up
for his loss. At this juncture, old Spot, who
had been left far behind, being too slow for
the other dogs, came up. “At him, old man ”
a sharp yelp in reply—a plunge, and the old
man dog and old man kangaroo ware locked in
as tender an embrace as it is well possible to
fancy.
The struggle now commenced; and although
a large and powerful old kangaroo, he had
caught a tartar. The old dog had fastened well
on the throat, and by his weight succeeded in
bending down the fore quarters of his antagonist,
while one of the young dogs, taking courage,
went to his assistance. After some minutes of
splashing and struggling, the black boy suc-
ceeded, by crawling on the branches of a dead
tree that had partially fallen into the river, to
take his position immediately above the kan-
garoo, and with his stock whip handle, by a
well-directed blow, finished his sufferings.
VARIETIES.
Mexico.—A Mr. Ruxton, author of a work
entitled 44 Adventures in Mexico and the Rocky
Mountains” gives a very flattering description
of that City. He says : —“ Mexico is the head'
quarters of dirt. The streets are dirty, the
houses are dirty, the men are dirty, and the
women are dirtier, and every thing you eat and
drink is dirty ’!”
The Faro of Madrid announces the death of
the Marchioness de Vallgonera, at the advanced
age of 108 years.
Amateur Soldiering. —We are informed that
a number of gantlemen in London have resolved
to form themselves into a regiment, to be termed
44 The Queen’s Own Volunteer Rifle Corps ” The
number at present proposed is 600; but probably
it will be materially increased after it is fully
known to the public. The parties who have
taken the lead in this movement have received
every encouragement from the Government, and
will have their arms and ammunition supplied
them. The uniform will be dark* green, with
black braiding, bronze ornaments, and a light
cap. A commanding officer has been appointed
and approved of, and the captains of companies
and subalterns will be chosen by the gentlemen
forming the corps. The Naval and Millitary
Gazette announces a report that a second vo-
lunteer corps is in course of formation.
A legacy of <£25,000 has been left to the
Medical Department of the University College,
London, by the late Dr. Holme, of Manchester.
A Secret,— 4 llow do you do, Mrs. Tom. Have
you heard that story about Mrs. Funday ?’—
4 Why, no; really, Mrs. Gab, what is it? Do tell,’
— 4 Oh, I promised not to tell for all the world.
No; I must not tell as long as I live; just as
true as the world.*— 4 What is it? Come, tell.’
— 4 Now you won’t say anything about it, will
you?’— 4 No, I’ll never open my mouth about it
—never ! Hope to die this minute.’— 4 Well, if
you believe me, Mrs. Funday told me yesterday
that her sister’s husdand was told by a person
that Mrs. Trouble’s oldest brother’s step-
daughter that it was reported by the captain of
a clam boat just arrived from the Fejee Islands,
that the mermaids about that section wore shark-
skins bustles stuffed with pickled eels.’
German buttons are now offered for sale in
Rirmingham 25 per cent, under the price at
which the manufacturers there can produce
them.
Breach of Hospitality.—A few days since
a patridgo flew into a druggist's shop at Kendal,
and was immediately secured and appropriated
to the dinner of the family.
Love Your Enemies.—A clergyman told an
Indian he should lovo his enemies. 44 Me do
love ’em,” replied the latter ‘ 4 What enemies
do you love most ?” 4 ‘ Rum and cider.”
Pay for your Newspapers.—An American
paper quotes from Paul’s writings 44 Owe no
man anything,” and then adds, 44 we fear some
of our subscribers never read Paul’s epistles.”
The literary degrees in China are 44 Elegant
shoots of fine talent,” equal to our B. A,;
44 Elevated men,” equal to M. A.; 44 Advanced
scholars,” equal to L. L. D.; and 44 Man of the
forest of pencils.”
The Outside Passenger. —Some years ago,
a young lady, who was going into a northern
county, took a seat in a stage coach. For many
miles she rode along ; but there was enough to
amuse her in the scenery through which she
passed, and in the pleasing anticipations that
occupied her mind; she had been engaged as a
governess for the grandchildren of an earl, and
now was travelling to his seat. At mid day the
coach stopped at an inn, at which dinner was
provided, and she alighted and sat down at the
table. An elderly man followed and sat down
also. The young lady arose, rang the bell, and
addressing the waiter, said, 4 Here is an outside
passenger; I cannot dine with an outside pas-
senger.* The stranger bowed, saying, 4 1 beg
your pardon, madam, I can go into another
room,’ and immediately retired. The coach
soon resumed its course, and the passengers
their places. At length the coach stopped at
the gate leading to the castle to which the young
lady was going ; but there was not such prompt
attention as she expected. All eyes seemed di-
rected to the outside passenger, who was pre-
paring to dismount. She beckoned, and was
answered, 44 As soon as we have attended to his
lordship we will oorne to you.” A few words of
explanation ensued, and, to her dismay, she
found that the outside passenger, with whom
she had thought it beneath her to dine, was not
only a nobleman, but the very nobleman in
whose family she hoped to be an inmate. What
could she do ? How could she bear the inter-
view ? She felt really ill, and the apology she
sent that evening was more than pretence.
The venerable peer was a considerate man, and
one who knew the way in which the Scripture
often speaks of the going down of the sun.
4 We must not allow the night to pass thus,’
said he to the countess ; 4 you must send for her,
and we must talk to her about bed-time.’ He
reasoned with the foolish girl respecting her
conduct, insisted on the impropriety of the
state of mind that it evinced, assured her that
nothing could induce him to allow his grand-
children to be taught such notions, refused
to accept any apology that did not go the
length of acknowledging that the thought was
wrong, and, when the right impression appeared
to be produced, gave her his hand.
One of the amusements of idleness is reading
without the fatigue of close attention, and the
world therefore swarms with writers whose wish
is not to be studied, but to be read.
A hogshead of haws has been shipped from
Cork to Auckland, New Zealand, where they
will be sown in nursery grounds, whence the
plants will afterwards be removed, in order to
form quickest hedges.
The physician who enjoys the largest practice
in the metropolis, in his last return for the in-
come-tax, stated his professional earnings at
and several other physicians made
returns varying from .£15,000 to .£5OOO.
How True. —A fat man has no friends in an
omnibus.
u Much Ado about Nothing.” —As the in-
solvent said when he took the benefit of the Act.
They who hide can find. When you have
lost your cigar-case, ask your wife for it.—
Punch.
A country paper states, by a misprint, that
“the influenza has occasioned a remarkable
increase of morality in the metropolis.”
It has been suggested that clocks and watches
should have two minute fingures,—one pointing
to Greenwich, the other to true solar time.
A pleasure yacht is being built at Liverpool
for the Emperor of Brazil. She is to be 88Q
tons burthen by measurement, and rigged a
schooner, and fitted with steam-engines.
Measure for Measure,” —As the chemist
said when he took a bad sixpence for a black
draught.
It is calculated that the druggists of Lincoln
sell 1872 gallons of laudanum (annually.—Stam-
ford Mercury.
The Law of Primogeniture is a kind of law of
Cain—for it knocks down the second son.—
j Douglas Jerr old.
" Madame,” said a snarliug son of Escu-
lapins, “it woman were admitted to paradise,
their tongues would make it a purgatory.”
“ And some physicians, if allowed to practise
there,” retorted the lady, “ would soon make
it a desert.”
The Monument has, at last, been pronounced
‘ unsafe.* But we suppose that, with the usual
energy of the authorities, it will be allowed to
fall, though it ought to be taken down. The
character of the structure has long been known,
but the delicate balance by which it has been
kept in its place has been but recently destroyed
by the weight of iron added to the gallery.
Should it fall, the bias will be towards the river,
according to the architects.
A Parisian author has translated Shakspere’s
line, “ Out brief candle.” into French thus :
u Get out, you short candle /” That is not as bad
as the translation of an explanation of Milton’s by
a Frenchman, who rendered “ Hail, horrors—
hail I” thus:—“ How d'ye do , horrors — how
d'ye do ?”
A few days since, at Royston, Hertfordshire,
a man accidentliy broke a stone jar containing
3ome gin, which flowed into a puddle. Some
ducks that were straying about speedily dis-
covered the liquor, whioh pleased them so much,
that they drank until they were so drunk as to
be unable to waddle steadily, and keep them-
selves from falling.
Awful Prospect.— -Prince Albert’s grand-
father was the father of twenty-one children.
If Prince Albert be equally fortunate, we shall
have to double the national debt to keep the
Royal Family.
It is a singular fact that no class of Dissenters
is at present on the increase in the United
Kingdom. The Methodists are particularly
on the wane, having gone over the Established
Church, which from its recently renewed zeal,
seems likely to support its title.
The Americans are caricaturing the bouquet-
flinging fashion. The Cincinnati Commercial
mentions the flinging of a package of candy to
Miss Cohen, when on the stage coach, with the
motto, “sweets to to the sweet.”
Mr. Feargus O’Connor has a letter in the
Northern Star, addressed “To the women of
England,” whom he styles “ My dear children.”
How happy the women of England must be in
such a parent!
A machine worked by the steam of ether has
been in full operation for the last six days in a
glass-cutting manufactory at Lyons. Its power
is equal to that of twentw horses.
The Brain. —The brain itself, says Mr.
Wigan in his * Duality of Mind/ may be re-
moved, may be cut away down to the corpus
callosum , without destroying life. The animal
lives and performs all those functions which are
necessary to simple vatality, but has on longer
a mind; it cannot think or feel. It requires
that the food should be pushed into its stomach ;
once there, it is digested, and the animal will
will then thrive and grow fat.
A gentleman was accosted by a poor loafer,
who asked for charity. “ I will remember you
next time.” replied the gentlemen. “ Please
your honour,” said the loafer, “ I dont credit, I
deal on the cash principles.”
Sir Walter Scott tells a story of a gentleman
who, irritated at some misconduct of his servant
said, “John either you or I must quit this house.”
“ Very well, sir,” said John, “ where will your
honour be ganging to ?”
Dr. Hampden (the new bishop of Hereford)
says that in the Church, you always begin your
command with a capital C {see).
The navy officers, with their new uniform
frock coat and stripes on their arms, will look
like corporals and sergeants of the Chelsea
Veteran Out-pensioners’ Battalion,
English attorneys are not considered an emi-
nently bashful race—nor are the Irish. At the
Bruff petty sessions, Attorney O’Grady said to
a witness. —“ You scoundrel, go down out o*
that!” and to the reporter “ You need’nt take
that down ”
Thr Shortest Day. —The day before that on
which you have a bill becoming due, which you
are unable to meet.
“ Why do you use so much tobacco ?” said an
Englishman to an American, the other evening ;
“ Because I chews,” was the reply.
The editor of the Chicago Democrat gives
the following wholesome advice:—“Wives,
love your husbands, and make them take a
paper!”
A Yankee editor says, — li The march of
civilisation is onward—onward—like the slow
but intrepid tread of a jackass towards a peck of
oats.
A Bull. —An Irishman having been to
land, was asked on his return how he liked it ?
‘ I will tell you how/ said he, ‘I was sick all the
while I was there, and if I had lived there till
this time, I had been dead a year ago.’
Refuge for a Lawyer, —Joseph Parkes, the
attorney, asked Lord George Manners what
was honesty ? ‘ What is that to you J’ replied
his Lordship, * meddle with those things that
concern you.’
How to make a Debt. —The original of
Kenney’s Jeremy Diddler , in the admirable farce
f * Raising the Wind/ wa a man of the name
f Bibb, who had once been an engraver, and
ifter renouncing that occupation, without adopt-
ing any other, had continued to support himself
by borrowing half-crowns from all whom he
could prevail upon to lend them—a practice
which procured him the name ot ‘llaJPcrown
Bibb/ and was supposed to have putin is pocket,
“irst and last, noc much less than £2OOO His
solicitations, however, were judiciously appor-
tioned to the supposed means of his victims.
Bibb once encountered Martin the dramatist after
lie success of one of his plays, and concluding
hat a prosperous author must have plenty o
cash, ventured to ask him for the loan of a whole
crown. Martin assured him that he had no
nore silver than three shiilinge and sixpence,
vhich the applicant readily accepted, of course,
>ut said on parting— * Remember, I intended to
,iv« a crown, so you owe me eighteen pence.’


TOW\ AGENTS.
r |MIE following parties have
been appointed Agents, in
Sydney, for the “ Sporting
Times
Mr. Sims, Watchmaker, Par-
ramatta-street.
Mr. Moore, Bookseller, oppo-
site the old Burial Ground.
Dan Donovan’s Cigar .shop,
King-street, near the Rain-
Bow Tavern.
T> EPORTERS will be sent
from this Office to all the
great Race Meetings of this
and the adjoining Colonies,
including Adelaide, Western
Australia, Port Phillip, Hobart
Town and Launceston ; and
to all the great Prize Battles
which take place between the
latitudes of Port Essington and
the most southerly point of
Van Diemen’s Land, —upon
due intimation being given.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Isaac—P— C—S—D.— We have received no less
than seven communications, respecting the
Fracas on the lobby of the Theatre, on
Monday night. In recapitulation of the
principles upon which we purpose to conduct
this Journal, ive beg to notify to our corres-
pondents, that we shall studiously exclude
all matters of a purely private nature from
our columns.
R. S’s .—paper has been forwarded according to
direction.
J. M.— We cannot open accounts for subscribers.
Parties desirous of having the “ Sporting
limes,” must pay in advance, when it shall
be duly sent them.
Ihe Editor begs to intimate to the Sporting
Public generally , that Questions for solution,
especially where bets are depending, will meet
with immediate and scrupulous attention.
Querists will be pleased to address their
post-paid communications to Mr. T. Revel
Johnson, ivho is exclusively connected with
this Journal.
&f)t £tmcs
SYDNEY, JULY 8, 1848.
THE SYDNEY ELECTION.
The candidates are now fairly in the
field, and their respective claims for the
houor of representing the constituency
may be fairly considered. '
The old and tried friends of Liberty
of Liberty in the fullest and most com-
prehensive sense of a word, too often
prostituted for purposes the most despotic
and tyrannical—once more appeal to the
citizens of Sydney—Messrs. WENT-
WORTH and BLAND are again candi-
dates for the honor of representing the
Metropolis of Australasia, and we will
not allow ourselves to entertain] an idea
so unworthy as that which would suggest
even the shadow of a doubt as to their
Triumphant Success. The fearless op-
ponents of Tyranny, the ardent lovers of
Freedom, the advocates of Religious
Liberty, the promoters of Popular Educa-
cation, the friends of every measure hav-
ing reference to the firm establishment
here of those great principles of Free
Trade which, after long and protracted
struggles, have been stamped by the
sanction of the Home Government, and
beoome the Law o* England ; the liberal
founders and supporters of our charitable
institutions —Our laie Representatives are
welcomed with acclamations, and there
cannot be but one opinion as to the result
of the Election.
I Their opponents, are Lieutenant Lamb,
find Mr. Robert Lowe. The first, a Store-
keeper, of somewhat unenviable notoriety
in the penal days of this Colony, and
whose career whether as a Magistrate or
i Monopolist, we believe we need scarcely
describe in detail to those who remember
ihe Hunter River clique, or have suffered
n pocket from his forestalling the neces-
sary articles of life. The second a for-
une-hunting Barrister, whose changeful
opinions upon almost every topic he has
written, spoken, or voted upon, may be
ikeued fto adopt Lord Palmerston’s
iimile) “ to the colors of a kaleidescope
rut of repair.”
Are these the men to oppose our old and
/alued friends'? Forbid it gratitude;
or bid it justice! Fiercely opposed to
:very measure tending to the real pros-
lerity of New South Wales, Messrs. Lamb
•,nd Lowe (Crusoe and his man Friday)
lad better seek,once more, in the ranks of
he Crown-nominees those Legislative
mnors for which their avowed advocacy
,>f Restrictive and Oppressive Acts so aptly
it them.
Let us then but offer our sincere belief
hat the long services vf Messrs. Went-
worth and Bland will be weighed in the
jcale with the specious promises of their
opponents ; and that their return, by an
iverwhelming majority, will be the result
rf the comparison.
MR. LAMB'S MEETING.
A motley ami uproarious group of Mr.
pamb's friends assembled in the Theatre
>f the School of Arts, Pitt-street, on
Tuesday evening, to listen to that gentle-
.ompanied by Dr. Nicholson, late Speaker
man’s exposition of his political senti-
ments. The learned candidate was ac-
of the Council, Mr. Lowe, and other
gentlemen. The Theatre was crowded
from floor to ceiling ; and after some
short delay, amidst shouting and shil-
looing, groaning and grunting, Stuart A.
Donaldson, Esq., was unanimously voted
intot he chair.
Mr. Lamb made a very brief speech,
but by no means a satisfactory one. With
a strange absence of self-reliance, he ap-
peared to rest his claims to the favor-
able judgment of the meeting, not on
any merits or powers of his own, but
upon the fact of his being sur-
rounded by such men as Mr. Lowe and
others. This he seemed to view as the
best “ card of introduction ” he could
have to the constituency of Sydney.
Three or four times did he address the
meeting in this strain—“ Gentlemen,
when you see such talented and influential
persons as my friends, Messrs. Lowe,
> owper, Nicholson, &c. ( here you cannot
hesitate in believing that I would prove
an eligible representative of Sydney.”
Those present, however, did not exhibit
any desire to view the matter in so flat-
tering a light.
In candour we must say that we were
much disappointed with the feeble display
Mr. Lamb made on the evening in ques-
tion. He did not make use of a single
observation that had any real or solid
application to the object of the meeting—.
with the exception of the trite fact, that
Sydney is the entrepot of the great trade
of the Pacific. Now, it did not require a
Sydney merchant to announce that bit of
news; but Mr. Lamb made it a sort of
starting post, from which he drew a con-
clusion very favorable to his own views,
namely—that our city, being so happily
situated for the purposes of commerce,
ought to be represented by a commercial
man. No doubt, it is very natural that
Mr. Lamb—himself in the command of
an extensive trade in the southern seas -
should feel keeenly on this head. A large
portion of the meetin, however, wereg
disposed to question the sincerity and dis-
interestednessof his sentiments, and rather
rudely interrupted him several times with
the teazing and irritating queries, as to
“ Who put a farthing a pound on the
poor man’s sugar Who rose tea to
£8 per chest, and sugar to £4O per ton?”
These impudent inquiries were very
annoying no doubt, and confused the can-
didate so much, that he sat down after
saying very little, and that little very
poorly said, and, as Sheridan wittily
remarked, “ point blank from the pur-
pose ”
Mr. Lowe followed Mr. Lamb, and on
presenting himself was greeted with a re-
gular hurricane of •• Hurrah !” “ Bravo !”
“ Go it my tulip !” and other recherche
expletives, in vogue on electioneering
occasions. A cotemporay prononnces Mr.
Lowe’s recommendatory speech of Mr.
Lamb to be a piece of “ fulsome eulo-
gium.” And really we do not see any
raason to dissent from the compliment.
For notwithstanding the high opinion we
entertain of Mr. Lowe’s abilities, and of
his matchless eloquence (in this colony),
we consider his speech of Tuesday even-
ing as the worst in point of taste, judg-
ment, and gentlemanly feeling, we ever
heard him deliver. His strained and ri-
diculous laudation of Mr. Lamb could
only be exceeded by his unmanly attack
upon Messrs. Wentworth and Bland. He
took advantage of the absence of those
gentlemen to indulge in the most unmea-
sured and abusive criticism of their past
legislative career. And this, too, by the
way of placing their unworthiness to be
the representatives of Sydney in contrast
with the surpassing merits and competency
of his proteg6. The clap-trap rhetoric in
which the learned gentleman emitted his
spleen and adulation may have been well
adepted ad captandum vulgar ; but the
discerning and judicious could not but
feel disgusted with the entire proceeding.
Of this fact Mr. Lowe may rest assured
that instead of serving the cause he was
employed to advocate, he has so seriously
damaged it, as to render Mr. Lamb’s
chance of being elected for Sydney very
problematical indeed.
THE RING.
GALLANT MILL BETWEEN PADDY
SINCLAIR AND SPARKES,
FOR £180.
THE ENFIELD PET AGAIN
VICTORIOUS.
“ Hurrah for the life of a Brick.”
Undismayed by the result of the
battle which was fought in the
early part of last May, when Sinclair
polished off his opponent in something less
than eight minutes, fparkes’ friends re-
solved upon giving their man an opportu-
nity of regaining his “laurel crown.”
Many collateral circumstances tended to
strengthen their hopes of success. Not a
few good judges were there, who favored
the opinion that the two terrific upper
cuts to which the Australian’s defeat was
immediately assigned, had been ad-
ministered accidentally, whilst some re-
garded his altered fortunes as the result
of physical derangement, added to which
many of his personal friends were induced,
by Sparkes’ovvn representations of anxiety,
again to the the scratch with the imported,
and the confidence with which he spoke of
being able to lick the Pet, to demand an
extra dose. Be that as it may, a second
match was determined on, and as the
sporting backer of the Emeralder offered
to close the stakes at £lOO to £BO, his
terms were readily accepted, and articles
accordingly entered into without delay.
Four deposits were to be made good at
stated intervals—one party on each such
interesting occasion, stumping up a poney
to the other’s score, and these arrange-
ments were rigidly adhered to, the full
amount having been handed over to the
stakeholder at Byrnes’, on the evening of
Monday last, when the toss for choice of
ground also took place, and the option of
locality awarded to Heki. Little time
was lost by either party, from the signing
of the necessary documents, in sending the
candidates into training ; Sparkes occu-
pying his old quarters near Cook’s River,
and Sinclair resigning himself to the vi-
gilant guardianship of Solly Reuben and
Jackey Simmons, whose united endeavours
however, were fruitlessly exerted, to make
their capricious pupil go regularly and
systematically through his work, though
doubtlessly at intervals he took his
breathings; but want of condition was
made glaringly manifest during the six-
teen minutes of sharp work which we are
about to describe. Sparkes, on the other
hand, had paid every attention to himself,
and was thus enabled to present himself on
Wednesday morning to the scrutinizing
gaze of the ‘ leary” ones as “ right as a
trivetin fact he was in excellent order,
and declared that he never in his life felt
more up to the mark. As heretofore, no
restriction was imposed as to weights, nor
do we think any material change had been
effected in this particular, since their pre-
vious encounter; we have been informed
that the losing man entered the ropes at
list. 41 bs., his more robust antagonist
exceeding that standard by about nine
' pounds.
I Although but in the eighth day of our
literary existence, we deem it a work of
supererogation to wade minutely through
the usual biographical sketches which not
unfrequently form a prominent feature
in chronological reports of the P. R.
Every local tyro in matters pugilistic is
familiar with the history of the combat-
ants, Sinclair is a native of Dublin reared
in Liverpool, and from an early period of
boyhood has been more or less before the
public as a boxer. Previous to arriving
amongst us, he had honorably contested
no less than twenty-four prize battles,
gradually, but w'ith unabated success as-
cending the rugged ladder of renown, nor
is it unworthy of record, that in his two
first struggles with Bob Wright, as in his
two last with Bill Sparkes; he went
through the ordeal of the arena under
the friendly counsel of D. Donovan. The
old man is justly prond of his protegee.
Sparkes, nicknamed Heki, has also
long been acknowledged as one of the
flowers of the Colonial school. Till he
crossed the “ herring pond” to challenge
the middle weights of the mother country
his reputation was unsullied, but he there
met a customer who “ cooked his hash,’
and left the ring without a scratch.
Sparkes avers that his right fore-arm was
fractured during the affray, and attributes
defeat to the casualty ; but on this point
the two leading authorities of London
(“Bell s Life” and “The Sunday Times’’)
differ; the former corroborating the alle-
gation, the latter positively denying it.
The truth or falsehood of the statement,
is a matter which we, in our innocence
imagine, could easily be set at rest by
submitting the limb to the examination
of some experienced surgeon ; but it mat-
ters little to the general enquirer further
than if he felt incapable of bringing so
important an auxiliary into full play the
fact ought neither to have been withheld
from hi 3 backers or from the betting cir-
cles. Since the fight he has stated to us
that the climate of England partially
undermined his constitution—that since
his return he has experienced a change—
that the lissomness of days of yore has
somewhat vanished, and that his powers
of endurance are by no means so great as
formerly. Now whether such a state of
things (if such exist) could not be more
rationally accounted for by reference to
increasing years and the natural train of
atonic agents invariably employed bv
“ ‘he Avenger,” we leave the learned to
decide. Several members of the Fancy
assert that Sparkes never fought so well
in his life—never took such a share of
punishment—never showed himself so
game, and proof is given of the sincerity
of others who are yet anxious, as will be
seen in another column, to back him
against any man of his weight in the
country for £53 a-side—so that the star
of Cook s River may once again be in the
ascendant, and though our adage invari-
ably is “ may the best man win,” no one
would more gladly welcome his success
than the humble scribe who pens these
lines, since out of the ropes Bill Sparkes
is a civil, quiet, courteous, and well-be-
haved member of the community—quali-
ties which should strongly be recom
mended and encouraged amongst members
of his profession. But our sympathy for
his fallen fortunes is co-existent with our
belief that the treachery ascribed to him
of deceiving his backers is an unfounded
calumny.
The evening preceding the eventful
morning was marked by the usual bustle
and excitement. Gangs of anxious and in-
terested parties were to be met with at dif-
ferent parts of the town ; the doors of all
the sporting houses were blockaded by the
sporting fry, while the snuggeries of the
various hostleries were, with almost uni-
versal acclamation, carried by storm.
Remonstrance, on the part of the worthy
“ hostesses,” was vain ; news had to be
gathered ; the odds ascertained ; the
w'hereabouts learned, and other arrange-
ments perfected, though amidst the cease-
less din of voices, advocating and pro-
phecying. little information worthy of
reliance could be elicited. Some pre-
tending to possess extraordinary fore-
sight had pronounced it as a settled cross ;
others equally uproarious pertinaciously
adhered to their respective favorites as
faultless on such a charge. Money w'as
at one period to be had at 6 to 4, subse-
quently the betting rose to 2 to 1 on the
Pet, which was the highest odds quoted in
our hearing. Through the night the hub-
bub continued, and soon after two the
break o day boys” were on the march.
A rumour was purposely circulated, that
the famous Frog’s Hollow had been fixed
upon, and scores were by this rouse
doomed to the bitter pangs of disappoint-
ment and mortification. To counter-
balance the annoyance, it is as well to
statethat by this“ dodge ’the extra-official-
ism of both Beaks and Peelers was set at
nought. From the hour mentioned an
uninterrupted rattle of vehicles continued
to enliven the drowsy mopers of tbe swamp
and to shake from slumber the lethargic
villagers of Newtown, who unconscious of
the real state of affairs, half imagined the
French had landed, and were in pursuit
of the decamping Rifle Club, concluding
that his defensive corps had discreetly
flung down their arms and taken to their
heels. Reckless slutnberers ! little did
you enter into the bursting glow of soul
which pervaded that rollicking and jab-
bering throng, rolling on in the buoyancy
of manly vigour, bent upon supporting a
noble and national enjoyment. Not a soul
amongst them but could give silent utter-
ance to that burst of Ireland’s melodist*
“ Say what shall bo our sport to-day, * \
I or there s nothing on earth, or sea, or air,
100 bright, too bold, too high, or too gay,
cor spirits like ours to dare.”
“ Howsomdever,” as Uncle Toby says,
and as our motto repeats. “ every man to
his humour.’ Sleep on ; you can learn the
movements of the world for a tanner, from
the pages of the Sporting Times, without
the risk of participating in them. On then
towards the Dam pressed the lads of the
rancy, and penetrating the dense forest on
the opposite side of the river, a ride or
drive of a few miles, or tramp, as the case
might have been, brought the straggling
company to the “ wery hideutical” spot
selected. The waggon wherein the Com-
missary had drawn up the baggage wag-
gon, known as “ White Chimney
Vale, and certainly the spot presents
niany attractions to the seeker of lone-
liness.
Although th denouement of the days
adventure is perfectly familiar to us, we
shall proceed in our narrative as if nothing
extraordinary had occurred to taint the
character of the sport. Rumours of a most
conflicting nature are however abroad,
and at the momeut we write this, the ut-
most excitement prevails throughout the
metropolis. Statements and counter state-
ments are bandied from house to house,
and the integrity of two leading patrons
of the ring is challenged with a flippancy
that goes far to secure conviction. Let us
however keep to the track—certainly one
planned after no ordinary rule of survey,
for we had taking a line of our own,
dashed on upon our “high mettled racer’
across the Canterbery scrub, making our
exit from thickest brush close to the weli
regulated little sporting crib of Kelsey’s
adjoining Prout’s bridge. To the kind-
ness of the host who readily volunteered
to guide us to the Vale ; we are indebted
for being present at the mill—since to
cross the forest of gum trees which flanks
“ snug borough" without a guide would
be as perilous as to send a ship adrift
without a rudder.
Sparkes had to enter the ring between
the hours of 8 and 10 a. m., in confor-
mity with which stipulation he made his
bow to the spectators a few minutes pre-
vious to the expiration of the time al-
lowed, but immediately retired to make
his toilet His brother, the “ Sprig of
Myrtle," then stepped towards the centre
and openly chollenged any man in the
colony, giving seven pounds. Other as-
pirants for fistic fame followed suit, till
at length a turn up for a purse was agread
on between Ike Sparkes and a London
youth, Tom King. A tedious delay was
then caused by the difficulty of selecting
a Referee, and it was not till within a
few minutes to 11 o’clock that the preli"
minaries Were completed. Sinclair’s re-
ception was singularly enthusiastic, while
the friends of the Native were by no
means lukewarm in welcoming their fa-
vorite. Sparkes, attended by George
Huff and his brother Tom, sported the
Australian blue ensign ; the Dublin man
displayed the silk with a white streak in-
tersecting the national color, was chape-
roned by Donovan and Hall, Precisely
at 3 minutes to 11, the men left their
corners, and cheerfully approacd the
scratch, when
THE FIGHT
may be said to have commenced. Ap-
pearances in the buff did not materially
differ from the time of their first embrace,
though Sparkes displayed a firmer mus-
cular developement and a greater trans-
parency of skin tolerable proofs of the
state of his system.
Round I.— Without unnecessary dalliance
Sinclair put out his right in the direction of
Williams nut. but whether as a feint or for actual
service does not appear. 1 1 fell short of the mark
when Sinclair again bore down upon Held’s cor-
ner, delivered his right and left on the ribs and
side of the head, Spaikes countered ineffectually,
and went down. The Ret holding up his hands in
derison.
2 —No time lost. Sinclair active with both
hands, the left got smartly home in the rmht
winker, but the right handed delivery was noUn
his usual style. Sparkes managed to aiip round
to the rising ground when some pretty exchanges
ended in the Australian going to earth.
3.—Sinclair put in a terrfic body blow getting
a tap on the snout by way of acknowledgment,
as Paddy returned to the charge, Heki went down,
and while on the ground, indulged in a most
hideous grin of self approval.
4 —[Three minutes had elapsed] Sparkes per-
severed in and out fighting and going down com-
menced operations, with the left received the
counter and dropped, the round not having lasted
a quarter of a minute.
3. —The Pets right sledge hammer at work on
the body but the return compliments though
quickly shot in, had seemly no effect Sinclair
again tried the dexter knuckell, but his intedtions
were evaded, and the the native once more grassed
himself, nar.owly escaping a well purposed upper-
cut.
6. —Sinclair’s want of condition began to te 1
upon him Sparkes led off quickly with his left,
reaching his adveasary’s jaw; he then rushed
round the ring, the Pet following him, and as they
closed Sparkes got down out of the grip.
7. The perspiration was streaming from the
veteran’s brow, and Heki, who was fresh, lost no
time in taking advantage of the fact. His sinister
mawley was by no means idle; a close was now
the order of battle; Sparkes trying to get the
cross-buttock, was locked cleverly, and Paddy
anon assumed the defensive getting Hill’s cra-
nium under the left arm, but the weak and winded
state of Sinclair rendered him powerless, and the
Cook’s River lad got away.
8 —Sparkes (who had been urged by outsiders
to •’ go in”) did as lie was bid; a severe struggle
immediately took place at the ropes, and pepper
to the fullest extent of their respective powers
was dealt oqt by both mover and seconder. Hill
wanted the crook, and partial.y succed in getting
it, as the Emeralder was ultimately thrown.
[Great cheering from one section of the ring, and
the offers of even money on Sparkes.] j
9 —Enfield recovering slightly, planted a smart i
spank over the left eyebrow, raising a tinge [first
blood claimed] ; Sparkes not at all disposed to ,
, succumb to frifles, returned on top of the head, a
portion of the liishmau’s body corporate wholly
impervious to such weapons as the fist.
I 10.— [Eight minutes actively spent). Sin-
c air’s right fell heavily upon the region of the
heart, but Sparkes managed to touch the left ear
in return; they then rushed together in the lat-
ter’s coiner, aud Heki eased himself down.
11. Sinclair resolved to act on the defensive,
withdrew towards his second, and waited the at-
tack. Sparkes advanced, and with determined
energy let drive from his left shoulder, neighbour-
hood. The blow was prettily stopped, or our
business would perhrps have been to record ano-
ther issue to the battle. [Go it. Bill, from the
Natives ] A rally ensued, and Villiam embraced
his mother.
12—Th e/urriner was quickly at it with his ever-
lasting right, painting the larbord optic wi‘h pre-
cision, while Bill was plying the callous nut of
the Van Diemonian with the coolest dexterity;
a tussel for the fall ensued, and Paddy was tlnng
upon his “ all fbur,
13 The New Zealander following up his
ground, rushed to in fighting and wrestling in
lieu of fighting, was resorted to a determined
struggle for superiority terminated in favour of
■ s parks, who rolled the Pet over the lower ropes
and completly out of the ring.
14—[Cries of “go in Bill and p iish him ofl”]
Sparkes replied to the call by biinging his sinister
bunch of fives to bear on the throttle, when Paddy
made a severe lunge and went down to all appear-
ances baked.
15.—The Pet received a couple of tidy luches
in this round, but remaining teadfast in his corner
in return jobbed heavily with his right. As the
Australian bored in, he napped four stingers under
thejaw but he ultimately sncceeded in flinging the
the heavier weight,
Ifi.—Sparkes twice stopped Paddys right, and
faked away right and left upon the left ear, and
twice repeating the provocative.
'7 an< i last. 'After a brief sparing parley, in
whish little execution was effected, the Enfield
General put a blow upon Heki’s left cheek, which
flored him and finished the strife by knocking
him out of time ; the affair having lasted sixteen
minutes.
REMARKS.
Upon a. sham fight it would be both
irksome and unnecessary to dwell ; and
although we cannot affirm that the battle
was contested on principles the very re-
verse to everything which is held saered
by the firm supporters of the Ring, cir-
cumstances lead us to pause ere we give
publicity to opinions which, once dis-
seminated, can never be withdrawn.
h very body, as a matter of course, ex*
pected that the battle-money would be
given up to the winner of the contest;
but great was their surprise, when they
learned that the stake-holder refused to
do so, having received intimation that
the whole afiair was a hoax. In the
absence of more precise and definite par-
ticulars, we deem it proper to withhold
our judgment until we enquire more
minutely into the matter.
Our duty at present is simply to state
that upon the representatives presenting
themselves for the money, the stakeholder
refused it them, and alleged as his reason
for not doing so, that Spaskes had declared
in public, and offered to affirm upon oath,
that he had agreed to sell the fight at the
instigation of Sinclair’s principal backer,
who had promised him £lOO if he would
do so. That moreover, in accordance
with these suggestions, he (Sparkes) took
the cue from the bettor, and allowed him-
self to be beaten. In this position the
matter stands at present. But as the
whole transaction will be made the sub-
ject of immediate investigation, we shall,
as we said before, reserve ourjfinal deci
sion till every circumstance connected
with it is brought to light, when the full
details will be published.
As may be expected, a strong feeling
of indignation was evinced on the part of
Sinclair s friends, who carried their re-
sentment so far as to force opon the door
where sat the conclave. Their menaces
were not to be sneezed at; at least so
thought the stakeholder, who upon wit-
nessing ihe rush, made a precipitate exit
through a friendly window with greater
celerity than ever Harlequin popped
through the pasteboard sash. To the sud-
denness of his determination he probably
owes his life.
IKE SPARKES AND KING.
lo our great annoyance, that our space
was so limited that we could not give the
details of this game mill in full. Sooner
than publish them in an imperfect and
mutilated state, we determined on keeping
it over till this day week, when it will
appear.
WAR OFFICE,
BACK PARLOUR OF THE EMU INN, GEORGE-
STREET, SYDNEY.
The unsettled aflairs of Europe having led
to the conclusion that Fiance intends to
menace the other great powers of the glqbe,
his Excellency the Commander-in-Chief
directs it to be notified for general informa-
tion, that in order to secure the well-earned
reputation of the principal Australian colony
in all its pristine purity, and moreover to rid
the less adventurous class of her Britannic
Majesty’s subjects resident therein of undue
apprehensiou on the score of having their
coffers pillaged by marauding Gallic ad-
venturers, ho has deemed it necessary to call
out that most illustrious corps the Rifle
Brigade, under the shelter of whose martial
wing the peaceable inhabitants of this
southern metropolis may repose in endless
security. His Excellency is thus enabled to
give a guarantee that no foreign strife shall
tend to thwart the active operations of trade
and commerce, and he hereby pledges his
military faith that the workings of those in-
estimable institutions, known as under, the
Insolvent Court—the City Council—the
Cock and Hen Club—Jeamea’ Committee
the Lio-ing in Hospital—lnspector Higgins’
watchhouse—and Bob Cooper’s distillery.
In order to satisfy the public of the practi-
cability of the measures thus promulgated,
the following general order has been issued
to the corps :
“ Brigadier-General Aitkenhead will take
his station on Ra Perouse Monument, and
on the approach of the French fleet, fire at
the flying jib-boom of the advanced frigate ;
having effected this heroic achievement, he
will telegraph with the butt end of his crutch
to Lieutenant-Colonel Carmichael, whose
station will be on Hancock’s Tower—this
officer will immediately instigate the cock to
crow
“ Cock a doodle—doodle—doo,’’
and when that cock crows, the members must
get under arms without delay.
In the event, upon the muster of the gal-
lant and heroic corps, of his Excellency not
being present, the following distribution of
the Force must be observed—Mr. Colonel
Hugh Brodie will proceed in quick march
to the South-head, where he will take up his
position a little way off the North-east of the
Signal Post, and there keep an attentive
guard, so that no hostile frigate can at-
tempt an entrance of the Harbour,
without his being ready to co-operate with
Major-General Archibald Craig, to be sta-
tioned on the North Head, in offering her
the most resolute resistance. Captains WmJ
Turton, James Smail, Joseph Scott, and
Joseph Pettingel, will bivouac in “Frog’s
Hollow,’ where they can establish a formi-
dable outpost, and defend George’s River
against invasion. Captain John Ander-
son will arm himself, in addition to his
rifle, with a pair of horse pistols, and take
up his quarters on Pinchgut Island—the
pistols to be discharged as signals in case
the enemy should appear in sight--the rifle
to be used solely in repelling any attempt
to take the Island. Engineer William
Aitkin will provide himself with a box of
lucifers, and proceed to Goat Island, where
he will lock himself in the Powder Maga-
zine, and, the moment he hears any dis-
charge of firearms louder than a rifle, apply
his lucifers to two of the barrels of gun-
powder, and blow the whole concern up
This done, he will join Captain Anderson
on Pinchgut taking particular care to
bring with him at least six flasks of pow-
der, and as many rifle bullets as he can
find scattered about. Lieutenant George
Evans will mount guard on the Lieing-in-
Hospital : and Ensign Patten will quarter
himself at Inspector Higgins’ station-house,
taking care not to disturb the repose of the
inmates. The remainder of the corps will
disperse themselves throughout the bush,
extending from Rose Bay to Tarban Creek,
with the exception of Commissary-General
James Stewart, who is ordered to keep a
constant supply of fine Old Jamaica “on
hand, ’ three glasses of which are to be
distributed daily among the corps, at the
usual grog-hour.
Each rifleman is ordered to supply his
own bullet - mould. Should it be deemed
necessary to concentrate the entire force of
the Rifle Corps upon any particular point,
in order to repel the advance of an army
on the City, orders to that effect will issue
from this office at least two hours before
such an event may be expected!
ÆRIAL NAVIGATION.
A work has lately been published in
London, containing a description of a Fly-
ing Machine, on a new principle. It was
published by James Gilbert, Paternostor-
row. The author signs himself Dsedalus
Britannicus. We have not seen a copy of
this work, and therefore cannot speak of
its merits; but we present the lollowing
extract, taken from the Launceston Exa-
miner, of the 21 st instant:
However there may be an inclination to turn
away from such a publication as this, under the
idea of its broaching an impossible subject, yet
it has claims on consideration. “ Impossible is
the adjective of fools " No man, unless such as
have walked bhndtold amidst the discoveries
ot later times would venture to say aerial
navigation is impossible. It would seem as if
the theory were correct, and that there is diffi-
culty only in the working out of its details, In
our present state of mechanical knowledge if
the principle be true-the difficulties must soon
be overcome, and then for the travelling free
and unlettered either by “ gates” or “ stations.”
VVe regard the author of this pamphlet as
having contributed much to the progress of
mechanical scienc, though his thoughts may be
impracticable, just as chemistry was advauced
by those who sought the discovery of the
“philosophers stone.” :
SYDNEY ELECTION.
RELIGIOUS LIBERTY.
To the Editor of the Sporting Times
Sib,—l fully rely upon your liberality and love oy
justice for the insertion of the following plain
statement of facts in your journal.
It is industriously asserted by the opponents of
Mr. Wentworth, that he stated, in his place in
Council, ** that he would sooner employ a cannibaj
than an Irishman.**
Really it is scarcely necessary to offer a serious
refutation of so palpable an absurdity. But as
Electioneering Tactics recognise no license, it may
perhaps be as well to oppose so obviuus a false-
hood by stating the plain truth.
As I was present in the Council Chamber when
'lr. Wentworth made the remarks which have
been so wickedly distorted, I am enabled to tell
you exactly what he did say :
Mr. Wentworth said, “that, in the present dis-
turbed state of certain districts in Ireland, he
feared that an indiscriminate emigration from those
quarters would not be productive of much good
to New South Wales. He deeply regretted the
miserable destitution into which the people of
that misgoverned country were plunged; but he
could not conceal the horror he felt at the re-
countal of the bloodv instances of revenge with
which Ihe Irish journals teemed. It was only a
few weeks from the time he was speaking, that an
Irishman in his (\lr. Wentworth’s) empioy, had
the audacity io boast to him, that he had been
party to a murder which had been committed a
few months before he emigrated to New South
Wales. And he (Mr. Wentworth) asked if any
gentleman would not rather employ a Heathen
Cannibal than a professing Christian who actnally
gloried iu having been accessory to the murder of
his fellow Christian.
I should grievously insult both yourself and
your readers if I offered one word of eulogy upo
r W entworth’s indignant denouncement of sue
a villain And I shall therefore only trespas
upon your space to remind Irishmen and Catholic
of the debt of gastitude which they owe to one 01
the most enlightened and patriotic of Australia’
Sons.
About twenty ye„, , gO , , bigotted and intole
rant, bvt a most powerful and influential section
of the High Church party, endeavoured, by a serie
of false machinations, to crush that excellent man
Father Th*rrt. The persecuted priest sough
the chambers of the leading barrister, William
Charles Wentworth, and laid his case before
him. With what ardour that case was taken up
and with what shame the fierce oppressors of thr
reverend man hid their heads, I need not tell those
whose memories will faithfu ly have recorded every
circumstance in connection therewith. But one
fact remains to be told, t T pon the utter defeat
of his powerful but lawless enemies, Father Therry
offered such a fee to his fearless advocate as he
gralefully considered was his due ; but Mr. Went-
worth at once refused to accept one farthing. He
said that he had taken the case in hand, on prin-
ciple—and that principle was RELIGIOUS LI-
BERTY ; a principle which he earnestly hoped
would ever flourish in his native land. Not as a
barrister had he delended Father Therry, but as
the avowed enemy of bigotry, cruelty, and tyranny.
As in the first case which I have cited so in the
second, I feel assured that not one word of com-
ment is needed; and that the notorious represen-
tatives of the Bishop's (or Lamb's) party will not
influence the votes of the Catholics of Sydney to
the prejudice of William Charles Wentworth.
I am,
Sir,
Your obedient servant,
AM ELECTOR OF SYDNEY
Sydney, July 7, 1848.
LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
The Provincial School of hit and
get await— Sinciair has arranged to visit Parra-
matta on Monday next, for the purpose of enter-
taining the residents of the town and its vicinity
with a display of the principles of the noble art.
The Pet will be accompanied by a select circle
of the metropolitans; moreover the magnificent
belt recently presented to him will be on view
at his quarters, wherever they may be situated,
but we are not at present aware which Hotel his
nobship’s inclinations may load him to patronize.
Execution. —On Tuesday morning last, the
extreme penalty of the law was carried into
effect in the front of Darlinghurst Gaol, on
W illiam Fyfe, the murderer. The wretched
culprit, who was attended in his last moments
by the Rev. Dr. M’Garvie and Mr. Ritche, died
solemnly, protesting his innocence. His de-
meanour on the gallows was composed. He
struggled violently after he was let drop. A
large concourse of persons, male and female,
assembled to witness the tragic scene: and the
majority seemed deeply affected with the ear-
nest manner in which the poor man denied his
guilt.
Another Brother “Bung.” Bill
Davis, an ex-member of the P. R. having taken
unto himself a wife, has seceded from the circle,
and gone “ into the public line.” Davis assures
us that he will be hippy to draw “the claret”
for any old pal, or fresh patron, that may honor
the Gas Hotel with a call.
The Northern Counties. —We are in
a position to state, that Mr. Archibald Boyd in-
tends to solicit the honor of representing the
important electoral district which comprises the
Counties of Stanley, Macquarie, and Westmore-
land. Mr. Boyd left town for New England be-
fore the issuing of the writs; or his address to
the electors would have been published in the
Sydney papers before this.
Sydney Rifle Club. —A special meet-
ing of this club was convened at their Club-room,
Emu Inn, George-street, on Monday evening!
for the gallant and patriotic purpose of adoption-
a memorial to His Excellency the Governor,
praying, that in the event of a militia being
established to defend the oolony against Foreign
invasion, they may be permitted to act as°a
separate corps. For the distribution of the
force, and the particulars of the arrangements
made, see another column.
A new Cure for Drunkenness.
Verily, these are strange times. Novelties are
starting up every day to puzzle and astonish
the world. Between iErial Machines, the Le-
thean effects of Ether, and Chloroform, and the
Dramatic representations Monopolologically,
of the celebrated Tragedian, Mr. Kemble, one
can hardly turn without finding somo recent
discovery staring him in the face. Within the
present week Captain Innes has announced from
the bench a new cure for drunkenness, which he
pronounces to be astonishingly effectual. It ap-
pears that a few days since a constable appre-
hended an unfortunate man running frantically
through the streets in a state of delirium tremens
brought on by drink. The poor creature was of
courso lugged to the Station House and there-
thrust into a cell. On being brought before the
Captain next day he was transplanted to Wool,
loomooloo Gaol for either 24 or 48 hours. This
is the mode of treatment so highly lauded by
Captain Innes. Now, with the greatest defer-
ence to his Worship, we consider the treatment
ot the case referred to not alone injudicious, but
exceedingly cruel. If we had time we could
quote abundance of authorities to convince the
worthy magistrate of the unsoundness of his
views on this subject. Indeed we were always
of opinion, that the practice of the bench in send-
ing a batch of drunkards to shiver for 24 hours
in a cold, perhaps damp cell, is highly reprehen-
sible and dangerous It is well known that this
mode of punishment does not reform the drunk-
ard. Where then the utility of confining him
in a cold dungeon for a day and a half? The
famed Spurzheim, in his view of the elementary
principles of education, says that, “ Drunkards
cannot leave off their bad habits suddenly with-
out injuring their health.” Several distinguished
medical writers are of the same opinion. We
merely throw out this hint, in the hope that the
Bench of Magistrates may be aware of the
danger of exposing poor creatures to imprison-
ment in) this cold trying weather—and simply
for indulging a habit nearly as much practised,
but not so undisguisedly, by many of their
superiors
On Dit. —lt has been currently ru-
moured through the City for the last day or
two, that rather unpleasant proceedings have
taken place in the Bank of Australasia resulting
in the dismissal of a gentleman who had como
out here purposely to examine into the affairs
of the Bank ; and also of one of the Directors.
We cannot, of course, vouch for the truth of
the report; we merely give it as it reached us.
Sparring. Tom King will take a
benefit on Wednesday evening next, when it is
to be hoped that the admirers of true British
courage will manifest their desire to uphold it.
Tandem Accident.—As an up-country
gentleman named Ogilvie, decorated with a
moustache quite a-la-militaire, was driving his
tandem on Tuesday last, an accident occurred
just as he was turning out of Pitt-street into
Hunter-street, which impeded the further pro-
gress of the vehicle. Mr. Ogilvie had just
safely brought the gig past the lamp-post (rout-
ing Mr Sims’s public-house, when, unluckily,
one of the wheels either got into a rut or came
in contact with a Corporation paving-stone,
which caused a fracture of the axle-tree. We
are happy to say, however, that Mr O. did not
sustain any injury, as he sported a fresh tandem
in less than a quarter of an hour afterwards
The Unities.—“ Little Pic” has pre-
served the uuities of dramatic composition better
than any man I know, for every piece he has
produced has been damned.
English Weather. —“ Little Pic” says,
“ The seasons in London are equally divided:
there are four mouths of winter, four bf fog, and
four of rain.”
One of the Invisible Blues.—We slop
the press to announce that a policeman has just
been seen in one of the streets leading to
Alley. His appearance Durand’s attracted an
enormous crowd, and the strange being unac-
customed to the astonished gaze, ran down the
Alley, and has not been seen since. A leg of
mutton and trimmings have been placed outside
the railings, for the purpose of drawing him out.
PARRAMATTA.
[from our correspondent.}
There is scarcely anything talked of in our
quiet little town, save the forthcoming election,
both candidates (Messrs. Oaks and Macarthur),
are equally sure of success, if we are to bclevo
report. If we were to offer an opinion we w ould
say, that the former decidedly, stands the best
chance of being at the head of the poll.
Macarthur's committee held a nleeting at
“ Watsford’s Inn,” on Thursday night, when
several eloquent speeches were made.
Mr. Evans occupied the chair and staled the
object for which they had met.
Mr. Rafter objected to the present course of
proceeding; he thought the chairman was not
in perfect order. He would be glad to hear
him pronounce a benediction first.
Mr. Staff wished to remind the last speaker,
that the present was not a prayer meeting.
The former speaker begged to thank Mr. Staff
for his inf r rmation, but at the same time could
not help thinking that if it had been, it would be
more praiseworthy than the present.
The Secretary was called on to report pro-
gress, and stated the canvass to be as follows: —
0ak5.........156 Macarthur 87


He said the odd seven were obtained by him at
the expense of a gallon of rum, drunk at Lake-
man’s.
A long discussion took place as to whether it
would not be more agreeable to the wishes of
the electors, to call in a third party who was
rather “ flush of rhino.” and whereby they could
have a few extra meetings in the week —This
however, was negatived, and the “ grog” was
ordered in.
The evenings and mornings are now very fine,
and the country around looks cheerful. A little
rain would be of service to the crops. The
orange groves look well, and the fruit abundant.
We have seen a new Song, about to be pub-
lished by Mr. Mason, written and composed by
Charles Blakefield, Esq., and dedicated to John
Staff, and entittled —“ Thou can’st not teach me
to forget.”
The Sporting Times was eagerly sought
after last week, and it is Ikely to become a
favorite here. We will watch for the news of
the coming week, and report accordingly.
CITY COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council of the City of Syd-
ney, was held on Monday last.
The Mayor informed the Council that the
Collector had paid Mr. Day the amount of the
overcharge.
The Town Clerk in answer to a question from
Councillor Jenkins, said that the return of all
fines owing to the Corporation was not yet pre-
pared.
Councillor Jenkins drew the attention of the
Council to the propriety of establishing a super-
vision of weights and measures.
A report of the Improvement Committee,
brought up by Alderman Thurlow, recommend-
ing the erection of a stone archway in Prince-
atreet, across the cut in Argyle-street, was re-
ceived.
Councillor Hill presented a petition from
thirty individuals who had been discharged from
Mr. Bowden’s service at the Sugar Works, in
consequence of the high rate charged for water,
and praying the Council to revise their decision
in that regard. The reception of the petition
was negatived by the casting vote of the Mayor.
The Town Clerk read a letter from the lessee
of the George-street Market, denying certain
charges of extortion, and praying an inquiry.
Also, a letter from the City Treasurer on the
subject of the discrepancy between his returns
and those of the Collector of the rates in Phillip
Ward.
The Council went into the consideration of the
letter of the Colonial Secretary, which stated
that under the instructions received from Her
Majesty’s Government, it was not in His Excel-
lency’s power to comply with the application of
the Corporation for a grant of Hyde Park
Barracks, as a Town Hall.
After some discussion, it was agreed that a
deputation should wait on His Excellency the
Governor to request him to carry out the
promise made to the Corporation by the late Sir
George Gipps, and grant them a portion of land
as a site for a Town Hall.
The motion of Councillor Egan for the ap-
proval of the report of the Special Committee
to prepare a petition to His Excellency the Go-
vernor, for a grant of the vacant land adjoining
the Market Wharf-—was negatived.
The Council adjourned till Monday next.
Gtatifyino Home News.— lt appears
from the latest intelligence received from
the Mother Country, that the assertions
made in the “ Mountain-in-labour” columns pub-
lished in the great metropolis relative to the at-
tack upon Her Majesty by the little rapid
French poodle, presented in his palmier days,
by the ex-King, Louis Philippe—turns out all
monshine. Otherwise, it might have been a
serious matter to the two rival nations of
Europe; for it would then have been a question
whether Louis Philippe could not have been
brought up as an accessory for maiming our
Sovereign. lis also stated that Prince Albert
is not labouring under a disease of the lungs.
Mooern Legislation.—At a public
meeting held at Liverpool, on Tuesday, to con-
sider the measure proposed by government re-
lative to the carrying of passengers in ships,
the chairman, Henry C. Chapman, Esq., in the
course of his remarks, said—“ He did not know
whether it had struck others as it had done
him, but the legislation of the last four years
left the impress on his mind of the effects of a
fish dinner at Blackwall, or of an extraordinary
sermon delivered by a modern puritan viz ,
satiety without satisfaction, and repletion with-
out sustenance ”
Enlightening the Darkness.—“ What
are the candles on that altar for?” inquired a
little boy of his companion as they came out of
the Tractarian church; “To show the darkness
which exists in the pulpit,” was the very appro-
priate reply.— English Paper. [We have been
informed that during Divine Service in the
Royal Chapel at Windsor, candles placed on the
Communion table are kept burning Ed. Aust.
Jour.]
Growth of Silk,—A meeting was held
yesterday, (Tuesday) pursuant to notice, at Mr.
Lyons’ Rooms, for the purpose of considering
the best means of introducing Silk as an article
of colonial produce. Mr. Lamb took the chair.
Some samples of silk raised in the colony were
produced, and the Chairman, after explaining
Mr. Beuzeville’s views, read a letter addressed
to Mr. Forster, of the Australian, from China,
containing opinions of the value of some sam-
ples of silk sent by that gentleman from this
colony some years since, and some highly in-
teresting information, which, although already
laid before the public, appears to have escaped
notice, until again called for by the re-agitation
of the question of the possibility of growing
silk in the colony. A pause took place ,and the
proceedings appeared likely to come to a stand,
when Mr. Mort addressed the meeting, pro-
posing that a subscription should be raised
among one hundred persons, of five pounds each,
and application made to Government for an
equal amount of assistance. This proposition
appearing premature, Mr. Mort; moved the
appointment of a committee to inquire into the
best mode of proceeding, which was seconded
by Dr. Nicholson, and carried. Mr. Donald-
son then took the chair, and the meeting ad-
journed. The attendance was not so numerous
a? might have been expected on so interesting
an occasion, only about forty gentlemen being
E resent; among whom were Mr. Lamb, Mr
lonaldson, Mr. Wentworth, Dr. Nicholson!
Messrs. Mort, T. Woolley, M‘Gaa, Sw—Sydney
Daily Advertiser. The following gentlemen
were appointed to form the committee; viz
Dr Nicholson, Rev. Mr. Turner, Messrs. Archi-
bald CampbeD, John Brown, Allen M‘Gaa,
Charles Moore, John Alexander, W. R Scott
Thomas Forster, Thomas Woolley, G. K. Holden
looth, D. N. Joubert, and T. S. Mort.
, Robberies. —Some time between nine
o clock on Monday evening and five the next
morning, several articles of wearing apparel, a
few trinket and 13s in silver, were stolen from a
house in Clarence Street, occupied by a man
named James Elery, who it seems left it for the
above period and neglected to secure the door
—On Monday morning about one o’clock,
Ld l™m at f h w 'J 0d at was stolen from the
" “ of , w -Jones, a lodger in Gallagher’s
public house in Gloucester street. He had in-
cautiously placed the, article too near the win-
t. ", ln , wh,^. h ° n ? of the panes was broken, and
through which it was abstracted A tweed
stolen “on T lr trouers . valued at £2 ss, wers
stolen on Tuesday evening about five or six
o clock, from Richard Crampton’s premises in
residi“ I :cLT- rho r s Brind ‘y>
m Castlereagh street, went on Tuesday
street fnd ea in y th' ato “ Co ? ee h ° use in Mark °t
street, and in the course of conversation placed
on the counter £2 8s 7d as a bet on the issue of
Sr.ark Ugl 'f 10 “ atch betwecn Sinclair and
Wh ?L tW ° men "ho were preset
snatched up the money and rushed nnf ’
mtnded a tUl be to r d “t ’ Police Benched " P
cessary to the rotfbery ° f be ‘>,
Inquests.—An Inquest was held on
Monday at Mr. Tunk’s ‘Curriers 5 Arras,’ Castle-
reagh Street, on the body of Emma Hemsworth,
aged 19, who died on the previous Saturday.
It appeared from the evidence of the mother,
that the deceased had witnessed the execution of
Knatchbull, since which she had been subject
to fits ; that she had been confined in Darling-
hurst Gaol for about nine weeks, and been lit
erated therefrom on last Thursday week, ant
that on the following Thursday she was take
ill and complained of her head and heart; fit
came on and she died on Saturday. Dr. Tierne;
made a post mortem examination, and found al
the viscera in an unhealthy state and a suffusion
of blood in the pleura which he considered wa
the immediate cause of death. The deceasec
was also enceinte. Verdict—Died by the visita
tion of God. Another Inquest was helc
on Tuesday at Mr. Graham’s, the “ Labour
Vain,” Sussex Street, touching the death o
John Stilwell, who, on Monday evening was
discovered in a dying state, at the corner o
Pitt and King-streets, whence he wa s taken to
Mr. Mace’s and thence to the Infirmary, where
he was pronounced to be dead. It appearec
that he had only left Mr. Graham’s about an
hour previously to the time of his being founc
as above stated. Dr, Mackintosh who had been
called in at Mr. Mace’s, had made a post mortem
examination, and was of opinion that the im-
mediate cause of death was pulmonary apo-
plexy ; the lungs were extensively diseased, ant
the liver considerably enlarged. Verdict—Diec
by the visitation of God. It appeared that the
decased had in his pocket book upwards of £lOO
in cash notes and orders, when he left Graham s,
but they were not found on his person wher
searched at the Infirmary.*
Counterfeit Coin, — Bridget Mitchell
and Margaret Cunningham, who have been for
some time in confinement on a charge of uttering
base coin, were yesterday discharged.
German Immigration. —We understand that
despatches have been received by the Delegate
Committee from Mr. Westgarth, announcing the
probable arrival in the course of a few months
of 500 German immigrants, but though we
happen to be a member of Committee we have
no official knowledge of the fact, and we pre-
sume that on this, as on the two last occasions,
the readers of the Argus will be excluded from
the information, which but for the dishonest
trickery of that worthy pair, Messrs. Edward
Curr and Henry Moor, should have appeared in
our columns of to-day. How Mr. Wills and
Mr. Splatt, as joint-members of the Corres-
pondence Committee, suffer themselves to be
made parties to so barefaced a violation of the
orders of the General Committee is more than
we can imagine, and more a great deal than is
creditable to them as honest men— Melbourne
Argus, June 27,
Criminal Sessions. —His Honor the Resident
Judge has fixed Monday, the 17th July, for the
commencement of the Criminal Sessions. There
are already ten prisoners for trial, and their
offences are of an aggravated nature, viz., mur-
der, 1; highway robbery, 3 : and the rest nearly
all for horse-stealing Ibid.
Prize Fight. —Three of these exhibitions
came off on Friday, in the presence of a large
number of spectators, near Emerald Hill, on the
South Yarra. The belligerents were chiefly
Pentonvillains. The first match was between a
hero known as Deaf Dick and Penton Jim : the
second and third between two Pentonvillains,
respectively. The City Police began to smell
something after all was over, but any movement
upon thor part then would be attended with
more evil than good.— lbid.
Removal of Mr. la Trobe.— The meeting
has been called for this day week, by His
Worship the Mayor. The Requisition had the
signatures of between six and seven hundred
persons attached to it, which, (considering that
it vvas not taken round the Town), is a pretty
evident Index of public feeling. His Worship
the Mayor at once acceded to their wishes.—
Port Phillip Gazette , June 26.
GEORGE STREET POLICE OFFIGE.
Tiie fruits of Electioneering. —Mr. Patrick
Joseph Kelly, a gentleman ruralizing in the
neighbourhood of the Strawberry Hill, appeared
before the Mayor to prosecute a fellow named
John Trant, for having taken liberties with his
packet, not recognized by the law. It appeared
that Mr. Kelly, actuated by a praiseworthy and
patriotic desire to make hiinselt acquainted with
the political sentiments of Mr. Lamb, one of the
aspiring candidates for Sydney, attended a
meeting of that learned gentleman’s friends at
the School of Arts, on Tuesday evening for that
purpose. He was gradually being stimulated
into a state of rapturous enthusiasm by Mr. Lowe’s
eloquence, when he felt a strange hand quickly
introduced into, aud as quickly withdrawn from
his trousers pocket. In a few minutes afterwards,
a similar attack was made upon his waistcoat
pocket, in which reposed the sum of three half
pence, but not with the like impunity ; for he
seized the prisoners hand, just as the latter was
withdrawing it; Trant was immediately given
into custody, and on his being searched, a pocket
handkerchief—closely resembling the Union Jack
on a small scale—was brought to light, and
identified by Mr. Turner, publican, Pitt-street,
as being his property. The prisoner pleaded
non mi recordo as his defence. He did not, he
said, exactly understand how he could have com-
mitted so contemptible a crime as that of picking
a pocket; and if he had done so, he could only
say that he must have been stupid, or foolish, or
something else. He was provided, under the
Vagrant Act, with four month’s lodging in Wool-
loomoolloo Gaol.
A Disappointment.— The Court of Requests,
though it may administer Law, seldom fails in
causing dissatisfaction and ‘ vexation of spirit* to
those litigants against whom it awards verdicts.
.The discomfited defendants almost invariably
grumble and growl at the decision which renders
it imperative on them to liquidate their several
pecuniary obligations, and are equally wroth
with the parties who enforce that duty on them.
It was in such a mood that a Mr. Bates, shop-
keeper on the South Head Road, left the Court
on Monday last, under a positive injunction from
the Commissioner to pay unto one Thomas
Taylor, a certain sum of money lawfully due to
him. He met Taylor outside, to whom he ad-
dressed an offensive observation, amounting to a
direct imputation of wilful falsehood in his
(Taylor’s) statement of his case to the Court.
Taylor, enraged at such a remark, retorted in
terms neither flattering or polite, and challenged
Bates to an encounter ala Sinclair. This
however was declined ; and on Tuesday, Taylor
was apprehended on a warrant for a Breach of
the Peace. On the matter being investigated
into by the Bench on Wednesday, the case was
dismissed—the Magistrate informing Bates that
he was to blame for having made use of improper
and provoking language to the defendant. Bates
left the witness box evidently disappointed ; and
muttered something about his not coming to that
Court again in a hurry.
Conjugal Broils. —Mrs. Ellen Clarke, a mar-
ried woman residing on the Newtown Road,
curtsied to the Mayor on Wednesday, prepara-
tory to informing his worship, that the defendant
Richard Clarke (her husband,) had not left a
whole bone in her body from the repeated beatings
and kickings he gave her. No later than Monday
last, he used her brutally, knocked her down,
and kicked and beat her about the body while
postrate. On Tuesday night, he turned her out of
doors. Clarke did not deny having assaulted
his wife ; but alleged in his defence, that she is
so much addicted to drunkenness as to be unable
to attend to her child. On Monday, she was
sitting on a stone outside his door, as gloriously
drunk as Colonial Ale could make her. On his
endeavouring to get her into the house, she
screamed and shouted out “murder murder” at
the top of her voice. Exasperated at her conduct,
he abused her in the manner complained of. He
was ordered to find sureties for his peaceable
demeanour towards his better half. “ I suppose
your Worship said Clarke, that I can live with
her or not, just as I like.” The Mayor res-
ponded not to the query.
A “ Hired Servant’s” Case. —A young
woman, named Elizabeth Jackson, one of that
class of menials who are greedily sought after by
advertisement, to act as cooks, housemaids, &c.,
with the exceedingly indefinite notice, that they
shall be also required to make themselves “ gen-
erally useful,” was brought up in custody before
the Mayor on Wednesday, charged with having
committed a “violent assault” upon one Eliza
Taylor. The two ladies were fellow servants,
in the employ of a Mr. Tebbutt, residing some
where near the Glebe. The circumstances were
shortly those, as disposed to by the complainant.
On the 15th June, hltirao, defendant in the
absence of her master, took one of his children,
and went into a public house, when she got
drunk. On her return home, she abused her
(Miss Taylor) in a very gross manner, followed
her into the kitchen, and there stabbed her in
the arm with a knife. Two youths—lads about
sixteen years of age, having been duly sworn,
attempted something like a corroboration of the
plaintiff’s story; but they jumbled their testimony
so dexterously, that it was difficult to ascertain
which party was to blame ; though after a few
hesitations, and one or two self-contradictions
on their side, they plump’d in favor of the prisoner
having been drunk on the day specified in the
information, and of her having had a knife in
her hand, with which she had been cutting bread
and butter. The defence was as a matter of
course contradictory of some of those allegations.
Elizabeth Jackson admitted that she had a knife
in her hand—but distinctly denied having used
it in the manner complained of. She stated that
there was a jawing bout between herself and her
follow servant—and that the latter struck her a
blow, which nearly knocked her down. She
further added, that she had been obliged to
summon Mr. Tebbutt to the Court of Requests,
for £ 3, wages due her; and tb#, at her master’s
instance, the Commissioner deterred adjudicating
in the transaction, until Mr. Tebbutt had brought
his maid’s concern under the cognizance of the
Police Authorities. Though the Mayor signi-
ficantly asked the plaintiff “ why she had allowed
three weeks to elapse before she preferred this
charge,” his worship committed Jackson to take
her trial, allowing bail. Tebbutt, who ap-
peared to be earnestly concerned in the result of
the case, asked the Magistrate, “ would he not
make an order about the wages” ? The presiding
genius did not condescend to notice the solicitous
enquiry.
Thursday, July 6.
Arthur Lowry, (remanded from yesterday)
a young gentleman whose countenance was
thoroughly indicative of his craft, was charged
by a woman of the name of M‘Crosky with ap-
propriating a tea kettle, her property, (in fact
the very identical kettle that “ Polly put on” a
hook outside the door) and with which he was
twigg’d decamping round the corner of Castle-
reagh-street, by the children of the prosecutrix 4
who, having instantly pursued him, captured him
with the werry water spout in his possession
which she claimed as her property.
The prisoner made a pretty kettle of fish by
declaring it was given to him by a woman he
had never seen before or since, and that he was
(h)innocent of stealing the same, as it would n’t
have been the likes of that he would have prigg’d.
(He was committed for stealing the same.)
Assault. —Grant, a cabman, was summoned
to answer an unprovoked assault on Mr. Isaac
Titterton.
Isaac (sworn) stated that he was standing at
his own door reading the Sporting Times, when
Grant came up to him, and, after levying a volley
of abuse at him, struck him several times in the
face, without the slightest provocation.
Mr Titterton, who exhibited a very lenient
disposition towards the offender expressed his
wish that he might not be punished in any other
than being .bound over to keep the peace ; the
defendant, having declared his extreme regret
that the effects of drink should have so far made
him forget himself, was bound himself in £4O and
two sureties in <£‘2o each to be of good behaviour.
Regina v. Robert D’Aumaile. —This prisoner
was brought up charged with having in his pos-
session certain pieces of base coin, consisting of
shillings and 3d pieces; also dyes for making the
same.
Sergeant Adson deposed to having (from in-
formation received) accompanied the Chief In-
spector to the house where the prisoner had
been lodging (a Mrs. Roberts’ in Bathurst-street)
when, having demanded to examine the prisoners
property, they found the aforesaid dyes and base
coin, also good money amounting to £lO 8s 7d,
and a shilling which was then in a state of pre-
paration.
The case was, however, remanded until Mon-
day next for the production of some important
witnesses—and for the testimony of Mr. Norrie,
a chemist, as to the perfection of the dyes, &o.
Publican’s Licenssing Act. —Roger Murphy,
publican, corner of Castlereagh and Market-
street, was fined 40s and 5s shillings costs, for
selling rum to a person after 9 o’clock.
When a married couple are walking in Regent-
street, it is very unlucky for the gentleman if the
lady stops and looks into a bonnet-shop.—
Punch.
j |The artisans of Birmingham have subscribed
a sura £924 18s 9d which they have presented as
a new-years’s gift to the Queen’s Hospital in
that town.
One of the curiosities to be seen in the pro-
vision department of the Clarence Victualling
Yard, Portsmouth, is bread in bags for 10,000
men for eighteen months.
An Irish Wager —Two natives of the
Emerald Isle, who were travelling together,
finding their means run short, and being in want
of a “ dhrop of the craythur,” devised the ways
and means for raising a supply. Catching a
frog in a ditch, one of them went on with it in
advance of his companion, and stopping at the
first public house he came to, asked the landlord
if he could tell what sort of an animal that was.
“ What sort of an animal !” exclaimed Bonafice,
“why, you booby, its a frog to: be sure.”
“Booby here,; booby there,” said Pat, “it
sthrikes me you’r mistaken, for as ’cute as you
think yourself, I’ll bet you the price of a pint of
whiskey it’s a mouse ; and I’ll lave it to the first
traveller that comes up to decide between us.”
“Agreed,” said the landlord. Pat’s confede-
rate came up; and being required to say what
sort of an animal it was, after much examination
and deliberation, declared it to be a mouse; and
thus the landlord, in spite of the evidence of his
senses, had to pay the wager.”
The American Government is at present
spending rather more than twice its income.
Its expenditure is 59,451,000 dollars; its in-
come, 25,670,00 dollars. War is thus laying the
foundation of a national debt and a standing
army.
Taxks on Newspapers. —Few p ople are
aware of the amount of taxation levied from
newspapers. Upon our publicatian last week we
paid for advertisement duty, for stamp duty, and
for paper duty, a sum exceeding £33, being at the
rate of £l7OO a-year. The pulpit is endowed
and the press is taxed. Would it not be better
to let boih alone? A Canon of the Collegiate'
Church is paid £l2OO a-year for addressing his
audience; we jay £l7OO a-year to be allowed
to address ours. — Manchester Times.
Gross Gluttony. — A private of the 4th
Royal Irish Dragoon Guards, now stationed at
Nottingham barracks, named Biddles, ate for his
dinner, on Wednesday the Bth Inst a bolied leg
of mutton, weighing 141 b. 3oz.,apeckof potatoes
(mashed), half a peck of turnips, two pounds of
bread and drank during the time a gallon of ale.
He completely cleared the bone, emptied the ve
getable dishes, and drained the ale. This teat
commenced at 2 o’clock, and was not completed
until evening.— Nottingham Guardian.
Curious Statement concerning the Dog.
—The mastiff, when transported into Denmark,
becomes the little Dani h dig; fjr a cold climate
is all-powerful in diminishing the size of an
anoimal. We have no eliphants or cameleopards
in the arctic regions ; and even man himself, as
we witness in the Esquimaux, is considerably
below the average standard. The Danish dog sent
into a tropical climate loses his hair, and is con-
verted into the Turkish dog. This is a very
singular variety; the skin is perfectly bare, of
a flesh eolour, with brown spot*, and their whole
appearance is disgusting. At firat view he seems
as if flayed alive ; this opinion is strengthened by
observing them even in summer shivering, for
they are unable to endure our cold climate
Sporting Review.
Use of a Wig —Monsieur Perrot caught the
general spirit of the affray, and, as he afterwards
said of himself, “ fought like a famished lion!”
when, unluckily, his pistol snapped in the face of
a Sioux warrior, who struck him a blow that
felled him to the earth. Stepping lightly over the
form of his prostrate foe, the savage, grasping’ a
knive in his right hand, and seizing the luckless
Frenchman’s hair with his left, was about to scalp
him, when the knife dropped from his hand, and
he stood for a moment petrified with astonishment
and horror. The whole head of hair was rn his
left hand, and the white man sat grinning before
him with a smooth and shaven crown. Letting
fall what he believed to be the scalp of some devi
iu human shape, the affrighted Sioux fled from
the spot; while Perrot, replacing his wig, mut-
tered half aloud "Bravo ma bonne perruke! je te
dois mille remercimens." — Hon. C. Murray’s
Prairie Bird.
An Irishman was speaking of the excellence of
a telescope. Do you see that wee speck on the
hill yonder ? That now is my old pig, though it
is hardly to be seen, but when 1 look at him with
my glass it brings him so near that i can plainly
hear him grunt.
A Young Logician, —Veiily children do put
strange questions to their papas and mammas,
sometimes; to wit:—' Papa, why do you wear
straps?” “To keep my trowsers down, John,”
" Pa, why do you wear braces ?” "To keep my
trowsers up, John.” '■ Well' pa, that is funny.
Sleeping in Pulpit and Pew.—A Miss
Brown preaches in New York in a state of som-
nambulism. In 'his country it is quite the re-
verse J the preacher is wide awake and the au-
dience asleep,
‘ Bill” said Bob " why is that tree called a
weeping willow?” " ’Cause one of the sneaking
dratted things grew near our schoolhouse, and
supplied the master with the sticks that did all
the boys’ licking.”
The Eastern Herald describing what it calls
‘ an impudent theft,” says, *• At noon on Mon-
day, a little boy, named Locke, was standing at
his father,B door, in Hull, when a woman passing
by took off his head, and carried away, a cloth
cap.,*
Cheering —An officer writing from the city
of Mexico savs, " I believe the war has just be-
gan, and will not terminate with this generation.”
Such appears to be the uniform opinion af those
on the spot, and who have the best opportunity
of judging.
A correspondent of the Oxford Chronicle
points out somewhat a discrepancy in the pay-
ment of Christain ministers—the curate of the
parish for forty years’ examplary labour had re-
ceived ,£2800; the late Archbishop of York in
the same period received £1,000,000.
MARKETS, &c.
SHEEP AND CATTLE SALES.
Captain Deloitte, 500, 541b5., ss. 4d., Raper and
Stanfield.
CATTLE.
Lowe, 104 head, £2 ss. 6d. each, 7001b5., Raper
and Stanfield.
Pearse, 20 head, £2 each, 6501b5., ditto.
Sullivan, 60 head, £8 Os., 5501bs , Hill & Argent.
SETTLERS’ WHOLESALE PRICE
CURRENT.
Wheat, —No alteration. Holders of Van Die-
men’s I .and are asking 5s 9d; some has
been sold at 5s 6d. Colonial, 4s to ss, ac-
cording to quality.
Flour— No alteration at the mills. Fine, .£l3;
seconds, .£ll. Still some of the old stocks
in store may be purchased at less than
the mill prices.
Maize —Plentiful. Old, Is 8d to Is 9d; new,
Is 6d to Is 7d. A great deal has been
spoiled through heating in the vessel.
Hay —Still plentiful. Some Van Diemen’s Land,
was bought in at £5 2s 6d—.£s 5s would
have been taken. A lot of compressed
Hunter River hay sold at £3 Is.
Barley —None in the market. Both Cape and
English much inquired after, for seed.
Oats.—Market overstocked—offering at 4s per
40 lbs. Sales dull.
Bqtter —Good salt butter is worth now from
<3d to Sdper lb. by the keg.
Cheese—Market quite Overstocked. 3d is about
the wholesale price. "** *
Bacon and Hams —Plentiful. About from 3d
to 4d may be obtained.
Eoss—Are worth from 8d to 9J for fresh mixed
duck and hen.
Calves —Fit for the butchers, from 10s to 15s
each.
Pios—Are worth about 2Jd per lb. by the car-
case, if of about 60 or 80 lbs. Larger sizes,
for salting, not worth more than 2d per lb.
Fat Cattle —Have sold during the past week
at prices averaging from £2 to £2 10s, and
£3 for very prime.
Sheep —From 5s to 6s; though some fine fat
wethers, full sixties, would fetch 7s each.
Tallow.— No improvement in this article. Bef
has fetched from £3O to £3O 10s; Mutton,
from £3l to £33 12s 6d. Buyers are still
heavy.
Hides.— Best cured heavy hides, from 5s to
5s 3d; inferior, 4i down to 2s.
Tobacco. —No alteration.
MELBOURNE. —JUNE 24.
Grain. —Flour (at the Mill), fine, 13s per 100
lbs; seconds, 11s 6d ; wheat, 4s Gd to 5s per
bushel; oats, Van Diemen’s Land, 4s to 5s
wholesale; colonial ditto, 4s to 4s Gd; barley,
(English), 4s Gd; Cape, 2s 6d; maize, 4s; bran;
13d ; sharps, Is 6d ; pollard, Is 9d. Bread, 7d
STOCK MARKET.
Sales effected during the past week by Messrs.
Bear and Son :
Fat Cattle—Ninety head, comprising two lots,
sold at auction as follows: One lot of bullocks,
good quality, averaged £3 per' head, or from 8s
Gd to 9s per 100 lbs ; a lot of fat heifers and bul-
locks sold at from 50s to 60s each.
Store Cattle—Forty-three head (a fair lot)
sold at 15s 6d each, and steers for yoking at 45s
each
Working Bullocks—A team of six (superior)
sold at .£lO per pair; one ditto of four, £9 to
£‘lo per pair, bows and yokes given in.
Horses—At the weekly horse sale on Thurs-
day, about 30 head were offered, out of which
23 found purchasers. A lot of colts and fillies,
from the country, in very low condition, sold at
from 5 to guineas each; useful hacks from
12 to 16 guineas, and rough hacks from 4 to 9
guineas each.
Prices for fat cattle this week ranged from 8s
to 9s per 100 lb 3 ; the market was fully supplied.
Fat wethers were plentiful, but good ones sold
at fair rates, for 8s 6d to 9s per head was ob-
tained for a lot averaging about 68 lbs.
Horse stock is dull of sale.
HOBART TOWN— JUNE 22.
Grain. —Wheat, 5s Od to 5s 3d bushel; Oats
bushel, 2s lOd to 3s ; Cape Barley, 3s to 3s 3d
English ditto 4s 9d ; Hay, £3 10 to £3 15s ton
Pressed ditto, £4 ditto; Straw, llsto £1 10s
ditto.
Wheat is flrm’at 5s per bushel. Flour remains
at our last quotation, jt"l3 per ton. Best bread,
3d the 21b loaf. In malting barley and oats no
alteration. Potatoes, wholesale, £4 to £4 ss; re-
tail, £4 10s to £4 15s.— Courier, June 24,
LAUNCESTON.— June 23.
The wheat market continues without altera-
tion ; at the early part of the week considerable
purchases were made at 4s 6d per bushel, which
is now the quotation.
ORIGINAL ENIGMAS FOR SOLUTION.
My first’s a horse, more vulgarly expres’st;
My second’s like George the Fourth iR 1820;
My whole proved fond of chaff, and gave a test—
A mare who kept all asses mangers empty.
The merits my first oil Waterloo was proved ;
My second in British ale houses is very much
beloved;
My whole a dashing scribler is to magisterial
bench,
Fond of his grog, his prog, himself, his salary,
his wench.
Why is the Emu Inn an unpleasant house to
patronise ?
Because whatever grog you drink you pay for
it with an Aitkenhead (aching head).
Borrowing Newspapers. —lt is wonderful
how much people think, in all countries, of buy-
ing a newspaper. A man who will waste hun-
dreds of pounds on ridiculous trifles will submit
to wait hours for his newspaper, to have it taken
from him when in the very midst of an interesting
article, to save, perhaps, a mere matter of a few
halfpence per day. For ourselves, we are like
Pierre Lescoup; we read our newspaper with
zest only when it is our own property, and we can
enjoy it —one of the greatest of modern luxuries
—by our own fireside; at times, too, when any
other reading would be wearisome and distasteful
We like a borrowed paper as little as a borrowed
nightcap. —Percy {St. John Mirror .
SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE.
ARRIVED.
July I. — The schooner Secret, 38 tons, Higgins,
master, from Moreton Bay the 14th Ultimo.
Passengers—Mrs. Walker and child.
July 1. —The brig Phantom, 158 tons, Fox,
master, from Adelaide the 20th, and Kangaroo
Island the 23rd Ultimo. Passengers—Mrs. New-
man, Messrs. Johnson, Graham, Stewart, and
Jones.
July I.—The barque Robert Sayers, 3li tons,
Morrison, master, from Port Nicholson, the 11th
Ultimo. Passengers—Mrs. Tyers, Mrs Turner,
and three children, Messrs. Lloyd, Day, Hook!
Lovell, Yardiey, Greenland, and Johnson.
July 2—The schooner Columbine, 68 tons,
Cook, master, from Moreton Bay the 17th Ult.
Passengers—Messrs. Wilkes, and Walker.
July 2.—The schooner Susan, 53 tons, Piggins,
master, from Moieton Bay the 17th Ultimo.
July 2 —The brig Emma, 121 tons, Osborne,
master, from Adelaide the 22nd Ultimo. Pas-
sengers—Captain Creagh and three sons, and Mr.
Saurbier.
July 2 —The schooner Minerva, 82 toas,
Birkenshaw, roaster, from Auckland the 30th
May, in ballast.
July 2 The ship Seringapatam, 360 tons,
Lovell, master, from London, having left the
Downs on the 3rd, and Lizard the 6th March.
Passengers—Messrs. Smith and Grylls.
July 3 —The schooner Elizabeth Jane, 43 tons,
Stericker, master, from Moreton Bay, the 21st
Ultimo.
July 3.—The barque Kingston, 296 tons, Har-
wood, master, from Port Nelson, the 21st Uit.
Passengers Messrs. Burgess, Mackay, and
Turner,
July 3—The barque Pocklington 200 tons,
Bolger, master, from the Whaling Grounds.
July 4.—The schooner Falcon, 53 tons, Cum-
ings, master, from Tahiti the 3rd April, and
Fanning’s Island the 15th May. Passenger—Mr
W. Warner.
July 4—The schooner Deborah 123 tons,
Nagle, master, from Auckland the 15th Ultimo.
Passengers—Captain Bliss, Miss Jackson, Mr. E.
New, Mr. H. Ewen, and two stockmen.
July 4.—The barque Rosetta Joseph, 264 tons
Patrick, master, from Manila the 16th April
Passengers—Dr. Ashley.
July s—The brig William, 121 tons, Lovett,
master, from Launceston the 29th June. Pas-
sengers—Mr. M'Ciement, Mr Learmouth, and
Mr. Gave.
July s.—The schooner Munford, 158 tons,
Hayie, master, from Hobart Town the 24th June
Passengers—Mr. Denison, Mr. Clarke, and Mr.
Todd.
July 6. The barque Elpbinstone, 425 tons,
Tillman, master, from London, the 4th February’
Plymouth the 27th February, and Falmouth, the
7th March,— Passengers—Mrs. Stephens, Dr.
Shanks, Staff Surgeon, Mr. Browe, Mr. Phillips
Mr. Wright. Messrs. Rippen, Rowen, Hay, Ellis!
Leighten Anderson; Hawk. Mrs. Stanmore 15
miners, 7 women, and 12 children.
July 6.—The Minerva schooner, 110 tons
Macarthur master from Portland Bay the-jjgttt 1
ultimo, Passengers—Mrs. Macarthur«M|-lil£le™
Mr. Arthur, Mr. Bridges, onard,’
Mr. Watson. ,
July !iTrifel Grant, 292 tons,
Eden. masM|\A»*r\jporto the 18th March.
July 6.-”nie schooner Alice. 43 tons, Sholi,
master, from Circular Head the 30th ultimo’
Passengers Dr. Hayes, Mr. J. Ashdown.
July 7.—The ship Wigrams, 286 tons, Parfett
master, from Port Nelson the 29th June in
ballast. Passengers—Mrs. Parfett and child, \lr
Burt and six children.
July 7.—The steamer Tamar, 130 tons, Allen
master, from Moreton Bay the sth instant. Pas-
sengers—Captain Freeman, Harbour Master of
Moreton Bay ; Captain Collins, Mr. Laidley Mr
Power, Mr. Pinnock, Mr. Gray, and eleven in the
steerage,
SAILED.
June I.—The barque Thetis, 460 tons, Cass,
master, for Launceston, in ballast. Passengers—
Assistant Commissary-General Swan, Miss Wal-
den, Dr. Cream, and one private of the 99th
Regiment.
July I.—The barque Subraon, 511 tons, Mills,
master, for Auckland via Newcastle.
July I.—The schooner Sarah Ann, 185 tons
Dunnet, master, for Otago Passengers—Mr Neil
M'Naughten and Thomas Connor.
June 3 The brig Maukin, 106 tons. Hughes,
master, for Auckland. Passengers—Mrs. Aspi-
nail and child, Messrs. Bridges, Hooper and
Baskeville.
July 3—The schooner Petrel, 69 tons, Gib-
son, master, for Port Phillip, Passengers—Mr
and Mrs. Roger Kitt and four children, Mr and
Mr-. Michael Cain, Mrs. '-mith, and Mr Ennis.
July s.—The barque Sydney, 355 tons, White
master, for London ’
July 5 —The brig Dorset, 82 tons, Walsh,
master for Adelaide, rassengers—Mrs. Walsh]
Mr and Mrs. Smithers and two children, Mr. and
Mrs. Keesing, Master S. Solomons, M. W. Le
Lievre, Mr. Murvaux, Mr. John Sullivan, Mrs.
Sullivan and two daughters, Mr. and Mrs. Wilson,
two daughters, and son, Mr. D. M’Lean, Mr p’
M'Cann, and Mr. and Mrs. Fraser and three
children.
July 7.—The brig Salaeia, 296 tons, Webster,
master, for Madras and Calcutta, in ballast.
July 7 —The barque Tamar, 557 tons, Hall,
master, for Lombock
July 7 —The barque William. 324 tons, John-
son, master, for Port Nicholson. Passengers—
Mr. J. Temple, and four stockmen.
July 7.—The John Calvin, barque, 510 tons,
Davison master, for Singapore in ballast. Pas-
sengers—Mr. Power, Lieut. Yelverton, Royal
Engineers.
CLEARED AT THE CUSTOMS.
July s.—The brig Palmyra, 145 tons, Lindsey,
master, for Melbourne. Passengers—Mrs. Lind-
sey and two children, and Mr. P. W. Welsh.
PROJECTED DEPARTURES.
The Hero, for Adelaide; the Spec, for the Bay
of Islands; the Biair and the City of Poonah,
for London this day.
ROYAL VICTORIA THEATRE.
Second night of the highly successful Drama of
JONATHAN BRADEQRD.
Second night of the Farce, entitled
LYING IN ORDINARY.
THIS EVENING, JULY 8, 1848,
Will be produced the admired Drama of
JONATHAN BRADFORD;
OR, THE MURDER AT THE ROADSIDE INN.
To be fo'lowed by the favorite Interlude of
LYING IN ORDINARY.
To conclude with a new Farce called
BUT HOWEVER.
For Characters, see bills of the day.
MR. GRIFFITHS, Manager,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL
Tea, Wine, and Spirit
’*P&2Et®3B<E»'ißrsa&»
| HE undersigned begs to submit a
list of goods on hand, assuring those who
may favour his Establishment, that every article
will be sold at the lowest possible price and of
the best description and quality,
BLACK TEAS:-
Flowery Pekoe
Orange ditto
Caper
Souchong
Congou
Bohea
GREEN TEAS:—
Gunpowder
Hyson
Young Hyson
T wankay
Hyson Skin
COFFEES ’.—(roasted daily on a neuj and much
improved principle.)
J <t va
Manila
Mocha
SUGARS:—
Double and Treble Refined Sugar
Mauritius and Manila ditto
Chrystalized ditto
GHOCOLAIE- from the first London houses,
of various descriptions
SPICES:—
Cloves
Nutmegs
Mace
Cinnamon
Black Pepper
White ditto
Cayenne ditto
Pimento
Curry Powder
Jamaica Ginger
Common ditto
DRIED FRUITS:—
Muscatel Raisins
Turkey ditto
Cape ditto
Sultana ditto
Prunes
Currants
Nuts
FitfS
Orange Peel
Lemon ditto
Citron
Jordan Almonds
Soft Shell ditto
FRUITS IN BRANDY AND IN NOYEAU.
BOTTLED FRUITS FOR TARTSi—
Apricots, Green Gages
Peaches, Cherries
Strawberries, Currants
Damsons, Gooseberries
Bullace, Rhubarb, &0., &c., &c.
PICKLES:—
Mangoes
Walnuts
Onions
Gerkins
Cabbage
Piccalilly
French Beans
Cauliflower
Mixed Pickles, and every other sort
French Capers
Ditto Olives
Spanish ditto
SILKIES— for
¥yuS*t Game
' steaks, Cold Meat
Curries
Enriching Gravies, &c., of every description,
from the first houses
OILS.—
Floreuce Oil
Lucca Oil, in pint and quart bottles, of the
finest quality
Castor Oil, genuine Cold Drawn
Sperm Oil
Black ditto
Linseed ditto
Boiled ditto
VINEGARS :
Best English White Wine Vinegar
French
Chili
Tarragon
Garlick
Cucumber
Cayenne &c.
TOBACCO :
Negrohead
Colonial
SNUFFS :
English, Scotch, and Irish
SW»aMKB&fI,
Cigars
Mustard
Arrowroot, Sago, Tapioca
Irish Mess Pork
Ditto Beef
Harabro ditto
Yarmouth Herrings
White ditto
Pear] Barley, Split Peas
Brimstone
Soda, Rotten Stone
Bees’ Wax
Lamp Cotton, Catidlewick
Liquorice
Oatmeal
Isinglass
Beer and Wine Corks
Epsom Salts
Glue, Cream of Tartar
Wool Packs
Saltpetre
Tartaric Acid
Carbonate of Soda
Brushes, Black and Red Ink
Blacking
Amatto
Gunpowder, Shot
Liverpool, Dairy, and Basket Salt
Black Lead
Starch, Tobacco Pipes
Blue, Whiting, Alum
Wax and Sperm Candles
Bath Bricks
Mould and Store Candles
Maccaroni
Vermicelli
London, Liverpool, and Colonial soap
Windsor soap
Pearl Ashes
Honey
Tamarinds
Prepared Groats and Barley
Turpentine, White Lead, Paints
Preserved Meats, Soups, Fish, Game
TOSSSS*
Champagne, Sparkling, in pints and quarts
Hock
Claret
Madeira
Port
Sherry
Cape, &c., Bcc., See.
IN OR OUT OF BOND.
Brandy in Wood or Cases
Gin in Cases, half Cases, or in Wood
Bum
Old Tom
Shrub
Cherry Brandy
Noyeau
Annisseed
Lemon Syrup
Pepperment, &c., be., &c,,
IN WOOD AND BOTTLE.
PICHARD PEEK,
july 1, 1848. 452, George-str®^
TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS OF
THE UNITED COUNTIES OF ROX-
BURGH, PHILLIP, AND WELLINGTON.
GENTLEMEN, The Herald most
pathetically enquires this morning, in
alluding to your Counties amongst others; —
44 Will no kind friends step forward to your
relief ?” Yes, Gentlemen, lam possessed of too
large an organ of benevolence to resist the
appeal made on your behalf. I will be your
Representative in the ensuing Council, and—
pardon the egotism—-you might go farther and
fare worse.
With regard to qualification, I trust some
kind friends will forward the same to me when
the writ is returned to His Excellency. It has
always been the misfortune of talent to be con-
nected with poverty.
I will not adopt the plan of Mr. James
Martin, who baa me out of Cook and
Westmoreland and tell you what lan not: —
I will tell yon what I am. I am a poet, painter,
lecturer, accountant, secretarry. and fifty other
things; and now my earnest desire is to you,
that I may also become a legislator. I need
not tell you that I have abilities of no common
order. I am saved that pain as the fact is
already so well established. lam not a govern-
ment “hack or hanger-on,” as Mr. Martin
strongly and elegantly expresses it; although
I do firmly believe and confidently assert that
there are a few decent men among them—Mr.
Martin’s opinion to the contrary notwithstand-
ing. 1 am a first-rate Orator, 44 like Brutus
was” and 44 Robert Lowe is” —I am—but a
whole volume could not contain my yaried
acquirements.
Gentlemen, elect me and 1 will neither abuse
nor support the Government merely for the sake
of doing so. Reject me; (as Mr. Martin would
say), and you will shew a great want of taste.
{vide my Lecture on the subject.)
I shall not have time to wait on you per-
sonally, but nevertheless, I am
Your obedient servant,
S. P. HILL.
School of Arts, Sydney,
7th July 1848.
MESSRS WENTWORTH AND
BLAND.
\ PUBLIC MEETING of the Electors
t\. of Sydney will be held at the School o(
Arts, on Friday evening the 14th. Instant, at
7 o’clock precisely, on which occasion Messrs
Wentworth and Bland will attend to address
the meeting, and answer any questions that may
be put to them.
By order of the Committed.
J. C. WHITE.
Secretary
LUNCHEON, DINING, AND SUPPER
ROOMS,
Rainbow tavern, comer of phi
and King-streets, Economy, variety
comfort, and attention. N. B.—Any hour.
BILLIARDS.
The most modern Billiard Table importer
and made to the undersigned’s especial ordei
by Thurston is at the Rainbow Corner of Pit:
and King-streets.
J. W. ROCHE.
CH&ZaIaSiVGE.
George huff is open to figh
Sinclair, the Enfield Tinker, or an;
other man in the Colony (a native
for any Sum from .£lOO to ,£5OO. His mone;
is ready at the old quarters, Market-street.
CHALLENGE.
OM SPARKES will fight any man
3 in tlie Colony of his weight, (10 stone
4lb ) for from 50 to £5OO aside. His mone;
is ready at the old quarters, Market-street.
C tlAXiIa 3HMGE.
BILL SPARKES is open to figh
any man in the Colony, 11 stone 41b
for 50 or £lOO.
ABSOLUTE SALE OF TWO VALU-
ABLE AGRICULTURAL PRO-
PERTIES.
In the fertile District of Illawarra; a Suburban
Allotment of nine acres of Land neai
Sydney; and a Village Allotment neai
Ireland’s, Sydney Road, part of the
Great Canterbury Estate.
BY ORDER OF THE AGENTS.
jVtf R. STUBBS is instructed by the
I’-l Agents connected herewith, to sell by
j public auction, at the Mart, King-street,
ON WEDNESDAY, the 12th JULY,
Sale at 12 o’clock precisely,
Lot I.—A valuable Agricultural Farm, con.
taining by admeasurement4o acres, S
roods, and 32 perches, situate in the
County Camden, Parish of Kebla
Illawarra, being lot 40 of the “ Bal.
gownie Estate.
Lot 2—A valuable Agricultural Farm, com-
prising 65 acres, situate on “ Lake
Iblawarra” and “ Hook-a-Crick.”
It is represented to be a very compacl
homestead, the whole of it being
fenced in, and having erected thereon
a Brick Cottage of 4 rooms, and out-,
offices, &c.; now in the possession of
Mr. R. Bates
Lot 3—A gardener’s allotment near Sydney*
containing in its area about 91 acres,
part of Ward’s Grant, under the
hand of liis late Excellency Governor
Macquarie.
Lol 4. —An allotment in the District of Peter-
sham, part of tlie Great Canterbury
Estate, being lot 10 of
CANTERBURY VILLAGE,
near Mr. Ireland’s
Further particulars may be known by ap-
plying to Messrs. Stenhouse and Hardy, Soli,
citors, Elizabeth-streat.
Terms at sale.
SYDNEY PROPERTY.
AT THE CORNER OF CAMBRIDGE AND
ARGYLE STREETS.
TO BE SOLD TO THE HIGHEST
BIDDER.
\ | R. STUBBS is instructed to sell by
tv 1 public auction, on
MONDAY, the 10th, DAY op JULY,
At the Mart, King-street,
At 12 o’clock precisely,
All that allotment or parcel of land, containing
by admeasurement eight perches, situate in
the parish of St. Phillip allotment No. 10
of section No. 78. and bounded on the east
by Cambridge street, 58 feet, more or less,
together witli the
* HOUSE AND PREMISES
erected thereon, producing the very inade. j
quate rental of 7s. per week. -
&IT The considerable extent of street ■
frontage possessed by this property in both j
Argyle and Cimbridge streets, gives it a pe. j
culiar value in the city, which must of necer
sity be greatly enhanced by its proximit-
that / t 0
STUPENDOUS WORK THE NEW C'
UT TO
FORT-STREET.
Terms liberal at s r’


POET’S CORNER.
THE NEWSPAPER.
“Tell me what Newspaper you take in, and
I’ll you what you are.”
New Proverb.
The hero loves the reeking blade,
A smoking ham the mayor,
The swain the cottage chimney’s cloud
That leads him to his fair.
The Dutchman loves tho smoke of pipe
The bard a midnight taper,
But of all smokes, give me, ye gods !
The smoke of a newspaper.
First, sales and rent-days advertised,
The assembly or the races;
Then parsons wanting curacies,
And butlers wanting places.
Now a new coach is going to start,
The old one starts no more,
And bold Ned Hancock’s public-house
Is mov’d to the “ next door.”
A thousand pounds are to be lent,
Which poet fain would borrow;
But muses a’nt securities,
Or else’t were his to-morrow.
A charity sermon will be preached
At the Old Church on Sunday j
A main of cocks is to be fought
At the New Pit on Monday.
Stewart’s fine Jamaica rum,
Cooper’s native brandy;
Laver’s blacking— cockroach broth—
Boots suited to a dandy.
The price of barley, wheat, and rye;
The av’rage state of crops ;
The rates of indigo and maize,
Gin, vinegar, and hops.
Turn over—there, in letters large
The Roman name, that boast,
The Sporting Times or Age we meet,
Or Bell's Life’s errant ghost,
Topp’d by that thievish demigod,
Dan Mercury, to wit,
To show the leading article
Is stolen, every bit.
Then comes the “ Miscellaneous,”
Brief tales of joy and sorrow ;
Sir Charles left town yesterday,
But will return to-morrow.
And Lawyer \\ ide-awake, we’re heard,
Has wed his servant wench ;
The late new farce in Market-street
Was taken from the French.
A learned bishop, it is thought,
Will soon be made a saint.
Puseyites fear he can’t survive—
The churchmen hope he may ’nt.
A lovely Prima Donna, who
Has gained some notoriety,
Is not remarkable, ’tis said,
For habits of sobriety.
A certain lady of rare rank,
Some time a wife and mother,
Has broken a commandment, and
Her servant man another.
The amorous swain was sent away,
t And still with fury rages,
Since Mrs. N has taken him in
At very handsome wages.
We hear Ben B will shortly lead
Miss W- to the altar;
The hangman erst played solo on
A Fyfe from out a halter.
Tis said that tho’ the lab’ring class
In threats grow daily louder,
The Executive intends to fish
For « flatheada ” off of Chouder.
Then comes that dear delightful fact,
That ladies all skip over,
Electioneering stale debates—
The opposer and the mover.
The Speaker—he who never speaks,
The Government majority,
The Opposition Members, with
Their glorious minority.
The question whether this reform
Or that be constitutional;
Or if reform at all be not
A thing quite revolutional ?
The half-hour’s speech, the hour’s reply,
The doubt, the calculation,
The sly remark, the keen retort,
Th affront, and explanation.
Births, marriages, and deaths succeed:
Judge D. ’s a son and heir;
Bill Gag was married yesterday,
At Enmore, by the Mayor.
Ten folks have died within the week,
And left their friends heart-broken;
Tho for the last six years those friends
And they have never spoken.
Then comes the latest accidents,
A melancholy store
In pensive little paragraphs,
Of ten lines or a score.
Extensive mail-coach robbery—
Mysterious affair—
A safety steam vessel blown up—
Tho murder in Kildare.
A lamentable suicide
A clergyman found drowned—
A fire in Parramatta-streeet—
A wreck in Nootka sound—
A terrible occurrence
An unfortunate disaster
The execution of Dutch Dick,
For murdering his master.
Extensive fraud on Smith and Co
Encroachments of the sea
A fatal meeting at Pyrmont
A daring burglary.
The late elopement, daughter stopped—
Effects of Irish whiskey
The robbery at Emu Plains—
A wreck in the Bay of Biscay.
Sometimes when news is rather scarce,
Or our Council’s not sitting,
We get a scrap of poetry ;
Lines to a lady knitting
A monody on Richard Roe
Impromptu on a purse
An epitaph on one who kept
A lottery in blank verse.
Verses to Ellen with a rose—
Address to the Murrumbidgee
Lines written in the album of
The snug hotel at Mudgee.
Couplets on Chloe’s wedding day
ihe song of the Czarina—
Stanzas for music—ode to sleep
“Little Pic ” to Wilhelmina.
Such is the ever-varying store
The newspaper discloses.
O’er hills and dales of type we go,
Thro’ paragraphs of roses!
A Magazine’s a decent thing,
And so is a Review,
But they are nothing when compared
Dear Newspaper, with you !
Thine is the useful, pleasing task,
To say who *s wedding, wooing ;
’Tis thine to tell one half the world
What t’other half is doing.
W hen read, the master Mary calls,
(Perhaps he Mary kisses,)
“ Oh, sir!” — u Oh,Mary—there, now take
The paper to your Missis !”
PIOUS FRAUD.
O’ercharg’d with grape, at break of day,
; Stretch’d on the ground Tom A s lav •
‘ Found by the Guardian of the night, ' ’
\ -And Plac’d, with much ado, upright.
I And hearing an interrogation
specting both his name and station,
F.n-au ! n aoth be, I’ll spite old Nick
Forpiav '"eme this scurvy trick,
Then with eep tabernacle groan,
Exclaimed, in e ™ n S el 'c tone
“ With shame I ’’ boun l*° )et >' ou know
My name is Actl- ’° n Sllly (oe ’
Law —lf any man would, according to law,
give another an orange, instead saying, “ I give
you that orange,” which one should think would
be what is called, in legal phraseology, “an ab-
solute conveyance” of all right and title therein ;
the phrase would run tnus :—“ I give you all and
singular my estate and interest, right, title,
claim, and advantage of and in that orange,
with all its rind, skin, juice, pulp, and pips, and
all right and advantage therein with full power
to bite, cut, suck, and otherwise eat the same, or
give the same away, as fully and effectually as
I, the said A. B. am now entitled, to bite, cut,
suck, or eat otherwise the said orange, or give
the same away, with or without its rind, skin,
juice, pulp, and pips, any thing hereinafter, or in
any other deed or deeds, instrument or instru-
ments of what nature or kind soever, to the con-
trary in any wise not withstanding,” with much
more to the same effect. Such is the language
of lawyers; and it is very gravely held by most
learned men amongst them, that by the omis-
sion of any of these words, the right to the said
orange would not pass to the person for whose
use the same w as intended.
It has frequently been stated that cabbage is
a preventive of intoxication, if taken before
drinking. But it has lately been discovered
that tailors are as frequently intoxicated as any
other class.
FOR MADRAS DIRECT.
A CHARTERED SHIP.
sc
r-
%
r I’’ H E FINE SHIP
* Hyderabad.
816 tons, Frederick Au-
gustus Castle, master,
being under positive engagement, will sail for
the above port on the sth August next. Has
room for a few horses, and most superior acco-
modation for passengers. For freight or pas-
sage apply to Captain Castle, on board, or to
GEORGE THORNTON,
Custom House.
OP J
THE WOOL-PACK \M,
NEAR THE HAY MARKET,
SYDNEY,
BEGS to inform his Friends in town
and country, and the Public genera
that he has recently received, direct fri
London and to his esuecial order, through I
house of Swain, Webb and Co , an extens
supply of
REAL JAMAICA RUM,
selected with great care by one of the m
eminent judges of the article, and that he
now ready to accept orders for any quantity
the above wholesome liquor, irom a bottle to
puncheon, either in or out of bond, upon t
following terms:—
Bottled, per dozen 245.
In wood, per gallon 12s
Publicans and others in the trade will, up
taking a large quantity, meet with a com
ponding liberality.
Martell’s Brandy, with a choice selection
Wines, Ales, &c., &c., always on hand.
The advertiser would respectfully call t
further attention of gentlemen from the intern
to the commodious alterations which have
late been effected in his establishment, enablii
him to offer visitors to the metropolis comfo
able and convenient quarters during their st
in Sydney.
The premises adjoining the WOOL PAC
are so universally known to possess capacio
yards for teams, witfi ample and economic
accomodation for their attendants, that
seems superfluous here to enlarge upon them.
June 25, 1818.
JOB PRINTING
OF EVERY DESCRIPTIO
executed with accuracy and despatch,
EVERY VARIETY OF TYPE,
aod on the most moderate terms, at the Printlr
Office of
“C&e sporting; Cunts;.”
334, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL AGENCY.
SUSSEX-STREET,
BEGS to inform the public general],
that in addition to his Agency busines
be lias included that of House Agent and Co
lector of Kents arid Accounts. In doing so, 1
lias to inform parties who require such, that tl
greatest punctuality and despatch will be use
on ail occasions.
The most respectable references, if rcquirei
can be given.
Sussex-street, Ist July, 1848.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
Surgical and Mechanical Dentist,
93, KING-STREET, corner op BANK-COURT
Artificial teeth fixed withou
pain or inconvenience.
Teeth stopped with gold or cement, as required
Teeth scaled, cleaned, and beautified
Teeth extracted without pain, by inhaling
chloroform.
Children’s Teeth regulated.
N. B. —All charges at the most moderate
rate.
BUTTER! BUTTER!! BUTTER !!
To Private Families.
Good salt butter, at six -pence
per pound, at the stores of
June 30, 1848.
M. LENEHAN,
40, Market-street
A CARD.
ARCHITECT A SURVEYOR,
HOUSE AND LAND AGENT
277, CASTLEREAGH-STREET.
MEDICAL.
\ | R> ALEXANDER COOK, Surgeon
-* , &c » &c - 6, ‘K S m<,St respectfully to no
tity to his friends and the public, that lie lia;
resumed the practice of his profession at No 5
rark-street, near George-street.
3rd July 1848.
VI POLACK intends to recom-
mence business as au Auctioneer an<
Commission Agent. He takes this early oppor.
tunityof Acquainting the public that he ha:
taken those Rooms formerly occupied by tilt
late John Blackman where he hopes to receivt
a share of public patronage.
Auction Rooms, June 30, 1848.
THE RIFLE
\1 J AMESSMAIL, Bathurst-strei
is anxious to have a contest at Ri
shooting with his late antagonist, the Docti
on the same conditions as at tbeir late match.
WANTED.
AN active lad to make himself gene-
rally useful. Apply personally at the
office of this paper, between the hours of ten
and three.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES WENTWORTH,
Esq., AND WILLIAM BLAND, Esq., late
members FOR the CITY OF SYDNEY.
GENTLEMEN, —We, the undersigned,
Electors of the City of Sydney, not un-
mindful of your past services rendered to the
people of New South Wales throughout a series
of years, both in the late Council and long be-
fore it was called into existence, feel that we
are but discharging a public duty in requesting
you again to serve the colony as the Represen-
tatives of its metropolis. On particular points
the ablest men may honestly differ in opinion,
and there may have been some measures advo-
cated by you, when in Council, which many of
us disapprove. But when we look to your sena-*
toriai career as a whole, we feel bound to ac-
knowledge, that whenever it became necessary
to oppose a manly front to the arbitrary acts of
the local or imperial government, or to check
the lavish expenditure of the public money, and
diminish the burthens of the people, you always
discharged your duty with the most untiring
zeal, the steadiest perseverance, and the most
unflinching resolution. We feel that you have
imposed upon us a double obligation, by contri-
buting more largely than any other person
whatsoever, not only to procure for us the in-
estimable blessing of a free Representative
Legislature, but also to render, when obtained,
that Legislature alike valuable and honorable.
For these acts we owe you a debt of gratitude
which it would ill become us to overlook on
any trivial grounds, and we feel that we can-
not better discharge that debt than by request-
ing you to allow us again to put you in nomi-
nation for that City which has been the scene
and the witness of all your public labours, and
the largest sharer in the benefits which have
resulted from them,
We have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient servants,
Charlt s Windeyer, J.P,
David Allan
Benjamin Boyd
11. W. Newman
Samuel Lyons
Samuel Lyons, Junr.,
Abiaham Emanuel
Thomas May
Win. Stewart
John Robertson
Patrick Fmnican
James -Steenson
Michael Fox
John Davenish
Robert Peisley
Peter Howell
Nicodemus Dunn
Daniel Boyle
Isaac Binnie
Wdlian Pendray, senr.
Hugh Wallace
Alexander Allerton
John Paiker
John Taylor
Edward Walton
Charles Wood
Edwaid O’Connor
John Teddy
David Collis
John Dav : s
Samuel Phillips
Magnus Monis
Andrew Byrnes
Philip Hart
Richard Loseby
Abraham Abrahams
Richard Roberts
Timothy Bruce
John Gray
Stephen Turner
Michael Vaughan
Thomas Delany
Abraham Elias
Patrick Walsh
Francis Jutland
John Sampson
Samutl Priestly
Jacob Hmchcliff
Phillip Fitzpatrick
James Casey
David Warden
Samuel Solomon
William Dwyer
Pdtrich Mead©
Solomon Davis
Patrick Maguire
Michael Higgins
Vernon Puzey
Michael Malone
John Maher
Richard Crampton
Samuel M’Dougli
Thom s Field
John Matthews
William Chandler
Michael Cah II
Wm. James Bradshaw
Patrick Coffee
William Clarke
Charles Gordon
Michael SinDet
Charles Logue
James Henderson
J. Downs
Isaac Moore
Edward Porudy
R. Towns
Tomas Boyd
Thomas Turner
W. M. Hudson
Daniel Wilson
Michael Jones
Samuel Barnett
Jacob loder
Thomas Humph ties
George Fullerton B
James Leslie B
Nathaniel Douglass B
James Medden B
John Curtis W
William Cowell W
D. J. Phillips W
Henry Hough W
Lewis Coleman W
George Fitchett W
A. Bogue
Gi K. Nichols
Thomas H Campbell
Joseph Newton
P- F. Morgan
Thomas A.ars
Parry Long
W J Lloyd
W. Robi son
C. Appleton
W
R. M. Fite
D. Lenehan
H M, Price
John Caldwell W
John Burtoft
Thomas Pearson
Thomas Ma sden
John Henry Myer
John Solomon
David Dyer
Robert Appleton
OiediahWcst W
John Gleeson
Thomas Rice
John Rice
William Webb
G orge Taylor
George Wilson
H. Jervis
William Inglis
James Miller
Peter Brennan
Philip Joseph
Edward Arthur W
John Brown
John Evans
James C. Thornton
Joseph Sly W
John Smih
John Hosking
J. P. Cohen
D M'Guigan
Richard Trowbr
Timothy Driscoll
Squire M- son
Gilbert Wright
George Copas
F. Hurley
John O B f ien B
John Gorman
John Loft
Maurice Keating
Jeremiah Biker
Robert Stubhs
Patrick Reilly
John Will ams
William Bairde
Thomas Biker B
William Ta t
Joseph Slade
Thom b H rt
Michael White
Thomas Orr
John Ellis
Edwaid Wylde
John Walpole Ireland
Joseph Flood
Michael Hill
William Jamieson
William Osbourn
Henry Hansel
P» M Donald B
A. Derbyshire
J* L. Penny
Thomas P.utison
S. Samuell
John Harper
Robert Oram
Benjamin Lee
Charles* Weaver
Thomas Jones
R. Coveny
Z. Wilcox B
Samuel Stephenson
J. W. Barrett
J. Jones
H. Doran
John Heath way Browi
H. J. Phillips
J. Curby
J« B, Jones
Henry Denton
John Binney
James Walker
S. Marshall
Abraham Hart
A. Lowater w
R. M. Lindsay
A. M Crow
J- Cacknell
W. Garland
James Brown W
W. Cankett
J. All n
J. Marrington
John Spring
G. T. Wright W
William Brow W
George Walton
Patrick Murpny
J. R. Duigap
Peter Rswlins
Joseph Wade
Francis Trmmins
•"“O' Sheppards
William Parrott
William Norman
James Eugene Groom
John Gilchrist
T. Hyndes, C.C , W
r m e, l vr Cu ! ,nin » ,lam W
J I. Neale
J O. Yeomans
Gabriel Bennet W
Richard Hill
G Thornton, C C W
George P,k e ’ W
John Wilson
Richard B.nm'e
John Swaddling
Samuel Baylis
James Gannon
Robert Taylor
James Wright
Mark Dixon
Charles Jenkins, C.C.
John Henderson
Isaac Tnterton W
Patrick Erwin
John Slattery
Joseph Raphael
James M-Kay
ZW. B ooker W
William Spooner
He rry Smith
W, B. Allan vj
J. H D iscoil
F. Eilaid
F. Oat ley
Jtmes Curtis
Patrick Moore
Reuben Hannan
Michael F.irrell
John Murphy
Michael Kellar
Widiam Slaven
Joseph Speers yj
William Samu e lls W
Jeseph Smiih
George H,||
D,vid Hill
John Neale
Robert Ritchie
James Oatley
Tiromas Britten
W. H. Wells
George Pickering
Michael Cohen
Thomas Argent
Roger Murphy; j un .
Martiu
George R »vvley
Charles Turner
Charles Martyn
Thomas Ryan
Matthew Charlton
D ;niel Egan
J» R Holden
W lliim Dm vis
I**ac S'aofield
W P. Cousens
Wm Hindeon W
L. M'lward W
Isaac Polack
Martin Gill
James Teare
John Edwards
Joseph Parish
Thomas Goudie W
N. N The names with the initials of W and B
are for those gentlemen only.
To the Requisitionists who have done me and Dr .
Bland the honour of inviting us to come for-
ward for the Representation of the City of
Sydney in the Legislative Council.
Gentlemen, —I will not conceal the gratifica-
tion with which I have received the numerously
signed and highly respectable Requisition which
you have addressed to myself, and the Gentle-
man lately associated with me in the Legislative
Council, calling on us again to come forward as
Candidates for the representation of this im-
portant Metropolis. My public services, before
I had the honour of being chosen one oi your
Representatives, you have at all times fully, if
not over, appreciated. During my legislative
career of five years, just terminated, it could not
be reasonably expected that every measure
which had my advocacy could meet with the
entire approbation of the numerous and disin-
terested friends who concurred in my first
election, and it will be a sufficient reward for
my past labours, and for the sacrifice of private
ease and personal interest, with which they have
been unavoidably attended, if a large majority of
the constituency who gave me their support on
that occasion shall consider me worthy of the
same distinguished honour a second time.
I have the honour to be.
Gentlemen,
Your obliged and faithful Servant,
W. C. WENTWORTH.
Jo the Gentlemen signing the Requisition.
Gentlemen,—l beg to return you my best
thanks for the honour you again propose to
confer upon me, of putting me in nomination
as one of the representatives of the City of
Sydney, and to assure you that should I be
elected, it shall be my earnest desire to en-
deavour to merit, as least to the best of my
humble abilities, this renewed mark of your
generous confidence.
I beg, however, to state, that I fear I shall
not have time during the short period befnre
the election, to canvass so generally as I could
wish.
I will only add, that I shall be most happy to
afford the electors generally any explanations
that they may require, whether as to the past
or the future, at such time and place as may be
agreed upon for that purpose.
I have the honour to subscribe myself,
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient servant,
W. BLAND.
CITY OF SYDNEY.
TO JOHN LAMB, ESQ.
WE, the undersigned Electors of the
City of Sydney, being desirous of securing
the return of a representative for the Commer.
cial Interest in the ensuing Legislative Council
request you will allow yourself to be put in
nomination at the approachiug election, pledg-
ing ourselves to use our utmost exertions to
secure your return.
John Thacker
J. Gilchrist
J W. Gosling
Henry G. Smith
Thomas Holt, jun.
Robert Lowe
R. M. Robey
David Jones
George Forbes
Richard Lamb #
Frederick Ebsworth
Edward Salamon
Charles Younger
E H. Pollard
John A. Mathews
M. E. Muruin
Jonathan Hardy
Charles Chapman
Thomas S. Mort
A. Campbell Brown
M. Birnstingl
Hugh Dixson
Charles Wilkinson
William iiindson
Henry Moore
James Comrie
George Talbot
George A. Lloyd
J. Pomroy Bond
Thomas Barker
Josiah West
Frederick Mackellar
John Alexander
George Dent
Edward Lane
D. N. Munro
G. J. Armitage
John Croft
Clark Irving
R. C. Gordon
Robert Porter
Charles Scott
Wm. Bowden
W. L. Bowden
W. L. Piddington
Randolph Nott
C. S. Deacon
David Jones
William Tucker
Charles Newton
Wm. Lucas
Robert Barr
George Forsyth
James Mitchell
William Stephens
Thomas Gregan
John Palser
Wm. C. Preston
Thomas Woolley
Nehemiah Ruudle
James M'Laren
George Wilson
Thomas Donovan
B. S. Lloyd
Thomas Hemming
D. L. Welch
W. E. Rowland
J. Dalgarno
G. E. R. I.ingard
Ambrose Foss
John Cartwright
William Cargo
J. Cadman
George Lucas
Archibald Graham
James M‘Coy
John Fairfax
George Thorne
Charles Kemp
John Fletcher
Frederick Ford
R. T. Ford
C M. Penny
George Grimes
C. S. Vallack
Thomas Kitkman
John Lawson
John Bibb
Thomas Cowlishaw
William Ball
R Mansfield
William Sullivan
S. B. Dowsett
E. Bennett
John J. Adam
Thos. W. Simth
George Patou
T. Brown
John Korff
William Wright
James Hume
Andrew Lenehan
John Stewart
Thomas Hyndes
Robert Berry
Phillip Burke
Arthur C. Danieil
Edward M'Donald
James Buchanan
Henry Armitage
James N.;Smith
Alexander Campbell
Francis Mitchell
Henry Buckley
Alfred Fairfax
George Wilkie
Charles Clark
John Walsh
Thomas Dawson
John Stirling
Alexander Cameron
James Gillespie
Frederick Irwin
John Fearnley
W. Ranken Scott
George Jarman
Samuel H. Smyth
John Walker
Laurence Spyer
T. W. Smith
J. C. Korff
J B Viles
W. S. Deloitte
John Macnamara
W. S. Friend
A. Way
A L. de Met*
Thomas Willock
Edward Campbell
George Whitfield
James Stewart
Benjamin Simms
D. Larnacb.J.P.
Henry Hollingshed
Jos. Armstrong, V. S.
James Beattie
John Carmichael
James Henderson
Henry Lord
Hector Martin
Robert Kerr
Joseph Pettingail
Francis Matthews
James Smail
John Sands
James Grocott
Joseph Pritchard
William Barnett
I. M. Illidge
Joseph Vickery
A. Reyuolds
John Fell
Thomas R. Coates
Jeremiah Coates
Abm. Davy
William Benson
M. Rock
P. Palfrey
George Munden
J. W. Browne
Francis Graham
Robert James
John Frazer, Sen.
Richard Milner
John Dickinson
John Purdu
John Thomson
Thomas Clare
George So ith
Thomas Beames
John Keele
Eugene Cannon
Henry Thompson
John Caldwell
Robert Appleton
George Knox
James Ewen
M. Hooper
H. M. Moore.
Gentlemen. — l leel highly flattered by the
desire you have expressed that 1 should become
a candidate for the representation of Sydney,
and I sincerly thank you for the promise of your
support at the approaching election.
I have no hesitation in assuring you that my
best attention will be at all times and in every
place be given to public measuies which in any
way affect the commercial body; as I am con-
vinced that their interests are blended with, and
cannot without injury be separated from, all
other important interests in the colony. I have
always thought that Syduey, the seat of a vast
and increasing import and export trade, ought
to have one commercial representative, and
should a majority of the electors concur in the
views you have expressed, and place me again
in the Legislative Council, it will he my study
to discharge, to the satisfaction of the constitu-
ency, the trust reposed in me.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JOHN LAMB.
To John Thacker, Esq, and the gentlemen
signing the requisition.
——
TO THE ELECTORS OF SYDNEY.
GENTLEMEN. — Having at the request
r>f a numerous and respectable body of
citizens, become a .candidate for your suffrages
at the approaching election, I deem it my duty
to lay before you my sentiments on some import-
ant subjects.
Believing that governments are instituted
for the benefit of the people, 1 am of opinion
that they should be as little costly as is com-
patible with efficiency; and that it is therefore
the bounded duty of a legislator carefully to
scruztinize and control the expenditure, in every
branch of the public service.
Education being a subject which is now ex-
citing attention in every civilized community, I
think it right to declare that I am not prejudiced
in favour of any particular form. It appears to
me that a system which may be adapted to one
locality may be utterly unsuited to another, and
therefore that the wishes of the people more
immediately interested should in every case,
were practicable, be consulted.
The extraordinary concessions lately made to
the squatters, render a satisfactory adjustment
of the questions affecting the sale of the waste
lands more difficult than ever; yet Ido not sup.
pose that a system based on the absurd theory
that these lands are worth a pound an acre,
can long stand. But, when once the mass of
the people become thoroughly awake to the evils
which have been inflicted on them, and their
posterity, they will press for and ultimately ob-
tain, a sounder and more equitable policy in the
administration of these lands. Then, and not
till then, we may hope again to see capitalists ar-
riving amongst us, seeking for investments in
the soil.
To the renewal of transportation I am de.
cidedly opposed, from a firm conviction that the
advantages which might be derived from com-
pulsory labour, would be far outweighed by the
social evils which would arise were such a sys-
tem re-introduced into the colony.
With unfeigned humility I admit that, there
are amongst you many who by talent and educa-
tion are more fitted titan I am to discharge the
important duties which devolve on your repre-
sentative, but at the same time I will fearleasly
assert that none could be sent into the Council
with a more earnest purpose to discharge
honestly and diligently those duties than, Gen-
tlemen, Your obedient servant,
JOHN LAMB.
COUNTIES OF COOK AND WEST-
MORELAND.
TO ALFRED CHEEKE, ESQ.,
BARRISTER AT LAW.
Windsor Police District,
27th June, 1848.
SIR, —We the undersigned electors of
the counties of Cook and Westmoreland,
in consequence of the dissolution of the Legis-
lative Council, have the honour to request shat
you will allow yourself to be put in nomination
for the future representation of these counties
in the Legislature of the colony.
In thus soliciting you to come forward as a
candidate for the representation of these coun-
ties, we do so feeling confident that you are fully
alive to our interests, and have a corresponding
desire for our future prosperity. We feel
further assured, that on your known integrity we
may safely rely for the faithful discharge
of any trust which, as our representative, we
may repose in you.
Presuming upon your compliance with this,
our request, allow us in conclusion to pledge
every exertion on our part for securiug the
success of your election
We beg to remain,
Sir,
Your most obedient servants.
Christopher C. Vickery
Richard Wm.Cobcroft
Michael Nowland
Henry Buttsworth
Paul Busheli
Henry Buttsworth
Thomas Rose
Reuben Greentree
John Dunston
Tristram Dunston
Thomas Tebbutt
Laban White
Ed. Coffee
Alfred Jones
Richard Dunston
Thomas Gospe, jun.
D. B. Kirwan
John Ridge
John Hogan
Joshua J. Vickery
John Cobcroft, sen.
David Dunston
John Bennett
Christopher Cross
Thomas Lynch
Harvest Baldwin
Thomas Graham
Michael Power
Edwin Baldwin
Robert Farlow, sen.
Robert Farlow, jun.
John Richardson
Richard Skewthorpe,
sen
John Ezzey
Richard Childs
Thomas Stubbs
William Brown
John Cunningham,
jun.
Sydney, June 28th, 1848.
GENTLEMEN.—I have the honour to ac-
knowledge the receipt to your requisition, of
yesterday’s date, requesting me to put myself
in nomination as a candidate for the represen-
tation in the Legislative Council of the colony
of the counties of Cook and Westmoreland.
Allow me in the first place to thank you
sincerely for the honour conferred upon me;
aud in reply to state, that I have much pleasure
in acceding to your wishes so flatteringly
expressed.
Possessing as I do a considerable stake in
the colony, and my interests consequently being
strongly identified with your own, I beg to as-
sure you that, if elected, I shall always advocate
to the best of my ability, any measure which I
may believe to be conducive to the interest, or
tending to the advantage, of this my adopted
country.
I feel proud in finding that during the several
years I have visited your district in various
official capacities, my conduct has been such as
to meet your approbation, and to acquire your
esteem. I can only, in conclusion,sin—riy hope
that should I be fortunate enough to be placed
by your votes and interest in the distinguished
position of your representative, you will not
have occasion to regret the honour conferred
upon me.
I beg to subscribe myself,
Gentlemen,
Yonr most obedient servant,
ALFRED CHEEKE.
To Christopher C. Vickery, Esq., and the
other Gentlemen signing the Kequision.
TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF DURHAM.
GENTLEMEN, Rumours have, I
understand, been circulated in the county
of Durham, to the effect that I had consented to
stand for another constituency at the ensuing
general election. I beg to assure you that this is
not the case, as it is, and always has been, my in-
tention to solicit your suffrages again.
As writs are now issued for a new Council, I
shall soon have the satisfaction, in coming before
you to learn from yourselves, if my short public
career has been such as to justify the confidence
which you have reposed in me; —in which case I
hope to receive the assurance that you will return
me as your representative once more.
In performing my duty to you during the past
short, but eventful, session of Council, I trust I
have been zealous.
I know I have been conscientious and inde-
pendent in every vote I have given—and I would
fearlessly refer you to my votes on the estimates
in support of this assertion.
I hope you will muster strong at the chie
polling place on the day of nomination, when I
shall have the pleasure of meeting you,
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
STUART A. DONALDSON.
Sydney, June 29.
TO THE ELECIORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF CAMDEN.
Gentlemen, —i beg to apprise you
of my intention of becoming a Candi-
date for the County of Camden at the ap-
proaching General Election, My opinions
upon most subjects of importance have been
80 frequently expressed, that it appears
needless now to repeat them; but I shall, as
soon as possible, visit the different Districts of
the County, for the purpose of personal com-
munication with the constituency.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient Serveut,
JAMES MACARTHUR.
Camden Park, June 28.
[advertisement.)
GENERAL ELECTION.
The writs are all issued, and Dickinson stands
For city and borough, and far squatting lands :
His qualifications cannot be denied
While his principles always are on the right side
Unfurling his flag for a superfine end,
He asks for support as a general friend :
He honors the cloth ; pays his court to the fleece
And adds to the exports’ and imports’ increase
He deals with the factor, and ne er can you find
Such cloths, tweeds, and doeskins made up to
your mind:
East, west, north, south travel—in vain will you
seek
For Wrappers so stylish, and Sacks so unique :
His Codringtons', Waterfords’, Paletots delight
The wearer by warmth—the beholder by sight;
He has tartans and checks too for Scotia true,
Bright green for Ould Erin, for England true
blue;
While trioolored France and America’s race
Will find for an outrig his shop is the place.
Ihus useful to all, he your voices demands,
And looks to be met with a full show of hands :
I hen rush to the poll with your plumpers and
vote
For Dickinson— sure that he’ll ne’er turn his
coat!
PLEASED—THE HEAD
-THE POCKET CON-
THE EYE
FITTED
SULTED.
Ventilated French & Beaver Hats.
HAS in stock an endless variety of the
above of tbe latest fashions, Hats to
any shape or width of brim finished to order at
a short notice. Fancy cloth or silk velvet caps
of the latest Paris and London fashions. Hat.
ters* trimmings, gold cord, &c.
French Hat Manufactory.
77, Market-street.
STOCKTON CLOTHS, TWEEDS
BUCKSKINS, DOESKINS, &c. ’
MESSRS. FISHER"* DONALDSON
T>EG to impress upon both wholesale
JJ and retail purchasers of their Cloths, that
great advantages are secured them by the late
arrangements effected at their
ESTABLISHMENT IN KING STREET,
where transactions take place immediately with
the Manufacturers, thereby giving the pur.
chaser the benefit ef what otherwise would be
thrown into the pockets of Agents and their
deputies.
IMPORTANT EXTENSION OF THE
CITY.
OWING TO THE RENEWED DEMAND FOR
SUBURBAN RESIDENCES.
MR. STUBBS announces instructions
from the trustee ol the
REDFERN ESTATE,
To sell by public auction, at the Mart, King-
-B‘reet.
ON WEDNESDAY, the 16th JULY,
Sale to commence at 12 o’clock precisely.
The following Allotments of all that valuable
and original selection of
SOUTH SYDNEY,
popularly known as
REDFERN,
In the order of sale as follows:
section no. 2.
(First-rate Investments.)
George-street.—Lot 32, 60 frontage x 224
(corner)
~ Lot 33, 60 frontage x 224
„ 34. 60 frontage x 224
» 35, 60 frontage x 224
„ 36, 60 frontage x 224
i, 37, 60 frontage x 224
» 38, 60 frontage x 224
„ 39, 60 frontage x 224
~ 40, 60 frontage x 224
>• 41, 60 frontage x 224
»» 42, 60 frontage x 224
The spacious size of these George-street
lots are too temptingly apparent to be
lost sight of by the public.
LOT 30— SECTION 2.
A valuable corner allot-
George-street and ment, 100 feet square,
Rcdforn-street, situate on a fine eleva'
. tion for air and health.
SECTION 2
Redfvrn-street Lot 24, 42 feet frontage x 200
» 25, 42 feet frontage x 200
» 29, 42 feet frontage x 200
Georgerstreet.—Lot 31, 100 x 100 corner lot
Pitt-street —Lot 22, 100 x 100 corner lot
adjoining allotment to Mr, F.
O’Donnell’s new houses,
section no 1.
Willis street.—Lot 6 of block 5
„ Lots 4 arid 5 of block 6
section no. 8.
Block 1, Lot 6.—Fronting Redlern-street
8 —Corner allotment, Bullanam-
ing and Turner-streets
9
10
11
Block 3, Lot 5
6
7
8&c
89
40 &c.
Block 4, lot 38
39
40
}
Fronting Turner-street
Fronting Bullanaming-
street
Fronting George-street,
}
Fronting Bullanaming-
street
Fronting Botany-street
3
5
6
7 &c.
Thosuand* of emigrants are expected
arrive, the greater part of whom will probably
settle in the city, and where are they to find
houses, unless the capitalists of Sydney, or the
Sydney Building Society, buy such blocks of
land as the
SYDNEY REDFERN ESTATE.
arid Commence building on it immediately?
Terms :—Fifteen per cent, cash deposit, and
the residue at six, twelve, and eighteen months,
without interest. *
Title—Frst rate.
Enquire of J. Norton, Esq., Solicitor, Eliza-
beth-streef.
To Clerks of Courses—Secretaries of Yatching,
Ci'icket, and Rijle Clubs—Members of Pigeon
Matches—Players at Quoits-r-Ringers, Wrest-
lers, Pugilists Pedestrians Cockers
Dog Fanciers—and every other species of
sportsmen. We shall, at all times, feel
greatly indebted for any authentic infor-
mation, either past or future, having reference
to the chosen sports of any of the above.
THE SPORTING TIMES is published every
Saturday morning. Country Subscribers will
be received, on payment of Six Months in
Advance, viz.—Thirteen Shillings Parties
subscribing in the middle of a quarter will only
be charged from their commencing. Terms
or Advertising — 2s. 6d. for the first inch and
under, and Is. for every additional inch, each
insertion. Advertisements must specify on
the face of them the number of insertions, or
they will be continued, and charged accord-
ingly till countermanded.
Agents Required in the Various Districts.—
Those gentlemen who feel disposed to act, if
not previously known to Mr. Johnson, will
be good enough to forward as early as pos-
sible Sydney references.
AGENTS.
Mr. E. Mason Parramatta
~ John Anderson* ... Penrith
» Michael Doyle* ... Berrima
„ William Hunt* Queanbeyan
„ Wm. Moore, C. Con. Ipswich, Moreton Bay
„ Joseph Matthews*... Wellington
„ Harry Evans Arraidale, New Eng.
„ John Tait Bathurst
„ John Dingwall Wollongong
* Those marked so are Innkeepers.
Where Agencies are not formed, gentlf-
men wishing to have the paper regularly for-
warded must communicat with the Office in
Sydney, and enclose the required advanc, of,
at least , 13s. Our Agents moreover are re-
quested to bear in mind, that in mo case will
the name of a Subscriber be received unless
he has complied with the regulation relative
to prepayment.
