

THE SPORTING TIMES.
“EVERY MAN TO HIS HUMOUR.’’
No. 3.
SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1848.
Price 6d.
ON THE ANTIQUITY AND ADVAN-
TAGES OF FIELD SPORTS.
We are the decided advocates of manly
exercises and sports, not merely because
history informs us that they were encou-
raged and practised by the most refined
and virtuous people of ages long since gone
by, but from a just sense of their import-
ance in the formation of our own national
character. Not only were the wisest and
best men of antiquity the promoters of
them, but among competitors in the ex-
ercise of them are to be found the most
refined scholars, as well as the strictest
moralists that adorned the age in which
they lived. Sports indeed formed part of
their national solemnities ; and the au-
thority of all antiquity convinces us that
the energies of countries flourished whilst
they flourished, and decayed as they died
away. Nay, we may go one step further.
As the prosperity of any individual coun-
try has incieased, so has its character
become gymnastic and enterprising, or in
more modern phraseology, sporlinr/: and
such did it continue until luxury and
idleness got their footing and debauched
it. The history of nafu ; indeed is cu-
rious ; at one time we find them practising
in the greatest perfection, every virtue
which adorns the name of man, and car-
rying to the highest degree of improve
ment the powers of genius and under-
standing,—at another, giving way to every
'vice and folly, in almost the same pro-
portion
We will not go so fir hack as the iron
age of Lycurgus to show the value of the
manly character. With the Spartans, the
severity of their exercises, and the auste-
rity of their liver, were carried to a pitch
that would not he submitted to in a more
refined slate of society ; but we must not
forget, that to that people war was said to
be repose. Let in take, then, the Per-
sian empire for an example, and ancient
Greece for another. The Persian empire
was originally composed of two nations,
totally differing from each other, both in
their tempers and manners. The Per-
sians led a sober, hardy life ; the Medes
were effeminate, luxurious, and idle
The manners of the latter quickly cor-
rupted those of the former, who so tho-
roughly degenerated from the original
virtue of their forefathers, that they be-
came the most luxurious, the most
haughty, the most cruel, the most perfi-
dious nation at that time upou the earth.
Their emperor, Cyrus, certainly contri-
buted to this change, in a manner which
applies to onr purpose. He was bred a
sportsman. On theauthority ofXenophon,
he encouraged all manly exercises, par-
ticularly hunting, which he thought the
best preparative far a knowledge of the
military art ; but the conquest of Baby-
lon effected a change in him which led to
the destruction of his empire. Supplying
him with all the means of refinement, the
active and hardy warrior and sportsman
became an indolent and effeminate
debauchee; and, following the baneful
example of their emperor, his people be-
came slothful and indolent. In short,
from this time forth their kings were bu-
ried in their palaces in sloth and de-
bauchery ; the manly character was lost
sight of ; all public affairs were conducted
by the interposition of eunuchs and wo-
men, and the result might have been
easily foretold. A softness and effemi-
nacy succeeded to hardihood and valour,
rendering them an easy prey to their
enemies ; and their once powerful empire
was subdued by Alexander the Great,
who marched victorious from one corner
of the vast continent of Asia to the other.
Let us now turn to ancient Greece.
To the Macedonian exercises is to be at-
tributed the fame of the Macedonian
phalanx. To be educated in those exer-
cises, did Alexander the Great send thirty
thousand children of the first families in
Greece, which secured to him the con-
quest of the Persian empire. But the
Greeks were themselves distinguished by
their martial character from their earliest
days, and the ancient glory of their na-
tion, although it did not originate with
themselves, was not without its effect upon
the Athenians. Learned, however, as
these people were—holding out as they
did the torch of instruction to the world,
they felt and acknowledged the value of
manly sports and pastimes. Proper
schools were set apart for the performance
of them, and skilful masters were ap-
pointed by the public to preside over
them. Riding, wrestling, and the use of
arms formed the leading features of these
schools, nor were the more elegant arts of
dancing and music neglected. On the
contrary, they were held-in the highest
repute, and are reckoned among the
qualifications of the renown d Epami-
nondas. Pyrrhus distinguished himself
at the court of Ptolemy by his skill in all
manly exercises; and although Homer
makes courage the distinguishing charac-
teristic of Achilles, he renders him ad-
mirable for the endowments of mind and
body. Hunting, and the science of it,
also formed part of a Giecian education.
In the course of that diversion, which has
ever been considered an image of war,
the youth were accustomed to support the
most violent fatigue, and to endure all
varieties of weather. For this reason,
Xenophon, one of the finest writers Greece
ever produced, who with the science of a
philosopher united the consummate skill
of a soldier, thought it worth his while to
compose a treatise on the art of hunting,
which may be perused with advantage by
sportsmen even to this day. Neither did
he stop here ; he took frequent occasion
to extol it in that beautiful historical ro-
mance the Cyropaedia, and shows, in the
person of his hero, the useful purposes
to which it contributes. Having said this,
it is scarcely necessary to add that Alex-
ander the Great was a fox-hunter.
The tree that stands in the weather
roots firmest and deepest, neither can man
bear perpetual summer with impunity.
I he rough blast of winter is requisite to
rouse his mental energies, as well as brace
the nerves of his body. Thus excessive
love of ease destroyed in the Athenians
the love of glory, and the degredation
of the state, and the impoverishment of
the land followed. Alexander at Per-
sepolis was not the Alexander of Arbela.
The treasures of Darius, which he found
in the former city—the fountain of Asiatic
luxury—wrought a rapid change in his
character. No longer was he the hardy
Macedonian, who could share all priva-
tions with his soldiers ; be the first to
plunge into rivers, and show himself
superior to the fatigues and dangers of
war ; but, after committing the most
abominable excesses, he imitated the pomp
and effeminacy of the Persian monarchs,
which only a few months before he had
despised. The rest of his life served but
to efface the splendour of those glorious
exploits which he had previously per-
formed, and he lost even the respect of his
soldiers. In short, from the days of
Pericles may the destruction of Greece bt:
traced. He was the first to sow the seed s
of luxury among the people, which soo n
overspread the nation ; and, when onf;e
accustomed to a soft and voluptuous life,
men are very unfit for war. Even the
hardy Scythians were at last seduced by
the subtle poison; and although ancient
authors seem to have striven for the ra as-
tery, in extolling their virtues and tlaeir
valour, they were not proof against ( ffe-
minacy and softness.
Let us now look towards ancient Rome.
The first step the people of that country
took, after they had recovered their 'liber-
ty, was to take pleasure in arms , the
management of horses, and in alh such
manly pursuits, —the effect of which is
apparent. They were invincible until
Sylla returned from Asia, and indulged
them in a taste for luxury and dissipation,
by which they soon became enervated, and
could at length be pleased with li.ttle else
but a statue. Far be it from us to decry
the value of intellectual attainments; but,
looking back on the world, the ill effects
of excessive refinement presents them-
selves at every turn. Lord JJacon, in
alluding to the rise and fall of states,
observes, —“ First, shepherds and agri-
culturalists—then soldiers—then com-
merce and manufactures—then the arts,
—and then follows the destruction of a
nation.” That this applies to the history
of Rome is a fact which no man can
question. The fine arts, particularly
sculpture and painting, were prostrated
to the i>t:rposes of luxury and voluptu-
ousness, and became the great source of
corruption. A much esteemed writer of
our own country has observed, “ that,
although Asia had often been conquered
by those who attacked her, yet that the
wealth brought from thence by the con-
querors, into their respective dominions,
had always introduced with it so great
luxury, that thereby those virtues, by
which they became conquerors, were at
last enfeebled and done away,—insomuch
that Asia in her turn became the con-
queror ; of which amongst others, the
decline and fall of the Roman empire
may be produced as a lasting evidence.”
The fata! effects, however, of this change
of character were not unobserved by the
numerous writers which that classic
country produced, neither did they neg-
lect every means to prevent them. “As
long as the Coliseum stands, Rome shall
stand,” was the sublime exclamation of
an enthusiast, on viewing the amphithe-
atre of 1 itus, which was called by that
name, but they were not the words of a
Roman. Certain, however, is it that,
when licentious farce, effeminate music,
and splendid pageantry, usurped the place
of the chaster Muse, and those manly
exercises for which the country had been
conspicuous, the sun of Roman glory
soon set. Juvenal, in his sixth Satire,
speaks plainly and boldly to this point,
and describes luxury as entering Rome
in triumph, with all kinds of crimes in
her train, which made more havoc among
her people than the most numerous armies
could, have effected.
“ ssevior arm is
Luxuria incubuit, victumque ulciscitur orbem.’>
The luxury of Capua destroyed the
bravest army which Italy ever saw,
though flushed with conquest, and com-
manded by Hannibal.—History informs
us, the moment Capua was taken,
that moment the walls of Carthage
trembled ; for, catching the infection, her
citizens became soft and e'ffeminate, and
an easy prey to their assailants. Look-
ing further forward into history, with
what disgust do we read of the reign of
the eunuchs over the Roman world !
“ Those unhappy beings,’’ says the elo-
quent Gibbon, “ the ancient production of
oriental jealousy and despotism, were
introduced into Rome by the contagion of
Asiatic luxury. Their progress was
rapid; and although generally abhorred
in the time of Augustus, as the monstrous
retinue of an Egyptian queen, yet they
were gradually admitted into the families
of matrons, of senators, and, lastly, of
the emperors themselves.” Examining,
however, the general history of the world,
we shall find that the powers of eunuchs
has uniformly marked the decline and
fall of every dynasty in which they pre-
vailed, —the Assyrian empire, prehaps,
being the most memorable example.
It is the habitual contempt of death
which ennobles the profession of a soldier ;
and one of the greatest inducements to the
encouragement of our manly sports is the
ability to endure fatigue, and the con-
tempt of danger, which they beget. Men
who voluntarily exposes themselves to
danger, as is the case with all who join in
the “glorious tumult of the chase,”
acquire a coolness i*hen in it, if not an
indiffere nee to get out of it, which would
fit them for the m ost daring enterprises.
Amongst British sportsmen may be found
thousand s who possess hearts capable of
being st rung up f;o that pitch of deter-
minatin' a and enthusiasm which would
qualify them to lead columns in their
countrj s battles, Should any person
doubt 1 ihis asserti.on, let him take his post
by the side of a Leicestershire fox covert,
and w itness the; daring intrepidity with
vvhic’n the sportsmen of the present day
charge—if we may 1* allowed the ex-
pression— every obstacle that opposes
ther n. He will see at least two hundred
hor semen, mounted on the very best
ho’ rses the country produces. Among
th e number he will see, at least, one
h'jndred, either in possession of, or
b eir-apparen ts to, their share of all
the honours and wealth our aristo-
cracy can boast of. In a few minutes
after the fox breaks covert and the
stimulating music of the hounds is
heard, he will see those persons put
their horse:* to their full speed, and en-
counter what, in cooler moments, would
be considered most appalling difficulties.
Neither hedge or ditch, however large—
nor timber fence, however strong —nor
river, however wide—will stop the
greater part of them ; and, perhaps, it
is the gallant way on which they ride at
them, without deigning to ascertain the
practicability of clearing them, that
would most strike the observer. He
would fancy every man saying to himself
what Hector said to Andromache
— “ foremost place I claim,
The first in danger as the first in fame.”
(To be continued.)
THE ENGLISH RING.
SOLLEY REUBENS AND BROWNE,
THE SPRIG OF MYRTLE.
This fight which we extract from an
old number of the Dispatch relates to an-
other well known light weight amongst
the fancy of New South Wales. The bat-
tle took place in February, 1828. and the
Journal before us, after describing Browne
as a great favorite of the London circli«s,
goes on to remark, —
Solley Reubens is less known in the
regular ring—but well known in turn ups.
His first acknowledged appearance took
place a few weeks ago, when he so cleverly
defeated Anderson without a scrat.ch, at
Ilford. Solley is one of the Children of
Israel, and the Sheeneys were quite nuts
upon him. He, too, had been, styled a
“ Sweet fighter, ” and with the two
“ Sweets,” together a palate Ible combat
was anticipated.
As to the real acceptation of the phrase
“ sweet,” applied to fistic science, it is to
be understood in nearly the same sense as
when applied to the fine arts. When a
musician executes an air with mellowness,
and smoothly warbles his stave or the
poet prettily details his images of imagi-
nation—in either case th<*re not being im-
mense variety, but yet enough to pfease
so it was with the two "sweet fighters” in
any thiug that they had hitherto exhibited.
The hits flowed froiri their bunches of
fives in measured numbers, and each of
them evinced so much of the artist that an
enthusiast might have taken a fancy for
a taste of the mellow wipes with which
they could treat those friends whom they
favoured by fighting.
In order to show that the pretensions
of Browne were uot without foundation,
we append his performances, as extracted
from a late edition of Fistiana :
Ned Brown (Sprig of Myrtle), born, ISOO;
weight, « st. 12 lbs ’
Beat'ize Belaseo; 31m., 30r. Moulsey Hurst.
July 23,1817.
Beat Gelbam ; 10 gs. ; 62 m. Peter-street,
Westaiinster, March 2, 1819
Beaten by Horton ; purse Peter-street,
Westminster, March 2, 1819. Foul blow
Beaten by Woodward; 50 gs.; 20 m., 18 r.
Huntington, May 12, 1819.
Beaten by Jack Jenny; £6; 85 m, 33 r.
Hounslow, June 1, 1819.
Boat Jem Bunn, the Pink of Bow; £ll.
22m. Rooms in Holborn, June 23, 1819. ’
Beaten by Dick Curtis; £2O; 57 m., 15 r.
Near Maidstone, August 28 1820
Beat Horsham; £2O; 35 m,38 r. Mitcham
Common, April 24, 1821.
Beat Bunn; .£5O; 191 m., 15 r. Moul ey
Hurst, October, 30, 1821.
Beaten by Jenny; £25; 65m. Moulsey
Hurst, December 18, 1821.
Beat Bunn; £25; 7m. Woolwich, May 21
1822. 3
Beat Ned Stockman ; £25 ; 18 r. Hayes
Middlesex, August 14, 1822.
Beat Tom Crossley ; £10; 17 r. Kentish
Town, May 10, 1824.
Beaten by Harry Jones; 33m., 19r. Turn-
up, Paddington, June 1, 1824.
Beat Scott, for a purse; 33 m.; fatal to Scott.
Colnbrook, November 9, 1824. Browne was
tried at Aylesbury, March 9, 1825, and ac-
quitted.
Beaten by Sol. Reuben; £25; 105 m., 82 r.
Whetstone, February 26, 1828.
Beat Joe Bevan; £10; 62m., 30r. Whet-
stone, March 17, 1829.
Beaten by Owen Swift; £lO a-side; 24 ra.,
12 r. Colney Hatch, December 18,1832.
Beat the Fulham Baker; £5 a-side; 12 r.
Wumbledon Common, April 30, 1333.
Beaten by the Chelsea Doctor. 110 minutes.
Moulsey, July 12, 1836.
Drawn with the Chelsea Doctor, November
5, 1836.
THE FIGHT.
About one o’clock they entered the ring. Sol-
ley Reubens was seconded by Josh. Hudson and
Mr. Nathan ; the Sprig was waited upon by Dick
Curtis, the Pet of the Fancy, and Ned Stockman,
the Lively Kid. As the length of time and the
number of the rounds would far exceed the inter-
est of detail, we will merely give a brief narrative
of the battle.
On setting-to Browne shewed off his old gene-
ralship in getting to the rightward of Solley, and
fought at his usual points—planting his right hand
on the left side of Solley’s head, or paying a heavy
visit with the same hand to his victual ing office;
he several times made it tell so hard on Reuben’s
cheek, as to muddle his ideas, and Solley required
the halloa be “ awake,” and no small portion of
good nursing, to keep him at the scratch. So it
was for the first twelve rounds ; but i.non, Browne
shewed fewer good points, and Solley more strength
and straight hitting; he took the lead and kept it
for some time, during which he spoiled the fron-
tispiece of the Sprig tremendously. The Sbeeneys,
who had on the first appearances of the battle,
got P'inic-struck, and had exerted their ingenuity
to hedge off the monies," which they had sported
on the boy," now repented of their rashnes:, and
set about hedging into it again.
Browne once more took the lead but his strength
was gone; his points were followed up as well as
ever, but his Mis were harmless; the fight had
left him, , and Solley’s strength soon again shook
off the advantage, and turned the scale in his own
favor. Several changes took place afterwards,
but each of Browne’s revivals was more and more
ineffective, and he went gradually off Towards
the conclusion, and for some time previous, there
was no "sweetness” in the matter; both of them
ceased to fight, and substituted in its stead pulling,
hauling, and rolling about tire ring. Solley’s
youth and freshness were too much for Browne,
who is actually approaching the age of staleness!
and he was several tunes .stupefied before ire
would be persuaded to give in ; but at the end of
the 83rd round he did say " enough.” The fight
lasted one hour and three-quarters, and added
one more palm to the Hebrews.
Remarks. —Solley having defeated the
Sprig of Myrtle, who has so long been a
favorite of the Fancy, is a vast accession
to his importance as a pugilist ; but
throughout the whole fight he never gave
any proof that he is now what would have
been required to defeat Browne when the
Sprig was fresh.. The first twelve rounds
were given with 'the style and stamina
that Browne was wont to last out—but in
this instance he fell off early, and never
recruited sufficiently again. When it is
known that Curtis and Mockman were his
seconds, it will readily be admitted that
lie had justice done to him in the ring :
perhaps there are not two better attend-
ants in Eugland. The Sprig was much
punished about the face, from Solley’s
straight two-handed hitting The left of
Reuben Vi head was sadly queered, from
Browne’s half-circular right handers ; and
about t/ie body he had caught considerable
punisb.ment. It had been carefully circu-
lated,, on account of the smallness of the
battle money, that the thing was to be
mix.ed up, and that Browne was to give it
over “ for a consideration” to Solley, but
tlie battle gave satisfactory contradiction
to all “cross” insinuations. Whatever had
,been the reason of the small money ar-
rangement, the fight was actually as if it
had been done for a thousand pounds.
Betting at commencing was about even ;
and after the twelfth round Browne never
turned a point in his favor; but the odds,
as a matter of course, crept up upon the
Jew.
JUDGE AND JURY CLUB.
Term having commenced on Tuesday-
last, the Honorable Court of the “ Judge
and Jury Club” sat that day. His Honor
the Chief Haron took his seat on the Bench
precisely at 11 o’clock. His Honor looked
remarkably well, and was smoking a real
Havannah. A Jury having been jempan-
nelled, the following case was called on for
trial:—
FRAUDULENT PRETENCES.
Sir Charles Hamilton, a young man pre-
senting much of the aristocratic bearing of
the genuine cockpit lounger, was placed in
the dock, charged with having sought by
various means, tricks, and subterfuges, to
fraudulently and wickedly impose upon the
public, by pretending to be, and having it
generally believed that he is, a ‘‘genius.’’
The prisoner pleaded “Notguilty.”
The Attorney General appeared for the
prosecution; and Mr. Buzfuz for the de-
fence.
The Court was crowded to excess during
the trial by a motley group of attorney’s
clerks, half a dozen seedy-looking poets, and
about twenty of that numerically important
class of victims, ycleped “ creditors.”
The Attorney General stated the case to
the Jury, He said :
| _ “ My Lord, and Gentlemen of the Jury,—
: The prisoner at the bar is one of a gang of
impostors that I am sorry to say, for the cha-
! racter and respectability of this city, is beeom-
i i“g more numerous every day His name is
' Sir Charles Hamilton ; and be is the only son of
the late celebrated Monsieur Michael Hamilton,
who made the important discovery in science of
j the convertibility of soap-bubbles into an oxyge-
-1 nated and impalpable substance called “ smoke”
For this beautiful and useful addition to the
“ Arts and Sciences,” the “ King of the Canni-
bal Islands” conferred on him the honor of ii
Baronet -y, and granted him a pension out of the
“ Civil List” of six pounds sterling per annum,
paid quarterly. Sir Michael, on this sud len
, acquisition of rank and wealth, immediately
married the sister of that distinguished warrior,
the Honorable Mr. Duval, whose military
achievements on Hounslow Heath and in the
of Lincolnshire, were deemed deserving
of being chronicled in a Calendar, appropriately
\ a "d exclusively reserved for treasuring the
names and deeds of all the great public charac-
ters of the age. The fruit of this marria
between Sir Michael and Miss Duval is the pri-
soner now before you. His mother, who was a
good houswife and a domestic woman, watched
I over Ids juvenile days with the most maternal
solicitude. As she was a person of cultivated
mind horself, she had him early initiated into the
mysteries of the alphabet; and finding him in-
crease in precociousness as he advanced in years,
she soon had him acquainted with the art
of making “ pothooks and hangers” on a slate
which she purchased for him for that purpose.
Being of a delicate constitution, she was ad-
vised to use daily a little of Tooth’s we[l-known
“Ale;” and as she kept no servant, she was
obliged to send her dear son Charles to a neigh-
bouring beer-shop three or four times a-day for
“ a pot” of that soothing restorative. It was
here that he first saw something of “ Men and
manners.” He was a quick apt boy, and his
astonished and delighted to find tha£
be saved her the bother of any further teaching
or mental training, by acquiring from his fre-
quent visits to the beer-shop a vocabulary of his
own, admirably terse and expressive of itself,
and so far original as not to be found either in
Johnson or Walker, though fragments of it can
be traced in the masterpiece of that recondite
philologist, Pierce Egan, Esq ,in his “ Life in
London.” The young lad, who, by dint of
practice and perseverance, attained to astonish •
ing mastery of the goose-quill, was so fortunate
as to attract the notice of a Mr. Dotheflats, who
kept a registry office for servants, and who ele-
vated young Charles to a seat behind one of his
desks, where he employed him in copying notices
to “housemaids, cooks, butlers,” &c , that “ Fork,
they’re wanted.” Just as he reached his twenty-
first year his poor mother died ; the ale having
added to her debility, instead of relieving it
In a year afterwards Sir Michael “hopped the
twig,” leaving his son his title and a snug little
crib in a central part of the city. Finding
himself free from parental controul, Sir Charles
like Jack Brag of old, began to "think no small
beer” of himself; and as inordinate vanity in-
variably leads young men into extravagancies
and absurdities, the prisoner, instead of follow-
ing in the footsteps of his respected father, —
whose modesty and good sense led him always
to seek retirement in the back parlour of atap-
room, where he enjoyed his pipe and his p int
with a few congenial cronies,—thrust himself
before the public as a man of 4 Ton.* in order
to sustain this character with effect, Sir Charles
made a practice of frequenting all places of
public resort where he could be seen to advan-
tage. If a vagabond were to be tried for picking
a pocket, Sir Charles would form one of the
spectators. Or if an antiquated silver watch
was put up for “ raffle” in a public-house, the
prisoner would be sure to “ come it strong” by
taking 44 a ticket.” Having thus played the
man of 44 ton” for a few years, he set up for a
man of 44 talent.” And it is for this fraudulent
pretence, gentlemen, that he now stands in that
dock. It is not to be supposed, gentlemen, that
after such a battered career through the world
as that of the prisoner’s, that he would bo de-
void of the cunning and dexterity necessary to
the success of his imposition. How then die! he
“go t 5 work,” gentlemen ? I shall tell you.
He connected himself with a knot of scribblers
and poetasters, who manufacture conundrums
for scrap-books, and write sonnets to the shoe-
strings of Miss Maria, and lines upon a clothes’-
basket or an empty flower-pot. Haping made
himself acquainted with a little of the literary
slang of the day, grubbed from old Maga-
zines and Modern Plays, he lounged about a
few pet taverns, and there elaborated his
44 vile fustian” with all the pomposity of
an hedge-schoolmaster. He talked of writing
an Lssay in proof of the analogy between
Ihunder and Turf; and spouted very highly
of his having written a play which he calls
44 The Rivals”—the two leading characters being
a bluebottle fly and a wasp disputing over a
lump of suirar. It is sickening gentlemen to
find our City inundated with such swarms of
| those pretenders. How truly does a celebrated
writer pourtray the mungrel scribblers of his
day. Thus is it that he describes one of that
gang-
“ this bag with gilded wings,
This painted child of dirt, that stinks and sings,
M hose buzz the witty and the fair annoys
\ et wit ne’er tastes, and beauty ne’er enjoys:
So well-bred spaniels civilly delight
In mumbling of the game they dare not bite.
Eternal smiles his emptiness betray,
As shallow streams run dimpling all the way,
1 Whether in florid impotence he speaks,
And, -as the prompter breathes, the puppet
squeaks;
Or at the ear of Eve, familiar toad,
Half froth, halt venom, spits himself abroad,
In puns, or politics, or tales, or lies,
Or spite, or smut, or rhymes, or blasphemies,
Amphibious thing I that acting either part,
The trifling head or the corrupted heart.
Gentlemen, the prisoner in his eagerness to im-
press upon the public, the notion of his being
a Genius, was in the habit of copying articles
and letters from forgotten old newspapers which
he published in the well known “ Snobs and
Nobs Gazette,” and passed it off as his own
writing. This ruse he carried on with such suc-
cess, that a largo number of persons began to
remark “ what a clever young man is Sir
Charles ? Was’nt that a splendid letter of his
in the “ Snobs and Nobs Gazette” on the im-
propriety of tying kettles to dogs tails? Did
you see that witty paragraph of Sir Charles’s
wherain he condemns the flench of Magistrates
for censuring a poor man for merely running
away with another man’s wife ? To such an
extent did the prisoner work upon the credulity
of the people, that proposals were made to him,
inviting him to become Honorary Secretary to
the Sydney College—correspondente—correspondent to the‘-Tripe
and Muffin Association” Treasurer to the
Clerk’s Benefit Society.’* I hesitated for a long
time, gentlemen, before proceeding against the
prisoner. I was in hopes indeed that the Magis-
trates would “ sheet it home to him” under the
Vagrant Act; but having learned that he is now
engaged in editing a work of a pernicious ten-
dency, to be called “ The Loadstone, or a New
Way of enticing sixpenny pieces out of other
men’s pockets.” 1 could not allow him to pursue
his iniquitious career further with impunity. The
case is so clear against the prisoner, gentlemen,
that I shall only trouble you with one witness
an experienced literary dabbler, who is up to all
the dodges of the “ craft—and who
Takes hackney’d jokes from Miller, got by rote,
With just enough of learning to misquote ;
A mind well skill’d to tiud or forge a fault
A turn for punning.”
This witness wiil establish the case clearly
against the prisoner ; therefore gentlemen you
will have no difficulty in finding him guiltyjof the
crime for which he is now indicted. With these
remarks, I will proceed to examine the witness.
Call Mr. Tomtit Pickwick. c*
Mr. Tomtit Pickwick having perched himself
in the witness box, was examined by tho’AO
torney General as follows, —
Pray, Sir, what aro you ? lam a “ Poet.”
How long have you been a poet ? LAmnld
say, from the day of my birth,
How come you to Because,
Julius Csesar iu his poem jßfc
says— Poeta nascitur, n otSt/ tjSlKt ife. pcTet
comes “ ready made”
Have you written time ,
Yes; a vast deal. Bp
What was the subject (jjlwlfrst poem ? A
wart on a Lady’s nose.
What was your next attempt ? Lines o n
cane-bottoui’d chair.
What next ? An epitaph on a Dead Rat
Lines on a Fine Tooth Comb—Ode to a “ Hole
in Celia’s Stocking”—an “ Impromptu on a dish
of Pea-soup tumbling into a lady’s lap 1
L‘:d you never try anything of the “ Grand”
or the “ Sublime” ? Oh, yes, undoubtedly. I
am at present engaged on an Epic Poem to be
called the “ Crusades of the Fleas, or the secrets
ot an old Blanket.”
I suppose there’sa great art in writing Poetry ?
Very great art, Sir, it is very difficult to master
it.
How do you generally manage ? Why, Sir
I always follow the principle laid down by Sir’
Bayes in the Rehearsal, viz ;“If I * m to write
familiar things, as sonnets to Artnida, and the
like, I make use of stewed prunes only; but when
I have a grand design in hand, I ever take physio
and let blood : for when you would have pure
swiftness of thought, and fiery flights of fancy
you must have a care of the pensive part. In
fine, you must purge.”
Do you ever do anything in the dramatic way 1
Oh yes; I write tragedies.
What was your last tragedy ? The « Cat in
the Coal Hole, or the Fatal Mousetrap.”
Do you know the prisioner ? Perfectlv well -
he was a “ brother chip” of mine.
How did you first come to know him ? We
met accidentally in an oyster shop, where we
got into conversation, the prisoner telling me
that he was ajiterary character, and that he was
preparing a Work for the press, on the practic-
abihty of making a silk purse out of a sow’s
ear. I mentioned to him that I, too, was a
literary character; and showed him a poem that
I had just written on a “ Cheese Maggot.” We
then retired to a grog shop, where we had a few
nobblers. The prisoner pulled out his manu-
script and handed it to me to read. I found it
to be an exact copy of an essay on the same
subject in an old musty magazine published 50
years ago. The prisoner told me it was his
own composition : that he had been modiiatimi-
on the subject for three years, and had gone to
the trouble and expense of making various
chemical experiments on pigs ears.
How did the prisoner generally represent
himself? Ho always spoke of himself in the
most approving terms; if anything good ap-
peared in any of the papers, he always said that
he wrote it; if he saw an article composed of
words of six or seven syllables, ho would say to
those about him—“ Ha, there’s my style, that ’s
the way Ido it: none ot your milk and water
about me—l am Captain Slapdash when I have
the pen in my hand : I rattle away, and neither
care for Queen or Governor,” and so on. The
people regarded him as a phenomenon.
Then, you mean to say that the prisoner is a
pretender—that he is not A man of talent or
genius ? You might as well suppose me, sir, to
be a Hercules or a giant.
Cross-examined by Mr. Buzfuz—Do you ever
scribble poetry now, Sir ? I write poetry, Sir.
Do you contribute to any of the periodicals of
the day ? I sent several communications to
them, but, strange to say, they were “ declined.”
How do you charge for your poetry ? If it
be on a serious subject, I charge three half-
pence a line; if on an indifferent subject, only a
penny a line.
I suppose you always get paid ? I never
give “tie”; I always demand the money before
I deliver up the poetry.
Did you every write poetry for a “ Blacking
Establishment”—say, for such a place as
“Lavers’”? I endeavoured to get on a
“ Blacking Establishment” but unluckily there
had been a poet engaged
You seem to have a very bad opinion of the
prisoner: now do you not think him quite as
clover a person as yourself ? By no means : I
consider myself to be a very superior tiptop kind
of cove.
Are you and the prisoner on speaking terms ?
No : he told me one day that I was a regular
humbug; I returned the compliment, we parted
and never spoke since.
Now, does it not occasionally strike you that
you are a humbug
Attorney General—Don’t answer that ques-
tion. Really, my Lord I must object to this
line of cross-examination. It is most unfair that
a witness coming into that box to tell the “ truth,
the whole troth, and nothing but the truth,”
should be subjected to such harsh and offensive
questioning. But even putting that view of the
matter aside, it is contrary to all law and
practice to require of a witness to give such an
answer as may criminate himself. If 1 had’nt
stopped the witness, he might have been in such
a predicament this moment, and the consequence
; would be, that he would be liable to be placed
in the dock beside the prisoner.
Mr. Buzfuz—l think it a very proper question
my Lord. It is admitted that the witness and
the prisoner quarrelled ; they called each other
Humbugs. Now lam justified in asking the
witness, whether he felt that the name apolied
to him. 1
Chief Baron—lt'is not a proper
you might as well ask the witness did he believe
his own poetry to be unmitigated balderdash.!
Is it probable he would condemn his own off-
spring. Why, the clumsiest cobbler that ever
made a pair of brogues, would not consider them
inferior in style and cut to those of the best
boot-maker in Sydney.
Mr. Buzfuz—But I mainiain my Lord, that
cobbling shoes has nothing to do with writing
poetry—nor could you measure the “feet” of
a verse, by the same “rule’’ that you would use
in measuring the feet of a clodhopper. I must
say, my Lord, that your decision is a novel one.
Chief Baron—l have given my decision, Sir.
and if you address such an observation as that
to the court again, I’ll commit you.
Mr. Buzfuz -Then, ray Lord, it will be the
best thing you’ll have committed since you took
your seat on the Bench.
The case for the prosecution having been
closed, Mr. Buzfuz addressed the jury for
the defence, as follows :
Gentlemen,—A most lame and impotent
attempt has been made to convict the prisoner
of the serious crime of pretending to be a man
of talent and a genius. According to my in-
structions, the prisoner never for a moment
allowed such an absurd and preposterous con-
ceit to take possession of his noddle. Gentlemen,
the prisoner advisedly pleaded not guilty ; and
it doe 3 not require you to put on your spectacles
to see that he has no pretensions whatever to
the vulgar and contemptible distinction implied
in the charge. The prisoner, gentlemen, is
I superior to anything like talent. There is too
much of “true nobility” about him to be a
litarary lackey, who employ’s his beggarly
abilities in vamping up stale jokes and°musty
witticisms, and then palming them off on the pub-
lic as “ new and original.” No, gentlemen : the
prisoner is.so innocent of the crime imputed to
him, that he absolutely does not understand the
meaning of the term “brains,” unless in a
“material ” sense. He is aware that his skull
is filled with a pulpy substance like cheese-
curds, but whether it is possessed of any moral
or intellectual endowment he as little knows as
he does of the Heathen Mythology. See then,
the folly of preferring such a charge against
the prisoner as the present. The witness,
Mr. Tomtit Pickwick, has made a very flash
parade of his extraordinary genius as a poet.
He has told you, gentlemen, of the ladies slippers’
and tooth brushes hs hassonnetized ; and of the
purging process he puts himself through, prepa-
ratory to his writing anything of the « Snublime
and Beautiful.” But, gentlemen, you must not
forget that those Poets are a very peevish,
petulant, jealous race of things; and that like
Monarchs, - they “can bear no rivals near their
thrones.” No doubt, it was some such feeling-
on the part of Mr Tomtit Pickwick that promp-
ted him to strain his evidence so much against
the prisoner as he did this day. But, gentlemen
you have too much sense to be influenced by
such pettiness and narrowness of soul. I there-
fore confidently expect you will return a verdict
of not guilty. The prisoner seeks but
justice at your hands. He would much sooner
you would pronounce him tojbe a nincompoop’’
than that it should go abroad that he had any,
the most remote pretensions to either Genius or
Talent. Do not, gentlemen, expose him to the
cruel suffering of allowing such an impression to
pervade the public mind.
The Lord Chief Baron summed up, and
in an impressive and dignified address,
dwelt in indignant terms on the audacious
ness and presumption of an individual like
the prisoner putting forth the pretenoe that
ho was possessed of the least particle or rag
of ability beyond the common instinct of
being possessed of sufficient sagacity to
know “when his belly is full.” His Lord-
ship then went on to explain to the Jury
the vast injury that would a-crue to sooietv
if such pretenders were allowed to go un-
punished ; and was proceeding to quote
several instances illustrative of the fact,
wh.en he was interrupted by the foreman of
the Jury, who informed him that there was
no necessity for proceeding further, as the
Jury had made up” their minds as to the
enormous guilt of the prisoner,
The Jury accordingly returned a verdict
of Guilty, accompanied with a “ recom-
mendation’’ that no Mercy whatever should
be shown the prisoner,
- The sentence of the Court is, that you,
Sir Charles Hamilton, do sit to an artist
of celebrity sufficiently long to enable him
to got as exact a sketch of your cerulean
i’ijw m is practicable, in order that the
ho ; r oi scorn may for ages henceforth be
pomicd ;<f. you r imprint as pourtrayiug the
merited lines of deceit and impudence by
veil! :U it is tattooed; and that you do fur-
ther ttuft an effigy of your ignoble self with
‘■j'vdust and other congenial materials, to
be suspended in the public stroets, andthei
pelted with rotten eggs ; and furthermore
that you pay for six bundles of cigars aq
six pots of porter required during this ted
ous investigation by the good tnen and trii
who form your jury.
The prisoner begged permission to sen
to his second cousin for a load of sawdust t
stuff his effigy with. Leave was humane!
granted him.
MULTUM IN PARVO.
The population of Italy is 24,567,218 No
that Railways are coming into operation in Ge
many, frugal people are economically eating l
their horses.— In Berlin, in January last, 1-
horses were killed for food, producing 61,0(
pounds of meat. —Measures have been taken
raise a monument to the memory of Oliver Grot
well—The original statement, fixing the susp
cion of his housekeeper having poisoned theJße
erend Mr. Maguire, the celebrated controve
sialist, turps out to be correct, as the woman h
been committed to take her trial for murder..
In February last, a Mrs. Armstrong of Balline
Ireland, (a lady most repectably connected,)
a lit of temporary insanity, drowned herself ai
her three young children; she tied two of tbe
on her back, took the third in her arms, and d
liberately walked into the sea.—The effect!
military force of England is 140,000, includii
the Royal Artillery; besides which there a
136 regiments of militia.—The naval force
Great Britain consists of 680 ships of war, can-
to to 120 guns each of different calibre, of the
150 are armed steamers of from 100 to 850 hor
power each. This fleet employs in time
peace 40,000 able bodied seamen, 2,000 la
and 14,000 royal marines The average ear
ings of 420 prisoners at Pentonville for the ye
1847, was £5 3s 2yd.—a person inserted
apology in the Times, for passing a friend
street without noticing him.—A lady who w
an observer of etiquette* being unable to go
church, sent her card.—A wag, returning frc
a ride, remarked that the horse he rode possess
a good quality, for it shied at a bum bailiff.
A country Jonathan, on seeing an elephant f
the first ,time, asked ** what critter is that wi
two tails”—The quantity of goats’ wool importi
into the United Kingdom last year was 1,287,3
lbs.—ln 262 years England and France were
war 73 times.—The Glasgow testimonial to S
Harry Smith, is in the form of an epergne, ar
valued at £450.—1n the money order depart
ment of the London Post Office 220 clerks, b
sides messengers are employed The journei
Men masons of London are not required i
thbir employers beyond 4 o’clock on Saturday
iNearly 2009 miles of wire are now laid down l
Electric Telegraphatic Company.—By tl
Ast census the population of Paris w;
y ,053,897; 1841 was but 935,261; increase in fil
ivears 118636.—1 n Aylesbury the sale of duel
“n one year amounted to near £lB,OOO Tl
Gipsies preserve their family colour in eve!
part of Europe, and the Jews preserve tl
same complexion though dispersed for 2,0 C
years over all the world One fourth of tl
deaths in London are from comsumption, ar,
one.eighth arise from drinking spirits.
A MATRIMONIAL SQUABBLE.
Scene —Tho country: neighbouring farme
in conversation :
“ Lauk, Swipes, what d’ye think’s happened
Why, my wife hung herself high and dry in oi
big apple-tree in the orchard.”
“ You don’t say so 1 I wish my apple-tr
would bear such fruit.”
“ Oh ! you good-for-notbing villain !” shriek
a female voice from the other side of a neig
bauring hedge, and in less than no time 5!
Swipes found himself collared by his good ladj
“ you wish I’d hang myself, do you ?”
“Oh, no, dear Lizzy; I—l—l dont’t wis
any such thing.”
“ You did though, you villain; I heard you.’
“ I didn’t mean it; if you’d hang yourself 1
cut you down.”
Wife releases her hold, when Swipes imm
diately runs off, and running cries —“ I’d be su
you were dead first, though !”
“ Excuse mo for going before you,” a 3 til
fox said to the hounds.
“ The Spirit moved me,” as a noisy drunkar
said in a Quaker's meeting.
“ Let the toast lie dear woman,” as tho ma
said when he kicked an extravagant wife ini
the tire.
The latest absence of mind case, is that of
sexton who pulled the parson’s no3e instead ■
the bell rope.
Force or Habit.—A merchant who was di
sired to sign a baptismal register of one of h
children, subscribed Sherwin and Company. B
only perceived his mistake by the general laug
it excited.
There is a man in Nantucket so remarkab!
small that it takes six men and a boy to look i
him for two hours and a quarter before the
can distinguish his legs.
One of the Baltimore Clippers (we are tolc
sails so fast that during the whole passage th
crew are obliged to keep running forward t
keep up with her.
Hint and Rebuke.— A clergyman havin
preached during Lent in a small town in whic
he had not once been a»ked to dinner, said in
sermon exhorting his parishioners against bein
seduced by the vices of the age—l hav
preached against every sin but luxurious living
having had no opportunity of judging to wha
extent it is carried on in this town.”
A wag bavi-g one night removed the rVn
board of a cutler anil placed it over tV> watch
house, the townspeople w. ro equally surprise
and diverted the next morning to ro.!d o. . r th
door of the cage, “ Blades pul in here.”
Appropbiate Description. —A gentleman i,
describing the absurdity of a man dancing th.
“ Polka,” said, “ It appeared as if tho individuu
had a hole in his pocket, and wa futivdy en
deavouring to shake a shilling down the legs o
his trowsers.”
An urchin i eraarkod that the principal brand
of education in his school was the willow branch
the master having used up nearly a whole tree.
An Irish soldier who came over with Gonera
Moore, being asked if he mot with much hospi
tality ill Holland, repled, “Oil yes! too much
I was in tho hospital nearly tlio whole time ;
was there.”
Degrading the Brute.— Some wicked 'c.
"ions wretch has taught his dog to smoke i
cigar.
The Chinese have a notion that tho son! of J
Poet passes into u gvcsshopoep—because il sic.':
till it dies.
Astonishing powers of Calculation. Ar
instance of the powers of calculation is men.
tioned by several of the French journals. M
Tibert, one of the chief clerks of toe War-office
recently, without the aid of a note of any kind
extracted in six minutes the square root of 20
511,841, and in a quarter of an hour also, workec
without notes, the multiplication of 379, 625,
318, by the same figures, giving the number
144, 115, 404, 844, 121, 104. This may be re-
garded as the most remarkable instance of head
work in calculation ever recorded.
A Whole Medical Staff Annstiieticised .-
At Taunton Hospital as a patient was under *’
going amputation of a limb while influenced by!
chloroform, the nurse let fall the bottle, which'
quickly spread its somniferous efforts over the)
operators, and some time elapsed before the*
recovered from this partial insensibility.
Q—Why is a fashionable lady like a ' t ,
economist ? A.—Because she make
bustle about a little waste (waist).


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
We really cannot be expected at this late period
to enter into such minutiae, but the following
are the fullest particulars we can glean in this
affair: —Ihe Velocity and Portenia sailed on
a trading voyage to the South Sea Islands in
May, 1847, and arrived amongst the Islands
in July, where they obtained forty-seven Na-
tives of the Group, and proceeded to the Isle
of Pines, and from thence to Rotumah where
the Islanders made their escape from the Por-
tenia brig, and landed on the Island. Abo
mid-day following, Captain Kirsopp with
boat's crew from the Velocity went on sho
with loaded arms to get back the runaway
lives from the Chief Kumach of Rotumah,
the Chief refusing to interfere in the matt
Captain Kirsopp gave orders for two of
men to capture the Chief and take him to
boat. Ihe Islanders, however, of Rotuma
were on the alert for an attach; from the m
ment they perceived the boat loaded with an
reach the shore, though they did not attemp
it until their Chief was captured by the crew
when they seised Captain Kirsopp ; one roun
the waist, and another was in the act of stab
bing him,with a long knife, when Captain
shot the man who was holding him, when
smart shuffle ensued, during which the Cap
tain managed to make his escape from the
landers. One man, however, lost his double
rifle and pistol, and another his cap, and the
Island Chief escapea from the crew. Ihe
landers then made for the boat which ihe
kept continually firing at, whilst making
way from the shore, and the boat's crew re
turned the compliment, but unfortunately on
man named Roades belonging to the boat t vat
killed, and another wounded in the haxd
and report says a young island Chief and tw
of his men were also shot in the affray. Th
two vessels immediately left the island,—th
brig for Leefoo, —the schooner for Anatam
The brig filled up at Leefoo, and sailed
Sydney .—the schooner obtained some from
I anna, and the remainder from Leefoo thus
ended the South Sea voyage.
ViNST-ET-uti—J. D. B .—He tan go on both aees
and if he draw 21 on each, you have to pay
double on each, and if he doubled, you have to
pay eight times your original stake Dealer
and player having naturals, the latter pays.
All-Fives.—D. R. R. Limehouse. —There is
specific rule that governs this game, save that
of custom, which enforces no penalty for
revoke ; but you can compel C to follow suit,
otherwise he may make game.
Put—A. B —lt is no nut, and only a chalk
can be claimed.
Piq wet. — The quint saves the re-pique.
The Editor begs to intimate to the Sporting
Public generally , that Questions for solution,
\ especially where bets are depending, will meet
with immediate and scrupulous attention.
Querists will be pleased to address their
post-paid tommunications to Mr. T. Revel
Johnson, who is exclusively connected with
this Journal.
RACES TO COME.
’atrick’s Plains 18, 19, & 20 July
vlailland 9, IQ, & n August
vludgee
HUNTING APPOINTMENTS.
Kelsey’s Hounds will meet on Tuesday, Thurs-
day, and Saturday, at the Bark Huts, on the
Liverpool Road. The Huntsman will throw
the Hounds into Taverner’s Plantations at
half past 6 a. m.
The Sporting Times
SYDNEY, JULY 15, 1848.
MR. LOWE.
/e publish in another column, a letter
om Mr. James Gannon, publican, South
lead Road, which appeared in the Syd-
ney Daily Advertiser of Thursday last,
ird which is a reply to a communication
gned “An Elector," addressed to the
bters of Sydney in the paper of the pre-
; ous day. The letter of “An Elector”
i»3 written, we understand, by a profes-
lonal (medical) friend of Mr. Lowe’s,
id is a favorable proof of the facility
ith which a certain class of scribblers
tn be induced to exercise their “ small
.igenuity ” in bolstering up a case to suit
le wishes, or promote the designs, of their
nployers. , The only passage in this
Elector’s 1 ’ letter we deem it of moment
. notice, is the following, viz.:— ‘ It
-is been attempted to prejudice a large
jrtion of Mr. Lowe’s supporters by a
ory that he, some time since refused to
;.ke a youth into his office on account of
:IS being A Catholic! The story is true
3 to a Mr. Lowe, I believe j but certainly
pt as to the Mr. Lowe who is now pro-
ved by a large and respectable body of
your fellow-electors, as your repre-
ntative.” To this rather formidable as-
rtion we beg to direct the attention of
ir readers to Mr. Gannon s letter as de-
rving of their serious consideration.
With respect to the question at issue,
ere can be but one opinion, namely,
at either this friendly supporter of Mr.
owe, who presumes to dictate to the
?ectors how they ought to vote, has
ade a false statement, (whether
ittingly or not we cannot of course pro-
iunee,) or that Mr. Gannon has done so,
je leave the public to form their own
“ fusions on the subject.
t, in doing so, we cannot help re-
marking that the address of “ An Elector”;
exhibits a vast degree of temerity and
disingenuousness. He fully admits the 1
fact of a Mr. Lowe having refused to take
a youth into his office, because he hap-
pened to be a Catholic; but as plumply
states that the bigot who did so refuse is
not the Mr. Lowe now seeking to be the
representative of Sydney. Mr. Gannon
positively asserts to the contrary : and we
see no reason to conclude that he could be
mistaken, or that he would hazard such a
statement, knowing it to be untrue.
We have also been credibly informed that
Mr. Charles Lowe denies being “ the Mr.
Lowe' who acted such a mean, narrow-
minded, and illiberal part. Who, then,
is the Bigot 1 We know of no other
Messrs. Lowe than these two gentlemen ;
and all the presumptive proof is in favor
of Mr. Robert Lowe, the barrister, being
the real “ Simon Pure.” If “ An Elector
wishes to rescue himself from the impu-
tation of having knowingly or otherwise
published a false statement, he will, with-
out loss of time, make the only atonement
to the public he can offer, by immediately
acknowledging his error. Until he does
so, the declaration of Mr. Gannon must
be considered to be the true version of the
affair.
We perceive that the requisition to Mr.
Lowe is signed by a numerous and influ-
ential body of Irishmen—many of them
Roman Catholics. If, then, what Gan-
non asserts be the fact, it is to be
hoped that those requisitionists will not
disgrace themselves by voting for a bi-
gotted partizan.
No class of men ought to abhor a bigot
more than the Irish. For centuries they
were made the victims of the most atro-
cious and unrelenting system of persecu-
tion that ever disgraced a government—
and all because they worshipped their
G od according to the dictates of their con-
sciences BECAUSE THEY WERE CaTHOLICS.
There is nothing we condemn more than
making religion a topic of newspaper dis-
cussion. It is too solemn and sacred a
subject to be made (as is too frequently
the case in this colony) a kind of shuttle-
cock, to be knocked to and fro by the in-
terested controversialists of the day. But
much as we deprecate this practice, we
detest the unchristian spirit that can draw
injurious distinction between men because
of their peculiar creeds. Let then those
parties who are so seemingly anxious to
bestow their suffrages upon VI r. Lowe,
first satisfy themselves that that gentle-
man is not of the “ kidney” which would
view with disfavor and prejudice the ser-
vices of his fellow man merely on account
of his offering up his homage to his Creator
in a form different from that of his bigoted
reviler. We want not religiousdistinction
in this colony ; all we need is, an honest
manly unanimity and sincerity of purpose
among all classes of our fellow-colonists,
to co-operate for the weal and prosperity
of their adopted land.
If Mr. Lowe is guiltless of the bigotry
imputed to him, he will of course imme-
diately say so. But should he disregard
the feelings and opinions of the electors of
Sydney on this point—should he treattheir
voices but as the “ clamours of a mob”—
we consider it to be a duty they owe to
themselves and to their fellow-citizens in
general, to demand an explanation of the
matter from Mr. Lowe ; and if he should
not condescend to respond to their call,
to vote for men of unquestioned liberality
on this particular topic—as Messrs. Went-
worth and Bland indubitably are.
THE APPROACHING ELECTIONS.
The tactics of Mr. Lowe, who whilst
saying fine words for his friend Mr. Lamb,
was securing votes for himself, have dis-
sipated any doubt which might have been
entertained as to the secure return of
Messrs. Wentworth and Bland. The can-
vass by the friends of the latter gentlemen
has been highly favorable ; whilst the
reception by the citizens of the advocates
of Monopoly, the fierce opponents of Com-
mercial Freedom, Cheap Postage, and
Cheap Law Courts, has been any thing
but complimentary to Captain Lamb, and
Mr. Barrister Lowe. 1 n respect to their
well-known hostility to Religious Liberty,
both of these worthies have found it neces-
sary to attempt to erplain array certain
ugly stories which are current in town; but
Master Doak has rushed to the rescue, and
we have no doubt that the eloquent address
of that young gentleman will have due
weight with the free and independent
electors.
We perceive that in the placards of Mr.
Lowe, he takes great credit to himself for
opposing the introduction of Coolie labor,
and that he addresses the laboring classes
as the friend of the British Immigrant.
Now we do happen to remember a police
incident which is recorded in the annals
of the Sydney Bench, (July 1847,) when
an unfortunate fellow who had entered
into the service of Mr. Robert Lowe, was
charged by that gentleman (who was ably
represented in the Police Court by his
cava sposa ,) with absconding :
Ihe man pleaded guilty, urging in
mitigation of his offence, that Slavery of
any kind would be preferable to service
at Cudgee. He informed the Bench that
the routine of his daily and nightly duty
was as follows, —
“T° co °k : to wait at dinner ; to clean boots
and shoes, knives , two sets of harness, a gig,
and a carriage; to chop wood , and to fetch
water; and that his work was not concluded
until three o'clock in the morning ; at which
hour, having been ordered by Mrs. Lowe to
clean harness, he had certainly run away from
Cudgee, which he prayed to God he should never
see again.''
To this description of Mr. Lowe’s idea
of a “ fair day's work,' we particularly
direct the attention of the laboring classes
In the Country Districts we find a sin-
gular compound of apathy, where activity
is needed, and strife, where unanimity is
desirable. Mr. Darvall, whose speeches
and votes during the last session have
raised him high in the opinions of all
classes of the colonists, and whose valuable
services would have been prized by the
leading constituencies, has beeu prevailed
upon by a clique to oppose Mr. P. Lord
at Bathurst ! We much regret this on
every account ; for we shall be sorry to
jOse the services of either of these gentle-
men, whose opinions on all the great ques-
tions which are before the colony have
always been manfully recorded on the li-
beral side. Mr. Taafe, it is earnestly
hoped will allow himself to be placed in
nomination for the united counties of Mur-
ray, Georgiana, and King, which have
been sadly misrepresented by that pom-
pous charlstan, Terence Aubrey Murray
For Cook and Westmoreland it is surely
desirable that a resident should come for-
ward, and that the solicitations of a place-
holder on the one side, and of a young
and unknown attorney on the other, should
be resisted in favor of one identified with
the local interests of the districts. Will
not the Badgerys, the Onuses, the Hales,
the Towns,’ the Dargans, select from
their own ranks a resident proprietor, in
place of looking to Sydney and choosing
a representative from among the “ Limbs
of the Law.’"?
For Port Phillip we are only aware of
two candidates being in the field, Mr.
Foster, one of the late members, and Mr.
Sprot Boyd. The return of both gentle-
men is confidently predicted by the lead-
ing Port Phillip journals. The Patriot
thus adverts to Mr. W. S. Boyd’s claims:—
A thorough man of business, having a
large stake in this province, a staunch advo-
cate for financial and territorial separation,
his election cannot but meet with the con-
currence of all parties. The colony is al-
ready under lasting obligations to the exer-
tions of those bearing liis name, and the
prestige of his patronymic would, under any
opposition, be in itself “a tower of strength.”
We are aware that some nonsensical twitter-
ings may exude against the new candidate,
on the plea that he is “ of that Ilk ” which
supported the introduction of “Exile” labor,
as a necessary expedient in the absence of
any other prospect of immigration, but no
man, whose opinion is worth a bawbee, can
be blinded by such an unreasonable “ cry.’’
Had “ the Boyd party ’’ failed to exercise
discrimination enough to choose of two evils
the least, we should have been loath to en-
trust our representation to such impractica-
ble hands. Mr. Spuott Boyd’s return is
“un fait accompli.''
For Melbourne, Mr. J. P. Robinson will
be returned without opposition. Every
party refers with grateful sentiments to
his arduous labors in the late Council on
behalf of the complicated interest of that
town.
A 1 r. G. R. Nicholls intends to oppose
Mr. P. Grant in the Northumberland Bo-
roughs, but with very poor prospects of
success. We should be deficient in our
duty as public journalists if we allowed
our personal feelings in favor of the
“glorious Bob,” as he delights to call
himself, to sway our pen whilst conside-
ring his claims to the honor he now seeks.
We do not think that the legislative
Council is the arena for Mr. Nicholls.
A Mr. Vallack threatens to oppose Mr.
Dangar in the County of Northumberland.
His address is an amusing specimen of
twaddle.
We have already stated that Mr. M Leay
is likely to be succeeded in the represen-
tation of the Northern Counties by that
tried friend of the Pastoral Interests, Mr.
Archibald Boyd.
Mr Johnston of Annandale, is spoken
of as sure to succeed Mr. Bowman (Mr.
Lowe’s double) in the Cumberland Bo-
roughs.
Mr Suttor will not come in againsoj
Roxburgh. Several gentlemen are named
as likely to come forward for that im-
portant locality.
Mr. Lowe has lost all chance of sitting
for St Vincent and Auckland, if thrown
out (as he is sure to be) in Sydney. Sev-
eral candidates for the honor of represen-
ting those counties are ready to enter into
the field.
Mj. James Macarthur will walk over
the course at Camden; his brother Wil-
liam will contest Parramatta with Mr.
Oaks. For Cumberland, Mr, Cowper and
Mr. H. G. Smith, will be returned without
opposition.
IMPORTANT
ENGLISH NEWS.
WAR.
From the Port Philip Herald, July 6.
The Mahomet Schaii, from England the
29th March, has brought the important
intelligence that Revolutionary France
has leagued with England in a war with
Russia, Prussia and Austria.
The Captainof this ship, with whom
we have conveiirt, gives us the following
information,
At the time of his leaving England, a
war with Austria-Was generally expected,
owing to the turn affairs had taken in
Italy ; but up to the date of her sailing
war had not been declared. On the pas-
sage out and very soon after he had sailed,
he was signalled by a French vessel, but
being a faster sailing ship than the French-
man, was not desirous of speaking her,
as it would cause many hours delay. The
French, vessel however, showed such a
string of signals, and so much anxiety to
speak him, that our informant hove his
vessel to and sent a boat on board, when
the following intelligence was obtained.
A few days prior to the two vessels
meeting, the Frenchman had been spoken
by an English steam frigate bound to St.
Helena, with the news that England had
declared war against Austria, which had
been joined—as allies, by Russia and
Prusia—France siding with England.
That two Russian frigates had been at-
tacked by two English frigates in the
channel, one of the Russians being sunk
and the other taken.
This is the sum and substance of the
imformation received, with reference to
the war.
The effect of this war, we need scarcely
inform our country readers, will be to
raise the price of Wool and Tallow.
Her Majesty’s accouchement had taken
place which “interesting event” is thus
officially notified. “Buckingham Palace,.
.March 18.—This morning at eight o’clock, j
the Queen was safely delivered of a daugh-
ter. In the room with her Majesty were
his Royal Highness Prince Albert, Dr. 1
Locock, and Mrs. Lilly, the monthly nurse;
and in the rooms adjoining were the other
medical attendants, Sir James Clark, and
Dr. Ferguson, and also her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Kent, the Lady in waiting
on the Queen, and the Ministers and Offi"
'Cers of State -summoned on the occasion-
The Privy Councillors present were Sir
Charies Wood, the Duke of Wellington,
Earl Spencer, the Duke of Norfolk, the
Earl ot Auckland, Lord Campbell, Earl
Grey, Mr. Labouchere, and Earl Fortescue.”
j Her Majesty continued to do well, and
congratulatory addresses were voted to her,
by both Houses of Parliament.
Several disturbances had taken place in
England, and much discontent seemed to
prevail ; the Chartists were indefatigable
in their agitation.
With regard to the Money Market and
state of trade, we quote the following from
the Times of 28th March ;—“ Monday even-
ing. The English funds have been flat to-
day but from no other cause than the feeling
of general uncertainty. Consols, both for
money and account, opened at 83J to f,
being a decline of a quarter per cent, from
Saturday’s prices. During the day they
touched 83, but they recovered before the
termination of business, and closed at 831
to f. Bank Stock with dividend for open-
ing left off at 192 to 195; India Stock for
opening 281 to 234; India Bonds, 12s. to
17s. premium, and Exchequer bills, 31s. to
345. premium.
Mexican and Portugese stocks were chiefly
dealt in by the brokers on the foreign mar-
ket. Both descriptions were decidedly bet-
ter, and the bargains were rather numerous.
Mexican was done as low as 14|, and as
high as 15f, but the latest business was at
about 15J. In Portuguese business was done
at 14J and at 16 for the Four per Cents. ;
the nearest price at the close of the day was
however, 15J.
The corn-market this morning was heavy
at a decline of Is. from the rates of Monday
last. 3
The stoppage of the Grantham bank of
Messrs, Kewney and King was announced
this morning. It was a bank of issue, esta-
blished in 1812, and the fixed limits of its
circulation was £19,401. Its outstanding
notes, however, according to the last returns
amounted only to £17,382. Messrs. Bar-
clay and Co. were the London agents, but
they sustain no loss.
The private letters from America add
little to the intelligence already published.
The price paid by the Messrs. Rothschild for
the 4,000,000 d. which they were understood
to have taken at the New Six per Cent.
Loan, 101 dol. 26 c., and the remaining
1,000,000 dol. was taken at about 102 dol.
A general feeling seems to have prevailed
that on the conclusion of peace a steady rise
would take place in the funds, and the tran-
saction was, therefore, looked upon as a
favorable one.
The following is an extract of* a letter
dated Mexico, February 13, 1848: “ We
have the satisfaction to inform you that a
treaty of peace was signed on the 2nd inst.
by Mr. Trist and the Mexican Commis-
sioners, and there is little doubt it will be
ratified by the General Congress now as-
sembling at Queretaro. IVe may no'w,
therefore, look forward to a return of the
commercial prosperity so anxiously looked
for during the last two years.”
From Marseilles we learn that Messrs.
Moland, Roufiio and Co., whose suspension
was stated to-day, have been enabled to
resume business by the receipt of remit-
tances from the Levant.
From Amsterdam the report of the stock-
market complains of dulness, coupled with a
further decline in prices. The Frankfort
accounts state that most public securities
were firm, Austrian commanding hioh
quotations, °
One or two additional items ofintelligence
are ailorded by the West India papers re-
ceived to-day relative to the weather and
the prospect of the crops.
We mentioned a few days back that a
wish was entertained in the Stock-Exchange
to shorten the intervals between the settling
days in the English market. It now ap-
pears, that in reply to a memorial from the
members the committee have resolved,
“ That it is expedient that the Consol set-
tlings should be shortened, and that they be
limited as nearly as practicable to monthly
accounts. ’ The measure appears to be a
desirable one, but its complete adoption must
depend upon the facilities which the Bank
of England may be disposed to offer in their
arrangement ot the periodical shuttings for
the dividends.’’
The proceedings in Parliament present
nothing of particular attention. Mr. Ewart’s
Death Abolition motion was rejected. Louis
Philippe and his family were residing
privately at Claremont; the altered fortunes
of the Royal pair did not seem to make much
impression upon them.
The Duke and Duchess of Montpensier
left England for Ostend, on their way to
Germany, and their departure oaused much
surprise, as a courier was momentarily ex-
pected to invite them to Madrid.
His Excellency Count de Jarmac, the
French Ambassador at London, was relieved
by the arrival of M. Cotteu.
The Right Hon. Lord Hardinge had ar-
rived in London from India, after an absence
of four years.
Large meetings were being held in the
several towns in England, for the purpose
of presenting addresses to the French Re-
publicans. A telegraphic despatch was re-
ceived announcing that Austria had re-
nounced all diplomatic relations with France
without, however, declaring war.
IRELAND.
It was not to be expected by any one
acquainted with the condition of Ireland,
and with the bitter struggles the people of
that country have been engaged in for
many years, to obtain the restoration of
their native parliament, that they would
viewe with indifference the Revolu-
tion which took place in France in Fe-
bruary last, and which has extended its
contagious influence throughout every
country on the Continent—making some
of the most powerful and arbitrary
monarchs tremble on their thrones, in the
recreant dread that they would be com-
pelled to relax their despotic sway, and
concede unto their subjects a small frag-
ment of their “rights and liberties.”
How the heart of the Emperor of Austria
must have quailed at the sight of his
Crafty Minister, Prince Metternich, his
able and obsequious tool in every scheme
of tyranny, hanging in effigy before his
palace. How too, the cruel, and more or
less “ suspected” His Majesty of Hanover,
uncle to Queen Victoria,) must have
inwardly writhed at being necessitated,
after sundry attempts at cowardly
evasion and procrastination to grant
unto his hitherto serfs, freedom of the
Press—that is, the privilege of expressing
their opinions upon the Acts of their ruler,
without the risk of being sent to expiate
their “ crime” in a dungeon : and an am-
nesty for all past political offences—
meaning, no doubt, that those “ rebels”
who had the manliness to question the
justice and humanity of his Government,
should not be doomed to die the death of
felons for so asserting their rights as
“ men.”
When the King of Hanover and the
Emperor of Austria showed the “ white
feather,” in the presence of their outraged
and abused subjects, it would be absurd to
suppose that a people so deeply concerned
as the Irish are in the overthrow of olig-
archical despotism, and the advancement
of popular liberty, would not warmly
sympathize with the “cause” which
brought about such a wished-for consum-
mation. They did so promptly ; for no
sooner did the news arrive in Ireland of
the destruction of the Government of Louis
Phillippe, and of the emancipation of
the people of France from the chains in
which that despot tried to fetter them,
than the hills of Limerick, Wexford, Tip-
perary, &c., blazed with the national
bonfires of rejoicement at the triumph of
Liberty over Tyranny. It would appear,
however, from the late English news, that
the British Government became alarmed
at this display of Irish sympathy with the
French ; and have resorted to the old
engine of “state prosecutions,’* for the
purpose of overaising the Irish into silence.
Will they succeed? Let the following
extract answer the question.
Considerable excitement prevailed in
Dublin, in consequenc of the Government
having commenced another state prosecu-
tion against the leading members of the
Young Ireland party, which is daily ga-
thering strength. The following graphit*
account of the “ preliminary proceedings”
is published in Bell’s Life, of March 26
Prosecutions for Sedition in Ireland.
It has been determined to prosecute Messrs. S.
O Brien, Mitchell and Meagher, for the sediti-
ous and treasonable speeches and adddresses to
their misguided countrymen. On Wednesday
afternoon, Mr. Kemmiss, crown solicitor, at-
tended before the magistrates of the head police
office, Dublin, to prefer information against Mr.
Wm. Smith O’Brien, M. P., Mr. Thos, Meagher,
of Waterford, and Mr. John Mitchell, editor of
the United Irishman, newspaper, for sedition.
Messrs. O’Brien and Meagher are charged with
uttering seditious speeches at the Music Hall,
on the night of the 15th Instant, and Mr. Mit-
chell with the publication of a seditious libel in
the United Irishman. These informations were
served on the defendants, who undertook to
appear before the magistrates at the head police
office next day, to put in bail, to abide their
trials in the Court of Queen’s Bench on the
first day of next term. When the communica-
tion reached Mr. O’Brien, he was in the act of
packing up his portmanteau te proceed to Paris,
for the purpose of presenting the address ot
the confederates to the French people. Bong
before the hour appointed, an immense crowd of
persons, between six and eight thousand, con-
gregated in Dame-street, Parliament-street,
and Castle Hill, in the vicinity of the police
office. Their demeanour was remarkably quiet
and orderly. They neither indulged in cheering
nor groaning, until the defendants, accompanied
by their res: ective bailsmen, emerged from
three covered cars, and then the skies were rent
with long and continuous shouts of applase.
The room was crowded to suffocation. The de-
fendants having taken their | laces at the bar.
Mr. M. O’Connell, in a loud tone of voice
sadd, * that if Mr. Meagher or either of the other
gentlemen required bail, he (Mr O’Connell),
and his brother John would be happy to tender
themselves.* The offer was politely declined by
gesture and not verbally,
Messrs. Smith O’Brien, Meagher, and Mit-
chell, entered into their several recognizances
of .£2OO each, and two sureties of £lOO each ;
to appear in the JCourt of Queen’s Bench on
the 15th April, to answer such charges as should
be preferred against them by Her Majesty’s
Attorney-General.
During th.e proceeding, which did not occupy
hall an hour, Mr. Meagher amused himself
sketching a spear head and a pike, well known
implements of war in Ireland. The paper upon
which these sketches were made was gazed at,
with much apparent interest, by many who were
prevented by tlw crowded state of the board-
room from approaching the bench, or seeing
‘ w itk their own eyes* what Mr. Meagher had
been doing* although the fact was very soon
buzzed about and applauded. After the depar-
ture of the parties, the sketches were deemed
(under the peculiar circumstances) to be too
significant to suffer them to escape notice. They
were accordingly handed to the magistrates.
The defendants were lustily greeted and cheered
upon leaving the Police-office, as were likewise
the Messrs O’Connell, for their offer to assist
their brethren in distress.
They then proceeded, followed by a large
crowd, who cheered vociferously, through
Dame-street, College Green, and Westmore-
lend-street, into D’Oliver-street, when the three
gentlemen delivered short, speeches, which were
listened to by at least 4 or 5000 persons.
Mr. O’Brien was the first to make his ap-
pearance’ He said that the Government had,
at last, honoured him with a prosecution; and
he B was proud of it; because he believed it
would have the effect of making Irishmen of all I
creeds and politics unite in putting down tyranny i
and coercion—(hear, hear, and cheers). He
happy to be ab'e to state that the Messrs
O Connell had in the handsomest manner come
forward and offered themselves to go bail for
him, and showed the feeling of fraternization
which the policy of the Government would en-
gender ; for his part, he would pledge himself
to say and do more than ever he did to procure
for Ireland her native Parliament—(hear,
hear).
Mr. Mitchell then came forward. He had,
he said, been held to bail for writing articles to
excite discontent and disaffection amongst her
Majesty’s subjects; and he had come there to
admit he wrote the articles referred to—and
that it was for the purpose of creating disaffec-
tion and discontent amongst the Irish people
that he had done so—(loud cheers). He was
candid enough to make that admission for her
Majesty s Attorney General, and to inform him
and the other law officers, that he would continue
to write, week after week, articles for the same
seditious purposes, and the moment he discon-
tinued to write them, and to swerve from the
expression of the same sentiments in public, at
meetings or elsewhere, he hoped to be branded
as a traitor—(tremendous cheering.)
Mr. Meagher next came forward, and was
received with shouts of applause. He said,
that as that was the last opportunity he would
have of addressing his fellow countrymen, until
after his return from France, he had made it a
point to be there to tell the b y Govern-
ment that he was not afraid to meet their hire-
lings in the Court of Queen’s Bench, or in a
wider field (loud cheers). It was not with one
United Irishman the Government would hence-
forward have to deal, but with 5,000,000 The
speaker made use of other very strong and ex-
citing language, which was loudly cheered by
the mob; but from the tjrowd and other diffi-
culties in hearing him distinctly, we abstain
from publishing them, not being able to give
his words exactly.
Mr. Doheny invited the Government to attend
the meeting of the Confederation the next eve-
ning, when each Confederate would avow the
treason three of their Members had that day
been arrested for.
Mr. Richard O’Gorman, jun., said that al-
though he had not the honor of receiving the
polite attention of Lord Clarendon, with the ;
help of God he would deserve it.
Ihe mob then dispersed, and a large body of
the police, who were in attendance in case any
disturbance should take place, were marched
back to barracks.
Liverpool, Monday. —The following letter
was received this morning by a tradesman in this
town from a relative residing in the neighbour-
hood of Dublin :—“ Saturday night, 9 o’clock.
An officer that is lodging with us has just re-
ceived information that there is an outbreak
at Limerick, and the people have beaten the
soldiers.. T. he hills which are seen from here are
all illuminated with large fires. We can see
20 from our window.”—l imet, March 28.
REVOLUTION in AUSTRIA.
RECEPTION OF THE EMPEROR BURNING THE
EFFIGY OF METTERNICH.
Vienna, March 15.—The Emperor has
this day taken a drive in his carriage,
through several of the principal streets of
the capital, accompanied by his brother.
The people wanted to take the horses from
the carriage, and draw it themselves, but at
the express instance of the Emperor, they
refrained from such acts of servility. Count
d Apponi has resigned his office of Court
Chancellor of Hungary. A Prussian paper
states that the palace of Prince Metternich
within the city of Vienna has not been in-
jured by the populace, Yesterday, however,
they erected a gallows in front of his palace,
and inflicted capital punish ment on the effigy
of its most unpopular proprietor. This ex-
hibition continued during the entire day,
nor did the authorities dare to attempt
its removal,” r
A corresponding writing from Vienna of
the 14th, says—
“ The princess Metternich has taken her de-
parture along with the prince, her husband The
prince has defended his political system to the
last extremity. The States were not able to
deliberate in consequence of the cries of ‘ A bas
Metternich; which drowned the voices of the
speakers. At nine o’ clock a deputation of the
states having gone to the Palace to request the
Cmperor to send away Prince Metternich, the
Prince himself came to them, and said, ‘ I have
this moment placed my resignation in the hands
ot his Majesty the Emporer.’ Upon which the
deputation answered —f We thank you; you
have saved the country.’ ’’
RUMOURED INSURRECTION IN
RUSSIA.
The Courrier Francais “An extraordi-
nary courier arrived on Monday night at the
Russian Legation in Paris. It is said that
hc> brought depatches of the highest gravity.
It appears that the provinces ef the south of
the empire are in full insurrection. The
noliles and the army are at the head of the
movement.
Ukase of the Empebor of Russia.
The Emperor has issued the following
ukase to the Minister of War:—
In the west of Europe, events have transpired
which minifest the sinful design of subvertin'*
legal authorities. The alliances of friendship
and the treaties by which Russia is connected
to the neighbouring powers, impose upon us the
sacred duty to take timely measures for placing
a portion of our troops upon a war footing, that
in case circumstances should demand it, a firm
front may be opposed to the direful spread of
anarchy. In pursuance of this we command :
1. Immediately to organise reserves belonging
to the divisions specified in the index.
2. To this end immediately > call into active
service those privates who are bound to form
the reserve corps, but who are on furlough for
a given or for an indefinite period, in the govern-
ment to be hereafter named.
3. The assembling of the troops shall take
place immediately after this ukase shall have
been published in the circles, and shall terminate
without fail on the Ist (13th) of April next.
Ihe five remaining articles of this ukase only
relate to the equipment of the trorps, place of
rendezvous, and other regulations as to geueral
discipline, &c.)
( S ‘g" ed ) ‘‘Nicholas.’'
REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT IN
SWEDEN.
We learn from Stockholm, under date of
the 10th, that immediately on the receipt I
of the intelligence of the Revolution at
Pans, a society was made for demanding
electoral and parliamentary reform. Its
numbers at first were not great, but they
soon increased most considerably. Among
them are eminent individuals of all classes
of society, and a great many members of the
four orders of the General Diet at present
assembled. The Society has nominated a
committee charged to propose the legal and
pacific measures which can be employed to
attain its object. I
“THE REVOLUTION.”
After all, the most fearful Revolution ie
that of the Times, the bare recollection of
“ Th e merry days of Old” is the only feint
vestige bequeathed to us of their departed
pleasures. In vain do we endeavour to
rouse up in our old haunts the social song
or convivial joke that formerly beguiled
“ the many tedious hour.” Every body
now-a-days assumes the woeful countenance
indicative of Bad Times— and instead of
forming the Merry Throng that once collected
round our Festive Board, we perceive every
individual after the toil and turmoil of the
day, quietly wending their way to their res-
pective domiciles to calculate upon the
chances that may either seal their “happiness
or ruin.”
Even the Echo of Festivity has long since
died away within our walls, and “ all the
air a solemn stilness bolds.’’ The very taste
for pleasure even of refinement seems to be
h 'd under the weighty cloak of Mother
Necessity—and whenever alas! we turn our
eyes, we are met by that expressive glance
which reflects the words of that Renowned
Poet.
“ Now when I thinks of what I is
And what X used to was,
I finds i’ve throw’d myself away
Without sufficient caus. e.
PEEL’S ABDICATION.
Trie orange of Conservatism is at last peel'd,
and the pith and juice of its consistency!
which has for some time been oozing out
through the various apertures made by a
division in its own body, has at last en-
tirely evaporated. Sir Robert, unable any
longer to withstand the increasing gulph
between the major and minor section of his
own party, the result of which he foresaw
must be the inevitable overthrow of their
power, has determined to abandon the lead-
ership of so precarious and wavering a body.
This reason, in conjunction with a wish to
retire from the arduous duties of official
life, has determined Sir Robert in the course
he has adopted. A meeting was convened
by the friends of Sir Robert, when they
again resolved to form a more stable and
distinct body, and to adopt a course of tac-
tics which should subject them no longer
to the ridicule their inconsistencies had im-
posed on them ; and they again insisted
upon Sir Robert becoming the General of
their army, and lead them on to “ glory or
to death,” but the wary general, knowing
the difficulties he would have to encounter
lin collecting the scattered fragments of a
1 discomfitted army, peremptorily declined,
saying that 4 it was useless any longer to
endeavour to rule so disunited and inconsis-
I tent a body,’ who should, instead of being
I unarmed, be armed at all points, and go
forth more invulnerable than Achilles, to
battle in the cause of their country. He
however would propose to them a leader,
who, in the contentions they had met, had
at all times proved himself a gallant and
an able officer, “ The Earl of Lincoln, and
no doubt they would enlist afresh under his
banner, while he would be content to bring
up the van.’’ s
KICKING DOWN THE LADDER.
We copy the foiling statistics from a French
paper, lor the benefit of the happy Histo-
rian who may have to write the Life of
Louis-Philippe
Since the Revolution of July,
1. There have been 1129 prosecutions against
the press. 5
2. There have been 57 newspapers suppressed
3. There have been 7,110,500 francs drawn,
in the shape of fines, from editors and pro-
prietors of journals.
This is not bad for a King who was car-
ried to the throne on the shoulders of the
very men he has since thrown down, and
lifted into his present position by the very
papers he has since crashed. The Charte
may be a “ ydriU," but then it is a Truth,
which keeps itself very private at the bottom
of the Puits de Crenelle, for there is not
the smallest taste of it to be had at the
luilenes, for love or money—not for love
at all events. What a noble epitaph the
above statistics would make! They would
read admirably, just after the words “uni-
versally regretted.’’
THE LAST RING OF FANCY’S KNELL.
Among other melancholy evidences of the
Decline of our Old British Sports, bo feel-
ingly lamented by the Press, we see the
tradesmen of London have had meetings
for abolishing that last remnant of the
sports of the ring—“ Christinas-Boxing.”
THE RING.
TOM KING AND IKE SPARKES.
Before the conclusion of the principal
affair, viz., the encounter between Sinclair
and Sparkes, as recorded in our last num-
ber, a purse of nearly seven pounds was
raised amongst the bystanders, and the
two hero's whose names are given above,
peeled for action. Ike is a younger
brother of Sinclair’s late antagonist, and
has acquired some celebrity amongst the
roughs, having polished off sundry rummy
outsiders who abound in the vicinity of
his residence at Cook’s River. He is a
smart young fellow, of sturdy measure-
ment, and from general habits of sobriety,
seldom out of condition. To his opponent,
we regret to state the same observations
do not apply. Of pallid complexion and
apparently shattered constitution, the lad’s
exterior evinced a greater familiarity with
the midnight taper, and may be the
midnight toper, than correspond with the
stated injunctions of the trainer—never-
theless, that he was in possession of those
other necessary adjuncts to pugilistic
reputation, game and science, he most un-
doubtedly proved. At least a stone less
in weight than his antagonist, he slogged
away right merrily for one bour and
thirty-five minutes, during which period
96 rounds were fought, the little ’un pro-
ving himself a conqueror as well as a
King, as will be seen from the adjoining
report. At about a quarter to twelve
o clock, the men put themselves into at*
titude for
THE FIGHT.
Round I—Sparkes, without delay, planted a
heavy left-handed hit upon Scroggins’ right ear,
wlm countered effectually on the snuff bag, the
big.’un then bored to in-fighting, when a few
rapid exchanges, in which the superior strength
of Ike was made apparent, brought the round to
a close.
made a right-handed lounge at
the ribs, but his measurement proved incorrect
—a second attempt was more successful, and a
heavy stinger made Ike’s ribs rattle. Sparkes
lost two well-intentioned deliveries by the young
un s system of bobbing his conk, but his process
did not impede the dexterous use of his dexter
mawley, which was kept vigorously plying at
the upper works of the Australian. Ike managed
to plant a snorter upon the nasal prominence,
then rushing to in-fighting, got Scroggins down
to his corner.
3 to B—Sparkes’ weight gave him decided
advantages, but his hands were gone, and he
ceased to administer pepper—still Scroggins,
though quite out of condition, was enabled by
his style ot tactics, to prolong the question at
issue. In the eighth round Ike got him at the
ropes, and tried it on uncimmon, but Thomas
dropped, and thereby eluded the dodge.
9 Ike bored his man over the ropes, and fell
»i h his knees upon him. (Cries of foul)
10— Sparkes got home a mouther, and the
boy went to earth.
11.—(“ Wait for him, and nail the brute as he
comes in,* from Donovan.) Rut the advice was
rejected, and a short scrimmage terminated in
favor of the boomer.
lo the subsequent rounds we can sparo space
but briefly and disjointly to allude. The 14th
was one of singular vigour on the part of Kin»-
he went.down in the close. In the lGth Sparke’
threw him heavily. 17th—Sparkes’ left wa S
prettily stopped, and aright-handed lodged o S
the nob, by way of exchange—from Ike’s repl”
Scroggins got cleverly away and again sent y
spanker from his right shoulder upon the Aue a
tralians sneezer.
In the 20th—King sent forth the purple flood
from his opponents proboses, and swung him-
self unscathed to the dust.
In the 25th—A cry of foul wa9 raised against
Ike, who it was alleged had delivered his right
while Tom was reclining on the verdant bed of
nature, but the claim was overruled by the
referee. Sparkes during the 53rd round caught
hold of King by the hair, and, amidst great con-
fusion, tried the new move but without either
credit or success Ditto in the 56th. 60th—
Sparkes tried for the cross-buttock, got the
vice, and bo<h went down together. From this
to the 95th little change was made in the style
of fighting. King, who at the close of each
round relaxed every muscle and shammed per-
fect prostrations made his seconds (Bungarrabbe
Jack and Edwards) do their work, but upon re-
suming his position at the scratch the tone of
torpor gave place to a position of energy and
vivacity, perfectly astounding to spectators.
During the last round Ike caught Scroggins
round the neck with his left, and, while both
knees were on the ground, deliberately
gave three distinct facers. In fact it was gene-
rally supposed that Sparkes finding he could not
punish the Londoner, saw no reason why the
Londoner should punish him, and thu9 intention-
ally brought the battle to a termination after, as
is stated above, a lapse of one hour and thirty-
five minutes.
TOM KING alias SCROGGINS’
BENEFIT. (?)
This hero of the light weight?, whose fight
with Ike Sparkes is recorded above, took a
benefit on the evening of Wednesday ; we
regret to state that although arrangements
I had been made for “ lots of fun,” the muster
( of the non-professionals w’as “ wery weak
j scarcely strong enough indeed to meet the
exigencies of the evening. Several com-
plaints have been made of the high amount
demanded by the proprietor of the room,
whose adjoining hostelrie must reap a rich
harvest during the sparring nights. If this


be not remedied we shall suggest that Old
Aby’s room in Lower George-street be again
resorted to.
Sinclair and Sparkes.—Notwithstand-
ing the conflicting statements so industri-
ously promulgated during the last few
davs the stakeholder has handed over the
"dumps” to the Enfield Pet, who, prior
to entering upon any fresh engagement,
has resolved to take a tour through the
provinces. He tells us that he has “ lots
of tin, ergo neither exists the necessity nor
the resolve for fighting every day in the
week. One of the primary objects of a
man’s life being, in Sinclair s opinion In
Dulcense, he purposes devoting a brief
space to the fulfilment of such pleasurable
desires, —and who can blame him 1 Cer-
tainly he takes a wide field for the grati-
ficationof his vices, inasmuch as he alludes
to thrashing George Hough, upon princi-
ples purely philanthropic, and of thrash-
ing another, merely by way of amuse-
ment, so that the compagnon of his erra-
tic campaign not so fully entering into
the spirit of the thing, as the Pet himself
may return to the metropolis, loaded with
more scars than honors ; be that as it may,
Paddy is an extraordinary cove for an
old un, and certainly has the whip hand
of Bill Sparkes. Sinclair’s uniform back-
er in New South Wales has been Mr.
Nash, and of the kindness and liberality
of this individual, the pugilist speaks in
the highest terms. Like the Messrs.
Field of Van Diemen’s Land who have
so often looked upon the victorious exit
of their protege from the circle, Mr.
Nash has had ample cause to congratu-
late himself upon the soundness of his
predilections in favor of his “ nevey.’
THE LOCAL RING IN DAYS OF
YORE.
ABY DAVIS versus JOE DARGIN.
“The cove wot fights and runs away
Will live to mill another day,
But he wot’s in the scrimmage slain
Will never doff the rag again.”
The earliest battle worthy of record in the
annals of Local Fistiana is that between
Aby Davis and Joe Dargin, which was
contested in the year 1819, at Sydney.
Aby Davis, who was much better known
at home by the teuder appellation of
41 Bruin the Bear,’ of the Tribe of Israel,
was imported from the Minories, under
the immediate and distinguished patron-
age of the Ring, upwards of twenty years
aince. Combining a stout athletic frame
with great natural courage, he possessed
the “ essentials” of a milling man, and,
from the impetuosity of his disposition,
became frequently implicated in some
41 broil” which gave him an opportunity
for bringing these qualities into exercise ;
and, while yet a sprig, Aby could handle
his mauleys with e’er a dustman on the
beat.
From being generally matched in his
41 affrays’ with men heavier than himself,
Aby acquired a habit of “ taking change”
to an amount hardly conceivable ; and,
eventually, when proficient in the art,
unless his antagonist was an 14 astonisher, ”
his brethren would stake Lombard-street
to a China Orange on the game.
However, an opportunity soon occurred
after his arrival in this Land of Promise
for the display of his pugilistic tact. The
rowdy Natives of Windsor, with sporting
ardour, soon procured a champion (who
promised fair, although but a mere boy,)
to try his hand with the renowned Aby,
and a match was accordingly made on
the 17th of June, 1819, when these men
entered the first Ring that had been
41 professionally” made in New South
Wales, for £5O a side.
On entering the Ring, the disparity in
size, weight, and muscular developement
was so apparent, that several of the natives
for once lost their confidence and wished
to break off the match, which the slender
symmetry of Dargin, compared with the
sinewy frame of the Jew, at once dictated
as absurd,
The battle, however, made them changa
their opinion, and showed them how far
skill, alacrity, and determination can
succeed over muscular superiority. The
battle was a most obstinate one, and the
gluttony of the Jew was fully satiated by
the unmerciful peppering he received from
Dargin. The Jew, however, was by no
means backward in returning Dargin s
favors with interest ; and these mutual
favors were many and quickly exchanged,
The Native Boy, however, at length
exhibited a most appalling spectacle, from
the repeated visits of Aby’s sledge ham-
mer, though he manfully stood the brunt,
aud philosophically adhered to his post
for two hours and a half, when he was
saved the pains of crying out enough by
a grog-ifier on the temple from his an-
tagonist, which had a mesmeric effect for
some minutes, and disabled him from
renewing the mill. The Jew, although
victorious, acknowledged he had got his
belly-full, and like a noble-minded hero,
gave great praise to the exquisite skill,
tact, and courage of his enemy.
An Anecdote of O’Connell. —He was once
examining a witness whose inebrity, at the time
to which the evidence referred, it was essential
to his client’s case to prove. He quickly dis-
covered the man’s character. He was a fellow,
who may be described as “ half foolish with
roguery.” “ Well, Darby, you told the truth to
this gentleman ?” “ Yes, your honour, Coun-
sellor O’Connell.” “ How do you know my
name?” “Ah! sure every one knows our
own pathriot.” “ Well, you are a good-
humoured, honest fellow; now tell me, Darby,
did you take a drop of any thing that day ?”
" Why, your honour, I took my share of a pint
of spirits. “ Your share of it: now, by virtue
of your oath, was not your share of it —all but
the pewter /” “ Why, then, dear knows, that’s
true for you, sir.” The court was convulsed
at both question and answer. It soon, step by
step, came out that the man was drunk and was
not, therefore, a competent witness. Thus
’Connell won his case for his client.
Time out of Mind —We have it on the higest
authority—that of the Sun himself—that he has
recently “ disdained to shine” on some occasions,
m consequence of the doubts thrown upon his
veracity by a determination to disregaid his
accounts of the hour at the various railway sta-
tions throughout the kingdom The luminary’s
variance with the clocks is likely to lead to some
confusion, for while the Sun is at sixes, the
clocks will be in some cases at sevens.— Punch.
An anomlay founded on Fact.—lt appears
that when a native of Morocco is alive, he is a
Moor; but when he is dead, he is no more,
GALLERY OF COMICALITIES
No. II.
Mr. Fake-away with his Team ; and Livery
Servant; the latter, notwithstanding Gold Lace
and a white choker ’round his squeeze , has a
marvellous idea of doing the Hookey at his
patron. Poor flunkey!! little dost thou dream
of the extent of classic lore treasured up within
thy master’s cranium, who probably is at this
moment more wrapped up in cogitations upon
that well-established truism “As in preesenti
than in the elegance of those dignified salutes
which bespeak the Candidate for Legislative
honors.
And did you never hear of a smart young
Attorney,
Who to canvass the voters once mounted his
shay,
And handled the ribbons with so much dexterity,
That tho’ cheekish his rival he bolted away.
He looked so * gentish,’ and bowed so jauntily,
His tiger bedizened with gold-lace so flauntily,
And himself rigged out in so charming a coat,
That none could refuse him when asked for a vote.
So, the envy of all the young cabbage-tree lads,
He smiles at the gals, and he nods at each
crony,
A la tandem he’s harnessed his beautiful prads—
An ox and a lovely Jerusalem pony.
And although Sporting coves may be chaffing
and jeering,
It is all one to him their lampoons and their
leering,
Where the wit of the joke lies, he cannot dis-
cern, he
Will never say die, wont this smart young
Attorney.
Independent Electors ! sans compliment
craving,
You are really indebted to us of the limes
For giving you gratis this spicy engraving,
Of the Statesmen whose genius we’ve hailed
in these rhymes.
But take care :—Don’t confound the driver and
donkey,
For our artist (deuce take him, the libellous
monkey,)
Has drawn them alike—so that e’en their owa
mother
Would be puzzled to recognise one from the
other.
LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
Special Licensing Meeting. —At a
meeting on Friday last, of the Magistrates
qualified to act as a Licensing Sessions, the
following new Licenses were granted:—Gene-
ral Licenses —John Wright, the Omnibus Inn,
Parramatta-road; Thomas Martin, Rose-Bay
Hotel, Rose Bay ; Henry Webb, the Jenny
Lind, George-street; George Chambers, the
Curriers’ Arms, Pitt-street; Robert Collins, the
Cherry Tree Inn, Castlereagh and Bathurst-
streets; Nicholas Newnham, the Wellington
Inn, Parramatta-street; Jane Elizabeth Allison,
the Queen’s Arms, South Head Road; John
William Roberts, the Llangwider Hotel, Kent
and Erskine-streets. Wine and Deer Licences —
Thomas Humphries, the Plough Inn, Banks
Town ; Charles M‘Cawley, Antrim Arms, New-
town ; Michael Williamson, Belfast Wine Vaults,
Chippendale. Confectioners' Licenses John
Duffey, Church Hill, and Murdoch Young,
Market-street. The transfer from Henry Webb
to John Ward of the Sportsman, Parramatta-
street, was also sanctioned.
Not very bad. —One of the electors of
Parramatta, was twitting Mr. Oaks with his
calling of a Butcher, “ Well,” said that worthy
candidate, “ and is not Lowe a butcher too ? has
he not regularly sold Lamb in Sydney ?”
The Labour Market.— We learn from
the Port Phillip papers, that Mr. Fennell, who
had gone to Geelong with the view of engaging
100 of the Exiles per Anna Maria for Mr. B.
Boyd’s stations in the southern country, had suc-
succeed in engaging 79 as hut-keepers and
shepherds, at the rate of £l2 per annum; the
men have arrtved at Melbourne by the Aphrasia
steamer. The most urgent demand for labour
continues throughout the district.
Rumoured War : —Nothing was talked
of in Sydney yesterday but the rumoured war
between the combined powers of England and
France, and the allied powers of Russia, Austria,
and Prussia. Notwithstanding the formidable
announcement, as conveyed by the Port Phillip
Papers, that war has not only been declared be-
tween those powers, but that England has
“opened the Ball’* with Russia, by seizing one
Russian ship and sinking another, we are dispo-
sed to view the matter solely in the light of a
mere “ Rumour.” That the probabilities of war
are great there can be no question; but on the
other side, the improbabilities of such an event, as
reported, are equally strong. In the first place,
it is not likely that France and England would
so suddenly coalesce, even in defence of their
own interests. The union between the two
powers could be nothing more than a union of
expediency, and to establish such a coalition, it
would require that on an instant the people of
both countries should as ’twere unanimously and
cordially resolve upon forgetting those bitter
feelings of mutual hostility with w hich they have
regarded each other for so many centuries. Is
such a thing probable ? We think not. In our
judgement it would need all the waters of the
fabled stream of Lethe to blot out from the
mind of France the recollection ot their disas-
trous defeat at Waterloo. In the next place,
the potentates of Prussia, Austria, and Russia,
seem not altogether in a position to draw the
sword. The people over whom those monarchs
rule are following the example of the French,
and demanding a reform of the institutions un-
der which they live. It is stated that the pro-
vinces of the south of the Russian empire are in
full insurrection; and that the nobles and the
army are at the head of the movement. Aus-
tria is in the same condition; and Prussia not
far behind. Is it then at all probable that these
powers are possessed of the necessary “ means
and appliances” to take the field ?
How is it that the Savings Bank are but
giving 2£ per cent on deposits, at the same time
that the manager is allowed quietly to appro-
priate per annum? Some well in-
formed friend to the industrious poor will perhaps
answer the staggering question for us.
The Sydney Magistrates.— Last night’s
Government Gazette notifies that Captain Innes
will in future act as Superintendent of Police ;
and that Mr. Miles will act as Police Magistrate
for the Sydney district.
Singleton Races, —The following are
the weights for the horses!entered tor the two
principal prizes, as handicapped by the stewards;
For the Patrick’s Plains Purse of .£4O
st. lbs.
Mr. Arkins ns. Jorrocks, aged 10 0
Mr. Arkin’s ns. Honi Heki, aged ......< 9 4
Mr. Butts ns. Snake, 3 years 8 10
Mr. Waterford’s Don Pedro, 3 years .. 7 5
Mr. Reeve’s Flying Pieman, aged 7 0
Mr. Rosseter ns. India Rubber, aged .. 6 0
For the Hunter River Stakes of «£3C*.
Mr. Arkins ns. Honi Heki, aged 9 4
Mr. Butts ns. Snake, 3 years 8 10
Mr. Waterford’s Eclipse, 6 years 8 7
Mr. Rosseter ns. Sally Sly" 4 years ..... 7 4
Mr. Reeve’s Flying Pieman, aged 7 0
Mr. Halstead’s Skewball, 3 years feather.
We are informed that a'fac simile of
a certain learned member of the Legislative
Council, would be obtained from the following
formula:—
Take three ounces of brain’s from an overgrown
calf
Take of acid a certain, one pint-and-a-half;
Of political humbug, quarn plurimum sit,
(Which may with some parties pass current for
wit;)
Amalgamate these in a mortar of brass,
As this is a metal required by the ass ;
Then add to the compound ten grains of cayenne ;
Let it stand for an and contunde again ;
Then bottle, and mind that you shove the cork
flight in,
For when drawn you’ll find lots of froth, envy,
and backbiting.
White Slavery—ln reference to the
slave trade in which a certain Barrister (gene-
rally known as the White Rat) has long been
concerned, and in connexion therewith some re-
marks are offered ia our leading columns, we
are authorised to state that Mr. Bowman {if re-
elected, which by the way is very doubtful) in-
tends to put on the Notice Paper of the Council,
the following motion, viz.:—That an address be
presented to His Excellency the Governor set-
ting forth, that this Council begs to call the at-
tention of the Executive Government to the in-
cipient Slave Trade so rapidly springing up be-
tween the Immigration ships and Cudgee. That
this House desires to point the attention of His
Excellency to certain clauses of the Imperial Act
5 Geo. IV, c. 113, by which it is enacted :
“ That if any persons shall deal or trade in, pur-
chase, sell, barter, or transfer Slaves (white,
black, or brown) then and in every such case the
person so offending shall forfeit for every such
offence the sum of one hundred pounds; and
further, that if any British subject shall embark,
receive, employ, or detain any person for th *
purpose of enslaving them, every such person so
offending shall be deemed an d adjudged guilty
of felony and robbery, and being convicted
thereof shall suffer death without benefit of
Clergy.”
Not so very bad “ I’ll tell you what
it is,” saida witty comedian, last evening, at the
Victoria, “if the Russians come here Hydes
will be scarce.”
The Polka.—A ball and supper took
place on Monday evening last, at the residence
of Mr. William Nash, in Castlereagh street,
which was attended by many of the most fashion-
able leaders of the ton. Amongst others of the
class that beau of beaux, George Cooper Turner,
Esq , graoed the entertainment with his presence.
Old Stubb’s Last. — 11 A’unt you an
advocate for Lamb Mr. Inspector ?”—“Certainly
not, unless served up with MINT sauce.”
Messts. Wentworth & Bland—We beg
to request the attention of the electors of Syd-
ney to an advertisement in another column, an-
nouncing that a meeting of the Electors of Syd-
ney will take place at the School of Arts on the
evening of Monday next. All parties anxious
to make themselves acquainted with the senti-
ments of Messrs. Wentworth and Bland should
attend as those gentlemen will be prepared to
devolope their views to any enquirer who may
choose to question them.
Mr. Lamb.—A meeting of a section of
the friends of this gentleman took place yester-
day eveni g at Mr. Gray’s, the “ Light-house”
Inn, Bathurst-street. There was rather a good
muster on the occasion; and also a few eloquent
spouters, amongst the most distinguished of
whom were, Mr. George Wilkie, C. C., Mr.
Allen, Sussex-street, anrl Mr. Edw. M‘Encroe,
George-street—and, we were on the very tiptoe
of forgetting the venerabile nomen—Mr. Coun-
cillor Four Hyndes. Mr. Lamb unbosomed him-
self of his pure and patriotic principles in a
speech replete with his own peculiar eloquence;
and ably was he supported by Mr. Wilkie, who,
in a clear, straightforward, and not-to-be-mis-
taken oration, pronounced the worthy candi-
date to be the fittest person he ever knew to
represent Sydney. Mr Wilkie possitively as-
serted that neither Mr. Lamb.or himself were
humbugs. In answer to a pertinent and teasiug
question from Mr. M*Encroe as to whether Mr.
Lamb would vote for reducing the franchise to
.£lO, the aspiring ca didate would not answer—
he should take time to consider Strange, our
short-hand reporter was not able to follow Mr.
Hyndes through his sermon.
Theft. —Arthur Lowry was on Friday
last committed for trial, for stealing an iron
kettle, from a shop in Pitt-street, kept by Henry
M‘Closkey. A child only was in the shop at the
time, and she called to another, who followed
the man into Market-street, where she overtook
him with the kettle in his hand. The prisoner’s
defence was, that he was drunk at the time and
borrowed the kettle to get a little water in to
drink,
Stealing a Coat.—William Jones was
on Monday committed for trial, on a charge of
stealing from a fence in Hancock’s buildings,
Parramatta-street, a great coat belonging to
John Nickle, a cabman. The man having been
seen to take it, he was pursued and apprehended
as he was running towards Elizabeth-street with
the coat on his arm.
Theft in an Hotel.—A man of colour,
named Ignacio Souaza, a waiter at Gill’s Hotel,
in Pitt street, was on Friday last committed to
take his trial for stealing a knife, the property
of Mr. William Mackenzie, who is lodging there.
It appeared the knife had been left on a table in
one of the rooms and was shortly afterwards
missed, and as Souaza had been in the room in
the interval, he was accused of the theft, but
strongly denied it. On being searched, however,
the knife was found in his waistcoat pocket.
He admitted before the Bench that the knife was
taken from his waistcoat pocket, but it was
another waiter and not he, that was searched.
The other waiter, however, being of a somewhat
fairer complexion, the Bench thought it impossi-
ble such a mistake as to the identity of the party
could have,occurred, and committed poor Souaza
accordingly.
Bathurst Election —For *the convenience
of certain electors in the Electoral District of
the County of Bathurst, His Excellency the Go-
vernor has appointed Canowindra in the County
of Bathurst to be a polling place for the said
District in addition to the several polling places
already mentioned in the Government Gazette.
New Magistrates.—His Excellency the Go-
vernor has been pleased to appoint the follow-
ing gentlemen to be Magistrates of the Territory
and its Dependencies, viz.:—Robert Bartlett
Burke, Esq., of Chetwynd, Glenelg River, Dis-
trict of Port Phillip ; Alexander Charles Hood,
Esq., of Boree ; David Ogilvy, Esq., of Sydney ;
and William Wilson, Esq, of the Richmond
River. To be a Magistrate for the City of
Sydney—David Ogilvy, Esq., of Sydney.
ORIGINAL CHARADES FOR SOLUTION.
Earth on her bosom in dread Winter bears
The spotless treasure by ray first enshrin’d;
Each leafless tree each humble homestead rears,
This charm immaculate above mankind.
But for my second, ’tis the drunkard’s curse,
Which oft repeated seals his wretched doom,
Serves in his life each vicious crime to nurse,
And soon consigns him to an early tomb.
My whole, however, is a lovely flower,
Which gently bids the Winter King retire—
An emblem sweet of Innocency’s power,
To which alone the Fairer Sex aspire.
THE ORIGINAL DECLARATIONS OF
NICHOLAS NOODLE.
Nicholas, being in a continual state of beer,
declares that he is always ailin’ (ale-in).
Nicholas declares that he has such a constant
and serious cold in his head, from wearing a
patent wentilated gossamer, that every time he
washes his face he freezes the water.
Nicholas, who invariably wears a pair of India
rubber clogs during the inclemency of the wea-
ther, declares he has been on the bounce for the
past week, iu consequence. x
Nicholas declares that he sports moustache as
a substitute for brains.
[ADVERTISEMENT.]
To the Editors of the Sydney Daily Advertiser.
Gentlemen.— Observing an article in this
day’s paper, signed an '* Elector,” who wishes
to take the high game of one Mr. Robert Lowe,
and place it on the shoulders of another Robert
Lowe, I wish to set that gentleman and the
public right, as the boy named in the Elector’s
letter is my son. About two years ago, I was
informed by a gentleman that Mr. Robert Lowe
(the barrister) wanted a boy to take charge of
his office, attend court,&c. I accordingly took
my son, and waited at Mr. Lowe’s chambers
until he came in from his country seat. I told him
my errand. He regretted very much he had
to disappoint me, as he had received some do-
cument from Sydney the previous night, and was
compelled to go into court immediately : but to
let him know where I lived— that he would call
at my house immediately after court business
was over. He accordingly did so, and examined
my boy, and was fully satisfied as to his capa-
bility ; he gave me much credit for his clever-
ness, and the gentleman to whom he had been
to school, and said that the boy was decidedly
very clever at his age. I then begged to name
two gentlemen to Mr. Lowe, who knew my
character since their arrival in the colony,
who were, Mr. Justice Tnerry and the Attorney
General. He immediately stated—“ O ! you're
a Roman Catholic." I said, “ Yes, and my ge-
eration.” He then snatched up the paper which
the boy had written, bolted out of the room,
and declared that no Roman Catholic should be
in his office, and read his books. This, Gentle-
men, is the truth, and I defy the Elector, or Mr.
Robert Lowe, the barrister, to contradict it.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES GANNON.
POLICE OFFICE, GEORGE-STREET.
Thursday, July 14.
In Re “ Pork and Offal.” —Mr. Stubbs, the
Inspector of Nuisances, preferred charges of
this nature against the following individuals: —
Jonathan Brown, licensed victualler, residing
in Fort and Windmill-streets, appeared to show
cause why he encouraged the swinish propen-
sity to build and keep certain residences for his
pigs within three yards of the public street,
thereby creating a nuisance to all those passers
by whose “soul for music revolted at a grunt
and whose olfactory nerves perceive no grateful
titliation in the odoriferous effusions of a pig-
stye. As, however, he could not save his bacon,
he was mulct to the amount of 295. and 16s. 6d.
costs.
John Wright, residing in Wilshire’s Lane,
Bathurst-street, at the Instance of the above
Inspector, w«s also requested to shew why he
allowed his yard to be the receptacle for every
description of offal, consisting of defunct pigs,
dogs, cats, and other delightful varieties which,
as was elegantly observed by the advocate,
“ Stank enough to knock a man down.” Wright
finding himself in the wrong, confessed his guilt,
and was also mulct in 10s. and 15s. 6d. costs.
Thomas Kenedy was done out of 10s, lOd.
costs, for allowing his cow to stray unprotected
through the streets, &c. Captain Inncs re-
marked that he wished the defendant would
with his neighbours manage to keep their cows
at home, as they were frequently in the habit of
amusing themselves by feeding on his cabbages;
or, as a bystander observed, “ Cabbaging his
greens ”
A Lawless Case. —One Mary Anne Lawless
was summoned by the Lesee of the George-street
Market for refusing to pay certain market dues
which he demanded for the sale of some ducks
her property, but which it appeared she was not
goose enough to do. Mr. Johnson, who appeared
for the defendant, having raised a great many
objections in the case, which will have material
judgment was deferred for the consideration of
effect upon coercion the of these dues in future,
the Magistrates.
Embezzlement. —John Collins,clerk to Messrs.
Pite and Preston.—This case, which has been
daily postponed since Monday, was again called
on, when Captain Innes decided that the case
was sufficiently strong to go before a jury, and
he should therefore commit the prisoner for
trial. Bail was however allowed, himself in £4O
and two £2O. The prosecutors evinced consi-
derable leniency throughout the investigation.
Friday, July 14.
The list of cases for this day was short and
of little interest.
Assault. —Kerrison James was summoned at
the instance of John James, to answer a most
unprovoked assault on his previous person, which
from want of important evidence was, however,
deferred until Saturday (this day).
Breach of Police Act.— John Nowland was
summoned to answer a charge of this nature,
and sentenced to pay a fine of ss. together with
ss. costs.
James Kelly, ditto, share<J ths same fate.
Furious Driving. —Edward Meany, for ex-
hibiting the extraordinary trotting capabilities
of his “ choice bit,’’ and thereby endangering
the lives of certain stray kids, was fined £3 and
2s. 6d. costs.
Mary Murphy and Mary Macready were sen-
tenced to one month’s rustication at the country
seat of Mr. Keck for illegal trespass on every-
body else’s premises in the neighbourhood but
their own.
NEWS OF THE WEEK.
The late heavy gales caused the wreck of two
vessels in the harbour, the wreck of one (The
Wanderer ) having been unfortunately attended
with the loss of nine lives. This schooner on
working her way up the harbour off Middle
Head, mised stays, struck on a rock, and sunk-
But one man escaped, who clung to the foretop.
most, and was rescued through the agency of
Mr. Petit and others. The second wreck was
that of the schooner Elizabeth , the property of
Mr. C. Prout, which was driven ashore on Manly
Beach; no lives lost.—A very slipslop clumsy
version of a case appeared in Mondays Herald ,
setting forth that a Mr. Merion was arraigned
before the Justices of Parramatta, for appro-
priating to his own purposes a cheque for £4,
which his next door neighbour, a Mr. Downey,
had dropped. Though it is stated by the saga-
cious chronicler of the affair, he seems to have
fallen a sleep while penning his hit of news, for
he relates not how the matter terminated. The
Herald of Saturday last, also publishes the very
interesting piece of information, that “ on that
morning it commenced to rain heavily.—As
proof of the flourishing condition of the northern
districts (Moreton Bay), the exports for this
year exceeded £lOO,OOO. —The return of stock
in these districts on the Ist of January 184 S,
was as follows: Sheep, 698,938; Cattle, 48,267;
Horses2lB9.—Thomas Gregory, the bushranger
who robbed the Singleton Mail a short time
since, was apprehended near Black Creek, and
committed to take his trial.—Another bush-
ranger named Reach, for whom the government
offered a reward of £25, was also captured.—
A man named Jennings was committed at Mait-
land for an assault, with intent to commit a rape
on one Mary M‘Can, a girl of fourteen years of
age.—Forty-two bales of wool, and upwards of
seventy-four tons tallow was shipped from
Morpeth from the Ist to the 7th July.—A new
schooner, named the Pilot , about 50 tons re-
gister, built at Mr. Winship’s yard, Newcastle,
was launched at that port on Thursday week,
amidst a salute of 21 guns fired from Messrs.
Fisher and Donaldsons wharf. She is intended
for the coal trade. There was a good spread
no the occasion.
THE COMPLAINT.
Come here, my lovely daughter, there is some-
thing at thy breast
That is blighting all thy beauty, and depriving
thee of rest;
There is something then corroding thy spirits,
once so gay—
There is something wasting thee and thy beauty
both away.
It cannot be, my daughter, that your father is
unkind,
You have all that you may wish for that is suited
to your mind;
You have lands both broad and fair, and a lover
fond and true,
Then tell me, oh! my daughter, what should
make you look so blue ?
My father, oh ! my father, it is not that your
unkind,
My lover, lands, and father are the comforts of
my mind;
It is nothing that distresses or deprives me of
my rest,
But a large, confounded cucumber I ate, and
can’t digest!
MOTTOS FOR OMNIBUSES.
“ Mors Omnibus cst communis.”
You may break your neek in an Omnibus
“ Impendet Omnibus periculum*”
Danger hangs over an Omnibus
“ Virtus parvo pretio licet ab Omnibus .”
Virtue may ride cheap in an Omnibus.
“ Non Omnibus dormio.”
I sleep not in an Omnibus
“Nemo mortalium Omnibus hons sapit.”
No man is a conjuror in an Omnibus.
“ Natura beatis Omnibus esse dedit
Si Quis cognoscere uti.”
Nature allows all to be happy in an Omnibus
If Quiz knows how to drive.
The True Philosophy. —“ What do you
mean to do with K. ?” said a friend of Theodore
Hook, alluding to a man who had grossly vilified
him. “Do with him ?” replied Hook; “why,
I mean to let him alone most severely.
How a Reviewer may avoid Prejudice.—
In the palmy days of the “ Edinburgh Review,’*
Sydney Smith happened to call on a colleague,
whom he found, to his surprise, actually reading
a book for the purpose of reviewing it. Having
expressed his astonishment in the strongest terms,
his friend inquired how he managed when per-
forming the critical office ? “OP ’said Sidney,
I never read a book hefore reviewing it; it pre-
judices a man so .”
The foot of a Chinese female, from the heel to
the toe, is only four inches.
What’s Going on? —One sunny morning, a
quidnunc and a bore was seen sauntering down
Regent-street, seeking whom he might devour
with his intermindable twaddle. At length he
espies—approaching in hot haste -the witty and
no less busy—Douglas Jerrold. He stops and
fastens on him, and the horror of the victim’s
situation is vividily expressed in his countenance.
The quidnunc put his usual question:—“Well,
may dear Jerrold, what’s going on ?” Releasing
himself, the wit strides hastily away, exclaiming,
“ I am !”
An Anecdote of Windsor Castle. —When
Princess Helena was born, it is said that the
Princess Royal on hearing that she was now
blessed with another little sister, exclaimed with
the most charming simplicity. “O, how de-
lighted I am ! do let me go and tell mamma.
Easily Accounted for. — A merchant, ex-
aming a hogshead of hardware, on comparing it
with the invoice, found it all right except a ham-
mer less than the invoice. “Oh don't be troubled,
my honey," said the Irish porter, " sure the rna-
ger took it out to open the hogshead with."
A Cornish fisherman caught a large conger eel
the other day; and as soon as the monster was
hauled into the boat, it coiled itself round its
captor’s neck and body so tightly, that its head
had to be severed before the poor fellow could be
released from so unwelcome an embrace.
It has lately been discovered that the flesh of
animals which are killed in the middle of the
night will keep much longer than it will when
they are killed in the daytime; and it is, for this
reason, preferred by those who prepare potted
meats. This circumstance proves that the flesh is
fittest for keeping when taken from the anima at
the time when the prespiration is slowest and
the temperature of the animal lowest.
ROYAL VICTORIA THEATRE.
Second night of the highly successful Drama of
VICTORINE.
THIS EVENING, JULY 15, 1848,
Will be preseated, the popular Drama of
VICTORINE;
OR, I* LL SLEEP ON IT.
A Song, by Madame Carandini.
Pas de Deux, by Miss E. Griffiths and Signor
Carandini.
To conclude with the laughable Farce entitled
THIS HOUSE TO BE SOLD,
(The property of the late William Shakspeare )
INQUIRE WITHIN.
For Characters, see bills of the day.
MR. GRIFFITHS, Manager,
FOR MADRAS DIRECT.
A CHARTERED SHIP.
THE FINE SHIP
* Hyderabad.
816 tons, Frederick Au-
gustus t astle, master,
being under positive engagement, will sail for
the above port on the sth August next. Has
ro >m for a few horses, and most superiot acco
modation for passengers. For freight or pas-
sage apply to Captain Castle, on board, or to
GEORGE THORNTON,
Custom House.
METROPOLITAN JOCKEY CLUB.
Committee of the above Club are
1 requested to meet on Tuesday evening
next, at the Adelphi Hotel, York Street. Time,
sharp Seven.
T. REVEL JOHNSON,
30. Hon. Sec.
A TRUE DELICACY OF THE
SEASON.
WHAT can be more agreeable and
refreshing than a basin of good Turtle
Soup ? The answer is self-evident—nothing.
And in this trying, pinching weather, it exercises
a salutary and recuperative effect on a man’s
physical energies. Mr. Martin Gill, proprietor
of the well-known Family Hotel, Pitt-street, has
purchased one of the finest turtles that ever
came into this City ; and as the election of gent-
lemen to be the representatives of Sydney, will
take place on Friday the 28th Instant, Mr. Gill
will feel happy in having prepared as good
turtle soop as ever crossed the lips of a professed
epicure, with its usual soothing aceompaniement
—a glass of first-rate turtle punch.
TO THE FREE AND INDEPENDENT
ELECTORS OF COOK AND
WESTMORELAND.
ENTLEMEN, —For the honor you
have done me in drinking my good—no
—I beg y<.u p :rdon, that is the commencement
of the speech I shall make at the dinner you
me in to give me after I am elected—Gentle-
men, —what I cm, is so well known to you, that
in asking your votes in the ensuing election, I
think it merely necessary to draw your attention
to a few facts showing what I am not , and what
my rival is.
My rival, Mr. Cheek, is qualified in some
trifling respects to represent you. He is a
gentlemen by birth and education.
I AM NOT.
He is further qualified by the possession of
both real and personal property.
f AM NOT.
He is in a most favorahe position, from
having gained a high standing in his profession
by perseverance and talent.
I AM NOT.
He knows himself.
I DO NOT.
He also knows the world.
I DO NOT.
But, gentlemen, i’ll tell you what l did ,
and what Mr. Cheek did not. I went to the
last Ho me bush Races in my oum gig, and my
own groom had a gold-laced livery complete.
Did my rival do any thing in that line?
Miserable man ! He did not. I could advance
twenty sterling reasons in favor of that gig if I
liked, but I will not. I will merely
Subscribe myself,
Gentlemen,
Your faithful Representative,
JEAMES.
Brass Foundry, Sydney,
July 2, 1848.
10 WILLIAM MACARTHUR, ESQ.
&c., &c., &c.
CAMDEN PARK.
Parramatta, July G, 1848.
SIR, —We, the undersigned Electors for
the Borough of Parramatta, do hereby
request that you will allow yourself to be placed
in nomination, at the ensuing Ejection, to rep-
resent our interests in the Legislative Council.
We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,
Matthew Anderson
Nathaniel Payten
Henry Harvey
James Buthour
Michael Kearney
R. Champley Rutter
James Kerwin
Andrew Nash
John Hamilton
James Willis
John G.*rty
George Paul
Edward Griffith
Henry Whitaker
George Pitt Darcy
George Buckley
Isaac Titterton
Edward New
Edward Drinkwater
James Howarth
John Brennan
Richard Moxham
Andrew Murray
lames Howisou
Charles Bethel Lyons
John Brown
James Pye
Rev. John Vincent
Edward Darvall
James M‘ Roberts
Thomas Harris
Humphrey Thorn
William Payten
Samuel Hill
Wihiam Bennett
Rupert Kirk
John MWlanus
W C. Wentworth
Mark Hillas
11. H. Bobart, M A.
James Gallaway
Laurentz Olson
W. F.Hulle
P. H Mullholland
J. F. Staff
Peter Cardiff
Allan M‘lnnis
Richard Rouse
James Thearle
Francis Wakins
John Ryan
Thomas Shadforth
Parramatta, 6th July, 1848
GENTLEMEN, —I have received with
feelings of sincere gratification, the numerously
signed, and highly respectable requisition, which
you have done rne the honour to address to me,
and, I will, with great pleasure, comply wi h
your request. I beg you to believe that no cir-
cumstance could be more gratifying to me than
the honour of being leturned for my native
town ; and, should i be so fortunate as to be
elected, that no exertion of mine shall be spared
to secure and promote its best interests.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient faith'ul servant,
WILLIAM MACARTHUR.
To M. Anderson, Esq , and the other Gentlemen
who have signed the Address.
FLOOR CLOTHS,
EX LIMA.
ANDREW LENEHAN has just re-
ceived a Urge assortment of new and
elegant designs of Floor Cloths, in various
widths, from half yard to eight yards wide,
which he offers at reduced prices.
“Upholstery Establishment,
287 Castlereagh-street.
VOTE FOR W. WiLKINS,
mb&tiule & metatt
O (D IB ii UKD Vb K il att*
No. 401, GEORGE-STREET.
SINCE canvassing is all the go—
For Wentworth, Bland, and Lamb aud Lowe,
I’ll speak to all the folks I know,
To vote for W. Wilkins.
He does not seek to represent
In Council or in Parliament;
He hopes, how’ere, that you ’ll consent
To vote for W. Wilkins.
He does not wish to gain applause
By speeches fine, or cobbling laws;
Yet he could show sufficient cause
To vote for W. W’ilkins.
He sells Cigars beyond compare,
And snuffs unrivalled, I declare;
His Negrohead perfumes the air,
Then vote for W. Wilkins.
His fine cut weed—ah, that’s the stuff!
His scented rappee is the snuff;
His Princes’ mixture is enough
To make you vote for Wilkins.
WANTED.
r \' WO superior grooms to proceed to India
1 in charge of horses. Liberal remuneration
will be given on producing references as to com-
petency Apply, under cover, Thomas Revel
Johnson, Esq, at the Sporting Times Office,
334 Pitt-street.
CHALLENGE.
| OM SPARKES will fight any man
1 in the Colony of his weight, (10 stone
4lb ) for from 50 to £5OO aside. His money
is ready at the old quarters, Market street.
B
C IALL
ILL SPARKES is open to fight
any nun in the Colony, 11 atone lib.
for 50 or £lOO.
Acceptance of Challenges.
HP H E “Enfield General,” in reply
fl. to the bouncible vaporings of the
“ Sparkes’,” and the gigantic muff “ George
Hough,” has to state that, if his friends will
permit, he will meet all three, in three succes-
sive weeks, the “ Rig un” first, the “ Middle un”
second and the “ little dandy cock” third, on
their own dunghills, where they chanticleer so
loudly. “ Hough” he would like to chastise for
his notorious brutality—“ Bill” for attempted
treachery, and “ Tom” for amusement. Any
weight—any amount.
N.B—To meet the wishes of his up country
friends, Sinclair is about to pay them a visit, at
the request of his patrons, under the guidance
of his friends Solly Reuben and Johnny Simmons.
WENTWORTH AND BLAND.
HPHE members of the Central Committee
A are particularly requested to attend at
the Committee Rooms, Fitzroy Hotel, THIS
EVENING, SATURDAY, at 7 o’clock, on
special business.
Saturday, July 15.
J. C. WHITE,
Secretary.
WENTWORTH AND BLAND.
A PUBLIC MEETING of the Electors
of Sydney, will be held at the School of
Arts, on Monday evening, the 17th Instant, at
7 o’clock precisely, on which occasion Messrs.
Wentworth and Bland, will attend to address
the meeting, and answer any questions that may
be put to them.
By order of the Committee.
J. C. WHITE
Secretary.
July 14.
WHIPS ! WHIPS 1! WHIPS ! ! !
a © rn U 2
WHIP MANUFACTURER,
NO. 382, GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Savings’ Bank,
BEGS respectfully to intimate to his
friends, and the public generally, that he
has on hand a magnificent and varied assortment
of the very best whip materials, lately invoiced
to him, and not to be excelled for durability and
beauty, by the first London houses. The silver
mountings are unique and appropriate, and pre-
sent faithful delineations of horses, dogs, birds,
foxes, &c.
P. S.—Tandem, gig, four-horse, riding, jockey,
and every other description of whip, made to
order, repaired, &c.
WaiMLIi&M ©aSJSa
(Late of the Star and Garter, Pitt-street.)
BEGS to announce to the public that he
has taken the house known as the
Cornish Arms, Milsom’s Point, North Shore,
where he intends to conduct business in a style
that will render this delightful suburban retreat
the most pleasant “ rendezvous” for the lovers
of rustic felicity around Sydney. The facility of
reaching it by a few minutes trip in one of the
steamers which start every quarter of an hour
from the circular quay, will add rather than
diminish its charms.
N.B.—The choicest Wines and Spirits
every descriptions.
THE THOROUGH-BRED ARAB HORSE
& mWI2 a & a
(Imported by Mr. Plaistowe,)
\\7 ILL STAND, at Wollingary, am
* » travel through Jamberoo, Dapto, aui
Wollongong.
TERMS:
For one Mare £ 3.
Groom’s fee, ss.
To persons sending more than two mares
(bona fide their own property) a reduction will
be made.
Application to be made to the owner, at
Wollingary. Dapto.
WILLIAM J. BROWNE.
MARKETS, &c.
SHEEP AND CATTLE SALES.
SHEEP.
Hambleton, 590, 6s. 6d. each, 521b5., Piesley.
CATTLE.
Blenham and Booth, 45 head, £3 16s. each,
6591bs , Hill and Argent.
Ryan, 15 head, £3 Bs. each. SOOlbs., ditto.
T. Roberts, 25 head, £2 10s. each, 6501b5, Raper
and Stanfield.
G. Rouse, 50 head, £2 17s. 6d., 6501b5., Stanfield
and Sulliran.
g. Street, 105 head, £2 55., 6501b5., Sullivan and
Drake.
MELBOURNE.— JuIv 4.
Grain.— Flour (at the Mill), fine, 14s per 100
lbs; seconds, 12s 6d ; wheat, 4s 6d to 5s per
bushel; oats, Van Diemen’s Land, 4s to 5s
wholesale; colonial ditto, 4s to 4s 6d; barley,
(English), 4s 6d ; Cape, 2s 6d ; maize, 4s ; bran,
13d ; sharps, Is 6d ; pollard, Is 9d. Bread, 7d.
HOBART TOWN Junv 4.
The wheat market has been looking down.
Superior samples only obtain 4s 6d per bushel,
and the demand is far from active. Flour re-
mains at £l2 per ton. Barley, 4s 8d to ss.
Oats are plentiful at 3s.— Courier.
LAUNCESTON.— JoIt 1.
Wheat has declined in price; there are no
buyers at a higher rate than 4s 6d per bushel.
SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE.
ARRIVAL.
The Wentworth and Bland , Flood, master*
from Fitzroy, with 2560 Electors Cabin Pas-
sengers—C. Windeyer, Esq., J. Yeoman’s Esq.,
Samuel Lyons, Esq., James Oatley, Esq.,
Councillors Titterton, Jenkins, Hill, Hydnes,
May, Brown, Thornton, Neal, Egan, Henderson,
Driver, and Ryan; Alderman Thurlow, Dr.
Fullerton, G. R Nichols, Esq., R. M. Pite, Esq.
J. R. Holden, Esq., Peter Brennan, Esq*, J. P.
Cohen, Esq., F. Oatley, Esq*, Benjamin Boyd,
Richard Hayes, Esq., W. Moffit, Esq, Joel
Cohen, Esq.
July 12 —The Wentworth and Bland in lati-
tude of the “ Rocks 1 * exchanged colours with
the Lamb , Robinson master, Watt Island , bound
for Durand’s Alley with tea and sugar, who re-
ported that tea had risen «£8 per chest, and
sugar a farthing per lb.
| The master of the Lamb said he encountered
a very severe gale from the N. W., and run foul
of the Lowe y from Coogee, which carried away
her bowsprit, aud the great portion of bulwarks
and received considerable damage, and was com-
pelled to throw the whole of her cargo over-
board. ' Robinson the master said the Lamb was
not insured, but the cargo was in the Alliance
Assurance Company • The loss to the share-
holders will be upwards of <£lBoo as no guar-
antee was given by the master.
Spoke in the latitude of the School of Arts, —
the Wharjinger, Porter, master, for Gagger’s
Island. Passengers—Messrs. Peek, Jones, Stir-
ling, Thacker, Gosling, Smith, Salaraon, Youn-
ger, Mort, Lloyd, B >wden, Irving, Kemp, Fair-
| fax, Foss, Woolley, Thorn, Beames, Abraham
Davy, and Tom Barker.
The Cargo consists of 13 bales of the unsold
Sydney Morning Heralds, 186 casks of Porter,
.£”1800 in shares of the Alliance Assurance Com-
pany, 1400 chests of tea, marked Ex JP to or-
der, 750 Bags of Sugar, 200 Bags of Rice, a
Case of Mansfield’s Navigation Flaws, a Bale of
Fairfax’s Crotchets, a Bale of Kemp, and £5OOO
worth of Doogood’s Commercial 1.0.U.’s She
kept company with the Lowe from'St. Vincent fer
several days and is expected to have foundered.
This splendid llittle vessel (the Lowe) was built
by Mr. Wilshire for the firm of Heydon and
Parkesand was worked by Knatchbull’s Propeller
Screw, and carries a new invented gib. Her
figure head resembles a ferret.
Since the above was in type, we have heard
that the Lowe sprung a leak near Gannon’s
Reef, at a spot known as Wentworth’s Bluff, and M
became a total wreck.
She was built expressly for Mr. Lambe who it
is reported will be a great loser by it.


M
IMPORTANT EXTENSION OF THF
CITY.
OWING TO THE RENEWED DEMAND FOR
SUBURBAN RESIDENCES.
R. STUBBS announces instructions
from the trustee ot the
REDFERN ESTATE,
To sell by public auction, at the Mart, King-
ON WEDNESDAY, the 19ih JULY,
Sale to commence at 12 o’clock precisely.
The following Allotments of all that valuable
and original selection of
SOUTH SYDNEY,
popularly known as
REDFERN,
in the order of sale as follows:
section no. 2,
(First-rate Investments.)
George-street.— Lot 32, 60 frontage x 224
(corner)
i, Lot 33, 60 frontage x 224
i) 34. 60 frontage x 224
» 35, 60 frontage x 224
>• 36, 60 frontage x 224
t, 37, 60 frontage x 224
» 38, 60 frontage x 224
i, 39, 60 frontage x 224
»> 40, 60 frontage x 224
„ 41, 60 frontage x 224
„ 42, 60 frontage x 224
C-vT* The spacious size of these George-street
lots are too temptingly apparent to be
lost sight of by the public.
LOT 30 SECTION 2.
{A valuable corner allot
ment, 100 feet square,
situate on a fine eleva
tion for air and health.
section 2
Redfern-street Lot 24, 42 feet frontage X 200
» 25, 42 feet frontage x 200
„ 29, 42 feet frontage x 200
Georg e:slreet. —Lot 31, 100 x ICO corner lot
Pitt-street —Lot 22, 100 x 100 corner Jot
adjoining allotment to Mr. F.
O’Donnell’s new houses.
section no 1.
Willis street,—Lot 6 of block 5
~ Lots 4 and 5 of block 6
section no. 8.
Block 1, Lot 6.—Fronting Redfern-street
B—Corner allotment, Bullanam
ing and Turner-streets
9
10
11
Block 3, Lot 5
6
7
8&c.
39 1
40 &c. J
Block 4, lot 38
39
40
3
5
6
7 &c-
Tliosuands of emigrants are expected to
arrive, the greater part of whom will probably
settle in the city, and where are they to find
houses, unless the capitalists of Sydney, or the
Sydney Building Society, buy such blocks of
land as the
SYDNEY REDFERN ESTATE.
and Commence building on it immediately ?
Terms:—Fifteen per cent, cash deposit, and
the residue at six, twelve, and eighteen months,
(without interest.
Title—Frstrate.
Enquire of J. Norton, Esq., Solicitor, Eliza-
beth-street.
OP
THE WOOL-PACK IM,
NEAR THE HAY MARKET,
SYDNEY,
BEGS to inform his Friends in town
and country, and the Public generally
that he has recently received, direct from
'London and to his especial order, through the
house of Swain, Webb and Co., an extensive
supply of
REAL JAMAICA RUM,
'selected witli great care by one of the most
eminent judges of the article, and that he is
now ready to accept orders for any quantity of
the above wholesome liquor, from a bottle to a
puncheon, either in or out of bond, upon the
following terms:—
, Bottled, per dozen 24 s.
In wood, per gallon 12s
1 Publicans and others In the trade will, npon
'taking a large quaulity, meet with a corres-
ponding liberality,
i Martell’s Brandy, with a choice selection of
Wines, Ales, &c., &c , always on hand.
The advertiser would respectfully call the
further attention of gentlemen from the interior,
;to the commodious alterations which have of
late been effected in his establishment, enabling
!him to offer visitors to the metropolis comfort,
able and convenient quarters during their stay
in Sydney.
The premises adjoining the WOOL PACK
.are so universally known to possess capacious
iyards for teams, with ample and economical
accomodation for their attendants, that it
Ueems superfluous here to enlarge upon them.
June 25, 1848.
ing ,
}
,}
}
}
}
Fronting Turner-street
Fronting Bullanaming-
street
Fronting George-street,
Fronting Bullanaming-
street
Fronting Botany-street
STOCKTON CLOTHS, TWEEDS,
BUCKSKINS, DOESKINS, &c.
| MESSRS. FISHER - * DOHALDSO^
T>EG to impress upon both wholesale
■Jj and retail purchasers of their Cloths, that
|jreat advantages are secured them by the late
arrangements eflVcted at their
j ESTABLISHMENT IN KING STREET,
avhere transactions take place immediately with
Tie Manufacturers, thereby giving tie pur-
chaser the benefit ef what otherwise would be
thrown Into the pockets of Agents and their
deputies.
,THE EYE PLEASED—-THE HEAD
■ FITTED THE POCKET CON-
, SULTED.
Ventilated French & Beaver Hats.
■ 3a
CJi AS in stock an endless variety of thi
above of the latest fashions, Hats ti
my shape or width of brim finished to order a
it short notice. Fancy cloth or silk velvet cap
.'if the latest Paris and London fashions. Hat
tors’ trimmings, gold cord, &c.
French Hat Manufactory.
77, Market-street.
5
JOB PUTTING
F EVERY DESCRIPTION,
executed with accuracy and despatch, in
EVERY VARIETY 0? TYPE,
nd on the most moderate terms, at the Printing
Office of
“€i)t dportfug Cimegs.”
334, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
MEDICAL.
JR, ALEXANDER COOK, Surgeo
jV 5 5 Dec , &c. begs mest respectfully to 1
to his friends and the public, that he 1
tftutned the j notice of liis profession at No
J 'ark-street, n ar George-street.
I 3rd July 1848.
LOMCHEOM, OSNIG, SUPPER
RPO^S,
Rainbow tavern, corner of Pitt
and King-streets, Economy, variety,
comfort, and attention. N. 15.—Any hour.
BILLIARDS.
The most modern Billiard Table imported
and made to the undersigned’s especial order
by Thurston is at the Rainbow Corner of Pitt
and King-streets.
J. W. ROCHE.
ON SALE,
AT THE STORES OF
szjo
40, MARKET-STREET.
OF VARIOUS BRANDS
Sugars, raw and refined
Pi' kies, Battey’s
Mustard, Coleman’s
ALSO
The usual assortment of groceries, at the
lowest remunerating prices.
Hood salt butter, at 6d. per lb.
WENTWORTH AND BLAND.
J'HE Central Committee will meet at
COHEN’S FITZ ROY HOTEL, Pitt-
street, on Tuesdays and Fridays, at 7 o’clock
in the evening. Members are requested to
attend.
J. C. WHITE.
Secretary.
TO HENRY GILBERT SMITH, ESQ.,
DARLING HURST, SYDNEY,
\E, the undersigned Electors of the
* ’ county of Cumberland, residing in the
Police District of Sydney, do earnestly request
that you will allow yourself to be put in no.mi
nation for the representation of this county, in
connexion with Charles Cowper, Esq.
In soliciting you to do so, we are aware of
your distaste for a p'uhlie life, but trust that
the claims of a country, the interests of which
you have during a long residence so abiy and
actively promoted, will induce you to acctde
to our request, in which ease you may rest fully
assured of a triumphant return,
J. F. Josephson, Mayor John Alger
itobert GUI J. p. Mackenzie
Samuel Eyons
Thus, S. Mort
M. Metcalfe
VV. H. Elliott
A. H Hutchinson
Edward Knox
H. E Hindson
Charles Nicholson
Thomas Hult, jun.
T. W. Smart
J. Campbell
J. Mackay
A. Ashdown
VVm. Spain
Henry Mace
Charles Lowe
James Cunningham
Ri dtard Driver
W. G. M‘Carthy
Cornelius Prout
Parry Long
E. H. Pollard
George King
R. M. Robsy.
Robert Porter
James Hume
William H. Rose
J. C. Raymond
C. Frith
W. James
John Lord
William Hindsou
W. Todd
M E. Murnin
John Stirling
Robert Taylor
George Thorne
Charles N. Thorne
Charles North Hunt
John Ryan Brenau
Charles Younger
John Moore
James Sheppard
Richard Peek
Frederick Ford
William Glaister
W. G, Moore
Samuel Hebblewhite
Acton Sillitoe
Daniel Clark
Thomas Baker
George A. Lloyd
Francis Mitchell
Edward Lane
J. S, Hanson
la Miles
R. Fawcett
C. Nightingale
Henry Armitage
Francis Jackson
George Sharpe
W. Beaumont
W. H. Altiis
Henry Jones
J. P. Robinson
David Jones
John Walton
W. Broomfield
S. Aspinwall
W. Thompson
George Smyth
Win Ternen
John Milne
Jamr Bellman
G. R. Elliott
Peter M'Beith
Edwaid Wardell
E. Hunt
Thomas D. Parker
T. Whistler Smith
W. Parsons
John Grahame
G. L. Robinson
Thomas Holmes
R. Cox
TO THE ELECTORS OP THE COUNTY
OF CUMBERLAND.
GENTLEMEN, —In compliance with
the request contained in the very flattering
requisition which has been addressed to me,
I beg leave to announce myself a candidate tc
represent the interest of your important
county in the next Legislative Uonncil. In
doing so l think it but right that you should
be made acquainted with my views on certain
public matters, so that you may not confer
upon me the honor which I am seeking at your
hands if my principles are at all contrary to
your wishes.
I am zealously attached to the institu-
tions of our hither iand, so far as they conform
to the spirit of the age and to the advance of
knowledge and liberty.
An enlightened and an enlarged system
of Education will command my support, so
that the liberties which the country is gaining
may rest on the broadest basis—a well educa-
ted people.
Any measure to do away with the ver-
bosity of the Law, so as to render it intelligible
and cheap to ail classes will have my warmest
support.
In advocating a continuous stream of
Immigrants, my object is, not to depress the
labourer, who is at all times worthy of his
hire, hut to advance his interest and that of the
colony at large.
Every means of cheapening the transit
of the produce of the soil from the interior to
Sydney will receive my serious attention, for
without a new system of transport either by
rail, or tram ways, the middle districts must
ren ain con p natively stationary, while our
southern friends will bo making the most rapid
((rider.
I am prepared to support any move-
ment which may appear well calculated to
open the Waste Lands to purchasers, so that
not only the present inhabitants of the colony
may be benefited, hut that capitalists and
others may be induced to come and settle
amongst us.
Having been for many years actively
engaged in mercantile pursuits in the colony,
I feel convinced that the interests of the
settler and trader are identical, I will, there-
fore, carefully watch over the r common wel-
fare.
My best exertions will be given to relieve
Commerce from every restrictions, and to obtain
a thorough reform in our Postal arrangements,
both foreign and inland.
I sincerely trust that all will shortly be
unanimous in supporting our colonial institu-
tions, mercantile and literary, and efface for
ever the blighting effects of past events—
then will all who feel an interest in the
advancement, of our country see that we still
possess the spit it of integrity and energy
for winch Englishmen have always been famed.
I will only add that in the event of your
conferring upon m» the honor of representing
the Metropolitan County, 1 vil. a= far as inv
humble powers allow me, faithfully employ my
best efforts to promote the widfare of the colo-
nists generally, unbiassed by a predilection for
any particular parly.
'i he day of nomination being so near at
hand wili prevent iny waiting on you ail, but
as far as time will allow I will do so,
I have the honor to be, Gentlemen,
Your very obedient servant.
HENRY G. SMITH,
TO STAND,
DURING THF ELECTIONEERING SEASON,
AT ENTWISTLE’S, THE STAR, KING’S
HEAD, LIGHT-HOUSE, COCKATOO,
AND LONDON TAVERN,
HI“HAT well-known imported Entire,
1 I* A MB,
GOT BY
Xiynx out of FO*y» grandam, So'W’;
grandsire, DEvil.
Tins first rate animal was imported into
New South Wales by the late
CHARLES SMITH, per the WATT,
DAGGER, Commander,
and is in first-rate condition, having been fed
latterly on RICE, which caused TEA to rise .s£B
per chest, and SUGAR a farthing per lb.
Electors can be served dally at their own
places, on applying for PORTER,
Fees to groom—A cast off J. P.
N B.—The owner R. Low, Esq , will not be
responsible for mishaps after the 28th July.
[advertisement.)
GENERAL ELECTION.
The writs are all issued, and Dickinson stands
For city and borough, and far squatting lands :
His qualifications cannot be denied
While his principles always are on the right side
Unfurling his flag for a superfine end,
He asks for support as a general friend :
He honors the cloth ; pays his court to the fleece
And adds to the exports’ and imports’ increase
He deals with the factor, and ne’er can you find
Such cloths, tweeds, and doeskins made up to
your mind:
East, west, north, south travel—-in vain will you
seek
For Wrappers so stylish, and Sacks so unique :
His Codringtons’, Waterfords’, Paletots delight
The wearer by warmth—the beholder by sight;
He has tartans and checks too for Scotia true,
Bright green for Ould Erin, for England true
blue;
While tricolored France and America’s race
Will find for an outrig his shop is the place.
Thus useful to all, he your voices demands,
And looks to be met with a full show of hands :
Then rush to the poll with your plumpers and
vote
For Dickinson —sure that he’ll ne’er turn his
coat!
TO GEORGE OAKES, ESQ.
Parramatta, 10th July.
SIR, —We, the undersigned Electors
of the Town of Parramatta, request you
will allow yourself to be put in nomination at
the approaching Election, to represent our in-
terests in the Legislative Council, and we
pledge ourselves to use our best exertions to
secure your election.
We are, Sir,
Your obedient servants,
John M'Kay
George Maughan
S. Phillips
Thomas Bell
George Barton
R. F. Tcasdell
Johu Parker
John Good
Arthur Barker
Bute Stuart, M l),
Edward Tapp
George Barker
George Harrix
P. Hayes
John Skinner
William Clarke
William Sibson
W. T. Weller
T. P. Fitzsimmons
Thomas Randall
William Griffith
Francis Oakes
James Smith
John Evans
J. E Vallack
Thomas Reynolds
John Smith
John Thompson
William Harris
W. S. Brown, M. D.
Samuel Gilbert
W Piesley
William Mariott
William Williams
Charles Biakefield
D. Johnston
John Higgs
Jeremiah J. M‘Crohan
James Bradley
C. Crofton
Richard Edwards
Samuel Burge
William Byrnes
Ralph Mood
John Mills
Jordon Sparks
William Anderson
Robert Knowles
Joseph Gray
John By ms
William Stock
William Maddox
Charles Jackson
Edward Franklin
John Carson
Joseph Bi ogden
William Dick
Richard Harper
Robert Evans
Joseph Barns
John Norris
William Entwistle
John Smith
Vincent Bellman
Thomas Simson
Joseph Jones
John Booth
Joseph Hurd
Robert Davis
Thomas Blake
Charles Porter
Robert Fleming
William Monks
George Buckley
William Lewthwaite
William White
James Gregg
Robert Reilly
James Dalzlel
John W. Pass
Samuel Barby
Allan M Elleran.
GENTLEMEN—I thank you most sin-
cerely for the honour you have conferred on me
in requesting that I w ill allow myself to be put
in nomination at the approaching Election, to
represent your interests in the Legislative
Council, and I have much pleasure in complying
with a requisition so numerously and respectably
signed.
Should my fellow townsmen elect me to
the important trust to which you have thus
invited me, I shall at all times feel ambitious
to discharge its duties to the satisfaction of my
constituents, and the advancement of the town
in which I was born, and am a permanent
resident.
I have the honour to remain,
Gentlemen,
Your obliged and faithful servant,
GEORGE OAKES.
To Mr J. M'Kay, and the other gentlemen
who have signed the requisition.
TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF DURHAM.
GENTLEMEN, Rumours have, I
understand, been circulated in the county
of Durham, to the effect that I had consented to
stand for another constituency at the ensuing
general election. I beg to assure you that this is
not the case, as it is, and always has been, my in-
tention to solicit your suffrages again.
As writs are now issued for a new Council, ]
shall soon have the satisfaction, in coming before
you to learn from yourselves, if my short public
cireer has been such as to justify the confidence
*hich you have reposed in me ; —in which case I
hope to receive the assurance that you will return
me as your representative once more.
In perlorming my duty to you during the past
short, but eventful, session of Council, I trust I
have been zealous.
I know I have been conscientious and inde-
pendent in every vote I have given—and I would
fearlessly refer you to my votes on the estimates
in support of this assertion.
I hope you will muster strong at the chie
polling place on the day of nomination, when I
shall have the pleasure of meeting you.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
STUART A. DONALDSON.
June 29.
TO THE ELECTORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF CAMDEN.
GENTLEMEN, — I beg to apprise you
of my intention of becoming a Candi-
date for the Ccunfy of Camden at the ap-
proaching General Election. My opinions
upon most subjects of inipoitance have been
so frequently expressed, that it appears
needless now to repeat them; but I shall, as
soon as possible, visit the different Districts of
the County, for the purpose of personal com-
munication with the constituency.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient Serveut,
JAMES MACARTHUR.
Camden Park, June 28.
CITY OP SYDNEY.
TO JOHN 1 LAMB, ESQ.
WE, the undersigned Electors of the
City of Sydney, being desirous of securing
the return of a representative for the Commer-
cial interest in the ensuing Legislative Council,
request you wili aliotv yourself to be put in
nomination at the approachlug election, pledg-
ing ourselves to use our utmost exertions to
secure yrur return.
John Thacker
J. Gilchrist
J W. Gosling
Henry G. Smith
Thomas Holt, jun.
Robert Lowe
R M. Robey
David Jones
George Forbes
Richard Lamb
Frederick Ebsworth
Edward Salamon
Charles Younger
E H. Pollard
John A. Mathews
M. E. Murnin
Jonathan Hardy
Charles Chapman
Thomas S. Mort
A. Campbell Brown
M. Biruslingl
Hugh Dixson
Charles Wilkinson
William Hiudsou
Henry Moore
James Comrie
George Talbot
George A. Lloyd
J. I’omroy Bond
Thomas f'aiker
Josiah West
Frederick Mackelhtr
John Alexander
George Dent
Edward Lane
D. N. Munro
G. J. Armitago
John Croft
Clark Irving
R C. Gordon
Robert Porter
Charles Scott
Win. Bowden
W. L. Bowden
W. L. Piddington
Randolph Nott
C. S, Deacon
David Jones
William Tucker
Charles Newton
Wm. Lucas
Robert Barr
George Forsyth
James Mitchell
William Stephens
Thomas Gregan
John Palser
Wm. C, Preston
Thomas Woolley
Neheiniah Ruudle
James M‘Laren
George Wilson
Thomas Donovan
B. S. Lloyd
Thomas Hemming
D. L. Welch
W. E. Rowland
J. Dalgarno
G. E. R. Lingard
Ambrose Foss
John Cartwright
William Cargo
J. Cadman
George Lucas
Archibald Graham
James MToy
John Fairfax
George Thorne
Charles Kemp
John Fletcher
Frederick Ford
R. T. Ford
C. M. Penny
George Grimes
C. S. Vallack
Thomas Kiikman
John l.awson
John Bibb
Thomas Cowlishaw
William Ball
K. Mansfield
William Sullivan
S. B. Dowsett
E. Bennett
John J. Adam
Thos. W. Simth
George Patou
T. Brown
John Korflf
William Wright
James Hume
Andrew Lenehan
John Stewart
Thomas liyndes
Robert Berry
Phillip Burke
Arthur C. Daniell
Edward M'Donald
James Buchanan
Henry Armitage
James N. Smith
Alexander Campbell
Francis Mitchell
Henry Buckley
Alfred Fairfax
George Wilkie
Charles Clark
John Walsh
Thomas Dawson
John Stirling
Alexander Cameron
James Gillespie
Frederick 1 rwin
John Fearnley
W. Ranken Scott
George Jarman
Samuel H. Smyth
John Walker
Laurence Spyer
T. W. Smith
J. C. Korff
J B Viles
W. S. Deloitte
John Macnamara
W. S. Friend
A. Way
A L. de Metz
Thomas Willock
Edward Campbell
George Whitfield
James Stewart
Benjamin Simms
D. Larnacb, J. P.
Henry Hollingshed
Jos. Armstrong, V. S.
James Beattie
John Carmichael
James Henderson
Henry Lord
Hector Martin
Robert Kerr
Joseph Pettingall
Francis Matthews
James Small
John Sands
James Grocott
Joseph Pritchard
William Barnett
I. illidge
Joseph Vickery
A. Reynolds
John Fell
Thomas R. Coates
Jeremiah Coates
Abm. Davy
William Benson
M. Rock
P. Palfrey
George Munden
J. W. Browne
Francis Graham
Robert James
John Frazer, Sen.
Richard Milner
John Dickinson
John Purdu
John Thomson
Thomas Clare
George Smith
Thomas Bearnes
John Keele
Eugene Cannon
Henry Thompson
John Caldwell
Robert Appleton
George Knox
James Etven
M. Hooper
H. M. Mooie.
Gentlemen.— l feel highly flattered by the
desire you have expressed that I should become
a candidate for the representation of Sydney,
and I sincerly thank you for the promise of your
support at the approaching election.
I have no hesitation in assuring you that my
best attention will be at all times and in every
place be given to public measuies which in any
way affect the commercial body; as I am con.
vinced that their interests are blended with, and
cannot without injury be separated from, all
other important interests in the colony. I have
always thought that Sydney, the seat of a vast
and increasing import and export trade, ought
to have one commercial representative, and
should a majority of the electors concur in the
views you have expressed, and place me again
in the Legislative Council, it will be my study
to discharge, to the satisfaction of the constitu-
ency, the trust reposed in me.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JOHN LAMB.
To John Thacker, Esq, and the gentlemen
signing the requisition.
TO THE ELECTORS OF SYDNEY.
GENTLEMEN. —Having at the request
of a numerous and respectable body of
citizens, become a .candidate for your suffrages
at the approaching election, I deem it my duty
to lay before you my sentiments on some import-
ant suljicts.
Believing that governments are instituted
for the benefit of the people, I am of opinion
that they should he as little costly as is com-
patible with efficiency; and that it is therefore
the bounded duty of a legislator carefully to
scrutinize and control the expenditure, in every
branch of the public service.
Education being a subject which is now ex-
citing attention in every civilized community, I
think it right to declare that I am not prejudiced
in favour of any particular form. It appears to
me that a system which may be adapted to one
locality may be utterly unsuited to another, and
therefore that the wishes of the people more
immediately interested should in every case,
were practicable, be consulted.
The extraordinary concessions lately made to
the squatters, render a satisfactory adjustment
of the questions aff< cling the sale of the waste
lands more difficult than ever; yet Ido not sup
pose that a system based on the absurd theory
that these lands are worth a pound an acre,
can long stand. But, when once the mass of
the people become thoroughly awake to the evils
which have been inflicted on them, and their
posterity, they will press for and ultimately ob-
tain, a sounder and more equitable policy in the
administration of these lands. Then, and not
till then, we may hope again to see capitalists ar-
riving amungst us, seeking for investments in
the soil.
To the renewal of transportation I am de.
cidedly opposed, from a firm conviction that the
advantages which might be derived from com-
pulsory labour, would be far outweighed by the
social evils which would arise were such a sys.
tem re-introduced into the colony.
With unfeigned humility I admit that, there
are amongst you many who by talent and educa-
tion are more fitted than I am to discharge the
important duties which devolve on your repre-
sentative, but at the same time I will fearlessly
assert that none could be sent into the Council
with a more earnest i urpose to discharge
honestly and diligently those duties than, Gen-
tlemen, Your obedient servant,
JOHN LAMB.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES MENTWORTH,
Es<j , AND WILLIAM BLAND, Esq, late
mesi BEKS FOB THE CITY OF SYDNEY.
G E NTLEMEN, —We, the undersigned,
Electors of the City of Sydney, not un-
mindft il of your past services rendered to the
people of New South Wales throughout a series
of yea rs, both in the late Council and long be-
fore i t was called into existence, feel that we
are bt it discharging a public duty in requesting
you again to serve the colony as the Represen-
tative!» of its metropolis. On particular points
the a'blest men may honestly differ in opinion,
and there may have been some measures advo-
cated by you, when in Council, which many of
us dis! ipprove. But when we look to your sena-
torial career as a whole, we feel bound to ac-
knowledge, that whenever it became necessary
to opp ose a manly front to the arbitrary acts of
the local or imperial government, or to check
the lavish expenditure of the public money, and
dimini sh the burthenu of the people, you always
discharged your duty with the most untiring
zeal, the steadiest perseverance, and the most
unflinching resolution. We feel that you have
impose d upon us a double obligation, by contri-
buting more largely* than any other person
whatsoever, not only to procure for us the in-
estimable blessing of* a free Representative
Legislature, but also 1;o render, when obtained,
that Le gislature alike valuable and honorable.
For these acts we owo you a debt of gratitude
which it would ill become us to overlook on
any trivial grounds, an d we feel that we can-
not better discharge thiit debt than by request-
ing you to allow us agjain to put you in nomi-
nation for that City wl tich has been the scene
and the witness of all your public labours, and
the largest sharer in tbie benefits which have
resulted from them.
We have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Chari s Windeyer, J.I
Day d Allan
Benjamin Boyd
11. W. Newman
Samuel Lyons
Samuel Lyons, Junr.,
Abraham Emanuel
Thomas May
Win. Stewart
John Robertson
Patrick Fmnicaa
James Steenson
Michael Fox
John Davenish
Robert Peisley
Peter Howell
Nicodemus Dunn
Daniel Boyle
Isaac Binnie
Wdlian Pendray,*enr.
Hugh Wallace
Alexander Allertoui
John Parker
John Taylor
Edward Walton
Charles Wood
Edward O’Connor
John Teddy
David Collis
John Davis
Samuel Phillips
Magnus Mori is
Andrew Byrnes
Philip Hart
Richard Loseby
Abraham Abrahams
Richard Roberta
Timothy Bruce
John Gray
Stephen Turner
Michael Vaughan
Thomas Delany
Abraham Elias
Patrick Walsh
Francis Jutland
John Sampson
Samuel Pries'ly
Jacob Hinchcliff
Phillip Fitzpatrick
James Casey
David Warden
Samuel Solomon
William Dwyer
Phtrich Meatfe
Solomon Davis
Patiick Maguire
Michael Higgins
Vernon PuZty
Michael Malone
John Maher
Richard Crampton
Samuel M’DuUgh
Thomas Field
Thomas Humphries
George Fullerton B
James Leslie B
Nathaniel Douglass B
James Medden B
John Curtis W
William Cowell W
D. J. Phillips W
Henry Hough W
Lewis Coleman W
Geoige Fitchett W
A. Bogue
G. R. Nichols
Thomas H. Campbell
Joseph Newton
P F. Morgan
Tiiomas Agars
P*rry Long
W J L!o>d
W. itobiuson
C Appleton
If our obedient servants,
M it'hevrs
William Chandler
Michael Cah II
Win, James Bradshaw
Patrick Coffee
William Clarke
Cha.rles Gordon
Michael Sinnet
Charles Logue
James Henderson
J. Downs
Isaac Moore
Edward Porudy
R. Towns
Tomas Boyd
Thomas Turner
W. M. Hudson
Daniel Wilson
Michael Jones
Samuel Barnett
Jacob I oder
William Jamieson
WilliamOsboum
Henry Kensel
P. M’Donald B
A. Darbyshire
J» L. Penny
Thomas Pattison
S. Samuell
John Harper
Robert Oram
Benjamin Sadlier
Charles Weaver
‘.Thomas Jones
VI Coveny
£«. Wilcox B
Samuel Stephenson
J« W. Barrett
J. Jones
H. Doran
John Heathway Brown
H. J. Phillips
J* Curby
J• B. Jones
Henry Denton
John 13mney
James Walker
S. Maiahall f
Abraham' Hart
A. Lowater
R. M. Lindg ay ,
A. M Crow
J. Cracknell *
W. Garland
James Brown VV
W. Cankett
J* Allan
J. Marringfon
John Spring
G.T. Wright W
William Brow W
George Walton
Patrick Murphy
J* R# Duigaa
Peter Rawlins
Joseph Wade
Francis Timmins
Henry Sheppards
William Parrott
William Norman
James Eugene Groom
John Gilchrist
T. Hyndes, CC # W
James Cunningham W
J . T. Neale
J? O. Yeomans
Gabriel Bennet W
R chard Hid
G. Thornton, C.C., W
George Pike
John WiJeon
Richard Binnie
Jpbn Swaddling
Samuel Bayiis
R. M. Pile
D. Lenehan W
H. M, Price
John Caldwell W
John Bur oft
Thomas Pearson
Thomas Maisden
| John Henry Myer
John Solomon
David Dyer
Robert Appleton
O-iediah West W
John Gleeson
Thou as Rice
John Rice
William Wibb
G. Taylor
George Wilson
H. Jervis
William Inglis
James Miller
Peter Brennan
Philip Joseph
Edward Arthur W
John Brown
John Evans
James C. Thornton
Joseph' Sly W
John Smih
John Husking
J. P, Cohen
D. M Guigan
Richard TrowLr
Timothy Driscoll
Squire Mason
Gilbert Wiight
George Copas
F. Hurley
John O Brien B
John Gorman
John Loft
Maurice Keating
Jeremiah B*ker
Robert Siubbs
Patrick Reilly
John Williams
William Bairde
Thomas Baker B
William Ta t
Joseph Slade
Thomrs Hitt
Michael White
Thomas Orr
Jo tin Ellis
Edwaid Wylde
John Walpole Ireland
Joseph Flood
Michael Hill
James Gannon
Robert Taylor
James Wright
Mark Dixon
Charles Jenkins, C C.
John Henderson
Isaac Ti terton W
Patrick Erwin
John Slattery
Joseph Raphael
James M'Kay
W. Brooker W
William Spooner
Henry Smith
W, B. Allan w
J* H D iscoll
F« Ellaid
F. Oatley
James Curtis
Patrick Moore
Reuben Hannan
Michael Farrell
John Murphy
Michael Kellar
William S aven
Joseph'Speers
William Samuells W
Jeseph Smith
George Hill
David Hi 1
John Neale
Robert Ritchie
James Oatley
Thomas Britten
W. H. Wells
George Pickering
Michael Cohen
Thomas Argent
Roger Murphy, jun,
Henry JV?artio
George Rowley
Charles Turner
Charles Martyn
Thomas Ryan
Man hew Charlton
Daniel Egan
J. R Holden
William Davis
Isaac Sianfield
W, P. Cuusens
Wm. Hindson W
L. Miiward W
Isaac Polack
Martin Gill
James Teare
John Edwards
Joseph Parish
Thomas Goudie W
William Kennedy
Robert Quinton
J. B. Olliffe
Edward Flood
J. P. Hanson
Thomas Carr
Francis Downs
James Donohoe
Peter Hanslow
EJward Davis
Joseph Ba>liss
William Kellet
H Robertson
David M Kenzie
John Pearce
Ruberts
Matthew Mullany
Walter Hall
Wil.iam Sharp
John M‘ln tosh
John Moriij
George Moss
E. Samueil
Thomas Tabor
J. E‘Evoy
Daniel Rogres
Reuben UUier
Alexander Feuier
Thomas Douglass
John C rruthers
William Peisely
John N. bbs
Thomas Sullivan
Wm, Long
John Byrnes
Thomas Hull W
E. Phillips W
Richard Cripps
Robert Fairweaiher
Thomas Bray
R. B. Hanslow
P. M Ryan
James Hannan
John Baker
J. L. Norrie
J. W. Lavers
Patrick Hinchey
Thomas Smith
M. Giliigan W
J. M Laren W
D. Taylor W
W. Richardson W
J. Greer W
J. T. Brown W
Edward Adson
Thomas Molly
M: Hogan W
John Thompson W
Joseph Palmer W
Edward Borton
Thomas Brown
J. Allott
Edward Gardner
Andrew Coss
J. Tallant
F. M'Kellar W
J. Harrison
J. Lenny
A. Nicholson
H. Jennings
W. Taylor
W, Beaumont
J. Ashton
T. Riley
Thomas Place
Abraham Davis
A. Murray
Jeremiah Green
Wm. P. Pickering
Adam Bond
Emanuel Martin
Thomas Fiood
John Cummings
Edward Boulton
John Dalziel
James Carle
Francis Freeland
John Green
Edward Haffeity
Patrick M Cauley
Richaad Rae
Joseph Hall
Wm Toole
Thom s Woods
John B [ own, C C.
Joel Cohen
Francis P. Cohen
Thomas Byrnes W
Wm. Adnum W
T.W. Forster W
Morris Castle
Henry Hine Newman
John Henry Humphries
Thomas Davie 9
David Simea
John Gaine
Wm. A. Wright
Henry Doyle
B- S. Haigh
Johh Kelly
John Hill, Jun.
John Cockcroft
Thomas Codrington
Wm. Deane
John Edwards
Stephen Newby
Henry Doughty
P. Mulroney.
John Taggart
Albert Mason
H. L Mdler
James Weir
Joseph Strong
Hector Martin
Ficderick Kosten
P. J. Creagh
Francis Ke!k
P. Fagan
John Hart
John Kedry
Wm. Crego
John Latham
Wm, Porter
Thomas Edwards
Thomas Riley
J, A'mstrong
John Gillick
John Carmichael B
William Blyth W
Edward Fouikes
Charles Hensley
John Wells
Charles Langley
Charles Tibbey B
George Pattison
Wm. Stephens
John M’Donald
George Whitbread
Herculas Watt
James Barnett
William Moffitt
Charles Harwood
John Ford
Henry Miles
Richard Hayes
John Haddey
Thomas Sims
Thomas Martin
J. G. Hughes
A Bremner
Joseph M Carthy
William Stephens
William Galliott
Emanuel Wolfe
John Carmichael
William Bradridge
Charles Lock
Thomas Quigley
Richard Robinson
John C n ingham
Robert Henderson
John Bray
James Welsh
Henry Abbott
Hen y Irvin
James E lrop
William Layt 0 Q
James Sporle
Samuel Wooi er
Timothy Maher
John Jones
Wi liam Ashworth
Samuel P. Jeston
S. Britcher
Matthew Nowland
R. O Reilly
Isaac Norris
Joseph Smart
A«aph Wilkins
William Hinton
W G. Dalton
Thomas M ss
Henry Bennett
John Lane
P. A. Hogan
James Pemmell
William Barlow
John Deane
William Alder
William M’Laughlin
Thomas Jones
James Smith
Henry Wallis
John Scutts
William Mitchell
Richard Kemp
William R. Green
Henry John Forster
M. O’Flaherty W
John Davies
Benjamin Sadlier
George Hudson
Thomas Neville
John Turner
Henry Merritt W
Samuel Perrers
Tohn Renwick W
William Furman W
J. Ward
Smith
Edward Davis
Benjamin Baker
Richard Cripps
Peter Brennao
William Layton
James Sproule
David R ece
Leon Lewis I Ba ac W
George Clayton
Samuel Cross
David Smith
Thomas Hansell
Jeremiah Daly r
John B.oom
Patriik Murroney
Thomas Ferrier
John Ellwood
John R. Baker
James Rugate
Thomas Kensay
H. Evans r
Charles Benson
James O’Brien
Charles Crispin
Patrick Mullens
James Cropper
P. Fitzpatrick
Joseph Woodward
Thomas Clare
N. Salmon
George Conway
George Morrison
Godfrey Hattshorne
Thomas Hall
Geo. Chambers
Joseph Palmer
John Carney
I hos G, Laurence
Wm. Heilyer
John Hood
Samnel Jones
Samuel Folk
Isaac Levey
J.W. Russell
Emanuel Crabbe
Michael Pliillips
George J. Wyer
Thomas Strettles
S.muel Smedloy
Hyam Elias
Isaac Solomon
M. A'exander
Samuel Alexander
Edward James Corey
E. O’Reilley
Hugh M Lean
N. N.—The names with the initials of W aDd B
are for those gentlemen only.
To the Requisitionists who have done me and Dr.
Bland the honour of inviting us to come for-
ward for the Representation of the City of
Sydney in the Legislative Council.
Gentlemen,—l will not conceal the gratifica-
tion with which I have received the numerously
signed and highly respectable Requisition which
you have addressed to myself, and the Gentle-
man lately associated with me in the Legislative
Council, calling on us again to come forward as
Candidates for the representation of this im-
portant Metropolis. My public services, before
I had the honour of being chosen one of your
Representatives, you have at all times fully, if
not over, appreciated. During my legislative
career of five years, just terminated, it could not
be reasonably expected that every measure
which had my advocacy could meet with the
entire approbation of the numerous and disin-
terested friends who concurred in my first
election, and it will be a sufficient reward for
my past labours, and for the sacrifice of private
ease and personal interest, with which they have
been unavoidably attended, if a large majority of
the constituency who gave me their support on
that occasion shall consider me worthv of the
same distinguished honour a second time.
I have the honour to be.
Gentlemen,
Your obliged and faithful Servant,
W. C. WENTWORTH.
7o the Gentlemen signing the Requisition.
Gentlemen, —l beg to return you my best
thanks for the honour you again propose to
confer upon me, jof putting me in nomination
as one of the representatives of the City of
Sydney, and to assure you that should I be
elected, it shall be my earnest desire to en-
deavour to merit, as least to the best of my
humble abilities, this renewed mark of your
generous confidence. J
I beg, however, to state, that I fear X shall
not have time during the short period befnre
the election, to canvass so generally as I could
wish.
I will only add, that I shall be most happy to
afford the electors generally any explanations
that they may require, whether as to the past
or the future, at such time and place as may be
agreed upon for that purpose.
X have the honour to subscribe myself,
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient servant,
W. BLAND.
COUNTIES OF COOK AND WESI>
MORELAND.
TO ALFRED CHEEKE, ESQ.,
BARRISTER AT LAW,
Windsor Police District,
27th Juno, 1848.
SIR, —We the undersigned electors of
the countie-, of Cook and Weatmord.
hi consequence of the dissolution of the Legis-
lative Council, have the honour to request (hat
you will allow yourself to be put in nomination
for the future representation of these counties
n the Legislature of the colony.
In thus soliciting you to come forward as a
candidate (or the representation of these coun-
ties, we do so feeling confident that you are fully
alive to our interests, and have a corresponding
desire for our future prosperity. We feel
further assured, that on your known integrity we
may safely rely for the faithful discharge
of any trust which, as our representative, we
may repose in you.
Presuming upon your compliance willi this,
our request, allow us in conclusion to pledge
every exertion on our part for securing the
success of your election
We beg to remain,
Sir,
Your most obedient servants
Christopher C. Vickery
Richard Wm.Cobcrott
Michael Nowland
Henry Buttsworth
Paul Busbell
Henry Buttsworth
Thomas Rose
Reuben Ureentree
John Dunston
Tristram Dunston
Thomas Tebbutt
Laban White
Ed. Coffee
Alfred Jones
Richard Dunston
Thomas Gospc, jun.
D. B. Kirwan
John Ridge
John Hogan
Joshua J. Vickery
John Cobcroft, sen.
David Dunston
John Bennett
Christopher Cross
Thomas Lynch
Harvest Baldwin
Thomas Graham
Michael Power
Edwin* Baldwin
Robert Parlow, sen.
Robert Parlow, jun.
John Richardson
Richard Skewtlmrpo,
sen
John Ezzey
Richard Childs
Thomas Stubbs
William Brown
John Cunningham,
juu.
Sydney, June 28th, 131.’.
GENTLEMEN.— 1 have the honour to ac.
knowledge the receipt to your requisition, of
yesterday’s date, requesting me to put myself
in nomination as a candidate for the recreseo.
tatiori in the Legisl fv* Council of the 'colony
of the counties of Conk and Westmoreland.
Allow me in the first place to thank you
sincerely for the honour conferred upon me;
and in reply t„ state, that 1 have much pleasure
in acceding to your wishes so flatteringly
expressed. 1
Possessing as I do a com id-r .Id- stake in
the colony, and my inti rests cm-.equenHy bri; g
itrougly identified uiili your own, 1 b*g In as-
sure you that, if elected, 1 shall always advocate
to the host of my ability, any measure which I
may ''Hive to be conducive to the interest, or
tending to the advantage, of this my adopted
Country.
1 feel proud in finding tint during the several
years 1 have visited y.nr district in various
official capacities, my c.induct has been such as
to im t your approbation, and to acquire your
esteem I e . only, in coneiusion, sincerlv hope
that should 1 he foitun ite enough to he placed
by your votes and interest in the distinguished
position of your representative, you will m>t
have occasion to regret the honour cm fined
upon me.
I beg to subscribe myself,
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient servant,
ALPRED CHEEKE.
To CuniSToriiEß C. Vickkuy, Esq., and the
other Gentlemen signing the Kcquisiun.
WANTED.
AN active lad to make himself gene-
rally useful. Apply personally at the
office of this paper, between the hours of ten
and three.
To Clerks of Courses—Secretaries of Yatching,
Cricket, and Rifle Clubs—Members of Pigeon
Matches—Phyers at Quoits — Ringers, Wrest-
lers, Pugilists Pedestrians Cockers
Dog Fanciers—and every other species of
sportsmen. We shall, at all times, feel
greatly indebted for any authentic infor-
mation, either past or future, having reference
to the chosen sports of any of the above.
THE SPORTING TIMES is published every
Saturday mornirg. Country Subscribers will
be received, on payment of Six Months in
Advance, viz—Thirteen Shillings Parties
subscribing in the middle of a quarter will only
be charged from their commencing. Trims
of Advertising—2s. Cd. for the first inch and
under, and Is. for every additional inch, each
insertion. Advertisements must specify on
the face of them the number of insertions, or
they will be continued, and charged accord-
ingly till countermanded.
Aqents Required in the Various Districts.—
Those gentlemen who feel disposed to act, if
not previously known to Mr. Johnson, will
be good enough to forward as early as pos-
sible Sydney references.
TOWN AGENTS,
Mr. D. Donovan King-street, near the
Rainbow Tavern.
„ Moore George-street, oppo-
site the old Burial
Ground.
„ Benjamin Sims Parramatta-street.
QOUNTR Y. AGENTS.
Mr. E. Mason Parramatta
„ John Anderson* ... Penrith
„ Charles L. Bayley... Campbelltown.
„ Michael Doyle* ... Berrima
„ William Hunt* Queanbeyan
„ Wm. Moore, C. Coa. Ipswich, Moreton Bay
„ James Powers* Brisbane, ~
„ J. M. Townshend ... Wollombi.
„ Joseph Matthews*... Wellington
„ Harry Evans Armidale, New Eng.
„ John Tait* Bathurst
„ Richard Hunt Gundagai.
„ John Dingwall Wollongong
• Those marked so are Innkeepers.
Where Agencies are not formed, gentle-
men wishing to have the paper regularly for
warded must communicat with the Office in
Sydney, and enclose the required advanc, of,
at least, 13s. Our Agents moreover are re-
quested to bear in mind, that in no case wil
the name of a Subscriber be received unless
he has complied with the regulation relative
to prepayment.
