

THE SPORTING TIMES.
“ EVERY MAN TO HIS HUMOUR.”
No. 4.
SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1848.
Price 6d.
WENTWORTH AND BLAND'S
MEETING.
A meeting took place in the Theatre of
the School of Arts, on Monday evening,
for the purpose of affording Messrs.
Wentworth and Bland an opportunity of
explaining their political views to the
electors of Sydney, who are so deeply
concerned in returning upright and eli-
gible men to represent their interests in
the next, the second, Session of our
Legislative Assembly. The Theatre was
ao thronged at an early hour, by parties
anxious to hear those gentlemen, that
many had to retire, unable to find even
standing room. To the disgrace however,
of a few riotous and disorderly partizans
of either Mr. Lowe or Mr. Lamb, the
object of the meeting was frustrated.
This mob of persons congregated in the
upper part of the room, where they kept
up a continued scene of yelling, hooting,
shouting, and groaning, disgraceful to a
civilized community,and for the unmanly
and cowardly purpose of preventing
Messrs. Bland and Wentworth being
heard. The instigators of this disturbance
will, no doubt, take occasion to chuckle
over the success of tfieir plot; but if it
be any pleasure to them to learn how their
conduct is viewed by the public, we can
assure them that they are regarded as a set
of poltroons, unworthy the name of men.
When Mr. Lamb had his meeting a
fortnight since, that gentleman and his
tinceie supporter, Mr. Lowe, were heard
with attention. Why was not the same
spirit of fair play shown to the other
Candidates'? It is folly of the rioters to
suppose that they damaged the interes s
of Messrs. Wentworth and Bland—for
notwithstanding all the vaponrring and
braggadoclr of their opponents, Friday
next will be sure to find those gentlemen
the duly elected representatives of Syd-
ney.
That cause must be lame and shallow
indeed which shrinks from investigation,
and which isunableto encounter the ordeal
of having its soundnessand purity tested by
legitimate inquiry and argument. How
can the partizans of Mr. Lowe ascertain
whether the views of Mr. Bland and Mr.
Wentworth are such as are likely to meet
their approval, and to operate beneficially
for the general interests of the community,
if they deny those Candidates the right
of being heard 1 Mr. Lowe was listened
to with attention, and warmly cheered,
while elaborating his fulsome adulation
of Mr. Lamb, and spitting forth his vene-
mous rancour upon Wentworth and
Bland. But no sooner was it announced
that the friends of the last named gen-
tlemen were to meet together, than a
few industrious caterwauling medlers put
their numskulls together, and organized
a “ row”-—that is employed a dozen or two
of “ able and willing hands”, well “up” to
the aryumentum ad hnminem style of
dealing with opponents,—admirable pro-
ficients in making “striking impressions !”
—whose duty it was to act as bully's at the
meeting, and offer every species of offen-
sive and insulting interruption to the
proceedings. I hey did so; and we
presume they have received the wages
of their “ dirty work.” If black-
guardism and ruffianism be deserving of
praise, certainly the parties who inter-
rupted the meeting on Tuesday night are
entitled to their full meed of it It is to be
hoped however, for the credit and cha-
racter of the City that such a scene will
not occur again. Let fair play be shown
to every candidate, and let the men whose
views are most congenial to the wishes of
the community be returned. But let not
their opponents be exposed to abuse and
insult.
The election for Sydney will take place
on Friday next, when we hope tp see it
pass off soberly, rationally, and peace-
ably. Many of our fellow-citizens are
apprehensive that riotings, like those
which occurred at the first election, will
be resorted to on this occasion. But while
we do not anticipate such an event, we beg
to impress upon all electors, irrespective
of creed or country, the duty they owe
themselves and the community of uniting
together to put down any attempt on the
part of the ill-designing or the malicious
to create disturbance. We earnestly call
upon our Irish friends to adopt this pru-
dent course. Let them not leave it in the
power of any party to cast into their teeth
that they were the only violators of peace
and order. The last time that the la-
mented Mr: 0 Connell stood for Dublin,
the coal porters and the potatoe porters of
that City formed themselves into a police
{Dan O'Connell used to call them “ his
own police”) for the purpose of preserving
the peace during the election. And they
suceeeded admirably, for where they
found any riotous or quarrelsome persons,
they gave them into the custody of the
proper authorities. Let such a good ex-
ample be followed in this City, and we
guarantee that the election will pass off
without tumult or disorder.
ON THE ANTIQUITY AND ADVAN-
TAGES OF FIELD SPORTS.
[continued frow our last.]
Age has been said to look with anger
oo the temerity of youth ; and if our
observer should have attained his fiftieth
year, it tpay occur to him that these dash-
ing Nimrods not only exceed the bounds
of limitation, in their eagerness to display
both their prowess and their courage, but
when he witnessed the dangerous falls
they experience,—when he saw two or
three of them lie prostrate on the ground,
hnd, what is by iio means of rare occur-
rence, leaped over by those who are
coming behind them,—he might, perhaps,
accuse them of a sort of daring of Provi-
under whose protection we are and.
ask to be, or an indifference for life which
we ought not to entertain. That accidents
do not oftener happen would baffle the
expectations of the calculator ; but that
life or limb is now and then the penalty
of this rashness, experience uphappily
proves. Several fatal instances have oc-
curred among the nobility and gentry of
England, in their passion for the chase,
and some within the last few years,—but
quadruple these instances, and they would
not abate that passion. We should be
sorry, indeed, if they did. Hunting is a
trait in the national character of English-
men, for England itself is congenial to
it; aud, as it is at present conducted
free from the riotous dissipation of former
days—no man can raise his voice against
it. It is, in fact, natural to all ranks ; a
sort of inherent passion in our animal
nature, which levels all distinctions of
birth and education, and thereby agree-
able to our wide notions of liberty.
Looking at it politically, its advantages
cannot be lost sight of. It is the best
prepartion for the toils of war, at least so
thought Caesar. It is the only counter-
balance to the luxury and dissipation of
our great towns, which every candid per-
son must admit. It gives employment to
a vast proportion of the community ; and
the circulation of money in the hunting
counties is to an extent almost exceeding
belief*. Above all it is a source of hon-
our, animation, and courage among En-
glish gentlemen, which preserves the
manly character, —the best security for
the existence of a state, as the authority
of all antiquity assures us.
The ancients, in almost all their sports
and contests, evidently inclined to what-
ever might oppose a disposition to ease
and effeminacy—whatever might render
the body more capable of supporting
fatigue, or the mind more daring in dan-
ger. Among other proofs of this, we
find a strong one at the end of the fourth
book of Xenophon's Anabasis, where
Dracontius of Sparta—who in the gym-
nastic contests near Trebizond, had been
chosen to preside over the race-course
and other parts of the games,—chose a
place for the wrestling, pugilism, and
pancratium, so rugged an uneven, that the
combatants had not a level place to fall
on ; and for the race, a declivity so steep,
that the horses could with difficulty ad-
vance even at afoot-pace. Notwithstand-
ing these difficulties, however, which in
our times would be considered insur-
mountable, we find competitors descend-
ing to the contests, amid the acclamations
of their friends ; and the whole was, to an
ancient Persian’s eye “a subject of cheer-
ing,” and “ a delightful spectacle.”
That recreation is essential, and should
be encouraged, is a fact equally well es-
tablished. All animals in a state of
nature divide their time between action
and rest, and why should not man? “As
in a man’s studies," says Pliny, “ so in
his life, he should mix gravity with
pleasantry, that the one may not sink into
melancholy, nor the other rise up into
wantonness. ’ In fact, a great propostion
of the celebrated characters of past and
present ages have divided their hours be-
tween the labours of the camp, the more
peaceful occupations of the closet, and
the health-bestowing sports of the field.—
The writer we have this moment quoted
was a memorable example of this. In
his retirement at his beautiful villas near
Rome, he entered into all the pursuits
becoming the character of a country gen-
tleman, and amongst others, was that of
the chase ; but, as might be expected from
a mind so cultivated as his, he considered
it rather the sport than the business of
human reason, and was always accom-
panied by his books, and the necessary
implements for writing ; which the me-
thod of hunting in those days (by the
toil) admitted of. The philosopher is,
perhaps, here more conspicusus than the
sportsman ; but in allusion to his books,
he jocularly observes, that if he missed
his game, he brought home his reflections,
and so had not the mortification of having
I caught nothing.
Many of the most eminent literary
characters of this and of other countries
have been ardently attached to field-
sports, and well would it have been for
thousands of highly-gifted individuals,
if their taste had directed them to such
pursuits. It has been a general remark,
that great quickness of parts is too often
attended with delicacy of constitution,
and a peculiar sensibility of the nervous
system, which renders life a burden to the
possessor, and consequently useless to the
public. The only safeguard against this,
is to be found, not in medicine, but in the
healthful exercises of recreation ; and
nothing would be lost to the individual
by the use of such a prescription. Too
arduous an exertion of the mind not only
ruins the health, but impairs the genius
itself ; whereas, if the mind be properly
unbent and amused, it wil return to its
favourite object of pursuit with redoubled
vigour.
But we will go one step further :
whilst the sports of the field give strength
and health to the body, they also impart
elasticity to the mind, and the learned
man would return a gainer, by having
devoted to them some of the loose hours
of his life, for, as an elegant writer ob-
serves, “ there are homilies in Nature's
works, worth all the wisdom of the
schools, if we could but read them rightly.”
Certain is it, the scenes of nature ex-
cite generous emotions, and who witnessses
them in greater perfection than the sports-
man ? “ Let me advise you,” said the
accomplished Roman to whom we have
before alluded, “ w’hen you hunt, to take
along with you your pencil and tablets,
as well as yonr basket and bottle, for be
At least £40,000 per annum in Leicester-
shire alone.
assured you will find Mercury as fond of
traversing the hills as Diana.” Hunting
and coursing are the most beneficial ex-
ercises for sedentary persons, because at
the present day they are performed on
horseback, and riding is proved to be par-
ticularly good for the human frame. As
all active habits are strengthened by re-
petition, fatigue soon becomes a stranger
to it, and the mens snnn in cor pore sano,
of Juvenal—the body sound and the un-
derstanding clear is the sure reward.
Although Cicero recommends hunting
to studious persons, yet a mind that has
tasted and is stored with the learning and
eloquence of Athens and Rome cannot be
expected to convert the relaxation of a lei-
sure hour, —be that what it may, into the
serious business of life. There is no dan
ger that a man possessed of such a treasure
will sink into the mere sportsman ; but
what we contend is, that a reasonable en-
joyment of the sportsof the field is by no
means incompatible with the character of
a great and learned man. The celebrated
professor, Rheunken, —“ the pride of
criticism,” —gave up all his spare time to
hunting. He looked upon it as a sport
invented by reason for the amusement of
mankind, and. by its salutary effect on the
constitution, calculated to give a double
relish to our days. No doubt his reading
informed him that, among the various
solaces of life, the sports of the field
have ever been held in the highest estima-
tion ; —that they were the exercises of
noble men after wars, after the adminis-
tration of justice, or the concerns of the
state. He would find that Ulysses insti-
tuted such diversions after the conquest of
Troy, and that they received commenda-
tion from Plato, as the souices of renewed
enjoyment to such as suffered from domes-
tic calamities, or the more ruinous injuries
of war. Enthusiasts, perhaps, go further ;
some of our countrymen labour under a
sort of furor venations, which makes
them slaves to the chase, and they think
and talk of little else. It is true, Gallus
flew to the chase to mitigate his love for
a beautiful slave ; but some of our modern
sportsmen look on it as a panacea for all
human woes. That it is to those who
understand it, and fully into the spirit of
it, exhilarating to a degree to which no
other pastime can approach, is to be proved
by one day s experience. No sooner does
a pack of fox-hounds appear than the
whole neighbourhood becomes agitated :
the mechanic leaves, without remorse, the
employment which isto support hisfamily,
to partake of the bewitching sport ; and
the glee with which he recounts the chief
events of the day, proves it to be a pass-
time quite congenial to his heart.
This enthusiasm, however, is one of the
most powerful means by which this fine
diversion has been preserved and continues
in repute to the present day. Without it,
not only would amateurs be dismayed by
the fatigue and danger attending it, but
servants would with difficulty be found to
perform the duties required of them in
the field. Let a person reckon up merely
the number of miles that servants, who
follow fox-hounds, ride in one week, when
those hounds hunt five days, as is often
the case, in that A\eek, and he will find it
to be more than twice as many as are
ridden by any post-boy in England. The
post-boy has a good turnpike-road to tra-
vel upon, and proceeds at a certain pace
which seldom distresses either himself or
his horse, —but this is not the case with
the huntsman or whipper-in to fox-hounds.
He has, on an average, as much road to
travel over as falls to the lot of the post-
boy, to be which is to be added at least
two hours hard riding over a deep and
strongly-fenced country, with the ex-
ertion of hallooing to the hounds to boot.
It is true that strength of body is pur-
chased by the exercise that so sevarely
fatigues it, but exercise in its turn wears
out, by at'r tion, when carried to great
excess; and thus it is that we hear of
young men, aspiring to the situation of
huntsmen, being obliged to relinquish the
attempt, from inroads made on their con-
stitution, in their noviciate. ludeed,
Mr. Locke observes, when writing on the
subject of recreations, that “ he who
thiuks diversions may not lie in hard and
painful labour, forgets the early rising,
hard riding, cold and hunger of hunts-
men, which is yet known to be the con-
stant recreation of men of the greatest
condition.”
This remark of Mr. Locke leads us ob-
serve that, rmongst “ men of condition,”
we have several memorable examples of
the enthusiasm of hunting among those of
our own time. The late Marquess of
Cleveland acted as huntsman to his own
hounds for nearly half a century, and has
only lately relinquished his post from the
infirmity of increasing years. Mr.
Ralph Lambton acted in the same capa-
city for nearly as long a period ; and it
is worthy of remark that these distin-
guished individuals not only performed
the duty of conductors to their packs in
the field, but attended to all the minutiae
of the kennel. It is, indeed, a well-
known fact that the noble Marquess, after
the severest run of the season, never ate
his own dinner until he had given his
hounds theirs, and invariably described
the evnnts of the day upon paper, pre-
viouely to his retiring to his couch for the
night, and had them published at the end
of the year for the perusal of his sport-
ing friends. The zeal of Mr. Lambton
carried him almost as far, and he is cele-
brated as one of the most scientific sports-
men of his day. Rut in actual bodily
exertion, perhaps Mr. Osbaldeston has
eclipsed them all in his almost super-
human exertions. During the long period
of his hounds hunting the Quorndon
country, in Leicestershire, weather per-
mitting, they met at one cover or another
every day in the week. Mr. Osbaldeston
hunted them himself; and as he resided
in the village of Quorndon, situated on
the outside of his country, he had, on an
average, at least ten miles to ride before
the sport commenced.
(To be continued.)
DRAMATIC BIOGRAPHY.
MEMOIR OF JOSEPH GRIMALDI.
Thou living Punch—thou earthy Moraus,
Casting care and sorrow from us;
Nature before thee seems to pass,
Reflected in a qu.izzinqglass ;
And thus you paint us earthy bubbles,
In all their mirth without their troubles,
» » * *
Serious when all others laugh ; never exceed-
inglin his mirth; chaste where all others are
vulgar and obscene; making meanings where
none else could; and heightening those that
others had created. He had no equal in our
boyhood, and we shall never look on his like in
age.
ANON.
“ Train up a child in the way he should
go.” This was the maxim that made the
greatest impression on the mind of Signior
Grimaldi, who furnished food for the mirth
of the London public, many years since ;
and this is was that induced him to intro-
duced little Joey, at two years of age, to the
notice of the public. But, ere we proceed to
a mention of the son, let us dedicate a page
to the memory of him, who made mirthful
our grandsires’ hours, and gave our grand-
mothers stiches in their sides. In the year
1700, his late Majesty took unto himself a
wife ; and, important as the fact of her first
arrival was, the naLion, perhaps, were more
vitally interested by the fact, that Signior
Grimaldi arrived with her, in the capacity
of dentist. The Signior was, we believe, des-
cended from the celebrated Nicoli Grimaldi*
whose praises Addison sung. Be that as it
may, it is certain, the then inheritor of the
facetious appellation was as expert a per-
former upon his own feet, as he was upon
other people’s teeth. As a ballet-master,
the Signior was engaged at Drury-lane
theatre, by the immortal Mr. Garrick, de-
ceased. There he played a variety of tricks ;
some of which are recorded amongst our
histrionic anecdotes. Signior Grimaldi
followed up both his callings with laudable
industry ; but, on one particular occasion,
he was sent for express, to relieve her Ma-
jesty from the horrors oftooth-ach. Grimaldi
who had other calls upon his time,
went in no very agreeable humour was
ushered into the royal presence—and, with-
out any ceremony, thrusting his hand into
her Majesty’s mouth, forced out the tooth.
His services were ever after dispensed with.
Frowned upon by royalty, he sought solace
in public favour, and found it. His drawing
; the tooth of a patient, passed it up his sloeve,
and substituting that of a horse, which he
insisted on retaining as his Own fee, and
which the sufferer actually bought of him for
a guinea—his writing “No religion,” on his
door, at the time other* »rot» •* No popery,"
with a view of conciliating all parties, as he
said!—and his persuading a fellow-per-
former to have a face painted on a peculiar
part of his frame, and to go privately and
exhibit it to Garrack ;—are tales the reader
will remember. We could multiply their
numbor ; but, unfortunately, the humour of
the ancient Grimaldi was of the Smollet
school, and delicacy forbids detail.
Little Joey, the hero of the present
Memoir, was ushered into existence on the
IBth December, 1790; and, on the 2(ith of
December, 3781, made his first appearance
at Drury-lane Theatre, in a pantomime
called Robinson Crusoe. How he passed the
interval between his birth and his entree
to the profession, a peiiod of twenty-four
months, we are unable to ascertain. He
remained as Fairy, Imp, Ooblin, Cupid,
Zephyr, &c., &0., for some years at Drury ;
and, whan only seven, had a rigular en-
gagement at that tli *atre. The next year
carried his father from the stage of existence,
and left our hero, with the wide world for
him to bustle in. His first appearance, as
a man, was, we believe, in the character
of Orson (Valentine and Orson), in which
his muscular strength and his fine concep-
tion, made ample amends for his want of
figure.
In the year 1798, Mr. J. Grimaldi went a
wooing, and won the heart of Miss Hughes,
daughter of the then proprietor of Sadler’s
Wells Theatre. This amiable woman ex-
pired in child-bed, the year following her
marriage. This was a heavy bereavement
to our hero. We are apt to identify a man’s
real, with his assumed manners [ and this is
peculiarly the case with regard to per-
formers—-and of all performers, most par-
ticularly with those who delight us as buf-
foons. You do not dream of agony wringing
the heart of a Clown. Mr. Grimaldi is a
man of peculiarly fine susceptibility; and
the shock of the loss of a young and charm-
ing girl just blooming into womanhood, !
whilst he had scarcely the down of manhood
on his chin, preyed upon his spirits, and
rendered him a while incapable of pursuing
his profession.
In the beginning of 1802, or the close
of the preceding year (we forget which),
Mr. Grimaldi led a second lady to the altar,
Miss Bristow, who, on the 2lst November,
1802, presented her loving lord with an heir
to his estate and his clownship, in the person
of Mr. J. S. Grimaldi, now of Covent-garden
and Sadler’s Wells Theatres.
After passing upwards of a quarter of a
century at Drury, he went over to Covent-gar-
der, Where, we think, he made his first ap-
yearance in the most successful of all panto-
mimes, Mother Ooose. He remained there
and at Sadler’s Wells, for many years,
frequently playing Clown ; first at Islington,
and then going off to repeat the task at the
Garden. In some of these expeditions, he
has played some fantastic tricks. Once, we
remember, whilst driving through Holborn,
he passed a crowd, and, suddenly thrusting
half his body out of the coach window, he
gave one of those electrical laughs, and ex-
claimed, “ There they are!”in his well-known
tone. The signal was enough—the mob fol-
lowed the coach—and a host of his admirers
proceeded to the gallery, to cheer their fa-
vourite. On one ocoasion, the coach that
was hired to convey him to Covent-garden,
did not arrive—Grimaldi waited as long as
he could, and ultimately was obliged to run
through the streets in his Clown’s dross, fol-
lowed by an immense mob—that fashionable
part of town, Clerkenwell, could not afford
him a hackney-coach--he reached Holborn,
before he obtained one. We need hardly
say, that crowds, like snowballs, gather as
they go ; and, ere he gained the shelter of a
vehicle, some hundreds were at his heels.
No man has been a greater slave to his
profession than Grimaldi; playing Clown
twice on the same night—think of that, my
masters; but in the autumn of 1814 or 1815,
we forget which, Mr. Grimaldi played at
Covent-garden, Sadler’s Wells, and also at
the Surrey, it being for the benefit of a very
talented little creature, (now no more) Miss
Dely.
A joke, that has been bandied about for
the last twenty years is, we believe, our hero’s
private property. Some person, who had
been holding an argument with Mr. Gri-
maldi, said, rather contemptuously. “ Why,
you are only Gimaldi!’’ “ I know,” replied
our hero, “ that I am grim all day, but I
make you laugh all night.”
At Sadler’s Wells, Mr. Grimaldi per-
formed a variety of characters, many of a
serious description, in melo-dramas, with
much effect. He also assumed comic ch&V
racters occasionally ; and once,
fit, played Acres, at ; and
gave promise of great talent in the regular
drama, had his inclinations tended that way.
With all the degradation that a panto-
mime actor must endure, from playing di-
rectly to the vulgar, our hero always pre-
served a proper personal respect, and ex-
acted it from his auditors. We have heard
him step forward to npologise, in a case of
accident, and, tho instant he spoke, all re-
membrance of the Clown was lost, and the
man only was listened t>. Once, whilst at
Bath, he and Higman, the bass singer, were
invited by a clergyman to his tabl . They
wont and met a large party ;—the instant
the cloth was drawn, Higman was asked for
a song, and complied—Grimaldi was then
asked the saino favor, but declined—he was
pressed, but still refused—upon which his
reverend host Baid, “why, Mr. Grimaldi, I
invited you on purpose to hear a song!”
“ Did you sir ?’ said our hero ; “ good
evening!’’—and instantly quitted the house.
We think we see the countenance of this
vulgar and insolent parson—this booby in
black, disgracing the cloth he wears, by the
conduct of a boor—we think we see him
taking a lesson in politeness from one who
was technically termed a Clow n—a lesson
that, we will venture to say, he will never
forget, even though he may not have profited
by it.
There is a stability and respectability
about Covent-garden theatre, that wo look
for in vain, in other establishments. No-
thing can exceed the liberality which the
pantomimist meets with at Covent-garden.
The Clown, Pantaloon, and Harlequin, are
allowed a pint of wino nightly, during the
run of the pantomime—every article of dress
is provided by, and washed at the expense
of, the theatre. On boxing-day, a dinner is
given to the principal persons in the pinto-
mime, at the Piazza Coffee-house, at which
Mr. Farley presides. The leader of the band
is generally of the party. After dinner, Mr.
Farley begs the gentlemen to enjoy their
evening as much as possible, but, at the
samo time, to remember, “ whom they
have to cope withal”—viz., the good folks at
Drury. It is recorded to Mr. Grimaldi’s
honor, that he not only on these occasions,
nover outsported discretion himself, but that
he was the first to check such a disposition
in any of his associates. It may be here
amusing to give our readers a bit of infor-
mation, that all are not acquainted with—
i. e. that Messrs. Harlequin, Clown, and Pan-
taloon,
" Shew a most religious scorn for shirts.”
during their professional duties. Indeed, if
they were compelled to incase themselves in
what we dandies think indisponsable, the
shirt would very soon assume the appear-
ance of Mr. Foote’s, when he first engaged
at the Hayinarket 5 which was, as our
perusers may remember, in so dilapidated a
state, that the washerwoman sent him a
message, that it was impossible to wash it;
on which he facetiously and ph 1 uophically,
desired her to stick it against the wall, and
fling pails of water at it.
The following anecdote of that inimitable
Harlequin, Tom Ellar, will give some idea
of the danger and mischiefs attendant on this
department of the theatricals. The first
week of the pantomime entitled Baron Mun-
chausen, one of the carpenters told Mr.
Ellar, that the carpot which was to receive
him, after he leaped through the moon, was
“ very dry,’’ a term used amongst these
gentry, when they desire money for drink—
Mr. Ellar, who was engaged in conver-
sation, replied, “ Wet it, then and did
not, as was anticipated, give the desired fee
—the carpenter grumblod, and retired ; and
Mr. Ellar took the precaution, for the next
two nights, to say, previous to taking his
leap, “Are you ready?” and received the
welcome reply, “ Yes.” But, on the third,
the Saturday night, he asked three times,
and received no reply. Grimaldi (always
nervous) expressed his impatienoe ; and
Ellar was compelled to take his leap, in a
blessed state of uncertainty, To make up
for the delay, he sprag with unusual force—-
the carpet was held in an willfully careless
manner—and poor Ellar, jumping com-
pletely over it, fell on his hand, and broke
it. Notwithstanding which, he finished the
part, without the audience discovering what
was the matter—nor did he interrupt the
run of the pantomime. It is but justice to
Mr. Fawcett to state, that the moment that
gentleman and Mr. Harris, the then pro-
prietors, were made acquainted with the
circumstance, they declared that every car-
penter in the theatre should be discharged,
if Mr. Ellar would state he considered their
conduct preconcerted, and net the result of
accident. Ellar had learned, in the interim,
that the fellow who was the primary cause,
had a family of six children ; and, therefore,
he very nobly showed his charitable heart,
by tolling what is termed a white lie ; and,
in consequence, the heartless vagabond
retained his situation. Had Ellar fallen on
his head, instead of his hand, we should
have been deprived of an estimable member
of society, and the best Harlequin we have
ever seen.
We remember Tom Ridgway beingtreated
in a similar manner ; but, in coming through
ho seized the carpenters by the hair, and
did not loose his hold, until he tore the locks
from their scalps. A hint, that improved
the gentlemen who received it marvellously.
Mr. Grimaldi had few of these accidents.
And this may be attributed to the fact, that
he is, from his urbanity and kindness, inva-
riably a favourite in every theatre. When
he comes—(we forget that we have nearly
lost him, and speak in the present tense,) —
when he came into a theatre, ho stripped off
his coat, clapt on an old jacket, and went to
work, So also does Parley. And both of
these gentlemen did not scruple to lend their
assistance in any work, however arduous,
that aided the business of the scene.
Among the adventures of Mr. Grimaldi,
we record the following, although we had no
lack of “ accidents by flood and field,” in our
preceding Memoir, Mr. Grimaldi promised
a provincial actress that he would, at auy
time she desired, appear for her benefit.
This promise was made in the fullness of
heart, unmindful of how difficult its fulfilment
might be. The lady, aware of his attracting
qualities, exacted the performance of his
promise ; and our hero, like a true knight,
set off to that town, famed for warming-
pans and gridirons, (Birmingham.) directing
a friend to send express, should his services
be in requisition at Covent-garden. As
usual, he drew a bumper : and the manager
offered him tempting terms to “tarry awhile”
which Mr. J. Grimaldi accordingly did. Five
nights glided 'vent on as well
as heartjUdSlcftwren’! hut, on the sixth—
“GtfcjjTiiclF! that things should fall so
ijnwsly!”—a messenger from town ran up
to the muscle-mover, just as be was going
on for Clown, with the unwelcome informa-
' tion, that his name was announced for the
next evening, at Covent-garden theatre. “ I
can’t play to-night, for I must be off to
town,’’ says Grimaldi to the Manager. “If
you dor.t’t play, they’ll tear the house down,”
was the reply. Ultimately, Grimaldi com-
menced his task, expecting to leave Bir-
mingham, and post to London by about
twelve ; but, before he oould settle liis Bir-
mingham affairs, it was past four. To mend
the matter, the roads were bad. and the
route a much longer one than it now is—
couple to these the fact, that the delectable
post-boys took the wrong road i for Grimaldi
had bribed them with liquor, “ to keep pace
with his expectancy, and fly” and they,
from the united effect of stupidity and in-
toxication, had travelled full fourteen miles
of the way, ere the mistake was noted, The
consequences of these accumulated disasters
were, that this hero of pantomime did not
arrive at Covent-garden theatre, until the
overture to Peroute was concluded. He
found, in the utmost anxiety, his old friend,
Mr. * * * *, thrust his week’s earnings,
£270, into his hand—flew to his dressing-
room—and contrived to rush on the stage
in time to save his credit both with manager
and auditors.
t
ft Thus, in hurry and bustle, he pass’d his tinus.*
Mr, Grimaldi, on one occasion, asked
leave of absence for a week, during his en-
gagement at the Wells ; but the proprietor
could not afford to lose him ; be, therefore,
fueling it necessary to his health, took
French leave, and sojourned a week at Tun-
bridge. At the end of the time, truant like,
he rather wished for a longer holiday, and
he tried another week's recreation, adding a
trifle of business to the matter, by enacfcng
a little. In the interim, Bradbury was en-
gaged at Sadler's Wells, for a fortnight.
Whether this information accelerated Mr.
Grimaldi’s return, we know not; but, on his
return he was solicited by B. to play for his
benefit. It was agreed that they should act
Clown between them, (i. e.) in alternate
scenes. Bradbury was well received, and
appeared first; but, as soon as our hero
poked his nose on at the wing, a noise, like
the roar of artillery, resounded through the
house. “Joe,” to use the language of his
friends, “ surpassed himselfand, at the
conclusion of the pantomime, Bradbury led
him to the lamps, shook him heartily by the
hand, and made his farewell bow for that
season.
Reader, to show how little this first of
pantomimists knew of his own powers nn i
weight with the audience, he had declared,
in the morning, that “ It was all up,” for
Bradbury had completely ousted him out
of favour with the public.
From the nature of Mr. Grimaldi’s per-
formance, he did not run so many risks as
his brethren in general. Most Clowns rely
more upon contortions than humour; but
our hero made a school for himself. He did
more by one look, than his rivals could effect
by the most injurious and elaborate trans-
formations, Most of Mr. Grimaldi's patter
(we use the technical term) was his own ;
and some of his sayings were exquisite, as
he delivered them, however dull they might
appear upon paper. His style of humour
had always a satirical relation to our every-
day emotions. Our readers will remember
his opening an oyster, and, on hearing a
complaining noise, crying, “ Ah, poor thing!
—well, I’ll put you out of your misery!” and
swallowing it accordingly—and then, on
opening a second oue, and hearing a similar
appeal to his humanity, quieting his con-
science, as he gulped it, with the remark,
“ Well, I can’t make fish of one, and flesh of
t’other !’’ We do not know a more perfect
or homely illustration of the way in which
human nature reconciles cruelties as com-
pulsory, than this.
Mr. Grimaldi was happy in being under a
liberal management. He was at a theatre
where he had only to suggest, and be sup-
plied. Harris neyer trammelled the genius
of his performers, by a paltry consideration
of expense; and, perhaps, to this may be
attributed the lead that Covent-garden
theatre has always taken in pantomime.
The talent of Grimaldi was, of conrse, in it-
self a host; but talent without adjuncts is
lost; and a pantomimist, cramped by the
meanness of Winston, or the specious apolo-
gies of Elliston, could not have fair play.
It is a task of immense difficulty to give
any idea of Mr. Grimaldi’s talent. Those
who have seen him—and who has not ?
can, of course, find no description, to do
justice to his talent; and those who have
not, will not have any idea of his talent from
description, however minute or elaborate.
All that is droll in human action, Mr. Grimaldi
can pourtray—he can represent all the work-
ings of our nature in every-day occurrence,
“ No one,” says some one, “ can be at a loss,
like Grimaldi.” This is, indeed, true. The
hopelessness of one who knows not what to
do next, he hits to a nicety—he always ap-
peared to us to represent a grown child,
waking to perception, but wondering at every
object he beholds. Then, his exuberance of
animal spirits was really miraculous—what
a rich ringing laugh]—the very voice of
merriment! Then, the self-approving
chuckle, and the contemptuous look, half
pity, half derison, that he gave to the dupe
of his artifice—his incessant annoyance to
Pantaloon —and his feigned condolence for
the very misfortunes of which he was the
author—his amazement and awe of Harle-
quin—his numerous glances at Columbine—
and his winks at the imbecility of the doting,
and the dandyism of the young lover, —his
hraggadocia blustering—his cautions escape
from detection—and his ludicrous agony
during fustigation, an operation duly per-
formed on Clown, by all the personages of
the motley drama—were all his, and ms
alone. He was the vey beau ideal of thieves
—robbery became a science in his hands—
you forgave the larceny, for the humour
with which it was perpetrated. He ab-
stracted a leg of mutton from a butcher’s
tray, with such a delightful assumption of
nonchalance— -he threw such plump stupidity
into his countenance, whilst the slyness of
observation lurked in his half-closed eyes— ;
be extracted a watch, or a handkerchief
with such a bewitching eagerness—with:
such a devotion to the task—and yet kept
his wary eye upon the victim 6f his trickery;
—he seemed so imbued with the spirit of
peculation, that you saw it in him, merely
as a portion of his nature, and for which he
was neither blameable or accountable. His
pantomimic colloquies with the other sex,!
too, were inimitable—his mincing affectation
when addressing a dandizette—his broad
bold style, when making love to a fish-
woman—were all true to Nature. We can
scaroely say why, but he always reminded;
us of Munden ; and we can conceive, that
he would have made much such a comedian.
The roll of the eye—the drop of the chin—,
elongated respiration—was peculiar to both.
In building, Mr. Grimaldi was entirely
original. No one had so fertile a fancy for
format.on. His carriage made with Cheshire
cheeses for wheels, a coalskuttle for the
body, aid a broom for the axletree ; with
fifty others, that made us scream again in
ous boyhood, might be enumerated. Bui
i what use is it to mention these things? Il
wa,s the style in which he joined and sub-
joined them,—looked, stupid— (what a brown
study was his!)—and then rushed, in tri-
umphant joy, wheu a new idea flashed over
his extent of countenance! Oh! that we
were boys onco more !—that we could follow
him through all the mazes of his art—“ grow
wild in his exploits”—and that he, the de
lighter of our early hours, could once more
fe d the spirit of elasticity of youth—that he
could be what he has been—the only purelj
intellectual Clown we ever beheld !
Time, that has brought us grey hairs anc
exhausted spirits, that has quenched thf
power of receiving enjoyment in us, shoulc
have left the power of giving it to him. I:
could not subdue his mind, but it has preyec
upon his body. He lacks the physioa
power—the health, to do what he has dont
—what he only could do. It is no mattei
in what a man excel. He that does anj
one thing better than all the rest of the
world, is a genius, Grimaldi has done this
In his day, he was wholly unrivalled—h<
has left nothing to compare with him upor
the s:age. Our children will laugh at theii
Clowns —but they will have only a vaguf
notion of what wa have beheld. We rank'
the genius of Grimaldi with that of Kean
and, monstrous as the proposition may ap
pear to some, we givo it as the result of lonj
reflection. We hope, earnestly hope, tha:
his health may permit his re-appearance—i
which is promised, The public will warml-
greet a man, to whom so many ure indebtei
for the merriest moments of their lives.
Mr. Grimaldi is, in private life, an amiabl
man, a good husband, and a fond father
of undoubted integrity: and universally re
spected. Mrs. Grimaldi is engaged in tin
cnorusses of Covent-garden theatre.
After this Memoir was printed, we acci
met with a friend of Mr. Grimaldi’s, wh
has obliged us with the following accoun
of his appearance on Monday night last
aud the particulars connected with it, whic
( wo conceive will be interesting to ou
readers:— j
On Sunday, a message came to my hous<
stating Grimaldi was dangerously ill; and o
Monday, as I had promised to attend at th
theatre for him, I called at his residence i'
Exinouth-street, at four o’clock. I found hir
i in bed, and in a dreadful state of debility,
said, “it is impossible you can appear to-night.
To which he replied, “ I will appear.” I presse
him not to think of it, but I found him in
flexible; and, upon my further entreaty, h
exclaimed, “ 111 play to-night, if it costs ro
my life !”—and he was in so weak a state tha
he burst into tears. I then proceeded to th
theatre, leaving Mr. Grimaldi in bed; and b
declared his intention of being at the Weils b
seven o’clock. To the minute he arrived, at
tended by his medical adviser—he dressed—aq
appeared; previous to which, however, Mr. r l
Dibdin had explained his state of health to th
audience. The receipts of the house were uj:
wards of <£lso; and Grimaldi’s reception ws
of the most fi ittering description—so much s<
that poor Joe expressed his acknowledgments i
a flood of tears. After he had finished the pat
assigned to him, I saw him. He was in a hig
state of fever. In fact, his nerves are in ama
distressing state—and he is, at this momen
confined to his bed, in an extremely dangerot
state.
Mr. Grimaldi is one of the many ir
stances of these who promote merrimer
in others, being the victims of a drear
depression. We havo ourselves heard hit
pour forth his lamentations over the pas.
and speak of the Wells, as it erst ha
been, in teims of the most bitter despon*
ency. His pi ©sent state of health forbit
oar hoping or wishing his re appearenc
The agony he endures, lest he should n<
satisfy the expectations of the public, mu
tend to increase his malady, and shorte
his days. His friends should not urge hi
again to perforin—he has done enough-
and may “ sleep with the sunshine of fan
on his slumbers,” without embittering h‘
latter years with wearisome and distrac ,: '
efforts.
* The following passage occurs in No. 115 of
The latler. We now forget where the asser-
tion is made, but we perfectly remember it, that
this Grimaldi, who was a famous singer, was an
ancestor ot our Clown. However, be true that
or false, the character of thi» eminent performer
deserves the extract:—l went on Friday last to
the Opera, and was surprised to find a thin house
at so noble an entertainment, until I heard that
the tumbler was not to make his appearance that
night. For my own part, I was fully satisfied
with the sight of an actor, who, by the grace
and propriety of his action and gesture, does
honor to a human figure, as much as the other
vilifies and degrades it. Every one will easily
imagine I mean Signior Nicolini Grimaldi, who
sets off the charcter he bears in an opera by his
action, as much as he does the words of it by his
voice. Every limb, and every finger contributes
to the part he acts, insomuch that a deaf man
might go along with him in the sense of it.
There is scarcely a beautiful posture in an old
statue which he does not plant himself in, as
the different circumstances of the story give oc-
casion for it. He performs the most ordinary
action in a manner suitable to the greatness of
his character, and shows the prince eyen in the
giving of a letter, or dispatching a message.
Our best actors are somewhat at a loss to sup-
port themselves with proper gesture, as they
move from any considerable distance to the front
of the stage; but I have seen the person of
whom I am now speaking, enter alone at the
remotest part of it, and advance from it with
such greatness of air and mien, as seemed to fill!
the stage, and at the same time commanded the
attention of the audience with the majesty of
his appearance.”— Monday, Jan. 1710,


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. M. T. — Too late for our last.
E. 8., Mcdgee. —Offer gratefully accepted.
O’D.— Forwarded, as intimated.
Q* — In the year 1780, there were voted for the
pub'ic service, 85,000 seamen, 110,000 troops,
and 42,000 militia.
Whip. —Mail Coaches were first established in
1784.
X. Y. Z.— A pugilistic contest took place in i 780,
between Humphreys and Martin, the Bath
Butcher , the fight came off at Newcastle, and
was witnessed by the Prince of Wales, Duke
of York, Duke of Orleans , and most of the
French Nobility at that time in England. A
guinea a ticket was the price of admission,
and some hundreds cheerfully paid it. The
collection was to go to the winner. Between
thirty and forty thousand pounds were spo) ted
on the occasion. After a manly fight of
three-quarters of an hour, Martin intimated
he had had enough .
Pedestrian. — A Mr: Barclay, of Ely, England,
walked ninety miles in twenty-one hours.
H. E., Armidale. —Order attended to.
Publicola. — The celebrated Barrington was
convicted and sentenced to transportation on
the 22nd of September, 1790.
NO CLASSIC.
“ Pars minima est ipsa puella sui.”
The above liae has, strange to say, been re-
ferred to us for translation. We can do no
better than quote a popular passage from a
clever commentator on this line of Ovid :
11 I say, Tom, this erirl’s an out, and outer !”
“Is she ?” quoth Tom I rather r’oubt h r,*’
“ I fear herself’s the smallest part about her.’*
Zimc&
SYDNEY, JULY 15, 1848.
THE COMING ELECTION.
The adherents of the Lamb and Lowe
factions, by their conduct on Monday
evening last, at the School of Arts, have
, completely destroyed what little chance
of success their respective idols might have
possessed before. “ Burking the oppo-
sition ” by physical force was never a
favorite system with the lovers of “ fair
play” ; and as the opponents of Messrs.
Wentworth and Bland refused to hear
them, the natural inference is, that their
opposition has not got very good legs to
stand upon. Very few are the words that
we shall offer to- day, upon a subject which
has been nearly exhausted ; and those
words we shall address to our lady readers.
“ Ladies of Sydney; fair curtain lec-
turers ; we beseech you to remind your
husbands, your brothers, and your lovers,
'■of the real character of those pretensions
which the Lamb and the Lowe set up.
! The naval hero, the Captain of the Stores,
buys up the necessaries which enhance
the comforts of domestic life ; and whilst
he retails them at a “very moderate
. profit,” he tells you that he is the “ friend i
; of the people.” The Cudgee patriot, the;
eloquent apologist for Murder, is shocked
at receiving invitations to Government 1
; House, where “ improper characters are
l admitted ; he is very particular who he
, meels ; and wishes to select the Governor’s
guests,’’
: Surely this delicious pair of exclu-
sives;—the representatives of ‘ bigotry
; and virtue” (to use the language of an
auctioneering patriot) ought to represent
Sydney. iVi r. Duguid will advance many
‘sterling reasons for the Lamb ; Master
j Doak will vouch for the liberal opinions
jof the Lowe.
THE TURF.
|ln taking a retrospective glance at the
racing of the present year one is strangely
perplexed at the general issue of those
(•events which have hitherto characterized
;its progress. There certainly has been anj
unusual activity evinced, both in the me-!
.tropolis and in the sporting districts of the
interior, to improve the interests of the
turf and to unite those interests mere im- '■
! mediately with the interests of the public, 1
(but far from effecting any of those desirable
tchanges which were sought after by agi-
tating agents, to whose efforts they were
[attributable, the alterations so enforced
•have not, by persons qualified to judge,
•been regarded as a desirable reform. The
main feature which specially attracts at
Mention, is unquestionably the principle of I
‘handicapping, a principle which if car-1
tried out in the spirit of its unprejudiced
'advocates, would go far towards meeting
llheviewsof many who still remain dia-
metrically opposed to its introduction.
'The outcry raised by interested parties
(has been strengthened by concurrent evi-
jdence of its so called failure atmore than
|one of the recent meetings ; disaffection
usually requires but little to set its ma-
chinery at motion, and grumbles jump,
to wholesale condemnation of a system,'
■when its theory seems insufficiently un-I
derstood to allow of its practice being'
judiciously resorted to. We admit that;
fatal mistakes have been made during the '
last few months, by handicappers in
weighing horses ; such may be either
owing to absolute incapacity on the part
of the appointed officer, to temporary
oversight, to ignorance of the relative
capacity of the horses, or to wilful per-
version of judgment ; it matters little
which, so that the lessons thus early
taught will lead stewards in future to
submit the charge of that trust to gentle-
men competent to the duty, yet incapable
jot the degradation. At Homebush, the
| Gum with 7st. on on his back, though
wretchedly ridden.absolutely and literally
ran away from one old horse while car-
rying his usual weight. At the Hawkes-
bury, Jorrocks, with 9st. ]2l bs. on him,
| and .giving Walloby 2s. 121 bs. again lost
■the race, and at Muswell Brook, a com-
! mon hack, ( Death,) was allowed shame-
fully to lick two of the best three year
old in the Colony !! (staggering though
|be the fact.) Yes! the winner of the
Great Homebush St Leger by a mock
| handicap was made to succumb to a trot-
ting cob belonging to a resident in that
| flourishing township. Surely this was
not our aim as adhering to the new plan,
I widely different indeed; otherwise, a
| strong brong broken-down Clydesdales
and pensioned off coachers would be
called from their grassy solitudes, to
“ caper nimbly” atunt the '‘youth and
beauty” of the stands. No, —those who
in conjunction with the Editor of this
journal laboured most strenuously to set
afloat the design, were then and st ll are
stancher admirers for bloud—f lood de-
rived from the purest and the loftiest
sources, and, they never desire to ought
beneath a thorough-bred earn for his
owner either plate, purse or sweep. To
this interest we suggest that the handi-
capper should in almost all cases fix his
highest weight as the weight of age, and
reduce as his conclusions dictate—ex. gr.
If in a batch of ten horses the fleetest
happens to be a three year old let three
) ears old weight be put upon him, giving
older nags, with a reduced weight from
their age, an opportunity of keeping
company or of submitting to superior pre-
tentions. Thus breeders will become
more reconciled and the turf will not de-
scend to be an arena whereon shall take
place little better than a periodical ga-
thering of the long eared and shaggy
representatives of Balaam’s loquacious
companion.
Neither does it seem to us desirable
thata handicapping mania should infect the
racing world, to the exclusion of prizes
for two and three years olds and other
ages. ONE decent handicap at a Pro-
vincial meeting is surely sufficient, leav-
ing other portions of the programme open
for whatever the wisdom of the “ cutttrs-
out" may suggest. Before passing from
the question we cannot refrain from call-
ing attention to the fact that handicapping,
although unsuccessful in some cases, has I
in others has proved its desirability by af-
fording excellent racing, brisk betting and
abundant sport ; or that there is good
reason to believe that with the exercise of
moderate care and impartial scrutiny, the
anticipation of those wedded to its doc-
trines will be hereafter fully and satis-
factorily iealized..
Proceeding with a hasty review of
other matters connected with the Racing
of the present year, we can scarcely let
the narrow mindedness of certain dis-
tricts escape observation. In place of
that widely diffused liberality which
should be inseparably linked with the
“ thought word and deed” of a sportsman,
too frequently are we called to bear in-
voluntary witness to cramped provisos and
ungenerous restrictions dictated by
grasping avarice. Paltry local schemes
are brought to bear so that some neigh-
bour or friend, or perhaps partisan, be al-
lowed to tack the Treasury of the Public
funds, and the short-sighted policy will
continue to be pursued to the end of the
chapter, unless more noble sentiments are
implanted by the sporting press or by in-
fluential members of the Turf. Who can
deny that by throwing open the stakes to
the Colony at large and thus inviting men
from all quarters, a considerable outlay
of cash is created, the conciliating mea-
sures are brought to bear to the direct
benefit of the adjoining township, and
though a stranger may proudly boast of
having walked off with one of the head
prizes, he is rarely allowed to do so until
it has been “ pretty considerably”
weeded by those assiduous genii who have
so comfortably housed and fed himself
and retinue during a short sojourn. A
correspondent of the Maitland Me’cury
writing from Dungog, says, “ A meet-
ing was held at the “ Union Inn.’ on the
flth instant, which was numerously at-
tended The limits of the district at last
were settled thus: boundaries—Manning
River to the north ; the sea coast to the
east; the Hunter River from Newcastle to
Hinton, and the Paterson, to the south
and west ; and as there are no bounda-
ries to the north-west that line' could not
be defined. Within the boundaries above
mentioned the owners and their horses are
required to have resided at the time of the
meeting above mentioned, to qualify them
to run at the races.” There may be
some excuse for such stringing in an im-
portant district, but when the larger and
more densely populated portion of the
Colony are imposing circular restrictions,
of the interposition ol those who are de-
sirous of a healthy Turf Reform is loudly
called for. Racing should be regarded
as a national pastime, pleasantly directing
its supporters to the accomplishment of
national advantages; and until it is view-
|ed in this light we fear the local Turf
will frequently present many dark pic-
tures of selfishness, trechery and dis-
honour.
THE RING.
* WOLLOMBI.
On Thursday last the 6th instant, (we
love to be particular in dates), about the
witching hour of night, w hen natures soft
nurse had steeped the senses in forgetful-
ness of a many a toil-worn child of clay,
and when the gentle moon which scarcely
filled her horns, imparted a silvery bril-
liancy to the silvan landscape around,
rendering night and every object upon
which she shone balmy and beautiful;
a clatter that might have awoke the dead,
burst on the drowsy ear of night in the all
portentous accents of fair piety for my
money and summoned half the scarce
clad village nymphs and swains to the
locale of the Governor Gipps Hotel, from
whence such accouuts issued. Indifferent
to every other consideration than a desire
to realize the ambition of the injured,
we speedily responded to his call for fair
play, by cries of ring, ring, into which
our Dutch disciple of Galen hastily en-
tered, and was as speedily followed by
George Marriott, better known under the
soubriquet of the Coventry butcher; but
lest we should inadvertently mislead our
readers into the belief thatthe c»y of “ fair
play for my money” implied a pecuniary
stake upon the issue of the conflict, we
shall briefly take occasion to observe, that
these professional brethren of the vene-
section art, had been previously refresh-
ing the inner man with Macdougall’s
bellipotent schnaps, when the Coventry
Butcher discovered his breeches pocket
‘ minus of the cash he counted” by a
bank cheque for £3, and a pound note,
and hence
THE FIGHT
Round I.—Cautious sparring on both sides
till a feeler from the butcher’s sinoister haltering
ram, skillfully planted over Dutch Sams dexter
ogle, sent him to his mother earth’s embraces—
first blood for the buteher.
2. —Dutch Sam as if invigorated by the sana-
tive aid of his own sal volatile, speedly resumed
the perpendicular, Jand displayed considerable
skill, changing the defensive system as observed
in the first round-—for the offensive, which in
some measure appeared to disconcert the
butcher's design of cross-buttockiog, and who
on receiving auricidar confesssicn from Sam’s
left mawley, went quietly to grass.
3. —The butcher evidently intent on mischief,
let fly 1 2 3 with electric rapidity in line of Sam’s
snorter, which the Dutchman warily eluded by
two adroit stoppages and a temporary congee,
but npon attaining his natural altitude, napped a
fearful stopper to his claret mug aud grassed.
4. —“ Lombard street to a rotten orange,”
was now the order of betting in favour of the
butcher, till the termination of a close rally
(wi hout otherwise apparent advantage to either)
began to manifest symptoms of previous bae-
channalian indulgence on the part of the
butcher, but which it was still expected his ad-
vantage in muscular fibre would have sustained
him against—yet at the same time diminish much
of the sympathies of the spectators for the seem-
ing inequality of the Dutchman in the conflict
both down, Dutch Sam under.
5,6, 7.—But little advantage accrued to either
men at tho termination of those rounds, unless
the predominance of Bacchus over the butcher’s!
prowess may be urged as aecellerating his de-
feat. At the close of the 7th round, Dutch Sam
napped a snorter that but slightly tapped Ills
claret and sent him grazing.
8 and last—The moon now withdrew her
silver fight from the combatants and spectators,
and went to sleep behind a cloud, leaving dark- .
ness alone distinctly visible, when both men;
rushed with impetuous fury to the onslaught; a
concussion resembling an aburtionate earth-
quake, announced both men prostrate, when
cries of “ foul, unnatural, murder,” burst frum
the ring, and induced a babel confusion of ton-
gues amongst the bystanders, to which the village
cur dogs added their canine yelps, and ultimately,
became meet partakers in the general fracus by
the insinuation of thoir dentals into the Achilles
tendons of our respectable townsman Mr. Mick
Byrnes—hut how terminated round the Bth, the
sequel will timous.y disclose.—At this juncture
the traps, under control of district constable
Galway, bearing as appearances would bespeak,
something more resembling a Toongabbee mess-
pot replete with hominy, upon his shoulder, than
an ordinary head and brains—interposed their
relentless authority, and upon relieving the
helpless Coventry ButcUer from his recumbent
position, found his head and hands literally half
eater, off by his opponent in the last struggle for
conquest, to which we have to add a circum-
stance of much deeper discomfirure to poor Mrs.
Marriott in the private injury sustained by her
husband at the hands of his oppenent.
As the victim of the ordinary Justice
long and successfully exercised in our
district. Our butcher now finds a
panacea for his wounds and defeat in the
morbid prison of the district, while his
Gentleman (!) opponent, Mr. James W.
du Monlin, in despite the public voice for
even handed justice, roams unmolested
through the crowd, expatiating largely on
his inure successful struggle with the
Coventry Butcher than with the Welch-
man of yore, Jemmy Smith.
J, S. We have just seen something like
Coventry Butcher in the prison yard, and
will vouch that his own mother could not
recognise him; the whole physiognomy
being blended into one ulcerous mass
from the Batavian dentals of his anta-
gonist, who, Church-hill like, fought
unguibus et rostro et denique morsu.
LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
THEATRICALS.
The late infliction upon weary audiences of
the heaviest specimens oi a heavy school, and
the determined efforts of the Hollises and the
Hambletons of the establishment to intro-
duce the ‘ share-system,’ and so get up a sort
of scramble for honors which generous and
discerning audiences rendered exclusively
for the Hero of the night:—this ‘share and
share alike’ principle, we say, recals to our
recollection an old story wherein John
Povey, the brother of the clever songstress,
figures as the' ‘star.’ Meeting Richard
Hughes in Russell-street, John accosted the
famous contra-puntist:—“ Well, Dick, what
did you think of me in Macbeth last night?”
—“ You ! why I sat out the tragedy, but
deuce take me if I remember seeing you.”—
No ?—well I’m rather surprised at that. I
plajed one oT the leading characters.”—
" Indeed!’’—“ Oh yes; I played the English
general— Kean the Scotch one!’’ Recom-
mending this anecdote to the manager’s
consideration, and suggesting that tragedy
should not be personified by geniuses whose
forte is in spectacles, we will express a wish
that Griff, had a stranger cast in his eye,
when he is drawing bills upon Melpomene,
and that more individuality should be dis-
played than what audiences are now allowed
to appreciate, when they find that Shak-
speare and'Coinpany are merely represented
by Nesbitt and Co. That mighty Vegetable,
the Legitimate Drama, has taken deep root
here, but its very size and vigour have a
tendency to impoverish the earth whereon it
grows, and its present flagging and fading
condition is owing, not to its own decay,
but to the exhaustion of the nutritive cha-
racter of the soil. It is therefore that we
suggest to the management of the Victoria
the expediency of making the said “ Legiti-
mate’’ the “ centre of many stars”(as Byron
hath it) and no longer reserving it for “ one
bl ight particular.” With the valuable aid
of Morton King a round of the most favorite
dramas of the classical school could be per-
formed upon tliis equitable system of al-
ternation which has always succeeded in
England. The favorite Shaksperian heroes
successively represented in turn, by Nesbitt,
King, and Griffiths, would attract attentive
hosts, and, whilst the general casts would be
materially strengthened, the “ critics of the
pit’’ would have the fairest opportunity of
discussing and deciding the merits of their
respective favorites.
We throw out this suggestion, not with
any sanguine hope of its adoption, for it has
long been a besetting sin of the Victoria j
powers to play at "fast and loose,” when
they should play the steady game of “ fast.’’.
Mis. Bushelle, (whose brilliant success be-j
fore one of the most fastidious audiences in !
London, that of Exeter Hall,) is recorded in 1
oil the loading journals which have been re-!
ceived by the last msfils) wets refused a per-
manent engagement here and when she did
appear, the most unpleasant business, (the
walking lady oftarce, nay, even the fairy of
Christinas comic pantomime) was assigned
her! !! How she must rejoice at her happy
release from such a thraldom. Then again
the Ooppins, the most attractive artists that,
in their day, had appeared here, were suf-
fered to depart, to make room for miserable
pretence- Even new we perceive signs of
petty jealousy (which would thwart what it
does not exactly like to turn away) evinced,
where the greatest care should be taken to
prevent dissatisfaction. On Monday last,
tor example, was produced at a very late
hour, when moat of the audience had retired,
one of the most successful farces ever per-
formed here! which, supported as it was by
Rogers. Hydes, and Frank Howson, would
not have done discredit to any company in
London, But approval from the fruit, does
not always secure smiles behind the curtain.
“ A Day Well Spent’’ has disappeared from
the bills, and the zeal of the clever artists
roceives the check of a managerial wet-
blanket! Surely talent in any department
of art is not so rife in this City of Mammon
as to justify the custodians of any temple in
neglecting or supporting it. Let us, there-
fore, hope that these hints offered “ more in
sorrow than in anger,’’ may not be altoge-
ther disregarded by those who profess to be
“ caterers for the public."
As the following confab between a
horsedealer in Pitt-street and a friend of ours
who was purchasing a “prod” elicited a laugh,
it may have the same effect upon some of our
readers:—
Dealer—“ Lud bless you, sir, she is the swee-
test little creetur as I ever saw; she is as gentle
as a little sheep, and as strong as a little lion,
and worth X5OO to any body. 1 calls her
multum in parvo ; in course you know what
that means ?"
Purchaser ( doubtfully ) —“ Ye—e—e—s 1”
Auditor (chiming in) —.*• No ? what is it ?”
Dealer—“ Why, multum in parvo means great
strength in small compass : Pspect it is latin for
nice little cob 3”
Auditor (astonished —“ Oh !”
Dealer—“ Yes, gents, you may rely on ’L.’’
Mr. Lamb. A number of the admirers
<>f th « gentleman met at the Woolloomoolloo
Inn, Mr. Baker’s, on Tuesday evening, for the
purpose of hearing his views on all the great to-
pics connected with the affairs of this Colony.
Mr. Gilchrist presided on the occasion, and ad-
mirably discharged his duties as chairman, by
listening with the most resigned and exemplary
patience to Mr. Lamb’s address, which was ela-
borately profuse on the questions of immigration,
education, and a variety of other inviting mattei s
not emissive of the wonderful and manifold bene-
fits that would accrue to the interests of Sydney if
it should be fortunate enough to have,for its re-
presentative a mercantile man. The committee
were absolutely delighted with the self-compla-
cency and persuasiveness of the worthy candi-
date’s eloquence ; and, after the third round of
“ brandy hot,” assured him, amidst a chorus of
loud and boisterous “hip-hip-hurrah’s” that as
sure as the sun will rise and set on Friday next,
so satisfied were they that he would be placed’
at the head of the poll hv a large and glorious
majority. Mr. Lamb smiled approvingly of the
excellent judgment of his committee, and gene-
rously treated them to another “ round ” of the
real Martell.
Mr. Lowe.—The Melbourne Argus
seems to anticipate that Mr. Lowe wi!l neither
be elected for the boroughs of Auckland and
bt. Vincent, or for Sydney, and therefore sug-
gests the propriety of returning him as a member
for Port Phillip. As the chances of the learned
gentleman sitting either for the city or berou-hs
are small, indeed, it is probable he will take the
hint, and offer his services to the Port Phillip-
ians, who, no doubt, now that the separation of
the two districts are certain, feel anxious to se-
cure Mr. Lowe for their Legislative Council. It
was rumoured yesterday that it is Mr. L's inten-
tion to take a trip to the Southern District by the
steamship Juno.
Dr. Lang.—One of the largest and
most respectable “ congregation ” of ladies and
gentlemen we have ever seen assembled toge-
ther in this city far any wise end took place
at the Scots Church, Church Hill, on Wednesday
evening. Between seven and eight hundred
persons met for the purpose of enjoying a soiree,
the proceeds of which were to form an item in
the fund now being raised for the reverend gen-
tleman as a tribute of the respect of his fellow
colonists for bis arduous and untiring labours in
behalf of the community at large. Nothin''
could exceed the delieiousness of the coffee ; the
tea was excellent; the muffins better; every-
thing, in fact, calculated to incite and please
Several speeches were delivered laudatory of
Dr. Lang’s great service to the colony. It will
bo a source of gratification to the admirers of
the reverend gentleman to learn that the pro-
ceeds of the evening exceeded .£7O. 1
The Police.—lt is understood that Cap-
tain Innes purposes making great changes in
the external appearance of the constabulary
No constable for the future is to sport whiskers:
and the necessity of wearing shirts is to be dis-
pensed with altogether, as an order has been
issued that no linen, either in the shape of shirt-
collar or wrist-band, is to be worn. This will
effect a considerable saving to the force, the
more particularly if a war should take place,—as
the price of calico and soap is expected to in-
crease very, considerably. In those bellicose
times we think it would add very much to the
martial air of our police if they were ordered to
cultivate huge moustache’s and imperials as in
case of an invasion by the French, the very
sight of such a body of men would strike terror
into the hearts of the enemy.
Cricksr.—A single wicket match took
place on Wednesday last upon the Race Course
between a favorite player of the Australian
school (Mr. George Wyer) and a Mr. Hydes,
an American, and a member of the sopk and
buskin corps belonging to the Royal Victoria.
Some excitement was manifested amongst the
lovers of this manly game owing to a large
circle being ti terry nuts upon the Native; the
result was not, however, in accordance with
their predilections, Mr. Wyer in his first innings
having got one ball over and three notches lost
his wicket; his competitor having went in and
scored six with a similar fate. Mr. Wyer’s
second innings but added one to his previous
score, when he was caught out. Mr. Hydes’
style of bowling was much admired.
Starving a Stockman.— A stockman
named James Dominick, brought his employer
Mr James Kavaoagh, from Bullum Bullum
mountains, before the Port Phillip Bench, for
not supplying him with his regular allowance of
rations. The man had been left to keep a hut
and look after the cattle on the run, but with
only the miserable rations of tea, sugar, and
flour ; in consequence of which he was obliged
to beg meat from parties living at a distance of
seven or eight miles from his hut. The Bench
cancelled the man’s agreement with his em-
ployer, awarding the payment of wages due.
Why did they not denounce the employer for
his barbarous treatment of his servant.
Paineul Case.—Why would a martyr
naturally preier being burnt to being beheaded ?
’Cos a hot steak (stake) is preferable to a cold
chop.
Two of a Trade.—Messrs. George Ro-
bert Nichols and Patrick Grant will embark on
board the Rose steamer this evening en route to
the Hunter, Pattison has taken on board an
extra supply of Eau de vie in order that the ri-
val candidates may partake largely of 6pirituui
consolation during the trip.
“ I think/’ said a worthy young and
smart attorney, “ I should make a good M. C. if
elected, for I already use the language of the
House, —for instance, I received two biils the 1
other day, with a request for immediate pay-
ment, — the one I ordered to be laid on the ta-
ble,—the other to be read that day six months.**
SINCLAIR AND SPARKES.
We can have no hesitation in stating that
Bill Sparkos has proved himself both a
designing liar, a pitiful knave, and a gross
impostor. His assertions and counter-as-
sertions—his pretended confessions and
apologies, together with every circumstance
connected with the recent fight, shall appear
in our next; and are only now postponed to
make room for the press of European, Elec-
tioneering, and Advertising matter, with
which our columns are crowded.
CITY COUNCIL.
An adjourned meeting of the City Council
was held on Thursday last.
The Town Clerk laid on the Table a return
of the fines due to the Corporation by members
of the City Council and others.
A letter-from the City Surveyor was read,
requesting information as to the mode of com-
munication with the Surveyor General.
Councillor Jenkins informed the Council that
the obstruction in Bourke-street had on that day
been removed.
The Town Clerk read a letter from the City
Surveyor, on the subject of an overcharge of
£'2 10s. paid by Mr. Jenkins as a building fee
on the Fitz Roy Hotel. On the motion of Alder-
man Allen, the overcharge was ordered to be
refunded to Mr. Jenkins.
A letter from the City Surveyor, relative to
the repairs of the George-street markets, was
referred to the Improvement Committee for
their report thereon.
A letter from Mr. Thomas Barker, objecting
to the payment of 4.'20 charged by the Corpo-
ration for water, was taken into consideration ;
and on the motion of Alderman Thurlow, the
Mayor was requested to instruct the City Solici-
tor to take all necessary steps for the recovery
of the amount.
The report of the Water Committee recom-
mending the acceptance of Mr. Struth’s tender
for water pipes to Millers’ Point was adopted,
and it was agreed that the work should be car-
ried on under the superintendence of the Water
Committee, with authority to make the payments
to the contractor as they fall due.
The report of the Water Committee recom-
mending the laying down of water pipes in Hun-
ter-street, and the report of the Improvement
Committee recommending the repair of Cook’s
River Road near Parramatta-street, were seve-
rally adapted.
It was ordered that the “ Daily Advertiser ”
should be tiled in the office of the Town Clerk.
The letter of the City Solicitor, reenacting
the pending actio .8 of Jenkins and Alexander
against ihe Corporation, was, after a lengthy
discussion, referred to a Select Committee.
The letter of the City Surveyor, relative to
posts required for marking out the alignment of
proclaimed streets, was referred to the Improve-
ment Committee.
The Council adjourned till Monday.
On .Monday the Council met pursuant te ad-
journment.
The following reports from the Water Com-
mittee were received—l. Recommending that
a threo inch pipe be laid along the west side of
George-street to Liverpool-street, and that ten-
ders be invited for a supply of the pipes.
2. Recommending the erection of nine additional
water fountains: —namely, one at the south-west
side of Goulburn and Sussex-streets; one at
Millers Point, on Windmill Road, between Clyde
and Wentworth-streets; one at the north-west
corner ot Margaret place and Kent-street; one
at the south-east corner of lirougbam place;
one at the corner of Pitt and Bathurst-streets ;
one at Durand’s alley, Pitt-street; one at the
corner of Parramatta-street and Abercrombie
places one in Elizabeth-street south, near the
Cheshire Cheese ; and one at the corner of Lit-
tle Hunter and Little George-streets. 3. On the
subject of the special contract with Mr. Tooth,
and recommending that he be charged at the
rate of .£lOO per annum until the 30th ultimo,
and then be allowed to give it up.
Mr. Titterton presented a petition from Mrs.
Elizabeth Shelly, of Millers Point, praying the
removal of the bathing house, which was an ob-
struction. Received.
The payment of rent due for the Town Hall,
and of an account due to the City Solicitor, was
ordered.
The Northumberland Boroughs. —The
Maitland Mercury , in reviewing the claims of
the various candidates who are soliciting the
support of the electors of the Northern Boroughs,
signifies its gracious approval of Mr. P. Grant’s
past services, but at the same time ‘ hints at
faults, and hesitates dislike’ in a style peculiar
to itself. “ Glorious Bob Nicholls is the man for
Mercury, at which we are by no means sur-
prised ; but whether he will be the man for the
important constituency so ably represented by
Mr. Grant, we doubt exceedingly. The latter
gentleman initiated several highly important
measures during his Legislative career—and
was successful in all save one, namely, the
moving an Address to the Governor Prefer-
ence to the unprotected state of Port Jackson.
This motion was negatived through the instru-
mentality of Lieut. Lamb, 1L N., who pledged
his professional reputation that “ war in Europe”
was a mere childish chimera. The Council
sided with the peaceful Lamb; and deciding a
to be a bore, they agreed to
the «previous question,’ and the predictions of
the honorable member for the Northern Bo-
roughs were thrown to the winds In vain were
Mr. Grant’t warnings; in vain was his attempt,
in farcical rhyme, to paint the true features of
our unprotected position :
“We are so lanient we’ve left convanient
The entrance like an open gate;
The heads make a triangle which the foo might
mangle,
But they alone are left in the natural state.
The Pigs and Sow too can’t say bow-wow to
The laste little sloop ol an innemy’s flate.
The island of Pinchgut we’ve inch by inch cut,
And powder’d it into the say so salt,
So that without flattery it can’t stand a battery,
Nor even endure a common assault.”
All in vain ! The apathetic Council thought
war far distant, and refused to hearken to Mr*
Grant’s trumpet-call. Of course he, and not
the Council, is to blame ; and (also, of course,)
in the matters where his measures have been
successful—the abolition of the Coal monopoly,
and the removal of the Sydney Slaughter-
houses, for example—with the Council, not with
him rests the praise ! Oh, upright Mercury !
Oh, righteous Daniel Jones ! [in another
column will he found Mr. Grant’s own reply
to his consistent opponent ]
WillofSir G. Gipps.—Sir G eorge Gipps,
late Governor of New South Wales, died pos-
sessed of funded and personal property, within
the province of Canterbury, amounting to
.£25,000. He made his will whilst at the Go-
vernment House, Sydney, on the 6th of July,
1846. The will was entirely in his own hand-
writing, and after giving the following legacies
to his appointed executors, H. W Parker, Esq.,
of Parramatta; and G. M. Taswell, Esq., of the
City of Canterbury, his brother-in-law, each
£lOO ; also £lOO to his nephew, George Bather,
Esq., of New South Wales, and a like sum to his
faithful servant, Jane Newport, who was with
him at Sydney, and came over with him to
England—he leaves to his wife Lady Gipps, for
her absolute use and without any reserve, every-
thing else over which by a testamentary instru-
ment he had a power of disposal, whether in
England, France, the United States, New South
Wales, Van Diemen’s Land, or elsewhere. Lady
Gipps alone proved the will in the Prerogative
Court in London, a power being reserved to the
other executors.— Sydney Herald.
Fashionable Departures.—Paddy Sin-
clair left town last evening on a tour through
j the Hawkesbury and Kurrajong. His noftship
, was attended by an aid de camp (Solley Reuben)
and Private Secretary (Jackey Simons.)
I Appointments. His Excellency the
(Governor has appointed Mr. Frederick D’Arcy,
, to be Clerk of Petty Sessions at Wagga Wagga;
and Mr. Samuel Evans, to be chief Constable at
j Molong.
Production and Manufacture of Silk.
—We are happy to learn that His Excellency
the Governor has tendered his support as well
as patronage, for the purpose of carrying out the
views of the Committee appointed at the late
public meeting, to collect subscriptions for es-
tablishing a Silk Institution in the neighbour-
hood of Sydney. The Committee feel that they
have not an easy task to perform : but with as-
sistance from the ladies, and their guineas or half
guineas, there need be little fear that the required
amount will be soon gathered in. The ladies
should bear in mind that they are the largest
consumers of silken fabrics; and by the estab-
lishment of a Silk Institution in this colony, they
may rest assured that at no very distant day,
they will be able to purchase “home made,” at
a much cheaper rate, than what they now have
to pay for “imported** materials of dress.
The ladies, too, should recollect that nearly
all the articles of dress worn by them are grown
and manufactured in another country. Will
they longer suffer themselves to be outdone by
the male portion of the inhabitants of this colony,
who at the present time may be decently clad in
garments grown and manufactured in the colony?
England, fair readers, expects that every man
will do his duty to his country. And it is ex-
pected that every lady in this colony will do
her’s, and come forward to the assistance of
the gentlemen who have undertaken to solicit
subscriptions ; and with their “ smiles, cash, and
interest,” be instrumental in a great measure, in
opening out a new field of employment to hun-
dreds of the female youth now living and
eating the bread of idleness, in and around the
city.— Australian.
The last case of American modesty is,
that of a lady when discarded her lover, a sea-
captain, because in speaking of one of his
voyages, he hugged the shore.
What saying would be most consoling
to a sinner frying in Hades ? That “he might
go further and fare worse.”
Sconce’s Last. —‘‘ Why is Lamb the
Monopolist like David the Psalmist ?” Cos his
motto’s “ In TE speravi .”
POLICE OFFICE, GEORGE-STREET.
Wednesday, July 20.
James Collins, a kind of strolling contractor,
who undertakes to do any thing and every thing
from the purchase of a needle to an anchor, at
an infinitersmal premium, was brought into
the magisterial presence of the Mayor for hav-
ing grossly insulted Mr. Henry Vaughan, tailor
and hatter, York-street, on Tuesday afternoon,
by threatening to inflict personal chastisement
on him with his mawleys. As Mr. V. did not
wish to press the charge against the prisoner if
he promised good behaviour for the future, he
was liberated on paying the costs.
Insultino a Govehnment Official. A
sailor-looking fellow, named Hugh Gaynor,
stood charged with gross misconduct by word
and deed in the public streets, to the great in-
dignation of Constable Ekins. Gaynor. it ap-
pears, is one of that detestable class of ruffians
who eke out their living by acting the part of
bullies and robbers in a certain class of infa-
mous houses in Sydney. Between two and three
o’clock on this morning he was in the centre of
a bevy of dissolute females in Pitt-street, with
whom he was creating such disturbance as to
frighten the neighbourhood from its propriety.
He stoutly denied the charge, and alleged in his
defence that he was merely ela'ming Jtl which
one of the women had eased him of in the early
part of the night. He also represented himself
te be a person of respectable habits, and that he
was in the employ of Mr. Boyd, Church Hill, in
taking cattle for him to New Zealand. The
nasty alternative of finding two friends to be-
come sureties for his orderly conduct iu Jt2s
each, himself ,£5O, was allowed him.
DispnDEm.iEs. —Sarah Perry, in the course of
her perambulations through Sydney on Tues-
day, felt tempted to treat herself to a glass of
colonial wet at every public-house she came to.
The consequence was, that she was visited by an
attack of the “ megrims,” and such a rapidity
of tongue that she could neither control its
movements or make any distinction in the lan-
guage which it uttered, some of which was ex-
ceedingly smutty. She admitted having taken
a, drop too free,” a practice she never indulged
in but w>een out on errands for her mistress.
Bound to her good behaviour. One Catherine
Graham, a constautgaol bird, received a week’s
imprisonment under the Vagrant Act for similar
indecorous freaks.
An Unruly Apprentice. —A stubborn-look-
ing urchin, named Charles Hawkins, was brought
before the Bench for having taken French leave
of his master, Mr. Marshall, brassfounder, Sus-
sex-street, and hied himself off to Maitland.
Marshall represented that for the two first years
of his apprenticeship the lad conducted himself
very well; but that on his return from the
Hunter, where he had been allowed to go and
pass a short time with a companion, he became
a most incorrigible and destructive young rascal,
neglecting his business, and frequently injuring
and selling the property left in his care. At
last he bolted. Hawkins blubbered out some-
thing about his master treating him to sundry
kicks and cuffs whenever he happened to come
home “glorious;” but this not being a justifi-
cation of his misconduct, he was sent to gaol for
three days, to be there fed on bread and water
and then returned to his beloved master.
Charge op Assault. —Daniel Gallagher, a
publican, appeared on bail to answer the charge
of a knight of the thimble and scissors, Mr.
John Reedy, a mender of old trowsers, Prince-
street, for having struck him a violent blow over
his dexter eye. on Monday afternoon. Mr. Reedy
alleged in his information, and declared upon
oath in the Court, that the defendant, without
the slightest provocation whatever, assaulted
him in the manner complained of in Mr. Hooper’s
public-house, Lower George-street, where he
(complainant) was drinking with two friends.
In answer to the Bench, Reedy stated that on
his entering Hooper’s house ho saw the prisoner
there rather “ heavy,’* and that the Utter taxed
him with having said in a sale-room about nine
months age that he would crush into smithereens
the great toe of his Holiness the Pope, if he
could but get it snug under his Blucher, and
that he “ had it in for him” ever since. Without
wailing for an answer, Gallagher let fly his fist,
and drew sparks frym his (Reedy’s) eye. Two
witnesses were examined for the complainant,
who deposed to having heard angry words be-
| tween the parties, winding up in a mutual scrim-
mage, but as to who struck the first blow depo-
nents could not say. Captain Junes in loud
terms denounced every thing in the way of a
display of party feelings in this community, and
dismissed the case.
Pat and the Magistrate —A Patlander with
a pole as red as the Red Lion near the Toll-bar,
and rendered still more rubicund by a copious
discharge of blood which oozed through a dirty
rag tied over a recent wound on his scalp, ap-
plied to Captain Innes for a warrant, when the
following dialogue took place:
Magistrate—Well, Pat, (for his countenance
operated as a kind of finger-post indicating the
“ sod’* whence he came,) what do you want ?
I*at—l’d be wanting a warrant, your Wor.
ship.
Magistrate—Against whom ?
Pat—Agen Barney O’Leary, please your re-
verance.
Magistrate—For what!
Pat—For murther. your grace.
Magistrate—Whom did he murder J
I J at—Murther ! Och, the divil a creature but
myself, your Excellency.
Magistrate—lndeed! Has he really been
guilty of that ?
Pat—By my sowl he has ! bad luck to him.
He has made a hole in my napper big enough to
bury a cat in.
Magistrate—He has not killed you outright I
see.
Pat—Och, sure it isn’t his fault that he hasn’t,
for he intended it, and nothin surer.
Magistrate—l suppose an assault warrant will
suit you ! When did he assault you !
Pat—He assaulted me last night, about two
o’clock this morning, your highness.
Magistrate—Did he strike you with a stick !
Pat—No, my lord; it was a small taste of a
poker.
Magistrate—A poker ! What a dreadful mur-
dorous weapon.
Pat—Arrab, sure your holiness, it is indeed,
indeed. ’
Magistrate—Where were you when this hap-
pened ? r
Pat—Where was I ? sure I was in bed.
Magistrate—Asleep or awake !
Pat—As sound as a roach, your honor.
Magistrate—What provocation had you giren
him ? °
Pat—Divil a provocation at all, at all. How
could I, when I was dead drunk asleep !
Magistrate—What! do pou mean to say that
he came to your bed-side, and struck you in
this dreadful manner without cause ?
Pat—Yes, your mightiness : barring he camo
to his owu bed-side instead of mine.
Magistrate—His own bed side ? Were you
in his bed ? J
Pat—Faith, you have guessed it, your rive-
rence.
Magistrate—What brought you there !
Pat—That’s more than I can tell, your honor
barring it was the liquor.
Magistrate—Was this all you did to provoke
his anger ?
Pat—Divil a thing else.
Magistrate—Was there any other person
present !
Paf—Not a creature, independent of his wife,
that was in bed with me, your grace.
Magistrate—His wile ! were you in bed with
his wile !
Pa t“l n course I was, your worship.
Magistrate And don’t you think you de-
served what you got ?
. Pat me • Not I, indeed : it was all a
mistake.
Magistrate— A mistake ?
Pat ~“* ea > * thought it was my own wife in
the dark. 1 went into the room in a mistake.
Magistrate Well, I hope you committed no
other mistake $ you must be careful in future.
I cannot grant you a warrant.
Pat-—Thank your Majesty : if he hits me
shall go *for something. Be my sowl,
I will give him a crack that will knock him into
the middle of next week. So, an illigant good
day to your mightiness.
Pulling up his unmentionables, Pat hopped off
iu a real Irish trot.
It turned out that Paddy went into the bed
unconscious of where he was, till Barney gave
him a gentle hint with the poker: fortunately
his skull was thick enough to resist the intended
finisher. Barney’s sleeping beauty was awoke
by the shock, and gave her tender assistance in
larrupping the intruder out of the bed of her
lord and master.
HuiHWAy Robbery. —Thomas King, alias
Chapman, and Emma Collins, a woman of the
town, were committed to take their trial on the
above charge, King, for having committed the
offence, and the woman as an accessory. It ap-
peared in evidence that on Sunday night,
between 10 and 11 o’clock, two men named
Joseph and Remraington were in York street,
when the prisoner and three other ruffians came
up to them. King administered a blow to
Joseph which felled him to the ground, and
another of his pals knocked down Remraington.
Joseph was robbed of about twenty-five shillings
in silver—King, with the assistance of his com-
panion, having cut off his trousers pocket; and
Remmington was eased of some seven or eight
shilling.* The charge was fully established
against King and his associate who, it appeared,
instigated him to the ac*. His accomplies have
not been as yet apprehended. This King ob-
tained a small share of notoriety in the P. R.
lately from his having beaten Ike Sparkes after a
long and well contested mill—and if he con-
ducted himself with honesty and propriety,
would no doubt have met with encouragement
and patronage. He has, however, “ cooked his
own goose” now : and we are glad that the Ring
cannot be contaminated by such an unworthy
and unprincipled blackguard.
A Street Row. —Two herculean boors,
named Peter Rooney and John Ryan, were com-
mitted on Thursday to take their trial for having
assaulted Inspector Pearce in the execution of
his duty. Those ruffians, while ia a state of in-
toxication, were actiug in such an outrageous
manner in Market-street, by endeavouring to
force their way into Mrs. Green’s public house,
that Pearce felt called upou to interfere. Instead
however, of listening to his remonstrance, they
assailed him in a brutal manner, kicked and cuff-
ed him, and tore his waistcoat, shirt, &c., into
ribbons. After much ado he succeeded in hav-
ing them lodged in the watch house. The pri-
soners were admitted to bail, themselves in .£BO
and two sureties of .£4O each, and also bound to
good behaviour in a similar amount, twenty-four
hours'* notice to be given of their sureties.
MULTUM IN PARVO.
Tile barque Equestrian, arrived from Ply-
mouth on Sunday, haring on board 277 immi-
grants, consisting of 48 married couples, 48
single men, 49 single women, 72 children, from
one to fourteen years of age, and 12 infanta.
One adult and six children died during the pas-
sage. Several of the immigrants were forwarded
to Maitland, per the steamer Thistle, on Monday
evening.—The eargo of the barque Blair, which
cleared out on Monday, for London, consists of
826 bales wool, 317 casks tallow, 14 bundles
whalebone, 3 cases tortoiseshell, 7 bales metal,
125 tons copper ore, 69 bales leather, and 2
packages copper; and that of the schooner
Antares, for the Mauritius, of 401 casks beef, 4
casks and 17 kegs tongue, 15 casks tallow.—The
whaling barque Lady Blackwood, which left
Sydney In March 1847, returned on Monday
with 850 barrels sperm oil.—The City Council
met on Monday, more for the purpose of looking
at each other, than transacting business The
house of a person named VV ilkinson, on the
Strawberry Ilill, was burglariously entered on
Sunday morning, and os. Bd. stolen from it
Sir George Gipps, late Governor of this Colony,
died possessed of funded and personal property,
within the province of Canterbury amounting
to ,£23,000. The great bulk of his property he
bequeathed to Lady Gipps.—A man named
Macqueen, messenger to the club house, sus-
tained severe injuries from his havin r fallen
between the fore and hind wheel of the Penrith
mail, as it was leaving the Post Office, George-
street. The wheel passed over his body and
head, crushing a portion of the frontal bone.
He lies dangerously ill at the Infirmary.
An English Jury. — At atrial in Sudbury,
England, in 1791, the Jury not being able to
agree, and oppressed by hunger, broke open the
door and went home.
A Hint to Electors. —In 1803 an elector of
Durham was convicted in a penalty of j£500 fop
receiving a bribe for his vote,—and in the suc-
ceeding year, two persons were sentenced to
twelve months imprisonment for bribery at an
election.
There were 865 bankruptcies in England in
1806.
Coke upon Littleton.— One Mr. Coke, an.
attorney jn the Temple, romping with his laun-
dress, it happened that they had a fall. Mr. C.
falling uppermost.—Bob Dallas and a gent, who
chanced then to come in, seeing them in this
situation, the gent, asked the justice what he
thought of this sight; — Dallas, who knew the
parties, replied that “ it was the best edition of
Coke upon Littleton he had ever remembered to
have seen.
A Friendly Invitation. —Come in out of the
wet, as the shark said to the nigger.
After you, as the kettle said to the dog’s tail.
SHEEP AND CATTLE SALES.
S H E E P.
Hosking.', 764, 7s. each, 651b8., Hill and Argent
Sullivan, 460, 6s. each, 521b5., Blakney
Grant, 800, 7s, lOd. each, 581bs„ Richards
CATTLE.
Josephson. 100 head, £2 10s. 7001b5., Hill and
Argent
Walker, 74 head, £2 Bs, 6501 bi., Stanfisld and
Blakney
Ether, 100 head, £2 25., 6Solbs., Raper and
Merritt
Stockman, 16 head, £2 165., 8001 bi», Richard#


GALLERY OF COMICALITIES.
No. 111.
The above is intended to represent one of the
Lono-bow gentry, who specially shoot their
envenomed darts from their retreats, and which
we do or do not intend to continue, or to
leave alone, exactly as the humour strikes us
of following up or abandoning the notion we
have started. The subject of our Portrait,
which is certainly the first, and perhaps the last
-of our series, is the celebrated *****
favorite attitude of pulling the long bow, an
attitude he always assumes when engaged in
writing for publication.
EPIGRAM.
It is a maxim in the schools
That woman always dotes on fools
If so, dear Jack, I’m sure your wife
Must love you as she does her life.
DROPS OF COMFORT GENERALLY
ADMINISTERED RY FRIENDS.
Having your health proposed at the age of
forty, as a “promising young man.”
Reading a newspaper, on a railway, containing
an account of “ five-and-twenty lives lost” only
the day before.
Loosing a heavy sura at cards, and all your
friends wondering how you could have been
41 such a fool.”
Putting on a white neckcloth, which you fancy
becomes you, and being hailed all the evening as
** waiter."
Publishing a novel, which does not sell, and
reading in a review—“ This work is equal to
anything of Ainsworth’s.**
Breaking down before ladies in the middle of
m song, and a wag calling out 44 Encore ”
Losing your latch-key, and wife and mother-
in-law both silting up for you.
Having your gig nearly upset by an omnibus,
and being abused by the conductor for not seeing
* vere ye’re coming to/*
THE GEORGES.
As the statues of these beloved Monarchs are
=to be put up in the Parliament palace—we have
been favoured by a young lady (connected with
Ttoyalty) with copies of the inscriptions which
are to be engraven under the images of those
£tars of Brunswick.
ORORQE THE FIRST—STAB OF BRUNSWICK.
He preferred Hanover to England,
He preferred two hideous Mistresses
To a beautiful and innocent Wife.
He hated Arts and despised Literature;
But he liked train-oil in his salads,
And gave an enlightened patronage to bad
oysters.
And he had Walpole as a Minister :
Consistent in his Preference for every kind of
Corruption.
6EORUK H.
In most things I did as my father had done,
I was false to my wife and I hated my son:
My spending was small and my avarice much,
My kingdom was English, my heart was High
Dutch :
At Dettingen fight 1 was known not to blench,
I butchered the Scotch, and I bearded the
French:
I neither had morals, nor manners, nor wit;
I wasn’t much missed when 1 died in a fit.
Here set up my statue, and make it complete—
With Pitt on his knees at ray dirty old feet.
GEORGE 111.
Give roe a royal niche—it is my due,
The virtuousest King the realm e’er knew.
I, through a decent reputable life,
Was constant to plain food and a plain wife.
Ireland I risked, and lost America;
But dined on legs of mutton every day.
My brain, perhaps might be a feeble part; _
But yet 1 think I had an English heart.
When all the kings were prostrate, I alone
Stood face to face against Napoleon,
Nor never could the ruthless Frenchman forge
A fetter for Old England and Old George :
I let loose flaming Nelson on his fleets;
I met his troops with Wellesley’s bayonets.
Triumphant waved my flag on land and sea:
Where was the King in Europe like to me !
Monarchs exiled found shelter on my shores;
My bounty rescued Kings and Empit rs.
But what boots victory by land or sea !
What boots that Kings found refuge at my
knee !
I was a conqueror, but yet not proud ;
And careless, even though Napoleon bow’d.
The came to kiss my garments
hem;
The rescued Kings I never heeded them.
My guns roar’d triumph, but I never heard :
All England thrilled with joy, I never stirred
What care had I of pomp, or fame, or powers—
A crazy old blind man in Windsor Tower ?
OBOROIUS ULTIMUS.
He left an example tor age and for youth
To avoid.
He never acted well by Man or Woman,
And was as false to his Mistress as to his Wife.
lie deserted his Friends and his Principles.
He was so Ignorant that he could scarcely Spell;
** some Skill in Cutting ont Coats,
tt l an Taste for Cookery.
He built the Palaces of Brighton and of Buck-
ingham.
And for these Qualities and Proofs of Genius,
4 n admiring Aristocracy
Christened him the " First Gentleman in Europe.”
Friends, respect the King whose Statue is here,
And the generous Aristocracy who admired him.
Advantages of EMiGRATioN--The Gee-
long papers inform us that “ thirty out of thirty-
nine single women who arrived by the Adelaide
were asked in Church before the ship had been
three to eekt in port!”
Blow your nose Tommy, said an indulgent
aunt to her nephew ! X am always a blowin’ it
•Md Tommy, it wont keep blowed
THE LIES OF GLORY.
. Within the past few months, a placard, of which
the subjoined is a copy, has been posted on the
walls of Manchester. Mars—that impudent
bully—never lied with a bolder front:
GLORY AND PRIZE-MONEY.!!!
Wanted. —A few Young Men, of good cha-
racter. The following
FACTS
show the advantage held out by this Corps only,
rendering it the most desirable under the Crown,
for Young Men of spirit and enterprise who are
SURE OF PROMOTION.
The Royal Marine Soldier frequently makes
His Fortune by Prime-Money ! ! !
Is not harassed with long marches, and is sup-
plied with plenty of the Queen’s Provisions;
consisting ol
GOOD ROAST-BEEF & PLUM-PUDDING !!
And, as good eating requires good drinking,
every Man is served with
A PINT OF GOOD WINE
Daily, or an equivalent portion of Spirits ; with
Chocolate, Tea, &c., &c.
In the mean time his Pay is going on, and he
returns to his Friends, on furlough, after an ab-
sence which rarely exceeds three years, with his
pocket
FULL OF GOLD ;
Securing, while in his prime, a
PENSION EOR LIFE!
These are truths which will be vouched for by
any one acquainted with the Corps, and, being
known, what high-spirited lad will, for a moment,
hesitate when
INDEPENDENCE, HONOUR, AND WEALTH
thus invite him !
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN!
It is sometimes a touching scene in our
criminal courts, when the awful judge—wigged
and ermined, and with a tremendous weight of
wisdom on his brow—catechises a little child.
“Do you know,” thus asks that solemn man;
“doyou know the punishment for those who tell
a lie !” Whereupon, if the well-educated infant
confidently chirps in answer,—“ they are in
danger or hell-fire,” —the judge, with a benefi-
cient look, orders the child to be sworn. If, on
the other hand, the desolate little wretch is
wholly ignorant of the appalling penalty threat-
ening an untruth, the judge looks very sad in-
deed at the forlornness of humanity, and it may
be, with a withering rebuke of the parents of the
infant, commands it to stand down. So wicked
is a lie—so siuful the enunciation of the thing
that is not.
And yet, reader, having possessed yourself of
the above placard, you must feel that lying—
stout, bold, brazen-cheeked lying—is deemed an
indispensable agent for the State. The scoundrel
vice is invested with the bright halo erf authority.
Indeed, looking at the above, and duly consider-
ing its purpose, we can hardly believe that cer-
tain authorities do not conceive a good bouncing
lie to be among the brightest jewels of the crown.
What a pretty thing is what is often called glory,
when its purveyor, the recruiting-serjeant, must
be an incarnate falsehood.
“ A few young men, of good character !” We
see them, poor victims! after even a month’s
drilling, filed on the deck. How certain they
look of preferment! How the rattan, at inter-
vals, coming down upon their shoulders, legs,
and knuckles, convinces them that they are
“ sure of promotiou”! How confident they feel,
even when without a farthing, that they will
nevertheless “ make their fortunes;” they have,
to be sure, empty pockets, but they will be
“ full of gold.” And then, when they retire to
their hammocks, what sweet, sustaining visions
of the night show to them their mature life, ele-
vated and enriched by “ independence, honour,
and wealth,” albeit the boatswain” wakes them
to the monotonous drudgery of military discip-
line, with, it may happen, an occasional visitation
of the “ cat.”
And this tissue of falsehood is fringed with
the patriotic prayer—“ Hod Save the Queen.”
Sweet lady ! Surely she is sometimes to be
pitied for the atrocious untruths, whether she
will or not, she is made to countenance.
PAGE’S RIVER RACES.
These races came off on the 11th, 12th, and
13th instant. Notwithstanding the unfavour-
able appearance of the weather in the early part
of the first day, the beautiful and romantic
valley of the Page resumed its splendour before
the races began, which were attended by a
good sprinkling of right true sportsmen, and as
fine a sample of the fair Jsex as the colony may
proudly boast of. The course, which was very
heavy from the late rains, is a new one, and
selected with great judgement, the straight run-
ning being along the the banks of the river
Page,
The Page s River Town Plate of X2O for all
horses, carrying weight for age; heats, twice
rouud
Mr. Butts nr. gr c. Snake, by Scratch, 3
years, 9st J j
Mr. Ledge’s br. g. Death, by Satan, aged.
list. 41b 3 2
Mr. Wightraan’s b c. Cannon ball, by
Cannon Kail, 3 years, 9st 2 3
Mr. Hayden’s gr. m. Blanche, by Veloci-
pede aged, list. 41b
The first heat of this race was beautifully con-
tested ; Cannon Ball jumped off with the lead,
followed by Snake, the grey mare in the wake,
“ Old Nick’s” progeny intending to do mischief
in the after part of the race ; at the stock yard
the second time round Snake collared Cannon
Ball, when a beautiful race ensued, the former
winning, and the latter making a first-rate
second.
In the second heat Snake took tire lead, with
Death on his quarter, and Cannon Ball in the
rear, and in this position they continued until
the finish, Snake winning by about two lengths.
The Maiden Plate of .£l5, for all horses that
have never won a public prize; weight for age ;
heats, once round and a distance.
Mr. Parson’s b g. Favorite, by Bugler,
3 years, Bst 111 b 3 11
Mr. Evans’s bl g. Jerry Sneak, by f #
IJery Sneak, 5 years, lOst. 91b. J .£2 2
Mr. Butts’s b.c. Sir Charles, by 1
Hary Lorreque, 3 years, 9st. L £ 5 0
Mr. Martyn’s bl. g. Steeltrap, by
Steeltrap, aged, list 41b 5 3 3
Mr. Haydon’s ch.c. Priam, by Sports-
man, 2 years, Bst 4 4 0
The above race was as beautiful a one as
could well be imagined. In the first heat, after
a false start, all the horses got away in beauti-
ful style, Sir Charles leading, Jerry holding
hard, and the pace being tremendous; at the
straight running a severe struggle ensued, Sir
Charles and Jerry making a dead heat of it, the
rest of the horses well up. In the second heat
Favorite went away with the lead, a little in
advance of the others, who all lay together a
great part of the way, and might truly have
been covered with a sheet; Favorite won the
heat with difficulty, by about half a head. The
third heat was prettily contested for by the
little horse, but the weight proved too much for
him.
The Hurry Scurry Stakes of .£lO, for bona
fide hacks that have never won an advertised
prize to the amount of sglO; weight forage;
heats, once round and a distance.
Mr. Herrig’s b.g. Rainbow, by Cap-a-pie,
8 years, Bst 111 b 1 1
Mr. Haydon’s ch.m. Alice Gray, by High-
flyer, 5 years, lOst 91b 2 2
Mr. Jackson’s b.g Rockwood, by Dare
Devil, aged, list. 41b.., 3 3
Mr. Martyn’s bl. g. Steeltrap, by Steel-
trap, aged list. 41b 4 4
Both heats won easy.
Second Dav.
Amongst other matches set down for the
arausemant of the day, was one between Mr.
Wrightman’s Rob Roy, and Mr. Ellis’s Billy
Barlow; the latter after running a dead heat
took the stake.
At 12 o'clock the fox hounds, with a tolerable
field, met and threw off, Dingo going away at a
slashing rate, according to the Tipperary boy’s
statement who loosed her from the bag, that he
raaly believed she was half a mile away be-
fore she was released,” however, after a very
sharp run of a few miles, over some very rough
ground, Dingo went to the earth in the Wallaby
tock, and could not be dislodged.
The sports of the day were wound up by the
extraordinary feats of the Ladies’ Walking
Flying Pieman.
Third Day.
The Squatters* Purse of <£ls, for all horses
carrying Homebush welter weights; one event,
three times round.
Mr. Butts ns. Snake, 3 vears, 105 t... 1
Mr. Ledge’s Death, aged, 125 t... 2
Mr. Herrig’s Rainbow, 3 yoars, lOst dr.
This race was won by two lengths, the pace
tremendous throughout, and the Brummagems
evidently not worn for appearance sake.
The Selling Stakes of £B, for untrained
hacks carrying lOst.; tho winner to be claimed
for £lO by the owner of the second horse, i ! ’
demanded : heats, one mile and a distance.
Mr. Crwford's b.c. Paddy fftm Cork, by
Crawford, 3 years 1 i
Mr. Butt’s ch g. Currency, by vV hislser,
aged 2 2
Mr. Wigbtman’s b.g Rob Roy, aged...... 3 3
In the first beat the lead was taken by Rob
Roy, carrying considerably more than big proper
weight, 1 Ost;, the irishman following, Currency
in tile rear ; at the turn in the heavy quarter a
beautifnl race ensued, the Irishman without any
“blarney’’ proving himself a good “baste.”
The second heat was won easy. The winner
was not claimed.
The Consolation Purse of .£lO, for beaten
horses ; weight for age; heats, ouce round aud
a distance.
Mr. Wightman’s Cannon Ball, 9st 1 1
Mr. Butt’s Sir Charles, 9st 2 2
Mr. Ledge’s Death, list. 4 lbs 3 3
This was a very interesting race. Cannon
Ball took the lead, followed by Sir Charles,
Death in the rear; and in this position they
continued until Cannon Ball shot away as if
discharged as one, and not composed of desh
and blood, winning the first heat in gallant style
1 ime, 2 minutes 5 seconds. In the second heat
Death took the lead at a tremendous bat, but
Cannon Ball not wanting powder passed him at
the turn, and won the race, Sir Charles second,
Death doing the “ finishing .” Time ofthis heat,
2 minutes.
Thus ended the Page’s River meet for 1848,
without either quarrel or accident, which speaks
the district, situated as we are re-
quiring further assistance in the police depart-
ment. 'I he sport has been of first rate order,
and the meet promises fair to be at a future
time second to none in the Colony. It has been
remarked that the weights were made too heavy,
which was in consequence of their being few
light weights to ride in the district.
ARMILALE.
The 4th of the month was grealy enjoyed by
our community, some gentlemen having "got up
a private match for a purse, which was won by
Mr. Abraham Odell s horse. On the Course we
observed a number of ladies, who had honored
the scene with their presence. Mr. Odell, who
is the proprietor of the Sportsman's Hall here,
added to the sports of the day by getting up a
footrace, which he won, and which afforded
much diversion.
RICHMOND RIVER.
After one of the most rainy seasons in the
oldest mnemonic records ofthis district, the wea-
ther cleared about the equinox, as anticipated.
Since that particular period no climate could be
more pleasant. Those vermin the caterpillars
disappeared, after a few weeks’ grazing, without
committing muc damage. Contrary to the re-
ceived opinion, that the grass will not again
grow during the remainder of any season when
eaten down with caterpillars, we find the bared
ridges putting on a fresh mantle of green, and
affording a sweet bite to sheep and cattle.
Never was a milder May; only two nights*frost
during the month, Lambs suffered in conse-
quence of the continued rains; and rot, although
not to a serious extent, carried away a portion.
The older fiocks never looked better.
MAITLAND.
The following are the entrances for the two
Handicaps at the ensuing Maitland Races :~
Fdr the Maiti and Town Plate of £3O.
Mr. Rosseter, » b m >aky Sly, (by Scratch,)
4 years
Mr. Y'eomar/s g. Sancho, (by Cannon Ball), 0
years
Mr Reeves’s bg. Flying Pieman, (by Gratis),
aged
Mr. Waterford’s h. Eclipse, (by Old Scratch). 6
years
Mr. Butts n.s. g.h' Snake, (by Scratch), 3 years
Foh the Maitland Pukse of .£lO.
Mr Rosseter n.s. b.m. Sally Sly, (by Scratch), 4
years
Mr. Dight’s c.h h. Fashion, (by Cap-a-pie), 4
years
Mr. Reeves’s b.g. Flying Pieman, (by Gratis),
aged.
At the meeting of the stewards op. Wednesday
evening, it was agreed that the entries, on ac
count of the non-arrival of steamers on Tuesday
and Wednesday, should remain open for en-
trances from Sydney until Thursday, and that
any letters then received bearing the Sydney post
mark not later than Tuesday (and which, accord-
ing to the ordinary despatch the marls, would
have arrived in Maitland on or before Wednesday)
should be accepted as within the specified time.
... No entries, however, arrived by Thursday's
boat. It was also ruled by the stewards that it
was not essential that parties enterrng horses for
the handicap races should, at the time of en'rance,
deposit more than the amount ol the forfeit
money to each race.
On the same evening the publicans drew for
their booths, when 19 were taken.
EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
We stated in oui last number, that not-
withstandiugthe formidable atiuouncemen
cenveyed by the Port Phillip papers, that
England and France had leagued togethei
in a war against Pcussia, Austria, anc
Russia, no such event for the reasons
mentioned, was at all likely to take place.
The intelligence brought by the Ships
Hoynl Saxon and the -Emperor of Ch na
on Wednesday, leaves us no room to doubt
the correctness of our conclusion. No war
had been declared, notwithstanding that a
thundercloud hung over Europe, which
was likely to burst with an awful explo-
sion.
We will supply a few indices, collated
from the most authentic and respectable
sources, as to the state of public feeling
in Europe.
With reference to the state of Germany,
the London Morning Chronicle state's,
that ‘ • the organic changes now demanded
of the King of Prussia are of the most
sweeping character, involving universal
suffrage, the complete separtion of Church
and State, and the absolute annihiliation
of the modicum of political paper still
retained by the aristocracy. The specu-
lation for resuscitating Poland as an un-
passable barrier between Russia and the
constitutional Princes of Germany, is one
which involves the heaviest responsibility
to all who are actively concerned in it.
Frederick William has already signed the
warrant which erects Prussian Poland into
a separate state —one of the states which
is his in contingency. To such a pro-
ceeding Russia is not, of course, entitled
to object. But if any attempt be made to
countenance the threatened insurrection
within her own territories, she will and
must retaliate. Deprived, as she now is,
of the support afforded her by Austria,
and meanced with the growth of indepen-
dent Sclavonian States upon her frontier,
she may possibly think the boldest course
the safest and provoke, rather than avoid,
a war. But she must be sensible that it
will be a struggle out of which, unless
she be victorious in it, she cannot come
alive and unmutilated Whatever the
issue, says the Chronicle, there can be no
doubt that as soon as a German Soldier
crosses the Polish frontier, the temple of
Janus is opened, not for Germany only,
but for Europe.
In Berlin, where the people have not the
habit of revolt, and are mere novices in
the art of barricading, the contest between
the citizens and the troops was severe.
There was more real fighting than at
Paris ; so that the military were at last
utterly worn out, having been kept more
than forty-eight hours without food or
sleep, while there were always fresh relays
of fighters among the people. After a
good deal of hard fighting, some little
order was restored—pretty much like that
of an excited aud weaned man seeking a
short repose to recruit his energies. All
the garrison duty of Berlin is beiug per-
formed by the citizens; they are a
National Guard in its infancy with neither
uniform or drill. The students have as-
sumed the sabre. Nothing can be less
military in externals than some of the
worthy burghers who mount guard with
spectacles and a pipe. The people used
to the perfect discipline and equipment
of the Prussian troops, are disposed to
quiz the awkward appearance of the
popular volunteers. But, notwithstanding
their apparent awkwardness in shouldering
the musket &c.. “there is an earnestness of
purpose about them that more than com-
pensaies for such defect.” In fact, the
subjects of the King of Prussia are, in a
more moderate degree, adopting the lesson
taught them by the French ; His Majesty,
however, seems to fully appreciate the
wisdom of the old saying, that “ the
better part of valour is discretion.” His
Majesty’s poor people are beginning to
have a smack of something like Liberty.
The ability of Austria to assume a
leading position in European matters—or
to “ arm” in support of Oligarchical des-
potism, may be gleaned from the following
extract of the London Times.
The disappearance of an empire is not even
now an event of everyday occurrence. We
who see it must take care to mark it unless,
indeed, the change should absolutely outstrip
our observation. Austria is dissolving like a
giant in snow. Death strikes the whole mass at
once. As in that fearful disease the return of
which has been recently announced, it is hard to
say whether the vitals or the extremities are the
tirst assailed. Surrounded by revolutions, while
Hungary, Bohi mia, and Lombardy are dis-
covered to be at the point of revolt, Vienna
itself rises, the army is popularized, and in the
hour of trial the head and heart of the empire
are found to Tie gone. Who will trust in princes
after this 1 Not only Legitimists, but quiet and
orderly people of every designation believed in
the Austrian Empire. Even Prince Metternich
thought he had a lease for his own time, and
kindly bequeathed a deluge to his successors.
The whole has fallen with a crash Ihe mate-
rials are solid, hut there is no holding. It has
been an union of force, not one of mutual advan
tage. Austria has beep Installed, not naturalized
in Italy. It has disowned the dignity of an Italian
power. Lombardy was only an humble depen-
dent. The day of t evolution has arrived, and
the artificial ties that bound those discordant
materials are worth no more than tow in the
flames. It was but the other day that Austria
occupied Ferrara, menaced Home, prepared to
reduce both the Sicilies to order, dictated an
ultimatum to constitutional Italy, aDd was fast
completing its Italian army to the war standard
of one hunderd and fifty thousand men. That
army is now returning homewards.
The Times says that “the name and
terror of republican France (to the Aus-
trians) were as a host to the revolutionary
cause.
That mild, humane, guiltless sove-
reign, the King of Hanover, has been
brought a little to his senses, as the
following paragraph will prove.
The King of Hanover has restored to his ca*.
pital the burgher guard of which he had de-
deprived it, and has also given his sanction to
to their sending two deputies to the Diet. He
has also announced some further reforms with
regard to the management of the exchequer,
which had long been a subject of serious com-
plaint and remonstrance. There was a good
deal of excitement in the capital, but no dis-
turbance had taken place up to the date of the
last news, the evening of the 26.
The subjoined is the opinion of a
leading London Journal on the revo-
lutionary proceedings on the Continent.
These new and awful occurrences are now
pressing us in such quick succession, as to out
run and overpass the possibility of any distinct
attention! we can only look at them in a crowd
and in their ultimate issue ; there is no interval
between their commencement in a kindling
spark, and their explosion in a consummate ruin.
The governments of Europe are not houses on
fire, but houses blown up. Each and all of thorn,
with the happy exception of our own, seem like
so many fortresses built over military mines,
and whilst one moment we see them bristling in
their strength, and their colors waving in the
sun, in the next their foundation stones are cast
up into tlie air, whilst the earth beneath is co-
vered with their falling beams.
IRELAND.
Tjle sagacious and literal Herald in its
supplementary edition of Wednesday, say*
that “ the state of Ireland was causing
great uneasiness”; and immediately ac-
companies this truism with its usual
balderdash about the “ bloodthirsty trea-
sonable ’ proceedings of certain parties in
the sister Kingdom. If the Herald were
to confine its labours to the mere tran-
scribing of the passing events in the
European world, without presuming to
perpetrate any commentary of its own on
those matters, it would be discharging
the only duty required of it. The public
seek not the opinion of the Herald on such
subjects. They are quite as competent,
if not more so, to form a correct and
unbiassed judgment on them than the
stupid scribes of that journal. One thing
is certain, namely, that the Irish portion
of the community have no reason to be
thankful to the Herald; inasmuch as it
never let pass the opportunity of pub-
lishing anything that was likely to prove
inimical to, and Calumnious, of the char-
acter of the people of Ireland. But while
we despise the contemptible spirit of hos-
tility ever manifested by the Herald to
the Irish, we sincerely concur with their
assertion, that the state of Ireland was
causing great uneasiness.
Some seven or eight years since, Sir Ro-
bert Reel, then Primo Minister of England,
[ acknowledged that “Ireland was his great-
est difficulty.” Why? Because it would
not suit the bigotry and illiberality of the
i times to grant unto the people of that coun-
j try the rights which they claimed—equal
I laws and privileges with those of the people
jof England. Since then, the Irish have be-
i come more clamorous in their demand of
! justice ; and notwithstanding the attempts
of the British government to trample them
into submission, by State Prosecutions, Co-
ercion Bills, &c., they have p issed through
the ordeal unscathed and unsubdued ; and
maintain a better “vantage ground*’ now
than they did since the “ Union” was car
ried. What the Sydney Herald calls
“ blood-thirsty treasonable’’ proceedings, the
London Chronicle (the organ of the go-
vernment) pronounces to be a “ demonstra-
tion dignified into the gravity of a popular
movement.” That the “Young Ireland’’
party, as they are called, are imprudent, and
much too rash and extreme in their mea-
sures we have no hesitation in admitting;
but that they are insignificant in point of
numbers, rank, property, talent, it would be
absurd to assert. One of the leaders of that
party is a son of the present Chief Baron of
the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, Mr.
Smith O’Brien is an estated gentleman, so
is Mr. Barnwell, nephew of Lord Trimles-
town, Mr. Maher, of Wexford, and many
other gentlemen too numerous to name.
Those persons exercise great influence over
the people of that country; wh ther they
apply that influence 'wisely, time alone can
tell. But that the public mind in Ireland is
deeply agitated ; that some fearful crisis has
taken place, or may soon occur, will be evi-
dent from a few subjoined extracts we make
from speeches delivered at a meeting of the
Irish Confederation in Dublin in March
last, a day or two after Messrs. O’Br e i and
Meagher had been committed to take their
trial for sedition.
The chairman said he was rejoiced at being
called on to fill the chair, because it gave him
the opportbnity of telling Lord Clarendon, in
the name of the Irish people, that if he was dis-
posed to go to war with them—that if their
fellow-confederates Were to be prosecuted or im-
prisoned for speaking and writing the truth, he
would do well to give instaut orders to have
1000 additional gaols erected, inasmuch as they
—tho confederates of Dublin—were all prepared
one by one, to repeat what those conspirators
had said and written and more beside, In fact,
they were fully determined to win liberty for
their country. (Cheers) Why should they
stand idly by, looking listlessly on the startling
events that were passing almost beneath their
eyes ? Should the whole world be free, and
Ireland remain a slave ? Let them at once pre-
pare for the worst. Let the clubs take the
example of the Paris clubs, who were able to
turn out 50,000 mem on three days’ notice. It
was rank nonsense to talk of the legal safety of
the people. There was a law engraven on the
heart of man which whispered to him to “ do unto
others as he would be done by;” that law was
of God, and must be obeyed ; out all that thing
jumbled together in Lotidon, and called law,
was not to be heeded when it stood in the way
of their liberties.
Mr. C. G. Duffy said they had met on that
evening to uuswer the challenge of the English
government in Ireland. On the previous day,
three of their brother confederates were charged
with sedition by the government. On that day
two of them were on the sea carrying their fra-
ternal address to the French people, and they
who remained at home were there to sustain
and reiterate their prosecuted opinions. (Hear.)
Tho sycophants and tale-bearers of the Castle
assured the English Viceroy that they would
quail before the angry brow of the law. Here
was the answer of the Confederation to his
challenge. Let them listen to it, and adopt it.
only if they were ready to ascertain it to the
last:—“ Resolved, that the English government
in Ireland having prosecuted the speeches de-
livered at the last meeting of the Confederation
by two of its members, — VV. S. O’Brien, M. P.,
and T. F. Meagher, we hereby deliberately
adopt the principle contained in those speeches-,
and direct them to be printed and circulated
throughout Irelaud, at the expense of the con-
fe ieration. That tvas their answer, and they
would maintain it with their honor and with
their lives. They were not versed in the law, ,
and could ncrt undertake to drive a coach and
six through their prosecution, but with Gods
help they would drive something better through
it* They would drive through it the will of the
United Irish people.
Mr. O’Brien had alluded to the landed gentry
in these terms :—“ But as their friend 1 feel it
my duty to warn them, that if any struggle took
place, and that they be found acting against the
Irish people, it is by no means improbable, that
if the Irish people succeed, their estates will be
sold as national property.” Perhaps this was
sedition, but assuredly it wass God’s truth.
(Great cheering ) Mr. O’Brien s filial proposal
was that they should form a National Guard.
(Loud cheers.) They would that night be asked
to give their assent to the appointment of a
committee to consider how it might be speedily
and effectually done. (Cheers.) This was the
first and most important step in all the great
movements which were then shaking the world.
Each of the struggling states demanded a
National Guard and obtained it. (Cheers ) And
when they had that, they had all, for it was the
guarantee of liberty. (Cheers ) He believed
the majority of repealers would be content with
tho independence won by Grattan, and would
be content to obtain it without the death of ono
Irishmen. The constitution obtained by Grattan
regarded the soldier as a citizen in uniform, and
did not separate him from the people; and, if
that principle was denied to Ireland, it could
only be on the supposition thatth&y were slaves,
and not entitled to the rights of freemen. If
that independence came by free treaty between
the two nations, they would accept it gladly;
but, if the Irish people were driven to the last
resart, the repeal of the union would be scat-
tered to the four winds by the first volley of
musketry. (Cheers.)
v r» Devin Reillly said this resolution called on
the council of the Confederation to inquire and
report on the best and most effectual means of
organizing and arming such a body.—(Loud
cheering.) That was their answer to Lord
Clarendon. (Cheers.) For every one of them
he might imprison, hundreds would be ready to
take their place For every leader ot importance
imprisoned, ihey would arm 10,000 men (loud
cheers). Eor every hour he confined them, they
would shorten his rule in lieland by 100 days.
For every hair of their heads he touched, for
ever) one he hanged—-but he would not ta.k to
them of barging; for if there was sufficient
manhood and devotion, amongst them, long be-
fore things arrived at such a pass, they would
open the gaols with their pickaxes and crowbars.
Long before that day every street of Dublin
might be a ban it ade or a fortress, and every pave
ment carpeted with blood. Long before that day
they would show the tyrant out of Ireland by the
light of the burning gaols. Before that day every
field in Ireland must be fought, every ditch de-
fended, and every river obtain a notorious memory
to live throu&huut future ages. If they were to
fail, let them nobly fail—if they conquered, they
must do so by their own right hands. While they
had arms in their hands they might defy the
whole them they were at the
beck of every petty constable. (H;ar.) Four-
months ago, when the Coercion Bill was intro-
duced, he called on the people in that hall to
arm. Now he called on them a second time to
arm, arm, arm 1 Had they armed four months
ago, they would be four months nearer their
liberty that day. Let therri arm now ; and when
they had armed they would be ready and not
sooner.
Mr. J. Mitchell, advised the people to provide
themselves with arms. Those who could not
afford to purchase a gun, he recommended to
provide themselves with good ash poles, well
rounded and about 8 or 10 feet in length, with
the usual etceteras.
Mr. Stephenson said, that he was taking les-
sons in the theory of barricades ; also in guer-
ilia warfare ; and practiced firing in a shooting
gallery.
Such is the state of feeling in Ireland*
How it will terminate, it is difficult to say*
We sincerely hope that it will end without
bloodshed, and that .England will see the
justice and policy of conciliating the people
of Ireland by making them equal participa-
tors in the benefits of the British Constitu
tion.
m.
ROYAL VICTORIA THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, JULY 20, 1848,
Will be presented, the popular Tragedy of
BRUTUS.
Brutus.* Mr. Nesbitt.
To be followed by the favorite Interlude of
I HIS HOUSE TO BE SOLD,
(The property of the late William Shakspeare )
INQUIRE WITHIN,
To conclude with the laughable Farce entitled
SAYINGS AND DOINGS.
For Characters, see bills of the day.
MR. GRIFFITHS, Manager,
CONCERT EXTRAORDINARY.
THE Public is respectfully informed
that a grand Entertainment of VOCAL
MUSIC will be given on an early eveuin<r.
Attention is particularly called to the
PROGRAMME :
■“ Deserted by the waning
Moon,” (Duet)
i
Messrs. Lamb
aud Lowe.
“ I want to be speaker, I do, I
do,**
Dr. Nicholson.
“Hearts of Oak,” (with a)
marrow-bone and cleaver>
obligato accompaniment)...)
Mr. Oaks.
“ Ise a slippery Eel,” Cudgee Bob.
“ The Parson’s Clerk,” Charles Cowper.
“My money goue, but still
resolved,”
Bob Nichols.
* O ! ven I’m made a Member )
on,”
Vallack.
“ I know a Bank,”
rutnming obligato accom- V
paniment by Sir. Duguid))
Capta in (!)Lamb
“ Some folks may boast of )
sense egad,’* J
Mr. Suttor.
“ I ’ll not impunge Thee,
dearest,”
Mr. Bowman.
“I am the laughing-stock of J
all >” * $
Jeames.
The whole to conclude with the Glee-
'• Gotham’s three Wise Men
be we,”
r Messrs. Murray,
< Bowman, and
( Suttor.
COME EARLY!
As much money as possible taken at the
doors.
MR. NELSON S. LAWSON frill
meet the voters of the undermentioned
places as follows, viz
WINDSOR, on Saturday, 22nd July, at
Coffey’s Hotel, at noon.
RICHMOND, on Monday, 24th, at Onus’s,
at eleven o’clock.
PENRITH,on Monday, the 24th, at 3 pm.,
at Perry’s Rose Inn.
SYDNEY DITRICT.
COOK’S RIVER, on Tuesday the 25th, at
lit o’el ok, at Gannon’s Inn.
NEWTOWN, on Tuesday, the 25th, at
1 o’clock, at Richards’s, White Horse
PADDINGTON, on Tuesday, the 25th, at 7
o’clock iu the evening, at the Green Gate.
ST. LEONARD’S, North Shore, on Thurs-
day', the 27th, at 10 o’clock, at Redgrave’s.
BALMAIN, on Thursday, the 2?th, at 3
O’clock at Ternau’s
JAMES F. PLUNKETT,
J HAMILTON,
Joint Secretaries to the Central Com-
mittee, Australian Inn, Parramatta
VV. H. WELLS,
Secretary to the Sydney District
Committee Rooms
P rrel’s, Farriers’ Arms. 41
NORTHUMBERLAND BOROUGHS.
WUXI AM MOIR, E Q„ J p.,
DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY.
SIR, Your interest as a freeholder
in the Soil liuiii berlami Eoroughs bring
identical with our own, and having confidence
in your unflinching integrity ami teal to servo
us faithfully! as our representative in tlio
Council of the colony, we request that you will
allow yourself to he put in nomination as a
candidate at the ensuing election.
We beg to teiuaiii,
Sir,
Your most obedient servants,
W. P. Peek
Henry Gooch
G. Calvert
J>. Dickson
James Dickson
A. Dodds
ft. Kiddie
John Ma o
A. Macpherson
VV Tennant
John Elliot
Joshua Smith
J. M‘Laugh lin
C hristopher Cooper
araes ft. Muir
Win. Houston
James Thomson
Maitland, July 8.
A Hickson
G. J. Clarke
Wai. Farthing
Henry Adams
Joseph Taylor
John Graham
Wm. iVl'Laughlin
Wm. Travis
John Stewart
John Wilson
Thomas Hanks
James Williams
James Urown
Edward Ogg
J. Portus
Thomas Skinner
To the Elector» of the Northumberland
Boroughs.
GENTLEMEN, —I thank you most reapect-
fu'lv for the honorable position you wish to
p'ace me in as your representative ft the Le-
gisl tive Council.
I accept your invitation, and you
place me at (he head of the poll on the day of
election, you may depend upon having a staunch
friend for your welfare and that of the colony
generally.
1 am for civil and religious liberty all over
the world—-general education for the youth of
(he colony—an exquisite distribution of public
land—immigration of free peoplp—and an eco-
nomical expenditure of public money.
I am, Gentlemen,
Youia respectfully,
W. MO in.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
JAMES CHARLES THORNTON,
respectfully informs his friends, and the
public in general, that he has removed from that
part of the Labour Bazaar lately occupied by
him, to Mr. George Hill’s buildings, 216, Pitt-
street, where he will be able to work for his
customers at much lower charges than he has
ever been able to make, having reduced his
expenses to one third what they have been.
N.B.—All work warranted as usual, in writ-
ing. No tarred rope used in flax Mattresses,
or dyed flax in hair work.
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND 1
ELECTION.
AMEETING of the Electors of the
County of Cumberland was held at the
Court House, Campbelltown, on Thursday, 20th
July, 1848, and most numerously attended ;
William Howe, Esq , J. P., was unanimously
called to the Chair.
The address, and the replies made by Mr,
Lawson to various questions propounded to him,
gave general satisfaction, so much so, that the
meeting went beyond the usual course, by pro-
posing Mr. Lawson as a fit a d proper person
to represent the county The question being
put on the reso.utiou, every hand was held up
in his favour.
Mr. Caw Son will therefore secure th t votes
of ad the electors of that district
By order of the Committee
JAMES F PLUNKETT 1 c , .
John HAivftbioN j * ecrct4,les -
Central Committee Rooms.
Australian Inn, Parramatta 00
WENTWORTH AND BLAND.
' | 'II E members of the Central Committee
•* and of the various Ward Committee,
are particularly requested to attend at the
Committee Booms, Fifz Boy Hotel ON MON-
DAY afternoon the 24th Instant, at 3 o’clock.
On Special business
By order of the Committee.
J. C. WHITE
Secretary.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
CANDIDATES Canvassing for seats
in the Legislative Council are recom-
ra«*nded to provide themselves with memoran-
dum books for tbe ph pose of inserting their
promises, as in tbe case of tbeir being elected,
the Circumstance is generally attended with
loss of memory- Ofl
v
ELECTORS OF CUMBERLAND !
OTE FOR A SPRIG OF THE
“IRON BAR K,”
NELSON S. LAWSON. ESQ
3$
TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS
ok The
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
GENTLEMEN, —Understanding tha'
a requisition is in the course ot signa
ture, inviting me to offer myself as a candidati
for the representation of the county, I beg leav*
to say that f feel myself much honoured bj
this mark ef public confidence, and should j
majority of the constituency he pleased t
return me as their representative, I beg t«
assure them that I will use every exertion h
my power for the promotion of the interests o
this important county and of the colony 4
large.
I have the honour to he,
Centleisen,
Your most obedient humble servant,
NELSON S. LAWSON
Prospect, July 18. 4<
Central Committee Rooms,
** Australian Arms,” Parramatt?
LAWSON’S Central Committee vvil
meet at the above rooms, every evening
at 7 o’clock, for the despatch of business, &c.
J. F. Plonkstt.
John Hamilton
Joint Secretaries to th
Central Committee.
“ BELL’S LIFE IN SYDNEY."
r H E PUBLIC are hereby informe
A that the Sporting department of th!
Paper, heretofore conducted by T. Rev<
Johnson, is now under the control of Charlt
Hamilton Nichols, Esquire, better known a
Charley Nichols, who formerly kept an Hotel i
Pitt-street.
LOST,
AN Oil Painting of “ Mine Uncle,
in the act of “ taking in ” his fog, [Th
eoi-disant relative who has forked out half
bull for this advertisement, affectionately rt
marked the execution of his gallows cleve
“ Nunkey.”
NEW AND FASHIONABLE
CLOTHING.
HAYES AND CO., hasten t
• announce to their customers and th
public generally, that ihey have received, e
Setlflgapataro, a large assortment of net
goods, of the most fashionable description, t
which they respectfully invite an early irispei
tion.
These goods having been selected express!
for the Sydney market, H. H. and Co., are ei.
abled to recommend them to their friends wit
the utmost confidence of their giving satisfac
t on j especially as it is tlieir fixed determina
tiou to make up the articles at the very lowet
prices—lor cash.
The ; s ortment comprises, broadcloths of a
shades and colours, fancy doeskins of every di
siriptiou, shawl patterns, upwards of a h'indre
vi reties; tartan and plaids innumerable, fane
•ilki, satins, velvets, operalies, stocks, brace
&o , &C , &c.
Tile trade supplied with cut lengths at rei
sohalile prices
H. HAYES ANB C'f.,
Naval and Military Tailors,
George street.
WAR WITH RUSSIA.
BMOUNTCASTLE hastens to assttr
• tlie public, that the war in Europe ha
not stopped his usual supply of materials hi
the manufacture of French hats, of which I;
has received a large assortment, eft Sering;
Mstain, and other late arrivals ; and lie is nm
'enabled to offer his celebrated patent ventilate
Kxuder hats (so much enquired after) warrante
to keep the head cool in the very liottet
weather. These hats are absolutely necessar
to any geblleiian exposed to the heat of th
sun, and they have the advantage also of bein
perfectly watertight
Best heaver hats, ladies* riding hats made t
o der. An extensive assortment of velvet an
c oth fancy caps gold navy lace, gold cor-
Itvery hands, &<:.
French Hat Manufactory,
77, Market-stree
preliminary notice.
TO WINE MERCHANTS AND HOTE)
KEEPERS.
THE ISNTIRE CARGO OF THE
“DANIEL GRAN T,"
FROM OPORTO DIRECT.
MR. CHARLES NEWTON
HAS received instructions from th
importers, Messrs. Brown and Co., t
set! by auction, at his Rooms,
on an early day,
Of which due notice will be given,
The whole cargo of the “ Daniel Grant,” con
sisting of the very finest description of For
.Wine, id wood and bottle, Olive Oil, an
jjlrandy.
Air. Newton in announcing this highly im
pqftant sate, feels that it would be supertluou
ioT him to say anything in praise of the warei-
as they are shipped by the well-known firm c
SAND EM AN AND CO.,
and the same qualities rs
MESSRS. BROWN AND CO.,
have been in the habit of importing for mai
years.
Terms liberal, at time of sale.
§ SPARKES the Sprig of Myrtl
K Is prepared tu make a match witn Hadd
Sinclair, Sinclair not to exceed eleven ston.
for any amount above £5O aside or w ill b, 1 1, i,
that lie cannot jlick turn in 30 miuutei
a lair stand up tight the m >uey 1. ready at tii
old quarters, Market street.


r
FOR MADRAS DIRECT.
A CHARTERED SHIP.
r |'' H E FINE SHIP
* Hyderabad.
816 tons, Frederick Au -
gustos ( astle, master,
being under positive engagement, will sail for
the above port on the sth August next. Has
room for a few horses, and most superior aeeo- |
n.odation for passengers. For freight or pas-
sage apply to Captain Castle, on board, or to
GEORGE THORNTON,
Custom House.
LUNCHEON, DINING, AND SUPPER
ROOMS,
Rainbow tavern, comer of Pitt
and King-streets, Economy, variety,
comfort, and attention. N. B.—Any Lour.
BILLIARDS.
The most modern Billiard Table imported
and made to the undersigned’s especial order
by Thurston is at the Rainbow Coiner of Pitt
and King-streets.
J. W. ROCHE.
ON SALE,
AT THE STORES OP
40, MARKET-STREET.
Teas, of various brands
Sugars, raw and refined
Pi> kies, Battey’s
Mustard, Coleman’s
ALSO
The usual assortment of groceries, at the
1 iwest remunerating prices.
Good salt butter, at 6d. per lb.
WHIPS! WHIPS!! WHIPS!!!
4/ (D SI 12 Lii S(D(Bli"Q , 4
WHIP MANUFACTURER,
NO. 382, GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Savings’ Bank,
BEGS respectfully to intimate to his
friends, and the public generally, that he
has on hand a magnificent and varied assortment
of the very best whip materials, lately invoiced
to him, and not to be excelled for durability and
beauty, by the first London houses. The silver
mountings are unique and appropriate, and pre-
sent faithful delineations of horses, dogs, birds,
foxes, &c.
P.S.—Tandem,gig, four-horse, riding,jociey,
and every other description of whip, made to
order, repaired, &c.
GENERAL AGENCY.
t ,
SUSSEX-STREET,
BEGS to inform the public generally,
that in addition to bis Agency business,
he has included that of House Agent and Col-
lector of Rents and Accounts, in doing so, he
has to inform parties who require such, that the
greatest punctuality and despatch will be used
on all occasions.
The most respectable references, if required,
can be given.
Sussex-strect, Ist July, 1848.
JOB PRINTING
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION,
executed with accuracy and despatch, in
EVERY VARIETY OF TYPE,
and on the most moderate terms,at the Printing
Office of
i€
Cfee Ctmest.’
334, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
VOTE FOR W. WILKINS,
& ISctail
<D IB il ®
No. 401, GEORGE-STREET.
SINCE canvassing is all the go—
For Wentworth, Bland,and Lamb audLowe,
I’ll speak to all the folks I know,
To vote for W, Wilkins.
He does not seek to represent
In Counoil or in Parliament;
He hopes, how’ere, that you ’ll consent
To vote for W. Wilkins.
S He does not wish to gain applause
By speeches fine, or cobbling laws;
Yet he could show sufficient cause
To vote for W. Wilkins.
-■ He sells Cigars beyond compare,
And snuffs unrivalled, I declare;
His Negrohead perfumes the air,
Then vote for W. Wilkins.
His fine cut weed—ah, that’s the stuffl
| His scented rappee is the snuff;
His Princes' mixture is enough
To make you vote for Wilkins,
[advertisement.)
, GENERAL ELECTION.
fThe writs are all issued, and Dickinson stands
fror city and borough, and far squatting lands :
His qualifications cannot be denied
[While his principles always are on the right side
iiJnfurling his flag for a superfine end,
He asks for support as a general friend :
tie honors the cloth ; pays his court to the fleece
And adds to the exports’ and imports’ increase
He deals with the factor, and ne’er can you find
■Such cloths, tweeds, and doeskins made up to
, your mind:
'last, west, north, south travel—in vain will you
•eek ,
or Wrappers so stylish, and Sacks so unique :
His Codringtons’, Waterfords’, Paletots delight
[The wearer by warmth—the beholder by sight;
He has tartans and checks too for Scotia true,
Bright green for Ould Erin, for England true
■ blue;
.While tricolored France and America’s race
Will find for an outrig his shop is the plao*.
Thus useful to all, he your voices demands,
And looks to be met with a full show of hands :
• lien rush to the poll with your plumpers and
| vote
Icor Dickinson— sure that he’ll ne’er turn his
I coat 1
LAMB FOR THE CITY.
THE WARD COMMITTEES of John
Lamb, will meet every evening, at seven
/clock, at the undermentioned places, when all
doctors favourable to the election of John
l/amb are invited to attend:—
d
And elsewhere a*
advertised
A General Meeting of the Ward Committee
will he held in the Central Committee Rooms,
‘Star Hotel, every Tuesday and Friday evening,
'at seven o’clock, to report progress.
t A Committee will sit daily at four oclock, at
Hhe Central Committee Rooms, Star Hotel.
ROBERT PORTER,
Honorary Secretary.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES \A ENTWORTH,
Esq , AND WILLIAM BLAND, Esq , late
members fob the CITY OF SYDNEY.
ENTLEMEN, —We, the undersigned,
J Electors of the City of Sydney, not un- |
mindful of your past services rendered to the
people of New South Wales throughout a series
of years, both in the late Council and long be-
fore it was called into existence, feel that we
are but discharging a public duty in requesting
you again to serve the colony as the Represen-
tatives of its metropolis. On particular points
the ablest men may honestly differ in opinion,
and there may have been some measures advo-
cated by you, when in Council, which many of
us disapprove. But when we look to your sena-
torial career as a whole, we feel bound to ac-
knowledge, that whenever it became necessary
to oppose a manly front to the arbitrary acts of
the local or imperial government, or to check
the lavish expenditure of the public money, and
diminish the burthens of the people, you always
discharged your duty with the most untiring
zeal, the steadiest perseverance, and the most
unflinching resolution. We feel that you have
imposed upon us a double obligation, by contri-
buting more largely than any other person
whatsoever, not only to procure for us the in-
estimable blessing of a free Representative
Legislature, but also to render, when obtained,
that Legislature alike valuable and honorable.
For these acts we owe you a debt of gratitude
which it would ill become us to overlook on
any trivial grounds, and we feel that we can-
not better discharge that debt than by request-
ing you to allow us again to put you in nomi-
nation for that City which has been the scene
and the witness of all your public labours, and
the largest sharer in the benefits which have
resulted from them.
We have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient servants,
[Here follow the Signatures]
To the Requisitionists who have done me and Dr.
Bland the honour of inviting us to come for-
ward for the Representation of the City of
Sydney in the Legislative Council.
Gentlemen, — I will not conceal the gratifica-
tion with which I have received the numerously
signed and highly respectable Requisition which
you have addressed to myself, and the Gentle-
man lately associated with me in the Legislative
Council, calling on us again to come forward as
Candidates for the representation of this im-
portant Metropolis. My public services, before
I had the honour of being chosen one of your
Representatives, you have at all times fully, if
not over, appreciated. During my legislative
career of five years, just terminated, it could not
be reasonably expected that every measure
which had my advocacy could meet with the
entire approbation of the numerous and disin-
terested friends who concurred in my first
election, and it will be a sufficient reward for
my past labours, and for the sacrifice of private
ease and personal interest, with which they have
been unavoidably attended, if a large majority of
the constituency who gave me their support on
that occasion shall consider me worthy of the
same distinguished honour a second time.
I have the honour to be.
Gentlemen,
Your obliged and faithful Servant,
W. C. WENTWORTH.
7o the Gentlemvn signing the Requisition.
Gentlemen,—l beg to return you my best
thanks for the honour you again propose to
confer upon me, |of putting me in nomination
as cne of the representatives of the City of
Sydney, and to assure you that should I be
elected, it shall be my earnest desire to en-
deavour to merit, as least to the best of my
humble abilities, this renewed mark of your
generous confidence.
I beg, however, to state, that I fear I shall
not have time during the short period before
the election, to canvass so generally as I could
wish.
I will only add, that I shall be most happy to
afford the electors generally any explanations
that they may require, whether as to the past
or the future, at such time and place as may be
agreed upon for that purpose.
I have the honour to subscribe myself,
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient servant,
W. BLAND.
TO THE ELEC TORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF CAMDEN.
Gentlemen, —i beg to apprise you
of my intention of becoming a Candi-
date for the County of Camden at the ap-
proaching General Election. My opinions
upon most subjects of importance have been
so frequently expressed, that it appears
needless now to repeat them; but I shall, as
soon as possible, visit the different Districts of
the County, for the purpose of personal com-
munication with the constituency.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient Serveut,
JAMES MACARTHUR
Camden Park, June 28.
TO THE ELECTORS OF THE
NORTHUMBERLAND BOROUGHS.
ENTLEMEN—I perceive that the
” Maitland Mercury lias renewed its op-
position to me, although, it admits that *• Mr.
Grant cannot be charged with a want of desire to
serve liiseonstituents,” and that “on general poli-
tieal questions, his vo es have been on the liberal
side,” but it then proceeds to sneer at my merely
initiating the Coal Monopoly and Slaughter,
house Suppression Bills, apparently because l
did not carry them through the house, single
handed, and without the aid of others.
One would think that the Editor of the Mas-
curt was at the head of some “clique*’ like
that of the Dreepdaiiy Boroughs, so graphically
described in Blackwood’s Magazine. But i
think, lie found out at the last election, that he
could not dispose of the Boroughs at will, and I
think that lie will ascertain the same fact again,
by the Free and Independent Electors of Mait-
land and Newcastle judging for themselves, —
and not, at ins bidding, discharging a faithful
servant, even for the pick of half a-dozen fresh
comers.
You have already, “ weighed me in the ba-
lance” and 1 trust that you have not found me
altogether wanting,—so I shall look with con-
fidence to the continuance of your favor, if
“ even a host uf men should rise up against
Pray ccuse the following doggrel which my
poor has just suggested.
# The Boroughs refuse
As Members, to choose
Either L iwyer or s ailor,
Or sturdy Surveyor,
Nor would they, indeed,
Like to rest on a Reid,
But say, they still want
Their “ Original Grant.”
I remain your very faithful Servant,
PATRICK GRANT.
THE EYE PLEASED—THE HEAD
FITTED THE POCKET CON-
SULTED.
Ventilated French a» Beaver Hats.
a*
HAS in stock an endless variety of the
above of the latest fashions, Hats to
any shape or width of brim finished to order at
a short notice. Fancy cloth or silk velvet caps
of the latest Paris and London fashions. Hat-
ters’ trimmings, gold cord, &e.
French Hat Manufactory.
77, Market-street.
TO GEORGE OAKES, ESQ.
Pan amalta, 10th July.
SIR, —-We, the undersigned Electors
of the Town of Parramatta, request you
will allow yourself to be put in nomination at
the approaching Llection, to represent our in-
teie.ts in the Legislative Council, and we
pledge ourselves to use our best exertions to
secure your election
We are, Sir,
GENTLEMEN—I thank you most sin-
cerely for the honour you have conferred on me
in requesting that I will allow myself to be put
in nomination at the approaching Election, to
represent your interests in the Legislative
Council, and I have much pleasure in complying
with a requisition so numerously and respectably
signed.
Should my fellow-townsmen elect me to
the important trust to which you have thus
invited me, I shall at all times feel ambitious
to discharge its duties to the satisfaction of my
constituents, and the advancement of the town
in which I was born, and aw a permanent
resident.
I have the honour to remain,
Gentlemen,
Your obliged and faithful servant,
GEORGE OAKES.
To Mr J. M'Kay, and the other gentlemen
who have signed the requisition.
TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF DURHAM.
GENTLEMEN, Rumours have, I
understand, been circulated in the county
of Durham, to the effect that I had consented to
stand for another constituency at the ensuing
general election. I beg to assure you that this is
not the case, as it is, and always has been, my in-
tention to solicit your suffrages again.
As writs are now issued for a new Council, J
shall soon have the satisfaction, in coming before
you to learn from yourselves, if my short public
career has been such as to justify the confidence
which you have reposed in me; —in which case I
hope to receive the assurance that you will return
me as your representative once more.
In performing my duty to you during the past
short, but eventful, session of Council, I trust I
have been zealous.
1 know I have been conscientious and inde-
pendent in every vote I have given—and I would
fearlessly refer you to my votes on the estimates
in support of this assertion.
I hope you will muster strong at the chie
polling place on the day of nomination, when I
shall have the pleasure of meeting you.
1 am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
STUART A. DONALDSON.
Sydney, June 29.
TO WILLIAM MACARTHUR, ESQ.
&c., See., &c.
CAMDEN PARK.
Parramatta, July 6, 1848.
SIR, —We, the undersigned Electors £br
the Borough of Parramatta, do hereby
request that you will allow yourself to be placed
in nomination, at the ensuing Election, to rep-
resent our interests in the Legislative Council.
We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,
Matthew Anderson
Nathaniel Payten
Henry Harvey
James Buthour
Michael Kearney
R. Champley Rutter
James Kerwin
Andrew Nash
John Hamilton
James Willis
John Garty
George Paul
Edward Griffith
Henry Whitaker
George Pitt Darcy
George Buckley
Isaac Titterton
Edward New
Edward Drink water
James Howarth
John Brennan
Richard Moxham
Andrew Murray
lames Howison
Charles Bethel Lyons
John Brown
James Pye
Rev. John Vincent
Edward Darvall
James M‘Roberts
Thomas Harris
Humphrey Thorn
William Payten
Samuel Hill
William Rennet!
Rupert Kirk
John M‘Manus
W. C. Wentworth
Mark Hillas
H. H. Bobart, M A.
James Gallaway
Lauren'z Olson
W. F.Hulle
P. H Mullholland
J. F. Staff
Peter Cardiff
Allan M'lnnis
Richard Rouse
James Thearle
Francis Wakins
John Ryan
Thomas Shadforth
Parramatta, 6th July, 1848.
GENTLEMEN, —I have received with
feelings of sincere gratification, the numerously
signed, and highly respectable requisition, which
you have done me the honour to address to me,
and, I will, with great pleasure, comply with
your request. 1 beg you to believe that no cir-
cumstance could be more gratifying to me than
the honour of being leturned for my native
town; and, should ibe so fortunate as to be
elected, that no exertion of mine shall be spared
to secure and promote its best interests.
I have the honour to be.
Gentlemen,
Your obedient faithful servant,
WILLIAM MACARTHUR.
To M. Anderson, Esq , and the other Gentlemen
who have signed the Address.
'waiLiL'j&m ©im©*
(Late of the Star and Garter, Pitt-street.)
BEGS to announce to the public that he
has taken the house known as the
Cornish Arras, Milsom’s Point, North Shore,
where he intends to conduct business in a style
that will render this delightful suburban retreat
the most pleasant “ rendezvous” for the lovers
of rustic felicity around Sydney. The facility of
reaching it by a few minutes trip in one of the
steamers which start every quarter of an hour
from the circular quay, will add rather than
diminish its charms.
N.B.—The choicest Wines and Spirits of
every descriptions.
TO HENRY GILBERT SMITH, ESQ.,
DARUNGHURST, SYBNEY.
WE, the undersigned Electors of the
county of Cumberland, residing in the
Police District of Sydney, do earnestly request
that you will allow yourself to be put in nomi-
nation for the representation of this county, in
connexion with Charles Cowper, Esq.
In soliciting you to do so, we are aware of
your distaste for a public life, but trust that
the claims of a country, the interests of which
you have during a long residence so ably and
actively promoted, will induce you to accede
to our request, in which case you may rest fully
assured of a triumphant return.
J. F. Josephson, Mayor John Alger
Robert GUI J. P. Mackenzie
Samuel Lyons
Thos. S. Mort
M. Metcalfe
VV. H. Elliott
A. H. Hutchinson
Edward Knox
H. E Hindson
Charles Nicholson
Thomas Holt, jun.
T. VV. Smart
J. Campbell
J. Mackay
A. Ashdown
War. Spain
Henry Mace
Charles Lowe
James Cunningham
Richard Driver
W. G. M'Caitby
Cornelius Prout
Parry Long
E. H. Pollard
George King
R. M. Robey.
Robert Porter
James Hume
William H. Rose
J. C. Raymond
C. Frith
VV. James
John Lord
William Hindsou
W. Todd
M E. Murnin
John Stirling
Robert Taylor
George Thorne
Charles N. Thorne
Charles North Hunt
John Ryan Brenau
Charles Younger
John Moore
Janies Sheppard
Richard Peek
Frederick Ford
William Glaister
W. G. Moore
Samuel Hebblewhite
Acton Sillitoe
Daniel Clark
Thomas Baker
George A. Lloyd
Francis Mitchell
Edward Lane
J. S. Hanson
L. Miles
It. Fawcett
C Nightingale
Henry Armitage
Francis Jackson
George Sharpe
W. Beaumont
W H. Al.iis
Heury Jones
J. P. Robinson
David Jones
John Walton
W. Broomfi Id
S. Aspinwall
W. Thompson
George Smyth
Wm Ternen
John Milne
James Bellman
G. R. Elliott
Peter M'Beith
Edward Wardeli
E. Hunt
Thomas D. Parker
T. Whistler Smith
W. Parsons
John Grahame
G. L. Robinson
Thomas Holmes
R. Cox
TO THE ELECTORS OF THE COUNTY
OF CUMBERLAND.
GENTLF.MEN, —In compliance with
the request contained in the very flattering
requisition which has been addressed to me.
I beg leave to announce myself a candidate to
represent the interest of your important
county in the next Legislative Council. In
doing so I think it but right that you should
be made acquainted «ith my views on certain
public matters, so that you may not confer
upon me the honor which I am seeking at your
hands if my principles are at all contrary to
your wishes.
I am zealously attached to the institu-
tions of our f .liter land, so far as they conform
to the spirit of the age and to the advance of
knowledge and liberty.
An enlightened and an enlarged system
of Education will command my support, so
that the liberties which the country is gaining
may rest on the broadest basis —a well educa-
ted people.
Any measure to do away with the ver-
bosity of the Law, so as to render it intelligible
and cheap to all classes will have my warmest
support.
In advocating a continuous stream of
Immigrants, my object is, not to depress the
labourer, who is at all times worthy of his
hire, but to advance his interest and that of the
colony at large.
Every means o( cheapening the transit
of the produce of tire soil from the interior to
Sydney will receive my serious attention, for
without a new system of transport either by
rail, or tram ways, the middle districts must
remain comparatively stationary, while our
southern friends will be making the most rapid
strides.
I am prepared to support any move-
ment which may appear well calculated to
open the Waste Lands to purchasers, so that
not only the present inhabitants of the colony
may be benefited, but that capitalists and
others may be induced to come and settle
amongst us.
Having been for many years actively
engaged in mercantile pursuits in the colony,
I feel convinced that the interests of the
settler and trader are identical, I will, there-
fore, carefully watch over their common wel.
fare.
My best exertions will be given to relieve
Commerce from every restrictions, and to obtain
a thorough reform in our Postal arrangements,
both foreign and inland.
I sincerely trust that all will shortly be
unanimous in supporting our colonial institu-
tions, mercantile and literary, and efface for
ever the blighting effects of past events—
then will all who feel an interest in the
advancement of our country see that we still
possess the spirit of integrity and energy
for which Englishmen have always been famed.
I will only add that in the event of your
conferring upon m» the honor of representing
the Metropolitan County, I wi I, as far as mv
humble powers allow me, faithfully employ my
best efforts to promote the welfare of the colo-
nists gcnera'ly, unbiassed by a predilection for
any particular parly.
The day of nomination being so near at
hand will prevent my waiting on you all, but
as far as time will allow I will do so.
I have the honor to be, Gentlemen,
Your very obedient servant.
HENRY G. SMITH.
TO THE ELECTORS OF SYDNEY.
GENTLEMEN. —You were called to-
gether yesterday for the purpose of
hearing Messrs. Wentworth and Bland explain
their political views. The clamour of a number
of disorderly persons prevented them from
doing so. They have now done all in their
power to meet the constituency, and to answer
in the most constitut.onal manner possible the
statements made against them by the rival
candidates and their supporters. They have
been refused a hearing, and now appeal with
confidence to the great body of the citizens,
who are too honest and too enlightened to con-
demn any man unheard. The clamour with
which they have been met is the best proof of
the goodness of their cause. In argument they
are prepared to contend with any one. In
noise and riot they freely yield to their adver-
saries, satisfied that on the day of election you
will know how to discriminatebetween that cause
which courts the treeest discussion, and that
which endeavours to suppress it. Electors of
Sydney, show those who speak of liberty and
try to stifle the freedom of discussion, that no
unjustifiable violence cao prevent you from
doing your duty to your country.
By order of the Committee,
J. C. WHITE,
Secretary.
July 18.
FLOOR CLOTHS,
EX LIMA.
ANDREW LENEHAN has just re-
ceived a large assortment of new and
elegant designs of Floor Cloths, in various
widths, from half yard to eight yards wide,
which lie offers at reduced prices.
Upholstery Establishment,
287 Castlereagh-street.
COUNTIES OF COOK AND WEST-
MORELAND.
TO ALFRED CHEEKE, ESQ.,
BARRISTER AT LAW.
Windsor Police District,
27th June, 1848.
SIR, —We the undersigned electors of
the counties of Cook and Westmoreland,
in consequence of the dissolution of the Legis-
lative Council, have the honour to request chat
you will allow yourself to be put in nomination
for the future representation of these counties
in the legislature of the colony.
In thus soliciting you to come forward as a
candidate for the representation of these coun-
ties, we do so feeling confident that you are fully
alive to our Interests, and have a corresponding
desire for our future prosperity. We fe< 1
further assured, that on your known integrity we
may safely rely for the faithful discharge
of any trust whicfl| as our representative, we
may repose in you.
Presuming upon your compliance wMi this,
our request, allow us in conclusion to pledge
every exertion on our part for securing the
success of your election
We beg to remain,
Sir,
Your most obedient servants
Christopher C. Vickery John Cobcroft, sen.
Richard Wm. Cobcroft David Dunston
Michael Nowland
Henry Butlsworth
Paul Bushell
Henry Buttsworth
Thomas Rose
Reuben Greentree
John Dunston
Tristram Dunston
Thomas Tebbutt
Laban White
Ed Coffee
Alfred Jones
Richard Dunston
Thomas Gospe, jun.
D. B. Kirwau
John Ridge
John Hogan
Joshua J. Vickery
John Bennett
Christopher Cross
Thomas Lynch
Harvest Baldwin
Thomas Graham
Michael Power
Edwin Baldwin
Robert Farlow, sen.
Robert Farlow, jun.
John Richardson
Richard Skewthorpe,
sen
John Ezzey
Richard Childs
Thomas Stubbs
William Brown
John Cunningham,
jun.
Sydney, June 28th, 1848.
GENTLEMEN.—I have the honour to ac-
knowledge the receipt to your requisition, of
yesterday’s date, requesting me to put myself
in nomination as a candidate for the represen-
tation in the Legislative Council of the colony
of the counties of Cook and Westmoreland.
Allow me in the first place to thank you
sincerely for the honour conferred upon me;
and in reply to state, that I have much pleasure
in acceding to your wishes so flatteringly
expressed.
Possessing as I do a considerable stake In
the colony, and my interests consequently being
strongly identified with your own, I beg to as-
sure you that, if elected, I shall always advocate
to the best of my ability, any measure which I
may believe to be conducive to the interest, or
tending to the advantage, of this my adopted
country.
I feel proud in finding that during the several
years I have visited your district in various
official capacities, my conduct has been such as
to meet your approbation, and to acquire your
esteem. I can only, in conclusion, sincerly hope
that should I be fortunate enough to be placed
by your votes and interest in the distinguished
position of your representative, you will not
have occasion to regret the honour conferred
upon me.
I beg to subscribe myself,
Gentlemen,
Yonr most obedient servant,
ALFRED CHEEKE.
To Christopher C. Vickery, Esq., and the
other Gentlemen signing the Requision.
BATHURST ELECTION.
TO JOHN BAYLEY DARVALL, ESQ.
WE, the undersigned Electors of the
district of Bathurst, request you will allow
yourself to be put in nomination as a Candidate
for the representation of the County of Bathurst
in the ensuing Legislative Council.
George Suttor
John Savery Rodd, J.P.
J B Richards, J,P,
William Lane, J.P.
J. Simmons
Thomas Jones
John C. White
Aaron Gainsborg
P. B. Wilde
George Flower
Lawrence Shorten
Nicholas Read
Henry Rotten
John Declouet
Henry Blunden
Joseph C. Stranger
James W. Bligh.
TO GEORGE SUTTOR, ESQ, AND THE
OTHER GENTLEMEN WHO HAVE
SIGNED THE ABOVE REQUISITION.
Gentlemen, —I am very sensible of the honour
you have conferred on me. I shall have much
pleasure in standing for the County of Bathurst,
and whatever may be the result of the election,
it will always be a source of the highest gratifi-
cation to me that my past conduct should have
secured your good opinion.
I remain, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JOHN BAYLEY DARVALL.
TO THE ELECTORS OF THE COUNTY OF
BATHURST.
GENTLEMEN, —It is my intention, In
compliance with the above requisition, to offer
myself as a Candidate at the approaching
election, for the honour of representing the
County of Bathurst. In soliciting the honour
of your support, I shall at present trust rather
to your experience of my public conduct than
to any lengthened exposition of my political
opinions On the day of nomination, or sooner
if possible, I shall do myself the honour of ad-
dressing you in person, and I shall then be
prepared, without any reservation, to give you
such information as you may require. If during
the ensuing session the present constitution of
this Colony is to be changed, it will be my duty,
if returned, to insist that the political rights of
my fellow-colonists may be extended, but cer-
tainly not contracted. J disapprove of the pro.
posal to transfer the electoral franchise of the
people into the hands of District Councils. I
have always advocated religious toleration, and
although 1 am firmly attached to the reformed
Church of England, still I believe it to be the
unquestionable right of every man, freely to
worship God according to the dictates of his own
conscience. I will never sanction the imposition
of any unnecessary tax, nor the unnecessary
expenditure of any public money. And if you
do me the honour of electing me as your repre-
sentative, I will endeavour so to fulfil my duty
that you shall have no reason to regret the
confidence you have placed in me.
I remain, GenMemen,
Your obedient servant,
JOHN BAYLEY DARVALL.
WENTWORTH AND BLAND.
HTHE Central Committee will meet at
A COHEN’S FITZ ROY HOTEL. Pitt-
street, on Tuesdays and Fridays, at 7 o’clock
in the evening. Members are requested to
attend.
J. C. WHITE.
Secretary
CITY OF SYDNEY,
TO JOHN LAMB, ESQ.
W
E, the undersigned Electors of the
City of Sydney, being desirous of securing
the return of a representative for the Commer-
cial Interest in the ensuing legislative Council,
request you will allow yourself to be put in
nomination at the approachiug election, pledg-
ing ourselves to use our utmost exertions to
secure your return.
John Thacker
J. (iilchrist
J W. Gosling
Henry G. Smith
Thomas Holt, jun.
llobert Lowe
It. M. Robey
David Jones
George Forbes
Richard Lamb
Frederick Ebsworth
Edward Salamon
Cliailes Younger
E. H. Follard
John A. Mathews
M. E. Murnin
Jonathan Hardy
Charles Chapman
Thomas S. Mort
A. Campbell Brown
M. Birnstingl
Hugh Dixsou
Charles Wilkinson
William Hiudson
Henry Moore
James Comrie
George Talbot
George A. Lloyd
J. i’omroy Bond
Thomas Barker
Josiah West
Frederick Mackellar
John Alexander
George Dent
Edward Lane
D. N. Muuro
G. J. Armitage
John Crolt
Clark Irving
R C. Gordon
Robert Porter
Charles Scott
Wm. Bowden
W. L. Bowden
W. L, l’iddington
Randolph Nott
C. S Deacon
David Jones
William Tucker
Chailes Newton
Wm. Lucas
Robert Barr
George Forsyth
James Mitchell
William Stephens
Thomas Gregao
John Falser
Wm. C- Preston
Thomas Woolley
Nehemiah Rutidle
James McLaren
George Wilson
Thomas Donovan
B. S. Lloyd
Thomas Hemming
D. L. Welch
W. E. Rowland
J. Dalgarno
G. E. It. Lingard
Ambrose Foss
John Cartwright
William Cargo
J. Cadman
George Lucas
Archibald Graham
James M'Coy
John Fairfax
George Thorne
Charles Kemp
John Fletcher
Frederick Ford
R. T. Ford
C. M. Penny
George Grimes
C. S. Vallack
Thomas Kiikman
John Lawson
John Bibb
Thomas Cowlishaw
William Ball
It. Mansfield
William Sullivan
S. B. DotvseU
E. Bennett
John J. Adam
Thos. W. Simth
George Patou
T. Brown
John Korff
William Wright
James Hume
Andrew Lenehan
John Stewart
Thomas Hyndes
Robert Berry
Phillip Burke
Arthur C. Daniell
Edward M‘Donald
James Buchanan
Henry Armitage
James N. Smith
Alexander Campbell
Francis Mitchell
Henry Buckley
Alfred Fairfax
George Wilkie
Charles Clark
John Walsh
Thomas Dawson
John Stirling
Alexander Cameron
James Gillespie
Frederick 1 1 win
John Fearnley
W. Ranken Scott
George Jarman
Samuel H. Smyth
John Wajker
Laurence Spyer
T. W. Smith
J.C. Korff
J B. Viles
W. S. Deloitte
John Macnamara
W. S. Friend
A. Way
A L. de Met*
Thomas Wiliock
Edward Campbell
George Whitfield
James Stewart
Benjamin Simms
D. Larnach, J. P.
Henry Hollingslied
Jos. Armstrong, V. S.
James Beattie
John Carmichael
James Henderson
Henry Lord
Hector Martin
Robert Kerr
Joseph Pettingall
Francis Matthews
James Smail
John Sands
James Grocott
Joseph Pritchard
William Barnett
I. M. Illidge
Joseph Vickery
A. Reyuolds
John Fell
Thomas R. Coates
Jeremiah Coates
Abm. Davy
William Benson
M. Rock
P. Palfrey
George Munden
J. W. Browne
Francis Graham
Robert Janies
John Frazer, Sen.
Richard Milner
John Dickinson
John Purdu
John Thomson
Thomas Clare
George Smith
Thomas Beames
John Keele
Eugene Cannon
Henry Thompson
John Caldwell
Robert Appleton
George Knox
James Ewen
M. Hooper
H. M. Moore,
Gentlemen. — l feel highly flattered by the
desire you have expressed that I should become
a candidate for the representation of Sydney,
and I eincerly thank you for the promise of your
support at the approaching election.
I have no hesitation in assuring you that my
best attention wilt be at all times and in every
place be given to public measuies which iu any
way affect the commercial body; as I am con-
vinced that their interests are blended with, and
cannot without injury be separated from, all
other important interests in the colony. I have
always thought that Sydney, the seat of a vast
and increasing import and export trade, ought
to have one commercial representative, and
should a majority of the electors concur in the
views you have expressed, and place me again
in the Legislative Council, it will be my study
to discharge, to the satisfaction of the constitu-
ency, the trust reposed in me.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JOHN LAMB.
To John Thacker, Esq, and the gentlemen
signing the requisition.
TO THE ELECTORS OF SYDNEY.
GENTLEMEN. —Having at the request
of a numerous and respectable body of
citizens, become a candidate for your suffrages
at the approaching election, I deem it my duty
to lay before you my sentiments on some import-
ant subjects.
Believing that governments are instituted
for the benefit of the people, I am of opiuion
that they should be as little costly as is com-
patible with efficiency; and that it is therefore
the bounded duty of a legislator carefully to
scruztinize and control the expenditure, in every
branch of the public service.
Education being a subject which is now ex-
citiug attention in every civilized community, I
think it right to declare that I am not prejudiced
in favour of any particular form. It appears to
me that a system which may be adapted to one
locality may be utterly unsuited to another, and
therefore that the wishes of the people more
immediately interested should in every case,
were practicable, be consulted.
The extraordinary concessions lately made to
the squatters, render a satisfactory adjustment
of the questions affecting the sale of the waste
lands more difficult than ever; yet Ido not sup
pose that a system based on the absurd theory
that these lands are worth a pound an acre,
can long stand. But, when once the mass of
the people become thoroughly awake to the evils
which have been inflicted on them, and their
posterity, they will press for and ultimatelv ob.
tain, a sounder and more equitable policy In the
administration of these lands. Then, and not
till then, we may hope again to see capitalists ar-
riving amongst us, seeking for investments in
the soil.
To the renewal of transportation I am de-
cidedly opposed, from a firm conviction that the
advantages which migbt be derived from com-
pulsory labour, would be far outweighed by the
social evils which would arise were such a ays.
tem re-introduced into the colony.
With unfeigned humility I admit that, there
are amongst you many who by talent and educa-
tion are more fitted than I am to discharge the
important duties which devolve on your repre-
sentative, but at the same time I will fearleasly
assert that none could be sent into the Council
with a more earnest purpose to discharge
honestly and diligently those duties than, Gen-
tlemen, Your obedient servant,
JOHN LAMB.
THE WOOL-PACK INN,
NEAR THE HAY MARKET,
SYDNEY,
O EGS to inform his Friends in town
yj and country, and the Public generally
that lie has nc ntly received, dirett from
liondun and to his esoecial order, through the
house of Swain, Webb and Co., an extensive
supply of
REAL JAMAICA RUM,
selected with great care by one of the most
eminent judges of the article, and that lie i
now ready to accept orders for any quantity o
(lie above wholesome liquor, from a bottle to
puncheon, either in or out of bond, upon tin
following terms:—
Bottled, per dozen 245.
In wood, per gallon 12s
Publicans and others in the trade will, upot
taking a large quantity, meet with a corns
ponding liberality.
Martell’a Brandy, with a choice selection o
Wines, Ales, &c., &c , always on hand.
The advertiser would respectfully call tin
further attention of gentlemen from the interior
to the commodious alterations which have o
late been effected in his establishment, enablinj
him to offer visitors to the metropolis comfort
able and convenient quarters during their sta
in Sydney.
The premises adj lining the WOOL PACK
aie so universally known to possess capacioui
yards for teams, with ample and economics
accomodation for their attendants, that 1
seems superfluous here to enlarge upon them.
June 25, 1848.
STOCKTON CLOTHS, TWEEDS,
BUCKSKINS, DOESKINS, &c.
MESSRS, FISHER* DONALDSON
BEG to impress upon both wholesale
and retail purchasers of their Cloths, tha
great advantages are secured them by the late
arrangements effected at their
ESTABLISHMENT IN KING STREET,
where transactions take place immediately wlti
the Manufacturers, thereby giving the pur
chaser the benefit ef what otherwise would bt
thrown into the pockets of Agents and tbeii
deputies.
Acceptance of Challenges.
r |'HE “Enfield General," in reply
-* to the bounciblo vaporings of the
“ Sparkes’,” and the gigantic muff “ George
Hough,’’ has to state that, if his friends wil
permit, he will meet all three, in three succes-
sive weeks, the “ Big un’’ first, the “ Middle un’
second and the “ little dandy cock” third, or
their own dunghills, where they chanticleer sc
loudly. “ Hough” he would like to chastise foi
his notorious brutality—“ Bill” for attempted
treachery, and “ Tom’’ for amusement. Anj
weight—any amount.
N.B-—To meet the wishes of his up country
friends, Sinclair is about to pay them a visit, al
the request of his patrons, under the guidanot
of his friends Solly Reuben and Johnny Simmons.
THE THOROUGH-BRED ARAB HORSE
& a m it ia a
(Imported by Mr. Plaistowe,)
STAND, at Wollingary, am
travel through Jamberoo, Dapto, am
Wollongong.
TERMS:
For one Mare j 63.
Groom’s fee, ss.
To persons sending more than two marei
(bona fide their own property) a reduction wil
be made.
Application to be made to the owner, al
Wollingary. Dapto.
WILLIAM J. BROWNE.
JAMES SPRING is requested to com-
municate with his brother in Sydney.
July 18, 1848.
To Clerks of Courses—Secretaries of Yatching -
Cricket, and Rifle Clubs—Members of Pigeon
Matches—Players at Quoits — Ringers, Wrest-
lers, Pugilists Pedestrians Cockers
Dog Fanciers—and every other species oj
sportsmen. We shall, at all times, fee\
greatly indebted for any authentic infor-
mation, either past or future, having reference
to the chosen sports of any of the above .
THE SPORTING TIMES is published every
Saturday morning. Country Subscribers will
be received, on payment of Six Months in
Advance, viz.—Thirteen Shillings Parties
subscribing in the middle of a quarter will only
be charged from their commencing. Terms
or Advertising— 2s. 6d. for the first inch and
under, and Is. for every additional inch, each
insertion. Advertisements must specify on
the face of them the number of insertions, or
they will be continued, and charged accord-
ingly till countermanded.
A*entB Required in tiie Various Districts.—
Those gentlemen who feel disposed to act, if
not previously known to Mr. Johnson, will
be good enough to forward as early as pos-
sible Sydney references.
TOWN AGENTS.
Mr. D. Donovan King-street, near the
Rainbow Tavern.
„ Moore George-street, oppo-
site the old Burial
Ground.
„ Benjamin Sims ...... Parramatta-street.
COUNTRY AGENTS.
Mr. E. Mason Parramatta
„ John Anderson* ... Penrith
„ Charles L. Bayley... Campbelltown.
„ Michael Doyle* ... Berrima
„ William Hunt* Queanbeyan
„ Wm. Moore, C. Con. Ipswich,Moreton Bay
„ James Powers* Brisbane, „
„ J. M. Townshend ... Wollombi.
„ Joseph Matthews*... Wellington
„ Harry Evans Armidale, New Lptf.
„ John Tait* Bathurst
„ Simpson Gundagai.
„ John Dingwall Wollongong
* Those marked so are Innkeepers.
Where Agencies are not formed* gentle-
men wishing to have the paper regularly for
warded must coramunicat with the Office in
Sydney, and enclose the required advanc, of,
at least, 13s. Our Agents moreover are re-
quested to bear in mind, that in no case w il
the name of a Subscriber be received unless
he has complied with the regulation relative
to prepayment.
