

THE SPORTING TIMES.
“ EVERY MAN TO HIS HUMOUR.”
No. 5.
SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1848.
Price 6d.
ON THE ANTIQUITY AND ADVAN-
TAGES OF FIELD SPORTS.
[continued from our EAST.]
Independently of the value we set on tjip
manly character, a great recommendation
to field sports is the necessity for tempe-
rance which they enjoin.
a Q a j studit optatam cursu oqntingcre metara,
Multa tulit fecitque purr ; suiiavitet alsit;
Abstinuit Veuere et Baccho.”
Every schoolboy remembers this injunc-
tion »f Horace ; and in the still hardier
ages of antiquity, the forbearance from
indulgences, and the system uf self-denial
were extended almost beyond the powers
of human patience to endure. The pre-
paration of a candidate for the honors
of the Olympic Games was arduous and
trying in proportion to the hazard in-
curred of disgracing a spectacle which all
Greece was assembled to behold ; but in
all the games and pastimes of those and
later ages, the robust and healthy state of
the body was a point mainly attended to,
and very highly esteemed. History reads
us an instructive lesson on this most es-
sential point, in the person of the then
young Cyrus. On his return into Persia
from the capital of the Medes, where it
was known he had been passing his time
in soft dalliance with hi? beloved Cassan-
dana, his countrymen viewed him with
some mistrust. “ He has been living deli-
cately,” they said, “ at the Court of Media,
and will never be able to accustom him-
self to our simple and laborious manner
of life. 1 ' But when they saw him con-
tent with simple fare t that he was more
temperate and abstemious than themselves;
and that he showed mare skill in his ex-
ercises and pastimes than any other young
man of his age, they were struck with ad-
miration, and confessed that he had a still
just£r title to the throne of his ancestor
by his merit than fey his birth. In the
different republics of Greece, the value of
an army did not depend on its numbers,
but on the character and conduct of its
soldiers. Not only was it necessary that
the recruit should be unobjectionable in
himself, and in the flower of his age, but
that he should be the issue of parents who
had been inured to laborious occupations,
and who had lived a temperate life. Two
objects were here attained, —first, a well
djscipliijted army i and, secondly, no bet-
ter method could be adopted to preserve
the race from degenerating.
In ap o]d work, “ Painter’s Palace of
Pleasure'' we find the following :
ft It is not unknown to any man that
antiquity ordained it to be peculiar for
nobility to traync up there children to
huntinge, as .well to bolden and nozell
them in dangers, as to make them stronge
and accustomed to trauvayle (travel), and
force them to shun the delecate lyfe (life),
and idleness which accompany honorable
houses and those*of gentle blood,forsomuch
as by the pursuits of Beasts sleyghts
(sleights) of warrebeobierved.The Hounds
be the square battel •- th* greyhounds bee
the flanquarts and Wynges to follow the
enemy, the horsemen to gieve (give) the
.cheese when the game rpeedeth to covert,
the Hornes he the trumpets to sound the
chase and retire, and for encouragement
of the dogs to run. To be short, it
seemeth a very campe in battayle, or-
dayned for the pleasure and passetyme of
noble youth-”
In the tvvepty-fourth,Ode of his Third-
Book, Horace contrasts those softenipg
pleasures which emasculate the mind.apd
.enervate the body, with the opposite effects
of manly sports and exercises. In
another place we find him upbraiding a
young Roman for giving up.the manly
exercise of riding; and glancing at the
destruction of Troy, and feminine
education of Achilles, seemingto insinuate
that effieminacy was likely to destroy the
energies of his own countrymen. That
his apprehensions were not unfounded a
few centuries proved; for the Romans,
after the conquest of Persia and other dis-
tant kingdoms, became as easy a prey to
the Goths and Vandals as the Grecians
and others had been before to them ; and,
in the decline of the republic, the few
victories they gained were achieved but by
the terror of their name. Vir.gil also
speaks with disgust of an effeminate man.
He makes his young Ascanius a sports-
man as soon as he was able to sit on his
horse ; and he also makes him, at a very
early age, the first in the fight, as he had
been the first in the field.* In the speech
in which he was addressed by the bold
Numanus, which cost that hero his life,
we have the finest constrast of the evils of
effeminacy, and the benefits of manly pur-
suits, that the pen of satirist could pro-;
duce. The words “ O vere Phryyice\
neque enim Phryyes !"—Oh worse than
women in the shape of men ! —convey the
severest rebuke a nation could receive for
having made themselves contemptible to
their enemies, by the effects of an effe-
minate of life, and pursuits worthy only
of women. On the pther hand,, the,ad;
vantages of the manly exercises of youth
are finely set out in the vaunting exclama-
tion of this hardy Rutulian, Hunting and
horsemanship are particularly alluded to
by him ; anrl-there is something remarka-
ble in the expression,—
“ Venatu iuvigitant pueri sylvasque fatigant';
„flqcjqre iudus equos.” '
The idea of boys vexing the very woods
with hunting, and taming high-spirited
hopses being accounted child's play, could
only have emanated from the mind of a
writer highly impressed with the value pi
such manly pursuits. Neither is an al-
to personal foppishness less worthy
of notice, in the celebrated philippic, at
which, Homer, in the Iliad and the
Odyssey, also takes several occasions to
scoff. That he made Achilles the hero of
poem by, no means to.be wondered
at, since he, formed so fine a specimen of
the manly character, and excelled his fel-
lows in all manly sports. In short, it
was truly said of him, that “ he was the
image of a perfect man as he came from
' the hands of his Maker ; and even more
that than man was he esteemed by the
Grecian bard. When alluding to his
birth, he represents ApoHo'thus speaking
Alneas : g < n s«u»‘»
»“ Kal Si (ft Ifatri Aio; xot/fi>g'A?»oJiTt!s
’Exypyap.iv.'}"”
Then say you are descended' from Venus,
the daughter of Jupiter ; but he never uses
this doubtful expression when he makes
mention of his favourite hero, Achilles.
It would indeed be an endless task to
enumerate the writers who have lent their
aid to expose the evils of effeminate pur-
suits, and womanish appearance, in the
youth of their country, which lost Porapey
the battle of Perhaps Horace
and Juvenal stand first on the list; but
we must notomit a noble bard of our times.
The brother to Sardanapalus, deeply la-
menting the inevitable fate of the Assyrian
empire from the evils of effeminacy, after
having witnessed the reigns of forty kings,
markes this spirited appeal to his own
heart in favour of that enervate emperor .
“He must not perish thus. I wilt not see
The blood of Nimrod and Semiramis
Sink in the earth, and thirteen hundred years
Of empire ending like a shepherds’s tale ;
He must be roused. In his effeminate heart
There is a careless courage, which corruption
Has not all quench’d, and latent energies,
Repress’d by circumstances, but not destroyed—
Steep’d, but not drowned, in deep voluptuousness
1 If born a peasant, he had been a man
j So have reach’d an empire ; to an empire born
He will bequeath none; nothing but a name,
i Which his sons will not prize in heritage
Yet, not all lost, even yet he may redeem
t His sloth and shame, by only being that
Which he should be, as easily as the thing
He should not be and is. Were it less toil
To sway his nations than consume his life ?
To head an army than rule a harem :
He sweats in palling pleasures, dulls his soul,
j And saps his goodly strength, in toils which
yield not
Health like the chase, nor glory like the war
He must be roused. Alas! there is no sound
To rouse him short of thunder. Hark 1 the lute
The lyre, the timbrel; the lascivious tinklings
Of lulling instruments, the softening voices
Of women, and of beings less than women,
Must chime into the echo of his revel,
While the great king of all we know of earth
Lolls crown’d with roses, and his diadem
Lies negligently by to be caught up
By the first manly hand which dares to snatch
it.
A great recommendation of our mauly
sports is, their having been reckoned
among the classic glories of antiquity,
&nd considered worthy the pens of the
ablest writers of the most refined periods
of the yv°Hd. Horace wrote his “ Car-
; men t}>culare" in honor of manly ex-
i ercises, and the wisest philosopher, the
brightest genius of his own or perhaps
j any other age,—the renowned Aristole,
wrote a treatise on field sports by order
of Alexander the Great, and, to enable
him to accomplish his task with ability,
was assisted with the enormous sum of
eight hundred talents from the treasury,
and a thousand men were employed to col-
lect specimens of the various animals on
| which he was to employ his pen. Whilst
Greece was the nursery and lesidence of
every branch of polite literature, and of
all the arts and science then known to
mankind, —whilst every study that de-
pends on the powers qf imagination, or
the faculties of the understanding, was
there carried to the very summit of per-
fection, do we find Xenophon composing
his KcvzysTixof, to which we have before
alluded. He, according with the custom
of the times, opens his subject with fable,
and tells us, that hunting—.which he calls
the gift of the gods —and the use of dogs,
originated with Appollo and Diana, and
that the invention was made a present of
ito Chiron, who took pupils in the art,!
each of whom was, in his time, honored
by the the gods. His real object how-
ever was to encourage in the youth of his
country, a taste for the chase, as the best
preparation for war, the senate and the
world. Whilst he condemns the effeminate
man as shamefully useless to his country,
he represents the well-trained sportsman,
not only mighty in war, but ready to sa-
crifice his person and his wealth to the
public good. As a preparation for war,
and particularly the higher branches of the
soldier s profession, we need not the testi-
mony of Xenophon, for our own observa-
tion has convinced us, that speaking ge-
nerally, no man takes a view of a country,
at first sight, with equal facility to a
sportsman, particularly to a sportsman
who has been accustomed to follow hounds.
Indeed, until he has, what his called in
the field, “ a good eye to a country,” he
cannot ride with judgment after hounds in
any of our inclosed districts; and when
the chase is concluded, it has often sur-
prised us to witness the rapidity with
which a fox-hunter sees the points of a
country in which he is a stranger, that
must lead him towards his wished
for home With respect to the other ad-
vantages alluded to by Xenophon, heliad
good authority for what he asserted. The
Olympic Games were established by the
Greeks for two distinct purposes :—first,
to inspire their youth with a
love of glory, and a taste for manly
and invigorating exercises ; and secondly,
with a view of drawing together the lead-
ing men of the different states of Greece,
which gave them an opportunity of de-
liberating on matters of'general concern
As for the other various occupations of
life which a gentleman is called upon to
fulfil and do honour to, we may remark
that an irreproachable moral character
was a necessary qualification for a com-
petitor at these games ; neither is a sports-
man in our own country esteemed, how-
ever skilful he may be, if his character be
tainted by fraud. We may add to all
this, the advjmtagtjs derived from the mix-
ture of society*Hi' the field, and the valu-
able and Ij&fingt friendships that may be
dated from accidental meetings by the
cover's side.
Among the Greek writers, Oppian dis-
tinguished himself by his poems on
hunting. So excellent were they con-
sidered by his emperor, that he presented
him with a piece of gold for every veise
they contained, and thus they acquired
the honourable appellation of “ the golden
verses of Oppian. ’ His description of
the horse is also well worked up and
natural; and as a proof of his having
suited the tastes of his countrymen, they
engraved on his tomb, that the gods had
taken him from the earth in the flower
of his age, because he had already ex-
celled all the rest of mankind. The
great critic, Scaliger, is lavish of his
praises of this poet, and thinks he ap-
proaches closely to Virgil, whose manner
he wishes to imitate. Gratius wrote a
Latin poem on coursing. He was con-
temporary with Ovid, and was a sports-
man, as the knowledge of his subject
denotes. Nemesianus, also, three cen-
turies after, wrote some poems on hunting,
but they have not been so highly esteemed.
The sports of the field are alluded to by
innumerable classic writers, and it is
scarcely necessary to add, ate made the
ground-work of their most beautiful
allegories and fables.
* Priiuum bciln
f Iliad, xx, 105.
J The Persians, at this time, were so vain of
their personal appearance that one of the orders
+k>-» Aow ivoa Sitrtf thfi fnro ”
JUDGE AND JURY CLUB.
Before the Lord Chief Baron and a Special
Jury.
THE QUEEN v. A “ TRAP.”
Constable XX 90 was placed at the bar
charged with having neglected his duties as
a police officer, with cowardice and other-
wise misconducing himself to the danger and
insecurity of the lives and properties of Her
Majesty’s loyal subjects in this city. The
prisoner pleaded not guilty.
The Attorney-General appeared for the
prosecution, and Mr. Sergeant Claptrap for
the defence.
The Attorney-General proceeded to state
the case to the Jury t—*
Gentlemen of thp Jury—The prisoner a’ the
bar stands indicted for a gross and wiliul abuse
of the trust reposed in him by Her tnost Gia-
cious and most Sublime Majesty Queen Victoiia,
as guardian and conservator of the peace, ord£r>
and propdety of this her pure and stainless city
of Sydney, New Sohtli Wales. It will not be
necessary that I should occupy much of your
time in siating the circumstances of the case, as
they are few, and of easy proof. Gen le nen,
the prisoner is a cobbler by profession, but from
a node and laudable ambition, he conceived a
sudden dislike of the lapstone, and yearned
fondly for the truncheon. Having pitched
“lasts” and “ awls’* into the fire, he sought an
interview with our worihy Superintendent of
Police, to whom he revealed his anxiety to en-
ter her Majesty’s service as a “trap.” That ex-
emplary functionary after keeping him hanging
on while he wrote home to Lord Grey, for his
Lordship’s approval of appointing him to the
“ force,” at last made him a constable of T Di-
vision. For the first few weeks, the prisoner
displayed a good deal of vigilance and atten-
tion to his duties: but he gradual y began to
relax in the discharge of them—and ultimately
became so ncg igenr, that he was seldom to be
found on his “ beat” particularly after eleven
o’clock at night. The consequence was, that
frequent robberies took place in the part of the
city in which the prisoner was ordered to doddty.
Several complaints having been made of the
almost nightly depredations that were commit-
ted, and of the number of disorderly characters
that were allowed to assemble and disturb the
peace of the neighbourhood, I deemed it my
duty to have enquiries made into the matter,
and was shocked and surprised to learn, gentle*
men, that the piisoner instead of being an effi-
cient public servant, and guarding the property
of the citizens from the attacks of the midnight
was seldom to be f iund at his post* In
fact, gentlemen, the only “ post*’ it was likely to
find the prisoner at after twelve o’clock at night
was the “ bed post,” for which he manifested a
veryconstantand unwavering attachment Instead
of patrolling the town, as it was his duty to have
done, this unworthy and unprincipled constable
passed the greater portion of his evenings in a
favorite pot-house, where he regaled himself
with potations of rum and water, and other ex-
hilerating beverages, generally at ihe expense
of S6me credulous fool who respected more the
“ stripe” on the prisoner’s jacket than he re-
gaTded the individual himself. Being thus well
primed and loaded, the prisoner would saunter
kbout the streets tor an hour or two till the in-
habitants retired to rest, when he would betake
hiihself to'hfis own fireside, and, having encased
his head in a red night cap, and taken a “ blast
of his dUdeeh.” Seek forgetfulness of both him-
self arid his duty on a “ stretcher.” Gentlemen,
the only occasions on which the piisoner at all
rendered himself active and vigilant, were on
Saturday nights, and during the Sabbath-day.
On a Saturday the prisoner invariably made a
practice of confining as many drunkards as he
might meet with 'i and the Sunday he generally
passed in hoveling about public houses, for the
purpose of having any* Boniface fined who
could be so immeral and irreligious, ao despe-
rately depraved and abandoned, as to sell a
glass of ale or rum to a thirsty way-worn tra-
veller on that holy day. But, gentlemen, while
the prisoner is deserving of credit for thus dea-
should on the other hand be punished severely
for having neglected the other, and not less im
portant share of those functions. I decid-
edly approve of the prisoner’s apprehend-!
ing drunkards, and lying in wait to entrap
publicans; but I must condemn in the strong-
est terms that wilful negligence which cotrid
leave unguarded the streets of a large and po-
pulous city like this for the greater part of the
night. The public prints, gentlemen, have in-
formed you that robberies are of daily occur-
rence in Sydney. How can this be accounted
for, but by the supineness and negligence of
such persons as the prisoner. How is it that
parties are knocked down in the streets, l may
almost say, in the blaze of day—before darkness
has set in to offer a protecting screen to the of-
fenders—and robbed ? How is it, gentlemen,
that we learn that houses are forcibly entered in
some of our most public thoroughfares, and pro-
perty of considerable value carried away from
them ? These, gentlemen, ard facts which must
have attracted the attention of all classes of re-
sidents, and the frequent recurrence of them, is
to be solely attributed to the inattention and
carelessness of the constabulary. To put an
end to this evil it is necessary for the safety and
security of the community, that any constable
indifferent to the faithful discharge of his duties
should be punished, as an example to the other
members of the force. It is for this reason,
Gentlemen, that I have felt it my duty to prose-
cute the' prisoner. Evidence of his crime will
belaid before you; and as you, gentlemen, in
part with the inhabitants of Sydney, are deeply
concerned in the protection ot the city from
disorder and rapine, I trust you will by your
verdict, mark your condemnation of the prison-
er’s condtfot.
Jeremiah Buggins examined by the Attorney
General—What are you? lam a sergeant in
the T division of the Sydney police.
What id the prisoner, and what are his duties ?
He is a constable in that division; and his duty
is to parade a certain number of streets, to
confine all drunkards and disorderly characters,
and s£e that no robberies be committed.
Hbw long has the prisoner been in the police,
and how has he conducted himself ? He has
been a year and a half a constable. When he
first joined tho force he was very vigilant and
attentive; but during the last four months I
have been frequently obliged to complain of his
remissness and negligence.
In what respects have you found him remiss ?
Why, instead of patrolling his “ beat,” 1 have
frequently got him lushing in a public-house, or
shoring in bed. He is very partial to rum and
water, and takes great pleasure in comforting
himself between a pair of blankets. He is also
much addicted to beef-steaks and mutton-chops,
and is an inveterate lover of the Weed, In fact,
sir, he passes the most of his time In the enjoy-
ment of all these comforts, and does very little
duty except on Saturday nights, when he makes
a haul of drunkards, and on Sundays, when he
pimps about public-houses to try and entrap a
publican selling a glass of liquor.
To what do you attribute the many robberies
that have taken place in the part of the city in
which the prisoner wa6 appointed to do duty ?
To his general inattention and neglect.
Have you ever seen the prisoner show any-
thing like cowardice ? I saw him bolt one day
from a mob. He was standing at Mr. S. Lyons’,
Charlotte-place, peeping “round the corner” at
the approaching mob, and seeing them advanc-
ing in his direction be pulled off his coat, bblted,
and never cried u stop” till he got to his'ebt- ,
tage, Miller’s Point, where he hid himself under
a bed.
How long did he remain there ? He never
showed hinuelf till I came into his place and
mentioned something about rum and water,
when he popped his head out, and said he should
have no objection to a u wet.”
Cross-examined by Sergeant Claptrap—You
have said, sir, that the prisoner has been grossly
negligent of his duties. Pray, how many hours
of the day is a constable required to be on dutv?
Very often for fourteen and sixteen hours, and
sometimes longer, if he should have a case on
the police list, and be kept waiting for a magis-
trate to entertain it.
This is a frequent occurrence, I suppose ?
Very : I have known a man, after parading the
streets all night, obliged to be at the Police
Office next morning, and hang about till 11, 1,
and 2 o’clock, before he could get his charge
heard.
What is a constable’s pay ? Two shillings and
ninepence per day.
Is the prisoner a married man ? Yes: and is
the father of six children.
You speak of the prisoner being very active
in confining drunkards of a Saturday night. ,
How is it that he has not been equally active on i
j other occasions ? Why, sir, on a Saturday the
labouring classes receive their wages, and con-
sequently indulge a little more freely than on
other evenings, and the police make a practice
of confining as many as they can, knowing that
the poor men would sooner pay the fine of eleven
shillings, than go to prison for twenty-four
I hours, and thereby risk the loss of their employ-
! merit. • ' < ' • i
| What is done with this money ? Five shil*
; lings is given to the Benevolent Asylum, three :
and sixpence to the Acting Chief Inspector, !
1 and the remaining half-crown is divided among
! the one, two, or three constables, as the case
may be, who were engaged in confining the
drunkard.
( The prisoner, you say, made himself busy in
piiuping after public-houses on a Sunday ? I
presume he had a share of any fines he might
have imposed upon a publican for a breach of
the Licensing Act? Oh yes, of course; half a
dozen fines of this kind return in something
very handsome to the parties interested.
Do the police make any distinctions with re-
spect to fining publicans ? Yes: some they '
never proceed against, and others they as inva-
riably prosecute.
How many men does the police force muster ?
Between seventy and eighty.
' ' How many drunkards were confined on last
Saturday night, and how many paid the fine ?
There were twenty-nine, and out of that number
sixteen paid a fine of 11s. each.
From the limited number of the constabulary,
does it not open happen that robberies take
place notwithstanding the utmost vigilance of
I the police! Yes; for while a constable is pa-
trolling one street, a robbery may be committed
in the adjoining orte.
Pray was there not an order issued to the
police, to the effect that they should shave off
their whirkers, and how did that order effect
them? Yes; and the consequence was that
each constable has to expound a portion of his
weekly pay in purchasing soap for lathering pur-
poses—a sad curtailment of their grog allow-
ances.
The case for the Crown here closed,
Mr. Sergeant Claptrap then addressed
the Jury for the prisoner. He said—
Gentlemen of the Jury—You have been told
of the danger and insecurity that accrues to this
city in consequence of the neglect of per- .
sons like the prisoner, who are paid to act as
constables, and guard it from such hazard*.
Gentlemen, with respect to the charge against
the prisoner, 1 shall not have to trouble you with
many lengthy observations, and shall limit uny
defence to one or two points Which 1 think must
strongly impress you with a sense of their force
and correctness. Those points are, the inade-
quacy of the force to exercise proper vigilance
over this city; and the insufficiency of the re- :
numeration allowed that body for their services.
It is pure humbug, Gentlemen, to say that 70
orBo men are an efficient police corps for so large
and so widely extending a place as Sydney is.
And then, because of the limited number of con-
stables, and the consequent recurrence of rob
,il - 1 ■ " ■ 1
punish a man for neglect, unavoidable on his
part. Is is not apparent to your common sense,
gentlemen, that as long as the constabulary is
so small and stinted as it is at present: it must
be impossible to protect the inhabitants from
outrage and plunder. When, gentlemen, out of
the 70 or 80 " traps” not more than twenty-five
or thirty are upon duty at any one time, day or
night, would it be possible for such an insig-
nificant body of men to be sufficiently on the
alert against thieves and other desparadoes. It
was only the other day that one of the Sydney
magistrates complained of this fact. No, gen-
tlemen, the fault rests not with the men, but
with the authorities, whose duty it is to provide
Sydney with an adequate police guard. In pro-
portion as the constabulary is increased, will be
the security afforded to life and property. And
until such a change be effected, it is sheer folly
to ascribe the numerous robberies, &c., that are
constantly taking place to the neglect of this or
that constable. For this reason, gentlemen, you
will see the injustice of prosecuting the prisoner
in the present case. The next point to which I
claim your attention, is the miserably small pay
allowed the police. Is two-and-ninepence a day
sufficient remuneration for a man that has to toil
for eighteen or twenty hours out of the twenty-
four, exposed to all changes of weather; and
who has a wife and five or six children to sup-
port, house rent to pay, &c ? Is this fair recom-
pense for a man appointed to be the guardian of
our lives and properties ? Gentlemen, we have
it from the most exalted source, that " the ser-
vant is worthy of his hire.” Pay him well first,
and then if he fails in the discharge of his duty,
punish him severely. It was only the other day
that an order was issued commanding the police to
shave off their whiskers* and never allow a single
blaok or white hair, to luxuriate on their jaws. Is
not this rank folly, gentlemen. Does it not de-
note that capricious and arbitrary spirit by which
certain newly fledged officials seek to practise
the “ Sir Oracle” upon their subordinates ?
Would a constable be a better or a braver man,
minus a pound and a-half of hair off his face.
We have historical proofs to the contrary, gen-
tlemen. Samson did more execution with the
jaw bone of an ass, when he had a good crop of
hair ort his head, than ever Hercules did with
his clnb. But the moment the barber’s shears
i travelled over Samson’s scalp, his strength
vanished, and he sat down, and employed him-
self knitting stockings, till Nature clothed his head
in a fresh crop of hair, when his original vigour
returned. Gentlemen, you have been told that
the prisoner was guilty of cowardice—that qn
seeing a small mob of “ students” advancing, he
pulled off his invisible blue coat and bolted like
a red shank. Now, this may be all very well to
tell you, gentlemen, and may appear like
cowardice. But, when I assure yod that three
days previous to this occurrence, the prisoner
was obliged to cut off his whiskers, you will
easily believe that the unfortunate man thought
“ discretion the better part of valour’Wand that
he preferred giving the mob leg-bail (that is,
taking to his heels) than running the risk of
getting his head cracked in attempting to “ bail”
them up in the watch-house. It was not want
of courage on the part of the prisoner : it was
want of whiskers. Gentlemen, how is it that all
those men who use the renowned Rowland's
“ Kalydor Paste”—are remarkable for their
undaunted bravery. Colonel Sibthorp, no mean
authority on such makers, stated in his place in
the House of Commons, that the only regiments
that distinguished themselves on the field of
i Waterloo were those regiments that looked as
if each man of them had swallowed a Manx
I pony, leaving the tails sticking out of their
mouths, And it is an indisputable fact that the
“ Royal Windsor Blues” are more indebted for
! the chivalrous name they bear to the great
| quantity of “ V> indsor Soap” they use, than thay
j are to their “Long Jack Boots!” With such
stubborn facts before you gentlemen, you cannot
| conscientiously find the prisoner guilty of cow-
ardice. It was stated that the police make
it a special rule to confine as many drunk-
ards as they can (f a Saturday night, as on that
evening the working classes are paid their
wages: and that on Monday last no less than
sixteen drunkards paid a fine of 11s each.
Gentlemen, this is a serious abuse, as I will show
you The tines paid by drunkards alone on
Monday amounted to £8 15—a very pretty sura.
Out of this, £4 was given to the Benevolent
Asylum—which is a very proper way to apply it,
I £2 tis was handed over to a constable for his own
purposes, who absolutely does nothing f9#it —
i who is snug in his nest when the wretched tipplers
are being apprehended. Thus is he in possession of
! a handsome sinecure billet, from which at the rate
of Monday's receipts, he pockets the agreeable
i “ little plum ” of upwards of «£145 per annum.,
i The remaining £'l is divided among those con-
stables who busy themselves in catching drunk-
ards: and supposing the force to muster eightv
in number, it would be exactly sixpence a man.
Poor recompense for a person who gets his
head and his shins broken, and his clothes torn
j Gentlemen, I think I have said enough to show
: you that if the “ system” be altered, and the men
j paid well, instead of holding out an inducement
1 to them to play the part of despicable informers,
by pimping about public houses for the sake of
a share of the fine hanging to informations for
! breaches of the Licensing Act, there will be no
such trials as the present. The prisoner may
have been inefficient, but the fault rests not with
him, but with those in authority whose duty it is
to provide against the possibility of such things
occurring. With these remarks I shall leave
the case in your hands—feeling assured you will
not make him the victim of the mismanagement
and misrule of others.
The Lord Chief Baron recapitulated the
evidence in a forcible and impressive ad-
dress, and gravrly dwelt upon the heinous
! nature of the offence for which the prisoner
was indicted. He pointed out to the jtfry
' the paramount importance of a well organ-
-1 ised corps of police, and asked them how
would they like, supposing they should some
fine night get gloriously drunk—a fre ik he
pronounced it morally impossible for jury-
men to be guilty have their houses
entered during their spiritual torpor, and
their breeches pockets emptied of any loosi
cash they might accidentally contain, or
their German silver tea spoons “ faked,”
and all through the negligence of the
“ traps.’’ Gentlemen, said his lordship,
suppose a big. strapping fallow, made
forcible entry into your dear wive’s apart-
ments, and that you shouted murder lor
a constable, lest the ruffian should break
your crockery ware or steal your boots, or
injure your “ bitter halves/’would you not
feel indignant at not fiuding the required
aid? But when to this culpable neglect is
superadded the despicable crime of cow-
ardice, the case then assumes a serious
aspect, and is deserving of your most earnest
attention. Gentlemen, it has been proven that
the prisoner “showed the white feather ” so
rigr 'giously as absolutely to divest himself
of hi.', official coat at the sight of a crowd
of boys, and scud like smoke before the
wind to his residence. This was disgraceful
conduct. But was it not more disgraceful
to conceal himself under his bed? You
have heard, Gentlemen, of the ostrich, on
the approach of danger, hiding his head in
a hole* leaving the posterior portion of his
corpus exposed to assault and battery. Tiie
prisoner might have done the same. With
equal pluck he might have hid his “head
and pluck” in a “bag/’ and so have es-
caped the violence of the crowd, if he did
not elude their scorn and derision. To render
nioro atrocious, he could not bo
induced to leave his hiding place, but upon
the promise of a glass of rum. Gentlemen,
this is a very grave charge, and one de-
serving of exemplary punishment. His
lordship, after some pungent, peppery re-
marks, to the effect that a man in the
prisoner’s position ought to feel proud of the
honor of being one of the Queen’s con-
stables, “ free, gratis, for nothing,*’ instead
of looking for, or grumbling about pay, im-
presed upon the jury the necessity of holding
up (but not by the “neck ”) the prisoner as
a terror to all other “ traps/’ and as a
punishment of his sneaking, dastardly
conduct.
The Jury returned a verdict of Guilty,
but accompanied it by a recommendation
that part of the punishment awarded the
prisoner by the Court, should consist of his
being made one of those “ old fogies ”
y’cleped special constables, on all election-
eering occasions, or whenever a goneral
“ row ” is likely to take place.
His Honor then sentenced the prisoner
to have his invisible blue coat turned inside
out; his head shaved; his unmentionable
extremity marked with a brand resembling
the impression of the toe of a well-paved
shoe ; and that his name be enrolled on the
lists of Sydney as a “ Special Constable.”
MULTUM IN PARVO.
It has been ascertained by recent returns that
in fourteen English towns 500 widowers mar-
ried the sisters of their deceased wives.—The
Princess Sophia was seriously indisposed at
Kensington. His grace the Archbishop of Can-
terbury had, in pursuance with the advice of
the Privy Council, issued a form of thanksgiv-
ing upon the birth of a princess.—The follow-
ing ‘ rumours’ found their way in the Paris
journals;—The news seems to take confirma-
tion that Poiand, Galicia, and all the southern
provinces of Russia were in open insurrection
against Nicholas.—ln all the provinces of the
Black Sea, the nobles were putting .themselves
at the head of the peasantry.—The celebrated
Chinese junk was in Jersey in the end of March.
—A Chartist and Repeal meeting was held on
the 20th March at Oldham Rige, within one
mile of the Town of Oldham, Lancashire, 20,000
persons present; the leaders being Mr. Feargus
O’Connor, M.P., for Nottingham, and Mr. Mi-
chael Doheny, a young Ireland Delegate from !
Dublin.—A new Branch of Odd Fellowship has I
been established in London, under the designa- |
lion of the London Union.—lt was generally j
supposed in Dublin that Lord Clarendon was
unwilling to institute the Government prosecu-
. tions which cause so much excitement; and that i
the steps taken were the result of some impera-
tive communications from the English Cabinet.
The Right hon. R. L. Shiel, master of the Mint,
is seriously indisposed.—The Hants Indepen-
dent says, “ Emigration seems to be a mania
here now, a question we are constantly hearing
is ‘ are you going to ‘ Stralia ?’ ” —Jerome Na-
poleon Bonaparte two days ago, commenced his
service as a National Guard, and was placed as
a sentinelat the Poste du Drapeau. He belongs
to the 4th company of the Ist battallion of the
Ist leogjon.
ORIGINAL SQUIBS
Why is suspicion like a young lady tightly
laced ? Because she is Miss Trust (miss trussed.)
Why does a dissenting place of worship re-
mind one of a sick man ? Because it is a chap
ill (chapel). • i
When is a man not a man ? When he has
finished his letter, then he is a ceiling (sealing)
Why is a) rdpemaker lilke a great philoso-
pher ? Because he h never at a lcsa for a tow.
pick (topic).
What is a lady like between the times of ask-
ing and her marriage ? A widwife.
Why is a dyer, employed to dye one particu-
lar colour, like a dyspeptic person ? Because he
is limited to diet (dye it).
Why is time employed in reading a Novel liko
a fatigued maiden ? Because it is Miss spent
(misspent).
When is a loaf like a wet blanket ? When it’s
a damper
Why is a soldier at New Zealand like a re-
ceiver of stolen goods ? Because he is a par-
taker (Pah-taker)
Why is an abridgment of Shakspeare like a
mongrel ? Because it is curtail’d.
Why is a modern belle like a busybody ? Be-
canse she is never happy but when in a bustle.
Why is a man with a large hat like a negro
overworked? Because he is over-tilkd (over
toiled).
A young Cantab met an old chum who hud
just married,whom he thus addressed: “ Well,
old chap, doing the conjugal, eh?” “ Yes,
young feller,’* was the reply; “ I have been
learning, you see, the verb to love, and could
not mauage to get further than the mood con-
junctive
u Mamma ! I think you wish to make a cook
of pa,” said a pert daughter to her mother.
“ Why, what makes you think'so?” enquired
the mamma. “ Why, mamma,” replied the child,
*• did you not just say to the cook take this egg
to the kitchen and parboil it ?” (Pah boil it).
The daughter of a retired tradesman was
asked by a country friend one Christmas to as-
sist her in parcelling out a few things for the
poorer tenantry of her husband; but she did it
with so ill a grace that her friend enquired the
reason. “ Don’t you know the reason ?” was
the reply of a witty friend; “ Miss F. does not
like any thing which reminds her of Pa. selling”
(parcelling)
VARIETIES.
Loss of “ Thirdly.” — The Rev. Mr.
, minister of , had a custom of writing
the heads of his discourse on small slips of paper,!
which he placed on the Bible before him, to be
used in succession. One day he was explaining
the second head, he got a little warm in the
harness, and came down with such a thump
upon the Bible with his hand, that the ensuing
slip fell over the edge of the pulpit though
unperceived by himself. On reaching the end
of h ; s second head, he loooked down for the
third slip; but alas! it was not to be found.
“ Thirdly,” he cried, looking round him with
great anxiety. After a little pause, “Thirdly,”
again he exclaimed, but still no Thirdly ap-
peared. “ Thirdly, I say my brethren,” pursued
the bewildered clergyman; but not another
word, could he utter. At this point, while the
congregation were partly sympathising in his
distress and partly rejoicing in such a decisive
instance of the impropriety of using notes in
preaching—which has always been an unpopu-
lar thing in the Scotch clergy—an old woman
rose up, and thus addressed the preacher,—“ II
I’m no mi9taen, sir, I saw Thirdly flee out at the
east window, a quarter of an hour syne.” It is
impossible for any but a Scotchman to conceive
how much this account of the loss of Thirdly
was relished by that part of the congregation
which condemned the use of notes— Chambers’
Scottish Jest-Book.
The Last and Best, —-A correspondent
of the New York Spirit of the Times has the
fo,lowing;—“ A chap walking out, came across
“ Old Mose,” sitting in the broilling sun, fishing.
“ Well, Mose,” said he, “ what in the world are
you doing there ?’* “ Tiffin.” “ What ?” ‘ Tiffin.’
‘ Tishing! well, what’s the reason you can’t talk?
what’s in your mouth?’ ‘Oh, nuffin but wuns
A Mortifying Reflection.—“ If is a
most mortifying reflection” says Dr. Johnson,
“ for any man to consider what he has done,
compared to what he might have done.”
A Horse in Venice.— -It is said that at
Venice a horse is a greater enriosity than an
elephant in London. “ When I was there”
says a traveller, “they were paying two-pence
to see a staffed one.
Alarming Threat. —An Owestry Lady,
who took offence at something in a newspaper
the other day, sent it home in a huff, with the
awiul threat, that she would “never borrow
that paper again.”
Modern Prophets. —Douglas Jerrold
says, “Assuredly F. M. the Duke of Wellington
and the Earl of Ellemsere have adash of the
‘ true prophet.’ The French Princes have in-
vaded England, and taken possession of some of
tha Royal palaces.
Sensible Stomach. ‘‘Nothing will
stay on my stomach,” said an old toper, “ but
beefsteaks and Hodgson’s ale ; what do you
think of my stomach, eh ? doctor” “ Why, I
think your stomach is a very sensible stomach,”
was the unequivocal reply.
Sensible Petition.— Bruitt’s Christian
Citizen states that a Petition has been presented
to the legislature of Alabama that C. Frederick
Kellessinti Van Poniatowski La Poggeatt De
La Pooquellairiee Nommene Pavillion may be
allowed to change his name to Francis Duncan.
Turkish Present. —The Turkish Sul-
tan has ordered a superb manual, or vessel for
containing a charcoal fire, to be made at the
Constantinople mint, as a present to Queen Vic-
toria. The exterior ornaments will be formed
of silver guilt, curiously carved, and the pedes-
tal, made of cedar from Mount Lebanon, will be
inlaid with gold and precious stones.
A Cool Fellow.— A few days since,
while some excavators employed in the con-
struction of the acqueduct of the Bristol water
works, were blasting rocks in the parish of Lit-
ton, a large piece of rock struck the brim of a
man’s hat with such violence as to drive it forty
feet in the air. Thenarrowness of the escape
however, failed to disturb the imperturbable
phlegm of the excavator, who cooly turned to
his alarmed comrades, and observed, “ A miss
is as good as a mile, be’antit ?”
Convenient to where he was— The
story of the witness who after much badgering
defined the size of a stone as that of a “ lump of
chalk” is well known. The report of a trial at
the Clare assizes presents a similarly impracti-
cable person. Sub-constable Loghnane was
called to prove the arrest of one MTnerny, ac-
cused of burglary. We give the question and
answer, Mr. Henn, the Counsel—Where did you
arrest him ?—ln the townland of K’lthumper
(a laugh). Where did you see him!—Conve-
nient to where he was! Why I suppose you
saw him exactly where he was (laughter.) But
where was that ?—ln Kilthumper to be sure
(great laughter.) Was it in the village or out-
side of it! Hard by (a laugh,
•‘Man,” says Adam Smith, “is an
animal that makes bargains. No other animal
does this—no dog exchanges bones with ano-
ther.” ■ , 7
Speaking of the beneficial influence
of dheers on a player, it was remarked that they
give one courage, “ Ay,”said Mrs. Siddons, “but
what is better—they give one breath.
It is said that in the treasury of one
of the monarebs of Persia was found a vase,
with the following-lines tinged with.humour as
well as philosophy, inlaid in gold: ‘ lie who has
no wealth, has no credit; he who, has not an
obedient wife, has do comfort; he who has no
offspring, has no strength ; he who has none of
these lives free from care.”
Prolific Hen.—The Dumfries Cou-
rier should immediately look after the follow-
ing from a contemporary t—An inhabitant of
Kirkby Stephen, Westmoreland, is now in pos-
session of a fine hen, which began to lay when
she was sixteen weeks old, and which has laid
an egg every successive • day for the last three
years, during which time she has consequently
produced 1095 eggs.”
Female Disabilities —We wonder that
the ladies, who are so easily agitated, have not
participated in the agitation for removing par-
liamentary; disabilities. There is much to be
said in behalf of their claims to membership of
the House of Commons. They constitute a
large number of important interests, for in-
stance, the silk interest, the Leghorn interest,
and the French glove and shoe interest, are al-
most exclusively composed of them. It is ab-
surd to pretend that they would be udable to
speak : the contrary objection, indeed,. would be
better founded; but from no female tongue in
England, we will undertake to say, would the
house ever endure 9ueh an infliction as that
which it endured the other night from Mr.
Chisholm Anstey’s.— Punch.
Younger Days of the Lord Chancel-*
lor —ln a small street running out of Holbornj
a little to the east of Gray’s Inn Lane, nearly
parallel with the upper portion of the latter,
and called Brooke-street, an attorney of great
intelligence, leading practice, and respectable
connection, of the name of Salkiehl, about a cen-
tury and a half ago, had offices and a residence.
This street is now considered as a comparatively
humble situation; but at the period referred to,
it was one of the principal professional localities
in the metropolis As is now the custom, more
especially among the leading solicitors, Mr. Sal-
kield was in the habit of receiving young gentle-
men into his office, who were articled to him as
clerks, with the view of becoming ultimately
members of the same profession with himself.
It was the distinguished fortune of this gentle-
man to have among those who were so placed
under his tuition, four who eventually attained
very high eminence in another branch pf the
profession. Little, probably, did th >se who
were wont occasionally to resort to Mr. Salideld’s
offices, to avail themselves of his professional
skill, surmise that out of the clerks who were
about the same period engaged in his employ-
ment, there were two future Lord Chan-
cellors, a future Master of the Itolls, and
a future Lord Chief Baron. Of these were
.locelyn, subsequently Lord Chancellor of Ire-
land and founder of the titles and fortunes of the
house of Itoden; Strange, afterwards Sir John
Strange,- and Master of the Bulls in England ;
Parker, who become Lord Chief Baron of the
Exchequer in England; and' Yorke, the subject
of the present memoir.— Harris’s Life of Lord
Hardwicks.
Innocently Popping the Question.—
1 Charles,’ said a young lady to her lover, ‘ there
is nothing interesting in the paper to-day, is
taere, dear V ‘iSo love, but 1 hope there will
one day, love, when we both shall he interested.’
The lady blushed, and of course, ‘for shame,
Charles.’
Palf.y’s Opinion of the Character of
Falstaff.— Paley, when young, was particu-
larly fond cf theatrical exhibitions, especially
when any eminent performer appeared from the
metropolis on the provincial hoards near whs re
he resided. This predilection never forsook
him, 111 a provincial theatre ha always seated
himself as near as possible to tile front of iho
centre box ; conversing about the character of
Falstaff, as delineated by Shakespeare, he re-
marked, “ that am.mgst act- rs it was frequ -ntly
misunderstood ; he was a courtier of the age he
lived in; a man of vivacity, humour, and wit,
a great reprobate, Lut no buffoon.’*
The Cork papers mention that during a
violent storm which lately visited the vicinity of
that city, an island in the lough was diiven from
its position, and drifted ashore, while a hog
covered with the nests of water fowl, was also


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Mr. Dind's order to withdraw was received too
late.
X.Y. Z. —Peter Robertson, late in conjunction
with Charley Kemp, as Sub-editors of the
Herald, and since Editor of the Portland
Bay H haling Chronicle, is at present Special
Reporter to the Melbourne Argus. It is ru-
moured that Mr. Robertson purposes offering
himself for the representation of one of the
vacant wards in the Melbourne lown Council.
Nimrod —lt is the duty of the party in charge
of the weights and scales to see that the
Jockey's bring in their proper weight . We
are not aware that they are compelled to weigh
before the race, they do so for their own pro-
tection.
S. S.— The wording of the bet implied a race,
and, as the horse did noi start, it is void.
Tom Tit — A piebald horse is black and ichite,
a skewbald, brown, or any other colour and
white.
Jockeys —Some horses trot faster in hamiess
than in saddle, but the horse in saddle, gene-
rally trots faster than in harness.
Sam — Yes; the publican can pretty well make
the distinction between a “ traveller" and a
tc potwolloper."
Pigeon Shooting —T. L — We should say that
the spirit of the bet was to kill the birds within
the bounds, and therefore P loses.
Cocking — A “ stag " is a cock a year old.
Our Maitland Agent is dead, we presume
Joe M. of Bathurst.— We have to thank you for.
the continued supply of news.
Paddy W.—Ditto ditto ditto
Ant. —The trial was published in one of the
Port Phillip papers a few weeks ago, but we
are disposed, in this instance, at any rate, to
return u good for evil."
Sam Slick. —A horse qualified to run for a
maiden plate must be a maiden horse at the
time of entry, and though he may win a prize
between the entry and the period of the race,
he is still entitled to start.
Rock. — The marriage took place on the 4 th
June, 1844. Our querist imposed a trouble-
some task upon us, and one which he could
easily have completed by a search.
Apex. —Lord Campbell's Act does not yet extend
to this colony. The action of Mr. Brenan
against the Herald was brought in November,
1843, plaintiff recovered 40s.
Mr. Daniel O'Connell was born in 1775.
Bung. — In betting for beer the loser partakes
but pays for all.
A LEGAL FARCE: or, No Going to QUOD,
IN FOUR ACTS,
BY A “ SMALL SNOB,”
Is unavoiddblably postponed till our next issue,
RACES TO COME.
Maitland 9, 10, & 11 August
Mudgee *
MR. N. S. LAWSON.
©)c Spotting
SYDNEY, JULY 29, 1848.
The successful progress which Mr. Law-
son has made in his canvas, since he first
addressed the Electors of our Metropolitan
County, cannot but be exceedingly
gratifying to him, as affording a con-
vincing proof of the high esteem in
which he is held by all classes of that
important constituency. In every place
that he has visited, he has been received
with the most cordial feelings of ap-
proval : and, beyond all question, if there
is anv reliance to be placed on popular
feeling, the display made in every quar-
ter of Cumberland leaves not a shadow of
a doubt that Mr. Lawson, like Mr. Went-
worth in Sydney, will be returned by a
triumphant majority on Wednesday next.
The constituency of the County of
Cumbeiland owe it to themselves as men
to repel with scorn and indignation the
dirty and dastardly attempts on the part
of Mr. Lawson’s opponents to slander
away his character, by meaqs both vile
and unmanly. Mr. Charles Cowper and
Mr. Henry Gr. Smith are before the men
of Cumberland anxious for their suffrages;
let the men of Cumberland, then, pro-
nounce whether their favorite candidate,
Mr. Lawson, should be made the object of
low and vituperative tittle-tattle by the
partizans of either of those gentlemen ?
We detest anything sneaking or unfair.
A “ Clear stage and no favor" has ever
been our motto. Let every man stand
upon his own merits, no matter what po-
sition in society he is desirous of occupy-
ing. Palmam qui meruit ferat— let him
who has proved himself to be a good
staunch patriot—a lover of his native soil
—of thegreen sod that bore him—let that
man be entitled to the approval of his
fellow-colonists.
Such a man is Mr. Lawson. He is a
native of this great colony. He has no
interests separate from the interests of the
constituency he is ambitious of represent-
ing in our Legislative Council. A son of
the soil—a sprig of the true Iron Bark—
his sympathies and predilections are
closely and inseparably interwoven with
those of his fellow-colonists. I ike every
genuine patriot he is desirous of seeing his
native country occupy a high and honorable
position in the eye of the world. Mr.
Lawson is not influenced by any mean,
narrow-minded, bigotted class views. He
is not the partizan of this faction, or of
that party. He is neither a bigot in poli-
tcs or religion. His sole ambition is to
of his fellow-colonists, irrespective of any
distinction.
Is not such a man far more desirable
than a trading, shuffling politician, whose
only object would be, in entering the
Council, to promote his own views and
interests, and those of his clan at the
expense, and to the detrimeut of the
interests of the great body of the people f
Mr. Cowper may have been a stirring
member of Council ; and may have
“ speechified” a good deal on various
topics, but he labours under one fatal ob-
jection ; he is the acknowledged partizan
of a certain small section of this com-
munity, which savours strongly of selfish-
ness and illiberality. It is not likely,
therefore, that the electors of Cumberland
will view such a man with any particular
favor.
As for Mr. Smith, ne hardly know
how to speak of him ; and it is against
our disposition to say anything ill-na-
turedly. We should be sorry, indeed, to
imitate the malicious feelings manifested
towards Mr. Lawson, by flinging into
Mr. Smith’s teeth any allusions to little
byegone matters, of an unpleasant nature,
connected with a certain Banking House
in Sydney. And we are quite certain
that Mr. Lawson himself would be the
first person to disapprove of so unworthy
an attempt to excite a prejudice against a
candidate. Moreover, we have too much
respect for the electors of Cumberland to
imagine for a moment that they would
allow their judgment to be influenced in
the choice of a representative, by any but
the most straightforward proofs of his
competency and sincerity. If Mr. Smith
is a man “ after their own hearts” they
will elect him, if net, why,—he must
content himself with the privation of
legislative honors.
Mr. Lawson, however, has one great
claim upon the voters ; he stands alone and
upon his own merits. He has no connex-
ion with the other candidates. Let the
Constituents weigh this fact maturely and
wisely : and then they will not be long ere
they arrive at the conclusion that Mr.
Lawson has the greatest claims upon their
confidence. We trust we may anticipate
the pleasure of recording in our next
publication the triumphant return of Mr.
Lawson to represent the County of Cum-
berland.
EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
ENGLAND.
A pretty general feeling seems to prevail
that the English have reason to be the most
contented people in Europe — that their
grievances are few and unoppressive—that
tiiey have no cause for grumbling ; and,
that, when compared with other European
nations, there is no room for the seeds of
discontent to prevail amongst them. This
however is a great delusion, as wili appear
by the following significant extract from a
late English paper:
The bulk of the British people are lovers of
liberty, and they are by no means averse to con-
stitutional monarchy. But there is such a thing
as deception with regard to liberty, and paying
too much for the trappings and concomitants of
monarchy. No nation on earth pays so much,
by one half, in the shape of taxation as the En-
glish, and except the miserable French, nope
even by one-fourth. Our Republican brethren
across the Atlantic have the cheapest govern-
ment of all the great nations ; and, somewhat
strange to tell, next to it is the empire of all the
Russias. Thus extremes meet, if not in pri-
velege, at least in expenditure; and it is surely
no small mitigation of the evils of a despotism
that it does not grind its subjects to the dust by
the cruelty af its fiscal exactions. One English-
man pays more than five Americans, or five
Russians; and more than double the demands
made even upon a Frenchman. With such facts
before the British mind as are presented by
the following table, it is utterly impossible
that things can long remain as they are:—
TAXATION PER HEAD PER ANNUM.
The United States, £0 9 7
Russia, 0 9 9
Austira, Oil G
Prussia, 0 12 4
France, 14 0
England, 2 12 6
Government is only a means to an end, and of
that end the chief features are the comfort and
the happiness of the people. Tested by this
principle small praise will be found due to the
past legislation of our country—a truth which
now begins to force itself on the attention of all
reflecting men. Great achievements, for good,
are seldom of chance; what Governments do
not honestly seek, that they are not likely to find,
and it is certainly within the truth to say, that
the promotion of the general welfare has very
seldom being the governing object of majorities
in our parliament, or of any Cabinets, whether
Whig or Tory.
It is common to designate the government of
our country as one of monarchy; but it were
much nearer the truth to describe it as that of
an aristocracy. For all great purposes of na-
tional welfare, the reform bill has left us very
much where we were. In some measure indeed,
we are even worse. With more apparent reality
in our representation, there is actually more
recklesness in the government. The present
state of our representation is one which ought
j to arouse the indignation of the entire com-
| munity. Dukes and Lords of the upper house
j still dictate and determine the proceedings of
! the lower house. The simple fact, that nearly
one-half, that is 266, of the present house of
Commons, are sons, grandsons, bothers, uncles,
and oousins of Peers, settles the question as to
the necessity of further reform. From such a
house, what man of sense and experience can
hope for justice to the people ? There must be
reform! What that reform shall be, it is by no
means difficult to determine; it must be some-
thing w hich shall bring an effectual cure to this
grievous and growing evil, —something by which
the true interests of the people, not of the aris-
tocracy, shall be represented and secured. One
step, a great one, too, towards a cure would be
trlennai parliaments; but it is clear, that this
alone would not suffice. The geeat remedy con-
sists in the improved composition of the House
itself, and nothing can effect this but the im-
proved character of the constituency. In that
body there must be infused more principle and
more patriotism. In the House of Lords, of course,
the people have no voice and not many friends;
and we repeat it, that in point fact, the House
which is denominated that of the Commons, is
practilly, the organ and instrument of the Peers.
Now this is the state of things against which it
behove every man iu England to lift up his voice
But protest and denunciation, however they may
ease conscience, or relieve a burdened heart,
bring no substantial relief: nor do we see how,
j without further changes, such relief can be found.
The pecuniary qualification of members, for
| example, shuts out from our senate a large num- j
• ber of individuals whose knowledge, experience,
and patriotism, eminently qualify them lor public
service. This is a barrier between the people,
and their own house, which must be removed.
But were that removal effected, the absence of
all provision in the shape of pay for senatorial
service would still remain as another barrier,
which would be fatal to the entrance of many
valuable men.
Another English journal, tlie Manchester
Times, expresses its sentiments thus :—
Our emergencies grow too serious for legis- *
lation to be any longer the mere plaything or
privilege of the aristocracy. They have heaped
i *■*■■■ r tLiin hnnlfj . iita unn A nlhan turn ilu
to lighten it. Those hands are ready, if the
people will help them. The working and middle
classes will be crushed between fiscal exertions
and commercial paralysis—if aristocratic mis-
rule is to squander qur resources or cripple
our trade. We are drifting rapidly to a state
of society in which nothing will be left but the
extremes of enormous wealth and hopeless and
brutalized pauperism. The spirit of the pre-
sent Legislature showes the danger that threa-
tens us. We have incompetency at the helm,
and an obvious recklessness in the crew that
mans the vesel of State. The great interests
of this country are at the mercy of men who
measure our national grandeur by the number
I of millions we lavish upon the ostentations and
I ci stiy display of our power in every quarter of
globe. Their wealth comes to them by inheri-
tance—and they know nothing of the toll and
torture from which the British revenue is wrung.
It is from this class of legistators—unfortunately
a very large one—that Ministers can obtain,
at any time a majority for wasteful ex-
penditure or extravagant estimates. Public
opinion has no control over such representatives
—they have no constituents but their estates.
The responsibility is with the Government—and
Government in this country has always been
sensitive to a firm and vigorous manifestation of
the public will. This is our safety. Men like
Mr. Cobden, representing large constituencies
—and boldly expressing, whilst they arouse
public opinion—arc the true tribunes of the
people. Mere intellectual dandies—like Disraeli
—may sneer—or my Lord John Russell and Sir
Charles Wood affect an indifference they do not
feel; but such men as Richard Cobden are bo'.h
represesentatives and exponentSjof the common-
sense of the country. Their power is not to be
put down by puradoxies, nor their influence di-
minished by official dogmatism. Their votes and
voices may count but as units in divisions or
debate; but an earnest opposition from such
sources has a meaning for Ministers which they
neither underrate nor misinterpret.
FRANCE.
VIOLENT SCENE IN THE PROVISIONAL GOVERR-
MENT.
Paris, Thursday, 5 p.m.
A demonstration was|made, unsuccessfully, to-
day by the national guard of Paris, to protest
against the decision of the minister of the in-
terior, who had ordered the fusion of the picked
companies with the general companies of chas-
seurs: the object of this measure on the part of
the ministry having been to influence the elec-
tion of officers of the national guard.
A few only of the National Guards of the 10th
Legion were admitted to the Hotel de Vilie,
and the result is that the fusion of the picked
companies will not take place, on condition that
they will not wear the distinctive insig ia of
Grenadiers and Voltigeurs.
The rest of the representatives of the national
guard, forming the compact mass of 8000 or
0000 unarmed men, were stopped at the Pont
au Change by a handful of men of the people
The national guard then endeavoured to pass by
another route, but were again stopped by the
populace, who shouted “Vive Ledru Rollm.”
This minister,then appeared at the window of
the Hotel de Vilie, with the other members of
the Provisional Government. The latter, es-
pecially Messrs. Lamar ine and A rag a, appeared
dejected. Ledru Rollin s .luted tho populace,
which tlu*onged the Place de 1* Hotel de Villa,
crying Ledru Rollinthe National
Guard then retired, announcing their intention
to return in arms. Serious results may now be
feared.
The general masses appear to regard the act
which has excited the National Guard as another
step towards the establishment of perfect equa-
lity, and the reluctance of the Guard to comply
with the decree is treated as a manifestation of
superiority. It is thought to be the first symp-
tom of a reaction. Shouts of Egalite ! A bas
les Aristocrates ! and other exclamations fol-
lowed the entrance of the deputation into the
square.
The National Guards are preparing to peti-
tion the Provisional Government for the dis-
m'ssal‘of M. Ledru Rollin from the office of
Minister of the interior.
A very exciting scene took place at a meet-
ing of the provisional government last evening.
The majority having demanded the resignation
of M. Ledru Rollin, this gentlemen replied that
he would never resign, and that if they wished
to dismiss him he would appeal to the people, at
the same time advancing towards a window, no
doubt with the intention of addressing the popu-
lace. Upon this, M Gamier Pages drew his
pistols, and threatened to fire if M. Ledru Rollin
persisted. A most violent scene ensued, M.
Rollin proceeding so far as to raise his hand
against M. de Lamartine, who said, “ Sir I
would rather die in an emeute than upon the
scaffold.” Ledru Rollin then became calmer on
the threat of Gamier Pages that he would show
the people a treasury bond for 300,000 fr., drawn
on the treasury by Ledru Rollin.
On the 13th a considerable number of boxes
of muskets were sent to Paris from the citadel
of Arras. 58,000 cartouches were sent at the
same time to the frontiers of the Rhine.
SWAN RIVER.
News the to 7th June has been received
by the Minerva at Adelaide.
The Locol Government had suspended,
for a period of six months, the Act im-
posing a toll on sandal-wood.
The Chinamen at Singapore will not buy
Swan River sandal-wood at any price,
declaring it is not of the right sort.
Lieut. Magill, of the 90th regiment, had
been lost in the bush. On the 7th June he
had been missing 28 days, and little doubt
existed as to the ultimate fate of the unfor-
tunate young gentlemen. “ The bitter cold
and tempestuous weather, the privation of
food, and extreme anxiety acting conjointly
on a debilitated frame,’’ precluded all hopes
of his being found alive. On the eveuing
of the 31st May a party set out in the faint
hope of discovering his remains.
Dr Von Sommer had returned to Perth,
after making a geological examination in
the neighbourhood of Cape Leewin and
Geographe Bay, in the district of the Vasse
and around Augusta. The doctor is said
to have reported that tha geological for-
mation of the country precludes the pos-
sibility of coal being found in that quarter ;
and another account states that his re-
searches in the neighbourhood of Cape
Riche and Doubtful Island Bay were just
as unsuccessful. In tile south-west district
the doctor found plenty of iron pyrites, but
no copper.
The schooner Thetis was lost on the 16th
May, about thirty miles to the morthward
of Augusta ; crew saved.
Electioneering Times. Where were
“ The Specials” last night?” was the demand of j
several timid and peaceable citizens as they saw
the mob scudding in all directions before a troop
of the Mounted Police, headed by the gallant
Major Nicholson, who shouted, and lustily, as he
ordered his “ men” to wheel, right-about, flank
—charge,” &c. “ Where were the “ specials”
we should liko to know? because if this vene-
rable corps had made their appearance in the
streets, the Horse Police would not have been
required. But, in the absence ot the Fogies,
the troopers made themselves exceedingly busy
in scouring the streets, sword in hand, after a
mob of boys, and vainly endeavouring to hunt
them homewares. Mr. Holden was also one of
the “ mounted,” and kept good pace with the
regularly “ dritled” equestrians. A mob of boys
were very disorderly during the afternoon and
evening. Some of them went so far as to de-
stroy the booth on the Race Course, while a few
others rushed into St. James’s watch-house and
set fire to some waste papers. But notwith-
standing that there was a good deal of excite-
ment abroad, and not a little apprehension of a
“ regular row,” by eleven o’clock Sydney was
as tranquil and peaceable as if nothing occurred
THE RING.
THE LATE FIGHT BETWEEN
SINCLAIR AND SPARKES.
THE “DO”—THE “DOUBLE CROSS.’
The publication of a letter in one of the
minor journals, purporting to have ema-
nated from William Sparks, induces us,
somewhat reluctantly, again to touch upon
the subject of his late defeat. Sparkes's
amanuensis has thought proper to open
his explanatory epistle with a wee bit of
Latin, no less than the subjoined line—
Magna est veritas et prevalent.
So, believing that the Truth must prevail,
we will endeavour to hasten the happy
period of its universal prevalence, by
stating a certain series of stubborn facts,
against which neither the conflicting as-
sertions of Sparkes, nor the tawdry logic
of his private secretary, can maintain a
stand.
Not a few malcontents were there, who
took occasion to condemn the word
“ SHAM, ’ which we had adopted in our
remarks upon the late affair, between
the two above-named belligerents. Whe-
ther or not the term, though hastily, and
may be, inadvertantly applied, was
wholly inappropriate we leave the public
to decide, begging them, however, to sus-
pend their judgment until they have
waded through the annexed statement,
which will put them in possession of all
the particulars hitherto within our power
to gather.
The battle was to have been fought on
Wednesday, the sth of July, several days
previous to which period most favorable
bulletins continued to issue from the
training quarters of the Australian ; so
that, despite the victory obtained by Sin-
clair, the native’s friends and backers were
induced to put on the pot” heavily.
Every enticement, moreover, within the
power of Heki’s resources to adopt, was
brought iuto requisition, and the wary-
ness of suspicion wns'lhereby fully set at
rest. Sparkes’s apparent confidence in
his increased stamina added to a better ac
quaintance with his opponent’s mode of
attack and defence, led him into extrava-
gant protestations as to the fate of
the Enfield Pet and the result of
the Mill. With a frankness that gave
strength to his allegations he admitted,
that in the former struggle he had been
“ fairly licked,” but he endeavoured to
account for the defeat by reference to ill
health and consequent want of condition.
From the signing of articles to the day
appointed, nothing particular occurred to
thwart the settlement of the question at
issue. An elegible spot was selected on
the other side of Cook's River, and in that
orderly pell-mell characteristic of the
occasion, the motley mass, interested in
the fray, jogged onward to the ground.
The fight lasted but sixteen minutes, when
Sparkes was carried (to all appearance!
senseless from the ring, having received a
right-handed blow on the left side of the
head immediately behind the prominence
of the cheek bone. The sponge was thrown
up by his second in acknowledgment of
defeat, and, for the moment, amidst mur-
murs of surprise at his having fallen off
so rapidly, the matter terminated. Never-
theless, during the 6th, 7th, and Bth
rounds Sinclair’s defeat was booked by
many of his opponent’s friends, as will be
seen from our report, viz ;
6.—Sinclair’s want of condition began to tell
upon him. Sparkes led off quickly with his
left, reaching his adversary’s jaw; he then
rushed round the ring, the Pet following him,
and as they closed Sparkes got down out of
the grip.
7 The prespiration was streaming from the
veteran’s brow, and Heki, who was fresh, lost
no time in taking advantage of the fact. His
sinister mawleyactively employed ; a close was
then the order of battle; Sparkes trying to get
the cross-buttock, was locked cleverly, and
Paddy anon assumed the devensive, getting
Bill’s cranium under the left arm, but the weak
and winded state of Sinclair rendered him
powerless, and the Cook’s River lad got away.
8 Sparkes (who had been urged by out-
siders to “go in - ’) did as he was bid; a severe
struggle immediately took place at the ropes,
and pepper to the fullest extent of their respec-
tive powers was dealt out by both mover and
seconder. Bill wanted the crook, and partially
succeeded in getting it, as the Emeralder
was ultimately thrown. [Great cheering from
one section of the ring, and offers of even
money on Sparkes ]
Whilst some of the succeeding rounds
such as the 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th,
increased their hopes of triumph ; Sparke’s
fineness and muscular firmness giving him
great advantage. In the 15th round, it is
true, Bill got four very severe jobs in the
throat, quite enough indeed to knock the
fight out of a “ ruff’’; in the 16th he went
to slue/)! from a smart spank on the side
of the head, and had he kept his own
counsel the sporting world, though perhaps
regarding the suddenness with which the
battle had been brought to a close, with
distrust, could never have vented anything
beyond surmise and suspicion. Not so,
however, the fates ordained. On the
morning of Thursday, the Editor of this
Journal had an interview with the losing
man ; Sparkes then stated that he “ had
been knock d out if t ime, and did not
come to for ha'f an hour or more when
he found himself in a cab.” He further
attributed his loss to the call of a Mr
who “ urged him to go in” —but he ex-
pressed himself satisfied that had he con-
tinued at out-fighting the battle would
have terminated in his favor. On a
subsequent day, after the fracas at Byrnes’
relative to the stakeholder refusing to hand
over the cash, Sparkes in the office of
this paper, and in the presence of three
gentlemen, made a totally different state-
ment, and urged its truth with solemn
and awful imprecations. He hoped he
might not have left the room alive if his
present statement was false—the tenor of
his confession was as follows :—that
Sinclair’s principal backer had sent for
him and that the trio went out towards
Botany, that arrangements were then
made for Sparks to “LOSE THE FIGHT
within half an hour,” in which event
,£lOO was guaranteed as his (Sparks)
share of the plunder ; that the fidelity of
the respective parties to the contract was
guaranteed on oath, each avering that by
G he would maintain the secret invi-
olable and act up to its stipulations ; that
in accordance with that resolve he had
purposely lost the Fight —having re-
ceived the cue from his instructive monitor,
ut that his application for the hundred
was answered with—“ Well, Bill, its all
right, but wait till the stakes are given up.”
He moreover alluded in bitter terms of
reproach to those who after a series of
success achieved by him had deserted him
in his first tussel with the General, and
he acknowledged that in the second event
he had “BEEN A FRIEND TO HIM-
SELF.” How then can we reconcile
this fresh appeal wherein he endeavours
“ to put his inveterate maligners down. ’
In the letter above alluded to he says —
I shall endeavour succinctly to disprove the
principal, but by far, very kau, the most cruel
and unfounded charge against me, that of basely
betraying my “ backers.” That such an offer
was made to me is undoubted, and it is equally
indisputable on my part, that the “information” ,
was not witheld from them one moment after the i
“ lure” was held out; and I have that confidence \
in 'in them,’ that however disappointed they \
may have been in the ultimate “ result of the i
fight,” to feel assured they will not withhold :
their confession, that I possess at least one of the ■
“ cardinal ” attributes of a “ Pugilist,” and that 1
they knew long, very long, ere the day appointed,
that such an offer had been made me by an
unprincipled “schemer;” and that provided I
betrayed my friends, he would share equally
with me the reward of my “ baseness; ” and he
added, in his own low phraseology, my regulars
alone would amount to “ one hundred and fifty
pounds!” I call upon them to deny this fact if
they can.
The impertinence of such a challenge is,
answered simply by the admission that we |
were amongst the number of his backers,}
yet heard no tidings of the attempt to i
decoy this injured (?) young man from the !
paths of gratitude and manly propriety. I
Most assuredly we received no gentle hint
that a cross or a double cross was medi- j
tated ; neither can we glean that the hint 1
had been given to any other unfortunate
in the train. Arrant trash and unmean-
ing whining is then the “ deep regret,”
the “ sincere sorrow’ which-brings this
precious epistle to a close : and gullible
to the last extent must be the dunghill
chanticleer who would lend his aid to
cajole the public into a different view of
the case.
We were amongst the number who,
eager to give a fallen man the chance of
recovery, volunteered our mite to bring
him once again to the scratch—WE were
amongst the confidantsvr hom he entrusted
with his seertt hut inexpressible lote of
fair pla , and" yet, with unaccountable
hardihood, he volunteers to make us
acquainted with the dirty treachery which
he had meditated towards his sole sup-
supporters.
The question, whether he could, or
i could not, have won the battle, has nothing
to do with our case, further than is
implied by the heading of “Do ANn
Double Cross,” and as such can it only
be regarded. It did not suit Sparkes to
“ wait till the stakes were given up ” so,
in his own words, he “ came it.’
Such is the unveiled character of
William Sparkes, nho broke his arm tn
England, (?) —who had a silver cup pre-
sented him for his good conduct—who
for years was the pride of his native
country —but who can now only be re-
garded as a dastardly poltroon or an
ungrateful cheat.
Paddy Sinclair has returned to Sydney
after a brief sojourn in the provinces, where
his reception has been without any excep-
tion of a nature to coomfort and to consoul
him. On Saturday evening last he took a
benefit at the merry little township of Wind-
sor, where, in the large saloon ot Mr. Thos.
Byrnes, he was welcomed by a crowded
room. Two Hawkesbury lads commenced
proceedings, after which Joe Windred and
Locke put on the mittens, making a credit-
able display of the art. Then came Solley
Reuben and Joe Wright; succeeded by the
Trooper and Saunders, who slogged away
in good style. Penny Royal and a Ruff
next went to market; after which the Pet
and the renowned Joe wound up amidst tre-
mendous cheering.
The two Windreds have, as is their usual
habit, exhibited inurked and manly courtesy
to the stranger.
On the following Monday the Enfield Pet
exhibited at Penrith, where a staunch mus-
ter of the Fancy had assembled. The prin-
cipal setting-to was between Reuben and
the Nottingham Youth, which was a mery
heauiy glove fight, and lasted upwards of
half an hour, the Jew drawing the claret
in copious streams. - Gaudryand Small had
also some severe work ; whilst “ Sporting
Jack,” our local agent, closed the enter-
tainments of the night by affording the spec-
tators a (treat in sparring with the Great
Gun of Dublid.
Sinclair is anxious to acknowledge the
extreme kindness of Mr. Anderson, who, as
we can vouch, is ever ready to promote fun
and frolic, as well as to encourage all gym-
nastic recreations.
Our hero lastly visited the quiet demesne
of Gilbert Elliot, where also he received
liberal encouragement.
Norris and Sinclair. Norris, the
Champion of Cornwallis, challenged the
General personally on Saturday evening
last, but Paddy stated that having already-
fought and won two prize battles since his
coming amongst the VV T alers, he was anx-
ious for temporary repose ; but further stated
that he could not make a match without the
concurrence of his backer, Mr. Nash ; he,
however, promised to answer Norris through
the columns of the “ Sporting Times.”
Sinclair expresses a desire “ to go through
the fleet” ’ere he takes his departure from
our shores.
MAITLAND RACES.
The following are the weights declared for
the two Handicaps to be run for at the ensuing
Maitland Races:—
Fikst Day, Tuesday, August 8.
First Race.—The Maitland Town Plate of £6O,
with a sweepstakes of £5 each added ; for all
horses: heats, two miles.
st. lbs.
Mr. Butts ns. gr.h. Snake, by Scratch, 3
years 8 12
Mr. Waterford’s h. Eclipse, by Scratch, 6
years 7 3
Mr. Yeoman’s gr.g. Sancho, by Cannon-
ball, 6 years 7 0
Mr.Rosseterns. b.m, Sally Sly, by Scratch,
4 years 7 0
Mr. Reeves’s b. g. Flying Pieman, bv
Gratis, aged 6 10
Foubth Day, Friday, August 11.
First Race.—The Maitland Purse of £4O, with
a sweepstakes of £4 each added; for all
horses; heats, two miles. The winner of the
Maitland Town Plate to carry 51bs. extra.
| st. lbs.
Mr. Rosseter ns, b.m. Sally Sly, by Scratch,
4 years 8 6
Mr. Reeves’s b.g. Flying Pieman, by
Gratis, aged 8 2
Mr. Dight’s ch h. Fashion, by Cap-a-pie,
4 years 8 0
Parties not accepting, to declare forfeit to the
Secretary on or before seven o’clock p.m. on
Monday, August 7th.
LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
ELECTIONEERING.
Thursday having been the day appointed
for the nomination of candidates to repre-
sent this City in the Second Session of the
Legislative Council, an unusual degree of j
bustle and excitement amongst the residents j
in and around Sydney, was manifest at an j
early hour of that morning. Before ten
o’clock groups of well-washed orderly per-
sons might be seen hieing their way towards
1 Macquarie-Place, the scene of action for the
day, where a convenient hustings were
erected for the candidates and their friends.
Horrible, though, to relate, no accommoda-
tion whatever was provided for the able,
important, and respectable gentlemen whose
[duty it was to represent the Press on this
! momentous occasion. Not even a beer barrel
| or a three-legged stool were forthcoming, un-
[ til an ingenious gentleman contrived to bor-
|row a plank from a neighbouring stone-ma-
; son, which, elevated on a few good-sized
stones, admirably supplied the “ require-
ments necessary for reporting important
public meetings,” As it is the duty of those
persons employed in making arrangements
for events of this kind to see that the Press
be properly accommodated at all general
elections, it is to be hoped they will not leave
room for complaints being made of their in-
attention five years hence, when it is to be
1 presumed another election will take place.
In the early part of the week fearful ru-
mours pervaded every street, lane, alley,
\ byeway, and nook of Sydney, that there
: would be innumerable “ Wigs on the
Green”—that heads would be broken— ;
! skulls cracked—and a variety of other i
outrages perpetrated to the terror of all the
nice young women, and the small young
I men in the city. Captain Innes, with a
lively and praiseworthy remembrance of the
“ moving accidents by flood and field” which
occurred at the first election for Sydney,
| when brickbats were flying about as
“plenty as blackberries,’’ and the shilelaghs
rattled about men’s heads with an astonish-
ing degree of force and precision—so much
i so, indeed, that horsemen might be seen fly-
ing over the railings surrounding the Race
j course, with an energy and determination
reminding u 9 strongly of a thorough-bred
! fox-hunter in pursuit of the invigorating
enjoyment of the chase—took prompt and
wise steps to crush any outbreak on the
part of tho electors, or their dupes. The
citizens owe a deep debt of gratitude to the
gallant Captain for one of his precationary
measures—We allude to his enrolment of
that fine squad of Volunteers—numbering
about two hundred “ bold men and true”—
the Sydney Special Constables—who were
the chief, the only Conservators of the
Peace; and who stared danger in the face
with the most imperturtable composure and
equanimity. Nothing could be more im-
posing than the appearance of this fine
body of men, venerable in look, but still
presenting a rich glowing verinilliou hue
about their proboscis, not unlike that of Bar-
dolph in the play ; they moved through the
city with the steady graceful tread of well-
disciplined horse-soldiers. Monotony too,
seemed to have been avoided in the ar-
rangement of the men as they formed into
“ rank and file’’—for alongside a “ Special”
six feet three in height, there was generally
placed another about four feet six, something
of the dimensions of “Little Pic.” This had a
very pleasing effect altogether ; the “ Corps”
forcibly reminded us of Jack Falstaff’s ce-
lebrated regiment, which that distinguished
general thought so highly off, that he would
not even march them through the Vulgar
“ town of Coventry.’’ Inspector Higgins
commanded the Volunteers ; and certainly
elicited many shouts of applause for the
admirable and skilful tactics he displayed
in escorting them from the hustings to their
Head-Quarters the yard fronting the
Police-office, George-street.
Mr. Lamb was the first gentleman who
mounted the hus.ings; and if the absence
of a single cheer wherewith to greet his pre-
sence could be taken as a “ denotement” of
the state of opinion respecting his preten-
sions to be a representative of Sydney, then
that “ hint” must have been deeply and
painfully felt by the learned gentleman, in-
deed. Messrs- Lowe, Wentworth, and
Bland followed, and each candidate was
warmly greeted on his appearance.
The Mayor having opened the proceed-
ings in the form usual on such occasions, Mr.
Donaldson came forward, and in a pithy
and energetic speech proposed Mr. Went-
worth as the best man in the colony to be
the representative of Sydney. Mr. Flood
seconded the nomination, and expressed a
hope that the electors would place Mr
Wentworth at the head of the poll by a
triumphant majority.
Mr. Holden proposed, and Mr, Purefoy
seconded Mr. Bland. »
Mr. Lamb was proposed and seconded by
Mr. Thomas Barker and Mr. Gosling: and
the same favor was conferred on Mr. Lowe,
by Alderman Wilshire and Mr. a Weekes.
Mr. Wentworth then addressed the elec-
tors in a most eloquent and argumentative
speech, in which he ably refuted all the ca-
lumnies and misrepresentations which had
been heaped upon him by his opponents :
and administered to Mr. Lowe a castigation
which it is not likely that that learned
weathercock will forget for some time. Mr.
Wentworth spoke of Mr. Lowe in the fol-
lowing “home” terms:—
But he did not think it would be consistent
with his duty to show the same forbearance to
his opponent, Mr. Robert Lowe. Mr. Lowe had
said that not only was he unfit to represent the
constituency of Sydney, but unfit to represent
any constituency. He (Mr. Wentworth) did
think that Mr. Lowe might have excepted that
constituency which he had himself just deserted,
he was fit to represent a squatting constituency.
(Cheers.) But he would ask what constituency
(cheers.) He might at least have admitted that
was the learned gentleman himself fit for!.
(Cheers.) That gentleman made his debut in
political life in this colony as a nominee of the
Crown, and was appointed such by Sir George
Gipps, and until he quarrelled with that Gover-
nor, he uniformly supported the measures of hit
appointee. But in a short time he deserted his
constituent, but clung to his appointment until
driven from it by the taunts of Mr. Roger
Therry, who compared him in the council to the
adder, which stung to death the benefactor who
had warmed it into life and strength in his
bosom. (Cheers.) Driven from this appoint-
ment, Mr. Lowe next sought refuge from the
squatters of the Counties of St. Vincent and
Auckland, and was returned by them on his pro-
fessions of support to the squatting interest.
A little time, however, and he changed his
opinions on the squatting question. However
strong the convictions might be which led to this
change, however well founded they might be,
however, just the principles which he was in-
duced to adopt, it was the duty of Mr. Lowe to
return to the community of squatters who had
elected him, qnd tell them that he was no longer
able to support their interests, and have tendered
the resignation of his seat. This would have
been the course every high -minded, honorable
man would havo taken, (cheers) j but not so
j with Mr. Robert Lowe. What claim had a man
■ like this to their confidence—a man who had be-
| trayed every constituency which had yet trusted
| him! He (Mr. Wentworth), remembered too,
had had the misfortune to be tha subject of his
' eulogy. Only two years ago this man had heaped
praises upon him—had in his eloquent flattery
j designed him “ the great son of the soil,’,
| (cheers), now, however, he told those who went
to listen to him, that he (Mr. Wentworth was
' not fit to represent any constituency. (Cheers.)
| This was the consistency of the eloquent Mr.
Lowe. Bnt he expected no more from him :he
knew long ago, that, having borne his praises
he would soon be bound to hear his bitterest and
most envenomed censure. The principle of the
man’s life was change, and he could not expect
him to be constant when alone. (Cheers.) But
he did not expect that an old comrade—one
who had fought side by side with him the battle
of the country against tyranny, would have
made a treacherous detour in his absence, and
stabbed him in the back. (Great cheering.)
This he could not have expected—this he could
not have believed—hut this was the principle,
ibis the generosity, this the honor of Mr. Robert
Lowe.
Mr. Wentworth concluded by paying a
flattering and well-merited compliment to
Mr. Bland, for his long and patriotic ser-
vices to the colony, and called upon the
electors never to forget in him, their tried,
their devoted, and their indefatigable
friend.’’
Mr. Bland then followed, and with great
force and earnestness, defended himself
from the treacherous attacks made on him
by Messrs. Lamb and Lowe.
Mr. Lamb succeeded Mr. Bland, and
Mr. Lowe wouud up the proceedings in his
usual style. (Jur space, however, is too
limited to give even an outline of the ad-
dresses of the respective speakers,
The show of hands having, been de-
clared in favor of Messrs. Lamb and
Lowe, a poll was demanded for Mr.
Wentworth and Mr. Bland, when the
meeting separated, the “ Special Consta-
bles,’* being the last to leave the ground.
' - ■
SYDNEY ELECTION.
This important event came oft - yesterday,
amidst much bustle and excitement. The
din of cabs driving towards the several
i polling-booths, with their cargo of voters,
resounded from 9 a. m., to 4 p. in., when,
in pursuance of our constitutional act, there
was an extinguisher put upon any further
voting.
At about twenty-five minutes after four
o’clock, Mr. Councillor Driver made his
appearance in Messrs. Wentworth and
Bland’s Committee Rooms, the Fitz Roy
Hotel, Pitt-street, with “ the final state,”
of the poll, announcing the return of
Messrs. Wentworth and Lowe as the re-
presentatives of Sydney. The polling
stood thus :
For Mr. Wentworth 1148
“ “ Blaud 862
“ “ Lamb 943
“ “ Lowe 1010
Mr. Wentworth’s majority over the other
candidates was as follows :
Over Mr. Lowe 138
“ “ Lamb 205
“ “ Bland 286
Mr. Lowe’s supporters managed to place
him in a majority of 67 over Mr. Lamb.
The polling in the respective Wards was
as follows ;
Wentworth. Bland. Lamb. Lowe
Bourke 231 171 135 113
Gipps 112 90 210 138
Cook 145 ...... 95 158 154
Brisbane ... 195 ...... 151 165 203
Macquarie.. 211 151 105 163
Phillip 247 204 170 239
1118 862 943 1010
BOROUGH OF PARRAMATTA.
The poll closed last evening, after m
contest of great excitement, but happ ly
conducted with praiseworthy regularity and
quietness, as under :
George Oakes 98
William Macarttiur 82
CAMDEN.
Mr. James Macarthur has been elected
for this County, and will no doubt prove a
most efficient addition to the Legislative
forces ot the Colony.
DURHAM.
Stuart Alexander Donaldson, Esquire, has
been duly returned, no poll having been de-
manded.
PORT PHILLIP DISTRICT ELECTION.
The sister district has placed itself in a
novel and questieoable predicament, by re-
fusing to send representatives to the Legis-
lative Council. The plea on which they
ground their factious proceedings is the de-
termined resolution of the Port Phillippians
not to be legislated for any longer by an
“alien district.’’
A respectable meeting took place in
Melbourne on Thursday week for the pur-
pese of nominating gentlemen to represent
the District in the Legislative Assembly.
John F, L, Foster, Esq., one of the la e
members for Port I’hillip, was proposed by
Thomas Wells, Esq., J. P ; and Edward
Eyre Will® ms, Esq., Barrister at-Law, se-
conded the nomination. Mr. P. M‘Arthur
attended the meeting for the purpose of
proposing Mr. Lowe as a candidate : but he
was saved that trouble by a very buisy
meddling little gentleman John Pas-
coe Fawkner—who took the meeting some
what by surprise, by asserting that it
would be utterly useless to send members
to the Sydney Legislative Council to repre-
sent them. He was of opinion that instead
of sending members to Sydney, it would be
more advisable to pay an agent in the Bri-
tish Parliament—for which purpose he had
a five pound note ready as his zub.
scription. The talkative little gentleman
proposed, that if they were resolved upon
electing candidates, it would be better they
should content themselves with returning
five gentlemen (“automatons,’’ we suppose,
he meant,) who should either pledge them-
selves not to go to Sydney at alt, or to re-
sign when called upon. Mr. Fawkner was
followed by Mr. Edward Curr, a gentleman
very "firm” in adhering to his “own’
opinion, who expressed himself as follows :
He did not, agree with Mr. Fawkner as to the
course to be pursued, for ho thought they ought
not t > elect any member excepting Mr hosier,
whose past services gave him a claim upon them
which they could not well overlook, and it would
perhaps he as well to have one member there to
present their petitions. The province occupied
a most anomalous position, and was a most
wonderful instance of the energy and enterprise
of British Colonists. The imports of the pro-
vince viewed in relation to the number of inhab-
itants, were at least double those of .any other
colouy at present in existence, and its exports
were double or nearly treble those of any other
colony of the British Empire. The inhabitants
were taxed [to tour or five times the amount
exacted anywhere else ,and yet such was the un-
pat raielled prosperous state of the province, that
this heavy taxation was never felt, and he felt
convinced that if a local Legislature were now
assembled in the province, they would not know
how to dispose of the immense surplus revenue,
and it would be absolutely necessary to com-
meuce reducing the taxation to prevent t e
wanton w aste of the public money in extravagant
salaries If they sent five members to Sydnej,
they might and no doubt would vote for justice
to Fort Phillip, but what had happened betore
would happen again, they would be outvoted y
the Sydney members, and be actually ca
upon to lend a baud in the robbery of the pro-
vince by voting Port Phillip money for Sydney
purposes, for the Sydney folks had long been m
the habit of shaping their coats, not by their own
but by Port Phillip cloth, and they general y took
care to leave those to whom the doth belong
nothing better than a spencer. He did no see


. thev could get over retrain* Mr. Fw*#r,
ho "„2r rices certain!r demanded t K»t acknow
" at their hinds, and be would, there
fpropoeto make him the «*' <>'
rule,’ buthe hid . few words to •>« a*to tome
of the other candidates proposed. Hr U-^- 1
among those Mr. Archibald Borxl. w
already been branded in that eery spot »■■ ■■ -'
N.G. (the no good) brind ; '***
Sprott Boyd, and then there was the
sentadre for the Ctty. Mr Robtutoo- «*>-«
nrettv well for one establishment. but w ..*o ke
cameto inquire who Mr. Adam »<*'**«“
found him another of the same class. He
first told Mr. Bogue hid been I\*
Port Phillip, and he then said to hmvsr that's
the man for me, for when a man ra ses t to
such a position from a humble rank »n ■ s* >< '•>
eridence in itself that there is some of the ft «
goa-head principle about him. and traits jwst
the man for a legislator for a colony, ‘"it tor
neat person he asked said “ Mr. Bogue '•» »
gentleman bred and born," and it was thus r><
dent that he had fallen from the rank of ages-: r
man to he a lime burner, and not ha.tng ra .re
himself from that position, he muno.ua:r » si
this is not the man for roe. On still ton her. re r ■
he was told that Mr. Adam Bogue was t«tO«
more nor less than Mr. Beujaama U.\J" V
overseer. . ..
Mr. Ebdeu. —No—he is not Mr. Uojdk
overseer. , „
Councillor Annand—He WM Mr, fetydfh
overseer at one time for his orders !•*<■* paswdl
through my hands.
Mr. Curr. —It is at all erects clear that W i»
a Boyd, and that it is sought to .v.a'ie Ore
Phillip a regular close borowgk to* to* ’ '»
for we are to bare Arch.M. b..." 4
Boyd, Robinson Boyd, aud toifw is.--*,
out of our six repress'is* rnlataw, >■'»
ever that they would ha»r /■*.<■* n nhimi uni
that no other member but V.r f nwo vm.u s*
elected.
Mr. Kerr put a ifb*
proposing th:»t *• Uf v '
Sydney Legislator* AmM W aJUMNtIMIIt
altogether,” which met tfo mkfcftfe 0# tfcft I
Meeting, as Mr. Y:*u- .
sailed upon to withdraw. VMt
at first declined Mag W, fcafc twfafe'
sense of the tti*a»rsr
ousting h'in .v :.h? t • "r s.:■ i
in offering hMf aa * enftfaat h» re-
luctantly yielded tie li* wwitore el Ml feiiosr
colonists and withdrew.
The Returning o£oer then enquired
whether there ru any candidate to b«
proposed, and was answered ‘•none;’’ en-
dorse the writ mV, or a«M,i fr »u, Jfc„ where-
upon he declared the meeting closed ; and
three hearty cheers were given him for his
•onduct in the chair.
The numbers present were between three
and four hundred, comprising the represen-
tatives of every class and every shade of
opinion, and the unanimity which marked
their decision, was perfectly wonderful when
considered in connection with the progress
ef events heretofore in Port Phillip.
Upon this strange proceeding on the part
of the Port Phillipians, the Melbourne
Argue has the following remarks:—
The unanimous refusal of the meeting to send
representative to the Colonial Legislature, must
bring matters to a pass. With the Horae Go-
vernment it must speak, more forcibly than ten
thousand petitions, the utter uselessness of Syd-
ney legislation to Port Phillip; and should
separation have been delayed—which we would
fain hope is not the case—it will show that mat-
ters have arrived at such a crisis as will not
admit of farther delay in the matter.
In Sydney the intelligence will be most
astounding. Its first etfect will be the utter an-
nihilation of the squatting faction, who, backed
by the six Port Philiip representatives, who
were squatters to a man, held such a command-
ing position last session as to force the Govern-
ment into concessions which would never
otherwise have been made. Its next etfect will
be to deliver the colony over, bound hand and
foot , at the mercy of the Government; and this,
if we do not very greatly mistake, is a position
of affairs which will amply punish the men who
have lent themselves in past sessions to the un-
scrupulous robbery of Port Philiip which has
been going on.
The seats must remain unoccupied, for the
Governor possesses no power to issue a new
writ w’here the seats have never been filled up,
and consequently no vacancy can occur. The
Legislative Council for the next session will, as
matters now stand, consist of only thirty mem-
bers, of whom twelve are Crown nominees.
Game Laws.— lt would hardly be be-
lie? ed that a knot of Magisterial Squatters in
the Belfast District are trying to establish game
laws, for the protection of the kangaroos, wal-
labies, nastive dogs, &c., in order to monopolize
the sports in that part of the country to them-
selves. It is said that those worthies have
even gone so far as to issue warrants for the ap-
prension of parties —poachers they call ’em—
found enioying a day’s hunting in the vicinity of
their immense tracts of land. It is not very
likely that even the poorest shepherd or hunts-
man will patiently submit to such assumption on
the part of set of squirelings.
Hunting.-—Kelsey’s houuds afforded
excellent sport on Tuesday last. The meet was
fixed at Taverner’s on the Liverpool Road, and
shortly after seven a. m., the pack were thrown
into the adjoining cover and found near the 15
mile stone. The varmint broke cover without
delay, and turning his nose to the Boiling-down
Establishment, made towards Hamilton; closely
pressed from this point he rattled on through
the Dog Trap brush and steered in the direction
of Homebush—crossed the hill and skirting the
Race Course, pushed forward and gallantly tak-
ing the water, but the many little devils were
too much for him and he yielded to his releut-
leas pursuers.
Mr. Justice Dickenson.—We are glad
to be able to report a clever saying of this legal
authority. u When Dr. Johnson.” said the
learned Judge, a ,few evenings ago—“defined
network as “ any thing reticulated or decussated,
at equal distances, with interstices between the
intersections,” he went not half so far towards
involving a simple matter in incomprehensibility,
as the framer of the Law Simplifying Bill has
gone.”
The (3-eelong Hunting Club have ad-
vertised'the programme of a “ Hunt Week’*—
wherein they purpose indulging in Racing,
Dining, and Dancing—no bad signs of the
times amongst our spirited brethren of the
South. The names of the stewards sufficiently
indicate the aristocratic character of the sports,
viz., C. and H. Lyon, John Thomson, A. F.
Cunningham, Corapion Ferrers, and F. H
Pyke, Esquires.
Souih Austrlian Militia.—The inten-
tianjof the Government to impose upon the colony
a Mtlitary Conscription Act, under the tiule of
‘•The Militia Bill,” was published in the Go-
vernment Gazette. The proposal does not
seem to have been received with much favor by
the colonists, for the South Australian Register
states that there has been “ but one oxpression
of universal reprobation of the contemplated
measure, and one firm and general resolve to
oppose its enaactment by all fair and conslitu-
t onal means.” Should the bill be proceeded
with, the colonists are recommended, one and
all, to enter their protest against it at a public
meeting to be called for the purpose.
Theatricals. The revival of the
Slave has been the chief feature at the Victoria*
during the week. The cast of the opera was a
strong one, and only wanted Griffiths (whose re-
cent success as Randie Dinmont justified the
expectation that he would have enacted
Sam Sharpset) to have been complete. We un-
derstand that the long promised Siege of
Rochelle, which has been for some time in re-
hearsal, will be positively produced on Monday
next. Balfe’s admirable score has been ar-
essrs * aQ d J* Howson, and Mr.
Petty Sessions beyond the Boundaries.—
Dis Excellency the Governor has been pletsed
to appoint Mr. Henry Abbott, to be Clerk of
* etty Sessions at Drayton.
WHIG AND TORY ;
oa, ootxe to rat ttiKcrtox.
As Farmer Jehu met Farmer Brown, one morn-
ing wo the highway,
Good m.vrw, says John, g\vvl morn, says Brown,
I guess ; isn't* going my way ;
V■» that l am, says Farmer John, l‘m otf to the
Flection,
And wed! t ogether both jog on, if thou hast no
objection,
tßje.'tbm, no* a hit, says Brown, why that's
a hk*ly story,
Beeaws* you rot* few "Tug in Town, and I sup-
per! a l ore j
M think I'm such a scurry fool, to treat a
it tend uncivil,
TW 1 ow'y hold by ancient rule, a eandle to
the devil;
Year taodl.wd calls himself a "‘htg, and blasts
of "htgko • glory.
\wJ wu.se to make h-.ntseif look big. dedan s
ktatself a l ory
No doubt to ans«er both their eudv get (daees,
«w prometiou,
Far mothers, wwdea, romans, (Heads, on land or
on the V*P*<** 1
(Wl ill CdHilwil WW, UK)
TVOtsi tW
■V*4 mwllfetft Ik taut surprises no ohangv
fa WV*4iit*V*s
RfcllSfttta *4kme aur* tk w hob's
«* tfvtrVa
4% Vlityg * M+Xtwi jttwa, sluko* oWvk
tv*y\
NEWS OF THE WEEK.
X< it fo tk* HtM ctf John TWh,
bf<r«,v U» KJhWif CrtwaussMOrt' of losol-
"••■>.», .'Cv.-.. &to x£ fwd to accept a coui-
/viWi. '.’ii elf dAwjwaw* uk the pound oa*h; and
r.to- wpAhw* in the estate v«jT William llenry
f-j *’lvkK *.-oe(taeda aiiawiiiM of tl<e shillings
ij*i tibr tf>f>u«4 seotced by the insect eut's proam-
*«!'! >T’/iw» at three and Si* mouths, indorsed by
Nit. K. M, fc*k*y-
A yvotng • .'■.■.'Jo, named Sarah Perkins of
rntlhw . vn»t*e repute, was sent to gaol on
yintrStt* (as* tw six weeks under the Vagrant
An, far kaxicg deprived a female companion of
her puree, Use contents of which the speedily got
rod eiiaa public-house.
Twenty-nine drunkards were brought before
the Bench on Monday, sixteen of whom paid a
fine of eleven shillings each.
Two ladies of the pave, Miss Ellen Lee and
Miss Anne Rooney, were ordered to find sure-
ties for their good behaviour on Monday, for
haring, while under the provoking influence of
either champagne or colonial beef, made use of
language not tit for ears polite. Another lady,
Miss Fanny Gunter, was favored with fourteen
days’ residence in Mr. Keck’s hospitable asylum,
for putting a couple of constables to the blush by
her indecorous style of expressing herself.
On Tuesday week there was a striking hail
storm in the Wollombi District, which lasted
upwards of half an hour. The hail stones must
have been rather annoying visitants about a
man’s head and face, as they were larger than a
good sized musket ball.
A laboring man, one Michael Carroll, was
brought before the Bench on Monday, charged
with Having stolen fourteen head of cattle from
Mr. Flannigati, of Maitland. Carroll denied the
robbery, and alleged in his defence, that he had
purchased the cattle from a person named
Thornton. Luckily for him, his tale proved
true, for intelligence transpired that Thornton
had been examined and committed by the Par-
ramatta Bench on the same charge. Carroll
was of course liberated.
William Thomas, a d Thomas Rooney, two
notorious ruffians, were committed on Tuesday
to take their trial, for having* on Sunday night
last, knocked down a sailor, named Glover, in
Rent-street, whom they robbed of a £1 note,
live shillings in silver, and a £5 cheque. There
was another fellow engaged in the robbery, but
qe succeeded in effecting his escape.
William Taylor, a knight of the lapstone by
profession, and a resident on the Surry Mills,
was left on Tuesday morning to explain to a
Jury whether he had stolen a quantity of wear-
ing apparel, claimed by his neighbour, Mr.
Chandler, a baker. It appeared that Chandler
having let a house to the prisoner, removed all
his furniture, &c., with the exception of the box
of clothes in question, previous to his giving up
the key of it. On going on Sunday morning for
his box, he was surprised to find the door of the
house open, and a quantity of things strewn
about the yard. A chisel having been subse-
quently found in Taylor’s house, which fitted the
marks made on the box in forcing it open, he
was given into custody. The goods were found
the next day by an inquisitive tailor named
Blackford, who happening to be passing near
Mr. John Terry Hughes’ house, poked his nose
into a drain, and there discovered the articles
snugly concealed.
On Wednesday morning, Mr. Thomas Bibb*
late proprietor of the “ Gardiners Arms, P blic
House, York Street, died suddenly at his resi-
dence Bedlam Ferry. No apparent cause can
be assigned for this sudden calamity—a 6 Mr.
Bibb was in the enjoyment of his usual good
health. He has left a widow and large family
to deplore his loss.
Mr. H. H. Browne, Water Police Magistrate,
has been appointed Visiting Magistrate of
Cokatoo Island, in place of Captain lunes, re-
signed. ,
Joseph Meek, a cabman, was fined forty-shill-
ings and costs on Monday for furiously driving
trough the streets, emminent danger of the
citizens.
Five cases of insanity were brought before
the Melbourne Magistrates last week.
The Palmyra , barque, 602 arrived at Port
Phillip, from Dedtford 4th and Plymouth 14th
April, on the 19th ult., with 253 immigrants.
Sir Henry Young, the new governor of Ade-
laide, was to have sailed from Plymouth in the
emigrant ship Sibella, early in April, for South
Australia. Previous to his departure from L n-
don, a grand entertainment was given to him.
A butcher named Christopher Brien, in Mel-
bourne, attempted last week to get rid of his
weary existence by cutting his caroled artery
with a carving knife. He went into a yard at-
tached to a public house, where he made the
gash, but having been discovered immediately,
medical assistance was procnred, and the wound
stitched up. One Robert Pack, a sawyer, tried
carry the same Christian attempt upon himself,
by seeking the muddy bottom of the Yarra Yarra
River. A friend in need “ being at hand, he
was resqued and lodged in the watch-house.
Both those were labouring under a delerium
tremens. Strong proof that the Melbourn grog
must be of a very strong stimulating nature.
Stealing. — Ann Murphy was commit-
ted for stealing from a table where it was ex-
posed for sale, in Liverpool-street, a butter pot,
the property of Elizabeth Neville. The pri-
soner it appeared had also purlioned several
other articles.
We beg to direct the attention of our
readers, more particularly of ti ose gentlemen
connected with the mercantile marine to a cor-
respondence between Captain Gilmore of the
Shamrock , and the Custom’s Department. It
will be found in another column. Comment at
this stage ol the proceedings would be prema-
SHEEP AND CATTLE SALES.
SHEEP.
Walker, 805, 7s. 6d. each, 541b5., Stanfield and
Blakney;
Rickards, 760, 6s. 9d. each, 541b5., Stanfield and
Raper.
Sullivan, 730, 6s. each, 501b5., Stanfield and
Blakney.
O’Prien, 750, ss. 6d. each, 501b5., Blakney and
Sullivan.
CATTLE.
Lawson 126 head, £3 35., (Raper, Oakes, and
Piesley.
O’Brien, 150 head, £1 11s., Sullivan & Blakney.
OUR COLONIAL DEFENCES.
Tiik belligi'roua intimations from Europe
during tlio past few days, wo must confess,
hare almost frightened us from our pro-
priety, and made the few remaining bristles
on our old poll, like quills upon the fretful
porcupine. Xet that we are in courage like
lieb Acres', which ootes out at our fingers'
ends; or that we hare any objection to a
tUro up when
,he scrimmage '» of our own choosing. But
time and opportunity is our motto ; for we
think in all the affairs of this world, that
discretion is the better part of ralour, be-
sides we like to be asked if we like it before
w , hare a finger in the pie. To be treated
otherwise we regard as an invasion of our
natural rights; like Fslstaff
We like nothing upon compulsion.
And more particularly to commence an ac-
tion of battery, a great deal wo may do for
honor when the object isof our own choice; but
the bubble reputation which is sought in the
cannon’s mouth is not the reputation we
prize. Bacchus is a more pleasant god to
follow than Mars or Deltona, for if you are
laid low by the fiat of the first, you only
sink to rise again ; while the behests of the
others is to put you to bed with a shovel, and
we are free to confess, that we like a pretty
chambermaid much better. To be made
food for fishes, when yon are only thinking
of a good blow out at Entwhistles, or
Billy Toogood’s, is not satisfactory des-
sert ; in all cases we should prefer a bottle
of good port and a few Strasbourg biscuits
to give the wine a zest, and although we
have digested history (and we hope to some
purpose) yet we never could stomach the
diet of Worms. Of all the places in Eng-
land or Franco we dislike Gravesend and
Grare'ines, the association commences in
melancholy, and ends in our latter end.
But in this world we do not get every-
thing according to our merits, or the writers
of the Sporting Times, would be consider-
ably elevated at this time. We are driving
forward by a stream whose tide is above
our regulation, and so we suspect is the fate
of us poor Antipodeans. The big wigs of
Europe have determined upon a scrimmage,
and whether we like it or no, we shall be
forced to join in the melee; we shall in
vain ask them to be aisey, and let us alone.
Our natural possessions or as a lover of tho
f&ir sex would say “ our denuded beauties’’
would induce the awful libertines, to pay us
a visit and to possess themselves of
The Coven of Sydney—
Queer coves they’ll find them and no mis-
take! It behoves us however not to be
found napping when they visit them, but to
show them that whatever estimate they
may have formed of our means of defence
that, at least we are wide awake, and will
soon open their eyes to the real bearings
of the subject of dispute.
All this however we cannot do without
some preparation, Shakespeare says that
“to be forewarned is to he forearmed ’’
which tranlated into common prose means,
Look out for Squalls-
This is a duty incumbent upon every person
at the helm, whether it be a ship, or of the
state. “ Breakers ahead” should always be
the fear of a captain or a statesman, bo that
neither may be wrecked through too much
reliance on the present. The prince of prac-
tical philosophers tells us “ that coming
events cast their shadows before them” and
if we do not mistake, we ai leady see in per-
spective, the Russian Bear, the Austrian
Eagle, or the Gallic Bantam wending their
uncouth flight to these shores, each having
their peculiar views in fraternizing with
their Austral Brothers. Now we cannot
say, that we delight in a Frenchman’s or a
German’s kiss, any more than we do in that
of a Russian Bear's. As Jacob Faithful
says, it is not accordidg to natur, and there-
fore beiug great enemies to every thing un-
natural, we reject in toto their kind offers
of fraternization, these feelings we are proud
to know, are those which pervade equally
English and Australian Bosoms;
for though the well of these may be deeper
in the one than in the other, still what one
wants in depth is made up in breadth, as all
at the first glance will observe.
SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE.
ARRIVED.
July 19 —Phoebe, schooner, 89 tons, Captain
Bennett, from Port Phillip the 14th Inst. Pas-
sengers' —Mr. Ko ff, Mrs. Hart, Miss M'L\ughhn,
and Mrs. Heley
Julv 19 —Aladdin barque, 297 tons. Captain,
M'Arthur, from the Whaling Grounds. Passen-
gers—Mrs. M' Arthur and 2 children.
Ju ! y 19 —Diana, brig, 103 tons, Captain Rail,
from Port Phi lip the 13th Instant. Passengers—
Mr. Sayers and two children, Mr. Nair and Mr.
Fallity.
July 20 —Emma haque, (P. O. P ) 379 tons.
Captain Knight, from the Downs, the 24th March,
Passengers—Mr F. Manse I, and Mr. Asbrey.
July 20 —Emma brig, 139 tons, Captain Pock-
ley from Hobart Town the 15th Inst. Passen-
gers— Mr ». Macfar ane. Captain Digney, H.EI.
C.S. and Servant, Mis Mu nmery. Mawle, Mr. J.
Macna uara, • essrs. I. Byrne, K. Whelan, C,
Coin, J Oxford, F. Wood, and R. Pennington.
July 20 —Rosetta, schooner, 72 tons, Captain
Winchester, from Launceston the 12th Instant.
Passengers— Mr. T. Mann.
Juiy 21—>ir Edward Paget, barque, 432 tons.
Captain Bare lav, from Hobart Town the 15th
Instant. Passengers—Captain Grant, Mrs. Grant
and two daughters. Lieutenant Ball, Ens gns
Hague and M'Lean, Dr. Chapman, 189 rank and
file of the 1 Ith Regiment, 17 women, and 24
children
July 21.—G»fcelle, brig. 212 tons, Ctptain
Ramsay, from London, having left the Downs on
the 18th March. Passengers— rs Rarn-av, and
son Mr. Ramby, Mr Hughes, and Mr. Edwards.
July 22- —Tigress, brig, 192 tons. Captain
Euiy, from the Wnaling Grounds. Left Sydney,
14th July. 1847.
July 22.—Pantheon, American b»rque, 271
tons, Captain Jenney, from the Whaling Grounds.
Left New Bedford the 15th July, 1845, and
Sydney 10th November, 1847.
July 22 —Jane Cain, barque, 262 tons. Cap-
tain Dunsford, from Port Phillip the I4tb lust.
Passengers—Mr. Motley, and Mr. Leslie Clarke.
July 22.—City of Sydney, brig. 106 tons,
Captain Tulloch from Launceston the 18th Inst.
Passengers—Mr. and Mrs. Wrentmore, Mr.
Willis, and Mr. Johnstone.
July 22. —“Shamrock, schooner, 85 tons, Cap
tain Winter, from Circular Head the 16th Instant.
July 24 —Juno, steamer, 364 tons, Captain
Kirsopp, from Adelaide the 15th, Portland Bay
the 17th, Port Phillip the 21st, and Boyd Town
the 23rd instant. Passengers—Right Reverend
Bishop Murphy, Mr. M'Nevin, Mr. Half. Mr.
Thompson, Mr. Osborne, Mr Francis, Mr. Ray-
ner, Mr. Bland. Mis 9 Jacobs, Mrs. Pepper and
child, Mr. C.iane, Mr Williams, Mr. Hibbard Mrs.
A. Pollack, and chili. Mr. Ferris Miss Chane,
Mr J. Walker, Mrs. Smith, Mr. A Walker, Mr.
C. Murray,, Mr. and Mrs. T. Carter, Mr. Gosling,
Mr. J. Bootle, Mr. Locke, Mr. and Mrs. Keens,
Mrs Browne and three children, Mr. Whitehead,
Mr and Mrs. Mu nee, Mrs. M'Naina ra, Mrs,
Dillon, Mr. and Mrs R. Power, Messrs Oliver.
Biggs. Dillon, Jenkins, Brady, Salmon, Roberts,
Bramwell. and Barclay.
July 24 —Tamar, steamer, 130 tons, Captain
Allen, from Moreton Bay the 13th Inst. Passen-
gers— Mr. Harris, .Mr. Lake, Mr. Fairliolme, Mr
Hay. Mr. Horton, Mr Ross, seventeen in the
steerage, one coivtable and three prisoners.
»uly 24.—Phoenix steamer, 108 tons, Cap-
tain Wiseman, from the Clarence River the 22nd
Instant. Passengers—Mr. Irley, Mr. Mylne,
Mr. M'Coy, and twenty-eight in the steerage.
July 26. —Ralph Hernal barque, 315 tons,
Captrn Macfarlane, from New Zealand.
July 26. —Marian Watson, schooner, 146 tons,
Captain Rule, from the Sta Islands.
SAILED.
July 20. —Mountstuart Elphinstone, barque,
Cll tons, Captain Holton, for Madras.
July 20. —Avon, barqle. 262 tons, Captain
Cooper, for the South Saa Inlands.
July 20. — Jolumbine, schooner, 68 tons, Capt.
Cook, for Moreton Bay. Passengers—Mr. Wein-
holt and servant, Mr. and Mrs. J. Smith and
child, Messrs. Thomas Morgan, Richard Guy,
Michael Blakeny, James W. Holings-
worth, and John Caton with 20 emigrants, ex
Equestrian.
July 21 —niair, barque, 332 tons, Captain
Mordy, for London.
July 21.—City of Poonah, ship, 7CO tons,
Captain, Nelson, for Lond n. Passengers—Mr.
and Mrs. Wood. Mrs M'Crne, three daughters,
and two sons, Miss Holmes, Mrs. Newman, Miss
Croxford, Mr John Mandeli, Mr. R. Underwood,
Mr S. Hungerford, Mr. A Smith, Mr. lanhame,
Mr, A. Freihkst, Mr. Fcatherstone, Mr. Phelm,
Mr. Ford, Mrs. Fisher, Mr. W. Fisher, Dr Keown,
(R. N ), Rev A. Stewart. Mr. White. Mr. Man-
ning, Mr. Birnie, Mr. Thomas, Mr. Mostyn, Mr.
Castle, Mr. Norman, Mr. Hayward, Mr. Chambers,
Mis Dunsden, Miss Dunsden, Mr. W. Dunsden.
July 23.—Wigrnms, ship, 268 tons. Captain
Parlett for Singapore, in ballast. Passengers—
Mrs Paifett end son, Dr Campbell, Mr. John
Little. Mr. Thorne, Captain Digney, H E.I C.,
and servant.
July 34—Alice, schooner, 43 tons, Captain
Shod for Port rhillip. Passengers—Messrs.
Ashdown, Sconce, Smith, Marshall, and Johnson’.
July 24 —Minerva, schooner, 110 tons, Cap-
tain M'Arthur, for Port Phillip and Portland
Bay. Passengers—Messrs. Brennan and Stracey.
July 21.—Rainbow,schooner, 51 tons, Captain
Patterson, for Port Phillip.
July 24 —Phantom, brig 158 tens. Captain
Fox, for Adelaide. Passengers—Mr. Todd, Mr.
J. M. Joshua Mr Barnett, Mr. Johnson, Mr. and
Mrs. Gorman and two children, Mr. A. Waddell,
Mr and Mrs. W. Hurley, A 1 r. Edw.n Marsh, Mr,
and Mrs R. Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Lcdsam, Mr
and Mrs G. Moore, and Patrick Kerr
July 25 —Minerva, schooner, 82 tons, Captain
Birkenshaw, for Port Phillip. Pas-engers—Mr.
Clarke, Mr. and Mrs Kelly and three children
Mr. and Mrs Vaughan.
July 26.—Aladdin, barque, 287 tons, Captain
M'Arthur, for the South Sea Fishery. Passengers
—Mrs. M'Arthurand two children.
July 25 —‘Deborah, schooner 121 tons, Cap-
tain Nagfle, for Auckland Passengers Mr.
M'lntosh, Mr. Newton, Mr. R. Griffiths, M-.
James Edgar Mr. and Mrs. T. Dent, Mr. and
Mrs. M‘Kay, and Mrs. Kirby.
July 25. —Kingston, barque, 296 tons, Captain
Harwood, for Auckland. Passengers—Mr. A.
Simmons, Mr. F. Burgess and three stockmen.
July 25. anny Fisher, barque, 239 tons,
Captain Harr-Id, for Launceston via Newcastle.
July 26 Portenia, brig. 222 tons. Captain
Lancaster, for Hongkong. Passenger Mrs.
Lancaster.
July 26—William, brig, 121 tons, Captain
Lovett, for Launceston, Passenger—Mr. H.
Gover.
CLEARED AT THE CUSTOMS.
July 21.—Emma, brig, 121 tons, Captain
Osborne, f r Auckland. Passengers—Mr. H.
Williams, Mr. J. Sullivan, Mr. T. Curby, Mr. W
Kelly. Mr. J. Casey, Mr. and Mrs. J. White and
two children.
July 21. —Raymond, birqtie, 499 tons, Captain
Hart, for Port Nicholson via Twofold Bay. Pas-
sengers—Mrs Hart three children, and servant,
Mr. G. M'Clymont, Mrs. Benham, Mr. W. Edds,
Messrs. H and E Wallace.
July 5. —Christina brig, 126 tons Captain
Saunders, for Port Phillip. Passengers—Mrs.
John Stephens, Mr. John Clark, Mr. and Mrs
Egan and nine children Mr. and Mrs. Kelly and
three children.
July 25. —Mundford, schooner, 168 tons, Cap-
tain Hayle, for Launcesron. Passengers—Miss
Brown and servant, Mr T. Mr. A. D. Hen-
derson, and Mr. Gover.
J G. WA LLER particularly calls
0 Inn ulll'ulluuul thanubliu I.» Hm fulmw.
lug Wines and Spill”, Sun, with their Udall
primal nuachud.
a. 6.
Prime Port and Sherry. ranlly
mmd .. .. .. .. .. .. .... .. l5 6 per vluznu
Dill" dil'o in draught... . . .. 6 6 par gallon
Whit." and “ed \Vlnes in
qunrtvr cnska .. .. "3! to 8 6 ditto
Muriell’s hunt Brandy .. .. .. H 0 dluo
Pure We“ India llnm.. . . .. 8 l5 ditto
Bast Hullnudu .. .. .. .. .. .. II 6 dim:
Bynu‘ Bottlml Ale and Porter 3 0 per dolen
Observu the nddrrss
J. (l. WALLBR,
Wine Ind Spirit Merchant,
Bank of Aumllia Building», (Marsh-treat. 6|
[advertisement.]
7o the Editor of tko Sporting Tints.
GENTLEMEN,— A quantity of Kan-
garoo Skins, oiv property, tins produce
of Van Diemen's Land, were during iny ab-
sence in June last, seized by the Acting
Tide Surveyor. Mr. Edmund Gibbes, from
my residence at Pyrmont, as having been
smuggled and not having paid duty. After
my arrival frwi Melbourne. I claimed re-
turn of the goods on the 2ii;h June last, from
the Collector of Customs in Sydney, and
produced from the Collector at Melbourne,
and Custom-house Agent, the accompanying
documents numbered one and two, proving
the duty paid, and I offered my own oath,
and that of several others to the fact; but
the goods were denied me, and the corres-
pondence herewith sent, marked A, B, C. D,
and E. between the Collector and Mr.
Gibbes and myself followed.
You will perceive by that correspondence,
that my written claim of 2'ith June re-
mained unanswered until 6th July, and that
proceedings were then threatened through
Mr. G. K. Nichols, but none had been taken
by him. He handed the matter over to the
Attorney-General, on whom I called to offer
explanation, but he thought he ought not to
receive it. I then requested, if he did not
proceed, that he would do so before a Beuch
of Magistrates, and avoid the expense of
the Admiralty Court; he however said he
would go into Admiralty. On the 15>h
Instant, after auxiouslv expecting either the
return of the goods, or the commencement
of proceedings. I applied for and obtained
an order from the Judge in Admirality, re-
quiring Mr. Gibbes to proceed, or else to
abandon the seixure. I obtained this ord r
on the affidavit Marked No 3 subjoined. To
this order Mr. Gibbes has appeared, by Mr.
John Williams, a solicitor iu private prao-
tice, and has protested against the Jurisdic-
tion of the Admirality Court, which, though
it can give the seizing officer redress, has
none for me, for I am advised that the pro-
test is valid. I declare the seizure ground-
less, the goods not smuggled, and duty paid.
Mr. Gibbes and the Collector are both as-
sured of this, auy enquiry will establish the
facts, but Mr. Gibbes will not institute that
enquiry, and he objects to my doing so, and
yet retains my property, leaving me power-
less of remedy, but by tedious actions at law,
when my witnesses may be scattered. 1
think this state of things demands publica-
tion. I shall at not at preseut comment
upon them, in the hope that either the
Collector or Mr- Gibbes will act upon their
own convictions, and return my property, or
institute enquiry without further delay.
I am. Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
GEORGE GILMORE
Sydney, July 21, 1848.
No. I.
Melbourne. May 23. 18:8.
Received from Captain Uiliuoie the suai o
three pounds ten shillings, being amount 0
duty and Customs charges on thirty dozen raw
skins and forty dozen dressed ditto, ex Shun
rock, from Launceston, re-shipped for Sydney.
J. G. FOX TON',
Custom Ho. Agt.
No. 2.
This is to certify that two bundles of skins,
and one case of skins, shipped on board the
Shamrock, Gilmore, master, for Sydney, on the
23r.l day of May, IS4B, appear to have been
duty paid at Melbourne, as under:
One bale thirty dozen raw skins
One bundle forty dozen dressed ditto.
Imported in tire Shamrock, Gil more, master,
from Ijaunceston, 22nd May, 184 s, and riuty
paid by ,J. G. Foxton.
One case skins.
Imported in the Flying Fish, Church, master,
from llol>.itt Town, 9th March, 1848, and duty
prid by William Easy.
Given under my hand this 1
19:8 day of June, 1848. J
R. 11. A.
James Cassell, Ac. G. C.
No. 3.
In the Vice Admiralty Coart of 1
New South Wales. J
George Gilmore
against
Sixty fonrdojJ nnf kanyxroo skins, ami
also E.l in mill Gibbes, the seize!* of
said kangaroo skins, an officer of
Her Majesty’s Customs.
Appeared personally George Gilmore, of Pyr-
mont, in the city of Sydney, in the colony of
New South Wales, master mariner, command.*r
of the steam ship Shamrock, which trades
monthly between Sydney aforesaid and L«nn
ceston, in Van Diemen’s Land, calling at Mel-
bourne in said colony going and returning ;
Day d Douglass Chambers, of Pyrmont alor *-
s2id, mariner, lately second officer of the s A \
ship ; and Lucy Chambers, wife of Charles Henry
Chambers, ot Pyrmont aforesaid, solicitor ; a id
severally made oath, and the said George G.l-
raore for himself s id, that while at Laum enon
aforesaid, in the month of May last, lie shipped
on board the said steam ship Shamrock, a bundle
uf dressed kangaroo skins, containing 40 dozen,
and a bale of raw kangaroo skins, font iii log
thirty dozer , which be bad there purchase !, a id
then conveyed the same in the said ship then *e
to Melbourne aforesaid, where he duly paid the
duties Ciargeib'e on the same, and that while
at Melbourne aforesaid, in the same mouth, ha
parch ised and shipped on board the said ship a
case containing twenty-eight d zen dressed kan
garoo skins, upon which duty bad (as be then
unde stood, and has since ascertained to lie the
case) likewise been duly paid ; all which said
■kina and none other bis property be conveyed
to Sydney a oresaid in the said ship, where she
arrived on the twenty seventh day of May
aforesa d- And the said David Douglass Cham
bers for himself said, that after the arrival of
the said ship In Sydney aforesaid, he sold and
delivered on behalf of the said George Gilmore
the said bale of thirty dozen skins to one James
Swinbum, and also four doz ?n of the said bundle
of forty dozen skins to one George M*Auley ;
and that the residue of the said bundle of skins
(twenty-seven dozen thereof being placed in ji
chest, and the r» m tilling nine doz m b ing
loosely taken) and aim the said case of twenty-
eight dozen, i nd no other skins whatever were
previous to the time of the said ship’s next de-
parture from Sydney on the first, day ot June
last, conveyed to the r 'sidence’t f the said George
Gilmore, situate at Pyrmont a oresaid, and re-
ceived into the custody and charge of the said
Lucy Chambers, wh«» lives in the same residence
ns tne said George Gilmore. And the said Lucy
Chambi rs for herself said, that on the second
daay of June last (the said steam ship Shamrock
having the previous day again departed from
Sy .ney) Edmund Gibbes, who is reputed to be
an officer of Custo.i s »f the put of Sycney,
came to her residence ;.fo esa d and seized the
said case and chest, t.nd assisted by several
men carried away the same and their con
tents of skins as aforesaid, together with the
said nine dozen ol skins and the b>x in which
she had placed them ; the said Edmund
Gibbes stating at the time that be seized the said
property tor having been smuggled. Ami the
said George Gilmore for himself fu tber said,
that the said ship returned again to Sydney on
Saturday, the iwenty.fourth day t f June last,
and that on the following Monday morn* g he
called upon Colonel John George Nathaniel
Gibbes, the Collector of Customs at Sydney, per-
sonally, ami claimed the said skins, and there-
upon produced and showed to him Vouchers and
documents tracing the purchase of all the said
skins, and at the same time produced and slewed
to him Customs certificate of duty having been
c.uly paid on all the said skins ; hut the said
Colonel John George Nathaniel Gibbes would
not deliver up the said skins, and although he,
he said George Gilmore, on the same day duly
laimed the same in writing, and demanded
their restoration, the said Colonel John Georg®
Nathaniel Gibbes has positively refused to com-
ply with such demand, and the same are accord-
ingly now detained at the Customs of this port,
and*uo proceedings have as yet been instituted
for their condemnation. Wherefore the said
George Gilmore claims the said kangaroo skins,
and prays that a monitiau may issue of this
Honorable Court against the said E.imaml
Gibbes, requesting him to proceed to the adjudi-
cature, thereof; and the said George Gilmore
lastly made oath that the claim hereunto an
nexr'd is a true aiul just claim, and that he shall
be able to make due proof there if.
GEORGE GILMORE.
1), DOUGLASS CHAMBERS
L. CHAMBERS.
On the thirteenth day of July, A. D 1848,
the said George Gilm *re, David D mgtass
Chambers, and Lucy Chambers, were sever
ally duly sworn to the truth of tilts affidavit
before me
SAMUEL FREDERICK MILFORD,
Deputy Judge and Surrogate.
And on the 15 h day of July aforesaid per
soualiy appeared tne said George Gillmore, and
further stated that said k*ugart>o skins were tt
the time of the seiiure aforesaid his property.
GEORGE GILMORE.
On the fifteenth of July, A. D. 1848, the
said George Gilmore w.is duly sworn to the
truth of this addition to the abjve affidavit,
be lore me
SAMUEL FREDERICK MILFORD,
Deputy Judge and Surrogate.
X B. —A formal claim to the goods seiied is
annexed to the above affidavit.
ft.
Sydney, June 26, 1848.
v ir —I beg to inform you that during my last
absence in the Shamrock, steam-ship, a quantity
of skins belonging to me were seised at my re-
sidence, at Pyrmont, by the Custom House
officer, and taken away. In the clearance from
Melbourne these goods are entered thus:—
1 Bale 1
I Bundle > Duty paid
1 Case J
1 hold the certificate of the Collector of Cus-
toms at Melbourne for their being shipped on
board the Shamrock, and duty paid. 1 have also
a receipt for the purchase of the case at Melbourne,
as containing twenty-eight dozen, and the Col-
lector’s certificate of its importation from Hobart
Town to Melbourne, per Flying Fish, and duty
paid by the person from whom I bought them,
both of which documents you have seen this
mornrng. 1 sold the thirty dozen of raw skins,
and also four dozen of the dressed, before I left
Sydney the last time, and the others were con-
veyed the day before I left to Pyrmont, and placed
in boxes for safety till disposed of.
1 am prepared to substantiate this statement in
the siringe.t manner, and by oath if required,
and therefore I claim the property, and request it
may be given up to me without delay.
1 remain Sir,
Your obedient servant.
GEORGE GILMOR
To the Collector of Customs, Sydney.
B.
No 312, Pitt-street, Gth July, 1848
Sir,—Allow me to request the favour, before
twelve o’clock to-morrow, of your reply to my
letter of the 28th ultimo, claiming and requesting
return of the kangaroo skins, my property, seized
by Mr. Edmund Gibbes, and taken away from my
residence at Pyrmout, in June last as having been
snuggled.
I thought 1 had satisfied you by the documents
produced, and by my own solemn assurance
(independent of the legal evidence offered aud of
the fact of the goods having come coastwise.)
that they were not smuggled, but have paid the
duty I consider the proof indisputable and
conclusive, as does every one to whom l have
made known the facts. Indeed I thought l had
a right fu ly to expect not only an early return
of the goods, but an offer of reparation from both
yourself and son for the grevious wrong done me
by this groundless seizure.
However, as you hove led me to hope daily for
the last week far your reply, and as you are aware
that 1 have too longdclascd to disabuse the public
mind of the impressions to my prejudice, which
this seizure has given rise to, and upon which
1 hava hitherto forborne to make comment, I
shall expect your rcplv at the hour mentioned.
I have the honour to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
GEORGE GILMORE.
l'o the Collec'or of Customs Sydney.
lx.
Customs. Sydney, 8?h July, 1848.
? ir,—l do myself the honour to acknowledge
the receipt of your letter, of the 20th ultimo,
requesting that a certain quantity of kangaroo
skins, seized on information by the Tide Surveyor
at this port, may be restored to you, duty having
been paid on the same at Melbourne ; and in
reply to state, that as the certificates of the
Acting Collector do not exactly correspond with
ihe goods seized * and as depositions have been
made before me by various parties connected with
Ihe leather trade to show that they cannot be the
same as are entered in the transire, Ido not feel
myself in a position to authorise the restoration of
the seizure, to the prejudice of the seizing officers;
and therefore propose allowing the case to be
brought before the Court for the decision of the
Brncn, of which you will receive due notice from
Mr. G. R. Nichols
1 have the honour to be, Sir.
Your very obedient servant
J. GIBBES
Collector.
George Gilmore, Esq.,
Commanding steamer Shamrock.
» n.B. —The certificates do correspond with the
goods seized Q*
D.
No. 312, Pitt street, Gth July, 1848.
Sir, —I beg to enclose to you copies of two
1 uters which I addressed to the Collector of
Customs on their dates, and both of which you
have seen, i wish you to consider them as if they
had been addressed to youiself in the first
instance.
1 am. Sir,
Your obedient servant,
GEORGE GILMORE.
Edmund Gibbes, Esq ,
Tide Surveyor Sydney.
N.B —Letters A and Jl accompanied this
letter.
F,.
Custom Hotsse, Sydney,
Thursday, 6th July, 1848-
Sir, —t have the honour to acknowledge the
receipt of your letter dated this day, together
with copies of two sent to the Collector of Cus-
toms relative to a quantity of skins seized by me
I regret that the present unavoidable delay should
have either been inconvenient or a cause of
ann ynnee to youyself, as it is far from my wish
that there should be any obstacle, thrown in the
way of yonr immediate explanation. Mr Nichols
has received instructions to commence proceed-
ings, and will of course do so without delay.
I am, Sir,
Your very obedient servant,
EDMUND GIBBES.
Tide Surveyor.
George Gilmore E-q..
Commanding Shamrock steamer. 69
WILL DAVIS,
GAS lIOTKL, KENT-STREET
NORTH,
KNOWN BY THE
ILLUMINATED CLOCK,
BEGS to return his sincere thanks to
his friends and the public, and to apprize
them that be has taken the above Hotel, where
he hopes, bj assiduity and attention, combined
with the best articles in the trade, to ensure
their patronage, which he can with confidence
appeal to the sporting world as having ever
endeavoured to merit.
As an Old Friend under the new appellation
of a Boniface he thus respectfully solicits a
continuance of the patronage of his numerous
•riends. 1 *
ROYAL VICTORIA TREAT HE.
THIS EVENING, JULY 29, 1848,
Will be presented, the popular Musical Play,
entitled
THE SLAVE;
OT, THE BLESSINGS OE FREEDOM.
Gambia, a Slave Mr. Nesbitt.
Pas de Trois, by the Misses Griffiths and Signor
Carandisi.
To conelnde with the laughable Faroe entitled
A DAY WELL SPENT.
For Characters, see bills of the day.
MR. GRIFFITHS, Manaosa,
eaSSflSSsr?
THE FINE FAST-SAILING BRITISH
BRIG
SOPHIA,
WITH ALL HER STORKS, Ac. Ac.
NOW READY FOR SEA.
MR. GEORGE A. LLOYD
HAS the pleasure of announcing to
Shipowners, Merchants, Captains, and
the Mercantile community generally, that he
h is been favoured with instructions
TO SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
At the City Mart, 474, George street,
ON MONDAY, THE 31st INSTANT,
At 18 o’clock precisely,
(Unless previously disposed of ky Private
Contract,)
The remarkable fast-soillng mid fine Brig
SOPHIA, 208 tons o.ji , but will carry 250 tons,
and invariably discharges her cargo in as good
condition as when shipped. At Singapore, in
November, 1846, she underwent a most thorough
and complete repair ; in fact she was almost re-
built, upward* of £1650 having been expended
upon her under the must ablejmd careful super,
intendence. Certificates to which effect can be
seen at the Auctioneer’s Rooms. She is now in
most excellent order, and well supplied with
every description of stores, anil might be sent to
sea immediately. She is well found in every
respect. Having been a favourite vessel with
her owner, no expense lias been spared to render
her complete.
The Sophia is now lying eft' the Patent Slip,
and the commander will feel great pleasure in
showing her, and affording,every required infor-
mation to imeudliig purchasers from 10 to 12
o’clock daily
Inventories may be seen, and all further par-
ticulars obtained by applying to the Auctioneer,
474 lieorge-street.
48 Terms declared at time of sale.
Monday, 31st Instant.
FOR THE BENEFIT OF THOSE CONCERNED.
SHEATHING COPPER AND NAILS,
Ex Seringapatam, laivell, from laindon.
FOR SAt.lt BY AUCTION,
BY MR. SAMUEL LYONS,
AT the stores of Messrs. Donaldson
and Co., 398 Pitt-street, on
MONDAY, 31st INSTANT,
At 11 o’clock precisely,
D. 63 68 1 81 Cases sheathing copper, 16 oi,
S * 70 84 J to 88 oe
All much damaged by salt wy ter.
Also— out of two casks,
D 4 w Sundry bags sheathing nails, to
5 585 bo IJ, (tile damaged portion).
Terms at sale.
IF this should meet the eye of THOMAS
THORNHILL who married ft native of
Bristol, in England, he is directed to apply to
tlits undersigned tor the purpose of hearing some-
thing to his advantage.
JAMBS SMAUi.
Baker,
(Jj Batliurst-street.
WENTWORTH AND BLAND.
S HE Members of the Central Committee
A and of the several Ward Comu.itteva ere
p utlcU urly requested to meet at tlieir Kooms,
Fits Hoy Hotel, this day, Saturday, »t 7 o’clock,
in the evening, on important bnslttess.
By order of the Committee,
J. C. WHITE.
July 29. 72
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
A MEETING of the Electors of the
County of Cumberland resident in tho
neighbourhood of Redfern, Surry Hills, Chip-
pendale, and Botany, was held at tho Hand anil
Heart, Redfern, on Thursday evening last tho
27th instant.
Mr. Seougall having been unanimously called
to tho chair, in a neat speech opened the pro-
ceedings, and introduced Mr. Lawson to tho
Meeting.
Mr. Lawson, in a very neat and appropriate
discourse explanatory of his political and reli-
gious sentiments, addressed tile Electors at soma
length; and his replies to the various important
questions put to him on Education, Religion,
Reduction of the Franchise and Public Esti-
mates, &c„ gave general satisfaction, having
pledged himself to use his utmost exertions to
enable tho leaseholders of properties to ho in
sorted In tho Electoral-roll, and to reduce the
franchise.
It was proposed by John Rose Holden, Esq
and seconded by John Ryan Brenan, Esq:
• That Mr. Nelson S. Lawson is a (it and propel
person to represent their interests in the Metro'
pclitan Council.”
Carried with acclamation
A vote of thunks having been awarded to thl
Chairman, the Meeting broke up with a deter
mination to use their utmost exertions to ousuri
Mr. Lawson’s return.
H. WELLS, Secretary
W.
REMOVAL.
\ R. GILFILLAN, portrait painter
1* I &c. has removed from Gloucester-stree
to No. 2 Harrington-streot. 7i
REMOVAL.
5 IIOMAS BYRNES begs to apprisi
* Ids sporting friends and the | u'die generally
ha Ins removi d from tho “ Forties Hotel” tc
those spacious premises at tho vomer of Yori
and Markot-streets, recently occupied by Mr
O’Howd, where be hopes to meet with tho sami
liberal encouragement whioh has been awardo
him since i is commencement in business.
Tho choicest selections of Spirits, M ines, Ales
03 &t., kept on h. nI.
SHOOTING! COCKING ! DOO FIGHTING]
AMU
OTHER SPORTS OF THE PEOPLE,
\\/ILL he kept alive on ,\IONDA>
YV NEX T, at tho favorite resort of tbi
genuine lovers of jollity,
MICHAEL GANN ON’S INN,
NKAB THE DAM, COOK’S BIVEB,
where the swell who does not keep a DENNEI
or a TROTTING COB, can reach in a COACI
ANI) FOUR for a tanner!
“ Hurrah for the life of a Brick !” tt


POET’S CORNER.
RICH AND POOR;
OR, ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
When the rich Lord knocks the poor man down
By a bludgeon-crack on his vulgar crown,
One-sided Justice discreetly winks,
And tolerant Fashion politely thinks,
With turned-up nose, at Plebian folk—
’Twas merely a sportive, innocent joke.
But. how chang’d the case—when some snob,
abhorr’d,
Presumes to floor a privileged Lord;
’Tis then no joke, but a black intent,
That calls for severest punishment ;
Indignant Fashion, with scouting eye,
Denpunces the curst atrocity;
And outraged Justice, with awful frown,
At the thought of a low presumptuous clown
Thus daring to knock a great Lord down,
Imprisons the wretch, to mark the sense
The Law entertains of the difference
That has ever been, and should ever be,
.Twixt the follies of men of low degree
And those of superior quality.
Oh! happy Sydney—where Justice tender
As Pity’s self, to the offender
Is hard as the bolt of a prison door,
When the culprit is low-born, friendless and
poor!
THE EYE PLEASED—THE HEAD
FITTED —THE POCKET CON-
SULTED.
Ventilated French & Beaver Hats.
HAS in stock an endless variety of th
above of the latest fashions, Hats t
any shape or width of brim finished to order a
a short notice. Fancy cloth or silk velvet cap
of the latest Paris and London fashions. Hat
ters’ trimmings, gold cord, &e.
French Hat Mannfactary.
77, Market-street.
ELECTORS OF CUMBERLAND!
‘Y'OTE FOR A SPRIG OF THE
“IRON BARK,”
NELSON S. LAWSON. ESQ.
TO WILLIAM MACARTHUR, ESQ
&c., Stc., &c.
CAMDEN PARK.
Parramatta, July 6, 1848.
SIR, —We, the undersigned Electors for
the Borough of Parramatta, do herein
request that you will allow yourself to he placed
in nomination, at the ensuing Election, to rep
resent our interests in the Legislative Council.
We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,
Matthew Anderson
Nathaniel Payteu
Henry Harvey
James Bnthour
Michael Kearney
R, Champley Rutter
James Kerwin
Andrew Nash
John Hamilton
James Willis
John Garty
George Paul
Edward Griffith
Henry Whitaker
George Pitt Darcy
George Buckley
Isaac Titterton
Edward New
Edward Drinkwater
James Howarth
John Brennan
Richard Moxham
Andrew Murray
Tames Howison
Charles Bethel Lyons
.John Brown
James Pye
Rev. John Vincent
Edward Darvall
James M‘ Roberts
Thomas Harris
Humphrey Thorn
William Payten
Samuel Hill
William Bennett
Rupert Kirk
John M'Manus
W. C. Wentworth
Mark Hillas
H. H. Bobart, M. A.
James Gallaway
I. Olson
W. F. Hulle
P. 11. Mullholland
J. F. Staff
I’eterCardiff
Allan M'lnnis
Richard Rouse
James Thearle
Francis Wakins
John Ryan
Thomas Shadforth
Parramatta, 6th July, 1848.
GENTLEMEN, —I have received with
feelings of sincere gratification, the numerously
signed, and highly respectable requisition, which
you have done me the honour to address to me,
and, I will, with great pleasure, comply with
your request. 1 beg you to believe that no cir-
cumstance could be more gratifying to me than
the honour of being leturned for my native
town; and, should Ibe so fortunate as to be
elected, that no exertion of mine shall be spared
to secure and promote its best interests.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient faithful servant,
WILLIAM MACARTHUR.
To M. Anderson, Esq., and the other Gentlemen
who have signed the Address.
NORTHUMBERLAND BOROUGHS.
WILLIAM MUIR, ESQ., J. p.,
DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY.
SIR, - Your interest as a freeholder
in the Northumberland Boroughs being
identical with our own, and having confidence
in your unflinching integrity and zeal to serve
us faithfully as our representative in the
Council of the colony, we request that you will
allow yourself to be put in nomination as a
candidate at the ensuing election.
We beg to remain,
Sir,
Your most obedient servants.
W. P. Peek
Henry Gooch
G. Calvert
I). Dickson
James Dickson
A. Dodds
R Keddie
John Ma_ o
A. Macpherson
W Tennant
John Elliot
Joshua Smith
J. M ( Laugh)in
Christopher Cooper
James K. Muir
Wm. Houston
Jame 3 Thomson
Maitland, July 8.
A. Dickson
G. J. Clarke
Wm. FarthiDg
Henry Adams
Joseph Taylor
John Graham
Wm. McLaughlin
Wm. Travis
John Stewart
John Wilson
Thomas Hanks
James Williams
James Brown
Edward Ogg
J. Portus
Thomas Skinner
To the Electors of the Northumberland
Boroughs.
GENTLEMEN, —1 thank you most respect-
fully for the honorable -position you wish to
place me in as your representative in the Le-
gislative Council.
I accept your invitation, and should you
place me at the head of the poll on the day of
election, you may depend upon having a staunch
friend for your welfare and that of the colony
generally.
I am for civil aqd religious liberty all over
the world—general education for the yourh of
the colony—an exquisite distribution of public
land—immigration of tree people—and an eco-
nomical expenditure of public money.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yours respectfully,
W. MOIR.
TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
GENTLEMEN, —Understanding that
a requisition is in the course 01 signa-
ture, inviting me to offer myself as a candidate
for the representation of the county, I beg leave
to say that I feel myself much honoured by
this mark of public confidence, and should a
majority of the constituency be pleased to
return me as their representative, I beg to
assure them that I will use every exertion in
my power for the promotion of the interests of
this important county and of the colony at
large.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient humble servant,
NELSON S. LAWSON.
Prospect, July 18.
COUNTY OF CUMBEKLAND.
TO NELSON SIMMONS LAWSON, E Q,
SIR, —We, the undersigned, Electors of
the County of Cumberland, beg to request
you will allow yourself to be placed in momina-
tion to represent our interests for the above County
in the ensuing Legislative Conncil, and we pledge
ourselves to use our utmost endeavours to secure
your election.
Thomas Forster. J. P.
Hugh Taylor
James Edrop
William Mobbs
Charles Blakefield
Richard Wall
Eljas Stranger
John Rogan
John Forster
Robert Davis
Thomas Pike
Richard Wm. Heard
John Ridley
F ancis Medcalf
Robert Goodin
James Galloway
Sohn Hamilton
Jamuel ill
James M'Roberts
Thomas Bell
Robert Fuller
Edward New
James Oakes
James Ryan
John Perry
Delaney
Thomas Frost
Richard Betts
William Peisley
George Neale
William Longford
D. Begley
T. Dean
William Fulligar
L. Hyland
John Agelton
John Fulligar
T. P. Fitzsimmons
John Murphy
Richard Webb
R. J. Cross
Wm. Abercrombie
E. Neich
Thomas Stubbs
A. Hayward
A. Bogue
Richard Hill
Wm. Roberts
F. Underwood
James Kerwin
James B Bettington
William Smith
William M'Cue
Richard Donelly
William Murry
Vincent Howell
Samuel James
Edward Drinkwater
Michael Dowdell
Stephen Face
Joseph Hatten
Patrick Neville
Joseph Roberts
Thomas Bray
Michael Scale
Thomas Seale
Charles Abercrombie
Henry Denton
Alexander M'Donald
William Morgan
Richard Morgan
Jamas Parnell
James Byrnes
R. Fitzgerald
J. Hall
G. Buckridge
Jones
J. Mulhearn
Thomas Dixon
John Holmes
Charles Morris
Edward Mulchay
P. Mahoney
M. Mahoney
Roberts
Smith
Wright
G. Freeman
E. Burke
Joseph Kenyon, sen.
J. Smith
James Blackett
J. Goodin
William Best
James Smith
John Lucas, sen.
Henry Wilson
L. Ryan
Joseph Taylor
Wm. Summerfield
John Hurly
William Bursill
Charles L. Bayley
William Peyton
William Broker
Michael Byrne
Edward Burke
C. Dwyer
John Ecrleston
William Jones
John Leary
Richard Mead
John Mitten
Willliam Prendergast
John Prendergast
John Warby
Benjamin Warby
homa Best
John Dale
Edward Fuller
James Ridley
William Byrnes
George Hunt
Richard Kearnes
J. Kirk
Simon Moulds
Charles Stephens
Henry Tompkins
Thomas Williams
John Dewhurst
William Fishburn
John Kentwell
John Rodan
J. Maurant
Jeremiah Murphy
Henry Aitken
Michael Curran
George Labon
J. Cranny
Robert Anderson
Thomas Ashcroft
Samuel Bowler
J. Tebijutt
William Barrett
Timothy Beard
William J. Bollard
Robert Bridle
John Bull
James Bull
Richard Bull
Patrick Doyle
S D. Gordon
George Graham
David Johnstone
T. James Jamieson
Charles Smedley
William Klensendorlflfe
Frederick Meredith
Thomas Rowley
James Byrne
Michael Brennan
Edward Burke
William Brovyn
Alexander Chisholm
William proft
John Corigan
James Crew
Isaac Douce, sen.
Isaac Douce, jun.
1 horaas Dwyer
Cornelius Dwyer
John Dwyer
Phillip Elliott
Samuel Franklin
Rev. J, Grant
David Graham
James Harrex
John Hurley
Owen Leaighy
John Riley
J. Rixon
J. Rudd
T. Rudd
Michael Rourke
G. Simpson
J. Tabor
John Warby
Richard Watson
Charles Butcher
William Chalker
William Clissold
Thomas Campbell
William Christford
James Greenfield
John Galvin
J Lurton
J. Lodge
Thomas M'Lowe
Edward Moore
Charles Nott
William M‘Co<4
David Clarkson
Joseph Ross
Thomas Neaves
Mr. Aindell
larker
Bayiis
Buckridge
Cullen
Cox
Cornwall
Chaseling
Corregan
Curneen
J. Dargin
C. Hussy
R. Fitzgerald
H Foster
J. Green
Grono
J. Hannibus
J. Higgerson
J. Hale
Harrisky
H. Hudson
Thomas Horton
William Jones
M. M'Quade
Mulhearn
J. M'Donald
C. May
P. Mahoney
M. Mahoney
William Onus
J. Onus
E. Powell
Rochester
G. Rouse
R. Sheriff
J. Seeth
W. Town
Windred
Wood
235
In consequence of the shortness of time pre-
vious to the day of nomination, the Committee
are unable to attach any more names, although
upwards of 400 have pledged themselves to sup-
port Nelson S. Lawson, Esq.
TO THE GENTLEMEN WHO HAVE SIGNED THE
REQUISITION.
Gentlbmen, —I offer you my sincere thanks
for the honour you have conferred on me in
requesting that I should allow myself to be put
in nomination for the representation of your
county.
I feel much pleasure in responding to your
wish, and beg to assure you that I shall be
ready on all occasions to use my utmost exer-
tions to promote the interests of this important
county and the colony at large.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Yours, &G-,
NELSON S. LAWSON.
Central Committee Rooms,
“ Australian Arras,” Parramatta.
T AWSON'S Central Committee will
A-i meet at the above rooms, every evening
at 7 o’clock, for the despatch of business, &c.
J. F. Plunkett. )
John Hamilton J
Joint Secretaries to the
Central Committee.
CUMBERLAND ELECTION.
Parramatta, 22nd July, 1848.
(1 ENTLEMEN, —As one of the sup-
porters of Mr. Nelson Lawson, I feel it
my duty to forward you a letter I have received
from Mr. Charles Cowper, and as I wish to
disabuse the public mind of any coalition ei-
isting between Mr. Smith and himself, I shall
feel obliged by your publishing it.
I shall feel obliged by your publishing- this
letter and it
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
HUGH TAYLOR, Jun.
The Gentlemen who have associated them-
selves in Sydney as a Committee to promote
my election for the County of Cumberland in
connexion with Mr. Henry Gilbert Smith, did
so without previously consulting me—but I do
not consider myself in any lespect bound by
their act to conduct my election exclusively on
any such arrangement.
1 decline to interfere in any way—leaving
myself in the hands of the Hectors—and allow-
ing them to act with regard to myself and the
other gentlemen as they think proper.
CHARLES COWPER.
Wivenhoe, July 21.
AT a meeting held at the Court House,
Campbelltown, on Thdrsday, 20th July,
It was proposed by Mr. Hurley,
And secouded by C. L. Bayly, Esq.:
That William Howe, Jun., Esq., do take the
chair—Carried unanimously.
N. S. Lawson, Esq , was then introduced to
the mteting by the Chairman, and addressed the
electors on the objects which brought them
together, and in conclusion ottered to explain his
sentiments on any points on which the electors
might wish to question him.
In answer to a question from T. Howe, Esq.,
whether Mr. L. intended to support the land re-
gulations in their integrity, he replied certainly
not, end that he was particularly opposed to the
clause prohibiting the sale of grain grown on
Crown lands.
K. P. Jenkins, Esq , enquired Will you vote
for the removal of the police establishment from
Campbelltown : Mr. Lawson replieJ, certainly
npt, as he considered the removal of that bench
would be prejudicial to the peace and safety of
the district.
Edward Hows, Esq., asked,—" Should an es-
timate be brought forward for the erection of a
bridge over the Menangle River, would you sup-
port it?" Answer—" I decidedly would; and I
will undertake to visit that locality, with a view
of explaining more fully the necessity which
exists for the erection Of a bridge.”
No more questions being asked—
It was proposed by Mr. John Hurley,
And seconded by Mr. B. Warby :
That Nelson S. Lawson, Esq., is a fit and proper
person to represent this County in the Legisla-
tive Council—Carried unanimously.
After the Chairman had left the chair,
It was moved by M. J. L. M'Carthy,
And seconded by Mr. T. Hammond :
That the marked thanks of the meeting are due
to William Howe, Esq , for .his very able and
efficient conduct in the chair—Carried unani-
mously.
MR. NELSON S. LAWSON S ELEC-
TION FOR CUMBERLAND.
A NUMEROUS and highly respect-
able meeting of the Electors of the County
of Cumberland residing within the limits of the
Windsor District, was held at Coffey’s Hotel, on
Saturday, the 22nd instant.
George Bowman, Esq., having been unani-
mously voted to the chair, in a brief speech,
opened the proceedings, and introduced Mr.'
Lawson to the meeting.
Mr. Lawson in a very neat and appropriate
discourse, explanatory of his political and reli-
gious sentiments, addressed the electors at some
length, and his replies to the various important
questions put to him, gave general satisfaction.
It was proposed by Robert Fitzgerald, Esq.,
and seconded by William Bowman, Esq , that
Mr. Nelson S. Lawson, is a fit and proper person
to represent the Metropolitan County in the en-
suing Legislative Council.
Carried unanimously.
A committee composed of the following gentle-
men was immediately formed, pledging them-
selves to use their utmost exertions to secure the
return of Mr. Lawson; —
Mr. R. Fitzgerald
John Barker
John Hoskinson
W. T. Bayles
Wm. Durham
C. W. May
W. Gibbons
Charles Ezzy
James Dargin
Mr. Geo. Freeman
W Coliis
W. Stubbs
J. Higgerson
W. Wicdred
John Caneen
W. Blanchard
Thomas Champion
George Cupltt
It was moved and seconded, that Mr. Bowman
do leave, and that Mr Fitzgerald do take, the
chair, when a vote of thanks was awarded to Mr.
Bowman lor his impartial and gentlemanlike con-
duct in the chair.
Carried by acclamation.
JAMES CULLEN,
Secretary to the Windsor District Committee
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND
ELECTION.
A MEETING of the Electors of the
County of Cumberland was held at the
Court House, jCampbelltown, on Thursday, 20th
July, 1848, and most numerously attended ;
William Howe, Esq , J. P., was unanimously
called to the Chair.
The address, and the replies made by Mr.
Lawson to various questions propounded to him,
gave general satisfaction, so much so, that the
meeting went beyond the usual course, by pro-
posing Mr. Lawson as a fit and proper person
to represent the county The question being
put on tiie reso.utiori, every hand was held up
iu his favour.
Mr. Lawson will therefore secure the votes
of all the electors of that district.
By order of the Committee
JAMES P PLUNKETT 1 „
JOHN HAMILTON j i ' ecretaries '
Central Committee Rooms.
Australian Inn, Parramatta.
MR. NELSON LAWSON’S ELECTION
FOR THE METROPOLITAN
COUNTY.
AVERY numerous and respectable
meeting was held at Mr. Perry’s Rose
Inn, Penrith, on Monday, the 24th Instant,
precisely at 4 p. m., Alexander Fraser, Esq , in
the Chair.
Proposed by Mr. Ryan, and seconded by
John Tindall, that Mr. Lawson is a lit'and
proper person to represent the interests of the
Metropolitan County.
Carried hy acclamation.
This, and the Richmond meeting, was
marked with a peculiar feeling of respect for
Mr. Lawson, the Electors hav ng pledged them-
selves to plump for the frori Bark Sapling.
JAMES CULLEN.
Secretary to the Windsor Committee.
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
ELECTORS OF CHIPPENDALE, SURRY HILLS,
REDFERN, AND BOTANY.
VI R. N. S. LAWSON will meet the
IVil Voters of the above districts, at Swain’s
the Hand and Heart, Redfern, THIS EVENING,
at 7 o’clock, to address the Electors
W. H. WELLS,
Secretary to the Sydney District.
Committee Rooms, Farrell’s Farriers’ Arms,
July 29.
MR. NELSON S. LAWSON’S ELECTION
FOR CUMBERLAND.
A NUMEROUS Meeting of the Elec-
tors of the County of Cumberland,
residing in the vicinity of Newtown, was held
on the 25th instant, at 1 o’clock, at Richards’s,
Newtown Inn, Newtown.
Robert Henderson, Esq., was unanimously
called to the chair.
Mr. Lawson having been called on for an
expression of his political opinions, came for-
ward, and stated that from the earliest period of
his life, when he was capable of forming an opi-
nion upon any subject, he was always the firm
ana honest supporter of civil and religious
liberty; and to the latest hour of his existence
he should be always found ready and willing to
defend it to the utmost extent of his power. He
next adverted to the subject of Education, and
stated that he always was a strenuous supporter
of the General System of Education.
It was proposed by Mr. Wallis, and seconded
by Mr. Michael Gannon, that Mr. Nelson S.
Lawson is a lit and proper person to represent
the County in the Legislative Council.
Carried unanimously.
It was proposed and seconded, that the thanks
of the Meeting are due to Mr. Robert Hender-
son for his efficient conduct in the chair.
Carried unanimously.
A Committee having been formed to canvas
the district, the Meeting broke up with every
feeling of satisfaction in favour of Mr. Lawson.
jV/S R. LAWSON met the Electors of
1-vJL Cumberland, resident in the neighbour-
hood of Canterbury, at Kelsey’s Inn, at one
o’clock, on the 25th instant, when he met with
a most cheering reception, having been taken
by the hand by an old Elector, who stated that
he had known him from his infancy up to the
present hour : that he stood by his cradle, and
from that period up to the present hour
he had never known a single act of his,
either public or private, of which he might feel
ashamed: he had always known him as a
straightforward, honest man, and notwithstand-
ing the vile calumnies uttered by the enemies of
Mr. Lawson, he stood forward to tell the Elec-
tors of Cumberland that Mr. Lawson, and he
alone, should have his undivided support.
Mr. Lawson then went over his political
views, having entered into most of the leading
topics which are likely to occupy the attention
of the Legislative Council. The expression
of his sentiments seemed to meet a general ap-
proval.
It was proposed by Mr. W. B. Lucas, and se-
conded by Mr. Robert Gardiner:
That Nelson Lawson is a fit and proper person
to represent the County of Cumberland, and
that the Electors present, about 50 in number,
pledge themselves to use their utnlost exertions
to secure his return.
Carried unanimously,
A Committee was formed to canvass the Dis-
trict.
MR. NELSON S. LAWSON’S ELECTION
FOR CUMBERLAND.
A NUMEROUS and highly respect-
able Meeting of the Electors of the
Cook’s River district was held on the 25th inst.,
at Gannon’s Inn, Cook’s River, at 10 o’clock.
Thos. Agars, Esq., having been unanimously
voted to the chair, in a brief speech opened the
proceedings, and introduced Mr. Lawson to the
Meeting.
Mr. Lawson, in a short but impressive speech,
addressed the Meeting, touching on the various
subjects on which he/had been questioned by
some of the Electors, and gave the greatest
satisfaction to the Meeting, having also pledged
himself to civil and religious liberty.
It was proposed by John Ryan Brenan, Esq.,
and seconded by Mr. Kelsey
That Mr. Lawson is a fit and proper person to
represent the County in the Legislative Coun-
cil.—Carried unanimously,
A Committee was formed to canvass the dis-
trict.
It was moved and seconded—
That the thanks of the Meeting are due to
Thomas Agars, Esquire, for his very able and
efficient conduct in the chair.—Carried una-
uimonsly.
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
ELECTORS OF NORTH SHORE, MIDDLE HARBOUR,
PITTWATER, ST. LEONARD’S, LANE COVE, AND
SURROUNDING DISTRICTS.
I/JR. NELSON S. LAWSON will
I' I meet the Voters resident in the above
districts on Monday next, the 3ist instant, at
ten o’clock in the morning, at Redgrave’s, Billy
Blue's Point, North Shore.
W. H. WELLS,
Sydney District.
Committee Rooms, Farrell’s, Farriers’ Arms,
Sydney, July 22.
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND
ELECTION.
A MEETING was held at the Union
Inn, Richmond, on Monday, the 24th
instant, at 12 o’clock a. m., G. Bowman, Esq.,
in the Chair. It was proposed, seconded, and
carried unanimously, that Mr. Nelson S. Law.
son, is a fit and proper person to represent the
interests of the County of Cumberland in the
ensuing Legislative Council.
JAMES CULLEN,
Secretary to the
Windsor District Committee.
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
ELECTORS OF BALMAIN & SURROUND.
ING DISTRICTS.
VIR. NELSON S. LAWSON will
Lvl meet the Voters resident in the neigh-
bourhood on Monday next, the 31st instant, at
Mr. Aiton’s, Unity Hall, Balmain, at 7 o’clock
in the evening.
W. H. WELLS, Secretary,
Sydney District.
Committee Rooms, Farrell’s, Farriers* Arms,
Sydney, July 22.
MR. NELSON S. LAWSON’S ELEC-
TION.
THE Central Committee ■will meet at
the Australian Inn, Parramatta, every
evening, at 7 o’clock.
JAMES F. PLUNKETT,
J. HAMILTON,
Joint Secretaries to the Central Committee.
The Sydney District Committee will meet at
Farrell’s, Farriers’Arms, at 11 o’clock.
W. H. WELLS,
Secretary to the Sydney District.
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
MR. NELSON S. LAWSON will
meet the Electors of Kissing Point,
Ryde, and adjoining neighbourhood, on THIS
EVENING, the 29ih Inst, at Dowdele’s, Kiss-
ing Point, at One O’clock
By order of tire Central Committee.
JOHN HAMILTON, 1 Joint
JAS. F. PLUNKET, J Secretaries.
Central Committee Rooms, Australian Inn,
Parramatta, July 26.
COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.
jVJR. NELSON S. LAWSON will
Lvl meet the electors of Lane Cove and its
vicinity, on Monday next, the 31st Instant, at
Cammack’s, the Green Gate, Lane Cove, at
half-past One O’Clock.
W. H. WELLS, Secretary,
Sydney District.
Committee Rooms, Farrell’s Farriers’ Arms,
July 26, 1848.
TO HENRY GILBERT SMITH, ESQ.
DARLINGHURS‘I‘, SYDNEY.
WE, the undersigned Elector: of the
cdnnty of Cumburland, raiding in the
Pbllcb District or Sydney, do eamenly request
that you will allow younadl ta be put in-umni.
mtiun for the representation of this county. In
connexion w‘lth Charles Cowper. Esq.
In sallcltlhg you to do no, we are ammo!
you! distlote for a public life, but trust thnt
the claims of a country. the interest: of which
you have during a lung reoldence to «My and
actively promoted. will Induce you to uccudu
to our request. in which and you may real. fully
assured ul A triumphant return.
J. F. Jumphaun, MayurJohn Alger
Kobe" Gill J. l’. Mactenllu
Samuel 130m Rlchafd Peek
Thou. 0'. or: Frederick ford
M; Meteﬂle Wllllum (31:th
W. H. Elliott W. "- Moan:
A’rH. lhimhlnmn Strudel Babblewhlte
Edward Knox Mum Sillllou
H. E lliudwu Daniel Clark
Uliirlon Nlcholwn Thomu Baker
Thomaa Holt, inn. Uuome A. Lloyd
’1‘. W. :5th Much Miwhell
J. Cnmplmll Edwardvbane
J. Mickey J. 5. Hanson
A. Ashduwn h. Miles
Wm. Spain R. Fdwoelt
Henry Mace C Nightingale
Challeu Lowe Henry Armlhge
James Cunningham Fraulein Jukwn
Richnrd Driver ueorgu Slurp"
W. 6. M‘Uartliy w. Bowman:
Curnrllu: l’ruut W. H. Altllb
fury 14mg Henry Jones -
E. H. Pullnrd J. P. lﬁubinwn
George King David Jones
It. M. “whey. .lutm Walton
Room Pm» W. Broomﬁeld
James Hume a. Aaqiumll
Willlnm ﬂ. Rm W. nonpwu
J. 6. Raymond Georg» 4911th
C. FMII Wm. Tun-non
W. James Juhnmilno
John bard lumen Bellmln
William Mindnou 0. ll. Elliuu
W. Todd Peter M‘sdth
M, E. Murnin Edward Wardcll
John surﬁng E. Hunt
Robert 'l’aylur Thomas I). I'Irller
Gear e 'I'hurne '1‘. Whiatler Smllh
Charles N. Thorns W. Parsons
Uhlrlea North Bun! John Hrahnme
John llyan Brenna u. h. Roblnaon
mama» \‘nungdr Thomas Holmes
John Moore 3. Cult
J nines Sheppard
to the electors o? the countt
OF CUMBERLAND.
GENTLEMEN, —In compliance with
the request contained in the very flattering
requisition which has been addressed to'me,
I beg leave to announce myself a candidate to
represent the interest of your important
county in the next Legislative Connell. In
doing so I think it but right that you should
be made acquainted with my Views on certain
public matters, so that you may not confer
upon me the honor which I am seeking at your
hands if my principles are at all contrary to
your wishes.
I am aealously attached to the institu-
tions of our father laud, so far as they confirm
to the spirit of tile age and to the advance of
knowledge and liberty.
An enlightened and an enlarged system
of Education will command my support, so
that the liberties which the country is gaining
may rest on the broadest basis—a well educa-
ted people.
Any measure to do away with the ver-
bosity of the Law, so as to render it intelligible
and cheap to all classes will have my warmest
support.
In advocating a continuous stream of
Immigrants, my object is, not to depress the
labourer, who is at all times worthy of his
hire, but to advance his interest and that of the
colony at large.
Every means of cheapening the transit
of the produce of the soil frooi the interio, to
Sydney will receive my serious attention, for
without a n :w system of transport either by
rail, or tram wa)s, the middle districts mirst
remain comparatively stationary, while our
southern friends will be mak eg t’be mo t rapid
strides.
I am prepared to support any move-
ment which may appear well calculated to
open the Waste Laims to purchasers, so that
not only ti e present inhabitants of the colony
may be beneßted, but that capitalists and
others nay be induced to come and settle
amongst ns.
Having been for many years actively
engaged in mercantile pursuits in the colony,
I teel convinced that the interests of the
settler and trader are identical, I will, there-
fore, carefully watch over their common wel-
fare.
My best exertions will be given to relieve
Commerce from every restrictions, and to obtain
a thorough reform in our Fustal arrangements,
both foreign and inland.
I sincerely trust that all will shortly be
unanimous in supporting our colonial iastitu.
tions, mercantile and literary, and efface for
ever the blighting effects of past events—
then will all who feel an interest in the
advancement of our country see that we still
possess the spirit of integrity and energy
for which Englishmen have always been famed.
I will only add that in the event of your
conferring upon m« the honor of representing
the Metropolitan County, I will, as far as mv
humble powers allow me, faithfully employ my
best efforts to promote the welfare of the colo-
nists generally, unbiassed by a predilection for
any particular parly.
The day of nomination being so near at
hand will prevent iny waiting on you all, but
as far as time will allow I will do an.
I have the honor to be, Gentlemen,
Your very obedient servant.
HENRY O. SMITH
TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF NORTHUMBERLAND
1 LNTLEMEN, —You are again called
upon to select your representative, and I
beg- to offer myself as a candidate for that
honour.
It may be proper that I should state to you
that I am an unflinching opponent of the
monopoly of the waste lands of the Crown en-
joyed b/ a few princely squatters, whose ten-
dency is, and must be inimical to the interests
and prosperity of the settled districts.
I believe the resources of this great coun-
try cannot he developed until squatting on this
magnificent scale is superseded by a solvent
landed proprietary. Proper facilities for the
purchase of land would bring men of indepen-
dent means to settle here, and would conduce
to a general prosperity, and to the mural im-
provement of all classes.
I am an advocate for free trade, but iu a
young country with a limited population, some
branches of industry may require moderate
protection.
Exileism I am opposed to as bringing in
its train the painful memory ot other days, with
the horror of coercion, injustice, and the impro-
per delegation of power to the few. together
with the surveillance of tho police,"both hate-
ful and repugnant to the feelings of every free-
born Biiton.
Id education I prefer the National System.
In religion all should be free.
I solicit your votes with the hope of coun
teracting, in some measure, the baneful effects
of those recorded by squatting members of the
late Ci-uncil, and of carrying out that progres-
sive relorm which should characterize the inde-
pendent county for which New South Wales
calls upon you to return a proper member.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient Servant,
Sydney, 4th July. C. S. VALLACK.
FOR MADRAS DIRECT.
A CHARTERED SHIP.
THE FINE SHIP
l Hyderabad.
816 tons', Frederick Au-
gustus Castle, master,
being under positive engagement, will sail for
the above port on the sth August next. Has
room for a few horses, and roost superior acco-
modation for passengers. For freight or pas-
sage apply to Captain Castle, on board, or to
GEORGE THORNTON,
Custom House.
ON SALE,
AT THE STORES OF
52a
40, MARKET-STREET.
'PEAS, OF VARIOUS.,.BRANDS
Sugars, raw and refined * ,rt ’ fll
Pit kies, Battey’s ; - 9a .
Mustard, Coleman’s
* ALSO
Thte usual assortment of groceries, at the
lowest remunerating prices.
Good sak butter, at 6d. per lb.
WHIPS ! WHIPS !! WHIPS !! !
sr (Dsaipin -
WHIP MANUFACTURER,
NO. 382, GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Savings’ Bank,
BEGS respectfully to intimate to his
friends, and the publio generally, that he
has ou hand a magnificent and varied assortment
of the very best whip materials, lately invoiced
to him, and not to be excelled for durability and
beauty, by the first London houses. The silver
mountings are unique and appropriate, and pre-
sent faithful delineations of horses, dogs, birds,
foxes, Sic.
PS.—Tandem, gig, four-horse, riding, joe/fcey,
and every other description of whip, made to
order, repaired, &c.
wa&i&imm a>irao>a
(Late of the Star and Garter, Pitt-street.)
BEGS to aonounce to the public that he
has taken the house known aa the
Cornish Arms, Milsom’s Point, North Shore,
where he intends to conduct business in a style
that will render this delightful suburban retreat
the most pleasant “ rendezvous” for the lovers
of rustic felicity around Sydney. The facility of
reaching it by a few minutes trip in one of the
steamers which start every quarter of an hour
from the circular quay, will add rather than
diminish its charms.
N.B.—The choicest Wine* and Spirits of
every descriptions.
JOB PRINTING
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION,
executed with accuracy and despatch, in
EVERT VARIETY OF TYPE,
and on the most moderate terms, at the Printing
Office of
“(Hit Cimctf.”
334, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
WAR WITH RUSSIA.
BMOUNTCASTLE hastens to assure
• the public, that the war in Europe has
not stopped his usual supply of materials for
the manufacture of French hats, of which he
has received a large assortment, ex Seringa,
patam, and other late arrivals ; and he is now
enabled to offer his celebrated patent ventilated
Exuder hats (so much enquired after) warranted
to keep the head cool in the very hottest
weather. These hats are absolutely necessary
to any gentleman exposed to the heat of the
sun, and they have the advantage also of being
perfectly watertight.
Best beaver hats, ladies’ riding hats made to
order. An extensive assortment of velvet and
doth fancy caps gold navy lace, gold cord,
livery bands, &c.
French Hat Manufactory,
77, Market-street.
NEW AND FASHIONABLE
CLOTHING.
H HAYES AND CO., hasten to
• announce to their customers and the
public generally, that they have received, ex
Seringapatvra, a large assortment of new
goods, of the most fashionable description, to
which tltey respectfully Invite an early inspec-
tion.
These goods having been selected expressly
for the Sydney market, H. H. and Co., are en-
abled to recommend them to their friends with
the utmost confidence of their iriviog satisfac-
tion ; especially as it is their fixed determina-
tion to m ake up Ihe articles at the very lowest
prices—for cash.
The assortment comprises, broadcloths of all
shades and colours, fancy doeskins of every de-
sertption, shawl patterns, upwards of a hundred
varieties; tartan and plai Is innumerable, fancy
silks, satins, velvets, operaties, stocks, braces,
&e., &c , &c.
The trade supplied with cut lengths at rea.
sonable priees.
H. HAYES AND CO.,
Naval and Military Tailors,
George street.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
JAMES CHARLES THORNTON,
respectfully informs his friends, and the
public in general, that he has removed from that
part of the Labour Bazaar lately occupied hv
him, to Mr. George Hill’s buildings, 2lt», Pitt-
street, where he will be able to work for his
customers at much lower charges than he has
ever been able to make, having reduced his
expenses to one third what they have beeu.
N.B.—All work warranted as usual, in writ-
ing. No tarred rope used in .flax Mattresses,
or dyed flax in hair work.
L O ST,
AN Oil Painting of *' Mine Uncle,”
in the act of u taking in ” his fag, [The
soi-disant relative who has forked out half a
bull for this advertisement, affectionately re-
marked the execution of his gallows clever
u Nun key.”
[advertisement.)
GENERAL ELECTION.
The writs are all issued, and Dickinson stands
For city and borough, and far squatting lands :
His qualifications cannot be denied
While his principles always are on the right side
Unfurling his flag for a superfine end,
He asks for support as a general friend :
He honors the doth ; pays his court to the fleece
And adds to the exports’ and imports’ increase
He deals with the factor, and ne’er can you find
Such cloths, tweeds, and doeskins made up to
your mind : •
East, west, north, south travel—in vain will you
seek
For Wrappers so stylish, and Sacks so unique :
His Codringtons’, Waterfords’, Paletots delight
The wearer by warmth—the beholder by sight;
He has tartans and checks too for Scotia true,
Bright green for Ould Erin, for England true
blue ;
While tricolored France and America’s race
Will find for an outrig his shop is the place.
Thus useful to all, he your voices demands,
And looks to be met with a full show of hands :
Then rush to the poll with your plumpers aud
vote
For Dickinson —sure that he’ll ne’er turn bi«
coat!
& (j) ® S 3 £sja# £)
LUNCHEON, DINING, AND SUPPER
ROOMS,
R ainbow tavern, corner of pitt
■ and King-streets, Economy, variety
cumlort, and attention. N. B.—Any hour. 1
billiards.
The most modern Billiard Table imparted
and made to the undersigned’s especial order
by Thurston is at the Kaiubow Corneroj Pitt
aml King-stress.
Jj W. ROCHE.
OP
THE WOOL-PACK INN,
MARKET,
NEAR THE HAY
Sydney,
O EGS to inform his Friends in town
JJ a,,d country, and the Public generally
that he has nc utly received, direct from
London and to his especial order, through the
house of Swain, Webb and Co, au extensive
supply of
REAL JAMAICA RUM,
selected with great care by one of the most
eminent judges of the article, and that he is
now ready to accept orders for any quantity of
the above wholesome liquor, from a bottle to a
puncheon, either iu or out of bond, upon the
following terms:—
Battled, per dozen 245.
In wood, per gallon lj} s "
Publicans and others in the trade nill, upon
taking a large quantity, meet with a corres.
ponding liberality.
Mar ell s Brandy, with a choice selection of
Wines, Ales, Ac., Ac., always on hand.
’• he advertiser would respectfully call the
further attention of gentlemen from the interior
to the commodious alteigtioru which have of
late been effected in his establishment, enabling
him to i ffar visitors to the metropolis comfort,
able and dnvenient quarters during their star
in Sydney. 1
The premises adjoining the WOOL PACK
are so universally known to possess capaci ms
yards for teams, with ample and economical
accomodaUon for their attendants, that it
seems superfluous here to enlarge upon them,
June Z 5, 1818.
STOCKTON CLOTHS, TWEEDS,
BUCKSKINS, DOESKINS, &c.
MESSRS. FISHER* DONALDSON
BEG to impress upon both wholesale
and retail purchasers of their Cluths, that
great advantages are secured them by the late
arrangements effected at their
ESTABLISHMENT in king street,
where transactions take place immediately with
tile Manufacturers, thereby giving the pur.
chaser the benefit ef wbat otherwise would be
thrown into the pockets of Agents and their
deputies.
THE THOROUGH-BRED ARAB HORSE,
& a Ui W 13 & & Q
(Imported by Mr. Plaistowe,)
V\7 ILL STAND, at Wollingary, and
... travel through Jamberoo, Dapto, and
Wollongong.
TERMS:
For one Mare £3.
Groom’s fee, 6s.
To persons sending more than two mares
(bona fide their own property) a reduction will
be made.
Application to be made to the owner, at
Wollingary, Dapto.
WILLIAM J. BROWNE.
JAMES SPRING is requested to com-
municate with his brother, in Sydneyj
Address, “ Marion ” Cottage, Prince-street
North
July IP, 1848.
~~ 1 ~ 1 --' - ■fjterr
r o Clerks of Courses— Secretaries of Yatchnng,
Cricket, and Rife Clubs—Members of Pigeon
Matches—Players at Quoits — Ringers, Wnett-
lers, Pugilists Pedestrians Cockers
Dog Fanciers—and every other species of
sportsmen. We shall, at cell times, feel
greatly indebted for any authentic infor-
mation, either past or future, having reference
to the chosen sports of any of the above.
THE SPORTING .'TIMES is published every
Saturday morning;. Country Subscribers will
be received, on payment of Six Months in
Advance, viz—Thirteen Shillings Parties
subscribing in the middle of a quarter will only
be charged from their commencing. Terms
or Advertising —2s. 6d. for the first inch and
under, and Is. for every additional inch, each
insertion. Advertisements must specify on
the face of them the number of insertions, or
they will be continued, and charged accord-
ingly till countermanded.
Agents Required in the Various Districts.—
Those gentlemen who feel disposed to act, if
not previously known to Mr. Johnson, will
be-good enough to forward as early »A pos-
sible Sydney references.
TOWN AGENTS.
Mr. D. Donovan King-street, near the
Kainbow Tavern.
„ M00re..... George.street, oppo-
site the old Burial
Ground.
„ Benjamin Sims Parramatta-street.
COUNTRY AGENTS.
Mr. E. Mason Parramatta
„ John Anderson* ... Penrith
„ Charles 1.. Bayley... Campbqlltown.
~ Michael Doyle* ... lierrima
„ William Hunt* Quoaubeyan
„ Wm. Moore, C, Con. Ipswich,Morotoa Bay
„ James Powers* Brisbane, „
„ J. M. Townshend ... Wollombi.
„ Joseph Matthews*... WeHington
„ Harry Evans Armidale,.New Eng.
„ John Tait* Bathurst
„ Simpson Guudagai.
„ John Dingwall ‘Wollongong
* Those marked so are Innkeepers,
Where Agencies. are not formed, gentle-
men wishing to have the paper regular!) for
warded must commuaicat with the Office in
Sydney, and enclose the required advene, of,
at least, 13s. Our, Agents moreover are re-
quested to bear in mind, that ia no .case wil
the name of a Subscriber be received unless
he has complied with the regulation relative
to prepayment. >
