

THE SPORTING TIMES.
“EVERY MAN TO HIS HUMOUR.”
No. 7.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1848.
Price 6d.
ON THE ANTIQUITY AND ADVAN-
TAGES OF FIELD SPORTS.
So great was the power of iEschylus in
exciting the martial ardour of the Athe-
nians, that they marched to the battle of
Marathon from the theatre in which one
of his tragedies had been performed ; and
when Homer introduces Achilles singing
to his harp the glorious deeds of former
times, it cannot be doubted but he in-
tended those deeds should be recorded to
the end of time, as incentives to future
generations. Fame and praise are de-
lightful to all men » and even at thi* dis-
tance of time, we may easily conceive the
beneficial effects of Pindar’s celebrated
ode to Diagoras, which was deposited in
a temple of Minerva, written in letters of
gold. The poet does not content himself
with enumerating all the victories this
great conqueror had achieved in the
Olympic games, but puts up a prayer to
the gods that the love of his country aud
the admiration of the world should be his
reward ; which prayer was fully accom-
plished, not only in himself, but in the
prosperity and glory of his three sons.
The power and force of national songs—
particularly songs of triumph—have never
been disputed ; and he who said, that if
he were allowed to compose the ballads
of a nation he would alter its form of
government, uttered a boast not altogether
unfounded in the principles of human
nature. A late minister of England,
Lord Sidmouth, must have been some-
what of this opinion, for he procured a
pension of £2OO per annum for the late
Charles Dibdin, as a reward for his
spirit-stirring sea-songs, which were
published in the time of war. The popular
one of “ Poor Jack” is said to have
yielded a profit to the purchaser of up-
wards of £2OOO in the space of three
years ; and, with the assistance of the
celebrated songs of “ Black-eyed Susan”
and the *• Storm,” to have given the
original impulse to many a British tar.
Amongst the Celtic people, the Druids
weie the priests and philosophers ; the
Bards the panegyrists of their heroes.
The station of the latter was the centre of
the army ; and the warrior who fell,
turned his dying eyes towards the poet
who was to raise him to a state of im-
mortality. I heir songs or eulogies con-
stituted the chief glory of that nation. By
means of these songs also, Germany,
Gaul, and England maintained so long a
•struggle against the Roman power : and
before Edward the First could subdue the
Welsh, he was obliged to massacre all
their bards j but though he put them to
the sword, he could not destroy those
songs which perpetuated in their moun-
tains an abhorrence of slavery, and a
noble contempt of death. The north of
Scotland is another example of their
powerful influence to this day ; and if we
■may be allowed to descend from the hero
to the sparrow, we may remind our
readers, that the robin red-breast and the
wren owe their security from the rapacious
hand of the bird-nester to the ancient
fable of the “ Children in the Wood.”
All persons who have mixed in the
sporting world are aware, that although
we have had no Pindar here, there are j
several excellent songs on the exhilirating
as well as poetical subject, the chase,
which, at convivial meetings, not only
induce that “ merry spirit” for which,
sportsmen are conspicuous, but no doubt
have had a most beneficial effect in pre-
serving our national character. Hunting
songs, however, are a species of ancient
lyrics of which the specimens are ex-
tremely rare ; and the “ Songs of the
Chase,” 1811, do not appear to possess
any one earlier than the middle of the
seventeenth century.
According to the poets, the golden age
was spent in the country ; and a great in-
ducement for encouraging field-sports is
the peculiar relish they impart to a
country life, —a relish which, as indeed
might be expected from our present state
of almost excessive refinement, appears
rather on the wane. Let us, however,
hope our fears on this head are groundless :
let us hope that what Horace sighed for ;
what Cato, Plato, and Cicero recom-
mended ; what Bion eulogized ; what all
the best poets of antiquity sang the
praises of, and for which emperors quitted
their thrones, will never be ill-suited to
the taste of the English gentleman.
That the sports of the field are classical,
the authority of all ages can vouch for ;
and that, as a country life—-as Virgil
reminds the Sabines—was that which
their glorious ancestors led, they need
not consider it beneath them. Is the
man of fashion incompatible with the
country gentleman and sportsman ; or,
we would rather say, do the sports of the
field, and other manly pursuits, unfit him
for the drawing-room or the ball-room ?
Certainly not. How has the character of
Paris been handed down to us by the
poets'? Was he not the finest gentleman,
the first favorite of the women, the
greatest beau of the day 1 He was : but
though a prince, he had been bred a shep-
herd ; and from the robust habits he had
acquired in his youlh, he was the only man
who could stand up against the powerful
arm of Dares: the great champion of his
day ! What was the accomplished
Lollius, whose education Horace had su-
perintended ? We might style him the
Musters of our own age. In addition to
this, health is an enjoyment the Deity has
affixed to life, and who enjoys that bless-
sing like a sportsman 1 Does it show
itself in the pallid countenance of the
care-worn citizen, or the ruddy cheeks of
the mau who follows field sports ?
Somerville says—
T n , va ' n malignant streams and winter fogs
Load the dull air, and hover round our coasts;
the huntsman, ever gay, robust, and bold,
r e " e , s the noxious vapour, and confides
Certain it is, the rough sports of the
country have been known not only to cure
diseases of long-standing, but the exercise
of hunting, the most severe of them all,
absolutely steels the constitution against
the common attacks of disease. Its effect
on the mind is of no less value ; for, from
the very exhilarating nature of the amuse-
ment, it prevents its dwelling on its
anxieties, from which few are free ; and
it is one of the best cures for the heart-
ache, or any of those shocks which our
“ flesh is heir to
“ Dona eano divuin, betas venantibus artes
Auspicio,' Diana, tuo,”
sang the poet Gratius ; and Horace’s des-
cription of a sportsman returning to his
family, after the perils and toils of the
day, is a true picture of a country ltfe,
replete with the highest possible enjoy-
ment. Indeed, we may exclaim with
Byron—
“ Oh ! there is sweetness in the mountain air,
And life, which bloated ease can never hope
to share.”
An idle man has been described as a
sort of monster in the creation, as all
nature is busy about him ; and few people
know how to be idle and innocent. An-
other great recommendation, therefore, to
the sports of the field, is their safeguard
against idleness, the source of most vicious
propensities. “Indolence,’ says an eastern
writer “ is the daughter of folly, the sister
of vice, and the mother of misfortune
and its listless torments are well described
by Seneca, in his treatise on the “ Tran-
quillity of the Mind.” To live without
exercise, he assures us, is destructive to
the body, and to be indolent is fatal to the
mind, for both are destined by nature to
be the operative causes of each other’s
misery. Idleness was unknown in the
early ages of the world, for none then
thought themselves above the occupations
which God and nature had designed them
for; and that apparently hard command,
“ In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat
thy bread,” so far from being a curse, is
a blessing in disguise. That strenua in-
ertia, that laborious idleness, which is the
lot of the man who has nothing to do, soon
renders him fit for nothing. He gives up
the glorious aim of rendering himself
useful or conspicuous in any station of
life, and his chief study is to get rid of
life without doing. But with young men
of fortune, the consequences of want of
employment, or rather of some ardent
pursuit, do not stop here. The peace of
mind of many a virtuouswoman iswrecked
by being made the sport of those idle hours
which would be well employed in some
manly pursuits. “ Take away idleness,”
says Ovid, “and the arts of Cupid perish.”
Seneca was of the same opinion ; “ Love,”
says he, “ is generated in youth by luxury
and nourished by idleness, basking in the
lap of fortune.”
Somerville, in his “ Chase,” calls hun-
ting the sport of kings, the image of war
without its guilt ; and field-sports have
been the favourite pastime of many of the
Kings of England, but, perhaps, the kee-
nest sportsman of them all, was the
renowned Henry 11., who is thus repre-
sented by his historian :
“ His chief amusements were those of the
field, which he pursued with immoderate
ardour. He neglected his hands, never
wearing gloves but iu hawking ; his clothes
were short, calculated for expedition, his
boots plain, and his bonnet unadorned. His
feet and legs were generally in a bruised and
livid state, from the repeated blows of his
horses, yet be never sat down, unless when
unavoidable. He was on horseback before
the sun was up; often fatigued the most
robust sportsman in the chase ; and return-
ing, sometimes late, sat down, to a frugal
meal, which was soon despatched, and was
then again on his feet, till an realy hour
called him to his couch. Thus by exercise
and abstemiousness, he opposed a disposition
to corpulency, which indulgence would have
rendered troublesome and unwieldy. His
hawks were from Norway, and many from
Wales ; and he was particularly curious in
his hounds, that they should be fleet, well-
tongued, and ‘ consouous.’ ”
Although the reign of this monarch
was more brilliant than beneficial, yet as
he has been geen generally acknowledged
one of the greatest of our English kings,
we wilt add a little to his sketch, to show,
that even in those early days it was pos-
sible to be a sportsman, a gentleman, and
a scholar.
“ His understanding” continues his bio-
grapher, “ was good, the general powers
of his mind far above the ordinary level,
and his memory most tenacious. He was
| fond of reading, well informed in history,
and possessed a natural eloquence which,
j when his temper was unruffled, flowed with
grace and perspicuity. He was affable and
well-bred, facetious and communicative.
When the amusements ol the day were over,
he sought the company of the learned, and
delighted much in a circle of churchmen, to
propose subjects for discussion, and himself
attempt their solution. His vices were the
vices of the man, and his virtues belonged to
the prince. If the first were manifold, so
were the second. Even in the forest-laws,
his lenity appeared, because he mitigated
their severity in the eye of his ruling
passion.’’
Retrogarding in our history, the Con-
queror and his son Rufus, who lost his
j life in the New Forest, are signalized in
the annals of the *• Chase,” but their hun-
ting savours too much of the pot.
“ King John,’’ also, as a modern writer
I observes, “ amidst all the bustle of a dis-
tracted and inglorious reign, found frequent
opportunities of indulging in an extreme
passion for the chase. The Fine-rolls of his
reign prove his predilection for hunting and
hawking ; since by these documents he ap-
pears to have generally taken, in lieu of
those fines, which accrued to him in return
for grants and seizin of estates, a variety of
dogs, hawks, and hares; animals calculated
to indulge his ruling passion.”
Indeed, one of the few good services of
ment he effected in the breed of horses,
by the importation of foreign blood. The
earliest account of Cranbourne Chase that
can be taken in these days, seems to be
from the era when he had a hunting seat
at Tollard Royal, in the county of Wilts.
Hence the name of Itoijal to that parish
was derived, and there are vestiges in and
about the old palace which clearly evince
that it was once a royal habitation, and
even at this day it bears the name of
King John’s house. The large cypress
trees growing before the house, the relics
of grand terraces which may be easily
traced, the park to which some of them
lead, and the gate at the end of the park,
at the entrance of the Royal Chase, now
called Alarm Gate, being the place where
most probably the horn was blown to call
the keepers to their duty.
Edward I, may be justly styled the
first regular fox-hunter of our English
monarchs, and during his reign the sport
appears to have been first reduced to some-
thing like ascience, several treaties having
been written on the subject. His wardrobe
book, for the twenty-eighth year of his
reign, presents a curious document, —
curious at least as compared with present
times ; for it appears by it, that his pack
consisted of but six couples of hounds,
and their yearly expenses were twenty-
one pounds, six shillings.
Among royal sportsmen, also, may be
reckoned Edward the Confessor, Charles
the First, celebrated for his skill in horse-
manship ; and James the Second. Cla-
rendon informs us that “ Phillip Herbert,
fourth Earl of Pembroke, and Lord
Chamberlain had the good fortune, by
the comeliness of his person, his skill
and indefatigable industry in hunting, to
be the first (on his coming to the crown)
who drew the king’s eyes towards him
with affection ; which was quickly so far
improved, that he had the reputation of a
favourite.” Queen Anne encouraged the
taste for sporting ; and Elizabeth’s pas-
sion for the chase is well known. She
hunted till her 77th year, and one of her
court, in a letter to Sir Robert Sidney,
thus speaks of her :—Her Majesty is
well, excellently disposed to hunting,
for every second day she is on horse-
back, and continues the sport long.”
In the reigns of George I. and 11.,
no royal example prevailed to excite a
passion for field sports, but George 111.
wosa sportsman to near the latest period
of his life. With his harriers he often
partook of the diversion of hare-hunting,
to which he was ardently attached, and
seldom was absent from his stag-hounds
on Tuesdays and Saturdays during the
season, which lasted from Holyrood-day
(25th September) to the first Saturday in
May. George IV. followed the example
of his royal father, having been a master of
fox-hounds while Prince of Wales, as
also of stag-hounds, until his decease, as
an appendage to the royal establishment.
He also had, of late years, a pack of re-
markably small, but small, but singularly
elegant harriers, bred partly by those
well-known sportsmen, Lord Maynard
and Mr. Loraine Smith, with which he
had flattered himself he might have exer-
cised himself in his parks, but his in-
creasing wi ight and infirmities debarred
him from that pleasure. On the Turf,
the name of George IV. will never be
forgotten, as an excellent judge of the
powers of the race-horse, and a most li-
beral encourager of his breed.
Objections have been made toencouraging
our youth in the love of our national
field-sports, on the score of the many
examples we have seen of their engross-
ing too much of their time, to the neglect
of other qualifications- It is true, as the
Romans inform us, the masters in every
branch of learning, whom the accom-
plished father of Commodus provided for
his son, where heard with inattention
and disgust, whilst the lessons of the
Parthian, or the Moor, in the arts of the
javelin and the bow, could not be -too
often repeated. Numerous may be such
instances in every country under the sun,
but where is the pursuit that may not be
carried to excess'? “ Whatever the hand
findeth to do, do it with thy might,’’ said
Solomon; and had not providence im-
planted this zeal in our nature, man never
would have been what man now is. Ob-
jections are again made, that the sports of
the field are cruel, but the charge, if
proved, does not altogether lie against
man. The beasts and birds of the field
have been given to him, as well as the
way to procure them pointed out to him,
or wherefore the almost unsearchable
faculties of the dog? Some, however,
have thought otherwise.
“ Is it a labour worthy of man,” says a
very celebrated writer, “ to watch from
day to day, from night to night, the haunts
of our fellow-animal, that we may destroy
them? To triumph over a poor mangled
hare or hind, after you have harrassed them
up and down the country, for many hours
together, with an army of dogs and men?
Is it an excise becoming the majesty of a
rational spirit, to run yawling with a parcel
ot hounds, perhaps a whole day together,
after some timorous animal?’’
We answer, we know no other method
of availing ourselves of them when they
were first given for our use, and it may
be strongly urged, that the destruction of
wild animals was never so speedily, and
therefore humanely, accomplished, as it
is at the present day. A century ago,
the fox lingered all night in the trap,
and then too often was subject to an
agonizing death. He is now killed by
hounds in less than an hour, if he cannot
escape from what may be deemed his
lawful pursuers. The buck in the forest
of the king, or in the park of the nofile-
man, is now no longer hunted down by
the, slow, but certain buck-hound a race
rifleman seals his doom on the spot. We
agree with the poet that
“ Poor is the triumph o’er the timid hare.”
but she was given for our use and must
be taken. A hundred years ago she was
trailed up to her form, —the operation,
perhaps, of an hour, with the terror-
striking notes of the hound in her ear;
and then pursued for at least two hours
more, by animals with not half her
speed, hut with a power of following
her which it was almost impossible to
evade. At the present time, she is whip-
ped out of her present form, twenty mi-
nutes, generally deciding her fate ; and in
consequence of her being now pursued in
the forenoon instead of, as before, just on
her return from her feed, she escapes of-
tener than she is killed. Animals des-
tined to fall by the gun are now nearly
certain of instant death. In addition to
the increased skill of our marksmen, the
improved formation of the gun enables it
to carry destruction with a much surer
hand,owing to the force and precision with
which it.throws its shot. Thus, if the game
be stricken, it is stricken to instant
death, and not wounded and mangled by
a weak scattered shot. Another consider-
ation presents itself in favor of the des-
troyer of game. Life is said to be sweet,
but strip it of intellectual enjoyment, and
its value is very considerably abated. It
may likewise be observed, the natural
death of wild animals must be lingering
and painful in the extreme -. they have
no relief to fly to, but perish, as it were,
by inches. This being admitted, the
hand that instantly deprives them of life
may be almost deemed the hand of a
friend.
Increase our sensibilities, and who
could exist ? They are limited in mercy
as well as in wisdom. Let us not then
conclude that cruelty is a necessary pro-
perty of a British sportsman because he
is the destroyer of a part of the brute
creation, which was evidently intended
should be destroyed by someone. Sports-
men have existed, and must for ever
exist, from necessity: They have extir-
pated some animals, and culled out such
as are serviceable to man, and willing to
submit to his will and government. Those
will submit are his friends, —those that
will not are his foes ; and so it was in-
tended to be, since the charge was given
to Adam and the subsequent commission
to Noah. The sports of the field, indeed,
are generally allowed to have a tendency
to improve and promote a free and gener-
ous conduct, as well as that manly spirit
which is the very reverse of cruelty ; and
in the harmless exercise of our imagina-
tion, —looking at the law of nature which
enjoins the destruction of one animal for
the good of another, —we cannot pass a
hard sentence on the sportsman, but think
with the poet, that
“ His life is pure, who wears no fouler stain.”
JUDGE AND JURY CLUB.
Before the Lord Chief Baron and a
Special Jury.
DEFAMATION.
John Mudlark Bouncible, a sinister-
looking individual, with small twinkling
red optics, was placed at the bar on the
serious charge of calling persons names,
&c.
The prosecution was conducted by the
Attorney General, and the defence by
Councillor Spitvenom.
The Attorney General :
My Lord and Gentlemen of the Jury,—
The prisoner stands before you charged with
the serious and unpardonable offence of
“defamation-’’ He (the prisonor) through
the assistance of a few friends, received
rather a liberal education, by the agency of
which he contrived to raise himself to a po-
sition in society that he could never have
dreamed of otherwise attaining. From being
an exponent of the law in some of our small
pettifogging Courts of Justice, he reached
the proud and enviable distinction of
being nominated to the Legislative Assembly
as a “ maker and framer of laws.” It was
in this capacity, gentlemen, that the pri-
soner first began to develop the true bear-
ings of his character and disposition ; and
it is to this portion of his history that I beg
to solicit your attention. Gentlemen, you
may have often observed in your passage
through life that there are some persons of
such a masked and twofold disposition, that
they can never induce themselves to speak
the same of a man in his absence as they do
under a sneaking cowardly apprehension in
his presence. The very nature and life-
blood of those characters seem to be tainted
so deeply with the vices of duplicity and
deceitfulness, that whenever their vanity
happens to be wounded, or their spleen ex-
cited, they lose no opportunity of spitting
j forth their venom, either in the form of
cringing adulation, or as malicious back-
| biters The prisoner, gentlemen, is a person
j of this stamp: but he don;t retreat behind
a man’s back to perpetrate his villainy. On
the contrary, he enacts the defamer openly
j and publicly and undauntedly, as I shall
| shew you. There is one peculiarity about
his manner of doing so, to which I claim
your attention. If he feels the most bitter
inward hatred of a man—looks upon him
to be a knave or a blockhead, or a humbug
—in addressing such a person the prisoner
does not treat him as if he were a humbug,
knave, or blockhead. On the contrary,
gentlemen, he libels those characters in their
presence by “ soft-sawdering’’ and “soap-
ing’! them in terms of unmixed and undis-
guised flattery and respect. In proportion
j to liis hatred and contempt of a man, is the
flummery he heaps upon him in the way of
praise and compliment. The prisoner would
hypocritically call that person his “ friend,’’
—his “ respected friend,’—or by some such
soothing but defamatory name. If he be-
lieved the man to be a “ knave,” he would
call him his “honorable friend”—a “ block-
head’’he would style a“ learned gentleman,’’
and a compound of the knave and block-
head he would fawningly term “ an honor-
able and learned’’ person. Such is the
of •hmlicit.v. ji'entlemcu. by which
figure for the time of. scorn to point its
slow timnoving finger at.’’ Such is the kind
of slavering defamation by which he has
sought to misrepresent his own views of, and
feelings for, other men. What right had he
to call a person “ honorable,” if he knew
and believed that person to bo a humbug
and an impostor. How came he, gentlemen,
to pronounce a man “ learned, ’ r whom he
felt convinced was a dolt, a jackass, a nuin-
scull ? And, gentlemen, how dare he heap
the insult and obloquy of his friendship upon
an individual by calling him his “ friend’’
when his heart was blackened at the time
by the dislike and hatred he bore him ?
I care not, gentlemen by what sophistry I
may be met on this occasion t but I do pro-
nounce Buch proceedings on the part of the
prisoner to be unworthy and vicious in the
extreme. How would you like to be called
“ honorable and learned” by a party who
regarded you only as rogues and nincom-
poops ? How would you like to be gammoned
into the conceit that you are a fine
rollicking, jolly set of old cocks, by a fellow
who would “ take a lunar’’ at you the mo-
ment you turned your backs, and cry out
“ There’s a mob of old women in breeches :
a gang of raggainutfins—of low snivelling
curmudgeons I’’ Would you not feel indig'
nant, gentlemen, at such treacherous and
defamatory conduct? I ask you, gentlemen,
would you not. if you witnessed such double-
shuffling on his part, treat him to a little of
the “ oil of leather,” by each of you giving
him a d d good kick on his unmention-
able part accompanied with a “ flea in the
ear,” in the shape of a few “ striking” visi-
tations of your “ bunch of fives ?” lam sure
you would, gentlemen, if you could but
" screw your courage to the sticking place.”
It is necessary for the honor of society, that
vices of this kind should be punished. There
is no vice more abominable in its nature
than the vice of “ Insincerity.’’ The robber
who, meeting you on the highway, demands
your *• money or your life,” is a far more de-
serving person tiian the “ painted sepulchre'’
ot a man (and there are such beings, gen-
tlemen) who wear their faces wreathed in
smiles; wretches who, like the tyrant
Richard, “ Can smile, and smile, and MUR-
DER while they smile.’’ It rests with you,
gentlemen, by your verdict to put down such
offences as the prisoner is accused of—to af-
fix a brand brand upon his hollowness and
duplicity. Teach him not to miscal men—
not to blarneyfy ’em with the slaver of his
hypocritical tongue, at the same time inwardly
actuated by “envy, hatred, and all unchaii-
tableness” towards them. Instruct him in
the high moral lesson, that there is no cha-
racter more detestable than the obsequious
hypocrite—a specimen of the genus Homo,
who is an adept at “ crooking tile pregnant
hinges of the kute, where thrift may follow
fawning”—that such characters are deserv-
ing of every species of public reproach and
odium, not excepting the “pillory.’’ Oh,
gentleman, how would not the prisoner
writhe under a “ salute’’ of “ rotten eggs’’—
how would he not “ wriggle” under a
“ shower” of “ dead cats Would not
every honest man wish to have a whip in his
hand with which to
“ Lash the rascal naked through the world ?”
Gentlemen, I now leave the prisoner in your
hands. Deal with him as you may deem fit;
but deal with him in such a manner as to
give your sanction to the well-known old
saying that
“ A man's a man fur a' thatj”
but that that proud distinction is only to be
attained by the most rigid adherence to
rectitude ot principle, sincerity of purpose,
j benevolence of disposition, and a thorough
avoidance of dissimulation, falsehood, flum-
mery, soft soap, and insincerity.
Wiliam Blazeaway Buzz, coal-shovel
to the Council, and Marcus Cut-it-short
Pnnp, pre-eminently supreme Reporter to
that august body, were examined, and
corroborated in the amplest manner the
statement of the Attorney-General. They
in fact stated that the prisoner made a
practice of perpetually calling three or
four members “ honorab e and learned ’
men, for whom he, in private, not alone
entertained, but expressed, the most un-
qualified contempt.
Mr. Sergeant Spitvenom declined cross-
examining those witnesses, telling them
in the mildest and most conciliating
manner possible, to “go about their
business, and not to get drunk on their
way home.”
Mr. Sergeant Spitvenom:
Gentlemen,—After the very magniloquent
and Bob Loweish speech you have just
heard from the Crown Prosecutor, you
must, no doubt, feol convinced that the pri-
soner is a monster of iniquity—a fiend in
every particular, save and except his new
pair of boots and his new hat. Gentlemen,
I do not wish to cast any disparagement
upon the learned Attorney General ; but I
must tell him, that in making the prisoner’s
conduct the subject matter of a prosecution,
he has, to use the eloquent and impressive
language of that great luminary of the law,
Judge Jeffries, “found a mare’s nest.’’ I am
aware that it Requires much tact and inge-
nuity, even on the part of lawyers, to pounce
upon a “ mare’s nestbut when they do so
—when they clutch the invaluable treasure
in their fond embrace, they look upon it
with the same reverence as the alcymists
of old regarded a clod of mud—dirt,—as
a substance easily convertible into—Cash.
Permit me here to observe, gentlemen, that
the ancient alchymists were but mere
“greenhorns,’’—moon-struck enthusiasts—
when compared with your modern alchy-
mists, the “Lawyers.” These are the gem-
men who can transmute anything into gold
“ from a needle to an anchor.” Take but
a single hair from the tail of a donkey, and
place it before a brace of lawyers for their
“ opinion” (save the mark) of it, and you
will find that in less than a brace of minutes
they will “advise’’ you to allow them to
“ test” it in their “ crucible,' assuring you
at the same time of its ready convertibility
into— tin. And, gentlemen, I should be
sorry to deny them the merit they are so
deserving of in this respect. They are, in-
deed, most able and deserving alchvmists.
Nothing “ under the sun” can exceed their
ingenuity and dexterity. A fool might call
them impostors—cheats—pickpockets, but a
wise man regards them as “ experimental
philosophers,’’—as a body of men, any mem-
ber ot which is competent to convince you.
by the simplest “ process,’’that a £2O note
can be converted into double, aye, treble its
value in “hard cash,” just while you might
_hfl writing “ John Doe and Richard R.n„ ’>
But the great and attractive beauty o'
it is, gentlemen, that the modern disciples
of this noble science (the lawyers) are
men of the most unblemished integrity—
of the purest moral worth—patterns of all
those virtues which, combined together, are
said to constitute the characteristics of an
—“ honorable man t” I said, gentlemen,
that the Attorney General in this, his pro-
secution of the prisoner, “found a mare’s
nest.” And really lam surprised that,
lawyer as he is, he should have endeavoured
to make so much more of it than it presents.
He broadly accuses the prisoner of duplicity
and defamation, because he calls men by
names which he believes them undeserving
of. The Attorney General has supplied
you with all particulars on this head. Now,
gentlemen, all the Attorney General has
alleged against the prisoner may, in the ab-
stract, amount to “ duplicity and defama-
tion.” But, admitting it to be so, is it an
offence of a rare nature ? Can you, as men,
lay your hands upon your breasts and say
that you have not often felt a little of
the leaven of the crime actuating you
with which the prisoner is now charged 1
Did you never shake a man’s hand most af-
fectionately, at the same moment wishing
the devil had him, when he gammoned you
to leud him “a loan of your umbrella?” Of
course you did, gentlemen. I saw by the
sympathetic twinkle) of your intelligent
optics when I put the question, that you
admitted the “ soft impeachment.” Is it,
then, becoming, to pronounce those feelings
to be a crime in the prisoner, from the in-
fluence, more or less, of which no man is
exempt. Lord Bacon, in his Essay on
Cauliflowers, tells us we must “do as Rome
doesmeaning, in fact, that we must swim
with the current; that it is “ against the
nature of things” to attempt to oppose it.
Another Lord, of not unequal fame, gives
this as his opinion and advice :
“ Life’s a poor player” then “ play out the
play,
Ye villains!” and above all keep a sharp eye
Much less on what you d > than what you say ;
Be hypocritical, be cautious, be
Not what you see in but always what you see.
Now, gentlemen, I will bet you a “ new hat,”
that there is much more true worldly wisdom
and philosophy in those lines than is to be
seen in all the gropings of “Coke upon Little-
ton,” or in the scribblings of Puffendorf,
Blackstone, or Paley! Gentlemen, man is
made for the world ; and the world for man !
Is a man, then, to be punished for pursuing
as easy and smooth a path as he can through
this sad world ? Is a single individual to be
selected from the whole throng of mankind,
and exposed to an invidious prosecution,
merely for doing or saying that which
almost every man living says or does ? You
might as well punish a man for eating his
breakfast or his dinner, or for going to bed
to enjoy a snooze. The prisoner is accused
of calling a man his “learned friend,” at
the same time that he hated him, and be-
lieved him to be a “ bosthoon.’’ Now, this
may be very truo. But I answer it, after
the Irishman’s fashion, by asking a question,
namely, “ Is it not the way of the world V’
Suppose that, in alluding to the Editors of
the Sydney Herald, I were to call them the
“ learned editors,” or the “ talented editors,”
or the “ upright, honest, impartial editors,”
would I be amenable to the law for doing
so? Certainly not. My “ private” opinion
might be that the aforesaid editors of the
Herald are a pair of unmitigated donkeys
and humbugs ; —but, gentlemen, the usage
of society at the present day is not to
call “ things’’ by their “ proper names.”
A man would be considered uncivi-
lized now-a-days, quite out of the pale
of society, if he were to call “ cabbage,
cabbage.’’ The correct term (so Sir Pickle
Fashion says) is—“ vegetables!” Gentle-
men, I hope 1 have said enough to convince
you of the absurdity of this prosecution.—
It is a most gross attempt to shackle the
“ liberty of the subject,” and that most
important part of the “ subject” his
tongue. Without a tongue, gentlemen, we
might as well be without a head. Of what
earthly use is a man’s “ nut’’ to him, if his
tongue be gagged ? Gentlemen, if you
are married, you need refer no further,
to prove not alone the utility, but the
ability, of tongues, than to your own “dear
wives.” I would sooner have their opinion
on the question than the decisions of all the
lawyers from the days of Justinian to the
present time. Treat this prosecution, then,
as it deserves. Scout it out of court. Do
not ullow the Temple of Justice to be made
the theatre of such daring and unwarrant-
able attempts to impose restrictions upon
men. Do as I tell you, and you will do
right. To quote the language of the sub-
lime Milton—
Give a just verdict, gentlemen of the jury,
TheD cut your stick, and bolt tike fury.
The Lord Chief Baron summed up briefly
■as follows :—Gentlemen, you have heard a
I good deal of high-sounding talk to-day :
and no doubt must have been edified, or
mystified, (whichever you like most) with
the many admirable specimens of “fustian"’
that have been measured out to you. But
there is one thing that the counsel for the
prisoner has rather adroitly preserved a
respectful distance from and that is,
“ tact.’’ I suppose you are aware that
“ facts are stubborn things.” Nothing more
so, I assure you, gentlemen ; not even a
lamp post, ora tailor’s hill. It is much
more difficult to get over a “ fact” than it
was for Napoleon to cross the Alps, or than
it is to Mr. Councillor E. to exhibit any-
thing approaching to decency or good
manners. The prisoner’s counsel never
tried to disprove any of the facts proven
against that unhapy mail. He treated you
to a long dissertation upon what the world
says and does ; and endeavoured to impress j
upon you, that what one mail does, so ought \
another do. Now, gentlemen, would you
not be disposed to fling your inkbottles at
my head, if I were to tell you from this
bench, that because Mr. Bladderchops
Brainless “ put up” to be a City Councillor,
you ought to do the same? Would you not |
indignantly cry out, “ Bunkum,” Hookey,” '
“ Go it, strong, old boy ?” Would you not,
gentlemen, I earnestly and solemnly ask
you, “ take a lunar” at ine, if I were to offer
you such advice ? The doctrines pro-
pounded by the prisoner’s counsel are of
just as much use as my adviee would have
been, had I given it. The facts, as set forth
in the indictment, are clearly against the
prisoner ; and by those facts alone you must
be guided in finding your verdict. Society
demands that some example should be made
of those persons who violate the laws of
candour and sincerity.” We want not
*• wolves in sheep’s clothing” amongst us.—
We can doal by the one or the other on their
foe should be met ; and we can greet a
“ friend” as a friend should be greeted. But
we will not tolerate “ counterfeits’’ of the
one or the other. This is the light in which
to view the matter, gentlemen. And, in-
deed, experience, that great fountain of
wisdom, has taught us, that an “ open and
undisguised foe,” is a less dangerous enemy
than a “ pretended friend.” Gentlemen,
with these observations, I will leave you to
form your own judgment on the matter.
The jury then retired, and after being
locked up for two days and a half in a
closet, they returned into court, seven of
them exceedingly drunk, especially the
foreman, who handed in a verdict of—
guilty.
The prisoner was then sentenced to “ eat
his own words,’’ and to have the “ reports”
of his speeches cut into lashes, with which
he is to be whipped round the racecourse three
times a week for seven weeks ; and also to
liquidate the grog score of the jurors.
MULTUM IN PARVO.
A man named Finch, while in a state of
“ beer,” fell off a dray on the Parramatta
road, and sustained severe injuries from
the wheel having passed over his body.—
William Astell, a labourer, was sentenced
on Saturday to find sureties himself in
£2OO, and two of £lOO each, for assault-
ing and otherwise ill-using two females,
a widow and her daughter residing on the
Liverpool Road. It appeared that the
fellow cohabited with the daughter
whom he had been in the habit of beatings
On the evening of Tuesday week, a coat
was stolen from Mr. Ilealy ’s public house,
corner of Pitt and King-street, belong-
ing to a Mr. Hart; and about ten o'clock
on Friday evening, the shop till of Mr.
Cadman, grocer, Castlereagh-street, was
removed by some expert thief, who re-
warded himself for his trouble with the
contents, between ten and eleven shillings.
—The head quarters of the 11th regi-
ment, commanded by Colonel Bloomfield,
arrived on Saturday evening last.—The
Sydney barque Sibylla, from Plymouth,
arrived at Adelaide on the 16th July.—
Two men, named Cullurn and Wilson,
■ were sentenced on Saturday, to pay a
fine of 20s. each, or in default, to be
imprisoned for fourteen days, for assault-
ing a constable. 3957 sheepskins sold
for and per lb., at Mr. Mort’s
sale on Saturday last; 357 salted hides,
at 3s 3d to’4s 8d each ; bales of wool,
(washed skin), sold at Is. lb.; 11 casks
of beef tallow, brought £33 per ton, and
15 of mutton tallow sold at £33 12s 6d.
—On Friday night week, the shop of Mr.
Peate, shoemaker, George-street, was
forcibly entered, and property valued at
£2O stolen therefrom. On Saturday night
Mr. Smith’s offices, O’Connell-street, was
entered; but it appears the burglars find-
ing nothing but office papers, &c., con-
sidered them not worth their removal, and
therefore decamped. John Clinton, a
noted rogue and vagabond, was sentenced
to seven days’ imprisonment on Monday
last, as an old offender under the Vagrant
Act.—A quantity of wearing apparel
was stolen on Saturday night last, from
the schooner Part Phillip, lying at the
Albion Wharf.—A beastly ruffian, one
Joseph Scott, was sent on Monday last to
gaol for six months, for grossly indelicate
conduct on Saturday afternoon, in the
yard of Christ Church school. The of-
fence was wilfully perpetrated in the
presence of several small children, the
majority being girls.--A heavy fall of
snow took place in the Goulburn distret
on Thursday week. The snow was about
six inches deep.—The bridge over the
South Creek, Windsor, fell in on Tues-
day week, which it is expected will have
the effect of stopping communication by
cart and carriages with Sydney for some
time —£3749 19s. has been subscribed in
London, towards the maintenance of the
British workmen expelled from France.
Extraordinary Decapitation. The
Eastern Counties Herald, describing
what it calls ‘an impudent theft,’ says,
at noon, on Monday, a little boy, named
Locke, was standing, at his father’s door,
in Hull, when a woman passing by took
<Jf h>s head —and carried away—a cloth
cap.’ This is an impudent robbery
indeed 1
LotAi.Tr of Tin? Citizens of London.—Yes-
terday a large number of signatures we e ap-
pended to the subjoined declaration of loyalty 10
the throne, in the several wards of the City of
London in accordance with the motion passed
at the last Court of Common Council:—“We,
the undersigned citizens and inhabitants of the
respective wards of the City of London, desi. e
to express our unshaken loyalty and attachment
to the throne ; our firm determination to uphold,
to the utmost of our power, and by every con-
stitutional means, the just legal rights of the
Sovereign, and the authority of both Houses of
Parliament, as by law established ; to preserve
inviolate, by combined and persevering efforts,
the peace of the metropolis against all attempts
that may be made to disturb the public tran-
quillity, or to putin peril the persons or property
of our fellow-citizens and fellow-subjects. And
we desire gratefully to acknowledge the benefit
of the effective measures taken by the Right
Hon the Lord Major, the magistrates, the police,
and citizens at large, in co-operation with her
Majesty’s government, that happily secured from
apprehended tumult and confusion the peace of
this city." In the wards already visited scarcely
any of the inhabitants have refused to attacii
their names to the declaration.
Arrival of Jennt Lind.— Mdlle. Lind
arrived yesterday from Hamburgh, by the
Countess of Lonsdale steamer. We see by the
Swedish papers that her departure from Stock-
holm was attended by the most extraordinary
demonstration. It was on the 13th Instant, the
weather was beautiful, from 15,000 to 20,000
people lined the quays, mditarv bands were
placed at intervals, and she embarked amidst
cheers and music. The riggings of the vessels
in the harbour were marine 1 The hurrahs and
the waving of hats and handkerchiefs continued
as long as the vessel which bore Jenny Lind
remained in sight. Her last performance in
Stockholm was for the benefit of a charitable
, institution she has founded. The tickets of
admrsion on this occasion were put up to


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H It.— Mr. John Hose Holden was in the 17 th
Regiment of foot. His commission bears date
November' 26, 1829.
Yox is wrong : The following are the facts —
The Duke of Clarence married the Princess of
Saxe Meinengen: and the Duke of Kent a
Princess of Saxe Cobourg.
Grub —D. E. is not an Alderman as yety
though a lover of good dinners.
A.— The fight between Tom Cribb arid Moli-
neaux the Black , at ' histeton Gap, in Leices-
ter schire, in 1811. lasted nineteen minutes and
a half.
HUNTING APPOINTMENTS.
Kelsey’s Hounds will meet, on the mornings of
Tuesday and Friday, at Tavernor’s Inn, near
the Bark Huts, on the Liverpool Road The
Pack will be thrown into the Plantations at
eight o’clock each day
Wbt SE'mtcg
SYDNEY, AUGUST 12, 1848.
OFFICIAL ASSIGNEES—COURT
OF REQUESTS—PAWNBROKERS.
Having succeeded in disposing of our
necessary brief notices upon electioneering
affairs, we feel it now incumbent to offer a
few hints to tha newly-forined Council [if
ever it assembles], on matters which appear
of real importance to the middling and
’labouring classes of the community ; and
as Mr. Lowe has declared himself the re-
presentative of the operative body, it is
to be hoped he will deem the suggestions
worthy of his early consideration.
The subjects we advert to are three in
number—viz., the laws relating to assignees
in Insolvent Estates—the Court of Re-
quests —and the Pawnbroking system, as
conducted in New South Wales. As our
limits will not allow of us entering fully
upon these matters in this day’s issue, we
shall therefore only briefly allude to each
of them for the present. On a future occa-
sion we shall proceed seriatim throughthem,
and offer such grounds for our opinions and
conclusions, as we trust may be found both
just and reasonable.
Our chief inducement to treat of these
matters is, to expose what we consider to bo
the glaring and manifold abuses connected
with the several departments of “ official
assignees,’’ Court of Requests, and the
“ Pawnbroking System.”
With respect to the first branch, the ex-
travagant and serious charges made by the
tribe of official assignees (now so numerous)
not creditors of Insolvent Estates, already
reduced to almost nothing, must be mani-
fest to every observer. Out of property be-
longing to other people this class of men
realize a handsome golden harvest—gree-
dily eating the “ oysters” themselves, and
giving tho unfortunate creditors the
“ shells!”
Our second proposition will suggest the
necessity and means of at once discontinu-
ing those most expensive officials, the Com-
missioners of Courts of Requests ; and
substituting such measures for the govern-
ment and practice of these courts as are
established in tho United Kingdom—as
also a modification of the enormous scale of
costs, which have risen to a moßt alarming
extent in our Colonial Courts of Requests.
As regards the Pawnbroking System,
some mode should be established for sup-
pressing illegal pawnbrokers ; and licensing
and regulating proper persons to lend
money on pledges. Such a law will have
the effect of at once arresting the progress
of those most dangerous pests of society—
a multitude of small shopkeepers residing
in the purlieus of this city, who live entirely
upon plunder, and afford a most ready and
secret means for the disposal of stolen
property.
In our next, we shall probably resume the
consideration of these subjects.
THE RING.
DEATH OF DAN MENDOZA.
In our ‘town edition’ last week we an-
nounced the death of Dan Mendoza, at the
age of 73, who ‘ dropped from his perch’ on
Saturday morning week, at his ‘ crib’ in
Horse Shoe Alley, Petticoat Lane, and in
great distress. He possessed his faculties to
the last, and ‘ stoppen’ the ‘ hits’ of death
till exhausted. On ‘time’ being called, was
incapable oi * coining again.’ Dan, though
not
“The Jew
That Shakspeare drew,”
■was yet an extraordinary man in his way,
and may be said to have been the first ‘ great
master’ of pugilistic science in this country ;
and to have introduced a system of attack
and defence at once new and imposing—tie
was an admirable general, and when op-
posed by superior physical strength, had a
tact in husbanding his own strength while
he exhausted those of his antagonist which
almost invariably crowned his efforts with
victory. He lived too in the ‘ golden age’
of boxing, when men of the first consequence
did not hesitate to give their countenance to
its pract ce, and perhaps, with the exception
of Mr. Jackson, no master of the art had to
congratulate himself on having given les-
bous to more pupils of eminence. Ho added
to his acquired talents, sound bottom, and
in difficulty displayed great intrepidity and
bravery. No pugilist ever stopped with
greater neatness, hit oftener, or put in his
blows quicker, although his execution was
not always effective. We have not space
here fo go into a lengthened detail of bis
at’.les, but shall select a few in which he
was most distinguished. As early as April
the 17th, 1787, he fought and beat Martin,
the butcher, on Barnet race-cource, and
then gave promise of his subsequent repu-
tation. In September, in the same year,
he had a turn up with Humphries, at the
Cock at Epping, wich led to a match on
the 9th January, 1788, for 150 guineas,
which took place at Odiham, Hants, and
Dan was defeated. On the 6th May, 1789,
he again fought Humphries at Stilton, in
Mr. Thornton’s park, where a building
was erected with amphitheatrical seats,
capable of containing 8000 spectators, at
the doors of which 850 guineas were taken.
Harvey Apteece for Mendoza. The fight
lasted 70 minutes, and sixty-five rounds
wore fought, during which the superiority of
science was admirably exemplified—Hum-
phries being severely punished, while Men-
doza was * little the worse for wear.’
A third battle between the same men
took place on the 29th September, 1790, at
Doncaster, in the large yard of an Inn, to
which the spectators were admitted at half
a guinea each ; but a vast number of the
populace broke across the river Don, and
obtained ‘free admissions.’—Mendoza was
the winner in 73 minutes, and seventy two
rounds—the stake being 260 guineas. The
inferiority of Humphries was obvious, and
Mendoza kept the lead throughout, dropping
his man whenever he hit him, but shewing
great forbearance when he might have ad-
ministered dreadful punishment.
The next trial of Mendoza was in his ren-
contre with a certain Squire Fitzgerald, a
big amateur, whom he beat in 26 minutes,
for love, in Dublin.
On the 14th May, 1795, he fought Bill
Warr at Smithain Bottom, near Croydon.
They fought on the stage after Tom Jones
and Caleb Baldwin, Warr fighting 300
guineas to 200 guineas. Warr found he
bad mistaken his man, was out generailed,
and ‘ gave in’ the 23d round. On the 12th
of November, 1794, they again fought at
Bexley, where Warr was disposed of in the
short space of 15 minutes. In this year
George the Third had a long conversation
with Mendoza, on Windsor Terraco, aud
seemed much amused with hi* illustrations
of the art of self-defence; and pugilism
ranked amongst its most literal supporters,
such men as the Prince of Wales, the Duke
of Hamilton, Earl Barrymore, Lord Falk-
land, Sirs It. Symonds and T. Apreece,
Harvey C. Coombe, Esq., Colonel Hanger,
Mr. Wyndham, &c. With the Prince of
Wales Mendoza had a set to in 1790 ; and
in the same year thrashed Joe Ward at
‘ the Finsh,’ in Covent Garden,
On the 15th April, 1795, he sustained a
mortifying defeat from the powerful arm of
Mr. Jackson, before whom he ‘ bit the durst,’
in a match for 200 guinies, in ten minutes
and a half, at Hornchurch, in Essex. This
change .in his fortunes so far mortified his
pride that for several years, during paat of
which time he kept the Lord Nelson, in
Whitechapel, and travelled in various parts
of the country, he refrained from entering
the ring, and refuged a challenge given to
him by Jem Belcher, after beating Burke at
Hurley Bottom.
In 180 S he again introduced himself to
the pugilistic world, and once more threw
down the gauntlet in a challenge to Hary
Lee, which after, a lengthy epistolary effu-
sion from both, from which it appeared that
Mendoza sought satisfaction for an old
grudge, led to a match for 50 guineas.
Harry Lee was only known as an accom-
plished sparrer, and had never sought fame
in the ring. The battle was therefore looked
upon more as an ‘ affair of honour’ in the
old English way than as a prize fight. The
battle took place in a roped riug of 25 feet,
on the 21st March, at Grimstead Green,
Essex, and after a severe contest of fifty-
three rounds in 70 mmutes, ended in the
defeat of Lee, who, although unequal to a
trial of skill with so experienced a tactician
as Mendoza, acquitted himself with great
credit, From this to the 4th of July, 1807,
he confined himself to the profession of
a teacher of boxing, when in consequence of
a misunderstanding, he entered the ring
with Tom Owen, a verteran nearly as old as
himself, Owen being fifty-one and Mendoza
fifty-four years of age. They met. on Ban-
stoad Downs, and Mendoza was beaten in
twelve rounds ; it was clear his ‘ milling
lamp’ had been burnt out, and that his day
had gone by. This was the last occasion on
which our hero exhibited in the prize-ring ;
but, as a publio sparrer and master of the
art was well known, not only exhibiting for
the benefit of others, but for his own benefit
—and in later years, by this means, often
obtained a precarious existence for a large
family. He was an intelligent and com-
municative man, and from his own state-
ment had fought no less than thirty-three
pitched battles, none of which, except those
we have mentioned, are recorded either in
Bee’s Chronology of the Ring or in Boxiana.
The evening of his days was spent in po-
verty and distress, and his widow, we be-
lieve. has been left wholly destitute, a fact
which may perhaps, for the sake of ‘ anld
lang syne,’ induce some of the veteran sup-
porters of the Old Boxing School, if they do
not ‘drop a tear’ on the memory of a brave
man, to drop a little of that ‘ sovereign’con-
solation into tbe lap of his relict, of which
she stonds so much in need.
MAITLAD RACES.
Maitland is without exception one of the most
flourishing towns of the Colony, and commands
almost every advantage an inland town is capa-
ble of. A stand upon the high road to all the
important northern and north-western districts,
and receiving a tolerable toll upon all commo-
dities passing to the outlet of the Hunter. In
its very neighbourhood some of the most ex-
tensive breeders of horse stock, carry on their
establishments, and its vicinity can boast of a
strong muster of the wealth and energy of New
South Wales ; but notwithstanding all this,
added to the existence of a local Jockey Club,
the managers of their meetings are rarely suc-
cessful in providing really good and exciteable
sport. This year quality has been sacrificed to
quantity, and though the amusements have been
made to extend over nearly a whole week, but
little good racing has been shown.
The handicapping, too, appears both illiberal
and erroneous—the weighters evidently had
resolved to keep the money in the town
The first day proved flue, and a large meet-
ing was consequently expected, but the still
lingering excitement consequent upon the late
elections, added to the absence of good horses,
kept the course select
The Maitland Town Plate of 60 sovereigns,
with a sweepstakes of 5 sovereigns each added,
for all horses; to be handioapped by the stew-
ardvS, or whom they may appoint; heats, two
miles.
For the Maitland Town Plate four horses
star: ed, viz.:—
Mr. Rossiter’s b ra Sally Sly, 4 years,
7st., “Kerwin) 2 11
Mr. Reeves* b g Flying Pieman, aged
6st lOlbs 4 2 2
Mr. Butts’ g h Snake, 2 years, Bst
12lbs • 3 4 3
Mr. Yeomans’ Sancho, aged, 7st 13 4
Remarks—The betting at the entrance-room
last night may be quoted at 3 to 2 on Snake
against the field; 3 to 1 against Flying Pie-
man ; 2 to 1 against Sancho ; any odds against
Sally Sly.
At about half-past 12 the horses were got to
the post, and after a few false attempts to get
away, wrnrd was given, and away they went,
Sancho getting away with the lead, followed by
Snake, v.ho headed him at the corner; Sally
Sly third, and Flying Pieman fourth. At the
mile and half Sally Sly went to the head and
looked like a winner, but at the distance Sancho
collared her, made a good race up to the win-
ning post, and won the heat by half a length.
2nd Heat—At Starting the Pieman made play,
Sancho second, Snake third, Sally Sly fourth.
In this order they led the first mile, w'hen Sally
Sly came up in front; a short s'ruggle ensued
between the mare and Pieman, the mare win-
ning by a length.
3rd Heat—ln this heat Snake got the start
anti seemed inclined to maintain his position,
hut 3st. yibs. difference in weight will tell on a
2-year-old; at the one and a half mile-post
Flying Pieman and Sally Sly p issed him, the
latter winning by two or three lengths.
The Maiden Plate of 80 sovs., with a sweep-
stakes of 3 sovs. each added, for all horses that
have never won a given or advertised prize at
any general race meeting in the colony, carrying
weight for age; heats, one mile and a half.
Mr. Green’s b h Cyrus, 3 years (Cutts) ..11
Mr. Brown’s b g Tippo, 4 years 4 3
Mr. Kerrigan’s bl.g Rattler, 5 years ... 2 3
Mr. Yeomans’ br h Porus, 3 years dist.
Mr. Butts’ b m Verjuice, 5 years dist.
The betting on this race amounted to little or
nothing. Veijuice the favoriie.
Ist Heat—A good start, Verjuice leading to
the turn at the distance, when a dog passing her
she bolted, and threw her rider (Murphy) very
severely, and putting an end to her chance of
the race. A good race ensued between Cyrus
and Rattler, the former winning bj half a length,
Porus third. Tippo fourth.
2nd Heat—Rattler took the lead, Tippo and
Cyrus lying well up, Porus last. In this posi-
tion they went the first mile, when Cyrus chal-
lenged the leading horse, passed him, and w r on
the heat easily.
The Two-year-old Race was won by Mr.
Butts’ Fennella beating Mr. Halstead’s Prince
Florida and Mr. Foreman’s Lottery. Fennella
was never headed in both heats, uud won easy.
Lottery bolted.
SECOND DAY.
The Hunter River Stakes of 20 sovereigns,
with a sweepstakes of 2 sovereigns each added,
for ail horses which have never won a prize of
more than .£'3o, carrying weight forage ; heats,
two miles.
Mr. Halcomb’s r g Foxhunter, 4
year old, (Taffe), 1 1
Mr. Butt’s b g Rainbow', 3 years 2 2
Mr. Yorrick’s ch g Mystery, 3 4
Mr. Yeoman’s b h Viscount. 3 years 4 3
Foxhunter the favourite at even, against the
field.
Mystery got the lead, and seemed inclined to
make good running, but Foxhunter the first
mile headed him, Rainbow a good third, and
Yeoman’s bay colt last; from the distance up
there was a good struggle for second place be-
tween Mystery and Rainbow, Foxhunter win-
ning by a couple of lengths.
2nd Heat. Mystery again made strong run-
ning—Rainbow second, Foxhunter third, the
bay colt fourth. At the winning post the first
time round, Foxhunter again went in front,
which he kept throughout ; Rainbow second,
the bay colt third, Mystery distanced.
The Galloway Stakes of 20 sovereigns, with
a sweepstakes of 2 sovereigns each added, for
all horses not exceeding 14$ hands high : car-
rying for 13$ hands and under 7st., over 13$ and
not exceeding 13f hands 7st. 41bs; over" 13$
and not exceeding 14 hands, 7st. 91bs; over 14
and not exceeding 14$ hands, Bst, lib; over 14
one-fourth and not exceeding 14$ hands, Bst.
81bs. ; heats, one mile and a half.
Mr. Kerrigan’s g g Romeo, 5 years,
( Taffe ) i i
Mr. W. Wade’s b g Minimus, aged. .... 2 2
Romeo took the lead in both heats, was never
headed, and won easy.
Five started for the Hack Stakes, which w-as
won by Mr. Collins’ chesnut hack Fanny beat-
ing Mr. Yeoman’s bay gelding Snooks, Mr.
Butt’s Jim Crow, Mr. Reeve’s Moonctumn.
The day was very.fine, still as yesterday, very
few people attended. Great sport was antici-
pated for the following day’s hurdle race, and an
increase in the business of the betting is the
result.
LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
A Farewell Spread.— A private dinner
was given last evening at the Emu Inu (Aiti-
kenhead’s) to Mr. John Dingwall, prior to has
departure for Wollongong. The convivi.l
meeting was both numerously and respectab y
attended, nor was the choice nature either of
the viands or of the wines at all disparaging to
the efforts of }he “ worthy host.” The ex-
raember for the Northumberland Boroughs pre-
sided, and the name of Patrick Grant is alone
sufficient guarantee of the zest which charac-
terized that glorious display of the “ feast of
reason and the flow of soul.” Mirth and jollity
was the order of the evening; and certainly
we never met a more agreeable social set of
souls assembled round the festive board, than
we had the pleasure of greeting yeaterday
euening. The entertainment was held in Mr.
Aitkenhead’s new room—an apartment in a
wing which he has recently built—and which is
admirably suited for such occasions.
Matrimonial Felicity ?— We perceive
that Mr. Joseph Bouch has returned to the colony
by the Juno, after a long and fruitless pursuit of
his faithless partner (Mrs. B ), with whom, on his
departure for England, he had left a power-of-
attorney, which gave her control over all his
real and personal effects. During his absence,
to the surprise of all who knew her, she threw off
all moral restraint, and is said to have formed an
illicit liaison with a young Catholic student, and
the guilty pair having determined to leave the
colony collusively, Mrs. Bouch gradually real-
ized all her husband’s convertible property, and
fled to Sydney. In the meantime, Mr. Bouch
returned from England, in the David Malcolm ,
and as soon as he could be persuaded of the
realities of his case, he purchased a small vessel,
and went in pursuit. He entered Sydney har-
bour as the wife and paramour were leaving for
New Zealand, and contrived to get a passage on
board the same vessel. The scene occurring on
board may be better conceived than described,
but all attempts at reconciliation or explanation
were unsuccessful, and, unfortunately, the law
afforded him no redress. On reaching New
Zealand, she eluded his vigilance, and took a
passage back to Sydney under an assumed name.
Thither he followed without delay, but again he
was doomed to disappointment, as he learnt that
she and the partner of her flight had set sail for
England, taking with them the property he was
so anxious to recover. We must not forget to
mention one ruse practised by this abandoned
woman in order to conceal the abstraction of
plate and jewellery, left by her husband in his
deed-box, at the Bank of South Australia, and
to which, under the power-of'-attorney, she had
free access. On its being handed to Mr. Bouch,
no deficiency of weight was apparent; but, lo !
and behold, the only metallic treasures she had
loft under lock were a number of horse-shoes.
We understand Mr. Bouch loses between 4?2000
and .£3OOO by this freak of his faithless spouse,
and that, whilst she effectually sets him at de-
fiance, she reconciles her conscience to retain
the plunder on the ground that, having helped
to earn it, she had a right to her proportion of
their united gains; but we have not heard how
she justifies herself for defrauding her husband
of his conjugal rights.
Removal.—We beg to direct the at-
tention of the public to an advertisement in
another column, announcing that Mr. Joseph
Scott, the well known tobacconist .and whip
manufacturer, is about removing immediately
from his present residence to the premises for-
merly occupied by Mr. E. Cohen, watchmaker,
and situated within two doors, south, of the
ltoyal Hotel, George-street. The lovers of a
good cigar, or of a “ fig” of the the genuine
*• weed,” will, as usual, find their palates ad-
mirably suited at Scott’s divan, who keeps
nothing but the very best articles, It is need-
less to say anything in praise of Mr. S’s. whips
as they are well known throughout the colony,
as being “ first rate.”
| The number of prowling characters
committed to Darlinghurst Gaol within the week
| for different periods of imprisonment, as rogues
land vagabonds, evince a determination on the
! part of the magistrates to clear the streets ol
this species of nuisance.
THE BRAVE ELEVENTH!
FORTY YEARS AGO ! !
Aye ! it will be that length of time on the 25th
of the present month, when the writer of this
paragraph joined the above corps, and surrender-
ing his academical pursuits, when chivalry was
the order of the day, or as the sprightly Miss
Mitford more graphically expresses it“ when
all England was in a scarlet fever, when the
shopkeeper, who with a pair of gilt epaulets on
his shoulders, handed a parcel to a lady in her
carriage from a sheet of Bath post to an arti-
cle of dress; and the ladies, too, in each village,
borough, or town, having caught the mania,
discussed the rank of their husbands with the
criticism of martinets, and took precedence at
the tea-table accordingly,’* it will be the less
wonder that the contagion reached the Sister
Island.
It was one of those fine autumnal mornings
with which his native country is blessed, “ that
throwing dull care behind him” he joined the
Eleventh, and although ho had roughed it
with them through “ flood and field,” he may
now walk their ranks or through their barrack
square, and exclaim—
“ The friends of my youth, where are they ?
Echo would reply where are they ?”
But there is a splendid testimonial to the
brave and valued dead, which rises above the
reply] Salamanca, Pyrenees, Nevrele, Or-
tiies, Toulouse, Peninsula, on their gay co-
lours, which not only reflects a dignified reputa-
tion on those that fought for them, but will sti-
mulate as fine a set of fellows as ever entered
Sydney as military men, not only to discharge
their duty in hostilities when occasion requires,
but by quiet and peaceable demeanour
when sojourning with us hitherto, which fully
demonstrates that an orderly well-conducted
soldier in quarters, is the surest dependence on
the battle field.
We have elsewhere written the campaigns
of the Eleventh , throughout the Peninsula,
when the Head Quarters were in Sydney
about two years back, followed up by “ Jack
Neviile at Salamanca,” and it will afford us
much pleasure, on their final departure, should
we live so long to record that soldierly and
honorable demeanour which we trust will ever
appertain to them.
Appointments. His Excellency ihe
Governor has been pleased to appoint the under-
named gentlemen to be Magistrates of the
Territory and its Dependencies, for the several
places connected with their names: George
Evrett. Esq., of Wandsworth ; Chisabel
McDonald, Esq., of Faikin Plains; Charles W.
Marsh, Esq., ot Borolong, in the district of New
England. And Augustus Morris, Esq., of
Bloomfield, Macintyro River. district of
Gwydir.
Iwo of a Trade.— A person named
Pickering, of diminutive stature and watery
complexion, who described himself as the sole
proprietor of Bell's Life in Sydney, appeared to
prosecute a charge of libel against the proprietor
of the Sporting Times. It appears that since
the secession of Mr. T. Revel Johnson from the
journal now conducted by Mr. Pickering, nu-
merous tittlealting souvenirs have made their
appearance in the (half-dead) Life. Such for
instance as “ Dr. Johnson the ex-edito'r of the
Satirist Swaggering Bully « A thing—
despised by man—by Heaven accurst,” etcetera
and so forth. Now Johnson continued for a
lengthened period to treat these attacks con-
temptuously, till the advances of the assailant be-
came too daring ; a slight castigation was
therefore administered in the Times of last
week, which set the opposing Editor (!) can-
tankerous.
“ He hied him to an hostelrie and emptied
porter bottles three
“ Which gave him great relief ”
and straightway with inner man so refreshed
with malt , he hopp'd across to the Polis
Office and procured the magisterial mandate.
The case came otf on Monday, when Jemmy
Martin, whose palm had previously been the
reeipeant of a fee, did the amiable for the pro-
secutor; our eot'r, being (as usual) rather
“ hard up,” appeared in person. The case was
gone through and despite the objeclion that the
publication had not been proved, his sage wor-
ship the Mayor committed. The only evidence
in support of Mr. Josephson’s pre-conceptions
as to publication was the following. Edward
James Corey, sworn, deposed to having pur-
chased the paper now before the court, of a
person in the office of the Sporting Times, in
Pitt-street, and he believed that was the office
of the defendant.
Ilia worship though an attorney is clearly but
half a lawyer, and if he will deign to make the
enquiry from some one better informed in
these matters than himself his error will be
made apparent.
Gorging Extraordinary.—The Com-
mon Council entertained themselves with a
dinner at Gill’s Hotel on Wednesday last.
During the evening much intellectuality was
displayed by the various members, especially
by the only visitor, the idol of the people”
who presented himself at a late hour, and hav-
ing taken wine with Messrs. Jenkins and Paton,
and “tipped the wink” to Wilshire, he shook
hands with himself as usual, and proceeded to
explain to these open-mouthtd swallowers of
his “ sawdor’* what he would do and what he
wouldn’t do when the Chambers opened. A
scene of most uproarious festivify kept the usu-
ally quiet neighbourhood of Pitt-street in a
state of excitement throughout the night, nor
was the noise abated till the u break o’ day”
when peeping through our lattice so as to as-
certain what had become of the Police, we
twigged or thought we twigged a white skirt
trailing along the ground, whilst its listless,
nay ! almost lifeless wearer was submitting with
stoical indifference to the jolting and bumping
of his temporary vehicle, a wheelbarrow, in
which he was being conveyed to his residence.
Most important.—We beg most thank-
fully to acknowledge the receipt of an exceed-
ingly interesting document, the manuscript copy
of a petition from the several Secretaries to
the numerous candidates at the"late general
election. The petition, which is couched in
the most sentimental and pathetic phraseology
is addressed to the members of the second Le-
gislative Assembly of the Colony—praying for
annual instead of quintennial general elections
for the representation of New South Wales.
The petitioners have no desire whatever to en-
large the franchise ; but feeling personally and
patriotically interested in the frequent recur-
rence of general elections, as affording sources
of profit and enjoyineut, as well as of utility—
they strongly impress upon the Legislature
the wisdom of immediately introducing such a
measure. Report has it, that Mr. Lowe will be
entrusted with the petition, as tbeing he most
likely person to advocate its principles.
The Nfw Commissioner of Police.—
This funciionary may be seen parading through
the town at all hours, attended by a non-
descript animal, between a Ben-Gall Tiger and
a Horse Marine Artillery Man. An interest-
ing chase in pursuit of the above will be found
in another column.
Unhappy Ireland.— The foliowing
facts afford the most heartrending proof of the
awful and calamitous effect of the “ Famine”
upon the people of poor Erin Go Brah. The
General Central Relief Committee of Ireland,
of whice the Duke of Lien6ter is Chairman, in
their first Annual Report, publish the sub-
joined distressing facts, viz:—“The Com-
mittee have been furnished with returns from
580 parishes, authenticated by the signatures of
the parochial clergy, in reply to query sheets
issued by them in the months of September,
and October, 1847. These state that 85,166
individuals died of starvation since the famine
commenced; that 94,007 died frem diseases
produced by bad and insufficient food; and,
that 58,340 were at the date of the retu ns
labouring under disease. The number who
had emigrated from the commencement of the
famine up to the 25th September, 1847, is
stated to have amounted in these 580 parishes
to 62,756 If it be taken into consideration
that these returns do not include more than a
third part of Ireland, some idea may be formed
•of the extent of the calamity that has befallen
this country, when, notwithstaning the efforts of
the government, assisted by those of numerous
benevolent societies both in England, and Ire-
land, and by the great sacrifices and exertions
made by individuals, so many humaa beings are |
stated to have to. swept away.- 1
POLICE-OFFICE, GEORGE-STREET.
Saturday, August 5.
Tiie Store Robbery. —Patrick Carr, Miehael
Carr, John Jones, Robert Hibbs, and William
Kettlety, who were under private examination I
for the last six days, were this morning com- 1
mitted to take their trial, for the robbery of I
Messrs. Rowand, Macnab, & Co.’s store, Pitt-!
street, supposed in the aggregate to amount to
£3OO in value. It appears that the principal in- 1
former in this case is a female named Harriet j
Kent, who had lived with the prisoner Jones for
some years, and by whom she had two or three
children, having left him on some vagarie, she
picked up with the “prince of smashers,” re-
cently discharged from Parramatta Gaol, and
imbibing his propensity for “uttering” whilst he
was “coining,” they were detected in their ne-
farious procedure, and each crnsigned to Woo-
looinooloo Gaol, where they are awaiting trial.
That the evidence brought forward at the
instigation of Kent, although:influenced through
jealous motives, may appear suspicious, Jones
having married since she bolted, yet connected
with so many circumstantial, and we may add
creditable witnesses, who were purchasers of the
stolen property, the woman’s version of the case
may be true. But recollecting that not only in
mercy to the accused but in common justice, we
have no right to indulge in the minutia of an
exparte examination, rendered doubly so by its
being private; and iii connection with the
British Press, as well as those of the colonies in
our palmy days, we have heard Judges repudiate
such a procedure, requesting, in their address to
the jury, that they would dismiss every thing
from their minds prejudicial to the prisoner
which they may have heard out of doors; yet
we know that first impressions are generally
lasting, and we conclude that it is un-Christian
as well as un-English to prejudice a case before
it is brought to a jury in a legal form.
Monday, August 7.
The Bacchanals were considerably reduced in
number this morning, to what we have seen
them so early in the week on former occasions
whether owing to the “ westerly blow on Satur-
day night and Sunday wo cannot say, it may
undoubtedly have bad the effect of restraining
their rambling propensities. However, the
police revenue suffered a considerable diminu
tion.
A Brute— A fellow named Joseph Cburtwas
committed to Darlinghurst Gaol for six months,
for indecently exposing his person to the children
playing in the paddock contagious to the Bene-
volent Asylum, on Saturday afternoon. This
has been the scoundrel’s second offence of a like
nature, and all we regret is that he did not get
twelve instead of six months.
Stealing Poultry — A wholesale system of
poultry stealing having for some few days past
been carried on in the vicinity of Newtown.
Constable Harris, with his usual vigilance,
having received information that eleven fowls,
the property oi a man named Guy, had been
stolen on the night previous, proceeded to the
residence of a man named Mulhally, to whom
suspicion was attached, where he found three
hens tied by the legs, concealed under an old
rug, which he identified as his property. A matt
named Gribbins, who was in the hut on Harris’
entrance, was also taken into custody. They
were remanded till Thursday.
Early Recollections. —Frances Gunter made
her curtesy to the Bench, charged at the in-
stance of Mr. Inspector Pearce with being
primed with gin and water, at half-past twelve
o’clock on the previous night, in Pitt-street,
perouting, singing, and kicking up a shindy for
the amusement ol the cabbage-trees, in which
the latter heartily joined. The Bench having
enquired of Frances what she had to say in her
defence, replied that she had just left the Gaol,
and thought it was no harm to make merry, as
it was her birthday ; but the only sympathy she
found for her plea of natality, was fourteen days
to her old lodging.
An old Acquaintance —Kitty Kirby, the
once fascinating Kitty, appeared on the floor of
the Court, to which custom has habituated her,
charged by Margaret Richardson with assaulting
her by spitting in her face. This was the third
occasion on which Kitty was brought up by her
neighbour Margaret on different charges of
assault. On the last occasion, Miss Kirby, alias
Catherine iHiatus, had to appear before the
Court of Quarter Sessions, and was mulcted in
the sum of 50s; and on that occasion Richardson
mounted blue streamers, as if she had been a
partizan in some contested election, and flaunted
them in Kitty’s face, who being a native of the
beautiful city, her blood was up, and on the next
occasion that they met, Kitty spit at her. The
case was going very hard with the defendant,
when Mr. Nichols entered the office; a smile of
recognition was interchanged. The “ honorable
member” conducted Kitty’s defence, but the
assault, or something approaching thereto, being
proved, Kitty, through the influence of her ad-
vocate, got off on the payment of Is damages,
and 6s 6d costs.
Wednesday, August 9.
Tierney v. Stone —This was a case in which
Mr. Doctor Tierney appeared as complainant
against an antiquated female named Stone, for
assaulting his person by pelting him with bones
and other missiles, and when all failed, veneering
his countenance with her talons. The “ doctor,”
whose rotundity bore a surprising contrast with
the diminutive defendant, appeared to quail
under her penetrating glance and sarcastic
tongue, and tne Bench having had experience
of Mother Stone’s pugilistic abilities on this as
well as former occasions, sentenced her to pay
the penalty of 40s. and costs. The « doctor” im-
mediately retired, as there was some scent of an
inquest abroad.
Thursday, August 3.
Robbeky in the Watch house A darin"-
robbery was committed in this sanctuary on the
previous night, fully demonstrating the adave
that “the nigher the Church the farther from
Coih An old man named Dwyer had been
confined for drunkenness, he had been placed in
the cell, £1 17s 6d, together with 2 figs of tobac-
co being concealed on his person ; the money
consisted of a one pound note, and 17s. 6d in
silver, the former he had in the pocket of an
under trowsers, the latter tied up in the tail of
his shirt. In the same cell in which Dwyer was
confined was also a prisoner of the crown named
Maddox : Dwyer had been in but a short time
when he was knocked down and “ frisked” and
bis money and tobacco taken from him, on
giving an alarm, Waller the Watch housekeeper
commenced a search, and he found concealed on
the person of Maddox both money and tobacco.
Ho was brought before Captain Innes this morn-
ing, and the charge having been fully proved,
sentenced to be worked in Irons 12 months at
Cockatoo Island.
The Fancy. —The lovers of a good
“ set-to with the mittens—and there is not a
more invigorating and manly exercise—can be
fitted to a r by visiting Dan Donovan’s depot
King-street, wiiere they will find a choice selec-
tion ot the best boxing gloves, recently imported
by the venerable Dan himself, who ought to
know something about what a good “ glove” is.
Lamahtine’s resrmblancb to Byron.—ln
appearance, Lamartine lias something that recalls
Byron; the same beauty of featureandexpression,
the same habit of elegance and dandyism ; the
same rather haughty, and perhaps English', but
noble add distinguished carriage. If you add to
this, to complete the resemblance, the retinue nf
a great lord a sumptuous mansion, full-blooded
horses, and a magnificent chateau, you will con-
clude that, since the epoch of Tasso and Camoens,
times have somewhat changed, and that it is pos-
sible, now-a-days, to be an eminent poet without
dying in the hospital. —Living Characters of
France.
The Times, after all, is bat mortal. How
much of its strength has fallen from it. We have,
within these few days, the death of Captain htir-
iing ne was the writer of those leaders at whose
lightning arrows even O’Connell quailed ; before
him wei.t Mr. J Walter, belore him Mr, Aisager,
then Mr. Thomas Barnes, and then Mr Bawn.
Here went a complete establishment. The last
was the sub-editor, the next the principal editor,
next the writer of the City Article (a main strength
Of the commercial interests of the paper,) then
the proprietor, and now the wielder of its thunder;
but the Times still lives —Le roi est mort, vice
* r9i!
A TIGER HUNT IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Who has loosed my tiger ? demanded Captain
Innes of the waiter whom he had summoned to
the breakfast parlour of Coffey’s Hotel in Windsor,
by the sound of a bell in a manner that indicated
great impatience. ■* Who has dared to let him
l loose ? I locked him up last night for robbing
the larder, and this morning he is missing; where
■ is he ?
| The waiter bowed obsequiously. “ Extremely
sorry sir; but really—somebody must have let
him out responded the- irascible Commissioner,
and I shall be too late for the Court. Let search
he made instanter—such a tiger as that is not to
be caught every day—the waiter bowed and with-
drew whilst the official sat down to his repast
venting imprecations upon the tiger whom he
declared he had determined to catch before he
should accomplish further mischief. Whilst the
search was s ill in progress, word was brought
that the 1 creature’ hau been seen early that mor-
ning in the stable yard, and a beautiful swift.footed
pony was missing, which—as the tiger had shown
gieat partiality to horse flesh—it was supposed he
had made away with.
Hiliio hilliol—quick— saddle every horse in
the stables,’ shouted the Captain, * we’ll scour the
country—the game is up—hark forward—haik
forward I yoicks, tally ho,l’ and away he went
with grooms and keepers down to the stalls where
he himself sad 'led his animal, and in a few min-
utes he was flying awav across the bridge, with a
long straggling tail like a comet after him, towards
Parramatta.
Have you seen my tiger ?’ demanded the
Captain, reigning up his gallant steed in front of
the Petlibones Arms, and addressing the land-
lord a red pla'ter-faced man of some seventeen
stone; 'have you seen him? he broke cover and
stole away this morning—he must be prowlui"
somewhere about—have you seen him ?’
‘Lor, love yer honour, no,’ responded mine
host, with a grin of astonishment and stupidity.
4 Them timers are thirsty sowls; but he’s never
been here to drink ’
’ Hiliio, hilliol* shouted the Captain, as his
attendants came riding up, 1 handle your whips
and follow me 4’ and dismounting, he entered the
hostelry, where the good dame was busy in culi-
nary operations. • Where’s my tiger ?’ was again
the cry. * He’s crouching somewhere here.’
' Now laws ha’ mercy upon us, I hope not, yer
honour!’ exclaimed the old dame in dreadful
alarm. ’ What a real tiger, yer honour ? Be em
alive unor a stuffed nn ?’
’ FoolT vociferated the Captain, * a live one to
be sure, with large goggle eyes and a fang tooth.
I must find his lair ’ The entire premises were
examined, but the tiger was not there.
’ To hr rse, to horse,’ commanded the Captain,
to the great relief of the old lady ; • and hark ye
dame, if he should come here, shut him up directly
and let him know. Away, mv men, away,* the
justice rushed forth, mounted his horse, and away
he scoured like a madman, or what is next of kin
io a madman, a break neck squire.
Meames, eames ’ called the hostess as soon as
the cavalcade had departed, ‘come in, Jeames
fasten the door, and get thee blunder-husk and
load un wi’ bullocks’ (bullets probably),’ ami if so
be the criitur comes this way, shoot un, Jeames—
shoot un without benefit of clergy ’
On rode the Captain full pelt, and tailing after
him followed half-a-dozen attendants in scarlet
coats and black velvet caps. The coverts were
tilt'd, every nook was searched, but without effect
‘.uy tiger! my tiger I’ exclaimed the Captain
as he burst into the first cottage, which contained
a female with five or six children playing and
sprawling about the floor. ‘Have you seen the
tiger? he has broke loose and cannot be far off’
* The tiger 1’ repeated the woman, terribly
alarmed for the safety of her infants, which she
s eedily gathered up and thrust into a capacious
closet. •Oh clear, what shall we do I The cottage
was searched, as were also several others, to the
great consternation of the villagers. Then aro-e
theciics of mothers for ‘ Johnnies* and * Billirg’
and Kitties’ and • Sukiea’ and ’Tommies,’ to col-
lect the stray lambs of the fold, or, in other words
the toddling children that were playing on the
green ; and in * lew minutes not a soul of that
population was to be seen.
The turnpike was closest hand, and thither the
Captain galloped ; and after a few words with the
'pikeman, his sonorous voice was heard. • Hiliio
—hiliio I—stole away—hark forward—hark for-
ward!’ and clapping a spur to his steed, onwards
they pressed flying over hedges and ditches to
make a short cut.
The cavalcade drew near Tarramatta, and in
they dashed, the Captain still shouting, out o’
bieath, ‘The tiger I—the tiger I Have you seen
my Ben—g-g-gal?’ The words were quickly
caught up; and the announcement that a tierce
Bengal tiger was adrift in the town spread like
wildS e. The tradesmen shut up their shops;
the inhabitants fastened their doors ; there was a
brief running to and fro in terror, but the streets
weie speedily cleared; and from many an up-staiis
window waa protuded a blunderbuss, a fowling, j
piece, or a pistol, the proprietors of which weie
t ageily intent upon destroying the furious animal,
though some few even thus elevated, scarcely con-
sidered themselves safe from his bound. The try I
of the hounds, the shooting of the hunters, the
rattling of horses’ hoofs upon the stones, and the
wailings of women, with the cheers of the men,
produced a clamour such as had never before been
heard in that place. Mothers clasped their chil-
dren and concealed them in beaufets, or turned
ihem up in press-bedsteads—fathers armed them-
selves with defensive weapons, and a body of vo-
lunteers mustered in the inn yard with loaded
muskets, taking good care however to keep the
gates shut.
‘ Have jou seen the tiger? * was still the cry;
and the Captain having obtained some informa-
tion, • Stole away—hark forward ’ was again the
word.
J hey shot up the h'll without stopping to
breathe, and when on the brow, an animal with
apparently a blood-red back, was seen scouring
towards Homebush. The C aptain, with the lungs
of a northerly gale, uttered the ‘view halloo,’
which was caught up and repeated by the rest
It was a beautiful burst. The whip and spur were
plied. The steeds, though jaded, knew well by
instinct that the ‘warmint* was in sight, and
kept up their speed, and down the bill they swept
tike a mountain torrent.
But the tiger was not to be easily caught.
Theie was no hollow to hide in, and away he
scudded along with great velocity, bs if sensible
that the enemy was behind him. Once he was
missed, and it was supposed had run to earth in a
sand-pit; but the next moment he was seen on
the other side climbing the bank to shorten his
distance, and ir, a few minutes he was over the
brow of the hiil past the Gipps Arms, and dea-
cendingata tremendous rate 1 he hunters followed
hard upon him, and again rose the shout from a
dozen voices— The tiger ! • 'The tiger! ’ But
the tiger had disappeared ampngst horses, and
they had now no clue to his advance, txcept from
the amazed spectators, who nastily cleared the
road at the novel and somewhat alarming specta-
cl?‘ '| be tiger ! the chase I’ exclaimed the Cap,
tain, Three or four hands were extended to point
out the direction he had taken ; and those who
had not ‘ dropped off’ still followed. Away they
rattled, cries and cheers of ‘Go it, you’ll ea ch
him directly. Hurrah I* And they once more
caught sight of the tiger on the line of road near
Ireland’s. Cheerily again sounded the • view hal-
loo,’—the animal seemed to be sensible that his
pursuers were spurring in hot haste afier him—
the turnpike men enjoyed the sport tnl tlnew
open their gates—horses and men rett ed—the
Bed Lion, Mother Thompson’s, Parramattr-street
taw them rush past like a whirlwind, the tiger
still in advance; nor did the chase era-e till the
Captain’s mansion, close to Hyde Park, was
reached. A reeking pony stood at the gate, whir h
was open. And crouching behind its massive
portals could be seen the Bengal tiger, alias Ben
I Gall the Captain's orderly.
[ The Duchess or Orleans. —We read in the
Messaoer : “ A lady of Geneva, who is a friend
of the Duchess of Orleans, received a few days
ago, from the Duchess, a letter which contains
among other things, the following words— 1 1 de-
plored at first the unexpected revolution of
February, and wept over the terrible fall ef
those who were dear to me. I regretted at
first for my son the loss of the finest crown in
the world; but now I had rather see my son
dead than hope for him an early return to
1- ranee, or dream tnat he might one day sit upon
JEAMES ON TIME BARGINGS.
Praps at this present mominek of Railway Ha
getation and unsafety the following little story
of a yonng friend of mine may hact as an ole
sale warning to bother week and hirresoluto
gents.
“ Young FREBEBica Timmins was the horphan
son ot a respectable cludgymen in the West of
Hengland. Hadopted by his uncle, Colonel T—
of the Hose-Mareens, and regardless of expense
this young man was sent to Heaton Collides
and subsequimiy to Hoxford, where he was very
nearly being Senior Rangier. He came to
London to study for the lor His prospix was
bright indead ; and he lived in a secknd flore in
Jerming Street, having a ginteal inkum of two
hundred lbs per hannum.
“ With this andsum enuity it may be supposed
that Frederick wanted for nothink. Nor did he.
He was a moral and well-educated young man"
who took care of his close ; polished his hone
tea-party boots; cleaned his kidd-gloves with
injer rubber ; and, when not invited to dine out,
took his meals reglar at the Hoxford and Cam-
bridge Club—where (unless somebody treated
him) be was never known to igseed his alt-
pint of Marsally Wine.
“Merrits and vuttues such as his coodut
long pass unperseavdin the world. Admitted
to the most fashnabble parties, it wasn’t long
befor sevral of the young ladies viewed him
with a favourble i ; one, ixpecially, the lovely
Miss Hemily Mulligawtawny, daughter of the
Heast-lnjer Director of that name. As she was
liie richest gal of all the season, of course
Im ederick fell in love with her. His haspira-
tions were on the pint of being crowndid with
success: and it was agreed that as soon as ha
was called to the bar, when he would surtnly be
apiuted a Judge, or a revising barrister, or
Lord Chanslor he should lead her to the halter.
1 W hat life could be more desirable than
Frederick’s ? He gave up his mornings to per-
feshnl studdy, under Mr. Bluebag, the eminent
pleader ; he devoted his hevenings to helegsnt
sosiaty at his Clubb, or with hishadored Hemily.
llle had no cares; no detts; no egstravagan-
cies; he never was known to ride in a cabb,
unless one of his tip-top friends lent it to him ;
to go to the theayter unless he got a border;
or to henter a tavern or smoke a cigar. If
prosperraty was hever chocked out, it was for
that young man.
“ Rut suckmstances arose. Fatle snekmstan-
ces for pore Frederick Timmins. The Railway
H operations began.
“ For some time, immerst, in lor and love, in
the hardest hoccupations of his cheembers, or
the sweet sosaity of his Hemily, Frederick took
no note of railroads. He did not reckonize the
jigantic revalution which, with hiron strides was
a walkin over the country. But they began to
be talked of even in his quiet haunts Heven in
the Hoxford and Cambridge Clubb, fellers were
a speckulatin. Tom Trumpet (of Brasen Nose)
cleared four thowsnd lb.: Bob Bullock (of Exe-
ter) who had lost all his propatty gambling, had
set himself up again ; and Jack Deacease, who
had won it, had won a small istate besides by
lucky specklatious in the Share Markit.
" Merery body won. ‘Why shouldn’t i,»
thought pore Fred ; and having saved 1001 b.;
he began writin for shares—using, like au icko-
nomical feller as he was, the Club paper to a
prodigious igstent. All the Railroad directors,
his friends, helped him to shares—the allotments
came tumbling in—be took the premiums by
fifties and hundreds a day. His dek was
cramd full of bank notes; his brane world with
igsitement.
“ He gave up going to the Temple, and might
now he seen all day about Capel Conrt. He
took no more interest in lor; but his whole talk
was of railroad lines. His desk at Mr. Blue-
bag’s was filled full of prospectiseer, and that
legal gent wrote to Fred’s uncle, to say he
feared he was neglectin his bisniss.
“ A lass! he teas neglectin it, and all his sober
and industerous habits. He began to give din-
ners, and thought nothin of partys to Green-
wich or Richmond. He didn’t see his Hemily
half so often ; although the hawdacious and mis-
guided young man might have done so much
more heasily than before; for now he kipta
Broom *
“ But there’s a tumminus to hevery railway.
Fred’s was aproachin ; in an evil hour he began
making time-bargains. Let this be a warning
to all young fellars, and Fred’s untimely bend
hoperate on them in a moral pint of vu !
“ You all know under what favrabble suckera-
stansies the Great Halrican Line, the Grand
Niger Junction, or Gold Coast and Tirabuctoo
(Provibhnal) Hatmospheric Railway came out
four weeks ago, deposit nine pence per share of
£2O, (six elephant’s teeth, twelve tons of palm-
oil, or four healthy niggars, African currency)
the shures of this helegeble investment rose to
1,2, 3, in the Markit. A happy man was Fred,
when, after paying down 100 ninepences (£3 85s)
he sold his shares for £250. He gave a dinner
at the Star and Garter that very day. I pro-
mise you there was no Marsally there.
I “ Next day they were at This put Fred,
in a rage : they rose to 5, he was in a fewry.
‘ What an ass was 1 to sell,’ said he, * when a*il
this money was to be wen!’
V And so you were an ass,’said his particklar
friend, Colonel Claw, K X R., a director of the
line, * a double eared ass ” My dear feller, the
shares will be at 15 next week. Will you give
me your solemn word of honour not to breathe
to mortal roan what I am going to tell you!
“‘ Honour bright,* says Fred.
“ ‘ Hudson has joined the line.’ Fred, didn’t
say a word more, but went tumbling down to the
city in his Broom. You know the state of iha
•treats. Claw went by water.
‘“Buy me one thousand Hafricans for the
30th,* cried Fred., busting into his broker’s, and
they were done for him at 4£,
*, Can’t you gues the rest? Havn’t you seen
the Share List which says:
“ 4 Great Africans, paid 9d.; price $ par.*
“ And that’s what came of my pore friend
Timmin’s time-barging.
“ What’ll become of him I can’t say; for
nobody has seen him since. His lodginsin Jer-
myn Street is to let. His brokers in vain de-
dlores his absence. His Uncle bas declared his
marriage with his housekeeper! and the Morn-
ing Erald (that amusing print) has a paragraf
yesterday in ihe f« shnabble news, headed * Mar-
riage in High Life '1 he rich and beautiful
Miss Mullagatawney, of Portland Place, is to
be speeily united to Colonel Claw K.X RP
New Chartist Armour recommended
for General Use — At a Chartist meeting,
held at Foxhill Bank, on Sunday last, a speaker,
named John Grey, of Barratord, bit upon a me-
thod of “ arming*’ himself, which we can safely
recommend not only to demagogues and sedi-
tion mongers, but to ail loyal and peaceably dis-
posed subjects, young and old The speaker,
after denouncing the government, and so forth,
got to a o im ix, and said—“He had come to a
(elimination —an unflinching determination,
and he hoped the young men—for it was to
those he addressed himself in particular—would
be of the same mind if they weie determined to
have the Charter ; he had come to the delermi-
nation to arm himself—to arm himself to tne
teeth if necessary —with—here the speaker
caught sight of a police superintendent taking
note.') —with a firm resolve 1” Now thl< ii a
coat of a mail in any ciuse, and Seeing how
i ntirely effectual it has been when put on by ti e
government and the people of London, we think
we are justified in recommending it for gentral
ac'o jiion.— Blackburn paper
Egypt.— A letter from Alexandria, of the 9th
inst\ says:—“ Meheraet Ali has returned. On
the 2d, Ibrahim Pacha arrived in the English
steamer the Odin, and was most warmly re-
ceived ; and the lady after the French steamer
Alexandra arrived, with the Viceroy on board.
He was received at his palace by all the troops
under arms, and all the functionaries in full
costume, and ?eemed much pleased with his re-
ception. He is in better health, bu; still requires
great care. A council was held a day or two
after his arrival, at which it was decided that a
regency should be appointed, with Ibrahim
Pacha at its head, to conduct affairs until tre
perfect re-establishment of Viceroy’s health,
i The state of our money market is dreadful;
S credit has disappeared, und no business is done.
!We have only one French vessel in the J>ort f
and she can get no freight for Marseilles. Ihe
government have just decided that every vessel,
when about to sail, shall be searched, to see if
it contains the abetters of rev olt, whoh & d g


PORT PHILLIP.
p aPSR S have come to hand by the overland
Jl bringing intelligence to the 4th Inst.
» of the more interest.ng extract are
gubjoined
Ftecotio!*.— Tuesday last being the time ap-
**"? for the execution of Dauncey, convicted
p 01 I,me Ust of the murder of his shipmate,
xl tliow Luck a large crowd assembled in front
Gaol to witness the sad spectacle. From
tL period of his sentence Dauncey appeared
muchlnt" rested in perusing the Sacred Volume
“".i,. - willing ear to the admonitions of the
Rev gentlemen who attended him, but exhibited
Uttle evidence of being actuated by the Uue sp.r,
0 f Christianity; his principal desire bein„ tha
ratifying his appetite On the morning of
his execution his breakfast was brought to him
at six o’clock, which he partook of with seem-
relish, and after thanking the turnkey, he
Claimed “Now I am ready; this is my last
day here, hut to-morrow X shall be in a better
woGld ” From this moment Dauncey s conduct
assumed a new feature; ho now exhibited a
firm and unshaken reliance upon h.s Maker, and
instead of listlessly attending to the prayers of
others, he fervently sought forgiveness from
him “to whom all thoughts are known At
five minutes to eight, the time appointed for his
execution, Dauncey exhibited a little impatience
_s. Delay, and complained much of the cold,
expressing wish for a glass of wine, which
was given him. The Rev. Mr. 'lhompson en-
deavoured several times in the course of the
morning to elicit from the culprit a confession of
his guilt, and at the last made a final attempt;
Dauncey listened attentively, and then kneeling
down he in a most solemn manner declared his
entire innocence, exclaiming with uplifted hands
and eyes, “Oh, Lord, from whom nothing is hid,
you know that I am innocent of the crime I am"
going to die. All present were deeply affected
at the manner and calm demeanour of the un-
happy youth standing as he was on the brink of
eternity. As the clock struck eight, Dauncey
walked with a firm step to the centre of the
corrider, and having shaken hands with the
officers of the Gaol, and thanked them for their
kindness to him since his condemnation, he
placed himself in the hands of the executioner.
The act of pinioning was performed without
producing the least effect upon the culprit, who
walked with a slow but firm step to the door
of the yard where the gallows stood, at which
he glanced hurriedly; having arrived at the foot
of the ladder, Dauncey threw off his shoes, which
he had previously untied, and then with a firm
tread ascended to the fatal drop, when he ad-
dressed the crowd assembled out side in the fol-
lowing words.—“ Gentlemen and all of you, I
havoafew words to say to you before Igo. Ihope
you will all take warning by me. lam innocent
■of the crime I am now going to suffer for. 1
hope God will forgive my prosecutors as I do.
God bless you all. Good bye.” He then calmly
turned round to the executioner, who having
performed his disgusting duties, the drop fell,
snd Dauncey was ushered into another and we
trust, to use his own words, “ a better word.”
A phrenological examination of Dauncey’s head
was taken by Mr. Foxion, hut nothing indicating
murderous propensities was developed.
In rerence to the unfortunate youth a
Phrenological enquiry haß been held by one
deeply skilled in the doctrine of Gall and
Spursheim, whose version is as follows:
I found his head measured 124 cubic inches,
the average size of his race at the age of
puberity, being IS7 inches; this corresponds on
the scale, to moderate size. In measuring the
regions I found the anterior, containing the
organs manifesting the intellectual faculties, only
10 cubic inches, which corresponds to an equally
balanced brain of 100 cubic inches only. The
eoronal organs, manifesting moral sentiments,
34 inches, corresponding to size 110; but when
I come to the lateral region, organs manifesting
(what in him became) aggressive faculties, 1
find it 27 inches, or size 140. The posterior
manifesting animal propensities, 39 cubic inches,
or size 130. In order to illustrate this more
plainly, I will place the measurement of
Dauneey’s head in jtixta position with the head
of an intelligent, highly moral, and amiable mem-
ber of our community, whose head I have
measured.
Cubic Mens
uremenj.
Anterior.
Coronal.
Lateral.
Poserior.
In. In. In. In. In.
139 19 50 24 32
A. D 124 10 34 27 39
Model
A.D. size... 124 12.5 39 24 36
It is therefore evident, that in order to pre-
vent this unfortunate young man from aggress-
ing against the laws of society, it would have
been necessary (without rigid moral training
from infancy) for him to possess at least 42 cubic
inches of brain, manifesting moral sentiments,
and 14 cubic inches manifesting intellect. In
estimating the relative size of a few of the
organs, I found firmness, self-esteem, veneration,
secretiveness, destructiveness, acquisitiveness,
all above the average of their regions—say
large. Benevolence, ideality, and the percep-
tion and reflecting facul ies, certainly not above
the average of their regions, say small.
Such an organism would prompt him not only
to commit the act for which he suffered, but to
act with the greatest firmness and obstinacy in
concealing his guilt, and the greatest hypocrisy,
particularly in religious matters. There does
not remain, therefore, the slightest doubt on my
mind, of his guilt. But, we would be legislators,
reflect on these /acts iu nature, —they are not
dogmas , —and learn that if each and all of you
had inherited a similar organism, and been sur-
rounded by the same circumstances, viz , a total
want of rigid moral training, you would in all
probability, have been hanged long ago.
REMOVAL OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
Recent events of importance (have taken off
the. attention of the public from the memorial
now in course of signature for the removal of
His Honor C. J. La Trobe, Esq., from the office
of Snperintendent of this district, but we trust
that those interested in the subject who have not
affixed their names to it will come forward with-
out delay ; indeed, arrangements are now being
made for its transmission through the usual
official channel, they will be precluded from
sigoing it unless they now come forward Party
spirit is now apparently at an end, and we all
look forward to a great improvement in our
social state in consequence ; we hope all parties
will combine in forwarding such measures as
are calculated to benefit the district. We
would warn our readers not to credit a rumour
to the effect that Mr. La Probe is to be removed
to Van Dieman’s Land, but sign the memorial
at once if they wish prosperity to their adopted
land.
A Cuitious Action. —The other day, Mr.
Edwin Thomas Hicks, a lecturer on Mesmerism,
appeared in the Liverpool County Court as a
plaintiff, to recover from Mr. William Davies,
draper, of Berry-street, £3 35., for mesmeric
operations during a period three weeks. It
appeared that the defendant suffered from deaf-
ness, and having an idea he had been benefitted
by the experiments, he attended three of Mr.
Hick’s lectures, and bore testimony to the
efficacy of the remedy. When the plaintiff sent
in his extraordinary bill, defendant returned the
compliment by charging an equal amount for his
attsndance at the lectures. Plaintiff objected
to allow but 2s 6d for each lecture, that being
the sum he allowed patients when he required
their services at his lectures. Mr Lowndes de-
ducted this amount, and ordered the defendant
to pay the balance.
Paoor op Marriage. —Before the revising
barrister, the other day, a witness was asked
bow be knew that a man and woman were
husband and wife, replied; because “he had
often beard the lady blow the gentleman up.”
The evidence was held to be conclusive.
A New Reformation. —Colonel Sibthorpe
has had his hair cut —a reformation which, it is
•aid, has been induced by his having discovered
a new reading to Goldsmith’s celebrated lines—
‘ Man wants but little hair below,
L
EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
From English and French Journals to the 28 th
of April.
DENMARK.
BATTLE BETWEEN THE DANES AND PRUSSIANS.
A supplement of the Schleswig-Holstein
Gazette gives the following intelligence re-
specting the first engagement of the Prussians
with the Danes.
“ Rendsburg, April 23, Nine o’clock at
Night. —The Prussian troops marched out of
this place yesterday afternoon at three o’clock.
They were followed by almost an interminable
succession of other federal troops, and of our
dragoons, who had been quartered in the neigh-
bourhood of Remmells to recover after their five
days’ harassing fatigue at Rendsburg. It was
not till six o’clook to-day that the last party
quitted the town ; and at half-past seven several
waggons arrived, bringing the wounded and a
number of Danish troops prisoners. They
brought the intelligence that on the approach of
the Prussians the Danes retired from Kropp to
to Schleswig, and that between two and three
o’clock a fierce combat ensued to the west of
Bustorf, close to Schleswig.
M At the first point, the Prussians, who had
vowed to conquer or die, without waiting the
arrival of the artillery, stormed the newly forti-
fied Danewirke, and the embankments thrown
up at Bustorf. This combat cost many lives,
but terminated in the taking of Friedricksberg,
and the so called Erdbeerenberg, while the
dykes at Gottrop are still in the hands of the
Danes.
41 The mines placed in the dams by the Danes
will scarcely accomplish their object, a , the pre-
vailing north-east wind has forced the water of
the Schlei iuto the ditches and rendered them
useless.
“ simultaneously with the Prussians the Zas-
trow corps advanced to Missunde, towards
the left wing. By the first fire they dismounted
one of the two batteries of the enemy, then the
other, and were in the very act of taking the Pon-
ton. Further down the Schlei, by the estate of
Stubbe, the NVaimar free corps crossed at eleven
o’clock, the Shippers having made arrangements
to transport 1,000 men across at a time. Thus
all possibility of retreat was cut off from the
Danes, and nothing remained for them but to sur-
render or fall. Even if they succeed in reaching
their place of embarkation, the east wind will
probably prevent their ships from sailing,
wherever they are not taken in tow by the
steamers.
“ Eleven o’clock. —There are continued ar.
rivals of wounded. The number of prisoners
brought in is about thirty. Schleswig is said to
have been taken.”
The Hamburg Borsenhalle of the 24th,
dated one o’clook, p.m.. says:—A letter from
Rendsburg of this morning, the 21th, says,
* Schleswig was taken by the Prussians yesterday.
The fortress of Gottorf was stid in the hands of
the Danes during the night. Two divisions of
the Danes, together with several dragoons, are
said to have gone over to the Prussians.”
By another etter from Rendsburg, dated the
evening of the 23rd, the taking of Schleswig is
stid to be certain The Danes, pursued to the
eastward, saved themselves at Missunde by
crossing the Schlai, and endeavoured to prevent
our troops from pursuing them, by maintaining
a constant fire of grape. The guns which they
had planted there were dismounted. Of the
Prussian troops, the 20th and 31st Regiments
are said to have suffered the most.
Rendsburg, April 22 (Evening).— In the
skirmish which took place at the Altenhof yes-
terday, several of our troops were unfortunately
taken prisoners by the Danes, namely 10 or 12
of the Cologne free corps who covered the bag-
gage. The Danes, in this instance, overreached
us by a stratagem, by placing* in front the corps
of Lindburgh, wearing green and black blouses
similar to the Berlin and Cologne free corps,
with the German cockade, and displaying the
German banner. On the first attack they called
out in German “Do not shoot us down, com-
rades; we are also Schleswig-Holsteins.” This
stratagem almost led so the enclosing of our free
corps, which was only 600 men strong, and was
exposed to three enemies* battalions, besides the
Freischaren and the artillery.
An attack of bayonets was decisive ; it was
directed with such admirable precision by the
Cologne corps against the hostile battalion, that
the enemy, who were to have surrounded our
men at Flanke and Altenhof, were obliged to
save themselves by speedy flight to their ships,
by which they are said to have run into The very
mouth of the Danish cannon, which levelled
several ranks.
Rbndsburgh, April 23.—Last night the re-
sort was circulated here, though it is in all pro-
bability unfounded, of the death of King Fre-
deric VII.
Hamburg, April 24 —By the train last night
we received the intelligence that the Ecken-
forde had been evacuated by the Danes, who
retreated to the head quarters at Danewirke.
There is to be a general attack to-day—the
Schleswig-Holsteiners form the right wing, the
troops of the 10th army corps the left wing, the
Prussians in the centre.
Copenhagev, April 19. —We learn from a
letter written by one of the students’ corps de-
tained on board the Dronning Maria, the follow-
ing facts respecting the manner in which the
prisoners are treated “We can assure our
Hamburg friends that the reports in circulation
there—that we are compelled to suffer hunger,
}hat we have been forced to the public works,
and other similar statements, are utterly with-
out foundation. On the contrary, our situation
since we have been on board the Dronning
Maria is perfectly tolerable, though by no means
enviable.”— Morning Chronicle , April 28.
HOUSE OF COMMONS— ApriI 19.
ADJOURNMENT AND BUSINESS OF THE HOUSE.
Lord John Russell said, that he now rose to
move that the house at its i ising do adjourn until
Saturday next; and he should on that daj move
that it do farther adjourn, for the Easter recess,
until Monday, the Ist of May. It would, per-
haps, be convenient for him to state the course
of business which the Government intended to
take on the re-assembling of the house. On
Monday, the Ist of May, he should bring in a
bill to allow the Government to make advances
of money for promoting steam navigation with
India, and for other special purposes. First, on
certain West India loans for immigration, which
had been stated by the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer ; 2dly, to enable the Government to
advance again any payments that had been made
from Ireland. On the same day, the second
reading of the alien bill would be moved. On
Thursday he should proceed with the bill for
removing the civil disabilities affecting the Jews
—(hear, hear.) On Friday, if the second read-
ing of the aliens bill was agreed to, he should
move that the measure be considered in commit-
tee on that day, but if not, his noble friend, the
First Commissioner of Woods and Forests,
would proceed with that important measure on
Monday, the Bth of May On Monday, the 15th
of May, his right honorable friend the President
of the Board of Trade would introduce a bill
for amending the navigation laws, when he
would state the view’s of her Majesty’s Govern-
ment on this important question—(hear, hear.)
And on an early day the Secretary for Ireland
would bring in a bill to amend the elective fran-
chise in Ireland—(hear, hear, hear.) After
giving this notice, he would move that the house,
at its rising, do adjourn until Saturday next.
DENMARK AND THE DUCHIES.
Mr. DTsraeli then rose and called the atten-
tion of the house to the state of British relations
with Denmark. He remarked, that, on the
Crown Prince ascending the throne some time
since, he gave to his subjects a more liberal
Constitution than they had ever before enjoyed,
therefore he could not be accused of tyranny.
If, however, he had been guilty, then he ought
to have had an opportunity of justifying himself.
It was the interest of England and Europe that
peace should be maintained, but he did not think
that would be the case if the policy of Germany
was allowed. The peace of Europe never could
be maintained by England hiding her head in
the sand until she was discovered—(hear, hear.)
They were bound to obey and enforce treaties
which had been entered into for the pn servation
of the peace and tranquility of Europe. It was
right and legitimate to advise Prussia of the
course she was pursuing with respect to her
Saxon provinces. An invasion of Denmark
. « 1 « . -/• il . .1
with this country. That was the reason why he
had called the attention of the house to the
subject, and he would say may God defend the
right, and preserve the peace of Europe—
(cheers.)
Lord Palmerston said, that the question
which the honourable gentleman had brought
before the house was one of the greatest im-
portance. It had been the lot of England to be
drawn by circumstances into acts of hostilities
against Denmark, which were alien to the
feelings of this country. With respect to the
question involved in these transactions, however,
he hoped the house would excuse him if he did
not follow the honourable gentleman through all
the topics of his speech. The Germans contended
that the duchy of Schleswig must follow the
duchy of Holstein into whatever family that
might pass; and Denmark, on the other hand,
contended that the duchy of Holstein must
follow Schleswig. As this country had offered
its mediation between Denmark and Prussia, it
would not be expected that he would express
any opinion on the question which was in dis-
pute between the two countries. He might,
however, say, that it was the duty and interest
of England to fulfil her engagements—that she
must stand by and would perform—(cheers.)
The guarantee which was given by England
with respect to Schleswig was also undertaken,
and almost in the same words, by the Govern-
ment of France. He concurred with the hon.
gentleman, that former guarantees given by
England should be respected; but it ought to
be remembered that the Prussian troops did not
enter the duchy of Schleswig to wrest it from
the Crown of Denmark, Uut to support a party
in that duchy. He hoped, however, that an
amicable arrangement would be come to, and that
the question of Holstein would not be made the
cause of disturbing the peace of Europe.
Alter a few words from Mr. Urquhart, the
subject dropped, and the motion for the adjourn-
ment of the house was agreed to.
IRELAND.
April 24th.
The bold front which the editor of the United
Irishman would assume, has been lowered very
materially to-day; tor after all his declarations
that he would admit everything which he wrote,
and that he meant to speak sedition, he has re-
sorted to a dilatory plea, and raises the notable
point that one of the'grand jurors being an
alderman of the city of Dublin (and a Roman
Catholic alderman, by the by,) was not eligible
to find the bills. This is a very curious course to
take after so much bravado, and more especially
when the other traversers have put in a plea by
which a trial can be at once ensured. The act
of Parliament just about to pass the Lords, is
already producing its salutary fruits.
All thfe traversers in the State pr secutions
have now filed their pleas. The plea of Mr.
Thomas Francis Meagher was placed on the files
of the Crown Office of the Queen’s bench yes-
terday, and is in effect the same as that of Mr.
Smith O’Brien—not guilty, an i the general
issue. Tne following is the wording of the
plea:
“IN THE queen’s BENCH —CROWN SIDE.
“The Queen v. Thomas Francis Meagher. —
And the said Thomas Francis Meagher, by
William o‘Hara, his attorney, cometh into court
here, and having heard the same indictment
read, saith that he is not guilty of the said pre-
mises in the said indictment above specified and
charged upon him, or any of them ; and of this
the said Thomas Francis Meagher puts himself
upon the country.
“ John B. Dillon.
“ William o‘llara, Attorney.**
Mr. John Mitchell, by his attorney, Mr.
o‘Flaherty, filed two pleas this day to the two
indictments found against him ; but they differ
in a point that possibly may become very ma-
terial, from the pleas of Mr. Smith O'Brien and
Mr. Meagher. Mr. Mitchell has, in fact, filed
pleas in abatement, setting forth that all the
proceedings hitherto in the prosecution are il-
legal, and must be void, on the ground that one
of the grand jury who found the bills of indict-
ment, Alderman Bowles, is a member of the
town council of the corporation of Dublin. By
the Irish municipal act, the members of the town
council are disqualified from serving on special
juries in criminal cases; but Mr. Mitchell has
now raised the point as regards the grand jury.
In any event there will be a long preliminary
argument on the question when the jury is to be
empannelled.
The English Funds to-day recovered the de-
pression which occurred in prices yesterday.
Consols were first quoted at 81|, and quickly
advauced to 824 to $ for Money and Account,
at which they closed, without any change. Re-
duced three per cents, were first marked at 80J
to and were last done at 80f. New Three-
and-a-Quarter Per Cents, improved from 81
to their opening price, to 81f. Long An-
nuities, ; ditto, 3') years, expiring 1859,
at 8 1-16; ditto, expiring, 1860 at to 9-16.
Bank Stock, 187 to 189; India Stock, 229
to 230. The market for Exchequer- bills was
scarcely so good; tqe dealings were done at 40s.
to 44s prem.
The market for Foreign Securities was more
active again, a good deal of business being trans-
acted in Portugese, Mexican, Spanish and Dutch.
It appears that her Majesty’s Government has
instructed the British Minister at Lisbon to
enforce the claims of the bond-holders of the
Portugese Government. The result was, the
announcement that the 1 reasury was not in a
position to meet such demands, and a capitaliza-
tion of the bonds was, therefore, necessary.
The dealings transacted in them to day were at
154 to 16; Spanish Three per Cents., 214 to i >
ditto Five per Cents, llj| to 12|; Dutch Two-
and-a-llalt per cents., 40 to 41 ; ditto Four per
Cent, 61 to 4: Mexican, 14f to 154 j Brazilian,
65 to ditto New, 66; Chilian Three per
cents., 41: Equador, 24 ; Grenada Deferred, 2§;
Peruvian, 29 ; Venezuela Deferred, s£.
VARIETIES.
Brevity is the Soul op Wit. —Some fun
was created at the police court on Saturday
from the remarkably laconic answers given by
an individual who was summoned by another
to shew cause why he did not pay the sum of
six pounds thirteen shillings and four pence,
alleged to be due for wages. The affidavit upon
which the summons had been granted having
been read. Mr. James bmith addressing himself
to the defendant, said—You object to pay this,
do you P
Defendant—No
Mr. Smith—Then why dont you pay It P
Defendant—Oan*t
Mr. Smith —Is the claim a just one?
Defendant —Yes.
Mr. Smith—Then what k» >re do you want ?
Defendant—Blunt
Mr. Smith—You must pay it in seven days
Defendant—Eh ?
Mr. Smith—Or a distress warrant will issue.
Defendant— Ah.
Mr. Smith —*nd if there are no effects—
Defendant —Humph.
Mr Smith—You’ll go to gaol*
Defendant—Dont care a
And with this elegant allusion to his utter in-
difference to wordly matters, the laconic man
left the office.— Port Philliy Paper.
Be Particular about Dates —A Scotch
tradesman, who had amassed, as he believed,
4?4000, was surprised by his old clerk with a
balance sheet showing his fortune to be
• It, canna* be,* said the principal; ‘count agen *
The clerk again declared the balance to be
«£6OOO The master counted himself, and he
also brought out a surplu- of .£6OOO. Still he had
a lurking doubt of the existence of the extra
.£2OOO ; so, one night, he sat down to give the
columns * one count more * At the close of his
task he jumped up, and rushed through the
streets in a shower of rain, to the house of his
clerk. The clerk’s head, capped and drowsy,
emerged from an attic window, at the sound of
the knocker, to enquire the errand of his mid-
night visitor. ‘Who’s there?’ he mumbled,
‘and what do you want?* ‘lt’s me, ye
scoondral!’ exclaimed his employer, ‘ye’ve
added up the year of our Lord amang the
poonds !*
Why would a sparrow be offended if you
called him a pheasant ? Because it would be
, • c I :.-s_
The Eclipse. —During: the eclipse of the sun
on Saturday week, which was invisible to the
| Londoners, an Irish jentlemen, who lodge! on
a first floor (down the chimney) in the fragment
of what once was St. Giles*, deeming it fit that
his juvenile representative, who was snoring
most musically on a potato sack in the corner of
his room, should have an opportunity of seeing
what he might not live to sec again, an eclipse,
seized him by the scruff of the neck, and shoving
his head out of the window^told him * to look at
the’clips.* The unfortunite wight, whose as-
tronomical curiosity was not over ami above ex-
cited, and beside was scarce conscious of the in-
dulgent intention of his patent, exhibited some
impatience, which was, however, quickly stifled
by a whak sufficient to awaken a iess sensitive
piece of living machiriety ‘Do you see i: ?’
exclaimed the kind author of his being. 4 What!*
inquired poor l ini. 4 The ’clips to he sure, you
Omathawn.* After a pause, and looking into
the gutter, 4 I do, daddy,* said the child ; 4 they
*ve *clipsed him quite in two.* **Cdipsed what ?’
4 Why tile cat in the gutter.* 4 The gutther,
you na’hral, tisn’t into the gutther you must
be looking; you must look in the sky/ and up
were t urned the half-closed peepers of the young
astronomer. 4 Do you see it. now ?' roared Eat
4 1 facks I do, daddy.* ‘Well, and what’s it
like?’ 4 Nuffln,* squeaked the juvenile. 4 Thin
that's the ’clips,* roared Eat, 4 tor it’s when you
can’t see nothing that it’s to be seen to the
greatest perfection.* and down slid poor Tim,
not only enlightened by the lecture he had re-
ceived, but fully sensible that he would have
been better pleased had he been permitted to
remain in a state of mental eclipse himself.
ift the iron reign of Louis L’hifippe 200.000,
out of a population of 35 millions, possessed the
parliamentary franchise, each of whom had
some subordinate place at, his disposal. So that
the constituency was not only limited but
corrupt.
The Caffre War at the Cape of Good Hope
during 1816 7, cost the nation one million one
hundred thousand pounds.
There are three rays in a sunbeam—the heat-
giving, colour giving, and deoxidising—the last
it is that puts out a fire.
A Cat may Look at a King. —This is a
very ancient maxim, but, if kings do not take
care, it will become obsolete, for though it, may
be always true that a cat may look at a king,
the time may come when a cat must look very
sharp to find one. We hope, nevertheless, that
a cat may long enjoy the pr.viiege of looking at
a Queen, and that the tel lie aniroa may through-
out the whole of Its nine lives, have our own
Victoria to look upon.— Punch,
The wretched party who poisoned the Rev. T.
Maguire, his brother and wife, were induced to
do so after the robbery of £BOO, which was in-
trusted to Father Tom by a widow for the ad-
vantage of her daughter— Limerick Chronicle.
An end to a Circle — A hard-up male ac-
quaintance was overheard soliloquising thus:—
“ They say a sovereign is round, and so it is,
but give a worn in one to take to a draper’s
shop: and she *ll soon make ari end of it.”
The Warwick and Leamington Steeple Chase
was won l>y Capt. Madock’s Eroce »d, beating
twenty others; and the Great Warwickshire
Stakes by Mr. Irwin’s Ballinafad, beating six
others. Both horses are Irish bred.
A Delicate Question. —“Susan stand up,
and let me see what }you have learned. What
does c,h.a,i.r spell ?** “ I don’t know, marm.”
44 Why you ignorant critter! what do you
always sit on? * ** Oh inarm, I don’t like to
tell ” 4 * What on earth is the matter with the
g.il ? Toll what it is ” ** 1 don’t like to tell ;
it was Bill Crass’s knee, but he neve • kissed me
but twice!” 44 Airthquakes and apple sarse!”
exclaimed the schoolmistress, and she fainted.
Unappreciated Kindness. —“ Would you
lik to have a het crook in your bed this cauid
night, men; ?’* said a good Matured chamber-
maid af our town to an English lady who had
just arrived in Scotland for the first time. 44 A
what?” said the lady. “A pg, mem. Shall I
put a pig in your bed to keep you warm ?”
* Leave the room, young wom> n. Your mistress
shall hear of your insolence.” “No offer.ee, I
hope mpm. Jt iva? .my mistre-.? that bid me
ask; and I’m sure she meant it all kindness.”
The lady look id grizzy in tlie face, and saw at a
glance that no insult w.is intended; but she was
quite at a loss to account for the proposal. She
was aware that Irish children sleep with pigs on
the earthen floors of the cabins; hut this was
something far more astonishing. Her curiosity
was now roused, and she said in a milder tone—
*4 Is it. common in this country, my girl, for la-
dies to have pigs in their beds?” 44 And gen
tlemen too, mem, sometimes when the weather’s
cauid.** 44 But you would not, surely, put the
pig between the sheets!” “Ifyou please, mem,
it will do you maist good there, i’ll sleek the
mouth o*t tightly, and tie it up in a poke ** Do
you sleep with a pig yourself iu cold weather ?”
14 No, mem. Pigs are only for gentles that lie
on feather beds—l sleep on c iuf, with my neigh
hour lass.” 4 Calf! do you sleep with a calf
between you ? ” said the cockney lady 1 Na,
mem, you’re joking now,” add Grizz, with a
brood grin, “we lie on tiie lap o’t!”
The Emigrant Ship 44 Waratah.” —This un-
fortunate vessel, whieh> it will be recollected,
was found dismasted on the 24th of last month,
by a Norwegian vessel, in lat. 40 deg. 26 min.,
long, 7 deg. 31 mio. W., having lost the master
and the greater porti in of the crew, and to
which not the slightest assistance could he ren-
dered, in consequence of the dreadful gale and
ttemendous sea that prevailed, was, we regret
to say, totally lost five days afterwards on the
coast of the island of Molene, and cnly eight
persons saved themselves. The Waratah was
considered as fine a vessel as ever sailed out of
the port of London. She was quite new, about
500 tons burden, and on her sailing for Sydney
had a number of passengers and a very valuable
cargo on board. After she had cleared the
Lizard, on the 12th of February, the weather
became boisterous, which on the following day
brought gales most formidable, extending over
nearly a fortnight. Three days after their
commencement a terrible misfortune befel the
vessel She was struck by a tremendous sea,
which completely dismasted her, sweeping every
thing off the deck, and washing overboard Mr.
Vullum, the commander, the first officer, boat-
swain, seven seamen, and three boys, every one
of whom met with a watery grave When the
Norwegian barque hove in sight of the wreck,
the Captain of it lowered his boats, and succeeded
in taking off two cabin passengers; but in at-
tempting to again render assistance, the boats
were capsized and the crew nearly lost She
remained forty-eight hours near the Waratah,
in hopes that the weather would moderate to
euable the vessel to come alongside; but the
gale increased in its violence, compelling the
Norweigan to abandon her and make for Dart-
mouth. The ill-fated wreck was driven about
by the currents of the ocean lor five days, the
survivors of the crew and the passengers suffer-
ing intensely. Eventually the vessel was car-
ried ashore on the island of Molene, twenty
miles from Brest, where in a few hours she was
dashed to pieces, and became a total wreck.
Those on board were compelled, the e being no
other chance of saving their lives, to jump over-
board and swim for the rocks. Eight only were
saved; the remainder were either drowned or
crushed to death between the fragments of the
wreck and the rocks. The names of those saved
are William Grimdale (second mate) D. Whaley,
G. Florence (carpenter), W. Allen (sailmaker),
W. Walsh (steward), and three seamen. A
large amount, .£25,000 it is said, w’as insured on
tne vessel and cargo.
Female Heroism. —The Earl of Dundonald,
in his biographical sketch of the family of the
late Mr. Coutts, speaking of this gentlemau’s
grandmother (a daughter of Sir John Cochrane)
relates the following anecdote:— 44 Sir J.
Cochrane being engaged in Argyle’s rebellion
against James the Second, was taken prisoner,
after a desperate resistance, and condemned to
be hanged. His daughter having notice that
the death-warrant was expected from London,
attired herself in man’s clothes, and twice
attacked and robbed the mails (between Belford
and Berwick) which conveyed the death war-
rant, thus giving time for the friends of her
husband to make intercession with the King,
who granted a full pardon.” This beautiful
heroine was the great grandmother of Lord
Dudley Stuart.
A Fact. —Money, the most elastic of mate-
rials, falls short or exceeds, according to the
extent nfotir w»oli> and (ieiiree.
M A II KET S, &c.
SHEEP AND CATTLE MARKETS.
S H E E P.
Brown, 1000, 7 s 6d each, 561b5., Sharp
Watts, 600. 6s. each, 541bs , Sharp an.i Peasley.
Fitzsimmons, 600, 7s. 6d. each, 541b5., Donough.
Bi.idington, 700, 7s. each, 561b5., Sharp and
Peasley.
CATTLE.
Arnold, 43 head, £ < l Is., 6751b5., Richards.
W. Cox, 40 head, £2, 7001b5., Sullivan.
Roberts, 46 head, £2 17. 6d., 7501b5, Blakney.
Hoskinson, 64 head, £l 15s , 6501b5., Raper and
Stanfield.
Walker, 70 head, £2 95.. 5701b5., Sullivan and
Blakney.
Lowe, 69 head, .£3, 7001b5., Peasley.
SETTLERS* WHOLESALE PRICE
CURRENT.
Wheat.— Very little colonial Wheat coming to
market: prices ss. to ss. 6d for best Van
Diemen’s Land, sold during the past week,
at ss.- lOd.
Flouk— Has advanced £1 per ton ; Mill prices
now are £’l4 for fine and £l2 for seconds.
Maize Has been selling at from Is. 2d. to Is.
4d , and to-day is worth Is 6d. wholesale.
Hay. —Hobart Town compressed, £5 10s. to £6
at ship's side ; Hunter’s River Lucerne, £3
10s. One lot sold during the past week at
£2 15s. at auction; selling at
£3 per ton.
Barley. — English, for malting, none offered ; if
fit for malting, 4s. Cape ditto, wholesale,
3s. per bushel.
Oats—Wholesale, 4s. at ship’s side; very few
buyers.
Butter.— Good salt Butter, Bd. per lb.
Eggs—Per dozen, 6d. to 7d.
Bacon and Hams —Are still plentiful, and worth
only about 3d. for Bacon and 4d. for Hams,
or on the whole.
Pigs— Rather plentiful during the past week,
and have not sold well; no very prime lots
have been offered. Carcasing price about
2d. to 2*d.
Fat Cattle —Some real prime bullocks would
meet with ready sale just now, at good
prices.
Fat Sheep.— Several lots have arrived within
the last few days, which has lowered the
price from 7s. 6d. to 65., and dull of sale.
Tallow —Sold well during the past week.—
Mutton - tallow, £33 12s. 6d.; beef ditto,
£32 to £33 for prime lots.
Hides. —Rather lower—from 4s. to ss.
Tobacco.— Prime colonial is in demand, Wal-
thall’s brand in particular. *
HOBART TOWN.—August 1.
There were symptoms of stiffness in market
on Monday morning; but to-day wheat stood
firm at last Friday’s prices—viz., from 4s lOd
to 5s per bushel. In the barley market there
is not much doing. English may he quoted at
prices ranging from 4s 8d to ss; and Cape, at
from 3s 3d to 3s 4d. Flour, .£l2 per ton.—
Best bread 3d.
LAUNCESTON.-July 29.
A few days’ later intelligence has been re-
ceived from Sydney, but the wheat market here
has not been affected by it. The quotation re-
mains at 4s 9d to 4s lOd.
ADELAIDE— JuIy 14.
Farm Produce. Wheat, 5s to 5s 3d per
bushel. Flour, £.'l3 10s to £l4 per ton. Oats,
4s to 4s 9d per bushel: Van Diemen’s Land
ditto, 5s to 5s 6d ditto. English barley, 4s 9d
to ss, in great demand ; Cape ditto, 3s to 3s
6d. Pollard, £5 to £5 10s per ton, or Is 2d per
bushel of 20 lbs. B an, Is per sushel. Malt,
7s por bushel. The two-pound loaf, 3d to
There is plenty of wheat in the colony, but
farmers seem to hold on for better prices.
Cattle.— Fat oxen, 12s to 14s per 100 lbs.
sinking the fat and offal; working steers, £3
to £4 10s; dairy cows, £2 to £4; calves, 16s
to 25s each; sheep, 8s to 12s each.
ROYAL VICTORIA THEATRE .
Continued success of Balfe’s celebrated Opera of
THE SIEGE OF ROCHELLE.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS!—
The Manager begs to subjoin the following
short extracts from two of the local journals :
After long and careful rehearsal, this Chef -
cT-Uuvre of Balfe’s, was produced at the Vic-
toria on Monday last. The arrangements, both
vocal and orchestral, reflect the highest credit
upon every Artist concerned ; and the Opera
has been put upon the stage, whether as regards
scenery, dresses, or decorations, in a style in
which the most fastidious cannot carp. We con-
fidently predict for it a long and successful run.
—Australian Journal , Aug. 3, 1848.
Theatricals. The Seige of Rochelle,
B&lfe’s first, if not his most felicitous effort, was
produced on Monday last, to an excellent house,
at the Victoria Theatre. In giving our opin-
ion upon the performance of the opera here,
we must conscioutiously affirm, that there never
was an opera produced in this colony, upon
which more pains have been bestowed by every
one connected with it, or which is more likely to
become a popular favorite than the Seige of
Rochelle. And this is no mean praise, for the
music in that piece is far more scientific and
difficult of execution than either that of the
Bohemian Girl, or in Loder’s flowing, character-
istic, aud harmonious Night Dancers, — Sydney
Daily Advertiser , August 4’ 1848. .
THIS EVENING, AUGUST 10, 1848,
Will be presented, the popular Musical Play,
entitled
THE EXILE.
Embracing the whole strength of the Company.
Pas de Deux, by Miss E. Griffiths•hnd Signor
Carandioi.
To conclude with the laughable Farce entitled
SONS AND SYSTEMS.
For Characters, see bills of the day.
MR. GRIFFITHS, Manager.
G. WALLER particularly calls
• the attention**! the public to the follow-
ing Wines and Spirits, &c., with their cash
prices attached.
Wine and Spirit Merchant,
Bank of Australia Bull dings, George-street. 6
UNFURNISHED LODGINGS.
HTO LET, that portion of the verandah
£ lately intended as an out-door Lying-in
Institution in Pitt-street.
Parties wishing for the same will find It a
very airy place for young iufants, being comfort,
ably enclosed with an open grating. Apply be-
tween 9 and 10 any morning on the premines.
To the Editor of the Sporting Times
Sydney, sth August, 1848.
GENTLEMEN, — I beg to inform you
that the kangaroo skins seized hy the
Customs at my residence, in I'yrmont, on the
2nd of June last, have been restored to me.
I am, gentlemen.
Your obedient servant,
GEORGE GILMORE.
[Advertisement ]
To the Editor of the Sporting Times.
S'frR —In the * Herald* of the 7th inst., there ap-
peared two letters, which called forth the accom-
panying reply (given below) from me,and which re.
ply I requested the Editors of that paper to give in-
sertion to; deeming that they would affordthe same
privilege to Mr. Lawsons friend's as they did to
his vilifyers. But it seems those connected with
that journal will not act in that spirit of fairness
which should be the distinguishing mark of all,
particularly those who profess to be“ sworft to no
master" &c. Indeed, alljhrough the great election-
eering movement which has just been concluded
the “ Herald" has earned for itself an unenviable
reputation —a reputation that will remain with
it during its numbered days! Nor can its decline
be mourned by even those in whose praise it is
now loudest.
1 have, Gentlemen, to seek from you an indul-
gence, which 1 sought from the “ Herald" as a
right, and trust to your love of “ fair play" for
the insertion of the following.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yours, &e.,
J. F
Parramatta, Bth August, 1848.
P.
To the Editors of the Sydney Morning Herald
Gentlemen. —ln your paper ol this date, there
appears two communications, complaining of the
expressions said to be made use of by Mr. Nelson
S Lawson, fiom the Bu*tings at Parramatta, on
Friday last; —one of which is signed an “ E.ector,"
and the other “ Henry Thomas." Had “An
Elector" confined himself to a mere commentary
upon Mr. Lawson, or his woids, I would have
been content to rejoice in that gentleman’s victory,
and remain- silent; but, when he, with a “ goodly
stock" of effrontery, appeals to that portion of the
electors who have returned Mr Lawson, viz.:—
“The independent and intelligent electors of
the County of Cumbsrland." and asks them if the
terms i.oW and despicable do not apply with ten-
fold force to those who were active in securing his
return, &c,.j—l conceive that as one who was both
active and zealous in his suppoat, I would be un-
just to myseif and to those friends who labored
with me, were I not to give the unqualified lie
to such an assertion. Mr. Lawson's supporters
acted throughout the contest in a manner
creditable to themselves and to their “ man " I
call upon the inividual who screens himself
behind the name of an “ Elector" to point out a
single act of “ Lawson's Committee’ that in any
way reflect discredit u.ion them es men of honor ?
Can the supporters of the rejected say as much ?
With Mr. Thomas’ epistle 1 have noting to do;
it is a matter for Mr. Lawson and the public,
At the same time, I cannot helpexpressing my re
gret that he should lake the subject up in a wrong
light, and fancy himself designated a “ thief and a
“vagabond." Mr Lawson’s words conveyed to
my ear a very different meaning to that which
they have been twisted into. I consider he meant
to convey (and did convey to those who heard
him), that there were many young and intelligent
farmers in the County of Cumberland, who rented
and cultivated large portions of ground, and
whom any man might be justly proud to repre-
sent, but whose names were not inserted on the
electoral lists, because their dwellings (although
superior to those occupied by thieves and vaga-
bonds in Sydney), were, from their remote dis-
tance from towns, considerably under the value
of twenty pounds
In conclusion, gentlemen, if the disappointed
spleen of “An Elector" cannot find vent through
any other channel than that of your paper, I
would advise him, ere he again addresses the
public on the same subject, to pay a visit to the
farm houses in the County ot Cumberland, and he
will there learn (if he is not already acquainted
with it.) the character of Nelson Lawson ; and I
trust, also, learn how to estimate and more fully
appreciate the “ fair famt" of his supporters;
and while this *' Elector" is on his tour, he can
contemplate the majesty of the 1 iron bark,"
firmly rooted in the land, and .hen consider how
futile must havs been ail attempts to replace even
a l“ sprig" of the “ hale old tree” by an imported
weed.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your s, &c.
J. F. P.
Parramatta, 7th August, 1848
Loyal West Cumberland Lodge, No. 8
of the Australian Supreme Grand
Lodge of Independent Order of
Odd Fellows, Penrith.
nPHE Anniversary Dinner of the above
A Lodge will be held at Brother Perry's,
Rose Inn, Penrith, on WEDNESDAY, the
16th Instant
Tickets—Ten shillings and sixpence each.
May be had of the undermentioned
Stewards.
Sydney—-Brothers Elliott,
Titterton.
Rin tel,
Jaques.
Parramatta —Bro; her M * Roberts.
Windsor—Brother Atkinson.
Penrith—Brothers Roberts,
Landers, and
Hand
Dinner to be on the table at six o'clock p m
Professional gentlemen engaged for the occa
sion.
A coach will be in attendance to carry
Brothers to and from Parramatta and Penrith
(gratis.)
Visitora admitted, subject to the approval of
the Stewards.
By order of the N. G.,
CHARLES MUNN,
Secietary.
Ludgc Room. Penrith, August 9.
NEW AND FASHIONABLE
CLOTHING.
n HAYES AND CO., hasten to
• announce to their customers and the
public gen* rally, that they have received, ex
Seringapat m, a large assortment of new
goods, of the most fashionable description, to
which they respectfully Invite an earL inspec-
tion.
Tb»*se goods having been selected expressly
for the Sydney market, 11. H. *nd Co., are en-
abled to recommend them to their friends with
the utmost confidence of their giving satisfac-
tion ; especially as it is their fixed determina-
tion to make up i lie articles at the very lowest
pri es —for cash
The assortment comprises, broadcloths of all
shades and colours, fancy doeskins of every de-
scription shawl patterns, upwards of a hundred
varieties; tartan and plai is ini.umerabl>, fancy
silks, satins, velvets, operaties, stocks, braces,
be., &c, &e.
The trade supplied with cut lengths at rea-
sonable pi ices.
H. HAYES AND CO.,
Naval and Military Tailors,
George street.
REMOVAL.
| HOMAS BYRNES begs to apprise
I his sporting friends and the public generally
he his removed from the “ Forbes Hotel" to
those spacious premises at the corner of York
and King-streets, occupied by Mr.
O'Dowd, where he hopes to meet with the same
liberal encouragement which has been awarded
him since his commencement in business.
The choicest selections of Spirits, Wines, Ales,
63 &c., kept on hand.
ON SALE,
AT THE STORES OF
s&o
40, MARKET-STREET.
Teas, of various brands
Sugars, raw and refined
Pi< kies, Battey’s
Mustard, Coleman’s
ALSO
The usual assortment of groceries, at the
lowest remunerating prices.
Mood salt butter, at 6d. per lb.
Tallow Lamps!
TALLOW LAMPs U
THE undersigned has just received
ex latest arrivals, and now ready for
inspection, a further supply of the above Use-
ful and Economical Article, consisting
of:—
Bronzed, and Ormolu pedestal tallow lamps.
do. do. hanging do.
Japan’d Pedestal Counter do.
with cottons, shades, and chimnies for same,
which he intends selling at the lowest possible
price, to make room for expected shipments.
THOMAS WOOLLEY.
S 5. George & King-street*.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
SF CDS 121? 10 SOCDiP'SPa
TOBACCONIST AND WHIPMAKER,
GEORG E-STREET,
Respectfully begs to inform his
friends and the public that he has taken
ihose well-known premises lately occupied by
Mr. Cohen, Watchmaker, George-street, 2 doors
South of the Royal Hotel, and five doors North
of his present residence in the same street, into
which he purposes immediately removing.
Mr Scott avails himself of this opportunity of
expressing his grateful thanks to his numerou*
friends for their kind and liberal patronage; and
as he never keeps any article in his establish-
ment which is not of the very best quality, he
flatters himself with the hope of their continued
support
All orders, from town and country, will as
usual be punctually attended to.
ECONOMY IN DRESS.
IF you wish to practice the above, get
your Clothing at O’Neil’s whose style of
cut, workmanship, and quality of materials can-
not he exceeded in the city, and whose price*
are much lower than any that can lay claim to
the same merit.
M. O’NEIL,
Tailor and Clothier,
555, George-street, next the Bank
77 of Australasia.
ELEGANCE, EXCELLENCE, AND
ECONOMY.
416, GEORGE-STREET,
Five doors north of the Royal Hotel.
H HAYES and Co. again respect*
• fully solicit the attention of their
friends and the public in general, to the largest
and most choice assortment of goods ever seen
i:i the colony, just received and unpacked,
consisting of West «»f England cloths, all co-
lours ; c-tssimeres, doeskins—a great variety
of patterns, suitable for the present season ;
Windsor and imperial cords, for riding trou-
sers; cashmeres, llama cloths, and all the
elastic materials so fashionable in Europe for
paletots. Also, a rare and extensive assort-
ment of French silks, satins, velvets, shawls,
ihibcts, wool tartans, wove and white qnilt.
ings. buff and white cassimeres, &c., &c , all
of which have been selected by H. Hayes in
England, and will be made to order in the first
style of fashion, at the lowest possible remu-
nerative profit, for ready money.
£ s. d.
A vorv good dress coat, any colour,
for 2 0 0
An excellent ditto, West of En-
gland, and warranted wool died,
from £2 15 to 3 3 0
The very best that can be produced,
silk or satin lined, for 3 10 0
The registered paletot, from 1 5 0
Fashionable shooting coats, from .. •• 18 0
Excellent black dress trousers, per
pair ..... 1 0 0
The brst West of England single or
double milled, from 1 8 0
Fancy tweeds and doeskins, from.... 0 14 0
Black cassimere vests, from 0 12 0
The best Scotch wool tartans, from.. 0 15 0
Fashionable thibets and shawls,
from 0 15 0
French silk or satin, plain or fancy,
from 0 15 0
Ditto velvet ditto ditto from 1 0 0
Youths* clothing, equally cheep.
Liveries of every description, from £3 15s. the
suit
LADIES’ HABITS.
An excellent habit, warranted, for £5.
Clergy men’s and barristers’ robes, equally
cheap.
READY-MADE CLOTHES.
In this department there is always a large
assortment on hand. Gentlemen from the
country, tradesmen, and others in the city can
be suited in a few minutes
HENRY HAYES AND CO.,
Naval and Military Tailors,
416, George-street, Sydney.
TO SETTLERS AND OTHERS.
ON HAND, at the Stores of the under-
signed—
Wilkinsons’ genuine Sheepshears
J. & H, Sorby’s do. do
Hemp Woolpacks, 9,9 s, and 10 ibs<
~ Three bushel bags
Best seaming twine
Tarpaulins of all sizes
B. Y. scythes and sickles
Scythe and rag htones
Hall & Sons, gunpowder, loose and in cannistcf
Patent shot, assorted Nos.
Camp ovens, iron pots, and iron boilers, 30 to
70 gallons
THOMAS WOOLLEY.
430, & 432, George-streets.
Iron Yard, King-street.
NOTICE.
SYDNEY RIFLE CLUB.
T HE Members of the S. R. C., are
I hereliy informed, that their third Match
for tltis year, will corne off At tue south side of
Kushcutters Buy, behind Mr. O. West's premises,
on Mundsy, tile 14tli Instant.
W. AITKBN,
Secretary.
August 11 th, 1848.
81,
WILL DAVIS,
GAS HOTEL, KENT-STREET
NORTH,
KNOWN BY THE
ILLUMINATED CLOCK,
BEGS to return his sincere thanks to
his friends and the public, and to apprize
them that he has taken the above Hotel, wheie
he hopes, by assiduity and attention, combin< d
with the best articles in the trade, to ensuie
their patronage, which he can with confidence
appeal to the sporting world as having ever
endeavoured to merit.
As an Old Friend under the new appellation
of a Boniface he thus respectfully solicits a
continuance of the patronage of his numerous
friends.


POET’S CORNER.
ALBUM VERSES.
Written under the Caricature of a Pony run-
ning away with a Boy —the Boy being sup-
posed to have previously ran away with the
Pony.
Stole away ! Stole away!
Boy found a Pony standing saddled—
Climb’d up—and o’er its back he straddled ;
For want of spurs —stuck in his heels—
(Boys never think a Pony feels !)
And brought his whip-lash into play !
Gone away ! Gone away !
Pony did’nt like the walloping !
So soon began a-galloping—
Boy endeavoured then to stop him—
But Pony felt inclined to drop him,
Andanswsred boldly with a i nay !
Pit-a-pat! Pit-a-pat!
Boy’s heart was in a gallop too.
* The mane he for a bridle drew
His hat, like Gilpin’s, flew away—
lost the stirrups from his feet
He lost the sense to keep his seat—
And down upon the high-road lay
As low as any fallen flat !*
Tit-for-tat! Titrfor-tat!
* Measure for measure’— * Biter bit*—
The Pony and the Boy were quit!
As Boy with Pony ran away—
In his own coin the debt to pay,
And for a frolic never coy,
Pony ran away with Boy
For prigging prancers punished pat !
* He is depicted in the predicament of losing
his mane-support—and consequently on the
point of coming off.
RUN AWAY WITH IN DIVERS
DRAGS,
Quid quisque vltet, nunquam homini satis
Cauturn est in horas! —Horace.
Jo the Editor of the Sporting Times.
Sir, —I take up my pen to describe a few
cases of being run away with, and shall
‘ take ’em as they come,’ contenting my-
self with those which happen to be most
freshly remembered—a few modern in-
stances upon the high-ways and by-ways
of the land we love so well.
I must, likewise, beg to warn the
reader, that the cases to come are not a
bit more ‘interesting’ than those that
have been brought to book, and conse-
quently, if he honors me with a perusal,
he cannot say that I have deceived or
disappointed him ; and if he decides on
passing over my little bit of nonsense,
‘ Ainsi soit-il aussi me suis-je tres resigne’
—and without further apology I shall
now take the road.
Case I.—Before the door of a certain
Inn, at a certain part of the road betwixt
John O’Groat’s and the Land's End about
-eight o’ the clock of a winter night, I
found myself upon the box of her Ma-
jesty’s mail—full inside, and no admit-
tance for love or money—the said mail
having just been pulled up to be horsed
for the fourth stage of the hundred and
odd miles for which I had the pleasure of
being booked. Though dark was the
night, I could perceive that there was
some difficulty in getting the prads put
to, and the Master of the Ribbons, as he
resumed his seat on the bench, recom-
mended me to ‘ sit me fast,’and requested
me to allow him to ‘ play dummy ;’ for
these leaders, he added, ‘ will cut out
plenty of work for me’—and sure enough,
Sir, you were never so bothered by lead-
ing articles in the whole course of your
Editorial life 1 Neighing, or rather
screaming with impatience, and rearing
and plunging like mad uns, they threa-
tened to kick themselves clear of the
traces, until the horse-keepers jumped
aside, upon the usual ‘ let go’ being
given, and then—
Like twin-descendants of Eclipse,
When bounding from the start.
Or eajrer greyhounds with the slips,
With sudden spring and dart—
off they set at a spanking pace—the
wheelers playing the game of ‘ follow
my leader conspiri/o, and the drag glid-
ing after them as slick as greased light-
ning ! With a common coachman, I
should have had a slight suspicion that it
was ‘ all up,’ or rather that it would
soon be all dorm with us ; but being
aware that we had a scientific Artist upon
the bench, I felt pretty confident that he
would do the trick - barring accidents
which no mortal charioteer could avoid
■—as I watched him looking steadily into
the ‘ darkness visible’ ahead, and exerting
all his skill and strength so keep his team
straight and to obtain a pull upon them,
whilst the guard was tipping us a tune,
to warn all and sundry to get out of our
way. By the time we had done about a
quarter of a mile, our ‘ Man wot sits
behind the four had got his wheelers
well under command, whilst the leaders
were beginning to think that their esca-
pade was productive of more toil than
pleasure; and before another quarter
had been gone over, the pace had evi-
dently become considerably more mode-
rate, and my ‘ friend on my right’ had
just ventured to remark, ‘ 1 shall have em
well in hand presently.’ when suddenly,
at a part of the road which was shaded
by trees, and consequently enveloped in
double-distilled darkness, our leaders ran
slap against something and down they
both went—the pair at wheel being
pulled slap up, just as they were stum-
bling upon the fallen. The guard, your
humble servant, and another outside,
jumped down as quick as directly, and
having succeeded in extricating and
raising our fallen leaders, we discovered
the cause of the accident, and with the aid
of a lamp ascertained its effects to be as
follow :—A four horse waggon had been
advancing from the opposite direction, in
the very centre, whilst the two men in
charge of it were lounging along by the
extreme edge of the road,
‘ As on their way. in friendly chat,
They talk’d of this tiling and of that,’
until they had heard the ‘ sound of the
bugle-horn’—the Guard having recom-
menced playing after a short interval—
when they ran to their horses’ heads, and
endeavoured to get the waggon out of our
They were too late, however ; for
the animals became restive upon being
suddenly checked, and just as their
leaders had performed a few Jim Crow
steps which placed them at an angle with
the line of progression, our leaders ran
foul of them, and down they went as
herein before mentioned. So much for
the cause, and with regard to the effects
of the accident, we discovered, in addition
to the damage done to the traces and reins,
that our leaders had fallen upon stony
ground, and cut theia knees, and other-
wise lamed themselves very badly. The
coachman, having now joined us, held a
short consultation with the guard, the re-
sult of which was that the former took
hold of one of our rejected articles, and
boned one of the waggoners to lead the
other, whilst the latter assumed his seat
upon the bench, to tool the ‘ team of two;’
and in this order we returned to the inn
from whence we had performed the burst
described, and having had another pair of
leaders put to, with everything complete,
we made a fresh start, and finished the
stage without further accident—and that
of course finishes case the first.
Case 2.—Whilst vegetating for the
benefit of my health in mine own pretty
little town, and calling one morning upon
a gentleman who resided about a mile
and a half out, 1 was foolish enough to
get into a vehicle yclept a jaunting car,
in which a horse dealer was driving a
nag which he had brought for my friend
to look at—having heard that he was in
want of one for single harness. The nag
had already been examined and tried,
and the dealer, who had been allowed to
put up for a little, to ‘ water the horse,
and whiskey the driver,’being now ready
to leave, my friend requested me to take
a drive in the car—to enable me to tell
him what I thought of the nag. ‘ Agreed,’
said I, and suiting the action to the word,
I jumped in beside the horse-dealer, who
had booked himself for an inside place,
instead of being perched upon the small
driving seat in front, and away we went
turning down a narrow lane at a short
distance from the entrance to the house,
whilst my friend, who had mounted his
horse, came cantering after us. My
worthy driver, conceiving that it would
be a favourable opportunity for proving
that his rum un to look at was a rum un
to go, commenced flourishing his whip
freely, shaking the reins, and cheering
with his most sweet voice—the result of
which zealous endeavours to go ahead,
coupled with the chattering of hoofs in
our rear was simply this; —the horse he
drove, being a young, high-spirited, and
imperfectly educated animal, immediately
broke into a canter, and it soon became
evident that its master could not again
restrain it to a trot, and that his thoughts
were in a state of confusion worse con-
founded—in short he had lost his pre-
sence of mind, or as he afterwards ex-
pressed it himself, he was ‘ frightened out
of his seven senses,’ and in this state of
‘ metamorphosis,’ as Ovid hath described
it—
‘ Nec scit qua sit iter, nec si sciat imperet!’
But here I must hold hard a little, to
state a few circumstances which will ex-
plain how my driver happened to be so
easily taken aback, and render the sequel
more intelligible to the reader, lstly.
The man was a noted and notorious hard
drinker, and at some previous period be
had met with an accident, in which his
head sustained some serious injury, from
the effects of which he was still suffering,
and having that morning primed himself
up to his proper mark, the extra glass or
two which he had got in my friend’s
house, together with the exposure to the
fresh air, and the excitement of his present
position, had completely upset him, —
rendering him at first fool-hardy, like the
child that plays with fire, and afterwards
as thoroughly frightened as that same
child when its clothes are in a blaze 1—
2ndly. I have already mentioned that the
horse was a young un, high-spirited, and
imperfectly broken in, for harness, par-
ticularly, and to this I must now add that
it was blessed with a hard mouth, in which
there was a very inefficient bit, and to
which moreover there was no curb-chain
attached ; 3dly, and lastly, the lane in
which we were progressing was so narrow
that two buggies would certainly have
‘ trembled when they met,’ betwixt the
stiff stone walls that lined its sides, and
in it there were two very awkward turns,
which divided it into three nerely equal
portions. Well as we approached the
first of these turns, I could perceive that
my driver was hauling and jerking at the
reins, appearently without the slightest
prospect of being able to pull up, and
suspecting that we should have a case of
smash against the corner of the wall, I
took the liberty of assisting him to double
the turn—a close shave, but fortunately
with nothing worse than a quenh for it!
The fellow muttered some words of sulky
displeasure at my interference, and re-
sumed pulling at the reins, with a counte-
nance that reminded mq of a ‘ stormy
sunset’ but in the course of a very few
seconds, a change came o’er the spirit of
■his dream—
' A moment o’er his face
1 The tablet of unutterable thought was traced,’
and suddenly it became as white as chalk
and cheese, as he exclaimed ‘ My God,
there’s nae chain-curb,’ and dropping
the reins, threw himself back upon the
seat —as helpless and hopeless as a very
child I There was no time to be lost,
as we were fast approaching the second
turn, and cosequently I took possession
of the reins, and did my best to steer
the run-avvay ‘ devil of a hidefull of
horseflesh,’ (as it’s owner afterwards
termed it ) whilst we now rattled along
at an increased rate, and fortunately I
again succeeded in taking the turn—l
cannot say in clearing the corner for I
di! feel a bit of a bump, and heard the
wheel grating against the wall. We had
now a straight run of rather more than
a quarter of a mile before us, at the
termination of which the lane opened
upon the high road, exactly at a right-
angle—the very corners of the walls
not being rounded off. Having reason
to fear that the horse would turn sharp
upon the road home, and ‘ dash us into
pieces small,’ against the corner ; or if
prevented from doing so, that he would
run right across the high road, and
knock his head against the wall upon
the opposite side—l determined Jo
bring him up, by some hook or crook
before we reached the end of the lane.
Accordingly, I secured a purchase, for
my knees ajainst the front of the car,
and exerted all my strength to obtain a
pull upon him ; and steering as close as
possible to the wall upon the right-hand
side, I gave the off-hand rein an extra
pull occasionally, and was happy to find
that the rub of the wheel, alternately
with one of the horses’ nose, had some
effect in checking his progress. Watch-
ing a good opportunity, therefore when
within a few lengths of the turn, I let
go the near rein altogether, and hauling
upon the off one with both hands, 1
brought the brute’s face again into con-
tact with the wall, and with a good deal
more force than formerly. The success
of the experiment fully equalled my ex-
pectations, for the horse immediately
stopped short, and a'though he threw his
bead up, and carried away the rein by
which I held him, he made no attempt
to resume his forward progress, but com-
menced kicking like a good un. I
jumped out directly, and catching him
short by the head, I coaxed him to ad-
vance a few steps when he ceased kicking
and stood quietly—but not before he had
broken one of the traces, which appeared
like the rein, to have been ‘ going, going,’
all the time, and together with the de-
rangement of the horse's beauty, composed
the whole of the damage done. My
friend now rode up, dismounted, and as-
sisted me to repair the trace and rein,
with the aid of some twine, which we
found in some hole or corner of the car ;
and having borrowed his curb-chain, I
immediate y app ied it, and getting into
the car again, after leading it round the
corner, I drove the poor stupid fellow
home—his house being fortunate y si-
tuated near the entrance of the town, for
I certain'y should not have liked to
‘ drive through Coventry with him,
that’s flat’—and that's case fourth.
‘ Prodire teuns si non datur ultra’—
thus far at least, but here we stop, for
my stock of recent cases is nearly ex-
hausted, and the one or two which I
mignt se’ect by trying back to the days
of my youth, could scarcely fail to
prove the ditto repeated of the * tale
that hath been told.’ I shal add no
more, therefore ; but fearing that I may
have failed to amuse my reader, beg
leave to fill a bumper at parting, and
to pledge for his benefit, the foi.owing
toast— ‘ Better luck next time ! The
same to you, Mr. Editor, quoth
Your’s faithfully,
CHEROOT.
SOME HINTS ON HANDLING
FOWLING PIECES.
BY AN OLD FILE.
Youth is the age of incaution and reck-
lessness, and age only acquires habits of a
totally opposite character from the oft-
repeated lessons of that sage monitress,
Experience To the junior aspirants for
sporting celebrity, then, I venture to ad-
dress a few warnings on the subject of the
incautious use of fire-arms ; for, although
a man of any age unaccustomed to their
employment may find them equally be-
neficial, few persons take late in life to
the sports of the trigger without having
in youth acquired a taste for its enjoy-
ments, and thereby laid in some small
store of knowledge, which may render
the following hints less needful to them
than to such as betake themselves for thei
first or secotfd season to the stubble or th r
wood. e
A person unaccustomed to take du e
precautions in handling a gun may, it i s
true, for a considerable length of time
escape accident to himself or another;
and this very immunity from mischance
not frequently begets a habit of careless-
ness, which in a single instant may at
one time or another be the occasion of
bitter regret during a whole life. How
necessary is it then that every one
should from the very first moment he be-
comes master of a gun, accustom himself
invariably to avoid most carefully the
minutest inattentiou which may possibly
be the cause of grave accidents, and not
await their occurrence to impress upon
his mind the urgent necessity for caution
and circumspection in the use of a
weapon so dangerous when placed in un-
skilful hands ! An old shot would as
soon go out wilh the devil himself as with
a man who carries his piece in a reck-
less manner, as though no accident could
possibly occur to any one from his care-
lessness, and who seems to consider the
caution of his companion as a sign of pu-
silanimity rather than of prudence, and
ascribes his excessive precaution to the
result of age, which in his opinion is apt
to exaggerate the likelihood ot mishap,
and to raise up phantoms of accidents,
which, albeit within the scope of possibi-
lity, are nevertheless so improbable that
to contemplate their occurrence would be
almost an absurdijy. Nevertheless there
is no disciple of the trigger, however long
his experience may be, who, if he speaks
the truth, will not admit that a gun has
frequently exploded in his hands contrary
to his intention, and this may frequently
occur when uncocking a gun, either from
numnesss of the fingers in very cold wea-
ther, or from a small piece of butter re-
maining on the thumb after having eaten
a sandwich, or from the back part of the
hammer not having been originally con-
structed with a sufficient curve forwards,
and having become highly polished and
smooth from constant use.
If a gun go off from any of these causes
and an accident ensues, it is sufficient to
allege the cause as an excuse, when, by
simply holding your fowling-piece up-
right while in the act of cocking or un-
cocking it, no mischance to any one can
possibly arise ! Ever then bear in mind,
ye young Sportsmen, that in cocking or
uncocking a gun the muzzle must be
pointed upwards; give yourselves the
habit of doing this, and the act will in a
short time become mechanical, as should
indeed every other precaution which I
shall have occasion to notice on the sub-
ject of handling fire-arms.
If you have any reason for supposing
that your powder may be a little damp
(which by-the-by it never should be al-
lowed to be), should your gun not go off
immediately after pulling the trigger, do
not hastily lower the muzzle, more es-_
pecially if any person be in company
with you, if you are neat a high road, or
if your dogs are before you. I know a
gun to explode several seconds after the
trigger was pulled, and am of opinion
that this occurrence is more likely to hap •
pen with the old flint-and-steel than with
the percussion lock. In the latter but a
trifling surface of powder is exposed to
the action of the detonating cap, and con-
sequently, if it do not take lire at once,
there is less likelihood of its doing so
after a short lapse of time than where a
considerable superficies of powder is sub-
jected to the action of fire, which may
smoulder for an instant or two, either
until it dry that portion which is dampish,
or light upon a few dry grains which may
cause an immediate explosion. Whether
this be the cause or not, every one accus-
tomed to the use of fire-arms is well
aware that they will occasionally go off
some seconds after the trigger has been
pulled; and this fact, which I have fre-
quently noticed, was never more firmly
imprinted on my mind than on one occa-
sion several years ago, when I very nar-
rowly escaped giving the son of a farmer,
over whose lands 1 was shooting, his
quietus. I was using a gun with a flint
and-steel lock, and had pulled at a wood-
pigeon which crossed me. My gun hung
fire, and, after keeping it to my shoulder
for a second or two, I was in the act of
lowering it when off it went in the direc-
tion of my companion, who was only a
few feet before me ; and lucky it was for
him that he was so near to me, for no
doubt the charge passed close to him like
a bullet, not having had time to spread,
otherwise it would have riddled his back
in good style, and possibly have crippled
him for life or caused his death. I
was so aghast at the moment, having
made sure that I had bored a hole through
his spine and that he was about to drop
down, that I could not at first speak to him
so intense was my anxiety to see whether
he would fall or not, till at length, as a
quaint Irish song says, ‘ having recruited
all my sensations,’ I made shift to ask
him ‘ where he was hit ?’ and great was
my delight to find that he had escaped all
harm. From that time to the present I
have been studiously careful, first, never
to lower the muzzle of a gun directly
after having pulled the trigger ; secondly,
never to point it in the direction of any
person, whether cocked or uncocked.
Indeed many people are so nervously
afarid of having a gun pointed at them,
that they do not even like the sight of an
unloaded fowling-piece in such a position,
a dread at which we can hardly be as-
tonished when we read of the various
accidents whieh have arisen from guns
supposed to be uncharged, and which in
many instances have been frequently
washed, but which have at length deprived
some one of life from the recklessness of
a jesting fool, who has pulled the trigger
in what he is pleased to term ‘ sport,’ and
in one moment given himself cause of
sad reflection for the remainder of his
days.
These observations lead me to caution
the second.—Never, on any account,
carry your gun on a level with and in the
direction of any person who may be
within shot of you. If you are shooting
with a companion, and are on his right
hand, while walking along you may carry
your piece over your arm or shoulder, and
when your dogs are drawing on game,
and your gun is taken in both hands, the
muzzle must be directed upwards, as it
must of course be then carried somewhat
from right to left, and consequently a
little to the side of the person shooting
with you. If on the left hand of your
companion, carry your gun over your
shoulder, across your breast, or under your
arm—though this latter position I am not
particularly fond of, as the declination of
barrel sometimes tends to loosen the
the charge of shot which of itself may
sometimes occasion a gun to burst.
Most people prefer bringing a gun up to
the shoulder to lowering the muzzle when
about to take aim ; and I think they are
right. The depression of the barrel causes
a slight unsteadiness in it, which may oc-
casion many a man to miss his mark ; but
when I make this avowal, it by no means
follows that to be able to raise the butt of
the gun to the shoulder the muzzle should
previously be pointed downwards—a most
dangerous position when a man walks up to
his dog with his gun at full-cock and his fin-
ger on the trigger. Provided the inclination
of the barrel be such as to carry its ex-
tremity fairly above the head of the person
you are shooting with, it will bo sufficient
for his safety, and also for his feeling of
security ; and in this position a gun is raised
to the shoulder, not simply by depressing the
barrel alone—which, as I have already re-
marked, causes it to waver—but by lifting
the butt at the same time. In the first
operation the left hand alone would be
principally used? in the last, both are re-
quired.
1 would advise all men who wish to be-
come quiet, steady shots, not to walk up to
their game with their pieces at full but at
half-cock, the thumb of the right hand be-
ing ready to draw back the hammer in an
instant. This plan is not only safe for young
Sportsmen, but it likewise gives an instant
for reflection and selection of the bird to be
fired at, thus begetting a more certain aim
by quelling in some respect that nervous
anxiety and flurry which the sudden ‘ whirr’
of a covey of birds so frequently engenders
in the breast of the tyro in shooting, whose
feelings are already screwed up to concert
pitch by the anticipation of sport. He may
in such case be likened to those relatives of
Bob Acres, who having, in spite of their
fears, been brought to take their stand in'
front of an antagonist whom report has
trumpeted forth as a 4 candle snuffer,’ on
the word being given to fire, pull the trig-
ger belore they raise their pistol, and there-
by place their own toes in far greater
jeopardy than any portion of their adver-
sary’s corpus.
When shooting in covert with other peo-
ple, carry your gunj as nearly as possible in
an upright position, especially when you
have occasion to cock or uncock it; and if
in a battue, and walking six or seven abreast
across a field or piece of dwarf-covert, re-
member to keep the line strictly, and not to
head your companions, but stop as soon
as any one of them has fired, and wait
patiently till he has reloaded his gun and the
word be given to move on.
As in covert-shooting a man is generally
called upon to make more snap shots than
in the field, it would appear that in advo-
cating the upright position, or nearly so, for
the gun, I am militating against my own
opinion of the superiority of raising the gun
to depressing it when taking aim ; but this
in reality is not the fact; for, prior to taking
MuUiiUiliiiA
second of his object, and ; , l 'mitead of drop-
ping the muzzle so as to tilt the butt up-
wards, lowers the former while the latter is
gradually railed to the shoulder, not by a
jerk, but uniformly and with steadiness, so
that carrying a gun pointed upwards is in
fact by no means an impediment to taking
a quiet aim. Some people lower their piece
altogether, till nearly on a level with the
hip, before they raise it to fire. Every man,
in short, has some peculiarity of his own,
which there is no reason why he should not
indulge, provided it be neither dangerous
to himself nor to others.
I now come to consider one circumstance
connected with handling a gun, which is
constantly productive of the most serious
accidents, arising, in nine instances out of
ten, not from carelessness, but from igno-
rance of the construction of the lock. I
allude to that most dangerous of all habits
of carrying a gun or putting it by loaded
and uncocked. Many very careful people
do this from extreme caution, and imagine
when the hammer of the lock is let down
upon the nipple the chance of any accident
occurring is very distant. So far, however,
from this being the truth, no position of the
lock is more fraught with danger. When the
lock of a gun is well manufactured, and has
a strong spring, it will cause a good copper-
cap to explode if let fall upon it from the
distance of an eighth of an inch, and con-
sequently, if in walking through covert, or
carrying your gun through a hedge, any-
thing catch the hammer and draw it back to
that extent, the chance is that the charge
will be ignited. lam not sure that it is not
safer in many situations to carry a gun at
full-cock than uncocked, for the hammer is
not protected by any thing from coming in
contact with small branches or other sub-
stances, whereas the trigger has a guard :
over it, which may ward off and push aside
twigs or slight boughs, supposing that pre-
caution the safest he can adopt, is not so
careful as he who knows his lock is at full-
cock, and that he of course runs some degree
of risk in so carrying it.
Now when a gun-lock is placed at the
half-cock, it is in the safest position in which
it can be used. If any substance catch the
hammer and draw it back, but not to the ex-
tent of cocking it, on falling down again it
will stop at half-cock , and will not go upon
the nipple. If, on the other hand, it be
drawn back sufficiently far to cock the gun,
all is again safe unless something at the
same time pull the trigger: consequently a
second operation being requisite in this case
before the gun can explode, the chances are
very much in favor of the security afforded
by a gun at half-cock over one carried either
uncocked or at full-cock. The fact of the
hammer of a lock, when pulled back from
half-cock and suffered to escape, returning
again to the half-cock, is one of which num-
bers of men in the habit of using guns are
ignorant, as I have verified in several in-
stances. Any one, however, in possession
of a gun can assure himself of the fact in a
moment: and every one who is aware of it
must of course immediately perceive the su-
perior degree of safety afforded by carrying
a gun at half-cock over any other position in
which the lock can be placed. Aly third cau-
tion to young shots then is, always to carry
their fowling-pieces at half-cock' when they
are not in immediate expectation of finding
game.
•To illustrate the danger of the usual
practice of carrying a gun uncocked from a
supposition of the safety of the lock while in
that state, I will mention a few cases out of
very many in which this unfortunate habit
has been attended with fatal consequences
or severe injury. Several years ago a young
man, the intimate of a friend of mine, after
having enjoyed a good day’s shooting, was
returning home with a friend who drove him
home in his gig. Lest any accident might
happen to his gun, he carried it between his
legs, and for safety had let down the ham-
mers on the nipples. Unfortunately he had
not taken off the copper-caps, undone of his
feet, happening to catch one of the ham-
mers, drew it slightly back, and the charge
was driven like a bullet literally through his
head, the top of his skull being blown off
and his brains scattered about the road. His
death was instantaneous.
A very short time back some inconsiderate
or ignorant person took a loaded fowiing-
piece with him on one of the railways. Of
course it was taken from him, and placed in
the boot under the seat. Here again the
hammers—perhaps for security as may have
been imagined—were left upon the nipples,
which were armed with copper caps in order
to be ready for action. On arriving at the
station where the owner of the gun intended
to alight, one of the porters drew it tow'ards
him by the muzzle, which was the only part
that presented itself; one of the hammers
caught against some portion of the luggage
in the boot, the piece went ofl, and the
charge killed one man and seriously injured
another.
A friend of mine last season lost one of
his fingers from loading one barrel of his
gun while the hammer was let down upon
the cap of the barrel that was already
charged. While ramming down the wad-
ding, one of his dogs in rolling about rolled
upon the hammer, drew it back, and the
charge going off carried with it one of my
friend’s fingers, and likewise inflicted so se-
rious a wound that he suffered great agony
for four months, and the stump was not in-
deed healed and his health re-established for
nearly 12 months.
I know of another accident of almost the
same nature which occurred to a gentleman
from loading his gun under nearly similar
circumstances. Having fired off one barrel
of his gun, before he proceeded to reload,
he let down the hammer of the ether lock,
but unfortunately, being a little out of order,
the edge or rim of hte hammer rested upon
the top of the copper-cap instead of covering
it, and the concussion occasioned by ram-
ming down the charge caused the hammer
to slip over the cap, which, exploding with
this Blight blow, drove the charge through
his hand and wrist, shattering it in so dread-
ful a manner that amputation of the arm
was necessarily {resorted to for the purpose
of saving his life.
These examples—were numerous others
of a like nature wanting—ought to be a
sufficient warning to all people using fire-
arms never to load them while the hammers
are placed on the cap.
In loading a gun, the cap should first be
placed upon the nipple; otherwise, if the
touch-hole be of moderate size and the pow-
der fine, the latter will sometimes be forced
out in ramming down a tight-fitting cart-
ridge. The shot must not be drive down
too closely, nor yet allowed to be loose,
but the wadding over the powder, should
be rammed fairly home, and the hammers
of the locks should be placed at half-cock
(the only safe positiou for them), and
turned away from the feet of the person
loading, while the muzzle of the gun is
directed away from his body er head.
AVhen game is wild and gets up at long
distances, a little oil mixed with the shot
will cause it to carry farther without
spreading than it otherwise would. Al-
ways, if possible, use new shot and of equal
size, and not such as has lain by for a
length of time, or has been mixed with
some of a different calibre.
To avoid the chance of accident to your
barrels, never put by your gun without
previously cleaning it with care, and rub-
ishing how soon a gun that is not. properly
taken care of will become houey-combed
and dangerous. If put by loaded, it will
speedily become corroded with rust, and if
fired in this state there is great risk of its
bursting, an accident which very rarely
occurs withoutinflicting serious injury.
In order to prevent your gun from lead-
ing, grease the edge of your wadding with
mutton fat or suet, and hold them to the
fire till the fat is absorbed. Some people
applaud mercurial ointment for the same
purpose, but I have little doubt any other
unctious Substance will answer equally well,
as the mercury can form no chemical com-
bination with the iron that could at all
preserve it, but rather the reverse. If a
gun get foul from frequent shooting, a
tight-fittin metal wadding occasionally used
will somewhat clear the barrels.
Having dwelt upon the necessity of never
pointing a gun at any person with whom
you may happen to be in company, it ie
almost needless to say it should never bs
directed towards yourself; and yet it is ex-
traordinary to see how many persons who
may be obliged to cross a wide ditch or a
high hedge first hand their gun to their com-
panion, holding the piece by the muzzle and
presenting him with the butt, which is as
much as to say ‘ Whatever risk is to be run
you will not be the sufferer.’ The butt-end
should invariably be kept in your own
hand, and the barrel handed to your com-
rade in a slanting position, so as to point
the muzzle away from his body while you
present him with the side of the barrel; and
remember ere you do this, always to put your
locks on the half-cock, for you cannot be
sure that the weight of the butt-end may
not alter the position of the muzzle, ond that
in drawing up the gun your friend may not
shoot himself if the hammers are on the
caps or the locks are cocked.
In jumping a hedge or ditch, gun in hand,
if you have reason to expect that game is on
the other side and will be sprung by the noise
you are likely to make, do not on that ac-
count be induced to carry your gun on the
full-cock. A slip, a stumble, or a mistake
of any kind, may be fatal to you or to some
one else, or perhaps to a favorite dog. More-
over, people who are in such a hurry never
shoot well, and if you have accustomed
yourself, according with my directions, to
cock your gun only just before you are going
to fire, you may jump in comparative safety
with your piece at half-cock, and be as ready
to blaze away as at any other time.
The three great points then for avoiding
accidents are—first, to keep your gun clean ;
secondly, never to point at any one ; and
thirdly, to carry it ut half-cock, and these
three rules cannot be too deeply engraven
on the recollection of all those who handle
fire-arms, for which reason 1 have recapitu-
lated them.
I cannot conclude this paper without ad-
verting to a very pretty little invention bv
Lieutenant-General Shrapnell, of shell
notoriety, by which a gun may be primed
with a percussion pellet by simply pulling
a trigger. The invention was designed for
the use of the army, and was intended to
facilitate placing the percnssion-powder
over the charge—a process which is some-
times both tedious and uncertain when a
copper-cap is to be placed on the nipple by
the clumsy finger of a common soldier.
In Lieutenai $.General Shrapnell’s gun
the top of the nipple is hollowed to receive
a percussion-pellet about as large as a pin’s
head, terminating in a chamber contain-
ing a nnmber of these pellets, and moving
upon a semicircular rod connected with the
touch-hole. Every time this trigger is
pulled, so soon as it comes in opposition
with tho hollow over the nipple, it deposits
one pellet, for which there is just room, and
then flies back to its place along the bar-
rel of the gun.
To the soldier the advantage of this sim-
ple and instantaneous mode of priming
a gun fifty times in succession must be ob-
vious, and it likewise has its value for a
Sportsman, who, if his priming fire, can
have another pellet in its place in less than
a second and without taking his gun from
his shoulder.; whereas with the coppor-cap
he would have to remove the old cap and
put on a new one, during which operation
his chance of a second shot would be lost.
General Shrapnell’s guns are also made
on a pivot connecting the barrel with the
stock, the angle of which may be done more
or less acute by means of a but
since most Sportsmen buy guns tho stocks
of which are bent so as to suit them, I do
not consider this inovation as very likelv
to succeed. It is nevertheless ingenious,
and may suit those who like to keep a gun
to lend to short or long-necked friends.
[advertisement.)
GENERAL ELECTION.
The writs are all issued, and Dickinson stands
For city and borough, and far squatting lauds :
His qualifications cannot be denied
While his principles always are on the right side
Unfurling his flag for a superfine end,
He asks for support as a general friend :
He honors the cloth ; pays his court to the fleece
And adds to the exports’ and imports* increase
He deals with the factor, and you find
Such cloths, tweeds, and doeskins made up to
your mind :
East, west, north, south travel—in vain will you
seek
For Wrappers so stylish, and Sacks so unique :
His Codringtons*, Waterfords’, Paletots delight
The wearer by warmth—the beholder by sight;
He has tartans and checks too for Scotia true,
Bright green for Ould Erin, for England true
blue;
While tricolored France and America’s race
Will find for an outrig his shop is the place.
Thus useful to all, he your voices demands,
And looks to be met with a full show of hands :
Then rush to the poll with your plumpers and
vote
For Dickinson—sure that he’ll ne’er turn his
coat!
WAR WITH RUSSIA.
BMOUNTCASTLE hastens to assure
. the public, that the war in Europe has
not stopped Ilia usual supply of materials for
the manufacture of French hats, of which he
has received a large assortment, ex Seringa,
patam, and other late arrivals ; and lie is now
enabled to offer his celebrated patent ventilated
Exuder hats (so much enquired after) warranted
to keep the head cool in the very hottest
weather. These hats are absolutely necessary
to any gentleman exposed to the heat of the
sun, and they have the advantage also of being
perfectly watertight.
Best beaver hats, ladies’ riding hats made to
order. An extensive assortment of velvet and
cloth fancy caps gold navy lace, gold cord,
livery bands, &c.
French Hat Manufactory,
77, Market-street.
REMOVAL.
MR. GILFILLAN, portrait painter,
&e. has removed from Gloucester-street
to No. 2 Harrington-street. 73
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
JAMES CHARLES THORNTON,
respectfully informs his friends, and the
public in general, that he has removed from that
part of the Labour Bazaar lately occupied by
him, to Mr. George Hill’s buildings, 216, Pitt-
street, where lie will he able to work for his
customers at much lower charges than he has
ever been able to make, having reduced his
expenses to one third what they have been.
N.B.—All work warranted as usual, in writ-
ing, No tarred rope used in flax Mattresses,
op y
THE WOOL-PACK INN,
market,
B
near the hay
SYDNEY,
KGS to inform his Friends in town
*"■* “’“"try, and the Public eeneralli,
that he has r.c ntly received, direct from
London and to his especial order, through tl”
I'XV. , ' * ■«£-»
REAL JAMAICA RUM,
selected with great care by one of the most
eminent judges of the article, and that he is
now ready to accept orders for any quantity of
I lie above wholesome liquor, from a bottle to a
puncheon, either in or out of bond, upon the
following terms:— r
Bottled, per dozen 245.
In wood, per gallon 12s"
Publicans and others in the trade Hill, up in
taking a large quantity, meet with a corres-
ponding liberality.
Mar ell’s Erandy, with a choice selection of
Wines, Ales, tire., &c , always on hand.
The advertiser would respectfully call the
further attention of gentlemen from tile inteiior,
to the commodious alieiations which have of
late been effected in his establishment, enabling
lum lo offer visitors to the metropolis comfort,
able and convenient quarters during their stay
tu Sydney.
The premises adjoining the WOOL PACK
aie so universally known to possess capaci ius
yards lor teams, with ample and economical
accomodation for their attendants, that it
seems superfluous here to enlarge upon them.
June 25, IBtB
STOCKTON CLOTHS, TWEEDS,
BUCKSKINS, DOESKINS, &c.
MESSRS. FISHER - * DONALDSON
F)EG to impress upon both wholesale
-U and retail purchasers of their Cloths, that
great advantages are secured them by the late
arrangement* effected at their
ESTABIJSIIMENT IN KING STREET,
where transactions take place immediately with
the Manufacturers, thereby giving the pur.
chaser the benefit ef what otherwise would be
thrown into the pockets of Agents and their
deputies
LOST,
AN Oil Painting of “ Mine Uncle,’*
in the act of “ taking in ” his fig, [The
soi-disant relative who has forked out half a
bull for this advertisement, affectionately re-
marked the execution of his gallows clever
“ Nunkey.”
THE THOROUGH-BRED ARAB HORSE,
4a 2i 3 Tjr mm
(Imported by Mr. Plaistowe,)
VyiLL STAND, at Wollingary, and
* ' travel through Jamberoo, Dapto, and
W’oilongong.
TERMS-.
Tor one Mare X‘d.
Groom’s fee, ss.
To persons sending more than two mares
(bona fide their own property) a reduction will
be made.
Application to be made to the owner, at
Wollingary, Dapto.
WILLIAM J. BROWNE.
TO STAND, THIS SEASON,
AT
TENTERFIELD, NEW ENGLAND,
“PLANET,"
BY “ ST. GF.ORGE" OUT OF A WELL-BRED
MARE.
f pLANET n is a dark brown with
1 black points, and is an excellent foal
getter. u St. George” by “ Seagrave,” dam by
** Governor,” her dam “ Anticipation,” by
“ Binningborough,” out of “ Expectation” by
“ Herod.”
Terms, £2 10s per mare.
Apply to the groom at Ten ter field. 75
To Clerks of Courges—Secretaries of Yatching,
Cricket , and Rifle Clubs—Members of Pigeon
Matches Players at Quoits — Ringers , Wrest-
lers, Pugilists Pedestrians Cockers —«
Dog Fanciers—and every other species of
sportsmen. We shall, at all times, feel•
greatly indebted for any authentic infor-
mation, either past or future, having reference
to the chosen sports of any of the above.
THE SPOUTING TIMES is published every
Saturday morning. Country Subscribers wilb
be received, on payment of Six Months in
Advance, viz.—Thirteen Shillings Parties,
subscribing in the middle of a quarter will only,
be charged from their commencing. Terms.
or Advertising— 2s. 6d. for the first inch and
under, and Is. tor every additional inch, each,
insertion. Advertisements must specify on.
the face of them the number of insertions, or
they will be continued, and charged accord*
ingly till countermanded.
Agents Required in the Various Districts.—
Those gentlemen who feel disposed to act,
not previously known to Mr. Johnson, will
be good enough to forward as early as pos-
sible Sydney references.
TOWN AGENTS.
Mr. D. Donovan King-street, near the
Rainbow Tavern;
„ Moore George- street* oppo-
site the old Burial
Ground.
~ Benjamin Sims Parraraatta-street.
COUNTRY AGENTS.
Where Agencies are not formed, gentle-
men wishing to have the paper regularly for
warded must cornmunicat with the Office m
Sydney, and enclose the required advanc, of*
at least, 13s. Our Agents moreover are re-
quested to bear in mind, that in no case wil
the name of a Subscriber be received units*
he has complied with the regulation relative
to prepayment.
