

THE SPORTING TIMES.
“ EVERY MAN TO HIS HUMOUR^T^
No. 1.
SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1848.
Price 6d.
■W THE SPORTING TIMES is published at the Office, No. 334, Pitt-street, North, every Saturday Morning. .THE QUARTERS end the 30th September, 31st December, 31st Maroh, and 30th June, respectively; at which time only can a Subscriber decline, and
then, only on payment of arrears. ADVERTISEMENTS must specify on the face of them the number of times they are to be inserted, otherwise they will be continued till countermanded, and charged accordingly. NO ADVERTISEMENTS can be withdrawn after Six
o’clock, p. m., on Thursday; and no alterations made aftor Six o’clock, p. m., on Friday.
Breeders of Blood Stock in New Holland !
Members of the Austialasian Turf ! Hardy
devotees of the Chase! venturous Yachters!
deadly Shots! gentle Anglers! Swordsmen!
Riflemen,! Cricketers! Archers! Racket
and Quoit Players ! Whips! Pedestrians!
Boxers! Cockers—aye! ye Skittle Players !
Dog Fighters ! and other extraneous ap-
pendages to this world of ‘‘laughing
life,” Gentlemen and Gents ! —allow us
to 're introduce ourself, at this instant
(though unseen by the generous hand
who form your brigade) making to you,
one and all, the most innumerable kind of
how we are master of. For as all Nature
abhors a vacuum, so man detests a blank
—whether it he the blank of love, where
the heart is left to wear itself away in
constant throbbing, and its existence is
carried on only in sighs of lamentation
—whether it be the blank of ambition,
where the victor tastes only the poison of
his laurel, and the monarch feels nought
hut the weight of his crown—or the blank
of friendship, where the confiding one is
left naked in the world by the treachery
of his quondam companion—whether the
blank of fortune, where each accession of
wealth proves only the forerunner of new
misery—of power, whose first lesson is to
show how iil we are to he obeyed—of
fame—of fashion—of learning—of ad-
venture —all, all are oppressive to the
heart of man, and lead him rather to
encourage the activity of evil than to to-
lerate the stagnation of good. To fill up
that blank which our secession has been
said by corleous friends to have cre-
ated in the Sporting Chronicles of this
country, is our present purpose. May our
efforts be successful. Sportsmen of this
giant Isle, extend the friendly grip to
an old messmate, and in company let
us “ hark forward.” Doubtless, startled
at the suddenness of the enterprise, one
here and there of the right sort may
exclaim, “What have we here?” and
yawning rub his eyes -
“ Another chronicler, strange tales to yield
Of hair-brain enterprise by flood and field;
Another weekly candidate to fill
My study-table and news-vendors’ bill.”
To such we shall appeal for an arrest
of judgment, anticipating in reply a
favorable intimation, since notwithstand-
ing the existence of one Journal in New
South Wales, whose columns are suffi-
ciently comprehensive to comprise the
most lengthened details of passing sporting
occurrences, no reason can surely be
shown why, by the adoption of an honor-
able rivalry, our cotemporary should not
be a leetle sharpened in his paces. Com-
petition is the very life’s-blood which sets
energy agog ; and literary competition,
where argument can be opposed to argu-
ment, and fiction put to flight by fact,
has proved itself of all others the most
beneficial to the interests of independence
and integrity. Rapidly to areive at these
desiderata is our aim, convinced that
there is no class of readers more worthy
of candour and fair dealing than the
liberal-minded body to whom we espe-
cially dedicate ourselves. Nor can it he
out of place here to tender our feelings of
true gratitude for the numerous promises of
support already received, and we co pledge
ourselves that the undertaking shall he
conducted with that spirit of liberality
without which it would be idle and pre-
sumptuous to calculate on success. We
come to the Tournay then in somewhat
rusted armour, but if permitted to re-
main in the lists, TIME will enable us to
burnish up our goose-quill habiliments,
and to the seemingly incongruous group
to whom we have above allied our fate is
the ultimate award entrusted. Whatever
be that decision, our course is clearly
marked out; and in the strict avoidance
of any pandering to pruriency of taste,
of vomiting forth the ravings of envy or
malice, or of intoxicating with licentious-
ness, we shall endeavour to adhere
“ To those who hold the name of Sportsmen dear,
And the rough virtues of this land revere ;
Who love the sports that to uphold them tend,
Be these our patrons these our cause be-
friend.”
JUDGE AND JURY CLUB.
An Association under the above title has
recently been formed in Sydney, ap-
proximating in its general outline to the
character of those of the Mother Country.
Partaking largely of the serio-comic
style, where the dignity of the Judge
is made ludicrously to clash with the
jocund festivity of the bottle companion ;
the importance of the Attorney-General,
somewhat impeded by his visible attach-
ment to “ cold withoutand the charta
of King John rendered more complete
and vigilant in its operation by “ twelve
good men and true,” who sitting within
an enclosure, ever and anon “met th*ir\
parched lips and blow the curling j
cloud"— the Club bids fair for success.
Of course, being but in its infancy, things j
are yet at sixes and sevens, but from the
report of a trial furnished by a Barrister
on that circuit, it will be seen that the]
object in view is solely to create harmless
merriment, whilst its direct tendency
must encourage reading amongst the
members, giving them at the same time
a ready opportunity for its application.
Their plan at present is as follows :
One member trumps up a charge against
another, applies to the authorities, and
obtains leave to file an information. The
alleged offender, on the subsequent even-
ing of the meeting, is placed in a sort of
dock, a jury is empannelled, counsel en-
gaged on both sides, and the inquiry
proceeded with. The usual appurtenances
to a court of justice have been prepared ;
and between the somewhat seedy-looking
wig of the Clerk of Artaigns, the stately
mien of the regularly dressed Policemen,
the well powdered top-kpots of the brief,
and briefless, upon entering the chamber,
a stranger would be almost to
decide against its being but a mockery ;
though we must admit, the fact of seeing
a lighted cigar between the lips of the
presiding genius, does not exactly lead
one to the conclusion of his being “ a real
lord.”
Shortly after seven, the Chief Baron
arrived in a state * carriage, drawn by
four of Cankett’s thoroughbreds, and at-
tended by high f Sheriff. His Lordship,
who was received at the principal en
trance by the Attorney-General, Messrs.
Chitiyhook and Pollack, Oily the
Clerk of Arraigns, Tipstaffs, and other
officers of the court, proceeded at once
to his robing room, and at the expiration
of a few minutes entered the court. A
jury were immediately sworn upon a
newly-bound book of the Bank of Aus-
tralia notes. His Lordship, previous to
enlightening them upon the important
duties they would have to discharge,
ordered the Tipstaff to bring him a “ go ”
of brandy and a bundle of cigars. Hav-
ing moistened his judicial clay with the
spirit-stirring beverage, and applied a
lucifer to his Havannah, the Chief Baron
proceeded with his address as follows :
Gentlemen of the Juby,—l need scarcely
admit how sincerely I congratulate you on the
extension of the Royal prerogative to this the
antipodes of the seat of Imperial Government;
but ever instigated with an inherent love of her
subjects, in whatsoever clime betwixt the Poles
their various fortunes might have placed them,
our Royal Mistress indulges the fond hope of
stimulating the loyalty of her subjects less by 1
austere acts of coercion than by indubitable
proofs of reciprocity of attachment. She feels,
and unceasingly displays the full conviction,
that the descendants of men who through-
out ages of tedious international strife and j
foreign warfare have ennobled themselves by |
I the most heroic conquests abroad, and the
achievement of even more gigantic enterprises
at homo, arc indeed well worthy of extended
freedom ; and I may not be considered to speak
too boldly, when from this judicial seat I ex-
press my hope that ere long another and a
stronger instance of that earnest sympathy in
the interests of one important section of her
dominions will be proclaimed aloud to tho world.
Unfettered by prejudice of nationality, I have,
from the moment when I stepped upon the
threshhold of maturity to the present hour, re-
lied upon the solidity of those forms of govern-
ing which originate in local necessities. The
first duty of a young and virtuous mind is to
teach itself self-controul: as the realities of our
transitory state open upon us, we find it ineura-
| bent to expand our views; marriage, with its
obligations of paternity, gradually but surely
increases the scope of our governing principles;
with the increase of the domestic circle man’s
anxieties, not his cares, should increase; he sees
his very blood ebb and flow through other veins,
and these household gods of nature, unlike the
Penates of old, have to be guided and guarded
and ruled and governed with thoughtful earn-
estness. As the old man with the scythe jogs
on, affairs of Church and State may also creep
apace—municipal and legislative matters im-
prove their necessary obligations, and indivi-
duals are not unfrequently called to add to the
catalogue of their requirements the partial
formation of regulations connected with the
political and social departments of the State.
The effects of early mental training are thus
gradually brought to bear, and what was origi-
nally but of use to oneself is now in active
operation for the benefit of mankind. Reward
has thus step by step followed in the wake of
labour, since the self-satisfying restrictions we
in earlier years imposed for the government of
our own passions have diverged into noble out-
| lets of utility to our species. Happy consum-
ation !
These comments may, gentlemen, seem wide
of the mark, but when you cast your eye over
; the calendar and find that the most aggravated
case on tho record naturally links itself to the
subject upon which I have dwelt, you will appre-
ciate my intentions. The case of the Queen v.
Gammon seems to me to possess features of such
universal interest that enquiry need scarcely
stop at the conclusion of your resolves. The
| world at present scarcely turns steadily upon its
pivot—Earth tremblingly rolls on in its diurnal
route—France has proclaimed its manifesto
against Tyranny—lreland and the Irish are
agog to disenthrall the
“First flower of the earth and first gem of the
sea”
from too close an alliance with the sister king-
| dom—Poland is resuscitating—Russia, with its
1 all potent Czar, is on the watch—Austria is in
commotion, while her armies are on their march
—and Rome has threatened to depose her Pope.
Shall we then be idle ? shall we calmly look on
and see our institutions trampled on ? and worse
than trampled on they would be if persons un-
fitted by attainments were to be entrusted with
the worldng of their well intentioned purposes.
Let me not be supposed to anticipate either the
guilt or the innocence of the party accused.
His fate will be regulated by the evidence ad-
duced. and to that evidence I most devoutly
pray your special and unbiassed attention will
be devoted.
There are numerous minor crimes and offences
upon the list before me, but I deem it only ne-
cessary further to add, in connection with what
I have already stated, that of all duties which
ordinary mortals are called upon to fulfil in
i relation to the well-being of society at large,
I that of a Juror is, of all others, the most sacred,
though requiring little more than rigid purity of
design and solemn remembrance of the oath
enforced, satisfactorily to discharge.
After the conclusion of his Lordship’s
address, William Gammon was lugged
into the dock by two constables, who had
each a fast hold of him by the ears The
unhappy delinquent presented a pitiable
and most ludicrous appearance. Through
the sympathy of some confiding and,
strange to say, trusting tailor ! the pri-
soner contrived to decorate his uncouth
corpus in a motley-looking suit. Instead
of his accustomed greasy and well-venti-
lated tweeds, he was arrayed in a rather
swell-mobbish coat: the color, blue;
lining, white serge ; buttons, South Aus-
tralian copper; his waistcoat, of a Glenlee
butter hue; and his cervical portion
swathed in an enormous roll of unwashed
calico. The Clerk of Arraigns read the
indictment, setting forth that on a certain
day, in a certain month of the year of
our Lord 1847, to wit, on the Ist Nov.,
he, the said William Gammon, not hav-
ing the fear of God, or of the Judge and
Jury Club before his eyes, did attempt to
impose upon —to gull—to hoax—to do‘
to diddle—to chouce—to chizzle—to
wheedle—to deceive—to seduce--tohum-
bug several of his fellow-citizens of the
City of Sydney, into the absurd, ridicu-
lous, and preposterous notion, that he, the
said William Gammon, was a fit and
proper person to represent their interests
in the said City of Sy Jney ; and further,
that he, the said Gammon, did on sundry
days and nights, and in sundry places,
lanes, alleys, holes, corners, cocklofts,
and garrets in the aforesaid City, impu-
dently, unblushingly, and falsely assert
in the presence of the said citizens that he
was possessed of the due and necessary
qualifications to be their representative :
and that in order the more grossly to im-
pose upon their credulity, and blind them
to his shameless incompetency, that he
hoctffcsed them with certain dangerous
and deleterious drinks or fluids, composed
of rum and water, colonial swipes, to-
bacco juice, and other injurious com-
pounds, from the effects of which many
of the said citizens were unable to find
their way to their respective houses, and
were therefore consigned by her Majesty’s
constabulary in this city to the ignominy
and disgrace of a night’s lodging in the
watch-house, and on being brought before
a Justice the next morning, sentenced to
four hours exposure in the public stocks.
The indictment further averred, that on
I the Ist day of November, 1847, as afore-
said, the said William Gammon did, in
pursuance of his audacious and nefarious
scheme to entrap the said citizens to vote
him to be their representative, appear at
a certain place appointed for the election
of City Councillors, to wit, a market
chiefly used for the sale of potatoes and
pumpkins, and other nutritious articles of
diet, and situate in George-street, Syd-
ney, and there, on the day named, did
have himself nominated and seconded,
by two suspicious half-drunken-looking
dupes or accomplices, as a competent and
qualified. party to represent the interests
of the aforesaid citizens in the Corpora-
tion ; and furthermore, that in order the
more completely to effect his daring pur-
pose, he did announce and promise the
said citizens that if they would return
him he would 1 treat’them to several first-
rate feeds and pic-nic spreads, at Rush-
cutter’s Bay, the Fig-tree, and Balmain.
The prisoner, on being asked was he
guilty or not guilty, tremblingly mur-
mured “ Not guilty.” In truth, so appa-
rently stricken did he appear to be with the
sense of the disreputable situation in
which he stood, that his knees shook
under him—a cold clammy sweat fell in
drops as big as onions from his nob, and
his teeth jabbered together with as much
noise as the rattling of a dice box. He
imploringly begged of the Judge to order
him a glass of rum and water ; but his
Lordship refused, telling him that a per-
son accused of such an offence as he was
charged with, was not deserving of even
a mug of water. The poor cieature
shrunk into a corner of the dock, and said
no more.
The Attorney General then rose and
spoke as follows :
May it please your Lordship and Gentlemen
of the Jury,—lt becomes my duty, on behalf of
the Crown, to drag before you as atrocious a
criminal as ever figured in the annals of the
“ Newgate Calendar that faithful, but, alas !
painful record of those depravities of head and
I heart to which, it is my sorrow to say, so many
of our species are prone. The prisoner at the
I bar, who rejoices in the euphonius name of
! William Gammon, or Bill Gammon, as he is
familiarly styled by his pals and associates, is
charged with a foul and impudent attempt to 1
gull, chizzle, and humbug several of his fellow-
citizens to elect him to be their representative ;
in the Corporation of this great city. Now,'
gentlemen, we are all aware that if vice of any 1
description is unchecked in its progress in the !
first instance—if it be allowed to run rampant
with impunity, it will attain such heart and
strength, and become so regardless of decency
and self-controul, as not alone to set at defiance
all those laws which regulate tho decorum and
morality of society, but frequently to so outrage
them as to render itself amenable to these
mor estringent laws which tend to the con
servation of society itself, and to its protec-
tion from insult and injury. It is a common
feeling to all upright minds to detest a cha-
racter that disguisedly, sneakingly, and sur-
reptitiously endeavours to creep into our con-
fidence, and to win from us either our favor,
our money, or our influence for the purpose of
promoting some evil and corrupt design of his
own at the expense and to the prejudice of his
dnpes. No man, or body of men, relish to be
humbugged or imposed upon. But of all im-
postors, your public impostor is the greatest;
and should, when detected in his scht.nes, be
visited with condign punishment and disgrace.
A cheat may so far impose upon any one of you,
gentlemen, as to induce you to lend him a ( bob,’
or to treat him to a pot of Blaxland’s * heavy
wet.* He may even be so dexterous as to bor-
row your umbrella of a showery day; and,
should he stand high in your estimation, perhaps
chizzle you into giving him a “ general invita- ,
tion”—that is, gentlemen, a kind of tolerating '
permission to grub at your expense at the rate 1
of three meals per diem, or twenty-one times a
week. No doubt, gentlemen, such characters
abound here as well as in other places; in
fact, they are as plenty as paving stones all over
the world ; or, to use a more easily appreciated
simile in this colony, as blow-flies round our
butchers* shops in summer weather. But, gentle-
men, the tricks of this class of impostors are
necessarily limited to a narrow range. They
are the shallow weak efforts of low cunning
minds to fatten on the too easy credulity of their
victims. But your public humbug is a more
dangerous character Hi? designs are not prac-
tised upon one, two, or three parties He takes a
wider field for his operations. He walks publicly,
but not undisguised;'l abrua.d. |Like the sheep in
wolf’s clothing, or like a mock patriot—and there
are such characters, gentlemen—spouting from
the hustings his mawkish sentimentalities—he
seeks under this counterfeit presentment to en-
snare the unwary, and to insinuate himself into
the good graces of the unthinking. You heard
the indictment read, in which Gammon is
charged with having attempted to humbug a
portion of the citizens of Sydney to send him
to the Corporation as their repsesentative. This
is not the first effort of the kind that has been
made by such persons; but, gentlemen, from
motives of mercy they were allowed to pass
unpunished. The evil, however, is now becom-
ing so formidable—the nuisance of a set of
boobies and bosthoons, who have about as much ,
notion of the requirements necessary to eonsti- |
tute an eligible Common Councilman as they
have of the abstrusities of Liridley Murray, or
the profound Metaphysics of Cocker, seeking
municipal honours—is becoming so glaring and
disgusting, that I feel I would not be doing my j
duty to this great community if I did not make ;
use of the power in me vested to protect it from
a repetition of such insults. I need not tell you,
gentlemen, of the importance of those institu- j
tions, and of the great and manifold benefits ‘
they have been productive of in every country I
possessing them. Look to London, Dublin, and
Scotland, and see what has been achieved in
those cities through the agency 6f municipal
insitutions. But, then, gentlemen, look to the
character of the men who compose them. Are
they not a fine jolly set of solid, plodding,
earnest fellows ? men who have their heads
screwed on in the right place ; and who, though
they may, like Jack Falstaff, “ lard the lean
earth as they walk along,” were never known
since the establishment of Billingsgate Market
to say “ No” to a basin of good Turtle Soup,
i What more pleasing spectacle can it be to behold
than a jolly liquorish old London Alderman
waddling up Snow "Hill of a fine frosty morn-
ing, on his way to the Mansion House, his
good humoured countenance redolent of eggs
and muffins, and his portly and capacious person
steaming like a caldron of boiling water, with
that wholesome moisture, caused by his noble
anxiety to be early at his post in order to watch
over the interests of his constituents, and see
that the money levied on them in the shape of
Taxes, was not squandered among a few clerks,
who did little or nothing, and were worthless;
instead of being expended improving and
beautifying the city. To such men is it that
Londua owes much of its greatness. - Tho-is
men seek not to be a Common Couneihnen for the
base and beggarly purpose of having the public
money applied in kerbing or mettling a few
perches of a street in the immediate vicinity of
a house or two they might have to Let. More-
over, gentlemen, the characters we are consider-
ing have some pretensions to that scarce com-
modity ‘ brains ;* conjoined, too, with a practical
knowledge of the world, and a respectable ac-
quaintance with business. Contemplate such
functionaries as those I am depicting, gentle-
men—and then turn your indignant eyes upon
the prisoner. Look at the wretch, gentlemen.
Does he not cut a pretty figure in that dock ?
And yet that fellow is the type of a set of pre-
tenders and humbugs who make a practice of
creeping from their contemptible obscurity, and
annually thrusting themselves into public notice.
For about six weeks prior to the month of No-
vember in each succeeding year, this kind of
vermin is to be found buzzing about the City
like so many muck flies in their ephemeral and
1 gilded wings, trying, in this guise to pass thera-
selves off as specimens of the genuine larvae.
j Behold the prisoner. Is he not a goodly sample
j of that class of maggots. Observe how he
I shrinks from your gaze—exhibiting the trem-
, bling, palid, downcast look—ever indicative of
guilt. Do you not fancy, gentlemen, that you
see the words “ Cheat and Humbug” engraven
on his “ Nob ?” Gentlemen, I must request your
particular attention to the coat the prisoner
wears. Flimsy and artificial as it appears, it
forms an important feature in the case against
him. It is not often gentlemen that I descend to
notice such trifles. But when I find that the
distinguishing badge of one of those would-be
Common Councilmen is not his abilities—his
acquirements—his high moral worth—or his
knowledge of, or aptitude for business—but a
beggarly rascally yard and-a-half of broad
cloth—and that, tricked out in this mounte-
bank raiment, he struts abroad with all the
importance of the jackdaw in the peacock’s
plumage—and attempts to palm himself off upon
the public as a “Mr. Somebody.” We have
many such characters at present in our town,
playing off their “ fantastic tricks” at the ex-
pense of the citizens. Sydney abounds with them.
We have medical humbugs by the dozen—legal
quacks in scores—and various other kinds of im-
postors ad infinitum. But of all the humbugs
that have lately attracted public notice, those
aspirants after civic offices are the grossest and
most unblushing, as well as the most indefati-
gable. They do not confine their labours to any
f particular time or place ; and thejr impudence
;is so great, that they hesitate not to poke their
: offensive presence, whether known or not, into
j every man’s private parlour. And, like all
| tricksters and imposters, they have certain places
of rendezvous, generally in low pot houses, where
| they are to be found, croking and chuckling over
the success of their days* operations; and
hatching plans of their future proceedings. Gen-
tlemen, there will be conclusive evidence laid
before you as to the prisoner’s guilt of the charge
now preferred against him. It will be proven
that he disguised himself in the coat which he
now wears, and so concealed, was traced from
his own hovel to the residences of several
respectable parties in Sydney, to whom he stated
that, in compliance with the requisition of a
numerous and intelligent portion of the electors
of Bunkum Ward, he was reluctantly induced to
offer himself as a candidate for the honor of
representing that Ward in the City Council;
aud therefore begged to solicit their votes and
influence. It will also be shown, gentlemen,
that the prisoner, in furtherance of his diabolical
design, invited a number of citizens to one of
his nocturnal retreats, where, under the pretence
of “ treating” them, he administered to them a
variety of compounds—some “hot”—some “cold
without”—which had the effect of making a few
of the strongest “ see double;” of so “ blinding”
three more of his victims that they could not
“ see a hole in a ladder”—and of rendering the
remainder so uproarious, that they sallied forth
into the public streets, where they committed a
variety of outrages—some twisting knockers off
the door, others letting fly a few paving stones
at the lamps ; and not a few making a desperate
attempt to scale the market shed, for the atro-
cious purpose of stopping the movements of the
town clock. In fact, gentlemen, so violent was
their conduct, that Constable B 99 had to whistle
for assistance in order to lodge them in the
watch-house. It will also be established, tnat the
prisoner did, on the day named in the indictment,
on the Ist November, 1847, have himself pro-
posed and seconded as a fit and proper person to
represent the interests of Bunkum Ward in the
Corporation. I have now, gentlemen, placed all
the circumstances of this abominable case before
you. It is for you to deal with it in accordance
with the evidence I shall adduce. His lordship
will explain to you the law on the subject: and
offer you such further assistance in arriving at a
just decision as you may require. Before con-
cluding, however, I must state, that should a
“ doubt” arise in your mind as to the prisoner’s
guilt, you are bound by the rules of this Court,
as well as by the rules of a much higher Court
—the “ Court of conscience”—to give that doubt
“ against the prisoner, for the law does not con-
sider such criminals as Gammon to be entitled
to the “ benefit of a doubt.”
John Cauliflower Silly, examined by the
Attorney General :
Where do you live, sir ? I live in Durand’s
Alley.
What are you, sir ? lam a “gentleman at
large.”
What business do you follow ? No business
at present; I sometimes “ follow the hounds.”
Did you ever belong to any business ? Yes—
I was in the “ Horse Marines.”
Did you ever “smell gunpowder?” Many
times.
Where ? At reviews.
Were you ever in an “ action ?” Yes.
Where, sir ? I was in an “ action” in the
Supreme Court.
How did you come to be engaged in that
action ? A fellow pulled my nose, and I fired
away at him for “ damages.”
Did you get any ? Yes—but not sufficient to
pa) my lawyer.
Do you know the prisoner at the bar ? Some-
times I do; and at other times Ido not.
What do you mean, sir ? Why, if he happens
to have a good coat and a clean shirt on him, I
make it my business to salute him ; if otherwise
dressed, I give him the “ cut celestial.”
What’s that, sir ? If I should see an ac-
quaintance seedily togged out, approaching me,
I invariably look up to the sky, and gammon to
be seeking for the “ comet” till he passes. This
I call giving him the cut celestial.
Do you remember meeting the prisoner before
the month of November last? Yes, frequently.
State the circumstances under which you met
him to the Jury ? The prisoner is my landlord,
who was in the habit of calling upon me every
Monday morning for the rent. Having specu-
lated rather largely in brass candlesticks—a
speculation which proved more unprofitable than
I imagined—l was obliged to allow my rent to
fall into arrears. Early in the month of October,
the prisoner, accompanied by two suspicious
looking persons, like bailiffs, visited ray house, |
as I thought to levy on my goods ; but I was i
agreeably deceived by Gammon assuring me in j
trie most friendly manner possible, that it was;
not his desire to “ press me,” and that he would !
give me a “ receipt in full” for all monies I owed
him, if I would draw up a Requisition, begging
him to become a candidate for Bumkum Ward,
and append my own name to it. Naturally glad
to escape the payment of that disgusting tax—
rent—upon a man’s labour and industry, I com- !
plied with his request by penning a flaming
requisition, as emanating from the electors of
Bumkum Ward, and added about a dozen names
to it—none of which were the names of electors.
The prisoner then spoke a good deal about
what he would not do for the Ward; and said
in particular, that he would have a lamp past
fixed opposite the doors of each of his tenants ;
and that he would give orders to the Tank
Stream not alone to provide them in buckets to
hold water, but supply them with that wholesome
fluid, free of all cost, tax, or imposition.
Did you meet him often afterwards, and
where ? He appointed me one of his committee
men ; and we used to meet once a week at the
Signof the “Calves Head,” Gutter Lane.
What used you do there ? Drink,
i Used you do anything else ? Yes, Smoke
and chew Tobacco.
What else ? The Secretary used to write
something on a sheet of “Foolscap,” which he
1 called a “ Report of the Proceedings,” and
read it to the “ Meeting.”
Who was the Secretary ? He was a gentle-
men who hawked “ goose quills” and Ink bottles
about the streets ?
Was he paid for his services ? Yes—the
prisoner directed the landlord to let him have
half a pint of Rum to his own cheek, each night
of meeting.
Did the prisoner take any part in the pro-
i ceedings ? As soon as he found himself swipy,
he made speeches.
What used he to say ? That I could’nt tell;
I he spoke a good deal about Nuisances, but
I whether he referred to the “ Inspector” or to
the Nuisance of a man being obliged to pay his
Tailor I can’nt say.
What’s that you say about a Tailor ?
Why, the prisoner had ordered a rum looking
coat, which he called his City Costoom; but
grumbled sorely about having been threatened
with a summons, if he did not “ stump up”
thirty shillings—the price of it.
Did you ever see him wear it ? Often—he
always put that and a clean shirt on him, those
nights he visited the “ Calves Hoad.”
Is the Coat he now wears like it ?
I should say from the “ cut” of the thing, it
must be the same Coat.
Did you ever see the prisoner write ?
Never; but he told me he could write his
name.
No matter what he “told” you, sir.
Tell us nothing but what you saw.
How many of you used to meet at the “ Calves
Head ? Generally, about a dozen and-a-half of
us.
At what hour did you generally break up ?
About midnight.
I suppose you sometimes drank a little freely ?
We invariably got drunk.
llpw did you manage to get home, then ?
Why, only one or two of us used to reach
home; tho rest generally got into the watch-
house.
Were “you” ever there, Sir? No: I had
interest with the Police. I was personally ac-
quainted with some of them; and generally
treated them to “ Nobblers”—so they always
let me stagger homeward the best way I could.
Did you see the prisoner on the Ist November
last, and under what circumstances? I saw
him in the Market, in the dress he now wears.
At first, he was admiring a wonderful pumpkin;
but he afterwards got a friend to propose him
as a candidate for Bunkum Ward.
He was not elected, I believe ? A very good
reason why, he got no one to vote for him.
What did he do after the election ?
Why, just as he was sneaking away from the
Booth, he was “ nabb’d” by two traps, on a
charge of being a Humbug and Impostor, and
brought to the “ Lock-up.”
Did you see him since then ? No—never
saw him till this morning, when he was placed
in the Dock.
From the knowledge you have of the prisoner,
do you think him a proper person to represent
Bunkum Ward in the City Council?
Mr. Oily—l object to that question, my Lord.
We do not want the witness’s knowledge about
the fitness of any man to be this or that. The
Attorney General might as well ask him did he
think Louis Philippe a proper person to be
King of France. Moreover, my Lord, it is ex-
pressly laid down in Snob and Snubkins* Re-
ports, page 2367, that “No witness is competent
to form an estimate of another man’s qualifica-
tions, if it be shown that the witness is a person
addicted to chewing tobacco.” Now, my Lord,
the witness before the Court distinctly stated
that chewing tobacco formed a portion of his
pastime at the “ Calve’s Head.” I defy the
learned Attorney General to Contradict that
fact.
The Chief Baron—What do you say, Mr.
Attorney ?
Attorney General—l have nothing to say, my
Lord, more than that I have known several very
distinguished commanders and commodores of
coal wherries stationed at “ Wapping Old
Stairs,” London, who were very partial to the
use of the “ weed” in that form.
Chief Baron—Without presuming to pro-
nounce upon the merits or demerits of tobacco
in a half masticated state, I am coerced by the
authority cited by Mr. Oily, to decide that the
question cannot be put.
Cross-examined by Mr. Oily.—You say you
were in the “ Horse Marines ?” Yes.
How came you to leave that corps ? A taste
for the blisses of wedded life induced me to throw
up my commission.
It was after that you became acquainted with
the prisoner ? Yes.
Now, on your oath did you not persuade the
prisoner to enter into a partnership with you in
a “ lucifer match” speculation ? I don’t recol-
lect.
Answer me, sir ? There was something about
it, but I forget it now.
Did you ever keep a “ one horse chaise” in
Sydney ? I was obliged to do so, in order to
bring home my marketing of a Saturday night.
Pray, sir, was it the same tailor made your
coat that made the prisoner’s ? It was.
Why did you not tell the Jury so before ? I
did not think it necessary.
Who gave you leave to think sir ? You and
the prisoner used to get drunk together ? Of
course.
Did you ever make speeohes, or propose toasts
at any of your convivial meetings ? I might
have done so.
Can’t you say positively whether you did or
not ? I was told the next morning that I had.
How do you pass your time now ? I drive a
hearse.
Did you not use all your influence to have the
prisoner returned for Bunkum Ward ? I did.
On your oath, were you not paid for coming
up here to give evideuce against the prisoner ?
I decline to answer that question.
Why did you try to have him elected ? Be-
cause, I thought I might make him useful in
urging the Council to vote a sum of money for
the repairing of the street way opposite my
house.
You may go down, sir.
Peter Pigskin called—making his appearance
unencumbered by outer garments, and display-
ing to the Court a naked arm of prodigious
muscular dimensions.
Well, Mr. Pigskin, I believe you are a knight
of the cleaver ?
P. (in great confusion, thinking tho title
alluded to senatorial rank), “ Yes, your honor,
I was elected an alderman about four years ago.”
Aye—aye my good man, ’tis clear that you
are in a very be-nighted state—l mean to ask
you the sort of trade you follow. What are you,
Peter ?
I am, as I said before, an Alderman and a
Magistrate of the City.
Well, never mind. Do you know the prisoner
at the bar ?
A good deal better than I’ll trust him.
Do you remember his offering himself for
Bunkum Ward ?
I do well, for I was on his committee.
Then you thought him an eligible candidate ?
I thought him as good as many in the Coun-
cil—for instance there’s old Torn.
Never mind witness, we don’t want your
opinion on that score; no doubt there are some
unfitting characters in the Corporation, but as a
body I suppose you entertain the greatest respect
for them ?
Not I. I would’nt give a dog’s (here the
witness suddenly checked himself), I have no
faith in ’em at ail.
Well, look at the prisoner, and tell the Court
whether or not the coat he wears is emblematic
of the rank of a councillor ?
Yes, that’s the sort of thing they sport.
Sport sir! What do you mean ?
Why, some of ’em goes to church in it, and
some does it strong now and then in the pit of
the theatre—others show off when driving out
their wives on the road upon Sundays*
But you disclaim such unsubstantial append-
ages to honor ?
Why, to tell you the truth, sir, I prefers my
cut away. .
Aye, but I believe, Mr. Alderman Peter Pig-
skin, that a difference exists between the costume
of a mere common councillor, and one of your
condition.
Why yes, I believe there is a sort of a cloak
thing, like two on em cut it fat in once at the
Legislative Council.
Chief Baron.—Really, Mr. Attorney, you are
taking a somewhat widely marked range.
Attorney General.—Quite pertinent to the
case, my lord—but however, you distinctly re-
member Gammon standing for a seat ?
Standing for a seat , sir !
Yes sir, “ standing for a seat ?”
I remember about seven years ago, he used to
sit at a stand at the corner of Market-street,
selling oysters.
Oh ho ! You would like to be merry at my
expense, would you, sir ?
If you plase, sir, I have no objection to your
standing sam
Come, sir, reserve your punning till you find
yourself amongst your fellows at the Town Hall.
Mr. Oily.—Surely, my lord, my honorable and
1 earnedfri nd doesnotmeantocastsuch wholesale
imputations upon the Municipal body as is natu-
rally implied in tho term “fellows” The Ex-
King of the French had recently too much reason
to regret the hasty application of such an
obnoxious term to a Parisian mob.
Attorney General.— Well sir, your compeers ,
as the term Jellow cannot be sustained, for 1
conclude there are but few academecians amongst
the group. I ask you again, sir, in plainer
terms, do you know that the prisoner repre-
sented himself as a fit and proper person to
represent Bunkum Ward in the City Council ?
I do.
Cross-examined by Mr. Oily.—You have said
that you were on Gammon’s committee ?
Yes.
Pledged to use every endeavour to secure his
election ?
Yes.
And yet you aver that he was only “ as eligible
as many others ;” how do you reconcile your
conduct then with your present evidence?
! Why, he promised to get a lamp up at our I
oorner, and to do the paving in front of our
place, and to have the water laid on to our house,
and
That will do, Mr. Alderman, your philosophy
far exceeds your philantropy.
Thomas Lord iiliphant, and Amicus Curioe
Driscoll, were both called, but not appearing to
their subpoenas, the Attorney-General closed
his case, when Mr. Oily rose and said
May it please you my Lord and Gentlemen of
the Jury:
The Attorney-General, in his statement for
the prosecution, feboured hard to make it appear
that the prisoner at the bar is a person not alone
insensible of shame and decency, but a very
monster of presumption and liumbuggery. Now,
gentlemen, I am bound to say, that 1 did not
expect to hear in this, the nineteenth century—
the most enlightened century that came to pass
since the invention of gunpowder—such un-
constitutional doctrines as my learned friend has
broached day. His speech breathes nothing
short of an attack upon the “ liberty of the sub-
ject.” A noble and philanthropic English peer,
in speaking of the rights of a landlord over his
tenantry, propounded the wise and humane
principle, that a “ landlord has a right to do 1
with his own as he likes. ” Now, gentlemen, if a
lord of the soil has such power over his “ kind,”
why should not a single individual be allowed -
to do as he pleases with himself? I’ll put a 1
proposition to you: suppose a man is am-
bitious of making himself an “ ass,” what right ■
thas the first law officer of the Crown to inter-
pose between him and his liking ? The renowned 3
and sagacious Dogberry felt peculiar pleasure
in “writing himself down an ass;” and he did i
so, gentlemen, unchecked—for there was no 1
arbitrary power in his days to step in and ■
trample upon his assiniue aspirations. Apply
this principle, then, to the prisoner, gentlemen, ■
and ask yourselves, as men, ought he not be ,
permitted, if such were his fancy or desire, to i
make himself the veriest buffoon that over played
the “ ape.” On this principle I rest rny defence, ,
gentlemen. The prisoner may be a blockhead •
for all that I know or care; but that is no reason i
v,;hy he should not be at liberty to render
himself ridiculous and impertinent. It is
his “ right,” as a “ man,” to do so. Tom
Paine will tell you that. Therefore, do not,,
by your verdict, interfere with that tight. The.
prisoner, gentlemen, ba» a wife and large family 1
depending upon him for beefsteaks and mutton.
chops. He is a hodman by trade; and the con-
sequence will be, that if you find him guilty, hot
may not be able to carry his hod for some time.i
Where, then, are the “chops and steaks” toi
come from, gentlemen ? .
The counsel for the defence having called no
witnesses, ,
The Attorney. General waived his right of-
reply, and His Lordship proceeded to sum up •
going minutely through the evidence, and ex-
plaining the law clearly and forcibly previous to'
putting the case to the jury, who, without
leaving the box, returned a verdict of guilty. -
We regret that want of space precludes tho"
possibility of giving the Chief Baron s heart-
rending admonitions at length: so solemn and
impressive—so full of pity, yet so dignified;
pourtraying so fully the man, yet so admirably
sustaining the Jndge-that not only the unhappy
prisoner vyas deeply affected, but most of the
jury were in tears. His Lordship concluded as
follows:—“The sentence of the court is, that
you Guillanmus Gammon, which without much
stre ch of imagination might be translated into
Gulling Gammon, be stripped of your present
garments, to wit, the blue coat lined with serge
the calico cravat, and the vest of glenlee butter
hue, and that those articles be suspended in the
Market shed, till torn down by tho indignant
crowd, or the aaolian anthems of Heaven • and
that you do further liquidate a debt of twelve
shillings scored up against your name by autho-
rity, being the cost and damage sustained bv
the brewers agent, for the supply of one dozen
of Guinness Dublin Stout, polished off by the
appointed officers of this honorable Court ”
The Court rose at ten o’clock.
Lxetee Hall—ln the midmost rush of Lon
don business, and all the clatter of its vehicles
turn aside through an open door, and what d<
we see ? A large and lofty room every yarc
of its floor and galleries crammed with human
chiefly female life, —a prodigious sea of bonnets
and under each of these a separate sentient set
of notions, and feelings, and passions, all in somi
measure stirred by the“same tides and gales,—
every one of them, however narrow at the sur '
face, in depth unfathomable. Altogether, irres-
pectively of our present purpose, and oil tin !
most general grounds, it may be safely said,tha
in one of these great Exeter Hall meetings then j
is more to strike us than almost anywhere elsj '
we know. The room is said to hold four thous
and persons; and from its form they are al
clearly visible at once,—all of the middle o
upper classes, well-dressed, though often man
of them in Quaker uniform, and at these time i
probably three-fourths of them women. Sue! !
assemblages are in truth, for a large part of th
members, by far the most exciting outwari i
events of life. The faces themselves are alon. i
quite enough to prove no small share of mors
culture in the mass. The delicately curve, j
mouths and nostrils, the open yet quiet an. !
observant eyes, and a look of serious ye !
pleasurable elevation, mai k very clearly a chosei '
class of our country. Ihe men are of courg: .
less pure and single in their stamp of feeling
business has marked on them its contractednes
wiih its strength. Yet these also have an ap
pearance of thought, although with some cox ,
combical importance and complacent theologica i
primness. Take, however, the whole assemblug. j
—all it is and all it represents—we know no 1
where anything like it could be discovered. N j
Roman Catholic, no despotic, no poor, no bar >
barous, no thoroughly demoralized, we fear w 1
must add. no very instructed and well-organize, i
community, could ever exhibit such a gathering j
—voluntary, be it remembered, chiefly female !
all with money to spare, united for such remot.!
and often fantastic objects; above all, unde ;
suca leaders. For in the kind of persons guidin/ :
these bodies, and in their discourse, consists mor j
than half the wonder. In the House of Com ]
moss, in the Courts of Law, we may hear non ’
sense enough. But in these places it is not th j
most vehement, the most chimerical, in othei
words, the most outrageous and silly, who boa j
the ehiefest sway, but much the contrary. Not I
in such Strand meetiugs, for the purest an '
noblest purposes, it is plain enough that a lou i
tongue, combined with a certain unctuous silki j
ness of profession, and ihe most dismal obscura
tion of brain, may venture with success upon th
maddest assertions, the most desperate appeal: ;
and will draw sighs and even tears of sympathy i
by < the coarsest nonsense, from hundreds < ■ i
amiable and thoughtful persons.— John Sterling
“Jeames, who was tho oldest man 9 ”--
“Doesn’t know, sir.” “Well, who was’th"
oldest woman, then ?” « Ann Tiquity, sir.” '
A correspondent of the Suffolk Chronicle puH
the invasion question thus:—lt required aboi,J
150,000 French soldiers for to subdue a lev
savage tribes in Algeria; how many million'*
nd how many lustres would be required fur t‘ :
I onquest of England ?
* One registered at the City Council House,
f A long Scruttonish-looking gent.


WOLLONGONG.
R.
JOHN
DINGWALL
has been appointed Agent
for tliis Journal in the above
District. His receipt will be
acknowledged.
|| EPORTERS will be sent
from tin's Office to all the
great Race Meetings of this
and the adjoining Colonies,
including Adelaide, Western
Australia, Port Phillip, Hobart
Town and Launceston ; and
to all the great Prize Battles
which take place between the
latitudes of Port Essington and
the most southerly point of
Van Diemen’s Land, — upon
due intimation being given.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ike, Editor begs to intimate to the Sporting
Public generally, that Questions for solution,
especially where bets are depending, will meet
with immediate and scrupulous attention.
Querists will be pleased to address their
post-paid communications to Mr. T. Revel
Johnson, who is exclusively connected with
this Journal.
Slab llut We must refer you to Solly Reuben,
who is one of our sub-reporters in matters
connected with the P. R.
Ovens River shall hear from us pri-
privately.
7he celebrated Harry Rood’s custom was
to allude to them in this way—“ Hie highly-
gifted gentleman with the dirty cravat and
greasy pantaloons." “ The eloquent friend
to reform, in the thread-bare coat." “ The
able supporter of the present Ministry, with
the new boots," §c.
I '^ => , usual with new perio-
dicals, we have experienced
serious difficulty in getting
out this our first issue. Its
manifest imperfections in
many jmrts shall hereafter
he remedied, but we are,
however reluctantly, forced
to appeal to the considera-
tion ol our readers.
THE FORTHCOMING ELECTIONS.
fctie&porttngCtmcfS
SYDNEY, JULY 1, 1848.
With the exception of Mr. James Macar-
“lur> M > - . Cheeke, Mr. Sprott Boyd, and
Mr. P. Grant, no candidates have yet made
public their “announcements of intentions”
to “dare the field.” How is this? At a
moment when the civilized world is all agog
in regard to constitution-making; whon
court-cards are very unceremoniously shuf-
fled in tho pack (nay sent packing by demo-
cractio trumps) ; when provisional govern-
ments, provided with every thing but provi-
sions are playing a very noisy game of
‘ Whisht;’ —the constituencies of this colany
are taking things very quietly. In order to
set the game going, some keen speculators
are endeavouring to get up demonstrations,
and to persuade the sleepy ‘ bourgeoisie’ that
they really ought to be “getting up and
doing aud certain of these agitators have
munificently sent advertisements to the
morning papers, in which Lambs are
roasted ; flockholders denounced in any
thing but bland terms ; and the commercial,
agricultural, pastoral, and othor interests]
called upon to open committee-rooms, to
broach casks, to remember the “ Battle of
the Registration-courts, and to rush to the
poll.’’ We had some idea of describing the
scene at the Royal Hotel on Monday even-
ing fast; but upon looking over our notes
we found the programme to be so unique in
incident, that we shall reserve for the
next Christmas Pantomime the exqui-
site Tom Foolery enacted by Messrs.
Anonymous & Co. on that occasion. By
tae way. Gilbert YYright rayther astonished
the natives by several brilliant streams of
eloquence. “ Ayre we Nidiots or not?” ex-
claimed that gentleman, as the torrent of
bis preoration nearly flooded tho chair;
“ We certainly ayre,” said his hearers ; and
a speedy retreat was soundid by the con-
veners of this meeting! Wo might effer
some fine moral sentiments in reference to
these displays, but doubtless our readers
Have had quite enough
Of this sort of stuff.
MR. JAMES MACARTHUR.
By referring to our advertising columns,
our readers will find an Address from
the above-named patriotic gentleman, to
the electors of Camden, expressive of his
intention to offer himself as a candidate
for the honor of representing that district
in the next session of the Council. As
Mr. Wyld, the late Member for Camden,
after his arduous duties, seems anxious
to enjoy a little tranquility and repose, it
is not anticipated that Mr. Macarthur will
meet with any opposition. We shall
therefore hail with much pleasure this
gentleman’s accession to the Legislative
force of the Council, feeling satisfied that
from his enlarged experience of the colony,
and from the high order of his talents and
acquitements, he will be found to be a
most desirable acquisition.
“KINGS " VERSUS THE “PEOPLE.”
The late events in France have fearfully
repeated a lesson often preached to Mo-
narchs, but seldom heeded by them.
They have pronounced with terrible
emphasis the solemn fact, that the Majesty
of Kings must bow before the Majesty of
the People, when the two happen to clash.
Louis Philippe tyranised over the French
—robbed them of their just rights and
.'privileges—imposed fetters on the mind
of France by shackling the freedom of
speech, and gagging the Press ; and en-
deavoured to ■ Mm ruUo>' into a
slavish submit ‘q .ill.
Since his usurpation of the throne in
1830, he devoted all the machinery of
his great power, ably assisted by pliant
and obsequions tools, to the destruction
of the liberty of his subjects. In the
month of Angust, 1830, he pronounced
the following oath on ascending the throne
of France; —“ In the presence of God I
swear faithfully to observe the Consti-
tutional Charter, with the modifications
set forth in the declaration : to govern
only by the laws : to cause good and exact
justice to be administered to everyone
according to his right : and to act in
everything with the sole view to the inte-
rest. the welfare, and the glory of the
French people.’ In the month of Feb-
ruary., 1848, he was compelled to abdi-
cate and seek refuge among a foreign
people—a fugitive from his country, and
a renegade to his sworn principles.
Truly does Lord Byron say that—
“ Tyranny
Is fur the worst of treasons. ’ Dost thou deem
None rebels except subjects ? The Prince who
Neglects or violates his trust is more
A brigand than the robber chief.”
The people of France, to their great
praise be it said, are not to be trampled
upon with impunity. I hey hurled
Charles X., from his throne; and they
did well. They obliged Louis Philippe to
seek safety in an ignominious flight; and
on the ruins of his monarchy established
a free and popular government, under
which the people will enjoy an equal
i participation in the framing of their own
laws, and not be ground down, as they
have hitherto been, by a set of cruel and
oppressive edicts, which not alone de-
prived them of every remnant of liberty,
but reduced them to a state of the greatest
wretchedness—and all to foster the heart-
less avaricious cravings of a tyrant, who
had but one selfish object constantly in
view—the aggrandisement of himself and
his family. The lesson taught by the
French in this instance will not be lost
on the people of other countries. Already
the King of Prussia, rather an arbitrary
ruler, has deemed it prudent to relax his
authority a little, and make concessions to
his subjects In the Italian States the
same course is being pursued. Thus is it
that “ The People,” irrespective of creed
or country, are asserting their rights and
achieving their independence, in defiance
of tbe throned despots, who lack the
“power,” though they have the “will,”
to hold them in subjection and thraldom.
In Ireland the revolution was greeted
with an enthusiastic sympathy, that
clearly denotes the earnest throbbings of
the much abused people of that country to
be “ free.” Indeed, we should not be sur-
prised at shortly having tidings that an
Irish Parliament met once more in the
“Old House,” College Green, Dublin.
THE TURF.
Our Sporting Leader, already in type,
has been unavoidably omitted, to give
place to the very recent Sporting News
from England.
THE RING.
Sinclair and Sparks again matched.
These men are to have another shy on
Wednesday next The Enfield Pet fight-
ing at odds of £lOO to £BO, at which
quotation, viz.—s to 4, money can here
and there be got on trifles. The ar-
rangements were entered into on the first
day of the late Homebush Meeting, and
in accordance with those terms, the first,
second, and third deposits have been made
good, the fourth and last has to be staked
on the evening of Monday next, the 3rd
instant, at Byrnes’, in York-street, when
the toss for choice of ground will also
take place. Our next number will con-
tain all particulars connected with the
mill ; and parties wishing to secure copies
will find it prudent to leave orders at our
office during the earlier portion of the
week, as being hut in our infancy, no
additional sheets for chance sale will be
struck off.
THE ENGLISH RING.
THE “GREAT GO” A “LITTLE GO.”
DOWNFALL OF JOHNNY WALKER,
AND TRIUMPH OF TOM LANE—EXCITEMENT
EXTRAORDINARY.
(From Bell’s Life in London, Feb. 20 )
The “ important” event! to which the
Fancy Circles have been so long looking
with feverish anxiety, and the result of
which it was fondly anticipated would
revive the falling fortunes of the Ring,
and restore its faded reputation, came off,
as was announced, on Tuesday ; but, alas 1
so far from its being attended with cir-
cumstances of a redeeming character, it
was, as Jack Scroggins would have said,
had he been alive, “ quite t’other. ’ Uni-
versal discontent and disgust attended its
issue, and in this feeling we premise by
stating, that Johnny Walker is the sole
participator, with what justice the details
which it becomes our unpleasant duty to
lay before our readers will best determine.
With the denouement of this affair all the
world is already acquainted. In twelve
rounds and fifteen minutes! the would-be
champion of the light weights—the “ re-
nowned Johnny!”— was ingloriously
licked without a struggle, and certainly
without a mark of punishment upon which
to hang an apology for his defeat. In
truth, he stepped out of the ring with as
| firm a step and as burly an aspect as he
; entered it, simply declaring he would
; fight no more ! thus stamping himself with
i the indelible stain of cowardice, or some-
| thing worse, and creating sentiments of
| astonishment aud indignation to which
the assembled multitude could scarcely
give utterance, so sudden and unexpected
was the proceeding. We have thought
it expedient thus early to strip our tale of
all mystery, and to come at once to its
“lame and impotent conclusisn ;” and,
having done so, we shall proceed to give a
sketch of the incidents by which this
event has been attended.
| So much has been said and written of
, Johnny Walker, and he has so long occu-'
pied a favourable position in the annals of
pugilism, that it would seem almost
superfluous now to enter into details of his
early career ; and yet his late conduct
offers such a contrast to that which had
! previously characterised his bearing in the
| Ring, that such a course seems desirable,
more especially for the information of
those who be not deeply read in the history
jof the roped arena. Walker, whose real
| name is Badman, was born on the Ist of
j Jan., 1819, and first entered the P. R. with
i Johnny Hannan on the Ist of November,
| 1839, at Wheeler’s End, Oxfordshire, for
! a stake of £25, and here, after standing
two hours and fifty-four minutes before a
consummate antagonist, was beaten. On
the 2d of April, 1839, he again entered
the ring with the same man, at Littlebury-
| road, near Newmarket, for an increased
stake of £5O a side, and this fight was
protracted three hours and forty-eight
minutes, when he again succumbed to
superior science, although an impression
thus early existed that had he possessed
more “ devil” and less caution the “ boot
; would have been on the other leg.’’ Still
I he took a fair share of beating, and there
! were no misgivings as to his courage in the
i minds of his backers ; on the contrary,
' he was shortly afterwards backed against
Bill Jones, for £5O a side, and on the 2d
June, 1841, won his first battle in
minutes. His next essay was with Fred
Mason (the Bull Dog), whose ferocious
style of onslaught, it wus whispered,
would put his courage to the test. They
fought for £6O a side, at IJanniker, near
Bagshot. January 18, 1842, when, after a
battle which was protracted for 62 rounds
in 78 minutes, the superior science of
Walker enabled him to take the steel out
of the indomitable Mason, and he was
again a conqueror ; but his victory on that
occasion was tarnished by his having re- :
peatedly jobbed tbe unfortunate Bull Dog
in the head when his hands were down,!
and he was incapable of resistance. He j
now made a step in advance in point of
stakes, and was backed against Ned Adams
for £lOO a side ; they fought at Brecknell,
Berks, July 5, 1842, and in 44 rounds
and 83 minutes, the gallant Ned had to
succumb to his antagonist. During the
fightthere was a tremendous heavy shower,
the chilling effects of which produced a
serious effect on Walker’s loins ; this,
however, he shook off, became “ himself j
again,” and won cleverly. It ought to be
stated, however, in justice to Adams, tyho
is as game a fellow as ever pulled off a
shirt, that at the time of the fight
he was labouring under serious ill-health.
Walker’s fame may be said now to have
been established, and as he could not
obtain an opponent of his weight, he suc-
ceeded Jack Tisdal, as the host of the
Grapes public-house, Albermarle-street,
Clerkenwell, having taken unto himself
a wife. Here he did not prosper and, not
feeling in his element, he disposed of this
nostelrie to his former antagonist, Bill
O 7
Jones. From thence he went into Scot-
land, and being a great favourite with
officers (to whom it was his practice to
give lessons) he was profitably patronised.
From Scotland he again returned south,
and after vicissitudes in the provinces he
arrived in London, as a master of “ the
art” obtaining the countenance of several
noble and distinguished officers in the
Life Guards, at whose instance heaccepted
a challenge from Sam Simmonds, of Bir-
mingham, to fight for £2OO a side. This
event came off at Lakenham Heath, Suf-
folk, December 15, 1847 ; and it is no
doubt fresh in the memory of many of our
readers that he won that fight in a
masterly manner in 13 rounds and 31
minutes, thereby increasing the good
opinion of those by whom he had been
backed, and who not only presented him
with the whole of the stakes, but af-
forded additional proofs of their liberality.
He became a sort of pet with the regi-
ment, and was constantly called upon to
give a state of his qualities in the sparring
arena, not only with the officers but with
the men. At this season a challenge from
Tom Lane came forth for £2OO a side,
and hence the recent match which has ter-
minated in the manner we have described.
He went into training in due course, ac-
companied by Ned Adams, and the match
was fixed to come off on the 15th of last
December, previous to which he took a
benefit, the proceeds of which were a little
short of £l5O -additional proof, if any
were wanted, of the high estimation in
which he was held, and in fact his friends
deemed him invincible, a sentiment in
which he obviously participated himself.
On his return to his training quarters,
the departure from which so near the
approach of his fight was anything but to
be commended, he was seized with in-
fluenza— a fact which he most cul-
pably witheld from his backers until the
very eve of the day on which he was to
enter the ring. On reaching town, the
secret was made known, and a noble
backer most generously gave £125 smart
money to induce Johnny Broome, one of
the principle representatives of Lane, to
acceed to the battle being postponed to
Tuesday last. From this indisposition
Walker quickly recovered, and his friends
reposing every confidence in him, left
him to take those steps for his future train-
ing which hist,own experience might sug-
gest. For a month he remained we might
almost say, inactive ; and at the end of
that period he called upon us in company
with Ned Adams, stated that his health
was perfectly restored* and that he was
then going into close training at Brighton,
prayed us to disregard anything that
might be said to his prejudice, and rest
assured that he would beat Lane more
easily than he had beat any other man,
and declaring his conviction that he would
make him cry “ Enough’, in thirty
minutes. That he did not go to Brighton
we have reason to know. Tom Spring
took the trouble to drive him to Ashead,
Box Hill, and elsewhere, to select an eli-
gible spot, to which he was to return
when he came from his projected trip to
the coast; but instead of fulfilling his
original intention, he started off'to Calais,
as we have heretofore stated, and there
continued his exercise, we have been cre-
I dibly informed, with gieat industry, ex-
Ihibiting snch physical qualities as raised
him high in the estimation of those
fore the fight, but instead of going to Box,
among our French neighbours who are
capable of judging of condition. He re-
turned to this country about ten days be-
Hill, as had been arranged he thought pro-
per to take up his quarters at the farm of
a person near Romford, and hence his be-
ing reported as having been seen in Rom-
ford Market. He justified the step he had
taken by saying it was a private house,
and he had the opportunity of taking his
exercise in the forest without being inter-
rupted. On Thursday week he wrote to
his influential backers, in answer to a
note despatched to him from them, in
which he says, “ 1 amhappy to hear Lane
is well. 1 am quite well myself, thank
God. I shall feel happy to come up to town
on Saturday, and shall be at Rhodes’s at
: two o’clock. I shall walk up as far as
| Whitechapel, and take the omnibus to
the Strand, and nobody will see me ”
On Saturday he did accordingly come up,
and set-to at the barracks apparently in
the highest spirits and rudest health, and
in favour of the latter, the opinion of a
medical man of great eminence was ob-
tained, who declared him to be in stamina
and muscle equal to the most sanguine
wishes of his admirets. One of the ob-
jects of this journey was to obtain addi-
tional handkerchiefs for the purpose of
distributing among his friends; but
whether he was gratified or not has not
come to our kuowledge. Suffice it to say
that, after calling at our office, and ap-
pearing in the best of health, he returned
to Essex. We may here remark that., for
the previous month, he had dispensed with
the attendance of Ned Adams, although
a guarantee had been given that his ex-
penses would be paid ; and thus he re-
mained alone, every reliance being placed
on his disposition to take care of his own
interests as well as those of his friends, On
Monday last he returned to London, and
proceeded to the Coal Hole, the host of
which (Mr. Rhodes) has invariably treated
him with generous hospitality and unmiti-
gated kindness. From thence it would
seem he paid a visit to his wife in the
Borough, with whom he dined, and did not
again reach the Coal Hole till between
eight and nine in the evening, where he
was met by two of his backers, and by
Jem Wharton and Ned Adams, the former
from Manchester, and who, it was arrang-
ed, should accompany him to the ring. He
was also visited by Tom Spring, and ap-
peared to be in the highest spirits, remerk-
ing,that if he did not win it would not be
for want of condition, for that he never
was better. He did not drop the most re-
mote hint of physical disability, and all
was, as may be imagined, confidence and
agreeable foreboding. We have been thus
particular in our details, lest any doubt
might arise as to the foundation of the
good opinion which his admirers evidently
entertained, and to the just hope which
existed in their breasts that they would
have a fair, manly, and honourable fight.
We shall now turn to Tom Lane, re
specting whom rumours had been afloat;
foremost among which was the assertion
that he was actually afraid of Walker,
and that upon the first occasion, when
they were to have met, it required all the
arguments of Johnny Broome and his
frie'nds to bring him to the scratch. This
impression led to an apprehension that
after all he would not appear when called
on, and that all the expenses which had
been incurred in procuring a special train
would be forfeited. It will be borne in
mind that we last week reported the re-
sult of the enquiry made through the
medium of the electric telegraph, as to
whether he was coming up or not, and
that the reply of Hammer Lane, his
brother, was, that he would positively be
up the next day.— The next day, and the
day after, however elapsed, and he did
not arrive. Monday came, and still there
were no appearance of the expected hero.
The anxiety of Johnny Broome now be-
came intense, and he again had recourse
to the electric messenger, through which
he at last informed Tom, his brother
Hammer, accompanied by other friends,
had started for London by the one o’clock
train, and would be at Euston-square by
five o’clock. This intelligence mitigated
suspense, and at half-past five the wel-
come mugs of the expected phalanx glad-
dened the portal of the Rising Sun in
Air-street, and Johnny Broome having
secured accomodation for his guests on
the southern side of the river, they pro-
ceeded thither forthwith, while their ar-
rival dissipated all those doubts and fears
which led to a very general anticipation
that there would be “no fight.” Io re-
ference to Tom Lane’s performance pre-
vious to that to which we are now referring
and which, has gained for him the envi-
able position of “ the champion of light
weights,” they maybe summed up inai
narrow compass. It is known that he is i
the brother of Hammer Lane, a gallant
and distinguished member of the hardware
school. He was born in February 1825,
and made his debut with Joe Warehatn,
whom he fought and beat for £l5 a side,
12 rounds, 28 minutes, near Walsall, in
May, 1844. He next met Sam Martin,
for £bo a side, on the borders of Bucks,
January 21, 1845, and became the win-
ner in 41 rounds and minutes.
Billy Jordan then claimed his attention,
and this man he beat on Lindrick Com-
mon, April 6, 1847, in 73 rounds and
73 minutes. Sam Simmonds, who had
been defeated by Walker followed.
Against this man he was backed for £lOO
a side, and on July 6, last year, after a
hard-fought battle, which lasted 37
rounds and 45 minutes, he added him
to the list of his conquests, although it
was deemed by those who were present
on that occasion that his victory was far
from brilliant; and comparing his tactics
with those of Johnny Walker, in con-
nexion with the same man, the success of
Walker was deemed still more certain.
Opinions, however, differ in these matters,
and such was the increased confidence re-
posed in Lane, that a match with Walker
for £2OO a side, was made, and he,
like Walker, went into training, to pre- j
pare for the new field on which his
prowess was to be called into action.
His training quarters were Box’s cricket
ground, Brighton, but while there some
busy meddler brought into action certain
dormant warrants which had been issued
by the magistrates of Bucks in conse-1
quence of his fight with Simmonds at
Moke. Flight became inevitable, and
after sundry removals he returned to Bir-
|minghara, his mental and physical quali-
| ties being thus materially disturbed, and
his training suspended; finally, he, in
.conjunction with Jem Burn, Simmonds,
Indigo, and others, put in bail to meet
j the charge of breaking the peace, at the
j next Buckingham Assizes, and he was
once more free. This interruption it
was supposed, soured his mind, and di-
j minished his confidence, and to this may
be ascribed the disinclination which it
! is said he manifested to meet Walker on
the 15th December, a meeting which we
have already said was protracted by the
illness of Walker, himself. That he did
not attend rigidly to the rules of training
during the period of adjournment we
have reason to believe ; and this, added to
former impressions, led to the doubt and
uncertainty to which reference has been
made, but which were finely removed by
his actual appearance in London. In the
interval which existed between the 15th
December and the 15th Instant, there was
a good deal of idle speculation afloat.
Walker, it was asserted, could never
regain his pristine vigour, aud hence
Lane was quoted as the favourite in the
betting ; but we believe there was more of
talk than action in these matters, for we
did not hear of any actual bets being made
on the subject, although in all probability
there were some private investments, of
which we have no personal knowledge.
The moment it was ascertained, however,
that both men were well, and that the
fight would actually come off, speculation
commenced in good earnest, and bets to
almost any amount might have been ob-
tained at 6 to 4 on Walker, hundreds of
persons carrying their money into the
market without being able to get on at
that price ; and some, rather than not get
on, actually laying 2 to 1 in large
amounts. There was not a sporting house
in town in which we think hundreds, if not
thousands, might have been picked up, if
the friends of f ane had been sufficiently
plucky to accept the odds offered. Hav-
ing thus brought our preliminary details
to their conclusion—and by these, we
trust, we have made the position of the
combatants intelligible—we shall proceed
to describe the events of the day, to which
all looked forward with so much anxiety.
THE SPECIAL TRAIN AND THE GROUND.
On a former occasion we noticed that a
special train had been secured for a “plea-
sure excursion” to convey certain “ odd
fellows’ down the Dover line, for which
no less a sum than £175 was deposited, to
which certain additions were to be made
in proportion to the number of the pas-
sengers. Unfortunately this engagement
proved of a most unprofitable character;
the train was abandoned, but the deposit
was retained ; and'the only terms of com-
promise which could be effected was an
undertaking to furnish a fresh train for
the like purpose on some future day. In
this respect faith was kept, a new train
secured, and every desirable arrangement
made to meet the wishes of the speculators,
although at a considerable advance in
price ; such an advance as rendered it im-
perative to fix the prices to and from the
scene of action at two guineas in the first-
class carriages, and one guinea in the
second-class carriages a formidable
charge, but certainly no more than ade-
quate to the distance to be travelled, and
the trouble incurred, no less than 1501
miles being covered to and from the place
of assignation. To avoid all inconvenient
interference with the public the place of
departure was fixed at the Bricklayers’
Arms station, in the Kent-road, long
since given up as a station for public \
traffic. Here a goodly muster of the j
requisite carriages was drawn up, preceded !
by engines of powerful qualities, and nine]
o'clock was appointed as the time of de-!
parture, although it was understood the
actual start would not take place till a
quarter before ten, thus selecting the in-
tervening time between the departure of
the public trains from London Bridge at
half-past nine, and that which was to fol-
low at eleven. “ The office” being pretty
well circulated on Monday night, the
bustle of the ensuing morning evinced the
spirit which was abroad, and the chain of
cabs and other vehiclesdashing towards the
Kent-road from all parts of London and
the vicinity excited no small astonishment
on the different roads they took, all con-
cluding that there was “ something up”
of stirring importance. The unfavorable
state of the weather, for a drizzling rain
fell, did not seem to damp the ardour of
the travellers, and the crush for admission
at the gates of entrance was truly terrific.
Here the stewards received the tickets,
and took the cash, giving in return checks,
which entitled the parties to the species of
accommodation they selected, viz, either a
first or second class carriage. The “men
of business” were, of course active in the
throng, and we did hear that many of the
imprudent visitors, who had not taken the
precautions recommended by us last week,
week, were eased of watches and cash,
which they fondly expected would have
remained safe in their pockets till their
return. A vast number of the mino r fry,
who hoped to get down “ scott free,” were
disappointed, and manifested their dis-
pleasure in no seemly style, but as a reso-
lution had been formed to exclude all who
did not “ tip,” this portion of the assem-
bly, to the satisfaction of all parties, was
left behind; but notwithstanding this, upon
amoderate computation, wecalculate there
were not less than 600 persons who paid
the major or the minor fare, and among
these were many persons of high respec-
tability. Before the fixed time of de-
parturethe men whose anticipated engage-
ment produced all this sensation arrived,
accompanied by their friends and seconds.
They walked up and down the platform
with apparent unconcern. Johnny Walker
looked pale, as he always does after train-
ing, and was pronounced to be in splendid
condition. With this opinion we confess
we did not altogether agree ; his skin did
not strike us as being transparent, an indi-
cation of perfect health, and there was an
expression in his eye which far more satis-
fied us that he was confident in himself, and
to this opinion we gave vent, although
little heeded at the time. Neither did the
appearance of Tom Lane altogether satisfy
us; instead of that fresh and clear com-
plexion which he exhibited when first in
training, his countenance was sallow and
thin, a proof to us that he had not courted
with due attention the zephyrs of a rural
life, confining himself too much to the
smoky atmosphere of his native town ; still
his eye was bright and his manner cheer-
tull, indicating a determination, at least,
to do his best, whatever might be his an-
ticipation of the fate of the day. He
told us he weighed about lOst 21b while
Johnny acknowledged to 9st 71b—thus
giving to the Brummagem boy an advant-
age of 91b in weight, while he had a de-
cided advantage in height and age. This
disparity, nevertheless, did not diminish
the general favour in which Walker was
held, and 6 to 4 might still have been
had to any amount; but of these odds
there were no takers. The time of start-
ing having arrived, the bell rang its final
peal, the engines performed their cus-
tomary overture, and at ten minutes to ten
the gigantic took its departure, passing
over the branch which leads from the
Bricklays’ Arms to the trunk line and
quickly reached the straight course which
led to.its destinajion, viz, Weston Hanger,
seventy-four miles from London, and
about one mile from Hythe. .Here at a
small station, after a slow and tedious
passage, the molly assemblage stepped
forth, the men obtaining temporary accom-
modation in some small cottages imme-
diately contiguous, while the “ Fancy”
en masse toddled on to a meadow some
half mile distant, close to the parish church
Thither the commissary and his assistants
quickly conveyed the materiel of the ring,
which, despite the protestations of the
owner of the field, and the rev. divine
who contributed to the moral ins-
truction of the humble inhabitants of
the district was quickly arranged in the
usual form, and there being no vehicles
permitted to intrude, a capacious outer
circle was satisfactorily formed, within
which an inner circle was constructed,
happilyAvell provided with trusses of straw
for the protection of those who had no
alternative but to sit or be laid prostrate.
All this was very well managed, and
throughout order and regularity were
strictly observed.
ARRIVAL OF THE MEN.
Intelligence having been conveyed to
the belligerents that the arena was pre-
pared for their reception, they were led
forth from theirjtemporary domiciles at-
tended by their respective friends ; and
shortly before three o’clock Walker
approached, amidst loud cheers, and flung
his castor of defiance within the ropes,
anything but in a chivalric style. Lane
was close at his heels, and followed his
example quietly and unostentatiously ; he
was attended by his brother Hammer and
Solid Coates ; while Walker was waited
upon by Molyneaux (the black) and Ned
Adams. Walker sported a white fogle
with an ominous dark spot; while Lane
exhibited a fancy flag, in which green,
red, and other gay colours presented a
fanciful contrast the handkerchief of
Walker. The usual ceremony of select-
ing umpires and a referee was performed
without disputation, and the men imme-
diately commenced their toilets, the bet-
ting being at this time 2 to 1 on Walker,
than which nothing less would be ac-
cepted, although Molyneax repeatedly
expressed his readiness to lay 30 to 20.
We may here slate that the ground,
although soft, was in good order, and was
well covered with turf It had rained al-
most continuously from the departure
from London, and while the men were
preparing for business a slight shower
still continued. The atmosphere was,
however, genial, and as there was no
wind there were no complaints of the
trifling vissicitudes to which all were ex-
posed. Everything being in readiness,
tbe signal was given for action, and pre-
cisely at four minutes to three business
commenced.
THE FIGHT.
Round 1. The men being p'resented to the
eyes of the spectators in the costume of their
forefathers “hare skin,” their points were
scanned with critical acuteness. Waik r ex
| hibtte.d all those muscular proportions for
which he is celebrated, and taking him limb by
limb, there was tint a fault to he found ; he
was, in fact, as heretofore described, a perfect
Hercuias in his nature, and, although’ less in
weight, looked bigger in hulk than his opponent.
Lane’s proportions were those of a slim youth,
and liis nether limbs were thin, although ren-
dered somewhat more bulky in aspect from
wearing long drawers. The cognosced antiei.
pated that Walker, according to liis usual tactics,
would have measured his man, waited for his
rush and got away, but so far was tills from
being the case that, after one or two trifling
faints, Lane led off with Ihe left and got home
on Walkers mouth. Walker countered, and
both hit away wildly left and right, each re-
ceiving some trifling taps. Lane then retreated
and slipped down, and as he slipped Walker
ctugiit iiim sligntly with his right. They
were both immediately conducted to thair cor-
re:-s, and blood was claimed for Lane from a
slight effusion on Johnny’s lips, and first blood
was awarded to Lane,
I 2 On coming up, it was evident that
I “Jack was as good as his master,” and as far
| as the effect of deliveries went, each displayed
1 the account of puni-dnnent, although the
| visitations on eacli side were comparatively of
little moment; and on looking at their dials
I there was nearly an equal exhibition of trifling
flushes The m m'lit they reached the scratch,
it was obvious that Lane had made up his mind
to lose no time. He again let go his left, and
got on Walker, who countered heavily on the
right brow also with his left, and round with
liis right, he closed, and catching Lane in his
arms, flung him, and fell on him ; a fall which,
had the ground been hard, mast have told
severely. They were both again conveyed to
their corners, everybody exclaiming that
Walker had altogether abandoned liis usual
style of figh'ing, and exhibited rather the clum-
siness of a novice than the precision of an
artist. [Jloiyneux informs us that at the end
of this round Walker complained he had hurt
ills left hand iu the counter-hit on Lane’s
brow.
3. Lane again came up undismayed, while
Walker was slow and apparently spiritless
Lane let go his ieft, getting home on Walker's
temple j Walker hit slightly with liis left, and
short harmed with his right, missing his
opponent’s head. After a few wild exchanges
of this character, in which Walker still used
liis right w tli effect, Lane slipped down, amidst
cries of “ bravo, Lane.”
4. Lane to liis man again, let go his ieft, and
Walker dropped a pretty rap with his on his
nut; this was followed by a few more wild
exchanges and Walker popped in a heavy hit
with his right on Lane’s mouth, drawing his
cork most effectually. He then closed, aud
again seizing Lane, flung him a li»avy fait with
his head 01 the ground. This appeared to be
a stunner: Lane looked confused, and the
friends, of Walker confidently exclaimed “it’s
all over!” hut they <• hallowed before thev irnt
out of the wood.” 6
5. Lane having shaken off the effects of the
previous fall, came up steadily, and again led
off with his left. Walker, however, dipped his
head, escaped the intended compliment, and
rushing in, seized Lane roar d the body, lifted
him up, and again threw him heavily, failing
on him. [Once more aid all express their
astonishment at Johnny’s style of fightinv
so unusual aud so opposed to his ordinary
practise of attack and defence, although they
conld not but admire his wrestling superiority 1
6. Lane apparently none the worse for the
last fall, came up prepaired for action. He
w<is no sooner in posit on, however, than
Walker again dipped his head, boted in, like
a bull at a gate, at Lane’s stomach, and forced
him doun, amidst renewed expressions of
indignation astonishment. O tempora! O
mores ! It was a decided butt, aud perhaps
meant to be so considered.
7. l ane I t fly his left, while Walker again
hit short with his right. A scrambling sort of
rally followed, in which I rifling exchanges took
place, and Lane dropped on one knee. In this
position Walker, with uudiminislied strength
caught hold of him, lifted him up, threw and
fell on him a quelcber.
8. Lane again < n the alert, went bold to his
man, while Walker appeared confused. Both
hit away without precision, Lane, however
dropping a heavy one with iris right on
Johnny’s head A scrambling rally followed
Lane retreating towards the ropes, where
Walker seized him. and tried for the fall; a
struggle ensued, both hanging on the ropes
which ended in Lane getting down and Walker
failing over him outside the ring wi’d'v h'ttimr
as lie tell. K
9. Walker got in with his left slightly, but re-
ceived Line’s lef, in return, Walker ih-n tried
Ills right several times, hut (hey were htlf-ann
hits, at last he got home with ids right several
t ms on Lane’s f.rehead, and Lane s'aggered two
or three paces and fell It was the first ,nd only
knock-down blow in the fight. Had Walker
taken advantage of the opportunity he might
have put in “ a finisher.”
10. Walker again tried his right, but missed ;
Lane hit away left and right, and wild scramb.
ling exchanges followed, when Walker once
more closed for the throw; they went down to-
gether, and Lane threw a sort of somerse
fell on h's head, and measured his length.
11. Lane came up as lively as ever, and after
some wild exchanges Walker rushed in, closed,
and threw him.
12. Both came np little damaged by their
previous encounter, and certainly entitled to hut
little credit for their style of fighting, which was
anything but artistical. The moment they
reached the scratch they hit away left and right,
Walker very slightly with his left, and still
using liis right, with which, however, he did
little execution, arid more frequently missed
titan hit iris man. Both apparently mi-ant mis.
chief— but whatever their intentions, the fulfil-
ment of (hose intentions was anything but
satisfactory, . nd at last the rally ended by a
close, in which they fell together; Lane was
uppermost, and slipping over his man, fell with
his head aguinst the stake.
13 and last At the Call of time Lane assumed
the perpendicular, and was proceeding to the
scratch. Miuynenx and Adims both remons-
trated with Walker, and said he was not fight-
ing-lie was acting noire like a “ rough” or a
novice than himself He replied ” 1 can’t fight,
and I won t h.:ht ” threw his leg over the lowir
rope, and walked deliberately away, IVlolyneux
throwing up the sp mge in token of submisslo :
'file thing seemed iuci edible, but such was the
factand Walker’s brother, who was close to
the ring, hurst into tears, and called on him to
return. He resi t-d these entreaties, however,
and to the utter dismay of his friends, walk-d
over to the stene wall which bounded the field,
surrounded by the almost incredulous throng.
We instantly followed him, and remarked that
t le public h id an interest in these procceslings.
We asked upon w hat pretence he had fled from
his post ? To this he replied that his hands
were bad, and pointing to the thumb of his
right hand as well as to his left hand, which lie
said had been had before, he declared that he
could fuht no longer. We remarked that we
could see nothing in his hands to justify such
a determination, and certainly nothing which
could afford any excuse o a man who had tho
slightest pretensions to game or honesty. Such
howiver was the only explanation he gave, and
we left him to the care of those ivho were evi-
dently as indignant Jas they were surprised at
the pusillanimity of his conduct, while by ge-
I eral acclamation he was denounced as either
a rank coward or what, was worse, an infamous
rogue. Tom Lane was not less astonished than
the spectators generally. He could scarce believe
his senses, and seeing that the day was his, he
rns ed out of the ring after Johnny, and went
through the customary ceremony of shaking
hands with him. We may here observe that
Tom Spring, who witnessed the g yle in which
Walker lought, ran up to him, and asked him
why he did not use his left, and reserve his
right for better service? To which he impa-
tiently replied “ he could nut use ids left, and
was doing ids best.” i’oor Tom was incensed
beyond endurance.
REMARKS.
Our story is nearly told, and admits of
little remark beyond the surprise which was
felt at the manner in which Walker fought.
Every one knows, who knows anything of
the man, that he is a consummate master
of his art; and yet on this occasion he did
not exhibit the slightest proof of hiß talent
—not only did he not stop, or retreat, or
use his left with his customary precision
and generalship, but he almost altogether
abandoned the use of that hand, and ap-
peared to rely solely on his right, and this
he used with such inefficiency that he sel-
dom reached his man, and in fact more
frequently missed than hit, as if h S object
was to do as little instead of as much mis-
chief as he could, which the trifling punish-
ment administered sufficiently testified ; for,
irrespective of tho slap on the mouth and
some very trifling contusions on the fore-
head, Lane had scarcely a mark, and cer-
tainly not a single mark which would have
justified the belief that Johnny Walker had
any hand in the execution ; in fact he may
be said to have come off scot-free, and to
have been occupied in a sparring bout,
rather than in a battle in which hard knocks
would have been the distinguishing feature.
The young man, as we have said, was sur-
prised beyond his own belief; and when ho
saw Johnny leave the ring, it was a move
so utterly incomprehensible to him, that ha
could scarcely reconcile himself to its rea-
lity, however pleasing a termination to his
labours it might have proved. As for
Johnny Walker, his punishment was even
less than that of Lane—for, beyond a slight
contusion on the side of his head, and a
trifling scarification on the inside of his lip,
there was nothing of which tho veriest
schoolboy would have complained. On bsing
conducted to the cottage from whence he
had come, he answered the interrogatories
with whioh he was assailed, vaguely and
unsatisfactorily. Ho pointed to his hands,
and talked of being sick, and indeed even
tried to confirm the latter assertion by
rectching, but the character of his sickness
might be pretty well estimated by the appe-
tite with which he pitched into a piece of
pork pie with which his friend Rhodes sup-
plied him. In speaking of his left hand, he
said it had been injured before he entered
the ring, and yet, until after he left it, he
did not breathe a syllable of this imaginary
impediment to his backers. It would bo
idle to pursue this inquiry. Walker was


altogether inconsistent in his reasons for
the course which he thought proper to pur-
sue, and we are therefore less surprised
at the conclusion to which those whose con-
fidence he has abused, and who have suffered
so severely by his conduct through their
losses, hut too generally came namely, that
he had “ sold the fight." Many compared
it to the (arce between Reuben Martin
and Bungaree, and other parallels, were
not wanting to illustrate the sentimenis by
which the greater portion of the crowd was
impressed. For our own parts, however,
we might have been at first carried away
by the impressions of the spectators gene-
rally, upon reflection we were in charity
inclined to ascribe his conduct to the pusil-
lanimity of rank cowardice. In the first
round he found Tom Lane not only capable
of hitting with him, but of planting on
him, and however trifling the visitation, we
imagined his self-love led him to apprehend
still more serious consequences. tie
“dropped down upon his luck,’’ to use a
familiar phrase, and his self-confidence,
artificially raised, cast such a depression
upon liis spirits, that he was unable to rally,
und although to the eyes of everybody he
had the best of the fight, bad as ho did
fight, from his superior powers as a wrestler,
he was incapoble of resisting the enervating
effect on his system, and abandoned all
self-respect in his desire to escape personal
injury. This was our impression, and we
adopted it from the absence of any proof
that he had any interested reason for
sacrificing not only his own honor and
character, but the hopes and confidence
of his friends. 7f a cross were intended,
and such is the inference drawn by a vast
number of our correspondents, as well as
by those who witnessed the scene from
first to last, there were at least no indi-
cations of such a (act, either on the ground
or in the sporting houses, on the pre-
ceding night.
We have already said ‘hat 6 to 4 to any amount
might have been obtained in 11 quarters, and if
parties had concocted a cros for the purpose of
profit, it is scarcelp to be believed they have suf
fered such opportunities to pass without availing
themselves of such happy chances; and yet hnn-
dreds, whose monay remained in their pockets,
proved that it was not to the want of inclination
but the loss of opportunity that the 10-ses wire
not infinitely greater than those they haa to
regret. To this it is urged that the plot was
confined to a high and narrow compass, and
that the usual channels for such a conspiracy
were kept in ignorance of its existance. This
argument may or nay not to be without foun la
tion j but if it be true, it will be sure to obtain
a corroborative response, and those who have
been the victims of such a plot will no doubt
readily come forward to proclaim tiieir losses
For this purpose an ample opportuni y will be
afforded.
The battle money will not be given up until
Thursday evening next, at Johnny Broome's
when, if proof be forthcoming, then will be the
opportunity to produce it, not for the purpose of
depriving Lane r-f the fruits of his victory which
would be as unjust as inconsistent with ihc rules
of the Ring, but for the purpose of exposing
Johnny Walker to that unmitigated contempt,
which would cover him with a disgrace even more
destructive to his own position than the acknow-
ledgement of his cowardice That hi! hackers,
who have been such severe and utter losers by
his conduct, believe him to be dishonest, we hare
not been able to collect. On the contrary, we
are inclined to think that although a rank cur, he
is not wiifuly dishonest, and they are led the more
obviously to this conclusion, from the private
knowledge that he was tempted some time back,
but that he resisted the tempter. Should this con-
clusion be erroneous, the field is open for investi-
gation, and we trust that those who can throw a
light upon the subject will do so without hesita-
tion ; but it must be borne in mind that mere
Suppotion or inference must not take the place of
clear and irrefragable truth. It is impossible not
to feel that the transaction, in whatsoever form
it may present itself to observation, is likely to
produce the most fatal results as for as the in-
terests of the Ring are concerned.
it has been our fate to receive from all quar-
ters the most positive assurances that the sports
of the Ring shall no longer receive that encour-
agement to which the principles of British boxing
have ever been considered entitled, and that those
who were most liberallity inclined to stand
forth in its defence, and its encouragement, will
altogether withdraw themselves from the support
of its professors while many unequivoca.ly de-
clare they will not receive the bets they have
simulatively won by so atrocious a robbery
Turning from this to us most nauseous subject,
we must now go back to the ring, and desciibe
the occurrences which succeeded those of the
mock battle which has occupied so much of our
space; we allude to
LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
THEATRICALS.
Coloi.nl Despard and the officers of the
99th. paid a farewell visit to the Victoria
on Saturday evening last, and a fashionable
audience assembled to do honor to the occa-
sion. For the last time, the splendid band
of the Regiment delighted the visitors, whose
regret at the loss of one of the most pleas-
ng sources of enjoyment which has of late
been made available for tha citizens, was
very generally and emphatically expressed.
Since we last had the pleasure of discus-
sing ‘things theatrical’ with the ‘pensive
public’, one or two arrangements deserving
notice have been made at the Victoria. Mr.
Hydes, a comedian of no ordinary stamp,
has joined the company, and in the sparkling
regions wherein Thalia loves to roam, he will
bo found a most welcome reveller. Ho has
been very successful in his delineation
of the ‘ dashing beaux’, the heroes of the
effervescent comedietta, and as it is under-
stood he will shortly make his bow as
Charles Surface, we shall have an oppor-
tunity of testing his merits as an actor in the
highest walks of Comedy.
With all our love of genuine fun, we can-
not award any praise to that absurd piece of
9 a 99 er y* Da Polka, which seems to have been
produced for the sheer purpose of caricaturing
present and late the company ;
and of placing the audience in possession of
the caricaturist’s very comfortable notions of
his own pre-eminent claims as ‘ a igh tr.ige-
gian’. Fair of St. Bartholomew! &c., &c.
Weber’s undying Der Freischutz was per-
formed on Thursday evening, and (as wo
have had the pleasure of observing on all
evenings set apart for Opera and Vaudeville)
a crowded and attentive audience made ma-
nifest the prevailing taste of the habitues of
1 7® v ictoria. A main feature was the very
able adaptation of a large portion of that
startling difficulty, the Finale, of which only
passages were attempted when the
Opera was produced a few seasons ago. The
result must have been highly gratifying to all
the artistes concerned ; (if we mistake not,
our worthy Mr. Gibbs’’ was instrumental in
this arrangement.)
We hear that the Siege of Rochelle is in
active rehearsal, (the score adapted by Mr.
Gibbs and the Messrs. llowson),and from
the tact and skill displayed by them in pre-
vious efforts we are justified in predicting a
grand musical treat.
, “ that though giving
pJm k ’ , Ilomans > Indians, Moors, Egyptians,
andT\ 1 - renCh -’ ItalianS ’ E Welsh,’
int 2 m n .o instances throughout his plays
introduces an Irishman. * 3
CITY COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council of the City of
Sydney was held on Monday last, at which
Alderman Little presented a petition from the
owners of certain houses in Market-street,
praying the reconsideration of the Report of
the Improvement Committee relative to the re-
moval of the footway in front of their houses,
by which removal serious injury would be done
to their property. Read and received.
The Mayor stated to the Council that he had
received a summons at the suit of Mr. Hollin-
shed, laying his damages at «t£loo, for the levy
made on him for the lighting rate.
The Town Clerk read a Report from the In-
spector of Nuisances with reference to the
dangerous state of certain buildings in the City
and calling their attention to the accumulating
filth on the plot of ground at the corner of
Bridge-street leading to Bent-street, and to the
state of the Tank stream.
The Report of the Improvement Committee,
recommending certain repairs in Brown Bear
Lane, was, after a short discussion* adopted.
The petition of certain proprietors and tenants
of houses in Wilmot-street, praying that the
said street may be placed under the control of
the Improvement Committee, was .referred to
that Committee for their report thereon.
The Reports of the several Assessment Com-
mittees of Gipps, Bourke, Cook, Brisbane, and
Phillip Wards on the new and additional build-
ings up to September last, were adopted; as was
also the Report of the Cook Ward Assessment
Committee on unoccupied houses and buildings
taken down in that ward for the six months
ending the 30th June, 1847.
Mr. Day’s letter of 27th March, complaining
that Mr. Slattery, the Collector of Rates for
Brisbane Ward, had not paid him the 2 guineas
voted by the Council—was taken into consider-
ation.
It was statqfl by the Messenger of the Coun-
cil, who was called in and examined, that Mr.
Day had refused to receive the money from any
one except Mr. S attery, and that it must be
paid in his own house.
Alderman Thurlow moved that the matter be
struck off the paper.
Alderman Fisher moved as an amendment,
that the Collector be instructed to pay the same
to Mr. Day, as directed by the Council, and to
transmit his receipt to the Town Clerk.
Alderman Allen thought it would be better
if both the motion and amendment were with-
drawn, as he had no doubt the Collector would
pay the money before the next meeting of the
Council.
The amendment and original motion were
severally put and negatived.
On the motion of Alderman Thurlow, it was
ordered that an advertisement should be pub-
lished to the effect that the Reports of the Im-
provement Committee on the proposed perma-
nent levels of William-street, Clarence-street,
and Abercrombie-street would lie for three
weeks at the City Suveyor’s Office for the in-
spection of parties interested.
Council adjourned till Monday next.
The Flow of Soul. —On Wednesday evening
last, Captain Nelson, of the ship City of Poonah,
was entertained at a public dinner. The spread,
which is universally described as one of the most
recherche order, was given at Entwistle’s where
sixty-seven gentlemen ranged alongside the
festive board. Mr. G. C. Turner (the Civil
Crown Solicitor) presided; Messrs. Holden and
Todd acting as Croupiers. The company com-
prised several of the most influential members
of our mercantile community, including Messrs.
Benjamin Boyd, J. P. Robinson, &c. &c.; the
former of whom took occasion during the even-
ing to open his heart upon the prosperity of the
colony in general, and his own somewhat blighted
prospects in particular. Mr. Boyd alluded to
his declining health as the result of those anxie-
ties which must naturally attach themselves to
the vast speculat ions he has been engaged in.
He spoke too of his contemplated trip to Britain,
and of the possibility of a return to Australia.
He explained his views on the labour question,
and introduced matters connected with the pros-
pects of those heavy losses w'hich he and others
connected in speculation with him would proba-
bly have to encounter. By giving vent to his
feelings on the subjects, Mr. Boyd seemed to be
relieving himself from an incubus which has
probably long depressed his spirits. The toast
of the evening was uproariously received, and
mo t modestly responded to by the gallant tar,
who, of course, was “unaccustomed to’public
speaking,” and so forth. “The Ladies,” drank
in all the glorious enthusiasm which gallantry 1
could dictate, was thus characteristically re-
sponded to by the Quaker bachelor: “ Friends,
the spirit moveth me to thank thee on behalf of
the feminine gender.” The lofty and capacious
salle a manger was appropriately decorated with
Union Jacks, Ensigns, Marryatt’s Signals, &c.;
whilst on the nautical tapestry at the upper end
of the room the word WELCOME surmounted
a well-executed painting of the guest’s ship
under a crowd of canvas. Conviviality was the
order of the night, and a more merry muster
of right good fellows never assembled together,
In fact the whole thing was well conducted:
dishes placed on the table reeking hot, wines
first-rate, speeches short and pithy, songs well
selected and well sung, and everybody well dis-
posed towards everybody.
The Attorney General. —At the dinner
given to the officers of the 99th Regiment on
Monday evening, his Honor Mr. Justice Dick-
enson, in proposing the “ Attorney General and
the Bar of the Colony,” made a very gentle-
manly speech, in the course of which he alluded
in the following deservedly flattering terms to
Mr. Plunkett:—His Honor said, “There was
one name connected with the toast to which he
must refer—that name was that of the Attorney
General. He believed that all who had the op-
portunity of witnessing the discharge of the
very responsible and important duties of that
officer, would bear him out in giving his testi-
mony to the faithfulness, the energy, and high-
minded integrity in which he had ahvays
walked.” The compliment, emanating from
such a distinguished and unbiassed*source, must
be doubly flattering. But we are sure there is
not one in the colony who would refuse to ac-
knowledge its truthfulness. W e have had many
opportunities of observing the career of the
Attorney General; and arduous and responsible
as are the duties connected with his office, we
feel pleasure in bearing our humble and sincere
testimony to the purity, integrity, and firmness
which have invariably guided the learned
gentleman in the discharge of those duties.
The 99th —A farew'ell dinner was given to
the officers of this regiment prior to their de-
parture for Hobart Town, at Mr. Cohen’s, the-
Fitzroy Hotel, Pitt-street, on Monday evening,
Every thing in the cuisine line was prepared with
that spirit and taste for which Mr. Cohen is so
deservedly praised. Without resorting, how-
ever, to that descriptive poesy which delights
in representing the table as groaning under an
accumulation of plates and dishes, it will suffice
to say, that the dinner was good, and the wines
equally so; and, without doubt, in this keen
weather, both were “done ample justice to !”
About thirty guests partook of the entertain-
ment. The Hon. the Colonial Secretary pre-
sided, the Croupiers being the Attorney General
and Mr . Thacker. As is the custom on such
occasions, the usual loyal toasts were drunk with
“ much enthusiasm.” The “ special toast of th®
evening,” as it is prettily called, was “ Colonel
Despard and the officers of the 99th Kegt.’! In
proposing it. the Colonial Secretary compli-
mented that gallant corps on the laurels which
they had won for themselves in such profusion in
the arduous and dangerous warfare “in New
Zealand” (we recollect something about the
storming of a native pah), as to return from
that colony “ covered ” with them. Colonel
Despard, on responding to the toast, steered
clear of any to his achievements among
the Maories, and simply thanked the company
for the honor conferred upon him and his
brother officers.
It has been observed, the readiest water-
works to turn on are ladies tears ; but the
difficulty, when once they begin to flow, is to
stop them. Sometimes a velvet dress will
check the tremendous rush. But occasionally
it is piped so strong, that it isneceessary to send
for an opera box to prevent the water-work*
flooding the entire house.
The above Cut is intended to represent one
of the most honest, open-hearted, yet knowing,
cute, wide-awake, down-to-a-move or two, up-
to-a-trick or two sort of craftsman amongst the
leary members of the Profession to which he,
Mark Dixon, belongs. Redundant in natural
gaiety and redolent of rowdy anecdote, this hero
of the Break has acquired for himself a cele-
brity unsurpassed in the capricious annals of the
colony. A first-rate judge of the animal—an
excellent rough - rider, and an unquestionable
whip, Dixon may be said peculiarly to possess
all the attributes fitting him for his vocation;
whilst his decorous courtesy to superiors, and
his rigid obsequiousness to his dependants, se-
cures the admiration of all. We did purpose
going more fully into the particulars of his ad-
venturous life, but “ circumstances alter cases,”
and our ‘cases’ being nearly empty, we are com-
pelled abruptly to say au revoir.
GEORGE-STREET POLICE OFFICE.
A Strange Toole. —On Tues -ay last, a cas e
was brought under the notice of the polic tt
authorities, in George-street, which not only
presented an apparently inextiicable mesh of
confusion, hut also elicited some of those comic
incidentaiities which are so frequently found at
these summary-law dealing tribunals. A man
named Matthews, at Paddington, possessed a
pony of that indefinable colour which wavers
between the roan, iron grey, and rusty dun ;
and turned it into a paddock belonging to a Mr.
Dobson, for security on Saturday last, but it had
not been there tor many hours when Mary
Toole, a servant woman in the neighbourhood
claimed the pony as her property, and removed
it from the paddock. The first intimation which
Matthews received of the affiir was from Mary
herself, who handed him a notice drawn out
with due attention to all legal formal-., ex
plaining the fact, and her reasons for resuming
the ownership of the animal which had been
stolen from her. Matthews thinking that the
boot was not exactly on the right leg, got a
summons for Mary, and engaged the services of
Mr. Grant, to assist him in recovering his animal
and inflicting some severe in trk of reprobation
upon his female opponent. Attorney and client
were driving her desperately hard, when Mr.
Nichols came to the rescue, and stated his wil-
lingness to defend the woman from their uncere-
monious attacks, and on cross-examining Mat-
thews, he confessed that the pony had long been
a subject of dispute between them, and in order
to ascertain what the brand was, that it was
taken to a barber’s and shaved.
Mr. N. Shaved l —Did you get his hair cut
too ?
Matthews—Yes, we did, and made him look
as nice as a counter-jumper on a Sunday.
Mr. N.—You seem a bit of a wag, Mr. Mat-
thews. Well, what did you do when you found
out that the poney was stolen ?
Matthews—Why. I took legal advice, but the
lawyer 1 went to dilley-dallied so long, that at
la*t I asked the Attorney - General for his
opinion.
Mr. N. The Attorney. General’s opinion about
a barber-ed pony! Well, you are a keen shaver,
Mr. Matthews.
Matthews—Yes, and he charged me nothing
for it.
Mr. N.—That does n’t improve it, Mr. Mat-
thews ; cheap law, like most other cheap things,
is not good for much.
The Court was kept in a roar during the
whole cross examination of the witness, which
was considerably increased by the knowing and
nonchalunte way in which he stood the fire of
Mr. NichoPs heavy artillery. The prosecutor’s
case was not much improved by the introduction
of Mrs. Dobson, who expressed the most unut-
terable disgust at being dragged from Padding-
ton into the precincts of a Police Court. 8h :
refused to be sworn on the plea that she knew
nothing, and upon being driven from that,
declared that it was against her religion to be
sworn at all. “ I am Quaker” cried Mrs
Naomi Dobson, with an emphatic explosion by
no means the characteristic of that placid
“ thee and thou” sect. At last when she was
compelled to make an affirmation she gave her
private opinion of Matthews and his wife in
good set terms, and ended by declaiming that
the whole affair was a parcel of rubbish, the
prosecutor and his spouse were rather suspicious,
and as for the pony and prisoner they might
have been in the paddock or they might not for
all she knew or cared for trifles like them. Mr.
Grant confessed that that was his case, but in
as much as it was no case at all. The prisoner
was immediately discharged to seek a remedy
in some other Court if he liked.
A Cockney Sportsman.— From M r *
Broderip’s Zoological Recreations —in which,
by the way, are some highly interesting remarks
on the Natural Historj r of Australia, which we
shall present at an early moment to our readers —
we extract the following sketch of a * Cockney
Sportsman’ mistaking a fern owl for a wood-
cock. It is a little picture, depicted with the
truth and reality of a Dutch picture:—“ln
consequence of the general arrival of these birds
in the southern parts of Britain with the first
fair October winds, they are called woodcock
owls—an appellation branded on the memory of
more than one luckless would-be sportsman,
▼i'om some turnip field hard by a plantation,
on a tuft of rushes close to a copse on a moist
hill-side, up springs a russet-plumaged bird, and
is in the cover in a moment. The eager shooter
“ catches a glintse on ’in,” as an old keeper
used to say, through the trees. Bang goes the
gun. “That’s the first cock of the season!”
exclaims he, exultingly. Up comes John, who
had been sent ostensibly to attend him, but really
to take care of him. “ I’m sure he’s down”
pointing to the cover, as many are apt to say
when they shoot at a cock, without being able
to produce the body.—« Well, let’s look, sir:
where did a drop?” “There, just by that
holly.” In they go, retriever and all. “ There
he lies,” —cries the delighted shot, loading his
gun triumphantly in measureless content—.« dead
as Harry the Eighth. I knew he was down ;
there, just where I said he was, close by that
mossy stump. Can’t you see “ Iss, sir, I sees
well enough, but I don’t like the looks on in. His
head’s a trifle too big, and a do lie too flat on
his face.” “Pick up the cock, I say,” rejoins
our hero, somewhat nettled. “ I can’t do that,
sir,” says John, lifting a fine specimen of Otus
palustris, and holding it up to the blank-looking
cockney, amid the ill-suppressed laughter of
those confounded fellows attend to mark
not only the game, but the number of shots that
are missed, on their abominable notched sticks.
w Never mind, sir,” adds the comforter John,
“If t’aint a cock, a did kip company wi* era;
and a’s curous like, and since you ha’nt killed
nothen else to day, I’d bag un, if I was you:
he ’ll look uncommon well in a glass case.”
SHEEP AND CATTLE SALES.
Macarthur, 300, 541bs. 95., each, Hill and Argent
CATTLE.
loc4y, GO head, £3 ss. each, SOOlbs., Oaks
Long Tom, 21 head, £2 ss. each, GOOlbs, Argent
Onus, 91 head, £2 Gs. each, 6001b5., Ilill and
Argent.
SETTLERS’ WHOLESALE PRICE
CURRENT.
Wheat —No alteration. Holders of Van Die-
men’s Land are asking 5s 9d ; some has
been sold at 5s Gd. Colonial, 4s to ss, ac-
cording to quality.
Flour —No alteration at the mills. Finp, .£l3;
seconds, £ll. Still some of the old stocks
in store may be purcHased at less than
the mill prices.
Maize—Plentiful. Old, Is 8d to Is Dd ; new,
Is Gd to Is 7d. A great deal has been
spoiled through heating in the vessel.
Hay—Still plentiful. Some Van Diemen’s Land,
was bought in at £5 2s Gd —£s 5s would
have been taken. A lot of compressed
Hunter River hay sold at £3 Is.
Barley—None in the market. Both Cape and
English muph inquired after, for seed.
Oats—Market overstocked—offering at 4s per
40 lbs. Sales dull.
Butter.— Good salt butter is worth now from
Gd to Bdper lb. by the keg.
Cheese—Market quite overstocked. 3d is about
the wholesale price.
Bacon and Hams.—Plentiful. About from 3d
to 4d may be obtained.
Eggs—Are worth from 8d to 9d for fresh mixed
duck and hen.
Calves—Fit for the butchers, from 10s to 15s
each.
Pigs—Are worth about 2)rl per lb. by the car-
case, if of about 60 orBo lbs. Larger sizes,
for salting, not worth more than 2d per lb.
Fat Cattle—-Have sold during the past week
at prices averaging from £2 to £2 10s, and
£3 for very prime.
Sheep—From 5s to 0s; though some fine fat
wethers, full sixties, would fetch 7s each.
Tallow—No improvement in this article. B ef
has fetched from £3O to £3O 10s; Mutton,
from .£3l to £33 12s 6d. Buyers are still
heavy.
Hides. —Best cured heavy hides, from 5s to
5s 3d j inferior, 4< down to 2s.
Tobacco.—No alteration.
MELBOURNE MARKETS.— June 22.
Grain,—During the present week, a further
rise in the price of wheat has taken place. The
unwillingness of the farmers to dispose of their
stock at present, has created a scarcity in the
market, which causes 5s per bushel to be freely
given for all good samples that are offered for
sale. The corn factors state that the quantity
of wheat at present in the District, will be in-
sufficient for the consumption, and that, in con-
sequence, prices will be much higher than they
arc now Oats are selling at 3s 6d to 4s.
English barley 5s per bushel.
Flour, first quality, £l3. Seconds, £l2 per
2,000 lbs. 1
Hay was selling, during the week, at from
*£3 15s to £4 10s per ton; average £4, or 5s
per cwt. retail.
LAUNCESTON.—June 14.
Vessels now loading will take eighteen thou-
sand bushels of wheat out of the market.
Cash sales have been readily effected at 4s 3d,
and we have heard of one tfahsaclion at 4s 4d.
HOBART TOWN.— June 13.
Wheat is now sold readily at 4s 6d per bushel,
with a decided tendency upwards. We have
heard of 4s t d having been given for a prime
sample, and that another party stands out for
4s Bd. Flour, by some of the principal millers,
has advanced from £lO to £l2 per ton.— Courier.
Wheat, 4s Gd to 4s Sd bushel; Oats, bushel,
2s lOd to 3s; Cape Barley, 3s to 3s 3d; English
do, 4s 9d ; Hay, £3 10s to £3 15s ton ; Pressed
ditto, £4 ditto ; Straw, £1 Is to £1 10s ditto.
Flour, first quality, 11 per ton; ditto second
ditto, jfe'lo ditto; Bran, lOd per bushel; Pollard.
Is ditto.— Advertiser.
MAURITIUS.— Aaril 24.
Wheat, 13 drs. per IOS lbs; flour, 4 drs. 25
Gents per 100 lbs.
REMOVAL OF MR. LA TROBE.
(From the Port Phillip Gazette , June 17.)
At the meeting of the Town Council on
Thursday,the motion brought forward by Coun-
cillor M'Combie, for the removal of his Honor
Charles Joseph La Trobe, Esq., from the office
of Superintendent of Port Phillip, was carried
by an overwhelming majority of 9 to 5, counting
the vote of his Worship, who said he would not
vote on the question, but on the division voted
in the minority. The votes on the question
stand thus:—
Ayes. Noes.
Alderman Bell The Mayor
, f Condell Councillor Armistead
„ Greeves „ Campbell
Councillor Annand „ Moor
„ Clarke „ Smith
„ Johnston
„ Kerr
„ M'Combie
„ Murray
9 5
We are highly gratified at this triumph of
liberal principles, and we expect this vote will
be followed by a Monster Meeting of the inhabi-
tants to try to get rid of such an incubus upon
the District.
THE ARMY.
11th Foot -Lieutenant John Theodore Tho-
mas Boyd, to be Adjutant vice Lewis Alexander
Boyd, promoted; Lieutenant Richard Maunsell,
from half-pay 62nd Foot, to be Lieutenant,
vice Boyd, appointed Adjutant. 90th Foot—
William James Romulus Russell, gent., to be
Ensign, without purchase, vice Mends, pro-
moted in the 98th Foot.
NAVAL.
Rear-Admiral Inglefield, the naval command
der-in-ehief of the Indian station, died at
Bombay, on the 23rd February.
One More Use of Ciiloeoeorm. —We re-
commend Chloroform to the notice of the Poor-
law Guardians, on account of what they will
doubtless consider the desirable influence which
the substance is capable of exerting on relieving
officers—that of rendering them utterly devoid
of feeling.
Why is a lady mending her gown while her
husband sleeps, like the devil ? Because ‘ while
man slept, the enemy sowed tares’
It is said there are as many as 30,000 persons
in England, employed as commercial travellers ;
and that their expenses (averaging £\- per
diem) amount to £ 11,000,000 a year.
It was rumoured that ministers intended
proposing that the rate of postage should be
raised from a penny to two pence each letter.
The Bill for suspending the New Zealand
Constitution had passed.
THE FOX-HUNTER.
The fox-hunter is a sort of centaur, some-
thing between a man and a horse. Unlike
the dormouse, he is torpid all the summer,
and wakes to life only with the season of
hybernation. Horses and dogs are his chief
attraction, and exercise over him a kind of
animal magnetism. 'While on the earth, he
feels awkwardly situated, as you may guess
by his gait; but place his feet once in the
stirrups, and he immediately regains his self-
possession. If a genuine thorough-going
sportsman,his coat his of a flaming scarlet,
otherwise, a bottle green, which he takes
care to exchange, the very moment of his
retiring from business, for one of the legiti-
mate colour: his inexpressibles are inex-
pressibly whit , so are his gloves and his
boot-tops, and take him all in all, a greater
beau, or a more complete petit maitre in
dress, cannot be imagined.
He is the head of an ancient house per-
haps, but knows as little of its genealogy as
of the Rosicrucian Mysteries : he can tell
you the pedigree of his horse, however, with
all the circumstances of his birth, parent-
age, and education. He is the father of a
largo family ; their names, beyond the
familiar Kate and Hob, being as little
known to him as of use to their owners. But
the pack ! aye, he can tell every cur of ’em,
recognizes their voices in the covert, and is
as well assured of “ a find” as if he saw
the fox’s brush before him. The ordinary
week consists of seven days ; his only of
three—except on occasion of a bye-day,
which, like the 29th February, is a sort of
leadping day with our Nimrod ; and a fes-
tival in his (racing) calendar.
Ho has a supreme contempt for every
sport but his own, and wonders how the
angler can have patience to pursue his soli-
tary occupation by the river side. You
shall see him however, stand for hours toget-
her unde the eaves of some dripping wood,
without so much as a change in his position
or a syllable from his lips ; after which he
flounders across half a dozen ploughed
fields, only to repeat the experiment at a
new covert, with this advantage, that there
are now no trees to screen him from the
east wind, which comes, like a shower of
Lilliputian arrows, over the wide expanso
of the neighbouring common. He dislikes
frost, not because it injures the potatoes,
but because it spoils the scent; and the only
means of getting a civil word from him on a
sharp morning is only to observe “ what a
hard frost it is?’* which gives him an oppor-
tunity of astonishing you with one of his
best good things, than “it’s harder when
there’s none!” Snow is also in disfavour ;
and a fall of it gives him as much uneasi-
ness as a fall of stocks—nay more, for he
hopes that may speedily rise again, while
ho knows this never can. His neighbours
he divides into two classes or factions.
Whigs and Tories, I suppose? No. High
Church and Low Church? No. What
then? Why, fox preservers and fox des-
troyers ; those who calmly give up their
partridges and capons to the devastating
maw of squire Renard, and those who visit
his delinquencies with their deserved pun-
ishment. And he loves or hates them
accordingly ; though it is to be noted that
he hath no objection to the presence of a
nice fat pheasant at his board, .and relishes
a tender chicken as well as the best of us.
Next to the chase itself, his chief pleasure
lies in the description of it. It is here that
he raises the flood-gates of bis eloquence,
and it is here that, like that very flood, he
rushes headlong over the meadows ; whither
neither hedge, nor gate, nor wall, is able to
stop him. It is true he uses no metaphors,
but ho takes terrible leaps; ho never gets
bewildered in the labyrinth of a smile, but
he is sometimes stuck quite fast in a bog ;
and if he seldom soars into the realms
of fancy, at least lie never cariies you
beyond them to bo left, like poor Daniol
O’Rourke, hanging agitatedly on the sharp
point of the moon, where it stands like a
holdfast in the walls of the sky. He is no
great reader, but admires Somerville ex-
ceedingly, and thinks him a far better poet
than either Lord Byron or Lord Milton ;
in perusing “the Chase,’’ he skips over the
sentimental parts, considering them vile
interpolations, or, as he calls it, “ all bother.’’
The Spouting Magazine is his favourite
volume, and if he must single out any one
number as being supereminent above the
rest, it would be that containing a portrait
of his famous horse, “ Slap-dash,” a copy of
which is always to be found lying upon his
inantle-shelf, or sprawling upon the window
in his old-fashioned parlour.
His conversation is usually brief, and be
rarely attempts a joke ; when be does, it is
something in the shape of a pun, but of so
ambiguous a nature that he is obliged to
warn you of its presence, by exclaiming,
“ Pardon the pun. He inherits two or
three good stories from bis father and
grandfather, which, however, he generally
manages to spoil in the telling; either by
apprizing you of the jest, and relating the
particulars afterwards, or by passing care-
lessly ow the crisis to say what followed.
In his “ answers to correspondents” (for be
it remembered he is never the provoker of
epistolary intercourse), he retains his old
schoolboy preamble of I now take up my pen
with pleasure to inform you,” marks at least
every other line with a dash, by way of
emphasis ; and, wherever he has said what
he calls a particularly good thing, places a
huge note of admiration, which you are to
consider as a sort of literary maypole, stuck
to commemorate the witticism. If you meet
him riding out, he salutes you, not with the
hum-drum, common-place, how do you do,
“ Well, Tom ; what you’ve got the old mare
yet, I see!’’ and, at parting, instead of
“ Well, good bye, when shall wo see you at
the Manor?” his retiring compliment is
“Gad! she looks well; and if it wasn’t for
that damned touch of the string-halt, I’d
back her against any thing of her age in the
country.
Notwithstanding all this, however, our
fox-hunter is a right worthy fellow ; and,
except in one or two instances, where his
horse has fallen dead beneath him, a very
monster of humanity. He is ever ready
too, to recompense the poor man for any
injury his garden may have sustained
through the progress of the chase. He is
a great lover of his country ; that is, the
country visited by the pack with which he
hunts ; and is a warm admirer of the laws,
though he acknowledges that the game laws
(which he may be supposed to understand,
if he understands any) are hardly what
they should be. He is the kindest of friends,
and the most affectionate of husbands;
though he will not lend you his horse,
and likes his wife rather less than his
hunter. In short, he is a man worthy to
be imitated by all :—by the parson, for his
short discourses ; by the hero, for his valour
in the field ; by the landscape-painter, for
his skill in drawing the country ; by the
diplomatist for his tact in beating about the
bush; by the duellist, for his excellent
fencing; and by the astronomer, for his
ready determination of the earth’s course.
At the same time (as none of us are born
to live upon love only), he is an object of
dislike to many : to the farmer, for tramp-
ling his wheat and turnips ; to the shooter,
for disturding the game ; to the toll-gate-
keeper, because he always leaves his purse
in his other breeches; to the turkey-cock,
on account of liis red coat; to the poet,
whom ho interrupts while writing a sonnet
on an old gate-post; and, lastly, to all
lovers, who are covered with mud and
blushes on meeting the field, as it is called, j
in some narrow lane.
aris which
the Ti rture from
E ar i s —.*3 ui the leading
families (both residents and visitors) is a
significant fact, which marks more plainly
than could any other circumstance, the un-
certainty of the final results of the three
days.
The National ‘affects to despise the
panic, which it pronounces a selfish one ;
but masses of unemployed and starving
laborers are not safe components of a peace-
ful population.
GENERAL ELECTION.
Ills Excellency the Governor directs it to bo
notified for general information, that Writs
have been issued for a General Election of
Members to serve in the Legislative Council,
addressed to the respective Returning Offi-
cers of the Electoral Districts throughout
the Colony, and that the chief Polling Place,
the day of Nomination, the day of Polling,
and the day on which the Writ is returnable
to the Governor, have been fixed for each
Electoral District, as shown in the subjoined
table, viz.:—
Electoijal District
CHIEF POLLING PLACE, UK CLACK OP NOMINATION,! DAIS OP WRIT. NOW 1 NATION.
POLLING. BBTURN DAY.
Artryle
Bathurst
Camden..
Cook ami Westmoreland
Cumberland
Cumberland Boroughs
Durham
Gloucester, Macquarie, and Stanley ..
Hauler, Brisbane, and Itligh .. ’ ..
Melbourne .. .. .. ., ..
Murray, King, and Georgians
Northumberland
Northumberland Boroughs .. .,
Parramatta .. .. ..
Port Phillip
Box- urgli, Phillip, and Wellington ..
St Auckland ..
Sy'inoy
Gmilburn ..
Bo'hurst
Berrima
Hartley
Parramatta
Windsor
P.ilrraou ..
Raymond Terrace ..
Scone
CippB Ward
Yaa»
Bast Maitland
hast Maitland *, .. .. _. mr
Parramatta.. .. .. ,, ,,
Melbourne
Bathurst
Braid wood ,.
Bnuike Word
27 Ju in? July .. ..
!• •••••• 1 25 —
j« a a • a a a *il *-— 1
)» a r a a a a 2i) • • a •
j 1 •«•••• 2b • • • •
)1 • *.«••• 2b • e a •
f » •»•••> »5 “' a • a •
|| a • a a • | • • »•
H ■ • a • a • 25 — •* <1
f | a » a a a a 2d • • > •
|| *••••• 2b • a • •
• | • •ear* -" 5 ”“ • • • •
| ( aatiai —7 “* • • • •
|| •••••. —•* ~ * « » t>
«l a a • • 20 ' •• »*
It !••••• *b a a a •
• • 25 ““ ■ • a •
|l (••••■ 2 1 • • • •
Ill July ....
i9 — ....
31 — ....
2!) — ....
2 August ..
1 — ....
28 July ....
2 August ..
2ft July ....
30 — ....
31 — ....
31 —
29 - ....
28 —
27 — ....
3i — ....
31 — ....
28 — ....
8 August,
f»
•«
• t
It
M
I*
t»
•>
»*
fk
ft
»t
»t
*> »
It
SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE.
ARRIVED.
June 23. —The Government barque Franklin,
295 tons, Willett, master, from Norfolk Island
the 9th Inst. Passengers—Mr. and Mrs. Browne,
Mrs. Willett, Mr J. Smith, Mr. Gregson, Ensign
M Lean, of the llth regiment; 22 rank and file
of the llth regiment, four women and eight chil-
dren ; two privates of the 96th regiment; Mrs.
M'Lean and three children, Mrs. Baldock and
child, Mr Dennis Brennan Mr. W. Walthamstone,
Mr. and Mrs. Brownlow, Mr. W T . Knackles, Mrs.
Mary Ferguson, Messrs. Robertson, Bidrush,
Marcum, and twelve prise ners.
June 24.—The steamer Shamrock, 200 tons,
Gilmore, master, from Launceston, the 15th ;
Melbourne the 21st; and Eden, Twofold Bay, the
23rd Inst. Passengers—Mr. W. Whjte, Mr. J.
White, Mrs. Doddery, Mrs Brooke, Mr. Lang
lands, Mr. M'Gaa, Mrs. Sayers and two children,
Mr. Cowell, Mr. Patterson, Mr. Wils< n, Mr. and
Mrs. King, Mr. Slater, Mr. Williams, Mr. Patter-
son, Mr. Fascoville, Mr M'lver, Mr. and Mrs. J.
Walker, Mr. Wilmot. Mr. Commers, Mr. Man
ning, Mr. Bailey, Mrs. Manifold, Mr. Simpson,
Mr. and Mrs. Waller, Mr. and Miss Mullholland,
and three Masters Nagle.
June 24—The brig Hero 162 tons. Tregurtha,
master, from Adelaide the 17th Instant. Pas
sengers—Mr Joshua and Mr. John Baylty.
June 26.—The ship John Dalton, Jackson,
master, from Liverpool, 3rd March. Passengers
Mr. Livesey, Messrs. E. and W. Fleming, Mr.
and Mrs. Thompson, and 3 children, and Miss
Murphy.
June 26.—The steamer Phoenix, 130 tons, j
Wiseman, master, from the Clarence River, the I
21st Instant. Passengers—Miss Sullivan, Messrs I
Percy, Craigg, Phillips, Gilmore. Monks, Shaw, '
and sixteen in the steerage.
June 26.—The steamer Tamar, 130 tons, Allan,
master, from Moreton Bay the 22nd Instant
Passengers—Mr. G. A. Scott, Mr. Addams, Mr.
Weighhold, Mrs. Kent, three children and two
servants Mr. G. Thorne, Lieut De Winton, Mrs.
De Winton, Lord Bishop of Newcastle and ser-
vant, Miss Sibley 47 rank and file/2 corporals, 2
serjeants, of the 99th regiment, 12 women and 14 |
children.
June 28.—The barque Lima, 340 tons, Yule, '
master, (rom London, having left the Downs on
the 13‘h March. Passengers—Mr Williams, Mr.
Reid, Mr. Lunsdale, Mr and Mrs Robins, and
two children, Mr. Astley Smith, and Mr. James
Eldgar.
SAILED.
June 26. The schooner Phoebe, 89 tons,
Pennett, master, tor Melbourne.
June 26—The steamer Juno, 364 tons, Kir-
sopp, master, for Boyd Town, Port Phillip, Port-
land Bay,and Adelaide. Passengers—Mrs. Ayres
and servant, Miss Kennedy, Mr. .1. Walker and
servant, Miss M Scully, and Messrs. Illidge
Weston, Birmingham, Kennedy, Muggridge, Peter-
sine, Cut.hbert, Black, Leahy, James, Ebden Gold-
smith Brown, Strong, Riddle, Roach, Chaniry,
Carney, Ryan, Empson, Clarke, Anderson, Mur-
ray, Simmonds, Bradley, Phillipson, Walton,
Bramwell, and Davidson, and Captain Campbell.
June 27.—The brig Emma, 139 tons, Pockley
master, for Hobart Town. Passengers—Captain
Digny, H. E. I. C. S., son and daughter, and two
eeivants; Master Macnunara, \;r. Macalister,
Mrt Slater, Mr. Neale, Miss M. A. Lenzcy.
June 27. —The brig Richard and William, IG3
tons, Bigstock. master, for Timor in ballast.
June 27.—The barque Ann Bates, 378 tons,
Slaughter, master, for Guam, in ballast.
June 23.—'The barque Josephine, 3:1 tons.
Smith, master, for London. Passengers—Mr,
and Mrs. Johnson, two sons and daughter, Mr.
Batt, Mr. Affleck, Mr. Lake, Mr. Buchan, Mr.
M‘Vie, and Mr. Sharp.
June 28.—The brig Bee, 134 tons, Addams,
master, for Port Nicholson,
June 28. —The barque Canmore, 292 tons,
Courtenay, master, for the whale fishery.
June 28 —The barque Sir Edward Paget, 482
tons, Barclay, master, for Hobart Town in ballast.
Passengers—Lieutenant-Colonel Despard. 99th
Regiment, Mrs. and Miss Despard, Major Lang-
ley, Major Reed, Ensign Austin, Ensign Despard,
Adjutant P. Johnson, Lieutenant de Winton, Mrs.
de Winton, and female servant, Dr Daw3on, Mrs.
Dawson, Miss Rushworth, Surgeon Galbraith,
Owen Francome, Ellen Gwyne, James Mainy, 17S
rank and file of the 99th regiment, 14 serjeants,
7 drummers, and 46 children
June 28.—The Government barque Franklin,
resumed her voyage for Hobart Town.
June 28.—The steamer Tamar. 130 tons, Allen,
master, for Moreton Bay. Passengers—Mr. and
Mrs. Martin, Mr and Mrs. Griffin and child, Mrs.
England. Mr. and Mrs. Andrews, Mrs. Hanly.
Messru Thompson, Ocock Lake, Harris, Dixon,,
I ewis, Jones, Gany, Manning, Stewart, Higgins,
Pitt, Cranmer, Donaldson, Yass, and Allcum.
r une 29—The schooner Despatch, 139 tons*
Plant, master for Port Nicholson.
June 29 —The American ship Harvest, 205
tons. Bowden, master, for the Whale Fishery
June 29 —The schooner Will W r atch, 64 tons,
Stanes, master, for Portland Bay and Port Fairy.
Passengers—Mr. Hodgkinson.
June 29. —The schooner Champion, 52 tons,
Callas, master, for Moreton Bay. Passengers—
Mr. and Mrs. Johnson, Messrs. Carr, Thorne,
More, Brown, Jenkins, and Samue 1 .
June 29 —The cutter James and Amelia, 32
tons, Giles, master, for Twofold Bay Passengers
vr. and Mrs. Walker and child, Messrs. Mackay,
Martin, Taylor, Jones, and Smity.
June 30.—The brig Regia, 181 tons, Johnson,
master, for Port Nicholson and Anatam. Pas-
sengers—Lieutenant Paul, 65th regiment; 4 rank
and file and one women, Messrs. Asher, Merritt,
King, and Madden.
CLEARED AT THE CUSTOMS.
The schooner Sarah Ann, 185 tons, Dunnett
master, for Otago Passengers Mr. Neil
M'Naughten and Thomas Connor.
June 30 —The schooner Petrel, 69 tons, Gib-
son, master, for Port Phillip. Passengers —Mr.
and Mrs. Roger Kitt and four children, Mr and
Mrs. Michael Cain, Mrs. Smith, and Mr. Ennis.
The Subraon left Liverpool for Port Phillip and
Sydney, the 3rd March. The Borderer and Nim-
rod were laid on in Liverpool for Sydney direct.
The whaling bsrque Pocklington, Captain Bol-
ger, put into Port Stephens on the 20th instant,
19 months ffom Sydney, with 500 barrels sperm
oil on biard.
Mr R. Jackson, pilot, was reinstated yesterday,
it will be recollected" that he was suspended for
taking the French ship Arch d’ Alliance to sea
without her Clear«once.
PORT PHILLIP.
Arrived — T une 22. —Adelaide, ship, 539 tons,
Captein Wharton, from Plymonth 14th March.
Passengers—Messrs. Broadhurst and Porter, and
368 immigrants, Dr Barlas, Surgeon Superinten-
dent.
The Adelaide, arrived here yesterday, 98 days
out. She spoke the Setingapatam for Sydney on
the Bth instant in long. 98 east, lat. 40 south
out 100 days. This vessel had sprung a leak the
day before, but not of much consequence.
The latest paper on board was dated sth March*,
but we hear that a mail was put on board at
Plymouth on the 13th of the same month.
There is no additional political news of in-
terest to communicate, at least we were so
informed by Captain Wharton. —P. P, Herald•
ROYAL VICTORIA THEATRE.
Third night of the favorite Drama of the Blind
Beggar of Bethnal Green. —Second hight
of tho laughable Farce of Uncle Oliver.
THIS EVENING, JULY 1,184 S,
Will be produced the admired Drama of the
BLIND BEGGAR OF BETHNAL GREEN.
In Act I.— An old English Morris Dance.
A favourite Song, by Madame Carandini.
To be followed by the favorite Interlude of
THIS HOUSE TO BE SOLD,
(The property of the late William Shakspeare,)
ENQUIRE WI JII IN.
Pas de Deux, by Miss E. Griffiths and Signor
Carandini.
To conclude with a new Farce called
UNCLE OLIVER.
For Characters, see bills of the day.
MR. GRIFFITHS, Manager,
[advertisement.)
GENERAL ELECTION.
The writs are all issued, and Dickinson stands
For city and borough, and far squatting lands :
His qualifications cannot be denied
While his principles always are on the right side
Unfurling his flag for a superfine end,
He asks for support as a general friend :
He honors the cloth ; pays his court to the fleece
And adds to the exports’ and imports’ increase
He deals with the factor, and ne’er can you find
Such cloths, tweeds, and doeskins made up to
your mind :
East, west, north, south travel—in vain will you
seek
For Wrappers so stylish, and Sacks so unique :
His Codringtons*, Waterfords’, Paletots delight
The wearer by warmth—the beholder by sight;
He has tartans and checks too for Scotia true,
Bright green for Ould Erin, for England true
blue ;
While tricolored France and America’s race
Will find for an outrig his shop is the place.
Thus useful to all, ho your voices demands,
And looks to be met with a full show of hands:
Then rush to the poll with your plumpers and
vote
For Dickinson —sure that he’ll no’cr turn his
coat!
R. POLACK intends to recom
* a mence business as an Auctioneer and
Commission Agent. He takes this early opp< r-
tunityof Acquainting the puf lL* that he has
taken those’ Rooms formerly occupied by the
late John Blackman where he hopes to receive
a share of public patronage.
Auction Rooms, June 30, 1848.
TO THE ELECTORS
OF THE
COUNTY OF CAMDEN.
ENTLEMEN, — I beg to apprise you
VJ* of my intention of becoming a Candi-
date for the County of Camden at the ap-
proaching General Election. My opinions
upon most subjects of importance have been
so frequently expressed, that it appears
needless now to repeat them; but I shall, as
soon as possible, visit the different Districts of
the County, for the purpose of personal com-
munication with the constituency,
f have tlie honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient Serveut,
JAMES MACARTHUR.
Camden Park, June 28.


POET’S CORNER.
F ifes and fiddles flutes and drums
L oudly sound the Pieman’s praise :
Y outhful vigour shews itself
I n all his actions—all his ways:
N one like him in history’s page,
G reat pedestrian of the age.
P ies all hot 1 he once made well
I n gravy strong with savoury taste;
E els and oysters too he’d sell—
M utton and beef, both puff and paste—
A pple, peach, and rhubarb tart,
N one like his to please the heart.
A nother glory now he’ll claim,
N one better earned such glorious fame;
D ead or alive, he’s always game.
W here’s England now with all her boast ?
A ustralia she must rule the roast:
L ike braggart bully, Britannia walks,
K ing has licked her “all to chalks.”
I n his death and glory pluck
N e’er at trifles is he stuck ;
G o on and prosper in your luck,
P its of Sydney—sordid, base—
H ide your heads in deep disgrace:
A s you would not give him face
M aitland is his resting place.
P riest Lynch will join him soon with Hymen
I think to stock the world with Piemen :
O nly fancy virgins fair
N ourished by a Pieman’s care.
P eople may boast—it is their way—
E very dog will have his day :
D eeds, not words, has been his cry,
E very task he’ll do or die.
S trike up fiddles—fifes sound,
T ell the bellman to go round ;
R ally round his standard here
I nhabitarits both far and near,
A nd let us all in chorus sing
N e’er dying praise to Francis King.
WINNERS OF THE DERBY, OAKS, AND
ST. LEGER STAKES,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT.
DERBY.
1780 Diomed 1814 Blucher
1781 Young Eclipse 1815 Whisker
1782 Assassin 1816 Prince Leopold
1783 Saltram 1817 Azor
1784 Serjeant 1818 Sam
1785 Airawell 1819 Tiresius
1786 Noble 1820 Sailor
1787 Sir Peter Teazle 1821 Gustavus
1788 Sir Thomas 1822 Moses
1789 Skyscraper 1823 Emilius
1790 Rhadamanthus 1824 Cedric
1791 Eager 1825 Middleton
1792 John Bull 1826 Lapdog
1793 Waxy 1827 Mameluke
1794 Disdalus 1828 Cadland
1795 Spread Eagle 1829 Frederick
1796 Didelot 1830 Priam
1797 Br. c. by Fidget 1831 Spaniel
1798 Sir Harry 1832 St. Giles
1799 Archduke 1833 Dangerous
1800 Champion 1834 Plenipotentiary
1801 Eleanor 1835 Mundig
1802 Tyrant 1836 Bay Middleton
1803 W.’s Ditto 1837 Phosporus
1804 Hannibal 1838 Amato
1805 Card. Beaufort 1839 Bloomsbury
1806 Paris 1840 Little Wonder
1807 Election 1841 Coronation
1808 Pan 1842 Attila
1809 Pope 1843 Cotberstone
1810 Whalebone 1844 Orlando
1811 Phantom 1845 Merry Monarch
1812 Octavius 1846 Pyrrhus the First
1813 Smolensko 1847 Cossack
OAKS.
1779 Bridget 1814 Medora
1780 Tetotum 1815 Minuet
1781 Faith 1816 Landscape
1782 Ceres 1817 Neva
1783 Maid of the Oaks 1818 Corinne
1784 Stella 1819 Shoveler
1785 Trifle 1820 Caroline
1786 The Yellow Filly 1821 Augusta
1787 Annette 1822 Pastille
1788 Nightshade 1823 Zinc
1789 Tag 1824 Cobweb
1790 Ilippolyta 1825 Wings
1791 Portia 1826 Lilias, now Babel
1792 Volante 1827 Gulnare
1793 Cselia 1828 Turquoise
1794 Hermiono 1829 Green Mantle
1795 Platina 1830 Variation
1796 Parisot 1831 Oxygen
1797 Nike 1832 Galata
1798 Bellissima 1833 Vespa
1799 Beilina 1834 Pussy
1800 Ephemera 1835 Qneen of Trumps
1801 Eleanor 1836 Cyprian
1802 Seotia 1837 Miss Lett
1803 Theophania 1838 Industry
1804 Polisse 1839 Deception
1805 Meteore 1840 Crucifix
1806 Bronze 1841 Ghuznee
1807 Briseis 1842 Our Nell
1808 Morel 1843 Poison
1809 Maid of Orleans 1844 The Princess
1810 Oriana 1845 Refraction
1811 Sorcery 1846 Mendicant
1812 Manuella 1847 Miami
ISI3 Music
ST LEQER,
1778 Hollandaise 1813 Altisidora
1779 Tommy 1814 William
1780 Ruler 1815 Filho da Pula
1781 Serina 1816 The Duchess
1782 Imperatrix 1817 Ebor
1783 Phenomenon 1818 Reveller
1784 Omphale 1819 Antonio
1785 Cowslip 1820 St. Patrick
1786 Paragon 1821 Jack Spigot
1787 Spadille 1822 Theodere
1788 Young Flora 1823 Barefoot
1789 Pewett 1824 Jerry
1790 Ambidexter 1825 Memnon
1791 Young Traveller 1826 Tarrare
1792 Tartar 1827 Matilda
1793 Ninety-three 1828 The Colonel
1794 Beningbrough 1829 Rowton
1795 llambletonian 183 U Birmingham
1796 Ambrosio 1831 Chorister
1797 Lounger 1832 Margrave
1798 Symmetry 1833 Rockingham
1799 Coekfighter 1834 Touchstone
1800 Champion 1835 Queen of Trumps
1801 Quiz 1838 Elis
1802 Orville 1837 Mango
1803 Remembrancer 1838 Don John
1804 Sancho 1839 Charles the 12th
1805 Staveley 1840 Launcelot
1806 Fyldener 1841 Satirist
1807 Paulina 1842 lilue Bonnet
1808 Petronius 1843 Nutwith
1809 Ashton 1844 Foigh-a-ballagh
1810 Octavian 1845 The Baron
1811 Soothsayer 1846 Sir Tatton Sykes
1812 Otterington 1847 Van Troinp
American Fun.— “ Mrs. Grimes, lend me
your tub.” “ Gan *t do it—the hoops are off
its full of suds—besides I never had one I
■washes in a barrel, and wants to use the tub
myself—besides, 1 ’ve lent it to a neighbour,
who hasn’t returned it.”
What’s to be done with England?—A
Mr. Riley, in the Nation, Irish newspaper,
gravely recommends the Irish to conquer Eng-
land, and then, to get rid of the trouble of
keeping her, advises that she should be divided
into four parts—one to the Sultan, one to the
Czar, one to America, and one to the Pope !
“ I am afraid you will come to want,” said an
old lady to a young gentlemen. “ I have come
to want already,” was the reply ; “ I want your
daughter.” The old lady opened her eyes.
In the neighbourhood of Rochdale, it hap-
pened that a big, hulking collier, six feet two in
his stockings, had an extremely diminutive wife,
who was in the constant habit of thrashing him.
His master, who knew of the fact, said to him ;
■“* Why John, you lout, what do you mean ? A
great thumping fellow, like you, as strong as a
steam-engine or at? elephant, to let a little
woman like your wife thrash you What a
blockhead you must be 1” “ Whoy, whoy,” was
the patient reply, “ it pleases hor, an’ it does me
no hort 1”
MULTUM IN PARVO.
Intelligence from the Cape of Goad
Hope to the 13th April, states that Sir
Harry Smith has succeeded in bringing
the disturbances in that colony to a
peaceful conclusion.- 29 bales wool
were disposed of by auction at Mr. Morts
on Saturday, realising per lb ;
732 sheep skins at 3d. per lb ; 402 salted
hides ss. 2d. each ; 38 casks beef Tallow,
•' M‘Leay River” £3l 10s., and 22 ditto,
“ Moreton Bay,” £3l 12s. 6d. Mr.
Spencer of the Victoria Theatre, found
the body of a woman floating near the
bathing house in the Government Do-
main on Sunday morning. It would ap-
pear she tumbled into the water while in
a state of intoxication. During the
attendance of one Moran of Parramatta-
street, at divine service on Sunday, his
house was entered and robbed of £7 10s.
in gold, some silver, and two watches.
The gold, which was in a purse, was
subsequently found near the house.
A lad employed in the Stockton Tweed
Factory, Newcastle, was obliged to have
his arm amputated in consequence of
severe injuries he received from the limb
having become entangled in the machinery
The overseer of the Treadmill in the
Melbourne Gaol, has been dismissed for
negligence, two men having escaped from
the prison about a forlnight since The
Cork Co ■shtittion of January, states,
that the Regiments now serving in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, will not be sent
to India, but be retained in those places
for ten years. Augustus Dunning, one
of the Fentonville gentry, was convicted
at .Melbourne of the murder of a fellow
labourer (William Luck), and sentenced
to be hanged The funeral of the re-
volutionary victims at Paris was attended
by half a million of persons The
palace of the Tuilleries has been appro-
priated as an Asylum for invalid work-
men- Seven arches of a Viaduct on
the Manchester and Leeds Railway has
fallen in A resolution was carried in
the Melbourne Town Council, calling for
the removal of the Hon. C. La Trobe Esq.
Superintendent of that district, who seems
to have given general dissatisfaction to
the Port Phillippians. His accusers as-
sert that he has retarded the public works;
played into the hands of the Sydney Go-
vernment, and, Oh horrible to relate,
actually “ drawn his salary.” Com-
mercial affairs were in a very bad state
at Calcutta. The Union Bank had sunk
upwards of £lBO,OOO, and a large call
had been made to supply deficiences.
Sir Thomas Turton, Ecclesiastical Re-
gistrar, with a salary of £5,600, was a
defaulter to the tune of £lBO,OOO
A Mr. William Kidson, a law-writer in
Melbourne, was prosecuted under Mr.
Brewster’s Act for the protection of the
legal profession, for acting as a convey-
ancer without being duly authorised to do
so. This was the second information
filed against Kidsonfor the same offence ;
both however proved abortive One of
the Tort Phillip papers states that, a
shepherd put up at a public house at
Mount Macedon, depositing in the hands
of the landlord a cheque for £4O ; and
with a strong determination to knock it
down with “spirit,” insisted on being
supplied with a couple of buckets of
brandy each night to bathe his feet in.
A Mr. Dennis Dwyer, a constable of
Gosford, Brisbane Water, filed an infor-
mation against the Rev. Arthur Douglas,
clergyman of the Church of England,
for “ sly-grog selling.” It appeared
that Mr. Douglas employed some black-
fellows to hue wood for him, and as a
recompense for their labour, gave them
tea and sugar, and at their earnest en-
treaty, a small quantity of wine lees
which was in a cask in an outhouse.
For this dreadful crime did this officious
trap; Mr. Danger, attempt to have the
reverend gentleman mulcted in a penalty
for a breach of the Licensing Act. He
was defeated, however, in his scheme, for
the Magistrates would not entertain the
charge. Fifty rank and file, two ser-
geants, twelve women and eleven children,
a detachment of the 99th embarked on
Monday on board the “ Lady Franklin”
for Hobart Town, where the regiment is
to be stationed. Colonel Despard, Major
Smily, and other officers, together with
upwards of one hundred and seventy troops
&c. &c. went on board the “ Sir Edward
Paget,” on Tuesday The “ Juno”
steamer took its departure for Boyd Town,
Port Phillip, Portland Bay, and Ade-
laide on Monday, having fifty-two
passengers on board The barque
“ Josephine,” cleared out for London the
same day with a cargo consisting of 978
bales wool, 161 tons copper ore, and 10
casks tallow —• The number of ships,
averaging 210 tons each, belonging to
Great Britain and its dependencies,
amounted to 32,000, out of which 537
were lost. In 1835, when there were
24,500 vessels belonging to the country,
the loss was 610 ships, attended with the
loss of upwards-of 1500 lives. Since
then, though the commercial marine has
been steadily increasing, the loss of ves-
sels by shiprecks has been as steadly
diminishing. Mr. Abraham Polack has
has taken out an Auctioneers License for
Sydney Two Chief Constables, named
Mr. Henry Hilton and Mr. William
Kendall have been appointed Inspector
of Slaughter Houses, the former for the
district of Tumut, aud the latter for the
district of Wee Waa It is expected
that the head quarters of the 11th Regt.
will arrive in Sydney about the middle
of the this month. A youth named
Peter Tickell, was sentenced on Tuesday
to forty eight hours imprisonment for
having absconded from the service of his
master, Mr. Weir, a Baker.
Canning used to defend the practice of
prizefighting; ‘because,’ said he on
every occasion of a prize-fight, two black-
guards are sure to get well thrashed.’
Antiquity of the Arch. Mr. Layard,
has discovered in the ruins of Nineveh
positive proofs of the use of the arch. One
small chamber is perfectly vaulted with
unburnt bricks, the diameter of the arch
being 13 or 14 feet, and the form semi-
circular.— Mechanics' Mnaazine.
THE PLEASURES AND ADVAN-
TAGES OF ARCHERY.
Some love the glories of the chase, and some
To haunt the peopled stream :
But me the need of the green Archer charms.
Armstrong.
SIR,
In a publication of the nature of the
New Sporting Magazine, intended for the
support and encouragement of the Rural
Sports of this country, I know none more
worthy of honourable mention than that
of Archery. The bow—long the na-
tional weapon of defence—may now be
considered almost an object of national
amusement, whose increasing popularity
is sufficiently attested by the numerous
societies of Archers that have been for
some time established, and are yearly
extending themselves through various
parts of the Kingdom. And, indeed, con-
sidering the many advantages it offers as
a healthful and agreeable pastime, to the
weak as well as the strong, but more
especially to the fair sex, it is only sur-
prising that Archery should ever have
fallen into neglect, or have remained so
long unnoticed.
The history of Archery as an amuse-
ment may be briefly stated. After the
invention of gunpowder it soon ceased to
be cultivated as a military art, bnt con-
tinued to be held in high repute as a
manly and noble diversion. In the reign
of Henry VIII. and those of his imme-
diate successors—themselves no mean
proficients in the arts —it was much prac-
tised by all classes of persons, and several
statutes were passed for its regulation
and encouragement; so important an ex-
ercise was it deemed too for the youth of
that period, that we find an enactment
(the 33d. Henry VIII.) commanding
“all fathers and governors of persons
under age to teach them shooting, and
provide for them a bow and two shafts.”
Even in Elizabeth’s time, when the
bow was fast falling into neglect as a
weapon of war, Archery was declared by
statute to be “ a wholesome exercise for
the health and strength of man.” And
among the orders and rules of Harrow
school, framed in the 33d. year of her
reign, is one, that every person who sent
a boy to the school, should allow him at
all times a bow, three shafts, bow-strings,
and a bracer, to exercise shooting. And
that it was not regarded at this period
as a mere childish amusement, or un-
worthy the attention of the grave and
learned, we may infer from a sermon of
Bishop Latimer’s preached before the
king, wherein he describes it as “ a
goodlye arte, a holesome kynde of exercise
and much commended in physik as
wrastlyng agaynste manye kyndes of
diseases.”
Archery was a favourite diversion with
the unfortunate Charles the First, and
maintained its popularity during the
unsettled reigns of the Stuarts, But on
the accession of William of Orange, by
whom not only rural sports, but every
other species of amusement unconnected
with “ the great game of war,” were
despised and neglected, it appears to have
fallen into disrepute ; and in this state it
remained until the close of the last cen-
tury, when an attempt was made to re-
vive it in the southern counties, by the
formation of numerous companies and
societies of archers. Patronised by the
Prince of Wales and many other distin-
guished individuals, it bid fair to become
a fashionable and favourite amusement;
but war once more arrested its progress,
and on the threatened invasion of this
country the bow was quickly exchanged
for the musket, and the -f green archer ’
transferred into a green rifleman. Since
the peace, however, it has been again
revived, and, as I before stated, is every
year becoming more generally practised.
Archery has been truly characterised as
a healthful, manly, and elegant recre-
ation, giving strength to the body and
cheerfulness to the mind. The celebrated
Ascham relates of himself, that being
valetudinary and weak of body, be
thought it necessary to spend many hours
in such exercises as might best relieve
him after the fatigue of study, and that
his favourite amusement was archery.
And in his well known treatise on this
subject, he observes, that for the weak
and unhealthy this exercise is of all
others the best “ not only because it
increaseth strength and preserveth health
most, but because it is not vehement
but moderate, not overlayinge any one
parte with weariness, but sofylye ex-
ercising everye parte with equalnesse.”
Equally adapted to every age and
sex, to the sick and the healthy, the
weak as well as the strong, affording
exercise with amusement that gradual
excitement of the physical powers so
desirable after a long-continued and
debilitating illness, Archery, as might
be expected, has attracted the attention
and received the commendations of the
most eminent physicians of all ages.
Some persons have an idea that great
masculine powers and considerable ex-
ertion are required for drawing the bow,
of whatever size it may be. But this
is quite an erroneous opinion ; the strength
of the bow may be, and is in general,
adapted to the age, size, and sex of the
party, and the mode or manner of draw-
ing it very simple and easily acquired
by practise.
One of the peculiar advantages of
this delightful amusement, is the induce-
ment which it offers to the fair sex to
partake of active exercise in the open
air. Field sports, in the ordinary accep-
tation of the term, are considered too
masculine and inhuman, —too inconsist-
ent with that “ gentleness and sweet
attractive giace” which should pervade
their every thought and act.
“ Far the spirit of the chase from them!
To spring the fence, to rein the prancing steed;
The cap, the whip, the masuline attire.”
But, even by the most fastidious, Archery
cannot be classed among the sports
“ In which they roughen to the sense and all
The winning softness of their sex is lost.”
Being thus debarred, not less by
juiblic opinion than by habit and educa-
tion, from participating in the more
active rural sports, they are, to a certain
extent, compelled to have recourse to
amusements of a sedentary and domestic
nature. Some ladies there, are indeed,
to whom a rural walk presents at all
times and in all seasons an unfailing
source of amusement, and who do not
discover an insurmountable obstacle in
every hill, or disheartening difficulties
in rugged paths and ploughed fields ; but
in general, when exercise is to be courted
for its own sake alone, and without a
more exciting motive than the preserva-
tion of health, it soon ceases to afferd
them gratification, and becomes an irk-
some and uninviting task.
As a recreation, therefore, which with-
out creating satiety, affords constant and
regular exercise, and while it tends to
amuse and exhilirate the spirits gives
strength and vigour to the limbs Archery
is of all other most deserving the atten-
tion of the fair sex.
An Archery Meeeting seems too, to
be peculiarly calculated for displaying
the various oidersoi female beauty,—
the simple, the graceful, and the com-
manding, appears to equal advantage,
and a pretty face or a pretty figure, a
well-turned arm or a well-turned ankle
attract equal admiration in the elegant
costume of an Archeress. Nor can a
more graceful attitude be conceived, than
that of an Archer at the woment of dis-
charging the arrow ; it has attracted the
attention of painters and sculptors in
every age, and been a favourite theme
with poets from the days of Homer to the
present time. The beautiful passage on
this snbject in the fourth book of the
Iliad, must be familiar to every classical
reader.
Such are a few of the pleasures and
advantages which at a trifling expense,
and with the most beneficial effects, this
delightful amusement offers to almost
every class of persons. To do justice to
various merits would require more time
and ability then I can pretend to bestow
upon it. This brief a hasty sketch may,
however, be sufficient to obtain for it that
attention, which, as an agreeable and
salutary exercise for the youth of both
sexes, and a infallible protection against
“ those foes to fair ones, —time and
thought,” it so pre-eminenty deserves.
In a future Number I shall, with your
permission, offer a few observations on the
proper equipments of an archer, and the
rules to be observed in the several kinds
of shooting.
I am, Sir, yours, &c.
TOXOPHILUS.
The Lawyers at the last threat of
Invasion. — “ Of the 300,000 volunteers
enrolled and deciplined,” says Lord
Campbell in his ‘ Life of Erskine,’ “ the
lawyers in the metropolis raised two
regiments—B.l.C.A., or Bloomsbury and
Inns of Court Association, and the
‘ Temple Corps,’ generally called the
‘ Devils Own.’ The command of the
latter was conferred upon Erskine. Hav-
ing myself served in the ranks of the
former, I am not able from personal ob-
servation to criticise his military prowess,
but I well remember we heard many
stories of the blunders which he com-
mitted, and we thought ourselves lucky
to be under the orders of Lieutenant-
Colonel Cox, a warlike Master in Chan-
cery, while our livals could boast of most
of the dignitaries of the law, and were
renowned for their ‘ belly-yerent' ap-
pearance ; we consisted chiefly of lean
students and briefless barristers, so that we
were in great hopes that if we did not
go into the field, before the end of the
campaign, fatigue alone would make
great openings for us in Westminister
Hall, and on all the circuits. We had
drills every morning, and many field
days, but we never had any harder ser-
vice than being reviewed by George 111
in Hyde Park, along with all the volun-
teers of the metropolis, on a very rainy
day. Both the law corps were particu-
larly noticed by his Majesty who caused
much jealousy amongst us of the 8.1.C.A.,
by his particularly gracious return to the
salute of Lieut.-Col. Erskine. Many
severe colds were caught, but there was
no casualty to cause any promotion in
the profession, the servants of the seniors
waiting for them with cloaks and um-
brellas as soon as they were dismissed
from the parade. Lord Eldon in his old
age gave the following account of this
spectacle :— ‘ I think the finest sight I
ever beheld was the review in Hyde Park
before George 111. The King in passing
addressed Tom Erskine, who was colonel,
asking him the name of his corps. He
answered, ‘ The Devil’s Own.’ The
Lincoln’s Inn volunteers always went by
the name of ‘ The Devil’s Invincibles.”
Law, then Attorny-General, afterwards
Lord Chief-Justice Ellenborough, was
reported to be a fair specimen of them ;
for, even with the help of chalk, he never
could be taught the difference between
marching with his right or his left foot
foremost, and all the time he was in the
service he continued in the awkward
squad.”—Lord Campbell slyly adds,
“ There were likewise a good many at-
torneys belonging to us, who brought
down many jests upon us, among others,
that upon the word beipg given ‘ prepare to
charge,’ they all pulled out pen, ink, and
paper; and being ordered to ‘charge,’
they wrote down 6s, Bd., or 13s. 4d.
The soul of our corps was our adjutant,
my poor friend Will Harrison, who with
us could talk of nothing but battles, and
seemed to think himself as great a mili-
tary genius as Napoleon, although he
talked much law at regimental messes,
which he was fond of dining at, so that
it was said he was a ‘ general among
lawyers, and a lawyer among generals.”
Anti-Malthcsians. —Pour men lately
met by accident at the Odd Fellows’
Arms, Mellar, Derbyshire, who had had
amongst them no fewer than fifteen wives,
viz., Matthew Miller, who had been mar-
ried five times, Thomas Wortley, four
times, James Hall (a man in his 71st
year, who was about to marry a fourth
wife), three times, and Abraham Heap,
the landlord, three times.
Cockney Axiom.— -After people have
visited the ’aunts of dissipation, they
usually visit their uncles.— Man in the
Moon.
A Yankee Horse-dealer’s Description
of his Horse. —‘ Morning to you squire,’
he said in his accustomed loud tone and
familiar manner, ‘ I am glad to see you.
I have been waiting for you some time,
to look at the horse I have here that will
just suit you. He is great, that’s a fact;
a perfect case, I assure you. He can trot
his mile in two minutes and thirty se-
conds, and no break, shuffle, rack, or
pace; but a handsome round trot, with
splended knee action; not pawing
the air like make believe, nor pounding
the road like breaking stones, but a sort
of touch-me - light -and-go- easy - style,
like the beat of a gal’s fingur on a pianny;
and so gentle that a child can manage
him. When you want him to go, take
up the rein, and he’s off like a fox ; when
you want him to stop, throw them down,
and he’ll stand all day. The way he
makes the spokes fly round in the weel,
so that you can only see the rim, as if it
was a hoop, is amasing. It frightened
me at first, and I aint easily scared by a
horse. He is a superior animal, beyond
all doubt. I never was suited before in
my life, and I don’t know as he aint
spoilt me so as I never shall be suited
again. Sometimes I think I can’t part
with him anyhow, for I can’t never get
another like him ; and sometimes I take
a notion into my head I ought to sell
him, as it is too much money for a
poor man like me to have a horse.
.I’d like you to have him, for you are a
judge of a horse—perhaps the best in
these parts (though I have seen the balk
put into you afore now). You will take
good care of him, and I would’nt like to
see the critter, knocked about like corn,
He will lead your tandem beautiful, and
keep his traces up without doing the whole
work and killing himself. A thread will
guide him ; and then he knows how to
slack up, a going down-hill, so as not to
drag the wheeler off his legs. Oh, he’s a
doll 1 His sinews are all scorpions tails
and whipcords, and he’s muscle enough
for two beasts of his size. You can’t
fault him in no particular, for he is per-
fect, head or neck, shoulder or girth, back
or loins, stifle or hock, or chest and pas-
ticus; and as for hoofs, they actually
seem as if they were made a purpose for a
trotter. In fact, you may see he’s the
greatest piece of stuff ever wrapped up in
horse-hide. Come and look at him, and
judge for yourself. My price is two
fifty ; but if you like him, say the word,
and he’s yours at two hundred dollars, for
I’d like you to have him. I conceit he’ll
suit you to a notch, and me credit too.
Heaven and airth ! —aint he the boy to
slip by the officers’ tandem club to
Halifax like winkin’, and you a sitting at
your ease, pretending to hold him in, and
a passing of them, nodding and laughing
good natured like, as much as to say.
“ Don’t you wish you could keep the road
now you’ve got it ?’’
More than One. —A clergyman in the
county was reproving a married couple
for their frequent dissensions, which was
very unbecoming, both in the eyes of God
'and man, seeing, as he observed, that they
were both “one.” “ Both one ?” cried
the husband. “ where your reverence to
come past our door sometimes you might
think we were twenty.”
ARITHMETICAL QUESTIONS.
(From Punch.)
Smith makes Brown, of Hampstead,
the following bet : —That he (B) will not
find a single man in his senses to accom-
plish the following task :—To read the
debates through, House of Lords and all,
regularly every day, and to state at the
end of the session what he recollects about
them. The papers are to be supplied to
him gratuitously, and he is to be allowed
to skip the speeches of the Irish members.
What chance has Brown of winning, and
express the result, if any, in vulgar frac-
tions ?
If it takes an able-bodied man an hour
and a half to walk from Aldgate Pump
to the Man-in-the\l-oon at Chelsda, how
long would it take him to get through one
of Dr. M‘Hale’s letters : and do you
think he would do it any the quicker if
he took a cab ?
Which is the greater, the distance be-
tween Bath and Jericho, or Lord Broug-
ham and the Whigs'?
How many speeches are requisite to
carry a measure ?
State as nearly as you can the number
of persons who read the papers and blue
books that are ordered to be printed ; and
tell us how often a Stilton cheese that
weighs 23lbs. XOoz. will go into one of
the latter.
If 19s. is deducted from the
National Debt one year, and £2,000,000
added to it in the next, and these addi-
tions and corrections are repeated for 50
years, how long will it take before the
National Debt is paid off?
FOR MADRAS DIRECT.
CHARTERED SHIP.
H E FINE SHIP
Hyderabad.
T
816 tons, Frederick Au-
gustus Castle, master,
being under positive engagement, will sail for
the above port on the sth August next. Has
room for a few horses, and most superiot acco-
modation for passengers. For freight or pa%
sage apply to Captain Castle, on board, or to
GEORGE THORNTON,
Custom House.
THE EYE PLEASED—THE HEAD
FITTED THE POCKET CON-
SULTED.
Ventilated French & Beaver Hats.
a,
HAS in stock an endless variety of the
above of the latest fashions, Hats to
any shape or width of brim finished to order at
a short notice. Fancy cloth or silk velvet caps
of the latest Paris and London fashions. Hat-
ters* trimmings,’gold cord, &c.
French Hat Manufactory.
77, Market-street.
WANTED, at this Office,an additional
Turf Reporter. Salary £2OO per
annum, exclusive of Travelling Expenses
WHOLESALE & RETAIL
<3SiQ®a&'2? 0
Tea, Wine, and Spirit
undersigned begs to submit a
I list of goods on hand, assuring those who
may favour his Establishment, that every article
will be sold at the lowest possible price and of
the best description and quality.
BLACK TEAS:—
Flowery Pekoe
Orange ditto
Caper
Souchong
Congou
Bohea
GREEN TEAS :
Gunpowder
Hyson
Young Hyson
Twankay
Hyson Skin
COFFEES :— (roasted daily on a new and much
improved 'principle.')
Java
Manila
Mocha
SUGARS:—
Double and Treble Refined Sugar
Mauritius and Manila ditto
Chrystalized ditto
CHOCOLATE —from the first London houses,
of various descriptions
SPICES:—
Cloves
Nutmegs
Mace
Cinnamon
Black Pepper
White ditto
Cayenne ditto
Pimento
Curry Powder
Jamaica Ginger
Common ditto
DRIED FRUITS:—
Muscatel Raisins
Turkey ditto
Cape ditto
Sultana ditto
Prunes
Currants
Nuts
Figs
Orange Peel
Lemon ditto
Citron
Jordan Almonds
Soft Shell ditto
FRUITS IN BRANDY AND IN NOYEAU.
BOTTLED FRUITS FOR TARTS i
Apricots, Green Gages
Peaches, Cherries
Strawberries, Currants
Damsons, Gooseberries
Bullace, Rhubarb, Sec., &c., &c.
PICKLES:—
M angoes
Walnuts
Onions
Gerkins
Cabbage
Piccalilly
French Beans
Cauliflower
Mixed Pickles, and every other sort
French Capers
Ditto Olives
Spanish ditto
SAUCES—for
Fish, Game
bteaks, Cold Meat
Curries
Enriching Gravies, &c., of every description,
from the first houses
OILS:—
Floreuce Oil
Lucca Oil, in pint and quart bottles, of the
finest quality
Castor Oil, genuine Cold Drawn
Sperm Oil
Black ditto
Linseed ditto
Boiled ditto
VINEGARS :
Best English White Wine Vinegar
French
Chili
Tarragon
Garlick
Cucumber
Cayenne &c.
TOBACCO :
Negrohead
Colonial
SNUFFS:—
English, Scotch, and Irish
svstMaisas.
Cigars
Mustard
Arrowroot, Sago, Tapioca
Irish Mess Pork
Ditto Beef
Hambro ditto
Yarmouth Herrings
White ditto
Pearl Barley, Split Peas
Brimstone
Soda, Rotten Stone
Bees’ Wax
Lamp Cotton, Candlewick
Liquorice
Oatmeal
Isinglass
Beer and Wine Corks
Epsom Salts
Glue, Cream of Tartar
Wool Packs
Saltpetre
Tartaric Acid
Carbonate of Soda
Brushes, Black and Red Ink
Blacking
Amatto
Gunpowder, Shot
Liverpool, Dairy, and Basket Salt
Black Lead
Starch, Tobacco Pipes
Blue, Whiting, Alum
Wax and Sperm Candles
Bath Bricks
Mould and Store Candles
M accaroni
Vermicelli
London, Liverpool, and Colonial soap
Windsor soap
Pearl Ashes
Honey
Tamarinds
Prepared Groats and Barley
Turpentine, White Lead, Paints
Preserved Meats, Soups, Fish, Game
castas,
Champagne, Sparkling, in pints and quarts
Hock
Claret
Madeira
Port
Sherry
Cape, &c., Btc., &c.
SSPimSSttS.
IN OR OUT OF BOND.
Brandy in Wood or Cases
Gin in Cases, half Cases, or in Wood
Rum
Old Tom
Shrub
Cherry Brandy
Noyeau
Annisseed
Lemon Syrup
Pepperment, &c., be., &c.,
IN WOOD AND BOTTLE.
KICHARD PEEK,
July 1, 1848. 452, George-streef.
OP w
THE WOOL-PACK INN,
NEAR THE HAY MARKET,
SYDNEY,
BEGS to inform his Friends in town
and country, and the Public generally,
that he has recently received, direct from
London and to his especial order, through the
house of Swain, Webb and Co, an extensive
supply of
REAL JAMAICA RUM,
selected with great care by one of the most
eminent judges of the article, and that he is
now ready to accept orders for any quantity of
the above wholesome liquor, iron) a bottle to a
puncheon, either in or out of bond, upon the
following terms:—
Bottled, per dozen 245.
In wood, per gallon 12s,
Publicans and others in the trade will, upon
taking a large quantity, meet with a corres-
ponding liberality.
Martell’s Brandy, with a choice selection of
Wines, Ales, &c., &c., always on hand.
The advertiser would respectfully call the
further attention of gentlemen from the interior,
to the commodious alterations which have of
late been effected in his establishment, enabling
him to offer visitors to the metropolis comfort,
able and convenient quarters during their stay
in Sydney.
The premises adjoining the WOOL PACK
are so universally known to possess capacious
yards tor teams, with ample and economical
accomodation for their attendants, that it
seems superfluous here to enlarge upon them.
June 25, 1818,
GENERAL AGENCY.
SUaSEX-STREET,
BEGS to inform the public generally,
that in addition to his Agency business,
he has included that of House Agent and Col.
lector of Rents and Accounts. In doing so, he
has to inform parties who require such, that the
greatest punctuality and despatch will be used
on all occasions.
The most respectable references, if required,
ian he given.
Sussex s reet, Ist July, 1848.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
fflllb >l', So iiliiii.
Surgical and Mechanical Dentist,
93, KING-STREET, cornbr of BANK-COURT.
Artificial teeth fixed without
pain or inconvenience.
Teeth stopped with gold or cement, as required.
Teeth scaled, cleaned, and beautified.
Teeth extracted without pain, by inhaling
chloroform.
Children’s Teeth regulated.
N. B.—All charges at the most moderate
rate.
BUTTER ! BUTTER!! BUTTER!!!
* ______
To Private Families.
GOOD SALT BUTTER, at Six-pence
per pound, at the stores of
M. I.ENEHAN,
June 30, 1848. 40, Market-street.
A CARD.
ARCHITECT A SURVEYOR,
HOUSE AND LAND AGENT,
277, CASTLEREAGH-STKEET.
STOCKTON CLOTHS, TWEEDS,
BUCKSKINS, DOESKINS, &c.
MESSRS. FISHER™* DONALDSON
BEG to impress upon both wholesale
and retail purchasers of their Cloths, that
great advantages are secured them by the late
arrangements effected at their
ESTABLISHMENT IN KING STREET,
where transactions take place immediately with
the Manufacturers, thereby giving the pur-
chaser the benefit ef what otherwise would be
thrown into the pockets of Agents and their
deputies.
JOB PRINTING
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION,
executed with accuracy and despatch, »i
EVERY VARIETY OF TYPE,
and on the most moderate terms, at the Rioting
Offic * of
dportiuff Cmiesf.”
334, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
To Clerks of Courses—Secretaries of Yatching,
Cricket, and Rifle Clubs—Members of Pigeon
Matches—Players at Quoits — Ringers, Wrest-
lers, Pugilists Pedestrians Cockers
Dog Fanciers — and every other specie s of
sportsmen. We shall, at all times, feel
greatly indebted for any authentic infor-
mation, either past or future, having reference
to the chosen sports of any of the above.
THE SPORTING TIMES U published every
Saturday morning. Country Subscribers will
be received, on payment of Six Months in
Advance, viz.—Thirteen Shillings Parties
subscribing in the middle of a quarter wifi on\y
be charged from their commencing. Terms
or Advertising—2s. 6d. for the first inch and
under, and Is. for every additional inch, each
insertion. Advertisements must specify on
the face of them the number of insertions, or
they will be continued, and charged accord-
ingly till countermanded.
Agents Required in the Various Districts.—
Those gentlemen who feel disposed to act, if
not previously known to Mr. Johnson, will
be good enough to forward as early as pos-
sible Sydney references.
AGENTS.
Mr. E. Mason Parramatta
„ John Anderson* ... Penrith
„ Michael Doyle* ... Berrima
„ William Hunt* Queanbeyan
„ Wm. Moore, C. Con. Ipswich, Moreton Bay
~ Joseph Matthews*... Wellington
„ Harry Evans Armidale, New Eng.
„ John Tait Bathurst
* Those marked so are Innkeepers.
OX3?* Where Agencies are not formed, gentle-
men wishing to have the paper regularly for-
warded must communicat with the Office in
Sydney, and enclose the required advanc, of,
at least, 13s. Our Agents moreover are re-
quested to bear in mind, that in no case will
the name of a Subscriber be received unless
he has complied with the regulation relative
to prepayment.
