

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. II. BARLEE.
No. 6, Vol. I.]
FEBRUARY 23, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
DAY OF
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
j Sets.
Sydney Cove
Feb.
23
Sat
Got. Gipps arrived Sydney, 1838. Cato street
5.44
1 6.43
12.11 p.m.
24
S
conspiracy, 1820.
Sexagesima. Moon’s last quarter 1.17 p.m. St.
5.45
! 6.42
1. 4 p.m.
25
M
Matthias.
Mail via Torres Straits, leaves Sydney.
5.46
1
6.41
2.19 p.m.
26
Tu
Victor Hugo born, 1S02.
5.46
6.40
3.45 p.m.
27
W
Longfellow born, 1807.
5.47
6.39
5. 7 p.m.
28
March.
Th
Mail via San Francisco, leaves Sydney.
5.48
6.38
6.11 p.m.
1
F
St. David’s Day. Rabelais died, 1553.
5.49 |
6.36 |
6.58 p.m.
We shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.B.—Advertisements for “SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK ” will be received up to six o’clock on
Thursday evening.
DEATH IN THE GLASS.
Dr. Doran says pithily, in one of
his delightful compilations, that the
Romans, who adulterated their
wines with lead, were ignorant and
godless heathens; and as nothing
like their crime has ever been known
as a characteristic of some of the
professors of a better dispensation
why our righteous indignation
against them may be intense !
A good many publicans in this
colony will possibly appreciate Dr.
Doran’s remark, which, as their
mother wit will doubtless make clear
to them, is meant for what Artemus
Ward called “ sarkasm. ” Agood many
drinkers, moderate as well as im-
moderate, will also enjoy the “ lyttel
geste,” knowing,, as they do by bitter
experience, how very difficult it is to
obtain a good honest glass of good
honest liquor. Charles Lamb rested
his excuse for being late in arriving
at his office on the ground of his
leaving it so early; and it may be
with somewhat similar logic that the
ordinary vendor of wines and spirits
hopes to justify his doubly decep-


tive action—if my liquor be very
bad, I give you very little of it.
If he adulterates his spirits, he cur-
tails the measure by which he dis-
penses it; if his grog is half poison,
the glass in which it is retailed is
false-bottomed, and so he is less of a
murderer by being more of a thief.
We should very much like to see
incisive action taken against the
adulterators of wines and spirits.
Why should a subtle rogue, who
purveys to you an astringent,
aperient, and poisonous drug as a
wholesome wine, be allowed to go
scot free, when the utterer of a
forged note is haled off to Berrima ?
What right has Mr. Boniface,
though thrice a licensed victualler,
to fill your stomach with a concoc-
tion of cider, sloe-juice, alum, and
powder of catechu, when it is your
creditable desire to warm it with
fine, old-crusted port ? A little work,
called “ The Publican’s Instructor,”
published some year or two ago,
professes to give several hundred
receipts for the manufacture of cor-
dials and liqueurs in the greatest
perfection. This “ Instructor,”
among other things, thus tells
how to build up a very choice
brandy : —“ To ten gallons of recti-
fied spirit put two ounces of bitter
almond meal, half-an-ounce of mace
pounded, half-an-ounce of orris root
sliced, and one ounce of cassia ground;
shake it frequently for a fortnight,
and then add one ounce of terra
japonica finely pulverised, two
ounces of sweet spirits of nitre, and
half-a-pound of prunes; let it be
well roused up, and after it has
stood another fortnight it may be
considered fit for use. Colour with
brandy colouring, if you need it
darker.” We by no means wish
to insinuate that the publicans of
New South Wales personally go in
for such scientific adulteration as the
above ; hut that at least two-thirds
of the total quantity of spirits re-
tailed by the publicans of New South
Wales has been concocted by means
equally fraudulent we are morally
certain. If the actual counterfeiter
of honest drink cannot be got at,
make the utterer of the concocted
article responsible for its issue. Is
there anything unreasonable in the
notion ? Cannot our legislators—
most of whom love a drop of good
drink—see to this 1 Are the vested
interests of certain potential traders
for ever to stand in the way of see-
ing that fair play is accorded to
those who contribute so largely to
the revenue as consumers of wines
and spirits? The appointment of
inspectors of liquid articles of food
is urgently needed, as also the
enactment of a simple measure giv-
ing them the powers needful to
make their duty real.
We trust the present Govern-
ment will see its way clear to taking
up this subject in a practical manner,
as the victims of adulteration are
annually increasing in number, at a
rate positively alarming. “Drugged”
would be a fairer definition of the
condition of many a poor fellow,
whose name appears on the police
sheet, than “ drunk.” Many a man,
before now, who has gone up to a
bar perfectly sober and called for a
glass of brandy, has been converted
into a fit subject for police supervi-
sion by tossing off that single glass;
and that such is the case is not to
be wondered at, if there be truth in
our “ Publican's Instructor,” which
tells us that a fine bead can be put
on fifty gallons of weak spirits by
taking one ounce of oil of vitriol,
one drachm of oil of sweet almonds,


rubbing them together in a mortar,
adding spirits of wine, and rousing
well up. We can easily understand
how a very little of such beading
would go a very long away, and how
the unhappy consumer of a brandy
so highly finished would very soon
be sufficiently. “ roused up ” to
qualify for the station-house. Tee-
totalism, of course, will say, “It
serves the fool right who drinks
spirits, if he find them a snare
perhaps, however, Teetotalism will
glance at the subjoined recipe for
making raspberry, taken from our
“ Publican’s Instructor ”: “ Two
gallons strong spirits of wine, five
gallons raspberry juice, one pint ale
finings, two gallons boiling water,
cold water, thirty pounds of lump
sugar, salt of tartar, raspings of red
sanders-wood, two ounces alum ;
rouse well up.” A young teetotaller,
who takes his raspberry (as some
young teetotallers do, believing it to
be a temperance drink), deserves
protection every whit as much as
the non-abstainer who takes his
glass of spirits, believing it to be
spirits, and vice versa; at least, it
appears to us that the consumer
deserves protection, not so much at
the hands of the policeman as at
those of the analyst and his sub-
altern inspectors.
While on this subject, we would
give a hint to the drinking public :
Eschew the practice of calling for a
glass or nobbier, and insist upon
being supplied by measure, by gill,
half-pint, pint, quart, or gallon.
The ordinary bar glass is a patent
fraud, and only excusable on the
supposition that, in nine cases out of
ten, it exercises a mitigating effect
upon a fraud of a character a hun-
dred times more dangerous, though
none the less mean.
IN MEMORY OF JOHN FAIRFAX.
Because this man fulfilled his days
Like one who walks with steadfast gaze
Averted from forbidden ways,
With lures of fair false flowerage deep,
Behold the Lord, whosa throne is dim
With fires of flaming seraphim—
The Christ that suffered sent for him;
“ He giveth his beloved sleep.”
Think not that souls whose deeds august,
Put sin to shame and make men just,
Become at last the helpless dust
That wintering winds through waste-
lands sweep !
The higher life within us cries,
Like some fine spirit from the skies ;
“ The Father’s blessing on us lies—
‘ He giveth his beloved sleep.’ ”
Not human sleep—the fitful rest—
With evil shapes of dreams distressed,
But perfect quiet, unexpressed
By any worldly word we keep.
The dim hereafter, framed in creeds,
May not be this ; but He who reads
Our lives, sets flowers on wayside weeds—
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
Be sure, this hero who has passed
The human space—the outer vast—
Who worked in harness to the last,
Doth now a hallowed harvest reap.
Love sees his grave, nor turns away
The eyes of faith are like the day,
And grief has not a word to say—
“ He giveth his beloved sleep.”
That fair rare spirit, Honour, throws
A light which puts to shame the rose
Across his grave ; because she knows
The son whose ashes it doth keep.
And, like far music, this is heard—
“ Behold the man who never stirred
By word of his an angry word !
‘ He giveth his beloved sleep.’ ”
He earned his place ; within his hands,
The Power which counsels and commands,
And shapes the social life of lands,
Became a blessing, pure and deep. *
Through thirty years of turbulence,
Our thoughts were sweetened with a sense
Of his benignant influence—
“ He giveth his-beloved sleep.”
* The Press.


No gleaming talents which excite,
Like music songs, or floods of light,
Were his ; but rather all those bright
Calm qualities of soul which reap
A mute but certain fine respect,
Not only from a source elect,
But from the heart of every sect—
“ He giveth his beloved sleep.”
He giveth his beloved rest !
The faithful soul that onwards pressed,
- Unswerving from life’s east to west,
By paths austere and passes steep,
Is past all toil and over death.
With reverent hands and prayerful breath
I plant this flower alive with faith—
“ He giveth his beloved sleep.”
HENRY KENDALL.
Camden Haven.
SPORTING ADVENTURES IN
AUSTRALIA.
BY CHAELEY CORNSTALK.
( Continued ).
“Every gentleman should, take to ’unting, tis
the sport of kings—the image of war without
its guilt, and only five and twenty per cent
of its danger.”— Jorrocks.
After getting such a taste of the sport
as the day’s hunt recorded in the last
chapter afforded, Jem’s thoughts for
the next few days ran upon nothing
but kangaroo hunting, and he was
always ready for any work on that
part of the run where there was a
chance of a spurt after a flyer. The
game was then getting rather wild
within a few miles of the station, and,
though tolerably plentiful, there was
no certainty of finding after sunrise,
except in the immediate vicinity of
thick cover, where the dogs had no
chance. It was only at daybreak that
a good run could be relied upon in
the open, and thus Jem had not many
more trophies in the shape of tails to
display ; but, one day, on his return
from a distant part of the run, he came
to me in a state of great excitement,
“ Charley,” said he, “ I’ve seen the
most enormous brute of a kangaroo
that ever hopped on two legs ; he
must be at least eight feet high. He
was as big as a jackass ; he hopped
along so slowly that I could almost
have caught him myself.”
“ And if you had you would have
had the best claim to be classed as a
big jackass,” said I. “ Know, then,
my young and Christian friend, that
the monster you describe is the ‘ Old
Man ’ of the Australian bush, whose
hug is like that of the polar bear,
whose hind legs are fortified with
sharp claws, and who, when at bay,
fears neither dogs nor hunter. Arm
yourself as against a formidable foe
if you intend to tackle a boomer of
such proportions, and take care that
he does not kill or maim the dogs. ”
Jem begged me earnestly to accom-
pany him the next morning, at day-
break ; he was sure he could find him
—“ Wouldn’t I come?”
I was sorry to disoblige the young
fellow, but I had other work for the
following day which I could not put
off, and, to soften my refusal, I said
that the honour of the hunt would be
all his own, and that I should anxiously
await his return. I believe that Jem
hardly slept a wink that night, so full
was he of the adventure before him. I
lent him an old stock horse, whose
experiences were of such a varied
nature that nothing astonished him,
and nothing could frighten him. As
for bucking or bolting he was far too
sober to indulge in any such pranks,
and you might carry anything on his
back, from a hurdy-gurdy to a cross-
cut saw. On one or two points only
was he obstinate :he would persist in
rounding up every beast he came
across when homeward bound, and no
persuasion could induce him to pass a
public-house. If his rider would only
dismount, and go through the form of
taking a drink, he would canter on
without whip or spur, but pass the
house without pausing for refreshment
he would not, and lam bound to say
that it was very seldom he was asked
to do so. At least an hour before
dawn Jem, thus mounted, started for
the haunts of the boomer. It is well
known that the males of kangaroos,
like those of other gregarious animals
—elephants, to wit—as old age ap-
• proaches seclude themselves from their
fellows, and are generally to be found


in some retired spot, not roaming
from place to place like the younger
and wilder bucks. Some say that the
young bucks drive them out of the
herd ; but I am inclined to think that
their retirement from society is rather
due to a moody, ill-tempered dispo-
sition, which developes with the ap-
proach of age. Some “ old men ” are
so surly that they will take the initia-
tive, and attack man or dog the
moment their privacy is invaded, and
without waiting for any overt action
on the part of the hunter.
The dogs Jem took with him were
Presto and a young slut, Flora, who
had scarcely as yet made her debfit in
the sporting world, but from whom,
on account of her pedigree, I expected
great things.
All that followed I learned at
night from Jem, on his return, at
about half-past nine o’clock, after an
absence of about fifteen hours. It
was considerably after sunrise when
he reached the scene of action. After
scouring a number of small flats and
likely looking spots near to where he
had caught a glimpse of the “old man”
on the previous day, without seeing
the ghost of a kangaroo, he was getting
rather disheartened, the more so that
the dogs had gone ahead on an appa-
rently fresh scent, and he had no idea
of the direction they had taken, when
he heard a sound which made his heart
bound, and caused him to turn his
horse’s head in an opposite direction,
and to gallop off like mad. It was
Presto’s deep voice—the unmistakeable
bark of a dog who has the game at
bay, which made Jem’s pulses to flutter
with excitement, for he knew that no
ordinary kangaroo would keep the old
dog at arms length. Next moment
further confirmation came, and a yell
of pain from the pup shewed that
the enemy had been brought to
close quarters. About three hundred
yards’ gallop brought my hero to
the edge of a water-hole, about twenty
feet wide, in the centre of which,
with his head and neck clear above
the water, stood the boomer, hold-
ing Flora in his fore paws, and
endeavouring to drown her, Presto
barking at him from the bank. This
was the exciting state of affairs
when Jem came to the rescue and
threw himself out of the saddle, armed
with a whalebone hunting-crop. Now
was the chance he had been longing
for ; now the supreme moment of hap-
piness, in which he was single-handed
to kill and carry off the great prize he
had so long been anxious to obtain.
The only mode of getting at the “ old
man,” so as to strike a blow at him,
was by means of a log—the trunk of a
tree which had fallen across the water-
hole, and upon this slippery bridge
Jem approached the foe. When about
half-way across he was exactly oppo-
site the boomer, and getting a firm
grip of the hunting-whip at the thong
end, so as to bring the hammer head
on to the boomer’s skull, he made a
desperate blow which, if it had taken
effect, would undoubtedly have ended
the fray. But, alas ! the log was slip-
pery ; the reach forward to strike gave
an undue impetus, and head first went
Jem almost into the arms of the
boomer, and into seven feet of muddy
water—
“ Now, gentle youth, now hold thy own ;
No lady’s arms are round thee thrown.”
Fortunately, the sudden shock caused
by the precipitation of such a heavy
body, almost on the top of the kan-
garoo, sufficiently discomposed the old
gentleman as to render him unable to
take prompt advantage of this blunder
on the part of his assailant, or Jem’s
career would have been cut short, and
it would have been a case of “Found
drowned ” the next day. It was pro-
vidential, indeed, that he got out of
the hole at all; for, in the first place,
the water was over his head, and, in
the next place, he wore an English
velveteen shooting jacket, containing
such an infinity of pockets outside and
inside, that, if it had been a case of
swimming, he would have a hundred-
weight of muddy water to carry with
him. How he got out he hardly knew
himself, but he did scramble to the
bank, aided by a projecting bough
from the fallen tree; and Flora,


released from the hug of the boomer,
•also got out, leaving the enemy in
possession of the field. First round
decidedly in favour of the kangaroo.
There was now literally no means
of attacking the enemy. Jeni had
no fire-arms, and would have scouted
the thought of taking such a cowardly
advantage of his opponent. The
only plan was to cause a diversion
by setting Presto at him, in the hope
of getting the boomer into a more
eome-at-able spot. The “ old man,”
however, stood his ground, retaining
the? advantage which the deep water
afforded him, and would not budge an
inch. He had a wild, fighting expres-
sion in his eye, and his powerful arms,
terminating in a bunch of sharp fives,
were stretched out ready to grapple
each daring assailant. “Hark at him,
Presto ! Go in, old boy and Presto,
responding to the call, swims bravely
out to the combat. Then follows a
fierce scrimmage for about five
minutes ; the waterhole is a scene of
wild excitement —splashing and foam-
ing from end to end. Cheered by
Jem’s shouts of encouragement, the
dog tackles the boomer, seizes him by
the throat, is forced under water,
recovers himself, makes another despe-
rate dash at his foe ! Now one head
comes up spluttering and angry from
the encounter ; then for a moment the
other triumphs, and Presto, scratched
and bleeding about the head and neck,
swims slowly to the bank, and lies on
the reeds to recover his breath, the
boomer still erect and dauntless in the
old spot. A few minutes rest, and
Presto swims out boldly a second time
to the battle. Another five minutes
of close fighting, and he is again driven
off by the powerful and desperate
animal at bay. Four several times did
the gallant dog respond to the call
upon his pluck, and four several times
did he swim back to the reeds, and lie
panting and blowing till sufficiently
recovered for another round. Mean-
time, the kangaroo was getting groggy
on his pins. The mark of Presto’s
teeth were in his neck ; he was flushed
when he came to the scratch from ex-
haustion, but game to the backbone.
In the words of Sam Slick, ‘ £ He had
no idea the enemy was so well
organised.” One last and desperate
struggle, and the light was over. Once
more the water bubbled and splashed
over the two combatants, Flora swim-
ming round the waterhole, and occa-
sionally snapping at the boomer, Jem
on the bank, with frantic shouts urg-
ing his champion to increased efforts !
Over and over they turn —sometimes
the dog is visible, at other times only
the kangaroo, but at last the latter
disappears entirely, and
“ Unwounded from the dreadful close ;
But breathless all —Presto arose.”
Unwounded so far as any serious cut
was concerned, as the kangaroo while
in the water could not bring his hind
feet into play, with which these
animals are capable of killing a dog at
a blow, but pretty well spent with
half-an-hour’s close fighting, and terri-
bly scratched about the face.
What was to be done next 1 The body
of the “old man” was at the bottom of
the hole, and it was Jem’s task to
recover it. This he attempted to do
by means of a hooked stick from the
bank, and failed; then, having
stripped, he plunged in, and groped
about with his hands and the stick,
shortened to a convenient length,
until he managed, at length, to get
hold of a hind leg. By dint of tug-
ging and straining, he got the whole
body landed; and, having dressed him-
self, sat down to consider by what
means he could hoist it into the saddle
and bear it home in triumph. On
other occasions he had been contented
to carry home the tail as a trophy ;
but such a glorious prize as this must
be borne home intact. By no exertion
that he was capable of could he manage
to lift the dead kangaroo on to the
horse’s back—not even after he had
taken out the entrails, which weighed
some 40 lbs. But necessity is the
mother of invention. A little higher
up along the same chain of water-
holes was one of less depth, and per-
fectly dry. Into the bed of this hole
he led the old stock-horse, then


dragged the kangaroo to the bank im-
mediately overhanging it, and then,
after one or two failures, succeeded
in getting it across the saddle—the
gigantic hind-quarters nearly reaching
the ground on one side, and the fore-
quarters (which in the case of an “ old
man ” are very large in proportion)
extending nearly as low down on the
other side. Thus, by slow marches,
picking his way through the bush,
leading his horse, and followed by the
dogs, did the new chum return from
the hunt, physically sick, sore, tired,
and disordered with the day’s adven-
ture ; but, mentally, jubilant and
exultant in the possession of what was
certainly one of the largest boomers I
ever saw. We found the tail without
the skin to weigh 17 lbs., and. allow-
ing the entrails to Weigh 40 lbs., the
boomer would have topped the scale at
248 lbs. As for the skin, Jem spent
some hours the next morning in pre-
paring and pegging it out on a large
gum-tree. It measured exactly seven
feet ten inches, and was to him a
trophy which no money would have
purchased. After this hunt Jem had
always an answer ready. When chaffed
on the subject of his hunting esca-
pades, he would modestly refer to the
boomer he killed on the Downfall Flat,
and if any one ventured to express a
doubt as to the size of the kangaroo,
there was the skin to prove it.
(To be continued.)
EVENING.
The sun has set in the radiant west,
Reflected glories mark his bed ;
All nature softly goes to rest,
Another day is dead.
A breath still sways the tallest trees,
The birds are gently rocked to sleep ;
And leaves just loosened by the breeze,
Fall, circling, from the steep.
Tinted are all the mountain tops,
As if to bid the sun adieu ;
Faster they fade, no colour stops,
And darkness hides the view.
LIRYC.
THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
No. 6.
We rejoice to hear that on Thursday
afternoon a meeting took place of
several influential gentlemen, an-
xious to afford some relief to that
portion of our labouring class, who,
having no homes of their own, and
not possessed of means enough to
obtain a better class of lodging,
are compelled to put up with the
accommodation of the Common
Lodging-houses of the City. We
learn from the Inspector of
Nuisances (the highest authority in
such a matter) that about six hun-
dred men are nightly thus lodged in
Sydney. That some such measure as
that in respect of which we now con-
gratulate the City, has not long
ago attracted the attention of the
public, we believe may in part be
attributed to the fact that, according
to the old saying, “ One-half of the
world does ‘ not know how the other
half lives !” for we cannot think
that the knowledge of the sufferings
of six hundred able-bodied men,
the bone and sinew of the City,
willing and able to pay for decent
lodging, and actually paying a price
at which decent lodging can be profit-
ably afforded, can be co-existent with
the wealth of the wealthy, the kind-
ness of the beneficent, the humanitv
of the thoughtful, among us, without
exciting an effort in their behalf.
We attribute to the untiring
exertions of our Health Society the
prominence which this subject has
taken during the past eighteen
months among the sanitary measures
which they have advocated, and we
gladly hail the prospect of a house
that will be a truly Model Lodging-
house, to accommodate about 200
sleepers, at the price of sixpence
each per night,—that will furnish


them a reading-room, baths, lava-
tories, &c., tire and water to cook
their breakfasts, cleanliness, ventila-
tion, and decency ; and we inscribe,
high on the roll of benefactors to
Australia, the names of the men
who met last Thursday, in the office
of Messrs. Bradley & Son, for the
purpose of establishing a company
to effect these ends—they were
H. Burton Bradley
The Bev. William French Clay
The Hon. Alexander Stuart
The Hon. Henry Prince
William Wallis
James Beading Fairfax
Bobert D. Adams
William Henry Eldred
Josiah Mullens
Melmoth Hall
Thomas Buckland.
The evident aim and object of this
Association are to afford a quid pro
quo —money’s worth for money—a
marketable article at a fair price,
such as those who purchase acquire
with the feeling of independence
afforded by paying for it; such as
those who supply afford in return
for payment.
This is to be no eleemosynary
institution; no alms-house, work-
house relief here. The sturdy man,
whose arm suffices to provide for his
daily need, and to pay for his nightly
lodging, will here obtain what he
would gladly pay for now if he could
get it—lodging in large, lofty, airy
apartments, a boon which neither
love nor money, nor both together,
can afford him at present; he will
obtain it as a right, based upon no
other conditions than those of tem-
perate and orderly conduct, and the
payment of a sixpence.
This institution will be an illus-
tration of the great good that may
be attained by the combination of
energy and capital, directed by some
of that consideration for our neigh-
bours which seeks to help them in
the best possible manner, viz.—with
a due regard to the value of main-
taining their self-respect and inde-
pendence.
We anticipate a long career of
usefulness for the “ Sydney Model
Lodging-house Company, Limi-
ted,” and we trust the day is not
remote when we shall hail the estab-
lishment of a second house; for,
if 600 be the number of our single
men lodgers, there will be, after all
that is now proposed shall have been
done, 400 persons very indifferently
lodged.
ANACREONTIC.
Come best of painters try thy Rhodian
art,
Paint as I speak the mistress of my
heart —
First paint the hair of jet, yet softly
wreathing,
And if it may be so, with perfume
breathing—
The radiant brow beneath those ring-
lets beaming,
The eyebrows arched and separate but
in seeming,
The long lash shading eyes that flash
in light—
Blue as Minerva’s or Cythera’s bright.
The delicate nostril, cheeks of either
The tempting lip from which persuasion
flows ; . . . .
And let the Graces, with enticing beck,
Rest on the taper chin and Lygdine
Around her limbs a purple garment
"\VTO 9/tllG
But let the matchless outline thrill
beneath,
No more —no more —her own dear sell
J §OO
She lives, she breathes—and—dear one,
speak to me.
HENRY HALLORAN.


MACARONIC VERSE.
The Death of the Sea Serpent.
Anna virumque cano , qui first in Monon-
gahela
Tarnally squampushed the sarpent, mit-
tens horrentia tela.
Musa, look sharp with your banjo ! I
guess to relate this event, I
Shall need all the aid you can give ; so
nunc aspirate canenti.
Mighty slick were the vessels progressing,
Jaetata per cequora ventis ;
But the brow of the skipper was sad, cum
solicitudine mentis;
For whales had been scarce in those parts,
and the skipper, so long as he’d known
her,
Ne’er had gathered less oil in a cruise to
gladden the heart of her owner.
“ Darn the whales,” cries the skipper at
length, “ with a telescope forte videbo
Aut pisces aut terras .” While speaking,
just two or three points on the lee bow,
He saw coming towards them as fast as
though to a combat ’twould tempt ’em,
A monstrum horrendum informe (cui lumen
was shortly ademptum).
On the tafirail up jumps in a hurry dux
fortis, and seizing a trumpet,
Blows a blast that would waken the dead,
mare turbat et aera rumpit.
“ Tumble up, all you lubbers,” he cries ;
“ tumble up, for careering before us
Is the real old sea sarpent himself, cristis
maculisque decorus .”
“ Consarn it,” cried one of the sailors,
“ if e’er we provoke him he’ll kill us ;
He’ll certainly chaw up nos morsu , et
longis, implexibus illos.”
Loud laughs the bold skipper, and quick
premit alto corde dolorem
(If he does feel like running, he knows it
won’t do to betray it before ’em);
“0 socii," inquit; “I’m sartin you’re
not the fellows to funk, or
Shrink from the durem certamen , whose
fathers fit bravely at Bunker.
You, who have waged with the bars, and
buffler, proelia dura
Down to the freshets and licks of our
own free, enlightened Missourer;
You who could whip your own weight,
catulis saevis sine telo,
Get your eyes skinned in a twinkling, et
ponite tela phcesello .”
Talia voce refert, curisque ingentibus aeger
Marshall’s his cute little band, now pant-
ing their foe to beleaguer.
Swiftly they lower the boats, and swiftly
each man at the oar is,
Excipe Britanni timidi duo, virque colons
(Blackskin, you know, never feels how
sweet ’tis pro patria mori —
Ovid had him in view when he said,
“ Nimium ne crede colori ”)
Now swiftly they pull towards the “mon-
ster, who, seeing the cutter and gig nigh,
Glares at them with terrible eyes, suffectis
sanguine et igni,
And, never conceiving their chief will so
quickly deal him a floorer,
Opens wide to receive them at once, his
Unguis vibrantibus ora —
But just as he’s licking his lips, and gladly
preparing to taste ’em,
Straight into his eyeball the skipper
stridentem conjicit hastam.
Straight as he feels in his eyeball the
lance, growing mightily sulky,
At ’em he comes in a rage, ora minax,
linqua trusulca.
“ Starn all!” cry the sailors at once, for
they think he has certainly caught ’em
Praesentemque viris intentant omnia
mortem ;
But the bold skipper exclaims, “ 0 terque
quaterque beati,
Now with a will dare viam, when I want
you, be only parati.
This hoss feels like raising his hair, and
in spite of his scaly old cortex,
Full soon you shall see that his corpse
rapidus vorat aequore vortex
Hoc ait,” and choosing a lance, “ With
this one I think I shall hit it,”
He cries, and straight into his mouth, ad
intima viscera mittit.
Screeches the creature in pain, and
writhes till the sea is commotum,
As if all its waves had been lashed in a
tempest per Eurum et No turn.
Interea terrible shindy Neptunus sensit,
et alto '
Prospiciens sadly round, wiped his eye
with the cuff of his paletot;
And, mad at his favorite’s fate, of oaths
uttered one or two thousand,
Such as “ Corpo di Bacco! Mehercle !
Sacre ! Mille Tonnerres ! Potzausend !”
But the skipper, who thought it was time
to this terrible fight dare jinem,
With a scalping-knife jumps on the back
of the snake secat et dextra crinem,
And hurling the scalp in the air, half
mad with delight to possess it,
Shouts, “ Darn it—l’ve fixed up his flint,
for in ventos vita secessit.”


COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
Solutions of Puzzles.
Solutions of puzzles in No. 4, as cor-
rectly given by “ Sphinx ” :
Charade. —1. M‘Elhone ; 2. Farnell.
Conundruui. —1. On the outside; 2.
Berlin, because it’s always on the spree.
Transposition. —Manufacture.
Charades.
(Original and Local.)
ON A BRAND-NEW FINANCIER.
My first defines with pregnant term
The unnamed units of a firm ;
My second, cackling loud with glee,
Boasts her parturient energy ;
My vohole doth glibly perorate
Anent the nest-eggs of the State,
And for his party wields at will
The spigot of the public till. S.
ON A CIVIC FUNCTIONARY.
Ho! quaff the brown October,
Ye citizens who thirst;
And though you may be sober,
You’ll surely be my first.
Let truth and honour mark your way,
As day by day ’tis reckoned ;
And no one then will e’er gainsay
Your claim to be my second.
Long may my worthy whole retain
The office high assigned him.
Sure gloomy care throughout his reign
Can never sit behind him.
W.
Conundrums.
1. Why are salmon imported into
Australia so frequently a failure ?
2. When is a photograph like a drink-
ing vessel?
3. Why was Pharoah’s daughter like a
milkman ?
4. Why was Hamlet’s father like your
mother ?
5. Why is orchard pronounced soft.
6. Why is a blush like a girl ?
7. Who first patronised husbandry ?
For Young French Scholars.
Why should you be content with one
egg for your breakfast ?
Arithmetical Question :
A sovereign is divided among four
persons —A gets one-third, B one-fourth,
C one-fifth, and D one-sixth. What is
each person’s share.
Nursery Rhymes Translated.
RIDE A COCK HORSE.
Ride a cock horse
To Banbury Cross,
To see an old woman upon a white horse:
With rings on her fingers
And bells on her toes,
She shall have music wherever she goes.
SPECTATUM ADMISSI RISUM TENEATIS,
AMICI ?
Infans, quadrivium ad Banburiensium
Manno te celerem corripe ligneo :
Illic quadrupedem flectere candidum
Miram conspicies Anum.
En, quinque in digitis sex habet annulos,,
Tintinnabula sex in digitis pedum !
Felix, dulce melos, quod ciet undique,
Quoquo vertitur, audiet!
O THAT I WAS.
0 that I was where I would be !
Then I would be where I am not;
But where I am I still must be,
And where I would be I cannot.
DISPLICET ISTE LOCUS, CLAMO.
0 utinam essem, qua nunc esse volo l
Essem celeriter, qua non esse nolo :
Sed esse loco, quo sum, est necesse,
Et nequeo, quo loco essem, esse.
H. D.
Lines for St. David’s Day.
Why on St. David’s Day do Welshmen
seek
To beautify their hat with verdant leek
Of nauseous smell? For honour ’tis,
hur say,
“ Dulce et decorum est pro patria ”
Right, sir, to die or fight, it is I think
But ’tis not dulce when you for it stink !
The Legend of the Kilkenny Cats'
There wanst was two cats in Kilkenny,
Aich thought there was wan cat too many,
So they quarrell’d and fit,
They scratch’d and they bit,
Till, excepting their nails
And the tips of their tails,
Instead of two cats there weren’t any.
Latest Publications.
On swallows by Martin Swift.
Treatise on sheep by Agnes Lamb.
Sphinx.


An Interesting Zoological Collection.
A towel horse.
A night mare,
A bookmaker’s pony.
A water monkey.
A Schoolboy’s bull.
A leaden pig.
A human calf.
A tiger in livery.
Peculiarities of “Ough.”
Peasant arcadian
Guiding the plough,
Coarse are your garments,
Your aspect is rough.
Peasant imprudent,
I hear you’ve a cough ,
Do you feel sure
You’re clad warm enough ?
Bibulous peasant,
You’re voice it is rough,
You’re not a disciple
Of temperate Gough.
Home to your cottage !
You hear the winds sough,
Even the birdies
Sing hoarse on the hough.
Home to your cottage !
And bend o’er the trough,
Kneading the loaves
Of digestible dough.
Though the bread’s heavy
Unsweeten’d and tough,
Well sharpen’d teeth
Will go easily through.
ACTING CHARADE
(A Word of Two Syllables.)
Act I.
Scene.—A retired street iu a country town in
England.
Enter Dick.- Oh, dear! oh, dear ! its very
(lark. i have always found that at night
time, when there is no moon or stars and you
haven t a lantern with you, it is dark. This is the
place where Julia promised to meet me. I won-
der if shell come. I feel that I am catching a
severe coM; but I am happy, though chilly.
But where is she. Something must have hap-
pened. Something always is happening in this
confounded country. °
i, is th , e s P° fc * aod fch ere he
is. Poor fellow ! My heart shudders at the bare
thought of his grief. What if he should blow his
biams out, or take to drinking, or go mad ? But
it must be done. A cruel fate makes me cruel
Pot^Dick^ Qarr y a poor man > and Dick is poor!
Dick advancign.— My adored Julia.
Julia.—-My goodness ! Only fancy meeting you
surprised) did JOU C ° me? (Pretendsto^be
Dick. —l’ve only just arrived—not more than
three-quarters of an hour ago. The moments are
precious. Oh, Julia, be mine! Fly with me
from this cold, inhospitable country to some dis-
tant southern land, where there will be no
barrier to our happiness—to that sunny Bhore
where the intestmes of the mountains are stuffed
with gold and precious stones; where the flying
kangaroo and the bounding squirrel skip over the
pebbly promontory at full speed; where, while
the sw T eet fragrance of the lofty grass tree per-
fumes the air, we can recline under the umbra-
geous foliage of the wide-spreading gum, and
listen to the lively chorus of the bullfrog and the
merry laugh of the jackass. Come to Australia.
Will you—won’t you ? Say yes, or no.
Juiia. —Alas, no—o —o—o !
Dick. -Oh. fickle, falsehearted flirt, is it thus
you trifle with a true heart ? Mercenary creature,
like all your sex, you would sell yourself for gold.
(Walking off.) lam racked by one thousand five
hundred and fourteen conflicting emotions, but I
will couceal them all and have r—r-r—revenge.
Instead of a wife, this shall be “a young man’s
best companion ” (pulling out a large table knife.
Walks about in an excited state brandishing the
knife). I will kill her in cold blood, the cold-
blooded creature—in the c—o-l—dest possible
blood. (Exit.)
Julia. —He pleads with an earnestness few
women could resist Poor fellow ! Of all the
hard-hearted actions I have committed at one time
or the other, especially the other, this is about the
hard-heartedest. Oh, dear ! when I think of this
alone, it is—it is—lonely. He’s all my fancy
paiuted him, and more even than the photo-
grapher has made him ; but he has no money.
That I must have, and a poor girl can only get it
by marriage. And what shall Ido when I get it’
I know—l’ll spend it.
Enter Julia’s Mamma.—My dear child, what is
the matter with you ? With the exception of four
hearty meals a dav, you scarcely eat anything
You drop off to sleep at night, and don’t wake up
till late in the morning. You grow plumper and
plumper, and you dance and sing when there is
no occasion for it. All these symptoms tell a
watchful parent that something is amiss. Tell
me what is it. It is high time you were married
o’clock* (I ° oking at her watch ) —lt is only six
Mamma. Have you quarrelled with vour
sweetheart. Produce him, and let me see if he
will brave the indignation of an outraged parent,
f DiCk ' ~~’ Twere vain to teli thee all I
Mamma. —But I insist upon hearing it
.Vick.— Then, you shall. Your daughter has
jilted nae I loved her still, but she wouldn’t be
still, and left me like the false-hearted girl she is
I resolved to kill her and then kill myself, but bv
a superhuman effort I changed my mind and
determined to leave her. Adieu ! (Exit )
ww't - ' G °r ne l fled ’ de camped, skedaddled t
What have I done? Oh, my! Oh. Dick' Not
my Dick ! Oh ! oh ! oh ! (Swoons.)
(End of the First Act.)
Act 11.
Scene.-A mining township in New South Wales.
The parlor of the “ Golden Dragon.”
Cor oner. —Gentlemen, we are met together to
enquire mto the death of an unfortunate indi-
Vidual (John Jones) who was found last night, or
eariy this morning, at the bottom of a shaft with
his head battered in, an IS in. drill through hisr


heart, and about half a ton of quartz on the top
of him. We will first examine tne body and then
the witnesses. (Body carefully examined.)
Dr. Scncbones. —I examined the body of de-
ceased, and found an irregular compound fracture
of the os frontis, about the size of a frying pan.
If there had been any brains, they must have been
knocked in. The drill which pierced the heart
must have been put in by a practised hand; it
was calculated to produce severe palpitation. I
consider that the weight of quartz resting on the
abdomen was sufficient to impede respiration.
Upon making a post mortem examination, I
found a portion of the lungs were gone, and the
whole of the liver. Am of opinion that all these
causes combined would cause death to a person of
irregular habits unless prompt treatment were
resorted to The deceased had been dead upwards
of an hour before I was called in.
Thomas Mulligan examined. —I was mate of
deceased, and was in the same shift with him;
recollect the night be was found in the tunnel;
have been afraid to go down the shaft ever since ;
I was braceman, and lowered him down ; will
swear he did not kick the bucket then.
Mary Jones, wife of deceased.—My husband was
in the night shift ; I was in the same predica-
ment when I heard of the accident ; deceased was
very strange at times; have heard him say that
something would be found in the claim one day
that would startle me ; he frequently said he
would lie down in gold before he died. I have
known him remark that drilling was a horrid bore.
Coroner. —Gentlemen, you have heard the evi-
dence, and it now remains for you to bring in
your verdict. If you are of opinion that the
injuries received by the deceased were sufficient
to produce death, it will then be for you to deter-
mine how those injuries were inflicted. It seems
almost incredible that a man should be able to
bore a hole through his own body, but the evi-
dence shews that the deceased was rather soft, and
this may possibly have been the case.
Foreman. —Your worship, we find the deceased
guilty of accidental death, and we are of opinion
that the conduct of Thomas Mulligan was very
suspicious. We think the claim should be aban-
doned, in case of further accidents.
Little Boy (peeping in).—Bob, have they brought
an the verdict?
Bob.— Yes, I saw the waiter carrying it in.
Ist Boy.— What was it like ?
Bob.— l didn’t get a good look at it.
(End of the Second Act).
Act 111.
Scene.— The Blue Boar, a roadside public-house in
England.
Landlady— Drat them railroads, I say. Time
was when there’d be a matter of twenty or thirty
folks sittin’ down to dinner on market days in our
best parlour; but now its days and weeks, some-
times, afore we get the sight of a traveller. The
commercial room is shut up, and the beds are
getting mouldy for want of sleeping in. Give me
the o-ood old times, when the up and down coaches
to Lunnun stopped twenty minutes for dinner,
and didn’t eat half what they paid for ; when the
travellers’ room was mostly full, and it took me
and Betsy all we knew to mix the hot toddy for
the gentlemen. Ah, deary me.' there’s no dom
any good now they’ve got these railroads and tele-
graphies. Why, they’ve gone an’ put up a post
with a lot of wires right opposite our front door,
and you can’t say a word to a friend above a
whisper, but it’s known all over Lunnon.
Landlord : You’re right there, old woman.
Things ain’t now what they used to be. Its a
blue look-out for the Blue Boar. It's enough to
make a man jump into the river and drown his-
self without stopping to say good-bye to his
relatives. As I’m a living sinner {jumping up) if
here isn’t a bony fidy traveller, and I do believe
he’s cornin’ this way. Look alive, old lady. He
seems, too, as if he was somebody.
Enter Traveller. —Are you the landlord of this
wretched-looking, tumbledown, dilapidated pack-
ing case, intended, I suppose, to serve as an
apology for an hotel.
Landlord.— The Blue Boar, sir.
Traveller. —You need not say another word. I
know exactly what you were going to remark.
Blue Boar, indeed ! I’m afraid I shall find him a
horrible bore.
Landlady. —l’d have you to know, sir, that the
Blue Boar
Traveller. —I’d paint him pea-green just for a
change. You need not tell me anything about
him; I don’t want to be bored more than I can
help, especially as you are going to have the dis-
tinguished honour of accommodating me for a
few days. See that my bed-room doesn’t overlook
a churchyard, that my sheets are well aired, and
that the food you give me does not entirely ruin
my digestive organs. As for drinking any of
your home -made tipple, that is a feat of which I
don’t feel capable ; but if you have any cham-
pagne or claret send me up a botle, and be careful
that the fish I have for my dinner is not more than
a week old.
Landlord. —Sir.
Traveller. —Excuse me if I decline to discuss the
point with you. Dinner at eight o’clock. No
attempt at any of your abominable pastry ; and as
for the coffee, I think I’ll make it myself.
Landlady.— lf you would like
Traveller .—Oh, dear, no! don't mention it.
I am sure I shouldn’t. (Exit.)
Landlady.— Well, he is a particular one, and
won’t be made too free with. I’ll put him in the
best bedroom, and see what we can do to make
him comfortable. Pastry, indeed ! I'll let him
see that we can make as good tarts at the Blue
Boar as he’ll get in Lunnon !
Landlord. —Perhaps he won’t be so particular
about his bill. Them sort don’t care what they
pays, but they must have things nice.
(A week after.)
Landlady.— The job we had to get them boxes
of my lord’s up-stairs. They’re as heavy as if
they were stuffed with gold.
Landlord.— Perhaps there is gold in them. A
man who orders everything of the best must have
a tidy bit of cash with him. What’s he up to
to-day ?
Landlady.— He gave Betsy strict orders not to
call him till half-past three o’clock in the after-
noon. Why, bless my soul (looking at the clock),
it’s that now!
(Knocks at the door, and receives no answer.)
(Both enter the room, and find it empty.)
Landlady.— Why, sure—ly, if he hasn’t been
and gone away, without so much as asking for his
bill!
Landlord.— He’s left his luggage, at any rate ;
that’s some comfort. (Opens one of the boxes.)
Why, they’re chock-full of stones !
Lanalady.— Oh! the thieving, murderin’, ras-
cally counterfeit! to go and give us all this worry
and trouble, as if the whole house belonged to
him—and he a marquis or duke, at the least; and
then to turn out to be no one, after all! Oh,
dear ' oh, dear ! I shall never get over it!
Landlord.— We’re sold, old lady; that’s a
fact!
(End of Third Act.)


MILTON’S PARADISE LOST.
1? a [Book I.)
English Subject fob Junior Examina-
tion, 1878, Sydney University, ar-
ranged FOR THE USE OF CANDIDATES,
by “ Sigma.”
JJS edition of Paradise Lost
(all rights in which are reserved) the ac-
cepted text is carefully followed.
Alterations in the punctuation have
been made in order that the division of
the poem into its elementary propositions
maybe clearly shown. The “periods”
kept 6 ° nginal text ave « however, been
The close of each proposition (except
propositions within parenthesis or brac-
i! hOS ®, t ® rminated b y a period) is
marked by a dash ( —).
Propositions that are included within
na„n tl , Pr - POBI r ODS , are P lw!ed within
pai enthesis or brackets.
a ll T wnrfc Ub ß e i Ct °- eacb proposition (with
wttterf Dg ' UB ‘° itf " printod “
all T wnr^« e Vi l ? l6 ° f 6ach Proposition (with
Sirfetter^” 81118 ‘° “ P ™ ted “
Sentences in which more than one
statement is made concerning a noun (or
an eqmva lent thereto), or in which seve£
nouns (or equivalents thereto) have the
same statement predicated concerning
tl l eated as sim P le propositions. §
-Lhiptica,] propositions are annotated.l
If thou beest he—but oh, how fallen
Q _ _ how changed (9)
85 Fro ™f™-who in the happy realms
Ciothed with transcendent brightness
didst outshine
Myriads though bright! If (10) he
whom mutual league
and counsels equal
90 ln\nl<? Zar ?J n the ° loriouB enterprise
9 Jome hath^rd e once - now
In equal ruin-into what pit than
seest
From what highth fallen _ so much
the stronger proved
He with his thunder— and till then
who knew
The force of those dire arms ? Yet
_ ,-vr not for those
85 [Nor what the potent Victor in his
rage
Can else inflict] do /repent or change,
Though changed in outward lustre that
fix’d mind
And high disdain from sense of in-
jured merit—
That with the mightiest raised me to
contend,
100 And to the fierce contention brought
along
Innumerable force of Spirits arm’d—
That durst dislike his reign, and me
preferring
His utmost power with adverse power
opposed
In dubious battle on the plains of
heaven,
105 And shook his throne. What (11)
though the field be lost ?
All is not lost— the unconquerable
will
And study of revenge, immortal hate
And courage never to submit or yield
n n is else not to b e overcome!
110 lhat glory never shall his wrath or
might
Extort from me. To how and sue
jor grace
With suppliant knee , and deify his
(12) power.
[Who from the terror of this arm so
late
Doubted his empire]- that were low
indeed—
-115 That were an ignominy and shame
beneath
This downfall since by fate the
strength of gods
And empyreal cannot
Since through experience of this great
event
Inar a z:ir >e «‘ucn
120 We may with more successful hope
resolve *
To wage by force or guile eternal war
Irreconcileable to our grand foe —
VTi/ triumphs and in the excess
Sole reigning holds the tyranny of
heaven J
(9) Supply “ thou art.”
Supply “ thou beest.”
}} Supply “ loes it matter?”
(12) Equivalent to “ofhim,” the “him ”
(To he continued).
blo L weT aBe ° l Flowers - - Well, I> m


THE MYSTERY OF WISE-
MAN’S FERRY ROAD.
Chapter III.— Continued.
The greeting accorded to Caldecott by
those whom he had saved from outrage
and robbery was effusive.
“ You come just in time, sir, God
bless you ! ” was the trooper’s welcome.
“You did indeed,” said the elder of
the two male passengers, a stout fussy
little man, who had been extremely
active in handing over what valuables he
possessed to the bushranger whom
Caldecott’s shot had so sternly silenced.
“ How can we ever thank him enough ? ”
he added, turning to his wife who stood
beside him.
“How indeed?” cried she, “0 sir!
believe that we are grateful, very, very
grateful. Are we not, my dear ? ”
The younger lady to whom this question
was put made no answer in words. She
was very pale. Silently, but with a look
of ineffable gratitude, she held out her
hand to Caldecott who chivalrously
pressed it to his lips, not well knowing
what otherwise to do.
“ I thank God it all fell out as it did,”
said he ; “ but it’s no use talking about
it. There’s work to be done yet. Those
scoundrels may come back again re-
inforced, so we had best turn to at once
and get the horses in. That’s the first
thing to do: we can pick up these
valuables afterwards. They won’t stir.
You, trooper, had best load the carbines
and revolvers. These two gentlemen and
the driver will see to the horses while I
take these two ladies to that tree
over there away from those things,”
pointing to the two corpses and the
writhing form of the dying bushranger.
“ That’s the idea,” said the driver,
“ if we can only get the horses.”
The influence of the man “who
could ” being felt, Caldecott’s suggestions
operated like orders. He himself offered
an arm to each of the ladies and escorted
them to the tree he had pointed out.
“ May I ask,” said he of the elder
lady— a well preserved woman of about
forty, who was not only handsome but
perfectly aware of the fact, and who, now
that her terror was allayed, was by no
means displeased with the adventurous
aspect which affairs had assumed. “May
I ask to whom I have had the good fortune
to prove of service ? ”
“ Certainly you may,” she replied, with
ta smile, which displayed, as it was meant
ro do, ivory teeth and the full curves of
üby lips. “My name is Cosgrove.
This young lady is Miss Lucy Walton,
daughter of Mr. Ezra Walton, of
Uralmindry. Oh what should we have
done if you hadn’t come up so oppor-
tunely! Lucy, dear, this quite like a
chapter of romance, is it not ? ”
Lucy Walton tried to answer. She
had borne up bravely through the
morning’s frighful excitement. With
rescue and safety had come reaction; and
it was as much as she could do to brace
up her strength to walk to the spot
which promised shade and shelter. When
the tree was reached, she fainted.
“ Get some water, and bring my hus-
band’s flask,” said Mrs. Cosgrove; “ she’ll
be right directly. She is young and
delicate, and, besides, may claim all the
privileges of sweet seventeen.”
With the aid of water and a little
brandy, Mrs. Cosgrove was successful in
her efforts to restore Miss Walton to
animation, but her endeavour to keep
Caldecott beside her proved a failure.
Leaving the ladies, he had gone over to
the wounded bushranger, in hopes he
might be able to do something to alleviate
that poor wretch’s evident agonies.
The pistol shot had nearly done it s
work. Internal hemorrhage had set in.
The miscreant was dying, choked with
his own blood. His words were unintel-
ligible—whether blasphemies or prayers
—to man! Caldecott offered him water,
but he dashed it aside. Thinking that it
might possibly relieve the miserable
ruffian, Caldecott attempted to loosen the
yellow silk handkerchief which had in his
contortions got tightened round his neck,
but he failed in the attempt; which,
however, afforded the dying man a last
chance of vindicating his claim to the
name the bloodthirstiness and violence of
his early life had won for him—that of
Cannibal Mike. Feeling Caldecott’s hand
upon his neck, Mike turned in one
last spasm of brutal wrath and savagely
bit the wrist of the man whom, though
tendering compassion, he took to be his
foeman.
“Good heavens! he has bitten you!”
said the younger coach passenger, who
had heard Caldecott’s cry of pain as the
bushranger’s teeth closed upon his wrist.


“He has that; but it’s all over with
him. He’s dead—dead as carrion, the
cruel hound !”
Caldecott washed his wound with
brandy, and then sucked it for several
seconds. He then bound up his wrist, and
went over to the coach to assist the others
in getting things ready for a start. With
some difficulty, the driver, Mr. Cosgrove,
and Mr. Boss (the younger coach passen-
ger) had succeeded in securing the
horses. It did not take long to return
the different valuables to their respective
owners.
“ I shall put in a claim for salvage,
mind,” said Caldecott laughingly, as he
presented to Mrs. Cosgrove the watch and
chain which her husband had told him
belonged to her.
“ You may depend upon it we shall
consider your application very favourably
—shan’t we, Lucy, dear ?”
Miss Walton said, “ Oh, yes, ” rather
faintly, but, as Caldecott thought, very
sweetly. She was fast recovering from
her fright. Colour had returned to her
cheeks, and animation to her manner.
She looked deliciously pretty, as she
nestled up against the matronly form of
Mrs. Cosgrove. She had laid aside her
hat and veil, and allowed her blonde tresses
to float at will. Her violet eyes had quite
lost the despairing look which Caldecott
had first noticed in them, and now,
dimmed though they were with a light
mist of moisture, rayed forth a sufficiency
of beauty to make him mentally swear that
they were the most speaking, bewitching
eyes he had ever beheld. Her quite plain,
dark merino dress revealed a graceful
form, the “ finish,” of which was evidenced
by the extreme perfection of its “ points,”
the small, shapely hands, and the exqui-
site feet. Ladyhood was unmistakeably
stamped upon her ; and Caldecott, though
he had not known her an hour, would
have done battle against all comers in sup-
port of his belief that
Her beauty was refined
By sweet harmony of mind,
And the art
And the blessed nature, too,
Of a tender and a true
Little heart.
It spoke well for Mrs. Cosgrove’s maturer
charms, that they suffered no loss by their
contrast with the delicate grace of Miss
Walton. Mrs. Cosgrove was quite aware
that it was so, else she would have taken
good care that the handsome stranger
should not have had the opportunity of
making a comparison in the least de-
gree damaging to herself. Who or what
Caldecott might be, she did not know;
neither did she much care. He had good
manners, splendid looks, and had done
her and hers a great service. His intro-
duction was perfectly en regie, according
to the laws of romance, if not of society;
and in the eyes of all men whom fate in-
troduced to her, it was the business of
Mrs. Cosgrove’s life to look as well as she
could. She was a good wife and mother,
but as fond of showing off her beauty, and
of exercising its magic, as any miss of
sixteen.
They were now all ready for a start.
Before leaving the scene of their rescue,’it
was determined, on the suggestion of Mr.
Ross, to lay the dead bodies of the two
bushrangers and of the murdered con-
stable together, under cover of some
boughs. This delayed their departure, for
some time, as it took longer to get a suffi-
ciency of branches than they at first ima-
gined it would. Before their task was
completed several fresh arrivals had ap-
peared upon the scene.
The first comers were a police sergeant
and a mounted trooper. To the astonish-
ment of the whole party, they stated that
they had been sent on by Inspector Neal,
who, having been wounded when the
coach was first stuck up, and so placed
hors de combat, had galloped off to
Reynolds’ inn for assistance.
“ He told us,” said the sergeant, “ that
we would be too late to save the mail, but
that we should be able to release the pas-
sengers, if tied up, and then to run down
the fellows’ tracks and surprise ’em with
their plunder. But I see that there’s
other work to do than that. So, poor
Rumford’s gone!” and the sergeant, as
he spoke these last words, dismounted by
the body of the dead trooper.
“ How did this happen ? ” he asked of
constable Morgan, the trooper who had
sat beside the driver when the sticking up
took place.
“ Well, sergeant, pretty much like this
We was a-coming down this hill, Rumford
riding a little head and the inspector aside
of us. The coast seemed all clear, when
all of a sudden like, a carbine shot from
behind that tree there bowled poor Rum-
ford over. He fell dead from his horse
As you can see, the ball went right through
his brain. His horse bolted. As soon as
I heard the shot, I raised my carbine ready


for a shot, for I knew we were stuck up.
Rumford was no sooner down than two
men rushed out, one from the tree from
behind which the shot had been fired, and
the other from that gum over there, and
they both cried out. ‘ Bail up, you ,
bail up ! ’ I attempted to fire at one—
the fellow there with the curly hair — ”
“ That’s Hamlin—Tom Hamlin ; that’s
who that is, or to be partic’lar, was,” said
the sergeant, looking at the man whom
Caldecott had knocked over with his first
shot; “ and this other is Mike—Cannibal
Mike: well, well! Did you pot ’em
both ? ”
“No, neither of ’em; my carbine
missed fire. I’m blessed if it hadn’t been
tampered with somewhere. And Rum-
ford’s was.just the same; though, poor
chap, he was off to kingdom come before
he had even a chance of finding out the
trick served us. They was both right at
Nanny Reid’s, I know that. Well! no
sooner had I missed fire than the stouter
bushranger—that’s him as you say was
Mike —fires at the inspector, who makes
off like greased lightning through the tim-
ber. Was he hit bad ? ”
“He says so,” remarks the sergeant,
drily. “Goon.”
“When Mike had fired, his mate
shouted out that if we would give no
trouble, they would use no violence. I
said, * All right,’ for we were had ; and be-
sides, two mounted fellows came riding up
to help the other ruffians, each leadiug a
horse. Mike unhitched the mail horses
and held them, while Hamlin made us
give up the mails and our valuables;
when, all of a sudden, while he was a-
searching that young lady there, and be-
having most ruffianly, we hears a pistol-
shot, and sees Mr. Hamlin give one leap
up in the air, let out of him one yell, and
drop down lumpus, dead as a herring.
Then shot number two, from the same
direction, pots Mike. The next thing is,
out from behind that tree there comes
this young gentleman ; and then off bolts
the two on horseback, after whom I send
a ball —and that’s about the size of it.”
“ It seems to me,” said the sergeant,
“ that if it hadn’t been for this here young
gentleman, you’d have made a thundering
mess of the whole concern. And how
came you, sir, to be so handy, sir ? ” he
asked, turning to Caldecott.
Caldecott briefly told him, not saying,
however, any word about Devereux or
Larry, neither of whom he had recog-
nized in either of the two bushrangers
who had made good their escape. He
was convinced that Devereux’s message
(had he only had the chance of delivering
it to the miscreant Hamlin, who had paid
the full penalty of his disobedience,)
would have prevented the sticking up and
the resulting tragedy.
While Caldecott and Morgan had
been talking to sergeant Burton, one or
two horsemen had galloped up. These
were people who had heard at Reynolds’
inn of the sticking up, and who had come
out to see the scene of the event just out
of curiosity. One of them, a carrier, on his
way to Sydney with wool, who had left
his team at the inn and ridden to the spot
to see if he could be of service, brought a
message to Miss Walton from her father,
to the effect that he had driven in to
Reynolds 7 from his station to meet her,
and would be with her within a few
minutes. The message, indeed had been
barely delivered when up came a well
appointed buggy drawn by two steaming
horses.
“My dear, dear father!” cried Lucy
Walton, as the circling arms of a stern-
looking old gentleman, who had leapt
from the buggy with the activity of youth,
strained her to his breast.
“ My own darling ! thank God, you’re
safe ! Jump in there with Mr. Hay, who
was as anxious about his pet as I was,
while I speak to the Cosgroves.”
The Mr. Hay whom Mr. Walton had
spoken of was a man of about seventy, of
venerable -aspect. He greeted Lucy with
emotion, and told her she must never
leave the old roof-tree again and the
loving protection of her sworn knight.
“What could we have done without
our pet ? 0 Lucy !my blood ran cold
when that prig of an inspector told us
what had happened. I could have caned
the dog, to think of him galloping off and
leaving our darling in peril.”
Mr. Walton having offered a seat in his
buggy to Mrs. Cosgrove—an offer gladly
accepted—was about to drive off, when
Lucy said to him, “ You musn’t go away
without letting me introduce to you the
gentleman who saved me, and indeed all
of us, by his great gallantry.”
“No, indeed,” added Mrs. Cosgrove.
“ He did us real service ;” and she told
the story of the rescue.
“Where is he?” asked Mr. Walton.
George Caldecott was not. to be seen.
The excitement of the morning, the pain


of his wound, the exertion of speaking to
the sergeant, had been too much for him.
The pain of his wound had indeed be-
come intense; and so he had slipped off
to the quiet shade of a wattle to rest for a
few minutes.
Lucy’s quick glance soon discerned
him. Jumping out of the buggy, she led
her father up to George, and said simply,
“ This is my father, who wishes to thank
you. But what is the matter? Surely
you were not wounded ?” This she said
because of the ashen paleness of Calde-
cott’s face, and the heavy beads of per-
spiration that stood on his brow.
Rising to receive Mr. Walton and Miss
Walton had proved too great an exertion.
Without answering his fair questioner, he
sank to the ground in a deadly faint.
“ Here ! Hay, drive up here! Quick »”
cried Mr. Walton.
Mr. Hay quickly brought up the buggy
to the spot.
I* Have a look at this poor fellow.
What shall we do with him?” said Mr
Walton.
Mr. Hay, having had a look, pronounced
in favour of removing George to Reynolds’
Inn. Mrs. Cosgrove insisted on resigning
her seat to him, and going on in the
coach with her husband. It was there-
fore _so arranged. Caldecott was lifted
up into the buggy beside Mr. Walton,
while Lucy and Mr. Hay occupied the
back seat. They then started for Rey-
nolds Inn, followed within a few minutes
by the coach.
The sergeant and the trooper who had
accompanied him remained behind to
collect memoranda for the inquests that
would necessarily have to be held.
The first news that greeted the occu-
pants of the buggy and the mail coach on
arriving at the Yarramundra Punt Hotel
was this—that the gold escort had been
stuck up some five or six miles to the
northward about an hour before, and
robbed of over five thousand ounces of
gold !
Chapter IY.
A nature loyally controlled,
And fashioned in the righteous mould
Of English gentleman.
The Yarramundra Punt Hotel was a
noted establishment. It had a dual repu-
tation being equally famed for the tho-
roughly good appointments of its stabling
best parlours and best bed-rooms, and for
the peculiar accommodation it offered to
bushmen desirous of “ knocking down ”
cheques in the good old fashion. The
various buildings which formed this hos-
telry had no pretensions to architectural
beauty. They had been built at different
dates, were of different styles, and con-
structed of different materials. White-
wash, however, gave them a uniform tone.
Every part of the buildings that would
carry whitewash was whitewashed, and
the effect was dazzling. Absolute neat-
ness characterised the whole place. Even
the “ dead-house” was, when unoccupied,
a picture of neatness. The sweep of
gravel in the front, the watering trough
and bridle posts beneath the willow that
stood opposite the bar entrance, the bright
little garden into which the French case-
ments of the two best parlours opened,
the stable-yard at the back, were each
and all faultlessly trim not a weed
was to be seen anywhere—not so much
as a piece of broken glass. Inside,
the same order and rigorous tidiness were
noticeable.
The sign board, which was supported
by iron stanchions to the roof of the
verandah, informed the general public
that the Yarramundra Punt Hotel was
kept by William Reynolds, and that that
individual was duly licensed to retail
spirituous liquors ; it also displayed to
view a vivid picture of a party of horse-
men crossing a rushing river in a mighty
portmanteau the work of a painter
evidently of the pre-Raffaelite school,
whose ignorance of perspective and
the laws of shadow was only equalled by
his firm faith in untoned ultramarines
and glaring ochres. The bucolic mind,
however, accepted the signboard as a
work of art, as the work of art, indeed,
of the Mesopotamian district.
The arrival of Mr. Walton’s buggy at
the Punt Hotel brought the landlord and
an hostler to the front verandah. Rey-
nolds, alias “Old Billy,” alias “Hungry
Reynolds,” was an old man with a singu-
larly unprepossessing look. He was the
kind of person to whom one might not
unreasonably attribute the possession of
an evil eye. His scrupulously clean
dress, his brisk manner, his apparent
desire to oblige somehow or another told
against him rather than for him, because
of his sinister glance. People looking at
Reynolds could not help saying, “ Well,
if there be truth in physiognomy, that
fellow is a villain.” Business, however,


seemed brisk with him, whether villain
or not. Several horses were hung up to
the posts beneath the willow, and groups
of men were lounging about the door en-
gaged in eager conversation, evidently
discussing the sticking-up intelligence.
The ostler, who went to the heads of
Mr. Walton’s horses, was a worn-out old
fellow with a drunkard’s face. He was
not quite sober, yet sufficiently so to know
what he was about, and to keep on his
legs. Luckily for the horses, he was only
an off-hand, the groom in charge of the
stables being a steady, reliable man.
Much to the old ostler’s mortification, it
was to the regular functionary that Mr.
Walton resigned his vehicle, with precise
directions as to how the horses should be
treated.
“ Curse him! ” said the maudlin old
reprobate. “To think of my holding his
horses, and for nothing, too! It’s a queer
start, ain’t it ? ” This to Eeynolds, who
had returned to the verandah after show-
ing the Walton party to their rooms, and
helping Mr. Hay to get Caldecott into
bed.
“ Well, it is, Tom, if you come to think
of it. It must have been worth a power
of money, mustn’t it ? ”
“ And how near we were to getting it ?
Does he know you, d’ye think ? ”
“ 0 yes! he knows me right enough,
Tom. I’m certain of it. But he doesn’t
think that I know him ; the name, you
see, being different. If it wasn’t for that
confounded pardon, what me and you
know, Tom, would be worth something to
us, eh, Tom ? ”
“ Worth something to you, you mean,”
said Tom, angrily. “To us, indeed !as if,
since this accursed drink mastered me, I
ever had an hour’s luck. You’ve sucked
me pretty dry, Eeynolds, so help me, you
have; and I suppose I ought to thank
you for not having thrown me away long
ago. like the used up thing I am. Worth
something to us, indeed!” and Tom, in
considerable dudgeon, limped off to the
bar.
(To be continued.)
A French gourmand being asked his
opinion of rabbit gibelotte, replied.
“ C'est tout ce qu'il y a de mew (mieuz)."
A Free Translation. —“ Graiis dedit ore
rotundo musa loqui ” was thus rendered
by Spooner, of the lower fifth The
Muse gave to the Greeks the power of
speaking with the mouth full.”
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
(Continued from our last.)
The most recent investigations, how-
ever, into the matter we are discussing
are those of Mr. William Crookes,
F.R.S., who has given to the world
the results of his experience in a paper,
in the Quarterly Journal of Science,
entitled “An Inquiry into certain
Manifestations generally called Spi-
ritual.” One of his experiments, '
made in the presence of Mr. Home,
the medium, bears so closely on our
subject that we may quote it here.
A common spring balance was taken
and placed on a table, with a tum-
bler containing water resting on its
wooden base. When the finger of
the medium was placed in the
water, the balance was depressed to
the extent of several pounds without
any visible agency. This took place
not in the presence of an ignorant
crowd, incapable of distinguishing
trickery and fraud from genuine phe-
nomena, but in that of a man of
science, the discoverer of the metal
thallium, and one of the most promi-
nent electricians of the day a man
whose powers of observation had been
trained by a long experience in scien-
tific research, and whose account of
any phenomena purely physical would
be accepted without question. These
considerations incline us to believe
that the phenomena actually occurred
as described, and that here we have
another instance of the operation of
the new odic, or, as Mr. Crookes terms
it, the “ psychic ” force.
We have in those inquiries a great
contrast to the methods employed by
the spiritualists. The eminent men
whose names we have mentioned are
the only ones who have attempted to
give a rational explanation of the phe-
nomena they witnessed, and so far
from being led to the conclusion that
supernatural agency was at work, they
announce boldly their belief in the ex-
istence of a hitherto unsuspected force
in nature, possessed of powers which
are shared to some extent by other
known forces, and in addition has
peculiar functions of its own.


But the point which most embar-
rasses inquirers into “spiritual” phe-
nemena is the apparent presence and
supervision of an intelligence which
directs and controls the results pro-
duced. Many spiritualists say, “We
admit your theory of anew force ; but
force alone acts blindly in accordance
with rule. In these instances we have
an apparent caprice manifested, which
is incompatible with the functions of
force alone, and drives us to the con-
clusion that intelligence of some kind
or another is at work controlling that
force, and we consider that intelli-
gence to be due to spiritual beings. ”
Now, the difference between ourselves
and the spiritualists is just this : We
admit the operation of an intelligence,
but hold it to be a mundane one ; they,
on the contrary, maintain its spiritual
nature.
It has often been remarked, that the
spirits have told us nothing new, that
their revelations are of the most com-
mon-place nature, and seem to be
bound and confined, to a great extent,
by the peculiarities of the medium
through whom they are given. Thus,
for instance, if the medium in his nor-
mal state spells incorrectly, all messages
purporting to be received from the spi-
rit world through him will be charac-
terised by the same fault. This fact
alone is of itself sufficient to cast dis-
credit on the spiritual theory ; for, can
we imagine a pure spirit, released from
all the bonds that chain it to this earth,
being a slave to an incorrect method of
spelling 1 If the medium were really
directed by such a being, its personality
would extinguish his for the time
and would shine out clear in its utter-,
ances, untrammelled by any deficiencies
in the mortal it was operating through.
But, on the theory we have advocated*
namely, the operation of the psychic
force on the brain, causing its automatic
action, if the medium’s organ of lan-
guage were affected by that force, it
would act in just the same manner as
if the mind were at work.
Again, it has been observed that the
reply to every question put to a me-
dium, and answered correctly , is known
to at least one person in the room
where the seance is being held. This
also shows that some mundane influ-
ence must be at work controlling and
influencing the brain of the medium ;
for if the correct reply is not known,
in nine cases out of ten, the informa-
tion given by the medium is incorrect.
This fact has led the spiritualists to
the invention of “ lying spirits,” who,
they pretend, take possession of the
medium to the exclusion of the good
ones.
After careful consideration, we have
come to the conclusion that the exist-
ence of the odic or psychic force is
highly probable; that it forms the
medium by which one brain acts on
another ; that it is identical with what
is usually called animal magnetism,
and is the force which produces all the
phenomena usually ascribed to this
agent. In the case of “ spiritual phe-
nomena,’ we may consider its action
to be somewhat as follows :—The me-
dium must be a person possessing what
is known as a weak mind—that is, he
must be one of those individuals who
have not their brain thoroughly under
control; he must also be impression-
able and easily influenced by others ;
in short, a good mesmeric subject. If
such an individual is then introduced
as a medium at a seance where certain
things are expected to take place, the
psychic force emanating from himself,
or from the brains of other persons
present acting through his, will cause
the expected phenomena actually to
occur. Thus, if a question be pro-
pounded, the correct answer will be
given by the medium, not through any
knowledge imparted to him by spirits,
but through the cerebral action of the
individual in the room to whom the
answer is known, conveyed by means
of the psychic force to the brain of the
medium. If objects are to be moved,
the same force will operate, as we saw
in the case of Angelique Cottin; but
instead of, as in her, the seat of the
force being the body, it will proceed
from the brain, and thus present the
appearance of intelligent direction; for,
as before shown, the irritation of any


part of the brain will cause its peculiar
action to be manifested.
In the case of trance mediums, when
they are not mere impostors, all the
information they impart will be caused
by the automatic action of the brain,
controlled or operated upon by the
psychic force emanating from the per-
son present who is conversant with the
facts being disclosed.
And now, looking at this theory of
the odic force and the automatisation
of the brain from another, point of
view, does it not explain in a clear and
lucid manner the many stories of de-
moniac possession and witchcraft with
which history teems ? Who can doubt
but that in all those cases the mind of
the afflicted person had lost its control
over the brain, which was forced into
automatic play by the action of extra-
neous irritants ? Whether the exist-
ence of “ odyle ” be admitted or not,
this theory is far more probable than
the idea that spirits take possession of
a man whose brain is diseased, and
speak through him to the world. If
by this means we could obtain anew
play from Shakspere, or anew poem
from Byron, there might be some sem-
blance of truth in the supposition ; but,
on the contrary, the spirit utterances
are weak and puerile to a degree, and
for this reason, more than any other,
contempt has been cast upon the whole
system, and a study which might
have been beneficial to the human
race, as exemplifying many of the
wonderful attributes of the brain and
mind, has been relegated to the realms
of superstition and ignorance.
We cannot help regretting that
scientists have not more generally fol-
lowed the example of Baron Reichen-
bach and Mr. Crookes. It is only by
the application of their methods, as we
have before stated, that we can hope
that any light will be thrown on the
operations of the new force, or a tho-
rough demonstration of its existence
effected. That the spiritualists them-
selves are responsible for this apathy
there can be no doubt ; but we cannot
help thinking that, while there are so
many earnest seekers in the mines of
truth in other branches of knowledge,
it is a pity they should be deterred
from separating the shining metal from
the ore in a matter which, at present,
is in hands totally unfitted for the
purpose.
ALPHA.
THE WAR NEWS.
According to latest telegrams there is
every prospect of a Conference being
held early next month at Baden Baden
for the consideration of the Eastern
question. Germany, it is said, is ex-
ercising her influence for peace, and
Prince Bismarck has hazarded the
remark that the fear of a general
European war is groundless. The
action of England has not as yet had
any irritating effect on Russian coun-
cils. The arrival of squadrons of the
British fleet at Gallipoli and Constan-
tinople prompted the advance of the
Russian troops within the defence
lines of the Turkish capital; but the
withdrawal of Admiral Hornby’s iron-
clads from the waters of the Golden
Horn to Mudania, on the southern
shores of the Sea of Marmora,
seems to have been directly followed
by the countermarch of the Russians
back again to their position to the
northward of those lines. Austria
appears to be excessively anxious, and
has stated her self-interested convic-
tion that the statu quo ante helium
ought to be maintained. The other
Great Powers, France and Italy, are
biding their time in silence. It seems
to us that there is a chance of war
being deferred —of a peace or, rather, an
armed truce being patched up for a few
more years. But the day of decision
must come ; and when it does come it
is morally certain that the public
opinion of the Christian world will be
found endorsing the belief of Russia,
that Mohammedanism in Europe is
a hideous anachronism. So long as
Lord Derby holds the seals of the
Foreign Office, the extreme Turcophil-
ism of the Earl of Beaconsfield v ill
probably be kept in check; and should
the Premier shortly resign (as English


journals of latest dates hint that he
will) it is by no means unlikely that
Austria will find herself alone in the
belief that the balance of power (the
most mischievous phrase in diplomatic
parlance) requires the integrity of the
Ottoman Government. Roumania, it
is said, is exceedingly indignant at the
claims put forward by Russia for
Bessarabia, and it may be that her
indignation is temporarily fostered by
Austria; but unless the United
Powers determine upon guaranteeing
the absolute independence of Rou-
mania and Servia—though in these
days of the unification of peoples
it is not likely they will guarantee
any such thing—Roumania stands
but a poor chance of prevent-
ing Russia incorporating, not merely
Bessarabia, but the fairest dis-
tricts of Moldavia and Wallachia
besides. The position is in one way
simple enough—it is, how shall the
spoil be divided ? No Conference can
possibly settle that. As we said
above, it may possibly postpone the
day of settlement, and as “ apres moi
the deluge” is the motto of the diplo-
mat, it is some such trumpery deferring
of the evil day that may be expected
from the labours of the envoys extra-
ordinary at the promised Baden
Conference. In conclusion we may
that we do not think is
imminent.
Fusilier.
“Ma.”— If there is one word in the
English language dearer than all others,
it is that of Ma. There is a sweet tender-
ness about the name of Ma that the pen
fails to describe. Wherever we go, how-
ever exalted the circumstances of life may
make us, the influence of that blessed
name still remains. It is our Ma who
directs the tiny feet in their first
struggles ; it is our Ma who teaches the
prattling tongue to express the childish
thought, and it is our Ma who, as we
advance on to mature life, through all the
stages of youth, implants within us the
purer thoughts and stronger principles of
an honest life. No line of poetry ever
written is dearer to the heart of man
than that which asks with powerful signi-
ficance—
“ What is home without a Ma ?”
TOWN GOSSIP.
On Monday last an error (of a simple
clerical kind) occurred in the shipping
news column of the Sydney Morning
Herald. “19th” was printed for
“ 17th.” Oddly enough, the self-same
error occurred in the Evening News of
the same date, and in relation to the
same intelligence. That this was thus
is very suggestive of a practice, which
“purvey, the wise it call.”
All decent people disapprove of the
rowdy action of certain Albert Cricket
Grounders, who have placarded the
town with posters inciting the lieges
of Waverley and Paddington to break
the peace of our Lady the Queen by
forcing a free entrance into the Asso-
ciation’s ground. Such an argumen-
tum ad invidiam is in the last degree
disgraceful, and utterly unworthy of
the ideal cricketer, whose primary
characteristic is manliness.
The fare-box system is believed by
many to afford the omnibus proprie-
tary who may adopt it a means of
securing themselves against dishonest
employes. The check and counter-
check complications of this system are
therefore put up with by the public
but we think that if it were more
generally known that the whole thing
is a farce, played at the expense of
travellers, an effort would be made to
get it discontinued. The other day,
opposite the omnibus waiting-room
near the University paddock, we had
ocular demonstration that the system
as worked was a sham. A lad of about
twelve, in the employ of the proprie-
tary (we suppose), opened the fare-box
of the omnibus we were in, and,
having emptied the contents into a
bag, walked off with it—not direct to
the office, but to a friendly game at
marbles ! Fancy inconveniencing the
driver and the passengers, as the fare-
box system does inconvenience them,
for such a result, which, like a nega-
tive quantity as a factor, neutralised
the whole process !
’Tis an ill wind that blows good' to
none. Even the Victorian crisis has
its sweet influences for some. Mel-
bourne goods are being forced upon


the New South Wales market at fabu-
lously easy terms. A fairly good
Sydney bill at nine months, so Dis-
count tells us, goes high in Collins
Street. Now is evidently the time for
speculative young cornstalks to make
a start.
The other day we made a number of
inquiries as to the working of the staff
and ticket system, the adoption of
which on our railways is to prevent
the possibility of any accident, and re-
reived such a variety of explanations
that we became fairly puzzled. What
the guard was to do, we asked, with-
out the staff when he had handed it
over to the station-master and pro-
ceeded on his journey ? Was he then
to take a ticket like an ordinary pas-
senger ? Or was the staff, when handed
over to the guard or driver, considered
to be “ the ticket” ? Was the staff
an ordinary wooden staff, or was it a
term to designate the station-master
and porters at a station? When an
up and down train passed each other,
which driver was entitled to the staff,
and which the ticket ? These were
some of the queries we propounded,
and to which we got such unsatisfac-
tory replies, that we came to the con-
clusion that the station-master, the
engine-driver, the staff, and the ticket
must occupy similar positions to those
of the farmer, the fox, the goose, and
the cabbage in crossing the river. But
at last, through the courtesy of a
gentleman in the Traffic Manager’s
offices, we obtained an intelligent solu-
tion of the mystery. Each station-
master is provided with a staff (of
wood) and a ticket, one of which must
be given to the driver of each train
leaving his station. If two trains are
to follow each other, the driver of
the first has the ticket handed to him,
this he gives to the stationmaster at
the next stopping place, and receives
another in exchange ; and so on to
the end of the trip. Each station-
master exchanging a ticket with a
driver is thus apprised that another
train is to follow, and that
until he has received a staff from a
second driver and sent him on with
another, the line must be kept clear.
The same process is adopted with the
return train, the staff and ticket sys-
tem, or rather the ticket and staff
system, being only in request on single
lines of railway. We hope this ex-
planation will be satisfactory to all
parties. It still seems to be a little
mixed up, but we dare not attempt to
rewrite it. It is a first-rate system if
you can only understand it thoroughly.
Of one thing we are quite certain, that
neither staff nor ticket need accom-
pany the American engine.
Among other Colonial works of art
for the Paris Exhibition, a gigantic
photographic album made by Messrs.
Turner & Henderson, now on view at
their premises in Hunter Street, is
worthy of notice. The album, which
is bound in full scarlet Turkey morocco
with heavy raised bands and gilt edges,
is 24 x 14 x 4 inches, and is valued
at twenty guineas. Its duplicate
was sold to the Exhibition Commis-
sioners for presentation to H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales. The fifty well-
executed views of Sydney which it
contains render the book a most
appropriate exhibit, astendingnot only
to attract the admiration of lovers of
fine art, but also to arrest the attention
of many who have but a very vague
idea of the size and importance of our
capital.
During the severe hailstorm that
last week burst over Sydney, huge
pieces of ice, some of them over three
inches in diameter, and with sharp
serrated edges, were picked up in
George Street, in the vicinity of the
Royal Hotel. Enthusiastic savants
were to be seen measuring and exa-
mining these celestial missiles, with
scientific ardour, and they were only
checked from continuing their collec-
tion of particulars for a paper for the
Royal Society by the descent of a
prodigious lump of ice, harbinger of
a terrific burst —of laughter from the
society on the Royal balcony, which
gave the natural philosophers to know
that they’d been (n)icely “got at’
by selections from the landlord’s ice
chest.


Scene—a fashionable restaurateur’s
in Pitt Street. Cockney customer,
much affecting the swell, with con-
siderable ’ auteur , to gentlemanly
waiter : “ Waitaw ! this beef’s ’igh!”
Gentlemanly waiter : “ High, sir ? oh,
no, sir.” Waiter, however, examines
the meat, and on becoming satisfied
that it is good, takes this awful re-
venge : “You are right, sir, hit his
igh !—all my eye !”
George Purdue, the guard in charge
of the goods train which recently
collided with another goods train at
Emu Plains, has been sentenced to
two years imprisonment with hard
labour. Without in any way impugn-
ing the justice of this sentence, we
cannot help calling attention to the
character of the offence committed,
which we think should, and we hope
will, be taken into account' in the
carrying out of the sentence. Purdue
has been found guilty of a breach of
discipline, and his negligence where
life was at stake could not have been
overlooked. But while the safety of
the public demands that his offence
should not be passed by, it does not
require that he should be classed with
felons and subjected to the indignity
of associating with the refuse of society
■as represented by the hard-labour
gangs. Should there not be some
classification of offenders, so that the
period of punishment might be passed
in cases like Purdue’s without the
additional aggravation which such
companionship must necessarily cause.
Could he not be treated as a debtor
rather than a malefactor of the deepest
die, since his character for sobriety
and morality has not been impugned.
A little discretionary power in this
direction might, we think, be fairly
exercised in his favour.
On dit that a testimonial to Mr.
Augustus Morris is being got up by
that gentleman’s admirers as a delicate
solatium to him in his grief at being
given the go-by in the matter of the
Executive Commisionership. The
Ministers, in selecting Mr. Combes, .
may possibly have selected a good man
<we think they have) ; they have
certainly got rid of a political antago-
nist.
The ‘ ‘ new blood ” in the metropol-
itan corporation voted against the
introduction of tramways into the
beautiful city. A little more new
blood and we shall get back to
medievalism, pure and simple.
We had intended, before we came
across Mr. Greenwood’s notice of
motion, to comment upon the ab-
surdity, in a colony in which Church
and State are dissociated, of a pro-
clamation virtually from the Colonial
Secretary, though nominally from the
Governor, to set apart a special day of
thanksgiving for the late downfall of
rain. As we view the matter, the
Dean of Sydney, who initiated the
the movement, should, as head of the
largest religious denomination in the
colony, have invited the members of
his flock to join in a special form of
thanksgiving and prayer to be held on
a certain day in the various churches
throughout the country ; and, no
doubt, other denominations would
have followed so praiseworthy an ex-
ample. He might then, with some
show of reason, have asked the
Government to allow the civil servants
to attend such services, and bank
managers and other large employers
would have followed suit. But instead
of following this course, he has rele-
gated his functions to a layman, and
has thus, according to Mr. Greenwood,
done that which tends to bring reli-
gion into contempt. Having said this
we have nothing further to say. The
Very Rev. gentleman has been
actuated, no one will doubt, with the
very best intentions, and we hope the
result will be all he could desire. As
an advertiser, possessing in the Govern-
ment Gazette peculiar facilities for
diffusing information, His Excellency
may do good service, while we hope the
Hon. Michael Fitzpatrick, and his
co-Ministers, will not fail to give all the
help they can to the good work by
bringing their temporal power into
play in order to enforce order and
decorum on the appointed day ; other-
wise there is a fear that they will


merely have proclaimed a general holi-
day, and the thanksgivings which will
proceed from excursionists at Chowder
Bay, Manly Beach, and other sea-side
resorts, although sincere in one sense,
will be tinged with a tone of license
altogether unsuited to the occasion.
Cannot the Government close the
public-houses on Friday next ; or,
if that should be too arbitrary, as
example is so much better than pre-
cept, they will surely all of them
attend the thanksgiving service, and
thus encourage their followers to go
and do likewise ?
FEARFUL SNAKE STORY
Not many years ago, in a large ramb
ling house in a suburb of a great Aus-
tralian city, there lived an elderly
gentleman, a most excellent worthy
person, with a large family of chil-
dren, great and small. The eldest was
a beautiful young lady, clever, gentle,
almost timid, but filled with heroic
thoughts, and aspiring to rise above
the ordinary weaknesses of her sex.
One day this fair girl, when seated
alone at her work, was alarmed by the
cries of her youngest sister proceeding
from a distant attic. A moment after-
wards some of the children burst into
the room with the terrible intelligence
that the youngest had been bitten by
a snake. The young lady seized a
large carving knife, the first piece of
cutlery that came to hand, and rushed
up stairs, sternly determined to cut
out the injured part. When she
reached the attic her worst fears were
realized. There was the snake in a
corner of the room, and there was her
little sister crying and holding her
knee. Regardless of the dangerous
animal in the comer, the young lady
threw the child on the floor, tore down
her stocking, and seeing a suspicious
looking mark, prepared to cut it out,
saying to the terrified child, “ You
have been bitten by a snake, and if
you do not let me cut out the piece
you will die.” The poor child not
understanding the position of things,
but seeing her sister with excited looks
flourishing the carving knife over her,
thought that she had gone mad, and
was bent on murder. Reduced to the
last stages of agony and despair, and
almost speechless with terror, she
struggled and cast appealing looks for
mercy. At last she managed to gasp
out that it was not a snake at all, the
lid of a box had fallen against her knee,
and that the thing in the corner was
her brother Charlie’s toy snake. The
young lady, forgetting for a moment
her heroic aspirations, burst into tears,
and then fell upon the floor in a
state of complete collapse. By this
time there was a general concourse of
servants and children, and a fresh
hubbub arose. The eldest boy kicked
the snake violently through the door
on to the landing beyond, and was
with difficulty restrained from serving
Master Charlie, the proprietor of the
offensive article, in the same way. At
this stage of the proceedings the head
of the family happened to come
within hearing of the extraordinary
sounds proceeding from the attic. He
flew upstairs, and when he reached
the top was dismayed at seeing a snake
stretched on the landing. Now this
old gentleman’s courage had never
been impugned, but certainly he had
never distinguished himself by any
signal act of prowess, and on this
occasion he turned round and bolted
down stairs as fast as his years would
permit. His paternal instincts, how-
ever, soon got the better of him, and,
armed with a heavy poker, he returned
to the defence of his family very
fast at first, more slowly afterwards,
and very slowly for the last few steps.
When he reached the landing there
was still the snake, coiled up in the
corner, apparently ready to spring—a
deadly-looking reptile of greenish hue.
Screwing up his courage, clenching
his teejh, and exerting his whole
strength, he delivered a tremendous
and effectual blow, and presently be-
came aware that the atmosphere was
filled with chips of painted deal, bits
india-rubber, fragments of whale-
bone, ends of iron wire, steel springs,
glass eyes, and other materials too


numerous to mention. Comprehend-
ing the whole situation at a glance, he
fell into a fit of ungovernable fury,
he shouted, he stamped on the floor,
he beat the wall with the poker, and it
is even said that words escaped his lips
having such a damnatory sound that
the younger children on the other side
of the door, who had never heard any-
thing of the kind before, except in
church, thought that he was repeating
thG Commination Service. However
he vented his anger at last by gather-
ing up the fragments and consigning
them to the flames. From that time
forward, all artful representations of
snakes, and other dangerous animals
in the form of toys were sternly tabooed
m that establishment.
M.P.
THE BROKEN HEART.
The flowers I have cherished so fondly
are dead,
The last hope hath perished, the last
dream hath fled,
These eyes that were tearless are gush-
ing with tears,
This heart that was fearless is throb-
bing with fears.
They ask, but I name not the source
of my woe,
Who promised, who came not, none
ever shall know ;
That others should blame thee, would
add to my pain,
For what shall reclaim thee, if my love
be vain.
For ties that must sever, ’twere use-
less to mourn
For hopes that can never, oh ! never
return ;
Yet be waking till sense
shall forsake
This heart that is breaking—oh ! when
will it break ?
And know ’mid thy splendour when
conscience shall tell
Of the heart true and tender that
lov d thee too well,
By the heart thou hast broken the
deed is forgiven,
May the vows thou hast spoken be par- *
doned in heaven.
THE COMIC PAPERS.
A young man who went West from Dan-
bury, a few months ago, has sent only
one letter home. It was—“ Send me a
wig. ” And his fond parents don’t know
whether he’s scalped or married.
The dearest object to a married man
should be his wife, but it is not unfre-
quently her clothes.
A young lady in a neighbouring town
has taken up dentistry for a living. All
the gentlemen patronize her. When she
puts her arm round the neck of a patient,
and caresses his jaw for the offending
member, the sensation is about as nice as
they make ’em. One young man has
become hopelessly infatuated with her
Consequently he hasn’t a tooth in his
head. She has pulled every blessed one
ot them, and made him two new sets, and
pulled them. She is now at work on his
lather’s saw. He holds the saw.
A lady, who affects great learning and
classicahty of speech, but whose knowledge
of language is rather limited, alluding to
the speech of one of the newly elected
members of Parliament, said “it was very
spirited and classical in style, but rather
too ad claptrapandum .”
A new boy at the South Street School
being asked if they had family prayers at
his house, promptly answered, “ No, but
we have got four bay windows.”
“ I told you particularly to wake me
Cuard. Here am lat Burwood, and I
wanted to get out at Ashfield ! ” “Well,
sir, I did try three times, but all
right said was, ‘All right, Mary,
give the young ’uns their breakfast, and
111 be down in five minutes.’ So I let ve
sleep it off! ” J
Rather Awkward. —Lady Alice rushed
into the dining-room and kissed her
lather tenderly to awake him. He
awoke. But he turned out to be the Head
Waiter.
A demure-looking chap hailed a char-
coal pedler one morning with the quer>,
‘ Have you got charcoal in your waggon ?”
“Yes, sir,” said the expectant driver
stopping his horses. “ That's right,” ob-
seived the demure chap with an approving
nod; “ always tell the truth, and people
will respect you ” And he hurried on
much to the regret of the pedler, who
was getting out of the waggon to look for
a brick.


A New York Sabbath-school teacher
asked a young pupil the meaning of “ the
wages of sin is death.” The boy did not
know what wages were, and was asked
“ what his father got on Saturday night? ”
“ Drunk,” was the answer.
An applicant for the position of
domestic in a Spring Street family was
asked if she understood how to use kero-
sene. Her reply exceeded the most san-
guine expectations. “ Use it, is it ?
she exclaimed, in a tone of reproachful
explanation. “ Give me a can of
kayrosane, and I’d niver ask for the lift
of "a shavin’.” “Merciful Gabriel!” was
all the lady remarked, as she helped the
applicant out of the gate.
A Brookfield woman was completely
unmanned by the loss of her husband.
The worst shocked man we have seen
in some time was a citizen who made the
discovery, Friday, that the neighbour
from whom he had borrowed the paper
for the past four years had not paid for
it. He learned the facts from the agent
of the publisher, and he was grieved. He
was also indignant. He said to us, “To
think that I should have been so imposed
upon at my time of life. I tell you a
man don’t know who to trust in these
times.”
The true Rus in Urbe. —The Muscovite
in Constantinople.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Sport. — We would define a gentleman
player (in any sport) as one who
(whatever his pedigree may be) con-
tended for ‘ ‘ love ” and not for money
which he could legally claim if with-
held.
Ida. “The Moon Rose” is very
pretty; but for such a flowery produc-
tion we think “ The Moss Rose
would have been a more appropriate
title. May we revise it 1
Fred R The manuscript you have
sent us is very fairly written, but
the incidents are too tame. Try
again. We shall not be hypercritical.
F. C. We do not read unfinished or
anonymous contributions.
Subscriber —Mr. John Davies’ motion
for the extension of the railway into
the city is set down for Tuesday
next. We pointed out the import-
ance of proceeding with this work
in our issue of the 26th ult.
GARDENING CALENDAR FOR
FEBRUARY.
This is .the month for trenching, but be
careful not to trench upon your neigh-
bour’s ground.
Take care that the couch grass does not
grow under your feet.
Keep your weeds boxed up so as
always to have one for a friend.
Sow all seeds you ean get hold of
except the seed of discord.
Take up bulbs, and keep a sharp look
after coxcombs: they are apt to run to
seed.
Prepare your beds for mosquitoes, or
you will get no peas.
Cut your corns after the rain.
Fork out freely for dressing young
shoots.
Olive branches will occasionally require
trimming.
If in the Government service look after
your salary.
Put out healthy young plants, but
don’t put yourself out; it is too hot
for that. Get ready for next month.
A Conscientious Cock. —Lord Dufferin,
in his “Letters from High Latitudes,”
tells the affecting story of a conscientious
cock, who, perplexed by the perpetual
sunshine, and unable to discharge the
vocal duties which seemed to ensue there-
from, eventually crowed himself mad, and
put an end to his existence with his own
wings by abruptly flying into the sea:—
“As we proceeded north,” he writes,
“ and the nights became shorter, the cock
we had shipped at Stornoway became
quite bewildered on the subject of that
meteorological phenomenon, the dawn of
day In fact, I doubt whether he ever
slept for more than five minutes at a
stretch without waking up in a state of
nervous excitement lest it shonld be cock-
crow At last, when night ceased alto-
gether, his constitution could no longer
stand the shock, he crowed once or twice
sarcastically ; then went melancholy mad ;
' finallv, taking a calenture, he cackled
loudly (probably of green fields), and leap-
ing overboard, drowned himself.


“SYDINKY ONCE A WEEK”
AGENTS.
SYDNEY.
Railway Terminus L. Walton
George Street
f G. Hill
E. Turner
H. Hains
-{ W. Haddock
E. R. Cole
C. T. Sandon
_ J. J. Moore
Hunter Street .. Turner and Henderson
Pitt Street .. .. S. A. Kirby
King Street.. .. G. Wallace
William Street .. F. Pearce
Oxford Street
\ Spragg and Adams
\ Mrs. Abbott
Botany Road .. Mrs. E. Mihell
Forest Lodge .. F. Collis
Sussex Street ..
SUBURBS.
Newtown . . . . R. West and Co.
Ashﬁeld . . . .
Burwood . . . .
St. Leonards . . Deacon and Sons
Balmain . . . . R. H. Paisley
Woollahra . . . .
Parramatta . . . .
Manly Beach . . P. Jenkins
COUNTRY.
Goulburn . . . . J. Walsh
Kiama . . . . . . J. Redford
Maitland . . . . C. W. Clark
Orange . . . . R. Lessels and Son
Wagga Wagga. . . E. D. Leyson.
Yass . . . . . . B. Weaver.
Agents wanted for other parts of the colony.
QUEEN’S COLLEGE, CROYDON.
Lady Principal: MRS. H. H. DAWSON
(ASSISTED BY COMPETENT GOVERNESSES AND PROFESSORS).
N.B.-NO pupil teachers.
n UpilS -f the Coll< ?? e ( which is most healthily situated) offers every
1 The Prinoin^ r c mit ? ri f ’ J Baths ; Airy Class-rooms, &l
tinnnl 10l 1 P x . ln^ oduced the system now so universal in the leading educa
mZso?CtT«aL EUrOPe ',l impar ? ing knowled « e ia the WgtoS by
means ot .Lectures, and has secured the services of able Professors. *
students of the College, can attend these lectures.
Baily pupßs have their railway fare deducted from terms.
Platform. Queen 8 g " iS Within three miautes walk of Croydon Railway


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“ Sidney Once a Week.” —It is a neat,
■well-printed little pamphlet, containing
twenty-four pages of reading matter, which
consists of short original papers, written
in a light free style, and of a few extracts
from other publications. Its purpose is
to give its readers “ a good sixpenny worth
of literary pabulum, composed of ingre-
dients at once sparkling, amusing, and
original, and so arranged as to avoid a
suspicion of dulness.” Taken as a whole,
the magazine, which is edited by Mr. C.
H. Barlee, is a very creditable produc-
tion, as well to the publishers as to the
authors, and if conducted according to the
plan indicated in the few words above
quoted, it will be an acceptable addition
to our colonial literature.— S. M. Herald.
The Echo says:—lt is a very read-
able publication, and, while it cannot
aspire to rank as the equal of the
most popular English magazines, it de-
serves to find favour on account of the
local interest which attaches to its papers.
The original papers, of which there are
several, are written in a light, easy style,
and with considerable ability. We should
like to see the magazine prove to be a
success, for the desirableness of building
up a respectable colonial literature will
hardly be denied by any one, and the
establishment of a good magazine is one
of the means towards that end. The
publishers, Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and
Co., are entitled to commendation for the
admirable way in which they have got up
the magazine.— Echo.
The New Magazine. —Sydney Once a
Week Magazine for Town and Country
Readers is the title of anew weekly, edited
by Mr.C. H. Barlee, issued from the Sydney
Press, which bids fair to secure a good
share of public support. Its moderate
price, its handiness, the entertaining
reading it affords, and the concise, pleasing
manner in which the various topics of the
day are touched in its columns, must
naturally render the Sydney Once a Week
a welcome visitor in every house and an
agreeable companion to every reader.—
Southern Argus , (Goulburn.)
“ Sydney Once a Week,” a magazine
bearing the above title, has made . its
appearance in our city. It is edited
by Mr. Barlee, formerly a member ot
the literary staff of the Melbourne Argus,
and a humourist of some note. The
vvork contains sketches, tales, and articles,
along with the usual miscellanea of a
magazine. Judging by the contents of
the first number, we think the maga-
zine stands a better chance of succeeding
than many of those publications which
are born but to die, and which in some
cases are disgraceful to the literary efforts
of our city .—Evening News.
The Singleton Argus says The num-
ber is very readable, is well printed by
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co., and
contains a varied selection of original
and extract matter. We wish the
proprietor every success with his ven-
ture, and trust that his efforts will do
something more substantial to encourage
a taste for colonial literature than those
of others who have trodden in the same
uncertain path, have succeeded in doing.
We hail with pleasure all respectable
efforts to establish a republic of letters
in this colony, which at present is too
much confined in its patronage to
newspaper literature only. Mr. Barlee’s
venture is the best effort in this direction
that we have seen for some time. Single-
ton Argus.
“ Once a Week.”— Under the title of
“ Sydney Once a Week,” the first number
of a neatly got-up octavo of over thirty
pages has just been issued. It is edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, who is, we under-
stand, assisted by a numerous staff of able
contributors. The contents of this new
publication are varied and interesting—
too varied, in our opinion, for the space
at the disposal of the editor. If we may
be permitted to offer a suggestion with
regard to the future, we would recommend
that everything in the shape of ‘‘news
items should be omitted. We heartily
wish the proprietors success in their
undertaking, and certainly are of opinion
that the excellence of “ Once a Week
well deserves it.—l uss Courier.
The contents of the new venture give
promise of a deserved success, should it
ever be attained. There is an * r .
variety about the articles, and the tastes
o“ every class of readers are consulted
Thus we have a trenchant article, short
and pithy, on the political status m quo,
a couple of spirited domestic sketches,
some comic matter, and some chapters
especially intended for boys. Among the
iT is a scholarly commentary on a
rmssase from the “ Paradise Lost,
intended for the use of University can r-
dates-a clever set of ie( ?™ e r n *
Latin, and an enigma in French, me


grams and sphinx-like puzzles which
usually fill this department of our
current literature, and should commend
the production to parents. We hope the
new organ will enjoy a longer term
of existence than some of its pre-
decessors. — Namoi Independent.
This serial contains well written papers
and sketches, entitled “ The Public
Health,” “Muff Cricketing,” “ Best Dog
in the colony,” and a general summary of
the Russo-Turkish War. Altogether
Once a Week promises well; and without
country readers (who will probably
support it best), the 170,000 residents of
Sydney should keep it going—but we
doubt it. The price is 6d., and the
publishing office 279 George-street,
Sydney. Molong Express.
Once a Week. —This is the title of a new
pamphlet, edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, of
Sydney. We have received a copy and
were highly amused, as well as enter-
tained, with the writings ; there is such a
versatility about them that all must be
pleased. It is notified that a summary
of the events of the present war will be
given for the accommodation of its
readers, and so do away with the tedious
task of perusing the complications daily
appearing in our metropolitan journals.
Among numerous articles, in various
strains, there is a very humorous writing,
entitled “My Balloon Adventure ; ” but
to our fancy, the most amusing is one
called “The best dog in the colony.”
There is a very good article, termed
“Et cetera,” which gives an abstract of
the events of the week. In next issue a
story will be commenced, under the im-
pressive heading of “ The Mystery of the
Wiseman’s Ferry Road.” It is a useful,
handy, (little book, and well worth
patronage. The price is sixpence.— The
Australian.
The Tenterfield Star says :—Besides
containing a large amount of current
news, it possesses the attraction of
affording to its readers much useful and
scientific information, combined with well
written tales and humourous sketches,
and other entertaining matter. The price
is sixpence, and this moderate charge
should command for the magazine the
wide circulation which it justly deserves.
We heartily recommend the magazine
to our readers. —Grenfell Record.
The Moray a Examiner says:—We have
looked the book carefully through and
can confidently recommend it to our
readers and predict its success.
The new candidate for public favour
contains a number of smartly written
original articles and some well-selected
extract matter. It is got up in good
style, and well printed, containing
twenty-four demy octavo pages.— Albury
Banner.
The new publication is both instructive
and entertaining: it is deserving of a
good circulation. —Border Post (Albury.)
The new publication is both well got
up and very readable.— Western Post
(Mudgee).
The Bathurst Free Press says :—lt con-
tains a large quantity of interesting
reading matter—grave, gay, ponderous,
and light. The editorship is evidently in
good hands, and if the editor’s hopes are
realized the paper will take its place with
“ The pleasan ooks that silently amoDg
Our household treasures take familiar places,
And are to us as if a living tongue
Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces.”
For he makes his bold assertion : “ We
shall do our best to force ourselves into
notice, and to compel attention.” Once a
Week is well worth the sixpence that is
charged for the single copy.
Another attempt has been made to
establish a literary magazine in Sydney.
The new venture takes the title of the
Sydney “ Once a Week.” Its type dress
is admirable, but then the printers are
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co. The
number before us very fairly sustains the
aim stated, and we shall be glad to see the
magazine prosper.— Maitland Mercury.
It is very creditably got up, and judging
from the matter which this number
(No. 1) contains, it is a magazine that
will no doubt receive a large measure of
support among Australian readers.—
Western Examiner (Orange).
The Murrurundi Times writes :—“ The
contents have a varied range, and many
of the articles possess a degree of humour
and literary merit which will commend
them to the majority of readers. We
shall be glad to find enough appreciation
to support anything in the shape of smart
writing which has about it no unworthy
element.”


“ Sydney Once a Week.”— We have
received the first two numbers of a small
neatly got-up magazine bearing the above
title, which, in view of its superiority to
the majority of weekly publications lately
issued from the Sydney Press, we feel it
our honest duty to notice with approba-
tion. Its sontents (those of the two issues
we have received) are not only well written,
but are for the most part original and
local. They comprise a great variety of
light and instructive reading matter, winch
should commend Once a Week to public
favour Politics, the public health, and
other grave matters are ably treated in its
leading columns. There are also well
written original humorous sketches—we
note specially “The Best Dog in the
Colony ” and “ My Balloon Adventure,
and a few happy clippings from comic ex-
changes ; a page of town gossip ; and an
epitome of the week’s war news Ad-
mirably written papers, entitled “ Gossip
with the Boys,” appear in each issue, and
are, it is said, to be continued regularly.
The verses in the first number, entitled
“ An Australian Idyll ” are very far above
the average of contributions to the “ poets’
corner.” It is an affecting story, well told.
After the custom of English magazine
conductors, the proprietors of Sydney
Once a Week offer prizes to successful
competitors in the riddle arena. In the
second number appeared the prologue of
a story called “ The Mystery of Wiseman’s
Ferry,” which is to be the piece de resistance
int.be way of serial romance. Once a Week,
which is edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, a
litterateur of lengthened colonial experi-
ence, and published by Messrs. Gibbs,
Shallard. and Co., we can conscientiously
recommend as a weekly magazine, enter-
taining, instructive, and of high tone.
Those who have not seen this publication
should buy copies, and judge of its merits
for themselves We are certain they will
endorse our opinion. —Cumberland Mer-
cury.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
Three Months
Six Months
Twelve Months ...
Payable in Advance.
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISING.
One Page ..
One Column or Half-page
One Inch
Five Lines or under
Back page, and page facing matter
Spaces on the Cover (for Quarterly or Half-yearly Advertisements),
by arrangement.
Liberal discount allowed for Standing Advertisements.
£ s. d.
2 0 0
15 0
0 5 0
0 2 6
3 0 0
6 Shillings.
11
21
