

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. II. BAELEE.
No. 5, Vol. I.]
FEBRUARY 16, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
D VY OF
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
Sydney Cove.
Feb.
7.38 a.m.
16
Sat
Lindley Murray, died 1826.
5.37
6.51
17
S
Septuagesima. Full Moon, 9.21 p.m.; Partial
Eclipse of Moon (middle of Eclipse, 9.15 p.m )
5.38
6.50
25 a.m.
18
M
Incoming Mail via. S. Fran., due Sydney. Out-
going Mail via Suez closes.
5.39
6.49
9. 4 a.m.
19
Tu
Hobart Town founded 1804.
5.40
6.48
9.37 a.m.
20
W
Governor Bligh suspended 1808.
5.41
6.46
10.10 a.m.
21
Th
Sydney Smith died 1845.
5.42
6.45
10.45 a.m.
22
F
Divorce Court Sitting. Bank of Australia estab-
lished 1826.
5.43
6.44
11.24 a.m.
SUBURBAN RAILWAYS.
There seems rather a lull just now
in the agitation for Suburban Rail-
ways ; but we hope that it will not
die away altogether, as so many
good movements have been allowed
to do in this community. We trust
that the force of public opinion
will in this case prove too strong
even for the dead weight of official
inertia.
We speak with diffidence, because
there are inscrutable official
mysteries which the public generally
cannot hope to penetrate, but pre-
sume that Suburban Railways are
intended to afford quick, frequent,
and cheap communication with
Sydney to those living along the
lines. Any merely private unofficial
person would suppose that to effect
these objects it would be necessary
that on the proposed lines, some
of the trains at least should stop
for the convenience of passen-
gers, at very frequent intervals.
It would be well to consider, pending
the construction of new lines, how
we have got on with the old one.
If it is desirable, even at an
immense expense, to form new lines
for the purposes to which we have
alluded, it seems equally desirable
and a great deal less expensive to


utilize the line that we have as far
as possible for the same purpose.
The official mind, however, takes a
different view of the subject. Scarcely
any use is made of the existing line
for facilitating near Suburban
traffic. Since the first opening of the
Railway, some twenty-two years ago,
not a single new station or platform
has been opened between Redfern
and Ashfield, a distance of five
miles. In England, in similar
cases there are generally stoppages
every half mile, and in many places
every quarter. The reasons given
by the authorities here for not com-
plying with the popular demand for
more platforms, are almost enough
to destroy that calm feeling of respect
which those in private and com-
paratively humble positions should
always entertain towards those in
high authority. Listening to such
reasons, indeed, has a tendency
to replace those feelings by.
others more closely akin to con-
tempt and disgust. The answers
obtained from the authorities
are, that too frequent stoppages
do not pay; that they delay the
trains, wear out the rails, and
damage the engines and breaks.
As well might an omnibus man re-
fuse to stop for passengers to save
his time, his horses, and his break—
or a publican to serve out delete-
rious drinks to save his conscience.
These people are committed to a
certain wear and tear of their car-
riages and breaks and consciences,
which they cannot escape, except
by declining business altogether.
After much pressure from with-
out, a new platform has been made
between Redfern and Newtown, but
we believe that it is not yet opened
for traffic. To effect this will require,
as has happened in other cases, fresh
popular commotions, deputations,
remonstrances, and possibly public
meetings. Why do the Railway
authorities persist in the stubborn
resistance which they display in
these matters? Why cannot they
be hunted out of their slow official
pace, or rather no pace, except by
the angry shouts of a mob, as it
were ? just as hungry cattle can
scarcely be driven, as bushmen tell
us, out of a saltbush scrub, except
by the actual, heavy contact of stock-
whips.
The same torpidity of action has
not been displayed with respect to
platforms in more distant and lonely
situations, where scarcely a house
can be found, except by diligent
search. In every such case, how-
ever, it may be pretty safely inferred
that some great political character
lives not far off, or is in some way
concerned in the matter. We may
have many faults as a people, but
surely we may fairly lay claim to
the virtues of patience and long-
suffering humility.
It becomes a serious question,
whether it is worth while to form
new Suburban Lines if they are
to be under management similar to
that of the present line. What is
the use of more railways for facili-
tating suburban traffic until we have
found out how to persuade or drive
our rulers into making the best use
possible of the line that we have
already constructed 1
Advice to fish-eaters—Deal gently with
the herring.
A Stern Keality—The man at the wheel.
Drawn Game —A sketch of a bush wal-
laby.
Motto for the Torpedo Corps—“ Ignis
Via” (fire away!)
Better to have loved a short girl, then
never to have loved a tall.


JOSEPH. (A CONCEIT).
BY HENRY HALLORAN
You must not be flirting with me,
lassie !
For I’ve got a lassie at home ;
And tho’ I should vow on my knee,
lassie !
A sorrowful time would come ;
So I’d better away,
And try to be gay,
For the sake of the lassie at home !
Nay would you be then so cold,
laddie !
When a fair maid seeks to woo ?
The lassie at home may be old,
laddie !
And you’re none the <worse for two !
You had better then stay,
And make the sweet hay,
While the sun shines above us two.
Nay then I dare not woo, lassie !
For you know ’twere a burning sin,
When one is wed to a true lassie,
Another’s heart to win :
So I must away,
And I will not stay,
Lest the Devil should gather me in.
Now I’ll tell you what I think,
laddie !
You are not worth one’s care ;
For who would falter and shrink,
laddie !
And nought for love’s sake dare ?
So you’d better haste home,
Lest the dame should come,
And comb “ your bonny brown hair.”
A Medical Student, who got very
drunk one evening told his father next
day that he was “ suffering from ce-
phalalgy induced by the ductility of a
glandiferous stopper placed in the mouth
of a vitreous vessel containing distilled
grain.” The old man gave him an order
for a new suit of clothes, to still further
encourage him in his studies.
The worth of Spiritualism—Not a rap.
Locus Standi—Macquarie Place.
Advice to Enfants Terribles —
Speak when not spoken to ;
Sulk when you’re chid ;
Bang the door after you,
Good little kid!
CALIFORNIAN EXPERIENCES.
NO. 1.
HOW I SOLD THE YANKEE.
When gold was discovered in Cali-
fornia, in the year 18—, it is almost
needless to say that there was a pretty
considerable rush to San Francisco.
All the world—without their wives,
who were so numerous that the term
“ grass widows ” was then first intro-
duced into the American vocabulary—
rushed to that port pell-mell ; and the
rush comprised the tallest collection of
smart men that ever emigrated in any
one year from the United States
Sharp was no term for some of them.
I don’t, however, believe in extremes,
and I will stop at the comparative
degree and call them sharpers. Yet
I flatter myself that, in the very first
commercial transaction with a Yankee
of this class —effected, too, before I
had actually landed—l got entirely to
windward of the ‘ ‘ stranger. ”Itis so long
ago that I actually forget the name of
the vessel that took me to the golden
shore ; but whatever she was named,
she touched at Valparaiso, and one
afternoon, while prowling about in the
sunny spots of that Vale of Paradise,
I passed some cottages, and paused to
admire the front fence, which was a
natural barricade of prickly flowering
cactus, when a well-bred pointer slut,
evidently the mother of young pups,
rushed out and barked at me. Being
rather a connoisseur in dogs, and being
in a lazy humour, with nothing to do
and lots of time on my hands, I
stopped to examine her points, and
thought I would get one of the breed
if possible. My knowledge of Spanish
at that time—and it has disappeared
entirely since—was very much like that
of the French governess, who knew the
language very well, but couldn’t speak
it. However, in a gibberish composed
partly of Italian, which I could at one
time read in a very disjointed way,
some newly acquired Spanish phrases,


helped out by a little Latin and a great
many signs, I managed to convey an
expression of my wish to an old, yel-
low, withered-looking dame, who ap-
peared to be the presiding goddess of
the place ; and for half-a-dollar I
became possessor of a month-old pup
of English breed, but South American
extraction, and for an additional real,
a young hopeful member of the family,
aztat ten or thereabouts, carried it
down to the wharf for me. Behold
me, then, with a new plaything where-
with to beguile the monotony of the
voyage, which had been awfully
tedious so far. In compliment to his
ancestors, who must have been dogs
of descent, I christened my new pur-
chase “Sancho,” and he soon became
a prime favourite with the passengers,
not because of any especially notice-
able good qualities, but from the
absence of any other object on which
they could bestow their affections.
Sancho met with a misfortune on his
way from his native place to San Fran-
cisco which further endeared him to
every feeling heart. By some miscal-
culation of distance, or in consequence
of a sudden lurch to port, or some
other cause over which a young pointer
could have no control, he fell one day
from the poop to the main deck—an
accident which caused a sort of
paralysis of his hind-quarters and
prevented him from going on all-fours.
He was not so disabled but that he
could shift his quarters on a pinch, but
this had to be done by a shambling
sort of motion in which his hind legs
took no part. The fore part of the
craft was in good sea-going order, but
—to employ a nautical term —there
was no motion “ abaft the binnacle.”
His general health, however, seemed
in no way impaired—in fact, his appe-
tite was rather sharpened than not by
the disaster. This was proved incon-
testibly one day when the sailors, hav-
ing caught a rat alive, brought it to
Sancho out of curiosity, just to see
what notice he would take of it. A
long course of biscuit and salt junk
had produced a strong craving for
animal food in the breast of the in-
valid, and in one moment the rat was
swallowed whole, the effort being suc-
ceeded by an immediate enlargement
amid-ships. I noted the occurrence
in my diary, adding the remark that
rats are very digestible.
This feat raised Sancho immensely
in the estimation of the sailors, who
petted him thenceforth to such an
extent that by the time we arrived at
our destination he was fat and sleek,
his eye was bright, and he presented
the appearance of a dog of high cul-
ture and breeding. He never showed
off to more advantage than he did
when we cast anchor and were boarded
by a party of Yankees, who had
hurried to take the earliest oppor-
tunity of trading with the new comers,
seated in his usual post, on the poop
deck, with his hind legs well under
him, and his countenance beaming with
animation, he formed a prominent
feature in the foreground, and at once
attracted the attention of a smart
down-easter, who was standing up in
the stern sheets of the boat.
“ Sell the dawg, stranger?” “Yes,”
said I.
“ Is he any good ?”
“ He’s the best dog for a rat I ever
saw in my life,” I said, conscientiously.
“ What’ll yer take for him ?”
“Five dollars,” said I, modestly.
The next moment the Yankee spun
up a five dollar gold piece, which I
caught in one hand, while with the
other I carefully and tenderly lowered
Sancho into the boat. I watched the
party, when they left, for some dis-
tance, and, as long as I could see them,
Sancho was still sitting on his rump,
in his usual imposing position, game
to the last ; but the Yankee had to
carry him ashore—you bet.
W.
William Hubbard, hanged for the mur-
der of his wife at Leicester, on .the 2nd
April, 1846, behaved in the most hardened
manner, and attempted to kill his keeper.
When the chaplain of the gaol, the Sun-
day before the execution, was reading the
commandments, and came to this, “ Thou
shalt do no murder,” Hubbard got up and
asked him if he intended to hurt his
feelings.


THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
In considering the causes of our
increased mortality in this city, we
promised to look into the subject
of school accommodation, intending
not only that part of it which an
eminent English sanitarian calls “ the
curse of childhood , those six hours
per day spent in a close roomf but
those other hours also which are
passed at night in that which should
be refreshing sleep.
We cannot pass by our modern
school buildings (there may be ex-
ceptions) without remarking the
evidence of a strong conservative
tendency among us to reproduce the
narrow lancet-headed window of a
cold climate, which is most unsuit-
able for our hot country. As we
stated in a former article, in other
words, the diffusion of gases in our
climate, especially in the summer
time, is less active than in Britain,
because the temperature of our houses
and schools is so little above (often
below) that of the external air, that
there is no draught created from
without, and unless a breeze be
blowing, and that freely admitted,
our houses and schools, open we
our little windows as much as we
can (but we don’t do it), are not in
fact supplied with as much fresh air
as the same would be in England,
with a difference of fifteen or twenty
degrees of temperature between the
inside and the outside ; and hence,
amiable as the weakness may be,
we would here ask for a little more
liberality with regard to openings.
It was once our fortune to undertake
the superintendence, for a year, of a
Church of England Sunday School
in one of our populous suburbs, and
we found it impossible, with the
existing construction of the windows,
to keep the air of the schoolroom rea-
sonably fit for breathing for the one
short hour of morning or afternoon
duties. It is evident, in fact, that we
have brought with us not only the
personal habits, but the architec-
ture of a cold climate, and our
children (like ourselves coming out
of crowded churches and assem-
blies), devitalised by breathing foul
air, are much more liable to take
cold by being exposed to the fresh air,
than would be the case with a con-
stant free exposure. All attempts
at ventilation are upon a scale ab-
surdly incommensurate with the
ratio in which the lungs of the
occupants foul or exhaust the air of
a room. We see what are termed
air bricks (iron gratings, 9 inches x
4) introduced, not too liberally, in
walls. Is it supposed that the sup-
ply of air by sucb a grating, in this
climate of nearly equal internal and
external temperature, represents the
volume which one individual will
appropriate 1 ? Vain belief! What
effect will a dozen such have in a
room with fifty or a hundred chil-
dren ] Is it not ventilation in the
letter—suffocation in fact] Are not
our beautiful Elizabethan school-
houses as unsuited to our climate
as the good Queen herself would be
to our days ]
Passing from our public schools
to the smaller class of schools, kept
by decayed females for the children
of the poorer class, we could point
out one —no doubt, there are more—
in which a room not more than
twelve feet square is made to con-
tain twenty children besides the
teacher—just five times the proper
number !
Turn to the dormitories of the
boarding-schools, and inquire in how
many of these the good rule of
space between every two beds to put at


least another is observed ?—in how
many do our children have as much
cubic space as our Government
allow for our lunatics'? We do not
ask who is to blame for this state of
Mrings, but we do say that where
twelve young persons are made to
sleep in a room capable of health-
fully accommodating only five,
twelve young lives receive a fatal
injury—one, it is true, which does
not produce immediate dissolution,
but one which lowers the constitu-
tion, renders it susceptible in a high
degree of every passing peril, and
gives feeble parents for our next
generation. Such causes, in opera-
tion among us, account, in our
judgment, for much of our sickness,
for much preventable death. The
common scare about the dangers of
night air (as though any fresh night
air could be half as perilous as our
own night air which we have ex-
pired, devitalised) adds to the mis-
chief of the over-crowded dormitories;
the closing of the windows reminds
us of the time when careful old
ladies in the old country had their
feet sewn up in chamois leather on
the approach of winter, as a preven-
tive of chilblains, and never let
them out till warm weather was re-
established, and of the old gentle-
man who attributed a cold that he
caught to his having washed the
back of his neck !
THE VALUE OF EARLY RISING.
The difference between rising every morn-
ing at six and eight o’clock, in the course
of 40 years, amounts to 29,200 hours,
or 3 years, 121 days and 16 hours, which
are equal to 8 hours a day for exactly 10
years; so that the rising at six will be the
same as if 10 years of life (a weighty
consideration) were added, wherein we
might command 8 hours every day for
the cultivation of our minds and the
despatch of business. This calculation is
made without any regard to Bissextile.
THE MYSTERY OF WISE-
MAN’S FERRY ROAD.*
Chapter 11. ( continued ).
When Caldecott awoke in the morning the
first thing that he saw was old Bill endea-
vouring to extract a sensation of spiritual
refection from the “ marine ” they had
emptied in the watches of the night.
“ I am afraid it’s a case of no go.”
“ You’ve just hit it,” said Bill; “ that’s
the worst of bottles, you can’t bull ’em as
you can kegs, Well, a ball would have
gone first-rate; but it can’t be helped.
You can’t eat your cake and have it, too;
more’s the pity! You needn’t move to-
day, mate. If you can make yourself at
home here, you’re welcome.”
“ Thanks,” replied Caldecott, “ perhaps
I will. How far is it to Reynolds’s place
on the river.”
“As the crow flies, a matter of seven
miles ; but you can’t go anything like
straight because of the river. Go south
of the*river, that’s on this side of it, for
about six miles due west, and you’ll strike
the track you missed last night; and
then following it northerly for about four
miles you come to the punt, and Rey-
nolds’s public is just three-quarters of a
mile off, at the head of the flat on the
other side. Or you can make it by going
due north from here for some four miles,
and then fording the river at what they
call the Sandy Bars, and when on th e
other side, by turning westerly and keep-
ing a fairish track that skirts the lagoons
which edge the river. It’s much of a
muchness for distance either way; and
now that the river’s low it doesn’t matter
which road you take. Well, do a< you
like, mate, I must be off with the sheep.
You must make your own breakfast; you
know where to find the things. So
long !” And Bill, who had overslept him-
self, went off with his sheep, which he
had let out of the yard some half-hour or
so before he had roused Caldecott by his
futile effort to obtain a drop from the
bottle he had himself so thoroughly
drained on the previous evening.
Caldecott, as soon as the old shepherd
was gone, jumped up and ran down to
the waterhole, on the banks of which the
gunyah was erected, to have a “ bogie ”
Refreshed by the dip, he sat down on a
log to smoke a pipe, while the billy was
boiling for breakfast.
* The Prologue of this story appeared in No. 2


He could not help reflecting on the
events of the night just gone over his
head. There was evidently a mystery
about the Gipsv-like face he had sketched.
Why did old Bill call the man “ cap’n ?”
Could he, by any possibility, be the bush-
ranger known as Captain Stormalong ?
Whom was it he so much resembled ? It
was this latter thought that most per-
plexed Caldecott. The features he had
roughed in on his drawing block were,
as it were, quite familiar to him. He
puzzled and puzzled over the matter, but
could come to no conclusion. All that he
could make up his mind to was to follow
out to the end the adventure on the verge
of which he found himself.
Whilst enjoying his pipe, Caldecott
fancied he observed smoke issuing from
the rocks at the head of the sheep-yards.
Thinking that old Bill might have dropped
a lighted match and accidentally set fire
to the grass, he hurried off to see to it,
as the weather was intensely dry and a
bush fire would be a calamity. He en-
tered the yards by the gates at the lower
side and quickly mounted their steepish
rise to the head of the rocky knoll, be-
neath whose shelter they securely lay.
From this summit he looked around, but
could see no smoke —not so much as a faint
wreath. On the little plain beneath him
he could see Bill’s sheep steadily moving
off away into the distant timber, and the
old fellow himself, accompanied by his
dog, marching along pretty stoutly to
keep up with them.
No! There was no sign of smoke or
fire.
When descending towards the gunyah,
Caldecott heard horse-hoofs in front of
him. It was Devereux, who was return-
ing according to his promise. He had a
parcel strapped in front of him, and had
evidently ridden hard.
“Been for a stroll?” he asked, as he
cantered up.
“Just to the top of the knoll. I saw
smoke in that direction, and thought it
might be the beginning of a bush fire.”
“Well ?”
“ And it wasn’t, that’s all.”
Devereux unstrapped the parcel from
the saddle, and laid it down at the en-
trance to the gunyah. He did not remove
the saddle, neither did he let his mare go.
He secured her beneath a small she-oak
that grew close to the gunyah.
“ Look here,” said he, “ I’m a good bit
later than I meant to be; and the worst
is I can’t stop with you for long. We’ll
have some breakfast, any way; and I’ll
tell you what I want you to do with the
sketch. Here, set to work and open the
swag, while I draw this cork.”
Caldecott, who was hungry, did set to
work, and the purveying of Devereux
had been so good that in a few minutes
the little table was covered with materials
for a substantial breakfast—a cold roast
fowl, a knuckle of ham, some butter, a
tin of jam, and a huge slice of one of old
Bill’s best dampers. The bottle which
Devereux had opened contained light
claret; of the other three, which the
swag had held, one was brandy, the re-
maining two claret, of vintage similar to
the one first mentioned.
“Fire away,” said Devereux, “and
listen. Post that sketch to Asher Hart, of
Park Villas, Notting Hill, London—ah !
you know him, do you ?”
“I see now,” said Caldecott, as a sud-
den light burst in upon him.
“ What do you see ?”
“Why, who it was you resembled.
You must be his son ?”
“ Yes, I’m his only son. I, who might
be the heir to hundreds of thousands,
am—Captain Stormalong, at your ser-
vice. Yes, you needn’t look astonished,
lam that much maligned individual; and
yet, at the same time, the only son of the
old Jew who fleeced you, I suppose, as he
does the rest of the gilded flies he can
wheedle into his web.”
“No,” said Caldecott, warmly, “he
never fleeced me, but behaved most
nobly. ”
“ Nobly, eh ? Gave you all cash, I sup-
pose ! No pictures !—no wines !—no
paving-stones ! Faugh ! the old miser;
he’d call me a rogue and a thief for doing
the work I have to do, and yet I only do
the same kind of work as he does. I’m
a thief in action—a bushranger ; he, one
in repose—a usurer. There, you have
it! What do you think of the claret ?”
“ It’s a sound vin ordinaire enough, and
deuced refreshing such a morning as this.
But tell me, man, how in the name of
goodness I find your father’s son in such
an infernal hobble as this ? ”
“ Never you mind,” said Devereux.
“ Think of me simply as of one you met
by accident, and on whom you were able
to confer a slight obligation. Send the


sketch to the old fellow. After all, he
was good to me in his own way, and after
his own fashion ; but it was such a
odd fashion—so narrow, so walled in by
prejudice—that a young fellow with hot
blood in his veins wasn’t likely to keep in
it. Nor more I did. Never mind, Calde-
cott. Carpe diem! that’s the only philo-
sophy after all. Try some brandy ?
Come, just & petit verre. Here’s luck.”
The last word was hardly spoken when
the prolonged note of a low, plaintive
whistle was heard. Devereux rose from
the bunk on which he had been sitting,
and went outside the gunyah.
Two other similar notes followed the
first in swift succession. Then Devereux
(just as the old shepherd had done on the
previous evening) made answer with two
shrill whistles. Having done so, he strode
across to where his mare stood in the
shade, and unfastened the reins from a
branch round which they had been
buckled.
Caldecott next observed a man on
horseback—a rough, down-looking fellow,
mounted on a very clever-looking hack—
dash up to where Devereux awaited him
beneath the she-oak.
A hurried, excited conversation ensued
between the two men. Over Devereux’s
features there passed an expression of
terrible anger. Evidently the man had
brought him ill-tidings.
“ Look you, Larry,” Caldecott heard
him say, as the two moved towards the
gunyah; “Look you. There’ll have to
be some sharp riding to cure this
mistake of Mr. Tom Hamlin’s, him
for a meddling fool. It’s a feint,
you may depend. They’d never send it
by the mail. Besides, I’ve got the ‘ office,’
and the rendezvous I gave you is the right
one, you may pound your life on it; so
we’ll stick to it, tell the chaps. If Mr.
Tom comes to grief, I wash my
hands of it. He’s a good mate, a
real plucked one; but, by , he’s no
more idea of discipline than you have of
theology, you staunch old hound. Go in,
take a snack, and a good ball, and then let
’em know that there’s no alteration. Only
to think of Tom being such a thundering
idiot as to fall into the trap. And
there’s no time to warn him. Stay ! I’ve
a notion ! Go in, Larry, it’s all righteous.
He’s a friend of mine.”
Larry, a villainous, hang-dog looking
fellow with very red hair, and a face deeply
pitted by small-pox, gave bis reins to
Devereux, and with a curt “ Good-day ” to
Caldecott, entered the gunyah. He was
soon hard at work with the eatables, for the
due reception of which he had prepared
by tossing off a stiff nobbier of brandy.
“ Now, Mr. Caldecott, my life’s in your
hands,” said Devereux, as Caldecott came
up to him where he stood with the two
horses but I feel that though lam what
I am, it’s safe ; not because you've eaten
of my salt, but because— Psha! if I
didn’t think so, there’d be a way to cure
it, wouldn’t there ? Will you do this for
me ! Will you go at once to Keynolds’s,
by the track that leads to the shallow
bar, and so round the lagoons on the other
side of the river, and when you have made
as far as the junction of the track that
goes up from the ford with the road that
crosses it at right angles, about a mile
from the river, will you give three whistles,
such as you heard Larry give just now,
and then hang about the place for a few
minutes, say, for half an hour at the out-
side. If after your whistles anyone ridee
up to you, simply say to him, that the
first order stands good. I* wouldn’t ask
you to do this, Caldecott, so help me ,
I wouldn’t! but, by , it’ll save useless
bloodshed. Do you believe me? Will
you do it ? ”
“ I will do it,” said Caldecott, simply ;
“ shall I start at once? ”
“ Yes, and mind and post the drawing.
I say?” The last two words were
spoken with hesitation.
“ What?” said Caldecott.
“Have you any coin? Don’t be shy.
Will a few yellow-boys be of service ? ”
“ I’ve enough to carry me through,
thanks all the same. And now, look here 1
I’ll do your errand for you ; but are you
so committed to this life that there is no
escape from it for you ? ”
“No more on that head. Jacta est
alea. Let’s have a farewell glass ! Here,
Larry, if you’ve finished, hold the horses
for a second, like the obliging old devil
you are.”
Larry came out and held the horses.
The two others re-entered the gunyah.
“ Here’s luck ! ” cried Devereux, as he
tossed off his brandy.
“ Here’s better fortune,” said Caldecott,
sadly, as he tossed off his.
In a few seconds afterwards, Caldecott
was ready to start.
Devereux rode with him a few hundred
yards, and put him on a track which, he
said, would lead him to the Sandy Bar.


“ It’s not a very clear one, but even if
you can’t make it out all the way, keep
due north, and in about an hour’s time,
at your stride, you’ll make the river. It’s
fordable anywhere now. Once on the
northern bank, turn to your right, and
you’ll come on tracks, any one of ’em will
do, leading to the spot I mean. So long !
and when you hear of Stormalong being
shot or,” here Devereux lifted his hand sig-
nificantly to his neck, “I hope your recol-
lection of him won’t be an unpleasant
one.”
Without waiting for an answer, Captain
Stormalong turned his mare, and rode
off at a canter in the direction of the
gunyah.
CHAPTER HI.
“Content in guilt’s profound abyss to drop,
Nor struggling send one bubble to the top.”
George Caldecott stepped out stoutly
He had only a vague idea as to what was
the exact meaning of his message : yet he
felt certain that the object of it was to save
bloodshed by preventing a deed of violence
which the bushranger chief deemed un-
necessary. He walked too quickly to be
particular about keeping the track, espe-
cially as he knew that, by keeping due
north, he would make the river at a ford-
able spot.
An hour’s travel, almost at the “ double
quick,” brought him to where, over a wide
reach of shingle and sand, the Murray
danced gaily seawards—not in black,
sullen, mysterious mood, rushing angrily
between rent and wasted banks (as the
river of Australia is at times wont to do)
but lightly, cheerily, with sunlit ripple
and the music of murmuring waters.
Selecting a suitable place for crossing,
Caldecott prepared to ford the river. For
at least nine-tenths of the passage, the
water hardly reached his ankles ; it sud-
denly deepened, however, as he neared
the northern side—deepened much more
than, judging from its appearance, he
thought it would have done. Close under
the bank he was making for, the water
reached nearly to his waist; and it was not
wihtout difficulty that he struggled
through their impetuous strength safe to
the landing place. Safe, however, he did
get to the northern bank. Onward he
immediately pushed, taking one of the
many right hand cattle tracks which
seamed the forest lands, lying near the
river. He soon came to a large lagoon,
along the grassy edge of which he quickly
pressed. After walking by the side of this
lagoon for about a mile and a half, he
could see, at some distance to his right, a
road leading down from the hills which
skirted the river side plains. As its
general direction appeared to be parallel
to the course of the river, he pushed
across towards it, as it was evidently the
road refered to by Devereux. The
forest was tolerably open; but here and
there were shady clumps of trees, beneath
which wandering spots of cattle could be
seen feeding at their leisure. The road
he had observed came down from the hills
to the westward, crossed the plain he was
on, and then passed away to the eastward,
over the further slope of the same ridge.
From almost any part of the plain the
approach of a vehicle by the road in either
direction was distinctly visible.
Caldecott made up his mind to give the
signal agreed upon as soon as he had got
under the shade of a clump of trees, from
beneath which there appeared to be a
particularly good look out over the
whole plain and the hill sloping to it.
Keeping a watchful glance upon the
country in front of him (the country
trending towards Reynold’s) he hurried
on.
Suddenly he observed the cattle right
ahead of him forming together and
moving off rapidly riverwards, as though
they had been disturbed by something
moving along the road.
Then he was startled by hearing the
sound of firearms—of five shots, shot
following shot in swift succession.
Then there was silence.
And then another shot—and then loud
screams.
Caldecott threw down his swag and ran
madly on.
He soon saw what was wrong.
Some few hundred yards ahead of him
was a mail coach, evidently stuck up.
The driver and a man, who in the dis-
tance looked to be a trooper, were on the
box. The horses had been unhitched
from the coach, and were being held by a
man on foot. Two mounted men (each
of them leading a second horse) were in
front of the coach, the occupants of which
they had under cover of their pistols.
Another man on foot was standing beside
the near door of the coach, as if address-
ing those inside. His right arm was
extended, and it seemed as if the hand
carried a pistol.


Such was what Caldecott saw, at the
first glance.
At the second, other details were
noticeable.
He could see a riderless horse galloping
across off the plain. By the saddle he
guessed it to be a trooper’s.
Near the coach, a little off the road, he
could see what looked to be a man lying
dead —a body clad in blue jacket, light-
coloured riding breeches and boots, lying
very still—evidently the body of a trooper.
Coming towards him, galloping at
desperate speed, Caldecott observed a
man dressed in the uniform of an inspec-
tor of police.
The man looked mad with fear. He
had no control over his horse, which was
dashing on at ungovernable speed.
He took no notice of Caldecott, but,
with straining eyeballs and pallid face,
fled past him like a vision of terror.
Caldecott still pressed oh, hoping he
might be of service to the travellers in
trouble, either indirectly by delivering his
message to the bushrangers, or directly
by finding some means of helping the
unfortunates who had so evidently fallen
among thieves.
As good luck would have it, what
should Caldecott pick up, before he had
run twenty yards after being passed by
the runaway horse and its terrified rider,
but a five-chambered revolver which the
inspector had evidently dropped ? It was
loaded and capped.
Caldecott felt that he, too, might now
have something to say in the matter in
dispute yonder, if he only acted with
decision.
Masking his approach as well as he
could by keeping such trees as were
available for the purpose between him
and the coach, Caldecott advanced until
all the four bushrangers were within
range.
The ruffian whom at first he had
noticed standing near the door of the
coach had by this time made the inside
passengers, two men and two women, get
out. The men were made to place their
watches, purses, and other valuables upon
the ground. The bushranger had then
made them take the mail-bags out
of the coach and open them. They
had then been ordered off beneath a
tree to await a rigorous personal search.
When he came to deal with the women,
both of whom were evidently ladies, and
one of whom was young and singularly
pretty, the bushranger conducted himself
in so shameful a way as hurried Caldecott
into action earlier than he had intended.
Under pretence of searching the
younger lady, the masked villian insulted
her beyond endurance.
“ Good God ! ” she cried to the other
bushrangers, “ are you men? will you
suffer this ? You are devils—not men ! ”
and she struggled impotently with the
miscreant.
But his time was come, though he
dreamed it not.
When the girl’s fury of action was
abated and she stood still, save for the
quivering of her wrath and the trembling
of her despair—then was the time. No
fear of hitting her kept back Caldecott
now.
His finger pressed the trigger.
Ping ! !
A crime-stained soul fled to its own
place.
The thing was done so suddenly: the
villain’s death came about so like a
judgment from the heavens above, that
his mates were paralysed with panic.
George next fired at the man holding
the horses and brought him down. The
other bushrangers who were mounted
thought it prudent to retire. They did
so in safety; though the trooper on the
box of the coach, who had managed to
seize the opportunity, afforded by
Caldecott’s flank movement, to load his
carbine, nearly brought one of them
down at long range.
Caldecott’s diversion in favour of the
attacked was crowned with success. The
siege had been raised; and what was
more to the purpose, the enemy had gone
off without an iota of spoil, leaving two
of their number hors de combat, one dead,
the other mortally wounded, writhing on
the ground in intolerable agony, making
day hideous with his horrid blasphemies.
(To be continued).
FROM “MAZEPPA.”
Zemila. Sir, Miss Olinska’s missing !
All. Missing!
Zemila. Yes!
When I went up to her to hook her
dress,
I misses missus; searched, but she was
not there—
She'd hooked it, it appears, before I got
there.


A CAMP MEETING HYMN.
Oh ! whar shall we go when de Great Day
comes,
Wid de blowin’ of de trumps an’ de bang-
in’ of de guns ?
How many poor sinners ’ll be cotcbed out
late,
An’ fin’ no latch to de golden gate.
No use ter wait twell to-morrow—
De sun mus’n’ set on yer sorrow :
Sin’s as sharp as a bamboo brier—
-0 Lord ! fetch de mo’rners up
higher.
When de nations of de earf is a stammin’
all aroun’,
Who’s agwine ter be chosen fer ter wear
de glory crown ?
Who’s a gwine fer ter stan’ stiff-kneed an’
bol’,
An’ ans’er to deir name at de callin’ of de
roll?
You’d better come now if yer
cornin’ ;
Ole Satan is loose an’ a bummin’;
De wheels of destruction is a
hummin’—
Oh ! come ’long sinner, if yer
cornin’!
De song of salvation is a mighty sweet
song,
An’ de Paradise win’ blow fur and blow
strong ;
An’ Abraham’s buzzim is safe, an’ it’s
wide;
An’ dat’s de place whar de sinner oughter
hide.
No use astoppin’ and a lookin’ —
If you fool wid Satan you’ll get
took in—
You’ll hang on de edge and get
shook in,
If you keep on stoppin’ and
lookin’ !
De time is right now, and dis here’s de
place—
Let de salvation sun shine squar in yer
face ;
Fight de battles of de Lord—fight soon
an’ fight late,
An’ you’ll always fin’ a latch on de golden
gate.
No use fer ter wait twell to-
morrow—
De sun mus’n’ set on yer sorrow:
Sin’s as sharp as a bamboo brier
Ax de Lord fer ter fetch you un
higher.
— Harper's New Monthly.
SPORTING ADVENTURES IN
AUSTRALIA.
BY CHARLEY CORNSTALK.
“Every gentleman should take to ’unting; ’ti»
the sport of kings—the image of war without
its guilt, and only five and twenty per cent,
of its danger.”— Jorrocks.
Being a native of this colony and a hearty
lover of the field sports which it affords,
I propose to give you some of my expe-
riences, mindful of the Governor’s ad-
vice to young Australians, “ Don’t
blow !” But, Lord ! don’ t some of the
new chums blow about the hunting and
shooting they have had in the old country.
To listen to them one would fancy that
nobody else could either ride or shoot.
I’d like to see one of their crack riders
sit a regular buck-jumper, or forge ahead
of our bush-riders in some country that
I know of—where there are* patches of
grass-tree scrub so laid out by nature
that the grass-tree stumps are like the
squares on a chess-board there’s no
taking a straight line through them ;or
across thickly-timbered forest land, where
to get through a belt of she-oaks at full gal-
lop you must give your horse his head and
let him take his own course, unless you
want to get your legs jammed against
them; or over a patch of melon holes ;
or down a stony ridge where a heavy
hand would bring horse and rider to
grief in no time : but there, I said I
wouldn’t blow. I don’t say this to dis-
parage hunting or shooting in England
or elsewhere, but I must stick up for my
country. I have met some very fine fel-
lows, and thorough sportsmen who hailed
from the mother country, and many is the
good burst I have had with them when
they have come up our way. Of all kinds of
hunting, I say, give me a good day’s kan-
garoo hunting. What can be more exhil-
arating than a burst of twenty minutes
across respectable country, at the tail of a
brace of good dogs, after a regular flyer ;
to have your game well in sight, to cram
at every obstacle in your way, now lifting
your horse over a fallen log, now throwing
yourself on his neck, to avoid some over-
hanging bough, then hustling over a gully
and up a steep bank, and finishing with
a neck and neck race with a friend, to see
who shall be first in at the death, and so
be entitled to the honours of the run and
to strap the tail of the kangaroo on his
saddle bows. Talking of new chums, I
took a great liking to a young fellow who
came out some ten years ago, and was


consigned to us to learn colonial expe-
rience, a term which used to be defined as
being able to swear a hole through a tin
pot, but in his case meant a knowledge of
cattle and horse breeding. What I liked
him especially for, and who would not,
was his imperturbable good nature, which
nothing could disturb, and his inordinate
love of sporting. It was a perfect passion
with him, when he was not actually eating
or sleeping he must be pursuing some
kind of sport. I verily believe that if he
had broken a limb, and been incapacitated
from going out with dog or gun, he
would have contrived to drag himself to
the nearest water-hole, where he would
have been found fishing for sticklebacks,
if no better sport offered. His name was
Jem Curtis, and his age about twenty-five :
a heavy easy-going fellow, whose career
might not have had anything in it espe-
cially worth recording but for his extraor-
dinary propensity for getting into scrapes.
He was always coming to grief, in one
shape or other ; this was partly due to
his good nature, which was continually
being imposed upon, and partly to a care-
less laissez aller disposition, which led
him to disregard all the usual precau-
tions in reference to matters of detail
about which your real sportsman is so
particular. this peculiarity was so
marked that, in any adventure in which
he took part it was fully expected that he
would do something in the way of blun-
dering which would afford opportunity
for the chaffing which he took. so good
temperedly; and a series of mishaps in
which he figured as the hero at last
earned for him the nickname of “the in-
evitable.” I well remember the first day
I went out with him, which was about
three days after his arrival at the station.
He was mad for a kangaroo hunt, and we
had made our arrangements to start a
little before day-break, so as to reach a
piece of likely feeding ground, about
three miles off. The horses were got in
over night, and the dogs tied up, in case
they should be
“ Like as the full-fed hound, or gorged hawk,
Unapt for tender smell or speedy flight.”
Jem was mounted on a good strong grass-
fed roan, which had been bred on the
station. I and one of the stockmen made
up the party. We effected a good start,
and were half-way to the scene of action
before the crow—the earliest bird up in
this country, and the one who ought to
get the worm, whatever any one may say to
the contrary—had broken the silence of the
morning, and the shrill and mocking yells
of the laughing jackass, betokening that
the day was breaking, were resounding on
all sides, when we approached a patch
of burnt feed where I fully expected to
find. The next moment the dogs were
off on scent, and Jem, catching sight, for
the first time in his life, of a mob of kan-
garoos bounding along on their native
pastures, gave a joyous view halloo,
crammed his hat on his head, and tore
away alongside of me in full chase, the
happiest man in Australia at that mo-
ment. A short burst, and the first kan-
garoo bit the dust; our horses were fresh,
the dogs fit to jump out of their skins,
and the run was over in less than half a
mile. Jem, who was well up at the death,
soon had the tail strapped before him,
and after stopping for half an hour, to
have a smoke and give the dogs a breath-
ing, on we went to try fresh fields and
pastures new. The sun being visible by
this time, and feeding time partly over,
we did not find for nearly an hour, when
a couple of does crossed our path imme-
diately in front of us, and the dogs were
laid on at once. We had only two with
us, my favourite dog Presto, a powerful,
broken-haired kangaroo dog, half stag-
hound half greyhound, and a smooth,
fine-bred slut, Diana, the fastest animal
on four legs I ever owned. This time they
divided, Presto taking after one doe and
Diana laying on to the other ; Jem fol-
lowed the slut, while Bob the stockman
and I stuck to the old dog, who ran his
quarry down in about one and a half
miles. Diana meantime, escorted by the
new chum, was making quick work with
hers, when the doe, finding herself hard
pressed, threw her joey out of her pouch,
as these animals will do at the last mo-
ment when there is no other hope of
escape. This proceeding struck Jem with
astonishment, and he was fired with the
hope of catching the young one alive. So,
throwing himself off his horse, which he
fastened to a sapling, and abandoning the
hunt so far as the doe was concerned, he
set off racing after the joey, which he
cleverly captured after an exciting spurt
of about three-quarters of a mile, just as
he was nearly spent. Slowly returning
to the spot where he had left his horse, he
sat down to recover his breath, and to
consider what was next to be done. He
had now not only a tail to carry home as
a trophy, but a real live kangaroo weigh


mg about ten pounds, which he was deter-
mined to bring up as a pet. Having a
large pocket-handkerchief with him, he
soon put the joey in it, and by tying the
four corners together, made a bundle of
it, with which he approached his steed.
Now it is well known that even bush
horses, unless broken to carry game,
many of them at least, can’t bear the
smell of kangaroo or wallaby, and Jem’s
roan was a horse whose education had
been grossly neglected in this respect.
No coaxing nor persuasion would prevail
on him to allow Jem to mount with the
kangaroo in his hand Determined not
to be beaten, Jem now adopted a different
plan. Hanging the bundle on the bough
of a she-oak some few yards away, he
backed the roan under the tree; then,
taking the reins in his left hand, he swung
himself into the saddle, and at the same
time took the bundle off the branch in
his right. This clever dodge would have
been thoroughly successful but for Jem’s
ill fortune, which was Rure to assert itself
at some period of the day. Just as Joey
felt the motion of being lowered to the
level of the saddle, he gave vent to a cry
which kangaroo hunters know well
something like a long-drawn sigh, only
much louder. This at once set the roan
bucking, and “ the Inevitable,” although
at the time he had not earned the title,
not having had sufficient practice in this
novel kind of exercise, and having but
one hand to use, came to grief. The
horse bucked until both girths parted
under his belly. Away went Jem, kan-
garoo, saddle, and all some six feet in the
air. and away went the roan at a hand-
gallop in a bee line to the station.
We, that is, I and the stockman, had
been at home some hours, and Diana had
returned with a cut in her neck, when
Jem hove in sight, the saddle on his 1 ead
and the Joey in the bosom of his shirt;
the horse during the whole distance,
about five miles, having kept just a few
yards in advance, but resisting all efforts
to catch him.
Despite all the hard work which this
mishap had brought about, and the effect
of the spill in the shape of sore bones,
there was a pleasant, good-humoured,
self-satisfied expression about the counte-
nance of the new chum which showed
that the day to him, all things considered,
had been one of triumph and unmixed
pleasure.
(To be continued.)
GOSSIP WITH THE BOYS.
The other day a promising youngster
of our acquaintance having fallen
across the aphorism that, “While many
like to have Truth on their side, there
are comparatively few who care to be
on the side of Truth,” asked us what it
meant, and what was the difference
between being on the side of truth and
having truth on our side, as he could
find none. As we did not see our way
very clearly to give in dry set terms
such an explanation as would satisfy
him, we took this course : We told
him two stories. The first one taken
from the pages of Don Quixote, was
about Sancho Panza— how that notable
squire was, on one occasion, ordered
by his master to bring him his helmet,
while in the act of buying some curds
of some shepherds. “Being hurried
by the violent haste of his master,”
says Cervantes, “ he knew not what to
do with the curds, nor how to bestow
them ; and that he might not lose them,
now they were paid for, he bethought
himself of dropping them into his
master’s helmet : and with this excel-
lent shift back he came to learn the
commands of his lord, who demanded
his helmet of Sancho ; and Sancho,
not having time to take out the curds,
was forced to give it to him as it was.
Don Quixote took it, and without
minding whether anything was in it,
instantly put it upon his head : and as
the curds were squeezed and pressed,
the whey began to run down the face
and beard of our hero, at which he
was so startled that he said to Sancho,
‘ What can this mean, Sancho? surely
my skull is softening, or my brain
melting ? If thou hast anything with
which to wipe off this copious excre-
tion, give it me quickly, for my ey» s
are quite blinded.’ Sancho said
nothing, but gave him a cloth, and at
the same time thanked God that his
master had not found out the truth.”
In this case we see shrewd Sancho
willing enough to have truth on his
side if it can be so arranged without
trouble on his part. He does not lie—
has no exact purpose of lying, if things
turning out all right should do away


with the necessity of screening his
share in the Knight’s misadventure ;
but he says nothing, and thanks God
that the truth is not discovered. He
would give much to have truth on his
side, an’ he could ; yet has not the
slightest notice of being positive on the
side of truth, of telling his lord of the
little trick his gluttony had forced him
into playing. The other story was an
almost equally old one. It was of the
countryman who, in time of invasion,
being made to act as a guide to a party
of the enemy’s foragers, led them
through several fields, each of which
would have served their turn, before
pointing out to them one which he
averred was the most fit for their pur-
pose. Their leader, admitting this
averment, asked the old fellow why he
had not saved himself much trouble by
inviting them to cut what forage they
wanted in the paddocks they had first
passed through. Right simply he
made the reply, 1 1 They were not mine. ’ ’
That old gentleman’s behaviour would
have been incomprehensible to Sancho
Panza, but for all that it was prompted
by the desire to be on truth’s side,
come what might. We also pointed
out to our young friend how certain
sensational newspaper men like to have
truth on their side, if so desirable a
consummation can be brought about by
any means exterior to their own. As
you often notice, they placard, as the
very latest intelligence from the seat of
war, some enormous figment of their
own brain. If their conjecture turn
out true, who so jubilant as Mr.
Editor? If it doesn’t—go whip me
that wretched special correspondent at
Bucharest ! But their hope is : may
our conjectures be true ! may our pos-
ters prove gospel ! Honourabler men
would have it thus : Our statements
are true ; our posters record facts ! But
then the bawbies wouldn’t flow in, and
without bawbees or curds, even truth is
not desirable to the practical Sancho
Panzaism of modern Shoddyism. The
burden, O boys, of this sermonizing is
‘ ‘ tell the truth and shame the devil, ”
and remember that those words are no
budge doctor’s of the Stoic fur, but
Hotspur’s, the gallant soldier, who,
when Glendower made offer to teach
him weird secrets by which he might
command the devil, would have none
of them, “for I can teach thee, coz.,”
said he, “ to shame the devil—by tel-
ling the truth. ”
In last issue we advised you to “ go-
to Nature ” as often as you got the
chance. Since writing that advice
some simple directions for collecting
and preserving plants, compiled by the
Rev. Thos. Y. Alkin, of St. Peter’s,
Campbelltown, have been kindly
brought under our notice by that gen-
tleman. As they may possibly prove
of service to some of you we make no
excuse for giving them to you in 'a
slightly abridged form :
HINTS FOR COLLECTING, DRYING. AND
MOUNTING BOTANICAL SPECIMENS.
Collecting. —Apparatus required : A
trovel, a pocket knife, a collecting book.
Dig the whole plant up if possible, see
that it shews the root, stem, leaves, buds,
flowers, and fruit. If the plant is too
large for removal, cut off a branch shew-
ing most of the parts mentioned above.
Put the specimen at once in your collect-
ing book. This should have a very stout
cover and should contain from twelve to
twenty parcels of drying paper, each par-
cel being made of two sheets. Secure
the book with two straps.
Drying. —Apparatus required: Boards,
made so as not to warp ; drying paper
(blotting paper will do, or a stout wrapping
paper used by grocers); weights.
On one board place four or six sheets of
drying paper, and on this as many speci-
mens as the space will hold ; lay them out
as naturally as possible. Now place on
these four or six more sheets of drying
paper; then more plants, and so on.
Then another board ; on this place about
100 lbs. weight.
There should be attached to every spe-
cimen a memorandum of date, place, and
finder. Let the plants be so placed that
the pressure may be equally distributed.
If any of the plants are of a fleshy nature
or have very stiff stems, you must put
plenty of paper on them and below them,
or else they may injure other specimens.
Let the specimens remain under pres-
sure for twenty-four hours. Then remove
the top board and make it the bottom one
place the plants in fresh paper, putting


the old paper in the sun or before the fire
to dry thoroughly before you use it again.
If you have fresh specimens to press,
separate them from the former lot by a
third board, a sheet of tin, or several
newspapers.
Mounting. —Apparatus required: Stiff
paper, glue, a board of the same kind as
for the drying press; a lighter weight.
You will now proceed to make a herba-
rium, or “ dry garden ” for future use,
and this is done by fastening your dried
specimens to sheets of stiff paper ; half-
sheets of “ demy ” folded once will suit
beginners best.
Open the folded half-sheet, and having
put a little thin glue on the back of the
specimen, place it on the right hand side
of the sheet; the left hand side will do
for a fly leaf to cover the specimen ; put
a piece of waste paper on the plant before
you fold the fly sheet down, or it may
stick. Now put the plant under the board,
put a light weight on this, and proceed to
mount your other specimens in the same
wav. Do not put more than one kind of
plant on the same sheet. Let your
mounted specimens remain under light
pressure till the glue is set. If you do
not like to use glue you can stitch the
dried plants on to the paper, or fix them
with strips of gummed paper.
Keep your plants when mounted in
brown paper wrappers. Put plenty of
camphor in the box where you keep your
herbarium.
COMIC PAPERS.
THE CHINESE QUESTION.
. Mr. A.—How happy I ought to be now
that I have finally got rid of those
horrid
Mrs. B.—ldle
Mrs. C.—lmpertinent
Mr.s A.—Good-for-nothing creatures of
English servants ! Having replaced them
by obedient, diligent, contented, cheap
Chinese domestics, I shall now at least
know true peace of mind.
Enthusiastic Chorus.— We all shall,
dear. Isn’t it delightful!
A Month Later.
Mrs. B.—And so you have got rid of
your Chinese cook ?
Mrs. A. (sighing).— Yes. Ah Foo was
so good, so civil and obliging, so delight-
fully different from Mrs. Griller ; but—
he wasn’t exactly clean in his habits. He
would keep his shaving-tackle for his
dear, unsophisticated bald head in the
fish-kettle.
Mrs. C. —Such a pity! And your house-
maid, dear Mrs. A. ?
Mrs. A.—Wan Lee has gone also. He
was a model housemaid, tidy and scrupu-
lous as could be, poor fellow ! But he’d
been in America, you know, and the
wicked Yankees corrupted him. He pri-
vately taught my dear little ones euchre,
and he actually won from Freddy all the
pocket-money which was to have lasted
him through this half. Ah, me ! but for
his gambling Wan Lee would have been
perfection.
Mrs. B. —How inexpressibly sad ! Then
there only remains the nurse ?
Mrs. A. (grimly). —Does there, my dear?
Li Chin was the worst of them all. Good
sound English fare did not agree with
him, I found; he must needs have his
heathen dainties. (With awful solemnity.)
My dears, the beast made a surreptitious
meal of poor Fido !
Mrs. B. and Mrs. C.—Only think !
[Left only thinking.
BITS OF BURLESQUE.
Though some may scout it, it has' oft
been seen,
Burlesque is like the winnowing machine:
It simply blows away the husks, you
know,
The goodly corn is not moved by the
blow.
What arrant rubbish of the clap-trap
school
Has vanished—thanks to pungent ridi-
cule;
What stock-stage customs, nigh to burst-
ing goaded,
With so much blowing up have now ex-
ploded.
Had our light writers done no good
save this,
Their doggrel efforts scarce had been
amiss.
LUCIA’S LIKENESS.
Her photograph don’t flatter, I declare »
Carnes herself with quite a regal air.
Deceptive is the photographic art,
You can’t tell a girl’s carriage from her
carte.


A TOOTH OUT.
Tommy, I think I see the dentist’s room
(his drawing room); see there—
There’s the deceptive operating chair,
Prepared with open arms—and there—
see,see,
That smiling little gentleman is he,
Who shortly means to send a madd’ning
pain
Through your poor jaws into your burst-
ing brain ;
He.blandly tells you “Not to be afraid,”
And drawing nearer to the doomed
decayed
Before you are aware of it--oh, oh !
Murder! Police!—ugh! ooh! ah! he!
let go !
Ah! hee! ugh! yah!—but as you|foam
and tear,
The small man stops you with— “ Your
tooth is there ! ”
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
(Continued from our last.)
But admitting the phenomena of
table-turning, we are confronted by
an occurrence totally at variance with
our former experience. We have here
an instance of the movement of matter
independent of any known force. It
is true that this motion is attributed
to various causes —by some to elec-
tricity, by others to involuntary mus-
cular action, but it must be confessed
that these names are only a cloak for
our ignorance. The same may be said
of spirit “rapping.” We have here
another instance, in the production of
a vibratory motion of the air causing
sound without the operation of any
known agent. In the recently dis-
covered telephone we witness the con-
version of sound into electricity, or
something analagous to this ; but in
the present instance we have the con-
version of an unknown something into
sound. The question then arises—Do
we in these cases witness the operation
of a new or previously unknown force 1
The table moves —that is certain ; the
raps are heard—that is also certain ;
but the grand question is, What force
is operating to produce these results 1
Of course, from our standpoint, we
view the agency of spirits as absurd ;
but, following the inductive method of
which we have already spoken, we
have now to deduce from experiment
and fact a theory which will account
for the phenomena we witness.
Before proceeding farther, let us see
if history does not throw some light
on the question we are dealing with.
The case we are about to present to
our readers is only one out of many of
a similar character, the records of
which have been preserved ; but it
was investigated by no less a person
than Arago, the great French astro-
nomer, assisted by other scientific
men. This gives it great importance.
We present it as a type of a species of
phenomena seldom witnessed in such
an extreme degree, and which bear a
strong resemblance to many of those
now exciting notice under the name
of Spiritualism. An account of it was
furnished by Arago to the Paris
Academy of Sciences on the 16th
February, 1846, and from it, and a
French newspaper published at the
time, we condense the following :
Angelique Cottin was a native of La
Perriere, aged fourteen, when on the 15th
January, 1846, while weaving silk gloves at
an oaken frame in company with other girls,
the frame began to jerk, and they could not
by any efforts keep it steady. Being
alarmed they called in the neighbours, who
observed that the frame remained still till
Angelique approached, when it recom-
menced its movements she also appearing
to be attracted by the frame. Thinking
that she was bewitched, her parents took
her to the priest that the spirit might lie
exorcised ; but he, being a sensible man, set
himself to observe the phenomena, and
being perfectly satisfied of their geuuine-
ness, he bade them take her to a physician.
Meanwhile the intensity of the influence,
whatever it was, increased : not only articles
of oak, but all sorts of things were acted
upon by it, and re-acted on her, while per-
sons who were near, even without contact,
felt shocks similar to electric ones. These
phenomena were not continuous, but inter-
mittent. They would often cease alto-
gether, and then recommence. A needle
suspended horizontally, oscillated rapidly
with the motion of her arm, without con-
tact, or remained fixed, but deviating from
the magnetic direction. The girl was ulti-
mately taken to Paris, where she was re-
ceived by M. Arago, and in the presence of
MM. Laugier and Goujon, he made the fol-
lowing observations (among others). -


1. It is th ■> left side of the body which
appears to acquire this sometimes attrac-
tive, but more frequently repulsive force.
Upon any light object being placed on the
table, if the girl approaches her left hand,
even before she touches it the object is
driven to a distance, as by a gust of wind.
2. This causes a strong commotion in her
side, which draws her towards the table.
3. If she attempts to sit, the seat is
thrown far from her.
4. One day a chest on which three men
were seated was moved in the same manner.
[Mote, by writer of this paper.—This
seems incredible, yet we must remember we
have Arago’s own statement for it.]
5. Then the girl is obliged to continue
standing, and is in great agitation.
6. All the articles of furniture that her
garments touch are displaced and over-
thrown, and at the moment that persons
come in contact with her they feel an elec-
tric (?) shock.
7. This young person presents a peculiar
sensibility to the action of the magnet.
When she approaches the north pole she
feels a violent shock, while the south pro-
duces no effect, so that if the experimenter
changes the poles without her knowledge
she discovers the fact by the difference of
her sensations.
This case is suggestive of various
important considerations. It shows
that under peculiar conditions the.
human organism gives forth a physical
power which, without visible instru-
mentality, lifts heavy bodies, attracts
or repels, and even overturns them,
and produces the phenomena of sound.
It reveals the existence of a new force
which, though resembling magnetism
and electricity in many of their impor-
tant characteristics, yet differs essen-
tially from either.
But again, Baron Reichenbach was
led some years ago to investigate the
effects of the magnet on the human
subject. In his work we find a record
of many curious experiments, similar
in many points to those described in
the case of Angelique Cottin. In one
instance, that of Miss Nowotry, a
cataleptic, when a twenty-two pound
magnet was placed in contact with her
hands, they adhered to it in such a
manner that when the magnet was
raised or lowered the hand remained
constantly attached to it as if it had
been a piece of iron. The attraction
was so strong that, when the magnet
was drawn in the direction of the feet
beyond the reach of the patient’s arm,
she not only did not leave it, but, in
an unconscious state, rose up in the
bed and followed the magnet with her
hand as long as it was at all within her
reach. “This I saw daily,” says the
baron, “ between six and seven o’clock
in the evening when the patient had
her fits,” and these phenomena, ha
remarks, were usually witnessed by
eight or ten persons, all noted for
their scientific attainments. But all
this seemed so strange to the baron
that he doubted its genuineness, and
he goes on to describe the precautions,
he took against imposture. On one
occasion he arranged with a friend to
station himself on the other side of
the wall against which the bed stood,
and to remove the armature from a
powerful magnet at a given signal.
Directly this was done the patient
became restless, declaring that a mag-
net must be open somewhere, as they
always influenced her and caused her
great inconvenience. On the arma-
ture being replaced she became quiet
again, and this course of proceeding
was repeated several times with the
same effect.
From further experiments the baron
was satisfied that the force in opera-
tion in these cases was not magnetism
pure and simple, but a new agent
which he called t( odyle.” Unlike
electricity, which requires a conduc-
tor, and unlike magnetism, which only
acts in connection with iron, he found
that the new force was given off from
the human organism, and could oper-
ate at a distance without the aid of
any conductor. In the ardour of dis-
covery, he attributed many phenomena
to the agency of odyle which had been
formerly credited as being electric in
character ; but as his experiments in
that direction have never been fol-
lowed up, we will do no more than
simply refer to them here.
( To be continued.)
The best place for hungry sailors.—
A “bight” at the Sandwich Islands.


COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
Solutions of Puzzles.
Answers to Conundrums in No. 3.
1. The whale who brought him up.
2. Because it goes from mouth to
mouth.
3. Because it’s mel-odious.
4. Because she gets up your choler.
5. E G and C
6. Because it am de-basin.
Logograph.
Cod.
Charades.
1. Cracknell.
2. Goodchap.
No competitors having come forward
for the prize offered for the best transla-
tion into English verse of the palindrome
given in our first issue, we now offer it
for a similar translation of the following
Latin epigram:
Si te fata ferent, fer fata ferere. Ferentes
Fata ferent; rapiunt si minus ilia feras.
NURSERY RHYMES TRANSLATED.
BYE, BABY BUNTING.
Bye, Baby Bunting!
Father’s gone a hunting,
Mother’s gone a milking,
Sister’s gone a silking,
Brother’s gone to bye a skin
To wrap Baby Bunting in.
AD .INFANTEM.
Dormias, bellule,
Care puellule;
Pater erraticus
Abit venaticus;
Lacte matercula
Apparat fercula;
Soror cum fiscina
Quaerit bombycina;
Frater his gnavior,
Frater his suavior,
Redit cum vellere,
Quo sciat pellere
Frigus a bellulo
Fratre puellulo.
E. C. H.
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall;
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall:
Not all the King’s horses, nor all the
Queen’s men,
Could put Humpty Dumpty on the wall
again.
HUMPTIUS DUMPTIUS.
Humptius in muro requievit Dumptius
alto ;
Humptius e muro Dumptius heu!
cecidit ;
Sed non Regis equi, Reginas exercitus
omnis,
Humpti, te, Dumpti, restituere loco !
H. D.
PALINDROMES.
1. Lewd did I live and evil I did dwell.
2. Snug & raw was I ere I saw war &
guns. .
3. In the old cloister of Santa Maria
Novella at Florence is a very ingenious
one applied to the sacrifice of Abel.
“ Sacrum, pingue dabo non macvuin
sacrificabo.”
This hexameter read backwards becomes
a pentameter applicable to the sacrifice
of Cain.
“ Sacrificabo macrum, non dabo pingue
sacrum,”
NONSENSE VERSES.
Titjre tu patulce requiescat in pace for
five form quorum,
As in prsesewti et arma Virwmque ca no,
likewise pons asinorum,
Ewollet mores nec si nit esse fer os,
Et tu Brute ut sunt Div< rum ;
Oh, populi vox ! and also atra no.T,
Keemo kimo, et Hi Cockolorum !
There was an old woman of Ashfield,
Whose buggy-horse often the lash feeled
When they stuck in the mud ; then she
cried out, “Oh! lud, , „
I shall never get safe home to Asnnela.
There was an old party of Burwood,
Whose wife made him chop up all her
wood;
But some unlucky whacks with a very
sharp axe
Soon crippled that party of Burwood.


There was a young lady of Croydon,
Who turned out a regular hoyden ;
Despising all that form, she waltzed on
the platform
That lively young lady of Croydon.
CHARADES.
(Original and Local.)
ON AN EDUCATIONAL LEGISLATOR.
Those surely may be deemed my first,
Who hold the creed by Wordsworth
nurs’d ;*
That impulses from out my second
May philosophically be reckoned
As able to teach “ more of man
Than all the books of sages can
Since in my whole a sage we find
Most competent to teach mankind
How “ more of man ” can best be taught
By education of the sort
Known as compulsory and free,
And based on secularity,
Than any impulse, foul or fair,
From “ vernal ” glade or other where.
S.
ON A COLONIAL STATESMAN.
My first is what bold Stuart got
When he moved his vote of censure ;
My second loves, without the gloves,
To give or take a clencher.
The two combined, my whole you’ll
find
In Bridge Street, if you venture.
* ride— Wordsworth’s The Tables Turned.”
CHEAP SUBSTITUTES.
It used to be hard for the earnest-
minded man, with the best intentions
in the world, to know what his masters
expected him to do. If he treated his
vile body ever so harshly, even in the
last resort he had to be contented with
bread that might be corrupted, with
perishable water, with a tub no more
real, in the long run, than a comfort-
able set of rooms. There was no
getting into the region of reality,
except in visionary contemplation;
but it is the easiest thing in the world
to get into the region of cheap imita-
tions. The modern idealist who finds
stones and bricks too harshly genuine
need not pine long for more evanescent
materials. He can easily get a builder,
a true and logical speculator in his
peculiar way, to “ run up ” some
edifice in which a cheap liquid substi-
tute for bricks and mortar is turned
out of an Elizabethan mould, like a
decorative jelly. The poet sang how
“ casual bricks in airy climb encoun-
tered casual mortar, casual lime,” but
even the most casual representatives
of these commodities can be dispensed
with by a man who earnestly seeks to
live the new life. When his substi-
tute for a house has been turned out,
has had some weeks to dry, and is
roofed with an excellent substitute for
slates, he naturally furnishes it with
columns covered with marble paper,
and with curtains of Japanese paper.
The roofs and doors are stained so as
to present a touching likeness to the
oak of ages and cabinet-makers that
were coarsely real. The meals of the
family may be brought into harmony
with everything that surrounds them.
They can have concoctions which a
little hot water turns into colourable
imitations of coffee and cheap substi-
tutes for chocolate. In marmalade
composed of turnips and carrots they
are assured that they will find an
excellent substitute for butter, which
itself is a substitute made out of un-
known materials. There are ways of
making omelettes and pancakes with-
out eggs, and various small fishes may
be turned into something you would
hardly know from sardines. Mock
turtle, of course, has long ago driven
real turtle of the visionary field of
domestic cookery. Soups which are
bought in tins, and need nothing but
the addition of a little hot water
(tepid water is a convenient and
favourite substitute for the old-
fashioned boiling element), make a
grateful introduction to dinner. They
taste a little of Civil Service Stores
and a good deal of tin and varnish ;
but that flavour may be partly due to
the spoons, which are made of the
newest substitute for silver. With
wax flowers for decorations the table


may be made to look quite pretty ;
and the modern idealist gazes round
with content as he tries the most
recent experiment in potted meats
from Madagascar, or in home-bred
beef fed on a fresh and hopeful sub-
stitute for linseed. The claret is of
the famous Chateau vintage ; the
sherry is extracted from the remnant
of the potatoes which the ravaging
beetle has spared. Probably some
substitute for potato juice will be in-
vented if the emigrant from Colorado
is really destructive, and we may
drink yam juice, or some concoction of
betel-nut, in the guise of sherry, before
the end of the century. In education
the modern idealist finds it easy to
satisfy himself. He can send his
children to nothing less than an Inter-
national Academy, where the head-
master has a beautiful foreign substi-
tute for a degree, and where the boys
will get a great deal of good from the
society of young Japanese and Bul-
garian pupils, whose manners are in
many respects unlike our own. When
it comes to religion, the sermons of a
popular parson will supply Sunday
substitutes for halfpenny newspapers,
and for the articles in third-rate
magazines. As he leaves the imitation
Gothic building, decorated with the
latest substitute for fresco, and parti-
coloured with Munich glass, the modern
idealist may congratulate himself on
having reached a steady excellence of
life on his own system. His practice
has not fallen short of his profession ;
he has constructed, in the midst of the
real a complete environment of
fragile imitations, of third-hand copies.
If he has a taste for art, he can go
home and study a large collection of
those marvellous line engravings which
an ingenious system puts within the
reach of the owner of half-a-crown.
If he is fond of literature, and some-
what of a bookworm, he has the range
of a large library of substitutes for
knowledge. He can study some of
those imitations of ancient classics for
family use which are put into the
hands of the English reader, and there
are hundreds of Primers on every
theme, from the principles of Cooking
to those of Physical Geography. The
knowledge packed in primers is the
tinned meat of the intellectual life, and
has almost taken the place of the fresh
preparations which can only be
attained by the aid of grammar and
dictionary. Thus, in most ways, the
modern idealist succeeds in living
about six removes further from reality
than any of his predecessors. No one
can bring against him the reproach of
Gorgibus, that he has “la forme
enfoncee dans la matiere.” His very
raiment is woven on no loom, and
comes from the hand of no weaver,
but is a boiled-up, shoddy imitation of
the gross material cloth of times past.
—English Paper.
ANACREONTIC.
BY HENRY HALLORAN.
Nature unto the lordly bull,
Gave wreathed horn and forehead
full ;
She gave unto the noble steed
The heart of fire, and hoof of speed ;
Gave swiftness to the timid hare,
Wide fangs unto the lion gave,
Fins to the creatures of the wave,
And wings to such as cleave the air ;
To man she gave the reasoning mind, —
What had she for dear womankind ?
A sorcery of look and word
To which the spear and moonlike
shield, —
To which both fire and thirsty
sword,
Must—such is Beauty’s influence —
** yield !
Singular Intermarriage. —A Mr. Har-
wood had two daughters by his first wife
—the eldest of whom was married to John
Coshick. This Coshick had a daughter by
his first wife whom old Harwood married,
and by her he had a son—therefore John
Coshick’s second wife could say :
“My father is my sou, and I’m my mother’s
mother!
My sister is my daughter, and I’m grandmother to
my brother! ”


THE WAR NEWS.
The only actual war operations thal
we have to record as having taken place
in European Turkey since the date oi
last issue is the capture of Dhomoko,
in Thessaly, by the Greeks. Since
that insignificant success, Greece has
withdrawn her troops within her own
borders, on the understanding that her
just claims shall be considered at the
approaching Conference.
This Conference, though, is as far off
as ever. The real question for it to
decide is the old, old one—Who shall
hold Constantinople ? Russia having
a firm grip on the prize itself, on the
“ apple of discord,” would naturally
like to interpret Detur pulcheriori as
let it go to the victor! —the victory
proving the fitness, and the fitness the
beauty. With her usual diplomatic
skill, Russia has succeeded in inter-
posing delay after delay to the holding
of a Conference. She tells Austria
that there are certain points she will
not discuss, and certain limitations by
which she will not be restricted. She,
of course, desires a Conference of all
things! but would like to agree first of
all as to preliminaries, as to definitions
of terms, &c., &c. Unless great pres-
sure is brought to bear, the Conference
will not come off until the Greek
Kalends.
The terms of the Armistice show
how completely the Turk is at the
mercy of the Russian. The troops of
the Sublime Porte have evacuated
Varna, Widdin, Rustchuk, andSilistria,
as well as all fortified places within the
villayets of Erzeroum and Kars. The
lines of Chekmedje are held by the
Muscovite, and that is tantamount to
saying that Stamboul is the glittering
trophy of the army of the Czar. And
Russian success has been moral as well
as physical. The Sultan’s advisers,
wearied of the vacillations of Britain,
have become pro-Russian ; and are,
it is rumoured, agreeable to an alliance
between Cross and Crescent under the
Protectorate of “Holy Russia.” Be
that as it may, under Russian influence
the Porte has refused permission to the
British fleet to enter the Dardanelles,
thus preparing the way for the actual
occupation of Constantinople by Russia
in the event of England disregarding
the firman and forcing her way up
that historic channel. The latest
advices are to the effect that the Eng-
lish Government have disregarded the
firman; that the British fleet is off
Constantinople ; and that the Court
of St. Petersburg intend to order the
immediate occupation of Constanti-
nople. Russian influence has also
induced Turkey to discharge all for-
eign officers in her service.
In England, the Russian successes
have had the most exciting effect upon
the Turcophile party, who are evi-
dently now beginning to fear lest
certain bonds will soon be unquotable.
Consols fell last week to 95, when
the Russian occupation of the Chek-
medje lines was “ wired” to London.
Lord Beaconsfield, availing himself
of the Russophobia, which exists
amongst the proletaire class and a
certain section of the parvenu
aristocracy, the unnatural union of
which two classes swells modern
pseudo-Conservatism, has carried a
war vote of six millions by an immense
majority, and is now engaged in en-
deavouring to incite Europe to a
general war on the false issue that
India is imperilled by the success
which has crowned Russia’s righteous
effort to curb Mohammedan lawless-
ness and oppression. Active prepara-
tions are being made for war :in all
British dockyards,
“ busy hammers closing rivets up,
Give dreadful note of preparation ; ”
and unless the good genius of modera-
tion shall prevail at Vienna and Berlin,
we fear that the next tidings we shall
have to record will be the evil triumph
of the Beaconsfield administration in
haying committed England to a course
which all good and true men must in
their heart of hearts deplore. We
may add that a careful perusal of
latest English files shows unmistake-
ably that the Gladstonian policy is en-
dorsed by the vast majority of the
people of England. We are not, there-


fore, disposed to believe that the brutal
violence of the London mob, or the
vote of a dexterously manipulated Par-
liament, affords any evidence that the
action of the Imperial Cabinet is ap-
proved of by the nation at large.
FUSILLER.
TOWN GOSSIP.
The theory of the development of
species is a most interesting one. Any
fact going to elucidate it deserves
chronicling. We have no hesitation,
therefore, in calling attention to the cir-
cumstance of one James Crabb having,
at Dubbo, on the 2nd inst., in lawful
matrimony, taken unto himself one
Kate Gill. To find an articulate crus-
tacean aspiring for gills (West Indian
land crabs have gone in for gills for
some centuries, by-the-bye) must be
very reassuring to the Darwinian, apt
at times to be despondent as to the
proof of his relationship to the ape.
If the Sydney Morning Herald be
the carbonate of soda, the Echo may
be put down as the tartaric acid. The
two taken together are a not unplea-
sant seidlitz ; but ’tis the Echo that
gives the tone. That rather smart
little evening paper had a well written
leaderette the other day about the
Lithgow puddlers, pointing out how
their strike for higher wages has re-
sulted in the cessation of the iron
company’s operations. We cannot
refrain from asking the Echo this one
question : In striking for higher wages,
were not the puddlers acting in per-
fect obedience to free trade princi-
ples—the very essence of which is,
that men shall endeavour to sell in the
dearest and buy in the cheapest
market, and that the result of that
endeavour is the rule of trade ? We
.are no protectionists ; yet it does seem
to us that capital has no right to blame
labour for pushing extreme free trade
principles to the bitter end when, to
further its own interests, capital will
push free trade principles of an
equally extreme character to an end
equally as bitter. Is not Ruskin right,
after all, when Cassandra-like he tells
us that not by doctrinaire principles
applied ala doctrinaire is man to poli-
tically economise, but by mutual giv-
ing and taking, and by “ doing unto
others as ye would have men do unto
you ?”
We quite agree with the Evening
News when it recommends that the
bills introduced respectively by Mr.
Driver and Mr. Cameron—the one to
provide for the supervision of build-
ings, the other for the regulation of
common lodging-houses—should be
most carefully considered in com-
mittee. If they are hurriedly passed,
with all the slip-shod imperfections
that usually characterises the parlia-
mentary draftsman’s handiwork, they
will increase, not mitigate, the evils
they are in intention directed against,
and the last state of the city will be
worse than the first.
The other evening a legislator, who
thoroughly believes in himself, was
asked how it was he always failed to
secure the attention of the Assembly ?
“Well,” said he, modestly, “ men of
my stamp rarely take with representa-
tive assemblies. Burke, you know,
always emptied the House ; and it was
the same with poor Stuart Mill ”“0
wad some power the gif tie gie us, to see
oursels as others see us !It wad frae
monie a blunder free us, and foolish
notion.” It would —you bet !
The following appears to be partly
an affaire de coeur and partly an affair
de cash :
WANTED, a respectable Irish Girl, with
about £l5O, in matrimony ;is going to
open an hotel—freehold property. F. TANARUS., General
Post Office.
The advantages are evidently on the
side of the advertiser, as, unless the
Irish girl opens her heart, he will not
be able to open his hotel; whereas
she, with her capital in cash and good
looks, might well aspire to a better
match than a penniless landlord.
Lucky fellow if he succeeds in starting
in business with a freehold title, a
hundred and fifty pounds in matri-
monial bonds, and a wife


" Whose cheeks are like rosea,
Whose nose is the same,
And her lips like ripe strawberries
Smothered in crame.”
She will, however, probably take
occasion to remind him, if the match
•comes off, that although he may keep
.the house nominally, she will really be
the housekeeper.
We have often wondered why police-
men were called peelers ; but since the
regulations published the other day in
the Herald —which, by-the-bye, are
some twenty years old—we wonder no
longer. One important part of their
duty, it appears, is to take up, not
only disorderly characters, but cast-
aways in the shape of pieces of orange
peel, which may obstruct the pave-
ment. If they perform this duty
vigorously and effectively, their efforts
will not be fruitless, especially during
the summer months. Had the London
policemen been as carefully instructed
in this part of their duty, Locker
would have lost the chance of giving
to the world those vers de societe on
“ Circumstance : ”
“ It ripen’d by the river banks
Where, mask and moonlight aiding,
Dons Bias and Juan play their pranks,
Dark Donnas serenading.
“ By Moorish damsel it was pluck’d
Beneath the golden day there :
By swain ’twas then in London suck’d
Who flung the peel away there.
“ He could not know in Pimlico,
As little she in Seville,
That / should reel upon that peel
And—wish them at the devil.”
It is well for candidates for legisla-
tive or municipal honours to be armed
at all points. We are credibly in-
formed that a newly elected alderman
in one of our populous suburbs on the
declaration of the poll on Saturday last,
went to the hustings with two speeches
carefully prepared—one to be delivered
in case of his return, and the other in
the event of his rejection. Having com-
mitted them both to memory, he
waited anxiously for the result, which
enabled him to deliver with con-
siderable effect, No. 1, in which he
paid the ratepayers all sorts of com-
pliments for the discernment they had
shown, and predicted a prosperous
and glorious career for the borough
during the next twelve months,
Teucro duce et auspice Teucro. We
congratulate the candidate heartily.
The great fear was lest he should, in
the excitement of the moment, have
mixed up the two speeches, and,
while thanking the voters for returning
him, uttered some dismal forebodings
on the subject of municipal govern-
ment. A similar mistake might have
occurred—but did’nt—with the band
provided for the occasion. If the
bandmaster had not been accurately
informed as to the state of the poll, he
might have played as a prelude to the
speeches, some mournful melody such
as “ When clouds obscure the atmos-
phere,” and finished with “ Hie thee
home, Willy,” instead of “Run him
in,” “Charlie is my darling,” and
“ Drops of brandy,” with which
spirited air the proceedings terminated.
N.B.—No. 2 speech not having been
called for, .is now on hand, and can no
doubt be had for a consideration.
Among other items of English news
just to hand is the capture by some
fisherman of a huge devil fish, which
was driven ashore in an exhausted
condition at Catalina on the northern
shore of Trinity Bay. Its appearance,
and gigantic proportions, are thus des-
cribed in an English paper (the
Penny Illustrated), which gives a life-
like engraving of the monster in it’s
front page. It beats the “debbil
debbil ” of Australia all to pieces :
“ There lay the cuttle with its ten
arms stretched out, two of them
thirty feet in length, having rows
of powerful suckers an inch in
diameter at their broadened ex-
tremities. The other arms eight in
number, were entirely covered with
suckers on the under side, and were
eleven feet in length. The body is
ten feet in length, and nearly seven
feet in circumference, and terminates
in a caudal fin two feet nine inches
across. When taken from the water,
the colour of the squid was a dusky
red, but that has disappeared, and the
body and arms are now perfectly white.


There is the usual horny beak, the
parrot-like mandibles of which project
from a membraneous bag in the centre
of the mass which constitutes the head
and from which the ten arms radiate.
Certainly the idea of being clutched
in those terrible arms, from which
there could be no escape when once
they had closed, and then torn and
rent by the formidable beak, is enough
to send a shuddering thrill through
the stoutest heart. The devil fish
possesses apairof huge staring eyes, the
sockets being eight inches in diameter.
Their expression, when the creature
was alive on the beach, is said by the
fisherman to have been peculiarly
ferocious.”
This monster fish was purchased
by the managers of the New York
aquarium.
A number of alarmists, who rarely
pipe in times of peace, have been lately
sounding their penny trumpets in the
columns of the daily papers to the tune
the “Rooshians are coming, oh, dear !
oh, dear !” One writer in the Sydney
Morning Herald has evidently had his
rest disturbed night after night by the
fear that he would wake up in the
morning to find Sydney in the hands
of the enemy, and have to pay his
share of the levy for gold which would
be made by the greedy invaders. This
writer, who signs himself “ Sober-
earnest,” anxiously enquires whether
the Torpedo Corps and Artillery are
“all there,” and suggests that the en-
trance to the Heads should be chained
across during the night. We read the ap-
peal in question just before going to bed,
having taken the precaution of imbibing
a glass of whiskey punch before perus-
ing it, in order that we might be able
to view the invasion question in other
lights besides the sober-earnest one,
and we awoke much relieved. We
dreamt that the Russians had eluded
the vigilance of Cracknell’s corps,
and had landed at about twelve
o’clock at night at Wooloomooloo
Bay. They then, having procured a
guide, proceeded straight to Macquarie
Street, and reached the Parliamentary
Buildings at 12-30, just as Farnell was
about to move that “this House da
now adjourn.” Silently and swiftly
they accomplished their errand, which
was to seize and bear back to their
armed vessels hostages to secure the
payment of a trifling demand of five
millions. The Assembly were paralysed
with the exception of McElhone, who
asked the commander of the expedition
to come outside and settle the matter
with him, a request which was politely
declined. The lion, member was then
walked off, along with Sir Henry and
Sir John, the Speaker and Serjeant-at-
Arms, Messrs. John Davies, Green-
wood, Macintosh, and Cameron. The
selection appeared to be made at ran-
dom, the Russian officer picking out
the likeliest looking men. That he
did not walk off with any members of
the present ministry must be attributed
to the numerous changes of Govern-
ment which have taken place lately,
and the continual interruptions to-
telegraphic communication. A change
then came over the spirit of the dream.
A large open air meeting was being
held in Hyde Park, the object of which
was to devise measures to obtain the
release of the distinguished prisoners.
It was proposed to open subscription
lists, and to canvass the town and
country right and left. Very littlu
excitement prevailed, and the resolu-
tions, moved by some of the most
prominent speakers, found little favour
with the crowd. At last a working
man, a sort of Martin Guest, who had
not spoken before, but who was lis-
tened to with great attention, got up
and moved an amendment to the effect
that an address be presented to General
Snatchemoff, the Russian commander,
setting forth the inestimable value to
any country blessed with responsible
government of the legislators abducted
by him, and begging him to have
them in his safe keeping instead of a
sum in money, and the people of
Sydney would try and do ivithout them ,
and would ever pray, &c. &c. The
shouts of approval with which this
amendment was carried, which turned
out to be the horrid yell of the Ameri-
can locomotive, awoke us.


There seems to be a hitch in the
arrangement for a day of thanksgiving
for rain, which has been urged upon
the Colonial Secretary by the Dean of
Sydney. The minister expressed him-
self willing to give effect to the wishes
of the community if those wishes could
be clearly ascertained. But how is
that to be done if the hon. gentleman
will not accept a high church dignitary
as the mouthpiece of the people ? The
only way we can suggest by which the
difficulty can be got over, is to take
the opinion of the people’s represen-
tatives in Parliament assembled. The
Echo says that, “ as a matter of fact the
extreme western portion of the colony
has not participated in the late down-
pour.” That should not prevent an
expression of thankfulness from north,
south, and east, and the western mem-
bers can go on praying.
Why is not that rule adhered to
which enacts that gentlemen appointed
to the Civil Service shall have passed
the prescribed examination ] Mr. Far-
riell, with reference to the recent ap-
pointment of a Mr. Richardson to the
Lands Office, informed the Assembly
that that gentleman had passed a far
higher examination at the Dublin
University than that for the Civil Ser-
vice in this colony. But does that
alter the case ?—unless, indeed, certain
examinations of the Dublin University
are held, on ad eundcm principles, to
rank with that of the Civil Service,
which, as a matter of fact, they are
not. Why couldn’t Mr. Richardson
have qualified l and why couldn’t Mr.
Farnell, instead of justifying a depar-
ture from reasonable rule and regula-
tion, have promised that, until Mr.
Richardson had qualified he should draw
no screw ? From the present Ministry,
who in so many matters have displayed
a praiseworthy anxiety to administer
business on economical, straightfor-
ward, and commonsense principles,
better things might have been expec-
ted than this unnecessary violation of
a regulation, which, though in the past
it may have been constantly neglected,
is one that would be most honoured by
being rigidly observed.
Surely there is something incon-
gruous in the idea of holding a grand
quadrille assembly in aid of the suf-
ferers by the late fatal railway acci-
dent Better a bazaar, or a concert —
anything rather than a ball ! The
occasion is most sad, and, to our
fancy, admits not of light music and
gay motion, of gallopade and waltz—
those harmonious hurricanes of dance.
But it will bring in the coin, says Jack
Easy ; ergo—
“ Sweep in circles like a whirlwind,
Flit across like meteors glancing,
Crack your finders, shout in gladness—
Think of nothing but of dancing.”
But, how about the ergo ?
The town, and, we believe, the
country also, are perfectly satisfied
that Mr. Greenwood’s education reso-
lutions are likely to be shelved. It
was generally felt that he could not
have selected a less opportune time to
introduce them.
MOTHER SKIP TEN(YEAR)’S
PROPHECY.
No more shall busses break our backs
We’ll fly along on railway tracks,
From Circ’lar Quay to Wav’ley heights,
Then round by haunt of racing lights.
Our streets will clean and even be,
From dust and putrid matter free ;
And (if the theme be not too trite),
Cook’s statue will have reached its
site.
The Sydney gentry shall combine,
Their hidden lights break forth and
shine,
And save the land from cunning
rogues,
And low, self-seeking demagogues.
Trickett shall pull a losing race,
And cricket cold reaction face.
When war and drought have had their
spell,
For years shall wealth and commerce
swell.
In anno eighteen eighty-eight
We’ll try and shew the world were
great.
N. H.
Sydney, 6 February, 1878.


CASTLE BUILDING.
Can fancy find a better mode to drive
away dull care,
Than in the harmless art of castle build-
ing in the air ?
And even though the hopes we form may
never be fulfill’d,
’Tis hard to tell the dreamer in the future
not to build.
In childhood’s years —when sorrow is a
stranger to the heart—
When all our minds are free from care,
our manners free from art—
When grief and passion are unknown, and
tinge not fancy’s flight,
Oft doth imagination build some palace of
delight.
And travelling through the path of life,
we come to manhood’s years ;
We plainly mark, with sadden’d eye and
new awakened fears,
How strangely altered all things are—how
different life seems
From what it was when viewed by us
thro’ childhood’s happy dreams.
And still the lover dreams of love, and
thinks but of romance —
The worldly man endeavours all his pro-
spects to advance :
While both, in their pursuits oft breathe
a fervent earnest prayer
That all their hopes may not be proved—
castles in the air.
But age o’ertakes the lover’s love—steals
from her cheek the bloom—
And oh ! how sad it is to think J;hat this
is beauty’s doom;
While he who sighed for golden gam, and
dreamt of fortune fair,
Finds out that half the schemes he formed
were castles in the air.
If then, while struggling here below, we
taste of anxious care,
’Tis well for all who suffer so, to ask, m
humble prayer,
That hopes frustrated here on earth may
with success be blessed
Where “ The wicked cease from troubling
and the weary are at rest.”
NOTICE
The analysis of Milton’s “ Paradise
Lost ” will be continued in our next.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
The Wanderer. —“ Friendship’s Wish '
will be imprinted in our heart, but
not in our magazine.
H. A. A. —Ha ! ha ! The inscription
is ludicrous, but we must be lenieDt
to the failings of others.
Jeff. —Declined with thanks. We can
imagine your sensations. We felt
sea sick after reading the MSS.
Laura. —Your writing is very fair,
though we cannot say we admire the
angular style.
1029. Since her accession, the Queen
has created 157 new peers.
Scholar. —“ Half-remedies ” is the Win-
chester term for half-holidays — remis-
sionis dies. Only Saints’ days are
holidays with Wykehamists.
Sportsman. —We quite agree with you.
Parliament should lose no time in
re-enacting a Game Preservation Act.
Enquirer. —The total public debt of the
Dominion of Canada was returned
as £22,423,343 for the financial year
1876. No later statistics are to hand.
Julia. Lieutenants of the Royal
Navy, under eight years’ standing,
rank relatively as Captains of the
Army, according to date of Commis-
sion or Order.
Lee c. —English Parliaments have been
held since the beginning of the 14th
century, at Lincoln, Stamford, York,
Winchester, Gloucester, Northamp-
ton, Salisbury, Shrewsbury, Coven-
try, and Oxford.
Mystery. —Bosh ! Tell it to the marines;
or, to Pastor Allen.
A. G. K. —We cannot print lines of
which this wooden stanza is a
part :
“ It seems to be that fairer ones
He meets when far away;
And chooses one to cheer his life
In his last declining days.”
—poor fellow !
Help Hope.—Place aux dames— Wo
shall be happy to hear from you.
Eric. —Your story is too long. We
fear we cannot make use of it.
Liryc. —ln our next.
Tourist. —Received with thanks.


“SYDNEY OIXCE A WEEK.”
AGEITTS.
SYDNEY.
Railway Terminus L. Walton
George Street
I G. Hill
I E. Turner
| H. Hains
' W. Haddock
E. R. Cole
I C. T. Sandon
l J. J. Moore
Hunter Street .. Turner and Henderson
Pitt Street .. .. S. A. Kirby
King Street.. .. G. Wallace
William Street .. F. Pearce
Oxford Street ! Spragg and Adams
( Mrs. Abbott
Botany Road .. Mrs. E. Mihell
Forest Lodge .. F. Collis
Sussex Street ..
sdfghj
Agents wanted for other parts of the colony.
QUEEN’S COLLEGE, CROYDON.
Lady Principal: MRS. H. H. DAWSON
(ASSISTED BY COMPETENT GOVERNESSES AND PROFESSORS).
N.B.—NO PUPIL TEACHERS.
FOR Resident Pupils the College (which is most healthily situated) offers every
advantage Dormitories, well ventilated ; Plunge Baths ; Airy Class-rooms, &c.
ine Principal has introduced the system now so universal in the leading educa-
tional establishments in Europe, of imparting knowledge in the higher classes by
means of Lectures, and has secured the services of able Professors.
There is a Special Class for the Preparation of Candidates for Sydney University
xamination, 1878, under the charge of a gentleman who has been successful in
preparing pupils for previous University Examinations. Pupils can join at any time
A course of Lectures in Physiology (Laws of Health), Physics and Mechanics, by
d^gThT^hoSteml of J W 8. °' C 0"” L ° nd ° D ’ haS been for
loung ladies, not students of the College, can attend these lectures.
hpk ave railway fare deducted from terms.
Platform Ueen S College is within three minutes walk of the Croydon Railway


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“ Sydney Once a Week.” —It is a neat,
well-printed little pamphlet, containing
twenty-four pages of reading matter, which
consists of short original papers, written
in a light free style, and of a few extracts
from other publications. Its purpose is
to give its readers “ a good sixpenny worth
of literary pabulum, composed of ingre-
dients at once sparkling, amusing, and
original, and so arranged as to avoid a
suspicion of dulness.” Taken as a whole,
the magazine, which is edited by Mr. C.
H. Barlee, is a very creditable produc-
tion, as well to the publishers as to the
authors, and if conducted according to the
plan indicated in the few words above
quoted, it will be an acceptable addition
to our colonial literature.*— S. M. Herald.
The Echo says:—lt is a very read-
able publication, and, while it cannot
aspire to rank as the equal of the
most popular English magazines, it de-
serves to find favour on account of the
local interest which attaches to its papers.
The original papers, of which there are
several, are written in a light, easy style,
and with considerable ability. We should
like to see the magazine prove to be a
success, for the desirableness of building
up a respectable colonial literature will
hardly be denied by any one, and the
establishment of a good magazine is one
of the means towards that end. The
publishers, Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and
Co., are entitled to commendation for the
admirable way in which they have got up
the magazine.— Echo.
The New Magazine— Sydney Once a
Week Magazine for Town and Country
Readers is the title of anew weekly, edited
by Mr.C. H. Barlee, issued from the Sydney
Press,' which bids fair to secure a good
share of public support. Its moderate
price, its handiness, the entertaining
reading it affords, and the concise, pleasing
manner in which the various topics of the
day are touched in its columns, must
naturally render the Sydney Once a Week
a welcome visitor in every house and an
agreeable companion to every reader. —
Southern Argus, (Goulburn.)
“ Sydney Once a Week,” a magazine
bearing the above -title, has made its
appearance in our city. It is edited
by Mr Barlee, formerly a member of
the literary staff of the Melbourne Argus,
and a humourist of some note. The
work contains sketches, tales, and articles,
along with the usual miscellanea of a
magazine. Judging by the contents of
the first number, we think the maga-
zine stands a better chance of succeeding
than many of those publications which
are born but to die, and which in some
cases are disgraceful to the literary efforts
of our city.— Evening News.
The Singleton Argus says:—The num-
ber is very readable, is well printed by
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co., and
contains a varied selection of original
and extract matter. We wish the
proprietor every success with his ven-
ture, and trust that his efforts will do
something more substantial to encourage
a taste for colonial literature than those
of others who have trodden in the same
uncertain path, have succeeded in doing.
We hail with pleasure all respectable
efforts to establish a republic of letters
in this colony, which at present is too
much confined in its patronage to
newspaper literature only. Mr. Barlee’s
venture is the best effort in this direction
that we have seen for some time. — Single-
ton Argus.
“ Once a Week.”— Under the title of
“ Sydney Once a Week,” the first number
of a neatly got-up ocbavo of over thirty
pages has just been issued. It is edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, who is, we under-
stand, assisted by a numerous staff of able
contributors. The contents of this new
publication are varied and interesting—
too varied, in our opinion, for the space
at the disposal of the editor. If we may
be permitted to offer a suggestion with
regard to the future, we would recommend
that everything in the shape of “ news ”
items should be omitted. We heartily
wish the proprietors success in their
undertaking, and certainly are of opinion
that the excellence of “ Once a Week”
well deserves it. — Yass Courier.
The contents of the new venture give
promise of a deserved success, should it
ever be attained. There is an attractive
variety about the articles, and the tastes
of every class of readers are .consulted.
Thus we have a trenchant article, short
and pithy, on the political status in quo,
a couple of spirited domestic sketches,
some comic matter, and some chapters
especially intended for boys. Among the
last is a scholarly commentary on a
passage from the “ Paradise Lost,
intended for the use of University candi-
dates—a clever set of recurrent v ® rse ®
Latin, and an enigma in French. The


grams and sphinx-like puzzles which
usually fill this department of our
current literature, and should commend
the production to parents. We hope the
new organ will enjoy a longer term
of existence than some of its pre-
decessors.—Namoi Independent.
This serial contains well written papers
and sketches, entitled “ The Public
Health,” “Muff Cricketing,” “ Best Dog
in the colony,” and a general summary of
the Russo-Turkish War. Altogether
Once a Week promises well; and without
country readers (who will probably
support it best), the 170,000 residents of
Sydney should keep it going—but we
doubt it. The price is 6d., and the
publishing office 279 George-street,
Sydney. Molong Express.
Once a Week.— This is the title of a new
pamphlet, edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, of
Sydney. We have received a copy and
were highly amused, as well as enter-
tained, with the writings ; there is such a
versatility about them that all must be
pleased. It is notified that a summary
of the events of the present war will be
given for the accommodation of its
readers, and so do away with the tedious
task of perusing the complications daily
appearing in our metropolitan journals.
Among numerous articles, in various
strains, there is a very humorous writing,
entitled “My Balloon Adventure ; ” but
to our fancy, the most amusing is one
called “The best dog in the colony.”
There is a very good article, termed
“Et cetera,” which gives an abstract of
the events of the week. In next issue a
story will be commenced, under the im-
pressive heading of “ The Mystery of the
Wiseman’s Ferry Road.” It is a useful,
handy, little book, and well worth
patronage. The price is sixpence.— The
Australian.
The Tenterfield Star says:—Besides
containing a large amount of current
news, it possesses the attraction of
affording to its readers much useful and
scientific information, combined with well
written tales and humourous sketches,
and other entertaining matter. The price
is sixpence, and this moderate charge
should command for the magazine the
wide circulation which it justly deserves.
We heartily recommend the magazine
to our readers.— Grenfell Record.
The Momya Examiner says :—We have
looked the book carefully through and
can confidently recommend it to our
readers and predict its success.
The new candidate for public favour
contains a number of smartly written
original articles and some well-selected
extract matter. It is got up in good
style, and well printed, containing
twenty-four demy octavo pages.— Albury
Banner.
The new publication is both instructive
and entertaining: it is deserving of a
good circulation. —Border Post (Albury.)
The new publication is both well got
up and very readable.— Western Post
(Mudgee).
The Bathurst Free Press says :—lt con-
tains a large quantity of interesting
reading matter—grave, gay, ponderous,
and light. The editorship is evidently in
good hands, and if the editor’s hopes are
realized the paper will take its place with
“ The pleasant books that silently among
Our household treasures take familiar places
And are to us as if a living tongue
Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces.”
For he makes his bold assertion : “We
shall do our best to force ourselves into
notice, and to compel attention.” Once a
Week is well worth the sixpence that is
charged for the single copy.
Another attempt has been made to
establish a literary magazine in Sydney.
The new venture takes the title of the
Sydney “ Once a Week.” Its type dress
is admirable, but then the printers are
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co. The
number before us very fairly sustains the
aim stated, and we shall be glad to see the
magazine prosper. —Maitland Mercury.
It is very creditably got up, and judging
from the matter which this number
(No. 1) contains, it is a magazine that
will no doubt receive a large measure of
support among Australian readers.
Western Examiner (Orange).
The Murrurundi Times writes “ The
contents have a varied range, and many
of the articles possess a degree of humour
and literary merit which will commend
them to the majority of readers. We
shall be glad to find enough appreciation
to support anything in the shape of smart
writing which has about it no unworthy
element.”


“ Sydney Once a Week.” —We have
received the first two numbers of a small
neatly got-up magazine bearing the above
title, which, in view of its superiority to
the majority of weekly publications lately
issued from the Sydney Press, we feel it
our honest duty to notice with approba-
tion. Its contents (those of the two issues
we have received) are not only well written,
but are for the most part original and
local. They comprise a great variety of
light and instructive reading matter, which
should commend Once a Week to public
favour. Politics, the public health,, and
other grave matters are ably treated in its
leading columns. There are also well
written original humorous sketches—we
note specially “The Best Dog in the
Colony ” and “ My Balloon Adventure, ’
and a few happy clippings from comic ex-
changes ; a page of town gossip ; and an
epitome of the week’s war news Ad-
mirably written papers, entitled “ Gossip
with the Boys,” appear in each issue, and
are, it is said, to be continued regularly.
The verses in the first number, entitled
“ An Australian Idyll ” are very far above
the average of contributions to the “ poets’
corner. ” It is an affecting story, well told.
After the custom of English magazine
conductors, the proprietors of Sydney
Once a Week offer prizes to successful
competitors in the riddle arena. In the
second number appeared the prologue of
a story called “ The Mystery of Wiseman’s
Ferry,” which is to be the piece de resistance
inthe way of serial romance. Once a Week,
which is edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, a
litterateur of lengthened colonial experi-
ence, and published by Messrs. Gibbs,
Shallard. and Co., we can conscientiously
recommend as a weekly magazine, enter-
taining, instructive, and of high tone.
Those who have not seen this publication
should buy copies, and judge of its paerits
for themselves. We are certain they will
endorse our opinion. —Cumberland Mer-
cury.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
Three Months
Six Months
Twelve Months
Payable in Advance.
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISING.
One Page ..
One Column or Half-page
One Inch
Five Lines or under
Back page, and page facing matter
Spaces on the Cover (for Quarterly or Half-yearly Advertisements),
by arrangement.
Liberal discount allowed for Standing Advertisements.
£ s. d.
2 0 0
1 5 0
0 5 0
0 2 6
3 0 0
6 Shillings.
11 >,
21
