

THE
SYDNEY ONCE A WEEK
MAGAZINE.
EDITED BY G. K. BARLEE.
FIRST SERIES.
VOLUME I.
SYDNEY :
HILL BROTHERS, Bookbinders, 128 William Street.
1878.




INDEX TO VOLUME I.
From 19 th January to 29 th June, 1878.
A Celtic Question 457
Acting Charade ... ... ... 161
Adventures with the Blacks
588, 613, 637, 661
A Doubtful Spec. ... ... ... 6
A Life’s Voyage 663
A Life’s Regret ... ... ... 548
Anacreontic ... ... ... 140, 158
An Australian Idyll ... ... 22
Answers to Correspondents ... 30, 58,
93, 116, 146, 176, 206, 266, 326,
356, 386, 476, 584, 608, 632, 657, 680
A Pennyweight of Justice ... ... 94
A Plea for the Blacks ... ... 481
A Rat 490, 516, 545
A Rather Windy Story ... ... 649
A Spirit Medium ... ... ... 225
A Storm on the Brattle ... ... 651
A Strange Patient ... ... ... 277
A Terrible Revenge... ... ... 48
Aunt Rebecca’s Secret ... ... 368
Australia’s Centennial .. ... 421
Australians and their Wines ... 271
An Unfortunate Mail Service ... 674
A Word for the Horse ... ... 211
Balloon Adventure, My ... . . 7
Barker’s Tutorship ... ... 333
Battle Bunny ... ... ... 213
Sink’s Holiday,—How he Spent it ! 186
Breach of Promise ... ... ... 612
Broken Heart, The ... ... 175
Bunch of Roses, The ... ... 312
’Bus Plaint ... ... ... ... 303
By the Sea ... ... 424
Californian Experiences
123, 183, 244, 313
Camp Meeting Hymn ... ... 131
Castle Building ... ... ... 146
Catching a Burglar ... ... 263
Catching a Flathead ... ... 393
Cheap Substitutes ... ... 139
Christian’s Choice, The ... ... 52
Column for Young Readers 16,47, 69,
97, 138, 160, 193, 231, 253, 292, 312,
378, 413,436, 467, 493, 556, 663
Comic Papers, The
20, 42, 73, 135, 171, 199, 254
Conjugal Affection 206
Criminal Crows ... ... ... 501
Daily Record, Tire ... ... ... 24
Dauvid McMutchkin, some eenci-
dents in the life of ... ... 247
Death in the Class ... ... 151
Dimensions of Heaven ... ... 401
Domestic Cow, The ... ... 318
Economical Cookery
412, 445, 475, 536, 544, 604, 640
Et Cetera ... ... ... 28, 57
Father John ... ... ... 216
Fleabotomy ... ... 185
Flooded Gulch, The ... ... 569
Gossip with the Boys 15, 45, 67, 108,
133, 200, 316, 407, 543, 628
Grimshaw’s Little Mistake ... 309
Guinea-a-lining ... ... ... 573
Half-finished Houses ... ... 301
Heart Relics ... ... ... 397
Her Mother ... ... ... 654
High School, Sydney 303
Hotels to Let ... ... ... 564
How Jack’s Mate paid the Doctor 434
How to give dignity to Trifles ... 214
How I went to Queensland ... 75
Humors of Versification ... ... 91
Husband’s Revenge, The ... ... 591
Ichneumon and Snake ... ... 424-
In Memory of John Fairfax ... 153 RA
Jean lngelow Parodied ... .. 461
Jemima’s Mistake ... ... ... 667
Journal of an Unsuccessful Expedi-
tion ' 374, 399
Judge and Jury 361
Justices’Justice ... ... ... 331
Law Makers and Law Breakers ... 453
Lost a Pair of Breeches ... ... 401
Love on the River .. ... ... 261
Macaronic Verse 159, 265
Marguerite ... ... 629
Mr. Speaker ... ... ... 181
Mr. Thompson’s Singing Lesson ... 429
Missing Dear Ones ... ... ... 333
Miss Pipkin’s Parrot ... ... 315
Mistress and Maid ... 233,288,665
Modern Spiritualism 113, 136, 168
More Copy ... ... ... ... 205
Mother Shipton’s Prophecy 19, 145


Move on ... ... 90
Muff Cricketing
17, 103, 523, 578, 600, 629, 636
My Adventures in purchasing Horses
315, 348
My Grandfather was a Remarkable
Man ... ... ... 528
My Last Cartridge ... ... 640,669
My Trip to Picton ... 33
Narrara Creek * ... ... ... 530
Narrow Grooves ... ... ... 633
Neck and Nothing ... ... ... 55
Norfolk Island
455, 483, 519, 541, 574, 593, 621, 645
Novelist Tomahawked ... 319, 624
Open Sesame ... ... ... 376
Our Beautiful Harbour 246
Paradise Lost 18, 44, 69, 163, 221, 293,
347, 432, 494, 551, 595, 648
Personal 61, 391, 561
Pill for the Pilgrims, A ... ... 392
Pinchbeck Magnanamity ... ... 451
Poem by Henry Kendall 64
Political ... 64
Poor Tim’s Mishap 103
Primitive Riddles ... 591
Publications Received ... ... 262
Public Health, The 8, 35, 65, 92, 125,
157, 185, 215, 276, 307, 366, 398,
431, 464, 496, 546
Railway Appointment ... ... 379
Railway Extension 312
Railway Travelling 241
Railway Truck System 601
Red-handed Murder ... ... 71
Reminiscence of Riverina 105
Revenge, The 428
Review of Mr. Docker’s Poem ... 96
Sanitary Reform 657
Select Pieces ... ... ... 266
Shorthand in the Law Courts ... 27
Shouting ... ... ... 487
Slashing Criticism ... ... ... 43
Sleep 431
Snake Stories 174, 221
Song for Peace 471
Song 94
Sporting Adventures in Australia 131
154, 226, 273, 363, 404, 426, 548, 667
Spirits on the Stage ... ... 280
Street Jottings ... ... ... 579
Tales of the Gold Mania
438, 458, 495, 515
Tale of the Olden Times ... ... 465
Terrible Encounter ... ... 408
The Best Dog in the Colony ... 10
The Habitue and the Novice ... 222
The Old Bird 188
The Devil’s Elbow ... ... ... 522
The Inns and the Outs 5
The Lady Alice 596, 618
The Mystery of Wiseman’s Ferry Load
37, 80, 99, 126, 164, 195, 228, 255,
289, 320, 350, 380, 410, 439, 468,'''
502, 531, 553, 625
The Man who eat so little ... .. 533
The One-horse City 537, 562, 585, 609
The Other John ... ... ... 282
The Penge Mystery ... ... 23
The Real .. ... 273
The Ulster ... ... ... ... 552
Tit for Tat ... ... 526
To Be or Not to Be ... ... 511
To My Mother 653
To Miss N. S. W. on her 90th birth-
day 53
Town Gossip 25, 54, 77, 111, 142, 202,
234, 259, 294, 324, 353, 384, 415, 443,
472,504, 534, 558, 581, 605, 630, 655,
678
Traps—l. Hotels to Let 564
2. Railway Truck System 601
Vicious Literature ... ... ... 62
Vic. hasn’t got the Coal 427
Voice from the Gallery, A
461, 486, 520, 539
War News 24, 54. 110, 141, 170, 201.
236, 442, 471
Ways that are dark, and Tricks that
are vain ... ... ... 373
Wedding at Wisconsin, A ... ... 19
Woman ... . . ... 11l
Yarn by a Railway Porter ... 498
Young England in Australia .. 371




THE SYDNEY “ONCE-A-WEEK” SCHOTT ISCHE.
PI A NO-
FORTE.


-d
a
0>
P
C/2
cti
CO
cd
CO
S 3
.2
• pH
o
CO
»2
i
5
"S
<D
co
9
£




SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY O. 11. BARLEE.
No. 1, Vol. I.]
JANUARY 19, 1878.
[Price 6d.
INTRODUCTION.
Look then into thine heart, and write—
Yes ! into life’s deep stream—
All forms of sorrow and delight,
All solemn voices of the night,
That can soothe thee or affright;
Be these henceforth thy theme.
In presenting the first issue of our Magazine to the Public of New
South Wales, we desire to say a few initiatory words. The idea of starting
a new publication only occurred to us about a month ago. We then came
to the conclusion that a good opening existed for an inexpensive weekly
production, which should contain not only a resume of current events, but
a selection of humorous and entertaining matter, culled from various sources.
We shall aim to deal with the questions of the day in a light and airy
fashion, to blend philosophy with humour, and to discuss politics and
science pleasantly, and in a genial spirit. Upon all grave subjects affecting
the welfare of the community we shall try to stir up the public mind, and
to do this we may have occasion at times to be severe; but we shall never
descend to personality or invective. In short, we shall endeavour, in the
brief space of 24 pages, to give our readers a good sixpenny worth of
literary pabulum, composed of ingredients at once sparkling, instructive,
amusing, and original, so arranged as to avoid the suspicion of dullness.
We shall do our best to force ourselves into notice and to compel attention.
We dare not affirm that our first issue has l'ealised our expectations,
but we have started with a firm resolve to struggle after excellence with an
energy that shall know no abatement; and if our readers will exercise a
kind forbearance, and will make allowance for those shortcomings which
are inseparable from a new enterprise of this kind, we shall be encouraged
to look forward to the time when
The Sydney “ Once a Week,”
enlarged, and improved by more mature experience, shall have attained a
large circulation, and be found with
“ The pleasant books that silently among
‘ Our household treasures take familiar places,
‘ And are to us as if a living tongue
‘ Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces.”
The Editor.


An Original Australian Story of thrilling interest
Entitled
“ The Mystery of
The Wiseman’s Ferry Road”
Written expressly for
Sydney “Onee A Week,"
Will be Commenced in our Next Issue.


THE SYDNEY ONCE A WEEK.
CALENDAR.
DAT OF
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High Water
Sydney Cove.
Month.
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
19
Sat
Full Moon, 19.16 a. in. Holiday Supreme Court
5.10
7.12
8.39 a.m.
20
S
2nd after Epiphany. St. Fabian
5.11
7.11
9.19 a.m.
21
M
Holiday Sup. Court. P. & 0. Mail leaves Sydney
5.12
7.11
9.56 a.m.
22
Tu
Wellington, N. Z. t founded, 1840
5.13
7.10
10.30 a.m.
23
W
Pitt died, 1806
6.14
7.10
11. .5 a.m.
24
Th
La Perouse landed Botany Bay, 1788
6.15
7. 9
11.43 a.m.
25
F
Conversion St. Paul
6.16
7. 9
12. 6 p.m.
THE INS AND THE OUTS.
A writer in a recent number of
Frazer's Magazine, discoursing on
“ the comparative stupidity of poli-
ticians,” attempts to show that, in
the universe of created intelligence,
they are not the highest in the scale,
and quotes, as an authority, Miss
Martineaux, who, in her autobio-
graphy, has recorded her sense of
the mental and moral inferiority of
the political men of her day whose
acquaintance she made. She ob-
served in the politicians a much
lower type of mind and character,
expressing itself even in a certain
vulgarity of manners. “ There is
no doubt,” says the writer, “ such a
thing as the force of stupidity, which
is often more powerful in human
affairs for the moment than any
other. When intellectual dullness
is united with moral rectitude, the
combination is pretty nearly irresis-
tible. Either without the other is
a power of the first magnitude ; both
together are fate. The fact is, that
the training of affairs, invalnable as
it is, seldom bears proper fruit,
unless the affairs are a man’s own,
or when the consequences of failure
are sure to come upon him in a
rapid and crushing manner. The
merchant or capitalist whose ven-
tures depend upon his personal
vigilance, the engineer or military
commander, cannot afford to take
things easily—action is forced upon
them—they must either succeed or
conspicuously fail. In politics,
usually, the state of things is en-
tirely different ; the prudence which
is taught is rather that which shuns
difficulty and dreads failure. The
education of practice in Parliamen-
tary politics is therefore, for the
most part, an education in the arts
of inaction, evasion, and delay. A
career in which character may be a
substitute for capacity must, it is
argued, from the nature of the case,
be pursued on a lower intellectual
level than those in which intelli-
gence and cultivation, and general


or special knowledge, are absolutely
essential.”
These are rather sweeping terms,
and we cannot endorse that refine-
ment of reasoning which would
prove that the pursuit of politics
retards intellectual development.
The field which opens to the poli-
tician is too wide to cramp his intel-
lect. But where no patriotic feeling
exists as an incentive to exertion,
the absence of a personal interest in
the thing to be achieved is un-
doubtedly calculated to produce
lukewarmness; and a personal in-
terest in politics is mischievous in
its results, since, in New South
Wales, that interest lies, not in the
ordering of public affairs or the
quest of political fame, but in the
attainment of place and pay. The
consequence is, that the one thing
to be done is not the passing of an
all-important measure, but the oust-
ing of the party in power. Sine
illce lachrymce. It is not the dull-
ness or want of capacity in our
politicians of which we have reason
to complain, but their want of
patriotism. Now is the time for
newly-elected members to show the
stuff they are made of. The rubber
between the Ins and the Outs has
been played out. The cards have
been dealt afresh. Are the mise-
rable petty tactics which have
brought such discredit upon our
representative institutions to be re-
peated ad nauseam, until each Mem-
ben of the Legislative Assembly has
in turn occupied a seat on the Trea-
sury Benches 1 Or will those honor-
able gentlemen who have taken no
part in the late struggles for office
join in giving the new Government
such a generous support as will
enable them to carry through at
least an instalment of the legislation
for which the colony is languishing l
A DOUBTFUL SPEC.
The alleged discovery of a minute par-
ticle of gold, imperceptible to the naked
eye, in a small parcel of black sand
said to have been forwarded to Syd-
ney direct from the coast of New
Guinea, together with the calculation
arrived at by an eminent geologist that
a piece of water-worn quartz, about
the size of a lump of chalk, if obtained
in bulk, would probably yield the mag-
nificent return of two penny weights to
the ton, out of which the charges for
freight, crushing, and exchange, would
of course have to be paid, have been
sufficient to fire the enterprize of cer-
tain Sydneyites to such an extent that
a meeting was held on Tuesday even-
ing last to consider the propriety of
chartering a modern “ Golden Fleece”
to convey a band of adventurers to
the new El Dorado. Pause, reckless
youths, ere you commit yourselves to
this wild-goose enterprize. Have we
not in this country deserted reefs by
the score, which will yield ounces
instead of pennyweights to the indus-
try of the miner, that you must
dare, on such slight grounds, the ma-
laria of the New Guinea Swamps, the
hostility of the natives, the scarcity
of food, and the “ thousand natural
ills ” which accompany the prospector
in a strange land ? Are not the rivers
of Turon and Sofala better than
all the waters of Papua ? Wait at
least until the value of the discovery
has received further confirmation. The
solitary particle of gold which has
raised all this clamour, putting the
finest point upon it, can hardly be
called a “good spec.” Calm your
ardour, oh, too sanguine reefers, and
we will undertake to give you “ Once
a Week ” the latest and most reliable
information from the land of mystery.
Old miners should know, from bitter
experience, that the colour can be
obtained almost anywhere, in places
where even a Chinaman cannot eke
out a living.
In the words of the poet we say to
you,—
“Oh, formose puer nimium ne crede
colori! ”


MY BALLOON ADVENTURE.
It was Boxing Day. The weather was
warm, not to say hot. Having finished
dinner, I thought I would visit the Albert
Ground for an hour or so, and see the
adventurous Wells, the hero of four hun-
dred ascents, make his four hundred and
first in his mammoth Montgolfier balloon.
I strolled leisurely to the grounds, more
out of necessity than choice, for the
busses that passed me were full inside
and out. Full, do I say—they were lite-
rally crammed with perspiring families
and the inevitable baskets that infallibly
proclaim the metropolitan householder
en route for his holiday picnic.
Not unbesprinkled with dust, I reached
the Ground. The first thing that at-
tracted my attention was what looked to
me like a Brobdignagian pudding-bag in
extreme agitation. On inquiry, I was
informed the pudding-bag was the levia-
than of the air in which the world-
renowned Professor was to make his four
hundred and first ascent. The leviathan
didn’t look like the balloon of my imagi-
nation. The corded network, the brilliant-
hued silk, the pear-like form, were not—
nought but many ells of whitey-brown
calico stitched into a vast pudding-bag.
That was all. And how the pudding-bag
lunged and struggled to get free !
I walked slowly up to the mammoth
Montgolfier, my hat stuck on the back of
my head, my hands thrust down in my
breeches’ pockets; and, witnessing its
eccentric swayings, I mused on the absurd
folly of men who would risk their lives in
anything so airy as an half-inflated pud-
ding-bag.
My thoughts were suddenly checked. A
hand was smartly laid upon my shoulder.
Turning, I beheld one whom by the cut
of his jib and the fashion of his speech,
I took to be a man of the genus Yankee.
“ Big consarn, that! eh ! stranger? ”
“ Rather,” said I.
“ W-a-a-11, yea, considering the coun-
try. But a big consarn ! Pshaw! Why, in
1876, in Boston, there was a big consarn
went up. I tell you. He were a bouncer, he
were. Three hundred people went up in
her, band of music, refreshment bar, and
all that; the whole fixing went up,
stranger, from Boston, bound for Phila-
delphia for the Centennial. And a fine
time we had of it. Went in one hour,
four minutes, and three-eighteenths of a
second.”
“Why! what!” he continued, “ Con-
sarn your picture, stranger, ye look as if
ye didn’t believe me. Wa-a-11, consider-
ing you don’t see much out here, I reckon
it is a purtyhard nut for you to swallow.”
Having thus delivered himself, the
Yankee complacently rolled his quid over,
and eyed me with a look in which curiosity
was blended with contempt. At his in-
vitation, we walked over to the bar at the
Grand stand to wet up. The Yankee
asked for a mint julep, but finding even
its name unknown to the unpoetical bar-
maid, he tossed off by way of consolation
a miserable modicum of hot brandy (not
brandy hot.) With a deep sigh he im-
bibed it, as if to drown a disappointment
rather than to satisfy a desire.
To “ stretch ” is the Yankee’s hugest
pleasure. His eyes will glow, his mouth
twitch, his nostrils dilate with the excited
eagerness with which he concocts and
delivers his confounded yarns. My new
acquaintance “stretched” muchly on my
behoof. When we had liquored up, the
advertised walking match was on, and a
large crowd were anxiously watching the
contesting “ peds.” My Yankee pooh-
poohed the exhibition, and tried to make
me swallow a yarn to the effect that in
the States they had a man named Weston,
who could walk —walk fair, sirree—his
fifteen miles an hour, for twenty-four
consecutive hours!
“Stranger,” quoth he, “it’s a fact.
Saw it done.” When the cheers of the
crowd announced the victor’s triumph, he
added, “ Now, sirree, I’ll bet you a few
of your pounds that I could have won
that ’ere race. I’m a walker. That’s the
kind of hair-pin I am ! Fact! ”
To this remark I could not take any
precise exception; so, as I said nothing:
my silence was accepted by the Yankee
as acquiescence in his claim to be that
particular kind of hair-pin: and I saw
on his face the look of happy content-
ment which his consciousness of having
found a stranger whom he could rope
at will and to whom he could lay it on
heavy, had called forth.
We had another stroll around, and took
stock of the happy pic-nicers, of the
monte-table sharps and flats, of the
“ sensation packet ” vendors, of Corydon
flirting with Phillis, of the Richardsonian
drama and Mr. Bartlett’s rich comicalities.
The crowd about the Mammoth Mont-
golfier at last brought us up, and the hum
of the eager hundreds drowned the Yan-


kee’s chin music for a while—a blessed
consummation. The aereostat (I believe
in correct terminology) was swaying about
in the breeze pretty considerably, in its
motions scattering the onlookers right
and left. After I had been Watching the
operations of the rope-men and the volun-
teer corps of larrikins that were pretend-
ing to assist, the Professor got into the
clothes’ basket which did duty for a car,
and looked about inquiringly for some
one to accompany him to the upper air.
No one responded to that inviting glance.
I turned to my Yankee acquaintance,
and gently nudged him.
“ Now’s your chance,” said I.
Says he, “ Do you raelly think now
that I’d go in such a small fixing as that.
Why, sirree, I’m a man as wants elbow-
room. None of your cabined cribbed
confinement for me. No, sirree ! ” and
he turned upon his compatriot in the
clothes’ basket a look of infinite disgust.
Minutes passed. No one stepped for-
ward to the acting-car. The balloon
began to lift, displaying an infinite capa-
city for mischievous gambolling.
The Professor suddenly cried, “ Let
go ! ”
The crowd, however, wouldn’t let go.
There was a disposition, in not a few of
the bystanders, to hang on to the lines, in
the hopes of obtaining an aerial flight on
a small and a cheap scale. The Mam-
moth wouldn’t be balked. It made a
furious bound, and dashed at a telegraph
pole which it snapped in two like a carrot.
Things were getting exciting. Even my
philosophy of “ laissez faire ” was stirred.
I rushed towards the aerostat—got near
to it—so near that a brick dislodged from
a chimney coping by its impulsive aspir-
ations fell on my favourite corn. The
great balloonist and noted parachuter was
now on the roof of a semi-detached villa
wildly gesticulating. I thought that now
the real start was to be made, so bravely
grasping a line, the only one that still
trailed upon the ground, I went in for a
flight, believing, however, that the crowd
would soon haul down the balloon.
Up went the Mammoth Montgolfier!
One rapid glance revealed to me that
no one was in the car, that no one but
myself was on the rope!
I was alone!!
Higher went the leviathan of the air.
The rope I held was wound round my
hand. I couldn’t free myself.
Before I could collect my thoughts, I
was high up above Sydney, suspended in
mid-air, bound for ?
The view beneath me was exquisite, hut
I was in no poetical mood to be won by
vision of the sea-locked city, fair though
it was exceedingly.
In my ears rang the shrieks of delighted
Arabs, who possibly imagined that I was
a part of the performance, and that I was
about to enact some wonderful acrobatic
feat in mid-air.
I tried to reach the clothes’ basket by
the hand-over-hand movement, but failed;
never having been remarkable either for
strength of muscle or athletic skill. My
efforts awoke the cheers of the mob below,
who evidently thought that now, if ever,
the show of aerial funambulism was
about to begin, My thoughts, I can
assure you, were rather that it was about
to conclude.
I could not reach the car.
I could not continue my grip on the
rope for many seconds longer.
To drop was certain destruction.
“ His end was pieces, ” I could see my
epitaph. Inevitable death stared me in
the face. I can’t describe my sensations.
My eyes protruded from their sockets :
cold sweat broke out all over my trembling
body.
Then suddenly came the supreme
moment. My hand-grasp relaxed.
I shut my eyes, murmured a prayer,
and fell—fell oh, merciful heavens !
fell—
Out of Bed !!!
****** * *
You see I had spent a “ hot ” Christ-
mas. Plum-pudding, mince-pie, brandy
sauce, not to speak of iced punch, had
exercised their genial effect on me ; so I
think my ballooning was excusable under
the circumstances. Don’t you, most gentle
reader ?
THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
The state of health, or rather, wt
should say, the unhealthfulness, of
our fair city has been the subject,
during the last two or three years,
of public commission and public
correspondence; may we not say, also,
of much private sorrow and suffer-
ing, and the cause of many deaths
which are said by the learned to


have been preventable. The matter
appears to us to be of so much im-
portance that we purpose devoting,
from time to time, if not from week
to week, a few columns to the ex-
amination of the causes of the loss
of our character as a healthful city,
and to the inquiry how these causes
may be removed; and we entertain
hope that, in the popular form in
which our remarks will be presented,
there may be something that will
attract the general reader, who
dares not face the perusal of the
ponderous, though valuable, Reports
of Commissions.
It has become known, then, that,
speaking roundly, the death rate of
Sydney is double that of the coun-
try, and also that it is nearly one-
third higher than that of London •
and this is notwithstanding our
superior climate, the absence of
grinding poverty, and the fact that
our city population is very largely
re-inforced by arrivals of young
persons in the full vigour of their
lives, who have passed the perilous
age of early infancy, and should have,
humanly speaking, a long life to
spend among us.
From the absence of official records
we cannot give the death rate of
Sydney forty years ago, but from
the memory of not quite “ the oldest
inhabitant,” we have it stated, that
Sydney then barely maintained one
doctor, and that half a chemist’s
shop (Mr. Ross sold groceries in the
other half) supplied all the drugs
then required; that, in fact, births,
vaccinations, and broken bones fur-
nished all, or nearly all, the calls
upon medical time.
Prominent among the causes of
unhealthfulness stands, without
doubt, the facts of our increased
numbers, of the close manner in
which we pack them, and of the
mode of collection and disposal of
our sewage, to which this increase
of our numbers has led us to resort.
Much may also be due to the fact
that during these years new houses
have become old ones, and like our
old Infirmary in manner, though
not perhaps in degree, unwhole-
some from the emanations of many
human beings in sickness and in
death. It may be also that from
having been a comparatively poor,
and therefore frugal and industrious
people, we have become rich, sen-
sual, and indolent, and that our
vices lash us for departures from
rules of right well-known to all. It
may be that the race of competition
has led to much adulteration of the
necessaries, or quasi-necessaries, of
our so called civilization, and that
the love of cheapness has been
dearly indulged in. Or the thirst of
wealth has sought its unrighteous
gains in the poisoning compounds
vended in the names of places and
commodities to which they are
entire strangers.
That the habits of a cold climate
have been brought with us to a hot
one, that' there is an indifference to
personal cleanliness, a disposition to
wear clothing that saves washing , and
so keep about our persons, till worn
out, garments saturated with the
issues of the skin is unquestionable.
There can be no doubt that this in-
difference extends to our dwellings,
that while we do not, with our fore-
fathers, keep the same rushes on our
floors for years, we do keep the same
papers on our walls, often covering
them with new paper over the old
—that we continue, against the law,
to slaughter animals in the city—
that our food, or much of it, is kept
in unwholesome shops, near to rooms


occupied as sleeping apartments, or
in stores in impure neighbourhoods,
bordering the embouchures of our
sewers. These possibilities, and
many more, furnish scope for much
observation under the head of causes
of unhealthfulness.
When we come to consider the
remedies, we are aware that we
shall have to seek them in in-
struction and in legislation. The
sanitarians of England have, after
thirty years’ labour, accomplished
the second; but they lament to
this day that the education of
the children of the masses is
still deficient in respect of plain
rules of life and health. May we
hope that, following their course of
Legislation, we may lead the van of
Instruction? We shall see.
THE BEST DOG IN THE COLONY.
When I first made Boxer’s acquaintance*
I was living with my family in a retired
street in Brisbane, to which we had
removed as a temporary change from the
monotonous quiet of our country residence,
which was five miles out of town, and at
that time, almost in the hush. The house
we had taken suited us all to pieces in
certain respects. There was plenty of
room in it, and we were within easy reach
of a number of friends whose visits had
hitherto been “ like angels’ visits, few and
far between.” Loneliness was certainly
not the distinguishing feature of our
new residence; but it had its draw-
backs. Its attractions were too universal.
I have known bush horses who refused to
pass a public-house without calling. Our
house appeared to possess the same fasci-
nation to passers-by. They all called
upon some pretext or other, and the front
door knocker was seldom idle. The desire
to make our acquaintance was flattering,
but unpleasant, especially during the first
week, when there was a regular stampede
in the direction of the house. Now it
would be a friend or relation, then a
neighbour making a first call; then a
stranger asking whether some other
stranger lived there ; then a man with a
suspicious-looking pedlar’s box ; then a
tradesman soliciting custom; then a beggar
asking for alms, and so on. The cry was
still “ they come,” and we began to feel
that the house did not belong to us ; or
if so, that we only held it as “ tenants in
common ” with every idle person who
chose to make temporary use of our
verandah. Altogether, there was a sense
of insecurity about the new dwelling which
made us half regret the change, and as
these annoyances occurred continually
during my absence, when my wife was
alone, except for the presence of a servant-
girl, I suggested, in order to quiet her
apprehensions, that we should look out
for a watch-dog.
“ These tramps,” said I encouragingly,
“ will think twice before they come into
the gate, if there is a large dog about the
place.”
The question having been put and car-
ried, nem. diss., I inserted an advertise-
ment in the daily paper :
WANTED, A WATCHDOG. Apply, with th*
dog, to H. WALKER, 99 Blank-street,
Brisbane.
which appeared in due course. We had
not long to wait. They began to come in
at about 8 o’clock; each man had a dog
for sale, and each dog was the “ best dog
in the colony.” Such a collection of ill-
favored mongrels was surely never before
seen at any gentleman’s door. I am rather
fond of dogs ; but a dog, to find any favor
in my sight, must have sufficient breeding
in him, at least, to define the class to
which he aspires to belong. If he calls
himself a greyhound, for instance, he
must not present himself before me with
the head of a bulldog and the tail of a
turnspit; nor could I bring myself to
admire a terrier with a nose like a pointer.
Give me a well-bred animal, of whatever
breed he may be. Pur sang ne pent mentir.
The specimens of canine excellence, in
whose favour their owners were now so
voluble, could not be said to be of any
particular breed. They might have
been called, with equal justice, New-
foundlands, kangaroo dogs, cattle dogs,,
or poodles, since they possessed some
of the characteristics of each species.
They were ugly enough, in all con-
science ; hut they had no other recom-
mendation that I could discover, and I
was beginning to despair of making a
satisfactory purchase when Boxer appeared
upon the scene, last but not least of the
watchdogs invited by my advertisement—


a low but powerful mastiff, wearing a
strong collar and chain, which his owner
modestly offered to me along with Boxer
for the small sum of ten shillings.
Now the price of the other “ best dogs
in the colony ” had averaged from 30s.
to £5, minus collar and chain. Why,
then, was Boxer ticketed at a figure
so manifestly below his real value, he
being by far the handsomest and best
bred dog in the crowd ? I looked in his
face for a solution of the difficulty, and he
returned my earnest gaze with a look so
“ child-like and bland,” that all suspi-
cions of vice or treachery were at once
disarmed, and I became his owner. I
made one remark to the vendor, to the
effect that the dog did not appear very
fierce, at all events. “ Just you wait a
bit,” said he. I had to use the same
words on a subsequent occasion, when
Boxer and I parted company. But I anti-
cipate. Turning round, I found the man
had disappeared. Five minutes after-
wards Boxer was chained to a kennel in
the back yard, where he made himself
thoroughly at home, and discussed with
great enjoyment a plate of broken vic-
tuals which I procured for him. My wife
and I then had another good look at him,
and congratulated ourselves on having
secured such a treasure, and on such
remarkably easy terms. ‘ ‘ I shan’t feel so
nervous now,” she said. “ Depend upon
it,” said I, for want of something better
to say, “Boxer is all there.” When you
are in doubt about anything, it is always
as well to express yourself in guarded
terms.
I was not very far wrong; for, about
an hour after I had made this pertinent
remark, a scream from the back yard, and
a low growl (Boxer never barked), an-
nounced that something was up. The
next moment a woman, who had been
washing clothes in the vicinity of the
kennel, rushed in a frantic state towards
the front gate, while Boxer held a good
mouthful of red petticoat between his
teeth.
Looking upon this little occurrence
simply as a somewhat over-zealous dis-
play of devotion to the interests of the
family, on the part of a new employe
immediately upon taking office, and as a
signal confirmation of the opinion I had
just expressed, I did not, as no harm
was done, take any serious notice of it; but
when, the very same afternoon, one of my
boys was bitten on the knee, and prevented
from going to school, the matter became
serious, and I had to interfere. The
result was—a sound threshing adminis-
tered with a hunting-whip, which Boxer
took very submissively.
For the next fortnight, no casualties
occurred, and Boxer was a success—in so
far that, instead of being inundated
with callers, we rarely received a visit
from any person who was not abso-
lutely obliged to call. This was partly
due to a placard, “Beware of the Dog!”
which I considered it expedient to put
up in a conspicuous place; and partly
to the character of our new guardian,,
as described by the postman, whose
scarlet coat—contrasting vividly with a
pallid face—was objected to by Boxer,
and considerably defaced ; and the gar-
rulty of an old woman, whose temerity
in walking past the kennel, without saying
“By your leave,” very nearly cost her
her life. In short, in the brief space of
three weeks, Boxer had become the
terror of the neighbourhood. Yet, by
this time, we had become very fond of
him. From the moment he had 'clearly
understood who were the regular inmates
of the house which was placed in his
charge, to them he gave the most honest
and loyal service. No provocation on our
part ever brought so much as a frown into
his countenance. He would let the chil-
dren ride on him, pull his ears, and bully
him in every conceivable way without
showing his teeth, or getting in the
smallest degree out of temper; and would
even extend his courtesy to some of our
most intimate friends. But, let a stranger
approach him, or invade any portion of
the territory of which he was constituted
guardian, and, lo! his whole nature
appeared to be changed—he was like a
tiger thirsting for blood. His principle
of conduct was clearly laid down, and he
acted up to it fully—unswerving fidelity and
submission to his friends, uncompromis-
ing hostility to his enemies, among whom
he included all strangers. Boxer was no
respecter of persons; he would pin any
person —gentle or simple, well-dressed,
or in rags—who had not been specially
introduced to him as a friend of the
family.
This description will serve to show that
he was not exactly the sort of dog to let
loose in a thickly-populated street; but
on one occasion my wife persuaded me to
let “poor Boxer” off the chain, just to
stretch his legs with a scamper round the


yard ; and I shall never forget the feeling
of relief which I experienced when he
was again secured. I took care, first of
all, to shut both gates, in case of acci-
dents ; but Boxer, finding himself at
liberty after such a long confinement,
was not to be restricted by the narrow
limits of a town allotment, and, after
careering wildly round the premises seve-
ral times at top speed, made a rush at the
front gate, and succeeded in scrambling
over it by sheer impetuosity. Then he
tore up and down the road like “ a raging
lion, seeking whom he might devour.”
Fortunately, there was no enemy in
sight; but a little, miserable-looking,
yellow curly-haired mongrel, belonging to
some one over the way, ran out and com-
menced yelping. The next moment he
was between Boxer’s jaws, undergoing
rather severe exercise ; but, happily for
him, he managed, by a lucky movement,
to crawl through a small hole in the
paling fence, into which his assailant was
unable to follow, and escaped with his life.
Boxer then very soon found himself
chained up in his old place, with a very
slim prospect of another outing.
By this time we had all, from one cause
or other, got pretty well tired of town life,
and were singing “ Home Sweet Home ”
from morning till night. A resolution to
pack up and be off was carried by acclama-
tion. Our own house was empty and
waiting for us, and we longed to be back
again, to have the swing of the garden
and paddock, and to enjoy the fresh
country air perfumed with nature’s extrait
de mille fleures instead of being contami-
nated by the smoke and unwholesome
vapours of town dwellings. So we
cleared out one fine morning, and were
soon en route, bag and baggage. I drove
my wife and children over, and returned
on horseback to send the last load of
furniture, and to effect the removal of
Boxer, who I felt was too great a responsi-
bility to be entrusted to anyone else.
Now came the difficulty. I dared not let
him loose in the hope that he would
follow me peaceably, like any other dog,
and I had no idea of walking five miles
with one end of a dog chain in my hand,
and a powerful brute tugging at the other
end. So I fastened him to the axle tree
of the dray, and cautioned the driver not
to approach too near the wheels in case
of accidents. I was to follow, so as to
overtake the dray just before it reached its
destination. All went well for the first
three miles, when going down a hill the
load shifted, and the driver forgetting mj
caution, placed himself within reach oi
Boxer, who at once pinned him by that
portion of his frame which was most
prominent, as he was endeavouring to
adjust the load. That was the position oi
things when I rode up and released the
unfortunate victim. Boxer, on my ap-
proach, was profuse in his endearments,
and seemed to think he had clearly
embraced another opportunity of showing
his devotion to the family.
After we had become comfortably settled
at home, and were enjoying to the full
the unrestricted space and the liberty
which country life affords, it did seem
hard that poor Boxer should be kept a
close prisoner day after day, without any
prospect of exercise beyond what
could be afforded by three feet of chain ;
yet there seemed no help for it. He had
behaved himself pretty well, on the whole,
during the first week after our return ;
and if some member of my family had
not rashly loosed him one Sunday after-
noon, when a sow belonging to one of our
neighbours happened to stray into the
paddock, I should not have had to pay
twenty-five shillings, the value of that
animal which Boxer, in spite of the
weightiest remonstrances administered
with a thick stick, killed in the space of ten
minutes. At last a bright idea struck me.
I would have him muzzled. Then he would
at least be able to take a constitutional
once or twice a day, without endangering
life to man or beast, and the difficulty
would be got over. An act was passed
some years ago, in America, which pro-
vided that every dog should wear a
muzzle ; but as it contained no clause
defining the manner in which the muzzle
should be worn, it became a dead letter.
Boxer’s muzzle was, however, so ad-
justed that it was impossible for
him to open his mouth even to eat,
and the pleasure we felt in witness-
ing the gallops he took round the
paddock, at the rate of a mile in two
minutes, the moment he was let loose
with this preventive instrument securely
attached, was greatly enlivened by the
certainty that no fatal consequences were
likely to accrue. He was then tied up
and unmuzzled, and at night he was
again muzzled and let loose. At about
seven o’clock the next morning I was
awoke by a row in the back yard, and,
running out hastily, I found Bridget (our


servant), armed with a broom, rushing to
the rescue of the milk-boy, who was lying
prone on his back, a few yards from the
fence, with Boxer standing over him,
tremendous in his wrath, though power-
less to bite. The muzzle was only a
partial success. Space would fail me
were I to recount the number of enemies
Boxer succeeded in making among the
residents in that quiet neighbournood.
There was no resisting his advances; no
conciliatory words had the least effect
upon him. The moment a stranger came
in sight he would go straight at him, and
pin him, or, if muzzled, would knock
him over and frighten him out of his
seven senses. I felt that Boxer was be-
coming too great a responsibility, and
resolved to get rid of him. An oppor-
tunity occurred quite unexpectedly. I
started very early one day to pay a
visit to a friend who had a farm on
the sea-coast, about twenty miles distant
from my house; and as my way lay
through the bush, and the country
abounded with game, I took Boxer along
with the kangaroo dogs, in the hope of
affording him an opportunity of giving
full play to his savage instincts in a
battle with an old man kangaroo. I did
not succeed in doing this ; for although
we started more than one lot, and killed,
Boxer was too slow and unwieldy to be
in at the death. By the time we reached
my friend’s house he was, however, pretty
well spent, and in a very docile frame of
mind. I took the precaution, neverthe-
less, to tie him up in a shady place, where
I could keep my eye upon him. After
dinner, and when we had discussed several
other matters, Boxer became the subject
of conversation, and was greatly admired.
A good watch-dog at a lonely station in
the bush, where the blacks are always
more or less troublesome, is thought a
good deal of, and the little episodes in his
career which I related for the amusement
of my host and his wife, so far from excit-
ing any feelings of aversion, made them
regard him with unusual favour. In
short, I could see that they looked upon
him with a longing eye, and the result
was that I exchanged Boxer for a pair of
liver-coloured setter pups, which they
gladly offered me for him. Before I left
I took great pains to introduce him to
each member of the family, which in-
cluded two little girls of tender age, and to
make him thoroughly understand that his
allegiance was thenceforth transferred to
them. Was it because Boxer was nearly
dead-beat with an unexpected gallop of
twenty miles, for which he was in anything
hut good training, or was it that mild and
affectionate expression, which was natural
to him when in the presence of friends,
which prompted the remark from my
friend S “He does not look very
fierce,” and provoked my rejoinder, “ Just
you wait a hit.” There was evidently
some misunderstanding about the instruc-
tions I gave at parting. S was posi-
tive that I told him not to keep Boxer on
the chain, while I had a most distinct
recollection of urging very strongly the
great danger of letting him loose. Be
that as it may, he was not tied up from
the hour I left, and the day after he
pinned by the calf of the leg a man who
called to see about some fencing. The
victim being a good-natured fellow, poc-
keted the affront, and went away
limping; but that was not the case with
across-grained German, who, a week later,,
was bitten in the foot so badly by Boxer,
that they had to keep him for a fortnight
before he was able to leave the place. X
was mistaken in thinking I had got rid of
Boxer so easily, for one evening,, <on my
return from town, I found him chained
up to his kennel delighted to see his old
friends again, and overwhelming us all
with his caresses. It was impossible to
be angry with him, and as for shooting
him, I could not bring myself to entertain
the idea. Yet to keep him was to incur
the ill-will of my neighbours, who were
not likely, as long as Boxer was to the
fore, to see any force in the motto, “love
me, love my dog.” Again an opportunity
occurred to transfer the risk, and I was
not slow to take advantage of it. It wab
by an advertisement that I became,‘the
possessor of Boxer, and it was an adver-
ment which parted us: “Wanted, a savage
watch dog. Apply to the Hon. —— —B.,
&c., Ac.” I waited immediately upon the
advertiser, and told him I had the best
dog in the colony to dispose of. I offered
to produce any number of references—
halt and maimed—as to character for
ferocity and ability to bite, and upon the
strength of my representations Mr. B.
purchased him for £l, and I delivered
him to his new owner the same afternoon,
together with the strong chain and collar
which had accompanied him from the
first. It was very singular that the
moment Mr. B. cast his eyes upon him
he made the same remark which Boxer’s


bland and gentle expression of countenance
had evoked from each purchaser.
“ He does not seem very fierce,” said
he.
“ Just you wait a bit,” said I.
Now, Mr. B. was a member of Parlia-
ment and a rich man, and as he lived in
a secluded and aristocratic quarter which
offered peculiar attractions to burglars, he
wanted a savage dog—one that could bite
as well as bark. Boxer seemed to have
fallen on his feet at last. About a week
after this last transfer, I met Mr. 8., and
asked him how he liked his new pur-
chase, and whether he was still of opinion
that Boxer was not fierce enough.
“ Oh ! he’ll do very well,” said he.
It appeared that during this short
interval Boxer had severely bitten a
greengrocer, whom he probably mistook
for a burglar, and had torn the coat off
one of B.’s servants who had not been
properly introduced to him; and for
these and other similar exploits he was in
great favour.
From time to time I continued to
receive encouraging accounts of Boxer’s
prowess, and learned that B. was very
proud of him, and looked upon him,
without any qualification, as the “best
dog in the colony.”
During the two following months I was
absent from Brisbane, and heard no more
of him. But shortly after my return,
happening to meet Mr. B.’s groom, I took
the opportunity of asking after Boxer.
“Oh ! haven’t you heard, sir ? Mr. B.
had him shot.”
“ Shot! Poor Boxer. How was it ?”
said I. “What did he do ? Did he bite
a member of Parliament, or pin the
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, or
fly at the Governor ?”
“ No, sir ; he pinned Mr. B. himself."
Having had such peculiar opportunities
of testing poor Boxer’s staunch loyalty
to his friends, and his affectionate and
amiable character in private life, I was
completely taken aback at this open
imputation of treachery, which I resented
as being quite at variance with my expe-
rience ; and in questioning my informant
I elicited the following particulars of poor
Boxer’s untimely fate.
He had given great satisfaction from
the day he took up his quarters in Mr.
B.’s establishment. He had pinned every
man, woman, or child, who had come
within reach of his chain, excepting those
whom he had been taught to look upon
as friends of the family. In no single
case had he turned round upon his friends,
and had always been ready to lick the
hand which carressed him. Not having
found his proper sphere in the back yard
of a bank or a jeweller’s shop, where,
having once been formally introduced to
the employes of the establishment,
he would have been justified in regarding
all other persons as intruders, he had
accommodated himself, as well as he
could, to the post fortune had assigned to
him. Placed in charge of the residence
of the Hon. 8., he had been no doubt, im-
pressed with a deep sense of the trust
imposed upon him, and had done his level
best to acquit himself honourably and
energetically. He had performed his
duty, according to his lights, fearlessly,
and in a thoroughly independent spirit,
paying no court to rank or position. No
bribes had seduced him, no threats had
coerced him. A child who had gained
his confidence, could have led him by a
silken thread—the stranger who tried
either coaxing or intimidation had quailed
at his furious glance. The Hon. B. was
not unappreciative of these good qualities.
He felt that, under Boxer’s vigilant care,
his Lares and Penates were safe from the
midnight spoiler, and he placed full trust
in him; he admired him ; nay, he swore
by him ; and on one occasion, when he
entertained at dinner a select party of
friends, he boasted of his achievements,
and repeated his conviction that Boxer
was, beyond doubt, the “ best dog in the
colony. ” So glowing were his encomiums
that his friends were anxious to inspect
such a prodigy, and leaving their wine,
the party sallied forth across the lawn, to
the quarters assigned to the hero of this
story. Alas, poor Boxer! His owner,
whose property he would have died to
defend, and who was now approaching
him with the most friendly intentions,
was a lawyer ; and, though actuated by
the most generous impulses, had never
thought it worth while to make the dog’s
personal acquaintance. One kindly word
from him, at the outset, would have pre-
vented the double catastrophe ! He had
seen and admired Boxer at a safe distance,
but he had adhered to the legal maxim—
Qui facit per aliis facit per se,
and all offices of kindness, in the way of
feeding, caressing, and familiar inter-
course, had been left to the groom. Was
it then to be wondered at, that Boxer, at
9 in the evening—at an hour when it


behoves a good watch-dog to be on the
alert—seeing a party dressed in black
(how was he to distinguish a Member of
Parliament in evening costume ?) ap-
proach him, and put forth a hand to pat
him, should there and then, not
with malice prepense, but incontinently
and without hesitation, and all un-
conscious of his error, make one
bound and seize the retreating figure
a tergo. The next morning he was ordered
out for instant execution. I draw a veil
over the closing scene.
Alas, poor Boxer!!!
A GOSSIP WITH THE BOYS.
My dear fellows, we hope it may be our
good fortune to have an occasional yarn
with you, about matters relating to that
happy period of life which you can now
call your own—that pleasant spring time
of existence when youth can boast
The thoughtless day, the easy night,
The spirits pure, the slumbers light,
That fly th’ approach of morn.
It is now a good many years ago since
we left our dear old school on the banks
of Father Thames, “ where grateful
science still adores her Henry’s holy
shade,” and donned, along with the toga
of manhood, its girdle of responsibilities
and irksome cares; yet we still have a
heart, thank goodness, that beats quicker
when, on the cricket field, we hear the
cheers which greet a clever catch or a
“ long drive on; ” or, when a winning
kick at football ends a well-fought
struggle ; or, when we read of how young
New South Wales, with keen eye and
steady hand, has put together a telling
score at the rifle butts. Especially are
we pleased to note how well you young
cornstalks hold your own in the class-
rooms ; and how, though you may not be
quite so sound in your “quantities,” or
such dabs at Latin and Greek verse as
Eton and Winchester lads were expected
to be in the days when William the
Fourth was king; yet, that you take so
kindly to the studies which soften men’s
manners.
The genial gentleman, who represents
in this colony our most gracious Sove-
reign Lady Queen Victoria, told you the
other day not to “ blow,” and recom-
mended to you that habit of humility and
modesty which so well becomes a man.
We hope you will take his advice. At
the same time we hope you won’t fall into
the opposite vice, by adopting that
wretched “ nil admirari ” tone which
sneers at everything. It is certainly un-
pleasant to hear a youngster bragging of
his marvellous abilities ; but it is still
more unpleasant to listen to a stripling,
without even a suspicion of down upon
his upper lip, running down everything
and everybody, and professing that from
Dan to Beersheba all is barren. We con-
fess we like to hear colonial lads and lasses
“ blowing ” about their native land and
its capacities and capabilities, because we
then say to ourselves “ That springs from
a temper, which, properly educated, will
yet protect our native industries a hun-
dred times better than a protective
tariff.” A belief in New South Wales and
in what the workers of New South Wales
can do, is a belief to be encouraged and
fostered—not checked. So, boys, while
eschewing blowing about yourselves,
retain a healthy faith in the merits of the
community of which you are members,
and never be ashamed of expressing it.
If New South Wales takes, for instance,
to the making of cloth, don’t sneer at the
fabrics she turns out; don’t run them
down as “ mere colonial stuff,” not to be
compared, for fashionable wear, with
Saxony and Bannockburn, but, once satis-
fied that the fabrics are good, assert their
excellence. Believe in your country!
Don’t allow fellows who have taken a run
to Europe to pooh-pooh its beauties. We
know Switzerland and the Tyrol pretty
well, and we tell you honestly that New
South Wales possesses scenery as lovely
and as grand as any to be found in the
above-mentioned lands, now-a-days so
overdone by the tourist. Yes ! believe in
your country, lads! Never imagine
for a single moment, that, in speaking up
for her you are “blowing.” We have
met in our time youngsters who have
affected cosmopolitanism in their teens—
the wretched little prigs ! Don’t you do
that! It is one thing to brag that one of
your own countrymen is fit to give a good
account of six of any other race, and
quite another thing to believe that your
own land is the first flower of the earth,
the first gem of the sea. If your country
isn’t all that to you, the fault’s with you,
not her. Bemember the patriot’s boast—
Where’er I roam
My first, best country ever is at home.
Next week, we shall have something to
say to you about Training, and also, if


space permit, a word or two about the
virtues of cold water, remarks which we
hope may be suggestive of good to-you-
wards. Till then au revoir (or, it being
so hot, and in view of our promised
deliverance anent cold water, may we re-
perpetrate an old pun, and say au reser-
voir ?)
By the bye, in another part of this
number you will find some five-and-twenty
lines of Milton’s Paradise Lost, arranged
in such a manner as may prove
helpful to you in your English studies.
They are the first instalment of the first
book of that grand poem, and it is our
wish to give you a similar instalment
similarly arranged Once-a-week, until the
said book be concluded—not, mind you,
as a “ crib,” but as an exercise with the
guiding lines sketched in.
PUZZLES FOR OUR YOUNG
READERS.
Transposition.
How many words can be made out of
the word u Metropolitan ? ” each word
to commence with the letter M ?
Conundrums.
When is a hen most likely to hatch 1
Why is a watchdog smaller in the
morning than he is at night ?
When is a flock of sheep like the
climate of New South Wales ?
How many young ladies would it
take to reach from Sydney to Ashfield ?
Why is a man who beats his wife
like a fat pig 1
Why is a kangaroo a complete para-
dox ?
Charade.
My whole is under my second, and
surrounds my first.
Arithmetical Questions.
12 Persons dined for a shilling,
rich, poor women and children, pay-
ing,—the rich, 4d.; poor, 2d. ; women,
l?d.; and children, pi. Find a rule to
show the number of persons.
A market woman bought a number
of eggs at the rate of five for 2d. She
sold half of them at 2 a penny, and
half of them at 3 a penny, and gained
4d. Find the number of eggs by
algebra.
PALINDROME, OR RECURRENT
VERSE.
Laus tua non tua fraus ; virtus non
copia rerum
Scandere te fecit hoc decus eximium
Pauperibus tua das ; nunquam stat
janua clausa
Fundere res quaeris, nec tua multi-
plicas
Conditio tua sit stabilis, non tempore
parvo
Yivere te faciat hie Deus omnipotens.
Read backwards, it stands thus :
Omnipotens Deus hie faciat te vivere
parvo
Tempore ! non stabilis sit tua conditio
Multiplicastua, nec quaeris res fundere:
clausa
Janua stat: nunquam das tua pau-
peribus
Eximium decus hoc fecit te scandere
rerum
Copia, non virtus : fraus tua non tua
laus.
\A handsome silverpencil-case will be
given to the boy who furnishes the best
translation in English verse of the above.']
Here is an Enigma for French
Scholars.
Enfant de l’art, enfant de la nature
Plus je suis vrai plus je suis imposteur
Sans prolonger la vie j’empeche de
mourir
Et je deviens trop jeune h force de
vieillir.
PRIZE ACROSTIC.
A handsome pair of silver earrings
will be given to the young lady con-
tributor who furnishes the best review
of the first number of this magazine,
in the form of an acrostic on the title
—“The Sydney Once a Week.”
«
The Randwick Asylum has at last got
its affairs into smooth water. There
hasn’t been a board-room row for weeks.


MUFF CRICKETING.
For a nice, easy, gentlemanly pastime,
combining a fair amount of exercise with
a due proportion of fun, commend us to
cricket; that is to say—cricket as played
in the suburbs of Sydney by members of
muff cricket clubs. It may not, perhaps,
tend to the acquirement of skill to the
same extent as the game played profes-
sionally, but it developes the far higher
qualities of the mind. It sharpens the
faculties, and begets an aptitude for chaff,
which is refreshing to the business mind
after the dull routine of the day. What
relaxation can compare with it? Think
what an amount of hard work is necessary
to acquire proficiency in other athletic
pursuits ! How severe the training which
is indispensable to excellence in rowing.
It would take a good pair of skulls to
oppose a Trickett, but any numbskull can
stand before a wicket. What tedious
practice is required to become a good shot,
to say nothing of the risk of being potted
by some clumsy rifleman of your own
company. Besides, after all, what is there
in an aim, or where is the special attrac-
tion in a bull’s-eye? Billiard-playing
does not involve too much exercise, but
to make a good score is a much more
hazardous affair than to make the average
score of a muff cricketer. Hunting is a
noble pastime, but two or three seasons
and a proportionate number of ugly falls
must be gone through before one becomes
a crack rider. Business men, too, although
well up in financial transactions, do not
always find it so easy to negotiate a
double-banker. Football has its admirers,
but it is a mere exhibition of brute
force compared with cricket. In theory,
it is a fine thing to have the ball
always at your foot; but, in practice,
our cricketers do not care for this
sort of thing: they prefer to give a
wide berth to that dangerous missile.
Muff cricketing stands alone as the recrea-
tion par excellence for business men, as
being superior to all kinds of drudgery.
To be elected member of a muff cricket
club involves no test or examination of
any kind. It is, perhaps, the only game
into which a man may enter without
having the slightest knowledge of its
details. In fact, the less he knows about
it the better—the more qualified is he to
become a muff of the first water. Take,
for instance, the members of our suburban
muff cricket clubs, who initiated this game
by a series of matches last season, what
qualifications they developed. What else,
for example, but his experience as a muff
cricketer enabled H to parry so suc-
cessfully those attempts to bowl him over
in his candidature for the electorate of
C ? Look at S y, who has care-
fully abstained from contaminating his
mind with any cricketing knowledge
whatever, what a pleasure it is to hit a
ball in his direction! Observe the atti-
tude of S n at the stumps; see him
taking a bird’s-eye view of the field ; and
mark how the ground is cut up all round
him, as he plugs his bat into it in his
frantic efforts to block the ball ! Who
contributes more to the general amuse-
ment than that veteran cricketer B ?
Is not every ball skied in his direction
almost certain to be followed by two bursts
of applause ; one from his own side when
he catches it, and another from his oppo-
nents when he drops it like a hot potato
immediately afterwards ? Then there is
L , who by his modest and unobtrusive
behaviour last year raised himself to the
proud position of captain of his team,
scoring only two in the final match of the
season, yet rejoicing over those two more
than over ninety and nine got by your
Th s, your P s, or your M s.
Muff cricketers are not tied down by
any stereotyped, old-fashioned rules of
play. Each one strikes out a line for
himself, and frequently astonishes the
field, and himself most of all, by some
brilliant coup de main which covers him
with glory. T—’s discovery that to shut
your eyes and strike wildly at the ball
involves no greater risk to the wickets
than to keep the bat vibrating like the
pendulum of a clock over a dubious block-
hole, belongs to no ordinary mind. Muff
cricketers, too, are not restricted to any
particular uniform or dress. Each muff
wears whatever his fancy dictates. Full
hats, and coats buttoned up to the chin,
are a favorite style of attire. They give
dignity to the wearer, besides keeping the
head and throat warm, an important con-
sideration to middle-aged muffs. Profes-
sional cricketers consider it a smart thing
to pick up the ball in a second of time,
and return it into the hands of the bowler
before the unlucky batsman has had a
chance of scoring; but no one who has
seen F— —- at '‘long on” will pretend to
say that any such indecorous proceeding
takes place in a well regulated muff match.
The game is played in a much more


amiable spirit. No one is eager, by undue
haste, to discomfort his opponent, and
thus everybody is satisfied. Smoking is
not prohibited, as it is in so many places
of public amusement. On the contrary,
it is encouraged ; it is found that a pipe
renders a man tranquil under defeat, and
is necessary to calm the excitement con-
sequent upon victory. The score is a
matter of doubt; the pipe is a certainty.
Those who delight in scientific bowling
will have witnessed with admiration the
graceful delivery of R , and the
hop, step, and jump which land him
at the popping-crease. Sometimes —
indeed, not unfrequently—an obstinate
batsman refuses to succumb to his
bowling bowl he never so wisely.
Then a succession of full pitches, half-
pitches, three-quarter balls, grubbers,
wide balls, and balls of every kind, hit-
ting the ground in every possible direc-
tion, show the vigor of his arm and the
vastness of his resources. Here you have
all the best forms of cricket, without any
of its toilsome results —the wisdom of the
serpent combined with the harmlessness
of the dove.
One noticeable feature in muff cricket
matches is the prompt acquiescence of the
players to the decisions of the umpires.
Who possesses those nice powers of dis-
crimination, so necessary for this office,
in a higher degree than C ? No
harsh or hasty judgment from his lips
ever disturbs the even tenor of the game.
Rarely does this cricketing sage give a
man out for the first offence; it is only
after repeated delinquencies that the stern
fiat goes forth which condemns the culprit
to retirement.
Nor must we omit to sing thy praise, oh,
B , prince of scorers ! —who, had’st
thou been a war correspondent, would’st
have achieved undying renown by recording
each engagement in a cypher, intelligible
to no one but thyself—and the printer.
How hardy, too, does this noble game
tend to make its votaries. History tells
us that Peter the Great subjected himself
to the discipline of a dockyard, in order
to be able to teach his subjects ship-
building. J has repeatedly been
heard to congratulate himself on the
number of cuts received on the palm of
the hand, in his schoolboy days, since
they have rendered them hard and imper-
vious to the assaults of the cricket ball.
Want of space forbids us to pass in
review the meritorious achievements of
other members of the rival clubs.
But what are the muffs of Sydney and
its suburbs doing this season ? Do. they
mean to give us no further opportunity of
recording their prowess in the tented
field ? We pause for a reply.
MILTON’S PARADISE LOST.
(Book I.]
English Subject eoe Junior Examina-
tion, 1878, Sydney University, ar-
ranged FOR THE USE OF CANDIDATES
by “Sigma.”
[ln the subjoined edition of Paradise Lost
(Book I.)—all rights in which are reserved
—the accepted text is carefully followed.
Alterations in the punctuation have
been made in order that the division of
the poem into its elementary propositions
may be clearly shown. The “periods”
of the original text have, however, been
kept.
The close of each proposition (except
propositions within parentheses or brac-
kets, or those terminated by a period) is
marked by a dash ( —j.
Propositions that are included within
other propositions, are placed within
parentheses or brackets.
The Subject of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Italic letters,
The Predicate of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Boman letters.
Sentences in which more than one
statement is made concerning a noun (or
an equivalent thereto), or in wnich several
nouns (or equivalents thereto) have the
same statement predicated concerning
them are treated as simple propositions.
Elliptical propositions are annotated.]
Of man’s first disobedience and the
fruit
Of that forbidden tree [whose mortal
taste
Brought death into the world and all
our woe
With loss of Eden—till one greater
Man
5 Restore us and regain the blissful seat]
Sing heavenly Muse —that on the secret
top
Of Oreb or of Sinai didst inspire
That shepherd —who first taught the
chosen seed—


In the beginning how the heavens and
earth
10 Rose out of chaos—or if Sion hill
Delight thee more and Siloa's brook—
that flow’d
Fast by the oracle of God —l thence
Invoke thy aid to my adventurous
song—
That with no middle flight intends to
soar
15 Above the Aonian mount—while it
pursues
Things unatte, opted yet in prose or
rhyme.
And chiefly thou 0 Spirit [ that dost
prefer
Before all temples the upright heart
and pure]
Instruct me—for thou knowest— thou
from the first
20 Wast present and with mighty wings
outspread
Dovelike sat’st brooding on the vast
abyss
And madest it pregnant— what (1) in
me is dark—
Illumine (2) — what (3) is low —raise
and support (4) —
That to the highth of this great argu-
ment
25 I may assert Eternal Providence
And justify the ways of God to man.
(To be continued.)
(1) What = that which, the “that” being the
object to “ illumine ” in the next line.
(2) Supply “ thou ” or “ 0 Spirit."
(3) What = that which, the “that” being the
object to “raise and support ” in the same line.
(4) Supply "thou" or “ 0 Spirit."
MOTHER SHIPTON’S PROPHECY.
We notice that several of the English
papers contain advertisements offering for
sale photographs of the original copy
of what is commonly known as “ Mother
Shipton’s Prophecy ” now in the British
Museum. This remarkable prediction is
said to have been first published in 1488,
and republished in 1641. It will be seen
that all the events foretold in it, except
that mentioned in the last two lines have
literally come to pass.
Carriages without horses shall go,
And accidents shall fill the world with woe.
Around the world thought shall fly,
In the twinkling of an eye.
Water shall yet no wonder do
Now strange but shall be true.
The world upside down shall be
And gold be found at root of tree.
Through hills man shall ride,
And no horse or ass be at his side.
Under water men shall walk,
Shall ride, shall sleep, shall talk.
In the air shall men be seen,
In white, in black, in green.
Iron shall in the water float,
As easy as a wooden boat.
Gold shall be found and found,
In a land that’s not yet known.
Fire and water shall yet wonders do,
England shall at last admit a Jew.
The world to an end shall come
In eighteen hundred and eighty one.
A WEDDING AT WISCONSIN.
The following is a choice specimen of
American humour:—
Having been appointed to the desirable
position of Justice of the Peace, I was
accosted, a few days after, by a sleek-look-
ing young man, and, in silvery tones,
requested to proceed to a neighbouring
hotel, as he wished to enter into the holy
bonds of matrimony.
Here was a squelcher! I had never
done anything of the kind. I had no
hooks, nor forms ; and though I had been
married myself, yet—having laboured
under great perturbation of mind on that
occasion—l did not recollect much about
the ceremony. I, however, determined to
do things up strong, and in a legal man-
ner, so I proceeded to the hotel bearing
in my arms one copy Revised Statutes,
one ditto Webster’s Unabridged Dic-
tionary, one copy large-size Bible, a small
copy of the Creed and Articles of Faith
of the Congregational Church, one copy
of Pope’s Essay on Man, and a seotional
map of that part of the State where the
victim lived.
Having placed a table in the middle of
the room, I, in trumpet tones, called the
case. With that, the young man and
woman, with great alacrity, stepped up
before me. Having sworn them upon the
bible—as I supposed (which afterwards
proved to have been the dictionary) —to
answer well and truly all the questions I
was about to ask, I proceeded.
I told the young man that, being an
entire stranger, I should have to ask
him to give bail for the costs. Having
heard this so frequently in court, I
thought it indispensable. He answered,
if I meant the fee for performing the
ceremony, he would deposit it there and
then. As I did not know exactly what I
did mean, I magnanimously waived that


portion of the ceremony. I then told him
it would be necessary to give bail to keep
the peace. This, he said, he was willing
to do, as soon as he arrived home ; and I
then waived that point also.
Having established, to my satisfaction,
that they wanted to get married, and that
they were old enough to enter into that
blessed state, I proceeded to tie the knot.
I asked him if he was willing to take
that woman to be his wife ? He said he
was. I told him I did not require haste
in the answer ; that he might reflect a
few moments, if he wished. I told him
she looked a fine girl, and I had no doubt
she was ; but if the sequel proved that he
had been taken in, I did not want to be
held responsible.
I said he must love, honour, and obey
her as long as she lived. He must not
be snappy, nor spit tobacco-juice on the
floor ; all of which he promised faithfully
to heed.
“Now,” said I, “ Georgiana (her name
was Georgiana), you hear what Humphrey
says. Do you accept of his invitation to
become his wife? Will you be lenient
towards his faults, and cherish his vir-
tues ? Will you never be guilty of throw-
ing furniture at his head for slight
offences ? And will you get him three
meals a day without grumbling?”
She said she would.
I asked them if they believed in the
Commandments, and they said they did.
Having read the Creed and Articles of
Faith aforesaid, I exclaimed :
“ Humphrey, take her; she is yours. I
cannot withhold my consent.”
“ Georgiana, when safe in the arms of
your Humphrey, you can defy the scoffs
and jeers of the world.”
I then read a little of the Essay on
Man, and recommended the purchase of
a little book on Marital Duties, written
by the Venerable Jeremy Diddler, an old
English clergyman.
As a finale to the scene, I delivered the
following exordium —“ Go in peace ; sin
no more.”
The generous Humphrey, having placed
a fifty-cent cheque in my unwilling palm,
I bade the happy pair a fond adieu.
—
It is in contemplation to form a new
Choral Society, for the practice of
oratorios, cantatas, and other works of
great masters.
THE COMIC PAPERS.
A TALE EOK ADVERTISERS.
Brown was an author, Jones was a pub-
lisher, Robinson was a barber.
Now, every one who knows Brown knows
Brown’s skill in advertising. With the ex-
ception of the man who brought out
“ Ozokerit,” he never had a rival. He
was a perfect master of the anticipatory
style. When he had completed his treaty
with Jones for the purchase of “Rhada-
manthus: A Riddle,” he covered the walls
of London with huge posters bearing those
words, and nothing more ; and, just as
the metropolitan public were on the point
of going mad with curiosity, he launched
the book. Its success may be imagined.
Brown next placed in his hands his manu-
script “On Behalf of the Crown”—a
legal novel, on which he had built all his
hopes of fame. The same device of pub-
licity was repeated. Go where you might,
the above title, turned into a mysterious
legend, was sure to meet your eye.
What did it mean ?
The millions were about to learn by the
issue of Brown’s thrilling work, when the
thief Robinson saw his opportunity, and
in one night he, by the aid of an energetic
bill-poster, contrived to seize it.
This was what the world read:
ON BEHALE OE THE CROWN,
which has lost its natural covering
through age, trouble, or disease, use
ROBINSON’S WIGS.
No.—Old Kent-rocid.
Needless to say that when Brown’s book
appeared some days after, it fell stillborn
from the press. The author nearly sunk
into criticism; but, as the result of a firm
determination to live by honest labour, he
is now gaining a precarious subsistence as
a compiler of handbooks to places he has
never seen.
Turkish Promptness. —A Turkish and
a Russian officer, on some occasion of
truce, had scratched up an aquaintance.
As they sat together the conversation
turned on the comparative perfection of
discipline and obedience to which thei r
respective troops had been brought. To
give a specimen, the Russian calls in his
orderly. “ Ivan,” says he “ you will go to
such and such a tobacconist; you will buy
an oke of tobacco ; pay for it, and bring
it home straight. ” Ivan salutes and goes.
The Russian pulls out his watch—“ Now


Ivan is going to the tobacconist; now he
is there; now he is paying for the
tobacco ; now he is coming home; now he
is here—lvan ! ” Ivan comes in, salutes,
and hands over the tobacco. “ Pek guzel!”
gays the fat turk, with a condescending
bow, benignly half shutting his eyes the
while : very nice indeed ; but my orderly
will do as much. Mustafa !” “ Effendim!”
says Mustafa, bursting into the room, and
touching his chin and forehead in the
curious double-action salute of the Turk-
ish soldier. He receives the same direc-
tions, word for word, and departs. His
master hauls out a gigantic turnip of a
watch, such as Turks delight in, and pro-
ceeds, in imitation of the Bussian, to tick_
off Mustafa’s supposed performances’
“ Now he is going ; now he is there ; now
he is paying; now he is coming home;
now he is here —Mustafa ! ” “ Effendim!”
replies Mustafa, again bursting in.
“ Where is the tobacco? ” “ Papouchler
boulmadim—l havn’t found my shoes
yet.”
LOGICAL.
Lady (to shopman, after making him
turn over all the stock). —There, that’s
exactly the quality I want, but it is green,
and I want plum colour.
Insinuating Shopman. —You can’t do
better than take this. Besides, ma’am, it
is plum colour.
Lady. —What ? Plum colour ?
Shopman. —Certainly ; only the plums
are not ripe.
bargles’ visitor.
Bargles has been at it again. He had
had no sleep the night before, and had
also had a hard day of it, so after dinner
he was just settling down to a quiet nap
when a peremptory knock came at the
door.
“ Oh, bother ! ” said Bargles. “ I sup-
pose I had better open the door myself.”
He did so, and saw a cadaverous-looking
man on the doorstep, whom he at once
recognised as a School Board visitor.
“ Any children here ? ” asked the man,
harshly.
“ Yes, sir,” said Bargles, very mildly
indeed.
“How many?”
“ Only one.”
“ Son or daughter?”
“ Son.”
“ Does he go to school?”
“No.”
“Is he being educated at home by a
certificated teacher ? ”
“No.”
“ Can he read or write ? ”
“No,” said Bargles, pitiably, “and he
wont learn.”
“ You must send him to school.”
“ He wont go.”
“If he doesn’t go I shall summons
you.”
“ I can’t help it,” said B. “ I can’t do
anything with him; he’s quite incorri-
gible.”
“ Incorrigible, is he ? We'll soon take
that out of him. How old is he ? ”
“ Well, I couldn’t tell you exactly—not
to an hour, you know.”
“ Oh, hang it! I don’t want to know to
an hour.”
“ Dont get angry, if it is raining. He
was born at precisely seventeen and a half
minutes past twelve on a Tuesday morn-
ing.”
“ Confound it! What Tuesday mo rn
ing ? How long ago ? ”
“ Oh,” said Bargles, innocently, “ this
Tuesday morning— to-day— so that he is
now exactly”—consulting his watch—
“ let me see”—
But the S. B. Y. had vanished, with a
glare in his eye which would have cooked
a mutton chop.
“Yery abrupt person,” said Bargles,
musingly, as, after listening at the foot of
the stairs to the feeble wail of his first-
born, he went back to his room—“ very
abrupt indeed.”
*
A yovng man who had spent a little of
his own time, and a good deal of his
father’s money, in reading for the bar,
was asked, after his examination, how he
got along ? “ Very well,” said he, “ I
answered one question right.” “Ah,
indeed,” said the old gentleman, “ and
what was that ? ” “ They asked me what
a qui tam action was, and I told them I
didn’t know.”
The second night after her husband died
she sat by the open chamber window
waiting for the cats to begin fighting in
in the back yard. Said she, “ going to
sleep without a quarrel of some kind is so
new that I can’t stand it. Let me alone
till they begin; then I can doze oil
gently.”


AN AUSTRALIAN IDYLL.—THE
DRUNKARD’S DAUGHTER.
“Come, darling, let us go.”
I just remember it, his thin face blanched
With a consuming sorrow, and his arms,
A tender circle, girdling me with love.
’Twas in God’s acre, where the seed is
sown
For the eternal harvest. She lay there,
My mother, whom men say he drove to
Death,
Heart-broken, weary, wretched, destitute.
All men can lie, and most men love to lie.
And so that slander never won belief
With one, their daughter. She was dead,
and he
Had led me to her grave, had wept there,
prayed.
And clasped me as a treasure to his heart.
I was his all. Debt, ruin had the rest.
That night he bore me far, and when
the moon
Behind the tree-fringed mountains sank
to rest
He stopped, and gathered wood and
kindled fire
And wrapped me in his coat. Oh ! I was
pleased
To see the flames leap up toward the sky,
To hear the loud frogs’ croaking from the
swamp
And the weird cuckoo’s egotistic song.
For a long time we journeyed. In the
towns,
Wherein he sought employment, mother’s
hearts
Beat warm to me, and I was dower’d with
gifts,
Not costly, Mammon-wise, but before God
Bicher than rubies ; often bearded men,
Bough as the ore they quarried, pressed
their lips
Against my face, so tenderly, in fear
Least they should mar its dimpled soft-
nesses
With their chins’ stubble.
After many days
We met a stranger driving down the road.
“ Good day,” said he, reining hishorses in;
“ Good day,” returned my father, “ since
good days
Are far from plentiful.” “ The days are
good,”
Bemarked the stranger, “ but we make
them bad.”
Then suddenly the question “ Can you
teach ?”
Brought up a flush upon my father’s cheek.
“ I can.” “What! music, French, geom-
etry, and all
The gay yeneers which hide the native
grain ?”
“Yes,” said my father, “ all, yet when I
teach
I seek to polish, not to hide, the grain.”
“ Good,” said the stranger, laughing,
“ Pray jump in,
My name is Mitford, yours is ?”
“ Somerton.”
“Well, Mr. Somerton, my drive to-day
Was merely into town to look for you,
Not you as you, but for one qualified
To teach my girls. Is that wee pale thing
yours ?”
The glad affirmative was nearly drowned
In the long rain of kisses on my cheek.
Thus did our wanderings a haven gain.
That night we reached a station on a hill
Which sloped in terraced culture to a
stream,
Flowing with murmuring music to the
South.
It was a Home : that grand old Saxon
word,
In all its simple, strong, sweet tenderness,
Found there interpretation perfectly ;
Comfort and calm and virtue closely knit
By filial reverence and parental love.
I was installed as darling in the room
Of one whom God had taken to himself ;
And my poor father met with sympathy,
And found free vent for ardent impulses.
His was a master hand, that drew full out
The witchery of music from dumb chords ;
His the high sacramental gift which
wrings
The inward grace from the exterior shell,
Giving such voices to the instrument,
As whisper secrets of the Infinite.
We girls lived quiet lives of happiness.
We learned, we played, we jested, and we
sang,
Bolling up psalms into the sunny skies,
Playing beneath the emerald shield of
vines,
Or learning, from the example set to us,
Those homely duties which give Life its
charm.
So years rolled on; and then my sorrow
came.
In hope to multiply his little wealth
My father made a venture of it all,
And losing, sought to drown his bitterness
In bitterness more bitter, in the cup
That sparkles with the lurid light of Hell.
Is that too strong a word ? Believe it not.
What word is strong enough to paint the
snare


That snares the great, the gifted, and the
wise
Into forgetfulness of Honour, Love,
Duty to God, their neighbour, and them-
selves,
Deadens the intellect, destroys the will,
Changes to Satyr lusts divine desires
And damns a godlike and immortal soul ?
The Mitfords loved us, but my father’s
pride
Could not brook staying in the happy
home
Which once he made more happy. Ah!
that “ once ”
Is full of sorrow. They would have me
stay.
But no ! that could not he. What! sit
at home
And know my darling fighting with the
fiend
Alone, unaided, poor and miserable.
No ! we went forth together, as before
From the cold graveyard where my mother
lay.
Oh ! Sir, I cannot tell you to the end.
We went from place to place—and the
fiend won.
I fought, God knows, I pray’d, strove to
win— and lost.
0 Father, how I loved you !
Such the tale
Told in an hospital by dying lips.
Soon afterwards a weary spirit passed
Into the dim Hereafter noiselessly.
S.
THE PENGE MYSTERY.
The following romantic and touching
incident, in connection with the reprieve
of the prisoners Staunton, which we take
from a late file of the European Mail, is
another instance of the womanly sympathy
and tender consideration of Her Majesty
the Queen. God bless her! “On the
Sunday preceding the day fixed for the
execution of the Stauntons, the mother
of the two men travelled alone to Bal-
moral, in order to obtain an interview with
the Queen and beseech clemency for her
wretched sons. On reaching Ballater, after
leaving Aberdeen, the last station some
twelve miles from Balmoral, the poor
woman sought some conveyance to take
her the remainder of the journey.
Nothing could be obtained, and the
people, on hearing the melancholy
mission of the unfortunate mother,
showed their sympathy by obtaining for
her a seat on the mail hag in the little
cart, which contained only one small
seat for the driver. The mail bag was
thrown into the cart, and the poor
woman was allowed to seat herself upon
it. So she travelled through the cold
and dismal night the twelve dreary miles
to Balmoral. On reaching the Castle,
the next and formidable difficulty that
met her was obtaining an audience of the
Queen. After explaining the object of
her journey to the attendants, she at last
obtained an interview with Sir Thomas
Biddulph, who, after patiently listening
to what she had to say, promised to let
the Queen immediately know the object
of her being at the Castle. With little
delay, the Queen, setting aside all
etiquette and formality, entered the
apartment in which Mrs. Staunton was
seated, and with a true Sovereign’s and
woman’s heart listened to the appeal and
humble prayer of one of her subjects in
her deep distress. The poor petitioner
prayed for mercy, and that the lives of
her children might be spared. The
Queen, no doubt with an aching heart,
could only explain that she was entirely
in the hands of her responsible Ministers.
The painful interview ended, the peti-
tioner, grateful for the condescension and
sympathy of her Sovereign, sought how
to return to Ballater, heart-broken that
the last hope of saving her wretched sons
had failed her. The servants inquired
how she intended getting back the twelve
miles to Ballater. There was no con-
veyance, and they plainly saw the poor
woman was quite incapable of walking
the distance. Again the Queen was
informed of the circumstances, and with
that consideration so characteristic of her
nature she ordered that one of her own
carriages should be got ready to take
Mrs. Staunton back. Scarcely had the
poor mother left the Castle when the
mail bag containing her Majesty’s letters
and despatches was opened, and, to the
gratification and relief of the Queen, the
Home Secretary’s despatch recommending
the reprieve was amongst the number.
The lonely mother went on her way baek,
worn out and dejected. The Queen at
once instructed a special messenger to
proceed on horseback and take the glad
tidings to her sister in sorrow. Such
dee Is require no comment, but raise the
Monarch to the highest eminence. Mrs.
.Staunton, on reaching Ballater, was
instantly informed of the glad tidings,


and that the mail bag on which she had
sat with a bleeding heart contained the
reprieve which she had travelled so many
miles to obtain. Such is a simple
account of an episode in the life of the
Queen, well harmonising with all that
her subjects already know of her.
We learn that Alice Rhodes, another of
the prisoners, is at present engaged as the
principal attendant in the drinking-room
of a London vintner.
THE DAILY RECORD.
On Monday, 17th December, 1877, at 132
Pitt-street, of decline,
“ The Daily Record,”
aged 6 months.
It is our painful duty to announce the
sudden demise of the Daily Record, a
young and promising citizen, in whose
welfare a great deal of interest has been
expressed. This sad event, which oc-
curred at 11 o’clock in the morning of
the 17th ult., in the presence of two or
three intimate friends, was quite unex-
pected, the deceased having rallied con-
siderably during the last month.
A long and useful career was confi-
dently anticipated for the youthful sub-
ject of this memoir; but flesh is grass,
and in this instance the soil of Sydney
appears to have been too barren to pro-
duce a mature crop.
Far be it from us to cast any reflection
upon the eminent members of the pro-
fession who attended him in his last
moments, but it is broadly asserted, by
friends of the deceased, that, had a more
generous diet been prescribed, he would
have got over the weakness to which he
at last succumbed. We believe we are
correct in stating that, if he had survived,
the deceased would have come into a large
fortune, which will now go into the poc-
kets of a wealthy firm in no way con-
nected with him.
It is sad to reflect that, of all his nume-
rous friends and well-wishers, only three
persons attended his funeral, which was
conducted in the most simple and unos-
tentatious manner. Such is life !
The Yass district coroner has committed
a man named McKenzie for causing the
death of his wife by ill-treatment.
WAR NEWS
The new year dawned with favourable
prospects for Russia, in Europe as
well as in Asia. Plevna, after the
most heroic resistance, had been taken
on the 11th December ; Kars had
fallen on Sunday, the 18th November.
These two victories were of paramount
importance to Russia. The capture
of Plevna was directly preparatory to
the passage of the Balkans, besides
securing the occupation of Bulgaria
from the Lorn to the Iskra. The vic-
tory at Kars secured Armenia and the
needful base of operations for an ad-
vance into the villayet of Erzeroum.
As may be imagined, these grand suc-
cesses raised high the hopes of the pro-
Russians. Servia, the day after the fall
of Plevna, disregarding the wishes,
not to say, the menaces of Austria,
declared for Russia, and selfishly elect-
ing to be strong upon the stronger
side, poured her troops into Bulgaria.
The Turks and their backers, in no
way disheartened at their losses, pre-
pared to make a vigorous stand, and
to that end concentrated their forces
in Roumelia.
At the beginning of the year the
position in Europe was on this wise.
Bulgaria between the Lorn and the
Iskra was held by Russia. Servia
was helping Russia to press upon the
district to the north and west of
Sophia. Montenegro was harassing
the Turks on their extreme left. The
hosts of Russia were endeavouring to
force their way across the Balkans by
every practicable pass. They had pre-
viously effected a lodgement in the
Schipka pass, from which the Turks
had vainly attempted to drive them ;
but at the close of 1877 they did not
hold that pass, nor indeed any other,
though all were threatened. Turkey,
therefore, on the north had to oppose
a line of serried masses drawn up
along the whole length of the Balkans,
while on her western flank she was
also being desperately pressed. In
Asia, Turkey was concentrating her
forces for purposes of defence in the
hopes of saving of Erzeroum. Offen-


sive operations she had quite given
over.
The first news that reached us in
January told how General Todleben
had been appointed Chief of the Rus-
sian staff for the conduct of the war
in Europe, and that he was pushing
on the operations at the Schipka pass
with terrible vigour despite the ex-
tremity of the season. The Turks
were endeavouring to defend the roads
leading upon Sophia, the key of
western Roumelia. On the Bth inst.,
finding Sophia untenable, the Turks
evacuated it, retiring upon Iktinian,
with the view of holding the road
along the Maritzka, which leads to
Adrianople.
On the 10th instant the Russians
forced the Schipka and Trajan passes.
On the 11th they were equally suc-
cessful at the Iron Gate pass, some
forty miles to the eastward of Schipka.
The passage of the Balkans was now
won. Sophia being held, as also
Nish, which surrendered on the 12th
instant, there was nothing to hinder
the southward advance of the Russians
upon Adrianople. As might have been
guessed, the next intelligence—the
latest news to hand —is that the troops
-of the Czar are in full march upon
that city, from which the Turks are
said to have retired, with the intention
•of making their final stand within the
lines of Tchehredgi—and a desperate
stand it is certain to be.
In Asia, the operations of the month
have been confined, on both sides,
within the villayet of Erzeroum, the
city itself having been invested by the
Russians on the sth inst., with what
result we as yet do not know.
Whilst the war has thus been
pushed on so vigorously, efforts have
not been wanting, on the part of
England, to get the combatant powers
to agree to an armistice. Turkey
seems to have been willing to consent
on an uti possidetis basis ; but the re-
cent immense successes of the Russians
have restored to the military authori-
ties their prestige, and their voice is
still for war. They think they see the
prize already in their hands ; but they
may even yet find themselves mis-
taken. Turkey has still a reserve of
half a million men. A new levy of
two hundred thousand has been
ordered. The deposition of the Tur-
kish Council of War, whose contra-
dictory orders and corrupt “ get-at-
able-ness ” have done so much to
contribute to the Russian successes,
has for weeks been clamoured for,
and, by this time, is possibly a fait
accompli. With Mehemet Ali in com-
mand, with the Russian line of attack
considerably narrowed, with both
their flanks protected by the sea,
there is yet every reason for the Turks
(and the Turcophile) not to despair.
[During the continuance of the pre-
sent war, it is our intention to give
Once a- Weeh a connected and intel-
ligible summary of the military opera-
tions, in the hopes of saving the
newspaper reader the laborious task of
endeavouring to harmonise the war
telegrams that daily contradict one
another. ]
TOWN GOSSIP.
The topics of the week have been,
almost exclusively, the weather and
the Melbourne Ministry, with odds
for absolute sultriness on the latter.
Certainly, in the way of warmth,
“ 125° in the shade ” (the general
doleful burden of the country tele-
grams of the last few days) is not to
be easily either beaten or borne ; but
it is probably even hotter in Collins-
street. Whether there is any imme-
diate connection between the por-
tentous heat of the weather, and the
Victorian Premier’s fine “midsummer
madness ” may be left to the decision of
the medical jury, who will probably soon
have to sit upon that excellent subject,
de lunatico inquirendo. It certainly
looks like it. Hydrophobia is always
rifest in the dog-days, and anything
more like a mad dog than the Mel-
bourne madman, has never before
been seen on this hitherto happy side
of the hydrophobia line. Moreover,
there is plenty of thunder in the air
in both cases ; and, unhappily, the


Melbourne Jove’s thunderbolts have
not fallen so harmlessly as such
mountebank fireworks should have
done. On the contrary, they have
hit hard and far, blighting the fair
New Year’s prospects of many a home,
and spreading rage and ruin through
a land, but for his fell mischief, of
plenty and peace.
It is difficult sitting quietly, if not
very coolly here, with no worse
enemies than summer and hot weather,
under the peaceful rule of the mild
Farnell, tempered with the genial
mirth of the amiable Fitzpatrick—it
is difficult, we say, sitting here secure
from any worse “ war’s alarms ” than
the next meeting of the Working
Men’s Association, and safe in the
gentle dulness of a Sutherland, and
the financial caution of a Cohen, to
realise the deplorable position of our
unhappy neighbours—to be compared
to nothing so much as a man’s house
stormed by lunatics. The nearest
approach to a similar state of things
here, would probably be to imagine
Mr. M'Elhone at the Lands’ Office
decapitating squatters, Mr. Buchanan
doing justice on recalcitrant judges, Mr.
Martin Guest and his “pals” at the
Treasury, and at Government House-
well, any weak, wicked old woman,
light-hearted and light-headed enough
to form a good companion picture to
Sir George Bowen, in the next illus-
trated edition of “Great Criminals.”
There was some very pleasant talk
about books the other day at the opening
of the St. John’s College Library, the
eloquent Archbishop, of course, carry-
ing off the easy palm. Except that it
savoured somewhat of the lamp—(how
did that copy of old Hesiod turn up
so handily T) —as his Lordship’s elo-
quence is apt to do. The Archbishop’s
speech was an admirable one, and
makes us regret anew that the Univer-
sity should have neglected her late
opportunity of doing honour to one
capable of reflecting, in turn, so much
larger honour upon her. Literature has
scarcely yet been justified of her chil-
dren in connection with our somewhat
pretentious chief seat of learning. If
our University students have read
many books they have certainly written
none, and if they have learned many
languages they have at first been care-
ful to conceal from us the extent of
their acquisitions even in their own.
We do not say that this is absolutely
a bad thing, so far as our University
students have gone. Probably they
might have gone further, even to posi-
tive publication, and done very much
worse. But it certainly is a good
thing that, in at least one of our affi-
liated colleges literature in the palpable
shape of a good library should have
found a home ; and we are sure that
whatever further distinctions, sacred
or secular, may be in store for Mr.
Patrick Jennings, his proudest may
always be that, in a moment of happy
munificence, he “peopled the silent
spaces ” of the library of St. John’s.
And speaking of Mr. Jennings, the
munificent patron of learning, reminds
us, strangely enough, of Mr. Augustus
Morris, whose “ patronage ” is quite
of another kind, and whose special
distinction just now is—to have no
learning at all. It is this gentleman’s
double misfortune to be unable to
speak French, and to be anxious for a
position where to speak French is, or
ought to be, indispensable. If ever
there was a case where the “ eternal
fitness of things ” was plainly demon-
strable, it surely might be said to be
in this instance of an Executive Com-
missioner to a French Exhibition being
able to speak the French language ;
and so thinks Mr. Jennings, who, by
the way, does speak French. Mr.
Augustus Morris, who doesn’t, thinks
otherwise. The “eternal fitness of
things,” in his view, is solely between
himself and the Executive Commis-
sionership. He has been an Execu-
tive Commissioner before, and would
very much like to be an Executive
Commissioner again ; and if that is
not “ fitness ” enough for such a great
man as Mr. Jennings, it is quite
enough for a poor plain man like him-
self, who, indeed, has never been able
to make things fit very well, and can-
not afford to be particular. That Mr.


Morris will go, with our other “exhi-
bits,” to the Paris Exhibition, is likely
enough, when we shall probably hear,
in due course, a la the same observant
traveller’s learned letters on the
American wheelbarrow, that the French
are a frog-eating race, and sometimes
wear wooden shoes.
SHORTHAND IN LAW COURTS.
On dit that a very strong opinion
has been expressed, by certain learned
legal functionaries, that the adminis-
tration of justice would be greatly
facilitated by the employment
shorthand-writers, attached to the
courts of law, and notably the Supreme
C ourt. It has always appeared to us
an anomaly that evidence should be
taken by his Honor, the j udge occupy-
ing the bench for the time being,
slowly and laboriously in long hand,
when it might be more expeditiously
and accurately recorded by an expert.
We have taken the trouble to look up
information bearing upon the practice
and professional status of shorthand-
writers in the old country, and we
find, in an old number of the Fhono-
graplhic Reporter, an article which
appears to deal pretty exhaustively
with the subject. It reads thus
The shorthand writer is not a salaried
individual connected with any particular
publication, but is usually employed by
solicitors to take notes of cases of impor-
tance where it is essential to have an
accurate record of the arguments of
counsel, the evidence of witnesses, and
the observations of the judges. These
are all taken in shorthand (or so much of
them as the solicitors may require) and,
if necessary, transcribed into longhand.
Here and there, solicitors have clerks in
their employment who are sent into
court to perform this labor, but this is
regarded as a great innovation by the
independent shorthand-writer, who ac-
cordingly protests against it very loudly.
In the great majority of cases the pro-
fessional shorthand-writer is employed,
and is paid a regular fee for taking notes,
and so much per folio for the transcript.
It sometimes happens that no transcript
is required, the notes being taken as a
protection in case of any ulterior proceed-
ings arising which may render them
necessary. In very heavy cases lasting
several days, it is usual for the proceed-
ings to be written out de die in diem, so
that the parties engaged are able to peruse
in the morning the full acoount of the
proceedings of the previous day. Addi-
tional copies of the transcript are often
made by law stationers as they are called.
When more than three or four copies are
required it is customary to lithograph
them, and in rare cases they are printed.
This, of course, involves great labor and
expense; the shorthand-writer requires
many assistants in the transcription of
his notes, and sometimes the labor of
taking the notes is divided between several
persons who relieve each other as occa-
sion requires. The work of transcribing,
or lithographing, or printing extends far
into the night, often into “the wee short
hour ayont the twal.”
Solicitors usually consider it desirable
to employ a shorthand-writer in a case
that is likely to be taken to a superior
court by way of appeal. When the appeal
is heard, the shorthand-writer’s notes are
generally handed in, and received as
quasi-official records, when explanation is
needed. It is especially important that
the Court of Appeal should have a ver-
batim report of the judgment of the judge
whose decision is questioned, and some-
times this is the only portion of the pro-
ceedings of the inferior court which the
shorthand-writer is engaged to supply.
Attempts have now and then been made
to introduce newspaper reports for refer-
ence ; but the judges will never receive
them, and in some instances they shrink
from them with a species of pure horror.
The same shorthand-writer is sometimes
engaged by both sides, either individually
or jointly, and sometimes each side has
its own stenographic representative.
An Institution of Shorthand-writers has
recently been formed for the purpose of
raising the status and improving the effi-
ciency of its members. One object of the
Association is to exclude ignorant and
incompetent men who serve to bring dis-
grace upon the profession they have
chosen.


Many shorthand-writers travel on cir-
cuit, following the judges to the various
assize towns, where, like the barristers,
they are retained in all important cases.
Assize trials very frequently give rise to
ulterior proceedings in London, where
efforts are made by disappointed litigants
to set aside verdicts on technical points
of law, or to obtain new trials. Applica-
tions for this purpose are made before
superior courts, and new arguments arise
upon them. The shorthand-writer’s notes
of the trials in question are often found
peculiarly serviceable, and many judges
attach great value to them.
The reports appearing from day to day
in the newspapers are not supplied by
professional shorthand-writers. In some
of the courts, barristers not overburdened
with briefs are employed by the principal
newspapers to supply short reports of the
important cases. Having undergone a
legal training, they are, of course able to
seize the principal points, and to state
them clearly and concisely for the general
reader. Young barristers are often able
to pay their circuit expenses by employing
their time in this way, and we can con-
ceive of no reasonable objection to such a
course.
As we have already said, newspaper
reports are never permitted to be cited as
authorities in courts of law. We need not
say that the public attach the greatest
importance to them; and, as a rule, they
are do doubt accurate and impartial,
though they may not be so copious as
those of the shorthand-writer, or so tech-
nically exact as the statements of the
legal reporter.
ET CETERA.
Mr. Augustus Morris goes to the Paris
Exhibition as Executive Commissioner for
New South Wales. Strange to say, he
can’t speak French!
Mr. Farnell has properly snubbed the
Working Men’s Defence Association. He
declines to suspend assisted immigra-
tion.
A monthly steam service, via the Cape,
has been arranged for with the Orient
Line Company by the N. S. W. Govern-
ment.
Gold diggings, both alluvial and reef,
are reported to have been discovered on
the river Lalokie, New Guinea.
Herr Kretschmann’s Beethoven Festival
Concert, held on the 15th inst., in the
Guild Hall, was a musical treat of high
order.
Considerable pressure is being brought
to bear on the Government by the advo-
cates for metropolitan railway extension.
Railway tickets can now be purchased
at the suburban post-offices.
Mr. Cunningham, of Boston, United
States, has paid to the Governments of
New South Wales and New Zealand the
sum of £lO,OOO, in full settlement of all
claims against Hall and Co., for the
failure of the Hall Mail Contract (via
San Francisco).
The Premier has informed a deputa-
tion from the Agricultural Society, that
he will withdraw the prohibition against
the importation of stock, if assured by
the officers of his department that no risk
will be run in taking such a step.
The Thames (N.Z.) gold yield for 1877
was £840,000.
The land sales mania is still raging.
Mr. Marks has been nominated
to the Legislative Council, in which cham-
ber he will represent the Government.
On the introduction of responsible
Government, Mr. Marks, as the represen-
tative of Kiama, played the part of a
staunch Liberal.
Mr. Rogers has been gazetted Crown
Prosecutor at Quarter Sessions, for the
city of Sydney, vice Foster, the new
Attorney-General.
Professor Smith has been re-elected
President of the Council of Education
for the current year.
The library of St. John’s College,
Sydney, was opened, on Tuesday last,
with much ceremony. There was a lunch,
and a speech from Dr. Vaughan. That
this library was opened at so early a date,
is due to the princely liberality of its
chief benefactor, Mr. P. A. Jennings.
The Mint test of Mr. Goldie’s New
Guinea quartz shows a yield of 2 dwts.
to the ton.
Berrima is agitating for a branch line
from Bong-Bong, on the Great Southern
Railway.
The Graham Berry Cabinet intend to
pay on the votes of the Victorian Assem-
bly, without troubling themselves about
the Council.
Last week the manager of Gourmana
station, near Warialda, with a party o
friends, succeeded in killing 8500 kan-
garoos.


The hon. J. G. Francis, an ex-Premier
of Victoria, is about to re-enter political
life.
Bush fires have been doing considerable
damage in the suburbs.
Mr. Farnell does not propose to increase
either the number of the civil servants,
or the salaries paid them.
The Agent-General has been informed
that there is no opening for workers in
any branch of the iron trades, but that
there is a brisk demand for bricklayers,
carpenters, and pick and shovel men.
The Indian Famine Relief Fund has
crept up to over £lB,OOO.
The aeronaut Wells has been com-
mitted for trial for the manslaughter of a
young man named Harden, whose death
a coroner’s jury has declared to have been
caused by the “ Professor’s ” negligence.
The International Telegraph Congress
meets at Berne on the Ist July next.
Victor Emmanuel, “ il re galant’uomo,”
died on the 9th inst.
The Fenian military prisoners have
been released.
Mr. Pett, of Burrowa, is manufacturing
champagne.
Edward Wilson, senior proprietor and
whilom editor of the Melbourne Argus ,
died in England on the 10th inst. He
may be called the father of Australian
acclimatisation.
Mr. Cracknell, superintendent of tele-
graphs, has made successful experiments
with the telephone.
The total yield of Victorian gold in
1877 was 521,976 oz.
The Albert Ground Company and the
Cricket Association are at loggerheads.
The Wagga Wagga wheat crop has
turned out first-rate despite the drought.
The Hon. G. H. Cox arrived at his seat
in the Mudgee district on Friday last,
after a thirteen ihonths’ tour in Europe
and America.
Mining is 100 king up again at Gulgong.
Some of the Hill End claims are turn-
ing out first-cla s stone.
The cross-country tracks are swarming
with travelling sheep.
The following changes have been made
in the Railway Department. Mr. Good-
chap has been appointed Commissioner,
Mr. Vernon Secretary, and Mr. Carlisle
Traffic Manager. A general traffic man-
ager is to be “ imported ” from England,
also an engineer to take charge of the
locomotive branch. When the latter
arrives, Mr. Mason’s duties will be con
fined to looking after the permanent way
branch.
The Council of Education has re-
scinded article 48 of the Regulations of
29th November, 1875, and in lieu thereof
has framed another regulation, which
fixes the salaries of male teachers in
charge of schools other than Provisional
at the following rates, but subject as
heretofore to regulation 49. Class 1., A,
£240 per annum ; B, £192. Class 11.,
A. £l6B ; 8., £156. Class 111., A., £132 ;
B, £120; C, £lOB. As at present, the
salaries of unmarried male teachers, mar-
ried teachers not assisted by their wives,
and female teachers in charge of schools,
will be £l2 per annum less than the
foregoing rates. It is also proposed that
the allowances to students during train-
ing under rule 58 shall be increased as
follows Married couples, from £7 to £8
per month ; and unmarried persons, from
£5 to £6 per month.
W. Doyle, a mail driver, has been fined
£3, or in default a month’s imprison-
ment, for having violently assaulted Mr.
Holroyd, the Master in Equity, when
travelling between Gundagai and Bown-
ing.
The new Churchmen’s Club has been
constituted.
The Colorado beetle has turned up in
New Zealand.
The Political Reform League are seek-
ing to secure the unanimous action of its
kindred societies with regard to the land
question.
The return intercolonial match with
Victoria is announced for the 22nd, 23rd,
and 25th of February. The match be-
tween the Australian team and a combined
fifteen of New South Wales and Victoria,
has been fixed for the 28th February, and
Ist and 3rd March.
The Department of Mines has just
issued a geological map of the Hartley,
Bowenfells, Wallerawang, and Rydal dis-
tricts.
Mr. Dixon, F.C.S., is announced to
deliver weekly lectures on Chemistry, at
the School of Arts.
The Builders’ and Contractors’ Associa-
tion now numbers 420 members.
Robin Hood won the Albury Cup on
Wednesday last.
The Orange people feted Mr. Combes
on Wednesday last.
The Queensland Government purpose
to introduce a Local Government Bill
next session.


Bismarck’s study at Yarzin, is tele-
phonically connected with the Foreign
Office at Berlin.
Cowan and Co.’s new building in
Wynyard Square has an imposing look.
In the pediment is a plaster mollusc, sup-
ported by two birds of the ibis tribe.
They have very long bills (at six and
twelve months.) The intended motto
(for the mollusc) is, we believe, —in medio
tutissimus ibis.
“Is he Popenjoy?” is the title of
Anthony Trollope’s new serial, just com-
menced in “ All the Year Round.”
An international Arctic expedition is
spoken of as likely to start under Austrian
auspices in September next.
The overland line to Port Darwin has
been interrupted since Tuesday.
Sir John Robertson elects to sit for
Mudgee.
Mr. Halloran retires to-day from the
Principal Undersecretaryship on full pay.
He is to be succeeded by Mr. A. Allan.
Dean Timothy M‘Car thy is (it is said)
to succeed Dr. Timothy O’Mahony
(“ gently let down ”), in the See (R.C.)
of Armidale.
Diorrexine is a new German explosive
of fabulous strength and extreme cheap-
ness.
Mr. Farnell has further postponed the
Crown Land Sales, which should have
been held last month.
The latest snake story comes from Illa-
warra. A correspondent of the Mercury,
writing from Tullimbar, states that Mr.
Prior, who fortunately had a flail in his
hand at the time, threshed a snake so
severely that the reptile disgorged another
snake four feet long. It is evident that
the blows of the flail came down so
heavily that the poor creature was com-
pelled to recognise his assailant’s claim
to the booty not only a priori but a for-
tiori.
Looking over a file of country papers
the other day, we found a paragraph
stating that the Minister for Railways
had announced that “ Saturday excursion
trains, at the rate of a fare and a half,
would be run on the two lines of Railway
during the summer months beyond a dis-
tance of fifty miles between each station.”
Will some Grammar School boy translate
this into plain English ?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
We are always glad to receive con-
tributions in the shape of good tales,
local sketches, and humorous articles.
C. E. C. —The two sketches you sent
possess considerable merit, but they
require too much revision for imme-
diate use.
D. B. —Your article is too combustible.
The “Sydney Once a Week” is not
a powder magazine.
Etta. —We shall be happy to receive the
tale you speak of, and, contrary to
the usual practice, we will return
the manuscript if not accepted.
E. M. —We are much pleased with
your writing and your description of
colonial life, but your story lacks
interest. Try again. Find a good
plot and write up to it.
Incog. —Not up to our standard of
publication.
Santiago. —Not sufficiently interesting
to the general public.
M. A. B. —Only suitable for insertion
in an open column, for which we
have not space in this number.
Poems by S. H. L. R —Declined, with
thanks.
The late thunderstorm, which was felt
so severely in many parts of the colony,
appears, according to the Albury Banner,
to have produced very disastrous results
at Howlong, where it not only “ blew in
two windows of the Wesleyan church, but
shifted the church itself bodily for some
distance. The lightning then struck a
cow and calf, and smashed seven fruit
trees all in a row.” The Banner does not
say how long it took to do this, but it is
clear that the violence of the wind must
have been terrific, and that the people
of Howlong suffered a visitation only
equalled by the stenoh caused by the
escape of sewer gas in Sydney some
months ago, which, according to the
Health Board, was so strong in a certain
locality, that it broke an old woman’s
arm in two places.
♦
A Ballarat clergyman, named Hender-
son, in a sermon preached last Sunday,
likened Governor Bowen to Pontius
Pilate. Clergymen love their little jokes.
