

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. H. BARLEE.
No. 20, V"ol. I.]
JUNE 1, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
Day op
MEMORANDUM.
SUN.
High
Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
Sydney
Cove.
June
1
Sat
St. Nicornede. New moon 11.53 a.m. Charles Lever
6.58
4.58
8.13 a.m.
2
H
died, 1872.
First Sunday after Ascension. Gordon riots, 1780.
6.58
4.57
8.55 a.m.
3
M
Second Term begins. Prince George of Wales born,
6.59
4.57
9.37 a.m.
4
Tn
1865. Sir H. Robinson arrived in Sydney, 1872,
Battle of Magenta, 1859.
6.59
4.57
10.18 a.m.
5
W
St. Boniface. Derby Day. [Good day for Bonifaces!]
7. 0
4.57
10.57 a.m.
0
Th
Donaldson Ministry assumed office, 1856. Slave trade
7. 0
4.56
11.39 .am.
7
P
abolished, 1806.
Sebuot: Festival of Weeks. Sydney Chamber of
7. 1
4.56
12.24 p.m.
Commerce established, 1826.
AGENTS will oblige by forwarding returns immediately after receipt ol
accounts rendered from this office.
Remittances, if by P. O. Order, to be made payable to C. H. Barlee,
Sydney.
PERSONAL.
We shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.B.—Advertisements for “ SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK” will be received up to ten o’clock on
Thursday morning.
With much reluctance, and only at
the last moment, we have to inform
ur subscribers, with many thanks
for their support, that the encourage-
ment offered to this magazine by the
public of New South Wales has not
been sufficient to enable us to con-
tinue it.
We waited until after the first
quarter before asking any extraneous
aid. We hoped, then, that our
readers, having had ample oppor-
tunity of deciding upon the merits


of “ Once a Week,” would give in
some substantial form their approval
of our efforts to cater for their enter-
tainment. This hope has proved
fallacious : the subscription list has
not—in a population of 150,000 —
yet reached 300, and advertisers have
not thought fit to make us the reci-
pients of their favors.
The offer we made in our 18th
issue to the public to take up 1000
shares of £1 each, to represent one-
half of the proprietory, received no
response ; and, in reply to our offers
to capitalists, whose names had
been mentioned to us as patrons of
literature, to take a small interest in
the undertaking, we have met with
so many refusals that we have not
cared to persist.
Under these circumstances, the
only course open to us is to make our
bow to the Sydney public, and to
crave their pardon for having been
so sanguine as to expect any encou-
ragement to enterprise, especially
literary enterprise, in the ONE-
HORSE CITY.
In the interest of those of our
supporters who have volunteered a
year’s payment in advance, and not
to neglect any chance of continuing
the issue of a publication, which, if
the opinions of the Press are to be
taken as an index, has met with
general approval, we now offer to
any one or more capitalists one-
fourth share (sleeping, i.e., without
liability of working expenses) in the
venture.
Failing any response to this offer
we can only bid our readers adieu,
and wish them a larger measure of
success in their several enterprises
than has been accorded to “ Once a
Week.”
The Editor.
THE ONE HORSE CITY.
No. 2.
In this issue we proceed to show,
according to promise, how the too
generally acknowledged “ one-hor's-
edness” of Sydney may logically be
traced to the peculiarly circumstanced
journalistic action of the Sydney
Morning Herald.
The proprietors of the Sydney
Morning Herald enjoy (as is pretty
universally known) a monopoly of a
very close and rigorous description.
That they do enjoy it is, doubtless,
cause of intense congratulation to
themselves and their belongings, and
we do not wish for a single
moment so much even as to
insinuate that, as individuals, they
have acted otherwise than the
majority of their fellow creatures
would have done under like condi-
tions. From causes over which they
had no control, but for which they
are ingrates if they do not praise the
gods profoundly, they found them-
selves, some decades back, the sole
caterers to the journalistic wants of
the Queen City of the Australias.
Not a rival worth mentioning in the
field ! The unexampled luck of the
thing turned their heads. With
their unlooked for prosperity they


waxed exceedingly fat. Like fcSir
Balaam they ascribed their bonnes
fortunes to their own merits. And
when to their other good fortunes
was added the unexpected one that
the people of New South Wales as
a community appeared to be wholly
content with a mere advertising sheet,
they gave up the mission so possible
to them of being the leaders of
thought, lest it might bring them in
rude contact with their advertising
clients, and allowed themselves and
their property to drift into the posi-
tion of—what shall we say ? well !
of—bill-stickers and dead -wall (for
as Bottom saith, “ Some man or
other must present wall ”) —of mere
agents and medium for the propaga-
gation of whatsoever truths or lies
the men on one side of a commercial
transaction thought fit to propound
to those on the other.
Having accepted this position, the
management of the Sydney Morning
Herald quickly discovered it would
never do to speak out ore rotundo on
any moot point (though it were of
vital consequence to the community
to discover its solution), and aptly
enough learned the proverbial truth
of silence being (in such a case es-
pecially) golden. They also became
instructed by circumstance into the
secret of prophesying after the event
being a safer and cheaper course
than lending a vigorous hand afore-
time to mould colonial history after
noble types—cheaper, because, as
the Yankee humorist writes, it is I
foolish to go to the trouble of
making up one’s mind
“ when events
WiU du it for one free of expense.”
Nay ! more, they picked up in the
school of selfishness that accursed i
maxim which teaches that to be
strong upon the stronger side (with J
just here and there loopholes of es-
cape, lest, peradventure, a now weak
brother should manage to climb up
by hook or crook to the honours of
a big bank balance) was financially
(and so, par consequence , morally)
the straight tip.
This £. s. d. philosophy (if, in-
deed, we can call it philosophy)
acted with most sinister effect upon
the laissez faire alter instincts of the
moneyed class of New South Wales.
The representatives of this class, to
whom wealth was, in the great
majority of cases, not so much the
reward of patient labour or of in-
telligent and vigorous wrestling with
adverse circumstance as of the “ un-
earned increment ” of an unequal,
monstrous, and most unrighteous
system of the alienation of the ager
publicus, felt that they were safe, so
long as the Herald was the journal-
istic power in the land. In an organ
which recognised property as the
sole social test, the colonial plutocrats
could trace the features of a some-
thing on which they could trust. In
a press system which was com-
placently blind to the logrolling
tendencies of the Associated Banks,
the land owner, prompted by his
smug little land broker could place
unmitigated confidence.
The point, therefore, with the
Sydney Morning Herald was, while
giving telegraphic and parliamentary
news with immense copiousness
(making expense no consideration)
to deny to their readers all informa-
mation as regards the inner working
of social, commercial, and political
movements—the special kind of in-
formation, the supply of which to
their clientele the average British,
Victorian, or American journals
make their leading feature.


Had the proprietors of the Sydney
Morning Herald realised the true
dignity of the position in which Fate
had placed them, they would have
comprehended that the task set
before them was not so much to
supply a want as to educate a taste
—nay, more, to train a people in the
path of constitutional liberalism.
Doubtless the task was onerous.
Well-to-do New South Welshmen of
twenty years ago didn’t as a rule re-
quire new ideas. They were rather
pining for a return to the oligarchic
days of Darling and Macquarie.
In the groove of the “old identity”
colonist the Sydney Morning Herald
elected to stand—and in that groove
the Sydney Morning Herald sticks
yet. And the worst of it is that
the somnolent action which has fol-
lowed that foolish election has acted
upon the body corporate of the
colony like a dull narcotic, lulling
the public ear to the sleep of the
sluggard; while on the individual
citizen it has been no less disastrous
in its effect—it being rare, as inter-
colonial friends will testify, to find
a Sydney business man who is not a
representative type (more or less
prononce') of the One-Horse City
from which he hails !
TRAPS!
Ho. lip-HOTELS TO LET.
John Smith came up to town some
twelvemonth or so ago with the inten-
tion of passing the remainder of his
existence as the landlord of a snug little
metropolitan pub. He was sick of his
endeavours to turn yeoman. Free selec-
tion had played the deuce with his
resources. All he had left in the world
was a couple of hundred pounds, and two
long-dated pro. notes of £5O each, a sum
ample, as he thought, to enable him. by
the aid of a smart broker, to start licensed
victualling on a profitable basis. Glanc-
ing down the advertisements in the
“ Businesses for sale ” column of the S.
M. Herald, he noted that central city
houses, superior suburbans, and snug
Oxford-street taverns were in the market
in galore, with “ assistance” (if required).
One advertisement in especial took his
fancy. He felt he had struck the right
vein, so posted off at once to the office of
Mr. Isaac Mocatta, the broker, named
therein.
Mr. Mocatta is, as is well known, a fat
little Jew. morally unctuous and physically
greasy. He carries a large display of
gold and trinkets on his manly breast.
His fingers gleam with effulgent gems
Were he to lavish more of his money upon
his washerwoman and less on his jeweller
interviews with him would be more
pleasant. As it is he is frowsy.
Smith, in his anxiety to secure the
“ snug hotel doing first class business,
terms moderate,” was so taken by
Mocatta’s moral unctuousness that he
failed to detect the frowsiness.
“ Yes,” said the broker, after hearing
what Smith had to say, “its the very
house for a man of your stamp. There’s
a fortune to be made in it, there is, so
help me ! You can manage two hundred,
you say ; well, I dare say I can find a
party as will let you have the balance.”
“ What’ll the balance be ?” asks Smith.
“Well, between you and me, the figure
asked is four hundred, but I think I can
take it on myself to say three seventy-
five—and dirt cheap at that—good stand,
takings twenty-five pound a week, in fact
the present landlord wouldn’t give the
place up for double the amount only he
wants to go and live on a farm on the
Hawkesbury he’s just had left him. But
what’s the use of blowing, let’s go and
see the crib and vou can judge for your-
self.”
“ All right,” says Smith, “ shall we go
now ?”
“Well,” replies Mr. Isaac Mocatta, “ I
can’t run away just now as my clerk’s
out. Come down to-morrow, say twelve
sharp, and I’m your man.”
The next day at about ten minutes
past noon a hansom cab deposited Mr.
John Smith and his Hebrew friend at the
door of a small “ pub.” in Frederic-street,
N.E. Every one knows that the lower
end of this street abuts on the extensive
wharf of the Grand Polynesian and Gene-
ral Oceanic Steam Company.


“Now, then,” says Isaac, “there’s the
crib. Have a smart look around,
overhaul the books, though, for the mat-
ter of that, I know what they’ll show,
every penny of twenty-five sovs. a
week. If you’re not suited down to the
ground I’ll eat my hat!”
Smith was charmed with the bar. It
was clean as a new pin Behind it sat
the landlady dispensing cheery smiles
and bright glasses of malt or spirituous
liquor to a crowd of some dozen seafar-
ing men who appeared to be quite at
home. In the little bar parlour five
other customers were discussing bottled
ale and stout.
“ Well, Mrs. Hartigan, and how’s the
world using you ?” asks Moccatta the
unctuous.
“Oh, I’ve nothing to complain of,” re-
plies the landlady.
“ Now, Mr. Smith, give it a name.
This is a gentleman, Mrs. Hartigan, as
I’ve brought down to see your good man. ”
“ I’m sorry for that. Hartigan was up
all last night with a party of the City of
Noumea men, so he had to turn in after
breakfast.”
“ I wonder you allow that. What’s
the use of a husband if that kind of
thing goes on.”
“Well, what are we to do ? Business
must be seen to. Only if it lasts much
longer the way we’re going on now, place
always full night and day, it’ll wear us
both out, and what’s the use of money if
one can’t enjoy it ? Does the gentleman
want to see Hartigan particular like ?”
“Yes! I think you’d better call him.
Mr. Smith wants to inspect the house and
have a look at the books.”
At this, Mrs. Hartigan went upstairs
to call her husband.
Two or three of the seafaring men, at
the same moment, strolled out into the
street.
In a very few moments the bar was
filled with several dozen of fresh cus-
tomers, sailors, lumpers, and wharfingers’
men, to whom the word had been passed
that a “chum” had been down to take
the Stevedore’s Delight.
Presently, down stairs comes the land-
lord. Mocatta introduces Mr. John
Smith to Mr. Patrick Hartigan. Seeing
the crowd the latter expresses a wish,
fortified by an oath, that the crowd ain’t
going to keep him up that night.
“ But,” asks Smith, “ ain’t they the
fellows to knock the money down ?”
“ My word !” replies Hartigan.
“ Look here, Hartigan,” says Mocatta,
“ have you any objection to let my friend
look over your books. He’s ready to
give your figure less twenty-five pounds,
if satisfied about the takings. I’ve told
him an average of twenty-five. Is that
a fair thing ?”
“ Yes, about it ; though its nigher
twenty-six for the matter of that.”
The books were produced, and though
the takings for the previous night were
not entered, they showed the higher
average mentioned by the landlord.
Having examined the house and
shouted for the crowd, the two visitors
left the Stevedore’s Delight.
“Well?” said the unctuous one, as the
hansom rolled up Frederic-street.
“ I’ll take the house,” answers John
Smith.
I thought it ’ud suit. Best house of
its kind in the town. You’d better give
me something to bind the bargain, till I
get all things settled. You can go in at
once. I’ll see to everything.”
Smith there and then handed Mocatta
five ten-pound notes.
“ Now, who’d have thought it,” re-
marks the broker as the cab drove up at
his office door in Royal-street, “ there’s
the very man inside who’ll let you have
the balance of the three seventy-five.”
“ Who is he ?"’ asked Smith.
“Oh! that’s Marbottle, of Marbottle
and Nipps. Come in and we’ll do the
whole thing in a jiffy. ”
In they went. In less than half-an-
hour Marbottle, of Marbottle and Nipps,
the great brewers, cordial makers, and
bottlers, of the well-known Happy Home
brand, had consented to loan him two
hundred pounds on the security of a bill
of sale over the furniture and stock-in-
trade of the Stevedore’s Delight.
“Just for a matter of form,” says
Marbottle, of Marbottle and Nipps.
“ I’ll get Solomon and Benjoseph to
make out the necessary memorandum.
Come in to-morrow, Smith, like a good
fellow, and you’ll find everything 0.K.”
Smith was so charmed with the accom-
modating turn affairs had taken that he
proposed an adjournment to the Oriental.
The resolution was carried nem. con. , as
was Smith himself a short while after-
wards, to bed.


On the following day the memorandum
was ready for signature. Smith listened
to Mocatta’s clerk gabbling it over just
as a matter of form ; and then just as
another matter of form attached his
name to it.
Mocatta was as good as his word. He
did get everything settled, and withont
troubling John Smith. He even secured
that too credulous individual’s license for
him without his action in the matter or
even his knowledge. The long and short
of it all was that in a very few days
after his arrival in town Mr. John Smith
was installed as the landlord of the
Stevedore’s Delight in consideration of
the following moneys paid to Mr. Isaac
Mocatta :—£375 for Patrick Hartigan’s
interest in the house, £l2 for the stock,
£5 for the license, and £lO for the
transfer of the lease (this was a fee to
old Ezra Cohen, the owner of the pro-
perty, who always objected on high
moral grounds to men holding licenses in
houses owned by him unless they gave
him a material financial guarantee of
their respectability).
Turning things over in his mind as
soon as he had settled down, Smith soon
found himself in a state of hopeless vas-
salage to Marbottle and Nipps. He owed
them two hundred pounds, besides an
account of the goods required to stock
the house afresh. The memorandum
which he had signed as a matter of form
bound him, as he discovered too late, to
obtain all stores, cordials, wines, spirits,
even groceries, from his brewers, and
from them alone !
But taking? of £25 a week would
surely pull John Smith through !
The worst of it was, the takings
were the biggest take in of all. Poor
Smith found that though the house was
called the Stevedore’s Delight, neither
the stevedores nor the stevedores’men ap-
peared to take much delight, or indeed
any thing else, in it.
Even the five boarders—fine old salts,
as he had imagined them to be, whom he
had taken over from Mrs. Hartigan, had
all left him, as they said, for another
cruise. But their only cruise was to the
next street. They left him in debt. One
of them, on being expostulated with by
Mrs. John Smith, remarked to that lady,
“ though you’re green, you’re not a
bad sort; neither’s Smith. Bless your
dear heart alive, I worn’t no boarder here
afore you come. We was just run in for
the occasion, and finding it comfortable
we thought as a week at Freeman’s
Quay wouldn’t hurt us or break you.
Why, look ye here, marm, the whole
thing was a plant. ”
The same confiding individual, for the
consideration of several “ deep sinkers,”
informed Mr. Smith how his first coming
to visit the Stevedore’s Delight had been
“tipped” in advance to Mr. and Mrs.
Hartigan ; how that gentleman’s being
found in bed on the occasion of the visit
was a part of a well laid scheme to
seduce a possible gull to alight on the
bird-lime, as was also the prearranged
advent of the crowd of drinkers, three or
four of whom had been provided with
coin to shout for the rest.
No ! the weekly average of takings did
not reach £25. In sixteen weeks of ex-
perience they ranged from a minimum of
£4 18s. to a maximum of £ll Is. As
rent, rates, renewal of stock, servants’
wages, etc., etc., had to be paid out of
all this, John Smith not only did not see
his way to a good thing, but even failed
to discover any way out of the bad thing
—other than by King-street.
The grog and other drinkable® supplied
in the first instance by Messrs. Marbottle
and Nipps had been tolerably good ; but
as soon as it was discovered that John
Smith wasn’t in a position to make big
orders, or to back them up with a per
centage of cash, the stuff sent to him in
driblets was of the most wretched des-
cription. The spirits which came from
the great firm’s bottling cellars were es-
pecially bad ; indeed, afforded unmis-
takable evidence that the chemical pro-
perties of bitter almonds, orris root, cassia,
and terra japonica were not unknown to
the registered proprietors of the Happy
Home brand.
John Smith’s nominal position was that
of landlord in his own house. Virtually
he was barman in somebody’s else’s—
and a barman too without wages. At
last he made up his mind to speak to
Marbottle and Nipps.
“ Stand to me a little better,” said he
to the senior member of the firm, “ and
I believe I can pull through yet. Let
me have all I want to make a good show
in the bar, and let it be of the best
quality. I don’t get what I order now,
and its playing the deuce and all with
the house.”


“You see,” replies Marbottle, “that
you’re a long way down on the wrong
side of the ledger, and you don’t seem to
be making even an effort to stand to us.
Have you no friend who’ll lend you his
name. You find us some cash in part
liquidation of our claim, and we’ll do all
we can for you ; but its not in reason
that we should go on blindly supplying
you without hardly the colour of
your money.”
“ I’ve two bills that have yet a couple
of months to run,” says Smith, “I got
them in payment for my dray and team
when I gave up farming. The drawer’s
right enough ; I can let you have them.
Each of ’em is for fifty pounds.”
Marbottle waxed genial.
“ Send ’em down to us, and we’ll see
what we can do for you, Smith. Put a
little push into the way of working your
house, and you’ll come out right enough.
By the bye, when you send down, let us
know what you want, and I’ll see to your
having the right things.”
For a few weeks things went on better:
but as the task before poor Smith was a
hopeless one they soon got back into the
old groove. The takings weren’t enough
to enable him to do anything towards
lessening his liability to Marbottle and
Nipps. Still, as work at the wharf pro-
mised to be brisker, he thought he might
get a fresh start if his brewers would help
him to make one or two improvements,
paint the house, touch up the bar a bit,
and re-paper the parlour.
He broached the matter to Marbottle,
who said, “Look here, Smith, you’re not
the man for this place. You’d better
put the house in the market, and get back
your money that way. It’ll be best for
you and us too.”
“But,” pleads Smith, “if you’ll only
do what I ask you I see my way to pay
you off, and to recoup myself for my bad
luck. ”
“ Put the house in the market. Give
the job to Mocatta. If he can’t sell, why
then I’ll think over your proposal.”
Accordingly under such stress, Smith
gave the necessary instructions to the
unctuous broker for the sale of the Steve-
dore’s Delight.
“ Can I get you your money back ?”
Mocatta had said to him, “ my word !
just you believe me I can.”
That matter of believing Isaac Mocatta
was just what Smith could not do, after
the way he had been got at in his first
transaction with the greasy Jew. How-
ever, there was no help for him.
What was the victim’s horror when a
week further on he learned that the
Stevedore’s Delight had been sold to a
certain Mistress Honoria Black for the
sum of £lB5.
That there was no doubt about the
matter, the advent of Mrs. Black quickly
disproved. She drove down to the house
and told Smith that the sooner he went
the better. She would sell under his
license until it was transferred to her,
arrangements for doing which had already
(as she explained) been initiated by
Mocatta.
Within an hour after Mrs. Black’s
advent, a letter from the solicitor to
Messrs. Marbottle and Nipps informed
Mr. John Smith of the sale of the Steve-
dore’s Delight, and warned him under
threat of prosecution not to remove any-
thing from the house, since all that was
in it was held by his clients under bill of
sale. An inclosure showed Smith the
state of his indebtedness to the brewers.
After receiving credit for all payments
made and the proceeds of the sale to Mrs.
Black, he was brought in in debt to the
tune of £143 11s. 10£d.
In his rage and despair, Smith thought
he might be able to give his enemies some
trouble by holding on to his license, or
endeavouring to prevent its transfer, but
he soon found out his mistake, and that
the system under which Publicans’
licenses are issued in New South Wales
is a mockery and a snare.
Mrs. Black who was of the heavy bar-
maid order, very fair, very fat, and very
forty (indeed the forty was considerably
overdone), bundled Smith, his wife, and
little ones into the street. He was next
to penniless, without a roof to shelter him,
or, even had he roof, a stick of furniture
to put under it.
* * * •*
Some week or two afterwards, Smith,
who in the interval had managed to get
something to do, was passing down
Frederic Street when to his amazement
he saw the name “ Charles Atkins,” not
“ Honoria Black,” over the doorway of
the Stevedore’s Delight.
On making enquiries he found out that
Atkins, a “ chum ” from the country, had
bought in for £425.


Moreover, he discovered that Honoria
Black and several other ladies of the
same stamp were kept regularly on the
staff of Messrs. Marbottle and Nipps for
the purpose of making sales (?) similar
to that of the Stevedore’s Delight from
him.
When Smith reflects on this “ devil’s
chain ” of brewer, broker, house owner,
licensing bench, dummy purchaser and
booby purchaser, he does not regret that
he is now a missing link in it. He paid
Marbottle and Nipps by going up King-
street, and is now doing fairly well in a
business in which the sole capital he has
invested is his labour. He gives Atkins
ten months to run.
Nipps and Nipps junior are doing the
grand tour. Marbottle’s palatial man-
sion at Rose Bay is just finished. At
the house-warming last week, he enter-
tained the cream of the “upper ten.”
Mocatta is as greasy as ever, and in
response to the enquiry whether he can
put one up to a good swindle, safe to
make unctuous answer, “ My words !”
ASMODEUS.
igiT Traps, No. 11., will be entitled
“ The Truck System on our Railway
Works.”
“Once a Week.” —This title
made popular by Charles Dickens’ manage-
ment in England and everywhere else
has, with the word “ Sydney ” prefixed,
been adopted by Mr. C. H. Barlee as the
name of a weekly magazine for town and
country readers in these colonies. As is
the case with all publications of this
kind the aim is not only to attract readers
but to retain them. For this purpose, in
addition to its original papers (which are
well written) and its reprint matter
(which is well chosen) it devotes a por-
tion of its pages to original tales by way
of serials. If “ variety is charming ” we
have it here. The editor is evidently
a literary man in the best sense; and
that he is a business man, the magazine
itself is a good witness, for the manner
in which it is got up and arranged, as
well as for the mechanical neatness in
which it appears. The column for young
readers has more of sound secret intelli-
gence about it than we find in some of
the periodicals. Its mysteries are more
neatly wrapped up and provokingly hid-
den, than are to be found in much of the
enigmatical doggerel to be met with.
The magazine as a whole may be
pronounced as a useful and amusing ad-
dition to the weekly prints of the colony.
—Bathurst Times , May 15 th, 1878.
PRCELIUM APUD HOHENLINDEN.
BY FATHER PROUT.
Sol ruit coelo minuitque lumen,
Nix super terris jacet usque munda
Et tenebrosa fluit Iser unda
Flebile flumen.
Namque nocturnus simul arsit ignis
Tympanum rauco sonuit boatu
Dum micant flammis agitante flatu
Rura malignus.
Jam dedit vocem tuba ! fax rubentes
Ordinat turmis equites, et ultro
Fert equos ardor rutilante cultro
Ire furentes.
Turn sono colies tremuere belli
Turn ruit campo sonipes et cether
Mugit, et rubra tonitru videtur
Arce revelli.
Ingruit strages, cito ferte gressum
Quos triumphantem redimere pulchro
Tempori lauram juvat! Aut sepulchro
Stare cupressum.
Hie übi campum premuere multi
Tecta quam rari patrix videbunt,
Heu sepulchrali nive quot manebunt
Pol! nec inulti!
By a Bachelor. —That “man and
wife are one ” is not denied ; “ Which is
the one ?”’s the question to decide.
A shrewd confectioner has taught his
parrot to say “ pretty creature ” to every
lady who enters the shop, and his busi-
ness is rapidly increasing.
A True Lover’s Knot. —He—“ And
you will remember me, dearest ?” She—
“ Trust me—yes ! I dare not tie a knot
in my pocket-handkerchief now, as
mamma is looking ; but I will not forget
—indeed I will not!”
How to Learn French without a
Master. —Try a mistress.


THE FLOODED GULCH.
I wabn’t never meant for no sailor, I
warn’t; but I come of a great nation, and
when a chap out our ways says he’ll du a
thing he does it. I said I’d go to sea, and
I went —and thar you are. I said I’d
drop hunting, and take to mining, and
thar I was; and that’s how it come
about.
You see we was rather rough out our
way, where Hez Lane and me went with
our bit of tent and pickers, shooting-
irons, and sech-like,. meaning to make a
pile of gold. We went to Washoe, and
didn’t "get on; then we went to Fort
Laramie, and didn’t get on there. Last,
we went right up into the mountain,
picking our way amongst the stones, for
Hez ses, “ Look here, old hoss, let’s get
whar no one’s been afore. If we get
whar the' boys are at work already,
they’ve took the cream, and we gets the
skim milk. Let’s you and me get the
cream, and let some o’ the others take
the skim milk. ”
“ Good for you,” I says; and we
tramped on day arter day, till we got
right up in the heart o’ the mountains,
where no one hadn’t been afore, and it
was so still and quiet, as it made you
quite deaf.
It was a strange, wild sort of place,
like as if one o’ them coons called giants
had driven a wedge into a mountain and
split it, making a place for a bit of a
stream to run at the bottom, and lay bare
the gold we wanted to find.
“ This’ll do, Dab,” says Hez, as we put
up our bit of a tent on a pleasant green
shelf in the steep valley place. This’ll
do, Dab ; thar’s yaller gold spangling
them sands, and running in veins through
them rocks, and yaller gold in pockets of
the rock.”
“ Then let’s call it Yaller Gulch,” I
says.
“ Done, old hoss,” says Hez ; and
Yall«r Gulch it is.
We set to work next day washing in
the bit of a stream, and shook hands on
our good luck.
“This’ll do,” says Hez. “We shall
make a pile here. No one won’t dream
of hunting this out.”
“ bay, stranger !” says a voice as made
us both jump. “ Do it wash well ?”
And if there warn’t a long, lean, ugly,
yaller-looking chap looking down at us,
as he stood holding a mule by the bridle.
Why, afore a week was over, so far
from us keeping it snug, I reckon there
was fifty people in Yaller Gulch, washing
away, and making their piles. Afore
another week was over some one had set
up a store, and next day there was a
gambling saloon. Keep it to ourselves !
Why, stranger, I reckon if there was a
speck of gold anywheres within five
hundred miles our chaps’d sniff it out
like vultures, and be down upon it.
It warn’t no use to grumble, and we
kept what we thought to ourselves, work-
ing away and making our ounces the
best way we could. One day I proposed
we should go up higher in the mountains ;
but Hez said Le’dbe darned if he’d move;
and next day, if he’d wanted me to go,
I should have told him I’d be darned if
I’d move ; and all at once, from being
red-hot chums, as would have done any-
thing for one another, Hez and me got to
be mortal enemies.
Now, look here, stranger. Did you ever
keep chickens ? P’r’aps not ; but if you
ever do, just you notice this. You’ve got,
say, a dozen young cocks pecking about,
and as happy as can be —smart and
lively, an’ innercent as chickens should
be. Now, just you go and drop a pretty
young pullet in among ’em, and see if
there won’t be a row. Why, afore night
there’ll be combs bleeding, eyes knocked
out, feathers torn and ragged— a reg’lar
pepper-box and bowie set-to, and all
’acause of that little smooth, brown
pullet, that looks on so quiet and gentle,
as if wondering who made the row. Now,
that’s what was the matter w T ith us ; for
who should come into the Gulch one day
but an old store-keeping sort of fellow,
with as pretty a daughter as ever stepped,
aud from that moment it was all over
between Hez and me.
He’d got a way with him, you see, as I
hadn’t, and they always made him welkim
at that thar store, when it was only
*• How do you do ?” and “ Good morning,”
to me. I don’t know what love is,
strangers ; but if Jael Burn had told me
to go and cut one of my hands off to
please her, I’d ha’ done it. I’d ha’ gone
through fire and water for her, God bless
her! and if she’d tied one of her long,
yaller hairs round my neck, she might
have led me about like a bear, rough as I
am.


But it wouldn’t do. I soon see which
the wind blew. She was the only
woman in camp, and could have the
pick, and she picked Hez.
I was ’bout starin’ mad first time I met
them two together—she a hanging on his
arm, and looking up in his face, worship-
ing him, like some of them women can
worship a great, big, strong he ; and as
soon as they war got by I swore a big
oath as Hez should never have her, and I
plugged up my six-shooter, give my
bowie a whetting, and lay in wait for him
coming back.
It was a nice time that, as I sot there,
seeing in fancy him kissin’ her sweet
little face, and she hanging on him. If
I was ’most mad afore, I was ten times
worse now; and when I heerd Hez
' cornin’, I stood there on a shelf of rock,
where the track came along, meaning to
put half a dozen plugs in him, and then
pitch him over into the Gulch. But I
was that that when he came up
cheery and singing, I forgot all about my
shooting-iron and bowie, and went at him
like a bar, hugging and wrastling him,
till we fell together close to the edge of
the Gulch, and I had only to give him a
shove and down he’d ha’ gone kelch on
the hard rocks ninety foot below.
“Now, Hez,” I says, “ how about your
darling now ? You’ll cut in afore a bet-
ter man again, will yer ?”
“ Yes, if I live !” he says, stout like, so
as I couldn’t help liking the grit he
showed. “That’s right,” he says :
“ pitch me over, and then go and teli
Jael what you’ve done. She’ll be fine
and proud of yer then, Abinadab Scales !”
He said that as I’d got him hanging
over the rocks, and he looked me full in
the face, full of grit, though he was
helpless as a babby ; but I didn’t see his
face then, for what I see'was the face of
Jael, wild and passionate like, asking me
what I had done with her love, and my
heai't swelled so that I gave a sob like a
woman, as I swung Hez round into
safety, and taking his place like, “ Shove
me over,” I says, “ and put me out of my
misery. ”
Poor old Hez ! I hated him like pyson;
but he wasn’t that sort. ’Stead of send-
ing me over, now he had the chance, he
claps his hand on my shoulder, and he
says, says he, “ Dab, old man,” he says,
“ give it a name, and let’s go and have a
drink on this. We can’t all find the big i
nuggets, old boss ; and if I’m in luck,
don’t be hard on yer mate.”
Then he held out his fist, but I
couldn’t take it, but turning off, I ran
hard down among the rocks till I dropped,
bruised and bleeding, and didn’t go back
to my tent that night.
I got a bit wilder arter that. Hez and
Jael were spliced up, and I alius kep
away. When I wanted an ounce or two
of gold 1 worked, and when I’d got it, I
used to drink —drink, because I wanted
to drown all recollections of the past.
Hez used to come to me, but I warned
him off. Last time he come across me,
and tried to make friends, “ Hez, ” I says,
“keep away. I’m desprit like, and I
won’t say I shan’t plug yer !”
Then Jael came, and she began to talk
to me about forgiving him ; but it only
made me more mad nor ever, and so I
went and pitched at the lower end of the
Gulch, and they lived at t’other.
Times and times I’ve felt as if I’d go
and plug Hez on the quiet, but I never
did, though I got to hate him more and
more, and never half so much as I did
nigh two years arter, when I came upon
him one day sudden, with his wife Jael,
looking pootier than ever, with a little
white-haired squealer on her arm. An’
it ryled me above a bit to see him so
smiling and happy, and me turned into a
bloodshot, drinking, raving savage, that
half the Gulch was feared on, and t’other
half daren’t face.
I had been drinking hard —fiery Bour-
bon, you bet —for about a week, when
early one morning, as I lay in my ragged
bit of a tent, I woke up sudden-like, to a
roaring noise like thunder; and then
there came a whirl and a rush, and I was
swimming for life, half choked with the
water that had carried me off. Now it
was hitting my head, playful like, agen
the hardest corners of the rock it could
find in the Gulch ; then it was hitting
me in the back,.or pounding me in the
front, with trunks of trees swept down
from the mountains, for something had
bust—a lake, or something high up —and
in about a wink the hull settlement in
Yaller Gulch was swept away.
“Wall,” I says,- getting hold of a
branch, and drawing myself out, “ some
on ’em wanted a good wash, and this ’ll
give it ’em for you see water had been
skeerce lately, and what there was had
been all used for cleaning the gold.


I sot on a bit o’ rock, wringing that
water out of my hair—leastwise, no : it
was some one else like who sot there,
chaps I knoWed, you see ; and there was
the water rushing down thirty* or forty
foot deep, with everything swept before
it—mules, and-tents, and shanties, and
stores, and dead bodies by the dozen.
“ Unlucky for them,” I says ; and just
then I hears a wild sorter shriek, and
looking down, I see a chap half swim-
ming, half swept along by the torrent,
trying hard to get at a tree that stood
t’other side.
“ Why, it’s you; is it Hez,” I says to
myself, as I. looked at his wild eyes and
strained face, on which the sun shone
full. “ You’re a gone coon, Hez; lad ; so
you may just as well, fold yer arms, say
amen, and go down like a man. How I
could pot you now, lad, if I’d got a shoot-
ing-iron ; put you out o’ yuur misery
like. You’ll drown, lad.”
He made a dash, and tried for a branch
hanging down, but missed it, and got
swept against the rocks, where he shoved
his arm between two big bits ; but the
water -gave him a wrench, the bone went
crack, and as I sat still there I see him
swept down lower and lower, till he
clutched at a bush with his left hand, and
hung on like grim death to a dead nig-
ger.
“ Sarveyou right,” I says, coolly. “Why
shouldn’t you die like the rest ? If I’d
had any go in me I should have plugged
yer long ago.”
“ Holloa !” I cried then, giving a start.
“ It ain’t—’tis—tarnation! it can’t be !”
But it was.
There, on t'other side, fifty yards lower
down, was a bit of a shelf of earth that
kept crumbling away as the water washed
it, was Jael, kneeling down with her
young ’un ; and, as 1 looked, something
seemed to give my heart a jigg, just as if
some coon had pulled a string.
“Well, he’s ’bout gone,” I says ; “and
they can’t hold ’bout three minutes;
then they’ll all drown together, and she
can take old Hez his last babby to nuss,
cuss ’em ! I’m safe enough. What’s it
got to do with me ? I sha’n’t move.”
I took out my wet cake of ’bacca, and
whittled off a bit, shoved it in my cheek,
shut my knife with a click, and sot thar
watchin’ of em—father, and mother, and
bairn.
“ You’ve been too happy, you have,” I
says out loud ; not as they could hear it,
for the noise of the waters. “ Now you’ll
. be sorry for other people. Drown, darn
yer ! stock, lock, and barrel; I’m safe.”
Jus«t then, as I sot and chawed, telling
myself as a chap would be mad to try
and save his friends out of such a flood,
let alone his enemies, darn me !if Jael
didn’t put that there little squealer’s
hands together, and hold them up as if
she was making it say its prayers—a bom
fool ! —when that string seemed to be
pulled, inside me like, agin my heart ;
and—l couldn’t help it —I jumped up.
“ Say, Dab,” I says to myself, “don’t
you be a fool. -You hate that lot like
pyson, you do. Don’t you go and drown
yourself.”
I was ’bout mad, you know, and
couldn’t do as I liked, for, if I didn’t
begin to rip off my things, wet and hang-
ing to me. Cuss me! how they did
stick ! but I cleared half of ’em off, and
then, like a mad fool, I made a run and a
jump, and was fighting hard with the
water to get across to Hez's wife and
child.
It was a bit of a fight. Down I went,
and up I went, and the water twisted me
like a leaf ; but I got out of the roar and
thunder, on to the bit of a shelf where
Jael knelt; when if the silly thing didn’t
begin to hold up to me her child, and
her lips, poor darling, said, dumbly,
“ Save it ! oh, save it!”
I tore her dress into ribbons, for there
warn’r a moment to lose, and I\ bound
that bairn somehow on my shoulders, she
watching me the while ; and then, my
heart beating madly, I caught her in my
arms, she clinging tightly to me in her
fear, and I stood up, thinking how I
could get back, and making nady to
leap.
The flood didn’t wait for that, though.
In a moment there was a quiver of the
bank, and it went from beneath my feet,
leaving me wrastling with the \yaters
once more.
I don’t know how I did it, only that,
after a fight and being half smothered, I
found myself crawling up the side of the
Gulch, ever so low down, and dragging
Jael into a safe place with her bairn.
She fell down afore me, and hugged
my legs and kissed my feet: and then
she started up and began staling up and
down, ended by seeing, just above us, old
Hez cling there still, with his sound arm


rammed into the bush and his body swept
out by the fierce stream.
The next moment she had seized me
by the arm, and was pynting at him, and
she gave a wild kind of shriek.
“ He’s a gone coon, my gal.” I says,
though she couldn’t hear me ; and I was
gloating over her beautiful white face
and soft, clear neck, as I thought that
now she was mine—all mine. I’d save
her out of the flood, and there was no Hez.
to stand in our way.
“ Save him !—save him !” she shrieked
in my ear.
What, Hez? Save Hez to come be-
tween us once more ? Save her husband
—the man I hated, and would gladly see
die ? Oh, I couldn’t do it, and my looks
showed it. she reading me like a book the
while. No, he might drown—he was
drowned—must be. No ; just then he
moved. But, nonsense 1 I wasn’t going
to risk my life for his, and cut my own
throat like as to the futur’.
She went down on her knees to me,
though, pynting again at where Hez still
floated ; and the old feeling of love for
her was stronger on me than ever.
“ You’re asking me to die for you,
Jael?” I shouted in her ear.
Save him—save Hez !” she shrieked.
“ Yes, save him !” I groaned to myself.
“ Bring him back to the happiness that
might be mine. But she loves him—she
loves him ; and I must.”
I gave one look at her—as I thought
my last —and 1 couldn’t help it. If she
had asked me dumbly, as she did, to do
something ten times as wild, I should
have done it; and, with a run, I got well
up above Hez afoie I jumped in once
more, to have the same fight with the
waters till I was swept down to the bush
where he was.
I’d got my knife in my teeth to cut the
bush away and let him free ; but as I
was swept against it weight tore it
away, and Hez and I went down the
stream together ; him so done up that he
lay helpless on the water.
Something seemed to tell me to finish
him off. A minute under water would
have done it; but Jael’s face was before
me, and at last I got to the other side,
with her climbing along beside us ; and
if it hadn’t been for the hand she
stretched down to me, I should never
have crawled out with old Hez—l was
that done.
As I dropped down, panting on the
rocks, Jael came to my side, leaned over
me and kissed me, and I turned away,
for the next moment she was trying hard
and bringing her husband to, and I was
beginning to feel once more that I had
been a fool.
I ain’t much more to- tell, only that
the flood went down ’most as quick as it
had come up, and Hez got all right again
with his broken arm and did well. They
wanted muchly to be friends, but I kep’
away. I felt as I’d been a fool to save
him, and I was kinder ’shamed like of it,
so I took off to ’Frisco, where, after chum-
ming about, I took to going voyages to
Panama and back, and the sea seemed to
suit me like, and there I stuck to it.
And there I seem to stick yet. —Frank
Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
jggT “Once a Week.” The latest
issue of this amusing and chatty pro-
duction —which is edited by C. H. Bar-
lee —is as readable as the previous
numbers we have seen were. It combines
the magazine with the newspaper, and
we do not think that its subscribers, or
patrons in any other form, have cause to
complain of not getting good - value for a
sixpence each copy. —Armidale Express.
“Once a Week.” —The seven-
teenth number of this weekly serial has
reached us, and we have great pleasure
in testifying to its worth as a literary
magazine. If it has not received large
support from the reading public it is not
because it does not deserve it, for it has
kept faith with the public in presenting
regularly to its readers “ a good sixpenny-
worth of literary pabulum. ” The present
number contains a well written aiticle
under the heading, “ A Plea for the
Blacks,” several interesting sketches, and
a large amount of other interesting
matter wed worth perusing. —Bathurst
Free Press.
The friends of a celebrated wit ex-
pressed some surprise that, at his age,
and with his fondness for the bottle, he
should have thought it necessary to
marry. “A wife was necessary,” he
said. “My acquaintances began to say
that I drank too much for a single man.”


GUINEA-A-LIMIHG.
(From “Jest and Earnest.”)
Arms and the man I sing, who, forced by
fate,
Said, very wisely, it is ten o’clock :
Loose in his gaiters, looser in his gait!
’Tis I, my lord, the early village cock.
Who shall decide when doctors disagree ?
Just as the twig is bent the tree’s
inclined.
The lowing herds wind slowly o’er the
lea ;
Thus bad begins, but worse remains
behind.
Small by degrees, and beautifully less,
One touch of nature makes the whole
world kin.
’Tis not in mortals to command success ;
\^ 7 alk up, M r alk up! Just going to
begin !
A little farm was my paternal lot;
Who would be free themselves must
strike the blow.
My countryman—and yet I know him
fiot!
Oh, Sophonisba ! Sophonisba, oh !
The glass of fashion and the mould of
form,
Like quills upon the fretful porcupine,
Rides on the whirlwind and directs the
storm.
(The first four rhymes are Southey’s,
every line).
A little learning is a dafigerous thing,
And drags at each remove a length ning
chain ;
There’s such divinity doth hedge a king ;
I’m more an antique Roman than a
Dane.
Now is the winter of our discontent
Full of strange oaths, and bearded like
the pard ; ,
She sat like patience on a monument,
And that, you see, put master on his
guard.
’Tis distance lends enchantment to the
view,
Where the tall Maypole once o’erlook’d
the Strand.
Which is the merchant here, and which
the Jew ?
Eliza sleeps upon the dew-cold sand.
I want a hero ! an uncommon want!
I’cl rather be a kitten and cry mew
To the Propontis and the Hellespont.
But two months dead ! Nay, not so
much ! not two.
Delightful task ! To rear the tender
mind,
With night primaeval, and with chaos
old!
A little more than kin and less than kind,
The air bites shrewdly—it is very cold.
Finds tongues in trees, books in the
running brooks,
Doth sometimes counsel take, and some-
times tea.
How like a fawning publican he looks !
Nay, never shake thy gory locks at
me !
’Tis now the very witching hour of night;
Oh, swear not by the moon—the in-
constant moon!
One truth is clear —whatever is, is right ;
My custom always of an afternoon.
11l fares the land, to hast’ning ills a prey,
Whose days are dwindled to the short-
est span.
To breakfast with what appetite you may;
I dare do all that may become a man.
From each wide portal issuing to the
wars,
Up rose the sun and up rose Emilie.
Let me not name it to you, you chaste
stars,
Garth did not write his own Dispensary.
Demote, unfriended, melancholy, slow,
Beauty when unadorned’s adorned the
most;
A youth more glittering than a birth-
night beau,
Who thanked me duly by return of
post.
A penny sav4d is a penny got ;
Uneasy lies the head that wears a
crown.
Hereditary bondsmen, know you not
The fair-haired Martha and Theresa
brown ?
I have been reading Pomfret’s Choice
this spring,
And I will stand the hazard of the
die.


Sermons in stones and good in everything
With this regard their currents turn
awry.
Come, gentle spring ! ethereal mildness,
come! .
To err is human, to forgive divine,
In the most high and palmy state of
Home ;
But never more be officer of mine !
A place there is, betwixt earth, air, and
seas ;
With raven’s feather from unwhole-
some fen.
I took the liberty to boil my peas,
But wherefore could I not pronounce
Amen ?
And gazing on it with lack lustre eye,
Rise, honest Muse, and sing the Man
of Boss.
Under which king, Bezonian ? speak, or
die !
A horse, a horse ! my kingdom for a
hoss !
Where virtue is, these make more vir-
tuous. .
Avaunt ! Begone ! Thou’st set me
on the rack.
By thinking on the lofty Caucasus,
At least we’ll die with harness on our
back.
So have I heard, on Afric’s burning shore,
Vaulting Ambition, that o’erleaps his
sell;
Whose only care was to increase his store.
It must be so. Plato, thou reason’st
well. —
There is a tide in the affairs of man.
Blow, prosp’ruus breezes, swiftly sail,
thou Po!
When in the woods the noble savage ran,
Should I have answered Caius Cassius
so ?
And conquest blazes with full beams on
Greece —
She that was ever fair and never proud.
Much praise was also due to the police
For keeping off the pressure of the
crowd.
N. B.—The concluding couplet has been
liberally thrown in bj T the poet at the
more customary rate of one penny a line.
NORFOLK ISLAND.
BY VIATOR.
No. 5.
In my last contribution-under this head-
ing, I described the somewhat amusing
circumstances attending one of our sport-
ing excursions to Phillip Island, and its
very untoward results, to the non-penal
portion of the party, at all events.
I turn, to-day, in sober reality, from
“gay to grave,” and.-while I candidly
admit my own incompetency in the
endeavour, I shall nevertheless take pains
. to describe truly the interesting, though
somewhat revolting, particulars of one of
the most determined, though in the end
unsuccessful, attempts to escape from
bondage as has yet, I feel sure, (save by
one now long silent beneath the ocean’s
rolling, wave,) been chronicled in the his-
tory of crime in this hemisphere. The
circumstances attending this unhappy
matter occurred some five-and-thirty
years ago, and an account of them in the
form of a tale (far more interesting than
I can ever hope to make this), was pub-
lished in a popular home serial —of which
I have not seen a copy for a quarter of a
century past.
The present generation—certainly a
large portion.of it—doubtless may never
have been personally acquainted with or
interested in the matter. There may be
some living amongst us—indeed, I know
there are, though few in number —who will
remember the whole case. Should my
contribution meet their eyes, I feel sure
of a general admission of the consistency
and truth of all I write on the subject.
Once again let me say I trust entirely to
a good memory, though it will be readily
acknowledged that the facts of the occur-
rence were such as to excite most vivid
impressions, which no ordinary subse-
quent events could well efface.
I need not again repeat how eagerly
every chance of escape was watched for,
how greedily taken advantage of. by the
long sentenced prisoners—from whom,
till the arrival of the transports direct
frpm the United Kingdom, the boats’
crews were selected —but not one of us
ever dreamt of the thorough daring, the
firm determination, with which this at-
tempt to escape I am about to describe
was entered upon ; and, after all, too, the
unpremeditated madness of a moment,
solely arising from a careless, overwean-


ing sense of security foolishly and culpa-
bly indulged by the very men who, from
their position and training, ought to have
prevented even the hope or idea of the
escape.
Between Sydney and the Island there
traded regularly a Government vessel,
used entirely for the conveyance of pri-
soners transferred from Sydney, and the
return to that port of men who had
served that portion of their sentences
apportioned to the severity of the (sup-
posed) stricter discipline and proportion-
ate punishment at this penal settlement,
or men whose term of imprisonment with
hard labor had absolutely • expired, and
were Jto be let loose in New South
Wales under the then existing- ticket-of-
leave system. The hold of the vessel was
filled with stores and the general require-
ments of the establishment. The exports
from the Island amounted to but very
little, and on the return trip she generally
went away in ballast.
It was heavy, tedious work, the unload-
ing of the ship, as she was alrfiost invari-
ably “laying to” off the. settlement,
or “ off and on ” (to use a well-known
nautical phrase,) under reduced canvas.
The boats employed, as I have before
stated, were large heavy launches, pulling
from eight or ten to fourteen oars, and
capable of carrying from five to ten tons
weight each trip. A guard always ac-
companied the launch crew.
Occasionally, and especially on the
north side, when the weather was fine
enough for the vessel to anchor, the work
was hurried on with great determination.
There was a regular guard, shipped ori-
ginally at Sydney, always living on board
the vessel, consisting of a sergeant, cor-
poral, and fifteen or twenty men, who,
of necessity, were ever on the alert
on the down trip, for they had desperate
fellows to watch. The crew of the vessel
generally comprised a commander, two
mates, and some eight or ten seamen.
The unloading at the Island was per-
formed by the boats’ crews. At the period
I refer to the vessel in commission was
called the “ Governor Phillip,” an old
foreign gun brig of 188 tons register, and
was commanded by a sturdy old salt
named James Boyle, who died not many
years since at ripe old age ; while the old
tub was wrecked in Bass’s Straits, cn
route , if I forget not, from Hobart Town
hither.
The only landing-place at the Cascade
side of the Island was upon an abutment
of rocks, forming a natural pier, on which
shears were fixed so as to raise the cargo
in slings out of the launches, each roll in
the wave being watched for a good
opportunity, as the bow and stern haw-
sers were long, and much “ play ” had to
be given them to prevent too sudden a
strain on the boat’s timbers.
There being no harbour at all there, it
was a matter of necessity that the launch,
having discharged her last load, should
return to the brig, the crew sent down
below, and locked up for the night in the
ship’s prison—a most wretched den—
worse, of course, than the airy and com-
modious dormitories ashore. The boat
was made fast astern, and there remained
all night, whether the vessel lay at anchor
or not.
The work of unloading commenced as
early as was practicable the following
morning, and continued day by day so
long as the weather held good. On the
settlement side the arrangements were
different, as the boats did not put off
again after the last load, but were, as a
rule, run up into the shed, or well up on
the tramway, and close to the Guard
house.
One morning, when off the Cascade land-
ing, the prisoners comprising the boat’s
crew and working party on board the
brig were as usual awakened at daylight,
their prison doors opened, and their
wretched breakfast of hominy and cold
water made ready for them. On reach-
ing the deck, with that extraordinary
quickness of perception only such out-
casts could realize, to their astonishment
they saw but two men on the brig’s deck
—both of them sentries —o.ne gazing va-
cantly over the vessel’s side as she rolled
like a log on the water.
Visions of home —glimpses of old fami-
liar scenes and faces —above all the
possibility of liberty, must have instan-
taneously flashed upon their bewildered
minds. “Now or never,’’.doubtless was the
inward heartfelt murmur of every one of
these wretched slaves. A. look, each to
another—a quick reply of intelligence,
and in the twinkle of an eye two sudden
splashes in the sea told the handling both
sentries had received. One of them, see-
ing at once how matters stood, struck out
manfully for the shore ; but, encumbered
by his heavy clothing, or possibly seized


by a shark, he was seen suddenly to
throw both his hands up and the world
knew him no more. The other sentry
swam aft, and luckily clung to the
launch towing astern till pulled on board
her.
Rapidly and noiselessly then did the
prisoners commence their preparations
for securing the officers, crew, and guard,
all of whom were down below. One
party of the captors fastened up the
cabin entrance, a second and third per-
formed the same work as to the com-
panions leading to the guard cabins and
crews’ quarters (there was no forecastle),
and, while a struggle was made by those
below, materials were quickly found
wherewith to batten down and securely
fasten in the unfortunate captives below.
Not a drop of blood had been shed, not a
life lost—save by the drowning of the
sentry while swimming ashore—and the
brig was in their hands. Let me ask
who can wonder at these wretched, mis-
guided, degraded wretches almost accept-
ing their position as one almost authorized
and ordained by special Providence for
them 1
There were plenty of sailors in their
ranks, so that getting the brig under
weigh was a matter of little difficulty.
Bail was quickly set. the brig’s head laid
to the north-east —off the land, and a
hasty consultation was held among them-
selves as to future action. One of them,
Moss by name, was at once made captain.
He was noted as a desperado of the most
determined character, and singularly
fitted for the responsibilities of his extra-
ordinary position. He went aft and
took or stood by the wheel.
It was determined at length that the
crew should be called up one by one, and
offered employment if they would assist
in navigating the vessel ; if not, they
were to be put over the side into the
launch, and get to shore as best they
could. As to the guard, it was a difficult
question. They could not let them up.
They (the convicts) knew they (the
guard) were well armed, and far outnum-
bered their captors, and. therefore, the
matter was perplexing in the extreme.
Bo thankful, however, were they for the
wondrous position they found themselves
placed in that, as I heard from the lips of
the survivors, they hesitated to shed
blood. They seemed to accept and realize
the apparent “merciful consideration”
shewn themselves.
Not all the crew would accept the
terms offered, and some parley ensued
between the two parties, But, all this
time, communication had been established
between the captain and the rest of the
ship’s company below, by breaking
through the bulk heads, so that they
were all prepared for a sudden rush for
the deck should chance occur.
Then began the first act of a terrible
tragedy. From his cabin the commander
could see the shadow of a man standing
over, or almost so, one of the “ bull’s eyes ’
let into the deck, and, firing a pistol at
random through the thick glass, the
bullet entered Moss’s jaw beneath the
chin, passed up into the brain, and the
man fell dead. This awfully sudden
death of their leader for a moment cowed
the prisoners, and before they had time
to recover presence of mind, a number of
sailors and soldiers rushed up the hatch-
way which had been partially opened to
allow the former on deck. The soldiers,
many of them half undressed, shot at
randon, and the corporal fell from the
shot of his own sergeant, while he, in
turn, received a fearful wound in the
skull (which afterwards necessitated
trepanning). The unarmed prisoners,
now fairly overmatched, ran in turn
below, and in far less time than I occupy
writing this paragraph, the rightful
owiiers held complete possession of the
deck.
The mutineers were then ordered to
come on deck, and in obeying the order
the first head appearing above the level
of the hatch was blown to atoms, the
brains flying yards away. Another, if
not two, shared the same fate ; and the
guard, incensed beyond all reason, fired
right and left into the unhappy men,
killing one and wounding two more
(Wolfe and Whelan) ; and it was not till
Captain Boyle had presented his pistol
at the soldiers and swore an oath that if
one more shot was fired he himself would
shoot down the man discharging it, that
the carnage ceased. Whelan had jumped
oveiboard, and clung to the launch, while
Wolfe clambered up into the fore rigging,
taking protection above the crosstrees.
The sight was sickening—horribly revolt-
ing. There lay Moss dead at the wheel,
the corporal in the waist of the vessel
also dead, and the sergeant grievously


wounded ; while forward, in a mass of
blood and brains, lay the bodies of the dead
prisoners. The survivors were at once
handcuffed and locked up below in the
prison, and the vessel put about towards
the shore again. Hastily the intelligence
was conveyed to the settlement, and, I
need not say, caused terrible commotion.
All the prisoners were locked up, guards
doubled, sentries —of course—remarkably
over-vigilant, as the excitement was very
great amongst the convicts, who were
well informed as to all that had taken
place.
The bodies of the dead men were
brought on shore at the Cascade, and
transferred in carts to the settlement, and
an investigation held, when the particu-
lars I have given were elicited. That
night the remains of the dead mutineers
were, in the darkness, and with the ut-
most secrecy, buried in one pit. The
survivors were committed for trial on the
capital charge, and sent to gaol to await
the coming of a judge advocate, or what-
ever the officer performing the duties of a
special judge was denominated —(I think
it was the present master in equity—pos-
sibly I err.)
While in prison the unfortunate fellows,
fromatfirst being surly and unapproacha-
ble, gradually by the constant and untiring
efforts of the christian-minded chaplain,
as also many of the officers themselves,
from the commandant downwards, be-
came more reasonable, and let it be
hoped, not only evinced but actually felt
a sincere repentance. The time elapsing
between the committal and the trial itself
was painfully long, and all hope had
deserted them from the first. They pre-
pared to die, and, with the exception of
two, all were executed in Sydney.
The chaplain accompanied them to
Sydney, and attended them to the scaf-
fold. By his unceasing exertions the
clemency of the Governor was extended
to Wolfe and Whelan, who were shewn
to have exhibited some special service to
the soldiers, and who had advised the
rest of the gang against the crime perpe-
trated. The others, five in number, if I
remember rightly, were hung.
So ended this terrible tragedy. I have
already trespassed at too great length on
your space —abbreviate as 1 have done.
There are many minor incidents con-
nected with it I have per force omitted.
Such as the fearful account is, I offer it;
regretting my incapacity in the compila-
tion. Once more, let me add, I have re-
lied solely upon a tenacious recollection
of the act, which has intensified itself
during the preparation of this paper.
HE DONE HIS LEVEL BEST.
BY MARK TWAIN.
Was he a-mining on the flat —
He done it with a zest ;
Was he a-leading of the choir—
He done his level best.
If he’d a regular task to do,
He never took no rest :
Or, if ’twas off and on the same,
He done his level best.
If he was preaching on his beat,
He’d tramp from east to west ;
And north to south —in cold and heat
He done his level best.
He’d cuss, and sing, and howl, and pray,
And dance, and sing, and jest ;
And lie and steal —all one to him,
He done his level best.
Whate’er this man was set to do,
He done it with a zest ;
No matter what his contract was,
He’d do his level best.
[Addendum by Ed. O.A.W.
He thought he’d fixed a magazine,
But failed—though all confessed,
From number one umo nineteen
HE DONE HIS LEVEL BEST.
A Smart Boy. —The minister of a
church near Glasgow recently delivered
his usual annual sermon to the children
of his congregation. Having divided his
subject into five heads, the reverend
gentleman proceeded at the close of each
division to ask the children a “ few simple
questions.” After quoting the text—
“ He careth for them as the apple of His
eye,” and explaining how sensitive an
organ the human eye was, he concluded
by asking his dear young friends what
any of them would do supposing a mote
or a little sand or dust went into their
eyes, when up started one little fellow,
and answered, “ I’d blaw my nose, sir.”


COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
CONUNDRUMS.
1. If you allow a man to pull your
nose to-day, when will he do it again ?
2. Why is a hen immortal ?
3. What’s the difference between the
ace of trumps and a musical instrument ?
4. Why should meat be only half
cooked ?
5. What is the difference between a
defeated adversary and a goose ?
6. When does a mariner suffer from
unrequited love?
OLD JOKES.
How many calves tayles, asks Be-
maundes Joyous , behoueth to reche frome
the erthe to the skye ? R. No more but
one, an it be longe ynough.— D. Why
dothe an oxe or a cowe lye ? R. Bycause
she cannot sytte.— B. What people be
they that loue not in no wyse to be
prayed for ? R. They be beggars and
poore people, when men say “ God helpe
them,” when theye aske almes.— B.
What space is from ye hyest space of the
see to the depest ? R. But a stone’s
cast. — B. Whiche be the moost profyt-
able sayntes in the chyrche ? R. They
that stande in ye glasse wyndowes ; for
they kepe out the wynde from wastynge
of the lyght.— B. What is it that freseth
never? R. That is hote water. — B. Why
dooth a dogge tourne hym thryes aboute
or that he lyeth him downe ? R. Bycause
he knoweth not his beddes head from the
fete.
So much for the jokes of Merry Eng-
land in the yere of our Lorde a mccccc
and xi.
BARBEROUS IDEA.
Governess. —Now, Harold, tell me who
was that famous Greek who was exposed
to constant peril in consequence of a
sword being suspended over his head by
a single
Harold. —l know. Old Damocles, who
was always afraid of having his hair cut !
A lady teaching in a London ragged
school, and reading in the Bible about
M wheat and chaff,” found that not one
of her scholars had an idea of what
wheat was ; but on asking them what
“ chaff ” might be, there was an immedi-
ate holding up of hands in signal of com-
prehension, and a unanimous reply of
“Impidence, ma’am!” Another lady
asked her class, in the course of a lecture
on “Gratitude,” what pleasure in the
course of the year they most thoroughly
enjoyed. After a thoughtful pause, the
last boy in the class looked up and said
with simple candour, “ Cock-fighting,
ma’am.” On another occasion a teacher
proposed to a class of lads the question,
“ What is conscience ?” Immense diffi-
culty was found in giving an answer, but
eventually the following ingenious defi-
nition was supplied :—“ Conscience is the
thing which a gem’man arn’t got, who,
when a boy finds his hankercher and
gives it him back, doesn’t give the boy
sixpence.”
FOR FRENCH SCHOLARS.
NEW CONVERSATION BOOK—SPECIMEN.
English.
My pupil works
well.
They will not let
their house.
Give me a glass of
wine.
I have the cramp.
Will any one have
any more ?
You are a little
duck.
They made breaches
in the wall.
The Sahara is a
great waste.
My watch does not
go well.
Look ! he is waving
his hands.
I am come for.
Freneh.
Ma prunelle op 6 re
bien.
Ils ne laisseront pas
leur maison.
Donnez - moi une
miroir de plaintes.
J’ai le crochet de
fer.
Aucune personne
aucun plus ?
Yous etes un petit
canard.
Ils firent des culot-
tes dans lemur.
Le Sahare est une
grande depense.
Ma veille ne marche
pas bien.
Voyez ! II onde ses
mains.
Je suis venu pour.
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS.
Scene : At the Fireside.
Uncle (to intelligent little niece). —
Well, my dear, and what are you learning
at school ?
Niece. —Oh, lots of things. Geo-
graphy—
Uncle. —Geography—yes ; and what
else ?


Niece. —French.
Uncle. —Good. And now tell me what
is the capital of France ?
Niece. —Oh, I don’t know. We haven’t
got so far as that. We’ve only got to
bonjour and commy vousjporty voue.
A Spiritualist Sold. —An old
gentleman, apparently from the country,
one day entered the room of this medium,
and expressed a desire for a “ sperit com-
munication.” He was told to take a seat
at the table, and to write the names of
his deceased relatives. The medium, like
many others, incorrectly pronounced the
term “ deceased” the same as “diseased,”
sounding the s like z. The old gentle-
man carefully adjusted his “specs,” and
did what was required of him. A name
and relationship having been selected
from those written, the investigator was
desired to examine and state if they re-
ferred to one party. “ Wal, I declare
they do 1” said he. “ But I say, Mister,
what has them papers to do with a
sperit communication?” —“You will see
directly,” replied the medium. Where-
upon the latter spasmodically wrote a
“ communication,” which read somewhat
as follows : —“My Dear Husband, —I am
very glad to be able to address you
through this channel. Keep on investi-
gating, and you will soon be convinced
of the great fact of spirit-intercourse. I
am happy in my spirit-home ; patiently
awaiting the time when you will join me
here, &c. Your loving wife, Betsy.” —
“ Good gracious ! but my old woman can’t
be dead,” said the investigator, “ for I
left her tu hum !” “ Not dead !” ex-
claimed the medium. “ Did I not tell you
to write the names of ‘ deceased ’ rela-
tives?”—“Diseased!” returned the old
man ; “ wal, she ain’t anything else, for
she’s had the rumatiz orfully for six
months !”
ABOUT HORSES.
BY A JUVENILE CONTRIBUTOR.
When the first horse we ever had came
home it was a bitter cold day, and we
could not bear the idea of the poor horse
being left outside, so mamma told Maria,
our servant, to bring the horse inside.
She did so, and let it stand by the fire.
She covered it up with rugs and blankets,
and there the poor thing stood all day
without a bite to eat. We gathered
grass for it and offered it bread, but it
would not eat a bit, and indeed we never
saw it eat a bit all the time we had it.
Papa said it was the cheapest horse he
ever had, and wished others were like it.
It was very quiet and never tried to
throw anybody off its back, because no
one ever got on, you see. Its legs were
so straight and its back so level that no
horse we ever saw living was like it.
Poor thing, it came to a sad end, and it
is a wonder that Maria had not been sent
to gaol about it ; as it was she had to
pay for it. And how do you think it
died ? It was burnt to death. It fell
over into the fire, and before Maria could
get it out two of its legs were burnt to
pieces. Papa thought it best to put it
out of its misery, so he broke its back
and used its legs for dahlia sticks. We
shall never have another horse so quiet
or so patient. The weights that Maria
used to put on its back were something
dreaiful, and how its back was not
broken long before is a wonder. They do
not sell such horses in Kiss’ Bazaar, and
the only man 1 know who breeds them
is an old man who goes about selling
baskets and rolling-pins. He has lots of
them, and sells them as low as eighteen
pence each. They travel in his cart, and
I have seen them in furniture vans when
people shift from one house to another.
If ever you want to buy a nice quiet
horse, free from vice, and cheaply kept,
let me advise you to buy one of this
breed. They are called the “clothes”
breed. If you do not hurt them they
will never hurt you.
STREET JOTTINGS.
BY PAUL PRY.
No. I.
Verily we are a pleasure-loving lot of
people here in Sydney. Should any
question arise on this head, I should like
the caviller to have spent a few hours
yesterday week in and about the metro-
polis, as did I.
The Circular Wharf was my first beat,
and here Australia —juvenescent, adoles-
cent, and senex-escent —shone out im-
mensely. We are rapidly becoming a
music-loving community. If there were
a dozen steamers afloat —made fast one


outside the other—that morning at the
Pitt-street junction, there was a “ band ”
for each, and they blew with a united
horse-power, eclipsing the strongest steam
whistle near them ; not in tune, mind !
but each “ on its own hook,” and emitting
music (?) in every possible time and key.
Now, I have a weakness for “ Father’s
Love,” and “ Mother,” if she so please,
may “Kiss me in my dream,” while
“ Tommy is making room for his uncle
and “ Maud,” “ Hilda,” and “ Mabel ” may
waltz till knocked up with “ John Ander-
son my Jo,” or he may dance a quadrille
with “Madame Angot,” even be it in
“ The fair land of Poland but when all
these events occur simultaneously, heed-
less of the existence of “flats,” “sharps,”
or even “naturals,” the result of the
operations is puzzling to the brain, and
worrisome to the tympanum. For once
I felt strongly inclined to agree with
friewd Anthony Trollope as to our “ blow-
ing ” propensities.
But so far as the toilettes of our demoi-
selles were concerned, all 1 can say is,
that the colors of the hackneyed old rain-
bow were fairly eclipsed, and, as a rule,
the ankles and stockings undeniable. I
grieve to say I can’t compliment the
show of the sterner sex of excursionists,
as a sample of our rising generation, at
all events. Therej were many phiz-iono-
mies far better hidden beneath the dis-
guise of a beard, than exposed to common
condemnation in the shaven skins of the
period. One steamer, freighted with a
motley cargo of what were termed by
the crowd as “ Clontarfers,’ deserve spe-
cial mention as bearing off the palm, and
as the receptacle for about as question-
ably featured a lot (taken all round) as
one would desire to avoid ; and from
what I heard of them later in the day,
and their performances, I was not sur-
prised at the correctness of my estimate.
There’s no mistaking your genuiue Sydney
“ rowdy,” or the general “ get up ” and
personal appearance of a bona fide
“forty.” Clontarf was much patronized
by this element on Friday.
Its too bad for Mr. Booty to expose in
the glare of the mid-day sun the horribly
tawdry accoutrements, of stage super-
numeraries. A shabbier lot of profes-
sionals than those forming the “Grand
Carnival Procession ” never could be wit-
nessed, no, not in the Pre-adamite reign.
Unlimited bedeckings of leather, tinsel,
calicoes of every colour, with a plentiful
besmattering of whitening, ochre, and
paint, comprised the “ gorgeous dress-
ings ”of the lot; while an unlimited ad-
mixture of “brass” completed the
exhibition. There were a couple of ner-
vous, highly-rouged young ladies in as
many triumphal cars, drawn each by a
couple of astonished cart-horses. It’s
cruelty to animals (or their sense of
integrity) to transform Shortland’s well-
known truck horses into “ fiery steeds,”
or a teamster into a semi-barbaric sort of
charioteer. Goodness knows ! the rigs out
of stage helps are coarse enough under
the gaslight and well kept back from the
footlights, without additional exposes.
The only exciting feature on the ground
was the bolting of a pair of the hired
dray nags, and the capsizing of poor
Booty, who had gallantly flown to the
rescue of the distressed maiden in a
triumphal car—else all was dull as ditch-
water.
The Review was conspicuous only by
the immense crowd of sight-seers. Our
Volunteer army evidently had voted the
affair as a bore, and the greater part of
it wisely stayed at home. Major Airey
enlivened the proceedings by taking a
“ header ” from his steed. A good many
near me delighted, of course, at the
fun, not knowing that the Major is one
of the pluckiest and straightest cross-
country riders out of England. But the
fact of a “ swell ” coming to grief was to
them worth the whole trudge out.
There was a capital concert at the Ex-
hibition Building in the evening, at
which Mr. Conductor Broadhurst showed
us how to get through a somewhat lengthy
programme in a really tradesman-like
manner, by keeping the ball rolling and
preventing the impatience usually attend-
ing these festivities.
I have lived in Sydney many years,
but never witnessed such a consumption
of combustible matter as on Friday night.
The city had an eruption of crackers,
while the suburbs were resplendent with
rockets and tar barrels. It’s too bad,
however ludicrous the effect, to frighten
sedate old matrons quietly standing at
street corners, waiting for the friendly
’bus, out of their ordinary composure by


depositing a bundle of lighted crackers
beneath their venerable skirts. One
elderly party retaliated with a real colo-
nial edition of “ Sairey Gamp ” right
heartily, and cleared the pavement of
innocent as well as guilty.
The Reverend Greenwood had a part-
ing fling at the Government anent the
present insufficient Infirmary accommo-
dation, and, getting scant satisfaction
from Fitzpatrick, has followed up the
scent by publishing some correspondence
which has taken place on the subject
with the Government. I “ want to know,
you know,” as Tite Barnacle has it, why
the present old building in Macquarie
Street is still allowed to exist an eye-sore
to passers by and a disgrace to tfie city.
No one but the Colonial Secretary, I ima-
gine, thinks of denying that the present
temporary accommodation is wholly in-
sufficient. The wants of a daily increas-
ing population surely deserve a greater
degree of consideration than that given,
and it is absurd to say that as in some
eighteen months or a couple of years a
portion of the Alfred Hospital will be
available to the sick and maimed, we
must wait till that date for the accom-
modation which on the assurance of com-
petent authority we find so urgently
needed every day. I hear, too, that
matters within the present institution by
no means bear a satisfactory aspect, and
the erection of a new building will en-
sure some radical change for the better.
Rambling homewards from the review
on Friday, who should pass me, evidently
out for an afternoon’s airing in a two-
horsed trap, but the hon. Michael Fitz-
patrick and Mr. Pat Higgins, representing
this colony, the honorables Sir John
O’Shanassy and Nicholas Fitzgerald
doing the honors for Victoria, and a
couple of other men of note, They all
looked patterns of happiness and sere-
nity ; but, for a moment, the thought
struck me—lf his satanic majesty had a
net handy, what a splendid chance for a
good cast lay in that pond !
Our friend the man of many “ Vaga-
bondish ” personal pronouns, evidently
keeps his weather eye open when-
ever there’s a chance of doing the grand.
He managed the Prince Alfred Yacht
Club fete, and no doubt buttered up those
worthy gentlemen right “ oilily and he
appears to have got again upon another
scent, in a dejeuner given last week by
“ his dear ” friend, Captain Cobb, of the
Pacific mail steamer, to the Ministry and
some few men of note. Our hero’s won-
derfully varied list of “dear friends”
stands him in good stead, so far away
from his native country—(though some
will have it an ordinary entrance into
life was not sensational enough for his
ambition, and that he “ growed ” like
Topsy). He put me in mind of the foreigner
it was impossible to keep out of your
house, and who invariably, when asked
to sing, broke out into—
“ Mein Vaterland ist überall !”
as an intention of making himself at
home anywhere.
TOWN GOSSIP.
The Aldermen of the Borough of
Ashfield do not appear to be seized
with a spirit of progress. At a
meeting of the Council held last
week they rejected propositions sub-
mitted by a newly-elected member to
purchase land for the erection of new
council chambers : there is to be no
public library in Ashfield, no school
of arts, no appropriate room for the
councillors to meet in, and no gas ;
nor will they on the lucus a non
lucendo principle permit the lighting
of the principal thoroughfares with
kerosene lamps in the interim. They
are, however, strong on the question
of cesspits, and have issued a per-
emptory ukase prohibiting ratepayers
from emptying their own closets.
Residents in the municipal district
must give notice to the Council, who
undertake this duty, and they are
subject to a fine if the closets over-
flow. This is in accordance with the
Nuisances Prevention Act of 1875 ;
but the aldermen of Ashfield have
not, in accordance with that act, se-
cured a place on which the contents
of the closets are to be deposited,


nor have they provided the necessary
appliances in the shape of nightcarts,
etc. : the consequence is that the
Act, as far as Ashfield is concerned,
is for the present a dead letter. The
proposal to create an additional
ward with three aldermen to repre-
sent it, was also negatived, experience
having probably shewn that the pro-
verb “in the multitude of counsellors
there is safety” has no application
to matters municipal. Alderman
Lawrence, who came out very
strongly on the subject of lamp-
posts, having previously ascertained
that his brother councillors did not
understand Latin, urged fiercely upon
them the propriety of adopting the
motto nunc pro tunc as a general
principle of action, and as this pro-
posal met with a chorus of applause,
we may look for sundry speedy re-
forms. We hope that among their
improvements they will authorise
their inspector to report all nuisances
within the district, whether existing
on private property or not, notwith-
standing the opinion expressed by
the Mayor of Ashfield that the Act
gives them no power to put them
down in such case. That the
Council have authority under their
bye-laws to enforce attention to the
conditions of cleanliness necessary to
health we feel assured. If not, why
have they issued a notice calling at-
tention to uncovered wells, etc., as a
breach of the said bye-laws. Nunc
pro tunc by all means say we—this
winter in preference to next summer
—progress in place of inaction.
# *
*
A considerable amount of taste
and ingenuity has been shewn by
Mr. W. Foy, ironmonger, George-
street, in the manufacture of garden
ornaments out of galvanized iron.
Some of these may be seen in front
of his shop. One of them represents
a live kangaroo with a “ joey ” peep-
ing from the pouch, set in a stand
ornamented with flowers and scrolls
of the same material. Another,
adapted for the top of summer-
houses, with an arrow as a weather-
cock, is in equally good taste. We
also noticed in one of these orna-
ments intended for open-air build-
iugs, a very ingenious representation
of a stone mantelpiece or stand. It
is, like the other manufactures, en-
tirely constructed of iron, hammered
out by hand, but, by a process of
sanding, made to represent stone.
As specimens of local enterprize,
these ornaments are deserving of
inspection.
* *
The Ministerial Land Bill appears
to us to be an attempt to win a puff
of popularity from every quarter.
Does not Pilot Farnell know that
the amount of progress to be secured
by the aid of breezes blowing from
all points of the compass at one
and the same time is nil?
* #
*
It seems we were right in our
belief that a congress would sit and
quieten the Eastern trouble for an-
other lustrum or so. Our “ tip ”on
this topic has as yet been 0. K.
* *
*
“ Bovis,” in his innocence of heart,
writes to the aS'. M. Herald , asking
the question why the butchers don’t
lower the retail price of beef when
the wholesale rates at which fat
cattle are to be obtained have appre-
ciably fallen. Doesn’t he know that
the Knight of the Cleaver can stand
a good deal of one-sided reciprocity ?
We inquired of a sturdy butcher of
our acquaintance why it was that


things were as “Bovis” stated. Quoth
Marrowfat: “ When cattle’s high
we have to sell at a loss ; so it is
only fair •”. “ What! ” cried
we, “ you sell at a loss ? You ? ”
Marrowfat nearly blushed.
* *
*
We note receipt of “Our Exhi-
bition Annual,” and regret that we
have not space to review its contents
at the length which we originally
contemplated and the substantial
merits of the work deserve. Mr.
W. H. H. Stephen is to be congra-
tulated upon the result of his edi-
torial labours. No better shillings-
worth of light literature was ever
issued from the Australian press.
The matter is without exception
good—not of course all equally good,
but all quite up to average British
magazine standard, some indeed a
fair flight above it. Perchance, the
fault of the Annual is the undue
proportion between the poetical and
prose contents. There is a super-
abundance of verse. The piece de
resistance , “ The Bewitched King,”
a humorous conception right plea-
santly handled, is from the editor’s
pen. It deals with the eccentric
vagaries of a mighty Teutonic poten-
tate, who becoming possessed of
Juror anthropophagisticus, yet not
desiring to experimentalise upon
tough adult humanity, holds baby
shows as ways and means of obtain-
ing due supply of toothsome and
succulent kid. He is saved from his
evil courses by the benevolent exer-
tions of a hermit, who having found
that itinerant missionary work didn’t
pay, had taken to editing a comic
weekly in his Majesty’s dominions.
The story is full of brilliant touches,
and as a whole may be defined a
happy creation. Of Mrs. Britten’s
spiritualistic essay we cannot speak
in high terms ; it will prove “ caviare
to the general” [reader, as it did to us.
“ Our Musical Neighbour,” by P. J.
Holdsworth, is very readable. The
poetry furnishes ground for criticism,
yet several of the many pieces are
of considerable merit, notably “ Truer
Still,” “ Hosee’s Gully,” and the
sparkling verses by “ Ironbark.”
Were there sufficient public support
to induce any one to venture upon
publishing a popular monthly, Mr.
Stephen has proved that he can
rally round him a staff of contri-
butors full able to sustain the prestige
of Australia in the field of serial
literature.
•X* O'
*
Is it because there is “nothing
hanging to it ” in way of recognition
by social dignities in the old country
that no Sydney don can be found to
take the Chinese Famine Fund under
his aegis ? In the matter of
Indian famine relief there was no
trouble in getting a Committee to-
gether, but then British grandees had
shown the way! Even if John is
not so good a colonist as some would
make him out, a little sympathy with
his countrymen in their awful trouble
will not have the effect of making
him a worse one. Besides, if ever
one race had special claims upon
another, the Chinaman has on Eng-
lish speaking people, the nation which
at the sword’s point has forced opium
upon his markets, thereby driving
untold millions into soul-degrading
lust.
*• *
*
John Hays, of chivalrous type,
wise in council, and valiant in war,
have been known to fame for many a
century. On the roll-call of Knights
Commanders of the Order of St,


Michael and St. George, New South
Welshmen are proud to see the newly
inscribed name of the John Hay who
for many a year has been known to
them as a loyal colonist, consistent
politician, and honest man.
* *
*
In Peninsula days Charles Napier,
the soldier, used to talk of his annual
wound. The New South Wales
Bailway Department will soon be
able to boast of its daily accident.
* *
*
The Civil Service Superannuation
scheme doesn’t seem to find favour
with the young married men. The
meeting by many is denounced as a
hole and corner one, got up to secure
the passing of resolutions cut and
dried in favour of certain officials of
long standing.
* *
*
The Mrs. Thistlethwaite, whose
husband was defendant in the recent
action brought in the English Courts
by a milliner to obtain payment for
hundreds of pounds worth of dresses
supplied, was the Laura Bell of the
great Exhibition year (1851).
* *
*
Spofforth’s timber-shivering suc-
cess has revived the Cornstalks’
hopes, which affairs at Nottingham
had a little damped. It will be
interesting to learn who composed
the M. C. C. team on the occasion
when the Australian bowler got dead
on their wickets.
* *
*
We must apologize for having
devoted so much of the present issue
to personal topics, but we feel sure
we shall be excused when it is con-
sidered that the very existence of
this journal is at stake. Our readers
having now received twenty weekly
issues, are in a position to judge
whether we have fairly catered for
their entertainment, and how far we
have fulfilled our pledge to expose
fearlessly all abuses brought under
our notice, as well as to give forth
no uncertain sound in dealing with
weighty questions of public interest.
Believing that a wide sphere of use-
fulness is open to us if only we can
tide over the perils of childhood, we
invite suggestions from our friends
and well-wishers as to the best
means of obtaining that material
support without which no newspaper
enterprize can hope to succeed. We
shall be very reluctant to close our
relations with those who have so far
helped us on our journey. A rapid
increase in the number of our sub-
scribers would be a ready solution of
the difficulty.
* *
*
Should we find ourselves unable,
for the reasons given in our opening
remarks, to continue the publication
of Once a Week , we shall be glad to
receive the names of subscribers and
friends who wish to have bound
copies of Nos. 1 to 20. The price
of the volume with title page and
index will be ten shillings. Sub-
scribers having paid a yearly sub-
scription in advance will be entitled
to a copy for the cost of binding,
&c., two shillings and sixpence.
* *
*
And if for ever, still for ever, &c.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Goorun dah. —Your poem gives evidence
of poetic talent, but is too crude for in-
sertion in our pages. The conception is
clever, but the verses are not up to our
mark.
My Last Cartridge. —A tale of absorb-
ing interest, admirably written. We
have posted you a letter on the subject.
W. C. Shipway. —Your solution is
correct.
