

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. H. BARLEE!.
No. 24, V"ol. I.]
JUNE 29, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
Day of
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High
Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
Sydney
Cove
June
29
Sat
St. Mary’s Cathedral burnt, 1865.
7. 7
4.59
7.11 a.m.
80
July
1
S
2nd Sunday after Trinity.
7. 7
4.59
8. 2 a.m.
M
Victoria separated from N. S. Wales, 1851.
7. 7
5. 0
8.48 a.m.
2
Tn
Sir Robert Peel died, 1850.
7. 7
5. 0
9.29 a.m.
3
W
Melbourne Public Library built, 1854.
7. 7
5. 1
10. 6 a.m.
4
Th
American Independence declared, 1776.
7. 7
5. 1
10.42 a.m.
5
F
Crown Lands leased, Tasmania, 1828.
7. 7
5. 2
11.18 a.m.
AGENTS will oblige by forwarding returns immediately after receipt of
accounts rendered from this office.
Remittances, if by P. O. Order, to be made payable to C. H. Barlee,
Sydney.
SANITARY REFORM
WE shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.B. —Advertisements for '* SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK ” will be received up to ten o’clock on
Thursday morning.
‘‘Wisdom crieth aloud in the streets,
and no man regards her ” was said
by a wise man of old, and no saying
could apply with greater force to the
apathetic disregard of sanitary mat-
ters in the City of Sydney.
On the 10th August, 1876, the
Board appointed by the Robertson
Ministry “ to enquire into and report
as to the best means of disposing of
the sewage of the city of Sydney and
its suburbs, as well as of protecting
the health of the inhabitants thereof”
repeating previous recommendations,


urged strongly upon the Government
the necessity which existed for legis-
lation on the following points:—The
appointment of a Central Board of
Health ; the passing of a Building
Act, giving extended powers to Muni-
cipalities to construct drains or open
up thoroughfares through private
property, and providing proper dwell-
ings for the working classes.” They
recommended that a Board of Health
and Works be appointed “to consist
of a small number of members, who
should not be subject to popular
control, and who should have a secure
tenure of office, and sufficient power
to carry out necessary works and to
compel the observance of sanitary
laws.”
The Board among other recommen-
dations, advised the Government in
respect to the nuisance arising from
the Glebe Island Abattoirs, and sub-
mitted a new set of regulations which
would have had the effect of removing
it.
They expressed themselves strongly
on the subject of piggeries in Alex-
andria and elsewhere supplied with
offal from Glebe Island.
Also, with regard to the evil
arising from the practice of killing
calves and lambs by butchers sur-
reptitiously on their premises, they
submitted evidence which pointed
very clearly to the only sensible
remedy.
Exhaustive evidence was taken
and published on the subject of over-
crowding, and its attendant evils ;
and practical suggestions from the
Board placed in a
position, had they been so minded,
to take action at once.
What has been the result ? The
Glebe Island Abattoirs are a greater
nuisance than ever ; the blood still
pollutes the harbor, and the pigs still
fatten on the offal; houses are daily
occupied in the city and suburbs
which have been built without the
least regard to the simplest condi-
tions of healthy living ; the absence
of any drainage system is producing
its natural results ; typhoid fever is
raging in certain quarters of the
city ; no effort has been made to
prevent the accumulation of filthy
matter arising from the killing of
calves, lambs, and sucking-pigs on
private premises, and the conceal-
ment of the entrails and refuse to the
injury of the public health ; no ad-
ditional powers have been given to
municipalities to enforce sanitary
regulations ; no Building Act has
been passed, and the evils complained
of in connection with overcrowding in
the city are repeating themselves in
the suburbs ; the deathrate is out of
proportion to the average of other
centres of population possessing
similar advantages, and no alarm is
felt, no indignation expressed that
in these vital points we are so tar
behind all our neighbours.
Were the subject not so serious,
it would be amusing to note the oft-


recurring feeble efforts and failures
on the part of tbe outside public to
get their rulers to interest themselves
in such a small personal matter as
health.
Periodically, deputations upon all
the subjects we have referred to wait
upon the Minister for this and for
that, and receive promises which
leave them nothing to wish for.
Then the urgency of the danger
passes away, and all parties go to
sleep again for another six months.
“A little more sleep and a little more
slumber :
Thus we pass all our days and sessions
without number. ”
Sir Hercules Robinson prophecies
that we shall in seventy years have
in this colony a population of ten
millions, or twenty to one of the pre-
sent population.
The prophecy is cheering as an
indication that in one respect—that
of population—we are likely to go
rapidly ahead. When shall we com-
mence to prepare for the newcomers?
How to buy Turkeys. —A merchant,
who was noted for his stuttering as well
as for his shrewdness in making a bar-
gain, stopped at a poulterer’s and inquired:
“ How m-m-many t-t-turkeys have you
g-g-got ? ” “ Eight, sir,” replied the
poulterer. “ T-t-t-tough or t-t-tender ? ”
“ Some are tender and some tough,” was
the reply. “ I k-k-keep b-b-b-boarders,”
said the customer ; “ p-pick out the f-four
toughest t-t-t-turkeys, if you please.” The
delighted poulterer very willingly com-
plied with the unusual request, and said,
in his politest tones : “ These are the
tough ones, sir.” Upon which the mer-
chant coolly put his hand on the remaining
four, and exclaimed : “ I’ll t-t-t-take
th-th-th-thcse ! ”
A man who applied . to one of our
citizens for help for his destitute children,
being asked what he needed, said he was
not particular, “ If he couldn’t get bread,
he would take tobacco. ”
A YOUNG mamma, on the important
occasion of making her little boy his first
pair of trousers, conceived the idea that
it would be more economical to make
them of the same dimensions behind and
before, so that they might be changed
about and wear evenly. Their effect,
when donned by the little fellow, was
very ridiculous. Papa, at first sight of
the baggy garment, into a roar of
of laughter, and exclaimed, “ Oh, my
dear, how could you have the heart to do
it ? Why, the poor little fellow won’t
know whether he’s going to school or
coming home.”
A lady playfully condemning the
wearing of whiskers and moustaches,
declared, “It is one of the fashions I
invariably set my face against.”
A woman said in a police-court the
other day, that before marriage her hus-
band pretended to be much struck with
her, but now she was every day struck
by him.
Inside Out.—Two Parisians recently
married, one a beautiful, the other an
extremely frightful woman. They were
discussing the merits of their wives. Said
the one who had espoused the beauty,
“ Your wife is so very ugly ! ” “ Ah,
yes ! ” replied the other ; “ but if not
externally beautiful, she is beautiful
within.” “ Then,” answered the first,
“ why don’t you turn her inside out? ”
A ’Bus in Urbe. —(An incident of the
late' frosty weather.) —Deaf Old Lady
(from inside of ’bus, which has suddenly
stopped) : “ Oh, conductor, whatever is
the matter ? ” Conductor (gruffly) :
“ ’Taint nothing, marm. Only that
blessed off ’un over again.” Old Lady
(aghast) : “ A blessed orphan run over !
How dreadful ! ” And there were two
or three passengers who positively had
the brutality to laugh.
A Standing Joke. —A friend, speak-
ing of a mutual acquaintance, rather fond
of his bottle, who had that day left on a
long journey, mentioned that, when seeing
him off, he had proffered something
to drink. “ What! ” said one, did old
P stand ” “ Yes,” was the reply ;
“ but it was about as much as he could
do.”


LOCAL.
We are glad to notice a consider-
able improvement in the arrange-
ments in connection with the after-
noon trains leaving the Redfern
Terminus. A signboard is now
placed in a conspicuous position
which informs passengers the sta-
tions at which each train about to
leave will stop, and any doubt
which may linger in the minds of
undecided passengers is set at rest
by the vocal efforts of that indefatig-
able officer who, in stentorian tones,
invites passengers to take their seats
for Newtown, Petersham, Croydon,
Burwood, &c. We may perhaps be
permitted to point out that between
4 and 6 o’clock p.m. the station is
generally crowded, and that the gen-
tlemen’s waiting-room, which is very
small, has only six chairs. Occa-
sionally, there are seven persons
anxious to be seated, and it is rather
hard upon the odd man to have to
patrol the platform without the
chance of coming to anchor until the
train starts.
* *
The Rev. C. F. P. Collingridge,
the R.C. chaplain to the Darling-
hurst Gaol protests ore rotundo
against the permisson which has
been accorded to Temperance Lec-
turers to address the prisoners on the
subject of total abstinence. We do
not think the rev. gentleman need
entertain any serious apprehension
as to the effect upon his proteges
which these lectures will produce.
To urge upon a man the sad results
of drunkenness when he has not the
ghost of a chance of getting a nip, is
somewhat of a farce, and seems to
be hardly fair play. No doubt, the
eloquence of Mr. Alfred Allen and
other popular lecturers would pro-
duce some effect. Under their influ-
ence prisoners might even be induced
to “ take the oath,” but when freed
from the trammels of prison disci-
pline and outside the walls of Dar-
linghurst, the chances are that they
would take it, as the Yankee humorist
recommends, u with a slice of lemon
and a little sugar.”
* * *
Can anyone tell us why the rule,
very strictly enforced as it is, as to
the moderation in the pace of omni-
bus drivers at street crossings is not
applicable to all sorts and conditions
of men? At the junction of George
and King streets accidents are almost
of daily occurrence from the rapidity
with which unlicensed vehicles are
permitted to travel. Surely there is
as much danger in connection with a
grocer’s cart as an omnibus or wag-
gonnette, and we submit that the
sauce should be administered to the
goose as well as the gander in this
instance.
* *
*
Small conductor to crowd of ’bus
drivers and conductors in confab at
close of day’s work : “ There was a
chap to-day who when I axed him
for his fare, says he, “ I aint got no
money.” “No browns ? ” says I.
“ Not a rap,” says he. “ And what ”
asked one of the drivers, “ did you
do with him ? ” “ Why,” replied
the boy, “1 didn’t at first know what
to do. I was agoing to tell the boss,
when a thought strikes me ; I says
to him, “ What, you don’t mean to
pay me at all ? ” says I. “ No,”
says he, “ I don’t; but if you like to
take it out of me in kicks, you can.”
“ Well,” says the father of the whips
then present, “ I’ll be blamed if he
didn’t ride cheap ! ”


ADVENTURES WITH THE
BLACKS.
Chapter IV.
The fight referred to in the last
chapter between King John’s tribe
and the tribe of Peter the murderer,
came off about a fortnight after the
tragedy, the intervening time having
been spent in preparations. It is an
understood thing when a pitched bat-
tle has been arranged, that for some
days previously both sides, in addi-
tion to warlike arrangements, shall
exert themselves to bring to the
ground the materials for a plentiful
repast, of which, of course, only the
victors partake. Thus they fight,
not only for honor —which is a very
shadowy affair with them—but also
for the more substantial comfort of a
big feed. The ordinary fare of the
Murray River blackfellow consists of
fish, which are very abundant, and
which they spear from their canoes,
and a vegetable diet called by them
“ Minokora,” being the root of a
species of bullrush covered with a
floury substance which, when roasted,
tastes very much like a mealy pota-
toe. The fibres of this root after
having undergone the process of
mastication, are used by them to
make nets, and are as tough and
flexible as twine. Then also spear
kangaroo and wallaby, and every now
and then vary their fare by snaring
birds, especially wild fowl. They
will also eat iguanas and snakes,
bandicoots—anything, in short, in the
shape of animal food. They are
very successful in capturing black
swans. This bird, which abounds in
the Murray River, cannot fly until it
is about ten months old, and the
blackfellows run them down in their
canoes when young. When full
grown the black swan flies very hea-
vily, and its motion is laboured and
slow when it rises from the water.
The Murray River blackfellow, armed
with a kind of sling consisting of
half a dozen pieces of strong twine
about two feet long tied together at
one end, and having at the other end
of each piece a stone about 1 lb. in
weight, gets near enough to a flock
of these birds as they rise from the
river to discharge this missile among
them. As soon as it leaves his hand
the several pieces of twine of which
it is composed separate, and entan-
gle one of the birds, who, thus encum-
bered, fails to keep up with his
companions, and flies lower and lower
over the plain until he is brought
down by waddies and captured. The
river blacks have also an ingenious
though somewhat precarious way of
catching ducks and geese. They
generally choose a windy day for this
sport, when having marked a lot of
widgeon or wild geese settled on the
water at the edge of the tall reeds
which fringe the river from a safe
distance, they retrace their steps and
get opposite the birds. Then, being
provided with a pliant rod like a
fishing rod, about the size of one of
the large reeds and peeled so as to
resemble it, having a noose at the
end, they noiselessly approach the
game, and letting the rod move to
and fro like the reeds, as if agitated
by the wind, suddenly make a rapid
descent with it, and lift by the neck
a fine fat goose. They often spear
wild turkeys in the plains with great
dexterity, getting within spearing
distance by means of a bough held
before them. Game is, or was at
the time of which I write, so abun-
dant that the blackfellows living on


the river were always sleek and fat.
But the Murray River cod is their
staple article of food.
When the preliminaries are con-
cluded, and the supply of edibles is
adjudged to be liberal the fight takes
place. The warriors on either side
appear in their war paint. A half-
moon of white paint under each eye,
various grotesque devices on their
arms and chest, and a profusion of
red ochre on their heads and
cheeks, give them a ferocious appear-
ance.
The courage of the warriors is
stimulated to fighting point by the
women of each tribe, who muster a
few yards in advance of the front
rank, and commence to extol the
deeds of their own fighting men, and
to vituperate their opponents, until
the requisite pitch of exasperation
is reached, and spears are thrown ;
then the gins retreat in double quick
time and the battle rages.
I was not sufficiently acquainted
with the blackfellows’ language to
understand what the old women who
played this part in the battle I wit-
nessed really said, but from what I
could gather from members of our
own tribe they far surpassed in the
coarseness of their abuse anything
ever uttered in Billingsgate by the
fisherwomen who are supposed to be
adepts in slang.
As I stood with two of our fellows
leaning on my gun in front of the
battle-field, and not more than a
couple of hundred yards from the
combatants, I can testify to the
demoniacal yells and insulting ges-
tures employed by the women as
being quite enough to set any num-
ber of men by the ears.
The spear throwing, which was
very brisk for about ten minutes, was
not very effective, the combatants
one and all being protected by shields
made of bark, painted and orna-
mented like their bodies, so that the
wounds given and received were for
the most part on the legs and arms
of the combatants.
The spear is thrown by means of
a “ wamerah,” a slight piece of wood
about eighteen inches in length, hav-
ing a hook at its extremity which
fits into the end of the spear, and
allows a great impetus to be given to
the throw.
When the spears had been thrown
backwards and forwards until they
were either broken or out of reach,
the waddies and nullah nullahs were
brought into play, and the hand to
hand scrimmage which took place for
about ten minutes with these we apons
was very exciting.
Never did I witness anything in
the shape of a free fight to equal it.
They shouted, yelled, and ranted,
danced, and ran like mad creatures,
giving and taking blows which would
have been fatal to skulls of ordinary
thickness, when suddenly Peter’s
tribe began to give way, and were
soon in full retreat, leaving King
John and his warriors masters of the
field.
Only one individual, as far as I.
could learn, was mortally wounded
A spear thrown at random by the
enemy struck one of the women o
our tribe. She thereupon set up a
yell of a frightful character, equiva-
lent to the cry of murder in Irish ;
whereupon one of the combatants
rushed out of the ranks and dealt a
shower of blows on her head with a
waddie which silenced her at once and
for ever.
The amount of blowing which we
had to listen to from our blackfellows


during the ensuing week was some-
thing tremendous. But the victory
they had achieved and the praise we
accorded them, had the effect of es-
tablishing the most friendly relations
between us, and thenceforth they
were our firmest friends.
But Peter was not again captured,
and for what I know is still at large,
ready to take a similar advan-
tage of any whitefellow who may be
foolish enough to give him the
chance.
WALKER.
SONNET.
LIFE’S VOYAGE.
BY W. G. B.
In the wild chaos of life’s storm-lit sea
My barque hath braved the storm for
threescore years ;
I furl the sails that have been wet with
tears,
In the long voyage to eternity.
’Tis something that my heart is stu no-
and free,
And sings like bird upon the flowery lea ;
’Tis something, that in all my hopes
and fears,
Thou wast the pilot, and I sailed to Thee.
I sing, and fear not; birds, and fruits,
and flowers,
Fountains, and sea of purple, isles of
gold,
Flit in the visions of life’s fading hours,
And fill my heart with raptures all un-
told.
The clouds are breaking as my eye 3 grow
dim,
And God’s ambrosial mom lights me to
Him.
23-6 78.
A DREADFUL Ending.— lrate Wife :
“ There ! I haven’t patience with you !
Drunk yesterday and drunk to-day !
Why, if you go on like this, what d’ye
think you’ll become ? ” Inebriate : “ Be-
come, Sairey—become ? Why, a Good
Templar , I’m—(hie)—afraid ! ”
COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
SOLUTIONS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 22.
Answer to Charade. —Backhouse.
Conundrums.— 1. Because where there
is a flame there must be a smoke. 2.
When she is bringing them up. 3. Be-
cause he is always ready to strike.
CONUNDRUMS.
1. When does a young lady resemble a
nut ?
2. What is- the most unpleasant voca-
tion ?
3. When can a donkey be spelt with
one letter ?
4. Why is a kippered herring like a
celebrated English poet ?
5. What is the difference between
Noah’s ark and an archbishop ?
6. Which are the hardest nuts to
crack ?
7. Where can you always find sym-
pathy ? J
8. There was once a darkey who
wanted a holiday, so he went and asked
his master for one, and his master said,
“ If y°u give me a conundrum that I
won’t answer in two hours, I will give
you one.” So the darkey said : Question
—“ If he come, he no come ; if he no
come, he come for certain ?” And then
he went away, and came back again in
two hours, and his master said he could
not answer it. So the darkey said:
Answer—“ We sow corn, and if the crow
comes no corn comes ; and if no crow
comes corn come for certain.” So the
master let him go.
ABITHMETICAL QUESTION.
If it takes thirty seconds for a clock
to strike six, how many seconds does it
take to strike twelve?
CHARADE.
M y first the anxious suitor heard
And sorrowfully sigh’d
Over the treasure lost for ever—
The dear one by his side.
My second is of every grade :
’Tis broad, ’tis great, ’tis small ;
In every house ’tis seen in numbers,
And the property of all.


My whole ne’er yet belong’d to man,
Though in the grave we have it;
But while we have our life and breath,
Not all the wealth can buy it.
PUZZLE.
Take one from three hundred and four-
teen ; then add three to the remainder ;
next divide that sum by ten : and let the
result be three hundred and twenty-eight.
NONSENSE VERSES.
Theke was an old lady of Rookwood,
Who didn’t fry fish as her cook would ;
She cut off their tails,
But left on the scales,
And somehow the dish didn’t look good.
There was a young man of Parana,
Who found in his bed an iguana ;
When they asked, “ Did it bite ? ”
He said, “No, but it might ;
So I’ll give it ipecacuanha.”
TRAGIC.
Wild was his eye, and bright with lurid
glare,
Which was no flash of joy, no quickening
beam,
From that celestial fire, whose glow at
times,
Lights up the human soul. His feverish
lips
Gave forth volcanic streams of eloquence —
Words of strange utterance —and few
could probe
The mystery of their meaning ; whilst
his hand,
Convulsive clench’d, did threaten view-
less space,
And vent its rage on harmless vacancy.
He strode as one not borne by mortal
limbs
On mundane journeys, but with way-
ward course,
Irregular and fitful, like the flight
Of zig-zag lightning o’er the boundless
gloom;
When Nature’s awful anger shakes the
skies.
Oft would he seize, with quick and des-
perate clutch,
Whatever could uphold his trembling
frame,
’Twas terrible to see him—worse to know
The dreadful cause of that disorder’d
mien.
To some it seem’d the anguish of re-
morse —
Guilt’s mad despair ; but others, better
versed
In worldly ways and human weaknesses,
At once unveil’d the secret of his state—
The man was drunk !
PROVERBS FOR SCHOOLBOYS.
A splinter in the fence is worth two in
the hand.
When the master is away the boys will
play.
The longest way round is the shortest
way home, if you don't miss the train.
When things come to the worst a new
suit is necessary.
A bad mark a day is a Saturday lost.
A bird in the cage is worth two in the
garden.
Always put off till tomorrow what you
can’t do to-day.
Those who live in glass houses should
look out for stones.
HINTS TO YOUNG GARDENERS.
Keep your eye on the last rose of sum-
mer, or it may go off bloom without leaf.
French beans are among the have beens.
Pay the last tribute of respect to the
memory of your late cabbage. Obstinate
potatoes that won’t come up when you
call ’em should be made an example of ;
skin ’em alive. Don’t allow your young
celery to push itself too much into
notice ; most likely it’s quite forward
enough already. See that your melons
don’t get too t melancholy j and if your
grapes look sour, ascertain what the juice
they mean by it.
QUESTIONS FOR EXAMINATION ON
THE BRITISH POETS.
Which British poet is the head of them
all?—Tate.
Which is the most venerable ?—White-
head.
The most juvenile ?—Young.
Which two poets are the most eminent-
ly ecclesiastical ?—Pope and Prior.
Which two are the most monastic ? —
Ho and Cowl-ey,
Which is the most laughter-provoking
poet 1 —Tickell.
The most festive ?—Gay.
The most vociferous ?—Blair.
The neatest ?—Smart.
The richest ?—Goldsmith.
The most loquacious ? —Chatterton.


MISTRESS AND MAID.
CHAPTER 11.
I think the question we wish to have
answered is—Where have they (the ser-
vants) gone to ? I do not know what
other people may say or think upon the
subject, but my answer is—Nowhere : for
the very good reason that there never
have been any to go—not what we used
and ought to call a servant, which I take
it to mean is, 44 one who serves another.”
If a housemaid, she takes as much pride
in the appearance of the house as her
mistress, always has the silver bright, the
tablecloth clean, and everything laid in
its proper place. If a cook, she takes a
delight in sending up the meals well
cooked, hot, and properly dished, and is
as proud and anxious about keeping down
the bills as her mistress. I do not say
there are no such servants, but they are
few and far between, and are what are
left, not of those that are coming. The
generality are dirty, impudent, and de-
structive, as much from ignorance very
often as from wickedness, their chief
thought being how much they can get,
and how little they can give in return :
so that instead of working with their
mistress, it becomes a constant war and
utter wretchedness and disorder for both.
Now, let us try to find out why they do
not come. There are several ideas upon
the subject. First, —education is so
cheap, and the; working classes are so
well off that, although they were servants
themselves (good and faithful ones, too)
they think to raise their children, parti-
cularly their daughters, a step higher than
themselves, and do not see their mistake
until it is too late. Every girl, nowadays,
is going to be a nursery governess ! and
what governesses they make, not able to
speak English very often so well as a ser-
vant in the habit of living in gentlemen’s
families : nor is it to be wondered at if
you follow them home—they live amongst
honest, respectable people, but who have
no idea of grammar or of anything but
the roughest manners ; a class from
whom the best of servants could be made,
but the most deficient as governesses. ,
Therefore, two classes are ruined by the
conceit of one who has learned just too
little to know how ignorant she is.
There are two or three good old ser-
vants who lived in my father’s family
when I was a child, who come to see me
still, and always call me 44 Miss.” They
have families grown and growing up, and
they come to me with their different
troubles as to the expense of living, the
trouble of bringing up a family, and what
they are to do with them when they are
brought up. This sort of conversation
takes place.
“ Sarah Ann must be quite a big girl
now. How old is she ? ”
44 Just fourteen years old,;Miss.”
44 Why, she ought to be keeping herself.
You were not as old as that when you
first came to live with us.”
• 4 1 know that, Miss ; but I look for
something better for my Sarah Ann. She
can draw ” —(oh, such drawings ! ; —they
are hanging all round the cottage walls,
and the poor mother shews them to you
with innocent pride when you go to see
her, as if you had had your eyes off them
for an instant since you entered the
house ; they seem to haunt you)— 44 and
play the piano, and such like. I mean
to make a teacher of her, or put her to
some business.”
“ I think you are very foolish, Mary.
Just think, if you send her to any busi-
ness, she will have to walk the streets
every day, often late at night; the hours
are long, and the work constant, hard,
and unhealthy. Sarah Ann is a'good-
looking girl, too ; if I were you, I should
be afraid of something happening to her.
She would be far better ofl and cared for
in a gentleman’s family as nurse or house-
maid.”
No, Miss, I am sure she would never
let herself down to service, and she is
quite able to take care of herself.”
I go to see another poor old thing. She
has worked hard all her life, and has to
work harder still now she has a large
family and a drunken husband ; but still
she has this desire to push her children
above her—to be looked down upon, and
most likely neglected by them in her old
age. Her place is beautifully clean, and
I find her hard at work washing, iron-
ing, and doing up some bits of finery for
her daughter to wear at some picnic she
is going to the next day. She shows me
all she is to wear—fit for any young lady,
but quite out of place for this girl. That
was all bad enough ; but what made my
heart ache was, to see this poor old thing
working herself to death for this girl’s
pleasure, when, if she had only done her


share of the work, her poor mother would
have been able to have taken a holiday
as well, instead of having to stay at home
to do the work that had to be left undone
to do her extra things. The mother never
thinks of it; she works from one week’s
end to the other under the delusion that
she is making a lady of her daughter,
who thinks herself so far above this loving,
self-denying, old mother, that she would
not like anyone to see her speaking to
her, much less have to claim her as her
mother.
Can we doubt that this will lead to any-
thing but good—this pushing a class up
out of its place, unfit to fill the one they
wish to get into, and leaving the one they
would be, if properly taught, a credit to.
Why is service so looked down upon ?
What can be more honorable, or more
thoroughly valuable when found, than a
faithful, trustworthy servant ? What
adds more to the comfort of the whole
household, and to the actual health
and happiness of the mistress, than to
feel there is always someone by ready to
do anything to help in time of need,
cheerfully and ungrudgingly ; who has
lived long enough in the family to know
all their joys and sorrows, and who has
humanity enough to enter into them and
keep her own counsel, and not to go
changing from one place to the other,
making mischief wherever she goes. But
the fact is, there are so few of this cha-
racter, and so many that are everything
that is bad, that the calling itself has lost
caste in consequence, and what ought to
be the most honored calling is the most
uespised.
We complain that we have no servants,
so the Government spend thousands of
our money in bringing out what they call
such from other countries. I wish they
were bound to take them into their own
homes and train them before they turned
them out upon heart-broken and back-
broken mistresses, who have to pay as
much for an unfortunate picked up out
of an Irish street, who has most likely
never seen the inside of a decent house
before, much less lived in one, or had to
handle and make use of things, as if she
had lived in decent places and had been
well taught. „, .
I have been a housekeeper ; for nearly
twenty years, and have experienced all
the misery of having to do all my own
work with a large small family to attend
to, not being able even to get a woman
by tbe day. I have had good, bad, and
indifferent servants the same _ as my
neighbours, and have tried to improve
matters in every way, and I have come to
pity more than to despise those poor
creatures who call themselves servants ;
and anyone else would do the same, if
they had ever been, as I have, into the
houses where they stay while out of place,
or to the homes where they have been
brought up. They would also be aston-
ished at how much they know, not at
their ignorance. They are many of them
one of a large family, living as best they
can, in two-roomed holes, without things
necessary for common decency, much
less the conveniences of life. How
should they learn to clean silver, lay a
gentleman’s dinner-table, cook or dish his
dinner, and last, although the most impor-
tant, how to treat, or take care of children.
Still, they generally start in life as nurse-
maids, when they have made up their
minds to let themselves down to service.
All through these twenty years I have
noticed that every year things have been
getting worse and worse, and will con-
tinue to do so, unless we combine to help
ourselves. We may grub on for ever,
wearing ourselves out, grumbling, and
making ourselves hateful to ourselves and
to everyone around us, but do no good to
anyone. We see reforms in every other
direction, but not at home ; and that
which ought to be the brightest spot on
earth is the dullest, and why ’—because
no one will degrade themselves or their
children by allowing them to become ser-
vants. What are we all, if looked at in
the true light, but servants one to the
other, from the Queen herself.
If men had suffered as much as we
have done from all this, things would
have been looked into, meetings called, a
oreat deal of time and money spent, and
they would have tried to have,righted
things, whatever the result would have
been. Why should not we women act
for once like men ; combine and see how
we can help ourselves and each other 1
What I am about to propose will, I
dare say, be scouted as the scheme of a
mad woman ; but I have thought of it so
long, looked'at it in what seems to me
every light, and weighed its advantages
and disadvantages against all we have to
do and to suffer at present, that I have
learned to consider it almost perfect-


like a foolish woman with an only child
—with this difference, that 1 ask for cor-
rection of its faults, or any improvement
that can be made in it by anyone.
I think I have written enough for one
article, so shall reserve the Mad Woman’s
scheme for another week.
HELP-HOPE.
JEMIMA’S MISTAKE.
The other day, Mrs. Bober, our curate’s
wife—she is a good, motherly woman—
gave her girl Jemima permission and a
shilling for omnibus fare, in order that
she might go to hear Messrs. Moody and
Sankey. Jemima was delighted, only
she lost her way coming home and was
dreadfully late.
“ I knew you would get lost,” said' our
curate’s wife.
“ Never mind,” said Jemima, *• it’s
worth having a little trouble to hear
Mooley and Sankim. They was
splendid. ”
The next morning the family were not
a little shocked to hear their servant
singing strange comic choruses as she did
her work. Unable to bear it any longer,
Mrs. Bober rang the bell, and when
Jemima appeared, said :
“ You know 1 don’t allow such melodies
to be sung on my premises. ”
“ I was only singing the hymns I heard
at Moogle and Sangers,” said Jemima.
“ Strange tunes and stranger words ! I
sure your master wouldn’t allow them
in his chapel. What was the sermon
about ? ”
“ Mooney never preached no sermon,
and I couldn’t tell which was Mookey
d which was Sandy. There was a
dozen of ’em, and one called the other
‘ Ginger,’ ”
“ Ginger! ”
“ But they sang splendid, and danced ”
“ Moody and Sankey dance ? They are
not Shakers.”
“ And they asked such butiful con-
nubulums. ”
“ Asked conundrums ? ”
“ And they was real black Americans ;
and the way Sangle, if he was Sankle,
played the banjo ”
“ Jemima, you are not fit to be trusted
alone. Instead of hearing Moody and
Sankey, you must have heard the Mohawk
Minstrels.”— Comic Paper.
SPORTING ADVENTURES IN
AUSTRALIA.
BY CHARLEY CORNSTALK.
Chapter IX.
Jem Curtis returned to the station m
such exuberant spirits that there was
literally no holding him. But a reaction
soon took place, and he began to find, as
was very natural, that the old life was
dull and monotonous, after the pleasant
days he had spent at Yarrawa, in the
society of lively, amiable girls, and the
vista of happiness which had opened to
him in Mr. Grant’s conditional acceptance
of his suit. He now considered himself
Georgie’s affianced lover, and his brain
was ever at work devising schemes by aid
of which he should place himself in
such a position as to ask for her hand.
He made me the recipient of all his
griefs, his hopes and expectations, and we
had many and long consultations on the
subject.
Jem would shortly be in possession of
the sum of £3,000, which was a fund in
trust for him, to be expended at the dis-
cretion of a sole trustee, a Mr. Markham,
a wealthy solicitor, when and how that
gentleman should consider the outlay
would be to his interest. He, Jem Cur-
tis, had little doubt of being able to per-
suade Mr. Markham to consent to the
purchase of a share in some station pro-
perty of sufficient importance to justify
his marriage. The question then was to
find an eligible investment, and to esta-
blish himself in a settled district, in a
home not too far distant from Yarrawa,
which Mr. Grant would not consider an
unfitting residence for his daughter.
By communicating with an influential
firm in Sydney, agents for station pro-
perty, he had received several overtures
from squatters willing to treat with him,
and one fine morning he started on the
Mountain Maid to inspect a station about
fifty miles distant, the proprietor of which
had expressed his willingness to take a
working partner to enable him to visit
the old country.
The day was remarkably fine, and as
Jem rode out of the yard a little before
sunrise with a light heart and full of hope
all nature was alive with her sweet
melody. The hum of insects, the chirp-


ing of birds, the laughing notes of the
cookaburra, the chattering of the wattle-
bird, and the melodions whistle of the
Australian magpie, with other cheering
sounds dear to the heart of the bushman,
ushered in the summer’s day, and made
him feel what a joyous thing to the
healthy and wholehearted is existence in
the country in a fine climate, where all
the surroundings which infuse life and
vigor into the frame, and joy and thank-
fulness into the heart, are due to nature,
and not to art.
As the Mountain Maid, fresh as a lark,
bounded beneath him, and cleared mile
after mile in her springy stride, and here
and there a kangaroo crossed his path,
then stopped and stood upright to look
at the intruder, Jem thanked his stars
that his lot had been cast in the freedom
of Australian pastures rather than in
some city or town, with all the restraints
which accompany the more artificial
mode of existence. Then he thought of
his last parting with Georgie, and the
promise she had given him, and he pic-
tured his new home beautified by her
presence, enlivened by her mirthful sal-
lies, aud endeared to him because it held
the most precious treasure which earth
had for him, its glad and proud owner.
Occupied with these happy thoughts
he proceeded on his journey to , the
station he purposed to inspect, intending
to stop at a sheep-station about half
.way, which he hoped to reach at noon.
Here an unexpected adventure awaited
him.
Upon riding up to the hut, instead of
finding the hutkeeper at home, he found
it empty. Dismounting and hobbling
the mare, he took a circuit of the place,
and cooeyed several times. But there
was no response. A fire was smouldering
in the fireplace, and there were other
tokens of recent occupation, but the sta-
tion was to all appearance deserted. In
vain did he search for damper, tea, and
sugar, or anything to dine on ; he found
nothing but an empty cupboard.
However, this was no great hardship ;
his main object was to give the Mountain
Maid a couple of hours’ spell, and as she
was feeding to her heart’s content in a
patch of burnt grass close by, he lit his
pipe, and throwing himself on a bunk in
a portion of the hut which had been
boarded off for the purpose of a bedroom,
he laid down for an hour or two.
The pipe made him drowsy, and his
eyes closed involuntarily. How long he
slept he did not know ; but he was
aroused by hearing voices in the adjoining
room.
Two men were conversing in eager
tones ; a few thin boards only separated
the rooms, and Jem could hear every
word, he could not avoid it.
Presently a name was mentioned which
aroused his keenest attention.
Said one of the men, who had a very
gruff voice :
“ I tell ye, they’re all gone except the
old man and the girl, and there won’t be
a soul about the place. I owe old Grant
a grudge this many a long day, and I
mean to pay him out, and as for Miss
Georgie,’my word wouldn’t she be shocked
if I asked her to give me a kiss ; but she
mayn’t, perhaps, be so dainty when I do
ask her.”
It was all that Jem could do at this
point of the conversation to restrain him-
self from jumping up and collaring the
ruffian who spoke ; but a moment’s re-
flection shewed that if he would do any-
thing to protect the inmates of Yarrawa,
he must find out all he could of the inten-
tions and plans of the wretches who, it was
evident, had planned an attack on the
station, taking advantage of a day when
the hands were all absent and the young
men who had been there to witness the
steeplechase had returned to their homes,
So he strained his ear to catch every
word,
“ Yes, Tom,” said the other speaker in
a thin, squeaky tone. —Jem could not see
either of their faces, but he said to him-
self that he would be able to swear to
them by their voices wherever he might
meet them.—“ I think it is right ; but if
it’s done at all, it must be done to-night.
Old Bob Simmonds is gone down with a
mob of horses, and the men doing that
fencing left last night. So, if there don’t
happen to be any travellers to-night,
there’ll be only old Grant.”
“The old boy has got a lot of cash
somewhere on the place, I know for a
fact, and I’ll have it out of him. if I set
him on the fire till he roasts, d—n him.”
“ You don’t seem to have a pleasant
recollection of your friend Mr. Grant,”
squeaked his companion.
“ Didn’t I get five years all along of
him, the hoary old ruffian. Maybe he’ll
find his mistake to-night. If I don’t


make a bonfire for him my name’s not
Tom.”
“ Well, well, Tom, I shan’t interfere
with your amiable intentions, and while
you are putting the old gent through his
facings, He ! he ! he ! I shall try and
make the young lady open the family
chest and give me the family plate. We
shall thus be both pleasantly and profit-
ably employed. He ! he !”
Jem felt an almost irresistable inclina-
tion to take three steps and throttle the last
speaker, and thrash him within an inch
of his life, but prudence said no—let them
mature their plot, or they may carry it
out when you know nothing about it.
Finally, the speakers, who spoke out
without any restraint, being without an
inkling of suspicion that any one could
overhear them, and having resolved to do
the job, as they called it, that evening,
agreed to meet at a certain waterhole
outside the Yarrawa home paddocks at
10 o’clock, where they were to be joined
by a third whom they spoke of as Bill the
German.
They then left the hut, mounted a cou-
ple of horses which they had hitched up to
the front, and started without being aware
of Jem’s presence, and without getting a
glimpse of the Mountain Maid, who had
fortunately headed towards the water out
of immediate sight from the hut, or the
saddle or bridle which Jem had carelessly
thrown down at the foot of a bush where
he had hobbled her.
When Jem emerged from his hiding-
place the two ruffians were about a hun-
dred and fifty yards off, and all he could
distinguish was that one was a large
Btout man, riding a grey horse, and the
other one thin and slight, mounted on a
brown or bay horse.
But he felt that he could swear to their
voices under whatever circumstances he
might hear them again.
The ruffians were already on their way
to Yarrawa : it was three o’clock in the
afternoon, and a good thirty miles lay
between the spot where he was standing
and the station which contained the
dearest object to him in the wide world.
Prompt action was necessary ; there
was no time to lose. What plan should
he devise to outwit the hawks which in a
few hours time would pounce upon the
defenceless dovecot ?
[To be continued.')
MY LAST CARTRIDGE.
AN EPISODE OF THE INDIAN MUTINY.
BY OMEGA.
(All rights reserved byJhe Author.)
CHAPTER 11.
“ And you, good yeomen,
Whose limbs were made in England, show us here
The mettle of your pasture; let us swear
That you are worth your breeding.”
Shakespeare.
Leaving Miss Geary, and rushing hastily
to the Sergeant’s side, I could hardly
believe the evidence of my senses when I
saw the small open space in front, and
the side of the ridge down which sloped
the road we had just come, alive with
natives, allseemingly more or less armed.
They must have numbered something
over two hundred, of whom a consider-
able portion were horsemen, evidently
irregular cavalry, sowars who had deserted
from the Fort, and by some unaccountable
means had succeeded in getting clear
away with their horses and arms. Among
the footmen I at once recognised the
figures of many of the native servants
and other hangers-on, whose strange
absence from the station had so surprised
me. These men now had arms in their
hands, and were foremost in the advance,
as if anxious to be the first to attack us.
I saw at a glance that our road back to
the regiment was for the time at least,
effectually closed against us. We were
only fifteen men in all ; but fearfully
against us as were such odds, if we had
not been encumbered by the presence of
the two women, I should have had little-
hesitation in making a sudden dash at
the weakest point discernible in the line
of the enemy, in the hope of cutting our
way through them. But as I was situ-
ated, with the lives of Jessie Geary and
Lucy Carson to watch over and answer
for, that was a step I dare not take, as
the two poor girls would be especially
marked out for destruction by the muti-
neers.
A charge through them to regain the
road would, therefore, mean certain death
for these two helpless creatures —death
or capture. Capture ! oh what a fearful
horror and madness burnt itself into my
heart and brain at the hideous thought.
Jessie Geary—my Jessie—my own loved


darling, alive in the hands of those black
fiends. Better death —death a thousand
times over.
I looked round and saw her standing
beside her horse, with one small hand
entwined in his silky mane, and the skirts
of her riding habit gathered up in the
other.
Cowering beside her was Lucy Carson her
face hidden in her hands, weeping like a
child—a striking contrast to Miss Geary,
who stood there like a beautiful statue,
pale and white, indeed, but as calm and
collected as if she knew herself to be in
perfect safety.
Without a tremor in her voice, or a
quiver on her lip, she inquired : “Do we
mount and ride forward at all risks, Cap-
tain Hen wood ; or do we take temporary
shelter in the bungalow ?”
Our eyes met as she spoke, and for an
instant the firm, fearless expression in
them gave way to a soft, gentle gleam
that I had never seen there before. It
seemed in a paradoxical manner to be-
speak fear and yet happiness ; apprehen-
sion and at the same time peaceful,
trustful resignation.
The light of that quiet glance, instan-
taneous as it was, stirred my very heart
within me, and in a mysterious manner
calmed my agitation and made the ter-
rible danger we were in seem less terrible
than it had been a moment before.
In that moment, my very soul seemed
to go out to the fair brave girl as she
stood beside her horse, with that sweet
almost divine light in her eyes, a light
the cause of which I could not fathom ;
but the effect of which was to make the
flame of my long pent-up love burn fiercer
still, until in that moment of infatuation,
intoxication, madness —call it which you
will —I had almost dared, there on the
spot, in the presence of the men compos-
ing the escort, and in the face of an over-
powering enemy, almost at death’s door
as we were, to clasp her to my heart and
tell her that she was all the world to me.
The sharp report of firearms, and a
loud volley of imprecations from Sergeant
Carson brought me to my senses. A ball
had struck his horse, grazing its shoulder.
As it happened, it was only an unim-
portant flesh-wound ; but it had fully
roused the wrath of the “ swearing Ser-
geant,” who was giving vent to stream
of terrible anathemas.
This incident told me that no time was
to be lost in leaving our exposed position
and getting under shelter. For the pre-
sent, I determined to occupy the Colonel’s
old bungalow : for it was a stroDg stone
building which could be securely barri-
caded against attack from without, with
the exception of the verandah in front,
and that we could easily defend, as long
as ammunition held out. A small garden
enclosure at one side afforded good pro-
tection for our horses, and next to our
ammunition, we had to depend upon them
for our lives.
I thought that if we could hold our own
there until night, we might steaLout, and
by a sudden dash break through the
weakest part of the'enemy’sline in safety,
and in the darkness of the night elude
pursuit.
I had another hope, and that was, that
finding we did not return to him within
a reasonable time, the Colonel would
become alarmed, and send back a strong
detachment to ascertain what had become
of us ; and earnestly 1 prayed that this
relief might reach us before we were
obliged to risk the first alternative.
In the meantime, the rebels were
leisurely closing in upon .us, and had
opened a desultory fire which increased
as they drew nearer.
Fortunately, I was able to get the
horses safely into the garden enclosure
and the whole party under cover without
any farther casualty, although several
bullets whistled close past us.
Seeing that this mode of attack was
now quite ineffectual, the mutineers soon
ceased firing, and after retiring some
little distance, a knot of what seemed to
be the leaders among them gathered under
the shade of a large tree, as if to hold a
consultation.
Conspicuous among these, was a tall,
thin figure, dressed in the blue jacket of
an Hussar, with his head enveloped in a
huge white turban.
Lucy Carson’s quick eyes fixed upon
this fellow at once.
“ Look there, Miss Jessie ! ” she ex-
claimed to her mistress, “ if there is not
that hateful wretch Akhbar ; and dressed
out in one of the Colonel’s old uniforms,
Ido declare. Oh, dear ! the sight of him
sets my very flesh creeping.”
Hearing these words, I took a good
look at the man, and recognised him too.
During our stay at Puttapore he had been


a hanger-on about the regimental stables,
and as he was a sharp, active fellow, he
was often found useful, and gained many
a good word in consequence, until one
morning just before the “ route ” reached
us, Johnny Carson happened to stumble
upon him, forcibly holding his sister Lucy
by the wrists, while he was giving vent
to a vehement rhapsody, expressive of his
great admiration of her beauty and other
attractions.
The anger of the young soldier was
considerably roused by what he saw.
His first impulse was to knock Akhbar
down on the spot, which he did forth-
with. His second impulse was to kick
him soundly when he was down, and this
he also acted up to without delay.
From that hour Akhbar was a changed
man. He became silent and morose,
going about with a sullen, evil expression
upon his cunning face, that shewed he
had a lively recollection of the chastise-
ment he had received.
As soon as I saw him there among the
rebels I knew that he would prove a
relentless enemy and would use his influ-
ence with his fellows to secure our des-
truction and his revenge for the indignity
he had suffered ; and I inwardly deter-
mined to give him a proof of my regard
by making him the recipient of a carbine
ball upon the very first favorable oppor-
tunity. He was a little beyond carbine
range at that moment, or I should have
tried conclusions with him there and
then.
The same desire seemed to have taken
possession of Johnny Carson : for I heard
the click of his carbine lock as he stept
out on to the verandah saying, “ I think
I can pick him off, Captain ! ”
“ No, no,” I exclaimed, “ do nothing of
the sort; the distance is too great for a
certainty, and we cannot afford to waste
a cartridge on the chance of a long shot.
Recover your arms ! and step inside.”
The remit of the consultation held by
the rebels soon showed itself.
About one-third of their number, which,
as far as I could observe, comprised all
the armed footmen, detached themselves
from the main body and advanced steadily
towards us. A second party followed at
a short distance, as if to act as a reserve.
These were all horsemen, and seemed to
be under the direction of Lucy’s dusky
admirer Akhbar, who was now mounted
on a fine-looking grey hoise, which, to-
gether with his blue jacket and white
turban made him a very conspicuous
figure.
He carried what at the distance ap-
peared to be a long rifle which he bran-
dished over his head with threatening
gestures as he approached. A clump of
bushes and a few small trees stood almost
directly in front of the bungalow,, about
halfway across the small open space
already mentioned. Here the horsemen
halted, but the party on foot still ad-
vanced, evidently bent upon making an
immediate attack.
We had taken up our position in the
main room of the building, from which
there were two doors leading on to the
verandah. Inside the room, but a little
back from each entrance I had made the
men erect a rough kind of breastwork,
formed of tables, bedding, ajid other cum-
bersome articles of furniture which our
hasty departure from the station had
obliged the colonel to leave behind him,
for the lack of means of carriage. These,
together with several doors wrenched
from their places, made a cover from
behind which we could watch the enemy
and keep up a fire upon him when needed
without exposing our own persons to any
extent. At the same time, the space
between these protections, and the doors
left us the means of reaching the veran-
dah without difficulty if occasion should
require it.
When I saw the rebels advancing as
described, I divided my little band into
two parties, and stationed one behind
each of these screens, with instructions
that half the number should fire when I
gave the word, the remainder waiting
for a second order so that those who fired
first had an opportunity to reload, thus
preventing the rebels, after the first dis-
charge, from being able to rush in and
overpower us by sheer force of numbers,
while all our barrels were empty.
By this time the attacking party was
not more than eighty yards from us.
“ Now then, Number One, be careful of
your aim—ready—fire ! ”
The volley was well-directed, and every
bullet told. The rebels, seemingly sur-
prised at the warmth of this reception,
hesitated for a moment, and then with
wild yells again came forward.
“ Ready, Number Two —aim low—fire !”
The second volley was as telling as the
first, the rebels fell into confusion, and


their advance was again checked, although
they were now within a few paces of the
verandah.
This was an anxious moment for me.
Would they recover themselves, and suc-
ceed in forcing an entrance, or would
they give way and retire ? The answer
to this question would either prove certain
and immediate death to us all, or other-
wise respite, if only for a time.
While the rebels were still disordered,
I called to the first firing party, whoj by
this time had reloaded.
“Now then, Number One, give them
another volley—ready—fire ! ”
This discharge, which laid low another
half-dozen of the enemy, settled the
matter, for the remainder with one con-
sent broke, turned and fled back at a
quick run to the cover of the bushes
behind which the horsemen had remained
watching the progress of the attack. As
soon as the men had all reloaded, we sent
a general farewell volley after them,
which caused several more to bite the
dust, and considerably quickened the
movements of the survivors.
I expected another assault to be made
at once by the whole number together,
but the severe loss they had already suf-
fered seemed to have cowed the rebels.
Those on foot soon straggled away by
twos and threes back to the spot where
they had left the non-combatants, and
joining them, piled their arms, or threw
them sullenly to the ground evidently
having no intention of further offensive
action for the present.
But before long I noticed a movement
among the horsemen : Akhbar and some
ten or a dozen of the best mounted among
them left the shelter of the bushes; and
rode smartly off towards our ridge, making
for the road. They speedily gained the
crown of the ridge, and descending on
the other sids, were lost to sight.
Shortly after, their comrades moved
away very deliberately towards our left
carefully keeping sufficiently wide of us
to render our fire uncertain. They crossed
and recrossed the far side of the open
ground several times, and then, spreading
themselves into a long and irregular line,
rode slowly towards us, those who car-
ried firearms commencing a desultory fire
upon the bungalow, which was quite
harmless to us, for, though several balls
struck the outside of the building and
ne even found its way through one of
the doors, and lodged in the hastily con-
structed defence within, none could reach
the interior of the room.
The men were anxious to return the
fire, but I would not allow them to do so,
as the probable results, with the enemy
at a considerable distance and in such
loose order, would hardly be likely to
justify of powder and
lead.
The rebels, when they got within about
three hundred yards, halted, still keeping
up an irregular, badly sustained discharge
of firearms, which, however, was quite
thrown away upon us. These proceed-
ings somewhat perplexed me. It could
hardly be the intention of the mutineers
to try and storm our position, or they
would not approach on horseback, and in
such loose order.
I turned to Sergeant Carson, and said,
“ What is the meaning of this sort of
thing, Sergeant ?”
The old man bit fiercely at the ends of
his grizzled moustache for a moment, and
answered, “ It means some damnable
mischief, Captain ! I wish I could see
what that infernal villain Akhbar and his
mates are doing at this moment- May
the devil fly away with his black carcase.
He is doing no good wherever he is, blast
him !”
These words suggested the idea that
Akhbar’s riding away along the road,
might be a feint, and the extraordinary
movements of the remaining sowars only
intended to attract our attention and
draw our fire, while something more
serious was going on elsewhere.
My first thought was for the horses.
By making a circuit, Akhbar and his
companions could approach the garden
from the rear, and under cover of the
wall, reach the outer gate at the side far-
thest from us, force it open, and drive
our animals out of the enclosure. If they
succeeded in this we were deprived of our
only means of escape, and failing relief
from without, our certain destruction
would then be only a question of time,
for our ammunition would soon be ex-
pended, and even if otherwise, we had no
provisions to enable us to hold out
against a lengthened siege. Not even
a drink of water was to be got with-
out a terrible risk of life. There was a
well to the left of the bungalow, about a
hundred and fifty yards off, but while
the mutineers were so near it was impos-


sible to make use of it, as any man at-
tempting to do so would be inevitably
shot down before he could go and return.
Already several of the men were com-
plaining of thirst, for the day was hot
and the sun had reached its mid height
a couple of hours since. By this time I
was beginning to look frequently and an-
xiously towards the mango tope on the
ridge, round the point of which our res-
cuers must pass to reach us ; but no sign
of their advent rewarded my eager gaze.
But now, fear for the safety of the
horses, aroused by the Sergeant’s last
words, at once drew my attention from
anything else. A door which had been
strongly barricaded led from the right
hand side of the bungalow into the gar-
den. I instantly had these barricades
removed, and the door opened that I
might be able to get a view of the rear of
our position, without exposing myself,
the front wall of the garden forming a
safe cover. I stepped out into the enclo-
sure, and looking cautiously over the back
wall, saw at once that my fears were only
too well founded, for there, sure enough,
was that villain Akhbar, followed by
twelve other horsemen, stealing quietly
up towards the outer gate.
Not an instant was to be lost : I hur-
ried inside again, and selecting eight of
the best shots from among the men, re-
turned with them to the garden to meet
this new danger, leaving the remainder
under the orders of my brother Edward,
to watch the movements of the sowars in
front, and repel any attack from that
quarter.
The upper half of the garden gate was
made of rough open trellis work, open
enough to allow the muzzle of a carbine
to be protruded.
I gave the men orders to keep out of
sight close under the wall until I waved
my hand, and then to fire through the
trellis, four at a time —for the gateway
was not wide enough to allow the whole
number to act together.
The rebels, evidently quite unconscious
of being watched, rode deliberately up to
within a few yards and then checked their
horses, while one of their number dis-
mounted, and giving his reins to a com-
rade, walked leisurely up to the gate to
force it open.
It was then I motioned to the men, and
four carbines were simultaneously dis-
charged almost in the faces of the sur-
prised natives. The other four shots
followed the next moment, and as the
puff of white smoke cleared away I saw
that Akhbar and three other mounted
men, together with the fellow on foot,
were the only five; left uninjured out of
the thirteen. The men were busily re-
loading when I saw Akhbar’s evil features
light up with a sudden glare—half hate,
half triumph—as, throwing his long rifle
to the aim with the quickness of thought,
he fire 1 through the gate, and then put-
ting his horse to speed, rode off, followed
by the other three sowars.
Johnny Carson, while in the act of
placing a cap upon the nipple of his car-
bine, dropped the weapon from his hand,
staggered forward a couple of paces, and
then fell heavily to the ground. He was
quickly raised, but I saw at a glance that
the poor young fellow was hit mortally—
Akhbar’s ball had struck him full in the
chest.
As he was being carried towards the
bungalow, the two girls caught sight of
the helpless form as his comrades brought
it in, and rushed out hastily to meet him ;
his sister Lucy with a loud scream ring -
ing from her lips, and Miss Geary with
her hands pressed closely to her breast,
her face as white as death, and her look
bent upon the wounded man, with a
painful expression of doubt and fear.
I laid my hand upon her arm exclaim-
ing, “ My dear Miss Geary, for heaven’s
sake do not exp ise yourself in this rash
manner ! Pray return under cover imme-
diately.”
As she heard my voice at her ear, with
a sudden start she pressed her crossed
hands convulsively yet cl ser to her
bosom, as she almost sobbed forth the
words “ Thank God !”
“ Oh, Captain Hen wood!” she con-
tinued in a tremulous voice, “ I feared—
I feared —that is, I thought—”
Here she stopped suddenly, lifted her
face to mine for an instant, and then has-
tened into the bungalow without finish-
ing the sentence.
Short as was that glance, it was long
enough for me to see again in her eyes
the bright gleam of that strange, un-
fathomable light, which I had noticed
there earlier in the day, when we first
found ourselves intercepted by the rebels.
What was it ? Why in an hour of fear-
ful peril should such a spark of bright
fire flash from the eyes of a poor, weak'


girl, standing, as she was at that moment,
almost upon the brink of the grave ? I
would have given much to be able to
read the secret of that look, which now,
for the second time, sent the blood
coursing through my veins in a hot, ex-
cited tide.
As I followed slcwly out of the garden,
busy with these thoughts, the sudden dis-
charge cf firearms from the front made
me quicken my pace, and upon re-enter-
ing the bnngalow I found that the greater
number of the rebel horsemen had dis-
mounted, and leaving their horses in
charge of the remainder, were moving
rapidly forward to make another dash at
our position. It was sharp work, but ow-
ing to the great advantage we possessed in
being able to fire upon them as they ad-
vanced upon the open without exposing
ourselves, we were again successful in
beating them off with severe loss. Twice
they rallied and came on, but each time
they were met by a well directed volley
which checked their advance, and threw
them into confusion.
Their leaders endeavoured to reform
them a third time, but without effect, for
discouraged and disordered they fairly
turned tail and retired precipitately.
(Z<? be continued.')
The Sydney “Once a Week.” —We
have received the 18th number of this
magazine, which shows undiminished
signs of vitality and vigour. It contains
a quantity of readable matter and deserves
support.— Bega Gazette .*
“ Once a Week. —Last week’s num-
ber of this interesting little publication
has reached our table, and it is fully up
to its predeceesors as regarks the excel-
lnce of its original matter'— Border Pont.
The Sydney Once a Week, the first
number of which we noticed some time
back, has improved in every respect. In
the first place, Once a Week is improved
in appearance. The cover is now quite at-
tractive ; at first it was rather the reverse.
The reading matter leaves very little
to be desired. It is sufficiently varied to
suit all tastes. The April number, which
is the latest we have seen, is full of good
things. There is a very amusing account
of a fishing excursion under the title of
“ Catching a Flathead.”— The Week
(Brisbane).
AN UNFORTUNATE MAIL
SERVICE.
BY VIATOR.
In the halcyon days of steamship enter-
prise, and the prosecution of ocean mail
service with but moderate subsidies, pos-
sibly a short “yarn” to-day touching
the original formation and ultimate col-
lapse of one, with which Australians
were very directly interested, and I,
myself, somewhat closely connected, and
which, while rocket-like in its rise and
decade, nevertheless, during a portion of
its existence, at all events, was one of
our expensive public pets, may be not
wholly devoid of interest to many of
your readers. And, as I know well,
many and diversified have been the causes
assigned for its utter collapse ; not a few
to this day are wholly in the dark as to
the real causes of the misfortune, when
so many kindred enterprises have proven
successful, I purpose enlightening our
friends in the matter—at least, in offering
my very humble opinion upon the sub-
ject in as an agreeable manner as can be
reasonably expected from ajvery ordinary
contributor.
How I came to be made fully ac-
quainted with the facts I note, needs no
explanation. Suffice it to say, I saw a
good deal while connected with the ser-
vice, and, though I most heartily con-
demned in the interstices of my own
heart at the time, a sense of expediency
induced a retention of those ideas. So
many years have since passed away, too,
since the breaking up of the service, that
I can take reference to the subject now
without treading upon the toes of any
one—and too many of those connected
with it are either voyaging iu the yet un-
known ocean of a higher world, or are
still pushing along their fortunes, let me
hope more prosperously than during the
period of their sojourn in and near Aus-
tralia as servitors of the once fashionable
Panama and New Zealand Royal Mail
Company (limited).
1 fancy it will not be convenient to
cram all I desire to assert into the
columns of one issue of Once a Week.
Possibly this first instalment will not be
considered worthy the trouble of setting
up ; still I draw my bow at a venture
merely explaining that till I took up my


pen to-day, the subject never occurred to
myself as worthy public reference, and,
above all, there can be no feeling of indi-
vidual interest to urge, or personal anti-
pathy to gratify, by the statements now
set forth.
Many years since, a firm in London en-
tered into arrangements with the Govern-
ments of New South Wales and New
Zealand for the conveyance of mails be-
tween, first of all, Sydney and Auckland
which was the nucleus, as it were, of
what was afterwards, for a time, styled
the Intercolonial Royal Mail Company
(New Zealand), and in carrying out this
contract three or four ordinary sized ves-
sels were employed—more than one of
which, I am sorry to say, has laid her
bones upon the dangferous New Zealand
coast. The operations of this Company
gradually increased, and by degrees fresh
vessels were added to the fleet, and the
services extended so as to embrace the
whole of the New Zealand ports. In the
course of time the possibility of a mail
service to Southampton via Panama was
mooted, and the I. R. M. Company
merged into that of the P. N. Z. and
A. R. M. Company (Limited). Such is a
brief outline of the various designations
of the service.
No one at all skilled in mail service
affairs can deny for a moment that, as
worked under the able management of
Captain John Vine Hall, sen., the Com-
pany not only was successfully managed,
but that it was creditable to the colonies,
by whose liberal subsidies it was sup-
ported. The expenditure upon the ves-
sels in Sydney in keeping them in
thorough repair, was, I know, often
cavilled at as over lavish, and extravagant,
but Captain Hall ever held a firm opinion
as to the force of that old truism of
stitches in time,” and as the needle was
constantly in use the garment shewed no
signs of inutility, but was always fit for
wear in all weather. The general main-
tenance of the boats was also superior,
and the officers selected, as a rule, were
men in whom the voyaging community
reposed thorough confidence, and it is a
matter of notoriety that this mail service
was carried out with very creditable
punctuality.
The travelling population was insignifi-
cant compared to that of the present day,
and subsidies were positively necessary
to ensure a reliable service. In the be-
ginning of the year 1865 there were some
eight fine vessels at work sailing under
the P. N. Z. Co.’s flag, and performing
intercolonial work, and others were after-
wards added. Very few steam companies
were held in fairer repute than this.
Dividends were available, and though the
working expenses, both in Sydney and
New Zealand, were apparently very large,
yet there is not the slightest doubt that
under Captain Hall’s vigilant eye all rea-
sonable economy was enforced, and there
are many besides myself who date the
decade of the Company from the period
of his leaving the colony, after the estab-
lishment of the Ocean Service between
Sydney and Panama, which had been his
great ambition to secure.
In 1865 the operations of the Company
were extended to Melbourne, and the
goldfields on the west coast of New Zea-
land drawing a large population thither,
the vessels employed in that line were, as
a rule, full of passengers and cargo. The
route was : —after leaving Sydney, Hoki-
tika and other western ports were touched
at, and then calling at Nelson, Picton,
Wellington, Lyttleton, and Port Chal-
mers, the vessel finally left the Bluff for
Melbourne, and there meeting the out-
ward mail by the P. and 0. Company’s
ships, returned to Sydney by the same
route.
The monopoly at first enjoyed by the
P. and N. Z. Company, of course, could
not be expected to continue long, and in
1865-6 other lines of steamships—notably
that of MacMeckan, Blackwood, and Co.,
of Melbourne—entered the lists against
us, and, like all competition, the results
were for the time disastrous to all, save
the travelling public, who, no doubt, en-
joyed that reign of cheap fares and rapid
passages. The competitive-principle cer-
tainly did wonders for them, and as it
very oftened happened that two rival
boats left Melbourne on the same day and
hour, the reduction in freight and passage
money was absurd, and set aside at once
any possibility of what was professionally
termed a paying voyage. Still, I can as-
sert, without fear of contradiction, that
it was a poor month the ships trading in
the round route did not gross from £2200
—while I have seen £3500 earned—and
this irrespective of all mail subsidies.
The races between Hobson Bay and the
Bluff were oftentimes very keen, and as
much was taken out of the commander,


officers, and crew, especially the engineers
and their men, as the vessel herself, while
the consumption of coal was enormous.
One incident will possibly be amusing to
those who have voyaged over the same
course, shewing the nature of the duty to
be performed. We left Sandridge Pier
in the company of an “ oppositioner,”
bound for Hokitika, via the Bluff and all
southern ports, and from thence we pro-
ceeded on to Sydney, our antagonist
to Melbourne again. It was an exciting
time of it, I can assure you. The num-
ber of passengers was t large, the rate of
passage ridiculously small, and each ship
in splendid condition.
Our friend (long since wrecked between
Port Chalmers and the Bluff) could pass
us in very calm weather—though the dif-
ference in speed between the two vessels
was very slight —but give our little flyer
plenty of canvas, and few vessels of her
size in these wateas could (or can yet)
touch her. We separated for the night,
she being at least ten miles ahead ; but
on nearing Bank’s Straits —which sepa-
rate Van Pieman’s Land from the Swan
Lighthouse —early next morning, lo !
there was the opposition member on our
starboard beam, her worthy skipper hav-
ing kept a little too close to the Tas-
manian coast in the night, and had to
haul out a point or two to fetch the
Straits. The day was very fine, and but
little wind. He, of course, came up
again, and passed us with the usual salute,
and we saw no more of him for three
days.
In the meantime, the weather changed
to a regular ‘ * snorter ” from the south-
west, and it is needless to say we carried
on every stitch of canvas we could safely
use. The fourth night out set in as
“dark as Erebus,” and as we had no
chance of very accurate reckoning for
many hours previously, the whereabouts
of the Solanders —a most dangerous rock,
rising abruptly from the water of Foveaux
Straits, was a matter of keen anxiety to
all, and especially the skipper. It was
impossible to see more than half a mile,
if that, ahead, though the brilliant flashes
of the lightning helped us much. Every
officer of us was on the look-out, and not
without reason : for, if we hit the Solan-
der, it was (in the vulgar tongue) “ a
case ” with us. But the “ Boss ” wa3 up
to his work, and just about midnight a
sudden flash shewed us the dreaded rock
about a mile off on the starboard bow.
It was easy enough then to lay a straight
course through the straits. Morning
dawned, and to our intense delight there
was our friend, not a couple of miles off,
again making tracks for the Bluff Harbour
“all he knew.” He got in first by
eighteen minutes ; but as he had twenty-
five start of us at Melbourne, we claimed
victory by seven ! There being room only
for one ship alongside the wharf there,
we brought up at the Pilot station, landed
the mails and passengers in the pilot boat
(which the latter did not bargain for or
relish) and carrying on the Bluff cargo,
which would be landed at Port Chalmers,
and sent back again by one of the down
coast boats, a not uncommon occurrence
in these racing days, and a cause of much
profane language on the part of “ Bluff”
consigners—we went at it again, and
making one of the most splendid runs on
record, just managed to get inside the
Otago harbour by dusk.
Not so our friend, who had started a
couple of hours after us—he overshot his
mark ; and it was not till 10 o’clock next
day that he came in. All up the coast
we pertinaciously kept a day in advance
of him, securing the up passengers till,
waiting for him at Nelson, we started a
few minutes ahead of him for a race to
Hokitika. As usual, he passed us, having
gained ten minutes in five hours, during
which the waking-up our boilers got was
a caution, and the funnel warmed your
body uncomfortably a couple of yards off,
while the craft trembled again with the
vibration of the rapidly revolving screw.
We rounded Cape Farewell Spit in sight
of each other. It was another anxious
night, as every mile saved was of import-
ance at that time, and but few of us
turned in with perfect serenity or uncon-
cern as to possible results of close shaving.
On nearing Hokitika roads, we could see
a three-masted steamer rolling in the long
inset of the sea there ; but, to our aston-
ishment, it was not our antagonist after
all, but the old “ Bar won ” (also since
deceased), and long after our passengers
had been transferred to the steam tender
a long wreath of smoke to the southward
proclaimed the approach of our old friend,
who had overshot his mark in the dark,
and couldn’t pick it up through the haze
along shore all the early morning.
We interchanged the usual civilities as
we lay tumbling about a few hours at


outside that dreaded bar. Why shouldn’t
we ? What was it to us if we burnt up
every spare spar, the cook’s fat, every
pound of grease, or even bacon, so long
as we could say, “we licked him ? ” We
were told to “ go in and win,” and bother
the expense. There were plenty of coals
at Sydney waiting for us, and no end of
considerately patient English shareholders
to pay for them !
After this deviation from the real pith
of my yarn, I would say that the coast
trade of the Company from Auckland to
the Bluff by the East Coast route, and
from the Manakau down south by the
west, was very valuable, and really good
returns were received from nearly every
vessel so employed, apart from the pro-
vincial subsidies paid ; but there again
opposition stepped in after a time, and
reduced fares told their own tale in the
end. At Auckland, Nelson, Hokitika,
Wellington, and Otago, we had salaried
agents ; at the others, our business was
confided to influential mercantile firms;
and of the two, it is a difficult question
to determine which was the most expe-
dient system. I fancied always the
former was the most expensive at all
events. The coaling stations were, as a
rule, Nelson and Port Chalmers, and the
cost in proportion to the rate of freight
from Newcastle.
One item in the Company’s original
system of maintenance I may here refer
to, and that is, the victualling of each
ship. Originally, it was let by tender to
responsible provedores; but the scale was
absurdly high, as was afterwards proved
by the accounts of the pursers, when they
each attended to that portion of their
legitimate duties as a company’s own
investment. The provedore’s rate was
ss. 6d. per diem for each saloon passenger
and 2s. to 2s. 6d. per steerage'passengers
and crew. In addition to this, they en-
joyed the large profit upon the sale of
wines, spirits, &c., which, as they were
all shipped in bond— and therefore free
of any duty—(a queer consequence) was
of much value to the supplier. No one
can reasonably imagine for a moment that
it really cost that sum to “ mess ” these
people ; though, no doubt, it was hard
upon the provedore when the passenger
list was below average. It was, and I
suppose still is, a source of much dissatis-
faction when intending passengers will
pertinaciously refrain from booking their
names till within a few hours of the
vessel’s sailing, as the unfortunate prove-
dore is without any guide as to the quan-
tity of fresh provisions required to be put
on board.
When the Company altered the system
and victualled their vessels themselves,
through their pursers, the saving was
immense. Over and over again, after
adding cost of all stewards’ and cooks’
wages, it was found that with a daily
average of say 25 saloon and 50 steerage
passengers, it was possible to keep as
liberally a furnished table as the most
fastidious person could demand, at an
expense not exceeding half that incurred
under the provedoring system—the Com-
pany also receiving all the profit from the
liquor supply. No doubt it is a conveni-
ent arrangement to provedore boats em-
ployed upon short voyages such as
between Sydney and Melbourne or Bris-
bane ; but for a trip of say a month’s
duration it will be found that, taking ia
general daily rate for steerage passengers
and crew of a couple of shillings, the
bringing out of the total balance will run
the cost of maintaining saloon passengers
and officers very little over that sum should
patronage extended to the boat be liberal.
I am putting forward these statements,
not upon heresay alone, but from a prac-
tical acquaintance with the subject in its
entirety ; and, but that it is beyond the
requirement of the object I have in view
in these papers, ample testimony in the
shape of figures could be brought forward
to prove it. In the coast trade in New
Zealand this fact was abundantly substan-
tiated, notwithstanding the increased
prices of every commodity purchased
there.
As to the provedore system, how many
good fellows have ‘ £ gone to grief ” in it.
The principal, unless he takes but the
one ship, and works as chief steward him-
self, is entirely at the mercy of a paid
hand who is freed from all control from
the date of his departure from head quar-
ters, and in too many instances allows
the futherance of his individual interests
to overweigh those of his employer.
Apart from this, it cannot be denied, and
not a few cases in point can be brought
to the fore in support of the assertion,
that not being a recognised member of
the ship’s company, save by being placed
on the articles at a shilling a month for
form’s sake, and to render him amenable


to discipline—as, also, are all his sub-
ordinates, —tends very much to an as-
sumption of authority, and oftentimes
very unwarrantable interference in mat-
ters not in any wise pertaining to his
duty.
Indeed, I am not verging beyond the
border of strict truth in asserting that
too many masters are, by force of circum-
stances they can best explain, too much
under the control of provedores and chief
stewards, and it requires some more than
ordinary breach of good manners on the
part of the latter gentlemen to induce
any remonstrance, even on the com-
mander’s part; while reprimand or prompt
suspension from duty, is indeed a dernier
resort , and only to be employed when by
lack of such determination, the captain
stands a chance of like treatment himself.
There are, of 'course, many worthy ste-
wards whom any employer could safely
trust, and the rule is in their favor ; but
I do assert, this quasi-subservience does
not work well, as a rule.
So much, then, for the condition and
prospects of the P. N. Z. Co., when, at
length, John Vine Hall’s grand idea of
the great ocean service was to be carried
out, and upon the establishment of which
he, as was agreed upon, was to hand over
the reins of management to his successor,
and take up his abode at home, as a man
skilled in his craft, and whose advice was
likely to be of invaluable benefit to our
English Board of Directors. In my next
contribution, I will take up “the run-
ning ” from that date.
TOWN GOSSIP.
The Grammar School dramatic and
musical entertainment, which was held
last year at the Guild Hall, in con-
sequence of that place of entertain -
ment being haunted by “ The Ghost,”
came off at the School of Arts, and
the room was literally crammed with
spectators. The boys and their
company cams out in great force,
and treated their visitors to a right
pleasant evening’s amusement. After
an overture by the Artillery String
Band, the performance commenced
with a farce entitled “ Poisoned,” in
which a gay young bachelor, Mon-
tague Mivins (represented with much
spirit by Mr. H. C. L. Anderson)
being under the displeasure of his
beloved Miss Anastasia Brown (Mr.
A. B. McCarthy, who made a capital
young lady) and harassed by tailors’
bills, rejected contributions to the
Press, and domestic troubles, not the
least of which is the aggravating
conduct of his laundress Mrs. Prig-
gitt—the best character in the piece,
represented with great drollery and
effect by R. C. McPherson —resolves
to drown care in the flowing bowl,
and with that intent swallows the
contents of a bottle labelled “ Poison,”
and discovering his mistake, prepares
to die; when his valet Tom (F.
Barlee, who was well up in his part)
being summoned to receive his final
orders calms his fears by explaining
that he has only taken a drink of
cold water. Meantime, the hard-
hearted Anastasia, hearing of the
rash step to which she has driven
her lover, rushes in with her brother
Charles (J. Herbert) and begs his
forgiveness, and the curtain falls
upon a scene of general reconciliation.
Then followed a comic song by F.
Baylis, and a very amusing burlesque
effectively delivered by H. Teece.
Two comic songs by Baylis and Ray-
mond succeeded. A second farce,
11 Raspberry Syrup,” brought out
some good amateur acting, in which
the principal parts were taken by
Barlee and Anderson in the charac-
ters of Oldrents and his servant
Gregory, and the greatest fun was
caused by W. J. W. Neill and F.
Baylis in the characters of Gammon
and Spinage, a couple of farmers,
tenants of Oldrents, with grievances
which provoked more amusement
than sympathy. They are treated


to raspberry syrup by their landlord,
which, through Gregory’s blunder,
proves to be horse medicine, and the
doctor has to be sent for.
In the second part of the pro-
gramme, which was a little too long,
the curtain rises upon a camp scene.
In the background a number of
cadets are grouped round a camp fire:
a guard consisting of fourteen of
their number march on to the stage
and sing “ The Mulligan Guards.”
They then go through a bayonet
exercise, in which they show excel-
lent practice. Several songs were
next given with much spirit by the
cadets, and the performance con-
cluded with a third farce entitled
“ D’ye know me now,” in which Mr.
McPherson as No-go-Dumps, and
Mr. L. Whitfield as the “ Waiter ”
were especially humorous.
The entertainment was altogether
very creditable to the Grammar
School Boys ; and as they may be
always sure of a large and apprecia-
tive audience, we hope they will
continue the series, the first two of
which have been so successful and so
well received. They were indebted
to Mr. John Bennett for the scenery
and dresses, and the assistance given
by that gentleman was certainly
invaluable. We were glad to notice
the esprit de corps shewn by ex-stu-
dents, several of whom took promi-
nent parts in the performance.
* *
*
Sir Hercules Robinson’s address
at the University Commemoration
was an eloquent delivery. It was
evidently intended as an adieu to
those he has met year after year in
the same place, and the farewell was
gracefully offered. The Governor’s
speeches are generally to the point,
and always devoid of cant and false
sentiment. The speech of Saturday
last was, perhaps, one of his best
deliverances. His allusion to the
late Chancellor and the services that
gentlemen had rendered to the Uni-
versity, was happily expressed, and
no doubt warmly appreciated.
* *
*
The Commission promised by the
Government to enquire into the
alleged severities enforced on the
prisoners in the Berrima Gaol has
been appointed. Our venerable con-
temporary the S. Herald was
correct in the names she gave of the
members appointed, but in error in
stating that the duty of the Com-
mission would be to enquire into the
whole question of prison discipline.
It is only proposed to take such evi-
dence as may be sufficient to confirm
or refute the complaints made in the
Legislative Assembly of the manage-
ment of the Gaol at Berrima.
* *
*
We strongly recommend our
readers to spare an hour as soon as
possible for the exhibition of pictures
of the Academy of Art, and can
assure them that it will be pleasantly
and profitably spent.
* *
*
A Mr. Hordern, resident in Mel-
bourne, writes in very pathetic terms
to his relations in Sydney touching
the condition of our neighbour, Vic-
toria. After describing the utter
stagnation existing in all business
there, which he attributes to the
disastrous results of the policy
of the existing Administration,
he naively expresses a positive
opinion that should it continue much
longer, the population of Victoria to
be governed by Sir George Bowen


will so diminish as to finally consist
of “ Graham Berry and a few
Aborigines ! ”
* *
Anglican parsons,according to their
respective theological proclivities,
affect hats of peculiar types. This
form of ritualistic man-millinery,
innocent as all (save rampant ration-
alists) must confess it to be, is not
without its objections ; since ridicule
is a social power in every civilised
community, and the mimic not with-
out authority. This remark will be
understood when we mention the fact
of our having noticed the other after-
noon a somewhat celebrated book-
maker, wearing as the crowning
glory of an otherwise ultra-fashion-
rig-out, a severe canonical tile with
tassels —and this on the occasion of
driving out Madam Cocotte to dinef
at Sandringham ! xjfb
* * *
When an English paper goes wohg 1
about an Australian fact, who so §{it£
at pointing it out as the S. MT
Herald : yet, who so non-accurate in
dealing with European events as
grandmamma ? What would be said
by Hunter and O’Connell street if
the London Thunderer wrote of the
honorable the Postmaster-General as
“Mr. J. F. Scalds”? Would not
the young men of the debating clubs
roar over the mistake ? Now let us
change the tables. When grand-
mamma has to speak of the European
statesman, hight Edmond Teisserenc
de Bort, better known in London,
Paris, or Berlin, than even Dr. Gar-
ran in Sydney, she is content to dub
him as L. Tysserne de Bort. Where
was the Vagabond , that he could not
prompt his arida nutrix against tak-
ing such a liberty with the name of
a personal friend ?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
George. —We must decline with thanks
the contribution you sent us. It contains
all the materials for a good tale, and
jnight be worked up to that point. But
sts a bare narrative of a certain incident,
plot or denouement , it is not in
present form sufficiently interesting to
to our readers.
[yST. W. —In our next number.
, * lBright Little Bird. —Melodious and
Sentimental, but too halting in its metre
for publication in Onee a Week.
Exa L. S. —Try again. You will see
the correct solution in next issue.
Archery. —If our correspondent will
undertake to supply the programme, we
shall be happy to publish a report of the
several events.
T. F. WIESENEB,
34:8
GEORGE ST.,
348
Half way between Hunter
Street and Post Office.
Lowest price marked in
plain figures.
Latest Novelties by
every mail.
Repairs faithfully ex-
ecuted.
■#«9(SX3i ft
/
ENER
548
BEORCE
YDNEY
m
w
%
Gold Genevas from
£3 15s.
Silver Genevas from
from £2 ss.
Silver Hunting English
Levers from £5 10s.
Gold English Levers
from £lO.
E. P. and Fancy Goods.
Optical Goods in grea
variety.
