

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITEB BY C- H. DB-A.KSLsESE.
No. 9, Vol. I.]
MABCH 16, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
DAY OF
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High Wateb
Sydney Cove.
Month
Week.
Rises.
I Sets.
March
16
17
IS 1
»
20
21
22
Sat
S
1 M
1 Xu
w
Th
F
Prince Imperial of France b. 1856.
2nd in Lent. St Patrick. Fuller Pilch, cricketer,
Fast cf Esther. Suez Mail closes. San Francisco
Mail due. Equity appeals.
Seb.wS 1 ' ,D00ll < 7.12. a m. living.
Shushan Purim. W. C. Wentworth d. 1872.
St. Benedict. Southey d. 1843.
ACt paS8 ° d ’ l827 ‘ Gov ' Youu S
6. 1
6. 2
6. 3 !
6. 3 1
6. 4 !
6. 5
6. 6 j
j 6.16
6.15
6.13
6.12
6.11
6. 9
6. 8
6.16 a.m.
7.16 a.m.
8. 1 a.m.
8.40 a.m.
9.14 a.m.
9.48 a.m.
10.24 a.m.
Wa shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified. J
N*B.—Advertisements for “SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK ” will be received up to ten o’clock on
Thursday morning.
RAILWAY TRAVELLING.
The conditions of human life are
continually changing Not a year
passes but some fresh disease or
new phase of disease introduces
itself to medical notice as the latest
thing out. Reliable statistics prove,
without a doubt, that suffering
humanity can trace not a few of the
many ills to whicli its flesh, is heir,
to habitual railway travelling on
the part of large sections of the
population of every civilised com-
munity. Railway travelling, under
the happiest conditions, must, in
time, tell upon a man. Rapid vi-
bratory motion affects his cardiac
action, his sight, his hearing. If
he is not rigidly punctual in his
movements, th. 9 daily struggle to
catch or avoid missing the train is
a strain upon the emotional system
which reacts upon the machinery of
the heart with an effect more or


less mischievous, since that organ’s
healthy performance of its func-
tions demands rhythmical regularity
as its prime condition. With care,
the evil effects of habitual railway
travelling may be reduced to a
minimum. If the railway traveller
be punctual and methodical, and
the railway management be well-
ordered, and studious to make
things comfortable, that minimum
will be realised. Where, however,
the traveller is unpunctual, and the
management is at “ sixes and
sevens,” the former may be certain
that if he has not attained the
maximum of ill effect, he is on the
fair way to do it.
It may be interesting to inquire,
does railway management in New
South Wales, so far as the interests
of large numbers of habitual tra-
vellers are concerned, seek to
reduce these effects ? Do the
authorities do all they can to make
it convenient and comfortable to
the general public? We fear the
answer must be in the negative.
Overcrowding, sudden starts,
locked carriage doors, lack of wait-
ing-room accommodation, dimly
burning lamps, narrow platforms —
these, and other grievances are
the unnecessary evils which bad
management superimposes upon
the unavoidable ills of railway
travelling. An overcrowded car-
riage is, in the dog days, something
more than a mere fraud —it is the
hotbed of headache, sickness, and
bad temper. To reach the train
just in time to be crushed into a
saloon carriage along with scores of
perspiring fellow creatures, natu-
rally interferes with the free play
of systole and diastole. But even
suppose that, as a rule, you are not
overcrowded in the carriage of your
choice (the exceptions being of a
festal character occurring on high
days, holidays, and Saturday after-
noons) —suppose, we say, you are
not overcrowded, that your lungs
have the requisite number of cubic
feet of breezy air, and that your
temper is perfectly serene, are not
the odds a hundred to one in favour
of some hideous shriek, frantic
whistle, or violent jolt, suddenly
sending a thrilling shock through
your whole system ? Railway noises
are most mysterious. What useful
purpose, for example, is fulfilled
by the awful snorts of the American
engine ? —snorts Milton must have
had prophetic intimation of when
he wrote of fearful sounds
“From those deep-throated engines
belched, whose roar
Embowelled with outrageous noise the
air.”
Then, again, when you reach the
Redfern terminus just in time, as
you haply think, to enable you to
keep an appointment at the other
end of the town, why should you
find a locked door between you and
the chance of keeping your engage-
ment? Not to swear under such
circumstances betokens a lofty
serenity of mind which, perhaps,


may exist, but which, as yet, we
have not encountered in young men
or old ones, rich or poor. And
then, when the porter does unlock
the door, how often you find that it
will not open, that it is jammed
tight, having been to that end
affected by wind and weather! If
there be, under such circumstances,
increased palpitation of the heart,
is it to be wondered at ?
By such continual shocks to the
nervous system, the seeds are sown
of a fatty degeneration of the
cardial tissues. Each several shock
may, perchance, be overlooked as
insignificant, yet in the aggregate
they do death’s work pretty effectu-
ally. Petty annoyances wear the
temper even more than big troubles,
and the fatal re-action of the temper
on the heart is capable of demon-
stration.
Another grievance is the lack of
waiting-room accommodation, es-
pecially at the terminus, and for
the humbler classes. A poor woman
laden with a baby and a big bundle
arrives at the station in a state of
excitement and perspiration, just in
time to find her train gone, and
the consequence is she has to wait
in the drafty shed for the departure
of the next one. In a comfortable
decently-ordered waiting room, she
might regret her unpunctuality with
less of bitterness than that which
consumes her out in the cold on a
hard rustic seat—but then what can
one expect if one travels second-
class and belongs to the profanum
vulgus? Yet another grievance is
the extreme narrowness of the rail-
way platform. In some instances
it is so narrow that when a train
dashes past it at full speed, the
windage imperils the safety of hats
worn by those who may be prome-
nading it. On occasions when large
numbers of excursionists throng
one of these wretched structures,
they do so at the risk of life ; the
wonder, indeed, is that some fright-
ful accident has not happened before
this.
Again, what benefit to the tra-
veller does railway management
seek to effect by using the conven-
tional oil lamp, which feebly glim-
mers through its dirty glass to the
making of darkness visible—a light
by which you cannot read, or even
enjoy the pleasant sight of the
human countenance divine of your
fellow passenger on the opposite
seat? We never enter a railway
carriage at night without thinking
of the Irishman who, complaining
of the feeble illuminating power of
his tallow rushlight, said, “Be
jabers! if there were another one
it ’ud be quite dark.” It would cost
the Government no more to provide
proper lamps than it does to fur-
nish the carriages with the miser-
able contrivances we condemn;
contrivances so absolutely miserable
that you cannot, by their dim
gleams, so much as make out the
large print on the glazed advertise-


ment cards which ornament the
carriage walls Mr. Goodchap has
the opportunity before him of win-
ning himself undying fame, of
proving that his name is not a mis-
nomer, by righting the grievances
we have touched upon —a very few
of very many cherished by railway
travellers. There are unavoidable
ills connected with railway travel-
ling, which mankind perforce
accepts, setting against them, how-
ever, many and obvious compensa-
tions. It is tco bad if official
stupidity and circumlocutory insou-
ciance should add to these unavoid-
able ills no end of avoidable ones,
each calculated, in a greater or less
degree, to sour the temper and
shorten the life.
CALIFORNIAN EXPERIENCES.
STo. 3.
“ He found a rope and took it up,
And with it walked away;
It happened that to t’other end
A horse was hitched, they say.
“ They found a tree and tied a rope
IJnto a swinging limb ;
It happened that the other end
Was somehow hitched to him.”
In the early days of gold-digging in
California, and especially in the small
settlements which sprang up so ra-
pidly, as prospectors pushed further
into the interior, there would have
been literally no restraint upon the
evil passions of rude and lawless
men, but for the vigilance committees
which the more respectable classes
formed among themselves for the pro-
tection of life and property, and the
punishment of offenders. Most of my
readers will have read of the prompt
action taken by the Vigilance Com-
mittee in San Francisco during the
first year of the gold discovery, and
the execution by them of three mem-
bers of a gang of house-breakers, whom
they took out of the hands of the au-
thorities, vi et armis, and hung at the
window of a large room in the princi-
pal square of the city. Some decisive
action had become absolutely neces-
sary to check the perpetual pilfering
which took place day and night. At
that time goods of all sorts, hastily
landed, were displayed for sale in front
of the various stores, and often left
there all night covered with tarpau-
lins, while the buildings destined to
house them were undergoing comple-
tion, so that the thieves were tempted
by the unusual facilities offered to them
to plunder on an unusually large scale.
Up country, where bad characters
soon became known individually and
marked, property was much safer; but
many a dark deed, committed under
the influence of drink, avarice, or hate,
met with prompt and terrible retribu-
tion at the hands of a few stern, deter-
mined men, who performed their judi-
cial and executive functions not in a
hasty indecorous manner and in a
spirit of revenge, but with the strictest
impartiality, as a duty which had to be
done in the interests of the community,
of which they were leading members.
The knowledge that Judge Lynch was
on the spot, and swift to take cogni-
zance of any act of unusual rascality,
acted in most cases as a wholesome
deterrent to crime, when the criminal
Would have risked the tardier action
of the law proper, and possibly escaped.
Stealing the hard-earned gold of a
miner, and horse-lifting, were capital
crimes in those days, and punishable
by death. Manslaughter was rather
applauded than net, so long as there
had been a fight. Then, if one of tha
combatants had “ gone under, the
survivor, no matter what provocation
he had given, stood in higher estima-
tion than ever. Almost, every man
carried a revolver in his belt, and


shooting scenes were anything but un-
common. It was a very hard matter,
hov/ever, to get a Californian jury to
con lemn any man (especially an Ame-
rican) for taking another’s life, if it
could be shewn that he had been ag-
grieved, provided the shooting was
done openly. If the man who was
shot didn’t draw his revolver and ex-
change shots, it was his own fault,
and there the matter ended, unless the
friends of the deceased got up a pri-
vato vendetta on their own account.
But woe to the sneak who was
caught in the act of making off with
his partner’s gold, or his horse, or com-
mitting any glaring act of treachery
or swindling—he might just as well
have been a murderer taken red-hand-
ed.
The process of trial was very simple.
So soon as it was known that a crime
had been committed in the neighbour-
hood, of which notice must be taken,
the “ boys” would be called together
—whether a vigilance committee had
been formed or not—a chairman and
jury hastily chosen, and the offender
placed before them—generally in some
public place, and in the open air. Evi-
dence would then be taken, carefully
and patiently, in the hearing of the
twelve jurymen and the crowd as-
sembled round them. The accused
would be allowed to say what he liked
in his defence, and the verdict would
be pronounced by the jury and echoed
by the rest. If guilty, the sentence
would be carried into effect there and
then, before the assemblage dispersed.
I had not been long in California before
I had two opportunities of witnessing
Judge Lynch’s mode of operation. I
was living in a mining township,
some hundred and fifty miles from San
Francisco. The town consisted of one
large street, containing restaurants,
stores, and gambling saloons, kept
by Americans, Englishmen, French-
men, Germans, Mexicans, and Chinese,
built to a large extent of canvas stretch-
ed over frames, each building having
but one storey. As an instance of the
strange gathering of tongues in that
I out-of-the-way place, I may mentiou
j that in one of the eating houses in this
street, I once, while at dinner, heard
a Yankee make use of four languages
in asking for potatoes. This was the
query —“ Dis done, Signor, hand me
them cartoufels ?” French, Spanish,
English, and German.
Two men kept a general store in this
street; one of whom, a German Jew,
had planned a bolt with all the avail-
able cash in the place, snd had actu-
ally bolted with it, leaving his partner
a very small stock-in-trade and a very
large collection of liabilities. From
information received, as the police say,
the Vigilance Committee succeeded in
apprehending him when some miles
on his way to San Francisco, and bring-
ing him back to the township. A trial
took place in the usual informal way,
and the guilt was brought home so
clearly to the offender, that nothing
remained but to pass sentence. The
chairman of the meeting then got up
and said “ Well, boys, there don’t
seem to be any manner of doubt about
the prisoner’s guilt, and it appears to
me that an example has got to be made
in his case, or no one’s property will
be safe. I think we'd better give
him five dozen lashes and an hour to
clear out of these diggings—what do
you say ?” A chorus of “ hear, hear,’'
settled the prisoner’s: fate, and ten
minutes afterwards his back was strip-
ped, and his wrists tied to the upper
rail of a corral, or stock-yard, close at
hand. A whip was procured, and sixty
smart cuts smartly administered by
twelve members of the Vigilance Com-
mittee, each man giving five vigorous
cuts for his share, none the less vigor-
ous for the repeated cry of the pri-
soner—“ S’help me, shentlemen !Oh !
ah! oh!”
The defaulter was then cautioned not
to show his face in that part of the
country, and to be off m an hour’s time;
and long before the hour had expired,
he was again treading the townward
track, minus the stolen dollars, and
pins—a very sore back.
The other case was much more tragic


in its details. The condemned was
a “Greaser,” or Mexican, and his sent-
ence was death. I was travelling
across the country at the time, and I
well remember the scene. I had just
passed a small camp, comprising some
two or three hundred residents, and
was pushing on to the next stopping
place, when I overtook a procession,
numbering about a hundred men on
foot, headed by a small party, two of
whom led a mule, on the back of which
sat (with his hands tied behind him)
the criminal. Short was the shrift of
the unhappy wretch. A few yards
further on the procession stopped, for
the leader had found what he had been
looking for. Nature had supplied the
means of execution in the projecting
limb of an oak tree, under which a halt
was made. Speedily a rope was pro-
duced and attached to it; a cap was
drawn over the criminal’s face, and
the noose adjusted. The mule was
then urged forward, and the body of
the Mexican dangled in the air, a
strange and horrible sight, and ren-
dered still more so by the contrast by
which the natural, still and peaceful
little glen in which the tragedy was
enacted, about half-a-mile outside the
camp, presented.
I got into conversation with one of
the Americans who were among the
spectators, and returned with him to
his place for the night. He told me
that the countrymen of the man whose
execution I had just witnessed, had of-
fered 100 ounces of gold to have him
shot instead of hung, but their request
had been refused. It appeared that
the white diggers had long been suf-
fering from the depredations of an or-
ganized gang of horse-stealers and
plunderers in general, and that the de-
ceased had been the ringleader.
As I lay smoking a pipe that night in
the tent of my newly-formed acquaint-
ance, I noticed, and called his atten-
tion to, a number of bright lights dot-
ted over the ground of peculiar ap-
pearance, and to the continuous firing of
pistol-shots from the same quarter, on
the brow of a hill facing us. “ That,”
he informed me, “was the Mexican
camp, and the lights were candles, lit
for a special occasion—being together
with the pistol shots, a part of the
funeral obsequies of the Greaser.”
WALKER.
OUR BEAUTIFUL HARBOUR.
The present movement for obtaining
redress of the insanitary condition of
Darling Harbour may give interest to the
following verses, which appeared in the
Echo last year, and which we copy by per-
mission.
TO PORT JACKSON.
(Suggested by Mr. Burton Bradley’s letter
entitled a Plea for Darling Harbour).
Sydney addresses Port Jackson,
A.D. about 1846.
Mother beauteous, mother bright!
Bathing in the glowing light
Of thy bosom fair, we see
Every headland, rock, and tree ;
Standing o’er thy glittering tide,
While the winged ships, that glide
Like phantoms of a fairy dream,
O’er thy blue and silver stream,
Share the breezes sweet that give
Life and health to all that live
In Sydney’s infant town.
2nd PART.
Sydney addresses Port Jackson,
A.D. 1877.
Mother horrid, mother dread!
From thy deep and slimy bed
Rise the gases foul that weave
Winding sheets for them that live
Near thy fatal steaming shore !
O’er thy waters nevermore
Healthful breezes bear the bark,
To haven joyous ; see thro’ dark
And foggy night, the pilot bold
Guide his ship, by stenches old,
To wharves and jetties that enfold,
In their pollution dark and grim,
Wasting Fever, shrunken limb,
Fading life to all that move
On the banks we used to love!
ARTE PERIRE SUA.


AN EENCIDENT IN THE
LIFE OF
DAUVID M‘MUTCHKIN.
BY THOMAS MOSSER.
“ It’s an awfu’ nicht,” said Dauvid, as
Jones and I took advantage of the
shelter of his hospitable roof, after a
drenching ride of forty miles, “an
awfu’ nicht for rain, “ said Dauvid,
“ but still as Burns has it,
I hae a bield to shelter thee !”
I dinna ken hoo it is, but Burns has
aye a seentiment for a’ thing 1” It’s
a pity that that gifted man had
not a further sentiment for Jones and
me, as we sat at the fire. We had no
change of clothes of our own, and
Dauvid had ransacked his wardrobe
to supply us. Now, though Dauvid
was nigh on six feet h'gh, he girthed
nearly as much, and, like most obese
men, had the waist of his “breeks”
made to come close under his armpits.
Jones being at the most five feet four,
and myself, though as high as Dauvid,
a mere bean pole compared with him,
we were not at home in the clothes.
Though Jones had reefed the legs of
his unmentionables to the extent of a
foot, or thereabouts, he failed to do
anything satisfactory with the general
build of the garments; and hence the
waist, as he sat in his chair, came to
his chin, and the belt which drew them
in to his hips, to avoid a casualty, if
he moved, that need not be specified,
gave him the appearance of the butt
end of a birch broom. I could have
comfortably accommodated two of my
brothers, who resemble me physically,
in the pair Dauvid lent me; and, taken
altogether, we both felt as if we were
sitting in woollen slipper baths, and
like most young men, not quite at our
ease in the presence of Dauvid's
buxom daughters, despite our posses-
sion of a considerable quantity of that
peculiarity «• for which the pig has
been reported to have been killed."
“I was saying” said Dauvid, who
rather prided himself on poetic lore,
“ that Burns is loved by Scotch fowk
because they a’ understand him, and
he understood them.”
“I am afraid,” said Jones, “that
he was not always very complimentary.”
“ Maybe no,” replied Dauvid, “when
he dealt wi’ “ clamjamfrey ” and ill
bodies whae needed a wheen chastise-
ment ! ”
“No! but otherwise,” said Jones,
“for instance, he made out that the
Scotch people were mean, which, of
course, they are not.”
“Nane o’ em,” said Dauvid, cate-
gorically, as he took a puff at his pipe
and looked sternly into the fire with
an expression as much as to say, “ He
thinks to get ower me, but it’ll no
dae.”
“For instance, said Jones, “in
‘ 'Willie brewed the peck o* maut ’
there is a line
“ As surely ye’ll be your pint steup,
As surely I’ll be mine.
The man would not stand treat till he
was convinced his friend would !”
“It dinna mean that!” said Dauvid,
taken aback at this novel interpreta-
tion, “it was just guid company he
wanted in his junketing, and couldna
maybe afford mair.”
“Perhaps so,” said Jones; “but
again, when he makes a devoted lover
address his sweetheart, when one would
suppose that he would have done like
the lover in ‘ The Lass of Richmond
Hill,’ in English,
* I’d worlds resign
To call her mine.’
but he didn’t; for he says
4 Gin I had but a saxpence,
I’d brak’ it in twa !'
Why not give the girl all the sixpence?
Surely he could have earned another ?
“ Ech mon!” said Dauvid, “was
no he gaun to lay by his siller, and
she hers till they baith gat marrit?
It was his love for her that made him
gie her a trial o’ whether she could
haud the gear weel thegither!”
“Oh! that’s it, is it?” said Jones;
but then Scotch people are not so over
kind when courting, if the poets are
correct.”
“ Losh, mon! what are ye havering


aboot?” said Dauvid, “ye dinna read
what they say.”
“Oh, yes! I do,” replied Jones,
the irrepressible,’ here’s a stanza for
you—
* Dinna think my bonnie lassie,
I'm gaen to leave ye!
I’ll tak’ a stick into my han,
And come again and see ye !
Why, there is no doubt that he had
given her a most awful hammering
once, and now, he says, he is coming
again with a big stick ! Why, Scotch
poets libel their country ! ”
“ Hear till him! ’ said Dauvid, ap-
pealing to me, “ did ye e’er hear siocan
a silly body ? he does na’ ken what he’s
reading.”
I, as may be imagined, was on “ pins
and needles,” for it was impossible to
imagine what outrageous thing Jones
would say next. However, he gathered
himself together, and smiling over
the waistband of his trousers (he
looked exactly like Hablot Browne’s
etching of David Copperfield in Mr.
Dick’s habiliments); he remarked,
“ There is one thing, however, I will
say for Burns, and that is, no one but
himself would have thought of com-
posing an ode to the Devil, or even
attempting to expostulate with him.”
“Maybe no,” said Dauvid;” “but
did ye iver see the De’il?”
“Not that I know of,” said Jones,
“it is exceedingly likely that he oc-
casionally appears in the form of some
of my acquaintances; but I certainly
cannot say that I could pick him out.
Did you ever meet him ?”
“ Noo!” said Dauvid, “ that, ye
ken, opens up a gran’ theme for re-
flection.” (Here he slowly knocked
the ashes out of his pipe, and throw-
ing himself back in his chair, he
pursed up his mouth, and folding his
hands, thus proceeded)—Maybe I did!
Maybe no! I hae my doubts to this
day.”
“ Pray tell us all about it,” said I,
as I cleared my brain for mental notes.
“Weel,” said Dauvid, “ We’ll juist
hae a wee drappie o’ toddy fairsc ; it
will aye swacken my memory. It’s a
somewhat comeecal ad venter’, but it
has a serious side, forbye.”
In response to the demand “wum-
man, hae ye onything in the bottle ?”
Mrs. M‘Mutchkin spread the table
with what my old friend Father John
used to call the “ matharials,” and we
brewed out grog and awaited Dauvid’s
recital.
That excellent man drew a tremen-
dous amount of inspiration from one
gulph at his tumbler, which he
swallowed with a noise something like
what a hungry man makes when he
bolts an oyster out of the shell.
Dauvid gave one huge gasp after the
draught, and thus began :
“ It’s weel on for forty year syne I
wrocht in Awbram Cammle’s smiddy,
at Inchbrose in Scotland. I was a gey
big loon at the time; my feyther and
mither were baith deed, and I lived
wi’ my grandfeyther, wha was an auld
man abune aughty years o’ age, and
weel nigh bedridden. I hadna’ the
maist pleasant time o’t, for I was in
the smiddy frae sax in the mornin’ till
sax at nicht, and when I gat hame
my granfeyther, wha was a godly auld
man, made me read ‘ Fletcher’s Devo-
tions ’ aloud till him. Did ye iver
read Fletcher?”
“ No, we neither of us had,”
“ Weel, nae doubt, he is fine reading,
but for a loon like me he was ‘ some
dry,’ Fletcher used sae many lang
nebbit words, ye ken, whilk neither
grandfeyther nor mysel kenned the
meaning o,’ and when I stummeled
ower ’em, he would say, ‘Do ye no
ken what that means?’ and when I
didna ken, he would say, ‘ Nae mair
dee I. Get doon Webster’s dictionary,
an’ scart her oot,’ Weel, ye ken, we
did nae speed oor wark mickle at this
gait, and grandfeyther and me gat, at
times, unco weary o’ Fletcher. Weel,
aye nicht, which, forbye, was my
granfeyther’s birth night, auld John
Dobbie, Andrew Cammle, and Sandy
Buchan, three friends o’ my grand-
fey ther’s they had a’ been lads
thegither—cam to spend the evening
wi’ him, and auld Nance, wha keepit


hoose for’s, made a gran’ brewing o’
Athol brose. Do ye no ken what
that is ?’’
We did not know.
“Weel," continued Dauvid, “its
juist whuskey and honey, wi’ a sma’
thing o’ het watter to thin it. It’s
awfu’ strang drink is Athol brose, and
but that a’ the auld bodies had gey
seasoned stomachs and hard heeds,
they’d hae been blin’ fou after twa or
three tummlers o’ it. Weel, I swal-
lowed ae glass, and John was aboot
gieing us a 4 seentiment,' when a bit
rap cam’ at the door. 4 Keep the door
steekit,’ cried my grandfeyther, “ till
ye speer whae.it is! Aiblins its the
meenister!’ Sae I speered 4 whae it
was?’ 4 lt’s me,’ said a lassie’s voice.
4 We want nae queans in here,' said
Awbram, 4 dinna let her in!’ Is
Maister Dobbie inbye,’ says she, 4 for
gin he is, tell him Kirsty Boag’s deed
and her folk want the kirk bell jow-
ing’— for ye ken auld John was
betheral. 4 And what,’ says auld John,
‘ did the auld wife mean by fleeing awa
siccan a nicht as this ? Could she nae
haud on till daylicht?' 4 1 dinna ken
aboot that,’ said the lassie, 4 but she’s
gaen!’ 4 Let her gang, then,’ said
John, 4 if folk will dee at unreasonable
hoors they may flee ower hoose taps
wi’out bell-ringing.’ Whether grand-
feyther thocht that auld John might
no ring him awa', I dinna ken; but
says he, 4 aweel, dinna be be sae coon-
termashus, John ! the loon will jow the
bell to ye. Ye can jow it, canna ye,
Dauvid?’ I said ‘ld try.’ 4 Weel,’
says John, 4 gang away wi’ Betsy, my
lass, and she’ll gie ye the kirk key and
my bowet.’
44 What is a bowet ?" asked Jones.
44 Do ye no no ken what a bowet
is ?’’replied Dauvid, “ why, its juist a
lantern."
‘And,’ said auld John, as I was
leaving, 4 ye are gey and hefty, do ye
no think ye could dig oot a wheen
divits for the auld wife’s grave the
nicht? Ye can pit her wi’ her feet to
auld Willie’s, and dinna lig her alang-
side. They were aye fratching and
girning when they were baith leevin,
and gin they lig alangside ane anither
maybe they'll rax ane anithers banes,
and disturb their neebors noo that
they're deed."
44 Weel, I gat auld John’s key, and
lichted the cannle in the bowet, and
gaed down to the kirk. I jowed awa'
a bit when the meenister cam’ in—the
manse gate opened into t’ kirkyard.
‘ls that you, John ?' says he. 4 Na,'
says I, ‘it’s me, meenister. Auld John's
sitting wi’ my grandfeyther, and sae I'm
juist gieing the bell a bit o’ a’jangle
for auld Mistress Boag, wha depairted
this life aboot an hoor syne.' 4 Oh !'
said the meenister, 4 she's deed, is she ?
There's an awfu' strang smell o' whis-
key somewhar ! I whiles think that
auld John has a cogie aboot here, and
gangs in here for a dram during the
prayer. Last Sawbath he went a'
wrang in 4 Dunkirk,' and skirled awa'
when a' the fowk were through wi’ the
psawm. I thocht I smelt a sough o’
speerits on him as he helpit me aff wi'
my gown.' I didna care to open my
mouth again,jfor I kenned weel that the
meenister smelt the ‘Athol Brose.’
He'd a fine neb for speerits ; beside, I
was na richtly sober mysel. ‘ A decent
auld body was Kirsty Boag. Dauvid,'
said he, ‘ I shall refer to her decease in
my discoorse on the next blessed Saw-
bath ! Mind ye dinna set the kirk
alicht!"’
“ Thinks I, after a bit, 4 The auld
wife maun be oot o' hearing noo, and
as auld John wants the yird tirred up
for the grave, I'll juist work aff the
effecks o’ the Athol Brose wi’ his pick
and shovel.'
I vera sune faun’ auld Willie’s grave,
aud I measured aff aught feet for auld
Kirsty, and set geyly to wark. Noo,
had it so been that I kenned onything
aboot grave-digging, I micht hae
kenned that I couldna pack the stour
wi’oot shelving brods. But, ye see, I
didna; and I aye happit stour and
divits, first on tae side and syne on
tither, that had it na been richted afore
the fowk came wi’ auld Kirsty, like
eneuch them as lifted her and hersel


had a’ gat buried thegither. However,
as I say, I didna ken ony better, and I
wroucht awa’ till I got fu’ nine feet
doon—for the ground was some swack
when the divits were cuttit through.
I was juist gieing a bit o’ a stroke wi’
the pick, purposing to gang vera little
deeper, when bang! went my pick up
to the heft. I howked a bit, and gat
the bowet to *see what I'd dune, and
what think ye ? ”
We did not know.
44 I’d cuttit richt into auld Willie.
Auld John had no pit the tap divits
fair ower the coffin, and sae I’d juist
gaen clean through it. I gat the bowet
and began dighting Willie’s banes, and
I was juist examining his tae banes, for
Willie was some gnarled aboot his taes,
when, losh, sirs! I heerd a grumph
ower my heed—a lot o’ stour cam’ flee-
ing on my croon, and bash! doon cam’
some beast on tap o’ me, and knocket
me doon on tap o’ Willie’s banes, and
pit oot the bowet. Guid presairve us,
sirs! siccan a fleg ’s I had. First
he gat atap o’ me, and then me atap o’
him, and aye his split hooves wad come
dang! into my wame! I could nae
haud him by his birse; and efter sic a
feycht as I never wish again, I gat up
to ae end o’ the grave and the dour
brute at the tither. 4 Hech,’ says I,
when I gat a bit o’ wind, 4 ye thrawn
deevil, ye’ll no gang oot o’ here in a
hurry 1’ This was some bold o’ me to
say; but I had happit up the stour sae
thick roond the grave that I couldna
get a grip o’ the tap to get oot. 4 I’ll
bide wi’ ye till day licht! Ye think,
maybe, I’m freychtened, but I’m no
freychtened at ye! Think ye, syne
ye couldna get auld Willie’s saul, being
as he was a decent godly man, that
ye’ll mak’ aff wi’ his banes ? But
there's nae fear o’ ye ! Here I am, and
here I’ll stap !’ He said naething, but
he sat on his hunkers, and his chaff
blades aye groond awa’. By starlicht
I could see his een glowering, and hear
him champh! champh ! wi’ his teeth.
I kenned noo what 4 gnashing o’ teeth’
meant. Hoo lang we sat watching ane
anither I canna tell—maybe an hoor ;
but after a wee I saw a bit o’ a licht,
and I heard somebody come stummling
ower grass and stanes till he coupit
his creels juist alongside. 4 Hoot,’
said he, as he gat up and dighted the
stoor aff his claes, 4 what the deil can
fowk no gang awa’ a’thegither when
they dee, instead o’ takking up guid
land whilk micht grow fine neeps and
sic like, forbye makking fowk at nicht
brak their limbs louping ower grave-
stanes ? Is this no Willie Boag’s stane?
So it is ! Dauvid! are ye here, man ?*
I wad hae answered and chanced it,
but, Guid preserve us ! I had nae time
to speak, when heels ower doup cam’
auld John, bowet and a’thing, richt on
the tap o’ the beast whilk was aye
girning at me.
44 If I had a feycht wi’ it, by my sell
it was naething to auld John and me
thegither.
“ 4 It’s the deil, John ! ’ I cried.
«Reseest him, Dauvid ! ’ he skirled ;
but he said nae mair, for doon he went
cn his back and me on the tap o’ him !
“ The auld man fowcht like an auld
Tom cat; and, ye see, he was that
dumb foundered—what with the freycht
he gat, and the Athol brose—that he
didna ken what he gat haud o’, and bit
and scarted at a’thing. Weel, it may
be said that mebbe I did wrang to
leave auld John feychting amang banes
and stour by himsel; but as I got a
chance at a leg up when t’ auld man
tried to pick himself up, I juist steppit
on his back and loupit oot. Man ! had
ye but heard the 4 skreek ’ I let oot o’
me, ye’d hae no forgotten it? I rin to
the manse-gate as hard as I could rin,
and wha should I meet coming oot o'
the gate, wi’ a cannle in his hand,
but the meenister. 4 Guid’s sake,
meenister ! ’ I could barely spak for
freycht, 4 come alang; the deil s gat
auld John! ’ 4 Deil! ’ cried he : 4 deil!
whar are there ony deils aboot here ?
I’s shift ’em gey smart! ’ Wi’ that he
pu’d up a bit o’ a stick frae amang his
dahlias, and says he 4 Noo let me see
the deil! He’ll no want to see me,
I’s warrant ye !' ‘ He’s ower in auld
Willie Boag’s grave,’ says I, 4 wi’ auld


John, if he’s no killed the auld man.’
‘ Gang awa, ye gype ! ’ said the meen-
ister, ‘and fesh the ladder frae the
belfry that auld John gaes doon into
graves wi’, and I’ll gang ower.’ I
didna ken hoo I gat the ladder as
deftly as I did, but I was geyly fleayed
that auld John was deed. When I gat
to the grave, I saw the meenister peep-
ing ower the lip o’ it wi' the cannle in
his hand. He neever said a word, but
gied me the cannle, and grippit the
ladder, and doon he went. ‘ Losh ! ’
thocht I, ‘guid man, ye’ll find ye’r
match! ’ There was a scruffing and a
grumphing for a meenyut, and then I
saw the meenister coming up the ladder
wi’ a black beast in his hoxters that
was grumphing and skirling awfu’!
I juist gie a leuk, and doon I pit the
cannle, and rin for my life. ‘ Dauvid,’
cried he, ‘ come back, ye drucken
gallows shanker ! There’s naething
here waur than ye’rsel. Come back,
and get this diucken auld carle oot o’
the grave.’ ‘ Meenister,’ says I, ‘ are
ye a’ richt ? What a fine thing to be
a meenister o’ the Gospel, and hannle
deils that fashion! ’ ‘ Deils! ye shiver-
ing jackass!’ said he, ‘it was juist
my soo that ye’ve been freychtened wi’.
A fine thing for a silly loon and a
drucken auld man to gang feychting
wi’ swine in a kirkyard at a’ hoors o’
the nicht, when decent fowk are in
their beds.’ ‘What said ye, it was,
meenister ? ’ says I. ‘ Dinna glower at
me, man!’ says he; ‘’twas my soo,
I tell ye. She gat oot o’ her
hoose the nicht, and Jenny Frazer
was hunting her a’ ower.’ ‘I dinna
believe ye, meenister,’ says I. «J
dinna want ye! ’ says he; ‘ but noo
gang doon and get up auld John, and
dight they banes o’ puir Willie. Guid
presairve us! that in a Christian land
an honest man’s banes should be
howkit like ’taties. And noo,’ says he,
‘ gang doon and get that drucken auld
body oot o’ there.’ ‘ What is it ye say,
meenister ? ’ says I. ‘Doye no think
I‘ve had eneuch o’ that grave for ae
nicht, sitting twa hoors wi’ the deil!
Ye say it was a soo, but I ken better
aboot the ways o’ swine for thatr'
I really thocht he'd a knocket me ower,
he gat that mad ; but as I wad nae gang
in, he went himsel, and gat haud o’
auld JohD. 4 Gj-et up, ye graceless
body,’ says he; but John niver spak.
1 What’s this ? ’ says the meenister, as
he kicked his fit agin something hard.
4 Weel, weel! mercy on us ! if it isna
a whuskey jar! ’ And, i’ faith, it was
a sma’ pottle o’ Athol brose whilk my
grandfether had gi’en the auld man
to ‘kill his craw’ wi’ in the morn.
‘ Drinking whuskey and fechting pigs
amang deed folks’ banes! ’ said the
meenister. 4 Tak 5 him till his bed!
111 hae ye baith afore the kirk
session.’
44 Weel, if I had no a job to get auld
John hame, may I niver spak again.
The meenister gae him a lift a tap o’
my back, and I started; but I hadna
gaed far, when the auld man gie a
hoast to clear the stour oot o’ his
thrapple, and wi’ a 4 gurr ’ he gat his
knuckles i’ my neck napkin and. weel-
nigh chokit me. 4 1’s gat ye noo, auld
Nicky ! ’ he shooted; 4 I’ll ca’ the lugs
aff yer heed, ye gruesome haveril! ’
I had to tummle ower wi’ him, afore
he’d let me go; and, but that Awbram
Cammle and Sandy Buchan met us, as
as they were gaen hame hauding ane
anither by the hoxter, I’d hae to hae
left him. I tell’t 'em baith aboot it,
and Sandy said 4 Nae doobt it was the
deil after Willie Boag’s banes,’ for he
kenned a freend o’ his ain, wha deid in
’Emboro hospital, the grave was left
open with the coffin in it for ane nicht,
and when they opened the grave some
years after they faun’ the coffin fu’ o’
cobble stanes. 4 Fowk did say,’ said
Sandy, 4 that they students cuttit up
Jeames Mcßride, my freend’s name,
and pit stanes in the coffin, but ither
fowk kenned it was the deil, for they’d
seen black bodies aboot the kirkyard
nicht afcer nicht.’
44 We gat auld John hame, and pit
him intill bed, and in an awfu’ state he
was. Bat that he wore kneo breeks
and thick 4 rig and fur’ hose, he’d hae
had his puir legs chowed aff. As it


was, he was sair grippit aboot his legs
and the back o’ his thighs.
“The meenisier cam’ to see him
next day, and Awbram Cammle went
and dighted up Willie Boag’s banes.
‘ I faun’ a’, I think,’ said Awbram, wha
kenned fine aboot banes, ‘ wi’ the ex-
ception o’ ane or twa o’ his wame banes’
—whilk like eneuch were what the
dour brute was champhing. ‘ Noo,’
said the meenister, ‘John, I hope this
’ull be a warning t’ ye. If my soo hae
grippit ye’r drucken ways oot o’ ye,
it ’ll hae been a dispensation.’ ‘ Ca’ it
ye’r soo, d’ ye, meenister? ’ cried John;
‘ wha saw it but yersel ? Dauvid didna,
and I didna! What soo wud hae raxed
auld Willie’s banes, and grippit and
fowcht me and Dauvid, forbye dinging
the guts oot o’ my twa bowets ? I dinna
believe ye: and. beside, if it be sae,
doesna the deil gang intill swine?
What chokit a’ they pigs in the loch,
as St, Matthew tells on, but the deil,
wha gat intill them, and, when they
coupit into the loch, gat oot again, and
rin aff girning at ’em ? Did the
‘chosen people’ like swine? Na !
they kenned weel that Auld Clootie was
aye getting intill ’em, and playing
tricks and cantrips. Why, Hieland
fowk canna stand ’em tae this day.
Didna my wife’s ain cousin get married
ontill ane o’ the Spleuchans o’ Spleuchan
—and what was their watch-cry ? Why,
Basto mhockin! whilk in Gaelic means
Boon wi’ pigs! I tell ye it was the deil
and nae ane else ! I’ll hae nae mair o’
the kirkyard or the kirk either. I’ll
gang for the future to Bogie kirk, and
I’ll be buried there. There’s ae thing
I ken, and that is, that when Auld
Hornie gat hame till his brimstone bed
he felt auld John Dobbie’s nieves in his
wame and was short o’ a lock o’ his
birse that I pu’d oot afore he gat me
doon and grippit me.’
“My grandfeyther deed not lang
after, and I cam’ oot to this kintra wi’
Doctor Lang, and hae thriven since,
For my ain pairt, I’m no gaen to say
that I either did or didna meet the
deil, but, after what auld John said, I
think he was juist as like to be richt as
the meenister. But I ken this, and
that is, that it’s weel-nigh on twal'
o’clock; sae we’ll juist mix anither
gless o’ toddy, and gang awa till oor
beds.”
As Jones and I were emerging from
our clothes like grubs out of a chrysalis,
I said to him, “ That’s a queer yam of
Mac’s, is not it? Do you think it a
fair think to put it into print ?’* Jones
thought it as well to ask Mac in the
morning if he had any objection, and
this is the way he did it:—
“That incident you told us last night,
Mr. M‘Mutchkin, opens up, as you ob-
served, a wide field for reflection.”
“ I tell ye,” said Mac, “ I hae thocht
it ower mony a time, but I canna mak*
my mind clear. Ye see, the meenister
said that it was his pig, and I didna
see richtly what he gat haud o’. He
was a mon wha keepit his mouth shut,
and maybe he didna like to mak’ a din
in the payrish. Maist fowk believed
auld John, —but I dinna ken.”
“Would you have any objection to
the facts being published here?” asked
Jones.
“Why, they’re forty year auld and
mair,” said Mac, “and besides, in these
days, it’s getting hard to find mony
fowk wha believe there is siccan a body
as the deil.”
“ More reason why such reliable facts
as those should be made public,” said
Jones. “It will help to make people
more orthodox.”
“Aweel,” said Mac, “ye can juist
please ye’rsel! ”
That is just exactly what I have done,
and if these lines meet my friend
M‘Mutchkin’s eyes, most woefully as-
tonished will he be at my version of
his story.
MISSIONARY EFFORTS.
It is stated that in Birmingham the
manufacture of "gods for the heathen
has advanced to such a state of per-
fection that a very nice-looking god
with whiskers can be bought for a
pound.


COLUMN FOR YOUNG
READERS.
SOLUTIONS TO PUZZLES.
CHARADE.
To a King-street Functionary.
Those who are what my first implies
At shocks of sound feel no surprise,
Since though ihey’ve ears like you and I,
Sir,
’Tia not by hearing they grow wiser.
Once on a time, ’twas by my second ,
That clothiers their material reckoned :
Names change with times, and at the
present
The term is spurned as obsolescent.
My whole can hear—which if you doubt,
Your schedule file and you’ll find out
How well he hears, when at his leisure
His judgment proves he’s got your
measure.
S.
CONUNDRUMS.
Which are the most sensible of the
letters of the alphabet ?
What is that of which some will be left
when you have taken the whole ?
What is the difference between a tenant
and the son of a widow P
What is the most hopeless riddle in the
world?
What is the difference between the
highest trump card and a musical instru-
ment ?
ENIGMA.
I am a character well knownin England’
and there are few either high or low, rich
or poor, hut know my name and qualifica-
tions.
As I confess myself a stranger to beauty
and innocence in the fair sex, I never ap-
pear. I avoid towns, cities, and palaces,
and commonly take up my abode towards
the extremity of a village. In respectable
societies I am never admitted, but in a
gang of gipsies or beggars make a princi-
pal figure, and without me smuggling
would be nothing. I cannot well show my
fare in the day time, but late in the even-
ing or middle of the night, I appear, and
always in disguise. lam fond of gaming
though I must own in whatever company
1 am, I never fail to end in cheating and
plundering. It is the opinion of Bum and
Blackstone that I should he put in gaol,
but be that as it may, my fate is certainly
not yet in the hands of the law. From
the character I have given of myself and
the company I keep, you may suppose me
some thief or pickpocket, but as a proof
that I am neither, I delight not in a crowd,
and as a further hint I no sooner appear
before one than it is gone.
The Power of the Boy. —Charles
Warner says “So long as the law, just
in many respects, is in force against shoot-
ing birds and small boys, the gardener
may sow in tears and reap in vain. The
power of a boy is, to me, something fear-
ful. Consider what he can do. You buy
and set out a choice pear-tree; you en-
rich the earth for it; you train and trim
it, and vanquish the borer, and watch its
slow growth. At length it rewards your
care by producing two or three pears,
which you cut up and divide in the family,
declaring the flavour of the bit you eat to
be something extraordinary. The next
year, the little tree blossoms full, and sets
well; and in the autumn has on its slender
drooping limbs half a bushel of fruit, daily
growing more delicious in the sun. You
show it to your friends, reading to them
the French name, which you can never
remember on the label: and you take an
honest pride in the successful fruit of long
care. That night your pears shall be re-
quired of you by a boy ! Along comes an
irresponsible urchin, who has not been
growing much longer than the tree, with
not twenty-five cents worth of clothing on
him, and in five minutes takes off every
pear, and retires into safe obscurity. In
five minutes, the remorseless boy has un-
done your work of years, and with the
easy nonchalance, I doubt not, of any agent
of fate, in whose path nothing is sacred
or safe. And it is not of much conse-
quence. The boy goes on his way,—to
Congress, or to State Prison: in either
place he will be accused of stealing, per-
haps wrongfully. You learn, in time, that
it is better to have had pears and lost them,
than not to have had pears at all.
o
Disappointing.—A young friend of
ours, who affects fisticuffs, tells us that
he found a bout with the English cham-
pion most unsatisfactory. He says that
he “ went for” Mace , and got pepper
instead. r


NONSENSE VERSES.
There was a young man of Echuca,
Who cheated his partner at euchre;
Said he for base lucre, you’ve swindled me
you cur,
You paltry young man of Echuca.
There was a young lady of Eden
Who was greatly addicted to readin’;
She sat by a creek and perused Once a Week
Till she bloomed like the garden of Eden.
There was an old party of Forbes
Whose pictures were horrible daubs ;
Y/hen they said “this is crude,” his be-
haviour grew rude,
That surly old party of Forbes.
There was a young carter of Frogmore
Who on to his load put one log more,
Which caused a collapse; without it
perhaps
He might have got safely to Frogmore.
THE COMIC PAPERS.
THE FORLORN WAITER.
His clothes hung loosely on his angular
limbs, his usually spotless tie was yellow
and limp. His eye was dull, his whiskers
draggled, and he breathed a sigh as he
deposited before me a plate of beef steak
and onions.
Having done so, he favoured me with
his confidence in the hurried intervals of
attending on the other customers. It was
pathetic enough, his story : but the mode
in which it was communicated robbed it
of much of its pathos. I got only frag-
ments thus strangely mingled with the
voices of the other waiters and of custo-
mers giving their orders.
“It’s all hup, sir,” he whispered.
“What’s up, Charles?” said I. (I
always gave Charles twopence, and he
respected me).
“ Between me and ”
‘ ‘ That pork chop, sir. X essir. ”
‘‘ Maryann, sir. The young woman
as had made a impression on ”
“ Stilton cheese for No. 2.”
‘ ‘ I loved her as no man ever loved ”
“ Calves’ liver and bacon.”
“And I thought she had a regard
for”
“A pint of mild and bitter.”
“She was a cook, sir; and though I
says it, as well conducted ’’
“ A mutton underdone.”
“ As ever you saw. We’d kep com-
pany for six months, and heverything
went along as nicely as ’’
“ Stewed cheese.”
“ But there was a time a-coming when
my peace of mind was to be ruinated, and
all by ”
“ A little more fat. Yessir,”
“ A chap in the hoss guards. When I
found it, I says ”
“ Roast pork’s all gone.”
“ ‘Maryann,’ Isays. ‘Do not be de-
ceived by ’ ”
“ Sausages and mashed.”
‘‘ ‘ —The millingtery. They has soft
tongues, but they ain’t got faithful ’arts
a-beating under their ’ ”
“ Sweetbreads.”
“ I says, ‘ Choose between us,’ I says.
And she did choose, but it wasn’t ”
“ A mutton chop and kidney to follow.”
The poor fellow’s simple artless tale
fairly melted me.
“Charles,” I said, “I deeply sympa-
thise with you.”
“Thank you, sir. Steak and onions
fifteen, ’tatoes seventeen, bread eighteen,
and a pint o’ bitter —one and tenpence.
Yessir. That was a blow as I long felt
was Coming, sir, coming.”
THE ALPHABET LESSON.
Mamma.—Now, Darling, go on—U.
Tobdles.—You ?
Mamma. —Well, go on—V.
Toddles.—Y.
Mamma. —W.
Toddles. — Double me.
[ Lesson collapses in hugs, kisses, and
laughter.
HEXAMETERS IN THE NEW TES-
TAMENT ON CONJUGAL DUTY.
Husbands, love your wives, and be not
bitter against them.
Wives, love your husbands, and be obe-
dient to them.
What is the best thing to stick bills on
the walls with? Ans.: “Puff Paste.”
Unhappy Alteration. —Alonzo wrote,
“ By that fair brow where innocence reposes,”
Mary Jane read it in print thusly—
“ By that fair brow wherein no sense reposes.”


THE MYSTERY OF
WISEMANS FERRY ROAD.
Chapter Y.— Continued.
Oxe bright summer’s afternoon, when,
under light breezes, the Egmont was
nearing the tropics, and when all aboard
of her were enjoying the comparative
calm after a rough passage across the
Bay of Biscay and over the waters that
toss and roll between Madeira and the
Azores, George Caldecott stretched him-
self at full length on the deck in a quiet
comer on the poop to read the letter which
his mother had given him on the day she
had bidden him farewell. Breaking the
seal of the envelope, he found several
sheets of large-sized note paper, covered
■with neat small writing, eminently lady-
like in character, belonging to neither of
the two modem feminine styles the
illegible angular, or the legible grotesque.
In this communication to her only son,
Mrs. Caldecott dwelt briefly on the dis-
appointment of the high hopes she had
once formed for him; and touchingly on
the lowlier but more loving ones with
•which, in his boyhood, she had deceived
herself, painting to herself fair visions of
a happy future, all forgetful of the curse
that hangs over womanhood—
Some parg paid down for each new human life,
Some weariness in guarding such a life,
Some coldness from the guarded, some mistrust
From those thou hast too well served, from those
beloved
Too loyally some treason.
She then went on to write of the sole con-
solation of her double widowhood, of her
trust in the overruling mercies of God,
and with much earnestness entreated her
son to seek in religion the peace which he
would fail to find elsewhere.
The tenor of the letter then suddenly
changed to narrative ; to narrative of so
sensational and unexpected a character
that it fully aroused the attention of the
reader who, to tell the truth, had not
received his mother’s confessions of her
fears and hopes respecting him in the
spirit she had fain desired they might
elicit. But the concluding portion of the
manuscript deeply interested him, as well,
indeed, it might. It ran as follows
“ As however, my dear boy, you have
of your own free will made up your mind
to go to Australia, it is no use repining
that you have thrown away the fairer
chances that were till so lately open to
your father’s son. I confess to you honestly
that in the days of your boyhood I never
liked the idea of your becoming a soldier;
hut when you left Sandhurst, commis-
sioned, an officer, my natural pride in you
awakened the desire that your career in
the army might he a glorious one. By
selling out, when, owing to the singular
kindness of that strange Mr. Hart, yon
need not have done so, you have of course
prevented the realisation of that desire.
You go to Australia—l come hack to that
—to Australia, of which country I have
never spoken to you even so much as one
word; and yet, dear, it is thither that I
often pass in spirit. You wonder, George
—or no, perhaps you think that my heart
goes out to my brother, who, as you
know, has been many years in the colonial
service. It is not so, though. Between
your uncle Thomas and myself a great
injury which he did me years ago raised
up a wall of separation. I have forgiven
him, at least I hope I have, hut we never
correspond—at least not now. I used to
send out little presents for my niece, his
only child, hut when she was about six-
teen she ran away from her home with a
young adventurer, to whom she subse-
quently got married. No, George, it is
not on account of your uncle or your
unhappy cousin Florence, that "my
thoughts are so often winged to Australia;
hut because of things which happened
many years before you horn, several years,
indeed, before I ever met with your good
dear father. I should never have spoken
to you of these things, George, had it been
ordered that you were to remain in the
army; but Providence having overruled
such an arrangement, and directed your
steps to Australia, I will reveal to my dear
son the unhappy story of his mother’s
first love.
“ As you.know, your uncle Thomas and
I were the only two children of your
grandfather, Mordaunt Powys, the
younger brother of Arnold Powys, of
Buckhurst-Under-Lea. My father had
entered, when quite a lad, into the bank-
ing firm of Masteiton, Son, and Master-
ton. At the time of my birth he was the
managing partner of that establishment,
a position he occupied till the hour of his
death. The world called my dear father
a hard, cold, long-headed man. To me,
as to my brother, he was ever fond and
tender—Oh! so fond and tender, that it


makes me weep to think of the sad days
which brought down his grey hairs in
sorrow to his grave. Your uncle, when
he left Hai’row, was, much to his disgust,
entered as a clerk on the books of the firm.
The original Masterton had long been
dead; the ‘ Son ’ died when I was a little
girl of eight. It was my father’s wish
that on your uncle’s attaining his majority
he should be taken as junior partner into
the firm, thenceforth to be designated
Masterton, Powys, and Son. This was
not to be. One of the junior clerks in
the bank was a Mr. John Aldridge, the
second son of a Sussex squire, who, in-
tending to obtain for him a partnership in
a Hastings bank, had articled him to a
London firm that he might gain the ne-
cessary business experience. Mr. Aldridge
was frequently a guest at our house. My
father took a great liking to him. With
your uncle, for some reason or another, he
never got on. I—l learned to love him.
Yes, George, we loved one another. My
father sanctioned our engagement, and
only delayed the marriage for a year be-
cause he thought I was too young. My
brother did all he could to prejudice both
my father and me against Mr. Aldridge.
He often spoke of his habits as extrava-
gant and dissipated, and by degrees he
made my father believe that there was
Borne truth in his statements. I never
believed them. To my great grief, how-
ever, I saw a coolness springing up
between my father and Mr. Aldridge.
The latter would tell me that my father
was unjustly suspicious of him; the for-
mer would sometimes say to me, as I sat
with him after dinner, that he feared that
Mr. Aldridge was not worthy of his little
daughter ; and then he would make me
half wild with grief by declaring that no
drunkard or gambler should ever have
his motherless darling, her dear old
father’s pride. I would ask my father
what proof he had of Mr. Aldridge’s dis-
sipated conduct, but I could get no satis-
factory reply. He would sigh and shake
his head.
44 One day (most fatal day)! I had just
come in from a drive—it was in the spring
of the year 1822, in April—when my father
came to my room, looking heart-broken,
but stern, not angrily as towards me, but
still stern. He asked if I could bear the
worst news, the very worst. ‘ls he dead ? ’
I gasped. ‘ No, ’ said my father, ‘he is not
dead. I wish he were.’ Then, when I was
fit to bear the evil tidings, I was told that
Mr. Aldridge had comic itted a forgery on
Masterton’s hank for a large amount, and
that he was a prisoner in Newgate. My
father tried his best to soothe me. He
promised that no step shoul l be left untried
to help Mr. Aldridge to prove his innocence,
if innocent, but I must give my word that
I would not attempt to communicate with
him or to see him until his acquittal. This
I declined to do; so my father took me
down to Buckhurst, his brother’s place,
where he gave my aunt strict injunctions
to keep me for a while under careful sur-
veillance. As I was taken dangerously ill
almost immediately after my arrival at
Buckhurst, I was easily watched. When
I was sufficiently recovered to move about
again, I learned through my maid, whom
I fyad to bribe heavily to induce her to tell
me, that Mr. Aldridge had been convicted
of the forgery and sentenced to death, but
that owing to great influence having been
brought to bear on the authorities the
capital punishment had been commuted to
transportation for fourteen years. Why
it was I did not go mad when I heard this
Ido not know. The news nerved me to
action. That night, with the concurrence
of my maid, I escaped from Buckhurst,
made my way to Feversham, and thence to
London. I went straight to my father,
and insisted on being allowed to see my
—why should I be ashamed to write it F—
lover. Strange to say, he consented, deeply
surprised though he was to see me. He
was very tender to me. It was evident
that the trouble which had fallen on us
had quite broken him. He looked aged
and utterly miserable. Th e day after my
arrival from Buckhurst my father told me
that that day week he himself would take
mo down to Chatham to bid farewell for
ever to my betrothed.
‘ ‘ The first thing I did after leaving my
father was to collect all my jewellery, of
which I fortunately possessed a consider-
able amount. The next thing was to find
a purchaser for it. My cousin, Arnold
Powys, whom you can j ust remember as a
crippled veteran, was then a gay young
guardsman. We had always been good
friends, so to him I went in’ my trouble.
He instantly comprehended the situation,
and promised to help me. The next morn-
ing he brought me nine hundred pounds in
bank notes. I asked him to bring it to me
in a diamond, as I had heard that in that
form great value could be compressed into


small bulk. My idea was to give the
diamond to Mr. Aldridge that so he might
be in a position to treat for his escape with
such of his custodians as might be sus-
ceptible to bribery. Cousin Arnold man-
aged to execute the commission I had
entrusted him with, so that when the time
came for me to start for Chatham I had
in my possession a purse containing a
hundred guineas in gold, and a tiny
leather case holding a solid gold ring, in
which was set a diamond valued at seven
hundred pounds. We saw Mr. Aldridge.
I will not attempt to describe the scene.
Suffice it to say that he assured me of his
innocence and of his unalterable love;
and that I managed to slip into his
possession the money and the ring, and to
convince him that I believed in him as
truly and as fondly as on the happy day
when we had each to each plighted troth.
“Not many days after our farewell, I
heard that Mr. Aldridge in endeavouring
to escape had been captured, placed in
heavy irons, and ordered for immediate
transportation to Botany Bay. It seemed
that my dear cousin Arnold had r isked his
commission to aid John Aldridge, had
bribed warders right and left, had organ-
ized an apparently hopeful scheme—hut
had failed. A few weeks afterwards my
betrothed sailed for Australia in the Lady
Godolphin, convict transport! Eighteen
weary months passed before we heard a
word of him, and then came the worst
news. He had been, it was alleged, so
violent on his passage out and on his
arrival in Sydney that, despite the great
interest that was made for him, he had
been classified asan irreclaimable character
and sentenced to the chain-gang. The
next intelligence was of the same character
In the chain-gang Lis violence and bad
behaviour, as my father was officially
informed, had led to his original term of
imprisonment being supplemented by years
of extra sentences. He was a desperate
character, we were told, and there was no
hope for him. Still I hoped on, and so did
my poor father, who used all his influence
(and it was great) to secure the mitigation
of the awful doom. In 1827 we learned
that John Aldridge in the year previous
had succeeded in making his escape* from
a road party, and that he had not been re-
captured up to date of communication.
“This intelligence raised my hopes;
alas! it came when my heart was sore
within me—when I was weeping unavail-
ing tears for the loss of my poor father—
of him who had "been to me father, mother,
friend, and counsellor. He had stood up
for Aldridge to the last against what others
called the overwhelming weight of direct
evidence. Yes, to the very last. Strange
to say, from the day of the trial he had
refused to hold any communication with
my brother. Even on his death-bed he
would not see him Why, he would not
tell me. When his will was read, it was
found that I was his heiress, and that your
uncle was simply left the sum of ten
thousand pounds. The will was dated the
day after Mr. Aldridge's trial.
“I went to live at Buckhurst with my
uncle Arnold. My brother left England,
and obtaining a commission in the Greek
army served for some little time in the
war of independence. At a later date he
served with the British legion under Evans
in Spain. On the suppression of the Carlist
rebellion he emigrated to New South Wales
with his wife, the youngest daughter of Sir
Claudius Pigott, Lieutenant-Governor of
Tobago.
“ Years rolled on, and as I never heard
from my betrothed, nor of him, save that
every one in Sydney had long ago given
him up as dead, I came to the conclusion
that he had died in the endeavour to make
liis escape out of Australia.
“In 1835 1 married your father. He
knew my story, and also knew that with
my hand he did not take my entire heart.
We were very happy together, and I
learned to love him: yet ever the memory
of the past—the thought of what might
have been—would haunt me. I could not
forget.
“ Had it not been for your leaving Europe
for Australia I would never have troubled
you with this story of a sorrow which per-
chance ought long ago to have been buried.
But you have made up your mind to seek
y our fortune in A ustralia. I therefore ask
you, my dear boy, to do all you can to sift
the mystery of John Aldridge to the
bottom. Question old colonists about the
matter. It may be that your labours will
be rewarded by a discovery very welcome
to your mol her. Promise me this, my son.
I know you will: will you not, dear, dear
George P I caution you against your uncle.
Should you meet him, say nothing what-
ever to lead him to suppose that you know
aught about John Aldridge or his fate.
• Pee " Prologue ” to story, published in No. 2.


Write often to your dear old mother, who
prays night and morning that G-od will
bless her boy.
“ Your loving mother,
“ Lucy Caldecott.”
G-eorge Caldecott, when he had finished
reading this letter, registered a vow that
he would do what he could to please his
mother in the matter, and at the time
doubtless meant to keep i'. But on arrival
at Melbourne, and discovering that a few
miles intervened between the waters of
Port Phillip and those of Port Jackson,
a fact which his studies at Sandhurst had
not revealed to him, he was obliged to
postpone his enquiries about the fate of
his mother’s lover until fate should guide
his feet into New South Wales—an event
which did not come off until after he had,
with more or less luck, bottomed a good
many holes on Victorian gold-fields—until
that day when he forded the Murray, hear-
ing the bushranger’s message, which (as
we have seen) was destined not to he de-
livered.
Chapter VI.
Is life a poor evil some would gladly be doffing P
He is riding post baste who tbeir wrongs will
adjust,
For at most ’tis a footstep from cradle to coffin—
From a spoonful of pap to a mouthful dust.
For reasons best known to himself, Mr.
Police Inspector Neal had arranged that
the magisterial enquiry into the death of
Constable Rumford and the two bush-
rangers, Hamlin and Callaghan, should
be held at Nanny Read’s shanty. He had
therefore given orders to that effect.
Mrs. Read’s domicile was a tumble-down
old hut, or rather series of huts, so dilapi-
dated as to excite surprise how on earth it
was that its shrunk slabs, disjointed wall-
plates, ant-eaten uprights (or rather what
had once been uprights), and worn-out
bark, all held together. Yet it did keep
together, and what is more, sheltered after
a fashion its ext icmely fat and generally
tipsy mistress and her four strapping,
bright-eyed, black-haired, rosy cheeked
daughters and their numerous hangers
on. The entertainment afforded at Nanny’s
was extremely simple in character. There
was always tea in a large kettle on the
fire; always some half-dozen or so coarse
loaves on the kitchen table ; always a
huge junk of fresh or salt beef in the big
“ ben ” beside the hearth. To this fare
all were welcome. There was usually
. (not always) good store of rare strong rum,
to which, the elect alone were welcome ;
though, to tell the truth, Nanny wasn’t
particular, and she rarely refused a
‘ ‘ ball ” to anyone, unless her suspicions
were aroused. Nanny’s had pulled up
many a poor fellow. Out of many and
many a cheque of three figures had the
wicked old woman juggled shearers and
splitters and shepherds. There was evi-
dently a fascination about the place; for
men who had been “ lambed down ” there
once would come a second time to have
that operation performed. To the old
hand it was liberty hall after his own
heart. Full and plenty and no questions
asked. Reynold’s public, a few miles
further on, was too neat for many a rough
bushman, who distrusting the evidences of
civilization as so many snares set to
trap him, walked straight to his doom at
Nanny’s, attracted by the severe sim-
plicity of her surroundings, and the total
absence of all the requirements of civili-
zation —save and except rum.
When Nanny was informed by Ser-
geant Barton that a magisterial enquiry
was to be held at her place, she merely
remarked, “ Wb&t for no ?” When asked
which room might be used, she said all of
them might, so long as the kitchen was
not interfered with, as she weren’t a going
to have her girls put about, not for
nobody.
The girls, however, who were quite
willing to be “put out,’’helped the Ser-
geant and the trooper with him to fix the
kitchen table in the larger of the empty
rooms, and to arrange round it some slabs
resting on gin-cases, to act as stools.
They also assisted the police in laying out
the three corpses in the stable at the back
of the hut.
[To be continued.)
Why the Pillar-Posts are Red,
In clerical phrase,
Of Red-Letter days
W e know that each calendar boasts ;
And these to secure,
And make perfectly sure,
They now give us red letter- posts.
Texan Card Playing for Three. —
One holds the revolver, one the cards, and
the Coroner holds the inquest.
Motto for a Porx Butcher. —In hog
signo vinces.
Definition of “ Burlesque.”— A play
upon words.


TOWN GOSSIP
Here is anew reading of a bit of‘‘Pa-
radise Lo3t.” A pupil being requested
to state the cause (as assigued by
Milton) of tlm expulsion from Heaven
of Satan and his innumerable force of
spirits armed, answered, with much
naivete ‘* that it was because they had
stolen God’s throne" ! Asked to give
authority for such strange notion, our
young casuist quoted these lines :
His utmost power with adverse power opposed
In dubious battle on the plains of heaven,
And shook His throne.
Some of our young readers may be
interested in glancing at the new rules
relating to umpires recently enacted
by the United States Base Ball Con-
vention. In regard to the umpire ques-
tion, it has to be said (says the N. T.
Clipper) that the League had either to
adopt some stringent rule preventing
the evils, troubles, and annoyances
connected with the umpiring for 1877,
or to let the games go by default. The
insulting of umpires by players had
grown to be such an evil that no res-
ponsible or reliable men could have
been procured to serve in the position
next season if something had not been
done to obviate the difficulty. The new
rule for selecting the umpire says :
“ Between April 1 aud the opening day
of the season, May 1, all clubs are to
send to the secretary the names of
all persons, located anywhere in the
country, who are deemed proper per-
sons to act as umpires. The secretary
will compile the list of names present-
ed, and forward to each club a com-
plete list of the names. Each club
will then select; from the list three
times as many names as there are clubs
in the League, and forward them to the
secretary, who shall canvass the bal-
lots, and the names having the highest
number of votes shall be declared
League umpires. When a game is to
played, the visiting club shall forward
to the home club the names of five
League umpires three days before the
game is to be played. From these five
the home club must select one, and be
responsible for his appearance on the
day of tho game, the visiting club to
bear all the expense of the umpire. If
the home club fails to have one of the
umpires presont, then the visiting club
snail have the right to select the um-
pire. The umpire in a League game
c m inflict a fine of not less than ten
dollars or more than twenty dollars for
improper conduct on the part of any
player towards the umpire or any
other player. The umpire, under the
new rules, has quite a supervisory pow-
er over the players in a match game.
The umpire is master of the field, and
invested with authority to order any
player to do or to omit to do any act
necessary to give force and effect to any
and all of such provisions and rules,
with power to inflict upon any player
disobeying any such order a fine for
each offence. He must counsel players
to observe the spirit, as well as the
letter of the rules, must keep the con-
testing nines constantly playing, from
the commencement of the game, and
must require the players to promptly
take tbeir positions in the field and at
the bat.
Dining at the Cafe the other day (we
will nob say which cafe, lest we might
excite envy) wo noticed on the carte
that omelettes a la this and that were
ranked under the sub-heading “ novel-
ties Wondering why this was thus,
seeing that omelettes are dainties of a
quite unknown ancientry, we mused
muchly. At last the idea dawned upon
us that, by the use of the term “ novel-
ties" was delicately implied that les
ceufsmelts, forming!the base, or sub-
structure of those pleasing kickshaws,
the a foresaid omelettes, were new laid
ones—novelties, indeed (in these piping
dog-days), to the poor town resident
who doesn't keep fowls.
Why cannot the Transit Commis-
sioners abide conscientiously by the
principles of free trade, and allow
wholesome rivalryin the omnibus busi-
ness ? Competition would soon settle
the fare question on a fair basis, but
so long as “ the company" have what
(owing to the action of the Commis-
sioners) is virtually a monopoly, the


public must expect that the reciprocity
between it and the worshipiul direc-
tors will be all on the side of the latter.
There’s a good deal of hum an nature
in the ordinary omnibus proprietor ;
if }OU give him an irch he’ll take an
ell ; and so, when it’s not so much a
question of your giving as of his tak-
ing, it ought not to be wondered at if
he takes all he can get.
The visitors’ list of Potty’s and
Pfahlert’s hotels, which regularly ap-
pear in the columns of an evening con-
temporary, no doubi contain interest-
ing information to not a few of the
lieges. To know that Bugsby, of En-
gland, Robinson, of America, or Jones,
of the Universe, has arrived in town,
is information of a character signally
well calculated to send a thrill of ex-
citement through the frame of the quid
nunc. Little Fitz-Molyneux, of New
England, says he thinks the publica-
tion of these lists must be a decided
bore, you know, as a fellow’s credi-
tors would be buzzing around like one-
o’clock every time he came up to town.
We tell him sternly that the very res-
pect: ble people who stop at Petty’s and
JPfahlert's have no creditors, and the
emblazonment of their names can cause
them no inconvenience. Fitz-Moly-
neux says, “Rot!” though he feels
our sarhasm rankling in his waistcoat.
We would ask the Rev. Mr. All worth
one little question : “Is there a single
charitable institution in this city, es-
tablished and conducted on an entirely
Protestant basis, which would allow a
Roman Catholic clergyman to hold
public service within its walls ?”
Mr. Graham Berry is getting the
best of it. We think ho had right on
his side all along, though he certainly
estranged the unprejudiced from him
by the violent way in which he pressed
his policy. His notion of a national
bank is a right one. Capital, no doubt,
likes the New South Wales practice, of
loaning the public surplus to the
bank ; but with all deference to capi-
tal, that practice is a mischievous one.
It is too one-sided to be just. Should
Berry’s proposal be as one-sided in the
other direction it will equally deserve
censure. Should he succeed, however,
in establishing a state bank that will
offer accommodation to small and large
land-holders alike, he will be confer-
ring a great boon upon the Victorians,
while, at the same time, suggesting a
reform to one or two other colonies.
Pray, Mr. John Macintosh,what au-
thority does the Legislative Assembly
possessby which, as though ex cathedra ,
it can pronounce anything to be illegal ?
Supposing your remarkably crude and
ill-considered resolutions anent the
association’s cricket ground, had, in
the first place, found a seconder, and
in the second had been passed by a tri-
umphant majority, would you have
been one whit nearer attaining your
object ? The power of tho Commons
House is undoubtedly great, it can do
very big things, indeed, as we are free
to own, but even with its Macintosh
on it cannot pass muster as the three
estates rolled into one. The senior
member of the Assembly should
study the elementary principles of our
constitution.
Memo, for the Minister for War
Send Davie Buchanan home in com-
mand of the flotilla of torpedo boats
(now happily not wanted to guard the
entrance to “ our beautiful harbour”)
to demand the Divorce Act, or “know
the reason why.”
Mr. Fosbery, how about these bur-
glars ? Are your detectives so occu-
pied with their legal studies that they
have no time to run down a pretty
“ warm” trail. A knowledge of muni-
cipal law can do a peeler no harm, that
we freely confess; but if it and similar
accomplishments are to be acquired at
the expense of the efficiency of the
police force,considered as a body, main-
tained as much for the suppression of
crime and the protection of property
as for other and more aesthetic pur-
poses, our constables had, perhaps,
best burn their St. Julians and go in
for a little burglar-catching. Don’t
you think so ?
An eccentric friend asks us to pub-
lish some eccentric verses, which he


thinks have a Goldsmithian ring about
them! They refer to the recent dese-
cration of the synagogue by the troops
of well-dressed larrikins who crowded
in to see the first marriage therein ce-
lebrated. Here they are:—
AN ECHO OF THE “ECHO.”
When rowdy people rush one’s chapel,
And foul and scratch and spoil the place,
What means is there by which to grapple
With an offence so hard to trace ?
The only plan that’s worth reflection,
Order to keep in fane devout—
Its hopeless to suggest detection—
Is, my dear Rabbi, KEEP ’t'M OUT.
Why is it that Mr. District Court
Judge Meymott cannot maintain that
gravity which best becomes a judge ?
He is for ever making people talk
about him. Now it is on account of
pretty actresses, whom he seats be-
side him on the bench; now it is on
account of some equally innocent, yet
equally unconventional eccentricity.
The latest thing in the way of Mey-
mottian humour is his trying “ to lick
into shape, in pencil,” a statement for
the Supreme Court of a case in which a
judgement of his own was appealed
against. Could not the Attorney Ge-
neral give Mr. Meymott a gentle re-
minder, that the buffoonery which
might sparkle on the lips of a clown,
is not the sort of thing one expects
from the pen, or pencil, of a judge
learned in the law ?
We trust that due precaution will be
taken to prevent a recurrence of the
disgraceful scene which occurred in
Hyde Park, on Sunday last. Fire-
brands and other inflammable mate-
rials should be put out of the places of
public recreation, as well as other im-
pediments to the enjoyment of the
citizens who frequent them. Nothing
can be more calculated to bring reli-
gion into contempt than such unseemly
displays, and we hope that the pasto-
rate of Hyde Park will be vacant from
this time forward. Abusive demon-
strations of any religious sect persis-
tently indulged in are calculated to
create a breach of the peace, and should
be dealt with as a nuisance as much as
fortune-telling, thimble-rigging, or
three-card 100.
The following ironical appeal to the
sterner sex was made a few days ago by
a facetious busman :—During a heavy
rain, aWoollhara ’bus was stopped in
Oxford-street by a gentleman with a
child in his arms. The inside of the
'bus was full of ladies, but he insisted'
on getting in out of the wet, until at
last, the the conductor, looking into
the 'bus, said, “ Would any of you
ladies get out to oblige a gentleman?’'
The gentleman w aited for another con-
veyance, and the 'bus moved on.
An old retainer in a family having
his attention drawn to the large eyes
of the baby, consoled the mother with
the reflection that “ they'd fill up as
she grew."
LOVE ON THE RIVER.
It is not satisfactory to make love
on a penny steamboat on the river,
especially as that yelling little boy is
such an institution on them. Never
was this fact made more strikingly
apparent to us than when we recently
heard the following dialogue at the
funnel:
Edwin. —You know I love you. But
my aunt won’t part with her money,
Nevertheless, I am determined to—
That Boy. —Ease hr.
Angelina. —l admire your deter-
mination, love; but depend on it,
nothing will—
That Boy. —Turn hr.
Edwin. —She is a kind old woman,
and I would—
That Boy . —Back hr.
Edwin. —Hang those confounded
steamers ! However, no person is
looking. Give me a kiss.
That Boy. —Stop.
Which they did; acd went out at
Wesiminster Pier, determining not to
select a steamer for their love-making
again—till that small boy is abolished,
at least.


PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.
A Novel Without a Name By
William Aubrey Burnage. Iu two
volumes. Vol. 1. Published by
the Author, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
1878. Mr. Burnage has the pea of
a ready writer. He describes cha-
racter with facility, and groups inci-
dents with effect. As we only have
the first volume of this highly sen-
sational story before us, we cannot
pronounce an opinion on the work
as a whole, but we can honestly say,
that should the second volume sus-
tain the interest excited in the
reader’s mind by a perusal of the
first, “ A Novel Without a Name ”
will deserve to rank with the better
class of novels. As we have said, it
is highly sensational, but this is not
secured by any violation of either
the probabilities or the proprieties.
Though published in Australia, the
scene of the plot (so far as it is yet
revealed), lies in England. Mr.
Burnage fairly deserves commenda-
tion for the artistic way in which he
has so far built up the materials of
his story. Since well begun is half
ended, we sincerely trust he may go
on as he has commenced, so that
when the reader lays down the
second volume, he may be able con-
scientiously to supplement this brief
notice opus digne eoronat.
Australia. By E. C. Booth: illus-
trated by S. Prout, Chevalier,
Brierley, &c. Virtue. In Australia
art is, unfortunately, at a very low
ebb. Melbourne and Sydney are
deluged with worthless engravings—•
with wooden, woolly forgeries of good
work. First-class Australian views
especially are so seldom to be met
with, that when one does come across
anything really good, it would be
almost criminal not to notice the
fact. This cheap re-production of
Booth’s charming work, in monthly
numbers, by Messrs. Virtue (Sydney
Agent, Mr. Stuart, Pitt-street),
should be eagerly sought after by all
those who, loving art, desire to se-
cure faithful and high-class illustra-
tions of interesting Australian
scenery. Prout’s exquisite treat-
ment of picturesque “ bits,” or of
idyllic glimpses of waterfall, or
mountain glen, or ocean shore, is
finely rendered in these engravings.
Brierly’s sea piece, “ Glenclg, 5.A.,”
is fresh and breezy, and instinct
with life. Of Chevalier's faithful
renderings of Australian landscape,
we note his “Mallee Scrub, on the
Murray,” a view photographic in its
truthfulness, yet in which the gene-
ral effect is carefully preserved.
Armytage’s views are excellent, but
not of the same high aesthetic cha-
racter as those of the artists pre-
viously mentioned. Baines’s “Ex-
plorer’s Camp ” and “ Stampede of
Packhorses ” are full of verve. We
heartily recommend this admirable
publication to the notice of our
readers.
The Devil in Sydney. By Harold
Grey. A satire a la Juvenal, on
men and things. Vigorous, clever,
but marred by a too free use of per-
sonalities. There are verses in this
little publication which are as
pointedly clever as anything Savage
or Churchill ever penned: this we
feel bound in common honesty to
admit, even while deploring the
general temper of the york before
us. Mr. Grey should recollect that
true satire, “like a polished razor
keen,” should “ wound with a
touch." He forgets to polish his
razor, and wields it rather too much
like a bludgeon; yet, for all that,
his censure is trenchant, and not un-
often falls on heads that merit it.


CATCHING A BURGLAR.
[From Hood's Comic Annual.)
Chapter I.— The Burglar.
The sun was just going to bed behind the
hills when I returned to my humble
apartment—first floor foack —in the house
which recognised as its lord—its landlord,
that is— Mr. Peter Pincher, and as its
Master, the wife of his bosom, Mi’s. Peter
Pincher, fair, fat, and fifty at the least.
I had been a witness that day of the
tying of the knot which secured a very
old chum in the matrimonial bonds. As
“best man ” I had been called upon to
respond for the ladies. I had screwed
my courage to the speaking point, and
had become slightly “screwed” during
the operation. And so when I arrived on
the door-mat belonging, by right of pur-
chase, to Mrs. Pincher, that blonde,
•bulky, but- by no means beautiful matron
ventured to remark that I looked funny.
There are hundreds of tall, well-dressed,
moustached, patent-booted youths ins the
present day the height of whose ambition
would be reached could they be addressed
by their fair acquaintances in the words
“Oh, you funny man!” But there is a
mighty difference when you are told that
you look funny. There lurks in the words
a reproach; there is a suggestion of tee-
total remonstrance. Consequently, I felt
anything but complimented by Mrs.
Fincher’s greeting, and, leaving her to
close the door behind me, I sought my
lonely bed, and was soon snoring i snugly
'.between the sheets.
How long I had slept I know not,
.when I awoke with a start. Grim
1 darkness prevailed. There was no “ sound
of revelry” that night. All the world
.seemed to be asleep.
I was again sinking into that slumber
which cometh of an easy conscience and a
liberal attention to the bottle, when a
•loud scream biought me to a sitting posi-
tion. I heard my name called. There
was a cry of “Help!” There was a
scuffling of feet, and a banging of doors,
and a crash of glass, and all .the bustle
and clamour of a terrible “scrimmage.”
How to obtain a light was, with me, an
impossibility. No man is a hero when
the candle has gone out, and I am willing
to confess that I quaked with fear. My
calls for a light remained unheeded.
Presently there was a momentary flash.
In that flash I saw his face—the face of a
burglar. Then all was dark again. Why
didn’t they bring a light ? Suddenly the
street door was opened. In the entrance
I saw the figure of a man. I darted for-
ward, I seized him by the throat.
“Yield, or thoudiest!” I shouted, in
the manner of the melodramatic heroes
I had seen. •
“ Don’t you be a fool!” was the reply.
I looked up. The light from a street
lamp shone full upon the face of my
victim.
It was my landlord !
He raised my rent upon the spot.
Chapter ll.— The Bobby.
When Mr. Pincher had come to the end
of his list of reproaches ; when I had
consented to comply with his exorbitant
demands in the matter of rent; when I
had offered all sorts of excuses—none of
them credited—for my tardiness in rush-
ing to the rescue; when I had paid for
alcoholic liquor with which to soothe the
perturbed nerves of Mrs. P., I was per-
mitted to know what “all the row was
about.”
“Burglar!” said Mr. Pincher.
“ Parlour window !” said Mrs. Pincher.
“ Cut pane !” said he.
“ Forced fastening!” said she.
Between them the worthy couple con-
trived to furnish me with the chain of a
story in which ‘ ‘ Thief Disturbed ! ”
“ Hid under table ! ” “ Smashed lamp ! ”
“Violent struggle! ” “ Kitchen poker ! ”
“Life preserver!” Burglar overcome!”
“Dragged into passage!” and “Street
door! ” formed the connecting links.
“So you dragged him to the street
door, did you, Mr. Pincher?” said I.
“And pray why didn’t you keep him
there?”
Well, you see,” replied Pincher, “he
said he’d give in. I thought he meant it,
and so I let him go. My confidence was
misplaced. He rushed into the room
whence I had dragged him. I thought I
had him in a trap. I closed the parlour
door to keep him in. He got out of the
window by which he had entered. He
fled for life and liberty; and that’s all
about it.”
Confiding fool, wasn’t he ?
Now, although a coward in the dark, I
am, in the light, and with half a dozen
policemen at hand, something of a hero,


and so off I scampered in the direction
the burglar had taken. I climbed over
walls ; I waded through ditches ; I
tumbled into water-butts; I made havoc
among conservatories; I set watch-dogs
barking; I filled all the windows with
night-capped heads. My blood was up,
and that burglar had to be taken.
What yonder is it meets my eye ? Yes!
there, crouching in the shadow of a wall,
is a man ! It must be he! With a yell of
triumph lam upon him. Once more I
have a human throat within my grasp.
“Let go, will yer?”said a stentor’s
voice; “let go, or I’ll give yer one over
the nut.”
“ Bold, but abandoned brother of a bur-
glarious band,” I replied, “your inten-
tions are aggressive, but your language is
misleading. If you mean on the nut —
you will nut do it.”
At this feeble and ill-timed jest, he
laughed a bitter laugh. I threatened to
run him through. He threatened to run
me in; and as, snatching from him the
lantern he carried, 1 flashed it in his face,
I saw that he was— a bobby. He was as
good as his word. He ran me in.
Forty shillings or a month.
Chapter lll.— The Bathe.
Years have elapsed since the occurrence
of the events narrated—lucidly or lunati-
cally—in the last chapter. A midsummer
sun has driven me from my desk in the
City to the sea-shore. My clothes I have
left in a bathing-machine. I have gone
for a swim. I am “dabbling” about
some miles from the beach. I imagine I
am alone. Suddenly looking behind me,
I see a face. Sis face ! The face of the
burglar of years ago. This time I was
not going to be done. I resolved to play
the Deceitful Cuss.
“Hallo, Bill!” said I, pretending to
recognize an old friend.
“ Hallo, ’Arry,” says he, fully equal to
the occasion.
“Who would have thought of seeing
you out here?” I remarked, taking a
stroke or two towards him.
“Well, for the matter of that, who
would have thought of seeing you ?” said
he, with irritating coolness.
“All pretty well at home?” I asked,
as I approached still closer.
“ Pretty well: and yours ? ”
“Stunning!” I replied, as, dashing
forward, I attempted to seize him.
“ Hallo !” said the villain, as he eluded
my grasp, “ what’s your little game ? ”
‘ ‘ Scoundrel 1 ” I replied, “ vou’re
wanted.”
“Pickles ! ” was his answer.
“Ho, not Pickles, but Pincher,” I
roared, as loudly as the dashing billows
would permit—“ Pincher’s the name, and
you’re wanted.”
He turned pale all over at the words.
“A lifer!” I heard him mutter. He
made a sudden plunge beneath the waters;
he seized me by my legs; he dragged me
down, down, down to the very bottom;
he took off a portion of the patent-double-
action sink-or-swim self-saving foe-de-
stroying apparatus that he wore ; he
pegged me to something; he grinned in
my face ; he bounded upwards, and I saw
him no more.
Suddenly I experienced a singing in my
ears , and I felt that I was free. The bur-
glar had fastened me to a cable belonging
to the Submarine Telephonic Company.
A concert was being communicated at the
moment of my peril. That accounted for
the singing in my ears. The electric cur-
rentthat carriedthe sounds had severed my
bonds. I blessed the telephone and its
inventor, and I made for the shore and
civilization.
Chapter IV. —The Beach.
Alas! civilization would have none of me.
The burglar had been before me. He had
entered my “ machine he had purloined
my clothes, and 1 was left to face a scoffing
world in the abbreviated and unconventional
costume of the bath. The journey to my
•lodging had to be accomplished. How?
was the difficulty. I could not beg for
clothes, and to borrow I was ashamed.
At nightfall I cautiously opened the door of
my retreat; I peeped out. All was quiet.
I ventured out. The place seemed deserted.
Deluded mortal that I was! the boys, big
and little, were in waiting for me. They
had guessed my scheme. They had arranged
an ovation for me. They gave me one. The
next morning found me arraigned before the
powers that be. Had I been in the country
of the blind, the magistrate remarked, my
offence would have been trifling; but he was
compelled—firstly, in the interests of the
tailors of the town, whose custom my
example might affect, and, secondly, in the
cause of morality—to mark his sense of my
impropriety. The mark took the form of a
week in gaol, where T passed my time in


writing a work entitled “How to Dress
Well on Nothing a Year and Keep Yourself
Cool.”
Chapter V.—The Porter.
The sun, which in the opening line of this
story was j"st going to bed, had been up a
considerable time, and the milkman had
finished his matutinal rou ids, when I was
summoned from the land of dreams by the
sudden openiug of my door, by the sound of
a harsh and grating voice, and by the
appearance of a face not altogether remark-
able for an amiable expression. It turned
out—that’s more than I had done—that
Mrs Pincher was anxious to know —inquisi-
tive soul that she was—if I was “going to
be snoring there all day!” I wanted to
discuss with her the psychological mysteries
of dreams. She called me an idiot. Was
Ito blame if, between sleeping and waking,
with my brain still confused by thoughts of
burglars, and bobbies, and bathing machines,
—was I to blame, I ask, if I threw the
bolster at her ? I did.
She told Pincher. Pincher promised to
thrash me. He kept his promise. He
used a thick stick, and I bear the marks to
this day.
Since then I have been to many wedding
breakfasts, but I have never undertaken to
respond for the ladies. I never shall.
MACARONIC VERSE
Come jocund friends, a bottle bring,
And push around the jorum;
We’ll talk and laugh, and quaff and sing,
Nunc suavium amorum.
While we are in a merry mood,
Come, sit down, ad bibendum ;
And if dull care should dare intrude
We’ll to the devil send him.
A moping elf I can’t endure,
While I have ready rhino;
And all life’s pleasures centre still
In venere ac vino.
Be merry then, my friends, I pray,
And pass your time in joco ;
For it is pleasant, as they say,
Desipere in loco.
He that loves not a young lass
Is sure an arrant stultus,
And he that will not take a glass
Deserves to be sepultus.
Pleasure, musje, love, and wine,
Res valde sunt jucundae,
And pretty maidens look divine,
Provided ut sunt mundse.
I hate a snarling, surly fool,
Qui latrat sicut canis,
Who mopes, and ever eats by rule,
Drinks water and eats panis.
Give me the man that’s always free,
Qui Unit mol li mero
The cares of life, whate’er they be;
Whose motto still is “ Spero.”
Death will turn us soon from hence,
Nigerrimas ad sedes,
And all our lands and all our pence
Ditabunt tunc he redes.
Why should we then foibear to sport ?
Dum vivimus, vivamus ;
And when the fates shall cut us down,
Contenti abeamus.
ADVERTISEMENTS ON THE BRAIN.
{Being information g lined, and impressions retained
by reading right through the Adoertisement
Sheets of a Daily Paper.)
Save Half Your Havana Cigars and
restore your sight by using Portable Cook-
ing Stoves. Fit perfectly in any position,
and are more wholesome than the finest
Cognac Brandy. Post free eighteen stamps
£lO Reward. —Absconded, a brown over-
coat, fourteen hands high; quiet to ride or
drive; answers to the name of “Chivie.”
Will not be responsible for any debts con-
tracted by J. Cramer and Co., or others.
If this should meet its eye, it will hear of
something to its advantage, or be sold to
defray expenses.
Six Thousand Pounds. —Wanted, a good
plain Cook, prepared to invest the above
sum in a China and Glass Warehouse.
Must be an experienced hand. General
servant and nurse kept (without incum-
brance). Rent low. Trade eight barrels
monthly. Full particulars at the Royal
Masonic Institute for Bovs.
Dore’s Great Work. —The Globe Sew-
ing Machine ; will shew a flag-staff at the
distance of twenty miles. Undistinguish-
able from the best eighteen-carat gold.
Used in all the royal laundries. Designs
and estimates on application to ‘‘ My Awful
Dad,” Soho Bazaar, Number One, St.
Paul’s Churchyard.


SELECT PIEGES.
ON NEW BABIES.
BY AN OLD BARY.
New babies haven’t the heads of hair old
babies have as a rule; that is to say, it
generally doesn’t part as well at the back.
Perhaps it might if it were cosmeticed.
I don’t know that. I shouldn’t care to be
a very new baby. I think it’s so stupid,
New babies play-with their fingers and
their toes. They seem to want to add them
up in a column, and carry one over. While
trying to do so, they generally overbalance
themselves. Isn’t that jolly stupid ?
There was a very new baby once, who
began feeling annoyed directly he was born
because he wasn’t an old baby; so the
nurse said to him, “ Look here,” she says,
“don’t do that,” says she, “Hold'on,”
says she, “and don’t keep a-hollering,”
she says; “ you’ll get over it if you try.”
But he didn’t; and when they came to
look, it was a pin sticking into him, and he
never told ’em.
New babies are fools.
ON YOUNG GIRLS.
BY AN OLD GIRL.
There are lots of men who would rather
marry a young girl than an old girl. Most
men are idiots. Nearly all girls (who wish
to) are born young. There’s nothing clever
in it. It would be a jolly sight cleverer to
be bom an old girl, if you wanted to.
Generally you don’t.
Old girls mostly know it’s all nonsense,
and aren’t a bit envious. There was once
an envious old girl —really, you know, on
my sacred word of honour, joking apart,
there really was. That old girl’s name,
however, has never been revealed. There
was only one of ’em.
ON OLD BOYS.
BY A YOUNG MAN.
Old boys are a great lark ! They are as a
rule rather tedious when they get on to their
reminiscences; but when they do so, they
are usually carried away, as it were, and
stand any amount of Sam just for the sake
©f getting an audience. Old boys have more
to say for themselves when they talk to a
woman than young men have; but then
women don’t understand them, so it’s not
much good. Old boys often fall in love,
and it generally hurts ’em a good lot.
Some die of it right off, and others wither
and curl up. Then all the other old boys
and all the young men laugh.
I never mean to be an old boy.
Motto for the Unwashed.— While
there’s life there’s soap !
Peess-ing Question.— A correspondent
asks—Which journal is the least expen-
sive ? The Echo is the most AcAonomical,
of course.
A Waste of T.— Putting it in depot.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A Subscriber. —We have not yet received
an order from the Government for
10,000 copies of Once a Week, for distri-
bution at the Paris Exhibition, but,
upon receipt of the order, the necessary
arrangements will be made.
Parramatta.— We are flattered by your
commendation of Once a Week , and gladly
avail ourselves of your offer to push its
circulation.
Isabel. —Very nicely written, but the
incidents are too tame.
J. Husband. —Not up to our standard of
publication. Try again and select
some local subject.
King of Jerusalem. —The Queen of Sheba
would have been a more appropriate
title. We are shocked at such ingrati-
tude and discourtesy. A six months’
subscription to our magazine would
have been an appropriate present, but
he does not deserve it. The most
suitable historical works for a young
lady of thirteen, are in the subjects
named, MacMillan’s Primers “Greece”
and “Rome.”
Lyric. —Sonnets are at a discount; the
supply exceeds the demand.
To Contributors Generally. —We shall feel
obliged if you will observe two essential
points. Be as little discursive as pos-
sible, and don't write on both sides of the
paper.


-A.G-E! 3STT S.
SYDNEY.
Railway Terminus L. Walton
G
f G. HiH
E. Turner
W. Nash
J H. Hains
j W. Maddock
E. E. Cole
C. T. Sandon
l J. J. Moore
Hunter-street .. Turner and Henderson
Pitt-street S. A. Kirby
King-street .. G. Wallace
William-street .. F. Pearce
Oxford-street f §>ragg and Adams
( Mrs. Abbott
Sussex-street
SUBURBS.
Newtown .. R. West and Cos.
Ashfield
Burwood
S. Leonards .. Deacon and Sons
Balmain .. .. R. H. Paisley
Woollahra
Parramatta .. Castner’s, Railway
Manly Beach.. P. Jenkins
COUNTRY.
Armidale .. H. G. Mallam
. Goulbum .. J. Walsh
Maitland ... C. W. Clarke
Orange .. .. R. Lessels and Son
E. D. Leyson
.. .. B. Weaver.
M indsor .. Mrs. Neilson
Agents wanted for other parts of the colony.
QUEENS COLLEGE, CROYDON,
Lady Principal : Mrs. H. H. DAWSON
(ASSISTED BY COMPETENT GOVERNESSES AND PROFESSORS).
N.8.-NO PUPIL TEACHERS
F'°adw a d !p t P 7 U ) PiIS - f the Col]e g e ( which is most healthily situated) offers every
1 nlp •-Dormitories, veil ventilated; Plunge Baths Airy Class rooms 17
Examination, 1878, unde? the 1 ch^gTo?a° University
Young l a die B no t students of the College, can attend these lecturer
affy pu P ils have their railway fare deducted from terms.
PlatfcL Q 6118 C ° lege 18 Wlthin three millutes walk of the Croydon Railway


OPINONS OF THE PRESS.
“ Sydney Once a Week.” —lt is a neat,
well-printed little pamphlet,, containing
twenty-four pages of reading matter,
which consists of short original papers,
written in a light free style, and of a few
extracts from other publications. Its pur-
pose is to give its readers “a good six-
pennyworth of literary pabulum, com-
posed of ingredients at once sparkling,
amusing, and original, and so arranged as
to avoid a suspicion of dulness.”. Taken
as a whole, the magazine, which is edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, is a very creditable
production, as well to the publishers as to
the authors, and if conducted according
to the plan indicated in the few words
above quoted, it will be an acceptable
addition to our colonial literature. — S. M.
Herald.
The Echo says:—lt is a very readable
publication, and, while it cannot aspire to
rank as the equal of the most popular
English magazines, it deserves to find
favour on account of the local interest
which attaches to its papers. The original
papers, of which there are several, are
written in a light, easy style, and with
considerable ability. We should like to
see the magazine prove to be a success,
for the desirableness of building up a
respectable colonial literature will hardly
be denied by any one. and the establish-
ment of a good magazine is one of the
means towards that end. The publishers.
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and C 0.,, are
entitled to commendation for the admirable
way in which they have got up the
magazine.— Echo.
The New Magazine. —Sydney Once a
Week Magazine for Town and Country
Readers is the title of a new weekly, edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, issued from the
Sydney Press, which bids fair to secure a
good share of public support. Its moderate
price, its handiness, the entertaining
reading it affords, and the concise, pleas-
ing manner in which the various topics of
the day are touched in its columns, must
naturally render the Sydney Once a Week
a welcome visitor in every house, and an
agreeable companion to every reader.
Southern Argus (Goulburn).
“Sydney Once a Week,” a magazine
bearing the above title, has made its a/p-
-pearance in our city. It is edited by Mr.
Barlee, formerly a member of the literary
staff of he Melbourne Argus , and a
humourist of some note. The work con-
tains sketches, tales, and articles, along
with the usual miscellanea of a magazine.
Judging by the contents of the first num-
ber, we think the magazine stands abetter
chance of succeeding than many of those
publications which are bom but to die,
and which, in some cases, are disgraceful
to the literary efforts of our city.—
Evening News.
The Singleton Argus says:—The number
is very readable, is well printed by Messrs.
Gibbs, Shallard, and Co., and contains a
varied selection of original and extract
matter. We wish the proprietor every
success with his venture, and trust that his
efEorts will do something more substantial
to encourage a taste for colonial literature
than those of others who have trodden in
the same uncertain path, have succeeded
in doing. We bail with pleasure all re-
spectable efforts to establish a republic of
letters in this colony, which at present is
too much confined in its patronage to news-
paper literature only. Mr. Barlee’s venture
is the best effort in this direction that we
have seen for some time.
“ Once a Ween.” —Under the title of
“ Sydney Once a Week,” the first number
of a neatly got-up octavo of over thirty
pages has just been issued. It is edited by
Mr. C. H. Barlee, who is, we understand,
assisted by a numerous staff of able con-
tributors. The contents of this new pub-
lication are varied and interesting—too
varied, in our opinion, for the space at the
disposal of the editor. If we may be per-
mitted to offer a suggestion with regard to
the future, we would recommend. that
everything in the shape of “ news ” items
should be omitted. We heartily wish the
proprietors success in their undertaking,
and certainly are of opinion that the excel-
lence of “ Once a Week” well deserves it.
Yass Courier.
The contents of the new venture give
promise of a deserved success, should, it
ever be attained. There is an attractive
variety about the articles, and the tastes ot
every class of readers are consulted. Ihus
we have a trenchant article, short and
pithy, on the political status in qm, a couple
of spirited domestic sketches, some comic
matter, and some chapters especially in-
tended for boys. Among the last is a
scholarly commentary on a passage from
the “ Paradise Lost’’-intended for the use
of University candidates—a clever set ot


recurrent verses in Latin and an enigma
in French. The palindrome and enigma
are an immence improvement on the
foolish anagrams and sphinx-like puzzles
which usually fill this department of our
current literature, and should commend the
production to parents. We hope the new
organ will enjoy a longer term of existence
than some of its predecessors. —Namoi In-
dependent.
This serial contains well written papers
and sketches, entitled “The Public
Health,” “Muff Cricketing,” “Best Dog
in the colony,” and a general summary o>
the Russo-Turkish War. Altogether Once
a Week promises well; and without coun-
try readers (who will probably support it
best), the 170,000 residents of Sydney
should keep it going—hut we doubt it.
The price is 6d., and the publishing office
279 George-street, Sydney. —Molong Ex-
press.
Once a Week. —This is the title of a new
pamphlet, edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, of
Sydney. We have received a copy and
were highly amused, as well as entertained
with the writings; there is such a versa-
tility about them that all must he pleased.
It is notified that a summary of the
events of the present war will be given
for the accommodation of its readers,
and so do away -with the tedious task of
perusing the complications daily appear-
ing in our metropolitan journals. Among
numerous, articles, in various strains,
there is a very humorous writing, en-
titled “My Balloon Adventure;” but to
our fancy, the most amusing is one called
“ The best dog in the colony.” There is
a very good article termed “Et cetera,”
which gives an abstract of the events of
the week, In next issue a story will be
commenced, under the impressive heading
of «The Mystery of the Wiseman’s
Ferry Road.” It is a useful, handy little
book, and well worth patronage. The
price is sixpence. —The Australian.
The . Tenter field Star saysßesides
containing a large amount of current
news, it possesses the attraction of afford-
ing to its readers much useful and
scientific information, combined with well
■written tales and humourous sketches,
and other entertaining matter. The price
is sixpence, and this moderate charge
should command for the magazine the
wide circulation which it justly deserves.
The Moruya Examiner says:—We have
looked the book carefully through and can
confidently recommend it to our readers
and predict its success.
The new candidate for public favour
contains a number of smartly written
original articles and some well-selected
extract matter. It is got up in good style,
and well printed, containing twenty-four
demy octavo pages. — Albury Banner.
The new publication is both instructive
and entertaining ; it is deserving of a
good circulation.— Border Post ( Albury).
The new publication is both well got
up and very readable.— Western Post
(Mudgce).
The Bathurst Free Press says:—lt con-
tains a large quantity of interesting read-
ing matter—grave, gay, ponderous, and
light. The editorship is evidently in good
hands, and if the editor’s hopes are real-
ized the paper will take its place with
“ The pleasant books that silently among
Our household treasures take familiar places,
And are to us as if a living tongue
Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces, ’
For he makes his bold assertion: ‘‘ We
shall do our best to force ourselves into
notice, and to compel attention.” Once
a Week is well worth the sixpence that is
charged for the single copy.
Another attempt has been made to
establish a literary magazine in Sydney.
The new venture takes the title of the
Sydney “Once a Week.” Its type dress
is admirable, but then the printers are
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co. The
number before us very fairly sustains the
aim stated, and we shall be glad to see the
magazine prosper. — Maitland Mercury.
It is very creditably got up and judging
from the matter which this number (No.
1) contains, it is a magazine that will no
doubt receive a large measure of support
among Australian readers.— Western Ex-
aminer (Orange).
The Murrurundi Times writes:—“The
contents have a varied range, and many
of the articles possess a degree of humour
and literary merit which will commend
them to the majority of our readers. We
shall be glad to find enough appreciation
to support anything in the shape of smart
writing which has about it no unworthy
element.”


“ Sydney Once a Week ” —We have
received the first two numbers of a small
neatly got up magazine hearing the above
title, which, in view of its superiority to
the majority of weekly publications lately
issued from the Sydney Press, we feel it
our honest duty to notice with approba-
tion. Its contents (those of the two issues
we have received) are not only well written,
but are for the most part original and
local. They comprise a great variety of
light and instructive reading matter, which
should commend Once a Week to public
favour. Politics, the public health, and
other grave matters are ably treated in its
leading columns. There are also well
written original humorous sketches —we
note specially “ Ihe Best Dog in the
Colony” and “My Balloon Adventure,” —
and a few happy clippings from comic ex-
changes ; a page of town gossip; and an
epitome of the week’s war news. Ad-
mirably written papers, entitled “ Gossip
with the Boys,” appear in each issue, and
are, it is said, to be continued regularly.
The verses in the first number, entitled
* An Australian Idyll” are very far above
the average of contributions to the “ poets’
comer.” It is an affecting story, well told.
After the custom of English magazine
conductors, the proprietors of Sydney
Once a Week offer prizes to successful
competitors in the riddle arena. In the
second number appeared the prologue of
a story called “ The Mystery of Wiseman’s
Ferry,’’which is to be the piece de resistance
in the way of serial romance. Once a W eek
which is edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee,
litterateur of lengthened colonial experi-
ence, and published by Messrs. Gibbs,
Shallard, and Co., we can conscientiously
recommend as a weekly magazine, enter-
taining, instructive, and of high tone.
Those who have not seen this publication
should buy copies, and judge of its merits
for themselves. We are certain they will
endorse our opinion. —Cumberland
cury.
The Sydney “Once a Week ’’—The
sixth number of this serial has just been
published. Its literary merits and general
get up are equal to those. of the first
number which w had occasion to notice
favorably. It contains a large amount of
instructive and light leading; the original
articles are entertaining, and the contents
of the number generally are judiciously
varied. The “Mystery of Wisemans
Ferry Boad,” has reached the third chap-
ter. The interest of the story in no way
flags. The “War News” and “Town
Gossip ” are readable articles, and the
comic papers sparkle with humour. There
are several pieces of original poetry ; and
two or three pages devoted to “ Columns
for young readers,” containing charades
puzzles, &c. Altogether the number does
credit to editor and printer. — S. M. Herald.
We heartily recommend the magazine
to our readers. —Grenfell Record.
The Coonamble Independent says: —“ The
first number, which we have received, is
well and ably written —the best sketch, in
our opinion, being a very humourous one,
entitled the “Best Dog in the Colony.”
We wish the proprietor every, success, as,
in our opinion, the publication, if well
conducted, will supply a want long felt in
Sydney, and add to the far too small stock
of Australian literature. We have every
confidence in recommending “ Once a
Week” to the favorable notice of our
readers.”
“Sydney Once a Week.”— We have
just received the eight number of “ Sydney
Once a Week,” and a rather close inspec-
tion of its contents reveals the fact that.it
is, if anything, an improvement upon its
predecessors. The conception of the
publication of such a periodical was ex-
tremely happy in its character, as it gave
opportunities for manifestations of local
literary talents of various orders that
otherwise might be lost to the general
public, and also established a magazine in
the colony respectable and worthy of accep-
tation. The original articles in the present
number are agreeably and vigorously
written, and the few clippings inserted
selected with good taste, while all are
neatly and carefully printed and revised.
— Echo.
