

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. H. BARLEE.
No. 21, Vol. I.]
JUNE 8, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
Day op
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High
Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
SYDNEY
Cove
June
8
Sat
Moon's 1st qr. 1.59 p.m. Mail via Suez leaves Sydney.
7. 1
4.56
1.15 p.m.
9
&
Mrs. Siddons died, 1831.
Whit Sunday. Dickens died, 1870. Rajah Brooke
7. 2
4.56
2.23 p.m.
10
M
died, 1868.
Whit Monday. Mail via San Francisco due.
7. 2
4.56
3.45 p.m.
11
Tu
Whit Tuesday. St. Barnabas. Sir John Franklin
7. 3
4.56
5. 8 p.m.
12
W
died. 1847.
Sir C. Fitzroy sworn in 1st Gov. Gen. N. S. W., 1846.
Dr. Arnold died 1842.
St. Anthony of Padua.
7. 3
4.56
6.16 p.m.
13
Th
7. 3
4.56
7.11 p.m.
14
F
Battle of Mareugo, 1800.
7. 4
4.56
7.59 p.m.
AGENTS will oblige by forwarding returns immediately after receipt ot
accounts rendered from this office.
Remittances, if by P. O. Order, to be made payable to C. H. Barlee,
Sydney.
THE ONE HORSE CITY.
We shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.B.—Advertisements for “ SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK” will be received up to ten o’clock on
Thursday morning.
No. 3.
In continuation of our remarks on
this topic, we proceed to point out
how urgent is the need for the
establishment of a second daily
paper. Within a certain range of
subjects the S. M. Herald is all that
a daily paper needs be ; but that
range is most unfortunately very
limited ; and the worst of it is, the
limits have been selected as barriers
of defence against possible attack
upon the interests of the little clique
(W. B. Campbell) Royal Furnishing Arcade.


with which the proprietors of the
Herald are identified interests
rarely at one with those of the
general public. The scrupulous
cowardice of the Herald in ever
keeping safe within its self-imposed
limits is its damning fault—a fault,
indeed, of the dimensions of a crime.
As a matter of course, the conduc-
tors of a journal have a right to
their opinions ; and it is not be-
cause the Herald chooses to deliver,
“upon the mellowing of occasion,”
prosy platitudes and tame truisms,
instead of battling for progress
boldly in the van—not because it
chooses to follow rather than to lead
—that we charge it with treason
against the majesty of the Fourth
Estate; but because in matters
where newspaper management should
permit itself no choice the conductors
of the Herald allow themselves to
be turned aside from the right paths
of journalism.
No daily paper has the right to
exclude from ite columns any fact
contributing to the social or political
history of the day. It has no right
to ignore the fact of a public meet-
ing. To report in extenso the pro-
ceedings at this meeting while
“ boiling down ” those at another
is within editorial discretion, as it is
to comment or not upon what may
have transpired at either; but we
contend that honest journalism would
at all risks seek to give a fair report
in every instance. Especially would
the effort be made when the proceed-
ings at any meeting affected the dis-
posal of public moneys, or in any
other way were of grave public in-
terest. Does the S. M. Herald con-
form to this principle? Not in the
least degree. A sectarian confer-
ence, a tea-meeting, the laying of a
first stone, or the speeches at an
agricultural show luncheon, will be
reported in its pages in full, while
the proceedings of public or quasi-
public board meetings are as often as
not quietly tabooed. For example.,
within the last few weeks a Chan-
cellor has been elected by the Senate
of the Sydney University, as also a
Warden by the Fellows of St. Paul’s.
In the latter instance the selection
made determined the receiver of five
hundred a year of public money ; in
the former it will affect for good or
ill the working of a costly public
institution. In neither of the two
cases did the S. M. Herald think it
worth while to give any report of
the proceedings. Take the case of a
recent hushed-up Civil Service dis-
missal : would a Melbourne or Bris-
bane public be content with the bare
quotation of a bald line from the
Government Gazette ? Consider, too,
the contemptible position assigned to
journalism by the Judges of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales,
and complacently accepted by the
S. M. Herald —a position which no
other daily in the Empire would
demean itself by holding —the posi-
(W. B. Campbell), Royal Furnishing Arcade.


tion of reporter at the Judges’ dis-
cretion.
The line of action adopted by the
S. M. Herald in dealing with the
res gestce of daily metropolitan life
is, perforce, the choice of the jour-
nalism of the whole colony. What
that journal chooses to reveal is all
that under present circumstances has
much chance of being revealed;
though we admit that in the columns
of more than one country newspaper
it is oftpn possible to read important
items of Sydney news which either
prudery or vested interest has pro-
hibited “ grandmamma ” from notic-
ing. The gossipy papers of the
Echo (some of them pleasantly
enough written), the amusing though
egotistic contributions of the “ Vaga-
bond,” the admirable London Letter
of “ three stars,” “ Our Eome Let-
ter,” the lucubrations of “ Stella ”
all summed up together cannot be
set against the deficiency of the S. M.
Herald. A journal that cannot
photograph national life as it is
passing—its every phase—may be a
creditable literary publication or a
splendid advertising medium, but is
not, cannot be on such terms, in the
nineteenth century sense a daily
paper.
Is Sydney to have a daily paper ?
The question, as we emphatically
contend, imperatively demands an
answer in the affirmative; unless,
indeed, the one-horse city be as
deeply enamoured of its one-horsed-
ness as to see no virtue in impar-
tiality.
It should be noted that a success-
ful effort to start a daily paper of
the right stamp will in all proba-
bility have the effect of giving Syd-
ney two good daily papers, because
under the spur of rivalry “ grand-
mamma ” would feel that to main-
tain her position she must do more
than watch and con events through
her gold-rimmed spectacles—that
she must be up and about, accepting
facts, sweeping cobwebs out of cor-
ners, and turning tne full light of
her lamp into the dark and secret
places of the Beautiful City. The
journal that might successfully rival,
and by its rivalry tutor, the S. M.
Herald , need not be one of the same
dimensions ; for, as we will seek to
show in next issue, the importance of
a daily paper no more depends upon
its size than a man’s wisdom does
upon the length of his beard. No ;
it is not a big paper that, in the
interests of those who hate cant and
abominate cliqueism, is so urgently
required, but a faithful and fearless
one—one fully alive to the responsi-
bilities of conscientious journalism,
and resolute in their impartial dis-
charge.
The Silver Lining to the Cloud.
Old woman to lady visitor : “ Yes, mum,
I’ve had a deal of trouble. First I lost
my sister, and then I lost my pig. But
there’s one thing I ought to say, and say
it I will, —the Lord’s been pretty well on
my side this winter—for greens ! ”
next to the Royal Hotel, George Street, Sydney.


ADVENTURES WITH THE
BLACKS.
Chapter I.
Some years ago, long before the gold
discovery, when I was a lad of 18, I
was living at an out-station on the
Murray River, then almost a terra
incognita , ostensibly learning the
mysteries of sheep-farming, but de-
voting, I fear, the greater portion of
my time to the enjoyment of the
best hunting and shooting that ever
fell to my lot. The plains which
flanked the river on either side
abounded in game. Kangaroo and
emu were very abundant; wild tur-
keys and a species of green goose of
excellent flavour were to be had at
any time with a little careful stalk-
ing, and the variety of wildfowl, in-
cluding black swans, pelicans, spoon-
bills, ibis, and every description of
duck, from the coarse-flavored Mus-
covy to the tender and succulent teal,
were so numerous on the river and
the lagoons on either side that we
got tired of them. We were liter-
ally troubled by an embarras de
richesses with respeet to game, and
I enjoyed myself hugely in this
respect.
But there was one great draw-
back, and that was the hostility and
treachery of the aboriginals, who
were continually committing some
depredation or other. All the sta-
tions in that part of the country,
ours included, were sheep-stations,
and the blacks having acquired the
taste of mutton and damper, found
the various depots where these luxu-
ries were to be had such temptations
that they were eternally plotting a
raid upon some defenceless station,
and by dint of patient and persever-
ing watching they very often sue-
ceeded in taking the solitary man in
charge unawares and making a clean
sweep of the property.
Usually, when a sheepowner took
up a tract of country, he put a couple
of flocks—say 700 or 800 each—on
it, so that the whole defensive force
of his station would consist of two
shepherds —one for each flock —and
a hutkeeper, whose duty it was to
clean out the yards and to cook for
the trio. As the sheep would go
out to pasture at daybreak and not
return until sundown, this man
would be alone the whole day, and
then when the shepherds were out of
sight, the blacks, intent on robbery,
not by violence, but by stratagem,
would hover about the place seeking
for an opportunity 6f pouncing upon
the unfortunate hutkeeper in an un-
guarded moment when he had gone
out without his regular weapon of
defence—his double-barrelled gun.
Every man living on the Murray
River at that time carried at all
hours a double-barrelled gun, and
three dozen rounds of cartridges in
a pouch strapped round his waist;
and so numerous were the attacks
on stations by the blacks at the time
I write of, that it was an understood
signal at every station that two shots
fflred in quick succession meant an
attack, and served as an appeal for
succour. The whole available force
on a station, whether it comprised
three men or half-a-dozen, would at
once rush in the direction of the
firing to repel the attack.
The position of hutkeeper, it will
be seen from this, was not an envi-
able one. New-comers soon got
funky and retired, and the hut-
keeper’s position was generally filled
by cool old hands who had very little
regard either for their own lives or
A House of Three Rooms furnished for £l5.


for those of the darkies who molested
them.
Nevertheless, the cunning of the
savages triumphed in many cases
over the vigilance of these men, and
several tragic dramas were played
out in the wilds of the Murray, even
during the short time I was there.
It was probably because I was an
addition to the usual number of white
men at a sheep-station, and, being a
sportsman, always carried a gun, be-
sides being followed by four or five
large kangaroo dogs, that our station
so long escaped spoilage ; but our
turn was to come, as will yet be seen.
Meanwhile, huts were robbed al-
most every week to the right and
left of us, the • stations generally
being five or six miies distant from
each other.
Our nearest neighbours were taken
in very craftily. The hutkeeper in
charge, although always on the qui
vive when any male blacks came to
the hut, relaxed his vigilance when
his visitors were only black gins, and
foolishly used to employ them in
bringing him firewood and water, and
in other similar menial offices.
One day he had commissioned two
of these sable beauties to get him a
couple of bundles of kindling—his
hut was on the bank of the river,
and the nearest belt of timber was
about half a mile off*. He had just
been cleaning out the sheep-pens,
and his double-barrel, loaded and
capped, was leaning against the
hurdles. When the two gins re-
turned, each with a bundle of wood
on her head, they asked him where
they should put them down, and
managed to engage his attention so
that when they deposited their loads
they were between the hutkeeper and
that dreaded weapon, his gun. The
next moment he found himself in the
close embrace of the two women,
and in vain did he try to “ hold his
°w n ” —“ no ladies’ arms were round
him thrown.” His own were pinned
to his side by the close hug of the
two gins, who thereupon imitating
the cry of some native bird, which
was a preconcerted signal with a
party of piccaninnies (as the young
men are called up to a certain age),
soon brought an overpowering force
to assist in the capture.
The poor hutkeeper in a very few
minutes was waddied to death by
these savages, and, as a matter of
course, the hut was immediately
rifled of its contents. They carried
off all the flour, sugar, and blankets
everything of value, including the
gun, which they tried to split into
two so as to make two single barrels
of it, and had left with their plunder
before the shepherds returned to find
the dead body of their cook the sole
occupant of the hut.
There was a police-station, with
an inspector and three mounted
troopers, located in a central position
a few miles off', but by the time they
were informed of the outrage the
depredators had crossed the river,
and were cooking dampers and mak-
ing themselves otherwise comfortable
with the plunder on the opposite
bank, and pursuit was hopeless.
This happened about four miles
from us.
How many times the same mob of
blacks reconnoitred our camp I can
hardly tell. Sometimes three or
four of them would saunter up to
me negligently, and one of them
would approach me with his waddie
held behind his neck with both
hands in careless fashion, apparently
in an indolent mood, all the while
Four Rooms for £35 at the Royal Furnishing Arcade (W. B. Campbell).


discoursing in the most amiable way
about kangaroo bunting or duck
shooting in order to engross my at-
tention and to get within arm’s
length of me, and then let go one
hand and give me a fell blow with
his waddie, while I would converse
with him with my gun pointed
towards him and my finger on the
trigger. This was only when the
dogs were not close to me, which
they generally were.
For cunning, masked by an ap-
parent simplicity and bonhomie , I
will back the Murray River blacks
against the most treacherous savages
under the sun. But they very rarely
openly attacked even a single indi-
vidual armed with a double-barrelled
gun ; and two men similarly ac-
coutred, and cool and determined,
might have gone through any num-
ber of them unmolested, so great
was their dread of the white man s
fire weapon.
The hand of marauders of whom
we were principally afraid was
headed by a blackfellow who called
himself Peter. This man had been
for a number of years in the service
of a squatter, and had to a certain
extent overcome the feeling of awe
which the natives experience at the
superior skill and knowledge of the
whitefellow ; hut the blacks who be-
longed to the tribe living immediately
around us were very friendly, and I
may thank one of those blacks —who
used to accompany me in my hunting
excursions, and whom I christened
“ Kangaroo Jack ” —for my life on
more than one occasion. His staunch
fidelity to me under very trying cir-
cumstances will probably form the
subject of anpther paper for Once a
Week.
About this time the gentleman at
whose station I was staying, finding
the run which he had at first taken
up too small for his increasing flocks,
determined to form a station on the
opposite side of the river, which at
that time was entirely in the occupa-
tion of the aboriginals. We were
the first to cross and settle on the
opposite side. To do this with some
little regard for our own safety, we
joined with a neighboring sheep-
farmer in the enterprise. We built
our huts within a hundred yards of
each other, one taking the country
to the right and the other to the
left. There were thus always two
men well armed to assist each other
at the huts, the shepherds being in
less danger from the fact that no
black could take theim unawares.
Now this new occupation involved a
good deal more danger than the first,
inasmuch as we —I use the first
person plural, as I accompanied the
party acros’s the river—had not only
to guard ourselves against the
treachery of the tribe I have re-
ferred to, but against the open hos-
tility of some blacks on the far side
of the river, called the Tatiara
blacks, who lived inland. The river
blacks were so afraid of these fierce
warriors, that whenever a raid from
them took place, our fellows, aban-
doning their Lares and Penates , at
once took to the water and got out
of danger —the Tatiara blacks being
unable to swim—and returned when
the danger was over to find their
homes laid waste and all their spears
and nets carried off.
Fortunately we managed to get
on excellent terms with the tribe
who lived in the vicinity of the spot
where we pitched our camp, and
throughout the whole term of my
residence there I cannot recall a
A House of Five Rooms furnished for £5O.


single act of treachery on their part.
They used to bring us splendid
Murray cod and barter them for
flour and tobacco in the most
friendly way; and I used to amuse
myself and ingratiate myself with
them by shooting carrion crows and
hawks by the dozen for them, and
they ate them with the greatest
relish. But these fellows, in whom
the absence of vice was probably due
to the abundance of food which the
river afforded more than to any
inherent love of virtue, were continu-
ally warning us against the Tatiara
blacks. Their fears magnified the
prowess of these periodical invaders
of their territory, and they never lost
an opportunity of enjoining caution
on our part against a sudden attack.
Once a small party of the dreaded
tribe—some half-a-dozen blackfel-
lows—paid us a visit, and the alarm
displayed by our fellows was per-
fectly ludicrous. They declared that
the visit was intended to ascertain
our strength, and that the enemy
would be upon us very soon. We
ridiculed these warnings, but we
should have done better to heed
them, as the sequel will show. But
I must reserve that for another
chapter.
WALKER.
THE HUSBAND’S SERENADE.
Come, my beloved, the spring morn is
dawning—
Come down, dear, and list to the lark’s
joyous tone—
or neariy an hour I’ve been waiting
and yawning—
My eggs are as hard as a stone.)
Sweet ’tis to live in the balm of your pre-
sence—
Sweeter to bask in the light of your eyes
(But the coffee is losing its brisk efferves-
cence ;
Cold coffee what mortal doth prize ?)
My darling, behold the day’s beckoning
finger,
And the bright sunlight streaming so
golden and red —
(Your muffin like leather will be if you
linger.
And my toast is as heavy as lead.)
I must go, love, to strive with the high
priests of Mammon,
Bushing hither and thither in yonder
huge town—
(l shall eat every bit of this lovely dried
salmon
If you do not, my darling, come down.)
Oh, haste and behold the spring morn in
its splendour,
For the hour it is late and your Popsy
must run—
(There ! I’ve spilt the hot milk on her
polished steel fender;
She will scold me for having begun.)
Oh, sweet ’tis to live in a sub-urban
dwelling,
With a dear little pet o’er its comforts
to reign.
With proud exultation my bosom is swell-
ing—
(What a bore ! Yonder goes my quick
train !)
PRIMITIVE RIDDLES.
There are a good many Biblical conun-
drums, quite reverent in tone, and pro-
per to be asked on Sundays when young
people are walking borne from church.
There are a few riddles about the clergy.
Here is one which has a Scottish equival-
ent :
Trois moines passoient,
Trois poires pendoient,
Chascun en prist une
Et s’en demoura deux
This is explained by the fact that one of
the monks was named Chascun. The
Scottish riddle is not less ingenious and
humorous:—
The Bishop and the priest
And Sir John Lang
Went inio the garden.
Where three pears hang.
Each took one, and two were left. The
thing ceases to be puzzling when we learn
that Sir John, a pluralist, was a bishop,
and, a fortiori , a priest.
A very pleasing riddle asks “ Who is
glad to come to the gibbet ?” The answer
Six Rooms for £7O at the Royal Furnishing Arcade (W. B. Campbell),


is, the belated traveller, for he knows
that now he is near a town, This may be
the germ of the anecdote about the ship-
wrecked mariner who thanked heaven
when he saw the gallows on the shore
where he was cast, “ for now,” said he,“ I
am got among a Christian people.” Sub-
stituting a stake for a gibbet, and true
believers for Christians, this fine old story
is probably to be found in the Turkish Joe
Miller. The character of early quibbling
cannot be better illustrated than by the
story of the trick Odysseus played on the
Cyclops when he gave “No man ” as his
name. Few races are so dull but that
they have this jest. This is like the story
Frithiof the Bold had to tell when he
was in hiding;—“ln Grief-ham I grew
up, but heart drove me hither, and home
have I nowhere. . . . with Wolf I
was last night.” There is more refined
fancy in this conundrum from Lorraine :
—“ Oil se trouve le pape quand le soleil
est couch 6 ? A l’ombre.” It is easy to see
why British Protestant humour has pre-
ferred a Biblical hero, and has substi-
tuted Moses and the candle for the Pope
and the sun. Few studies prove more
emphatically that there is such a thing
as progress than the study of primitive
humour. —Saturday Review.
NO QUARTER.
I am weeping, my boy.
While on my lonely beat, about an
hour ago, a light tread attracted my at-
tention, and looking up, I beheld one of
Secesh’s pickets standing before me.
“ Soldier,” says he, “ you remind me
of my grandmother, who expired before
I was born ; but this unnatural war has
made us enemies, and I must shoot you.
Give me a chaw terbacker ? ”
He was a young man, my boy, in the
prime of life, and descended from the
First Families of Virginia.
I looked at him, and says I:
“ Let’s compromise, my brother.”
“Never!” says he. “The South is
fighting for her liberty, her firesides, and
the pursuit of happiness, and I desire
most respectfully to welcome you with
bloody hands to a hospitable grave.”
“ Stand off ten paces,” says I, “ and
jet’s see whose name shall come before
the coroner first.”
He took his place, and we fired simul-
taneously. I heard a ball go whistling
by a barn about a quarter of a mile on
my right; and, when the smoke cleared
away, I saw the secesh picket approach-
ing me with an awful expression of woe
on his otherwise dirty countenance,
“ Soldier,” says he, “ was there any
thing in my head before you fired ?”
“ Nothing,” says I, “ save a few harm-
less insects.”
“ I speak not of them,” says he. “ Was
there any thing inside of my head ?”■
“ Nothing!” says I.
“ Well,” says he, “ just listen now.”
He shook his head mournfully, and I
heard something rattle in it.
“ What’s that ?” I exclaimed.
“ That,” says he, “ is your bullet which
has penetrated my skull, and is rolling
about in my brain, I die happy, and
with an empty stomach ; but there is one
thing I should like to see before I perish
for my country. Have you a quarter
about you ? ”
Too much affected to speak, I drew the
coin from my pocket and handed it to
him.
The dying man clutched it convulsively,
and stared at it feverishly.
“ This,” said he, “is the first quarter
I’ve seen since the fall of Sumter ; and,
had I wounded you, I should have been
totally unable to give you any quarter.
Ah! how beautiful it is! how bright,
how exquisite, and good for four drinks t
But I have not time to say all I feel.”
The expiring soldier then laid down his
gun, hung his cap and overcoat on a
branch of a tree, and blew his nose.
He then died.
And there I stood, my boy, on that
lonely beat looking down on that fallen
type of manhood, and thinking how sin-
gular it was he had forgotten to give me
back my quarter.
As I looked upon him there, I could-
not help thinking to myself, “ Here i s
another whose home shall know Lim HO
more.*’
The sight and the thought so affected
me, that I was obliged to turn my back
on the corpse and walk a little way from
it. When I returned to the spot, the
I body was gone ! Had it gone to Heaven ?
Perhaps so, my boy—perhaps so ; but I
haven’t seen my quarter since.
—(From Kerr Papers.)
Plain Figure Prices, No Abatement, Prompt net


NORFOLK ISLAND.
BY VIATOR.
No. 6.
It was about the year 1842, I think, that
the British Government commenced send-
ing out prisoners convicted for the first
time, direct from the United Kingdom
to Norfolk Island, and advantage was
taken of their transmission in providing
military guards sent out for service with
the various regiments of the line then
serving in Australia and Van Diemen’s
Land. The ships “ Maitland,” “ Blun-
dell,” Agincourt,” and “ David Mal-
colm,” were employed in the service at
the time I refer to.
On the arrival of each vessel at the
Island, no time, of course, was lost in
the disembarking of her live prison cargo,
generally numbering some 300 souls ;
and as they landed they were marched
direct to the new and temporary barracks
erected for them at Longridge and Cas-
cade, every care being taken to prevent
association with the old hands.
One afternoon a launch left the shore
under charge of a free coxswain (Hurley)
and a sergeant (Farr) and four privates,
and pulled well to windward of the
“ Agincourt,” then commanded by Cap-
tain Neatby, of “ Waterloo ” and “ Vi-
miera” renown, and whose name will be
remembered still by many English
voyageurs in the old days. The vessel
was under canvas, and, when the boat
left the pier, was standing down well to
the southward with a south-east wind, so
that in “ going about ” she could lay well
up to windward on the port tack, and
laying to for the boat to come alongside,
allowed for drifting to leeward in the
strong current setting to the westward
between Norfolk and Phillip Islands,
during which period the launch could be
well nigh loaded by the time the ship
drifted opposite the bar entrance.
During the passage of the boat a sud-
den commotion was visible in the settle-
ment. Officers and men were seen run-
ning to and fro in a most excited manner,
and in a few minutes a body of 50 to 80
soldiers were marching at the double
from the barracks in the direction of a
point of land opposite the little island of
Nepean, which was divided from the
mainland by a channel about a mile in
width, and through which the launch was
about to pass. To our horror and bewil-
derment ashore, the forms of three sol-
diers, conspicuous by their little black
regimental caps and shell jackets, were
seen bobbing up and down in the long
roll of the ocean, and the boat’s crew
were urging the launch at all possible
speed in the direction of the point in
question.
Simultaneously with this action on the
part of the launch’s crew, a number of
prisoners at work in the erection of some
additional officers’ quarters not very far
away from the point were seen running
towards it as fast as their legs could
carry them, having evidently some defi-
nite information as to the intention of
their friends afloat; and as the military
came into view on the summit of the
headland, these men were perceived
rapidly unearthing some barrels of water,
salt junk, and corn meal, and rolling them
to the edge of the reef where the boat
would take them aboard.
But the arrival of the troops discon-
certed the would-be runaways sadly, and
they at once saw that the game was all
up, and tried to escape recognition by
hiding amongst the rocks. The launch
was then within some 400 or 500 yards
of where the soldiers suddenly sprang up.
Of course a brisk fusillade was opened on
the boat, as the crew used their utmost
endeavor to pull further out of range and
to windward of Nepean. Many bullets
struck the of the launch, but, as
“ old Brown Bess ” of ancient renown
was the armament, no harm accrued to
the prisoners, though one of them had an
oar shot out of his hand. The crew,
seeing their danger, were sagacious
enough to hoist up the little sergeant
each time they saw the troops at the
“ present,” as a target, trusting that the
firing would cease when there was any
risk to little Farr’s life ; but it was ludi-
crous in the extreme to see with what
precision he would immediately after-
wards pitch himself headforemost into
the bottom of the boat, waving his hand
at the same time to encourage the firing.
He was an exemplification of discretionary
valour, most certainly.
In a few minutes, however, the launch
had been taken out of range, and the
crew were pulling like lions to windward,
evidently hoping to get so far to the
south-east before darkness set in that the
cash at Royal Furnishing Arcade (W. B. Campbell).


“ Agincourt ” would fail “ fetching ” her
on her nest hoard.
While this was going on, a number of
officers, civil and military, hastily manned
a whaleboat, and, as the day was beauti-
fully fine, got over the bar without diffi-
culty, and proceeded to the relief of the
half-drowned (three) soldiers, one of
whom was nearly done for when they
reached him, and only kept afloat by the
vigorous efforts of his brothers —in water.
The poor fellows being taken into the
boat, she went on in pursuit of the launch,
and getting within long range, the gen-
tlemen opened fire, but with similar
success to her Majesty’s servants ashore.
But the “ Agincourt ’’was seen in stays
and close hauled, with the tide somewhat
in her favor ; no doubt was felt as to her
fore-reaching the launch. As she passed
between Phillip Island and the settle-
ment signals were made to her, and, if I
recollect rightly, the volunteers in the
whaleboat got sufficiently close to the
vessel to give enough information to in-
duce more bracing up of the yards, and a
hot pursuit after the runaway. As the
ship neared them a shot was fired at the
boat, and the unfortunate wretches, of
course, at once gave up the contest, and
were brought on shore in irons,—com-
mitted for trial on a charge of attempted
murder —were in due course tried, and
possibly received a sentence of “ another
life.” All I remembor now is that none
of them were hanged for it. One fact I
do remember very distinctly, and that
was the enormous quantity of the Pacific
Ocean vouchsafed to the soil from the
stomach and through the throat of one of
the rescued warriors. Many years after-
wards I came across my friend—then ser-
geant major, or color-sergeant —Farr, and
enjoyed a hearty laugh at the shifting
target he made on that occasion.
The three soldiers were thrown over-
board in a very simple manner. The two
men on the bow thwart as if by accident
suddenly “ caught a crab,” and lost their
oars, which, on coming astern, were, of
course, seized by the guard, and while
their attention was so momentarily dis-
turbed a rush was made by the crew, and
the men “ first to hand ” suddenly re-
ceived an unexpected and equally unwel-
come salt water bath, while the pistols
were quickly wrenched from the others.
One of them declared he presented his at
the mutineers, but it most kindly for them
hung fire !
Another unsuccessful attempt to escape,
very ludicrous in its conception, I fancy
will be creative of some little amuse-
ment.
We used to send our friends in Sydney,
by each return trip of the brig, various
little presents in the shape of walking-
sticks, veneering, dripstones, &c., in return
for similar favors from their hands. The
straight shoots from the lemon tree, with
sufficient of the stump end cut out of the
branch so as to leave a fairly sized knob,
were in much demand at Sydney,
On one occasion we sent a somewhat
lengthy case, containing a large bundle
of these sticks among other presents, and
putting it in store ready for shipment,
waited the brig’s departure. The case
was duly slung into the boat at the pier,
and was in the act of being hoisted on
board the vessel, when ehen miserande, the
wrong side turned down and out came
the lid, and with it a stow-a-way, a couple
of bottles containing water, and a mode-
rate-sized corn-cracker, all tumbled into
the bottom of the boat amid the laughter of
all who witnessed it, save the poor fellow
so cruelly “done.” He had managed to
“plant” the legitimate contents some-
where else, and having punctured the lid
and sides of the case with such care as to
render detection impossible, while afford-
ing him a reasonable (?) amount of air,
sought to leave “ durance vile ” at her
Majesty’s cost, and our expense.
On another occasion several of the pri-
soners, nearly all of them employed about
the boatsheds and building yard, were
missing at muster. The boatshed guard
was at once doubled and wed armed, par-
ties of soldiers and overseers searched all
the gullies and* likely hiding places in
the interior of the island all night long,
feeling sure of hunting up the absentees.
It was not till daybreak that, almost in
the centre of the settlement, in a most
spaciously made cavern, alongside a hut
in an officer’s garden, were seen the stocks
and other appliances used in the building
of a fine boat which had been evidently
carried or run along on its keel by the
runaways fully a mile from its resting-
place, over a steep hill to a bay west of
the settlement, and there launched in
safety. Of course, plenty of information
was vouchsafed to us on the subject after
all was over, and we learned the astonish.
Visitors to Sydney are requested to come and


ing news that these men had, principally
on Saturday afternoons, built a whaleboat
equal to any of those in the shed, and
with the aid of our gardeners and others,
who, being all “good conduct men,” were
not locked up in barracks each night with
the rest of the prisoners, had made all
necessary arrangements as to purser’s
stores, and were well equipped in sailing
gear. Of course, pursuit was a hopeless
undertaking, and we in due course learned
that our desperadoes had got off scot free,
one of them (Bennett), a first-class boat-
builder, having been recognised in
America. So clever was it all arranged,
and such honorable secrecy observed
throughout, that I really think but few
of us grieved at the intelligence.
Now, in conclusion, it may be observed
by many of the readers of my tale, that
there must have been great laxity of
supervision anent many of these attempts
to escape; but many of the circumstances
surrounding them, as explained, I hope
plainly, by me, will shew that supervise
as you will, exercise every amount of cau-
tion you can, there are little loop-holes—
occasional “ chances ” given to men,
while never for a moment thought pos-
sible by their superiors, are nevertheless
eagerly taken advantage of by those un-
fortunate men who look upon such an Is-
land home as the only link between free-
dom and eternity. I do not mean to
assert that sometimes undue laxity may
not have prevailed ; but let it be remem-
bered that the thorough isolation of the
place—the apparent impossibility of es-
cape—the hopelessness of any attempt of
ordinary nature—all these induced an
overweening confidence as to the capa-
bilitiesof Norfolk Island as a secure island
gaol—from which, fastened in by the
restless wave of the ocean, cooped up into
such narrow compass, and ever under
daily if not hourly surveillance, the
chances of any escape on the part of the
convicts seemed utterly chimerical.
A Galway bailiff, having been ques-
tioned as to whether he had spoken to
any of the locked-up jury during the
night, gravely answered, ‘ Nc, my lord;
they kept calling out for me to bring
them whiskey, but I always said, ‘ Gen-
tlemen of the jury, it’s my duty to tell
you that I’m sworn not to speak to
you.’”
MILTON’S PARADISE LOST.
[Book I.]
English Subject for Junior Exam-
ination, 1878, Sydney University,
arranged for the use of Candi-
dates, by “ Sigma. ”
[ln the subjoined edition of Paradise Lost
(all rights in which are reserved) the ac-
cepted text is carefully followed.
Alterations in the punctuation have
been made in order that the division of
the poem into its elementary propositions
may be clearly shown. The “ periods ”
of the original text have, however, been
kept.
The close of each proposition (except
propositions within parenthesis or brack-
ets, or those terminated by a period) is
marked by a dash ( —).
Propositions that are included within
other propositious are placed within par-
enthesis or brackets.
The Subject of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Italic letters.
The Predicate of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Roman letters.
Sentences in which more than one state-
ment is made concerning a noun (or an
equivalent thereto), or in which several
nouns (or equivalents thereto) have the
same statement predicated concerning
them are treated as simple propositions.
Elliptical propositions are annotated.]
Forthwith from every squadron and
each band
The heads and leaders thither haste
[where stood
Their great commander ] god-like
shapes and forms
Excelling human princely dignities
360 And powers —that erst in heaven sat
on thrones—
Though of their names in heavenly
records now
Be no memorial blotted out and razed
By their rebellion from the books of
life.
Nor had they yet among the sons of
Eve
365 Got them new names—till wandering
o'er the earth
Through God’s high sufferance for
the trial of man
see the Exhibition at the Royal Furnishing Aroade.


By falsities and lies the greatest part
Of mankind they corrupted to forsake
God their Creator and the invisible
370 Glory of him [that made them] to
* transform
Oft to the image of a brute adorn’d
With gay religions full of pomp and
gold
And devils to adore for deities—
Then were they known to men by
various names
375 And various idols through the hea-
then world.
Say Muse —their names then known,
mho first who last
Housed from the slumber on that fiery
couch
At their great Emperor's call as next
in worth
Came singly—where he stood on the
bare strand—
-380 While the promiscuous crowd stood
yet aloof ?
The chief were those—who f rom the
pit of hell
Roaming to seeh their preu on earth
durst fix
Their seats long after next the seat
of God
Their altars by his altar gods adored
385 Among the nations round and durst
abide
Jehovah thundering out of Sion
throned
Between the cherubim yea often
placed
Within his sanctuary itself their
shrines
Abominations and with cursed things
390 His holy rites and solemn feasts
profaned
And with their darkness durst affront
his light.
(To be continued.)
Bather Neat.—A young lady whose
papa has married her mamma’s sister
says he has brought matters to an aunty-
climax.
Sympathy eor Another’s Con-
science.—A Yankee took his eight-gallon
keg to a store to have it filled with
molasses. The storekeeper declared he
had put in ten gallons, and demanded
pay accordingly. Our friend paid, add-
ing that he “ didn’t mind the money so
much as he did the strain on the darned
old heg !”
THE LADY ALICE.
[A STORY TOLD AT A GARDENERS' CLUB.]
Chapter I.
Mr. President and Friends, —You
must “pity the sorrows of a poor old man,
whose trembling limbs,” and here the
speaker glanced complacently at his
gaiters, “have borne him to your” excel-
lent gin-and-water, and must not look for
anything remarkable in pippins from a
decaying and exhausted apple-tree. As
for lecturing you upon the culture of a
garden, or haranguing you scientifically
at all, I should no more think of it than
of seeking horticultural information for
myself in the books of those who wrote a
century ago on the subject; and I have
no shame in the conviction, that some to
whom I now speak, beginning at a point
where I have all but stopped, and having
opportunities and resources, developed
since my manhood waned, know more
about gardening than I do. It is sufficient
for me to have been in my day with the
foremost, and to have fought my way to
many victories. But were Ito “shoulder
my crutch and show how fields were won ”
to you of this generation, or to manipulate
my “ Brown Bess,” as an old musketeer,
to you who have such an improved artil-
lery as leads one to expect that England
will soon be able to pepper her enemies,
however distant, from batteries fixed upon
her shores —to you who are blessed with
a thousand facilities unknown to your
ancestors, of smashing and ripping up
your fellow-creatures —how would you
forbear to smile ? No ; as old Mr. Whippy,
the huntsman—or rather the ex-huntsman,
for he has been, as you know, a pensioner
for years of my noble master’s —trots after
the hounds on his. pony through the gaps
and the gates, which he once despised, so
must I now be content to look on from
afar, travelling easily by quiet lanes and
bye-ways, and leaving the bravery and
the honours of the chase to you.
So I will tell you, if you please, a simple
story —a mere incident, in fact —which
occurred many years ago in the family I
serve, but which made at the time a great
excitement among us, and may still, I
hope, prove interesting to you.
Through the solemn avenue of cedars
which leads to our mausoleum, I have
followed three dukes to the grave. The
Dining-room Suites, Drawing-room Suites,


second of these at one period of his life
was most austere and haughty. I may
speak of his faults, although he is dead,
because he lived to hate them, and to cast
them from him ; and I have no hesitation
in enlarging upon them, as the circum-
stances of my story prompt. Well, then,
he was just the proudest, coldest, most
disagreeable duke that ever stalked
(“ stalk, to walk with high and superb
steps,” says Dr. Johns n) over the earth.
It was a positive insult to the English
language to call so much ungraciousness
“ your grace.” We gardeners used to de-
clare that the thermometers fell twenty
degrees whenever he walked through the
houses ; and that the water froze in the
tanks and cisterns. We were prepared
to affirm that when he put on his coronet
the strawberry leaves turned into ice
plants. Indeed, we all of us found a re-
lief and comfort in this harmless kind of
ridicule, just as schoolboys most delight
to mimic the master who rules the most
unkindly over them. It was a natural
and pleasant rebound from the constraint
and awful abasement to which his pre-
sence reduced us; and as for the propriety
of our conduct, why, if men in high places
are not high-minded, as they ought to be,
they only become the more conspicuously
assailable, and the homage which is
offered to them is as unreal and worthless
as the sham silver and the sham gold
which the Chinese offer to their gods. So
the duke played at being an idol, and we
performed the worshipping. He thought
himself something more than human, I
am sure, and received our most lowly
obeisance as though he were upon a
golden throne. His demeanour was cal-
culated to give us the idea that we had
no claim, strictly speaking, to existence
in any form, but that he tolerated us.
He sent for us, kept us waiting for hours,
and then either dismissed us without an
interview, or gave us his orders as though
he gave oakum to convicts. In my sub-
ordinate capacity I was only honoured
with two brief conversations, during
which he was pleased to address me, for
he never remembered names, as “ Mr.
Cutts” and “Rowbottom,” —appellations
which belonged respectively to the stud-
groom and to an under-keeper, but which
were as unlike Oldacre as, I daresay, he
wished them to be.
We servants wete not the only ones who
shivered in his icy presence, and winked
and capered with exuberant joy as soon
as we were fairly out of it. Living at
that time in one of the lodges, I frequently
witnessed the arrival and departure of
certain county families, who were annu-
ally distinguished by an invitation to the
castle. To open the gates for these
favoured guests, and to look upon their
expression of complete despair, was like
being hall-porter at a dentist’s. They
might have been blue-bottles, who had
just set foot within the meshes of a
spider’s net, or rabbits, helplessly mes-
merised by a weasel, and drawing nearer
to their doom. One footman, I remember,
was wont to weep in the rumble, and to
assume for my edification such an aspect
of pretended woe, pointing the while with
his thumb to the unconscious tenantry of
the chariot below, that at last I dared not
to go out to meet him, and he was com-
pelled to dismount, and clear the way for
himself.
But there was an entire change of per-
formance, I can tell you, when these
visitors came forth on their journey home-
ward ; as distinct an alteration and
improvement of countenance as may be
observed in the features of that gentle-
man who appears from time to time in
the pictorial advertisements, as now en-
during the agonies of toothache, and now
“Ha! ha ! cured in an instant !” The
tragedy, with its tyrant and dungeon-
chains, was over; and, as the lamps
blazed out once more, the orchestra,
which had been executing Dead March
and dirge underneath the darkened stage,
emerged to play “Garry Owen.” They
who had come to us so silently and sadly,
laughed and sang as they drove down the
park. They could not have been in a
happier frame of mind if they had been
poachers coming out of jail in the shoot-
ing season. Hurrah ! they were going
home ! home to have beer at dinner, and
to turn to the fire at dessert ! Home, to
astonish the Browns, to fill the mouths of
the Walkers with the waters of envy, and
to awe the Bumbies with fancy statements
about their “delightful visit at the castle.”
Well, I could bear truthful witness that
the latter part of the proceeding had been
delightful enough. As Robert Hall said
to the pert young preacher, who asked
what he thought of his sermon, “ There
was one very admirable passage—the
passage from the pulpit to the vestry,” so
it might be affirmed with confidence that
Bedsteads, Bed-room Furniture, at the Royal Furnishing Arcade.


these guests had been especially happy in
the last act and deed of—departure.
Now this iron duke, you will be sur-
prised to hear, had actually condescended
to marry. Of course, if Cupid had not
been blindfold, he would no more have
thought of taking aim at him than a
schoolboy of shooting his favourite arrow
against the wall of a fives-court; and how
that promiscuous young archer made his
dart to stick in the ducal granite must
remain for ever among the things “ not
generally known.” Never since Eve had
the world seen such a proof of love’s
omnipotence, as when he sent our grim
lord a-courting. No weaker influence
ever could have taught that cold, pale
face to smile, to smile and to beam with
a happy brightness, as the snow sparkles
in the sun. But how he ever remembered
her name, or brought himself to proffer
those little tendernesses which are usual
upon these occasions—those touches of
nature which make the whole world kin
—is to me a complete perplexity, an un-
reality as astonishing as though I were to
see the ghost of Hamlet’s father with his
arm round the waist of Jessica.
Poor Jessica! she came to us as joyous
as a thrush in summer, and she sang
awhile blithely and sweetly in the tomb
/of Hamlet’s father. But when he re-
sumed, as he shortly did, his old sepul-
chral ways, a chill struck the heart of our
singing-bird, and all her mirthful music
was changed into a plaint and wail. She
had come from a home of love and cheer-
fulness, and she drooped in his arctic
atmosphere, as an orchid would droop in
an ice-house.
“ For a trouble weighed upon her,
And perplexed her night and morn,
With the burden of an honour,
Unto which she was not born.”
Six years after her marriage-day, they
bore her slowly through the dark avenue
of cedars, and. the chaplain came in his
white surplice to welcome her with words
of hope and peace.
Three children were born to them. The
marquis, who soon showed himself to be
a true “ chip of the old (ice) block,” and
a ghostling of amazing promise ; Lord
Evelyn and the Lady Alice who, happily
for us all, resembled their mother. Never
were two brothers so unlike each other.
I doubt whether the elder ever broke out
of a walk or into a laugh in his life,
whereas the younger would be scampering
all over the place, with his little sister
breathless behind, and his merry voice
making our hearts glad. Now they were
in the conservatory, changing the tallies,
and sticking the falling flowers of the
camellia upon the euphorbia’s thorns ;
now turning out a lot of sparrows, which
they had caught in traps, and adorned
with appendages of brilliant worsted, red,
green, and yellow, in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of the aviary, and so essaying
to impose upon us the idea of a general
escape and dispersion of all our feathered
curiosities ; and now “ drawing ” the
shrubberies, with Lord Evelyn at one end
as master of fox-hounds (the fox-hounds
by an Irish retriever), and Lady Alice at
the other as an underwhip, waiting,
watchful and silent, for the fox to break,
which he generally did in the guise of a
blackbird ; and then announcing his exit
with the promptest and shrillest of “ tally-
hos.” Our marquis the while was indoors
at his books, having, it was reported, a
precocious relish for algebra, and an in-
sight into the science of political economy
not often to be found (thank heaven) in
young gentlemen of fourteen.
Years passed. There was some mis-
understanding between the marquis and
the Cambridge examiners on the subject
of his being Senior Wrangler, and the
duke, after hearing his son’s statement,
was pleased to pronounce that the Dons
were “offal.” Lord Evelyn went into
the Guards, and I shall never forget him
on his first return from London, after an
absence of six months from the castle. I
was at tea in the lodge when the mail-
phaeton drove up, and was hardly out of
the porch, when his hearty “How are
you, Oldacre ?” drew my eyes to the
handsomest, merriest, kindliest face that
ever wore a moustache. And sitting by
him was a brother officer, just the man
you would have expected that my lord
would choose for his friend, looking as
though he would go at anything from an
ox-fence to a redan, and yet would do no
wilful hurt—as though his heart, like Tom
Bowling’s, was brave and yet soft ; and
he was, in the full beauty of its meaning,
a gentle man. I went back to my wife,
who had Frank Chiswick’s wife, a baby,
on her knee, and I said to her, “ Susan,
my lord’s come, and has brought home a
husband for Lady Alice.” « I’ll believe
it,” she answered, “ when I see his wings !
for the duke must have something mor e
Choice Wedding, Birthday, and other Gifts in the


than mortal to suit his fancy in son-in-
laws.”
And now, gentlemen, let the old horse
catch his wind, if you please, dip his nose
in the refreshing waters of the trough,
and then trot on to the end of his journey.
Chapter 11.
The deer having scampered away from
the carriage-road, alarmed at the unusual
sound of Lord Evelyn’s merry laugh, had
turned, and were still gazing in astonish-
ment at the phaeton going up the park,
when another equipage reached the en-
trance gates, containing two occupants,
almost as upright, and quite as cold, as
the pillars through which they passed.
These were our noble marquis and a friend
of his (“ The Viscount,” as he was after-
wards called by us ; Lord Evelyn’s friend
being known as “ The Captain ”), very
much resembling himself, both in the
pallor of his countenance and in the
haughty reserve of his demeanour. There
they sat, straight and gloomy as a brace
of Irish yews, which could not raise a
berry—that is, a smile—between them.
I wa9 reading the other day, in one of
the books belonging to our “ village
library,”* how that the demeanour of
King Phillip 11. of Spain, which was al-
most sepulchral, was ascribed partly to a
natural haughtiness, and partly by
habitual pains in the stomach, occasioned
by an inordinate love of pastry. If the
marquis and his friend were similarly
affected, they must have recently paid a
visit to the confectioner’s, and stayed
there until they had cleared the counter.
This solemnity of expression had pro-
bably been increased by the fact, which
I afterwards heard from the postilions,
that Lord Evelyn with his pair, had
passed the marquis with his four, in jubi-
lant derision and a hand-gallop not long
before. If the latter had been drawn by
four-and-twenty, the former would have
gone by him just the same, for he always
would be first. He had a sincere affec-
tion for his brother, but he delighted, as
I have heard him say, “ in cutting down
old ’Quis,” and when he had pounded him
in a run, or bowled him in a match, he
was happy. He was master in all sports,
save one. The stern, imperturbable mar-
quis was a dead shot. If all the pheas-
ants, partridges, and wild ducks upon
the estates to which he was heir, had
arisen simultaneously, whirring and
quacking around him, he would have
selected his bird, and slain him as calmly
as though there were but one. And he
was never so solemnly fatal as when,
after Lord Evelyn had fired hurriedly
and harmlessly his right and left, he
deliberately “ wiped ” the fraternal “ eye.”
I used to load for my lord sometimes in
covert shooting, when all available hands
were pressed into the service ; and I
remember him saying to me on one
occasion, as he handed me the smoking
gun, “ There’s only one living thing in
the world, Oldacre, which I thoroughly
abhor and detest, and that’s a beastly
woodcock.”
(To be continued. )
Who Cakes for an Editor !—They
have a steamboat in the western waters
by the name of “ The Editor.” This is
the best name ever yet given to a steam-
boat, and more especially to a Mississippi
steamboat. We are surprised it has never
been thought of before. The editor is a
working engine, whose fires are going day
and night. Now he sails against the tide;
and now with it, going along at a dashing
rate, until suddenly he comes up all stand-
ing against some hidden snag, which
nearly shivers his timbers to pieces.
Whenever he moves he puts the waters in
agitation for a time, and leaves a wake
of troubled waves behind him, which lasts
about five minutes. He serves everybody
but himself, carries freight and passen-
gers in any quantity, and goes puff—
puffing down the stream of life. Often
his powers are overtasked, and the boiler
bursts, but fortunately it kills no one but
himself, and who cares for an Editor !
Better So. —ln Siam a man may
pawn his wife in satisfaction of a gambl-
ing debt. It is, however, found that
gambling prevails in consequence to such
an extent, that the law authorizing this
practice is to be repealed. And quite as
well for all parties, since it must be in-
convenient at times in betting with the
much married, but impecunious, to win—
a big Bet.
A Wife in the Right.— “ Isn’t your
husband a little bald ?” asked one lady of
another, as they sat together. “Cer-
tainly not; there isn’t a bald hair in his
head,” was the angry and somewhat in-
considerate reply.
* Motley’s History of the Dutch Republic, vol. i.
Show-room at the Royal Furnishing Arcade (W. B. Campbell).


COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
SOLUTIONS TO PUZZLES.
Answer to Double Acrostic in No. 19.
1. o t h i C
2. E a R
3. L a u R A
4. E d m u n D
5. R ee L
6. T HIMBL E
NOTES. —Light 2. A dog’s ear. 3. Petrarch’s
Laura. 4. King of the East Angles.
Answer to Charade in No. 19.—
Mor(e)-I-art-y.
Answers to Conundrums in Eo. 20.
—1. Next tweak. 2. Because her son
never sets. 3. One is a trumpet, the
other a pet trump. 4. Because what’s
done can’t be helped. 5. Because one
gives up, the other gives down. 6. When
he’s attached to a ship which is attached
to a wharf.
CHARADE FOR LATIN SCHOLARS.
( Original and Local).
On an Ex-Minister.
The Roman when my first he said
Referred to hazard, foul or nice ;
And when my second , in his head
Meant either ‘ many times ’ or ‘ thrice.’
My whole ’ s had many times the lot
To turn up honors in life’s olio,
Having, as blue books duly jot,
Carried three kinds of state portfolio.
ENIGMAS.
I.
I am a mean and humble thing
When on the cottage floor;
In summer sometimes on the lawn,
Before the rich man’s door.
In palaces and mansions great,
I’m costly to the view ;
And I’m an article of state,
Seen only by the few.
I’m welcom’d by the lazy man,
The indolent and gay ;
And also by the working one,
Full well as much as they.
I’ve members, but they’re not alive,
Though useful there’s no doubt;
My letters only number five,
So try and find me out.
II.
Je viens sans qu’ on y pense ;
Je meurs a ma naissance ;
Et celui qni me suit
Ne vient jamais sans bruit.
CONUNDRUMS.
1. What vegetable substance may be
said to be the emblem of charity ?
2. Who was the greenest man on re-
cord ?
3. Why do members of the Opposition
blame the present Premier ?
4. Why is a blacksmith a wicked man ?
5. What is the difference between a
good cook and a bad one ?
6. What is the difference between a
reddish horse and a horse-radish ?
7. Why do the Marylebone Club de-
serve great credit for their conduct in the
recent match with the Australian eleven ?
ARITHMETICAL PUZZLE FOR
LATIN SCHOLARS.
Aurea mala ferunt Charites, sequalia
cuique
Mala insunt calathro ; Musarum his obvia
turba
Mala petunt; Charites cunctis sequalia
donant;
Tunc aequalia tres contingit habere
novemque,
Die quantum dederint numerus sit ut
omnibus idem.
NONSENSE VERSES.
There was a young lady of Orange, her
Meals were served up in a porringer ;
She fulfilled every duty,
On a diet quite fruity,
So no native girl could be oranger.
There was an eccentric young party of
Parkes,
Who boasted he did not care much about
sharks,
When he bathed in the sea,
He remarked playfully,
Now, Mr. Shovelnose, none of your larks.
There was a fair maid of Quorobolong
Who in order to make her horse jog along
Placed a spur on her heel,
Which made the brute feel —
But was thought ungenteel
By the rustics who dwelt at Quorobolong.
(W. B. Campbell) Royal Furnishing Arcade,


TRAPS!
No. 11.
The Truck System on our Railway
Works.
One fine evening some month or so ago,
two strapping fellows of the unmistake-
able “navvy” cut were plodding along a
cleared portion of the Mitta Mitta to
How-do-do railway extension line. They
both carried immense swags.
Says the taller and stouter of the two
mates : —“ Look ye here, Jim, let’s camp
at the first likely spot. It’s no use a-
busting of ourselves. We’ll see the con-
tractors in the morning, and I don’t see
as how a day’ll make any difference.”
“ Right you are, Bill ! I’m dog tired :
what with the swag and the flies and the
mud a bange will go high.”
From the top of the next rise they
noticed the kind of place they desired —
lots of wood and water just handy to the
shelter of a group of wattles.
In ten minutes after their halt the billy
was slung, the swags unrolled, the tent
pitched, and the pipes filled. Sub tegmine
acacice they blew the clouds of peace.
Tea hadn’t been infusing long when
two travellers strolled up to their fire.
“ Good evening, mates,” say the new
comers. “May we dos along side of your
fire ?” J
“Of course,” cries Bill, known to his
friends as ‘ Bill the Plugger.’ “ Have a
drink of tea. ”
So the four men chummed in, clubbed
their prog, and made a hearty supper.
“ Looking for work ?” asks new-comer
No. 1, a decent looking fellow of the
mechanic order.
“Yes,” answered Jim. “What’s the
chances ; you’ve come from the contrac-
tor’s camp way, ain’t you ?”
“Yes, me and Dick have, and the
chances are main v>o/i
—„ uuicoa you an cl
your mate there are fit to take a sub-con-
tract, which we weren’t. All the adver-
tisements about hands wanted are all
gammon. They’re culverts to put up—
any amonnt of ’em ; and yet, although I
and my mate is bricklayers—leastways
Dick s no more than a bricklayer’s laborer,
but a smart one—the talk is ‘ we’re
full-handed in that line, unless you like
to take a sub-contract.’ Drat the sub-
contracts !”
“ Bill and me ain’t for no
you bet!” says Jim. “All we want is
pick and shovel work ; and if Messrs.
Obadiah and Obadiah don’t want labor
of that kind, tLen a-considering of their
advertisements and their posters on all
the trees along the line, they’re a pair of
thundering liars — that's what they are.”
“ Like enough,” dryly remarks the
bricklayer, who having tramped it from
Bendigo on the strength of the pressing
advertisements of Messrs. Obadiah, with
such result as has been just shown, pro-
bably meant by the expression unqualified
affirmation of Jim’s final remark, and not
a mere presumptive conjecture as to its
truth.
The next morning Bill the Plugger and
Scotch Jim waited upon Messrs. Obadiah
and Obadiah at the offices of that firm at
their main camp, or rather upon their
young Obadiah as representing the two
Obadiahs.
The young Obadiah was very bland
and civil. He regretted that the firm’s
staff of men was full-handed at present;
but said that there was any amount of
work to be had from his sub-contractors.
“We thought,” observed Bill, “that
you wanted men yourself, sir ; leastways
your advertisements made us think so.”
“ Well,” says the younger Obadiah,
picking his teeth with his penknife, “ our
sub-contractors want men, so it’s al] the
same. By-the-bye, can you do fencing ?
Putting up stuff delivered, I mean.”
“ We can that,” answers Jim. “ Why ?”
“ Because if you can, and are prepared
to take seven or eight miles of it, we can
trade.”
“ No, we’re not after piecework. Nav-
vy ing’s our line,”
“ Well then, you’d better go on to Dan
MThelan’s cutting at Ginger Creek. I
know he wants hands.”
“How far is it to the cutting?” asks
Bill.
“ About lirteen mnes : you’u *
ral other camps on the way, at each of
which they ought to be fuller-handed
than they are. Say I sent you. So
long !”
As Bill and Jim travelled along the line
they noted ample evidence of the need of
labouring hands ; that is to say, evidence
which to their unsophisticated intelli-
gence appeared to be ample, knowing as
they did that the contract time for the
completion of the works had long elapsed.
next to the Royal Hotel, George Street, Bydney.


They passed cuttings nearly but not quite
without a hand at work on
them ; brickwork culverts begun, but not
completed, yet not so much as a laborer
employed on them ; metal awaiting the
hammer ; piles of fencing stuff ready for
erection. In one or two places they came
across men at work, some few for the
contractor’s, but the majority for the sub-
contractors who had taken small jobs of
piecework. They also passed several likely
hands looking for employment.
At last, at about sundown, they made
Dan M‘Phelan’s camp on Ginger Creek,
where a busier scene than any they had
that day witnessed met their sight. There
were a good many hands knocking about
and a good show of horses. “ Knock off ”
had just sounded as they arrived, and
two or three dozen hungry fellows were
rolling up to the full and plenty provided
for her boarders by Mrs. Dan.
Bill and Jim were not the only men
looking for employment. At the camp
fire they found some eight or nine swag-
men awaiting a word with Dan M‘Phelan.
After his supper, that worthy—a tall,
loutish, heaving looking man, came down
to take stock of them. He bid them the
time of day, and entered into a running
conversation with them on various topics
ranging from rum to blasting. All the
while he was eyeing them keenly, evi-
dently acting upon some principle of
selection, for the end of it was that he
took on three of the dozen. His choice
fell on Bill the Plugger, Scotch Jim, and
a leathery looking old fellow who went
by the name of Sam.
Bill and his mates soon settled down
into hard graft, at which —as Dan was
fain to own—they were thoroughly at
home. They were to get nine shillings a
day, and to board at Mrs. Dan’s.
“ We have a pay day every third week
or so,” M‘Phelan had said to them, “but
if you want tobacco or slops, the missis
has a bit of a store.”
xiTrneian was right as to the bit of a
store, wrong as to the third week or so.
The store was good for more than tobacco
or slops ; beer and rum could be got with
equal facility. As to pay-days, the Oba-
diahs were elastic, and often stretched
them five or even six weeks apart.
Some little distance from Dan’s camp
was a licensed hostelry, How such a
gim-crack conglomeration of half-inch
boards, bark, and calico, ever obtained a
license would be a mystery did this tale
refer to any other dependency of the em-
pire save and except New South Wales.
The Pick and Shovel was licensed, any-
how ; yet, what was strange, its fat and
usually beery landlord did not appear to
grudge Mrs. Dan her profits as a shanty-
keeper. Evil disposed people said her
crib was in reality an off-bar of the Pick
and Shovel—but then people will say
anything. On Sundays there was a good
deal of beer drinking and promiscuous
cursing done at the public. Payments,
when not in cash, were by order on Dan,
that is so far as regards his employes.
The publican secured it in this way. He
would stroll down to the works and con-
fidentially inform those deepest in his
books that he had a bill due, or that his
brewer’s traveller was up at his place
bullying him for money ; would they give
him a bit of an order on Dan, so that he
could get the brass from the Obadiahs ?
This with awful imprecations on the eyes
of brewer, traveller, Obadiahs, and him-
self. In nine cases out of ten he suc-
ceeded in his object, at the expense,
perchance, of a shout of a gallon or so of
“ swankey.”
Bilk and Jim worked for three weeks
without pulling up a pay-day. In reply
to any request for cash Dan always put
them off.
“ I can’t manage a red cent, till pay-
day,” he would say. “ If you want goods
you can get ’em off the missis ; or, if she
hasn’t got what you want, off of Joe.”
Joe was the landlord of the Pick and
Shovel.
No! they wouldn’t take an order for
goods, they wanted to go into Morrowa
to see a bit of life. Dan laughed, proba-
bly at the highly ridiculous notion of
any one being artless enough to conceive
that the smallest particle of life was to
be seen at Morrowa —a miserable one-
horse township, with a main street, three
churches, a gaol, and a dozen inns.
Pay-day came
was escorted to the contractors main
camp by mounted constables, one of whom
rode down with Dan M‘Phelan to the
Pick and Shovel and his share of the
sinews of railway extension. To receive
so welcome a guest as a canvas bag
stuffed with rhino, the Pick and Shovel
had decked itself en gala. Joe had gone
to the trouble of putting on a clean shirt
and getting a little beerier. Government
A House of Five Rooms Furnished for £5O,


inspectors, sniffing a jollification occupied
the parlor. There was the inspector of
brickwork, the inspector of permanent
way metal, the inspector of fencing mate-
rial, sleepers, and sawn timber, and one or
two more, whose general duties appeared
to be doing nothing in the performance of
which it was the particular business of
each to assist the others. They were in
the main hearty fellows, ever willing to
drink at another’s expense.
A few anxious women were to be seen
about the public house store, wondering
how much of the contents of the canvas
bag, if any, would come to their lot for
the purchase of little boots, and a scanty
supply of calico and flannel —wondering
perchance why a paternal Government,
ruling in the name of a Mother Queen,
should connive at Pick and Shovel pay-
days 1
When the evening of pay-day arrived,
Bill the Plugger and Scotch Jim—it is
sad to relate —were too boozed up ” (to
use Dan M'Phelan’s phrase) to go into
calculations about the wages due to them.
Dan had delayed paying his hands until
he had carefully made out their accounts
and debited them with board, advances
of goods, or settlement of orders drawn
on him. This delay was golden to Joe;
fatal to the before-mentioned anxious
women !
Sunday followed pay-day—not at Gin-
ger Creek a Sabbath, but a day of gross
debauch and beastly orgie.
On the Monday, suffering a recovery
was the general work in hand.
On the Tuesday, Bill and Jimjasked for
a squaring up. Their heads were sore,
and their stomachs sick.
“ Lads,” says Dan, “ I’m clean stumped
till next pay. You’re two good fellows,
and know what railway work is ; I could
see that the minute I clapped eyes on you
first. You stay with me, help me to pull
through, and I’ll raise your wages to ten
bob. Don’t let on, though, to the others
about it. I had your money right for
you oil Saturday ; but a fellow came this
morning pressing me so about those last
two horses I bought that I gave him all I
had. r Come in|and have a drink ; it’ll du*
you right.”
They went in and got put right so far
as having a drink a-piece, and agreeing to
Btop on till another pay.
Some little while afterwards, on the
same day, they met with a man who had
for some time been working alongside of
them. He had his swag harnessed on,
and was making for the Morrowa road.
“ Why, mate !” says Jim. “ What’s
up ?”
“ Don’t you know 1 Why ! I got the
sack on Saturday. When he squared up
with me, Dan said he wouldn’t want me
any more.”
“ What, not want you, a chap like you,
and that, too, when he’s so thundering
short-handed ?” asks Bill in surprise.
“ See, lads, I don’t drink nor smoke,
that’s what’s the matter. You see I’m a
married man and have bairns, and when
the floods swept away our bit home on
the Hunter, I made up my mind to see if
I’d forgot my navvying—l worked under
Peto a matter of fourteen years afore 1
married—and I’ve had odd jobs here and
there on this extension, but its allers the
same game with the subs when they find
its money a man wants for his labour, and
not slops, nor tobacco, nor drink ; then
its —as you see !”
“ What a d—d shame !” cries Jim.
“ Yes, it’s all that,” says the man, sadly,
“ but better luck next time ! So long !”
and off he strode across the bush.
After this the two mates agreed to put
in a peg. They vowed to eschew beer for
a season, and to save up their money for
a run to Sydney.
“ What, whipping the cat ?” asks Dan
after noticing their scrupulous sobriety
for a day or more.
“Not a bit of it,” replies Bill, “only
we ain’t that far gone yet that we don’t
know how to keep square when there’s
work to be done. You raised our screw,
and we ain’t the chaps as’ll let you lose
by it through swiping ; are we, Jim ?”
Jim nodded affirmation, but Dan would
not believe they were in earnest. He was
somewhat surprised though that they
kept their resolution close up to the next
pay.
Two days before that longed for event,
Mrs. Dan stated her intention of going
over to Morrowa to get a fresh
groceries an/\ "tore goods. She accord-
ingly started, taking with her her two
children, and leaving a raw Irish girl to
do the boarders’ cooking during her ab-
sence.
In the evening after [her departure,
Dan insisted on shouting for all his wife’s
boarders, basing the suggestion on the
Six Rooms for £7O at the Royal Furnishing Arcade (W. B. Campbell).


postulate that they didn’t kill a pig every
day !
Pay day (it was a Saturday) came
again. The Pick and Shovel orgie was
repeated, in which, owing to the active
steps taken by Dan McPhelan, aided and
abetted by Joe, and notwithstanding their
good resolutions, Bill and Jim played their
parts. They came to, however, early on
the Monday morning, and feeling it chilly
in their temporary quarters under the
verandah of the inn, started off, not
over steadily, for their bunks at Dan’s.
What was their surprise to find the
place deserted. That the boarders were
not there was nothing out of the way.
The Pick and Shovel would account for
them. But where was Dan, and why was
his bedroom all in confusion, things all
about the floor ; and where were Mrs.
Dan’s clothing and the saddles and all
the rest of the belongings that they had
seen in the place over and over again ?
Daylight brought the explanation of
the mystery.
Dan had levanted, leaving all his men
as well as his butcher and baker etc.,
unpaid.
The shock of the surprise sobered Joe
for the better part of half-an-hour !
The creditors consulted as to what
should be done. The aid of the police
was invoked, but the sergeant in charge
of the district said he could do nothing
as there was a civil remedy.
Then the mob of angry navvies inter-
viewed the Obadiahs. They (the Obadiahs)
were sorry, exceedingly sorry, indeed! To
hear the old Obadiah pronounce that
“ indeed” was alone worth something in
liquidation of the debt. Truly, yes, they
regretted the thing more than could be
supposed. Whoever would have dreamt
of such a thing ?
“ Will you pay us ?” roared the men.
“ What, my good lads, after paying
McPhelan ? How could you expect such
a thing ?”
“ Because you’re the bos,” says Jim,
because as for me and my mate you
recommended us to go tC ~_9Phelan-
« Really now—” said the younger uua-
diah, deprecatingly.
“ Really now, be d—d,” remarks the
Plugger, “ you and your cousin there are
a pair of blank blanked skunks and for
two pins I’d knock you both into a mush.
There 1”
And so the interview terminated.
When enquiries are made in Parliament
about the Truck system on the railway
works, its existence is denied by ministers,
whose information on the subject is de-
rived mainly from the reports of persons
interested directly or indirectly in its
working. Hundreds of hard-working men
have been served as the two heroes of our
sketch are represented to have been
served. The devil’s chain of adventurer
contractor, sub-contractor, government
inspector playing into contractor’s
hand, publican, storekeeper, and shanty
keeper does exist despite ministerial
denials, and will exist until legislation
provides under stringent penalties for the
liability of contractors for the payment
of all work and labour done under their
contracts, and for the regular weekly
payment of all labourers employed on the
public works of the colony.
ASMODEUS.
N.B.—ln subsequent numbers, “ The
Bogus Land Agent,” “ Sixty per Shent,”
etc., will appear under the heading
“ Traps ! ”
ECONOMICAL COOKERY.
(From the Middle Class Coohety Booh).
The Housewives’ Dish of Tripe.—
Boil in water two pounds of tripe until
done, afterwards cut them in oblong
pieces ; take two large onions cut in
quarters, put them in a saucepan with
two ounces of butter ; when half done
put the tripe in, seasoned with salt,
pepper, and a little vinegar, and a tea-
cupful of broth, let simmer half an hour ;
when ready to serve, add a dessert-
spoonful of French or English mustard.
Savoury Ox Tail. —When making ox
tail broth as you do beef soup, the tail
may be dressed as follows : —When cold,
cut it in pieces, prepare a marinade thus :
Mix a small quantity of oil with salt,
oepper, parsley, spring onions, and two
eschalots, all chopped fine, and, if ac-
ceptable, a twinge of garlic scraped ; put
the tail in this, stirring it round, so as to
let all the above ingredients adhere to it,
then roll each piece in bread crumbs and
broil them, and if any of the marinade
remains, put it over as it broils.
A House of Six Rooms nicely furnished for £lOO,


TOWN GOSSIP.
The superannuation programme sub-
mitted to the meeting of the Civil
Servants last week, although loudly
applauded at the time, does not
appear to have given unmixed satis-
faction. It appears, on the face of
it, to be somewhat one-sided and,
from the actuarial standpoint, far too
insufficiently worked out in detail.
No measure of Civil Service Super
annuation will find support from the
general public unless it is essentially
just in its provisions ; that we are
assured of; but there is a question
that naturally presents itself as a
preliminary to even taking the mea-
sure into consideration at all, and it
is this : Is the pay of the Govern-
ment servant so out of proportion to
the work performed by him that a
superannuation fund should be a
necessity, or in any way compulsory,
especially when one reflects that he
has as good opportunities of making
provision for his own future as the
non-civil servant ? After all, is not
the real want of the Civil Service an
Act classifying the grades, providing
for promotion, and enforcing retire-
ment after a certain number of years’
service ? * * .
Still on the same string ! Some
uncharitable people will have it that
the amount of work demanded of a
Civil servant is not more than that
required from a clerk employed by a
private firm, and that the general
scale of remuneration to the public
is by no means out of proportion to
that awarded to private employes.
This, however, may be a question
open to debate. No one can doubt
for a moment that the servants of
the Crown have a far “ rosier ” time
of it than their friends in the count-
ing house. What would the well- !
known “ block ” be without the daily
treat vouchsafed to the girls by the
dandies of the service? They toil,
of course, and spin (ofttimes very
questionable yarns, or spare half-
crowns) but Holle, cut he never so
cunningly, cannot improve on them !
Let those who doubt this assertion
take any portion of George and Fitt
streets from the junction with Market
and Bridge streets at any time be-
tween 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., and he
will see them in troops refreshing
exhausted nature by a stroll for fresh
air, or reinvigorating a weakening
system at a fashionable bar, more
majorum. We don’t say there’s any-
thing wrong in all this ; but is there
not just a soupcon of bunkum about
their lament as to over-work ? (we
except the professional class of
course). On the other hand, office
work from 9.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. may
be far more harassing than is gener-
ally supposed, and the worry and
depression of spirits it causes may
necessitate some indulgences not ac-
corded to other employes, and when
a civil servant has for years trod
uncomplainingly the beaten official
track, and become unfit through the
infirmities of age or the superabund-
ance of fat for active work, it is very
natural that he should look to a
generous public to place him in a
snug position on the shelf of retire-
ment. * * *
Some choice specimens of the
taste and ingenuity which the
Japanese exhibit in the form, and
design of ware for dinner, tea, and
dessert services are on view at the
establishment of Messrs. Lassetter
and Co., in George-street. Some of
these are real works of art, both
with regard to shape and colouring,
and are well worth inspection by the
of Seven Rooms for £2OO at the Royal Furnishing Arcade.


curious. They are manufactured at
the works of the Worcester Royal
Porcelain Company, who have for a
number of years catered for the
public taste by introducing novelties
in China and Japan ware orna-
mented in the style peculiar to those
countries. Dinner and tea services
of the ordinary patterns will find
little favor with the wealthy if snch
elaborate productions make their way
into the market at reasonable rates.
* *
*
Chatting with an old friend a
day or two since on days gone by,
reference was made to the eccentrici-
ties of one of our gold-field commis-
sioners twenty years back. One
little reminiscence brought to the
surface is really worth recording.
We needn’t say to whom we refer,
or where the occurrence happened.
A digger visited the commissioner’s
camp for the purpose of obtaining a
summons. Well, the information
was drawn ont, and the deponent
duly signed it. “Is this your sig-
nature?” asked the G.F.C. “It
is,” was the reply. “ And the con-
tents are true and correct, so help
you God? Kiss the book!” But
no Bible was available ! a Confound
it !” exclaimed the official; “ where
the devil have they shifted my Bible
to ?” But it was no use —the book
couldn’t be found. Suddenly. a
happy thought appeared to strike
the worthy magistrate. “ Here,
stay, my good fellow ; have you got
such a thing as a Bible at your
tent?” “I have sir,” was the
answer. “ Then kiss it when you
get home, as I can’t find mine /”
*■ *
*
Shade of Gustave Dore ! where
art thou ? Could’st thou but look
down upon the high honors vouch-
safed thee by the Sydney Town and
Country Journal, thou would’st bless
the happy day that called it into
existence. Our first thought, on
looking at what was termed “ Won-
derful Pictorial Representation of
the Ascension,” recalled a certain
hackneyed reference to Fools and
Angels. Our second was one of vir-
tuous indignation (i.e., the righteous
wrath of the virtuoso) at the imbecile
impertinence of the Wonderful Pic-
torial. What on earth hast thou
done, jpoor Dore ? What expiation
is it thou art called upon to suffer,
that such a wretched fprgery of thy
genius should be set before men’s
eyes ? Says the footnote to the W.
Pictorial: “ There have been many
pictures of the Ascension of Christ,
but who ever succeeded so well in
presenting to the eye at once the
appearance of that ethereal nature,
&c.” The presentation, to our eye,
was simply that of a vile burlesque
upon one of the noblest pictures the
world has ever gazed upon —a
shoddy imitation evoking feelings of
anger. Let the T. and C. Journal
confine its artistic faculties to Model
Public Schools, Gatling Guns, or
even coarse likenesses of deceased
bishops ; but, in Heaven’s name, we
implore them to let Dore and the
Ascension be !
* *
%
Is it intended to erect a statue to
Creswick, to give him a snuff-box,
or to present him with a reprint of
Davie Buchanan’s extra-honied en-
comiums bound in appropriate calf-
skin ? We own to an opinion that
Creswick is a painstaking, all-round
actor, in some parts, indeed, admira-
ble ; but cannot accept the dicta of
the Herald, the News, and the Entr
Actes, that he combines all the graces
Visitors to Sydney are requested to come and see


of the Garricks, Listons, Keans,
Macreadys, and Phelps, of the past
and present. How is it Australian
pressmen are so exceeding lavish of
praise for “ furriners,” and have
scarce a word to spare for the several
excellent Australian stock actors,
who, because they are in their own
country are neither allowed to be or
to make profits.
*
* *
We note that a safety (?) railway
bridge is in course of erection at
Newtown. Should there be, as is
not unlikely, a succession of limb
accidents from the hurried use of
this bridge, we would suggest to the
Railway department the advisability
of constructing subterraneous pas-
sages at all suitable spots. Should
these fail, balloons might be tried;
and if they failed, we would just hint
that the Yankee principle of action,
based on Stephenson’s “ awk’ard for
the coo ” notion, might perhaps after
all be safest and most economical.
* *
Australia may well be proud of
the cricketing prowess of her sons.
We only hope their success will teach
them to be self-reliant in other things
than sport, and to add to Free
Trade principles the crowning glory
of a belief that the home made article
ceteris paribus is the best one—that
Australian wine, Australian cloth,
Australian boots, Australian paper,
like Australian cricketing and scull-
ing require no puffing, but are on their
merits every whit as good as articles
palmed off under London or Paris
labels, or Marylebone or Putney
traditions.
* *
Should the match between Trickett
and Higgins come off, the former,
notwithstanding the recent accident
to his finger, is likely to .show the
Thames-man the way. The Cham-
pion is in good form, his wound is
healthily healing, and though he does
not underrate his challenger (for Ned
is as modest a fellow as ever feathered
an oar), yet he is quite confident if
terms a»e arranged of not disgracing
his native land.
* *
*
We sincerely trust that the Colon-
ial Secretary will see his way to give
the Agricultural Society men a good
snubbing when they go to him next
time in re a Sydney International
Exhibition for 1879. Even if the
Government backed the idea with
financial aid to the tune of thousands
the thing would be bound to result
in a fiasco under the meddling man-
agement of a Society that is not up
to the work of successfully carrying
out an ordinary metropolitan show.
If the fussy old gentlemen who think
they ought of right to be on every
Commission would be content with
some honorary title, just to quieten
them and keep them from meddling
with matters beyond their senile
faculties, we would suggest to the
Government the propriety of confer-
ring it upon them—say for instance,
create them G. C. M. M’s., General
Colonial Meddlers and Muddlers,
with the right on public occasions of
assuming the badge of the great
Panjandrum—to wit, a little round
button on their tops.
* * *
“Vivian Grey” ought to be
satisfied ! To have named a Sherry,
refused the Garter, and been invited
to represent the Empire at a Euro-
pean Congress ! Pshaw ! Not he !
They say he hopes to contract a
morganatic marriage with an illus-
trious Lady, efface the memories of
the Exhibition at the Royal Furnishing Arcade.


her earlier love, and be politically
and historically canonized in marble
in market-place and town-hall, at her
instance, as Ben the Great.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C. E. W. —Your verses are by no means
deficient of the poetic sentiment ; we are,
however, reluctantly compelled to decline
them. “ A word to my Fellow Students,”
in our next.
A. E. S. —“ Marguerita ” in our next.
A. B. —Your remarks on the subject of
“ early to bed, and early to rise, making
young fellows healthy and wise,” are
sound, but not original enough for publi-
cation in Once a Week.
The Biter Bit. —Declined with thanks.
H.B.D. —Your nonsense verses are very
good ; but, as you will see, we have nearly
gone through the alphabet, and cannot
go back until we have completed it. If
we commence a fresh series, we shall be
glad to make use of your contribution.
Anonymous. —Some conundrums in a
blank envelope, from Master Anonymous
have reached us, and will appear in our
next issue. Our young contributor should
have given his name, and we should then
have been in a position to thank him.
He has no need to be ashamed of his
effort.
N.B —No. 22 will contain the continu-
ation of “THE MYSTERY OF WISE-
MAN’S FERRY ROAD.”
T. F. WIESBNBR,
348
GEORGE ST.,
348
Half way between Hunter
Street and Post Office.
Lowest price marked in
plain figures.
Latest Novelties by
every mail.
Repairs faithfully ex-
ecuted.
348
R
m
'X
m
Gold Genevas from
£3 15s.
Silver Genevas from
from £2 ss.
Silver Hunting English
Levers from £5 10s.
Gold English Levers
from £lO.
E. P. and Fancy Goods.
Optical Goods in great
variety.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HiS EXCELLENCY SIR H. ROBINSON, K.C.8., G.C.M,G.
WOOLLAHRA art studio,
W. f€EI¥BBEL, PIPER STREET, WOOLLAHRA,
ARTIST IN OIL AND WATER COLORS.
PHOTOGRAPHS ENLARGED IN THE BEST STYLE OF ART. ANIMAL PORTRAITURE FAITHFULLY EXECUTED.
PHOTOGRAPHER
Landscapes and Places of Business artistically taken by the most
improved process.
Owners of Prize Animals should favour W. K. with an order. He
guarantees thoroughly truthful, as well as effective work.
W. KEMBEL, Artist-Photographer, Piper Street, Woollahra.
