

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. EL BARLEE.
No. 2, Vol. I.]
JANUARY 26, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
DAY OF
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High Water
Month.
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
Sydney Cove.
Jan.
26
Sat
Anniversary of Colony (founded 1788). Mail via
Torres Straits leaves Sydney.
5.17
7.8
12.31 p.m.
27
S
3rd after Epiphany.
5.18
7.8
1.26 p.m.
28
M
Governor Bligh deposed, 1808.
5.19
7.7
2.37 p.m.
29
Tu
Governor Denison arrived Sydney, 1855.
5.20
7.6
4. 7 p.m.
30
W
San Francisco Mail due in Sydney. Anniversary
Day, Auckland, N.Z., 1854.
5.21
7.6
5.29 p.m.
31
Th
Mail via San Francisco leaves Sydney.
5.22
7.5
6.34 p.m.
Feb.
1 |
F
Nelson, N.Z., founded, 1842. St. Bridget.
5.23
7.4
8. 5 p.m.
RAILWAY EXTENSION.
The art of “ How not to do it ” has
been cultivated with such exemplary
success by each Ministry in this
colony for some years past, that it is
now almost hopeless .to expect action
of any kind from the powers that
be.
We look anxiously for the coming
man whose advent is to infuse fresh
vigor into the administration of
public affairs ; but he is a long time
coming. The public are weary of
statesmen who shirk responsibility
and fear opposition ; who trim their
sails to catch each passing breeze,
and who dare not stand or fall by
any definite policy based upon their
own declared convictions. We want
men of sterner mould, who, in the
picture they paint on the page of
colonial history—though the design
may be crude and defective—will
use whole colors in place of the
neutral tints which have always per-
vaded the eternally shifting political
panorama of New South Wales.
We want action—active legislation
carried through all its stages to its
legitimate end—instead of bills in-
troduced only to be withdrawn,
resolutions passed to be laid aside
and forgotten, votes of want of confi-
dence following each other in such
quick order that the commodity by
this time must be nearly exhausted.


The country has suffered grievously
by the late numerous changes of
Government, which have not, how-
ever, given rise to any change of
policy, or brought forth any new
or encouraging feature in the pro-
gramme. The new Ministry take
up the measures of their predecessors,
and either press or keep them back,
as their passing or withdrawal may
secure the support of their own sup-
porters. Some opposition arises, and
these questions are shelved one after
the other. The result is no legis-
lation, and new Governments at
intervals of about three months.
“You may censure or change them as
much as you will,
The curse of inaction will cling to them
still.”
One of the prominent causes of
this standstill policy is to be found
in the very faint expression of the
vox populi upon questions of public
importance. It usually finds vent
from the lips of deputations, who
state their case fairly, but who are
either too much overcome by the
weather, or too apathetic to urge
their demands with any force. The
Minister is prepared with a few
diplomatic phrases ;he concurs with
the speakers in almost everything
they say, and promises to bring the
matter under the consideration of his
colleagues without delay.
The deputation then, according to
the daily press, thank the Minister
for his courtesy and withdraw, and
the matter hangs over for another
six months. The Minister takes no
further trouble in the matter, and
the deputation do not care to wait
upon him a second time.
This has been notably the case in
respect to the agitation to obtain an
extension of the railway into the
heart- of the city from the Redfern j
terminus. We have heard that a
man and a hoy were noticed on one
occasion in Upper George-street with
a surveyor’s staff and chain, but the
vision was only seen once, and has
not appeared since.
As to any justification for delay
in this undertaking, there is abso-
lutely none. Every year the cost of
reclamation along the proposed line
will become greater, while the traffic
in the main thoroughfares which
should be absorbed by a railway will
become heavier and more obstructive.
That the extension from Redfern to
the Circular Quay would be a repro-
ductive work, must be patent to every
one, and we hold it to be a crime
against the people of New South
Wales, on the part of any Govern-
ment, to allow large sums of public
money to lie idle, or returning only
4 or 5 per cent, when they could be
invested to so much better adyan-
tage. There are no steep gradients
or engineering difficulties to over-
come, and the extension would benefit,
not the residents of Sydney alone,
but all travellers by railway. Espe-
cially would the extension from
Redfern to the Circular Quay benefit
the up-country population in the
transit of goods, by the saving of
haulage from the terminus ; while
visitors from the interior would
derive equal advantage in being
carried through to their destination
without the extra charge for cab-hire,
for which they have to pay pretty
heavily. The extension would also,
no doubt, facilitate the early delivery
of mails both in the suburbs and
elsewhere. Why, then, is the prose-
cution of the work so tardy and
uncertain ?
The answer is plain. A factious
spirit pervades our Legislative
Assembly, and retards all useful


legislation. However important the
measure before the House may be,
its importance is made subservient
to party or private interests. We
want men who will put aside per-
sonal feeling and do something for
their country; who will support
any Ministry who introduce mea-
sures of public utility when they are
so urgently needed, looking to the
measures rather than to the men ;
and we want a statesmen capable
of holding the reins of Government
with a firm hand, who will identify
himself with the policy he lays down,
and act upon the principle—
“ That because right is right, to follow
right
Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence.”
MY TRIP TO PICTON.
Some wags of my acquaintance have
affected to doubt the explanation I
gave of my involuntary absence from
home on the night of Monday, 19th
November, 1877, on the ground that,
if I had really been carried on to
Picton, 1 should have been able to say
something more about that charming
Australian village than that the
scenery is truly rural and beautiful.
But I put it to the reader whether a
bird’s-eye view of a place an hour
after dark, and an equally short
glimpse of it half-an-hour before day-
light, are calculated to enable one to
throw much light on the subject. This
is how it all came about : I went, on
the eventful day, to the Redfern ter-
minus, intending to go home to dinner
by the 6.30 train, being tired and
hungry after a hard day’s work. I
scorn the imputation that my ideas
were in any way mixed up or muddled,
though they were not, as it proved,
exactly in the right train. 1 might
have been a trifle absent in not notic-
ing that none of the carriages showed
the well-known faces of suburban resi-
dents, but that was all. It was wit-
tily remarked once, by London Punch,
that the one thing preferable to pre-
sence of mind in a railway accident is
absence of body. My complaint, on
this unfortunate occasion, was rather
absence of mind and presence of body
in the wrong place. But how was I
to know that the Western train having
just left, it was to be immediately fol-
lowed by the mail train to Picton, and
that the carriage which stood invit-
ingly open before me was not bound
for Croydon ? Is it anything unusual
for a passenger to seat himself on a
comfortable cushion, a few minutes
before the advertised hour of depar-
ture, and endeavour, by a perusal of
the Echo, to impress upon his mind
the lessons of wisdom learned in the
morning paper ? I was undergoing
this course of instruction, and was
just wondering how it was that the
Turks still held the Schipka Pass,
which had been in the possession of
the Russians throughout the war,
when the unearthly yell which charac-
terises the American engine—some-
thing between a fog signal and the
roar of a buffalo with a sore throat —
startled everyone into activity, and
we were in motion. Away we went,
and I was pleased to find that we did
not stop at Newtown, that station
being associated, in my mind, with
long delays for ticket-taking purposes.
We did not stop at Petersham either,
which was a further cause for rejoic-
ing ; and when we also whirled past
Ashfield without checking our speed,
I congratulated myself that this was
the through train to Croydon. Gather-
ing up my traps, I got up and stood
by the door, ready to alight in another
minute, when, lo and behold ! the
train dashed past the platform with
undiminished speed, and bore away to
Burwood as if another train had been
close on its heels. I caught a glimpse
of my house, where the evening meal
was awaiting me, and a verse of an old
ballad recurred to me —
“ Stop, stop, John Gilpin, here’s the house,”
They all at once did cry;
“The dinner’s waiting—we are tired”—
Said Gilpin, “ So a<n I.”
As I had never heard of a train not
stopping at Burwood, I consoled my-


self by thinking that, after all, there
would be no great hardship in walking
back three-quarters of a mile across
the fields. I could scarcely believe
my senses when the American engine
gave another loud and fearful roar,
and dashed at the station in a vindic-
tive sort of way, as if it owed the
place a grudge, bounded between the
two platforms, enveloped the place in
a cloud of smoke, and then snorted
away in the direction of Parramatta.
I did not know what to make of it.
First, I thought the driver must be
stark, staring mad; then I thought
something must have gone wrong with
the American engine, and that the
noisy brute had run away with us ;
then I didn’t know what to think. On
we went at a terrific pace, passing
stations and platforms, houses and
paddocks, in quick succession; and
again I likened myself to John Gilpin ;
for though I did not lose ‘ ‘ my hat and
wig,”—
“ I little dreamt, when I set out,
Of running such a rig.”
There was one last chance for me. We
might pull up at the Parramatta Junc-
tion, whence there would possibly be
a return train the same evening to
Sydney. Joy, joy—the speed begins
to slacken—we are evidently going to
stop—the platform is in sight, and we
not going more than five or six miles
an hour. Again I grasp my carpet
bag and umbrella, and prepare to des-
cend, and again 1 am doomed to be
disappointed. Had I gone to the door
one minute sooner I might have effec-
ted my object; as it is, lam just in
time to receive a courteous wave of
the hand from the station-master, in
reply to my excited gesticulations.
The driver had actually so far stopped
the train as to allow the guard to take
a letter from that official as we glided
past. The last I saw of the jolly old
station-master he was still waving his
hand to me, his countenance beaming
with good nature, being evidently
under the impression that he was ex-
changing, in dumb show, the compli-
ments of the season with a travelling
acquaintance. I threw myself back
in the carriage, and, metaphorically,
burst into tears. Then I resigned my-
self to my fate, and tried to go to
sleep, which I was too hungry to do.
We did stop once on the way, for a
few minutes, but it was only to take
in water, and there was nothing except
water to be had there. It was a wild,
inhospitable looking spot; there were
no houses in sight, and no appearance
of civilisation, so that stoppage did
not count. Finally, we got to Picton,
after an exciting run of 53§ miles,
with only one check, in something
under two hours. And L poured my
grief into the sympathising ear of
another station-master. By-the-bye,
1 have invariably found these officials
especially courteous and considerate.
Perhaps the nature of their occupation
impresses them with a sense of the
fleeting nature of things sublunary,
and tends to encourage in them a
kindly feeling for the mistakes of
others. I noticed en route a cemetery,
and more than one monumental
mason’s establishment, which, together
with the through trains, I suppose,
suggest preparations for a long journey
of one kind or other. Even I, an
ordinary passenger, seemed to point a
moral. I was here to-day and would
be gone to-morrow—at least, I fer-
vently hoped so. One instance of the
extreme civility which I met with from
the railway people was the careful
direction by which I was to find the
hotel. If I went round by the road
it was a mile and a-half ;if I took the
short cut, it was only half-a-mile. Of
course I took the short cut, and, after
floundering about two or three pad-
docks for half-an-hour in the dark,
had to emerge on to the high road, and
describe three-quarters of a circle to
reach my destination. However, I
got to the hotel at last, only to find
that the fire had gone out, and that it
would be at least another hour before
I could have a meal served up to me.
At about 10 p.m., I fell to savagely
upon a supply of mutton chops, which
disappeared with marvellous rapidity,
and afterwards, having been indulged
with a glass of whisky-and-water, was


favoured with the use of a three-
weeks-old copy of the Cumberland
Mercury , which enabled me to pass a
remarkably pleasant evening. I then
paid my bill, and retired to the bed-
room prepared for me—one of a line
of dormitories flanking the back yard ;
and, not to make my story too long, I
contrived to rouse myself at half-past
three o’clock in the morning, and to
find my way to the station by means
of the short cut aforesaid, with no
other mishap than a thorough wetting
from the long grass in one of the pad-
docks I had to cross. Fearful of re-
peating my error, I did not enter the
train until it was about to start, and
the porter had assured me solemnly,
on his honour as a gentleman, that it
was all right. The carriage in which
I was thrust at the last moment was
full of passengers, all sound asleep,
muffled and coiled up on the seats and
on the floor in various grotesque atti-
tudes, and in that state they remained
all the time I was in their company,
snoring, some of them, with a vigour I
have seldom heard equalled. Whether
they would have continued to slumber
and snore at the same rate if the train
had been drawn by the American
engine of the previous night is very
doubtful. Perhaps they would ; they
seemed a very sleepy set. I was the
only wide-awake party in the crowd.
Would I had been as wide awake at
6.20 p.m. on the previous evening.
I got home at precisely twenty
minutes to eight o’clock—just in time
for breakfast. I have not been able
to answer one-tenth part of the ques-
tions which have been put to me since.
All I can say for the benefit of the
general public, who may not be
acquainted with the place, is, that
Picton is—Picton. I know no more
about it than I did before, except that
there is a railway station, a very
stony road, and a very wet paddock,
with a large gully running through it.
The village appears to be about twenty
miles off everywhere, and those who
wish for perfect retirement could not
do better than take a short run there,
as I did. The only facts which I
clearly ascertained during my visit
were (Ist) that in the month of
November it is daylight at Picton at
4 a.m. to a minute ; and that, on the
19th of November last, by the weigh-
ing-machine at the station, I weighed
exactly thirteen stone.
It is said that the males of grega-
rious animals, when wounded, or
otherwise disabled by age or infirmity,
retire to some sequestered spot, either
to die, or to pass the remainder of
their existence in dignified solitude,
unlike our politicians, who are con-
tinually retiring from political life,
with a flourish of trumpets, only to
return as soon as they can do so with
advantage. I would recommend the
sequestered village of Picton as a
place admirably adapted for such a
purpose. It is sufficiently quiet and
retired for the residence of a hermit;
yet you can, if necessary, get to the
metropolis in two hours, and you need
not exchange a word with your fellow-
passengdrs —at least I didn’t.
I don’t think I shall try the mail
train again just yet, if I want an
outing. Once Picton, twice shy !
WALKER.
THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
The happy times when good Dr.
Bland’s gig contained the strength
of the medical corps, and good Am-
brose Foss dispensed all his prescrip-
tions, having been succeeded by those
enlightened days when, like the
scythe-armed chariots of the ancient
Britons, the doctors’ carriages en-
counter us at every step, and the
many-coloured lights of their satel-
lites point the places where cure
may be sought for the thousand ills
which we will not prevent, we ad
dress ourselves, according to promise,
to the examination of the causes of
our lost character of healthfulness,
—for our old friend, whose memory
recalled in our behalf the Bland


and the Foss of early times, has told
us that a medical visitor of Sydney
once laid our fair city under the
stigma of being “ a beastly healthy
place, where a medical man could not
get a living /”
We have proposed to ourselves the
examination of this subject under
several divisions, and we observe that
we have first stated that of increase
of population ; we find that Dr.
Farr, in the Fifth Report of the
Registrar-General (England), pub-
lished in 1843, states, “ the mor-
tality in the dense districts was to
that in the less dense districts as
140 to 100,” and we do not doubt
but that the mere aggregation of
numbers has had its necessary influ-
ence upon the health of Sydney;
we think, however, that the manner
in which we have lodged our in-
creased numbers, and the manner
in which we have studiously kept
about them all those things which
every instinct teaches us to put
away, has had much'more to do
with the increase of our death-rate ;
and, as we cannot, and would not if
we could, scatter our increase, and
rediice our city to the dimensions of
1835, it behoves us to see whether
we cannot, with our poor 100,000
souls, obtain by some means as fair
a proportion of health, as compared
with our country districts, as London
with her three millions bears to
the country in England. We find-
then, that the mean annual death,
rate of England, from 1838 to 1871
inclusively, was, in the
March quarters 25 per 1000,
•June quarters 22*1 ~
September quarters .. 207 ”
December quarters .. 21'9 ~
The highest death-rate we have
found for London during this period
was, for the year 1871, 24-7 (a very
exceptional rate for we find it
falling in the following year to 21 *4);
but the examination of tables must
be left to those who can devote more
space to the subject. We will only
add that the manufacturing towns
of England shew a high death rate,
that of Manchester, in 1872, having
reached 30 per 1000, which brings
us to the conclusion that not merely
the numbers, but the manner in
which those numbers are lodged,
including in that term as well the
period of their working hours as of
their sleeping hours, will have to
be regarded, when we approach the
point of prevention , which (in
accordance with the old proverb)
a popular writer on these subjects
tells us, is better than cure.
That both ourmanufacturing popu-
lation, and various other classes in
Sydney, are worse lodged than our
criminals and our lunatics, the Re-
ports of Commissions issued by the
G-overnments who have successively
contemplated their condition and
u passed by on the other side,” abun-
dantly testify; while no one has
been found hardy enough to deny
the fact that the conditions of insa-
lubrity and discomfort in which
our people live have a powerful influ-
ence upon their moral life, tending,
by a certain process, to diminished
vitality, application to stimulants,
obscured sense of right, loss of self-
respect, and the hideous train of
consequences no less certain than
the growth of the plant from the
seed which we sow. Hence it may
be gathered that, in every measure
of relief or remedy that may be
proposed, there will have to be
counted the opposition of the large
numbers of persons who are in-
terested in maintaining the present
state of things, from the landholders


who prescribe allotments of 24 feet
by 17 feet, as of sufficient area for
homes for their fellow-creatures,
upwards, through the classes who,
by poisoning them with abominable
drinks, or by attempting the treat-
ment of, rather than the prevention
of the causes of, their diseases, find
the profitable employment of their
capital and their time.
The consideration of this oppo-
sition, however, will not deter us
from shewing, so far as our pages
may scatter the information, that
the" health which attends harmony
with the conditions laid down for
man’s life, is the birthright of every
man born into the world, and that
those who knowingly and wilfully
create, or continue, conditions ini-
mical to his organization, be they
high or low, are to be regarded as
malefactors, little if at all removed
from those who, in pursuit of their
gain, seize him by the throat on the
high road, or strangle him on his
pillow !
THE MYSTERY OF WISE-
MAN’S FERRY ROAD.
PROLOGUE.
“ MORE SINNED AGAINST THAN SINNING.”
“ FiFTEEN-two-nine.”
“ Here ! ”
“ Fifteen-thirty.”
“ Here! ”
“ Fifteen-three-one.”
No answer.
“ Fifteen-three-one! ”
Still no answer.
With a sullen, downcast look on his evil
face, the ganger moved slowly towards the
sergeant in charge of the road party, and,
saluting him, reported—“ A man missing,
sir.”
He might well enough have saved him-
self the trouble of making this report, for
the quick ear of the sergeant—a soldierly,
square-built, thin-lipped, hard-featured
man—had already marked the peculiar
gilence which had followed the ganger’s
unanswered “ fifteen-three-one ; ” and
though he was at some little distance from
the gang, and apparently deeply intent on
“ totting up ” some figures in a bulky red
leather memorandum-book, he had taken
the needful action before the ganger came
up to him.
Having noted that silence, so ominous
to the ears of an official in his capacity,
the sergeant had instantly ordered the
bugler, who was lounging beside him, to
sound the alarm.
Shrill and clear, with no uncertain
sound, the notes of the bugle rose and fell.
Borne on the evening breeze, they were
carried to far-away bays that nestled amid
the rocky hills, to sunlit reaches of the
Hawkesbury, to deep, dark gullies down
whose desolate gorges silvery streams
leapt and tumbled on their seaward course.
Far and near they awoke the sonorous,
jangling discords of innumerous pairs of
laughing-jackasses, who from the tree-
tops greeted the “ call ” with their dis-
sonant merriment.
The several gangs that formed the ser-
geant’s road party were “ boxed ” together
and hastily re-mustered.
The military escort stood to arms.
What men that could be spared for the
duty were instantly detailed to search in
every direction for tracks of the absconder.
The irons of the prisoners were carefully
inspected link by link.
Mounted police orderlies were sent off
at full speed to give notice at Windsor,
Pitt-town, Wilberforce, Penrith, Emu
Plains, and all points along the Hawkes-
bury where constables were stationed, that
“ fifteen-three-one ” had made his escape.
The ganger from whose charge “ fifteen-
three-one ” had succeeded in getting away
was suspended from duty ; and the cus-
tody of the tired, dust-stained, heavily-
fettered squad of misery and crime which
he had ruled with a rod of iron, though
the bitterness of such a rule was one of
his own experiences, was handed over to
a corporal.
“ Don’t let them so much as whisper to
one another. Report the first man who*
moves his lips. March them to supper ! ”
Such were the orders given by the ser-
geant to his subordinate—orders promptly
obeyed : for the hard-labour men who had
heard them given knew that, though a
just man, Sergeant Kenny’s bite was worse
than his bark.


This little incident in the penal history
of New South Wales occurred one sultry
summer’s evening early in the year of
grace, 1826 —in the good old times, when
the government of this colony was in the
hand of that distinguished red-tapist, and
great master of the art of circumlocution,
Sir Ralph Darling. That soldier of the
bureau was a martinet of the severest,
extremest type. He worshipped pipeclay!
By Sir Ralph no subordinate was allowed
to so much as think for himself. The
Queen’s Regulations and the General
Order Book contained the whole duty of
man for his subjects, whether bond or
free.
With Sir Ralph Darling, discipline for
the soldier meant the lash. For the con-
vict, it meant the lash plus the chain-gang
and the gallows.
The severity, tempered by practical
statesmanship and sound though rough
benevolence, which had characterised
Governor Lachlan Macquarie’s autocratic
rule, as well as the easy-going indifference
of Sir Thomas Brisbane’s administrative
system of government, were forgotten
under a regime at once despotic and unjust
—a regime the unrighteousness of which
was but scantily veiled by the pages of the
Order Books, in which were engrossed
with clerical precision the countless ukases
of the Governor-General.
In the eyes of such a chief, it was only
naturally to be expected that creatures ,
rather than honest, self-respecting officials
would find favour. And so it was. The
rewards of the colonial service went to
sycophants and lip-servers, for as yet the
Governor was an entity that might not
only possess a will, but had means to
exercise one. The times of the constitu-
tional lay figure, now-a-days known as the
sovereign’s representative, had not yet
come.
In the event of “ fifteen-three-one ”
being recaptured, his chances of escaping
the gallows were exceedingly remote. He
had in the most unmistakeable manner
possible put his fate to the touch to win
or lose it all.
The hangman and those ever-devouring
gallows behind—the desolate bush before
him. Most wretched alternative ! Very
possibly, better, far bettei*, was the short
shrift or the lingering starvation, than the
cruel mercies of a penal system which,
based on vindictiveness, and administered
by corruption and partiality, was only barely
tolerable to prisoners of easy means, and
wholly tolerable to such as were opulent!
The supper that evening at the pri-
soners’ camp was melancholy enough. A
gloomy silence, relieved occasionally by
the clank of iron, prevailed. A successful
escape meant extra misery (if that, indeed,
were possible, and not rather akin to
gilded gold) for those who remained
linked to the cruel chain.
The poor wretches who hastily swal-
lowed their scanty ill-cooked meal felt
that they were considered (especially by
the bond-gangers) as accomplices of
“ fifteen-three-one,” whom they thought
thrice fortunate to have got away so
cleverly. Signs passed between several
of the older hands, but owing to fear of
the military escort (disciplined veterans
for the main, who wore their medals
bravely, and who were of a very different
stamp to the New South Wales Corps
men of an earlier period) the majority of
the convicts paid strict obedience to the
letter of Sergeant Kenny’s order, and
abstained even from whispering.
The camp was on the crown of a lightly-
timbered ridge of sandstone, not many
miles from where the northern road
begins to ascend from the lower lands
near Pitt Town to the arid rocky plateau
which, extending northerly, reaches to
the precipitous descent to Wiseman’s
Ferry.
The sun had been gone down an hour
or more. The crescent moon was slowly
rising, revealing to view a softer-toned
and less desolate picture than that which
in the dazzling blaze of the garish sun-
shine had been visible in every direction
from the apex of the rocky eminence,
grouped about which were the weary pri-
soners and their discontented guards.
The vast amphitheatrical depressions
which were dimly distinguishable here
and there in nearly every direction from
the site of the camp, and into which the
sheer promontories of the plateau dropped
down with startling abruptness, looked less
wild though possibly more mysterious in
the calm, cool moonlight. The distant
cliffs, which marked the edges of land-dry
bays, bore more chastened hues than their
glaring colours of the day, when the deep
black lines pencilling their horizontal strata
forced out into such vivid relief the yellow
brightness of their rocks.
To the men who lay among the bushes
chained to one another like so many
dangerous beasts, the time of evening,
especially of moonlight, was a blessed


season (say rather a less accursed one
than that of their wretched days). It
brought a little rest, a comparative peace,
and the pleasant coolness for which they
had panted during their long hours of
toil when the vertical rays of the sun
had beaten down with such terrible fierce-
ness upon the iron that bound them,
upon the tools they wrought with, and
upon the mighty rocks through which
they were battling a weary, weary way.
Once again had the cool evening time
dawned upon them, but not to bring its
usual rest. Now had it come, bringing
excitement and sensation tinged with fear.
An escape from a chain gang was
of comparatively rare occurrence. Ser-
geant Kenny, therefore, determined to
sift the matter to the bottom in order to
discover how, under his strict and vigi-
lant discipline, such a thing had been
possible. Directly after taking every step
which his keen and shrewd intellect and
lengthened military experience deemed
necessary, he commenced investigating
the circumstances of the escape.
First of all, he sent for Reynolds, the
ganger, out of whose immediate charge
“ fifteen-three-one ” had succeeded in
absconding.
Reynolds looked what he was—a rogue.
He was serving the last few months of a
colonial sentence, and, by interest in high
places, was “ doing ” it as road-ganger.
The sergeant asked him what he knew
about the affair, and when he had last
seen the escaped man.
Ganger Reynolds protested he knew
next to nothing about it. All he did know
was that it was about four, or it might
have been five in the afternoon, when he
had last seen “ fifteen-three-one.” At
about that time he had taken him over
some water for the blast-hole he was
sinking in the great boulder on the ridge.
Reynolds said he told the man he was get-
ting on too thundering slow, and that he
had better mind himself, or else he would
have to report him; to which] threat
“ fifteen-three-one ” had coolly replied,
“ you and your reports.”
He had booked this insolence, and to show
that he had done so, showed an entry to
that effect in his day-book. After taking
the water to the man, Reynolds said he
had noticed him at work, but Uad not been
right up to him. He had not missed him
until his name remained unanswered at
the roll-call, and immediately afterwards
he had reported him as absent.
“Now, Reynolds,” said the sergeant,
closing up his note-book, in which he had
jotted down the poor results of the
ganger’s examination, “Now, Reynolds,
you stand about as fair a chance of going
to Hyde Park barracks as any man I ever
knew. Why can’t you speak the truth ?
“So help me! Sergeant, you’ve got
the whole truth—the whole gospel truth.
You have! That fellow was a real bad one.
Treat him well, and he cursed you ! treat
him bad, and, my word, cursing’s no word
for the way he went on. There never was
such an unmanageable villain ; no,
not at Norfolk or no where’s else. Why,
he’s done his original sentence nearly
twice over. And now to think of his
bolting, just when I—”
“ Just when you— what ? What do
you mean, sir,” asked the sergeant.
Reynolds had very nearly been led into
saying what he would have been sorry for
the sergeant to have heard. Kenny’s words
recalled him to himself.
“ Why, sir,” he replied “I was gravelled
to think he should have been and gone
and bolted just at the very time when I
was expecting a ticket for the Sydney
district. Give me a tracker, sergeant, and
a mounted man, and see if I don’t run the
thundering scoundrel to earth ”
“ You can go to the guard-house,” said
the sergeant coldly, “ and tell Nixon I want
him.”
Nixon was the corporal of the guard
a brave peninsular veteran, who had an
intense disgust for the work to which he
and his brother “ buffs” were now being
put. Talk of Pegasus in harness, indeed !
What was the harnessed condition of Pega-
sus to that of a non-commissioned officer
in a distinguished regiment —a regiment
that had helped to chase the eagles of
France across the Pyrennean hills set to
keep watch and ward over felonry.
“ Nixon,” said the sergeant as his old
comrade came up to him, “go yourself
and bring up to me ‘ fifteen-two-one’ and
‘ fourteen-nine-three.’ And look here,
old fellow, don’t let ’em communicate with
one another as they come along. We had
better keep a sharp eye on that scoundrel
Reynolds. It's enough to make men like
you and me, Nixon, go and cut our throats
to think that we should have such in-
grained rascals as that miserable ganger
associated with us in the charge of these
poor devils. Why his face is enough to
hang him. And yet they say his wife that
keeps the inn in Sussex-street could buy


the buffs bag and baggage right out. He’s
got a finger in this mess, you may
depend.”
“You’re about right, sergeant. He
always puts me in mind of the rock scor-
pions at old Gib. He’s such an oily,
slippery, tallowy fellow. I hate him.
There! ”
And the old corporal having vented his
wrath, marched off to obey the orders he
had just received. In about two minutes
he returned, with the two convicts he had
been sent for.
“ Take the tall fellow to the rear there
for a bit,” said the sergeant. Nixon,
removing the convict thus designated,
left the other alone with his superior.
“Well, ‘fifteen-two-one.’ What do
you know about this ? Tell me the truth,
man, and it shall be none the worse for
you.”
“ Look you, sergeant Kearney,” said
the poor, wan, sickly little man, known
to the gang officials as “ fifteen-two-one,”
and whose only crime had been a violent
radicalism, which had induced him to
take part in a Luddite machine riot, one
fatal day at Nottingham, “ look you,
sergeant Kenny, I ain’t a-going to answer
no questions. You know me well enough.
I can take a pretty square dowry. You
may send me up for the cat the next time
the lieutenant comes out, if you like ; but
I tell you, not a word will you get
out of me one way or the other. Not
that I know anything about it, but I
refuse on principle. You laugh, sergeant,
to think of a wretched, little, fettered cur
(as you may probably think me) prating
about principle, but by , sir, its the
only thing I’ve got left. Don’t waste
time, sergeant, let’s go and lie down again
in the cool, and I shall be all the more
fit for the triangles to-morrow.”
The sergeant put his hand into his
pocket and took out a piece of tobacco,
which, without saying a word, he placed
into the prisoner’s hand. Not as a bribe
did he give it; but as a tacit sign that he
—the soldier—could understand that the
man before him was no cur. “ Bring up
the other fellow,” cried the sergeant.
The corporal led “ Fourteen-nine-
three ” to the broken sapling on which
the sergeant was sitting, and then
retired, taking with him the poor broken
little reformer, whom an ounce of
tobacco (and the manner of the donor in
giving it) had made happy—for an hour.
“ Fourteen-nine-three ” was a man of
a very different stamp to the small wan
man, whose chains weighed nearly half
as much as his whole carcase.
“Now, then, my lad,” said the ser-
geant, “ what have you got to say about
the escape of your mate ?”
“ Why, sir, I’ve been off and on this
many a day thinking he’d go, and only
yesterday I’d a great mind to have axed
to speak to you, but our ganger is such a
man to deal with that I didn’t dare. You
see he’d have fitted me some how for
wishing to go over his head to you, sir.
Jack, that’s my mate as has gone, has a
plant somewhere about here. That I’m
certain of, for he wasn’t for everlasting
chiselling the letters of his name without
some purpose.”
“How, a plant?” asked the sergeant.
“ Yes, sir, a jewel. Didn’t you ever
hear of it? Why, he’s got into all his
troubles about it; and search him ever
so, no mate or ganger could ever worm
the secret out of him. Its not on him, so
you may make sure that if he’s not
caught, and can only keep body and soul
together for a while, that he’ll return to
some one of his precious carved rocks,
touch for his plant, and then with
money’s worth make a desperate effort to
get out of the country.”
“ But don’t you know anything about
the time or the way in which he got
away ?”
“ Devil a bit, sergeant. Jack and I
were’nt the best of friends ; and besides,
you see, sir, this afternoon he was work-
ing alone at that blessed boulder, putting
down a hole, and so I couldn’t in fairness
be expected to know anything about it.”
“What do the letter’s ‘L.P.’ mean
after Jack’s own initials on the rocks ?”
“He never let on, sir ; he was mortal
close, and had ways of keeping things
dark that beat even Beynolds, our ganger,
who has been keeping his eyes about the
rocks pretty keenly, I can tell you.”
“ How long was Jack, as you call him,
working alone ? ”
“For about three hours—from after
the dinner spell.”
“ ’Um ! ” grunted the sergeant, as he
entered the fact in his memorandum
book. His next step was to dismiss the
two convicts to their night’s rest in the
crowded tent allotted to the mess of
which they were members.
He had not gathered any information
of the kind he had half hoped for; but


his original suspicions that Reynolds had
a hand in the matter had received con-
firmation from what “Fourteen-nine-
three had told him. All he knew for cer-
tain was that a man, with his irons, had
succeeded in escaping. Having visited
the sentries and inspected the guard, Ser-
geant Kenny retired to his own tent for
the night.
The next day, Lieutenant Selfe arrived
from Windsor to enquire officially into
the circumstances of the escape. Stran-
gely enough, the first thing he did was to
send for Reynolds.
The sergeant brought the ganger into
his own tent, in which the Lieutenant
was sitting at his ease after his long ride.
“Leave the tent for a minute or two,”
said the Lieutenant, “ I want to say a
word or so to the man alone. And, by-
the bye, sergeant, try and get me a jug of
your coolest water, there’s a goodfoilow.”
As soon as the sergeant had retired,
the officer said to Reynolds, in a low,
hurried whisper, “Did you find it? ”
“ D him, no. There’s one good
thing though, he’ll come back for it some
of these nights, if you can only prevent
the pursuit after him being too hot. If
he’s caught fair we’re done. If we can
trap him when he thinks the hue and cry’s
over, why it’ll be a clear two hundred a
piece, but there’s little chance of such
luck. But mind you, the sergeant sus-
pects I had a hand in it; if he only knew
all, though, he would’nt think so, would
he ? Why, I’d give my head to see the
fellow drilling away at that
boulder. I put him there because I could
yarn with him on the quiet, but he was so
awfully shy he wouldn’t take the bait,
him.”
Reynolds’ relations with Lieutenant
Waverley Selfe were of a peculiar charac-
ter, as indeed may be readily inferred
from the conversation above recorded.
Mr. Selfe had served for many years in
the New South Wales Corps prior to his
exchange into the Buffs, the officers of
which distinguished regiment were in-
tensely disgusted with the result of the
transaction, which gave them an unmiti-
gated snob in place of a genial and much
loved comrade. Whilst serving in the
quasi military quasi licensed-spirit-deal-
ing battalion, which, in an evil hour, the
Home Government had called into exis-
tence for special service in this colony,
and which they had named the New
South Wales Corps, Mr. Waverley Selfe
had superadded to his love of all the
grosser pleasures of animal existence the
huckstering greed of a marine store dealer.
When sober (which was seldom) his
keenness at a bargain was remarkable ;
when drunk it was miraculous. The
Buffs hated him to a man ; not because
he loved his glass, but because he was
essentially mean, and daily did a hundred
things to sully the reputation of their
Corps. He bought and sold like the
veriest commission agent. He went into
the most doubtful speculations. He was
hand in glove with rogues and vagabonds,
and yet somehow or another he always
managed to steer clear of a court-martial.
Drink was, however, beginning to tell upon
him. His capacity for business was
becoming weaker. His relations with
questionable characters were conducted
with such little prudence that it was
merely a question of time when he would
be cashiered.
He had still, however, influence in
high quarters, and enough restraint over
his weaknesses to employ that influence
to push certain nefarious schemes, out of
the profits of which he hoped to live
prosperously, even when deprived of the
commission which entitled him to be
called “ an officer and a gentleman.”
When the sergeant brought the jug of
cool water into his tent he did not find
Beynolds there. Lieutenant Selfe had
prudently sent him away with the pro-
mise that he would still keep an eye on
his interest, and with the strict injunction
to do all in his power in the way of
searching the locality of the camp for
fifteen-three-one’s “ eachette .”
Lieutenant Selfe declined to investi-
gate the affair personally. He received
the sergeant’s written report, which he
flatteringly said was an able document,
and contained all the necessary informa-
tion for the penal authorities at head
quarters. Having quaffed several tum-
blers of cold rum and water, he in-
spected the prisoners, with one or two of
whom he exchanged a nod, and received
the compliment of a “carry” from the
military guard, he rode away with the
firm conviction that either he and Rey-
nolds had both been taken in by “ fif-
teen-three-one,” or that he himself had
been desperately deceived by Reynolds.
******
After several days of unavailing search,
the parties that had been sent out after
“fifteen-three-one” were recalled. The


name and number of the escaped man
were struck off the ration lists. He was
returned in quarterly statements as “ mis-
sing,” and by those who had the slightest
knowledge of the country through which
it was thought he had attempted to make
for the North, it was firmly believed he
must be dead.
(To be continued.)
COMICALITIES.
“no fools like young fools.”
The maiden of seventeen stood trembling
with ill-suppressed emotion between her
parents. Their stern frowns deepened as
the mother wiped her glasses, and pro-
ceeded to read the letter found in her
dress as it was being re-hemmed in the
machine.
Angel of my existence.’ ”
)■*“ You don’t mean to say it begins like
tlie v ! -Lcried the father. “ Oh, that a
ch •’ >v- p mine should be in correspondence
wittii- - But pray proceed, my dear.”
“Existence spelt with an ‘ a,’ ” went on
Mrs. Prue De Bie.
“ Why, thb idiot can’t even spell! ”
interrupted Mr. Ditto.
“ ‘ It is impossible for me to describe the
joy with which your presence has filled
me.’ ”
‘ ‘ Then why does he attempt it, the ass !
But don’t let me interrupt you, my dear.”
‘“I have spent the whole night in
thinking of you’ The young fool had
far better have had a hop pillow and slept.
‘ And in bitterly deriding the obstinate,
prejudiced, besotted old fogey who will
not consent to our union’ ”
“Hear, hear ! What dreadful language
for any one to use ! Oh, Lottie, Lottie,
how can you expect that such a revolu-
tionary young man could ever sober down
into a good and steady hus”
“ George ! ”
“Yes, my dear, one moment. A hand
that writes like that would not hesi-
tate” —
“ George ! I didn’t see this over-leaf.”
“Eh ? ‘ Yours with all the love of my
heart, George.’ April, 1838. Why, bless
me, it’s one of my love-letters ! ”
“ Yes, papa, I found it in among the
waste paper ma turned out of the buhl
cabinet yesterday morning. Only you
wouldn’t let me speak! ”
“You may f go to the park with the
children. Hem !my dear, we are pretty
fools when we are young, I think.”
“ And I don’t see,” added Mrs. De Rie,
remembering that she had promised to
treasure those tokens of a devotion with-
out end to the last day of her life, “that
some of us grow much wiser as we age.”
AT THE PANTOMIME.
When De Grosvenor took his Angelina to
see the pantomime, he also took her
younger brothers and sister. Their box
was on the first tier, and below, in the
stalls, were some fellows De Grosvenor
knew.
So you can imagine his delight at some
of the questions and remarks of the little
ones.
“ OH, do look at that naughty man on
the high chair, trying to hit somebody
with a stick” (the leader in the orchestra).
“There’s a man walking like pa did
when he came home from the Derby.”
“ There’s a lady got no stockings on.”
“ I wish there was a clown to knock our
nurse about.”
“ Pantaloon’s just like Uncle Wake-
ling.”
“ Do you know any of those fairies, Mr.
De Grosvenor ? ”
“ Til sit on baby to-morrow.”
“ Didn’t they sing that chorus right that
they make them do it over again ? ”
“ What’s the ‘ Same Old Game ? ’ ”
“I wish pa was a clown.”
“Do they clap their hands to make
them warm ? ”
“There’s a woman in the pit selling
apples and ginger-beer. Oh, do go and
get some for me, Mr. De Grosvenor.”
MORE IRISH MELODY.
When angry members disagree,
And wage a wordy war
In language whose excess may be
But just within the law ;
There may, perhaps, amid such strife
Some recollection be,
That men who enter public life
Are not what they should be.
When headstrong statesmen rudely slight
The rules they should obey,
And utter words of rage and spite
In disregard of May;
When slander wears a vulgar mask,
And with men’s names makes free,
In such a moment I but ask
Who’d care to sign M.P. ?


SLASHING CRITICISM.
A recent number of the Saturday
Review, in criticising a book about horses
written by a Mr. Nevile, M.A., says inter
alia :
As the illustrations in this work form
that part of it which will probably receive
the most attention, we will notice them
first. “ The right sort of horse to buy ”
has not enough bone below the knee for a
horse of his size ; his forelegs are placed
too far forward, and his hind legs are too
far behind him. Horses with hind legs
thus placed are rarely good fencers.
Hunters are almost always cleverer when
when they are a little “ turned under,”
as it is technically called. On p. 13 is an
extraordinary diagram which professes to
show the appearance of a horse when
looked down upon from the box of a
coach. This apparition is in the form of
an egg, with a small horse’s head and
neck peeping out at one end and a little
bit of tail at the other. We own to being
fairly puzzled by this drawing, although
we have looked down upon very many
horses from the boxes of coaches. Can
it be intended as a portrait of the egg out
of which was hatched the “cock horse”
of the nursery rhyme ? There is also an
outline of the back of a horse as seen
from the side, which looks as if it were a
faithful copy of a dra\*ing on a slate by
a child of four years of age. A wonderful
hieroglyphic which covers one page, and
which professes to show “the tracks left
by a horse in the four different paces,”
looks like the marks made by the pencil
of a planchette when it is in a sulky
humour. Some of the author’s writing
is almost confused as his diagrams. For
instance, the sentence, ‘‘ A horse which
looks light in the stomach when he is fat
in his limbs will not be so strong or en-
during as a horse which looks thick in the
middle at all times,” requires con-
siderable inward digestion before all its
beauties can be appreciated. The prin-
cipal feature of Mr. Nevile’s style consists
in the brevity of his paragraphs, of which
we have counted five in half a page. But
the shortness of the paragraphs is oc-
casionally counterbalanced by the length
of the sentences. In these, when the
writer perceives that he is becoming con-
fused, he pulls himself up with an “I
say ” —“ it will be evident, I say ” ;
“ there is little doubt, I say.” This trick
is very irritating to the reader. We may
add that we should hardly have expected
a Master of Arts to use such expressions
as the following:—“and had never been
taught any different”; “looking at him
when he is stood still ”; “ then leave go
of him.” Nor should we have thought a
University graduate would write of “ well-
broke” horses. Mr. Nevile is great on
the subject of colour. After giving a
lengthy list of the “principle colours”
of horses, he says, “It will thus be seen
that there are twenty-five distinct colours,
most of which can be counted over again
by being found mixed with white faces
and legs.” We will not attempt to con-
trovert this assertion, for we dare not
affirm or deny anj r thing of colours
“ which can be counted over again by
being found mixed.” In these days it is
best to make a rule of never being
astonished at anything, but the following
piece of intelligence fairly takes dies
breath away “ Dark coloured horse? to *
the soberest and boldest, and ere h?
easiest taught to jump brooks and d> ”
After such a shock as this, the oti rvise
remarkable statement that “ bays are the
worst tempered, and chesnuts are the
most foolish,” appears quite flat and
insipid.
Mr. Nevile tells us of “an excessively
troublesome fault ”to which many horses
are prone. Indeed, he says that it amounts
to a vice. The namb of this vice is “taking
advantage.” If you “ take your pocket-
handkerchief out of a coat-tail pocket,
for instance, to blow your nose ” when
riding a horse addicted to this “ mis-
chievous habit,” he quickens bis pace,
which “ altogether disconcerts his rider ” *
and yet our mentor tells us that this;
“one of the commonest faults in nearly all
horses,” ‘ ‘ is one which I have never seen
treated of in any book or heard mention
of as a fault.” The fact of many chil-
dren’s starting when we sneeze is an oc-
curence which we have “never seen
treated of ” in any educational work, “or
heard mention of as a fault.” When
teaching us how to look at horses before
buying them, Mr. Nevile says, “There
is a fourth view which is rarely taken, but
which I consider quite as important as
the other three ” (the side, the back, and
the front), “and that is the view obtained
by looking down on them from above.”
We are surprised that he does not add,
“ And there is yet a fifth viaw, which is
even more rarely taken, md that is
the view which may be obtained by


getting underneath the horse and looking
up at him from below.” He says that
“the scapula is better placed the more it
slants and the less upright it is,” and
with this we quite agree; but we utterly
dispute the statement that “ the humerus,
on the other hand, is better placed the
less it slants and the more upright it is.”
When the humerus is upright, the os
sufraginis is usually upright also, and
the result is that in his slow paces the
animal’s action is cramped and stilty, and
over rough ground he is extremely likely
to fall. We trust that the author will not
think we are unfairly divulging the
mysteries contained in his book if we
mention that he recommends weighing
horses in order to ascertain their
strength. As weighing-machines are not
always to be found in dealers’ yards, it
will be well for purchasers, when starting
on expeditions in search of hunters, to
take with them a convenient apparatus
capable of weighing a large horse, which
will render them independent. In
“ leaving go ” of Mr. Nevile’s book we
venture to express a hope that he may be
afflicted with no more horses which “ take
advantage,” that those which he pur-
chases may prove to be thoroughly ‘ ‘ well-
broke,” that he may never meet with a
serious accident when riding in one of his
favourite “ cut-back ” saddles, which he
considers so safe, but which we consider
so dangerous, and that he may never
again write a book on the subject of
Horses and Riding.
MILTON’S PARADISE LOST.
[Book I.]
English Subject for Junior Examina-
tion, 1878, Sydney University, ar-
ranged FOR THE USE OF CANDIDATES,
by “ Stigma.”
[ln the subjoined edition of Paradise Lost
(all rights in which are reserved) the ac-
cepted text is carefully followed.
Alterations in the punctuation have
been made in order that the division of
the poem into its elementary propositions
maybe clearly shown. The “periods”
of the original text have, however, been
kept.
The close of each proposition (except
propositions within parenthesis or brac-
kets, or those terminated by a period) is
marked by a dash ( —).
Propositions that are included within
other propositions are placed within
parenthesis or brackets.
The Subject of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Italic letters.
The Predicate of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Roman letters.
Sentences in which more than one
statement is made concerning a noun (or
an equivalent thereto), or in which several
nouns (or equivalents thereto) have the
same statement predicated concerning
them are treated as simple propositions.
Elliptical propositions are annotated.]
Say (5) first—for Heaven hides nothing
from thy view
Nor the deep tract of hell — say (6) fir.->t
—what cause
Moved our grand parents in that
happy state
30 Favour’d of Heaven so highly to fall
off
From their Creator and transgress his
will
For one restraint lords of the world
besides ?
Who first seduced them to that foul
revolt ?
The infernal Serpent he it was— whose
guile
35 Stirr'd up with envy and revenge
deceived
The mother of mankind—what time
his pride
Had cast him out from Heaven with
all his host
Of rebel angels— by whose aid aspiring
To set himself in glory above his peers
40 He trusted to have equalled the Most
High
[lf he opposed] and with ambitious
aim
Against the throne and monarchy of
God
Raised impious war in heaven and
battle proud
With vain attempt. Him the Almighty
Power
45 Hurl’d headlong flaming from the
ethereal sky
With hideous ruin and combustion
down
To bottomless perdition there to dwell
In adamantine chains and penal fire
Who durst defy the Omnipotent to
arms.
60 Nine times the space [ that measures
day and night


To mortal men] he with his horrid
crew
Lay vanquish’d rolling in the fiery gulf
Confounded though immortal —but his
doom
Reserved him to more wrath—for now
the thought
55 Both of lost happiness and lasting pain
Torments him—round he throws his
baleful eyes—
That witness’d huge affliction and
dismay
Mix’d with obdurate pride and stead-
fast hate.
(To he continued.)
(5) Supply “ thou.”
(6) Supply “thou.”
A GOSSIP WITH THE BOYS.
Last week we promised to say some-
thing about training in this issue, so
we take up our pen to keep our word.
Don’t be afraid that you are going to
be bored with a learned disquisition
about the palaestra or the sphaeriste-
rium, our remarks wont tend in that
direction, neither will they make
reference to the divers systems by
which, at different times in the world’s
history, men or lads have sought to
acquire that perfect command of nerve
and muscle which, in the arena or the
lists, on the cricket field or with “ the
eight,” on the Alpine glacier, or in the
imminent deadly breach, is the secret
of success. If, on some particular occa-
sion, any youth feels it incumbent upon
him to go into a special course of regu-
lar and systematic training, he cannot
do better than make himself acquainted,
as a preliminary to carrying out his in-
tentions, with what Maclaren, in his
admirable work, has said upon the
subject. About special training you
wont find a word in this paper—about
the general physical training under
which every boy should at all times
strictly keep himself, if he means to be
worth more than his salt as an earnest
worker in the struggle of life, you will
find many words, some of which, we
hope, may be of benefit to you.
A very practical philosopher of old
time, his name was Socrates, laid it
down that gymnastics and diet were
the two real means by which the body
could be brought under the control
of the will, and that the sham means
by which some shallow-pated idiots
thought they could bring about the
same result (as if the body were to be
coaxed, not ruled) were cosmetics and
cookery. The old Athenian was in the
right of it, There are shallow-pated
idiots, at this very day, who believe
in cosmetics and cookery as the ordi-
nary method of training, and who only
turn to gymnastics and diet on extra-
ordinary occasions, when they wish to
make themselves “fit” for some ex-
ceptional event. They forget that
gymnastics and diet are quite opposing
forces to cosmetics and cookery ; and
that the latter form the worst possible
basis upon which to rear any super-
structure of fitness. By exercise and
regimen, even atop of cosmetics and
cookery, you may secure what often
passes for fitness, but it is not the
true, the lasting fitness which would
stand a fellow in good stead through
a long campaign, or a vacation ramble
of more than ordinary stiffness.
You see our aim by this time, don’t
you ? that we wish to impress on you
that temperance and exercise should
be your rule of life : then if circum-
stances require that you should go into
special training, your system will
sustain no shock from the suddenness
of the change, and you will find that
your previous habit of life was a
thoroughly good preparative for the
exceptional severity to which you feel
it right to subject yourself,
Under the heading of “cosmetics
and cookery,” we should classify indul-
gence in tobacco, spirits, aerated waters,
lollies, ices, pastry, suppers in bed’
and “ funking ” cold water. The
youngster, who on getting up, doesn’t
groom himself well after a good tub
and who, when up, fills himself with
pastry and ginger beer, gets through
half a dozen pipes of strong Cavendish
has a “nip” or two on the sly, and
who, bed-time having come, consumes
preserved salmon and pastry in the
watches of the night, is certain to have
a flabby body and a flabby mind.


Should opportunity ever come to him
he couldn’t seize it. But the lad that
keeps his skin clean, grooming it
daily with vigorous washing and rub-
bing, who keeps his feet dry, who
takes regular walking exercise, who
only eats when he is hungry and then
masticates his food thoroughly, who
takes his last meal at least a good
two hours before going to bed, who
in all weathers sleeps with his windows
open, who drinks pure water (would it
were easier to get !) in preference to
effervescing or refrigerating drinks, who
takes care that the fruit he eats is fresh,
this lad’s body will almost certainly
not be flabby, nor his mind either.
He will be fit for the opportunity when
it comes ; and should his form be in
want of a little extra polish, it can be
put on without trouble or risk. Such
a lad will be able (as Buskin says)
“ to sing merrily when he is happy,
and earnestly when he is sad ; but he
shall find no mirth in mockery, nor in
obscenity, neither shall he waste and
profane his heart with artificial and
lascivious sorrow.” He will be clean
and firm.
Believe, 0 boys ! that cleanliness is
verily next to godliness —that no
amount of formalism will make a
fellow religious, whose cuticle is grimy.
Be very sure that the tub and the
rough towel are among the factors of
a people’s greatness. The knighthood
of the bath has possibly lost its original
significance, yet do you hasten to ful-
fil true chivalry’s initial requirement—
“ be clean ! ” And, moreover, as a part
of your out-door education, don’t
forget to learn to ride, or to swim.
You who live near the waters of Port
Jackson can find no excuse for not
learning the latter accomplishment.
Remember what the eccentric philo-
sopher whom I quoted a minute ago
has to say about riding and aquatics :
“By a constancy of law the power of
highest discipline and honour is vested
by nature in the two chivalries —of the
Horse and the Wave. Both are sig-
nificative of the right command of man
over his own passions ; but they teach,
farther, the strange mystery of relation
that exists between his soul ancl the
wild national elements on the one
hand, and the wild lower animals on
the other. The sea-riding gave their
chief strength of temper to the Athe-
nian, Norman, Pisan and Venetian—
masters of the arts of the world ; but
the gentleness of chivalry, properly
so called, depends on the recognition
of the order and awe of lower and
]of tier animal life, first clearly taught
in the myth of Chiron, but most per-
fectly by Homer in the fable of the
horses of Achilles.” It ill becomes
the youth of the queen city of the
southern seas to be ignorant of the
art by which man rules the waves.
If the dominion of the islands of the
Southern Pacific is reserved for the
Australian race, it is on the condition
that Australian boys are consumed, (as
were their Saxon forbears) with the
desire to tempt the dangers, that so
they may comprehend the mystery of
the sea.
To sum up these desultory remarks :
Be clean ; be venturesome ; set your
face against softness, breeding scorn of
simple life ; dare, nay love, to endure
hardnesses ; above all, in all things, be
temperate. Temperance is the true
trainer ; she also is all that Plato said
of another grace, ‘‘in every word,
work, wish, fear—pilot, helper, defen-
der, saviour.”
Next week we will have a wordwitli
you about that latest novelty, “sensa-
tion packets.”
On dit, that although the parsons
have not succeeded in obtaining permis-
sion to pass on the railway lines at a re-
duced rate, the d , 'tors are agitating
fora similar concis n. Where is this
to end ? If physicia 4 for the soul are
allowed cheap rides at ohe public expense,
why not the physicians of the body t
Indeed, why not auctioneers, school-
masters,* or, for the matter of that, why
not washerwomen? —who, if cleanliness
be next to godliness, as the parsons tell us,
ought to take precedence of the great
unwashed, and come next to the clergy-
men.


COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
Conundrums.
When may a boatman be said to be
High Church ?
Why should a man refuse to marry
a girl who cannot carve ?
Why are swallows like crooked
chimneys ?
Why may a young lady in New
South Wales play any pranks she
chooses ?
What is the difference between the
bark of a tree and the bark of a dog ?
How can you spell teapot in two
letters ?
What key is never broken ?
When is a mountain like an insol-
vent ?
(For French scholars)—Why is a
small piece of bread better than a six-
roomed house 1
Charade.
My first, though your house, nay your
life, it defends—
You ungratefully call like the wretch
you despise ;
My second, with sorrow I speak, com-
prehends
All the great, all the good, all the
learned and wise.
Of my whole, I have little or nothing
to say,
Except it foretells the departure of
day.
Enigmas.
I am just two and two, 1 am warm, I
am cold—
Am the parent of numbers that can-
not be told ;
I am lawful, unlawful, a duty, a fault,
lam often sold d ,r, good for nothing
when bon it.
An extraordinar boon, and a matter
of course,
And yielded with pleasure when taken
by force. ,
Formed long ago, yet made to-day,
Employed when others sleep ;
What few would wish to give away,
And none would wish to keep.
Prize Acrostic.
(Owing to the shortness of the time allowed,
there was but little competition.)
T here’s a new magazine j ast appeared
from the press :
H ow pleasing and modest its opening
address—
E xpressive of much entertainment
and wit,
S omething the taste of each reader to
hit.
Y e critics, be kind, nor its efforts
decry;
I) o not in its pages too carelessly spy ;
N ote well its contents, when it comes
in your way ;
E ncourage colonial authors, I pray.
Y ou may read a good tale, or smile
at a riddle—
Outs and Ins,” “Doubtful Spec.”
“ An Australian Idyll,”
N ot to mention an aeronaut’s flight—
“ out of bed,”
C omic sketches, “ The Best Dog that
ever was Bred ; ”
E ’en a tribute of praise to our kind-
hearted Queen,
A n address to the boys, some remarks
on hygiene ;
W edding Bells from Wisconsin,” a
prophecy, too ;
E ven cricket described in a style
that’s quite new ;
E t cetera,” embracing the news of
the week—
K ind friends, His but sixpence —what
more could you seek ?
Household Recipes.
To Beat Carpets. —Use matting ;
for coolness it beats carpets hollow.
To Keep Ice from Melting. —Wrap
it in frieze.
Typical Trees.
For gouty folks—the ache-corn.
For antiquarians—the date.
For boys—the birch.
For niggers—See dah !
For your wife—her will o.
For lovers—the sigh press.
For the disconsolate—the pine.
For the betrothed—the pear.
For boarding-house keepers the
’ash.


A TERRIBLE REVENGE.
The facilities afforded by life in a
boarding-house for the study of human
idiosyncrasies and character are, per-
haps, second only to those of a life of
travel. Unpoetical as is the name of
boarding-house, life dramas are some-
times enacted within such establish-
ments ; nor is the daily uneventful
round of existence unrelieved by
amusing, semi-tragic incidents.
To this latter class belongs the fol-
lowing tale : .
Mrs. Bloomfield, a practical, clear-
headed widow, *• fat, fair, and forty-
two,” kept a boarding-house of the
most select description in a certain
locality, which we will not further
particularise than by saying that it was
in one of the aristocratic suburbs of
Sydney. Her husband, who had al-
ways been a shiftless ne’erdoweel, had
died some three or four years prior to
the commencement of our story, leaving
her better off in one respect than she
had ever been during his life, inasmuch
as she was no longer obliged to support
him. She sold the small farm on
which she and her husband had lived,
and invested the capital thus obtained
in fitting up a boarding-house accor-
ding to her notions of comfort, which
were limited, but not too narrowly, by
the dictates of a frugal mind.
During the first year she had some
difficulty in making both ends meet,
but she possessed indomitable courage
and energy, added to a managing ca-
pacity superior to that of many men,
and so, by dint of perseverance and
hard work, eventually succeeded
in being able to lay by yearly a nice
little contribution to the increasing
nestegg at her bankers. At the time
this story commences she had three
permanent boarders, namely, Miss
Minsy, Miss Norton, and Mr. Willick.
As the Exhibition was open all Mrs.
Bloomfield’s spare rooms were full of
country visitors, amongst whom were
two young squatters, George and
Harry Wilmot. The best rooms were
occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Cameron a
most exclusive young couple who
dined alone and rarely spoke to any of
the other boarders.
Seniores priores! True to that
principle we beg to introduce Miss
Minsy first to our readers, though it is
doubtful whether she would be very
grateful for an honor due to seniority!
According to some of her acquaintances,
Miss Minsy was hanging, like Ma-
homet’s coffin, at some indefinite period
between thirty and forty. Others
maintained that Miss Minsy’s age
could not be an hour less than seven
or eight and fifty. What her age
really was was a secret locked beneath
her scraggy breast. She had never
been known to reveal the remote date
of her birth ; no, not even to the cen-
sus collectors. It was rumoured
among Mrs. Bloomfield s lodgers that
Miss Minsy was in receipt of a hand-
some income, and would inherit a
moderate fortune on the death of an
ancient relative in England, to whose
wealth she sometimes largely but
vaguely alluded. The evidence of her
supposed riches was not displayed upon
her person, for she condemned the
adventitious aids of fashion, and
curled up her pug-nose contemptuously
at the mere mention of hair-dye. She
had a fine scorn for barbaric pearl and
gold, believing loveliness, even scraggy
loveliness in its sere and yellow leaf,
when unadorned, to be adorned the
most.
Any extravagance of which Miss
Minsy was ever guilty was incurred on
behalf of her family of pets, consisting
of Rough, a snappish, underbred, rag-
ged poodle ; Minnie, a sleek tortoise-
shell cat, who studiously disregarding
the efforts of their boarders would lick
their plates at meals ; and Lesbia, a
o-ay-plumaged, talkative parrot, which
had been brought from the country by
Harry Wilmot, and eagerly accepted
by Miss Minsy.
Mr. Willick had been boarding at
Mrs. Bloomfield’s almost as long as
Miss Minsy. He was a tall, rather
good-lopking, elderly man. If any-
thing, he was even more sensitive on
the point of age than Miss Minsy her-
self. He tried to disguise the ravages
of time by dyeing his whiskers and
wearing a wig. And so far as


Miss Minsy was concerned, he was
successful in his innocent fraud. To
her vestal mind the thought had never
arisen that his head was absolutely
bald ! He was one of Mrs. Bloom-
field’s most quiet, orderly, and regular
boarders. He paid with a punctuality
that charmed his landlady. To others
in the house he was uniformly kind,
smiling, and bland—even to the much-
despised Rough, Minnie, and Lesbia,
he was considerate and mild. Not-
withstanding these numerous good
qualities, he had, as who has not ? his
failing. There are spots on the
sun and Willick, well, he was mer-
cenary.
For some time past it had been evi-
dent to the other boarders, and to
Miss Minsy herself, that Mr. Willick
was paying her undisguised attention.
There could hardly .be but one opinion
as to the motives by which he was
actuated. It was quite evident that
Mr. Willick saw clearly that the way
to Miss Minsy’s heart was through her
pets ; so, with a humanitarianism
worthy of a better cause, he fondled
the wretched little beasts, and made a
fond pretence that, next to their
charming mistress, they were the
darlings of his heart. Of his conduct
towards them, when their charming
mistress was not in the room, truth
compels us to state that it was not
characterised by that softness of dis-
position which rayed from him when
beneath the influence of Miss Minsy’s
eye [N.B.-She had two.] All this
kindness insensibly touched the old
lady, and she showed Mr. Willick such
a decided preference that he was em-
boldened to declare his passion, for
ah ! well, strict veracity makes us out
with it—for les beaux yeux de sa
cassette.
The particulars of his wooing would
probably have remained unknown to
Mrs. Bloomfield and her other lodgers
had it not been for the inordinate
curiosity of Miss Norton, who had
watched the every action of Mr. Wil-
lick in regard to Miss Minsy, as
eagerly as the cat watches the miser-
able mouse with which it makes
believe to play. One day, Mrs.
Bloomfield was busily engaged adding
up her accounts, when, without a warn-
ing knock, Miss Norton bounced into
her sanctum, with shining face, flushed
with excitement. “ Oh, Mrs Bloom-
field ! ” she exclaimed, breathlessly,
“ you will never never guess what has
happened! ”
“ If I can’t guess, you may as well
tell me,” she said quietly, not to say
acidly, as even sweet woman can at a
pinch.
“ Well, you will be astonished ! I
never would have believed it, never !
That Miss Minsy ! and Mr. Willick
such a gentlemanly man, too. She
shows her bad taste, in my opinion ;
and she won’t get such a chance*
again, never ! never ! ! ”
“ What, you don’t mean to say— ? ”
interrupted Mrs. Bloomfield, roused
out of her calmness.
Yes, Mrs, Bloomfield, I do mean
to say ! Went down on his bended
knees to her, actually! And she
wouldn’t listen to him. Turned her
deaf ear (the left one is deaf, you
know). Just fancy!” And Miss
Norton essayed to fancy what she
could do with a man on his bended
knees at her feet.
“How did you find out all this,
Miss Norton ? ” asked Mrs. Bloom-
field, with matronly austerity.
Miss Norton got a little redder in
in the face at this question, as indeed
Mrs. Bloomfield meant she should do.
Oih> you see, she said, apologeti-
caliy, “ I was just going out of Miss
Mmsy s room, when Mr. Willick
came up to the door, looking rather
confused, and said he had something
important to communicate to Miss
Mmsy in private. Of course I knew
what was coming, so I said, 4 You’ll
Mins y in there alone, Mr.
Willick ; ’ and then I shut the door on
them, and retired to the next room
They talked very loud, so that I could
not help hearing every word I
couldn’t really, Mrs. Bloomfield. First
•5 s wh .° was sitting as usual
with that odious parrot on her
shoulder, Rough on her lap, and with


Minnie beside her, said, ‘Pray, Mr.
Willick, may I ask the reason of this
visit? ’ ‘ Oh I’m sure, beloved Miss
Minsy ’ says Mr. Willick, ‘ you cannot
so long have remained ignorant of my
feelings towards you ; ’ he spoke quite
passionately, I assure you. Then I
heard a sort of hop, and—” here Miss
Norton coloured again, and looked
somewhat ashamed of herself. She
soon recovered herself, and con-
tinued— ‘ ‘ I really could not resist the
temptation of looking through the
keyhole. There was Mr. Willick on
his knees, before Miss Minsy, trying to
seize her hand, but being so near-
sighted, you know, he only caught
Hough’s paw, ancf was snapped at for
his pains. ‘Miss Minsy ! Belinda !’
he cried (though how he knew her
name I can’t tell) ‘ I lay my heart and
fortune at your feet. Say that you 11
be mine, dearest, sweetest, best; only
say you’ll be mine, and make your
Willick the happiest and most envied
of his sex.’ ”
u Dear me ! that was really touch-
ing, wasn’t it?” put in Mrs. Bloom-
held, as Miss Norton paused to take
breath. “ And what did Miss Minsy
reply V'
“Oh!” cried Miss Norton, “I’ve
only just come to the point of my
story. At the moment Mr. Willick
laid his heart and fortune at Miss
Minsy’s feet, that wicked Lesbia laid
her beak and claws at Mr. Willick’s
head—at his wig.”
“ His wig T screamed Mrs. Bloom-
held, interrogatively.
“ His wig,” replied Miss Norton.
She immediately added, “And, O
Mrs. Bloomfield, you should have seen
Miss Minsy’s face when she saw the
glossy baldness of Mr. Willick’s pate.
She put on her most majestic frown,
and said, ‘ Pise, Mr. Willick, from
your knees. An accident has revealed
to me your true character. To have
come, at your age, with such language
to me ! I may forgive, but I cannot
forget. ’ By the time Miss Mmsy had
got so far, Mr. Willick was on his feet
Mio-ht he be somethinged, he said, it
a vTretched brute of a parrot had ever
placed gentleman in such predicament
before. Miss Minsy curtsied, and
stroked her Lesbia. This was too
much for poor Mr. Willick ; so, with a
startling abruptness, excusable perhaps
to a rejected suitor with a bald head
and his wig in his hand, he left the
room.
“ I am surprised certainly, said
Mrs. Bloomfield. “ I wonder if that
was Miss Minsy’s real reason for re-
fusing him—his wearing a wig V’
“ Yes,” answered Miss Norton, “ it
really was, for I went to Miss Minsy
afterwards, and said to her, ‘ Dear
Miss Minsy, you look agitated. I
hope Mr. Willick did not bring you
bad news.’ ‘ It’s Mr. Willick him-
self,’ she said. 'He has had the
impudence, the effrontery, to ask me
to marry him. As if I ever could
surrender my freedom to a man w r ho
is old enough to be my father and who
wears a wig. What! imperil the happi-
ness of my sweet Rough and Minnie
by becoming the slave of a man ; and
what’s more, of a bald-headed man ? ”
“Your story is most interesting,
indeed, Miss Norton, but really you
must excuse me, I have „all these
accounts to add up, and
“Oh, Mrs. Bloomfield, dear, Ira
sure 1 didn’t know you were busy,”
and Miss Norton rose and left the
room with a half-offended air, for she
would gladly have remained another
hour or two to talk over the wonderful
event.
That evening, at dinner, Mr. YV il-
licit announced his intention of leaving
for Melbourne at the end of the ensu-
ing week, adding, with considerable
emphasis, that he would explain to
Mrs. Bloomfield his reasons for going
away so suddenly.
During the next two days every-
thing went on very quietly. Miss
Minsy only emerged from her room
at meal-times, of course accompanied
by her pets. Mr. Willick seemed
quite castdown and preoccupied ; Miss
Norton talkative and inquisitive.
On the third evening, in the middle
of dinner, everyone was much as-
tonished to see the lovely Lesbia leave


her mistress’s shoulder, and fly across
the table- to Mr. Willick, exclaiming
very distinctly, “ Where did your
hair grow V at the same time seizing
that gentleman’s wig by a graceful
curl and flying off again triumphantly
with one of Campbell’s most stylish
perruqnes in her beak ! At the sight
of the unfortunate man’s bald head
and frantic indignation, the others
found it impossible to restrain their
merriment.
Mr. Willick, his face purple with
rage, his body quivering with wrath,
rushed from the room, not even wait-
ing to recover his much-cherished wig,
under the belief that this object
lesson had been purposely taught for
his discomfiture.
However, the next day he appeared
to have forgotten all about the un-
happy episode, and sent most polite
invitations to Mrs. Bloomfield, Miss
Minsy, and Miss Norton to accompany
him the following afternoon for a drive
to the South Head, and afterwards to
honor him with their company at a
little farewell supper which he pro-
posed to give them at Compagnoni’s.
The ladies, after some consultation,
agreed that they could not refuse such
an invitation, and accordingly sent
answers in the affirmative. The next
afternoon was delightful, such as we
sometimes have at the close of sum-
mer, so Mr. Willick thought it best to
delay the drive till the evening breeze
had sprung up. Miss Minsy would
have liked to take her pets with her,
but was afraid of the night air for
them, so reluctantly left them at
home. The drive was very pleasant,
Mr. Willick being even more than
ordinarily lively and agreeable, and
all the ladies most amiably disposed.
They drove straight from the South
Head to Compagnoni’s, where they
found the two Wilmots awaiting
them. &
Shortly after their arrival, a most
elegant repast was served up for them.
According to the menu , the main
elements of the repast were—
Potage a la Heine
Poulet a la Marengo
Cotelettes de veau au Maitre d'Hotel
The table was pleasantly decorated
with fruit. Champagne bottles peeped
from an ice-cooler beside the table.
Mr. Willick enacted the part of host
with graceful ease and self-possession.
His guests did ample justice to the
good things submitted to them. Mr.
Willick declared he was too much
moved by the contemplation of his
approaching departure from a spot
endeared' to him by so many fond
recollections to have any appetite.
He trifled with some fruit, and neg-
lected the dishes. Miss Minsy felt
her powers, and the thought gave her
such zest for her supper that she made
a hearty meal, and only regretted that
her pets were not with her to be par-
takers of the delicacies provided by
the bald-headed man.
The steamer in which Mr. Willick
was to start for Melbourne did not
leave till a late hour that night, for
the convenience of visitors to the
Exhibition, so Mr. Willick had just
time to drive his guests home and bid
them a very hurried farewell at the
door, before going on board.
On entering the house, Miss Minsy
was about to rush upstairs to inspect
her darlings, when the housemaid,
looking rather nervous and confused,
presented her with a little note and
said, “ I was to give this to you, Miss,
as soon as you came home.”
Miss Minsy hastily tore open the
note, glanced at its contents, and with
a piercing shriek fell fainting on the
floor. Strong smelling-salts were im-
mediately applied, both by Mrs.
Bloomfield and Miss Norton, while
George Wilmot seized a tumbler full
of water which stood near, and dashed
its contents in her face. These reme-
dies soon restored Miss Minsy to con-
sciousness.
On coming to, she shrieked out:
“ Oh, that bald-headed fiend ! Bough,
my angel ! My darling Minnie !
Lesbia ! Lesbia !- ah ! oh, oh, oh !”
“What’s the matter?” cried a
chorus of voices.
“The wretch !” shrieked Miss Minsy,
pointing to the letter the servant had
just given her, and which lay on the
floor at her feet.


Mrs. Bloomfield took the note and
read as follows :
“ Mr. Willick’s respectful compliments
to Miss Minsy. He trusts that she en-
joyed her supper this evening. Tt was
a supper of no common kind, though he
(the giver) says so. The soup, ala Reine,
which she had evidently so enjoyed,
might, perhaps, more correctly have
been named —potage a la Rough. The
povlet , whose merrythought she had
picked with those charming fingers, was
Lesbia a la perruque ; the bones of the
cotelettes she had deigned to approve of, I
had once served as ribs to Mr. W.’s old
pet, dear Minnie 1 In giving her these
particulars, and begging to be permitted
to thank her for her courteous reception
of him on, perchance, the most fortu-
nate day of his life, he subscribes him-
self her very humble servant,
“W. WILLICK.”
The shocking tidings contained in
this note turned out to be too true ;
for, on search being made, no trace
could be found of the unfortunate ani-
mals, and the housemaid subsequently
confessed to Mrs. Bloomfield that Mr.
Willick had bribed her handsomely to
give them to the messenger he should
send for them.
Miss Minsy’s grief, at the cruel fate
of her darlings, was excessive; and
Mr. Willick, could he only have seen
her pale, dejected countenance and
altered aspect, would have been satis-
fied that he had indeed succeeded m
accomplishing a Terrible Revenge !
THE CHRISTIAN’S CHOICE
Scene : Madagascar.
« Only deny Him ! Own thy people’s
God,
And gaily quaff life’s roseate cup of
joy.
See yon blue smoke. It eddies
o’er thy roof;
It hovers o’er thy heart’s best trea-
sury ;
It marks the spot where tender in-
fants weep,
Because a mother lingers to come
home.
Wilt thou alone seek bliss—if death
be bliss —-
For own a crucified dead Jew thy
God,
And look for nought but death’s
bare agony ?
Gaze, if thou can’st, below ! Those
splinter’d rocks,
Battered in conflict with the thun-
dering surge,
Are soft enough to bed blaspheming
fools
Who, wiser than their fathers, trust
a god
Deaf to their prayers, and impotent
to save ! ”
“ Only deny Him ! Is He deaf to
hear ?
And can His pierced hands not
reach to save ?
Is home not sweet? Ye babes,
have ye no claim ?
How my hot life-blood races through
my frame !
How bright the sun ! How balmy
breathes the air !
The waves leap merrily : glad swal-
lows cleave
The quivering sunshine. Life is
beautiful !
“ Must a mere word decide? May
I not yield,
And serve in secret? Is it right to
die ?
A lip-denial sure may serve ray
turn,
And leave my heart more time to
work for Him !
“Only deny Him! O, weak fool,
to doubt!
What are His own dear words ?
‘ If you deny
Me before men, I also will deny
You before God.’ Soul, wilt thou
then deny,


And lose the ceaseless life before the
throne,
Through dread of the brief pang
that leads to it ?
u O God, in my extremity give
grace
To rise triumphant—more than con-
queror.
Oh ! keep my babes beneath Thy
loving wings—
Farewell, sweet darlings ! Jesu, be
their guide.
Be nearer than their mother, whose
fond heart
Had well-nigh bartered heaven for
one kiss!
Thou loved’st little ones—oh ! suffer
them
To rest beneath the shelter of those
arms
Whose outstretched agony redeemed
the world !
Nearer than I ! Thou knowest, O,
dear Christ,
How well I Jove them ; yet I love
Thee more.
The snare was baited well, thou
cunning fiend ;
But Christ is Light, Love, Wisdom
—Everything !
Hear, then, my choice— l own the
Crucified !
Father, forgive them !
Christ ”
The words dissolve
(But not the prayer of all reposing
trust)
In one wiid shriek of mortal agony
Frailty s last sob ere strength be
perfected—
Soirow s last thorn ere tearless joy
begins—
Fears final thrill ere love be all in
all.
*****
Below —A dark spot on the cruel
rocks,
With screaming sea-birds circling
round their prey.
A hove —A white soul entered into rest,
’Mid shoutings of Salvation to the
Lamb. S.
TO MISS N. S. W.
ON HER
NINETIETH BIRTHDAY.
In a land of fabulous golden mines,
Where the sun with intolerant fury
shines,
A maiden in indolent ease reclines—
A maid in her ninetieth year ;
And the live-long day her wool entwines
With bridal blossoms and corn and vines,
Nor recks of a lover near.
Two grizzly old Knights have tilted
amain,
They’ve fought for this maiden again and
again ;
But they’ve tilted, and twisted, and
tourneyed in vain :
She’s jilted them both at last.
She’ll listen no more to the plausible
twain,
For she knows it was only her money to
gain
They clung to her side so fast.
Now, this maiden is young—as I men-
tioned before—
Falls short of a hundred by just half a
score;
Votes schooling a nuisance, deportment a
bore.
For an heiress to fret what need ?
Give her dancing, and dollies and lollies
galore,
Then leave her alone, and she’ll ask
nothing more
Than a laissez faire life to lead.
But though she has sent her old suitors
away,
And prefers to be free, independent, and
gay,
A change must come over this maiden
some day,
And open her sleepy, blue eyes.
The claims of affection she’ll have to
obey,
Of duties domestic acknowledge the sway,
And learn to be steady and wise.
Young Australia.


THE WAR NEWS
This week the war news may be
easily summarised. In Asia, the
operations of the Russians have
been confined to siege operations
against Erzeroum. In Europe,
A drianople has been evacuated by
the Turks, who are retiring en masse
upon the lines of Tchataldchi, to
the north-west of Constantinople.
The southern march of the .Russian
troops has been marked by general
success along the whole line of their
advance. Amongst the minor war
incidents of the past week must be
noted the surrender of Baker Pasha,
with several thousand Osrnanli. The
evacuation of A drianople is said to
be due to the orders of the Turkish
envoy, specially charged to the Rus-
sian head-quarters to treat for an
armistice, and who, having been
given to understand distinctly by
the Russian Commander-in Chief,
Nicholas, that the sole basis of an
armistice was the surrender of that
city, and that of Erzeroum as well,
gave the necessary command. It is
said that Austria and Germany ap-
prove of those conditions. England,
however —at least the English
Government —appears to be ex-
tremely jealous of the Russian suc-
cess, and unmistakeable action has
already been taken to show that the
Beaconsfield Cabinet are determined
that Constantinople shall not fall
without Great Britain having a say
in the matter. England has for-
mally demanded a Conference for
the consideration of the Eastern
Question, and has intimated that if
the Great Powers do not see their
way to the holding of one, she will
place her forces on a war footing,
and defend her own interests outside
of treaty obligations.
It appears to us that the war, as
between Russia and Turkey, may
be said to be over. If an armistice
is arranged it will be as a prelimi-
nary to peace ; if not, the continua-
tion of the struggle is certain not to
be left to the hands of the original
combatants. England must inter-
fere if C n>tantinople be threatened.
And the movement of England will
render it necessary for Austria,
Germany, and Italy, to make up
their minds as to the part they in-
tend to play in the next act of that
most, intricate drama, “ The Eastern
Question.”
TOWN GOSSIP.
What ! another vote of censure;
another illustration of the fable of
the dog in the manger !
Wasn’t it Mr. Alexander Stuart who,
but a short time ago, was entrusted by his
Excellency with the task of forming a
Ministry and who failed in the attempt l
Wasn’t it Mr. Stuart who declined offers
to take a portfolio from Sir Henry, and
also from Sir John ? Is it envy of Mr.
Farnell for his success in achieving
what Mr. Stuart was unable to effect,
that has urged the latter to make this
factious attempt to upset the State
coach yet once more ?
We believe that we only express the
general feeling outside the House, in
stating that the vote of censure is un-
called for, impolitic, and injurious to
the interests of the colony.
The Premier, if we view his course
of procedure, has put forth a modest
and sensible programme. He proposes,
in the first place, to put the finance
question on a proper and legitimate
footing, by bringing the estimates for-
ward at once, and to do away with the
necessity (the result of continued idle
charges against each Ministry, such as
Mr. Stuart is now bringing forward)
of introducing monthly supply bills ;
also a biff to remedy the deficiencies
of the present Electoral Act, . m
order that the country may be fairly
represented, and then to adjourn
for a short recess ; when the Amended
Land Bill, the “teterrima causa belli ,


will come on for discussion, and a few
other measures of urgent importance to
the community at large shall have
been matured.
This is exactly what the country re-
quires. More than that could not
have been expected, and the Ministry,
in placing their views before the
House, have shown that they appre-
ciated the exigencies of the situation.
Surely some grave reason only should
have been sufficient to warrant the
stoppage of public business at this
critical juncture—some reason stronger
than the general charge of dissatisfac-
tion, prepared by a member who has
been for the last six months on the
point of leaving for England, and who
has apparently only delayed his depar-
ture for the purpose of bringing about
a general embroglio.
The member for East Sydney may
have followed a constitutional course
in advancing this want of confidence
motion ; that is to say, he may not
have departed from the Parliamentary
formulae which have to be observed on
such occasions ; but he has taken a
step which cannot be justified by those
who have the true interests of New
South Wales at heart, and who admire
above all things fair play. He has
hit his opponent before he has had
time to strip. The attack on the
Government should have been made
when the obnoxious measure, what-
ever it may be, was submitted,
and not because of any laches
on the part of Mr. Farnell and
his colleagues, either past and con-
doned, or yet to be developed. It
may well be asked—When is this idle
playing at legislation to cease ? If it
do not come to an end very soon, we
shall soon be without a Government of
any kind ; for it seems that, in this
colony, responsible Ministers only
occupy the undignified position of
ninepins, to be knocked over as soon
as they are set up, by anyone who has
the privilege of a shy at them, at
£l5OO a throw.
During the short time the present
Premier has been in office, he has
given evidence of sound views upon
one question at least, and that an im-
portant one. He has not shirked to
express himself in favor of immigra-
tion ; and he hit the nail on the head
in pointing out that the evil—if evil
there be—lies not in the number of
immigrants introduced, but in the
selection of certain skilled operatives
for whom the colony does not offer
constant employment.
We must either have been exceed-
ingly extravagant last year, or the new
Government are showing a rare turn
for economy, since their estimates of
probable expenditure for this year are
less than those for 1877 by no less
than £827,506 7s. Bd.
NECK AND NOTHING.
There was held, on Thursday even'
ing, a meeting of certain adven-
turous spirits bent upon forming
a party to explore the wilds of
New Guinea. It was, we believe,
held at the well-known hotel in
George Street, the Swan with Two
iVecks, an appropriate rendezvous for
persons employed in such a neck or
nothing adventure. In such a des-
perate undertaking a spare neck is a
thing not to be sneezed at.
We were not present at the
meeting, but have succeeded in
obtaining the following particulars
fro n our clairvoyant reporter.
Howe Green, Esq., presided,
and stated that the object of the
meeting was to consider the propriety
of chartering a vessel to New
Guinea in order to open up the
goldfields of that country. He had
lately received a visit from a Mr.
Windbag, who had volunteered a
great deal of information on the
subject, and had brought with him
some valuable specimens which con-
tained mundic, iron pyrites and mica.
He would not pledge himself to
the statement that they contained
gold, but they might. In fact, he


hoped they did (specimens exhibited).
It was well known that gold was
first discovered in this colony by a
shepherd, who, while tending his
sheep on the bank of Louisa Creek,
actually sat upon a large boulder
containing <£4,000 worth of gold, for
weeks, without being aware of its
value till a black-fellow put him up
to it. Now it was a singular coin-
cidence that there were plenty of
black-fellows in New Guinea, plenty
of gullies, and plenty of boulders,
ai:d why should there not be plenty
ot gold. The thing, to his comprehen-
sion, was as clear as mud in a wine-
glass —(loud cheers).
Mr. Underlay asked whether
quartz-reefing was a profitable occu-
pation in New Guinea, and whether
it 1 equired deep sinking, because if
so there was probably a great deal
more in it than appeared on the
surface.
The Chairman said that several
reefs were marked on the chart, and
a number of persons had sunk on
them at different times, with what
result he was unable to say. There
was a large barrier reef running
north and south just off the coast.
Whether it was a gold barrier reef
or not he could not say.
Mr. Feltspar wished to know
whether a golden reef had actually
been discovered in New Guinea or
not.
The Chairman replied that a
Goldie reef had been found.
Mr. H. Swag said that he and his
partner had attended every rush
since the first discovery of gold in
California, and they were not going
to be put off by any one. For his
part, he did not care whether there
was any gold or not. H e was
“ on ” for one. With regard to the
scarcity of tucker, he was not at all
afraid. He could manage, on a
push, for a fortnight on a kangaroo
rat and a fig of tobacco.
Mr. Cornish (who spoke in a
minor key) was understood to say
that be had made up his mind to
take his passage to the new gold-
field and put down one or two shafts
at any rate, if he could get a hacker.
He hoped the regulations would
be of a liberal character, and that
the claims would be taken up on the
4-peg system.
A stranger here got up and observed
“ that all is not gold that glitters.”
The best way to test the specimens
exhibited would be to give them to
the landlord and see how far they
would go in glasses round —(cheers).
Professor Schist wished to
caution his enthusiastic friends
against the rush to New Guinea on
the slight information obtained.
He had heard a miner present hum-
ming the words
“ I’d rather have a guinea than a one-
pound note.”
but was the guinea so available as
the pound note 1 He would reply,
in the words of Dr. Watts :
“ A bird in hand is better far
Than two what in the bushes are.”
The specimens submitted to him were
undoubtedly metalliferous and con-
tained mundic, pyrites, silver and gold.
The former could be seen with half-
an eve —either half—the latter was
visible only through a powerful mi-
croscope. Still it was “ all ” there.
The country about New Guinea was,
he had heard, rather swampy, but
then there was plenty of timber,
which was an advantage, as it would
| enable a digger to cut his stick at
I any time—(sensation).
Mr. Holdback said that he was a
I member of the political reform asso-


ciation, and there could be no doubt
that things had come to a terrible
pass in New South Wales. He
should like to know whether there
would be any protective policy in
relation to the savages of New
Guinea. How about free trade
Were there any bloated aristocrats
there who encouraged immigration
at the expense ot the working man 1
Dr. ■ was desirous of cor-
recting a statement made by the
chairman as to the extraordinary
discovery of gold made by a black-
fellow in this country. The thing
was not at ali extraordinary : it had
happened scores of times. He found,
in one of Horace’s Odes, that the
shepherds of his day used to pros-
pect the gullies systematically while
their flocks were grazing—
A.ut in reducta valle mugientium
Prospectat errantes greges.”
The only novelty would be the dis-
covery that Goldie’s goldfield con-
tained gold.
Mr. H. 0. File said that before
he took any part in the venture he
would like to see the specimens
subjected to assay. They might
turn out not to be worth a carrot
—(groans).
[The meeting here got very
excited. Our reporter did not stay
any longer for fear the complaint
should be catching.]
ET CETERA.
On the afternoon of the 2nd February
there will be an annular eclipse of the
sun, visible as a partial one over the
whole of Australia, with the exception of
the north eastern coast districts. The
central line passes through Tasmania
and near the South Pole. At Sydney the
eclipse commences at thirty-one minutes
past six p.m. ; and the sun will set
eclipsed with rather more than half its
diameter covered by the moon. In the
western districts of the colony more of
the eclipse will be seen than in Sydney.
An annular (ring-like) eclipse occurs when
the sun and moon, being in conjunction,
the greatest distance of the moon’s
shadow falls short of the earth. Under
these circumstances the sun cannot be
altogether hid from the vision of earth’s
denizens, but will be seen with the moon
projected as a black disc against the
middle of the sun’s disc, the unobscured
solar surface gleaming like a ring (annu-
lus) of light.
The New South Wales telegraph autho-
rities report a series of successful tele-
phone experiments conducted between
Sydney and West Maitland, over 140
miles of wire.
Barracks are to be erected at Pore Said,
Egypt, for the accommodation of 33,000
Anglo-Indian troops.
The Attorney-General has declined to
prosecute in the case of Professor Wells,
the aeronaut.
At their half-yearly meeting, held last
week, the proprietors of the Commercial
Bank adopted the directors’ report, which
announced inter alia the payment of divi-
dend for the half year at the rate of 25
per cent, per annum.
The results of the past year’s inquests
for the city of Sydney may be thus sum-
marised Accidents, 35; apoplexy, 5;
accidental poisoning, 2 ; burns, 2; cancer,
1 ; congestion of brain, 3 ; drowning, 43 ;
disease of lungs, brought on by exposure,
1 ; drink, 1 ; haemorrhage, 2 ; heart dis-
ease, 5 ; inhaling chloroform, 1 ; inflam-
mation of kidneys, 1 ; murder, 6 ; natu-
ral causes, 32 ; open verdicts, 5 ; over-
laying, 2 ; peritonitis, 1 ; still birth, 1 ;
suffocation, 3 ; suicide, 16 ; sunstroke, 1.
The anti-immigration memorial, pre-
sented by the Working Men’s Defer ce
Association to the Premier, on the loth,
contained the subjoined paragraph—a
fair sample of the style and logic of the
whole document “ That the Australian
colonies stand alone in the manner by
which they recklessly glut their labour
market, in defiance of all law of supply or
demand, by paying for that which natu-
rally would pay for itself and all con-
cerned ; instead of. as at present, making
the rich richer, by making the poor
poorer, with certain cumulative miseries
for the future in Drospective.”
Mr. Day’s Albury constituents are about
to present him with a full length portrait
of himself, at a cost of £2OO.


Dean Sheridan, R.C., thus alluded to
the late Canon Yidal, C. 8., at the annual
meeting of the Benevolent Society
“The late Rev. Mr. Yidal was a kind-
hearted, large-hearted man. He belonged
to a school of theology that he r gretted
was rapidly passing away. He was not
only kind-hearted, but he was liberal
minded. He was large in all his views;
he took a comprehensive and liberal view
on matters that passed before them, and
his was an example for them all to follow
in that respect and in many others. He
regretted that the duty of paying a tribute
to the memory of these good men had not
fallen into abler hands thau his, or to
those who would do it more justice.
During 1877,2782 persons were relieved
by the benevolent Society at a cost of
£743.
During 1877, 169 women (41 of whom
were married) were accouched at the
lying-in department of the Benevolent
Society. „ . T
Servant girlism .—Mistress.— But 1
thought you were very comfortable,
Mary.” Mary.— 1 “ Yes, mem, but the young
man as keeps company with me thiLks
there’s too many gentlemen visitors comes
here, and they might wean me from his
young affections : So, with your permis-
sion, I will not be a medium for conten-
tion!”—Melbourne Punch.
The Queenslander says “ Some of our
boys have recently been distinguishing
themselves in Sydney. A young hopeful
saw, in George-street, a placard in a con-
fectioner’s shop announcing ‘ sugarsticks,
five for four-pence.’ ‘ Five sticks for four-
pence ! ’ cries young Queensland, why,
that’s four sticks for three-pence, three
sticks for two-pence, two sticks for one
penny, one stick for nothing ! I say,
mister, hand us one stick.’ The confec-
tioner ‘ didn’t see it.’” _ .
The Ipswich Observer says that Poly-
nesian labour is a form of slave traffic to
be dealt with by a sweeping measure ot
extirpation, not by delusive shams of im-
potent prohibitions.
The London School Board have intro-
duced electricity and telegraphs as
branches of education in the schools under
its supervision. „ „
The Liverpool Chamber of Commerce
urge the Home Government to appoint a
commission to report upon measures cal-
culated to prevent famine in India, and
especially to direct their enquiries as to
the value of irrigation and water transit
works.
Gavan Dufiy is credited with having
instigated Berry to start the Victorian
crisis. . .
The Colorado beetle has not arrived m
New Zealand ; neither have we observed
his name in the list of arrivals at Pfah-
lert’s or Petty’s.
Cornwell, Mixher, and Co. have secured
the contract for the railway works from
Wagga Wagga to Albury. Distance, 77£
miles ; figure, £263,655.
A. Morris is not to go to Paris after
all.
On dit that another muff cricket match
is on the tapis. The original Ashfield
eleven having been resting cn their laurels
since last season, resolved at a recent
meeting to assert their claim to the muff
championship of the colony by sending
forth challenges right and left to all comers.
The Manly Beach muffs have been the
first to respond, and in their usual manly
way have taken up the gauntlet and in-
vited the challengers to hold their own,
if they can, in a contest to come off on
Saturday, 2nd prox. The wickets will be
pitched on the sands at low-water mark
not 100 miles off Lambourne’s Hotel, and
the visitors will partake of a sumptuous
luncheon on the sand which is there.
The muffs of Manly have a notion that
the tide in the affairs of cricketers will
turn on this occasion to the discomfort of
their opponents. We shall see.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
We are always glad to receive con-
tributions in the shape of good tales,
local sketches, and humorous articles.
G.S.— In our next. .
Miss Sara C.—lt is our pleasing duty
to inform you that the prize offered in
our last issue for the best review of
the first number of “ Sydney Once a
Week,” in the form of an acrostic on
the title, has been awarded to you,
and may be had on application. e
publish the acrostic in another column.
Metropolitan.— You have spelt the
word incorrectly. There are thirty
more words than you have given.
Lyric. —Declined with thanks.
Business.- Our terms for advertise-
ments and subscriptions are published
in the first page of this number.


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“ Sydney Once a Week.” —lt is a neat,
well-printed little pamphlet, containing
twenty-four pages of reading matter, which
consists of short original papers, written
in a light free style, and of a few extracts
from other publications. Its purpose is
to give its readers “ a good sixpenny worth
of literary pabulum, composed of ingre-
dients at once sparkling, amusing, and
original, and so arranged as to avoid a
suspicion of dulness.” Taken as a whole,
the magazine, which is edited by Mr. C.
H. Barlee, is a very creditable produc-
tion, as well to the publishers as to the
authors, and if conducted according to the
plan indicated in the few words above
quoted, it will be an acceptable addition
to our colonial literature.—£. M. Herald.
The Echo says:—lt is a very read-
able publication, and, while it cannot
aspire to rank as the equal of the
most popular English magazines, it de-
serves to find favour on account of the
local interest which attaches to its papers.
The original papers, of which there are
several, are written in a light, easy style,
and with considerable ability. We should
like to see the magazine prove to be a
success, for the desirableness of building
up a respectable colonial literature will
hardly be denied by any one, and the
establishment of a good magazine is one
of the means towards that end. The
publishers, Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and
Co., are entitled to commendation for the
admirable way in which they have got up
the magazine.— Echo.
The New Magazine. — Sydney Once a
Week Magazine for Town and Country
Readers is the title of a new weekly, edited
byMr.C. H. Barlee, issued from the Sydney
Press, which bids fair to secure a good
share of public support. Its moderate
price, its handiness, the entertaining
reading it affords, and the concise, pleasing
manner in which the various topics of the
day are touched in its columns, must
naturally render the Sydney Once a Week
a welcome visitor in every house and an
agreeable companion to every reader.—
Southern Argus , (Goulburn.)
“ Sydney Once a Week,” a magazine
bearing the above title, has made its
appearance in our city. It is edited
by Mr. Barlee, formerly a member of
the literary staff of the Melbourne Argus,
and a humourist of some note. The
work contains sketches, tales, and articles,
along with the usual miscellanea of a
magazine. Judging by the contents of
the first number, we think the maga-
zine stands a better chance of succeeding
than many of those publications which
are born but to die, and which in some
cases are disgraceful to the literary efforts
of our city. —Evening News.
The Singleton Argus says:—The num-
ber is very readable, is well printed by
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co., and
contains a varied selection of original
and extract matter. We ' wish the
proprietor every success with his ven-
ture, and trust that his efforts will do
something more substantial to encourage
a taste for colonial literature than those
of others who have trodden in the same
uncertain path, have succeeded in doing.
We hail with pleasure all respectable
efforts to establish a republic of letters
in this colony, which at present is too
much confined in its patronage to
newspaper literature only. Mr. Barlee’s
venture is the best effort in this direction
that we have seen for some time.—Single-
ton Argus.
“ Once a Week.”— Under the title of
“ Sydney Once a Week,” the first number
of a neatly got-up octavo of over thirty
pages has just been issued. It is edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, who is, we under-
stand, assisted by a numerous staff of able
contributors. The contents of this new
publication are varied and interesting—
too varied, in our opinion, for the space
at the disposal of the editor. If we may
be permitted to offer a suggestion with
regard to the future, we would recommend
that everything in the shape of “news”
items should be omitted. We heartily
wish the proprietors success in their
undertaking, and certainly are of opinion
that the excellence of “Once a Week”
well deserves it. —Yass Courier.
The contents of the new venture give
promise of a deserved success, should it
ever be attained. There is an attractive
variety about the articles, and the tastes
of every class of readers are consulted.
Thus we have a trenchant article, short
and pithy, on the political status in quo,
a couple of spirited domestic sketches,
some comic matter, and some chapters
especially intended for boys. Among the
last is a scholarly commentary on a
passage from the “Paradise Lost,”—
intended for the use of University candi-
dates—a clever set of recurrent verses in
Latin, and an enigma in French. The
palindrome and the enigma are an im-
mense improvement on the foolish ana-


grams and sphinx-like puzzles which
usually fill this department of our
current literature, and should commend
the production to parents. We hope the
new organ will enjoy a longer term
of existence than some of its pre-
decessors. —Namoi Independent.
This serial contains well written papers
and sketches, entitled “The Public
Health,” “Muff Cricketing,” “ Best Dog
in the colony,” and a general summary of
the Busso-Turkish War. Altogether
Once a Week promises well; and without
country readers (who will probably
support it best), the 170,000 residents of
Sydney should keep it going—but we
doubt it. The prize is 6d., and the
publishing office 279 George-street,
Sydney. Molong Express.
Once a Week. —This is the title of a new
pamphlet, edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, of
Sydney. We have received a copy and
were highly amused, as well as enter-
tained, with the writings ; there is such a
versatility about them that all must be
pleased. It is notified that a summary
of the events of the present war will be
given for the accommodation of _ its
readers, and so do away with the tedious
task of perusing the complications daily
appearing in our metropolitan journals.
Among numerous articles, in various
strains, there is a very humorous writing,
entitled “ My Balloon Adventure;” but
to our fancy, the most amusing is one
called “The best dog in the colony.”
There is a very good article, termed
“ Et cetera,” whieh gives an abstract of
the events of the week. In next issue a
story will be commenced, under the im-
pressive heading of “ The Mystery of the
Wiseman’s Ferry Boad.” It is a useful,
handy, little book, and well worth
patronage. The price is sixpence.— The
Australian.
The Moruya Examiner says:—We have
looked the book carefully through and
can confidently recommend it to our
readers and predict its success.
The new candidate for public favour
contains a number of smartly written
original articles and some well-selected
extract matter. It is got up in good
style, and well printed, containing
twenty-four demy octavo pages. —Albury
Jj CLTVttCT,
The new publication is both instructive
and entertaining: it is deserving of a
good circulation. —Border Post (Albury.)
The new publication is both well got
up and very readable. —Western Post
(Mudgee).
The Bathurst Free Press says It con-
tains a large quantity of interesting
reading matter—grave, gay, ponderous,
and light. The editorship is evidently in
good hands, and if the editor’s hopes are
realized the paper will take its place with
“ The pleasant books that silently among
Our household treasures take familiar places,
And are to us as if,a living tongue ff
Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces.
For he makes his bold assertion : “We
shall do our best to force ourselves into
notice, and to compel attention.” Once a
Week is well worth the sixpence that is
charged for the single copy.
Another attempt has been made to
establish a literary magazine in Sydney.
The new venture takes the title of the
Sydney “ Once a Week.” Its type dress
is admirable, but then the printers are
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co. The
number before us very fairly sustains the
aim stated, and we shall be glad to see the
magazine prosper. —Maitland Mereury .
