

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. H. BARLEE.
No. 23, V"ol. L]
JUNE 22, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
Day op
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High
Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets,
Sydney
Cove
June
22
Sat
Governor Hotham arrived in Melbourne, 1854.
7. 6
4.57
12.53 p.m.
23
S
1st S unday after Trinity. Moon’s last quarter, 5.20
7. 6
4.57
1.37 pan.
24
M
am.
St. John Baptist. Equity Appeals.
7. 7
4.57
2.29 pjn.
25
Tu
Equity Appeals. Battle of Bannockburn, 1314.
7. 7
4.58
3.32 p.m.
26
W
Equity Appeals. Great flood at Gundagai, 1852.
7. 7
4.58
4.42 p.m.
27
Th
Equity Appeals. Massacre at Cawnpore, 1857.
7. 7
4.58
5.47 p.m.
28
P
Trickett beat Sadler, 1876.
Mail via Suez due Sydney. Queen Victoria crowned.
7. 7
4.59
6.44 p.m.
1838.
AGENTS will oblige by forwarding returns immediately after receipt of
accounts rendered from this office.
Remittances, if by P. O. Order, to be made payable to C. H. Barlee,
Sydney.
NARROW GROOVES.
We shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.B.—Advertisements for “ SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK ” wiU be received up to ten o’clock on
Thursday morning.
Wotton’s time-honoured joke about
ambassadors and their duties may be
fairly enough applied to colonial
governors and the functions required
of them, since, if ever Crown ser-
vants are sent abroad to lie for the
supposed good of the imperial com-
monweal, these latter are most as-
suredly of the number. There are
democrats who are fond of speaking
of the gubernatorial office as a snug
sinecure, giving its fortunate occu-
pant theright to dance before the public


the stately sarabande of fine old Eng-
lish gentleman, gorgeously arrayed
in a Windsor uniform, and benefi-
cently dowered with a comfortable
annual “ screw.” These ultra-liberals
either forget or ignore the fact that
the governor of a constitutional
colony has once or twice a year to
attend in the state Council Chamber
for the express purpose of delivering
a speech in which blarney, blowing,
and profanity, have been duly min-
gled by his advisers—and with intent
to deceive. As eels get accustomed
to skinning, so do governors, we
doubt not, get case-hardened to the
delivery of perfidious vice-regal
speeches ; but at first to an ingenious
mind, the ceremonial task of speak-
ing fulsome nothings and plausible
untruths must be intolerably irksome,
even though the doing it eniitles one
to sport oak leaves on one’s cuffs and
collar, to be kootooed to as the
keystone of the social fabric, and to
pocket several thousands a year !
Poor Sir Hercules Robinson, during
his five years of experience in New
South Wales, has opened some six
or seven sessions of Parliament: on
each occasion being made the mouth-
piece of one or another set of minis-
ters. He has had to regret the
unusual length of sessions, to con-
nect the prosperity of the colony
with the heaven-born genius of
Parkes, or the political tact of
Robertson, to promise thoroughly
searching reforms in every direction,
and comprehensive legislation on
every question, and to record, per ad-
venture, (with thanks to an over-
ruling Providence) the triumphant
passing of—a Temporary Supply Bill.
And he has had to do this in words
which he must have felt were inten-
tionally delusive. He has been made
the medium of promising the people
such good things as these: —Elec-
toral Reform, (for both Upper and
Lower Chambers,) the Amendment
of the Education Act, so as to bring
education home to every unit of the
population, Municipal Reform, a
Health Act, a practical Mining Act,
Civil Service Reform, (with a just
Superannuation System), Public
Charities Reform, a Volunteer Dis-
cipline Act, the Consolidation of the
Public Debt, a Parliamentary Privi-
leges Definition Act, the Codification
of the Criminal Law, Land Acts ad
nauseam , Water Supply, Drainage,
et cetera, and so forth. Of these good
things promised there is not in sober
verity one that the people can be said
to have realised ! Not one ! And
until some alteration is made in the
political system of New South Wales
no good thing will be realised by the
people. There will be good things
for the pullers of the wires and the
rollers of the logs, and for their im-
mediate friends and relatives; but
nothing in the way of substantial
healthy legislation, until, for the
timeserver and the jobber, the honest
voting power of the colony substi-


tutes the brave strong man who can
act and dare not lie !
It it were not too serious a matter
for laughter, mirth might be ex-
tracted from a perusal of the vice-
regal speeches of the last ten years.
Every party, whether Cowper’s, or
Martin’s, or Parkes’s, or Robortson’s,
or Farnell’s, has composed the guber-
natorial sentences to the same old
tune. There have, occasionally, been
variations to it—here a solemn fugue
suggested by the massive intellect of
Sir Henry, or there a light arpeggia-
tura by the adroit experience of Sir
John, but still the same old tune —
the windy wordy promise of legisla-
tion on all urgent questions. The so-
called parties (as these speeches
show), all agree as to what these ur-
gent questions are; and all, more-
over, thoroughly unite to indefinitely
postpone the solution of them.
Is there no chance of finding a
man free, willing, and able to serve
New South Wales as an honest poli-
tician, free to abide by his convic-
tions, able to rally round him men of
a kindred spirit, and willing to step
out of the narrow grooves in which
for year after year the so-called
statesmen of the colony have been
content to be pushed along by the
combined action of those two potent
forces—venality and self-interest ?
There have been Cowper parties and
Martin-Parkes parties, and Martin-
Robertson parties ; while now (in
power—Heaven save us, what an
expression ! —in weakness , rather)
we have a Famell-Fitzpatrick or
young colt party! Are we never to
have a New South Wales party with
a new broom and a clean sweep ?
The S. M. Herald recommends the
tinkering process, dreading anything
incisive. But how can we expect
reforms if there be hesitation to apply
thorough means to bring them about.
It may sound like Conservatism to
preach the laying on of a patch here,
or the stitching up of a rent there;
but the truer Conservatism pulls
down the ruin to set a fairly-ordered
fabric in its stead. There have been
too many tinkers ! The present want
is an earnest worker in iron.
To the political tinkering of the
narrow groove party type may be
traced the hand-to-mouth govern-
ment which disgraces New South
Wales in the eyes of all thoughtful
men. Government ? There is no
Government! There is dictation by
resolutions of the Assembly—for the
matter of that, by the advice of the
individual members of the Assembly,
but no Government! The Premier,
got at by a bumptious M.P., says
one thing to-day ; his colleague, got
at by somebody to whom the bump-
tious M.P. is an abomination, signs
a minute in precise contrariety
thereto, the next. There is neither
rule nor system.
But yet for all that there is reason
in this non-system.
It pays!


Yes! to the political tinker,
the cheery believer in “ narrow
grooveism,” it means bread with
butter on both sides ! Mal-adminis-
tration means, room for the political
tinker to play a very snug little game.
Civil Service Reform, for example,
would possibly mean, appointment on
proof of capacity, and promotion by
merit. An unorganised Civil Ser-
vice, with kissing going exclusively
by favour, means tangible profit to
the dispensers of the patronage.
Ergo , stick to the groove—it leads
as well as another to K.C.M.G.-ship,
and other less tinselled blessings !
In a few weeks, heralded by salvo
of artillery and roll of drums, his
Excellency the Governor will once
again enter the House of Palaver to
sing the same song to the same old
tune. We are as certain of it as we
are of Mr. Farnell’s existence. There
will be any amount of promise.
Hope will tell her flattering tale
much longer than her arm : Health
for the million, a Land Act settling
forever the agrarian question, making
the squatter to chum in with the
selector, water for the washerwoman
and the miner, a volunteer discipline
code, Civil Service Reform plus Su-
perannuation —all the old promises,
in short, raked out from the archives
and set with due surrounding of for-
mula and official punctilio ; this
suggestion being made to the nomi-
nees of the Crown, and that to the
representatives of the people !
Or is there just a chance—a vague,
remote ghost of the scintilla of a
chance that Mr. Farnell will this
time essay to play the statesman ;
by coming out of the orthodox
ministerial groove ? We greatly
fear not ! Yet the chance is open
to him !
COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
SOLUTIONS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 21.
Answer to Charade. —Forster.
Enigma. — 1. Chair; 2. (French)
Lightning.
Conundrums. —l. India-rubber, as it
gives to any extent. 2. The man who
followed a waggon ten miles to see
whether the hind wheels would overtake
the fore wheels. 3. Because he does not
turn out so well as they expected.
4. Because he lives by forgery, and can-
not keep his hands from picking and
stealing. 5. One pickles the cabbages ;
the other cabbages the pickles. 6. About
as much difference as there is between a
house-leek and a leaky house. 7. Because
they accepted their defeat with the best
Grace in the world.
Answer to Arithmetical Puzzle
for Latin Scholars. —The three Graces,
carrying each an equal number of oranges,
were met by the nine Muses, who asked
for some of them ; and each Grace having
given to each Muse the same number, it
was then found that they had all equal
shares. How many had the Graces at
first ? Sohitioti —Any multiple of 12.
CONUNDRUMS.
1. When is it dangerous to enter a
church ?
2. Why is love like the letter R ?
3. What is the difference between a
honeymoon and a honey-comb ?
4. Why is a submarine cable like a
railroad across a valley ?
5 Who were the first tailors mentioned
in Scripture ?
6. What Scriptural name describes a
father calling to his son, and his son’s
answer ?


ADVENTURES WITH THE
BLACKS.
Chapter 111.
For several weeks after the events
recorded in the last chapter, we were
continually on the lookout for a fresh
attack from the enemy ; but whether
it was our state of preparedness, or
the more frequent visits which we
received from our friends the troopers
which stood us in good stead, I can-
not say ; but the Tatiara warriors did
not renew their attempt.
But an incident shortly afterwards
occurred which, while it turned our
thoughts into a new channel, gave
us fresh proof of the treacherous
character of our neighbours.
One morning three men on foot
came to our place on their way to
Victoria. They were on foot, and it
was a venturesome expedition in
every way—the overland journey
being some 700 or 800 miles, through
uninhabited country—so far as white
men were concerned. They were
three strapping fellows, one of them
being especially noticeable for his tall
and muscular frame—he stood six
feet four in his shoes —and good
bushmen. Each man was armed
with a rifle or gun, and 100 rounds
of ball cartridge, and carried, besides
his blankets, a knapsack containing
biscuit and provisions, weighing not
less than one hundred-weight.
As our station was the last link
between civilised and uncivilised
country, they took a day’s spell with
us before penetrating the wild and
inhospitable bush. During this time
they got into conversation with some
of the blacks, who came about the
place, and very foolishly, and con-
trary to my advice made an arrange-
ment with three of them-—two adult
blacks and a lad —to carry their
knapsacks for a couple of days’
journey.
We all urged the folly of this pro-
ceeding, pointing out the improba-
bility that their guides would un-
dertake the task for the small re-
muneration they would receive in the
way of flour and tobacco, if they had
not some ulterior object in view.
But the men were obstinate and ridi-
culed the idea of danger from a
couple of unarmed blackfellows and
a boy.
They had a couple of kangaroo
dogs with them, and as they left I
urged them very strongly, as a last
precaution, to make the blacks camp
separately, a hundred yards from
them at least, so that the dogs would
warn them of any night attack.
As it turned out, this advice, like
the rest, was disregarded, and the
overlanders, confident in their own
strength, allowed the darkies to
camp at the same fire.
It must have been nearly a week
after they left us that one morning,
about an hour before daybreak, I
was aroused by a chorus of barking
from the dogs, and jumping out of
bed to see what was the matter, being
by this time quite used to sudden
alarms, I rescued from them a
wounded man, who was half walking,
half crawling up to the hut.
This man was one of the party of
three who had so lately left us in the
full possession of health and vigor,
now a most deplorable figure. He
was completely covered with blood
from head to foot, from a large deep
gash in his forehead sufficient to
have killed an ordinary man, besides
other wounds. His shirt was liter-
ally stiff with blood, and his whole


appearance startling in its gory sur-
roundings.
We got him inside, lit a fire,
washed his wounds, and did what we
could for him, all the while full of
wonder at the strength and endur-
ance which he must have possessed
to reach us in such a state.
He was the only survivor of the
three, and this was the account he
gave of the tragedy, as soon as he
was able to speak about it: —
The party had proceeded very
amicably for a couple of days, during
which they had made about sixty
miles, the blacks carrying the knap-
sacks with great apparent alacrity,
and grinning and shewing their teeth
in the highest good temper, as if the
trip were, as far as they were con-
cerned, entirely a pleasure excursion.
In short, they made themselves so
amiable that they quite gained the
confidence of their employers, and
were allowed te sleep at the same
camp fire.
It was in the middle of the third night
that our informant, the sole survivor
of the party, was awoke by the blow
on the head, which had so nearly
proved fatal. The tall fellow and
his other companion must have been
killed at once. The blackfellows, it
appeared, as soon as the white men
were soundly asleep, had got up and
cut themselves waddies, and each
placing himself opposite a white man
had, with one or two terrific blows,
disposed of the sleeper. Somehow
or other one of the party had a head
a little thicker than the average, and
had escaped in the darkness. How
he managed, weakened as he must
have been from loss of blood, des-
perately wounded, and without food
of any kind to achieve the two long
days’ journey, and make our place, will
remain a mystery. The man must
have had a constitution of iron, and
pluck ad libitum. The wound in his
forehead was a wide deep gash ex-
tending right across from side to
side ; but in spite of it he throve,
and very soon got well enough to
walk about.
The first thing we did after day-
light was to send one of our blacks
to the police station, and the In-
spector rode over at once. The re-
sult was that the head station was
communicated with, and a few days
after two strong parties of police
came up and tried to effect the cap-
ture of the murderers. We could
all identify them, and all our blacks
knew them by name. But to catch
them was quite another matter.
The scene of the murder was
visited by the police, and there they
found the bodies of the two white
men, their heads being smashed by
the waddies of the blacks, and their
feet and limbs mutilated by the wild
dogs. Of course they gave them
such burial as circumstances per-
mitted.
But the murderers were still at
large, and although the police had a
boat party as well as a land party,
their efforts were fruitless. It was
about as easy to find a needle in a
bundle of hay as a blackfellow who
was “ wanted ” in that part of the
country, the hiding-places being so
numerous, and the savages so cun-
ning.
At last, however, stratagem
effected what no amount of open
force could have done.
My friend the Inspector understood
the blackfellows better than any man
I ever met, and by working upon the
credulity of the tribe living close to
him, who were in the most complete-


subjection to him and his troopers,
and almost daily employed by them
in some duty or other, he persuaded
their chief—who rejoiced in the name
of King John—to play the role of
detective. The arguments he used
appealed to the blackfellow’s inmost
feelings. He was to have a bag of
rice, a bag of flour, tea, sugar, and
tobacco, besides bullocky to any
extent; and when he died he was to
“jump up white-fellow,” in which
future state he would, of course,
indulge in all these luxuries as the
natural consequences of changing his
skin.
King John, thus urged, taking
with him his brother, and being
armed by the police with a sword,
set out with the determination to
take the murderer alive, and to bring
him to the police station to be dealt
with.
The old adage, “ Set a thief to
catch a thief,” was successfully exem-
plified in this case. I suppose King
John knew pretty well where to look
for his man, or perhaps his hiding-
place was betrayed by one of his
intimates. Be that as it may, his
majesty and his august brother con-
trived to surprise the murderer, whom
for distinction, as I forget his name,
I will call Peter, asleep in his gunyah,
and to take him prisoner. This was
not effected without a desperate re-
sistance ; but the odds were two to
one, and about ten o’clock the next
morning the two station blacks
might have been seen marching along
the bank of the river with their
captive between them, his hands
securely bound with thongs of hide,
and his head—well, at any rate, very
sore from blows enough to let out
the brains of any white man.
The trio were not more than four
miles from the police camp, about
opposite to us on the opposite bank,
and things were beginning to look
rather black for the prisoner, when
Peter, in as conciliatory tone as he
could manage, begged his captors to
let him stop and have a drink. To
this, neither King John nor his
brother objected. They were exult-
ing in their success, and perhaps a
little off their guard for that reason.
So they stopped, and Peter at once
lay down on his face at the edge of
the water to take a drink. The next
moment, giving himself an impetus
with his feet against the bank, he
shot into the water and was off. Two
other plunges followed in quick suc-
cession.
But although Peter’s hands were
tied, his feet were at liberty, and he
was naked, while King John here
found a drawback in his civilized
habits, for he was dressed in a com-
plete suit of clothes, the reward of
some service to the police, and his
brother had half a suit, i.e., a
guernsey shirt of tight fit, and Peter,
who well knew he was swimming for
bare life, easily distanced them both.
In crossing the river, he only came
twice to the surface, even then not
shewing his head, but just putting
his lips above water to take a long
draught of air. Five minutes after-
wards he was in the reeds, which
fringe the Murray on either side—
from fifteen to twenty feet high, in
belts often 100 feet wide—and fur-
ther pursuit was hopeless as well as
dangerous.
The only result of this capture was
a pitched battle between Peter’s tribe
and the tribe yielding allegiance to
King John, which took place about
a fortnight afterwards. As I had
the pleasure of witnessing this


engagement from beginning to end,
and as the tactics employed were
remarkable for their utter dissimi-
larity to those used in modern war-
fare between civilized powers, I pur-
pose to devote a fresh chapter to the
battle.
ECONOMICAL COOKERY.
(From the Middle Class Cootidy Booh).
Stewed Kidney.— Cut an entire kid-
ney, of a nice red colour, into slices, and
put it into a saucepan with two ounces
of butter, or fat, with a very little salt,
pepper, chopped parsley, and spring
onion, also the last piece of garlic scraped,
when nearly done, add a table-spoonful
of thickening ; take care you do not let
the kidney boil, but simmer, as it may
get tough.
A Hotch-Potch of Ox Tail. —Cut
the tail in short lengths, and put the
pieces in three pints of broth, with a
bunch of sweet herbs, and a slight twinge
of salt ; at the expiration of two hours
and a half, add in an onion, a middling-
sized carrot, a parsnip, and turnip, all cut
in quarters, half a small cabbage cut in
strips, blanching all these in boiling
water and salt, drain them off and put
them in cold water. Now place your ox
tail and all the pieces of vegetables and
herbs in a saucepan, and let them boil
gently two hours; when you have strained
out the whole, put in a little more thick-
ening, season with salt and pepper, place
the vegetables first on the dish, then the
pieces of ox tail on top, and sauce over.
Lady visitor to young girl with child
in her arms: “Well, my dear, what’s
your name?” Young girl: “Please,
mum, Mary Green.” Lady: “And
what’s your father?” Girl: “Please,
mum, 1 don’t know, I be a chance .”
Lady (changing the topic) : “What a
pretty baby, whose is it ? ” Girl:
“Please, mum, its sister’s chance .”
“Pray, my lord,” said a lady, “can
you tell me what sort of a bird the bulbul
is?” “It is the mate of the coo-coo, I
suppose,” replied the humorous judge.
MY LAST CARTRIDGE.
AN EPISODE OF THE INDIAN MUTINY.
BY OMEGA.
{All rights reserved by the Author.)
CHAPTER I.
“ There’s a divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will.”
Shakespeare.
When we were first startled, as by an un-
expected thunderclap, by the news of the
Mutiny, the effective strength of “ ours ”
was quartered at Puttapore, a miserable,
lonely, far-out station not far from the
Nepaulese frontier.
We had not been there many months,
but we were heartily sick and weary of
the place and of the dull, monotonous life
we were compelled to lead there. The
same tiring, insipid routine day after day,
with nothing new or lively stirring near
us, was becoming almost insufferable ; I
can speak for myself at least; and, to
make matters worse, there was no pros-
pect of any change or relief.
The authorities seemed to consider it
necessary—for what particular reason,
was best known to themselves—that a
force of light cavalry should be stationed
at Puttapore, and the *9th Hussars was
the unlucky regiment pitched upon for
this particular service ; and, accordingly,
to Puttapore we went, very much to our
own disgust, and greatly to the delight
of the infantry regiment we relieved.
As I just now said, we had not been
long in our new quarters when we were
roused out of our lazy state of discontented
ennui by the startling intelligence that
throughout the Presidency the native
troops had broken out into open revolt,
had murdered a great number of their
officers, and, where parties of Europeans
had fallen into their hands, had ruthlessly
put them all to the sword.
We heard of diabolical outrages perpe-
trated upon women and children in cold
blood ; we heard the terrible tale of wives
and daughters ravished, mutilated, and
butchered before the eyes of husbands
and fathers ; we heard of helpless chil-
dren made the objects of fiendish sport,
their tender bodies gashed with swords
or knives, and transfixed with bayonets ;
and as we listened to the infernal horrors
of the tale, each man’s breath came short


and thick through his set teeth, and eyes
that before had been dull and vacant from
sheer wearied apathy, were now ablaze
with mingled wrath and excitement.
The listless, nonchalant beings who, a
few hours before, almost appeared to con-
sider their very existence an unmitigated
bore, were now transformed into eager
warriors, ready for any wild deed of ven-
geance, burning and chafing for imme-
diate action.
After this, to have remained inactive
where we were would have been beyond
endurance, and it was an unspeakable
relief to every man in the regiment to
know that at the same time the dreadful
news reached us our Coloifel had received
instructions to abandon his position at
Puttapore, and fall back with all speed
upon Austen’s Fort, and put himself under
the orders of the General commanding
there. Austen’s Fort, a military position
of no little importance, which lay about
three days’ march to the south-west from
Puttapore was tolerably well fortified, and
had a permanent garrison of its own.
Never did a body of troops receive the
“ route ” and evacuate their quarters with
such genuine feelings of satisfaction as
did both officers and men of the *9th
Hussars, as in the first hours of a clear
early morning we heard the orders to
mount and march forward. The tramp-
ing of the horses, the clank of steel, and
the rattling of sabre scabbards, made
sweet music in my ears as we formed up
in marching order and filed off along the
dusty road towards the fort, and glad I
was, when after rising a pretty steep
eminence the road took a sharp turn
round the point of a densely wooded
mango tope, and I lost sight of the hateful
prison in which my comrades and myself
had been immured for what appeared to
us such a long and weary time.
Ah, well ! what shortsighted creatures
we poor mortals are. I little thought at
that glad moment, as 1 so exultingly felt
the good horse under me, moving away
with a quick springy stride, what an im-
portant part this same hateful Puttapore
was yet to play in the drama of my life ;
and still less did I think before I was
twelve hours older I was doomed to expe-
rience the extremes of joy and despair
within that same hateful place itself.
A small detachment of my troop formed
the advance guard, and led the march
with carbines loaded and unslung—more
as a formal matter of military precaution
than anything else : for we had little
thought of meeting an enemy in that part
of the country, there being no native
troops quartered within some consider
able distance, with the exception of a
small number of irregular cavalry that
had been in garrison at the fort for some
months ; but we did not give them a
second thought, as the force of Europeans
in the same place was strong enough tc
crush them at a moment’s notice : and so
we rode lightly along without doubt oi
thought of danger.
My troop, as I have said, supplied the
advance guard, and also headed the
march of the main body. I was riding
beside the leading rank, and just before
me, a couple of horses’ length or so, was
our Colonel ; and, mounted on a pretty
little chestnut horse, ambling merrily
along at his side, was Miss Geary, his
daughter, and by her side again was
pretty Lucy Carson, the daughter of a
grim old troop sergeant who was in his
place a few ranks behind me.
Following the main column and keep-
ing a little in advance of the rearguard,
was a snug and commodious dool'y—a
kind of palanquin or sedan chair—large
enough to hold both the lady and her
maid, injcharge of some half-dozen native
servants whom the Colonel had brought
away from Puttapore to attend upon it
and its fair occupant whenever she should
feel wearied by the heat of the day, or
tired of riding the lively free-stepping
chestnut upon whose back she had pre-
ferred to commence the journey.
I raay as well explain here, as throwing
light upon what follows, that nearly two
years previously, before I had attained
my present rank of captain, I had been
bold enough and presumptuous enough,
as some people thought, to ask Colonel
Geary’s permission to pay my addresses
to his daughter, the same fair young girl
who was now riding beside him. On that
occasion the old soldier at first stared at
me with his cold grey eyes as if he were
not quite sure whether he had heard me
aright, and then, 1 in no very measured
terms, expressed his surprise and dis-
pleasure at finding that an almost penni-
less subaltern like myself should be so
lost to all thoughts of what was right and
proper as to indulge for an instant in
the hope of obtaining the hand of the
daughter and heiress of Colonel Geary, of


Geary Hall in the county of Hants.
“ I would have you to know, sir,” he
wound up with, “ that my daughter will
look higher for her husband than the
first lieutenant of Hussars who honors
her with what he may be pleased to call
his love. You will oblige me by letting
this nonsense go no farther, and if Miss
Geary enjoys your respect and good wishes,
you will consult her happiness and peace
< f mind by never in her hearing breathing
a syllable of what has now passed between
ns.”
Jessie Geary was the old man’s only
child. She, I knew, loved him dearly;
and he doted upon and almost worshipped
her. I had hoped that I was not alto-
gether indifferent to her ; but when I
found her father so determinedly set
against listening to my proposal, I felt
that, for the time at least, my fate was
decided, for I dare not, even in my most
sanguine moments, believe myself to hold
such a high place in the girl’s affections
as would justify me in prosecuting my
suit in opposition to the Colonel’s ex-
pressed will. So, all things considered,
I thought it would be best for me to
attempt no further advance towards
either father or daughter for the present;
but to wait patiently and bide my time.
From that day to the day on which we
left Puttapore, as described above, I
adhered strictly to my resolution, although
having Jessie so continually before me,
in almost daily intercourse, often made
the struggle a hard one. Only those who
have experienced the same thing can
realise to its full extent “ all the aching
of the heart, the restless, unsatisfied
longing ” that galled and tormented me
through all those painful, weary days
when I was in the company of the loved
one of my heart ; when I saw the light
of her eyes, listened to the music of her
voice, pressed her hand in mine in the
ordinary courtesies of everyday life, and
yet had to appear calm and unconcerned
as any indifferent stranger, while at the
same time my heart was swelling with
suppressed emotion, and the deep, soul-
felt expressions of a strong man’s love,
were struggling mightily for an outlet.
But to return to my narrative. We
had not advanced a mile along the road
when I heard Jessie Geary exclaim, in a
tone of evident distress, “ Oh, dear ! what
shall I do ? I have left poor dear Mamma’s
diamond ring behind. ”
“ I hope not, my child,” the Colonel
answered, “ for I would not have you lose
that ring for a great deal.”
“1 have just pulled off my glove, and
see, it is not on my finger—l must have
left it on my dressing table, in the hurry
this morning,” continued Miss Geary.
“ Can I not ride back, Papa, and get it ?
Ruby is quite fresh this morning,” strok-
ing the chestnut’s glossy neck. “ I shall
be able to overtake you again in less than
half an hour, and a good fast gallop will
be so nice this cool morning. You must
let me go, Papa. ”
But the old man shook his head as he
replied, “ Nonsense, child, you cannot go
back by yourself, and ”
“Oh! but,” interrupted his daughter,
“ Lucy can go with me, and we will soon
be back again. ”
“ Pshaw !” exclaimed the Colonel,
“ what protection w r ill one silly girl be to
another ? No, Jessie, if you go back —
and 1 should like you to recover your
mother’s ring—you must go under escort,
for some of the black rascals we have left
behind might otherwise be rude to you.”
As he finished speaking, he turned his
horse’s head towards the advancing
column, and gave the word to halt.
When we had come to a stand he called
my young brother to his side.
Edward, who was quite a lad, held the
rank of cornet, and although six months
had barely passed since he first joined
the regiment, he was a general favorite,
and Colonel Geary in particular took
quite a fatherly interest in the bright-
eyed handsome boy who now reined up
his horse beside him.
“ Edward Henwood,” said the Colonel,
“ Miss Geary misses a ring, which she
greatly values for her mother’s sake. She
believes she has left it in her dressing-
room beyond,” pointing with his hand in
the direction of our old quarters. “ I
wish you to take half a dozen men and
ride back with her, that she may have an
opportunity of searching for it—a small
escort is necessary, for if the native ser-
vants, or others about the place, should
chance to be too bold or saucy, the sight
of a few sabres will keep them in order.
The regiment will continue its march, so
lose no time, but overtake us as soon as
possible.”
The men selected for the service had
detached themselves from the column,
and Edward was asking Miss Geary if


she were ready to start when the Colonel
who did not seem quite satisfied, moved
his horse alongside mine and said, “ Cap-
tain Henwood, as you know, we have left
a considerable number of natives behind
us, and they are not wholly to be trusted,
and may, perhaps, although unarmed,
show signs of insolence or hostility to a
handful of troopers returning suddenly
upon them. Your brother is but an inex-
perienced boy, whose impulsiveness might
bring on a collision and cause unneces-
sary bloodshed, as well as put Miss Geary
in some danger. She has set her heart
on going back, so to make everything safe
I think it would be advisable for you to
double the number of men your brother
has told off and take command of the
escort yourself.” I bowed my acquies-
cence while he continued:—“ The men are
savage after hearing of the doings of the
mutineers ; the least thing would irritate
them and make them glad of an excuse
to attack anything with a black skin.
You can keep them under command,
which perhaps your brother would be un-
able to do, if they once got excited by any
real or fancied provocation. Make the
best use of your time, and as soon as my
daughter has recovered the ring, push
on and overtake the regiment without
delay.”
In a few moments more we were riding
smartly back towards Puttapore, that is,
Miss Geary, and her maid Lucy, and the
escort under my command, which was
made up of Lucy’s father, Sergeant Car-
son, twelve troopers, among whom was
Johnny Carson—the Sergeant’s son, and
my brother Edward.
The Sergeant was a stern grim-looking
old soldier, who would have found it diffi-
cult to look pleasant even if he were to
try. for he had featuresasharshandrugged
as if they had been roughly chipped out
of a block of granite. To look from him
to his two children one would think that
it was a natural impossibility that he
should be the father of the pretty laugh-
ing girl, and the smart, good-looking
young fellow, riding so near him—for
Johnny was reckoned the best looking
man in the regiment; and as for Lucy,
it always did one’s eyes good to catch a
glimpse of her cheerful, happy face.
The Sergeant was almost repulsive in
appearance, and was generally disliked
for his moroseness and gruff ill-temper,
which was frequently shewing itself in
the habitual use of objectionably strong
language.
This weakness had earned for him a
couple of unenviable sobriquets, and he
was generally spoken of in the regiment
either as “ Cursing Carson,” or as the
“Swearing Sergeant.”
He certainly acted well up to both
these names, for he seemed to take a pride
in swearing roundly at everything and
everybody, and when vexed or irritated,
would string curses together in a way I
never heard equalled. It was a peculiar
idiosyncracy, but the man was a complete
slave to it. Putting this unpleasant
habit on one sido, the Sergeant was a
good soldier, and held a considerable in-
fluence over the men in his troop. They
partly feared him, and, I think, partly
respected him, for the unvarying persist-
ence with which he restrained his rough
surly manner under all circumstances,
and the unbiassed impartiality with
which he was accustomed to scatter his
oaths and curses around.
Be that as it may, whatever was the
cause of the feeling they entertained for
him, very few of the men cared to cross
him in any way, and when the “ Swear-
ing Sergeant ” expressed his opinion
among them, the majority of his com-
rades generally accorded him no small
deference.
It was the knowledge of this fact that
caused me to select him as one of the es-
cort, for I thought that if any unforeseen
circumstance should bring about the like-
lihood of a rupture between the troopers
and the natives, he would be useful in as-
sisting me to keep the former well in
hand, and so prevent anything like a
breach of discipline.
“I am very sorry, Captain Hen wood,
that my carelessness this morning should
have been the cause of such extensive
military preparations,” said Miss Geary,
as we rode along. “ When I missed my
ring, and asked Papa to let me go back
for it. I thought in my innocence that it
would be the simplest thing in the world
for Lucy and I to take a brisk canter to
Puttapore, and back again, to overtake
Papa in half an hour or so ; but it seems
to be necessary that her Majesty’s *9th
. Regiment of Hussars should be delayed
on the march, while a strong detachment
is told off expressly to see that we tw 0
girls do not get into 'mischief ; and s 0
hazardous would the service appear to b e


that Edward, after having the conduct of
it put into his hands, is immediately
superseded by a superior officer, the pre-
sence and authority of a full-blown Cap-
tain being seemed essential to the success
of such an arduous undertaking. What
enemy has sprung up since we started
this morning, from whom we are to ap-
prehend danger ?”
I could hardly have given a reason for
the feeling that came over me, as I saw
the girl’s smiling face, and heard the
light mocking tones in which she asked
the question ; but both seemed to jar
strangely upon me, and an undefined
sensation of uneasiness stole over me as
I answered gravely, “ Your father’s great
solicitude for your safety, Miss Geary,
has made him take precautions to ensure
it that may at first glance appear to be
more than the occasion necessitates, and
yet—” I continued, the words escaping
my lips almost involuntarily, “ I sincerely
trust that he may not have erred on the
wrong side. ”
“ Why, Captain Henwood,” exclaimed
Miss Geary, the light smile forsaking her
pretty face, “ do you really think there is
any possibility of danger before us, that
you speak in such a grave and foreboding
manner ? If so, let us push on as quickly
as we may, and then when I have once
recovered my ring, we can soon overtake
dear Papa with the regiment, and laugh
at danger, unless indeed, it should come
in some very terrible and overpowering
shape.”
We mended our pace at once, and were
not long before we came in sight of the
station we had so recently left. When
we passed the turn of the road that
brought the buildings into full view, the
whole place seemed to be deserted, for not
a sign of human life was to be seen in or
about the various buildings.
This somewhat surprised me, as we had
left a considerable number of natives be-
hind us. “What can have become of
all the black rascals ?” I thought to my-
self.
My surprise was increased when, upon
riding up to the Colonel’s old quarters,
and entering them in company with Miss
Geary and Lucy Carson, there still was
not a living soul to be seen either within
or without.
The fear of mishief, the thought of
treachery, flashed across my mind at once,
and the idea of evil befalling the two
helpless women in my charge made me
feel ready to sacrifice my right hand to be
able to return to the main column that
very instant.
“ See here ! Captain Henwood,” ex-
claimed Miss Geary, in a joyful tone, as
she came to my side, “here is the ring
quite safe, so the object of our mission is
successfully accomplished, and my gal-
lant escort need seek no further adven-
ture on my behalf. Shall we start back,
Captain ? This dreary place seems as
cold and desolate as the grave ; please
let us get away at once.”
“Certainly,” I replied; “the instant
you are on your horse’s back, the word
shall be given to—” The rest of the sen-
tence stuck in my throat, as I heard the
deep voice of Sergeant Carson outside
exclaim, in tones of great alarm and ex-
citement, “ By the God who made me, we
are intercepted! caught like rats in a
trap !”
(To be continued.')
Queen Victoria (shewing her guests
round the Home Farm) to head stockman:
“ What is the name of yonder animal 1 ”
Stockman : “ The Queen.” Her Majesty :
“ How is she bred ? ” Stockman: “Well,
your Majesty, by Prince Christian out of
Princess Beatrice.”
“ Go on with ye, now, I’ll not answer
ye, because I’m just after leaving chapel,
and am in a state of grace ; just wait till
I’m out of it! ”
Legally Void. —An eminent special
pleader visited the theatre, when the play
enacted was “ Macbeth.” In the scene
where Macbeth questioning the witches
in the cavern, says, “What is’t you do ?”
They answer, “ A deed without a name”
This phrase struck the ears of the lawyer,
who turned to a friend and said, “ Why,
then, it’s void. ”
A Poor Excuse. —An author, not
unfriendly to the bottle, when surprised
one evening in his armchair, two or three
hours after dinner, is reported to have
apologised by saying, “When one is alone,
the bottle does come round so confoundedly
often.”
A Man who Sticks up for his
Master. —A bill-poster.
Doll-ce far Niente. —Our philo-
sopher has observed that the woman who
is the idol of all the men is often the
idlest of all the women.


NORFOLK ISLAND.
BY VIATOR.
JSTo. 8.
As I fear the patience of the readers of
Once a Wdek must, by this time, be
well-nigh exhausted, so far as the perusal
of my note under the above heading is
concerned, I propose to close my story of
Norfolk Island and its inhabitants in this
present contribution. I am sensible of
rhe many shortcomings which must have
been perceptible in my general compila-
tions ; but I beg it to be borne in mind
that I am simply an amateur in the pro-
fession, and took courage after the publi-
cation of my first chapter—having, in-
deed, entertained very grave doubts as to
its reception. If, in the efforts I have
made to interest your readers, any success
has been attained, then 1 feel thoroughly
satisfied. I candidly admit, too, that the
raking up of many of the old scenes
referred to in my “ yarns ” has been
attended with much personal gratifica-
tion. I can recall no period of my life
which was passed under more pleasurable
circumstances than during our residence
at Norfolk Island ; and such is my appre-
ciation still, that it would not he a matter
of regret, should the circumstances of my
life so determine, that I should spend the
last decade of my existence there. There is
a certain fascination surrounding the dear
little spot which cannot be shaken off.
I have, like a vagabond, travelled very
much of late years ; but in all my wan-
derings I have seen no spot on earth so
singularly fitted by a most beneficent
Providence for a resting place after the
toil and perplexities of a life in this busy
world of ours. Not many years ago, I
visited Pitcairn’s Island, from whence the
present population of Norfolk Island
sprung, and when comparing the capa-
bilities as well as the attractions of this
place, I cannot for a moment conceive
what earthly inducement could have
urged so large a number of those originally
conveyed from the former to the latter
island to long for a return to their old
habitation. Certainly, the associations
of the “Bounty” mutiny must have
exercised a powerful influence upon then-
minds ; but then the vast comforts
enjoyed at Norfolk Island, when set side
by side with those of the little rocklet
they had left, one would have thought
were far in favour of the change as a per-
manent determination.
One fact there is a little reason to
doubt, and that is, the Pitcairn Islanders
lived in such primitive style, and had so
little actual work to do, that the labor
necessarily exacted from them in keeping
the houses and gardens, etc., at Norfolk
Island, all of which were handed over to
them in good order, in sound condition,
was irksome to a large number, who even-
tually prevailed upon the Government
here to return them to the scene of their
former indolence —so that, in reality, the
descendants of the mutineers of the
‘'Bounty” (amongst whom I knew a
veritable Mr. “ Thursday October Chris-
tian,” this gentleman having introduced
himself to us when at Pitcairn Island in
1866-7) now colonize two distinct islands
of the Pacific Ocean.) I must apologise
for this little deviation, as also the men-
tion of my acquaintance with so distin-
guished an individual as Mr. T. O. C.—
though I see it is becoming fashionable
now-a-days for writers on popular sub-
jects to bring their “dear friends” or
casual acquaintances prominently for-
ward in support of their assertion as to
travel and experience.
Now, back to the thread of my legiti-
mate scribbling. In the ranks of the
2,400 or 2,500 prisoners serving different
periods of punishment in Norfolk Island,
there were no end of peculiarities sur-
rounding individual cases. Of course, the
majority of the men, especially the “ old
hands,” were entirely innocent of the
charges which had eventuated in their
deportation ! and their lamentable con-
dition arose solely from the verdict of
packed jurors, or the procuration of per-
jured witnesses by the Crown. Some of
them were unceasing in their efforts to
induce a vengeful Government to recon-
sider their cases. Petitions were as
plentiful as pumpkins, and, from the hour
his petition was known to have been for-
warded by the Commandant to head-
quarters, the petitioner assumed an air
of perfect serenity, and calmly awaited
the return of the vessel, which he /felt
sure, under the new light he had put his
case before the Executive in Sydney, of
immediate release, if not an ample
apology for the temporal inconvenience
occasioned him from the causes I have
referred to.


Poor fellows ! how many were doomed
to utter disappointment, as mail after
mail arrived, and no reply was ever
vouchsafed them. Yet it was oftentimes
wonderful how, like valiant soldiers, they
would return again and again to the
charge, undismayed by repulse and hope-
ful as ever of ultimate success ; and when
the list of men either pardoned, or to be
removed to Sydney, and latterly Van
Diemen’s Land, was read out, it was a
sight worth looking on, the thorough
expression of profound gratification with
which the intelligence was received.
That there were cases of individual
wrong cannot be for a moment questioned,
and most notably was that of poor Barbour,
who had received a fearfully long sen-
tence of transportation for his supposed
criminal connection with the notorious
will forgery case in which one, Fletcher,
also a prisoner on the island, was con-
cerned. The particulars of this memor-
able case were so well reported in a
pamphlet published in Sydney somewhere
about 1846-7, that I think I need not
recapitulate them now—especially as I
believe there can be found a copy of the
papers in the reading-room of the Free
Library here. But as I was resident
upon the island during a considerable
portion of Barbour’s captivity, and, indeed,
had some little concern in the prepara-
tion of his petition and recommendatory
statements which accompanied it to the
Secretary of State, a few remarks of mine,
even at this distant period, may not be
out of place.
From the outset it was evident that
some special direction as to treatment
must have accompanied poor Barbour to
Norfolk Island : for the positive persecu-
tion he received at the hands of the then
Civil Commandant, Major “ Joe ” Childs,
completely warranted the belief, which
was generally shared in by the officers
resident there, that he was marked out
for special punishment; and to his credit,
let it be said, that, when viewed in con-
nection with subsequent events, he bore
the fearful indignities he suffered with
an extraordinary amount of patient resig-
nation. His whole appearance, his man-
ner and bearing, were those of an innocent
man, if judgment can be actuated by such
circumstances. Conscious of his inno-
cence, he passed through an ordeal of
degradation seldom falling to the lot of
the vilest specimen of human nature—
(and we could shew some choice varieties
in that line occasionally down there). All
the remonstrances of the chaplain were
of no avail. Any application from the
officers for his employment in their ser-
vice—which was never for a moment
refused in other cases—were set aside.
He was put to the filthiest occupati< >n his
persecutor could determine, while physi-
cally incapable of performing any active
labour ; and it was a matter of wonder
to all who saw him and witnessed his
continued persecution, how human nature
could ever endure such perpetual degra-
dation. But, still asserting his innocence,
ever hoping against hope, he manfully
struggled to the end, when, through the
intercession of his warm-hearted friends
—and principally the unceasing efforts
of one whose name is yet honored by
many an unfortunate in these colonies,
though he himself long since was taken
to his rest—poor Barbour was restored to
freedom, and his innocence publicly
acknowledged. Once again I would state
that we all felt that there must have been
some back-door, underhand, and special
influence at work in England to warrant
the punishment meted out to this man :
for, long after his freedom, certain docu-
ments of much value and importance,
which were drawn up and forwarded by
the chaplain, were discovered to have
been intercepted by the prison authorities
in Hobart Town, and only brought to
light after diligent and pertinacious
search.
I must apologize for referring at so
great length to this one case : but it
created a very marked impression among
all the free classes at the Island, as well
as the members of the legal profession
here in Sydney, when Mr. Barbour visited
this colony en route to England once
again a free man.
The vast difference in the various
classes of men to be found in the ranks
of the penal population at Norfolk Island
was very wonderful. As I have remarked
in my former letters, we had representa-
tives of every calling or profession under
heaven there, from the murderer in cold
blood—imprisoned for life without hope
of release—to the lad of some two-and-
twenty summers, who had in a boyish,
mischievous freak, shot a couple of tame
ducks quietly swimming in a private
pond, and fearful as to the consequences,
had fiung them behind a hedge and ran


off for his life in an opposite direction —
for which he was transported to the Is-
land direct from England, for a term of
three years. I call to mind as I write
these lines more than one instance where
youths, having for the first time in their
lives rendered themselves amenable to
the law had been, I do submit, most
cruelly and unjustifiably sent out from
the mother-country direct to Norfolk Is-
land, and not only were cursed by their
association with more hardened criminals
during the outward passage, but irre-
claimably debased by further intimacy
with still viler wretches on shore.
Talk of reformation under such circum-
stances ! It was a monstrously cruel
farce and an utter absurdity. Try, too,
all you could, it was impossible to pre-
vent the ingress of the leaven of (old
hand) malice and wickedness within the
ranks of the would-be (new hand) sin-
cerity and truth. The extraordinary dif-
ference in the bearing, general appearance
the whole physique of the first convicted
men sent from home direct, with that of
the men transferred from New South
Wales, or sentenced by the Judge there
to imprisonment at Norfolk Island, could
not be unnoticed. If ever an error in
judgment existed on the part of the
Crown in Great Britain, this system of
direct transportation of once convicted
prisoners was one; and any plan of
eventual reformation under it was utterly
as a general rule, hopeless. Had the Is-
land been selected as the receptacle for
the one class solely—say those cases where
the term of sentence did not exceed some
three to five years, and freedom attained
direct from the establishment on serving
the period determined by the Crown,
much of the hoped-for reformatory pro-
cess would have been accomplished : but
to herd hundreds—aye thousands of men
under different sentences of from three to
fifteen years or often dm es life imprison-
ment-together in such a little area, and
then let them loose after a certain portion
of their sentence had been served, in Tas-
mania or any other colony on tickets of
leave, was as baneful to the men them-
selves, as disastrous to the locality they
polluted by their settlement.
It is time I brought this contribution
to a close, though I feel almost as losing
a very pleasant occupation. Much, I do
not doubt, might be yet said on the sub-
ject, though the original occupation of
Norfolk Island as a convict settlement is
perhaps, little matter to our present gene-
ration in the Antipodes. More than
thirty years since we determined that not
another convict transported from Great
Britain, should land on our shores. Gra-
dually the neighbouring colony of Tas-
mania freed itself from the curse, and
Western Australia is following suit, And
there, bosomed on the waters of the gen-
tle Pacific, rests the little Island ; and
while pointed out to those sailing by as
once the receiving-den of the most des-
pised and fallen of God’s creatures, in all
its natural loveliness and singularity of
attraction, is yet the gem c f the Southern
Ocean, and well worthy of the service it
now affords—as one of the great centres
of our Polynesian missionary enterprise.
Yale !
Sydney, June, 1878.
rgg o “ Once a week.” —We have re
ceived a neatly got-up pamphlet of some
thirty pages, bearing the above title,
which is published by Mr. C. H. Barlee,
of Sydney, and is well worthy of support
by the literary and the reading public of
this Colony, and we hope the editor and
proprietor will be able to carry out the in-
tention of enlarging it at an early date.
With all the wealth of money and literary
talent in the Metropolis, a good weekly
periodical should find abundant opening
and support, the more especially as a
little light reading is a great relief to the
cares of everyday life, by enticing us into
the ideal world, —a sojourn wherein, if
only for a few minutes, is so pleasant.
Even the hard worked newspaper man,
with his nose over the grindstone, and
with all the cares of copy and attendant
devils waiting therefor, delights in fic-
tion ; and when pure and good, the old
old story of human life and love is worth
the reading. We would we had the
power and time to assist our friend, but
the practical‘cares of getting out a paper
in a country town forbid it, and all we
can do is to wish him every success, and,
as figured in the frontispiece, long may
Once a Week sail over the sea of life,
her sails filled by the favoring gales of
prosperity. —Northern Star.
Why is a bursting bomb like a musical
instrument I —Because it is a violent-
shell-o.


MILTON’S PARADISE LOST.
[Book I.]
English Subject for Junior Exam-
ination, 1878, Sydney University,
ARRANGED FOR THE USE OF CANDI-
DATES, by “Sigma.”
[ln the subjoined edition of Paradise Lost
(all rights in which are reserved) the ac-
cepted text is carefully followed.
Alterations in the punctuation have
been made in order that the division of
the poem into its elementary propositions
may be clearly shown. The “ periods ”
of the original text have, however, been
kept.
The close of each proposition (except
propositions within parenthesis or brack-
ets, or those terminated by a period) is
marked by a dash ( —).
Propositions that are included within
other propositions are placed within par-
entheses or brackets.
The Subject of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Italic letters.
The Predicate of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Roman letters.
Sentences in which more than one state-
ment is made concerning a noun (or an
equivalent thereto), or in which several
nouns (or equivalents thereto) have the
same statement predicated concerning
them are treated as simple propositions.
Elliptical propositions are annotated.]
First (48) Moloch horrid king be-
smeared with blood.
Of human sacrifice and parents'
tears —
Though for the noise of drums and
timbrels loud
Their children's cries (49) unheard—
-395 that passed through fire
To his grim idol. Him the Ammonite
Worshipp’din Rabba and her watery
plain
In Argob, and in Basan to the stream
Of utmost Arnon. Nor content with
such
400 Audacious neighbourhood the wisest
heart
Of Solomon he by fraud led to build
His temple right against the temple
of God
On that opprobrious hill and made
his grove
The pleasant valley of Hinnom
Tophet thence
405 And black Gehenna call’d the type
of hell.
Next (50) Chemos the obscene dread
of Moab's sons
From Aroer to Nebo and the wild
Of southmost Abarim in lies ebon
And Horonaim Scon's realm beyond
410 The flowery dale of Sibma clad with
vines
And Eleale to the asphaltic pool
Peor his other name —when he en-
ticed
Israel in Sittim on their march from
Nile
To do him wanton rites —which cost
them woe.
415 Yet thence his lustful orgies he en-
larged
Even to that hill of scandal by the
grove
Of Moloch homicide lust hard by
hate—
Till good Josiah drove them thence to
hell.
With these came they—who from the
bordering flood
420 Of old Euphrates to thejbrook [that
parts
Egypt from Syrian ground] had
general names
Of Baalim and Astaroth those male
These feminine—for spirits [when
they please]
Can either sex assume, or both so
soft
425 And uncompounded is their essence
pure
Not tied or manacled with joint or
limb
Nor founded on the brittle strength of
bones
Like cumbrous flesh but in what (51)
shape [they choose]
Dilated or condensed bright or ob-
scure
430 Can execute their aery purposes
And works of love or enmity fulfil.
For those the race of Israel oft for-
sook
Their living Strength and unfre-
quented left
His righteous altar bowing lowly down
435 To bestial gods —for which their heads
as low
Bow’d down in battle sunkf before the
spear
Of despicable foes. With these in


troop
Came Astaroth— whom the Phoeni-
cians call’d
Astarte queen of heaven with cres-
cent horns—
-440 To whose bright by
the moon
Sidonian virgins
songs
In Sion also not unsung—where stood
Her temple on the offensive.mountain
built
By that uxorious king—whose heart
though large
445 Beguiled by fair idolatresses fell
To idols foul.
(48) Supply “ came.”
(49) Supply “ were.”
(50) Supply “ came. ”
(51) “In what shape” —“in the
shape which.”
A RATHER WINDY STORY.
I remember one evening last summer,
just after I came home from—not the war
exactly, but a two-years’ <;ruise in the
Pacific as surgeon of the U. S. steamer
Wateree that all of us bachelors were
enjoying the cool of the evening and the
fragrance of our pipes on the flat roof of
the hall attached to the old boarding-
house.
Lying about in various attitudes, one
and another had told stories, macle re-
marks and subsided.
Lewis raised himself on his elbow,
knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and
asked if I had ever heard of old Burbank,
of Wingfield.
If I had, I had forgotten it.
Burbank, said Lewis, was one of those
old fellows that you find in every
country village, whose sole business in
life consists in looking after other people’s
affairs, and who seems blessed with any
amount of time to do it in.
Burbank button-holed me one day in
Washington-street while I was waiting
for a stage. How he ever got so far from
home, I don’t know ; but there he was,
in his Sunday-go-to-meetin’ suit, and
insisted on telling me all about his row
with Mr. Farnsworth.
“ I started out the other mornin’,” said
he, “ an’ when I got outside the house I
see it was goin’ to be a pleasant day, an’
I thought Fd walk down to Parmelee’s
shop an’ see if them tubs o’ Mr. Farns-
worth’s was done. I hadn’t got nothin’
to do, an’ I kinder thought Mr. Farns-
worth might like to know if them tubs of
his’n was done. So I started and got
down to Parmelee’s, an’ I see the door
was locked. So I went roun’ behind the
shop, an’ looked in the back winder, an’
there I see them tubs o’ Mr. Farnsworth’s,
an’ I see that they was done. Then I
looked in again, an’ I saw that the shop
was afire ! Wall, I thought that Mr.
Farnsworth might kinder like to know
that them tubs was done, an’ that the
shop was afire, so I thought I’d walk
down to Mr. Farnsworth’s house an’ tell
him that they was done an’ the shop was
afire.”
By this time, said Lewis, my stage had
gone by, and I found I was in for the
whole story of Burbank’s troubles. I told
him to go on, inwardly wishing him and
Mr. Farnsworth at the d—l. and thinking
of my chances of reaching home before
dinner grew cold.
“Wall,” said Burbank, “I’d walked
along a piece, an’ I see Mr. Deming a
cornin’ down street. ‘.Good mornin,’ Mr.
Deming, ’ says I. 4 Pleasant day.’ 4 Yes,’
says he, 4 good growin’ weather. What’s
the news ? ’ 4 Wall, ’ says 1, 4 1 started out
alter breakfast this mornin’, an’ I see it
was agoin’ to be a pleasant day, an’ I
kinder thought I’d go down to Parmelee’s
an’ see if them tubs o’ Mr. Farnsworth’s
was done. So l started down the street
an’ when I got to Parmelee’s I see the
door was locked. So I thought I’d go
roun’ the shop an’ take a look in the back
winders, an’ when I looked in I see them
tubs o’ Mr. Farnsworth a stannin’ there,
an’ I see they was done. An’ then I
looked in again, an' I see the shop was
afire, so I started to go down to Mr.
Farnsworth’s house an’ tell him that them
tubs o’ his’n was done an’ the shop was
afire. ‘ Good mornin’, Mr. Deming, ’ says
I, ‘ I guess I’ll walk right along, seein’
that the tubs is done an’ the shop is afire,
an’ tell Mr. Farnsworth about it.”
“ Wall ! I’d gone along a little furder,
an’ I see Sam Pulsifer leanin’ over the
picket fence in front o’ his house. 4 Good
mornin’, Mr. Burbank,’ says he. 4 what’s
your hurry.’ 4 Wall, nothing,’ says I,
only when I got out o’ the house* this
mornin’ arter breakfast, I see it was a
pleasant day, an’ I hadn’t got nothin’ in


partic’lar on my hands, I kinder thought
I’d walk down to Parmelee’s shop an’ see
if them tubs o’ Mr. Farnsworth’s was
done. Wall, when I got down there I
see the door was locked. So I thought
I’d go roun’ an’ look in the back winders.
So I went roun’, an’ when I looked in I
see them tubs o’ Mr. Farnsworth’s a
stannin’ there, an’ I see tkat they was
done. An’ then I looked a little furder,
an’ I see that the shop was afire. Wall,
it struck me Mr. Farnsworth might like
to know that they was done an’ the shop
was afire, so I thought I’d go down to his
house an’ tell him that them tubs was
done and the shop was afire. An’ I
kinder guess I’ll go right along, Sam,’
says I, “ so’s to tell Mr. Farnsworth.”
“Wall, jest afore I got to Mr. Farns-
worth’s house, who should I meet but
Maria Jane Peters, she that was a Wil-
liams’. ‘ Good mornin’, Miss Peters,’ says
I ‘ how do you do ! ’ ‘ Good mornin,’
Mr. Burbank,’ says she. ‘ Why, what a
stranger, you be ! Whereabouts you gom’
this mornin’ ? ’ ‘ Wall.’ says I. • when I
started out this mornin’, I see it was
acroin’ to be a pleasant day, an’ I sorter
thought I’d travel- down to Parmelee’s
shopman’ see if them tubs o’ Mr. Farns-
worth’s was done. Wall, when I got
down there I see that the door was locked.
So I thought I’d go roun’ the shop and
look in the back winders. So when I got
there I looked in the back winder, and
there I saw them tubs o’ Mr. Farnsworth’s
a stannin there, an’ I saw they was done.
An’ then I looked in again, an’ I see that
the shop was afire.,’ Here Miss Peters
she gived a scream, and says she, ‘ Why,
Ebenezer Samuel Burbank, howyou talk! ’
< Y-ffce-s,’ says I, ‘ and I kinder thought
Mr. Farnsworth might like to know that
them tubs o’ his’n was done and the shop
was afire, so I’d go right down to his
house and tell him that they was done,
an’ the shop was afire.’ ‘ Well,’ says she,
‘ I would if I was you.’ ‘ Wall,’ says I,
< I guess I’ll go right along now an’ tell
him the tubs is done an’ the shop is
afire. Good mornin’, Miss Peters. ‘ Good
mornin’, Mr. Burbank,’ says she.
“ Wall, then I went right over to Mr.
Farnsworth. Miss Farnsworth she comes
to the door. ‘ Why,’ says she, ‘ Mr. Bur-
bank, how do you do ? Come right in
and set down ! ’ So I went in and sat
down, ‘Wall,’ says Miss Farnsworth,
‘ how’s Miss Burbank an’ the children ?
‘ Middlin,,’ says I, , middlin’ Miss Farns-
worth,’ says I ; ‘ you see when I started
out this mornin’ I see it was a pleasant
day, an’ I thought I’d go down to Par-
melee’s as I hadn’t got nothin’ to do, and
see about them tubs o’ your’n. Wall,
when I got down to Parmelee’s I see that
the door was locked. Wall, I thought
I’d go roun’ behind the shop an’ take a
look inter the back winders’ an’ when I
got roun’ an’ looked in, I see them tubs
o’ your’n a stannin’ there, an’ I see that
they was done. By the way, Miss Farns-
worth,’ says I, ‘where’s Mr. Farnsworth?’
Just then the door opened leadin’ inter
the bedroom, an’ Mr. Farnsworth, he
come out. ‘ Good mornin’, Mr. Burbank.’
says he, ‘ how do you do? I heard you
tellin’ Miss Farnsworth that them tubs o’
our’n was done.’ ‘ Yes,’ says I, ‘ they be
done.’ ‘Well,’ says Mr. Farnsworth, ‘I
guess I’ll put Billy inter the wagon an’
go up an’ git ’em.’ ‘ Wall,’ says I, when
I looked inter the back winder agin I see
that the shop was afire ! ’ I hadn’t
moren’ got the words out o’ my mouth
afore Mr. Farnsworth he jumped for the
door, an’ he says, says he, ‘ D n, why
didn’t you say so ? ’ ‘ Wall,’ says I, ‘ I
was cornin’ to it. By that time Mr.
Farnsworth was runnin’ down street
powerful. I sot there talking to Miss
Farnsworth. Bi-m-by Mr. Farnsworth
come back. ‘Wall,’ says I, ‘ did you get
them tubs o’ your’n ? ’ He begun to
swear, an’ says he, ‘ When I got to Par-
melee’s the hull thing was burnt, tubs an,
all.’ And now, Mr Lewis, said Burbank,
Mr. Farnsworth, he blamed me ! ”—Bos-
ton Evening Gazette.
Sydney “ Once a Week,” edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, Georg e-street.—We
have received another number of this
really interesting weekly publication, and
are gratified to note it has reached its 18th
number, as also to learn that its patron-
age is largely increasing. Many of the
articles, tales, yarns, &c., contained in it
are far above ordinary merit, and much
care is evidently taken in preparation as
well as printing. The reader can enjoy
subjects grave and gay as suited to his
(or her) disposition, while the tone of its
contributions fit it for reception in every
home, especially those in the country dis-
tricts. We can candidly recommend its
perusal to country friends.— Bathurst
I Sentinel.


A STORM ON THE BRATTLE.
BY FRANCIS FRANCIS.
“ I fancy we are going to have a storm,
Charley,” I exclaimed as we sat looking
on a charming pool on the Brattle, over-
shadowed by gigantic hornbeans hard by,
and overhanging alders close at hand.
Half-buried in bracken, at our feet, flowed
the calm, still stream. The pool was now
glassy and without a rufl3e, every tree and
leaf reflected in it as in a mirror ; on the
other side a perfect thicket of rank vege-
tation with huge burdock leaves, and a
plant like wild rhubarb, rose waist high :
and so still was the air that the faintest
rustle could be heard under the broad
green leaves, and that friend of our boy-
hood, the viridis lacertns of the Delectus,
could not wag his tail without being
heard—perhaps I should have said could
not have done so had he been found there,
about which I have a doubt. No rustle
of leaf, no splash of fish. The wild bee
hid himself in the foxglove bell, and
ceased his humming for a time. No twit-
ter of bird nor creak of cricket. Nature
was getting under shelter, and suggest-
ing to us the desirability of getting under
shelter too. Now I don’t mind saying
that I have a constitutional objection to
being under trees in a thunderstorm, and
that my friend Charley B. has another
constitutional objection to be out in the
middle of an open meadow under like
circumstances ; so, after taking a squint
to windward and another to leeward, one
aloft and one all round, we concluded
that shelter would be as well till the storm
had passed.
“ Tl ? e Goat ” was only about half a mile
off, just over the brow yonder; so,
shouldering our rods' and settling our
creels, which were not untenanted by our
morning’s labours (for sport had been
good until the storm had began to gather,
and we had each about three brace of
nice half-pounders or thereaway to the
good), we stepped out lustily. We had
not got half-way to the Goat, however,
when the clouds, which had been slowly
rising over the point of the hill on our
right, gave an ominous growl, and com-
menced rising and forming quicker and
quicker. In three minutes the sun was
blotted out, and down came the rain in a
deluge, and for the last two hundred
yards or so, which we took at racing
speed, the rain drenched us, and the wind
battered us, while lightning and thunder
hissed and roared above our heads inces-
santly ; and we plunged into the Goat
streaming. Placing our rods on the
hooks in the long stone passage, we
divested ourselves of cur creels and en-
tered the large kitchen, where a fire on
the hearth and a couple of vacant ingle
nooks wore the most inviting aspect pos-
sible. We were pretty well drenched,
and got into the most favorable position
for drying. Having kindled up the fire
afresh, and concocted a pot of foaming
hot purl, we then lighted our pipes and
enjoyed ourselves. The storm roared
without, but we were pretty snug, and
did not regard it. Presently two or three
other brothers of the angle came in, and
one or two labouring men driven from
their work, and conversation ensued.
Among the anglers was an old chap
known as “ Owld Johnny I never
heard that he had any other name—a
genial, cheery old chap. His father left
him some ten or a dozen acres of land,
the remnant of a good property, which
he as well as his fathers before him had
done their best to dissipate ; and on this,
with the fruits of his rod, the old chap
contrived to make out a living. He was
a very good old fellow, wonderfully liberal
to his brother anglers in the matter of
hints or information— often very valuable
to a stranger. I have known him give
up a good stream where he was pulling
out the spotted-jackets, just to let some
poorer or less fortunate brother try his
hand : and I have known him even take
the very fly off his line for you. Such
kindly feeling of course made him many
fiiends, and no one who knew him would
have done a shabby thing by old John on
any consideration. Many a dozen of fine
gut or hooks, or other such necessaries,
did one or the other bestow on old John,
with packets of tobacco, pipes, and such
trifles.
Old John smoked his pipe in front of
the fire, Charley and I on either side, and
the others scattered.
“ How did the fish die to-day, John ?”
“I ve know’d ’em die better, Mesr’
Cha s ; but still there wur no gurt cause
to grizzle till the thunner come.”
“ Hid you ever catch ’em in a thunder
storm, John ?’ I asked.
“ Many’s and many’s a time, sir ; but


then’m riz bad afower it, an’ it sim like
to stir’m up. ”
“ I mind,” said another sage, “ hooking
a turble big fish in a thunner storm
once.”
“Ay, ay, Beenjamine, we’en heerd o’
that. Tell the genelmen the story, Been-
j amine.”
“A don’t mind tellin’ of the story,
Johnny, if ’e’ll zing us ‘ Vish Vair ’ first.”
“ Thee be sharp on a chap, Beenj amine;
not as I minds singin’ a might or morsel
—only Mesr Cha’s a moutn’t keer for my
singin’ : an’ as vor Mesr Yrank, a’ve eerd
’n a duzun times, a wot.”
“Not quite so many, old friend, and
certainly not so often but I’d like to hear
it again,” said I. “ Mrs. Calliper, fill up
the brown jug ; the storm is passing
away, but the river will be thick for a
couple of hours ; so we can spare the
time. ”
« Mesr Yrank,” whispered Owld John,
“ee’l hev such a even’s vishin’ if ’ee’l
coom wi’ I.”
I nodded shortly, knowing well what
the old man’s offer meant ; and, the jug
being by this time replenished, Owld
John took a swig, blew up his pipe to full
furnace heat, put himself in an attitude,
skewered a fly on the ceiling with one eye
as he rolled the other to the tune, and,
sawing the air with the hand that held
the pipe, delivered his song.
When the last stanza of the ditty died
away, great was the applause, and John
puffed up his pipe again, took another
swig, and nodded to Beenjamine, who
accordingly took up the running.
“ Talking o’ thunner starms, mates, ye
mind talk o’ Philip Gorm ? Well, it was
before your time, maybe. Phil had been
wildish when a young man, and had
picked up some bad companions ; but
arter he married Ellen Tucker, he settled
down like to steadier ways. Phil was
whipper-in to Lord Maltimore’s hounds,
and a good rider and a keen sportsman,
and was in high favor with the lord, so
that there was very little prospect, when
old Abel Harkaway died or superany-
wated, but that Phil would take his place.
Phil was happy as a king at this time,
and but that Ellen was a bit flirty in her
ways—not meanin nothin wrong, ye
know, but lightish-mannered like—Phil
had never a trouble. Unfortunately, he
had still an acquaintance with one o’ his
old wild companions, Dan’l Hopper, and
a darned bad ’un was Dan’l Hopper. He
come between Phil and Ellen, and made
mischief. It’s too long a yarn, mates, to
tell how it rose and how it went on.
From bein’ pleasant and confident with
one another, the two young creeturs grew
distant and suspicious, and Dan’l was al-
ways by to make things worse, and worse
they was accordin’. Phil at last took up
to drink agin, which he’d throwed over
when he married, and Dan’l was always
the one to put it on him. Fact was—l
may as well tell the truth at once—Dan’l
had paid ’tentions to Ellen hisself, but
the owld volk, knowin’ him for what he
wor, would not have it at no price, and
Ellen besides was fond ov Phil. So
Dan’l resolved to show’m all arterwards
that they got no such great catch wi’
Phil, and that’s ’ow he did it, and poor
Phil was often landed by Dan’l quite tee-
tosticated at the end of the lane to his
cottage. Well, old Abel died one day,
and, ’stead ov Phil havin’ his place, as
he’d expected at one time, he had become
so onregler like that the lord got a fresh
man altogether; and, as Phil o’ny got
wus arter this, he ended by being turned
out of his place altogether. This here
busted of him, mates, and, one evening,
when half drunk he overheard a talk
’twixt Ellen and Dan’l, in which Dan’l
was a-recountin’ all Phil’s faults, and a-
tryin’ to persuage her to go off to Merri-
kay ’long of him. He didn’t stop for no
change, you med be sure at that, but he
went r’ght in at him, an’ gev that Dan’l
sich a darnation caterwollopin’ as he
never see nor hear ob sin’ he was raised.
He knocked ’n down, and pulled ’n up,
and he knocked un down agin, till there
worn’t no two feayturs of his face as
knowed another. Lor’, how he did mash
un, to be sure ! and he warned un agin
cornin’ wi’in ’alf a mile of his cottage
agin, on promise of another dose of the
like. Dan’l was the laffin poast of the
whole neighbourhood for weeks arter;
for he wor painted lovely, and that’s a
fact.
“ Well, it was talked on, you may be
sure, all about, and the lord come to hear
on it. Arter this, as Dan’l didn’t dare
come anighst the place, Phil and Ellen
got on a mort better, and Phil left off
drinkin again, and got steadier-like ; and
one day the lord, who’d always a-liked
him, come down to his cottage and had a
long talk with 'em both, and took poor


Phil on again, and Phil and Ellen got on
again like two turkey-doves. But that
'ere Dan’l was a white livered fellow as
bottled his feelin’s. He didn’t say nothin’
to no one, but he thought the more, and
the d 1 got him in his meshes nicely.
One day there’d bin thunder all about,
and a storm was a-blowin’ up ; but I
wanted a dish of fish, and was out a-
spinnin’ a minney in Basham Weir.” At
this Owld John shook his head depre-
catingly. “ Well, I knows, I knows,
John, but I wanted ’em ’tickler; an’, as
I said, I was spinnin’ the minney there
when the storm came on, and it got
so awsome dark I left my rod planted by
the weir, and got under the old weir shed
for shelter. I ’adn’t been there not ten
minutes, the thunder roaring, and the
lightnin’ a-flashin’ over head and all
round, when I see a big lump o’ somethin’
come rowling over the weir. I thort
’twas the root o’ a tree, and run out to
get my tackle out; but ’twas too late, for
in a second I’d hooked it, my rod bent
double, and the next moment away the
tree went and I lost my minney. *Arter
a time the storm cleared off, and I made
up my bag and strattled up the bank.
As I was goin’ I sees Ellen a-comin’
down.
“ ‘ Oh, Ben ! ’ says she, ‘ ’ave you see
my Phil ? ’
“ ‘ No, Nell, I ain’t,’ I says, ‘ not this
ways. ’
“ * Where ever can he be, then ? ’ says
she, a-lookin, frightened-like.
“ He’s all right,” I says ; “ he towld
me this marn as he wor goin’ up to kennel
to worm some puppies, and like he’s there
now.”
“ ‘ No,’ says she. ; no ; I’ve been there,
and he’d left ; and, Ben,’ she says, a-
sinkin’ her woice to a terrifying whisper,
‘ little Billy Shorter tell me ’as he seen
him an’ DanT a ’avin’ words just below
Clapstone Mill ; and the lad said he run
away ’cos he was frightened, and DanT
had that big stick as he carries o’ late,
and was flourishing it round and talkin’
very loud and angry”
“ ‘ The Lord be good to us ! ’ I says ;
for my ’art gev a bound as I thought of
that tree stump as come over the weir ;
for, ye see, it was so dark I couldn’t see
rightly at the time. Anyhow, I deter-
mined to go down to the next mill, and
see if it wor really a stump, or—or any-
thin’ else; so I persuaded Ellen to go
home, and promised to go and look for
Phil up at the house, or here at the Goat,
where he likely took shelter from the
weather. Then I takes my way down to
Jaffer’s Mill, and my heart fell lower and
lower as I see the miller and his man on
the rack a clearin’ it of somethin’ wi’
poles ; and before I got up to’m, they
hauled it ashore : and as I come up I saw
it was poor Phil, sure enough, stark dead,
with a big welt on the top of his head ;
and. as they turned him over, there was
my minney a-sticking on his jacket.
‘ Wot’s this clenched in his ’and ? ’ says
the miller ; ‘ a big white bone button ! ’
That ’ere button, mates, hanged DanT
Hopper, an’ I went to see it. Ellen keeps
the lodge at the lord’s, and her son, as
you know, is first whip to the young lord,
and ’ll be huntsman in time. But the
weather has cleared up beautiful, mates,
and now for the river There’ll be trouts
i’ the pan to-night.”
We went with owld John, who put on
for us a big red palmer with a yellow
body—a great medicine of his own con-
trivance. The water was clearing already,
and I never shall forget that evening’s
fishing. Between us we mustered forty-
four brace of splendid trout, many of them
up to a pound, and some over. Having
taken half a dozen brace each of the best
for our own use, we made Owld John a
present of the rest, and vastly pleased he
was, you may be sure. “ And that,” he
said, as we left him at a weir which we
had not seen before, “ is Basham Weir,
where Been j amine lost his minney.”
Confound Basham Weir! the place looked
horribly gloomy and eirie in the shadows,
and it was not till we got home to lights,
supper, and our own easy chairs that we
managed to shake off the creepy feeling
we then contracted. —The Field.
MY MOTHER.
Who rises first and lights the fire,
And makes the room one to admire ?
My Mother.
Who lifts the heavy water-pail,
Although her strength doth often fail ?
My Mother.
Who cooks our dinners nice and hot,
And breaks her back with the large pot ?
My Mother.


Who irons smoothly all ray clothes,
And mends and darns my woollen hose ?
My Mother.
Who makes my suits and flannel shirts,
And who my feelings never hurts ?
My Mother.
Who doth attend me when I’m ill,
And gives me castor oil and pill ?
My Mother.
Who cleans and sharpens all the knives,
And takes good care the garden thrives ?
My Mother.
Who helps me with my weary task,
And answers questions which I ask ?
My Mother.
Who saves my father many a pound
By prudence and advice so sound ?
My Mother.
Who tries from noon to night to please,
And casts aside all thoughts of ease ?
My Mother.
Who oft gets scolded and jeered at,
When tired and weary with all that ?
My Mother.
[We publish the above verses by a
young contributor as a tribute to filial
virtue. —Ed. Once a Week.]
HER MOTHER.
WHO, when I took my pet for life,
Convinced me, through domestic strife,
That I had married with my wife —
Her Mother ?
Who, though ’twas clearly understood
That live with friends I never would,
Came for a week, and—stayed for good •
Her Mother.
Who, whensoever “ tiffs ” befell,
Would irritating stories tell,
And chafe the place to make it well ?
Her Mother.
Who to control my household dares,
Each letter reads, each secret shares,
And takes the lead in my affairs ?
Her Mother.
Who, when from home I chance to stay,
Hints that work “might,” or business
“may ”
Detain—but there, no more she'll say ?
Her Mother.
Who breaks our peace, destroys our bliss,
Coils on our hearth with frequent hiss—
Connubial rapture’s Nemesis ?
Her Mother.
Enough ! But has it not a flaw,
That Act which says I may not draw
Two wives, and yet makes mine in law,
Her Mother?
TOWN GOSSIP.
Our friend the Vagabond is anxious
to know why a certain schoolmistress
at Ashfield gives her young charges
impositions when they are caught
reading the Sydney Morning Herald.
Why, of course, because of the ten-
dency to go to sleep which such
reading is calculated to produce.
“ She reads it herself,” says the
Vag., “ and in doing so aggravates
her fault.” But does the lady in
question read anything in the Herald
except the advertisements ?If so,
and she is in the habit of wading
through the leading columns, she
must be eminently wide-awake, and
therefore suited to the position she
holds. Parents do not usually send
their daughters to school to read the
morning journal. We have found a
good deal of the pabulum supplied
by the Vagabond very hard to digest,
and we think the schoolmistress he
blames has shewn a wise discretion
in forbidding its introduction into
her class-rooms.
*
A gentleman who was present the
other day on the Albert Ground
when some rabbit “ worrying ” was
going on, writes to us in strong terms
of the cruelty of the sport. About
150 to 200 persons were looking on,
and there was a general expression
of dissatisfaction and disgust.
Twenty courses were run. One
unfortunate animal, he says, could


only be got to take to his heels after
a continuous clapping of hands,
and was immediately pounced upon
and killed. Another ran towards
the dogs and not from them, and
was as speedily torn to pieces. It is
urged by the upholders of this pas-
time, that coursing hares or pigeon-
shooting from a trap are equally
cruel amusements. All sport which
aims at the death of the object pur-
sued is no doubt a crime in the eyes
of the tender-hearted, and it is, per-
haps, difficult to draw the line. In
coursing, however, Puss has a chance
of escape—some friendly cover which
she may possibly attain ; but to turn
out a defenceless bunny on an open
piece of ground with only a few yards’
law allowed her, and then to set the
dogs on her is butchery not sport,
and an outrage on the name of
coursing.
Decidedly, the Young Australian
Coursing Club are in bad odour, and
the sooner they break up the better.
Public opinion is against rabbit-
worries as well as cockfighting and
all other displays of wanton cruelty to
animals.
* *
*
Question for a debating society :
Which does most for the good of his
country, the man who goes without
a drink, and gives his sixpence to a
charitable fund ; or the man who
takes two drinks and puts sixpence
into the box each time.
*
* *
Here is an idea for parties about
to furnish suggested by a visit to a
large ironmongery establishment in
George-street, vffiere we had an
opportunity of inspecting some very
handsome stoves with mantelpieces,
etc., complete, enlivened by the inser-
tion in every available space of tiles
hand-painted in various designs. In
place of the ornamental figures on
these tiles, why not have likenesses
of the members of the family, their
relatives, and friends. To group
around the domestic hearth the well-
known faces of one’s relations in this
way would be literally as well as
figuratively to cement the union
which should exist in all well-ordered
families.
* * *
Some month or so ago, on the
outskirts of a suburban municipality,
in a spot where population is scarce
and traffic next to nothing, a specu-
lative man determined to erect an
inn. So did another man ! And
the other man not only got his tavern
run up first, but got himself and it
licensed before the plaster was dry
on the walls of his hostelry, or the
floors quite laid on the joists of his
rival’s ! This was rough on specu-
lative man No. 1 ; but what we feel
certain our readers will feel to be
much rougher on the public is this,
that the Sydney magistrate’s sense
of the fitness of things having deter-
mined that both houses (though next
door to one another) were needed by
the neighbourhood, two licensed vic-
tuallers are now engaged in seeking
to push a business where there is not
in reality room for one—to the
manifest benefit of the adulterating
brewer and of that “ speciality ”
alone.
* 5|S
*
So William Cullen Brigent, poet,
journalist, lawyer, has passed away
at the ripe age of ninety-four. Few
possibly have read his “Thanatopsis
yet it is a work of great power, and
the encomiums somewhat too agonis-
tically piled upon it by Washington


Irving were in the main deserved.
During the many decades of his
working life he witnessed America’s
outgrowth from the spirit of a nar-
row provincialism into the healthy
life of a broad nationalism. We
wonder if there be any litterateurs
now alive in Sydney who will live to
witness the day when New South
Wales shall have shaken off her one-
horsedness, and have awoke to the
patriot creed that the place for a pro-
phet to have honour in is his “ ain
countree ”?
* *
*
The news of the victory of the
English Gentlemen was full of con-
solations to paterfamilias, to whom,
of late, the minutes immediately fol-
lowing the delivery of the morning
paper constituted a mauvais quart d ’
heure owing to acid remarks of Aus-
tralian-born olive branches. We
would caution paterfamilias not to be
too exultant. There is to be a re-
turn match you know ; and—so,
perhaps, silence may prove golden,
after all! * * *
An American journal moaning
Longfellowly, says :
There is no town, however watched and tended,
But one dead bank is there,
and we are inclined to agree with the
lamentation, notwithstanding the ex-
ceptionality of Sydney to the tenor
of its strain. How long under pre-
sent land alienation systems will this
exceptionality last though? Big
half yearly dividends look well; but
they can be paid out of capital! Our
own notion is that Sydney will soon
number a dead bank or two with any
amount of wild time growing there-
on, if for the Association principle
there be not speedily substituted a
healthy free trade in banking opera-
tions.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
George. —Your letter received with
name and address.
W. G. 8.. —We cannot quite endorse
the opinion on your sonnet expressed in
the letter you sent us ; but we laughed
heartily at “King Cheops,” which, how-
ever, we are obliged to decline as unsuit-
able to our pages.
Help Hope. —ln our next. Corres-
pondents must adhere to the rule that
only one side of the paper should be
written upon.
Omega. —You will see in this number
that your rights are protected:
X. —We have received several sugges-
tions and embryo schemes in re the
establishment of a penny daily news-
paper ; but, as none are based on the
principles which we have laid down on
the subject, we cannot entertain them.
T. 3T. WIESENBR,
348
GEORGE SIT.,
348
Half way between Hunter
Street and Post Office.
Lowest price marked in
plain figures.
Latest Novelties by
every mail.
Repairs faithfully ex-
ecuted.
/
WIESENER
GEORCE S
348
YDNEY
m
M
XL
Gold Genevas from
£3 15s.
Silver Genevas from
from £2 ss.
Silver Hunting English
Levers from £5 10s.
Gold English Levers
from £lO.
E. P. and Fancy Goods.
Optical Goods in grea
variety.
