

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. H. BAREEE.
No. 11, Vol. I.]
MAECH 30, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
DAY OP
SUN.
High Watbb
MEMORANDA.
Sydney Cove.
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
March
30
Sat
Peace with Russia concluded, 1856.
612
6.57
6. 2 a.m.
31
April
S
4th in Lent. Haydn b, 1732. 1st steamer
launched, Sydney, 1831.
6.12
5.66
6.43 a m.
1
M
Ta88 ’ 18?6 WOrth ’ Wagga CircuitB - Bismarck b.,
6.13
5.54
7.20 a.m.
2
To
Dubbo Circuit. Cobden d. 1865.
6.14
5.53
7.63 a.m.
3
W
New Moon, 7.19 am. Yass, Tam worth, Waff? a
Causes. Shakspeare d., 1616.
6.15
5.52
8.25 a.m.
4
Th
St. Ambrose. Dubt> 0 Causes. ‘ Foundation
Sydney Town Hall, 1868.
6.15
6 50
8.57a.m.
6
P
B. Museum established, 1753.
6.16
6.49
9.29 a m.
W* shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N-B. -Advertisements for “SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK’’ will be received up to ten o’clock on
Thursday morning.
HALF-FINISHED HOUSES.
The belief entertained by far too
many landlords in the virtue of
cleanliness is of the most abstract
type. They will admit that well
veutilated, well drained houses are
admirable things—in the abstract;
but when it comes to putting the
particular houses thev have to let
into well ventilated, well drained
condition, they have an intuitive
knack of tightening their purse
strings. They resemble the “ gin-
ooine statesman” who, as the Ame-
rican bard tells us, is “ ever on his
guard ef he must hev beliefs , nut to
b lieve ’em too hard,” seeing
Thet Truth to dror kindly in all sorts of harness
Mus’ be kep’ in the abstract,—for come to ap-
ply it
You’re ept to hurt some folks’s interests by it.
In most civilized countries the
law steps in to compel the house-
owner, under heavy penalties, to
maintain his various premises in ac-


cordance with prescribed sanitary
conditions. In England, for ex-
ample, every house must have re-
ceived a certificate of fitness for oc-
cupancy before it can be legally
considered tenantable. The autho-
rities must be satisfied that the
house is drained, that the rooms are
sufficiently ventilated, that the out
offices are either situated at a
healthy distance from the building,
or provided with the needful appli-
ances to prevent effluvium. In this
colony the law is a dead letter wish
regard to the sanitary condition of
the house. There is a statute
which proposes to have an eye to
the public health in this respect,
but which, owing to a piece of legis-
lative bungling, is as open to be
driven through by any landlord’s
coach and four as the Parramatta
road. It is a statute which, while
bristling with “ thou shalts,” rejoi-
ces the landlords’ hearts by never
once saying tl thou must, or else.”
In brief, penalties are not enforced
under the act, such as it is. The
result is—cesspools open to the sur-
face drainage within a yard of the
dwelling-rooms, utter absence of
any provision for leading off the
sewage, perfect non-ventilation, in
scores upon scores of houses that
have been run up —to let. In Syd-
ney and the suburbs, we do not
hesitate to say that there are thou-
sands of men, women, and children
whose daily breath passes to them
defiled with easily preventible filth,
easily preventible if the Legislature
would but recognise its duties—•
thousands of whom it may be said
—physically at all events
—Nequiores, mox daturoe
Progeniem vitiosiorem.
Are we to wait until next ses-
sion for reform in this matter ? Are
the landlord’s vested interests f>r
ever to stand between the people
and their right ?
Why cannot the Government see
its way this session to introduce a
complete Health Bill, seeing that
Health Bills have been under pro-
cess of manufacture by each suc-
ceeding ministry for the last ten
years. Surely there must be more
than one measure in a complete state
by this time. Each day’s delay is
dangerous. This scandalous neg-
lect of the laws of cleanliness is
daily sowing the seeds of the death
of thousands, is daily striking at
hundreds among the very pooreat
whom nineteenth century civiliza-
tion (as practised in New South
Wales) leaves to sicken in dens un-
fit for dogs. Let the Government
look to this ! Let them remember
that no one will dare to obstruct
any measure of sanitary reform
openly. The obstruction to any such
reform will be secret and sluggish,
though perchance weighty with
bank shares. Let the Government
throw themselves loyally upon the
people, introduce some practical re-
form in this direction this very session
—and dare the obstructionists to do


their worst! Counting of noses
may do all very well when party re-
solutions are under discussion, but
when the health of a quarter of a
quarter of a million of souls is at
stake, it becomes men placed at the
helm, and so in the position of states-
men, to assert principles and to
stick to them.
The work must be done at once.
A rainy season seems imminent. If
the mothers of the lower orders are
left to toil on drearily in homes
teeming with the germs of pesti-
lence, if their children are left to
play on upon the street reeking with
garbage, or in the yard saturated
with the lees of house drainage and
kitchen refuse—surely their lives
will be required at the hands of
those who having the power to re-
medy the evil neglect their duty,
who instead of insisting upon action
resign themselves to sleep —a little
sleep, a little slumber, a little fold-
ing of the hands to sleep—careless
of the consequences which must
ensue
A ’BUS PLAINT.
I.
Rocked in the bosom of a ‘ bus,
Tender and gentle as a nus,
Patient I contemplated thus;
“Naughty I know it is to cus,
Foolish and vain to make a fuss,
Some kinds of trav’fling might be wus.”
11.
“ One might be cast away at sea,
Hard up for damper, beef, and tea,
Most disagreeable it would be;
Or carried madly through the air,
Far from the scenes of human care,
Bound for you’ve no conception where.”
111.
“ If fate compels, you know we must
In the inevitable trust,
Sore tho’ we be and choked with dust.”
So fighting hard with my disgust,
Calmly the matter I discussed,
Concluding that what must be must.
N. H.
HIGH SCHOOL SYDNEY.
HOW THE BOYS GOT THEIR
ROAD.
The morning classes are just over, and
the “goat walk” of the Sydney High
School is thronged with excited youth.
“ Roll up !” is the cry. And in a few
seconds all the various groups are
massed into one lively crowd beneath
the grateful shelter of the figtrees.
“Now then, Mac, give tongue,”
roar a hundred voices.
“Let's discuss the road question, *
yell others.
“ Dis cussed question,” says a wag
in the mob.
“Fire away Mac,,” shriek all, as
sturdy little Mac mounts the broken
sun-dial that acts as rostrum on all
occasions of holding the school comi-
tia.
“Boys!” says Mac, we have met
as you all know, to see if we can't hit
upon a plan for getting rid of a nuis-
ance that’s becoming a trifle too mono-
tonous. There ought to be direct com-
munication between that there gate-
way and the high road. Will any one
say there oughtn’t ?”
A universal “ No,” is the school res-
ponse.
“How on earth,” continues Mac,
“ the trustees are such born idiots as
not to have got a road made years be-
fore this, is one of those conumdrums
a fellow’s bound to give up. I’ll be
gormed if it ain’t. To think of rhe
coach putting us down at the cross
roads, and then of our having to pad
the hoof for more than a mile-and-
a-half every blessed morning and
afternoon! It’s too much of a good
thing. It’s a coming it a trifle too
strong. It’s rayther too rich, like Sam
Weller’s pie, as was made of nothing
but fat. It makes us late for school.
It sows the seeds of consumption in
our tender frames, 'cause whenever it
rains there we are wet to the skin be-
fore w e can say J ack Robertson. No w,
'twould be easy as kiss my hand to
make a road. Wouldn’t it, now ?”


“ Yes/' roars the school, all aflame
with Mac’s eloquence.
Funny Joe suggests that if the trus-
tees were to put their heads together
there would be splendid material for a
wooden block road.
Steve Newton deprecates insulting
the authorities ?
“Right you are, Steve,” continues
Mac, “ we won’t insult ’em, yet. Let’s
soft soap ’em first, and then if that
won’t wash, we’ll try ’em on another
tack. As I was a saying, owing to
there being no direct communication
between the school and the road, we
get wet in rainy and exhausted in hot
weather. Now it wouldn’t cost much
to secure direct communication. Be-
sides if it does cost a little, there’s
money to be made out of the invest-
ment. That’s why I’m so posed when
I think of the trustees’ inaction. The
farmers whose land the track will cross
are willing to give up as mu©h land as
we want, at a reasonable valuation,
and the traffic to and from the school
will be considerable, I tell you. My
notion is that if we lay all this before
the head-master, and especially if we
dwell on the profits to be made out of
the plan, he will at once move in the
matter. Well, lads, what do you
say t”
“Well, for my part,” says little Eze-
kiel, “ I think that a deputation ’ll be
the correct thing. Let’s form one at
onee. I move that Jack Luckey, Dicky
Jehu, Jim Goody-Goody, rough Hughy,
Dan Butcher, Bob Morpeth, Mac Hun-
ter and myself, form a deputation to
wait on the doctor toot ong sweet.”
Dicky Jehu begged to be off it, as
he didn’t feel well. The boys snig-
gered at this, as it was thought that
Dicky’s people had an interest in the
coach that stopped at the cross roads.
The meeting having duly appointed
the deputation (with merry little Jem
on it in lieu of Dicky Jehu) then slowly
dispersed.
Directly afterwards the members of
the deputation wended their way to
the head master’s sanctvm, having first
appointed Mac as their spokesman.
Doctor Mudge G. Jack, 0.K.,L.5.D.,
as jolly a fellow as ever set a poena, or
wielded a birch, received the deputation
with the utmost geniality, and listened
to all that Mac had to say with the
most profound attention.
“ Dear boys,” said the Doctor,
t( there's a prodigious amount of
common sense in what you say. I
shall be glad, delighted, to do any-
thing to promote your convenience.
I always am gratified to do what I can
for you—that you ought to know. But
with regard to this road I can hardly
make any definite promise for this half,
as it will be necessary to have the line
surveyed. Besides, there is the esti-
mate of its probable cost to be made;
and as you all know, the science master
is awfully pushed just now for time.
However, be assured, dear boys, thatjl
will lay the matter before the trustees,
and you may rely upon it receiving our
most anxious consideration. God bless
you, dear boys. Go, and don't kick up
a row.”
Mac, having thanked the head master
for his courtesy, then led out his follow-
ing—all of them madly huzzaing, and
thinking i( old Jack” no-end of a brick.
*****
More than one half has passed away
since the scene above described; but
as yet there is NO DIRECT COMMU-
NICATION between the high school
and the high road !
A change of head masters has, how-
ever, taken place. Dr. Mudge G. Jack
has had to vacate his office in favour of
that great scholar, Dr. Canterbury
Parker, L. I. T., H. U. M. C. M. G.,
PH. D., X.Y. Z., who, as everyone
knows, can speak Greek as naturally
as pigs squeak, and with whom to
patter Latin is no more difficult than
for a blackbird to whistle.
Dr. Parker had not been long in-
stalled before the energetic Mac assem-
bled the school together a second time
to discuss the straight-cut question.
“ Now,' said he to the crowd, “ now
that we've got a new head master,
don’t you think we ought to see what
has been done by the trustees in this


matter ? Old Science has had lots of
time to do his surveying. What say
you, lads?”
The mass meeting endorsed Mac’s
view of things, and re-appointed the
old deputation to wait upon Dr. Parker.
That great man received the mem-
bers of the deputation with much cere-
mony. He was attended by old Science
and young Precis with a bundle of
papers neatly tied up with red tape.
On the table lay in a conspicuous posi-
tion a half-finished letter to Earl Rus-
sell. The medal of the Cobden Club
(the doctor was a rare one to “ cob ”)
gleamed upon his breast. In his right
hand he held a copy of the 107 th edition
of a poetical work entitled “ Murmurs
of the Stream.” Several full-length
portraits of the learned man adorned
the walls of the apartment. In one he
was depicted reclining gracefully on a
sofa after the cares of the day, with a
countenance quite childlike and bland.
In another, just over the fire-place, he
was to be seen in a sort of stand-at-ease
position, as if expecting a visitor, his
face full of care and his right hand
thrust into the pocket of his nether
garment.
“ Well, boys,” said he, “ your busi-
ness? Remember that a scholar’s time
is not to be broken in upon without
sufficient cause. Proceed.”
Mac bluntly put the matter before
him, and asked how things stood.
*• There can be no doubt,” said the
head master, with his most imposing
manner, that the question is one of a
singularly grave and important cha-
racter. I fully admit this. It is one
which involves many interests, Colo-
nial, Imperial, and International.
While I cannot pledge myself to carry
out the proposed extension, or to take
order that Mr. Science shall proceed
with the necessary survey and esti-
mate this half, I think I may promise
you that no unnecessary delay is
interposed between the present time
and my most anxious considera-
tion of your wishes. I shall have to
consult with my good friends, the
trustees, when I have made up my
own mind, and I have very little doubt
that I shall be able to submit to their
consideration a scheme which shall
solve all the difficulties of your propo-
sition—a scheme which shall give you
the cut direct, and the colony—may I
not say the world—the satisfaction of
knowing that there is a man at the
head of this school capable of dealing
with questions of this kind in a strictly
constitutional spirit.”
Mac looked at his brother deputies
with his tongue in his cheek. He then
curtly thanked the head-master, and
withdrew from his presence. Jim
G-oody-G-oody suggested cheers, but
the idea didn’t take. Indeed, when
the boys heard the result of the depu-
tation after afternoon school, three
groans were proposed by Arthur Back-
fast, who had particular reasons (con-
nected with his seat), for disliking the
doctor.
ANOTHER HALF-TEAR GONE!
Still no direct communication be-
tween the school and the high road.
Another head-master though reigned
in the place of Dr. Canterbury Parker.
The new pedagogue was Dr. S.
Leonard Squire, who, strange to say,
had no letters after his name. Some
sneered at him on this account, and
said he was no good. Others, for the
same reason, affirmed that he was “all
there.”
The season was wet, and the boys
were all in the doleful dumps at the
lack of success of the road extension
scheme.
Another monster meeting was
spoken of.
Mac said he was tired of the whole
thing, and declared that, if he were to
die that moment and be cut open,
“next half” would be found graven
on his heart.
Dan Butcher, however, who was
great at the classics, addressed the
boys, and urged further action.


“Don’t you remember Ingoldsby,
lads,” said he, “how that jolly old
bard says:—
‘ It’s amazing by sheer perseverance what men do,
A 8 water wears stone by its seepe cadendo !
If they stick to Lord Somebody’s motto, agendo.
Was it not Robert Bruce?—l declare I’ve forgot,
But I think it was Robert—you’ll find it in
Scott;
Who, when cursing Dame Fortune, was taught
by a spider ?
She’s sure to come round, if you will but abide
her.’
Let us, my dear fellows, imitate the
Bruce ; let us
4 Take a suck at the lemon and at him again,
A hint ne’er surpassed, tho’ then spoken at
random,
Since Teucer’s apostrophe— nil desperandumV
Let’s send up the same deputation
once more, and see if we can’t knock
smoke out of old Squire. ”
Loud cheering followed this address,
but Mac was observed to be very de-
spondent.
“Next half,” said he, shaking his
head, “next half.”
The deputation waited upon Dr.
Squire, and Mac again did his level
best to express the sentiments of the
school.
Dr. Squire, in reply, said, “My
good boys, I am quite with you in this
matter; the road ought to be made.
I promise you I will see to it. I am,
however, too new in office to go into
the matter at once. Suppose we say
V next half.”
“ Ha! ha ! ” shrieked Mac, —“ next
ha-a-a-lf. I told you so,” and the depu-
tation withdrew, bearing with them the
helpless form of their spokesman, who
had fainted from excess of emotion.
When they reached the playground
the news was received with solemn
silence.
* * * *
The following day Mac was much
better. As soon as school was over he
assembled his school-fellows and thus
addressed them:—
“ Boys, we’ve been precious green.
Let us realize that fact first. Then
let us abjure deputations; they’re all
rot; and as for the road, here’s the
straight tip: Let’s make it ourselves .”
“ How do you mean?” cried several
boys.
“ Well,” said Mac, “ let's call for
tenders for the bridge over the creek.
I know one or two parties who’ll jump
at the job ; and as for the fences which
require to be moved, why, we’ll pull
them down ourselves. Here goes ;
I’ll put my name down for five bob to-
wards preliminary expenses and the
land we shall have to pay for.”
(Loud cheers.)
Subscription lists were made out on
the spot, and rapidly filled; tools were
borrowed ; working parties were form-
ed ; the fences pulled down ; the track
levelled, and the erection of the bridge
tendered for and completed, before Dr.
Squire heard anything more about it.
When the lads had finished the road
and used it for about a week, they in-
vited Dr. Squire and the trustees to
open it formally.
The doctor’s reply to this invitation,
was that he and his friends would have
much pleasure in complying with the
request NEXT HALF.
Buttons as a Nuisance. — The Satur-
day Review says:—Pages have opportuni-
ties of mischief denied to other mortals,
and are recless in their revenge. The page
who starts from behind a door when the
housemaid is carrying the glasses, or who
lets off a soda-water bottle in her face,
may be mentioned with disapproval ; but
it must be allowed in extenuation that his
provocation is often very great The
parlourmaid is not above small tyrannies
and petty spite, and if the page has a ten-
derness for her, it only makes his bondage
the more bitter. But it frequently hap-
pens that their life is one of harmony. She
may be good tempered or really anxious to
teach him; and in consideration of the
many little services he can render her, and
the use she makes of his nimble legs in
in running her messages, she attends to
his education, cultivates his manners,
makes him read aloud to her, and corrects
his pronunciation on some such principle
as we overheard the other day: — “ Don t
say ax, you vulgar boy; say * harsk.*


THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
No. 10.
The odours of Sydney during the
last few days, and the complaints
which we have all heard of the nuis-
ances of drains, which carrying forth
to a new Bank of deposit some of the
grosser matter of our sewage, com-
plete and preserve our connection
with it, and afford ready issue for
the lighter and more pestilential
portion back into our houses, remind
us that we have promised our readers
a few words for reflection on this
branch of our subject, namely, that
the houses which, in the healthful
days of Bland and Foss, were new
buildings, are now old ones, and
therefore, even if all other things
be equal, are presumably less salu-
brious for habitation.
We have ourselves personally ex-
perienced the fact that brick and
plaster absorb odours peculiar to
certain forms of disease, that compa-
ratively a short term of months suf-
fices to charge the plaster, and
through the coats of plaster, the
bricks beneath, with an odour per-
ceptible to ordinary susceptibility,
for a long time after the walls have
been stripped and freely exposed to
atmospheric action, and we were
therefore quite ready to believe,
when we read in the Report of the
Commission upon the Infirmary that
the walls of the old Accident Ward
were so charged with septic poison
that it was dangerous to perform the
most trifling operation there, and
when we saw a man die there from
a few pricks in the back from the
absorption of poison with which the
walls and floors were charged, that
the difference between an old house
with its surroundings and a new one
whose surroundings were yet to he
made, was a difference with health
on the one hand and depressed vi-
tality on the other.
We have reflected on the subject
as those should do who would invite
by their observations the attention
of others, and we have convinced
ourselves, that in addition to those
grosser causes of unhealthfulness
with which the precincts of old
human residences are charged, and
to which we have given the name of
“ surroundings,” there is a gradual
storing up of the lighter and aerial
emanations of human bodies, un-
wholesome in health, dangerous in
sickness, which in our walls, floors,
and ceilings, demands a better aud
more rigorous cleansing than is
usually administered in the best
houses, or than is commonly re-
garded as necessary.
Every one has recognised in the
smell of a church, a court-house, a
railway carriage, a prevalent odour
which we term closeness, this we
take to be animal matter given off
from the bodies of some prior occu-
pants—close the building or the car-
riage for a few hours after freely ad-
mitting air—and return and ex-
amine it again, the walls will be


found to have emitted a fresh supply
of that which they had absorbed.
We take it to be a rule of Nature
that matter given off by an organised
being is not to be so re-absorbed by
a like organization until it shall have
undergone a transmutation by some
other form of vital or chemical action,
it becomes us, therefore, to enquire
by what means we can so occupy our
houses, old and new, as while we
shall absorb as little as possible of
the emanations of our predecessors,
we shall avoid poisoning ourselves,
and those who may follow us, by our
own—and in this let us offend none
—the fairest child and the loveliest
woman poison the air by respiring it,
and by the insensible transpiration
from their bodies, not to the same
extent, but in precisely the same
manner, as the oldest drunken ob-
ject of our loathing and our pity.
What is to be done then ? just
that comprised in the words,
“WASH AND BE CLEAN,”
which, with a broad acceptance of
the word TEMPERANCE, involve
the secret of HEALTH if we will
make and keep our houses healthful,
let us make them, by night as well
as by day, open air houses; let us
allow our expired air to find vent by
windows and ventilating ceilings, and
not permit it to occupy our walls—
let us admit sun light, that great
physician as well as hygeist, which, if
we will allow it, will purify our dwel-
lings and furniture, and clothing: let
us, when the house asks for embell-
ishment, and the workmen must be
admitted, see that, as far as possible,
every thing like old wall-
papers, may be covered over and
have a new face put on it) removable
be removed, that foul ceilings and
walls be washed with soap and water
before new paper or coloring be ap-
plied—and in the case of old build-
ings, or after disease, that the whole
inner surface of the house be washed
down with gasoline, a new disinfect-
ant, for which it is claimed that it
may be applied without injury to the
most delicate paper or fabric. We
are not aware whether this is at pre-
sent procurable in Sydney, but we
are very near England in point of
time, and perhaps some of our enter-
prising chemists may have some ready
for trial before another summer shall
show us how nasty it is possible for
dirty people to make our fair city.
o
Hear ! Hear ! ! —lt may be accepted
as an axiomatic truth that there is no
purely business political speech which
cannot be compressed into a quarter of an
hour. A man who cannot say what he
has to say in that time has nothing to say
that is worth hearing, Precious hours
are now wasted because honourable gen-
tlemen are enamoured of their own sweet
voices, and because they will not prepare
their speeches properly. Compression
wants study, and study is what they de-
test. Nothing can be more certain than
that, if a fixed limit —say a quarter of an
hour—were assigned to all members
speaking in committee —indeed, upon all
occasions, save when a Minister or the
recognised Leader of the Opposition was
summing up the general results of a de-
bate —the standard of parliamentary ora-
tory would be much improved, and the
despatch of parliamentary business would
be immensely facilitated. — World.


GRIMSHAW’S LITTLE
MISTAKE,
A SENSATION NOVEL, IN TWO
CHAPTERS.
Chapter I.
He was not a wit more of a lunatic than
scores of persons one meets every day—
he was simply a visionary. Being gene-
rally in a chronic state of impecuniosity —
he was clerk in a government office, at
£l5O a-year, paid monthly —he could
hardly be said to be a favourite of For-
tune.
But Grimshaw possessed riches, of
which his friends had no conception. Five
minutes after a distressing scene with his
landlady on the subject of rent, or a sharp
altercation with his tailor about that little
account, he would in imagination be writ-
ing cheques for thousands, and his small
sitting-room on the two-pair-back, with
its dingy furniture, would be converted
into an elegant and well appointed apart-
ment, by the mere force of a magni-
ficent self-delusion. Castle-building oc-
cupied all his spare time ; he was indebted
to no one for his happiness: he lived for
half the day at least in an elegant villa,
faultless in design and surroundings,
which he had himself built and then beau-
tified.
In the ideal pictures which fancy painted
on his dreamy speculative brain, and in
which he was the principal figure, poverty
was replaced by wealth, hard work and
privation by indolence, luxury, and ease.
If he had carried in his bosom the wonder-
ful lamp of Aladdin, he could not have
conjured up more readily the scenes of
splendor and magnificence which floated
before him. Perhaps it was because of
his daily struggle to solve that difficult
problem, B to make both ends meet, —that
the airy fabrics of his imagination were
invariably joined to liberal incomes com-
ing to him without .effort or exertion on his
part, from some unknown source, suffi-
cient to meet all his-wants and gratify all
his tastes. At first he contented himself
with creating out of nothing a modest
fortune of a thousand pounds, paid quar-
terly ; but having worked out this sum as
a debtor and creditor account, he found it
would be quite insufficient. "With two
thousand a year he discovered by a minute
calculation that as a bachelor he could live
very comfortably; but Grimshaw enter-
tained thoughts of matrimony, and a care-
ful estimate of expenditure necessary to
produce ideal happiness as a married man,
shewed him that a state of connubial bliss
was incompatible with anything like two
thousand pounds. Doubling the figure
produced a more satisfactory result, but it
was not until he had in one of his day
dreams passed in review all the pleasures
and responsibilities of the exalted posi-
tion he proposed to occupy at one time or
other, that he come to the fixed and un-
alterable decision that pure unalloyed hap-
piness could only be expected to attend the
possessor of a clear six thousand a year.
Having satisfied himself thoroughly
upon this point, he began to enjoy some
of the foretastes of the fortune in store
for him by occupying himself during his
leisure hours in putting down in separate
columns the various items of expenditure
required to get rid of that princely in-
come. Days, weeks, and months passed,
and his statement was still in an un-
finished state. Information on the sub-
ject of ladies’ dress, and the various items
of household expense which the style of
living he had laid down for himself would
entail,' had to be obtained. Day after day
he had to correct previous entries, and to
incur in imagi nation,freshfliabilities which
he had not previously taken into account.
But perseverance works wonders, and at
the end of six months he had completed to
his entire satisfaction, an elaborate and
circumstantial document which set forth
Tinder appropriate headings all the various
items of disbursement in the minutest de-
tail, which should accompany a fortune
of £6OOO a year. Nothing now remained
but to wait patiently until he was in a
position to make use of it. Then all
would be couleur de rose. At any moment
he would be able to refer to the index of
items, and draw a cheque for the required
amount with a certainty that the payment
was part of a well-considered system of
outlay. Will anyone pretend to say that
Grimshaw was mad; if he was it was only
upon one point—he was a moneymaniac.
The only difficulty which occurred in
connection with his tabular scheme of
domestic economy, was the absence of the
money. Dreams very seldom come true,
and during the long weary months which
followed Grimshaw had several “turn-
ups ” with Fortune, which resulted in


sundry clandestine visits to a gentleman
in the city, who advertised that having a
large independent fortune, he proposed to
expend it by lending it without security
to clerks in the Civil Service and others
who might be in want of temporary as-
sistance. To this obliging individual, for
the small advance of £2O, Grimshaw had
already given instalments amounting to
£l2 in the way of interest, and the prin-
cipal was still unpaid. Small accounts in
other quarters were also in arrears, and
things generally were looking black. Two
or three of his friends, too, to whom in a
convivial moment he had exhibited his
treasure, were in the habit of chaffing him,
and asking him when he was going to de-
liver his financial statement. One of
them, Tom Berry, when he passed his
window, which he did every morning at
9 o’clock, would invariably hum a verse
of the old song altered, as he said, pur-
posely to suit Grimshaw’s case, —
“ Oh, if I had but six thousand a year,
Gaffer Grey ? ”
In short the whole plot was very much
like the play of Hamlet with Hamlet left
out. The non-arrival of the money from
some quarter or other was getting posi-
tively wearisome.
But who shall say what a day will
bring forth. The mail came in by way of
Cape Horn, and mirabile dictu, it brought
a long business letter addressed to Gregory
Grimshaw, Esq., Deferred Claims Depart-
ment, Sydney, New South Wales and that
letter contained the information wrapped
up in such a number of whys and where-
fores, buts, notwithstandings, and afore-
saids, that it was almost as difficult to find
it as a needle in a bundle of hay, that the
said Gregory Grimshaw was, by some ex-
traordinary combination of circumstances,
caused by the death of one heir, the lu-
nacy of another, and the disappearance of
a third, seized, entitled, and possessed of an
estate in Wales, bringing in for the sole
benefit of the said Gregory Grimshaw, a
clear income of six thousand pounds per
annum.
Chapter 11.
Some people would have gone stark
staring mad on receiving such a commu-
nication, or would at least have been
startled out of their composure by such
astounding intelligence. Australian his-
tory records the fact that in the early days
of the gold-fields a digger finding a large
nugget on the surface of the ground
actually fainted away, and, when he came
to, the nugget was gone. It must, there-
fore, be taken as a strong proof of Grim-
shaw’s sanity that he was scarcely sur-
prised at this piece of good news. It was
the realization of his dream. He was only
anxious that there should be no mistake in
the figures he had so laboriously worked
out in anticipation of such a bequest.
In order to set his mind at rest on this
all-important point, as well as to inflict a
mild and pleasant revenge upon his friends
for the unmerciful quizzing to which they
had subjected him, he forthwith sent
invitations to three of them, to wit, Tom
Berry, Jack Saunders, and Dick Rackett,
to come to his rooms at 7 p.m. on the
following Thursday, ‘‘ to hear his financial
statement.”
Having with the aid of his landlady,
whose affable countenance shewed that she
fully appreciated the change in her lodger’s
fortunes, made the requisite preparations
for a modest banquet, and obtained all the
ingredients necessary to the brewing of
good whisky punch, he calmly awaited the
arrival of his guests.
They came, they ate, they drank. Con-
gratulatory speeches were made by each
member of the party. Grimshaw was de-
clared with a good deal of emphasis, and
a good deal of unnecessary repetition, to
be “ a jolly good fellow,” and that this
opinion was unanimous was confirmed by
the assertion, in tones which got thicker
and thicker, “and so say all of us.” In
short the quartette enjoyed themselves to
their hearts’ content, and it was not until
a late hour in the evening, when the punch
bowl had been more than once filled and
emptied, that Tom Berry “ called upon the
worthy chairman to deliver his financial
statement.”
Grimshaw thereupon rose and produced
the important paper, and having explained
as well as he could its general purport,
calmly submitted it for inspection. His
three friends were certainly not at. that
moment in a state to pass a critical opinion
upon the merits of any document of such
an imposing appearance. What then could
have prompted Tom Berry to make the un-
lucky remark he volunteered after a cur-
sory glance at the row of figures before
him f How was it that he managed in a
moment to put his finger on the one weak
point in the financial statement? That is
the question we have not time to consider.


It is a fact, however, that the moment he
came to the column of domestic expendi-
ture he exclaimed “ Why, Gregory, you
have made no allowance for washing." It
was too true ! While every possible dis-
bursement which could be supposed to be
essential in a well ordered family had been
carefully noted, the important item of
washing and generally getting up the
linen of the household had been altogether
ignored.
Poor Grimshaw, the blow fell heavily
upon him, but it was not until his friends
ha 1 drained a final bumper and left
to think it over, that it fell upon him in
its full force. Was it for this ignomini-
ous denouement that he had expended the
midnight oil night after night in working
out a family guide which was to regulate
the expenses of all future Australian fami-
lies and check that system of reckless ex-
travagance so peculiar to colonial life. To
commit an error so absurd and so palpable
that it could be discovered at a glance—
the idea was insupportably vexatious.
Where now would be the credit which
he had hoped to obtain by his patient
perseverance in working out the great do-
mestic problem ? The fortune he had come
into so suddenly had no longer any charm
for him; he loathed the very idea of pos-
sessing money which he actually did not
know how to spend. There he sat
his head in his handr, brooding over his
misfortune until, what with the sense of
disgrace, the whiskey, and the six tho Li-
gand pounds, acting upon a distempered
imagination, he got into such a morbid
state of mind that he suddenly conceived
the rash resolve to terminate an existence
which, culminating in such a glaring
error, appeared to have been a mistake
from first to last. Without giving him-
self time for reflection he at once proceeded
to carry out his resolve. In ten minutes
he had returned from a druggist hard by
with a small bottle of laudanum, pur-
chased ostensibly for the toothache.
_ Determined that in the last action of
his life, at anyrate, there should be no
mistake, he next loaded his revolver, and
then selected a strong piece of rope, and
with the suicidal fit strong on him, went
up stairs to carry out his fell purpose.
Having removed the portable shower-bath
from the hook by which it was suspended,
he substituted for it the rope he had
brought up with him, arranging it so that
it presented a noose at a convenient dis-
tance from the ceiling, His next step was
to consume by fire the pernicious docu-
ment which had been the cause of so
much happiness and so much misery.
Then he mounted a chair, calmly adjusted
the rope round his neck, uncorked the
viol of laudanum, which he drained to
the dregs, fired his revolver, and fell
heavily into the tub of water beneath him.
Fell, but only to rise again, forthis being
his first attempt at felo-de-se, he had had
no practice in the art of self-destruction,
and the pistol ball, instead of perforating
his cranium, as he intended it should,
missei his head and cut the rope by which
he would otherwise have been suspended.
As I have said, he fell into the bath
below. The tepid water, of which he got
a mouthful, acting as an emetic, caused
him to disgorge the poison ; and when he
recovered from the shock of the fall, and
his senses returned, he was fain to confess
that he had happily made another grand
mistake.
The exciting events of the day had,
however, one good effect- they cured him
of dreaming, and the close attention ne-
cessary to expend £6OOO yearly without
the aid he had relied upon, produced a
confidence and self-reliance which made a
man of him. He took a serious turn and
built a church, over which he presided,
and in which he charmed the members of
his flock by his ideal pictures of happiness
in a future state. He also founded an
asylum for childless parents, which he
liberally endowed. After that he edited a
daily paper; then he entered Parlia-
ment, but finding the atmosphere uncon-
genial he went into business and failed for
a large sum. His creditors having un-
bounded confidence in him, he made a
composition with them, paying in the
£, and finally died enormously rich and
universally respected.
WALKER.
Last manat party. This can’t be my
hat, surely !
Servant. Yessir, that’s your hat,
sir.
L. M. Quite sure ?
Servant. Oh, yessir! quite sir.
L.M. Well, then, hanged if I haven’t
been and taken some other fellow’s
head !


COLUMN FOR YOUNG
READERS.
ENIGMAS FOR EVERYBODY.
ANSWER TO CHARADE IN NO. 10.
Weigall.
The riddles of the present day are too diffi-
cult There is no pleasure in taking pains to
guess them. We have seldom guessed more
than two at a time. Now, if everybody
could guess them all, all would be equally
pleased. Acting on this very clever idea —
so simple, that it is strange no one should
have thought of it before —we submit a
few samples eminently suited to the festive
season.
If you saw a hog in a hedge, what sort of
hog might it be?—A hedgehog.
Why may coachmen be likened to Bry-
ant and May’s matches ?—Because they
strike only on the box.
My first is the plural of bee, my second
the second the new German mark, my whole
the Chancellor of the Prussian Cabinet ?
Bismark.
Why is Oliver Cromwell the Protector
usually called Oliver Cromwell in history ?
—Because that was his name.
What place would you choose by prefer-
ence to go to sleep in ?—Bed.
Why does a polar bear never climb a
pole ?—Because he can’t.
My first is worn upon the head, my
second is a box, my whole is what you
often find a hat in ?—Hat-box.
If you sold a fowl for a guinea, what sort
of fowl would it be ? —A guinea-fowl,
Name a country on the Black Sea that
reminds you of Christmas fare? —Turkey.
If you were using plain terms, what
might you call a spade ?—A spade.
Why is a bird held between finger and
thumb equal to two in Australian woods ?
—Because a bird in hand is worth two in
the bush.
There, are these not simple and pleasant
to guess ? You need give very little anxi-
ous or painful thought to any of them.
Then, why give more ?
Because
But that isn’t one.
CHARADE
ON AN EMINENT POLICE OFFICER.
One half of a fossil my first may be
reckoned—
Of a thing taken up with a spade from
the ground ;
Lexicographers give as the sense of my
second,
To put down a body beneath a grave
mound.
These two parts of my whole his chief
functions express—
To “take up” Crime’s children, “put
down ” its pollution;
These he does, but alas! with but partial
success,
Since his mind’s too much wedded to
circumlocution.
S.
SONNET.
A bunch of roses-**-my pale dead bunch of
roses!
Once fresh with dew and blushing with
perfume;
Your leaves recall the shadows of the
tomb,
Wherein my love in slumber deep reposes,
In dreamless sleep that never more dis-
closes
Love’s light and glory ’till the day of
doom.
My heart repines not, even in the gloom
Of the dark sorrow that my grief im-
poses :
But, loving still, I list to mem’ry’s tune,
Breathing fond murmurs to my withered
poseys;
Believing, trusting, hoping, aye, and soon,
To meet my darling with my faded roses,
The gift of her young heart; dear one,
farewell!
The grave divides us—who shall break its
spell ?
W.G.B.
Mem. for Servants. — Learn to labor
and to wait ,


CALIFORNIAN EXPERIENCES.
No. IV.
“ Did you ever witness such a brutal
exhibition in your life ?”
“ I never saw anything half so dis-
gusting.”
We had been to see a fight between
a bull and a bear.
For some days past the walls of the
buildings in the little mining township
in which we were living had been
covered with flaming placards which
announced that a grand combat would
take place on a certain day between the
celebrated grizzly bear General Scott
and the famous Spanish bull Santa
Anna. Entrance, 2 dollars.
Attracted by the novelty of the
announcement, and in the hope of see-
ing, in addition to the feats of the bull
and the bear, some feats of horseman-
ship by Mexicans or Spaniards, which
are really worth seeing, we took our
way to the place of entertainment,
which was a hastily-constructed circus
built of planks, with three tiers of seats
encircling a vacant space about twenty
feet in diameter.
The seats were pretty well all taken
when we arrived, a great many Mexi-
cans with their wives being present,
with the usual sprinkling of Americans,
English, Irish, Scotch, Germans, Rus-
sians, Frenchmen, Poles, &c, which
went to make up a mining community
in those days. As soon as the place
was filled, the unfortunate bull was
brought on to the scene, and cries of
“shame” resounded on all sides when
it was seen that be was tethered by a
rope fastened to one of his forelegs, so
as to prevent him from charging his
antagonist at full speed. The greed of
gain, and the fear that the bear should
by chance get the worst of the en-
counter, had induced the cowardly pro-
prietor to adopt this devilish plan of
securing an easy victory for General
Seott. Let us hope his illustrious
namesake obtained his laurels in the
Mexican war by more honourable and
manly tactics. The use of bis name on
the present occasion certainly did not
add to its lustre.
The cage or kennel containing the
General, alias the Grizzly, was now
wheeled forward into the arena, and
his bearship, by dint of a good deal of
prodding with a long pole a tergo,
compelled to come out into the open.
He was not by any means a for-
midable-looking animal; nothing, in
point of size, to be compared with a
grizzly I once saw hanging up at a
butcher’s shop in San Francisco, said
to weigh 1,480 lbs, but no doubt an
ugly customer. The brute looked as
if he would like to go back to his cage
and lie down; but after having been
repeatedly stirred up with the afore-
said long pole, he was forced into
close proximity with his opponent.
Poor Santa Anna made one frantic
effort to toss him, but, being checked
by his fetters, was unable to defend
himself, and was therefore at the
mercy of the grizzly, who, taking him
by the neck in a close hug, fastened
on to his throat, and literally chawed
him to death. The spectacle was
sickening. However, there we were,
wedged in among the crowd, and there
we had to remain. Presently a mur-
mur began to circulate among the
spectators, who seemed to think they
had not had two dollars worth of
amusement, and in a few minutes a
purse was made up among them for
the purchase of a fresh bull, who,
they insisted, should be turned into
the circus perfectly free.
Two Mexican rancheros were at
once despatched to a corral hard
by, which contained some four or
five bullocks awaiting the but-
cher’s knife. These beasts had been
two days without food, and were wild
enough, especially the one selected by
the Mexicans, —a slight-built black
bullock, who would have made poor
beef, but was apparently in good fight-
ing trim.
We were destined to see a little good
horsemanship after all in the bringing
of this animal from the corral to the
circus. It was done in this way. One
of the Mexicans riding into the yard
threw his lasso over the beast’s horns


and then rode out of the yard, the
second horseman following the bullock
and urging him in the direction the
first rider had taken towards the circus.
The bullock, being dragged by one and
goaded by the other, soon became mad-
dened, and charged the foremost horse-
man, whereupon the other with mar-
vellous dexterity lassoed him by the
hind leg while at full speed. Then
suddenly wheeling round he galloped
ofl a few yards at right angles to the
course taken by the bullock until
the lasso at its full stretch threw
the beast on its side. A moment
after and the bullock was on its
legs again and in hot pursuit of
the horsemen before him whose lasso
was still about his horns. Each time
that he approached too closely he
would be thrown again, and in this
ignominious way he arrived at the
scene of action in exactly the temper
suited to the occasion. By a similar
clever system of manoeuvering with
lassos pulling in opposite directions,
their horses being trained to plant
their feet firmly on the ground so as to
resist the strain of the rope which is
always firmly attached to the high
pommel of the Mexican saddle, the
two rancheros contrived to bring the
now thoroughly infuriated bullock to
the door of the circus, to thrust him
in, and to close the door behind him.
111-fared it then with General Scott,
the Californian champion. His first
antagonist, Santa Anna, was as a baby
in arms compared with the new comer,
whose prowess might have been com-
pared to the disinherited knight in
Ivanhoe, since in next to no time he
made all his opponents roll in the
dust. With a snort of defiance be went
straight at the General, and having
knocked him into a cocked hat, turned
round and charged the door, which
being made of thin boards, gave way
at once. Then ensued great fun.
There were numbers of persons in
groups outside the enclosure, and the
way “theDinherited” scattered them
right and left was splendid. A panic
took place inside the circus at the same
time, which was followed by a regular
stampede. Nobody knew where the
bull was or what had become of the
bear. It was an early edition of Bull’s
Run. Lots of fellows got knocked
over in the scramble, others got excited
and fired off their revolvers, while the
majority, having got all they could
for their money, calmly retired to the
nearest store to liquor up. Meantime
the black bullock was taking a bee line
to the woods, and it is to be hoped got
clear away.
That was the first and last “b’ar”
fight with which I had anything
to do.
I c-nce gave great offence to a Yankee
by remarking that I had never heard
of General Scott. I have now given
the readers of Once a Week all the
information I possess on the subject.
WALKER.
She Meant Business. —They have some
queer girls in Colorado. One of them, who
resides in the Cache la Poudre Yalley, had
been receiving the attentions of a young
man for about a year ; hut, becoming im-
patient at his failure to bring matters to a
crisis, she resolved to ascertain his inten-
tions. When he next called she took him
gently by the ear, led him to a seat, and
said, “Nobby, you’ve bin foolin’ round
this claim for mighty near a year, an’ hev
never yit shot off your mouth on the
marryin’ biz. I’ve cottoned to yer on the
square clean through, an’ hey stood off
every other galoot that has tried to chip
in, an’ now I want you to come down busi-
ness or leave the ranch. Ef yer on the
marry an’ want a pard thet’ll stick
rite to ye till ye pass in yer checks, just
squeal an’ we’ll hitch; hut, ef that ain t
yer game, draw out an’ give some other
feller a show for his pile. Now sing yer
song or skip out.” He sang.
It is stated that when young Bohson
claimed a dance from Miss Cohsop, the
other evening when she was chatting on
the balcony with Captain Spoons, the lady
calmly threw the young man over. ihe
police did not interfere.
“You are trying to read the paper up-
side-down, you stupid man,” exclaimed
the wife of his bosom. “You stupid
woman, don’t you see I am quite turned
upside down by the news !” was the reply.


MY ADVENTURES
IN PURCHASING HORSES.
BY RUS.
I always had a great aversion to walk-
ing, so as soon as I could afford it I
took to riding. As long as I kept to
saddle horses I got along very well.
II y hacks generally served me long
and faithfully. Occasionally I was
bucked off. for although I was a fairly
good horseman, I never could sit on
a bucking horse for more than the
hundredth part of a second, any more
than a bullet can remain in a pistol
when the powder is ignited. As often,
thin, as a horse bucked under me, so
often was I discharged instantly into
As I generally came down
without serious damage, I did not
mind it much, and so I managed to
rub along in tolerable comfort.
After a time I found that constant
riding exercise did not quite agree
with my advancing years, so I pur-
chased a harness horse, and having
comfort in view, an old-fashioned
phaeton, which, lor the sake of dignity
and euphony, I shall hereafter desig-
nate as a carriage. It was then that
my real troubles began. For some
years, however, although my misad-
ventures were sufficiently annoying to
myself, they were not such that an
account of them would be either in-
structive or amusing. I merely un-
derwent the usual category of ills
which befal those who are possessed
with the vain delusion that good
horses may be picked up cheap.
After some years, I thought that I
had learned wisdom by experience.
1 would have no more to do with cheap
horses. I resolved to buy a really
good horse, and pay a good price for
it. I did both—l had the animal ex-
amined by a competent person, and
had him on trial lor several days.
Fobbing could be better ; so I paid the
money and kept the horse. He served
me so well for six months that I began
think that at last I had found
peace. My dreams of peace were
broken one morning by hearing that
the horse was dead lame. As he was
a valuable animal, I took the best
professional advice. The best pro-
fessional advice was, that he must
have slipped in the stable and strained
some muscle or joint, the name of
which I forget, that he might get
better, but that he would never again
be good for much; so that I had
better sell him for whatever I could
get; so I sold him for £3.
Now, I bore all this with perfect
equanimity. I knew that accidents
would happen ; I could submit to the
inevitable and bow to the decrees of
Providence. I even felt a kind of
satisfaction in having recovered so
much as £3, salvage as it were, out
of the total loss; not, however, with-
out some stings of conscience at
having taken even that small sum for
what, as I had been advised, was a
useless animal.
Such being my frame of mind at
the time, it may readily be imagined
that.my feelings were outraged, and
my indignation aroused, when exactly
four days afterwards I saw the same
identical horse that I had just sold for
£3 trotting about in a hansom cab as
well and lively as ever. I can bow to
the decrees of Providence with meek-
ness ; but I should like to know why
thac detestable animal recovered from
his incurable lameness the moment
that he passed out of my possession.
I can afford no explanation, but can
only say with Lord Dundreary, It
is one of those things which no fellow
ever can understand, you know.”
I must here drop for a moment the
thread of my narrative to remark that
my adventure with this particular
horse, calls to mind a kind of thing
of frequent occurrence during the
gold fever a few years ago. A nice
compact little quartz claim, with
plant and appliances in complete
working order, is offered to you for
sale at what appears a modest price—
unquestionable evidence is produced
that for months past the regular yield
has been 3 ounces per ton ; satisfac-
tory reasons are given for the present


proprietors wishing to sell out. . The
thing really looks very promising.
In company with a few particular
friends whom you delight to favor, you
purchase at a price which seems after
all only nominal. You rejoice in your
good fortune, and indulge in golden
visions. Your friends invite you to a
picnic on the auspicious occasion.
But the aspect of things soon changes.
The first week after you have taken
possession, the yield drops to 10 dwts.
Your spirits are rather damped, but
you think that all will be right next
week. But the next week, and the
next and the next give similar results
—9, 10, 11 dwts. Being a small con-
cern, this does not pay, yet you are
loth to give in, especially as you are
now and then tempted on by a fitful
and transient yield of (say) 30 dwts.
After sinking twice as much again as
you paid for the claim, you become
thoroughly disgusted, and put the con-
cern up for sale by auction. It is
knocked down for a song, probably, to
t/he original proprietors. A fortnight
afterwards you learn that the yield is
again regularly 3 oz. per ton.
Your friends look askance at you,
having a general idea, not expressed in
words, that they have been swindled by
somebody, and a specific idea, which
their looks sufficiently convey, that you
had something to do with it.
After I had recovered in some mea-
sure from the shock to my feelings
occasioned by the conduct of ray best
horse, I began to doubt the wisdom of
purchasing first-class animals at fancy
prices; and a quitt old farm horse
having come under my notice, I pur-
chased him. He was neither swift nor
.vfcylish, but, as comfort and not show
was my object, he answered my purpose
very well, until, one afternoon, grave 3
and without the least provocation, and
apparently in pursuance of some occult
purpose of his own, he performed
pirouette in the middle of George-
street, upset the carriage, and broke
the shafts. .
Pondering deeply over this extra-
ordinary affair, I came to the conclusion
that it was one of those unaccountable
and altogether abnormal events not
likely to occur twice to the samo person.
Acting on this idea, I had the carriage
repaired, and tried the horse again.
Shortly afterwards, choosing Pitt-street
for a change, but with the same gravity,
he performed the same evolution, with
precisely the same results I could not
afford to be getting new shafts every
week, and, moreover, I felt, with one
of Mark Twain’s heroes, that the thing
was getting monotonous, so in a fit of
despair I sold the carriage, sent the
horse to a sale-yard, and took to riding
in cabs, with occasional and sparing
resort to that window-clattering, nerve-
jarring, fusty- smelling abomination
which the vulgar delight to call a
“’bus,” but which more polite people
would fain see consigned to the same
oblivion as Edgar Poe’s
“ lest, lost Lenore,
Nameless here for evermore,”
The mystery of that horse’3 conduct
was afterwards explained. It appeared
that in his early years he had been em-
ployed in going round and round in a
chaff-cutting machine, and that at un-
certain intervals the remembrance of
that monotonous and rotatory period of
his life rushed upon his mind with
irresistible force, and constrained him
to circular progression.
A GOSSIP WITH THE BOYS.
How is it my dear fellows, so very few
of you are able to write a decent letter ?
We were speaking the other evening
with a gentleman who has a youngster
coaching for the University matricu-
lation examination. He complained
sorely that this lad, though fairly at
home with his Memorabilia, his Horace
and his Sallust, always came to grief
when tempted to indite a letter in his
mother tongue. Now this gentleman’s
case is that of nine “governors’
out of ten. Why is this? Why
should education, which if it mean
anything means the training of the
mental powers so as to make them fit
for anything, be to so many of you as
it were but a crippling process? Why


should the scholastic exercise of your
thoughts cramp them for homelier
service ? Why should the lad who can
follow all the windings of a Greek verb
be dead beat when asked to write a
chatty little note in colloquial
English ?
We at once admit that letter-writing
should not be cultivated for the mere
sake of writing letters. Unless you
have something to say, never take pen
in hand to write a note. Don’t imitate
the French wife, who having nothing
to say, wrote to her husband merely
because she had nothing to do—
Je vous ecris parceque je n’ai rien a faire,
Je finis parceqHe je n’ai rien a dire.
Always have a text to write to.
Having one, treat it thoroughly, while
avoiding prolixity. Be simple and
natural. Eschew “jawbreakers” and
other sesquipedalian words. Try to
write the news as you would tell them.
Shun the very suspicion of egotism.
While striving after conciseness and
a pleasant pointedness, take care not
to run into the fatal extreme of a
pedantic laconism. We laugh at ex-
amples of very pithy correspondence,
but they should not be taken as
exanyDles to imitate. When the im-
pecunious boy wrote to his uncle, —
“ My dear uncle, —Ready for the need-
ful. Your affectionate nephew,” he
deserved the reply, * * My dear nephew,
—The needful is not ready.—Your
affectionate uncle.” Neither do we
recommend, as courteous, the style
employed by Talleyrand when, in
reply to a lady who had announced
to him the death of her husband, he
simply wrote, “Helas! Madame.”
Certainly it wasn’t so abominably terse
as his second note, “Ho, ho!
Madame ! ” addressed to the same in-
dividual in reply to the information
that she had married another husband.
The curtest correspondence wo ever
heard of was that between two Quakers.
Brother A wrote to Brother B as fol-
lows :
? (meaning “what news?”)
Brother B replied with a sheet of
paper on which nothing whatever was
written! So much for short letters.
As a rule, don’t begin or conclude
your letter with stereotyped phrases,
such as “ I hope you are quite well,’
or “ so no more at present from —”
As we said above, write as you would
speak. With regard to underlining
words, reflect upon what Archdeacon
Hare said with reference to a remark
of Schlegel’s—“ln good prose every
word should be underlined, that is,
every word should be the right word,
and then no word would be righter
than another. We never meet with
italics in Plato or Cicero, or indeed in
any of the Greek and Roman writers.”
We conclude our gossip with some
hints on letter writing, given to his
daughter by Lord Colling wood.
“When you write a letter,” wrote that
fine old English gentleman, our naval
Bayard, “give it your greatest care
that it may be as perfect in all its
parts as you can make it. Let the
subject be sense, expressed in the
most! plain, intelligible, and elegant
manner that you are capable of. If
in a familiar epistle you should be
playful and jocular, guard carefully
that your wit be not sharp so as to
give pain to any person; and before
you write a sentence examine it, even
the words of which it is composed, that
there be nothing coarse in them.
Remember, my dear, that your letter
is a picture of your brains
To write a letter with negligence,
without proper stops, with crooked
lines and great flourishing dashes, is
inelegant; it argues either great ig-
norance of what is proper, or great
indifference. It makes no amends to
add an apology for having scratched a
sheet of paper, or bad pens, for you
should mend them ; or want of time
for nothing is more important to you,
or to which your time can be more
properly devoted.”
As a postcript, we would add—
Never forget that liter on scriptce
manmt ; as witnesses against their
writers, either for good or evil.


THE DOMESTIC COW.
The domestic cow is an animal whose
ways I have a chance to study, and also
to obliterate in the garden. One of my
neighbours has a cow, but no land; and
he seems desirous to pasture her on the
surface of the land of other people : a
very reasonable desire. The man pro-
posed that he should be allowed to cut
the grass from my grounds for his cow.
I knew the cow, having often had her
in my garden ; knew her gait and the
size of her feet, which struck one as a
little large for the size of the body.
Having no cow myself, buc acquaint-
ance with my neighbour’s, I told him
that I that I thought it would be fair
for him to have the grass. He was,
therefore, to keep the grass nicely cut,
and to keep his cow at home. I waited
some time after the grass needed cut-
ting ; and, as my neighbour did not
appear, I had it cut. No sooner was
it done, than he promptly appeared,
and raked up most of it, and carried it
away. He had evidently been waiting
that opportunity. When the grass
grew again, the neighbour did not
appear with his scythe; but one morn-
ing I found the cow tethered on the
sward, hitched near the clothes-horse,
a short distance from the house. This
seemed to be the man’s idea of the
best way to cut the grass. I disliked
to have the cow there, because I knew
her inclination to pull up the stake,
and transfer her field of mowing to
the garden, but especially because of
her voice. She has the most melan-
choly “moo” I ever heard. It is like
the wail of one un-infallible, ex-com-
municated, and lost. It is a most dis-
tressing perpetual reminder of the
brevity of life and the shortness, of
feed. It is unpleasant to the family.
We sometimes hear it in the middle of
the night, breaking the silence like a
suggestion of coming calamity. It is
as bad as the howling of a dog at a
funeral.
I told the man about it; but he
seemed to think that he was not res-
ponsible for the cow’s voice. I then
cold him to take her away; and he did,
at intervals, shifting her to different
parts of the grounds in my absence,
so that the desolate voice would startle
us from unexpected quarters. If I
were to unhitch the cow, and turn her
loose, I knew where she would go. If
I were to lead her away, the question
was, Where ? for I did not fancy lead-
ing a cow about till I could find some-
body who was willing to pasture her.
To this dilemma had my excellent
neighbour reduced me. But I found
him, one Sunday morning,—a day
when it would not do to get angry, —
tying his cow at the foot of the hill j
the beast all the time going on in that
abominable voioe. I told the man that
I could not have the cow in the
grounds. He said, “ All right, boss,”
but he did not go away. I asked him
to clear out. The man who is a French
sympathiser from the Republic of Ire-
land, kept his temper perfectly. He
said he wasn’t doing anything, just
feeding his cow a bit; he wouldn’t make
me the least trouble in the world. I re-
minded him that he had been told again
and again not to come here; that he
might have all the grass, but he should
not bring his cow upon the premises.
The imperturbable man assented to
everything that I said and kept on feed-
ing his cow. Before I got him to go to
fresh scenes and pastures new, the
Sabbath was almost broken; but it was
saved by one thing ; it is difficult to be
emphatic when no one is emphatic on
the other side. The man and his cow
have taught me a great lesson, which
I shall recall when I keep a cow. I
can recommend this cow, if anybody
wants one, as a steady boarder, whose
keeping will cost the owner little;
but, if her milk is at all like her voice,
those who drink it are on the straight
road to lunacy. —My Summer in a
Gwrden.
o
Practical. —First Charmer ; “So Cap-
tain Chrystie said he would like to swing
with you for ever. What did you say,
Amy Amy: “ Oh, I said that as long
as he kept a good balance, I had no ob-
jection.”


A NOVELIST TOMAHAWKED.
The subjoined bit of hot criticism is from
the Saturday Review's notice of “ The
Laggard in Love : ” —Her eyes, indeed,
were of a kind unusual even in a heroine;
for, though in page 103 of the first volume
we find the hero saying, “ I’d rather have
a smile from her hazel eyes than a gift from
a queen,” in page 266 of the same volume
we read that she tied “ a thick veil over
her face so as to temper the expression of
her earnest violet eyes.” The poor hero,
so far as we are told, had himself to be
content with a pair of “ soft tawny eyes ”
to the end of the story. The author might
surely in his case also have indulged in a
little variety. When she had gone so far
as “tawny eyes,” why should she not go
a step further, and in the next volume give
him a pair of black and tan eyes ? We do
not in the least object to tins change of
colour in the heroine’s eyes. It not only
provides a pleasing variety in a narrative
that was otherwise dull, but also it is in
keeping with the tricks the author plays
with the weather. For instance, in the third
volume we have Albert Fane “ gathering
one morning more roses than Annie (the
Dowager Lady Galton) knows well how to
dispose of.” There are certainly a few
roses still to be found in late autumn; but
we are surprised to find a few pages further
on that on this very day “ the leaves are
in greater abundance on the ground than
on the trees; but they are going to decay
gorgeously in crimson and gold. ’ ’ The air,
moreover, was “ crisp and clear.” That
same day the hero with the soft tawny eyes
proposes to the heroine with the earnest
violet eyes that are also hazel. The lovers
are sitting at the time on a convenient
bench at the end of a turfed glade. It
would not be surprising if they had felt a
little chilly from natural causes; but nature
has very little to do with the shivers and
the shudders of a modem heroine. “ The
crisp air seems to grow heavier, a shadow
falls athwart the sun, a chill creeps into the
atmosphere, and, with a shudder, Annie
feels impelled to break the dear spell
which has been cast over her.” It is
scarcely worth while to stop to ask what
is the difference between the air and the
atmosphere, or how a shadow can fall
athwart the sun. The author scarcely
pretends to be describing nature. Her
heroine is not going to sneeze. She has
not taken a chill, nor will she have thein
evening to sit with her feet in hot water
and mustard. She is having a presenti-
ment, or she is warned, to use the words
the author herself uses in another passage,
by “ the mysterious sense which for want
of a better name we call intuition ” But
to return to the crisp air which had so
suddenly grown heavier, and to the atmo-
sphere into which the chill had crept. By
the time that the presentiment or intuition
was fairly over we find the weather greatly
improved, and come upon an artist “ pur-
suing his art in the pure strong autumnal
air.” The weather goes on steadily im-
proving as evening comes on, and five
o’clock tea is served up on the lawn,
“in an impervious bower of foliage of a
restful, mediasval green hue.” When tea
was over the hero and Alice remained
sitting in the garden for nearly a whole
chapter. The hero’s father, who was “ a
dangerous maniac,” hated the Dowager
Lady Galton because her mother had jilted
him years before. One day he slips away
from his keeper and surprises her in the
park by the side of a lake. The hero and
some others hasten to help her, for ‘ ‘ a cry
of such wrath and anguish that it seems to
silence every other sound in nature is
borne to them by the terrified breeze that
comes up from the lake to meet them.”
The breeze had only too much reason to be
terrified and to come up from the lake to
meet the assistance that was hastening
down, for by the lake bank was Annie’s
insensible form in ‘ ‘ the vice-like grip of
the chattering, grinning maniac ” But
here our pen cannot do justice to this
terrific scene, and we shall let our author
speak for herself: —“ It is a sight to blast
the vision and to paralyze the nerves of a
lover of our species Sir Oliver is endowed
with the strength, ferocity, and agility of
a gorilla, as he bounds about close to the
edge of the lake with the helpless woman
his son loves in his arms. And Rowley’s
strength is as the strength of ten as he
closes in, and, casting all filial considera-
tion aside, brings all the science he knows
to bear on the blows he deals at his father.”
Annie ‘ ‘ opens her eyes at last. ” Whether
it is her hazel eyes or her violet eyes we
are not told. However, hazel or violet
makes littl> ■ difference, for she at once falls
into * ‘ wild fits of weeping and paroxysms
of fearful yells,” and passes the rest of her
days in a lunatic asylum.


THE MYSTERY OF
WISEMAN'S FERRY ROAD.
Chapter Yl.— Continued.
Although Sergeant Barton had found no
difficulty in getting one or two “hands ” to
promise to bury the two bushrangers, he
had been compelled to have a grave dug
for the remains of poor young Rumford by
the constables who accompanied him. As
soon as the enquiry was over, all haste was
made to perform the funeral rites. The
troopers present bore the clay-cold form of
their comrade to his last resting place,
followed by the inspector, the sergeant,
Mr. Powys, Mr. Cosgrove, Mr. Hay, George
Caldecott, and the mail-driver. None of
the many rough fellows who had by this
time congregated at Nanny’s put in an
appearance, nor any of the women. Their
sympathy was evidently all for the two mis-
creants who had died martyrs to the cause
of bushranging.
As soon as Rumford’s body had been
committed to the earth, Mr. Powys turned
to go away, but his nephew stopped him.
“Excuse me, uncle,” said “but read
this, ” handing as he spoke a bible, opened
at the fifteenth chapter of the first of Corin-
thians. George had obtained the book from
sergeant Barton, who had brought it over
from Reynolds’s, thinking it might be
needed to swear witnesses by.
Accepting the situation thus forced upon
him, Mr. Powys with much elocutionary
grace read the thrilling words which speak
of the mortal putting on immortality.
“You see, sir,” said Caldecott, when the
words had been read and while the earth
was being shovelled back into the grave,
“the fellow died in his harness —on duty.
’Twas the least we could do for him to read
something by way of service. I didn’t like
the notion of just scraping a hole in the sand
and laying him down in it like a dog—not
that it affects him much either way now.”
“You did quite right, my boy, quite
right,” replied Mr. Powys, delighted to
have had an opportunity of showing off his
reading capabilities. Then, turning to the
inspector, he said, “ I say, Neal, we must
be off. Tell Nanny she may do what she
likes with the other two bodies—bury ’em,
embalm ’em—just what she likes/ Tell
her, though, there must be no indignity
offered to Rumford’s remains. I don’t
think it likely there will be, but you may
just as well tell her that if there is we shall
have to be down upon her for sly grog-
selling.”
A few minutes afterwards, Mr. Powys
was driven off to Reynolds’s by Mr. Neal,
quickly followed by Mr. Hay’s buggy,
containing Mr. Cosgrove and George Cal-
decott.
As soon as the “ swells ” were gone, the
throng at Nanny’s prepared to “wake” the
dead bushrangers. Though the old woman
and her girls were Scotch, they had instinc-
tive sympathies with the wild Irish mode of
bewailing the dead: and so it came to pass
that the funeral obsequies of Tom Hamlin
and Cannibal Mike were celebrated with as
much uproarious license and drunken de-
bauchery as though they had been con-
ducted in the wilds of Connemara.
On his return to Reynolds’s, Caldecott
found his arm so much the worse for the
ride that he determined to act on Mr. Hay’s
advice, and rest for a couple of days before
starting for Uralmindry. George thought
the delay a terrible bore. He was ex-
tremely anxious to renew his acquaintance
with the charming girl the grace of whose
manner and the beauty of whose face and
figure had so bewitched him on what he
now considered the most eventful morning
of his life.
Mr. Powys, before leaving for Mitta
Mitta, spoke with quite parental anxiety
to his nephew on the subject of Miss Wal-
ton. “Don’t let her slip through your
fingers, my dear boy. The game’s in your
own hands. I may tell you there’s some
mystery about the girl. It’s not quite
certain that she’s old Ezra’s niece. She
may be his natural child, you see. But
whoever she is, I feel quite confident she’ll
inherit the bulk of his fortune, so I
have’nt the slightest hesitation in recom-
mending you to make the best running
you possibly can. And so you say you
have money enough ? But how about
clothes ? ”
“Well! you’ve just hit my difficulty.
Is there a tailor at Mitta Mitta ? ”
“Yes, a very fair one. I’ll tell you
what I’ll do. I’ll look you up the best
Mitta Mitta affords directly I get home,
and send the parcel by a special mes-
senger.”
“ Thanks,” said George, “ that will do
first-rate”
“ Good bye, then, my boy, take care of
yourself ; and remember when you leave
Uralmindry to come straight on to me. I
shall be delighted to see you.”
“You may depend on my commg.
Good bye.”


The same evening another invitation
was pressed upon George by Mrs. Cos-
grove, who made him promise that he
would not leave the district without, as
she phrased it, ‘ ‘ beating them up. ”
“ Mr. Cosgrove and I are stupid, slow-
going old fogies,” said she with a fasci-
nating smile, ‘ ‘ but we flatter ourselves
we can make it agreeable to young people.
I’ll get some pretty girls for you to flirt
with, and—”
“I’m sure you needn’t,” said George
gallantly, “ I assure you I can get on
first-rate with—slow-going old fogies like
you.”
“ Can you really, now ? Well, that’s
all the more reason why I must get a
chaperone when you come. I promise you
she shan’t be a mere duenna, but a nice
bright pleasant little creature that can
play propriety just as well as ‘ wrinkled
eld,' But promise me you’ll come.”
“I promise you.”
“Now, that’s very nice of you. You
must arrange with Mr. Cosgrove as to the
best means of coming over. ’ ’
“ Oh! I shall find my way to you,
believe me, Mrs. Cosgrove.”
“ Mind you do, and take care of your-
self in the meanwhile. 1 must run away
now, as the coach will be here in a few
minutes. I am so nervous about going.
If you were going with us I shouldn’t
mind a bit. Good bye, Mr. Caldecott,
remember this, that though you have
known her but a few hours, you have no
truer friend or sincerer well-wisher than
Floience Cosgrove.”
“ She held out her hand as she spoke.
He raised it to her lips. At that very
moment into the room rushed Carrie Rey-
nolds, crying out “Mrs. Cosgrove, the mail
is ” (but, viewing the scene presented
to her eyes, and misinterpreting it) “but
I’m disturbing you.’
“ Oh no, ” said Mrs. Cosgrove, slightly
blushing, “I was just saying good bye to
Mr. Caldecott: tell Mr. Cosgrove I’ll be
ready in a minute, ” and , nodding a last
farewell, the lady ran out of the room,
followed by Carrie.
Chapter YII.
Late at e’en drinking the wine,
And ere they paid the lawing;
They set a combat them between
To fight it in the dawing,
That night, as Reynold’s hotel was not
so crowded as it had been the day before,
Mr. Hay was favoured with a bedroom to
himself. This arrangement left George
Caldecott in solitary occupancy of his
room. He had not been long in bed before
be beard a couple of gentle raps at his
door.
“ Who’s there ?” he cried.
‘‘ Hush! it’f only me,” whispered in low
soft tones a woman’s voice.
“ Who’s me ?” asked George.
“Jump up quickly, and come to the
door ; it’s me, Carrie Reynolds, I’ve some-
thing of importance to say to you,” said
the woman’s voice.
Not without difficulty and some little
pain did Caldecott make himself present-
able. He then went to the door and un-
bolted it.
“ What on earth do you want with me,
Miss Reynolds ?” he asked with a manner
which appeared very much like bashful-
ness.
“ Now, 'don’t go on, Mr. Caldecott, as
if you couldn’t say ‘ boo’ to a goose, when
I know, and you know too, that the case
is very different, as witness what you
dashing young fellows do with ladies’
heads. Oh! I saw you! and my word
didn’t she blush ! Well! to my fancy
hands were not meant to be kissed, but, as
you say, that’s a matter of opinion.
‘‘ I never said anything of the kind,
and if Miss Carrie Reynolds will only —”
‘ ‘ Miss Carrie Reynolds will do nothing
of the kind. But I didn’t risk a shindy
with the old people to come and talk non-
sense at your bedroom door. Nothing of
the kind. Let me whisper something in
your ear.”
By no means averse to place his head in
such close proximity to the wanton black
curls of the charming little brunette,
George Caldecott stooped down towards
her. With her little coral lips touching
his ear, Miss Carrie whispered—
‘ ‘ Asher Harte, the younger, wants you
at the stables. When you hear a long low
whistle, get out of your window and go to
the back of the coach-house. He has
something of yours he wants to give you.”
“Why, the man must be mad!” said
Caldecott.
‘ ‘ All men are, more or less; but I must
be off. Good night, Mr. Caldecott,” and
as she spoke Miss Carrie stretched out her
hand to him with affected stateliness.
“ Hands are not meant for kisses, Miss
Reynolds, but these are,” whispered
George, as he implanted before she could
stop him (even if she had wished to do so)
several kisses on her lips.


“ For shame, Sir !” she pretended to
scream, as she ran to the door leading to
the passage.
“You see, madam,” said George, laugh-
ing, “that though I am a cripple, I can
give kisses to a duck as easily as cry ‘ boo’
to a goose. Tell him I will be there,
there’s a little dear.”
As she fled down the passage, Carrie
darted at our hero with Parthian precision
a delicious little moue.
About three-quarters of an hour after
Carrie had left him, Caldecott heard the
signal which summoned him to the stables.
With much painstaking, he managed to
get out of the window. Having carefully
closed it from the outside, he walked
across the gravelled back yard to the
appointed spot.
No sooner had he reached the place
than he was aware of the presence there
of a muffled form resembling that of
Devereux as to height and general
build. .
“Caldecott?” whispered the bush-
ranger.
“ Yes.”
“Listen. I’ve got to be a hundred
miles away by noon to-morrow, so there’s
no time to lose. You’ll find your swag in
your bed-room on your return. I found
it on the little plain near where you did
me an excellent turn. By God you did!
In shooting those two ruffians you rid me
of two subalterns who were getting a
trifle too much for me to manage. I
should have had to shoot ’em myself.
So c'est egal. Post that portrait to my
father, as you promised; but not a word
of what I am. What lam ! phsa! what
I was, rather. Thanks to your two shots
there’s fewer hands to divide the spoil of
the escort amongst—and I’m going to give
up the ‘ high toby,’ once and for all.”
“ I wish to ” began George.
“ Don’t interrupt me; its no use patter-
ing morality to me. As I told you once
before, the die is cast. But to business.
In your swag is a letter —your mother’s
letter to you, written on the eve of your
departure. I read it—yes sir, it’s dark
and you can’t see my blushes —I read it
straight through from preface to colophon,
every word of it. Now, if any man can
help you to find out the secret she wishes
to know, I’m the man, and if its to be
done, I’ll do it. Don’t thank me. Hark!
what’s that? Go back to your room at
once. The traps haven’t all left yet,
and I must be devilish fly. So long! ”
Before Caldecott could say a word,
Devereux had crossed the strip of ground
that ran between the stables and the creek
on to their rear, and had disappeared in
the heavy mist that hung like a grey pall
over its hanks.
George Caldecott managed to return to
his bedroom without exciting remark. The
first thing he noticed on re-entering it was
the swag he had lost laid on the foot of His
bed. He hastily opened it, and found its
contents all safe. Nothing was gone.
Having satisfied himself on that point, he
turned into bed again, but could not go to
sleep. He turned and tossed, but nature’s
sweet restorer was not to be wooed.
Thought after thought chased one ano-
ther through his mind excited by the
events of the past forty-eight hours,
especially by the interview he had just
had with the outlaw upon whose head a
price was set.
Ought he to have aroused the poliee and
put them on the track of this desperate
bushranger ? No ! surely not. With all
his crimes, the fellow was the son of his
benefactor. Moreover, he had broken
bread with him. And then his experi-
ence of the man was that he was averse to
bloodshed, that he had striven to prevent
it. At times, the disagreeable considera-
tion would come : an unscrupulous repro-
bate possesses the knowledge of my
mother’s secret! Can it be expected that
he will guard it with delicacy ? Perhaps,
though, a comforting idea would whisper,
if he escapes arrest, it is through him that
the clue to the mystery will be secured.
Such were George Caldecott’s reflections
as he awaited the coming of the dawn.
About an hour and a half before “the
morn in russet mantle clad walked o er the
dew” on the thick plains lying to the
eastward of the river, George Caldecott
heard the police sergeant and the troopers
forming his patrol getting ready for a start.
Then he heard them say “ so-long” to
some one at the stable door, as they rode
off at a trot.
They had no sooner gone than the sound
of the voices of two men whispering
together near the back door into the hotel
broke upon his ear. At first he could not
distinguish what they said, neither did he
make any effort to do so; but all of a
sudden he caught the expression,
“ To think of his having slept in the
same room with the sergeant it bangs
Banagher!”


“Well, it woren’t a bad notion, Tom,
I’ll be if it was; but the captain
always loved his joke.”
The last speaker was Reynolds. That
Caldecott could make out without diffi-
culty. WTio the other was he didn’t
know, as he could not recognise the voice.
Was the “ captain” spoken of Stormalong
the bushranger ? The question perplexed
the unwilling eavesdropper.
“There’s one thing I must say for the
captain,” said Reynolds, “ he always acts
square as regards coin. Don’t he, Tom ?”
“Yes, for the matter of that, he does,”
replied the person addressed as Tom;
“ but what’s the odds to me ? What’s
the use of coin to me ? It all goes over
that accursed bar of vour’s, and it’s you,
not I, that reap the fruits of his being
square. 0! Billy Reynolds, you’re a
polished scamp. I can say that without
reservation. Well, let’s have a ball, any-
how, before turning in.”
The two men then went into the hotel,
and a few seconds afterwards George heard
the clink of glasses, and the murmur of
continued conversation proceeding from
the direction of the bar.
’Then for a short time there was silence,
and he thought that last he might be able
to doze off.
No such luck, however! For, just as
dawn was glimmering, the noise of many
footsteps in the front verandah and a dull
babel of several voices jarred discordantly
on his ears.
“ Open the door, Billy,” cried a voice.
“Gifsh drinksh round,” said another.
A third voice, sounding not unfamiliarly
to George, trolled forth lustily—
There’s a pill of lead as ’ll do you good, cried bold
Jack Donohue.’’
Then someone else spoke, “Now then,
Billy, opens the word. We ain’t flyblown.
No, siree, there’s com in Egypt. We
have the incentive to vice which is dug
out of the earth, as we used to say in the
classics. Billy, my boy, there is sugar to
be made, so open the door. We’ve cleared
Old Nanny’s out of grog, and intend to
clear you out, too, you old varmint. Open
the door, I say, or by the powers you’ll be
after wanting a carpenter.”
“ All right, lads, I*ll open the door in
half a jiffey,” quoth Reynolds, from with-
in ; and open it he did, within the space
specified, as George could tell by the bois-
terous stampede that followed the drawing
of the bolts.
The roysterers proved to be some six or
seven bush hands—one or two of them
notable “ telegraphs,” who, with gregari-
ous instinct, had flocked together for a
spree.
When he was dressed, George Caldecott
went out on to the front verandah, where
he found Mr. Hay doing “ quarter-deck”
and blowing a cloud, in anticipation of
breakfast. The revellers were most of
them sitting upon their swags, in a stupid
half-slumberous state of “booze.” One
of them a worn old fellow of the purest
old-hand type, gave forth at intervals a
hiccupping line to the praise and glory of
“ bould Jack Donohue.”
(To be continued.)
AN ORIGINAL LOVE STORY.
He struggled to kiss her. She struggled
the same
To prevent him, so bold and undaunted;
But, as smitten by lightning, he heard her
exclaim,
“ Avaunt, sir !” and off he avaunted.
But when he returned with the fiendishis
laugh,
Showing clearly that he was affronted,
And threatened by main force to carry
her af,
She cried, “Don’t;” and the poor fel-
low donted.
When he meekly approached, and got
down at her feet,
Praying loud, as before he had ranted,
That she would forgive him, and try to be
sweet,
And said, “ Can’t you ?”—the dear girl
re-canted.
Then softly he whispered, “ How could
you do so ?
I certainly thought I was jilted ;
But come thou with me, to the parson
we’ll go;
Say, wilt thou, my dear?” and she
wilted.
Then gaily he took her to see her new
home,
A shanty by no means enchanted—
“ See! here we can live with no longingto
roam,”
He said. “Shan’t we my dear?” So
they shantied I


TOWN GOSSIP.
There is a board, a wooden, but not
a Government board, at the Redfem
Terminus, projecting from a stand like
a signpost, the object of which is to
inform the travelling public that the
train about to start will go to certain
places. How is it that this simple
and effective plan is not always
adopted, and that when the long
distance trains leave the platform in
the evening, and all is bustle and
confusion, the board is thrust into one
of the offices, so that you can only just
see the tip of it, without getting the
tip from it which you have a right to
expect ? An appeal to the eye is so
much more direct than one to the ear,
and although the various places at
which the train is to stop are pro-
claimed in stentorian tones by an
officer charged with that duty, even
his powerful voice is often drowned
by the hum of voices, and does not
fall upon the ear with such distinct-
ness as to carry perfect conviction.
"We were very near getting into the
wrong train a second time on Tuesday
last, when
‘ ‘ Like a penny trumpet rung,
The accents of that well-known tongue.”
« Passengers, please take your seats
for Homebush, Parramatta, Liver-
pool, Campbelltown, &c. and we
retired gracefully to make a fresh
start a few minutes later. Now,
would'nt it be infinitely better to put
up the signboard for every train, in-
stead of compelling an official to yell
out unpronounceable names in undis-
tinguishable tones, at the imminent
risk of breaking a blood vessel ? We
pause for a reply.
We had an opportunity on Monday
evening last of taking part in some
very interesting experiments with a
telephone, at the residence of Mr. W.
Hill, of Croydon. The instrument
was introduced and operated upon by
Mr. Bladen, a visitor, who explained
its construction, and satisfied his
audience of its efficacy by reading a
page of Once a Week in the kitchen,
which was perfectly audible in the
parlor, the intervening doors being
closed. We hailed the success of the
experiment as an omen that Once a
Week will soon be heard everywhere,
not only in the parlor and the kitchen,
but in the court, in the camp, and
in every domicile ' throughout the
colony.
Now that the hot weather is going
out we would suggest to young men
who affect the ’bus knifeboard, that it
is the very time to protest against the
high rate of omnibus fares. Practi-
cally protest by walking to your offices.
The exercise won’t hurt you, Quite
the contrary, it will do you no end of
good ; while (if any number of you
should carry out the idea), it will teach
the monopolists a very good lesson.
It is not agreeable when passing a
house in course of construction, to
hear the cry “ Look out, below ! ” in
just sufficient time by the millionth
of a second to escape a crushing blow
from a tailing brickbat. Why do not
the municipal authorities insist on
hoardings, and also on builders making
their workmen look out above ? Were
a careless bricklayer’s apprentice to
drop a “ clinker” on an alderman’s
crown, attention would probably be
paid to the evil we complain of. 11
the reform can only be secured by the
death of a civic dignitary, it is to be
hoped the lot will fall (as well as the
brickbat) on one of the voters against
tramways.
So Sir Edward Deas-Thomson has
resigned the Chancellorship of Sydney
University ! On dit, that Sir James
Martin and Sir William Manning are
candidates for the vacant post. Of
the two, the Chief Justice, though not
a University man, is the more fit for
the position, if (as in England) official
status, public service, and oratorical
power are the prime tests. Sir Wil-
liam Manning, a man of plodding,
tient perseverance, great probity and
perfect respectability, makes a toler-
ably decent judge; in the position of a
University Chancellor he would be a
square peg in a round hole—utterly
out of place. If there are objections
to Sir James Martin on the score od his


never having graduated at any univer-
sity, and if honour be as due to brilliant
scholarship as to mere official rank,
why should not the ex-Chancellor’s
robe fall on Charles Badham. An ec-
clesiastic, let us hope, is out of the
question. If none but a graduate be
deemed qualified for the post, let it be
a distinguished one—a well place!
wrangler, or a double-first. If, how-
ever, non-graduates may hold it, then
let the dignity go to the great lawyer
and patriotic statesman rather than to
a gentleman who has attained such se-
condary honours as he wears by the
mere patient exercise of abilities it
were complimentary to classify as me-
diocre.
The position taken up by the British
Government with reference to the East L
ern question appears to us to be about
as unsatisfactory a one as can be well
imagined. Russia, be it for ambitious
aims, be it for philanthropic ones, at
imminent hazard and at mighty cost of
I flood and treasure, waged alone a suc-
cessful war in the interests of humanity
against an obscene and cruel despotism.
Why should she not be allowed to wear
the laurels she has won ? The notion
of England reproving Russia’s land
hunger is, to those who are well posted
up in the history of British India,
highly suggestive of the devil reprov-
ing sin. If war should arise between
England in alliance with Austria against
Russia, we suppose the scene of opera-
tions will be (so far as Great Britain is
concerned) somewhere on the Baltic
shores—at Riga or Revel, for instance—
while Austria would cross the Vistula
and play old Harry in Poland. We
hope, however, that the peace party at
home will prevail, and that Holy Russia
will be left undistu/bed to fulfil her
mission of reducing the Ottoman power
in Europe to a minimum, if not of
definitely terminating it.
We would hint to the Minister of
War that British military etiquette is
against au officer on full pay going
through an insolvent Court. , Verb.
sap.
So the Museum is to be opened on.
Sundays, and why not ? Possibly the
opening of its portals may result in
closing the back doors of sundry pubs
which would otherwise attract Sunday
idlers. The contemplation of the
wonders of nature which a visit to the
Museum is calculated to induce is quite
as likely to elevate the thoughts of the
visitors from the created to the Great
Creator, and to produce a reverent
frame of mind, as any other allowable
Sunday occupation. The most invete-
rate sticklers for forms will scarcely
dare to urge that the fourth command-
ment prohibits innocent recreation on
the seventh day. Why, then, should
not the mind be relaxed in a public
institution where there is a certainty
that no improper influences can assail
the visitor as well as in the open air
or any place of public resort ?
Wanted, somebody to patent an
elastic 'bus, capable of carrying eight,
ten, twelve, or thirteen insides, as
occasion requires, plus children ad lib .
Item, the Transit Commissioners to
devise a sliding scale by which fares
may be reduced proportionately to the
passengers carried in excess of the
licensed number. We submit a pro-
blem for their consideration : If A has
to pay Bd. for the trip from Double Bay
to Circular Quay as the tenth of the
licensed complement of insides, what
rebate ought he (or she) to be allowed
in the event of his (or her) becoming
the thirteenth of an unlicensed crush ?
Where'er one takes one’s walk
abroad in the suburbs of our beautiful
city, one cannot fail to notice the pro-
digious number of mansions, villas,
cottages ornees, houses of every con-
ceivable and inconceivable description,
that in all directions are springing
from the soil like so many mushrooms.
In far too many instances one has
occasion to note scamped work, under-
sized scantling, masonry overdosed
with “ filling in," balconies with in-
sufficient bearings, and other playful
eccentricities on the part of the canny
builder. As for the architectural styles,
who can number them ? Perhaps some


of our readers may never have seen
Hosea Biglow’s account of the antique
villa that was run up cheap for Mr.
Knott. Should such be the case, they
may possibly feel grateful to us for re-
printing it, as its lively humor is sin-
gularly apropos to the building epide-
mic now so prevalent. The lines run
thus: —
And so the greenest of antiques
Was reared for Knott to dwell in ;
The architect worked hard for weeks
In venting all his private peaks
Upon the roof, whose crop of leaks
Had satisfied Fluellen;
Whatever any body had
Out of the common, good or bad,
Knott had it all worked well in.
A donjon-keep, where clothes might dry,
A porter’s lodge that was a sty,
A campanile slim and high,
Too small to hang a bell in ;
All up and down and here and there,
With Lord-knows-whats of round and
square
Stuck on at random everywhere, —
It was a house to make one stare,
All comers and all gables;
like dogs let loose upon a bear,
Ten emulous styles staboyed with care,
The whole among them seemed to tear
And all the oddities to spare
Were set upon the stables.
Knott was delighted with a pile
Approved by fashion’s leaders;
(Only he made the builder smile,
By asking every little while;
Why that was called the Twodoor style,
Which certainly had three doors ?)
Yet better for this luckless man
If he had put a downright ban
Upon the thing in limine ;
For, though to quit affairs his plan,
Ere many days, poor Knott began
Perforce accepting draughts that ran
All ways—except up chimney;
The house, though painted stone to mock,
With nice white lines round every block,
Some trepidation stood in,
When tempests (with petrific shock,
So to speak) made it really rock,
Though not a whit less wooden;
And painted stone, howe’er well done,
Will not take in the prodigal sun
Whose beams are never quite at one
With our terrestrial lumber;
So the wood shrank around the knots,
And gaped in disconcerting spots,
And there were lots of dots and rots
And crannies without number,
Wherethrough, as you may well presume,
The wind, like water through a flume,
Came rushing in ecstatic,
Leaving, in all three floors, no room
That was not a rheumatic.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Romeo. —Declined with thanks.
Aunt Rebecca's Secret. —ln our next.
Rus. —Please note that all MSS. sent to
this Office, must be written with ink, ‘and
not with pencil.
A Subscriber.— The “ established popu-
lar periodical in the city” advertised for
sale in Tuesday’s Herald , is not the Sydney
“Once a Week,” which is not in the
market, or likely to be. The fact that
“Once a Week” is “established and
popular,” makes such a contingency ex-
tremely improbable.
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ANNUAL EXHIBITION, 1878.
LOOK OUT FOR THE
OF
“ONCE A WEE K.”


“ gY~^^T^OMCE JZk. ’TOTIBESIESIESZ-’ 9
AGENTS.
SYDNEY.
Railway Terminus L. Walton
r G. Hill
George-street
Hunter-street
Pitt-street ...
King-street
William-street
Oxford-street...
E. Turner
W. Nash
. H. Hains
* W. Maddock
E. R. Cole
C. T. Sandon
J. J. Moore
.. Turner and Henderson
... S. A. Kirby
.. G. Wallace
.. F. Pearce
( Spragg and Adams
) Mrs. Abbott
Sussex-street
g
Agents wanted for other parts of the colony.
QUEEN’S COLLEGE, CROYDON.
Lady Principal : Mrs. H. H. DAWSON
(ASSISTED BY COMPETENT GOVERNESSES AND PROFESSORS).
*5“ N.8.-NO PUPIL TEACHERS
FOR Resident Pupils the College (which is most healthily situated) offers every
advantage:—Dormitories, well ventilated; Plunge Baths, Airy Class-rooms, &c.
The Principal has introduced the system now so universal in the leading educa-
tional establishments in Europe, of imparting knowledge in the higher classes by
means of Lectures, and has secured the services of able Professors.
There is a Special Class for the Preparation of Candidates for Sydney University
Examination, 1878, under the charge of a gentleman who has been successful in
preparing pupils for previous University Examinations. Pupils can join at any time.
A course of Lectures in Physiology (Laws of Health), Physics and Mechanics, by
a Prizeman (in science subjects) of University Coll., London, has been arranged for
during the school terms of 1878.
Young ladies, not students of the College, can attend these lectures.
Dailv pupils have their railway fare deducted from terms.
The Queen’s College is within three minutes walk of the Croydon Railway
Platform.


OPINONS OF THE PRESS.
“ Sydney Once a Week.”— lt is a neat,
well-printed, little pamphlet, containing
twenty-four pages of reading matter,
which consists of short original papers,
written in a light free style, and. of a few
extracts from other publications. Its pur-
pose is to give its readers “a good six-
pennyworth of. literary pabulum, com-
posed of ingredients at once sparkling,
amusing, and original, and so arranged as
to avoid a suspicion of dulness.” . Taken
as a whole, the magazine, which is edited
by Mr. C. H Barlee, is a very creditable
production, as well to the publishers as to
the authors, and if conducted according
to the plan indicated in the few words
above quoted, it will he an acceptable
addition to our colonial literature. — S. M.
Herald.
The Echo says:—lt is a very readable
publication, and, while it cannot aspire to
rank as the equal of the most popular
English magazines, it deserves to find
favour on account of the local interest
which attaches to its papers. The original
papers, of which there are several, are
written in a light, easy style, and with
considerable ability. We should like to
see the magazine prove to he a success,
for the desirableness of building up a
respectable colonial literature will hardly
he denied by any one. and the establish-
ment of a good magazine is one of the
means towards that end. The publishers.
Messrs. G»Vos, Shallard, and Co., are
entitled to commendation for the admirable
way in which they have got up the
magazine.— Echo .
The New Magazine. —Stjdney Once a
Week Magazine for Toivn and Country
Readers is the title of a new weekly, edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, issued from the
Sydney Press, which bids fair to secure a
good share of public support. Its moderate
price, its handiness, the entertaining
reading it affords, and the concise, pleas-
ing manner in which the various topics of
the day are touched in its columns, must
naturally render the Sydney Once a Week
a welcome visitor in every house, and an
agreeable mnpanion to every reader.—
Southern Argus (Goulburn,.
“Sydney Once a Week,” a magazine
hearing the above title, has made its ap-
pearance in our city. It is edited by Mr.
Barlee, formerly a member of the literary
staff of he Melbourne Argus, and a
humourist of some note. The work con-
tains sketches, tales, and articles, along
with the usual miscellanea of a magazine.
Judging by the contents of the first num-
ber, we think the magazine stands a better
chance of succeeding than many of those
publications which are horn hut to die,
and which, in some cases, are disgraceful
to the literary efforts of our city.—
Evening News.
The Singleton Argus says:—The number
is very readable, is well printed by Messrs.
Gibbs, Shallard, and Co., and contains a
varied selection of original and extract
matter. We wish the proprietor every
success with his venture, and trust that his
efforts will do something more substantial
to encourage a taste for colonial literature
than those of others who have trodden in
the same uncertain path, have succeeded
in doing. We hail with pleasure all re-
spectable efforts to establish a republic of
letters in this colony, which at present is
too much confined in its patronage to news-
paper literature only. Mr. Barlee’s venture
is the best effort in this direction that we
have seen for some time.
“ Once a Week.” —Under the title of
“ Sydney Once a Week,” the first number
of a neatly got-up octavo of over thirty
pages has just been issued. It is edited by
Mr. C. H. Barlee, who is, we understand,
assisted by a numerous staff of able con-
tributors. The contents of this new pub-
lication are varied and interesting—too
varied, in our opinion, for the space at the
disposal of the editor. If we may be per-
mitted to offer a suggestion with regard to
the future, we would recommend that
everything in the shape of “ news ” items
should be omitted. We heartily wish the
proprietors success in their undertaking,
and certainly are of opinion that the excel-
lence of “ Once a Week” well deserves it.
Yass Courier.
The contents of the new venture give
promise of a deserved success, should it
ever be attained. There is an attractive
variety about the articles, and the tastes of
every class of readers are consulted. Thus
we have a trenchant article, short and
pithy, on the political status in quo , a couple
of spirited domestic sketches, some comic
matter, and some chapters especially in-
tended for boys. Among the last is a
scholarly commentary on a passage from
the “Paradise Lost” —intended for the use
of University candidates —a clever set of


recurrent verses in Latin and an enigma
in French. The palindrome and enigma
are an immense improvement on the
foolish anagrams and sphinx-like puzzles
which usually fill this department of our
current literature, and should commend the
production to parents. We hop ■ the new
organ will enjoy a longer term of existence
than some of its predecessors.— Namoi In-
dependent.
This serial contains well written papers
and sketches, entitled “ The Public
Health,” “Muff Cricketing,” “Best Dog
in the colony,” and a general summary Oi
the Busso-Turkish War. Altogether Once
a Week promises well; and without coun-
try readers (who will probably support it
best), the 170,000 residents of Svdney
should keep it going—hut we doubt it.
The price is 6d., and the publishing office
279 George-street, Sydney.— Molong Ex-
press.
Once a Week. —This is the title of anew
pamphlet, edited by Mr. C H. Barlee, of
Sydney. We have received a copy and
were highly amused, as well as entertained
with the writings; there is such a versa-
tility about them that all must be pleased.
It is notified that a summary of the
events of the present war will be given
for the accommodation of its readers,
and so do away with the tedious task of
perusing the complications daily appear-
ing in our metropolitan journals. Among
numerous, articles, in various strains,
there is a very humorous writing, en-
titled “My Balloon Adventure; ” but to
our fancy, the most amusing is one called
“ The best dog in the colony.” There is
a very good article termed “Et cetera,”
which gives an abstract of the events of
the week, In next issue a story will be
commenced, under the impressive heading
of “ The Mystery of the Wiseman’s
Ferry Boad.” It is a useful, handy little
book, and well worth patronage. The
price is sixpence.— The Australian.
The Tenterjield Star says:—Besides
containing a large amount of current
news, it possesses the attraction of afford-
ing to its readers much useful and
scientific information, combined with well
written tales and humourous sketches,
and other entertaining matter. The price
is sixpence, and this moderate charge
should command for the magazine the
wide circulation which it justly deserves.
The Moruya Examiner says:—We have
looked the book carefully through and can
confidently recommend it to our readers
and predict its success.
The new candidate for public favour
contains a number of smartly written
original articles and some well-selected
extract matter. It is got up in good style,
and well printed, containing twenty-four
demy octavo pages.— Albury Banner.
The new publication is both instructive
and entertaining; it is deserving of a
good circulation. —Border Bost (Albury).
The new publication is both well got
up and very readable.— Western Post
(Mudgee).
The Bathurst Free Press says:—lt con-
tains a large quantity of interesting read-
ing matter—grave, gay, ponderous, and
light. The editorship is evidently in good
hands, and if the editor’s hopes are real-
ized the paper will take its place with
“ The pleasant books that silently among
Our household treasures take familiar places,
And are to us as if a living tongue
Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces.’
For he makes his hold assertion: “We
shall do our best to force ourselves into
notice, and to compel attention.” Once
a Week is well worth the sixpence that is
charged for the single copy.
Another attempt has been made to
establish a literary magazine in Sydney.
The new venture takes the title of the
Sydney “Once a Week.” Its type dress
is admirable, but then the printers are
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co. The
number before us very fairly sustains the
aim stated, and we shall be glad to see the
magazine prosper. —Maitland Mercury.
It is very creditably got up and judging
from the matter which this number (No.
1) contains, it is a magazine that will no
doubt receive a large measure of support
among Australian readers.— Western Ex-
aminer (Orange).
The Murrurundi Times writes:—“ The
contents have a varied range, and many
of the articles possess a degree of humour
and literary merit which will commend
them to the majority of our readers. We
shall be glad to find enough appreciation
to support anything in the shape of smart
writing which has about it no unworthy
element.”


I Sydney Once a Week ” —We have
ived the first two numbers of a small
ly got up magazine hearing the above
which, in view of its superiority to
majority of weekly publications lately
3d from the Sydney Press, we feel it
honest duty to notice with approba-
. Its contents (those of the two issues
Lave received) are not only well written,
are for the most part original and
1. They comprise a great variety of
Lt and instructive reading matter, which
old commend Once a Week to public
our. Politics, the public health, and
er grave matters are ably treated in its
ling columns. There are also well
tten original humorous sketches-we
■e specially “The Best Dog in the
Lony” and “My Balloon Adventure,
1 a few happy clippings from comic ex-
mges; a page of town gossip; and an
tome of the week’s war news Ad-
rably written papers, entitled Gossip
th the Boys,” appear m each issue, and
3, it is said, to be continued regularly
,e verses in the first number entitled
An Australian Idyll” are very far above
e average of contributions to the poets
mer.” It is an affecting story, well told,
fter the custom of English magazine
inductors, the proprietors of Sydney
nce a Week offer prizes to successful
mipetitors in the riddle arena. In the
scond number appeared the prologue of
story called “ The Mystery of Wiseman s
errywhich is to he the piece de resistance
il hewayof serial romance. Once a Week,
d.ich is edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, a
■tierateur of lengthened colonial exami-
nee, and published by Messrs. Gibbs
ihallard, and Co., we can conscientiously
ecommend as a weekly magazine enter-
aining, instructive, and of high tone.
Those who have not seen this publication
S huy copies, and judge of la ments
'or themselves. W e are certam
indorse our opinion.— Cumberland M
\u)'y.
The Sydney “Once a Week
sixth number of this serial has just been
published. Its literary merits and general
let up are eqwl to those of the first
number which w had occasion to notice
favorably. It contains a large amount o
instructive and light , eading; the original
articles are entertaining, and the contents
of the number generally are judiciously
varied. The “Mystery of Wisemans
Ferry Road,” has reached the third chap-
ter. The interest of the story in no way
flags. The “War News” and “Town
Gossip ” are readable articles, and the
comic papers sparkle with humour. There
are several pieces of original poetry; and
two or three pages devoted to “Columns
for young readers,” containing charades,
puzzles, &c. Altogether the number does
credit to editor and printer.— S. M. Herald.
We heartily recommend the magazine
to our readers. —Grenfell Record.
The Coonamble Independent says“ The
first number, which we have received, is
well and ably written —the best sketch, in
our opinion, being a very humourous one,
entitled the “Best Dog in the Colony.
We wish the proprietor every success, as,
in our opinion, the publication, if well
conducted, will supply a want long felt in
Sydney, and add to the far too small stock
of Australian literature. We have every
confidence in recommending “ Once a
Week” to the favorable notice oi our
readers.”
“Sydney Once a Week.” —We have
iust receivedtheeighthnumber of“ Sydney
Once a Week,” and a rather close inspec-
tion of its contents reveals the fact that it
is, if anything, an improvement upon its
predecessors. The conception oi the
publication of such a periodical was ex-
I tremely happy in its character, as it gave
opportunities for manifestations oi local
literary talents of various orders that
otherwise might be lost to the genera
public, and also established a magazine in
the colony respectable and worthy of accep-
tation. The original articles m the present
number are agreeably and
written, and the few clippings inserted
selected with good taste, while all are
neatly and carefully printed and revised.
— Echo.
Sydney Once a Week.— This periodical
has now reached a tenth issue The present
week’s number, in point of »
or interesting reading, is “
equal to its predecessors. The mostinter-
esting topics of the week are wnttenupon
in a agreeable style, and
several very® readable local sketches.-
S. M. Herald.
