

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
SDITS33 ISTST <CS. H. ~B=e /*. TFj.TT.-raTB
No. 8, Vol. I.]
MARCH 9, 1878.
[Price Gd.
CALENDAR.
DAY OF
SUN.
MEMORANDA.
High Watek
Month
Week.
Rises. ;
Sets.
Sydney Cove.
March
»
Sat
Mrs. Barker (1st wife of Bishop Barker) died,
1876.
6.56 |
6.25
11.3 a.m.
10
S
1st in Lent. De Quiros sights Australia, 1608.
5 66
6.21
11.39 a m.
11
Prince of Wales married, 1863
M
H M.S. Osprey wrecked off New Zealand, 1816.
5.67
6.23
12.22 p.m.
12
Tu
St. Gregorv. Moon’s 1st quarter, 2 6. p m. At-
6.53
6.22
1.16 p.nv.
13
W
tempted assass. of Duke of Edinburgh, 1868.
Norfolk Islaud settlement founded, 1790.
6.69
6.20
2.31 p.m.
14
Th
Judge Cheeke died, 1876.
6. 0
6 19
4. 6 p.m.
15
F
Julius Ctesar assassinated, B.C. 44.
6. 0 1
6.18
5.38 p m.
\\ B shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.8.-Advertisements for “SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK’’ will be received up to six o’clock on
Thursday evening.
A WORD FOR THE HORSE.
The annual report of the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals for 1877 was for two rea-
sons an unsatisfactory document.
It revealed, in the first place, the
disagreeable fact that owing to de-
fects in the law the efforts of the
Society’s officers to suppress cruelty
were in numerous instances in-
operative : while in the second place
it puts on record the not very credit-
able statement that whereas they
could find ample work for two or more
inspectors the funds at its disposal
were barely sufficient to support
one. These two facts are, we re-
peat, not very creditable to the com-
munity. The Society deserves the
utmost encouragement and should
be backed up by the public with
liberality, in order that the benevo-
lence which we would fain hope
characterises the several units of


the great majority of the population
may be focussed and so brought to
bear with intensified force against
the cupidity, the thoughtlessness or
the “ flashness” of those, who
honoring not the mystery of infe-
rior life, prove themselves to be
lower in the scale of God’s creation
than the poor dumb beasts they
wantonly abuse. Of the many forms
of cruelty under which the brute
creation groans and suffers, un-
necessary whipping by drivers is a
far too common Jone. Not a day,
not an hour passes, but the spectacle
may be witnessed in the streets of
this city of poor wretched horses
being made to quiver with agony
under the lash, even when straining
their hardest to do their master’s
work. Omnibuses, waggonettes,
and cabs are to be daily seen in the
most public thoroughfares patently
overloaded (in defiance of regula-
tion), though every instance of such
overloads g means neither more nor
less than downright, deliberate
cruelty to the animal or animals
victimized by it. The one inspector
of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals cannot be ex-
pected to be übiquitous. Few pri-
vate individuals have the time or
means to prosecute offenders, though
it were much to be desired that
efforts to strain a point in favour of
the horse were occasionally made
by men or women witnessing the
poor creature’s sufferings The
“ pity for a horse o’er driven” which
most of us feel when we actually
witness a horse in that predicament
is too soon dissipated. The prose-
cution of the offender is left for a
more convenient season, which in
ninety nine cases out of a hundred
never comes. Our pity might be
given a more practical turn if we
would each of us according to our
means help the Society we have al-
luded to, to maintain more inspectors.
The horse is so loyal to man, that
to deal with the noble animal with
any lack of sympathy is utterly and
unredeemedly shameful. By no
act does a man prove more recreant
to his manhood than by abusing his
lordship over so faithful a creature
as the horse. To bring down the
cutting lash upon the skin of a sen-
sitive horse, out of mere idle flash-
ness (as is done thousand of times
an hour) is to display what a modern
poetess has called “ an infidelity to
Adam ” which deserves severe
punishment. It is not merely un-
manly to behave with cruelty to a
horse, it is inconceivably foolish.
The cruelty defeats the object for
which possibly it is inflicted. There
may be times, we admit at once that
there are, when the application of a
stimulus is needed ; but there is no
more fatal error in horse manage-
ment than to suppose that the whip
is often required. Under aDy cir-
cumstances the application of the
lash to an overstrained horse is un-
mitigated and wanton cruelty, for
which no excuse can possibly be


framed. As the half drunken
Jarvey (immortalized by London
Punch ) so truly remarked :—“ ’lt a
’orse about the ’ead, I’d give a man
a month for fitting ’orse about ’ead.
’Ead’s principal membran’ ’uman
body; if man’s got’s ’edd, can carry’s
legs, but if man ain’t got’s ’ead
can’t carry’s legs. Don’t care oo
’tis.” Nor do we care. Flog your
horse wantonly, thoughtlessly, un-
necessarily and you are doing your
best to reduce his capacity to serve
you to its minimum. Treat him
well and you evoke in your service
all his mettle. By gentle handling,
by considerate speech you will get
more of sheer hard work out of your
horse than by all the whips and
spurs in the world. Robert Brown-
ing Knew what he was about when
in that stirring ballad of his, where-
in he relates how they brought the
good news from Ghent to Aix, he
tells us how in the supreme moment
of the struggle to reach the goal,
Roland’s master
“ Stood UD in the stirrup, leaned, p itted his ear
Called my Roland his pet name, my horse without
peer.
Clipped my hand*, laughed and sang, any noise
bad or good
Till at length into Aix Roland galloped and
stood. ’’
It is just that “pet name” sys-
tem which we recommend : it beats
the whip method out and out.
In conclusion, we would urge
upon our readers to support the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals in the interests of that
humanity which is daily outraged in
the streets of this so-called Chris-
tian city.
Coleridge sings that “ heprayeth
well who loveth well both man and
bird and beast,” and that “he
prayeth best who loveth best all
things.” If we would practically
endorse the utterance of the sweet
singer we can find a means to do so
by aiding in the effort to put down a
form of cruelty which, though to
some it may appear a slight evil, is
a blot upon our civilization.
BATTLE BUNNY.
MALVERN HILL, 1864.
[•‘ After the men were ordered to lie
down, a white rabbit, which had been
hopping hither and thither over the field
swept by grape and musketry, took refuge
among the skirmishers, in the breast of a
corporal.” —Report of the Battle of Malvern
Hill.]
Bunny, lying in the grass,
Saw the shining column pass;
Saw the starry banner fly,
Saw the chargers fret and fume,
Saw the flapping hat and plume—
Saw them with his moist and shy
Most unspeculative eye,
Thinking only, in the dew,
That it was a fine review—
Till a flash, not all of steel,
Where the rolling caissons wheel
Brought a rumble and a roar
Rolling down that velvet floor,
And like blows of autumn flail
Sharply threshed the iron hail.
Bunny, thrilled by unknown fears,
Raised his soft and pointed ears,
Mumbled his prehensile lip,
Quivered his pulsating hip,
As the sharp vindictive yell
Rose above the screaming shell;
Thought the world and all its men—
All the charging squadrons meant—
All were rabbit-hunters then,
All to capture him intent.
Bunny was not much to blame:
Wiser folk have thought the same—
Wiser folk, who think they spy
Every ill begins with “I.”


Wildly panting here and there,
Bunny sought the freer air,
Till he hopped below the hill
And saw, lying close and still,
Men with muskets in their hands.
(Never Bunny understands
That hypocrisy of sleep,
I n the vigils grim they keep,
As recumbent on that spot
They elude the level shot.)
One—a grave and quiet man,
Thinking of his wife and child
Far beyond the Kapidan,
Where the Androsaggin smiled—
Felt the little rabbit creep,
Nestling by his arm and side,
Wakened from strategic sleep.
To that soft appeal replied,
Drew him to his blackened breast,
And—
But you have guessed the rest.
Softly o’er that chosen pair
Omnipresent Love and Care
Drew a mightier Hand and Arm,
Shielding them from every harm;
Eight and left the bullets waved,
Saved the saviour for the saved.
Who believes that equal grace
God extends in every place,
Little difference he scans
’Twixt a rabbit’s God and man’s.
BRET HARTE.
HOW TO GIVE DIGNITY TO
TRIFLES.
A letter has been shown to me (from an
an accomplished foreigner) containtrg a
passage which seems to me too good to be
altogether lc*st. It is as follows:
“ A little plan I have found serviceable
“ in past years is to put down every night
“the engagements and duties of next day,
‘‘ arranging the hours well. The advantages
“of this are several. You get more done
‘ 4 than if a great part of each day is spent in
“cojtriving and considering ‘what next?’
“A healthful feeling pervades the whole
“life. There is a feeling of satisfaction at
4 4 the end o f the day on finding that generally
“ the greater part of what is planned has
“ been accomplished. This is che secret of
“giving dignity to trifles. As units, they
“ are insignificant; they rise in importance
“when they become parts of a plan.
“Besides this —and I think the most im-
portant thing of all—there is gained a
“ consciousness of Will, the opposite of
“ that which is the sense of Impotency.
‘ ‘ The thought of time, to me at least,
“ is a very overpowering one, and often a
“very annihilating one for energy—time
“rushing on, unbroken, irresistable, hurry-
“ing the worlds and the ages into being
“ and out of it, and making our noisy years
“ seem moments on the being of an eternal
“silence.
“ The sense of powerlessness which this
“gives is very painful. But I have felt
“that this is neutralised by such a little
“plan as that. You feel that you do
“ control your own course ; you are borne
‘ ‘ on, but not resistlessly. Down the rapids
“you go, certainly, but you are steering
“ and trimming your own raft, and making
“ the Flood of Time your vassal, and not
“your conqueror.”
Whilst drawing the attention of the reader
to the great value and force of these remarks,
and fearing that any words of mine may
sound tame after the vigorous English of
this gifted stranger, I cannot help observing
that I do not think his hard and fast rule
of action is the best in all cases. He makes
no allowance for the all-powerful moods to
which men of much imagination are subject.
If a man has daily duties which he is bound
to perform, he should ignore moods, and
get through his task in the best way that
he can, Power over the “will” is a neces-
sary point of manly character ; but will is
powerless to control moods. It may con-
strain a man to go through work for which
he is not in the mood, but it cannot bring
him into the mood for doing it; and so far
as a man is working against his mood, so
far is there a waste of force.
A man, as I have said, who is tied down
by daily duties must get on in the best way
that he can; but I feel that the greatest
privilege attending leisure and freedom of
action is the opportunity which they give of
making an intelligent use of moods. One
of the many wise pieces of advice given by
Artemus Ward is “Never do anything
which is not your forte and I should say,
never do anything, if no duty compels you,
for which you are not in the mood. The
S. of to-day and the S. of yesterday are
frequently quite different persons. Why
should the S. of to-day forego his mood,
and bend his will to the fiat of the obsolete
S. of yesterday?


To make what I mean clear, I must
speak of myself. Sometimes in the morn-
ing when I address myself to some half-
mechanical half-mental task, I find myself in
precisely the right mood: the hours pass
rapidly by, and at the end of the day I find
that I have gone through an amount of
work which is surprising; and such work,
on revision, shows few mistakes. On
other days, I feel adrift; I make endless
mistakes, and the correction of them takes
up half my time. My mind is absent from
my task, and is dwelling on some more
abstract or practical subject—some difficulty
to be solved—some important course of
action to be determined—some difficult
letter, which has been hanging on hand, to
be worded, —I am evidently wasting time
over my mechanical employment, and do
better by throwing it up, and indulging in
some apparently idle pursuit which allows
full scope for thought. By the evening,
perhaps, the abstract difficulty is overcome,
or the troublesome letter which has been on
my mind for weeks is written in my head
and can be transferred to paper in a few
minutes.
RUS.
THE PUBLIC HEALTH
No. 8.
Proceeding, after the digression
occasioned by our reference to the
proposed Model Lodging House,
with the consideration of the prob-
able causes of increased sickness
and relative mortality, which in
our first number we promised to
consider, we find that our next
cause is “ the mode of collection and
disposal of our Sewage"
We believe it can scarcely be
possible to effect this in a more
dangerous way than that which we
have adopted, and whether we
regard it from the point that Sydney
commenced her sewage into a tidal
harbour, when the drainage of
London into a mighty river had
been abandoned on account of the
nuisance; or from this point, that it
is a rule in architecture never to
conduct a drain under a building,,
the whole of our house drains being
taken under the houses, it must be
admitted that our debt of grati-
tude to the founders of our Sewage
system will be easily discharged !
Let us examine the positions,
beginning with that last stated.
We will assume, that other things
being equal, the cheapest method
should recommend itself to adop-
tion ; to attain this it is obvious
that the shortest possible lines
would be chosen, as well having
reference fo original construction
as to future repairs. Ignoring this
obvious advantage, our house drains
have been made from the backs
of the allotments, under the houses,
say 100 to 140 feet; under the foot-
ways say 12 feet more; to the
middle of the street say only 33
feet more. Take the allotment as
having the least given depth, and
we have 145 feet of excavation and
upwards of 70 drain pipes re-
quired; from 15 to 20 of these
drain pipes under the building,
laid in a narrow excavation in the
rock, necessarily very imperfectly
jointed, luted, if at all, with clay,
and liable therefore to leak, both
upwards and downwards, foul gases
and foul waters under the houses.
These works are commonly under-
taken by contract, there is not any
official inspection, the pipes are
covered up as fast as laid, and kind


mother earth hides the faithless j
work, and for a time, till her
sponge, as we may say, is filled,
absorbs both gases and waters, and
neutralises them by her fine
chemistry; the time comes, how-
ever, when her limit is reached,
a given quantity of earth can
only neutralize a certain quan-
tity of sewer gas and foecal
matter, and then, up they
come! they fill the houses, abomi-
nable by day, pestilent at night,
when, doors and windows being
closed, there is little or no dilution
of the air which was contained in
the house on shutting up. It is plain
that our drainage should b 6 into
sewers at the rear of the houses,
where a fraction of the labour, and
a fraction of the pipes, would dis-
charge the Sewage of each house
at a fraction of the cost now in-
volved, and leaving corresponding
facility for repairs, would not in-
volve the household in either the
occasional nuisance of breaking up
floors, or in the perpetual nuisance
of inhaling unwholesome gases
from leading pipes.
We have evidently enjoyed the
advantage of great engineering
talent in Sydney ; whether we look
at Fort Denison, or smell the city,
either sense is satisfied on the point;
and, though as we read, “the eye
is not filled with seeing, nor the
ear with healing,” we must declare
that our nose is filled with smelling
this most filthy city of ours!
We leave, for the present, the
consideration of remedies; only
praying, with the late Duke of
Wellington, that we “ may be
delivered from Royal Engineers/’
when the next sewage scheme shall
be brought forward ; but we claim
to have shewn that a condition of
things has been brought about by
ignorance and incompetence: which
abundantly accounts for our gene-
rally high death rate, and for the
prevalence, at the present time, of
much enteric or low fever.
FATHER JOHN.
BY THOMAS MOSER.
Nearly half a century ago, -when explor-
ing was the order of the day a party had
been fitted out to examine the country
near where now lies the boundary between
New South Wales and Victoria, and
amongst them was found one Dennis
O’Hoolahan, who, leaving his wife in
the domestic service of a Government
official, had joined the party in the ca-
pacity of cook. Nomenclature of locali-
ties, the native names of which could not
he ascertained, owing to the hostility of
the blacks, was no easy matter, and in-
genuity was sorely taxed when the chief
commenced mapping out his work. It so
happened, that upon one occasion when
it became necessary to name a certain di-
viding range, that that officer, pausing
for inspiration, with pen and compasses
in hand, caught the eye of Dennis O’Hoo-
lahan, who was brewing tea in the ortho-
dox bush fashion by boiling it for half an
hour to carefully extract all its astringent
properties, the better to tan the mucous
membrane. “ Christen the range Dennis!
said he.” Dennis paused a moment, and
his memory electrically called him back
to his native parish situated in a quag-
mire in Ireland. “Isit a name ye want ?*
said he. “Shure, call it Killaloo! ’ and
KiJlaloo it is to this day.
-"The party returned to Sydney in due
course, and Dennis had resumed his old
occupation of gardening in his old em-


ployer’s service, when one day he was
accosted by a young gentleman, who not
having proved a success in the English
family circle, had been shipped off to New
South Wales with a few hundreds to his
credit, and the paternal blessing. This
young man was named Sparkley, and he
had cut out the highly satisfactory pro-
gramme for himself of taking up country,
stocking it with sheep, sending up a
“fellah” to manage “you know!” and
living on the profits at the club. “ I say,”
my good fellah ! ‘‘ commenced Mr. Spark-
ley, “you’ve been expiaw—wing you
know ? and all that sort of thing, eh ?
Now, can you put a fellah up to a piece of
good count —wy!” “ Shure I can, Sur!
said Dennis. “ Isn’t there Killaloo, which
same counthry I was afther naming myself
from my own parish in Oireland.” “Aw!
replied Mr. Sparkley, “ then what do you
say if I take it up and send you there with
a lot of sheep, you know ! as manage-aw !
You know all about sheep?” “Is it
sheep! said Dennis,” “shure wasn’t I
rayred among ’em! ” Now, without im-
puting any romance to Dennis, there is
little doubt but that he could have made
the same remark if his acquaintance with
hyenas or hippopotami had been called in
question. To cut, however, a long story
short, Dennis was dispatched with the
sheep, a ration cart, a countryman of his
and his wife and child, to Killaloo,
whither he in due time arrived. A very
short time sufficed to prove most clearly to
Mr. Sparkley’s mind that the profits of
Killaloo would not keep him at a club.
Bank overdrafts led to mortgages, and the
great fall in stock, which came on about
that time, rendering sheep, which a year
before had cost a pound, not worth half a
crown, to Mr. Sparkley seriously con-
sidering whether the first loss was not the
best. The bank foreclosed, and put Den-
nis in charge, giving him the option of
purchase, and Providence having removed
from sublunary scenes a maternal uncle of
Mr. Sparkley’s, who died too soon to make
him alter his will, Mr. Sparkley came
into possession of sundry farms in Devon-
shire, and has lived baronially upon the
rents since.
The reaction caused in pastoral circles
by the discovery of gold very soon altered
the circumstances of Mr. O’Hoolahan,
and the sale of about two flocks of wethers
cleared off all his liabilities, and left him
with the station and a good balance in
cash on hand. Dennis, as he resided in
his house or sat in the saddle, surveying
his manor from the heights of the Killaloo
range, rose with the occasion, “ Bedad,”
apostrophised he, “to think it is my own,
and bigger than the county o’ Cork, or
faith than the whole o’ Connaught.
Some of the bhoys must come out, and so
they must! ” l his wish was soon grati-
fied, the dispatch of a few pounds and an
assisted Immigration Act very soon
fetched as many, if not a few more,
“bhoys” than Dennis wanted, for they
took to imparting girls into the bargain,
and peopled Dennis’ domain rather too
rapidly for him to find work enough to
keep them quiet. To crown all, John
Robertson commenced his crusade against
Dennis and his contemporaries, and a new
Land Act played mischief with him. The
“ bhoys ” who he had befriended, selected
land to his very doors, and the question of
“primitive rights,” as they called their
pre-emptive lease, led to poor Dennis’ run
being chopped all to pieces. Hard did he
fight as he saw the manor in which he
believed he had established a prescriptive
right gradually being taken from him,
but the enemy was too strong—“ the
cocks had crowed, and the chickens all
followed.” Like King David of old,
‘ ‘ they gat about him like bees, and en-
compassed him in on every side.” As a
last resource, which should have been his
first, he purchased outright the remnant
of his run, and established a township in
the middle of it, and now he reigns su-
preme and unmolested. It was while
these events were passing, and the com-
munity which Dennis had established
were becoming demoralised, that the
archiepiscopal eye was cast upon Killaloo.
and a visit followed. Neither school nor
priest in the place would never do, and a
mild but firm remonstrance with these
“sheep in the wilderness” led to the
promise that both should be supplied.
There was consternation in St. Joseph’s
when the order came for some priest to
pack up for Killaloo. Things were very
comfortable in that hospitable quarter,
and the fraternity did not like breaking
up. Lots, however, were cast, and the
lot fell on Father John. It, perhaps, could
have hardly fallen better, considering the
choice of available material. Father John
was young, robust, enthusiastic, and full
of indomitable pluck. No sooner did he
“ get the route ” than he invested in three


horses, one for himself, and one for his
man, and packing on the other a few
clothes, books, and vestments, he armed
himself with a large horsewhip, and
mounting his horse, set out for Killaloo
on his missionary enterprise. “ Faix,”
said he, “ the bhoys want a little ‘ regu-
lating,’ and it afther ‘ regulating’ them
I’m about and so I am.” It may as well
be said that Father John was not long
about putting his good intentions into
practice. No sooner had he got fairly
settled in Killaloo than he made a thor-
ough pastoral visitation. The “bhoys”
had to round up their studs of horses, and
Father John picked out the best of them
as a stud for himself. Sundry ‘ 1 bee ’ ’
meetings were called; the presbytery pad-
dock was fenced in and a crop of oats
sown, hen-roosts were carefully culled,
and a few game cocks and half-a-dozen
kangaroo dogs completed Father John’s
establishment; for Father John had a
good eye for sport, as well as many other
good things, which sensible people who
reside in country places usually have,
though they do not wear cassocks. A
rough building to do duty as chapel and
school was knocked up ; and such facilities
for both religion and education as were
available having been established, Father
John set himself to work to shepherd his
flock in earnest. He “ ran them in” to
some tune.
“ Who are the absentees this morning,
Mr. Fagan?” he would say, as he strode
into the school-house, making the floor
shake with his heavy footstep, for Father
John was not one of those pastors of
whom it could be said, “ How beautiful
are the feet.” “ Shure, your rivirence,
its afther finding out I’ll be at wanst!
Here childher ! all of yes’ as are not
prisent will say abshent !” This somewhat
perplexing kind of query proved ordi-
narily successful, as those children present
announced the absentees. “ Where is
your brother, Jemmy?” would say Father
John, interrogating the brother of some
defaulter. ‘ ‘ Mother’s keeping him to
mind the baby, your riverence,” would be
the reply; “Is she now ? ” would retort
Father John, “ I’ll tell her she’d best
mind the baby herself, and keep -that ould
goat of hers at home out of my hay shed
or he’ll be afther going home with his
head cut off one o’ these days ! And where’s
Brallaghan’s childher?” “There away,
your riverence ! down with the maysels,
as I understhand,” would reply the
master. “Maysels,is it?” would retort
Father John. “Jemmy, when ye go
home, call at Brallaghan’s and tell their
mother to come up to the Presbythery and
I’ll give her a quarther of a pound of
salts (Father John’s universal specific) for
each of ’em That 11 shake the rash out
o’ their hides ! And where’s Mick Casey’s
lot, I don’t see ’em. ?” A dozen voices
proclaimed the fact that the junior Caseys
were hard by, cutting out a bees' nest.
“ They are, are they ?” would add Father
John, tapping his leg significantly with
his whip-handle —“ Ye need not mark
these spalpeens absent, Misther Fagan, for
ye’ll be afther seeing them here in some-
thing less than a pig’s whisper !” So
saying, he would stride out, and a few
minutes later the Caseys junior might be
seen making uncommonly smart tracks for
the school-house.
In very much the same style did Father
John deal with the elder members of his
flock who practised looking out for “ clean
skins” Li their neighbours’ herds on a
Sunday, or trying the speed of their horses
in anticipation of the rural race meeting.
Father John “ ran them in,” and rated
them soundly from the altar. “I’m tould, ”
he would say, “that there’s to be races
down at Duggan’s Swamp next Tuesday,
and like enough the dhrink will be about.
I’ll be there —mind ye!—and let me catch
any of ye making bastes of yourselves! ”
Sure enough he was there to his word, and
enjoyed the sport as well as anyone, but
woe betide any of his flock who got drunk
and fighting. In case of a row. Father
John would rush his horse right into the
crowd, and lay about the combatants with
his whip right and left. Many a bloody
head bore witness to the stalwart nature of
the blows he gave. It is related of him
that on one occasion finding the proceed-
ings getting too violent, and the booth-
holder unable to control the visitants to
his bar, that Father John deliberately
marched to the back of the counter, and
smashed every bottle and keg the publican
had. “It was not so much,” said Father
John afterwards, apologetically, “ that
the bhoys were clhrinking, but it was the
bastely liquor the varmint was selling 'em ; ”
Of course Father John’s enemies made out
that he went to races because he liked the
sport, and that more than one of his
Reverence’s horses used to run in the
Hurry-skurry matches. Certain it is that


the winners often found their way to his
stables, but Father John indignantly
denied that he had anything to do.with
their running. “!Shure I bought the baste
when I saw what was in him!” was the
invariable answer he gave. And so with
the liquor question. There was not such
a cellar for miles round as Father John’s,
or one more free to any visitor. He gave
them, as he justly said, “ the hoighth of
thratement,” and the liquor was specially
selected for him by his confreres at St.
Joseph’s, who were no bad judges in that
way. “How can I get along widout a
small sthay to my stomach ?” he argued.
‘ • Look at Lint! —Forty days on boiled eggs,
and what’s them things in oil, in tins?”
Sardines/ “Ay, sardines! them’s the
birds. Sure I must dhrink something.
Hilp yourself, and pass the cruiskeen !
Musha, but it’s powerful fine liquor this
same ! Thin again, look at me on Sundays.
Two masses—one at eight, and the other
at eleven —and sorra a mouthful o’ victuals
enters mv head from tav-time on Sathurday.
I must either take a small dhrop or give in.
No man hates a dhrunkard more than I do,
and I say this—if a man cannot take his
liquor widout making a fool, a haste, or an
invalid of himself, he has no business to
taste liquor Dhrink about now! Faix,
you needn t be afraid of it! ”
But there was another “ running in ” of
his flock that Father John affected, which
was the only one many of his friends out-
side his own people, and he had many, for
some time objected to, and eventually
pretty well stopped its effects. No sooner
was an election about to take place than
Father John “ got the office” from some
candidate, and forthwith he beat his forces
up. So thoroughly did he and his clerical
colleagues work the oracle in their indivi-
dual electorates that they were pretty well
able to turn any election by the unanim-
ous front they showed. For many years
no one troubled themselves about it, nor
took the trouble to consider that such a
power in the hands of one section of the
community might possibly be applied in
the most dangerous way. But at last
organization was met with counter-organ-
ization, and from that time Father John’s
influence began to wane. Killaloo in-
creased, and Dissenters arrived in it, who
erected their chapels almost under Father
John’s nose. The Rev. Jonas Groansby
built a Bethel indeed at the bottom of
Father John’s garden, and his congrega-
tion seriously disturbed Father John’s
devotional meditations as he paced his
garden in the evening with hreviary and
biretta, by singing Moody and Sankey’s
collection pretty well through, under the
title of a “ Service of Song.” The male-
dictions that Father John heaped upon
these people far eclipsed those of King
David, whose works formed Father John’s
usual meditation in the evenings, and who
could cuise his enemies pretty strongly.
“ Bad luck to them swaddlers,” quoth
Father John in a fury, “ the impidence of
some folks bates the divil himself. To put
up their ugly singing shop under my very
nose, and howl psalms and dhrink tay
there forenenst my own church hnce —
Ugh, ye haverel! ” would roar Father
John, rushing to the fence, and spying an
old man plying the fire, under the copper,
with wood for the tea drinking. ‘ ‘ Are ye
going to bum my fince down ? If I come
over, I’ll bate your sowl out! ” From this
it will readily be gathered that in late
years Father John had trouble about him.
The fact is he was much in the same
posit on as Dennis O’Hoolahan had been
with thefree-selectors, and like him fancied
that he had some exclusive right to the
parish. The “swaddlers,” under which
generic term he included all Protestants
who fell out with him, became too strong
a power. They beat him at elections.
They shut his school up through lack of
attendance. They hunted him and his
people off public boards and committees,
and pared Father John’s claws for him
pretty well into the “ quick.”
In many respects Father John stood out
as a remarkable paradox. A disposition
warm-hearted, if not affectionate, an in-
domitable resolution, a manly and honest
intent, were clouded by one dark spot, and
that was an intolerable bigotry in all
matters of religion. He bad no idea of
encountering any opposition in this respect,
and all men who crossed him in matters
relating to his Church were anathema!
maranatha! To account for this is a
tolerably easy task. When a youth
Father John had left the house of his
father, a peasant farmer, and had lived
for ten years in a monastic institution,
shut pretty well out from the world, and
associating with none hut those who were
of the same way of thinking as himself.
He read no hooks but those which were
selected for him, and saw hut one side of
the question. He came out, at the con-


elusion of his monastic career, a full-
fledged priest, and, when a young man,
was placed in charge of a parish which
very soon contained hundreds of people
who did not think as he thought. He had
to learn to rub shoulders with them, and it
cost him something to learn Had it
probably not been that a charitable view
of the circumstances under which he had
been trained was taken by many, it might
have cost him many a valued friendship
outside his own flock. He became the
aggressor, without knowing it, and though
had he fallen out with any one upon some
ordinary matter he would have knocked
him down, and cheerfully picked him up,
and shaken hands, it was a very different
matter when he got it into his head that his
Church was attacked, which he invariably
did with very little shadow of pretence.
He of course anathematized poor Groansby
as a vile bigot, and perhaps some of
Groansby’s persuasion were, but Jonas
had more liberality in religious matters
in his finger than Father John had in his
whole body. Jonas’ life had been spent in
a bacon and butter shop by day, a School
of Arts or at a prayer meeting by night,
and his Sundays were one round of Sabbath
school teaching and amateur preaching,
until he donned the cloth. Whatever his
creed was, and it is doubtful whether it
came under any specific class, he honestly
believed in it; and having assured himself
that it was correct, without having it
formed for him by others, he stood by it
out of sheer conviction. With all due
deference to Father John, it is doubtful
whether he ever had much say or choice
in the matter. He was bred in a certain
school, and ran in one narrow groove.
Everybody else was a confirmed heretic
that did not believe as he did, and their
ultimate destination was as clearly in
darkness as his own was in light.
Whether Father John was afraid that
a sort of discursive enquiry into the faith of
other people might shake that of his flock
or not is not clear ; but he took very good
care to stop them reading any heretical
literature if he could help it, a not very
great compliment to their reasoning
powers. He had strong differences of
opinion with most people respecting the
historical accounts of the reigns of Mary
and Elizabeth, Henry the VIII. and Wil-
liam 111., and upon these subjects it was
not pleasant to discuss with him. To sum
up Father John, he was, in many respects,
a thoroughly good man spoilt. If he
would have respected the convictions
of other people, possibly charity more
would have been extended to his. Many
who had not the least faith in Papal In-
fallibility or the catholicity of his church
never begrudged a few pounds to Father
John when he wanted to build a chapel or
a school, and would cheerfully help him
in many ways in the establishment or
maintenance of his religious institutions;
yet they never received a penny from him
under similar cirumstances, nor, except
under the most exceptional circumstances,
from many of his people. A certain
estrangement followed, naturally, as there
was no mutual sympathy; and I am afraid
Father John, with all his excellent quali-
ties, helped very materially to bring about
such an undesirable state of things. The
time was when we placed all this on the
personal shoulders of the poor priest; but
as we get older, we get wiser, and rightly
shift it on to the rigid system of asceticism
in early training, which saps the channels
of charity, when they attempt to flow in
the track of those who worship the same
God; though with a different ritual.
Father John was soon after “ no more.”
He sleeps in the cemetery at Killaloo,
amongst the bones of the O’Hoolaghans,
O’Grady’s, and others of that ilk. A
plain wooden cross alone marks his resting
place, and at the foot is inscribed the
stereotyped Catholic phrase,
Bequiscat in Pace
Not a soul is there of any sect who ever
knew Father John but will cordially echo
the sentiment.
Much of what I have said j ust now fell
from Father John’s own lips, though in a
somewhat different form, as he lay on his
couch, sadly emaciated, and his very life’s
blood oozing away as he coughed. “It’s
no use hoping,” said he, “ I’m going fast.
Maybe I’ve made many a mistake, for I
am but mortial. I’ve had to mix with
people who, maybe, I did not understhand,
nor did they me. I tuk to my church
when a mere bosthoon, and troth ! I stuck
to her right out; and had I kep’ my health
I’d ha’ bate them “ swaddlers” yet.” (He
little knew that the half-eaten jelly which
stood on a plate beside him had been care-
fully made by Mrs. Jonas Groansby.)
“ You," said he, “ say you are a Church
of England man—and faix ! a fine church
it is ! Answer me this now ! D’ye think
that when ye sit in a church with a couple


o’ hundred others of your own denomina-
tion, that if any two o’ ye were brought
together and cross-questioned ye would
believe the same thing ? Because I don't.
But I like ye ! Ye are mighty respectable,
and have more liberality than all the
‘swaddlers’ put together.” I did not
answer this home thrust. It was a trifle
too true , I fancied. “ Ah, well! I've
acted as my church teaches me; and if
I’ve wronged you by word or deed, blame
me, and not my church. Social advan-
tages I’ve had few of—worse luck! but
I’ve made the best of what I have, and
outside my faith I’ve had more friends
than I ever had in it. There’s the Angelus
ringing ! In nomine Patris, sc. , §c. * *
I must now recite my office! Good-bye!
and God bless you! If 1 never see you
again, think of meat my best. ‘‘Be me
nihil malt recordare. ”
I pressed his hand, and I parted in this
world with poor Father John.
A SNAKE STORY,
WHEREBY HANGS A TAIL.
The following instance of heroic but
misdirected courage on the part of a
cockatoo farmer’s wife, residing less
than a hundred miles from the capital
of a neighbouring colony, has just been
transmitted to our office by hydraulic
telegraph. Certain circumstances not
fully detailed in the message, probably
her husband’s absence from home, had
led to her being left alone for the night
except for the company of an old female
servant of nervous temperament— two
lone women, in a lone house in a lonely
spot.
Having partaken of a frugal supper
and a cup of the beverage which cheers
but not inebriates, they prepared them-
selves to meet the perils and dangers of
the night, and before retiring to rest
proceeded to make a careful survey of
the premises. There were four rooms
in the house, all on the ground floor.
Evidently t:.ere was no place of con-
cealment for a midnight intruder in
either of the sitting rooms, but there
might be a man under one of the beds.
“Goodness gracious hevins ! what’s
that ? ” shrieked the terrified domestic,
pointing to a taper black form coiled up
close to the door of one of the bed-
rooms.
“ Whisht, Biddy, it’s a shnake,” re-
joined her missus, intrepidly brand-
ishing a flat candlestick in the face of
the enemy. “ Fetch me the axe.”
Biddyretired irresolutely, but shortly
returned with one of Collins’ No. 3.
A rapid interchange of weapons now
took place, and while Biddy with slow
and faltering steps approached a cup-
board in the corner of the room with
the intention of hiding in it, our hero-
ine, the farmer’s wife, advanced with
dauntless front and upraised arm to the
attack. The axe was raised, and de-
scended with fearful force. “Then
rose from heaven to earth one wild
despairing cry,” and while Biddy suc-
cumbing to her fears swooned in the
corner, and the gudewife exultant cut
another caper on the doorstep, Dido,
the old man’s favourite black kangaroo,
slut, minus her tail, rushed into the
yard, howling a hurricane.
MILTON’S PARADISE LOST.
[BOOK I.]
English Subject for Junior Examina-
nation, 1878, Sydney University—
ARRANGBD FOR THE USE OF CANDIDATES
by “Sigma.”
[ln the subjoined edition of Paradise Lost
(Book I.) —all rights in which are reserved
—the accepted text is carefully followed.
Alterations in the punctuation have been
made in order that the division of the poem
into its elementary propositions may be
clearly shewn. The “periods” of the
original text have, however, been kept.
The close of each proposition (except
propositions within parentheses or brackets,
or those terminated by a period) is marked
by a dash ( —).
Propositions that are included within
other propositions, are placed within
parentheses or brackets.
The Subject of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Italic letters.


The Predicate of each proposition (with
all words belonging to it) is printed in
Roman letters.
Sentences in which more than one state-
ment is made concerning a noun (or an
equivalent thereto), or in which several
nouns (or equivalents thereto) have the
same statement predicated concerning
them, are treated as simple propositions.
Elliptical propositions are annotated.]
125 So spake the apostate angel though in
pain
Vaunting aloud but racked with deep
despair —
And him thus answered soon his bold
compeer —
O prince 0 chief of many throned
powers
[ That led the embattled seraphim to
war
130 Under thy conduct and in dreadful
deeds
Fearless endanger’d heaven’s perpetual
King
And put to proof his high supremacy
Whether upheld by strength or chance
or fate]
Too well I see and rue the dire event—
-135 That with sad overthrow and foul de-
feat
Hath lost us heaven and all the
mighty host
In horrible destruction laid thus low—
As far as gods and heavenly essences
Can perish—for the mind and spirit
remain
140 Invincible—and vigour soon returns —
Though all our glory (13) extinct —and
happy state (14)
Here swallowed up in endless misery.
But what (15) —if he our Conqueror
[whom I now
Of force believe Almighty—since
no less
145 Than such could have o’erpowered such
force as ours]
Have left us this our spirit and
strength entire
Strongly to suffer and support our
pains—
That we may so suffice his vengeful
ire
Or do him mightier service as his
thralls
150 By right of war— whate'er his business
he
Here in the heart of hell to work in
fire
Or do his errands in the gloomy deep ?
What can it then avail [though yet
we feel
Strength undiminish’d or eternal be-
ing] (16)
155 To undergo eternal punishment?
(13) Supply “be.”
(14.) Supply “be.”
(15) Supply “ does it matter," or equivalent ex-
pression.
(16) The parenthetical proposition is in apposition
with it (line 153).
(To be continued.)
THE HABITUE AND THE
NOVICE.
Central Police Court, Monday, 4th
instant.
Old woman (brought up for being
drunk and disorderly, and sentenced
to pay a fine of 605., or to go to gaol
for a month). Shure yer honner, it*s
mighty hard, and so it is. Ye never
let me be long enough out of gaol to
get a situation. Wasn't I nine
months in prison last year, didn’t I
do fourteen days in January, ain’t I
just afther doing another seven days’,
and haven’t I been in the watch-
house all night, drenched to the skin ?
How’s a poor woman to get on at all
when she never has a chance? I’m
always in gaol, and now ye’re sending
me there again. Shure, ye’ve broke
me heart entirely.
(Exit, muttering strange oaths.)
Respectable-looking, well-dressed
young woman (sentenced to pay a fine
of 205., for naughty language, or to
undergo seven days’ imprisonment).
Guilty, or not guilty ? Guilty, your
worship, but I’ll never offend again if
you’ll look over this offence. 1 never
was accused of anything of the sort
before, and (bursting into tears ) my
friends don’t know I’m here. It will
be the ruin of me, and if you’ll let me
off I’ll promise to leave Sydney this
very day.
(Exit, crying bitterly,)


MISTRESS AND MAID,
(A PLAINT FROM THE PARLOR,)
BY HELP HOPE.
The Colonial Mistress and Maid question
is a topic upon which every man, woman,
or child who has lived any time in the
colonies has something to say in the way
of complaint, jest, or anecdote.
Imagine yourself a gentleman just ar-
rived in Sydney, with letters of intro-
duction to leading men of different
professions. You go round with them,
you are kindly received, and they do all
they can to be civil to you ; they ask you
to dine at their clubs with them; but
nearly every one will make some excuse
for not asking you to his house; one is
without a cook, another has no nurse, and
his wife is knocked up with nursing a sick
hahy day and night, and so on. At last
you come upon a more courageous, or
rather, a more inconsiderate man, than
the rest, who invites you to go home with
and take “ pot luck.” By this time your
curiosity and incredulity are excited, and
you think you should like to see how
houses in a chronic state of servants
leaving are managed, so you go home with
your 4 ‘ pot luck ” friend. On your way
Mr. Smith tells you they are fortunate
enough to have servants just then.
In course of time you arrive at a fine-
looking house in a beautiful garden. The
door is opened by a little girl, one of the
family. ‘ ‘ Where is Maria (the house-
maid)?” “She has gone, because Mama
asked her to hold Baby for a minute.”-
“ Well, it can’t be helped; tell Mama I
have brought a gentleman home to dine
with us;” saying which, he will take you
to see his ferns and bath house, &c., until
another child comes to tell you tea is
ready.
You are then taken into the house,
which is furnished with every comfort;
there is a large family, ranging from
eighteen years of age dov\ n to four years,
all of whom have to be supplied with tea
or dinner at the same table. Mrs. Smith,
a careworn, tired-looking woman, who
might be considered at least 50 years of
age, though in truth she is only 35, takes
the tea end of the table, her husband
sitting at the dinner end. Everyone talks,
down to the youngest child, except Mrs.
Smith, who seems too fatigued to do any-
thing but attend to her duties at the table.
Everything is good and handsome on the
table, but has the appearance of having
been pitched on any way. Of course there
is no one to wait, as the housemaid had
gone so suddenly away ; each person has
to help himself, or herself, and the eldest
hoy and girl clear the things away. As
soon as the meal is ended, you are taken
into a handsome drawing-room, the young
ladies play and sing, and everyone is most
agreeable. Mr. Smith apologizes for his
wife’s absence, as she has to put the
younger children to bed and attend to the
sick baby. Ye leave without even seeing
your hostess again, but with the im-
pression that poor Mrs. Smith must lead a
very hard life. This is not an exceptional
case, hut a very common one. If you
had been a lady instead of a gentleman,
Mrs. Smith would have opened her heart
to you, and told you how much she had to
put up with from Maria before she left,
because she had only an ignorant Irish
immigrant in the kitchen, and a little girl
she could not trust in the nursery, and
she felt unable to do all the work left for
her.
You may, perhaps, suggest that her
daughters should assist her, but she replies
that some of them are at school all day,
and when they are home they have to
prepare lessons ; the others are only just
come home, and expect to enjoy them-
selves; “ their turn will come soon
enough poor, things,” and so everything
falls upon the unfortunate mistress.
Added to this overwork, she has the
greatest trouble and difficulty in meeting
with another servant in the said Maria’s
place; she is forced to go to a registry
office herself, and from one to another,
where she is cross-examined by the
servants themselves, until at last one of
these is persuaded to take the situation,
and promises to come to her in three days
time; but, alas! no servant comes, and
she has to make another excursion in
search of one. I have known this state
of things to continue for a month or two.
Can it be wondered at then, that our
married ladies look double their age, are
careworn, and even incur serious com-
plaints from over fatigue ? This is but
a faint sketch of what mothers and mis-
tresses have to bear, but quite enough to
raise pictures in the mind’s eye of friends
who have suffered in a similar way.
But has anyone considered the effect all
this wear and tear of mind as well as
body of the mother, will have upon the
health of the children ?


Things are bad enough at present, but
every year they seem to get worse. If a
woman with a good constitution gives
way, what will become of her weaker
sisters ? The servants of this colony
appear to have such an objection to
children, that the first query they put to
a lady is— “ How many children are
there in your family?” If the answer
exceeds six or eight, they turn away
almost disgusted, and do not even wait to
hear how many servants are kept, or what
her own duties would be. One conse-
quence of this objection results in sending
the children away to hoarding schools as
soon as they are old enough, to the des-
truction of every good impulse, especially
in girls, who learn to be vulgar, quarrel-
some, deceitful, selfish, and disobedient,
until almost every natural feeling of
affection is crushed. They return home
with a smattering of everything, but no
softness or gentleness of character. They
have never had any home duties, and
don’t care to commence them. The mother
has been used to do everything for her-
self and by herself, and would rather
continue to do for herself than ask an
unwilling daughter to help her. Such
children look upon their father and mother
merely as machines; the one to provide
the money for their use, and the other to
mend, make, and look after their clothes,
if she cannot afford anyone to do this
duty for her ; they even learn at schools
that the sign of a lady is to be expensively
dressed! The greater number of dresses,
hats, &c., she possessesthe greater lady she
is. She now spends her time in going out
visiting and dressing. If her poor mother is
unable to go out with her, she finds some-
one else more fashionable and more suited
to her taste. Thus her life is spent, not a
single useful thing done during the week
(I wonder whether the thought ever occurs
to such a one when joining in our beautiful
confession on Sundays, “We have left
undone those things which we ought to
have done,”) until she becomes an anxiety
to her parents and a warning to any young-
man looking for a modest, loving and use-
ful wife. And now for a case where
parents are unable to send their children
to a boarding school. The work in such
case is still harder for the mother, who
generally cannot afford to keep more than
one servant, that is, if she can get one;
the heavy work is given to this general
servant, but the mistress has the greater
part of the work to do herself. The chil-
dren go to a day school; hut their clothes
must he made and mended, and a thousand
and one things have to he got through
before they and their father return home
each day. No time has she for rest,
recreation, or the improvement of her
mind, not even for a short walk, from one
week’s end to another. When the children
return full of life and spirits, the mother’s
nerves are strung to such a pitch that she
feels almost mad at every sound, and the
children creep away silently, saying that
“ Mother is so cross.” At any rate these
children have some natural feeling left
within them for their parents; they love
and respect them, and even wish to help
in different ways.
Now, is all this caused by the difficulty
in procuring servants P A great deal of it
arises from that cause, but many of these
cases can be traced to a desire to live in the
same style as those who can afford to keep
a number of well-trained servants. Many
mistresses keep but one servant to do work
which, to be properly done, would take
three. They wear clothes which require
a good laundress to wash, and which take
half a day to get up, and this climate
requires so many changes in dress, that
luncheons and late dinners which, are
expected to be prepared by one pair of
hands must necessarily be neglected. We
pay high wages, certainly—indeed, a great
deal too high for such servants as we
obtain. How is it, then, that they are so
scarce ? I have been working up to this
time, but like all others feel the usual ill
effects now, and would wish to find a way
for making our troubles less and life easier
for our daughters after us. We are told
for every evil there is a remedy: if so, let
us find it. Perhaps tile editor of Once a
Week will, give us his aid in this important
matter.
[We have allowed our fair correspondent
to state her grievances at length, and if
Bridget likes to take up the other side of
the question, we shall be compelled in strict
justice to let her also have her say. —Ej>.
Once a Week.
PROVERBIAL RHYMES.
Its easier to mar than make ;
Its wiser to bend than break:
Its harder to give than take,
To pay than to pocket a stake.
N. H.


A SPIRIT MEDIUM
EXPERIENCE.
J had met Prodgers frequently at
Lady Bamboozle’s. Her ladyship, as
all the world knows, has devoted her
time and fortune to Spiritualism.
Nothing is too high or too low for her
belief, and in her drawing-room I have
had the pleasure, through Prodgers. of
conversing with the shades of Homer
and Diogenes, Milton acd Shakespeare,
and also with those of my more humble
ancestors.
But I had doubts of Prodgers. He
might be an efficient medium; but
why that red nose of his ? Was it
that the spirits, indignant at being
forced from their blissful
pulled it undor cover of the darkness
in which Lidy Bamboozle’s rooms
were kept ? Then, again, it was
certainly remarkable to hear the
variety of voices in which the com-
munications from the spirit world were
made ; but, might not Prodgers be a
ventriloquist ? He never openly
accepted anything for his services, but
then as he received very handsome
and expensive presents for what he
termed “ his labours in the interests of
science,” I was not surprised at his
zeal, and, as I repeat, I mistrusted
him.
In an unlucky hour for Prodgers
he trusted me.
This was how it happened. I had
been invited once more to Lady Bam-
boozle’s se'ance y and had proceede 1
but a few yards from my door when I
overtook the famous medium.
It was one of the coldest days of the
year. Prodgers would never confide
in me so far as to reveal his abode,
but, from vague remarks as we walked
together, I gathered that Mrs. Prod-
gers ruled the roast—also the boiled
and fried, for that matter—and that
the medium had but a chilly time of it.
The journey to Lady Bamboozle's
was a short one by rail, and at the
doors of the refreshment rooms at the
station I proposed that we should enter
and partake of something hot. Prod-
gers willingly assented.
I confess that as I stood there the
idea occurred to me of spoiling Prod-
gers’s little game. I plied him with
drinks so hot that I could hardly sip
them. But Prodgers swallowed them
like iced lemonade. I ordered the
next tumbler stiff enough for the
spoon to stand upright in it. Prodgers
gulped it down without a wink.
All this time I plied the medium
with question on question. He an-
swered as if no power on earth could
shake his belief in the spiritual visit-
ants he had introduced to my notice.
Suddenly the medium, pulling out
a magnificent gold watch, em bellished
with diamonds and other precious -
stones, gravely intimated that he
would “ shortly receive calls from the
unseen world.”
We both jumped into a first-class
carriage, and were the only occupants.
Prodgers sat opposite me, and I in-
dulged in the delusive hope that he
would divulge something worth my
hearing ; but not a word did the
medium say aloud. His lips moved,
his head shook mysteriously, and he
snared into vacancy with an earnest-
ness which made me begin to feel a
kind of awe of the medium, especially
as his eyes literally blazed with a
supernatural brilliancy, such as I had
never witnessed before in any creature
of this world.
I was not sorry when our short jour-
ney ended, and we stood at her lady-
ship’s door.
The highly-emblazoned menial took
up my card, and I was ushored into
the drawing-room, which was in a
state of semi-darkness as usual. As
for Prodgers, the lacquey spirited him
away instantly.
The seance took place, and many
devotees were employed in “denying
that which is, and explaining that
which is not ” as Rousseau says.
Everything proceeded, however,
greatly to the satisfaction of Lady
Bamboozle; and as a finishing stroke,
Prodgers was reported, to be ready.
A visitor requested a few words with
Milton.


The knocks were heard which sum-
moned the bard of Paradise, and pre-
sently an indistinct murmur of response
was heard to the question of the
guest.
“Hush !” said her ladyship. “ The
poet speaks.”
He did. And these were the words
which the unmistakable “spirit” voice
uttered :
“Tell ladyship want some brally-an-
warrer— bet brally-an’-warrer.”
The shock of this strange demand
from the temperate author of “Para-
dise Lost” paralyzed the company.
Her ladyship turned to me with an
anxious look, and said :
“ I fear poor dear Mr. Prodgers must
be unwell.”
I dared not reply, but taking advan-
tage of the confusion I quitted the
house.
I have carefully avoided the spirit
medium from that day.— Comic paper.
SPORTING ADVENTURES
IN AUSTRALIA.
BY CHARLEY CORNSTALK.
Besides kangaroo hunting, there was
not much in the way of sport in the
immediate neighbourhood of the
station, with the exception of an
occasional burst after an emu; but
these birds, which become confused
and stupid if you come suddenly upon
them and shout and holloa at them,
are usually very wary, and only to be
found on the open plains, where they
are not easily approached, their organs
of sight being as keen as their bearing
is defective, W e only killed one dur-
ing the twelvemonth Jem Curtis was
with us, the legs and flappers of
which were carefully preserved by
that indefatigable sportsman among
his other hunting trophies. But to a
man in whose breast the love of field
sports is strongly implanted, the Aus-
tralian bush offers ample attraction.
There were a good many wild fowl to
be found in a chain of waterholes
I
about a mile from the station; and
while bushmen will scarcely fare to
cook kangaroo or wallaby, they never
object to such a dainty dish as black
duck or teal. The cattle frequenting
the waterholes rendered these birds
very shy, and wheh Jem returned
with a br.ice or more, he was con-
sidered to have been fairly successful.
But more frequently he came back
empty-handed, until he adopted the
plan of taking a namesake, Jimmy,
one of the station blacks, with him,
when the result would be very dif-
ferent. Few people who have not had
actual experience of the blacks of this
country, have any idea of their quick-
ness of vision and wonderful powers
of observation. Accustomed to rely
for their daily food upon their keen
sight in discovering, and their
noiseless dexterity in approaching the
game, they are the most skilled
hunters. Jem’s plan of procedure
was this. When any cover existed
which enabled him to get within good
range of a piece of water, he would
stalk the ducks himself, taking care
to send Jimmy on beforehand
to ascertain where they were, which
the black could always do without dis-
turbing the birds. Sometimes Jimmy
would come back from the prelimi-
nary inspection of a waterhole, not
having a vestige of cover within a
hundred yards of it, wkh the intima-
tion conveyed in a whisper, ‘one
duck sit down there, murry wild.’'
This he would ascertain by the circles
which he could see in the water pro-
ceeding from the bank. Then Jim would
hand him the gun, and watch with
admiration the artful manner in which
the black would gt-t within shot. First
of all Jimmy would pull up by the
roots some young and bushy plant
about two feet high, which he would
hold before him, dragging himself and
the gun along after it snake fashion—
sometimes remaining motionless and
rigid for five or ten minutps at a time—
until he got within about 15 yards of
the bank. Then he would slowly and
carefully bring the t;un to his shoulder
and, still prostrate on the ground,


would patiently wait, perhaps for a
full quarter of an hour, until the duck
swam out into the open, when an
unerring shot would settle his busi-
ness.
Jem obtained a great many lessons
in woodcraft from this black, who be-
came quite attached to him, and many
an hour the pair spent on moonlight
evenings in’possum shooting, in a gum
flat hard by, sometimes bringing home
fifteen or sixteen ’possums, which
were fairly divided between the sports-
men; the skins to the white man—to
go to the making of a rug, possibly to
be sent home to England and used as
a carriage rug by some fair lady ; the
carcases to the black, to be roasted
then and there, and eaten by himself
and friends. On these occasions the
two Jems would, invariably, be accom-
panied by Nero, an old superannuated
black kangaroo dog, who enjoyed the
sport, to the full as much as either of
them, and who was the best ’possum
dog I ever saw. He would never be
more than five or ten minutes in find-
ing, and, when he had once treed an
opossum, nothing would induce him
to leave the tree until his continuous
barking had attracted some one to the
spot. I have known him remain at
the foot of a sapling, on the top of
which was a ’possum, full in sight,
and keep him there until the morning,
when one of the hands would go and
pelt the animal with sticks and stones
*“}. l \ , to fco ground and was
killed by the dogs.
Another amusement indulged in by
the hero of these memoirs was trapping
wild dogs, which were very numerous
m all parts of the run. Jem Curtis,
with the aid of his man Friday
managed to construct a trap out of a
hollow log with a slab to act as a
on tlle P rin ciple of the
old-fashioned -mousetrap, the opposite
end being enclosed by strong open
wire-work—the dingo being by far too
cunning to go into a log for the daintiest
bit of meat unless he can see d ylight,
and an apparent mode of exit before
nim. Then would Jem, about an
hour before dark, mount an old stock-
| horse and, having provided himself
with a piece of raw meat and about
i ten yards of stout cord, ride to
a spot, at least a mile from the
trap in the direction of some
I thick cover; when, turning, his horse’s
i head homewards, he would drop the
[ bait to the ground and trail it after
him as far as the trap, so as to led,ve
a strong scent, which the dingoes who
prowl about after midnighr would
cross and follow up. Betimes, in the
morning, we used frequently to hear
the trapper proclaiming his success,
when all hands would adjourn to the
spot and the wild dog would be let
loose and worried by the station dogs.
At other times Jem would station
himself at sundown at one of the
lagoons, and patiently and uncom-
plainingly watch for hours for the
chance of a single shot at the curlews
which frequented them. By night or
by day he was always on sporting
thoughts intent. Roaming through
r the Australian bush, gun in hand and
with a brace of good dogs at his heel,
he led a healthy, if not very profit-
able life, carrying about with him no
care beyond the day’s pursuits, his
bosom as little swayed by the passion
of love, ambition, or hatred, as that
of a child three years old. But this
state of thing was not destined to last.
One evening, as he was returning
on foot from an unsuccessful day's
shooting, when about four miles from
home, he was roused from a reverie
in which he was indulging by a sound
which, at once engaged his eager
attention. It was a c-o-o-e-e—not
the harsh guttural cooee of the abo-
riginal, or the hoarse yell of the Aus-
tralian bushman, but a sweet melo-
dious sound—which fell clear and
distinct upon his ear, soft as the music
of an -ZEolian harp. Spellbound Jem
stood and listened, then striding in the
direction from which the voice pro-
ceeded, and answering the cry as he
walked, he came—just as he had
crossed the brow of a hill before him—
face to face with a young lady of


some seventeen years, dressed in a
well-fitting brown holland riding-
habit, leading a well-bred bay pony
which had gone dead lame.
But what Jim said when he beheld
this lovely and unexpected apparition,
and what she said in reply, must be
reserved for another chapter.
(To be continued .)
THE MYSTERY OF
WISEMAN’S FERRY ROAD
Chapter V.— Continued.
“ I must congratulate you, Mr. Caldecott,
notwithstanding your ill-luck, on the
plucky way you have faced your difficul-
ties—and the honest way, too. I find by
your solicitor’s letter to me of yesterday’s
date, that you offer eighteen and six in
the pound. Now tell me fairly, as between
man and man, does the sum on which you
make that payment include all your
debts ?” And Asher Hart emphasised
the “aH.”
‘ ‘ All, as I believe, and I’ve taken no
end of trouble to make out the list of my
liabilities. But why do you ask ?”
“ Well, not out of idle curiosity, at all
events. And now excuse me, Mr. Calde-
cott, hut let me ask one more question.
When you have paid this eighteen and
six all round, in how many figures will
the balance he able to he expressed ?”
“ A cypher’s about the mark. ”
“ In other words, you’ve simply squan-
dered a very nice little fortune. Tut!
Tut ! don’t he offended. Of course a Jew
hill discounter, who has had his pickings
out of you, has no right to criticise. Of
course not ! But I don’t ask you to come
down to the old rooms for nothing. I’ve
a proposal to make to you. Have you as
yet raised anything on your reversionary
interest in your cousin Arnold’s pro-
perty ?”
“No! who the devil would lend a
fraction on it ?”
“ That’s just the point I’m coming to.
I would.”
“You would?” asked Caldecott, in
great amazement.
“I will. Listen to this proposal, which
I’ll put down presently in black and white,
so that you may show it to your lawyer.
I will give you £4OOO for your interest in
your cousin’s estate, in addition to sup-
plying the necessary cash to enable you
to pay 20s. in the pound. That is, I will
pay you quarterly the interest on £4OOO
at 4 per cent, per annum, and I will also
make a proviso giving you power to
redeem your interest in the Famley
property, on terms to he agreed upon
subsequently. Do you follow me ?’ ’
‘ ‘ Hardly; why, Hart, the interest
isn’t worth a farthing. Arnold’s got
children by the score.”
‘•Well, that’s my look out. Will the
hundred and sixty a year this arrange-
ment will give you enable you to keep in
the service ?”
“No. My papers are in, and I expect
te he gazetted out next Tuesday or Friday.
But anyway I wouldn’t have remained in
the old corps after what has happened.”
The above conversation took place in
Mr. Asher Hart’s exquisitely tidy sanctum
in Saville Row, a small room furnished
with severe simplicity. The floor was
covered with a drab oilcloth. The walls,
innocent of pictures or engravings, were
painted a light sea green. The oaken es-
critoire behind which Mr. Hart was seated
was handsome andmassive, as also were the
only two chairs which the apartment con-
tained. A clear, bright fire sparkled in
the grate. The only ornament in the
room was an exquisite Etruscan vase
standing on the mantlepiece, and contain-
ing three sprigs of mignonette nestling on
a geranium leaf. On the table portion of
the escritoire was a postal directory and an
army list.
Asher Hart was a well preserved elderly
man of about sixty-one or sixty-two. He
was thoroughly well dressed (with the
exception that he did not wear a shirt-
collar), yet did not not look in the least
degree gentlemanly. He had cold, clear,
honest eyes, which looked you full in the
face, a high, massive forehead, and a
heavy chin. His lips were too full to
match the severity of his eyes. His nose
betrayed rather than bespoke his nation-
ality. His hands, kept exquisitely clean,
were remarkable for their expression;
they indicated firmness and sagacity ; and
to those who could read them aright told
more of the character of the man than
even his eyes did. Hart of Saville Row
was a money-lender, a bill-discounter, a
Jew. He was a keen man of business
none keener; yet no one ever Hved who


could say that old Hart had. taken him in.
His yea was yea, his nay nay. You made
a proposal to him ; he accepted it or re-
jected it at once. If he accepted it, he
named his terms, which, though they
seemed rigorous, were always just. To
his part of the agreement he scrupulously
kept If you failed in yours, you might
possibly hope that your laches would he
forgiven; there was no earthly prospect
of its ever being forgotton. Hart never
transacted a second piece of business with
a person who had once deceived him, even
though in the most paltry particular.
With him, to be once bit, was to be shy
for ever after.
“You wonder why I make you such an
offer,’’ said Hart, after a pause; “well,
I’ll tell you, though first of all believe
an old money lender when he tells you
that he considers the bargain, looked at as
a bargain, to be a reasonably good spec;
one that a man might fairly entertain,
even if he did not run after it. But I’ll
tell you why I offered it to you, shall I
“Well, I own to being curious. Do
you mind my smoking ?”
“Yes I do, most decidedly. Wait till
you get outside. I won’t be long about
what I’ve got to say.”
Hart, oddly enough, disliked smoking,
and never offered his customers either
regalias or Amontillado; so you see it is
quite clear he was not an ordinary bill
discounter, like Joel, or Hammick, or
Byfus.
“Some three years ago, one summer’s
evening the Rhine steamboat stopped at
Biberich on its passage up stream. Two
persons landed at the wharf, one a very
old man, the other a young fellow in the
dawn of manhood, The lad (he was
little more than a lad) ordered a carriage
and pair to drive him to Wiesbaden. As
soon as it was got ready he started. On
the road he overtook the old man, who
had started for the same destination on
foot. He offered hipi a seat in his car-
riage. The old man accepted the offer,
and, having lifted in the carpet bag he
was carrying, was just about to follow
when he was seized with a fit. Ah ! I see
you remember ?”
“Yes, I remember; but how on earth
do you know anything about it ?”
“Listen. You drove the old man to
your hotel, Mr. Caldecott; you got the
best medical advice you could obtain for
him in Wiesbaden, Mr. Caldecott; you
nursed him yourself, and, thinking him
poor, you bore all his charges at the Adler
Schwarz; that’s what you did, Mr.
Caldecott. When he left, restored to
health, what did he tell you his name
was, eh ? ”
‘ ‘ Herz —Aaron Herz, a poor Lithu-
anian Jew.”
“ He was quite right as to his name.
It was my father you succoured, Mr.
Caldecott, not a poor Lithuanian Jew, hut
an eccentric rich one, who told me, when
narrating your great goodness to him,
that, having learned you could afford to he
charitable, he had made up his mind not
to rob you of the full value of what you
had done. It was my father, sir, and
may his God and mine bless you for ever
and ever.”
‘ ‘ How was it you never told me of this
before ?”
“ When you first came to me on
business, about taking up that paper of
young Harrington’s, I knew nothing
about it. In fact, I only heard the story
from my father some eight or nine months
ago. When I did hear it, I made up my
mind that you should’nt go utterly to the
dogs if I could prevent it.”
Caldecott’s pride resented the idea of
being beholden to ,a Jew money lender.
“ You are very good, Mr. Hart,” said
he, “ hut now that I know why it is you
made me that offer about my interest in
my cousin’s property, I can’t see my way
clear to accept it. Thank you very much
all the same.'’
“Tut! tut! man! Don’t he offended,
Mr. Caldecott. Why should you ? Your
lawyer will tell you my offer is a reason-
able one—a perfectly business-like one.
If you are satisfied on that point, why
not put your pride—which, excuse me, is
hut false pride after all —why not put it
in your pocket ? My desire was that you
should remain in the army, thinking, as I
did not unnaturally, that you would desire
to do so. That, you say, is impossible, or
at least undesirable. Well then, accept
my offer. Make a new start with a clean
hill of health, with creditors all paid in
full, no composition, not even of nineteen
shillings and eleven pence three farthngs
in the pound; everyone paid in full,
twenty shillings in the pound. Under no
obligation to a single soul of them. Have
a trip to the diggings, make what they
call your pile, come hack a millionaire.
There’s a prospect for you !” cried the old
fellow, with great glee.


“ Not a bad one, certainly,” said Calde-
cott, laughing:,” and, as far as Australia’s
concerned, its the one I had chalked out
for myself.”
“You don’t say so? Well, I’m heartily
glad to hear it. So many of you retired
army gents take to haunting Baden and
Spa and H omburg, and —pardon me, but
you know it as well as I do —to rooking
youngsters of property, that I am devil-
ish pleased to hear you mean to emigrate.
Now, take my advice. I know Australia
pretty well. When you arrive at Sydney
or Melbourne, don’t stop there, if you
mean either digging or squatting. Go up
the country, look about you with your
own eyes ; and the odds are ten thousand
to one in favour of a tolerably shrewd,
tolerably prudent, tolerably energetic
young fellow, coming down straight on his
feet. I know dozens of men of your grade
who have gone far out there, as the French
say. Keep up \our heart, Mr. Caldecott,
and we’ll have you a big colonial magnate
yet, Caldecott of a Caldecott’s to be
made on the Darling or the Murray, eh ?”
The result of this conversation was a
promise on Caldecott’s part to accept
Asher Hart’s offer, if his lawyer should
pronounce it satisfactory. It is strange
how scrupulous some men are when their
pride of race is touched! Here was a
young fellow who would, without a second
thought, have allowed Mr. Hart to dis-
count his paper for him, though the
prospects of taking it up were exceedingly
remote, making a frivolous objection to a
favourable proposal, because he conceived
that it was tendered to him out of grati-
tude by a Jew ! It was lucky for George
Caldecott that Mr. Holmes, of Bedford
Row, his family solicitor, took a more
practical view of the offer made to his
client.
“ It’s a fair offer, Mr. Caldecott. I don’t
say but what I could have raised the same
amount for you on the same security;
the only point where Mr. Hart’s proposal
is more favorable to you than one I could
have obtained for you in the ordinary
course of money lending business is, that
in it he provides for your redeeming the
interest in your cousin’s estate. By all
means accept the proposal; and, should
you do so, I sincerely hope that in the
colony whither you tell me you are going
you will retrieve your fortunes.”
Thus it was that Mr. Hart’s offer was
accepted, and that the ex-rifleman had
set sail for Port Phillip, with what the
old money lender had called a “clean
hill of health.”
The vessel which bore our hero and his
fortunes from the land of his birth to the
shores of the great southern continent
touched at Plymouth, ere making final
departure from the “ auld countree.”
George, on going ashore with some of his
fellow travellers to quaff a final “pewter,”
was somewhat surprised to find old Hart
upon the pier.
“Ran down to see you off, Mr, Caldecott.
Saw by the Times you would put in here
for twelve hours or so. You must dine
with me.”
The invitation being accepted, it came to
pass that the last friendly hand-grasp
received by George Caldecott on English
shores was one from the “bill-man of
Saville Row.”
“ Good bye, Mr. Caldecott, good bye!
Mind, now, if ever you are in a position to
write me a business letter, saying that you
want a few hundreds oi a few thousands
for a good speculation, I’m your man*
Keep your eye open, and you’ll be in that
position soon, or else I’m mistaken.
You’ve go in you, if you could only get the
engine started. Good bye, sir. There’s
no one you care about down here to see
that an old Hebrew bill-discounter is sorry
to part with you. You see, I’ve no child —
now—of my own ; and I liked your face
from the day I first saw it. May my father’s
God keep you in all your ways ; and may
He do to you and yours as you in your
goodness did to me and mine.”
Asher Hart’s last “good bye” was spoken
as the not over sober sailors who manned
the captain’s gig laid to their oars with a
will and made vigorous way towards the
good ship Egmont lying in the offing, ready
to take advantage of the promising breeze.
Caldecott’s parting with his mother had
been a sorrowful one —to her a very, very
bitter one, for he was her only son, and she
was a widow. He had run down to her
quiet home in Kent to receive her blessing
and farewell embrace, and had learned, as
he received them, that as his selfish idle-
ness had been the corroding anxiety of her
life, his absence in the far away land to
which his mad folly had exiled him would
be its abiding sorrow. She did not reproaeh
him in word, but there was a passionate
grief in her manner which touched him to
the heart. As he was stepping into the
“fly” which was to take him to the rail-


way station, she put into his hands a sealed
letter.
“ Read it, my darling boy, as soon as you
choose after you have sailed —not before,
it may'be, after all, that you are going to
Australia has been brought about for your
good and mine. Should chance afford you
the opportunity of finding any clue to the
secret revealed to you in those papers, try
for the sake of your mother, who loves you
as her own soul, to follow it up. It would
be a great joy if my own son should be able
to clear up the mystery that has saddened
my days since my girlhood. Promise
nothing. May God bless my darling. Ask
Him to do so yourself, dear. Write every
mail, George, God bless you—God bless
you.”
And the fly drove off, taking the man to
his work in the busy world, leaving the
woman to her consuming grief in the pretty
country village, which seems to those who
visit it so far removed from the busy world’s
cares, griefs, and turmoil, but yet which is
not!
(To be continued.)
COLUMN FOR YOUNG
READERS.
SOLUTIONS OF PUZZLES IN NO. 6.
Charades.
1. Cohen.
2. Merriman.
Conundrums.
1. Because their existence is generally
ova before they start.
2. When it represents an ugly mug.
3. Because she got a little prophet out
of the water.
4. Because he had an eye like Mars.
5. Because it would be orkard to pro-
nounce it the other way.
6. Because it becomes a woman.
7. Eve.
8. Because it is un oeuf (enough).
Transposition.
We shall be happy to show any of our
contributors a list containing 140 transpo-
sitions of the word “ parenthetical ” given
in No. 3.
Arithmetical Question.
4 3 10
A, 7s. 0—; B, ss. 3—; C, 4s. 2—;
19 19 19
2
and D, 3s. 6—.
19
Charade.
TO AN EMINENT LAWYER.
All of us always for my second thirst;
But in life’s race fate often does my first
To fondest hopes, and so some the
goal:
Not such the case with my illustrious
whole ,
Who, springing from the ranks, im-
petuous, strong,
Won fame and gold by arduous steps and
Long ;
Won the crisp coif, the scarlet, and the
ermine,
And now (despite what Davie may deter-
mine,
And without prejudice to saws which
reason
“ One swallow doesn’t make a summer
season ”)
Shows how one lawyer, rejecting flum-
mery.
Makes process in his court —the year
round—summary !
Conundrums.
Why is the morning dew like a lost
latch key ?
What is that which flies high, flies low,
has no feet, and yet wears shoes ?
What is the difference between the
labours of a farmer and a seamstress ?
Why is a man with a short memory
like a miser F
What is that which we eat at breakfast
and drink at dinner ?
“A ‘Loan’ on the Wide, Wide
Sea.”—Borrowing half a crown of the
first mate.
Men of More-bid Propensities.—
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman.
Singular Verdict of a Bush Jury. —
Justifiable suicide, with a strong recom-
mendation to mercy.
How to Spell Correctly. —C, O, R,-
R, E, C, T, L, Y.
Motto for G. Kiss. —Go it, my two
lip !
One test of a great mind is its instanta-
neous availability in an emergency. The
boy that can drop a paper bag of eggs on
the sidewalk and pass on without changing
his gait, interrupting his whistle, or
looking at what he has dropped, has a
future before him, and perhaps something
unpleasant behind him.


THE FROG.
You see him sitting on a log
Above the vasty deep ;
You feel inclined to say, “ old chap,”
TJ look B4U leap!
You raise your cane to hit him
On his nasty ugly mug;
But before you get it half-way up,
Away he goes ka-chug !
THE CATS AND THE RATS.
Felis sedit by a hole
Intentus he, cum omni soul
Prendere rats,
Mice cucurrerunt trans the floor
In numbers duo, tres, or more
Obliti cats.
Felis saw them, oculis
I’ll have them, inquit he, I guess
Dum ludunt,
Tune ille crept toward the group
“ Habeam ” dixit, “ good rat soup”—
Pingues sunt.
Mice continued all ludere,
Intenti they on ludum vere,
Grudenter.
Tunc rushed the felis into them,
Et tore them omnes limb from limb,
Yiolenter.
Moral,
Mures omnes, nunc he shy
Et aurem date mihi,
Benigne.
Sic hoc satis —“ verbum sat,”
Avoid a whopping big tom cat.
Studiose.
SENSATIONAL DRAMAS FOR
YOUNG AMATEURS.
Performable at the pace of an act a
minute, suited to the shortest memory and
the most vivid imagination.
Drama No. 1.
BQNDUCA THE BANDIT;
OR,
THE WRAITH, THE BOGUEY, AND
THE WHISKY FIEND.
ACT I.
Scene. A Glen , mountainous if possible, at
all events craggy. Much will depend on the
furniture , which in consequence should be
si rong
Enter Bonduca the Bandit TI.E.R.
[Everybody knows the meaning of that,
of course. It is upper entrance right;
and, being translated for the use of
families, signifies the side door of the back
drawing-room leading on to the stairs.]
Bonduca. Ye crags {addressing the chairs
and peaks! I’m with ye once again.
[Tells the audience the history of his
life in dumb show.
But hark! lam interrupted.
[ls interrupted. The mrtain descends.
act ii.
Scene. View Abroad.
Enter Wraith.
Wraith , Ha! ha !
Echo {on the second landing). Ha! ha!
Bonduca {entering). It is the remorse-
less spirit of my departed conscience.
Wraith. No such thing !
Enter the Boguey.
Boguey. Neither am I.
Bonduca. Both in league against me!
There is nothing for it but this.
[Exit, leaving the audience in doubt.
A pause , during which the curtain
descends.
ACT 111.
Scene. Same as the two previous ones.
Bonduca {solus). I have taken advant-
age of the calm evening to go out of my
mind. No matter.
[T he Whisky Fiend {of Scotland ]
appears by the stove {registered).
Whisky Fiend. Behold me !
Bonduca. Ha! ha! ha! {wildly). The
spirit of my wife !
[ Becomes an altered man , and groivs
prematurely bald as the curtain falls. ]
Drama No. 2.
JOLLY JACK JUNK;
OR,
THE PRIVATEERSMAN AND THE PRODIGAL
ACT I.
Scene. A Homestead. Cattle are heard to
low, pigs to grunt, and all is happiness.
Enter a Travel-stained Wayfarer.
Travel-stained Wayfarer. It is the home
of my forefathers! [Curtain falls.


ACT 11.
Scene. The Same. Travel-stained "Way-
farer gazing as before.
Travel-stained Wayfarer. And yet it is
different.
Enter from homestead an Old Man and a
Young Woman.
Old Man. What day is this? (Privets
Young Woman. The thirty-sixth of
March, dear uncle.
Old Man. Something whispers to my
heart it isn’t.
Travel-stained Wayfarer (comingforward).
Father!
Old Man. The Prodigal! The privateers-
man !
Young Woman (blushing loudly). Perhaps
it is better as it is .
(On this complicated situation of distrust
and mystery the curtain descends.)
act in.
Scene. Foreign Parts.
Old Man. I see it all.
Young Woman. How could we doubt
him?
Travel-stained Wayfarer (to audience).
And if our kyind friends will forgive our
many shortcomings, there will not be a
happier fellow in the world than Jolly—
[Old Man (who still drivels) looks as if
he was about to add “ Pick the Lamp-
lighter but, on receiving a wink
from the prompter, doesn't.
Young 'Woman. Jack Junk!
(National hornpipe played solemnly as
the curtain falls.
Drama No. 3.
THE VIETUOUS PEASANT;
OR,
*****
ACT I.
Scene . A Glade in the gloaming. Chairs.
Harry Oak (the Virtuous Peasant)
alone.
Harry Oak (proudly). Let me assure the
haughty aristocrat that beneath this waist-
coat (feels beneath waistcoat). Ah!
What’s this ? The mark of something or
other. Then lam the heir to the Eavens-
wing property 1
(Hurries of to claim it. Curtain de-
scends.
ACT 11.
Scene. View of the Ravenswing Property.
Poors right and left. Cucumber frame
in the centre.
Enter Lord Eaten swing, frowning.
Lord R. (by one of those marvellous transi-
tions only seen in great artists, changing his
frown to a scowl.) Humph ! (Pause) The
title and estates are mine. Who says they
are not P
Harry Oak (entering). I do!
[ Chord, and great consternation among
the cucumbers.
Lord R. Something tells me I am a
villain.
Harry Oak. Something speaks the truth.
Behold!
(Opens his virtuous waist cogt.
Lord R. Ha ! The mark of something or
other !
(Spectre o/Lord E. ’s murdered aunt rises.
The mark of both ! Farewell, bright
world!
(Goes into the cucumber frame, and is
heard pining to a shadow as the curtain
falls.
ACT 111.
Scene. Side View of the Property.
Enter the Sfectre and the Virtuous Pea-
sant.
Harry. Then you are not!
Spectre. Oh dear, no !
Harry. Ha! ha! Then that explains all.
Will you accept my hand ?
Speetre. Certainly.
(Chorus of cucumbers in the distance, to
which the curtain falls, overcome.
[We would suggest that there should be
an hour and a half’s pause for refreshment
between each act, and that, if it could be
managed, the performance should cease
after the first act. We merely throw
this out for what it is worth.] — Comic
paper.
Singular Derivation. — A man we
know, who finds out matter for Town
Gossip, says that the derivation of the
word Marionette is a corruption of the
two words Marie Antoinette, and asserts
that this unfortunate lady first exhibited
them. Will some kind friend explain.


TOWN GOSSIP
The butchers of Sydney have again
brought their grievances forward. As
far as we can recollect, there have
been three changes of G-overnraent
since they first complained, and they
have had no redress. But, then, each
Ministry has had quite enough to do to
look after itself, without taking action
in such small matters (small goods is
the technical term) as calves, sucking
pigs, and baa lambs. The slaughter
of these innocents, the butchers say,
cannot be carried on at such a distant
and inconvenient spot as Glebe Island.
Small butchers who have on Saturdays
to execute small orders for small goods
—say, two or three joints of lamb and
a couple of sucking pigs for their cus-
tomers’ Sunday dinners, —cannot be
expected to go so far away, even in
this killing weather. They say also
that the meat of these tender animals
won’t stand jolting, which we can
very well understand, as the other day
we had a joint of lamb which turned
bad on its way from the kitchen to the
diningroom. The most obvious remedy
is the establishment of one or more
city slaughter-houses for small goods
only, under police supervision, and we
think that a section of the community
having so much at stake as the
butchers to recieve attention at
the hands of the Government. But we
agree with Mr. Farnell that piecemeal
legislation should be avoided, if pos-
sible ; and, as a comprehensive Health
Bill has been promised, which should
include the question of slaughtering,
the best thing the butchers can do is
to submit to the Government a draft
of the regulations they propose, for
insertion in that measure. Meantime
the butchers have invoked the aid of
the City fathers, and if they place the
matter in the hands of Alderman Play-
lair they will have the best opportunity
of proving that they are getting the
reverse of fair play.
Bakham tells us, in “The Lay of
St. Blois,” that
Saint Aloys
Was the bishop of Blois,
And a pitiful man was he :
He grieved and he pined
For the woes of mankind,
And of brutes in their degree.
Ho would rescue the rat
From the claws of the cat,
And set the poor captive free ;
Though his cassock was swarming
With all sorts of vermin,
He’d not take the life of a flea !
Kind, tender, forgiving,
To all things living,
From injury still he’d endeavour to screen ’em:
Fish, flesh, or fowl, no difference between ’em—
Nihil putavit a se alienum-
What, however, would the good bishop
of Blois have done with the mosquito ?
There is no rule without an exception.
Kind, tender, and forgiving, as the
holy man is said to have been to all
things living, we hazard the remark
that he would have d d the nTos-
quito. Est mjdus in rebus. One must
draw the line somewhere, and we draw
it at the mosquito. Even Darwin,
W ho leads the throng, in vulgum voces spargere,
and
Who maintains human ity is nought except a big
menagerie,
The progeny of tailless apes, sharp-eared but
puggy-nosed, sir,
Whc nightly climbed their “ family trees,” and on
the top reposed, sir,—
Even Darwin, surely, cannot own
cousinship with the mosquito. I f ,
however, Darwin be right, and there
is a relationship (though the notion or
report about the tree top is against
the idea), we hope it may soon be one
a good many times removed, and not
so parlously intimate as it has been
these last few days. Insecticide won't
touch the cuss, nor will sulphur,
nor gunpowder. Nitro-glycerine the
thoroughbred mosquito rather likes.
The only thing that perplexes him is
the ingenious table punkah (procur-
able at Gordon andGotch’s for a note),
which when wound up and set agoing
causes a blast sufficiently strong to
keep the wretch at a distance. Our
advice, therefore, to those who are
grieved with the (buz-iness) habits of
the mosquito is, buy a punkah, and
so with mechanical agency, rather
than with objuigative violence—blast
him!


A spirited contest is taking place
in Sydney between two ladies, who
are by turns airing their views on the
platform of the Temperance Hall ; the
question at issue between them being
—whether the lecturers who favor
us with learned discourses in a so-
called trance state, are inspired by
angels or by whisky. Mrs Hardinge-
Britten goes in heavily for angelic
influence, and the tapping of tables;
Mrs. Lottie Wilmot for Kinahan’s
L.L. and the beer tap. When opinions
so diametrically opposed to each other
are placed before us it is difficult to
take a medinm course, and we there-
fore forbear to express any opinicn
on the question in dispute until the
fair belligerents have fought out their
battle to the bitter end. As the
challenged party, we conceive that
Mrs. Wilmot should be entitled to the
choice of weapons, and this lady sug-
gests an open air seance, without
chairs, tables, piano, or chairman.
She snys that ‘’spirits who shrink
from the light of day ought to be un-
sparingly denounced.” But, as far as
our limited experience goes, spirits
always have shrunk from the light of
day. Spencer says of one of his
spirits:—
‘ ‘ The morning cock grew loud;
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
And vanished from our sight.”
On the other hand, we have known
more than one person strongly under
spiritual influence inside a closely
packed room, suddenly collapse the
moment he came into the open air.
The question is, will Mrs. Hardinge-
Britten accept the invitation from her
antagonist to meet her in Hyde Park
on a day and hour to be named, in
order to test the question of inspira-
tion ? We should suggest that the
seance should be held at cock-crow,
but that would bo inconvenient, and
the fowls in this country get into
such a state of muddle about the hour
that no reliance can be placed in them.
Dick Pipeclay told us, the other j
day, that his military instincts had ;
just been outraged by witnessing the i
behaviour of an escort party of regular
art.llery, who, entrusted with the
charge of a naughty gunner, had
marched him through the streets, en
camarade, joking with him, smoking
with him, and otherwise conducting
themselves as though he was not their
prisoner, nor they his guards. Dick
thinks that a bombardier who allows
such licence should lose his stripes.
It is lucky peace has been signed
between the Sultan and the Czar,
Had the war continued, had Great
Britain been drawn into the vortex,
and had Sydney been attacked a la
W. Hogan, what should we all have
done with the gallant volunteers in a
state of disorganisation ? No doubt
the old Norse blood bounds tumul-
tuously in our veins ; no doubt the
bulk of Nfw South Welshmen put
faith in the creeds of thfdr ancestry, as
expressed in the doggrel :
“ Two skinny Frenchmen and one Portugee,
One jolly Briton can lick ’em all three.”
No doubt we shouldn’t funk the foe—
but—yes! but (a but poor France
realised at Sedan) pluck and belief
in one’s destiny goes down before
the best organisation, the best drill,
the best handling of weapons of war.
Now, in organisation, in drill, in
handling of the weapons of war, our
volunteers are nowhere. With a
strong force, on paper, New South
Wales is, as regards the means of
defence, all behindhand, and ’tis a
truth all the world over that
“ In the church or at the bar,
On change, at court, where’er you are,
The devil take the hindmost, 0!
Ti rol de rol, ti rol de ro !
The devil take the hindmost, 0 !”
When will Messire, the Minister of
War of and for the territory of New
South Wales, introduce a measure for
creating an efficient militia in lieu of
the land order corps that shirk their
duties with persistent coolness !
Whin one buys beef, one expects
bone in reasonable proportion tc the
lean and fat. When one plucks a
peach one bargains for a stone ; and,
no one we ever heard of, expected to
find a herring all soft roe. The


Tasmanian jam makers have either to
deal with abnormal fruit, or else they
place an affecting belief in the long-
suffering of human nature; otherwise
it is not possible to account for their
prodigal use of plum, green gage, and
“ golden drop” stones, quite out of all
natural proportion to the confection sold
with them. The other day in a lib.
tin of “golden drop” jam v T e counted
no less than 35 stones. O, Tasmanian
jam-makers, was that a fair thing?
Don’t you dread lest your sharp practice
may result in a falling off of your trade g.
When we ask jam of you, why give us
—so many stones ? If you persist in
this practice, your motto shall be
“jamque nos cursu” (right Virgilianl,
“ the fellows with the accursed jam.”
So the pale blues were all behind-
hand! Well, it serves New South
Wales right. She sends a second-class
eight to do battle for the championship
of the waters, and so deserves a second
place. ’Tis an accursed folly, either at
play or in the more serious concerns of
life, to underrate one’s antagonists.
This is what New South Wales has
just done in the affair of the race, and
with the result such folly merits ?
A return match has been arranged
between the muff cricket clubs of Ash-
field and Manly Beach, to come off on
the Ashfield Ground, on Saturday
next, 16th instant. Some tall play is
expected. Players will play in mufti
as usual. Muffs suffering from the
gout, will be allowed to bring runners
into the 'field. Refreshments pro-
vided.
Conundrum: eor Members of the
Hairdressers’ Association, —Why. is
the man who shaves me an inferior
person to my aunt in Dorsetshire ?
Because he is only a barber, while my
♦aunt is a Barbara.
THE WAR NEWS.
Under this heading we trust to have
to say no more for many a week. The
longed talked of treaty of peace be-
tween Russia and Turkey was signed
on Sunday last, the former power
haying with singular moderation in
the hour of her triumph, made sub-
stantial concessions to the amour
propre of the Porte, as well to the
humours of G-reat Britain. That
Russia has so acted does not surprise
us. In our issue of the 23rd ultimo,
we stated that we did not consider war
imminent. In our last issu* we ex-
pressed a confidence in Russia's
moderation. Both anticipations have
happily been realised. Austria is said
to be uneasy with reference to the
proposed autonomy of Bosnia and Her-
vegozina. but we do not think that she
will venture upon “going alone" in
order to maintain her special views on
that question. Despite Earl Beacons-
field’s meddling and muddling policy,
the Providence that sits up aloft has
kept England out of the troubles of
war, and long may she so be pre-
served !
The war now over was (as it would
seem that wars are to be in these days)
short, sharp, and bloody. The bravery
of the combatants on either side was
splendid —heroic. There cannot, how-
ever, be a doubt that the best man has
won, and that victory in the hands of an
enlightened prince like Alexander 11.,
means something infinitely more bene-
ficial to the human race than victory
in the hands of such a Power as we
all know the Sublime Porte to be.
“ Si vous grattez un Busse, vous trou-
verez un Tartar,” said Napoleon (after
Moscow), and there is truth in the
sneer; but it should be remembered
that the Tartar element which under-
lies the Russian, is not altogether an
unhealthy one :it is vigorous and
teachable. The Tartar element that
permeates the Turk is sodden with
corruption and hopelessly unteachable.
Yes ! the best man has won. Though
we do not imagine that the jealousies
of Europe will allow of the peace just
struck being a lasting one, still the
hour for the next appeal of the Powers
interested in the Eastern question to
the cruel arbitrament of the sword has
yet once again been adjourned sine
die, in all probability adjourned for
several years.
FUSILIER.


“ SYDNEY ONCE A WEEK.”
AGENTS- _
SYDNEY.
Railway Terminus L. "Walton
George-street
f G. Hill
I E. Turner
| H. Hains
< W. Maddock
E. E. Cole
C. T. Sandon
„ J. J. Moore
Hunter-street .. Turner and Henderson
Pitt-street S. A. Kirby
King-street . . G. Wallace
William-street .. F. Pearce
Oxford-street...
Spragg and Adams
Mrs. Abbott
Suesex-street
SUBUR . V I
Newtown .. R. ‘ Co.
Ashﬁeld . . K
Burwood . .
S. Leonards .. Deacon and Sons
Balmain .. .. R. H. Paisley
Woollahra. ..
Parramatta
Manly Beach.. P. Jenkins
COUNTRY.
Armidale .. H. G. Mallam -
Goulburn .. J. Walsh
Maitland C. W. Clarke
Orange . . .. R. Lessels and Son
Wagga Wagga E. D. Leyson
Yass . . . . B. Weaver.
Agents wanted for other parts of the colony.
QUEENS COLLEGE, CROYDON.
Lady Principal : Mrs. H. H. DAWSON
(ASSISTED BY COMPETENT GOVERNESSES AND PROFESSORS).
N.8.-NO PUPIL TEACHERS.
FOR Resident Pupils the College (which is most healthily situated) offers every
advantage :--Dormitories, well ventilated; Plunge Baths Airy Class-rooms, &c.
ihe Principal has introduced the system now so universal in the leading eduea-
honai establishments m Europe, of imparting knowledge in the higher classes by
means ot Lectures, and has secured the services of able Professors.
There is a Special Class for the Preparation of Candidates for Sydney University
Examination, 1878, under the charge of a gentleman who has been successful in
preparing pupils for previous University Examinations. Pupils can -join at any time.
A course of Lectures in Physiology (Laws of Health), Physics and Mechanics, by
T “ tyCoU -’ “■
\oung ladies, not students of the College, can attend these lectures.
Daily T) urn Is havp t.hpi’r rail wqv -Po -c x
o » iai-lc; vyunugc:, cdu dtLonu mes
Daily pupils have their railway fare deducted from terms.
The Queens College is within threp mfnnf.An uo-aiL- /-»■<
Platform Ueen ' S College ia wit ~ hin three minutes walk of the Croydon Raihyav


OPIN ONS OF THE PRESS.
“ Sydney Once a Week.” —lt is aneat,
well-printed little pamphlet, containing
twenty-four pages of reading matter,
which consists of short original papers,
written in a light free style, and of a few
extracts from other publications. Its pur-
pose is to give its readers “ a good six-
pennyworth of literary pabulum, com-
posed of ingredients at once sparkling,
amusing, and original, and so arranged as
to avoid a suspicion of dulness.” Taken
as a whole, the magazine, which is edited
by Mr. C. H, Barlee, is a very creditable
production, as well to the publishers as to
the authors, and if conducted according
to the plan indicated in the few words
above quoted, it will be an acceptable
addition to our colonial literature.— S. M.
Herald.
The Echo says:—lt is a very readable
publication, and, while it cannot aspire to
rank as the equal of the most popular
English magazines, it deserves to find
favour on account of the local interest
which attaches to its papers. The original
papers, of which there are several, are
written in a light, easy style, and with
considerable ability. We should like to
see the magazine prove to be a success,
for the desirableness of building up a
respectable colonial literature will hardly
be denied by any one. and the establish-
ment of a good magazine is one of the
means towards that end. The publishers.
Messrs. G-ibbs, Shallard, and Co., are
entitled to commendation for the admirable
way in which they have got up the
magazine.— Echo .
The New Magazine. —Sydney Once
Week Magazine for Town and Country
Headers is the title of a new weekly, edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, issued from the
Sydney Press, which bids fair to secure a
good share of public support. Its moderate
price, its handiness, the entertaining
reading it affords, and the coqcise, pleas-
ing manner in which the various topics of
the day are touched in its columns, must
naturally render the Sydney Once a Week
a welcome visitor in every house, and an
agreeable companion to every reader. —
Southern Argus (G-oulburn).
“Sydney Once a Week,” a magazine
bearing the above title, has made its ap-
pearance in our city. It is edited by Mr.
Barlee, formerly a member of tbe literary
staff of he Melbourne Argus , and a
humourist of some note. The work con-
tains sketches, tales, and articles, along
with the usual miscellanea of a magazine.
Judging by the contents of the first num-
ber, we think the magazine stands abetter
chance of succeeding than many of those
publications which are born but to die,
and which, in some cases, are disgraceful
to the literary efforts of our city.—
Evening News.
The Singleton Argus says: —The number
is very readable, is well printed by Messrs.
Gribbs, Shallard, and Co., and contains a
varied selection of original and extract
matter. We wish the proprietor every
success with his venture, and trust that his
efforts will do something more substantial
to encourage a taste for colonial literature
than those of others who have trodden in
the same uncertain path, have succeeded
in doing. We hail with pleasure all re-
spectable efforts to establish a republic of
letters in this colony, which at present is
too much confined in its patronage to news-
paper literature only. Mr. Barlee’s venture
is the best effort in this direction that we
have seen for some time.
“ Once a Week.” —Under the title of
“ Sydney Once a Week,” the first number
of a neatly got-up octavo of over thirty
pages has just been issued. It is edited by
Mr. C. H. Barlee, who is, we understand,
assisted by a numerous staff of able con-
tributors. The contents of this new pub-
lication are varied and interesting—too
varied, in our opinion, for the space at the
disposal of the editor. If we may be per-
mitted to offer a suggestion with regard to
the future, we would recommend that
everything in the shape of “ news ” items
should be omitted. We heartily wish the
proprietors success in their undertaking,
and certainly are of opinion that the excel-
lence of “ Once a Week” well deserves it.
—Yass Courier.
The contents of the new venture give
promise of a deserved success, should it
ever be attained. There is an attractive
variety about the articles, and the tastes of
every class of readers are consulted. Thus
we have a trenchant article, short and
pithy, on the political status in quo , a couple
of spirited domestic sketches, some comic
matter, and some chapters especially in-
tended for boys. Among the last is a
scholarly commentary on a passage from
the ‘ ‘ Paradise Lost ’’—intended for the use
of University candidates—a clever set of


recurrent verses in Latin and an enigma
in French. The palindrome and enigma
are an immence improvement on the
foolish anagrams and sphinx-like puzzles
which usually fill this department of our
current literature, and should commend the
production to parents. We hope the new
organ will enjoy a longer term of existence
than some of its predecessors.— Namoi In-
dependent.
This serial contains well written papers
and sketches, entitled “The Public
Health,” “Muff Cricketing,” “Best Dog
in the colony,” and a general summary of
the Russo-Turkish War. Altogether Once
a Week promises well; and "without coun-
try readers (who will probably support it
best), the 170,000 residents of Sydney
should keep it going—but we doubt it.
The price is 6d., and the publishing office
279 George-street, Sydney.— Molong Ex-
press.
Once a Week. —Thisisthe titleof a new
pamphlet, edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, of
Sydney. We have received a copy and
were highly amused, as well as entertained
with the writings; there is such a versa-
tility about them that all must he pleased.
It is notified that a summary of the
events of the present war will he given
for the accommodation of its readers,
and so do away with the tedious task of
perusing the complications daily appear-
ing in our metropolitan journals. Among
numerous, articles, in various strains,
there is a very humorous writing, en-
titled “My Balloon Adventure; ” but to
our fancy, the most amusing is one called
“ The best dog in the colony.” There is
a very good article termed “Et cetera,”
which gives an abstract of the events of
the week, In next issue a story will be
commenced, under the impressive heading
of “ The Mystery of the Wiseman’s
Ferry Road.” It is a useful, handy little
book, and well worth patronage. The
price is sixpence.— The Australian.
The Tenterjield Star says:—Besides
containing a large amount of current
news, it possesses the attraction of afford-
ing to its readers much useful and
scientific information, combined with well
written tales and humourous sketches,
and other entertaining matter. The price
is sixpence, and this moderate charge
should command for the magazine the
wide circulation which it justly deserves.
The Moray a Examiner says:—We have
looked the hook carefully through and can
confidently recommend it to our 'readers
and predict its success.
The new candidate for public favour
contains a number of smartly written
original articles and some well-selected
extract matter. It is got up in good style,
and well printed, containing twenty-four
demy octavo pages. — Albary Banner.
The new publication is both instructive
and entertaining; it is deserving of a
good circulation.— Border Bost (Alburyj.
The new publication is both well got
up and very readable.— Western Bost
(Mud gee).
The Bathurst Free Bress says:—lt con-
tains a large quantity of interesting read-
ing matter—grave, gay, ponderous, and
light. The editorship is evidently in good
hands, and if the editor's hopes are real-
ized the paper will take its place with
lt The pleasant books that silently among
Our household treasures take familiar places,
And are to us as if a living tongue
Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces.’
For he makes his bold assertion: “We
shah do our best to force ourselves into
notice, and to compel attention.” Once
a Week is well worth the sixpence that is
charged for the single copy.
Another attempt has been made to
establish a literary magazine in Sydney.
The new venture takes the title of the
Sydney “ Once a Week.” Its type dress
is admirable, but then the printers are
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co. The
number before us very fairly sustains the
aim stated, and we shall be glad to see tho
magazine prosper.— Maitland Mercury.
It is very creditably got up and judging
from the matter which this number (No.
1) contains, it is a magazine that will no
doubt receive a large measure of support
among Australian readers.— Western Ex-
aminer (Orange).
The Murrurundi Times writes:—“The
contents have a varied range, and many
of the articles possess a degree of humour
and literary merit which will commend
them to the majority of our readers. We
shall be glad to find enough appreciation
to support anything in the shape of smart
writing which has about it no unworthy
element.”


“ Sydney Once a Week ” —We have
received the first two numbers of a small
neatly got up magazine hearing the above
title, which, in view of its superiority to
the majority of weekly publications lately
issued from the Sydney Press, we feel it
our honest duty to notice with approba-
tion. Its contents (those of the two issues
we have received) are not only well written,
but are for the most part original and
local. They comprise a great variety of
light and instructive reading matter, which
should commend Once a W eek to public
favour. Politics, the public health, and
other grave matters are ably treated in its
leading columns. There are also well
written original humorous sketches—we
note specially “The Best Dog in the
Colony” and “My Balloon Adventure,” —
and a few happy clippings from comic ex-
changes ; a page of town gossip; and an
epitome of the week’s war news. Ad-
mirably written papers, entitled “ G-ossip
with the Boys,” appear in each issue, and
are, it is said, to be continued regularly.
The verses in the first number, entitled
“ An Australian Idyll” are very far above
the average of contributions to the “ poets’
corner.” It is an affecting story, well told.
After the custom of English magazine
conductors, the proprietors of Sydney
Once a Week offer prizes to successful
competitors in the riddle arena. In the
second number appeared the prologue of
a story called “ The Mystery of Wiseman’s
Ferry,” which is to be the piece de resistance
in the way of serial romance. Once a Week
which is edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, b,
litterateur of lengthened colonial experi-
ence, and published by Messrs. Gibbs,
Shallard, and Co., we can conscientiously
recommend as a weekly magazine, enter-
taining, instructive, and of "high tone.
Those who have not seen this publication
should buy copies, and judge of its merits
for themselves. We are certain they will
endorse our opinion. —Cumberland Mer-
cury.
The Sydney “Once a Week ’’—The
sixth number of this serial has just been
published. Its literary merits and general
get up are equal to those of the first
number which we had occasion to notice
favorably. It contains a large amount of
instructive and light reading; the original
articles are entertaining, and the contents
of the number generally are judiciously
varied. The “Mystery of Wiseman’s
Ferry Road,” has reached the third chap-
ter. The interest of the story in no way
flags. The “War News” and “Town
Gossip ” are readable articles, and the
comic papers sparkle with humour. There
are several pieces of original poetry; and
two or three pages devoted to ‘ ‘ Columns
for young readers,” containing charades,
puzzles, &c. Altogether the number does
credit to editor and printer.— S. M. Herald.
We heartily recommend the magazine
to our readers.— Grenfell Record.
The Coonamble Independent says:—“ The
first number, which we have received, is
well and ably written —the best sketch, in
our opinion, being a very humourous one,
entitled the “Best Dog in the Colony.”
We wish the proprietor every success, as,
in our opinion, the publication, if well
conducted, will supply a want long felt in
Sydney, and add to the far too small stock
of Australian literature. We have every
confidence in recommending “ Once a
Week” to the favorable notice of onr
readers.”
“Sydney Once a Week.” —We have
just received the eight number of ‘ ‘ Sydney
Once a Week,” and a rather close inspec-
tion of its contents reveals the fact that.it
is, if anything, an improvement upon its
predecessors. The conception of the
publication of such a periodical was ex-
tremely happy in its character, as it gave
opportunities for manifestations of local
literary talents of various orders that
otherwise might be lost to the general
public, and also established a magazine in
the colony respectable and worthyof accep-
tation. The original articles in the present
number are agreeably and vigorously
written, and the few clippings inserted
selected with good taste, while all. are
neatly and carefully printed and revised.
— Echo.
