

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. 11. BARLEE.
No. 7, VOL. I.]
MARCH 2, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
DAY OP
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
Sydney Cove.
March.
2
Sat
St. Chad Bishop of Lichfield, 673. Speaker Arnold
drowned, 1875.
5.50 !
6.34
7.20 a.m.
3
S
Quinquagesima. Macready born, 1793.
5.51
6.33
7.57 a.m.
4
M
Supreme Court; First Term commences. New
moon, 1 22 p.m.
Shrove Tuesday.
5.51 I
6.32
8.28 a.m.
5
Tu
5.52 !
6.31
8.59 a.m.
6
W
Ash Wednesday. First newspaper published in
Australia, 1S03.
5.53
6.29
9.29 a.m.
7
Th
St. Perpetua. Lord Collingwood died, 1810.
5.54
6.28
9.59 a.m.
8
F
Mail via Suez due Sydney. Forster Ministry
retired, 1S60.
5.55 j
6.27
10.30 a.m.
We shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.B—Advertisements for “SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK ” will be received up to six o’clock on
Thursday evening.
MR. SPEAKER.
Chronic unseemliness is the dis-
tinguishing characteristic of the
New South Wales Legislative
Assembly. Members of Parliament,
not content with thinking too
little and talking too much, import
into their debates blackguardisms
(it is no use mincing the matter)
which degrade the chamber meaijt
to be consecrated to deliberation into
an arena for the interchange of Bil-
lingsgate. The grossest personalities
are daily bandied between so-called
“ honourable ” members. The word
“liar” is fast becoming a term of
endearment with our legislators.
The most scandalous imputations
are made and accepted with an insou-
ciance which in all probability would
lead to blows in the Darlinghurst
yards, but which in Macquarie
Street are drowned in brimming
beakers at the refreshment bar,
imputer and imputee pledging one
another with a forbearance which
would be Christian if it wasn’t
indecent and unmanly. Who is to
blame for this state of things ?


Manhood suffrage, says the con-
servative. Human nature, says the
democrat, who always endeavours to
palliate the colony’s disgrace by
pointing out that things are in as
bad a way in Victoria, Tasmania,
and New Zealand. To our mind it
is no matter for comparison, however
i( odorous.” The fault rests with
Mr. Speaker. He is too limp.. He
“just hints a fault and hesitates
dislike,” and “ if willing to wound”
is at all events “ afraid to strike.”
It is idle for Sir .G. W. Allen to
shelter himself behind the plea that
he is merely the voice of the
Assembly. Technically the Speaker
maybe but that, merewxr etprwterea
nihil. Technically he may be but
that; yet surely his official robes are
not so scantly cut but that beneath
them there is room for something
more than technicality, than cold
neutrality, than even tact to lubri-
cate difficulties —surely there is
room for the sensitiveness of a
gentleman, the loyalty of a man %
This is no question of precedent or
of formulas. As Carlyle puts it, to
endeavour to stretch out an old
formula, so that it may cover the
new contradictory uncoverable
thing, in times of swift change, is
one of the sorrowfullest tasks
poor humanity has. Yet this is the
task Sir G. W. Allen, as with the
heart and soul of a special attorney,
has set himself to do—to enforce order
from a tumultuous assembly by
application of rose water! What
is needed in the Speaker’s chair is
high toned vigour—not adroitness
—not varnish. It is Mr. Speaker s
duty to enforce the observance of
all rules (written or unwritten), for
preserving order in the proceedings
of the Legislative Assembly. That
is clearly the duty for which the
country pays him not ungenerously.
We admit that it is only by and
with the assistance of the Assembly
that he can hope to perform his
duty efficiently. But we also main-
tain that if he cannot secure that
assistance he should resign his
office. If the majority of the
Legislative Assembly were sound at
heart, it would loyally respond to
any loyal appeal made by Mr.
Speaker to their instincts as
honourable men. No such appeal
has ever been made by Sir G. W.
Allen. He has made querulous
laments. He has never told the
House in distinct, straightforward
terms that he will not be, even in
the most indirect way, a party to
disorder ; that he will not preside
over an Assembly in which foul
language is habitually used, even
though it may be the good pleasure
of the House that such language
should be so habitually used. He
has hitherto acted as if he must
put up with whatever the House
chooses to put up with. He has
done enough, we grant, to show that
as a matter of taste he would like
the tone of the House to be more
decent; but he has not done enough
to show that as a matter of honour
he will have no share or lot in those
scenes which contribute to its
infamy. If the be content
that the Sergeant-at-Arms should
hold a sinecure, that the powers of
committal and expulsion should be
dead letters, that disorder should
reign supreme, it is high time for
any man who claims to be a gentle-
man (if only by act of Parliament)
to resign its Speakership—a post
which he cannot fill with true
dignity if such contentment really
characterizes the temper of the
majority. We do not, cannot believe


that at heart the Assembly is so
recreant as the possession of such a
temper would imply ; but are of
opinion that if Sir G. W. Allen
would only wake to the responsi-
bilities of his high position, and
insist upon support being accorded
to him, that the support would be
accorded to him, ungrudgingly. Sir
G. W. Allen should remember and
act upon the advice of Aaron
Hill :
“ Tender handed stroke a nettle,
And it stings you for pains ;
Grasp it like a man of mettls,
And it soft as silk remains.
“ 'Tis the same with common natures:
Use ’em kindly, they rebel,
But be rough as nutmeg graters,
And the rogues obey you well.”
CALIFORNIAN EXPERIENCES.
No. II.
“ A rat, a rat!
Dead for a ducat!”
When the town of San Francisco was
suddenly inundated with a large popu-
lation, comprising gold-seekers from
almost every part of the world, there
was, as a matter of course, a great scarcity
of provisions on the spot. The country
produce was unequal to the occasion,
and ships’ stores formed the main
source of supply. Cargo after cargo
was shipped from China, and it is
supposed that California was indebted
chiefly to that country for the enor-
mous numbers of rats with which the
new Eldorado was suddenly infested.
The streets swarmed with them.
Seated in rows on the door-sills of
almost every house they looked down
upon the passengers as they walked
along in the most unconcerned way ;
they rushed the stores, which were,
for the most part, hastily-erected one-
storey buildings, and had their will of
the eatables therein ; they scampered
along the galvanised-iron roofs in such
numbers that it appeared as if they
were holding races in honour of their
arrival in a land where edibles of all
kinds, unguarded by closely fastened
doors and locks, were in such profu-
sion. Dead bodies of rats, lying in all
stages of putrefaction, met you at
every step. There were rats of all
sizes and all colours—red, white, and
grey ; the white rats, with pink eyes
and long moustaches, were in great
force—these were evidently celestial
rats, although terrestrial plagues.
There were scarcely any cats and very
few dogs among the new arrivals by
sea, so that these omnivorous creatures
had it all their own way. Like the
rats which eat up Bishop Hatto’s
grain—
“ They were in at the window and in at the door,
Not by the dozen, nor yet by the score,”
but by hundreds; there was no getting
rid of them ; they literally took the
place by force.
It was much the same in all the
little mining townships which sprung
up one after the other, as the gold-fields
became developed. They all received
their provisions from the same source,
and were all plentifully supplied with
red, white, and grey rats. At that
time there were no vegetables to be
had for love or money, except onions,
imported from China, which were at
such a premium that a fair-sized onion
was always worth a dollar, and I have
seen one staked on a card at a monte
table, and accepted unhesitatingly as
a full equivalent for that coin. How-
ever, to return to our rats. I was living
at the time in a tolerably busy mining
settlement, not a hundred miles from
Stockton, and was one of a party of
six. We had made ourselves tolerably
comfortable by putting up a weather-
board building about 20 x 20 feet,
which had rather an imposing appear-
ance among the tents and log-huts on
all sides of us. The internal arrange-
ments were very simple. Half of it
served as a sleeping-room, and the
other half as a dining and sitting-room.
Here we used to meet every evening
and play at cribbage, among other
things, to while away the time—our
dining-table, of the rudest possible
construction, serving also as card table.
About four feet above our heads as
we sat was a tie-beam connecting the


•wall-plate on either side, and on this
beam, when not engaged in predatory
excursions, usually sat about eight to
twelve rats, more or less (there were
always three or four white ones among
them), looking down upon us. One
would almost fancy they were inte-
rested in our play. Meantime, other
members of the troop of a more lively
turn would be scampering about the
room seeking what they might devour.
We took very mild measures to resist
this intrusion. One of our party,
having a mechanical turn, constructed
a trap with a falling door. This, for
convenience of access, was generally
set under the centre of the table.
When we heard the click of the falling
door, a bag was in readiness, the trap
inverted, and the lid suddenly opened,
when the rat would fall into the bag ;
then a good bang against the wall
would settle the business. This hap-
pened so frequently that a rubber of
cribbage would frequently be inter-
rupted by the catching of at least half-
a-dozen rats, and the killing them in
manner described, throwing the carcase
away, and setting the trap again. At
last it came to be regularly understood
that this was to be done by each in
turn; and whenever a fresh rat had
to be executed, it was <£ Now, Jem,
or “Now, Tom, it’s your turn and
Jem or Tom, as the case might be,
would rise, lay down his cards, and go
through his task in a matter-of-fact
way, as one of the ordinary household
duties of a Californian digger.
One one occasion a neighbour and a
countryman of ours, a Londoner, with
whom we were on very friendly terms,
came to us in great distress, stating
that he had lost all his gold, which he
had buried for safety in the ground a
few yards from his tent. Not having
disturbed the plant for over a month,
he had dug up the spot in order to
make sure of its safety, and lo and
behold ! it was gone ! We all condoled
with him, and were disposed to accept
the fact as he related it; the conclusion
being that some thief had stolen it
some rascally Mexican, who had pos-
sibly noted his close observation ot
that particular spot. When I say all
of us, I should say with one exception.
One of my mates, a very shrewd
fellow, never cared to accept anything
without proof of some sort, and he
evidently had a theory on the subject
of the alleged theft. At his sugges-
tion, we proceeded in a body to the
spot. The gold had been enclosed in
a buckskin bag, the usual receptacle
for a digger’s gold at that time, and
there was certainly no sign of either
bag or gold in or near the spot ; but
a little patient examination of the
ground showed a shallow tunnel run-
ning from the hole. This we slowly
followed, turning the soil over for
about six inches with the greatest care,
through all its turnings, and it turned
frequently without any apparent
object, until the tunnel must have
measured altogether not less than six
or seven yards in length, when we
come first upon one speck of gold and
then another, and finally upon the
buckskin bag with about four-fifths of
the original quantity in it. By col-
lecting the soil all along the tunnel
from its commencement, and panning
out a number of dishes, every particle
of gold was recovered to the infinite
satisfaction, as well as amazement, of
the Cockney, who was profuse in his
thanks, and went on his way rejoicing.
A rat had been the thief, and the
buckskin bag the attraction. Whether
the robber belonged to the tribe who
took up their head-quarters in our
shanty, or to some other ground-
burrowing species indigenous to the
soil, lam unable to say. At any rate,
he attacked the enemy in his most
vulnerable point. At that time gold
was to be had almost everywhere, and
it was only an odd man here and there
who could say—
“ He who takes my purse takes trash.”
In this case the hidden treasure repre-
sented fifty ounces.
W.
A tight fit—lntoxication.
Classic epitaph on a plain cook—Vir pie
et taties gravies.


FLEA-BOTOMY.
(From the New York Post.)
Oh, the fleas, the villainous fleas,
Filling my underclothes down to my
knees;
Making me scratch and growl and com-
plain,
And wish I was back in Brooklyn again.
The stranger who comes to this bright
land of gold,
Of its wonderful products is very soon
told.
They praise up its climate, they dwell on
its trees,
But they don’t say a word of its blood-
thirsty fleas.
They fill all the houses, they fill all the
streets,
Get caught in the butter, and lie low in
the sheets:
You put one on your thumb to crush him
to death,
He’ll bite through the nail at the very
next breath.
Once I was up on the roof, but I fell;
Aye, fell like a thunderbolt in the well;
I went down with a splash, and came up
nearly blind—
The cause of my fall was a flea-bite behind.
One day, nearly crushed by a venomous
bite,
I brought out an old armour to put them
to flight;
I’ve worn it in battle, and unharmed I am
still,
But they bored through in an hour with
their diamond drill.
And so from the day I first landed in
’Frisco,
Their steady attentions never have ceased,
What shall I do? Shall I try to resist? No!
I’ll take the first overland train for the
East.
For I’ve been in many battles,
In many a bloody strife—
I’ve hunted hostile Indians,
And dodged missiles from my wife—
But never in my wanderings
Over land or over sea,
Until I struck the Pacific coast,
Have I ever come across anything that
could compare in point of downright
meanness and general cussedness with
the persistent, the malignant, the
übiquitous, the unmitigated nuisance,
the California flea.
Mr. Editor : Please set up the last verse
to the tune of “Greenland’s Icy Mount-
tains.”
THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
No 7.
Returning, after the digression into
which the Model Lodging-house
Company’s meeting led us, to the
consideration of the next cause of
increase of unhealthfulness of our
city, with which, some weeks back,
we proposed to deal, we had com-
menced an article upon our mode
of collection and disposal of sewage,
when, to our dismay, there flitted
across our vision a troop of “ perse-
cuted butchers,” each
“With sabre shivered to the hilt,
Yet dripping with the blood he’d spilt; ”
Our alarm was somewhat relieved on
hearing that it was only the blood
of lambs, and calves, and swine,
whom these poor men had been
disturbed in the act of doing to
death in certain little dirty back
yards in the city, hard by to the
various conveniences there commonly
found, and whose flesh was recom-
mended to customers by the state-
ment that the nice little accessories
of butchers’ yards were much more
wholesome than the concomitants of
the Public Abattoirs, whose atmos-
phere was so impure that the meat
“ became polluted so as to be unsaleable
before it could be brought into the
city ! ”
We were much impressed with
this statement, and with the pro-
testation made by one of these
persecuted men of his love of fair
play, and of his intention to play
fair, if only he could be allowed to
play his own little game in his own
way; and it did seem to us to be a
most candid admission to come from
a butcher that the impure atmos-


phere of the abbatoirs poisoned the
young meat, because it could hardly
fail to follow that all the meat
killed there must to some extent
partake of the infection, which
sufficed not only to render unwhole-
some, but “ unsaleable ,” mark the
word, the lamb and the veal!
Happy ! “ terque qwxterque beati,”
the people, thought we, who have
butchers “ to the fore,” and men in
the senate of the land, who, from their
ivory chairs, will hold out the
sceptre of protection to these perse-
cuted men! And we were half
disposed to lay down the pen, and
leave the entire matter to the
disposal of these disinterested
persons in the shambles, in the
back-yards, and in the Parliament,
without interference of the vast
hebdomadal influence which we
bring to bear upon the public mind;
when the thought occurred to us,
(second thoughts are sometimes best)
that if we were, at the instance of
the butchers, to tread back our foot-
steps of legislation to the days in
which every man was allowed to
make his own stink, after his own
heart, subject only to the risk of
action by any neighbour rich enough
and brave enough to tempt the
Courts, there would be no sufficient
reason why a little (very cleanly of
course, and “ under sanitary
inspection ”) bone-boiling, glue-
making, tanning, boiling down,
vitriol works, or other pursuits
whereby men seek to make money
out of our wants, should not also be
allowed in the city, and so we
returned to our task. We find then,
upcfti the statement of those who
ought to know, that filthy as our
city is, abominable as is our sewage,
it is better to kill over a drain in a
butcher’s back-yard, with his closet
on one side and his stable on the
other, the drain communicating with
the common sewer, seldom flushed,
than to kill in the appointed place,
because of “ the impure atmosphere
of the place.” This leads at once to
the conclusion that there is some-
thing grossly wrong here; is it in
position, construction, management,
or oversight ? have we the right
place—the right thing—the right
man; who selected the site; who
designed the buildings; are the over-
men veterinarians, or skilled
butchers? Who is responsible for
all this “ impure atmosphere ” which
pollutes the meat ?
It appears to us to be among the
first objects of this community,
eating meat as most of us do at
least twice daily, to make such a
representation to the Government
as shall obtain not only replies to
the questions we propound, but also
effectual relief from this description
of poisoning.
HOW BINKS SPENT THE FIRST
DAY OF HIS HOLIDAY.
In what part of Victoria Binks’ per-
manent residence was, or what was
his peculiar avocation, matters very
little to any one, since we have only
to tell what he did and what he saw
during the first day of his holiday.
After twelvemonths’ unremitting atten-
tion to business he conceived himself
entitled to a trip to Melbourne, and he
made up his mind to enjoy himself
thoroughly—that is to say, to crowd
as much enjoyment into the small
space of time he had allowed himself
for that purpose as possible. Binks was
naturally a sober man, but, to use his
favourite expression,
“ One doesn’t kill a pig every day
and, from the time the process of kill-
ing commenced, until there was no-
thing of the pig left, Binks was not in
the habit of putting much restraint


upon his convivial propensities. Had
he been a classical scholar, which he
was not, he might have expressed him-
self in choicer language, and quoted,
as an excuse for an occasional excess,
that,
“ The bow of Apollo was not always tight
but this would hardly have been appli-
cable, since, on rare occasions like this,
he was pretty generally tight all the
time. It is said that wine brings a
man’s natural instincts into full play :
some get uproariously jolly in their
cups, some get quarrelsome, and others
display a maudlin sentimentality which
is very ludicrous ; some grow abusive,
as the fumes of the liquor rise to the
brain, and others are gentlemanly,
from first to last. To the latter class
belonged Binks : when sober he was
invariably courteous, and when drunk
he was the pink of politeness. Having
no particular method to regulate
the week of madness which he pro-
posed to spend, Binks was prepared
to enjoy himself in the first way that
came to hand ; and, accordingly, the
morning after his arrival, having
joined himself to a couple of choice
spirits bent on the same errand, he
sallied forth from his hotel in search
of amusement and adventure. The
great attraction in Melbourne was
then Cooper and Bailey’s Monster
Circus. A grand procession through
the streets of the city of lions, tigers,
elephants, camels, and caravans con-
taining other wonders too numerous to
mention, had been duly announced,
and was then starting. Binks and his
friends, following the crowd, soon
formed part of the procession, and
marched away in great glee at the tail
of an equestrian troupe in mediaeval
costume, escorting a Chinese Man-
darin seated [in a species of sedan
chair, drawn by a young camel.
Binks was in high spirits ; the day
was fine, the novelty was attractive,
and whenever the procession came to
a halt at the comer of a street, either
from the elephants jibing at a steep
pinch, or because the horses in some
private vehicle were frightened at the
savage aspect of the tiger, Binks’ party
would adjourn to the hotel at the corner
and indulge in a cooling drink, Binks
quoting the proverbial pig as an ex-
cuse for defraying the cost of the
entertainment. The procession stopped
frequently, the stopping places were
conveniently situate, and, by the time
they had got through the principal
streets, Binks had ceased to wonder at
the difficulty which the elephants ap-
peared to experience in keeping step,
or at the eccentric way in which the
camels kept nodding their heads. He
began to feel similar symptoms him-
self. Another nip, so far from remov-
ing these sensations, only aggravated
them, besides producing a bin-
ocular vision which made it clear
to him that there were two lions
chained in the first carriage which
had started with only one, and
multiplied the rest of the cortege to
such an extent, that the elephants and
dromedaries appeared to be mixed up
with the mounted riders in the most
inextricable confusion, and for the life
of him he could not distinguish the
hyena from the sacred ox. In short,
he had got “ procession on the brain.”
Finding that as a part of the exhibi-
tion he had become more ornamental
than useful and that his legs had de-
veloped an unsteadiness quite unusual
to them, he slipped out of the ranks
with the intention of getting anywhere,
anywhere out of the crowd. His com-
panions somehow had parted with him,
when or where he could not recollect,
but he felt they were “ jolly good
fellursh ” for all that. Making a Z
line in a direction exactly opposite to
that which the procession had taken,
he staggered along for about half an
hour until he found himself in Carlton
Gardens, where he hoped the fresh air
would soon clear his brain. He entered
the gardens at the commencement of a
broad gravel walk flanked on either side
by a row of trees, and taking the
centre of the walk began what he pro-
posed to himself should be a brisk walk
from end to end. The first check he
received was from a sharp contact with
a tree to the left of the path. Shocked
at his rudeness he took off his hat,


made a low bow, and said “ I beg your
pardon, sir,” and then sheered off to
the right. The next moment he came
bump against the trunk of a tree to
the right, at an angle of 45° from the
first, upon which he again uncovered,
and begged pardon. Again to the left
with a similar shock and a similar apo-
logy, working along his course with a
zig-zag motion which would have been
highly creditable if he had been in a
sailing boat beating up against a head
wind —until, receiving a violent con-
cussion from tree No. 26, he was
reluctantly compelled to admit that he
was not exactly in a state to travel in
such a crowd. So, sinking down
gently to the grass, he said, “ I'd bet-
ter shtop till the prosheshun’s gone
by .” There he was found the next
morning sweetly sleeping by policeman
A 199, and in spite of his remonstrances
haled to the Police Court, where,
after having explained that he had
eaten too many buns on the previous
day, and that it was his first offence,
he was duly admonished and dis-
charged.
WALKER.
THE “OLD BIRD.”
BY THOMAS MOSER.
The first time I saw him he was
coating the inside of a pauper’s coffin
with pitch, and I may almost say the
last time I saw him he was inside one
of a very similar kind. It is true I did
not see him actually inside, but,
passing the dead house at Circular
Quay, one day, I beheld two policemen
hoisting a coffin into a cart, and upon
inquiring from them, I heard that the
* £ Old Bird’s” remains were enclosed
therein. An enlightened jury, com-
posed of “ lumpers ” and coal heavers,
had sat upon the “ Old Bird” and
returned a verdict of “ Found
drowned. ” I am afraid he died
“ unhonoured ” and “ unsung.” The
two policemen gave a sigh of relief as
they deposited their burden in the
cart. “ Well ! here’s the last of the
“Old Bird,” said 139 A. “And a
good job too ! ” fervently responded
108 B.
If ever there was a genuine type
of the old hand, perfect in all its
parts, it was to be found in the “ Old
Bird.” At the time I made his
acquaintance he might have been any
age between forty and seventy, so far
as looks went. The only thing I can
compare his features to was the head
of Dr. Syntax, which, forty years ago,
used to garnish the top of umbrella
handles. This head was generally
carved out of a dark and very hard
wood, and in both feature and com-
plexion was very like the “ Old Bird.”
The traditional dirt inseparable from
the “old hand ” begrimed the “Old
Bird,” and apparently had been a
fixture for many years. He was blear-
eyed and almost toothless, and,
according to the fashion of his kind,
clipped his beard instead of shaving it
off. A more unsavoury and demo-
ralized looking old reprobate, I should
say, was rarely met with than the
“Old Bird.” Conversationally, he
was somewhat strong, his word-
painting being vigorous in tone, and a
copious use of red as he went along
gave a dash to his style, which, if not
original, was at least expressive.
A weak-minded idea of mine that I
could make a short cut between two
leading thoroughfares in Sydney re-
sulted in my finding myself in a filthy
lane, and, in the filthiest shed in that
lane, I found the “ Old Bird ”at work
as above described. He seemed rather
astonished at seeing anybody, having
any claims to respectability, in such a
locality, and relieved his feelings with
a few maledictions directed to no one
in particular, and then abruptly asked
me “If I wos a ‘ trap’?” Being assured
in the negative, he apologized for
suggesting the possibility by saying
“That the ‘traps’ come after him
in* all sorts of shapes, and
all they wanted to do was to catch him
a-doing nothing, and then they’d lay
an information as he’d no visible means
o’ support.” “ ’Aint this a honest liv-
ing]” said the old man, pointing at the
coffin with the pitch brush. “ Where
can they git another cove to do
guv’ment work, and lay out benevo-
lents, and ’firmaries, and ‘ soocides,


and such like as no one cares to handle.
Why I’m a public benefactor, that’s
what I am, and no gammon.” “ And
you don’t mean to say you live in this
horrid place,” said I. I had seen some
filthy blankets and a pint pot lying on
a bench. “ Yes, I do,” said he with a
sneer. “ Blowed if you ’aint a ‘trap’
and want to swear as I’ve no place of
abode and am a wagrant ! Get out o’
this, or I’ll d d soon make you !”
The old fellow became at this so
suddenly demonstrative that I was fain
to use all my powers of persuasion to
save myself from assault. “ Come,”
said I, “I don’t want to pry into
your cupboard, but I think it is a
beastly shame that your employer can-
not house you better.”
Those who know anything of the
back slums of Sydney may well won-
der how people exist in them ; but this
hovel was worse than anything I ever
saw. It was a half rotten tumbledown
weatherboard shed, surrounded by
timber yards and stables —the drainage
of the latter filtered over the floor and
the mildew hung thick upon the walls.
A rude bunk and a stool were the only
signs of furniture about the place ;
but round the sides of the shed were
several tiers of rough coffins, ready for
the reception of any of the pauper
population, from which class the “ old
Bird’s ” clients were entirely drawn.
“ Won’t you sit down and have a
smoke,” said the old man, mollified by
my explanation, “ and if you have any
’baccy I’ll join you. It’s little ’baccy
I can get out of ten bob a week, and
find myself in grub and an odd nob-
bier.” I handed him my pouch, and
he levied tribute upon it by cramming
his dirty pipe so hard that his cheeks
nearly met inside when he tried to
suck the light into the bowl. “I’ll
tell you what it is,” said he, “you
think mine a rum trade, but I gloi'ies
in it. I’ve been among corpses all my
life, and I feels at home with ’em, you
see. Other folks as knows little on
’em gits a kind of scared ; but use, you
see, is a sort o’ natur’ !”
“ I suppose your experience com-
menced early in life, from what you
say,” said I. “Well, I may say it
did,” replied the old man. “ When I
was a kid I lived at Wapping, and my
father, when he wasn’t drunk or in
jail, was a brick-maker, and I helped
him. Well, me and some other kids
used to be alius about the river, I may
say, a-looking for corpses. The police
alius gave sixpence for the information
if it wos new to ’em ; and besides, we
had a chance o’ finding a trifle in the
pockets. I dare say I come across a
dozen when I wos a kid, and we wos
alius about the dead-houses. Well, I
’listed when I wos about eighteen, and
joined the —th at Manchester. There
wos then a dead-house near St. Ann’s
Square, down a lane ; and there wos
alius a sentry on duty there, and his
orders wos to knock at the door o’ the
dead-house with the butt o’ his fire-
lock, every hour, to frighten the rats.
Most o’ the chaps didn’t care about
doing duty there ; but it w r as a kind o’
pleasure to me, and many a quartern
o’ gin I got for changing posts wi’
’em.”
“And how did you get out to
this colony 1 ” said I. “ How did I get
out, eh ?” said the old man, with a
horrid grin. “ I was lagged, if you
must know ; never mind what for—it
worn’t murder. When we come out,
we’d fever aboard ; and no wonder, for
it tuk us six months to get here, and
there were three hundred o’ us aboard
a ship not fit to carry half the number.
Our victuals wos bad, and the weather
wos bad ; and stifling down below got
rid o’ forty afore we got here. I sewed
’em up, every one. Well ; when we
got here, we wos all shoved in the old
jail on Gallows Hill, and the fust
morning they hung five —I don’t know
what for ; but, may be, to make more
room for us. I helped to coffin the lot;
and so pleased was the Guvnor o’ the
jail with the way I did it, that I’d all
the jobs as long as we wos in Sydney,
whether coves got scragged in jail, or
hung theirselves, or if any of ’em got
drowned, or pizoned theirselves, or
such like. And that’s how it is, ye
see, as I come to know, as well as a
doctor, what corpses at inquests dies


on, so long as it ain’t anything wrong
•with their insides. Bless you ! I know
by their faces.” “Do you really?”
said I, staggered by this ghastly view
of the science of physiognomy. ‘ ‘ But
do you mean to say that you really
feel a pleasure in moving amongst
corpses?” “Well, I don’t say it’s a
pleasure exactly,” replied the old man,
screwing up his face, and apparently
apostrophising the rafters ; ‘ ‘ but I do
say, I feels as I’m at home, and some-
times I thinks as the corpses their-
selves looks as if they wos thinking,
‘We’re all right now as the ‘Old Bird’
has got hold on us. He’ll pack us
away comfortable ’ ” !!
The old man paused a moment, and
looking at me as if he meant to pro-
pound a startling fact, which I might
deem incredible, he remarked, “ I
must say 1 once wos nigh getting scared
with a corpse ; at least, not exactly
with it, but as I wos a-watching on it. ’
“How was that?” said I. “Well,”
said the ‘ ‘ Old Bird, ” ‘ ‘ it’s rather a long
yarn. D’ye mind standing a ‘ shout ?’
Mine’s alius rum, and there’s a kid
over the fence that’ll fetch it, if his
mother gets a nobbier out on it.
Heigh, Jemmy!’’cried he, over the
fence, before I had time to reply. A
very dirty little boy peeped
through the palings, and the “ Old
Bird” handing him a vile medicine
bottle and I a shilling, he speedily fled,
and, like a second Ganymede, as
speedily returned, with half a pint of
the blackest looking and the most vile
smelling rum, I should say, procurable
at the price. As I declined touching
it, much to the “ Old Bird’s ” satisfac-
tion, he tilted the bulk of it into a
pannikin, and handed the boy the
bottle with about half a wineglassful
in it. “What a scaley drop!” said
the urchin, gauging it in the sunlight.
“All right, sonny,” said the “Old
Bird,” “I ain’t a-going to have your
old man a-saying I made yer mother
drunk a second time, and this here is
extra strong. ” The “Old Bird” illus-
trated this remark by tipping OS' all
his lot at one gulp, screwing up his
face as if he had swallowed physic, and
swallowing down two pannikins of
water, one after another, after the
manner of “ old hands,” as if he were
putting out a fire in his inside, which
he very likely was.
“Now,” said he, when he had got
his breath, “ I’ll tell you the yam,
and it’s as true as you’re sitting there.
When we wos sent to Port Macqua-
rie prison, it wom’t long before two
chaps called Bolter and Maggs ‘ hooked
it,’ thinking to make Moreton Bay
and get off in a whaler. When they
were missed a party went out, but
came back again without getting a
sight of ’em, and it worn’t till a fort-
night after that some blacks came in
and told the cove that they see ’em
about ten mile away. Well, a lot of
us were ordered off with one o’ the
blacks as guide, and in crossing a bit of a
gully we suddenly flushed a whole lot o’
crows. We made to where they rose,
and sure enough both nose and eyes
soon showed us that Bolter was lying
there dead as a door nail, and half-
eaten with crows and native dogs.
The overseer in charge made up his
mind to leave someone with the body,
and go back for a spade to bury it and
report the case to the commandant.
As they knew I was, in a manner o’
speaking, well acquainted with corpses,
they left me with a blanket and some
grub and went back, intending to re-
turn next morning. I had never been
in the bush before, so I -went prowling-
about to windward, looking at the
birds and one thing or other, till night
fell, when I wrapped myself in the
blanket and tried to go to sleep.
Maybe you never camped out by your-
self in the bush, and I tell you the first
time it’s devilish lonesome. There’s so
many queer sounds that you can’t make
out among the trees, and ’possums and
things running about, it aint easy to
sleep unless you are tired out. How-
ever, I was just dozing off, and the
fire was burning up, when I heerd the
most damnable shriek close to me. I
jumped up and got the firelock the
overseer left me in case of blacks, and
there right in front stood a man as
naked as the day he were bom—a


white man too. His eyes wos standing
out of his head, and as he swung his
arms about in the glare of the fire I
never see such a horrid sight. Well !
I plucked up courage and got close to
him and, good God ! it was Maggs, as
mad as a hare ! He’d gone, as they all
do when they can’t find water, and
stripped hisself, and here he was run-
ning about, and likely would have
done till he dropped dead. He got
that frightened that I easily bailed him
up agin a tree, and there I kep him
till the party come back. We buried
Bolter where he lay, and if we hadn’t
a job to get Maggs home it was a cau-
tion. He dropped after the first mile,
and we had nothing but water to give
him, which the party had brought
with them, for it wos an awful
drought at the time, —and he only
lived an hour after we got him to
the barracks, aad I made his
coffin and stretched him comfort-
able that same night.” “ What a
horrid affair !” said I, aghast at such a
tragical termination to the narrative.
“ I don’t know about it being horrid
in particular,” said the old man; “lots
o’ coves is found dead in droughty
times, who no doubt dies the same
way, but they’re generally found when
they’re past knowing ; but I’d know
what they died on, if I could only see
their faces, ’cos I’ve studied ’em. ”
“As you seem* to have been a long
time in the country,” said I, “what
do you think turns old shepherds
‘ cranky,’ as they call it ?” “ Why,
half on it is with their living by their-
selves. They have no one to talk to
but their dogs, and they sit about on
logs and fancy all manner o’ things.
Not one on ’em, as ever I see, but
alius made out that branches o’ trees
and birds was a talking to ’em. There
won’t be so many on ’em when the
country’s more settled ; but I’ll tell
you about the funniest thing I ever see
with a corpse. Did you ever hear of
‘Twisted Jerry?’ No? Well, he
wos a wagrant as used to hang about
the slums in Lower George Street.
His chin and his knees nearly met, and
he shuffled along on his hands and
heels. An infernal old wagabone was
that same Jerry ! Well, one night a
‘ trap ’ knocked me up to say as they’d
found ‘ Twisted Jerry’ dead in a back
street, and they’d want a coffin for
him ; but as he was so twisted about
it ’ud take a good practised hand to
fit him. I got up and went with the
‘trap,’ and I see Jerry taken to the
dead-house. I tried to stretch him
before he stiffened, but he sprung back
like a jack-knife ; so I says to the
‘ trap,’ ‘ I’ll get down a ivater-box for
old Jerry—we call ’em ‘water-boxes’
’cos they’re made for drowned coves,
who generally swell a good bit, and so
they’re deeper than others. Well, I
got one down, and the ‘ trap ’ and me
tried to squeeze Jerry into it; but he
was that obstinate that he wouldn’t go
down—no, not a bone on him ! We
pushed away for well nigh half-an-hour,
and, by-and-bye, we got him so far
down that I could shut him in by sit-
ting on the lid ; but, you see, as there
was to be an inquest, we couldn’t nail
him down. Anyhow, I thought he’d
set when he got cold, so we shoved
some heavy slabs on top and left him.
As I had to go to the inquest next day,
the sergeant asked me to show the
body. The jury all come in, and wos.
a waiting to see old Jerry. ‘ Look
sharp, old man,’ says the foreman,
who was a master lumper ; ‘we want
to get away !’ ‘ All right, sir!’
says I; and I off with the slabs,
and up came Jerry all sitting as
like hisself as ever you see ! The
foreman he bolted one way, and the
jury another, and if that dead house
didn’t clear, you bet your boots !
If you’d a seen it you’d a died a
laughing. I well nigh ‘ bust ’! ”
“ By Jove,” said I “old man ! of all
the strange notions of a joke I ever
met with, these of your’s beat the lot!”
And what did you do pray ? ”
“Me?” said the “Old Bird,” “I
stopped; but the jury never came
back—they’d seen enough, I reckon,
and then I got him in again as well
as I could and put about two dozen
screws in the lid, the coffin cracked as
we lowered him down and I couldn’t


help laughing when pa’ason was
reading, at thinking how he’d ha run
had the lid bust and old Jerry jumped
up agin.” At the recollecti©n of this
ghastly joke, the old man grinned
more horribly than ever, and plied the
pitch brush with renewed vigour.
Isot desiring any more anecdotes of a
mortuary character, I turned the
subject more in a business direction.
I am afraid the old man was not over
and above a reliable authority, but if one
half of what he said be true, our dear
brothers and sisters who are buried at
the public expense, are put under-
ground with bare decency. “We opens a
grave,” said the “Old Bird,” “and put’s
in say half a dozen all o’ one religion,
and then we tells pa’ason, and he reads
over the lot. The smell was uncom-
com bad sometimes in the old ceme-
teries, but it ’aint quite so in the new.
The old places got so full they used to
bore down to see whether the ground
would stand opening again, and not
over and above nice some o’ these
gravediggers wos I can tell you. They
packed ’em that thick till there was
hardly any earth in the graves at all.
Some cove did make a row about
Camperdown, but he only got half hold
o’the stick.” The “Old Bird” could
not say much about the profits of the
undertaking business. He knew the
coffins did not cost a third of what was
charged for them; but then there was
so many men to keep, horses to pro-
vide, trappings, coaches, and one thing
or another that he said “it was sunk
money,” and besides, he added, “trade
wasn’t regular. ” He had nothing to
do with the “ornamental” department,
but merely “the paupers,” and Springs
and Autumns, he said, gave plenty of
work in the ’sylums.
I saw the “ Old Bird ” repeatedly
for some years after my first acquain-
tance with him, and introduced him
to a brother journalist, who rather
prided himself on collecting historiesjjof
“old hands. ” He confided tome that he
had obtained some very curious informa-
tion from the “Old Bird” at the cost of
some considerable number of pints of
rum, which he considered a cheap pur-
chase ; but in a moment of unguarded
inebriety, the “Old Bird” quite as
confidentially informed me that he had
been visited “by a newspaper cove,
who he had stuffed like a
turkey ! ” I need hardly say that I
warned my friend against putting too
much faith in the “ Old Bird’s” nar-
ratives, and the production of his
notes very soon revealed the fact that
the “ Old Bird ” had uttered the most
atrocious libels upon sundry of the
oldest inhabitants in the land and of
unimpeachable respectability, like a
good many other “old hands” do, I am
sorry to say. The explosion of my
friend’s wrath did not come all at
once, for happening to attend the
Police Court, he saw the “ Old Bird ”
arraigned for something like the
one hundred and fiftieth time for
drunkenness ; and when a sergeant,
of wonderful memory, had pointed
out to the Bench that the sins of the
“Old Bird” nearly “numbered the
hairs on his head,” the latter not only
gave the sergeant the lie, but picked
out my friend, to his great amaze-
ment, as a valued personal acquaint-
ance, and called upon him, “as a
man,” to resent the calumny. lam
afraid the “ Old Bird ” -was an exceed-
ingly “bad hat,” and hence I give
these reminiscences of him, asking no
one to believe them. As I have stated,
the ‘ ‘ Old Bird ” was drowned : and I
think he must have been so accident-
ally, for his repugnance to water,
either applied internally or externally,
was manifestly so great that he was
the last man to go near it if he could
help. He belonged to a race, happily
for us all, rapidly becoming extinct,
being the nearest approach to the poet
Horace’s nomenclature, in all its ful-
ness, profanum vulgus.
Sold.— Do you keep nails here? asked
a sleepy looking lad of the gentlemanly
proprietor of a hardware store. “ Yes,
my lad, all kinds of nails.” “Well,”
said the boy, edging off for the door, “ do
me up a pound of finger nails and two
pounds and a quarter of toe nails.”


POOR TIM'S MISHAP.
BY “ISABEL.”
“ My love,” said mamma, as I paused
on the threshold of the door to bid her
good-bye ere I started for my morning’s
walk.
“ Yes, mamma!”
“ I may not be here when you return,
so I want you to promise that you will go
to your studies directly you come home.”
Having made a little grimace for the
private edification of my sister Edith, I
promised compliance, and departed for
Lady Macquarie’s Chair.
It was very early, and but few people
were abroad, a fact which afforded me
much self congratulation, I having dis-
covered that there was a most disrepu-
table-looking rent in my parasol.
I had reached the Chair, and comfort-
ably seated myself, when a cry of pain
made me spring to my feet and hurry
down to the beach whence it proceeded.
On a rock close to the water’s edge
stood several barefooted children, and
one of them, a little girl, was sobbing
piteously.
“ He bited my finger nearly to the bone,
the nasty horrid feller,” were the first
words that met my ear, “ an’ I’ll never
love him no more.”
“ ’Cos why did you bite my sister,
Tim O’Connor?” demanded a small boy
with sandy hair, who was binding his
handkerchief, by no means a too clean
one, round the wounded finger.
Instead of replying, Tim O’Connor
whistled “ Tommy, make way for your
uncle,” and hopped on one foot along
the slippery rock.
“ You’ll fall over into the water pre-
sently, and serve you right, too,” asserted
the little one with the “ bited finger,” as
she watched this proceeding.
Scarcely had the words left her lips
when Tim, after a frantic but, alas, futile
effort to recover his equilibrium, fell head
foremost into the sea.
He scrambled out again almost imme-
diately, looking, however, none the better
for his impromptu bath.
His clothes were drenched, his hair
saturated, and his hat, which had fallen
off, had become converted into a basin,
and was brim full of water.
But Tim was equal to the occasion :
clapping his hat once more on his head,
he thrust his hands into his pockets,
whistled the latter bar of “ Tommy, make
way,” &c., and looked supremely uncon-
cerned.
But his whole appearance was so ludi-
crous that, after a heroic but vain attempt
to maintain my gravity, I began to titter.
The girl with the “ bited finger ” fol-
lowed suit, and the small boy burst into
a little chuckle, which speedily became a
roar of laughter.
“You’ll catch it when you get home,
Tim,” the latter pleasantly observed, when
he had recovered sufficiently to speak,
“you’ve spoilt your new coat entirely.”
“ Will Mrs. O’Connor be very angry
with him for having done so, then?” I
enquired.
“ Angry ? My ! won’t she, though ?
Why, that coat o’ his cost four and six-
pence ! and Mrs. O’Connor bought it for
him herself— herself, mind you. She did,
’pon honour. ”
“ She bought it for him herself, added
the small boy, who apparently fancied
he should have some difficulty in con-
vincing me of the fact.
Whether it is an unusual thing for
Mrs. O’Connor to purchase a coat for
her hopeful son, I don’t know, but, to
judge from the small boy’s manner it
would appear so.
But Tim ! Well, Tim, after having
informed the small boy that “if he didn’t
shut up, it ’ud be the worse for him,”
showed a disposition to withdraw the
“ light of his countenance,” and took his
departure.
Poor Tim ! I wonder if he “ c tched
it I”
COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
ANSWERS TO CHARADES IN NO. 5.
1. Greenwood.
2 Fitzpatrick.
Charades.
My first’s a bird ; my second’s a letter
my whole’s a game.
ON A POSTAL “CARD.”
Gentlest of things my first is reckoned
Young, frolic, toothsome: while my second
With letters three denominates
The heaviest of British weights.
My gentle whole we estimate
As at his post a man of weight,
Who, also, merits from his debtors*
Much higher praise as man of letters.
S.
*Thr general public.


Conundrums.
In what key would a lover write a pro-
posal of marriage ?
Why is flirtation like plate powder ?
When may a person in company with
another be said to be by himself ?
A Lesson in Grammar.
What! verbs the hardest of grammar ?
They are hardly worth a thought ;
That is—pray note the exception—
If they are properly taught.
Theory confuses beginners:
Abstraction puzzles at best,
The way I begin is with practice :
Time will take care of the rest.
How I would teach conjugations,
Is something nearly like this :
“ I kiss, thou kissest ” —don’t start, dear !
Indicative plural— we kiss.”
Clearly to fix these examples,
Once more o’er the tense let us go,
“ I kiss —dear me ! how imprudent!
I kiss and you answer with ‘ Oh ! ’ ”
“Now just at the moment of action,
Present gives way to the past :
You kissed, and the verb is imperfect,
So short does the kissing act last.
If I kiss is present subjunctive,
I doubt if a kiss is my due ;
May I kiss I ask in potential,
You answer, imperative, ‘ Do.’
“ Pluperfect had has no int’rest,
Future with shall is for fools,
Perfect I have is prosaic,
While shall I have kissed doubts all rules.
I kiss, thou kissest, we kiss, dear,
Now as we sit seems so true
That I really think that the present
Is the best time for kissing- Don’t you ? ”
— Harper's Monthly.
Nursery Bhymes Translated,
a solemn dirge.
Ding dong bell,
The cat is in the well.
Who put her in ?
Little Johnny Green.
What a naughty boy was that
To drown poor harmless Pussy Cat!
iEs sacrum sonet, ges moestum tonet I
Obiit in luteo Felis puteo.
Quis sic, mihi die, merserit illic ?
Quisnam hoc facinus ?—puer est Prasinus.
Proh cor durum, miserum puerum !
Proh ridiculum Johanniculum,
Immergere tarn felem immeritam !
H. D.
THE TELL-TALE.
I will tell my own daddy, when he comes
home,
What little good work my mammy has
done :
She has earnt a penny, spent a groat,
And a hole is torn in the baby’s new coat.
SYCOPHANTA.
Optimus ille domum redeat pater, omnia
dicam—
-0 pater, infelix accipe matris opus ;
Unumdemeruit, consumpsit quatuor asses,
Inque nova infantis veste foramen hiat!
H. D.
Nonsense Verses.
There was a young, lady of Darlinghurst,
Who of all her dumb pets ranked her
starling first,
She’d an owl and canary, and a hedgehog
called Mary,
That eccentric young lady of Darlinghurst.
There was a young man of Deniliquin,
Who when he was well soon got ill again.
Instead of good porter he drank tonic water,
Which upset that young man of Deniliquin
A Young Naturalist on Cats.
The feline race will, if you stroke their fur
With motion towards the tail, serenely
purr :
If roughly towards the head, it gives ’em
fits,
While loud the welkin rings with —Pitz !
Pitz ! ! Pitz !! !
BUNS.
Do children read the papers? is a
question one of our teachers has been for
some time pondering. Noticing that an
article giving an impressive scene in
Norway, where the sun never sets, was
circulating quite freely in the papers, she
hit upon it as a test case, Saturday. But
in the class of eleven boys who were
asked, “ Where does the sun never set ? ”
only one could give an answer. He said,
“ On a bench.”
+
A king street man’s name is so long
he can knock down apples with it.
The Happy mean—A joyful miser.
A sad dog—One who tarries long at his
whine.


THE MYSTERY OF WISE-
MAN’S FERRY ROAD.
Chapter IV.— Continued.
Tom’s position in the Reynolds family
was somewhat peculiar. He was not
exactly a servant, though he performed
the most menial offices if occasion re-
quired ; and he was not exactly a member
of the family, for there were times when
he was sent off to the kitchen for his
meals. He was occasionally ostler, occa-
sionally gardener, occasionally tout.
What gave him his locus standi , in the
eyes of Mrs. Reynolds, a good, motherly,
old woman, was that he had been Carrie’s
tutor, and had once been a gentleman.
Yes, the degraded old fellow had onoe
been a gentleman by virtue of the Sove-
reign’s commission, and had borne on
many a parade the colours of his King.
It was no such sentimental notion that
actuated Mr. William Reynolds in his
toleration of old Tom ; rather was it the
sternly practical one that the old man
knew more of his secrets than it would
be good for the general public to become
acquainted with. Moreover, Tom had his
uses. He was invaluable as a decoy to
bushmen bent on knocking down their
cheques; and he was a perfect mine of
hints on all matters relating to the in-
genious swindling of drunken customers.
It was to Tom that Reynolds owed the
idea of gently baking a moistened “pay
on demand ” book, an idea which for
years had been to him a source of consi-
derable profit. In the good old times,
when change was scarce, up-country
storekeepers and publicans were accus-
tomed to issue their own notes' of hand,
payable on demand, in lieu of notes,
gold, or silver. It struck Tom that good
brittle notes, one likely to go speedily
to pieces in the course of circulation,
would be hugely in favour of their
drawer, so having communicated the
“wrinkle” to Reynolds, the two crafty
villains invented a process by which
all notes of hands, signed “W. Rey-
nolds,” were rendered friable after a
moderate amount of handling. As they
were drawn for small amounts, and were
used for change in considerable quanti-
ties, their return to dust in the pockets of
fumbling topers was. as was said above, a
source of much profit to Reynolds.
After Tom had left him, Reynolds went
into his own parlour, off the bar, and
called for his daughter, the only person in
the world for whom he was capable of
doing an unselfish action ; and yet, when
you come to estimate it, even his love to
her was selfish. It took no form of real
kindness to her. There was in it no true
consideration for her welfare. He lavished
money upon her, because it gratified his
pride. He indulged her every whim, so
long as none of her whims ran counter to
his designs. Selfish as was his love for
her, it was the least selfish of his passions,
and was the only redeeming quality the
man possessed, so let him have full credit
for it.
Carrie Reynolds was a delicious little
brunette, with a great wealth of black,
curly hair. Her face was extremely
piquant, brimming over with that beaut€
du diable which the sensuous find so
alluring. Her large, black eyes were as
full of passionate expression as her ruddy
lips, her dimpled cheeks, and her charm-
ing little nose (severely Grecian—the only
thing severe about her) were suggestive of
that species of mad-cap frankishness
which the French denominate espieglerie.
Her figure, which was graceful, though
inclining to stoutness, gave one the notion
of a plump little partridge. She ran into
her father from the bar, where she had
been flirting with a handsome young
trooper in the most unrestrained fashion.
“ Well, dad, what is it ?”
“ I want you to tell your mother to see
that everything’s specially tip-top for
these Walton people; and tell her to go
in a docker for chicken broth for the
young fellow that’s sick, and all that kind
of thing. And Carrie, my love, when
you make up the bill tot it up stiff, my
girl. D’ye hear ?”
“ I hear, dad; and here goes for
mother!” And off she ran to Mrs. Rey-
nolds, who was helping the Chinaman
cook in the kitchen.
Mrs. Reynolds was a woman without
an idea beyond a passionate love for her
daughter, a cold kind of regard for her
husband, and the benevolent desire to
put something to eat into all empty sto-
machs. Swagmen on tramp swore by her
—at her hands they were always sure of
a “feed.” Strange to say, her stingy
husband never interfered with her. He
found it good policy to play off her good-
ness against his closeness. On his station
he could be as “ hungry ” as he liked


without it affecting his reputation as a
publican, so long as at the hostelry itself
his wife’s hospitality was unstinted. He
took care that, in the long run, he got
paid in full for his wife’s “ feeds,” which
he regarded in the light of sprats thrown
to catch mackerel.
Carrie having delivered her message
returned to the bar and the unfeminine task
of serving out drinks to men, the greater
part of whom were more than half intoxi-
cated, and whose language was a foul jar-
gon of oaths and obscenity. Not one whit
did Miss Carrie care: she resumed her
labour of love, the “ stringing on ” of
the young greenhorn from Sydney, who
fancied himself killing in his trooper’s
uniform.
Trooper Crofton ought by rights to have
been otherwhere than lounging over a bar
counter, making love to the landlord’s
pretty daughter ; but it wasn’t his fault
that he was not in the saddle, helping to
scour the country for the miscreants who
had robbed the gold escort, and whose
“ pals ” had stuck up the mail. The
fault rested with Mr. Inspector Neal, who,
while writing certain despatches in one of
the parlours, had ordered Crofton to re-
main about the place, an order which
Crofton found it very pleasant to obey.
The inspector’s task was a difficult one.
He had to reconcile truth with falsehood
in such a fashion as to make Captain
McLerie believe that Mr. Inspector Neal
wa- a brave and efficient officer. Facts
were rather against him, but he’s no hero
who cannot force circumstances—in a re-
port ! Neal had been specially sent into
the district to prevent what had happened,
the robbery of the Branding Yard escort.
The Stormalong gang had given so much
trouble that the authorities had deter-
mined upon putting it down, if they
could. Neal, with a strong possp of men,
had received instructions to spare no
effort in carrying out these intentions,
yet how miserably he had failed ! There
was one point capable of being worked
up in his favour, and that was the deaths
of Mike Callaghan and Hamlin, but
against that there was his own hurried
retreat from the scene of action to be
accounted for. With Neal, however, the
pen was mightier than the sword, so he
felt equal to the occasion, especially when
he reflected that there was no accursed
special reporter likely to interview him
or his men in the interest of an Argus-
eyed press.
Captain Stormalong had completely
out-manoeuvred the inspector in the
matter of the escort robbery. The latter,
having been informed that Nanny Reid
(the old lady -who kept a “ shanty,” situate
some six miles from Reynolds’ on the
Mitta Mitta to Molesworth road) was a
bushranger’s “ telegraph,” had sent a crea-
ture in his pay to drop words there that the
ordinary mail, strongly escorted, would
bring the gold down from the Branding
Yard, instead of the regular escort wag-
gon. Hamlin had had these words re-
peated to him by the Reid girls, and had
so thoroughly believed there was some-
thing in them as to act upon them, in
distinct disobedience of the orders of his
chief, who from “ information received”
had learned the mail would carry no trea-
sure. The mail started without the gold,
but accompanied by the inspector and
three troopers—Morgan, Rumford, and
Crofton. Crofton had been detached from
escort duty at Nanny Reid’s, and sent on
in advance to Reynolds, with a message,
and had so escaped the attack of Hamlin
and his three mates, which had occurred
a few minutes after his departure ; and
which the inspector, having got safely over
what he deemed the dangerous part of the
road, had not anticipated in the flat
between Reid’s and Reynolds’. The
police feint proved singularly unlucky, as
far as the escort was concerned; for the
four men in charge started with such con-
fidence that the bushranger’s attack
would be made upon the mail, and not on
them, that they took the most insufficient
precautions against attack. When about
five miles from Reynolds’, the tire having
come off unnoticed, the near front wheel
gave way, and necessitated the despatch
of one of the escort to the punt, to see if
a buggy, waggonette, or cart could be pro-
cured. At the very time when the party
was thus reduced in number, four bush-
rangers, armed to the teeth, appeared sud-
denly on the scene. Resistance was use-
less ; and with a discretion excusable
under the circumstances the escort
surrendered. The bushrangers tied the
troopers together and to a tree, divided
the spoil amongst them, and then retired
into the timber, having accomplished
their object without the least unpleasant-
Even in the view of this discomfiture
there was a ray of comfort for the Inspec-
tor. By condoning the carelessness of the
escort party he could secure their favour-


able evidence in his own behalf. What if
his horse did bolt with him ; was he to be
answerable for that, especially when he
had received a wound on his sword-arm
which had prevented him from regaining
command over his charger, until two or
three miles had been put between him and
the scene of the sticking up ?
As the inspector’s luck would have it»
Sergeant Barton had ridden over to the
punt from his station at Narragai, in the
ordinary course of district duty. Directly
upon his arrival at the hotel, the inspector
despatched him with the trooper who had
accompanied him to the scene of the
sticking up of the mail, with instructions
to act as he thought best under such
circumstances as might arise. On
Barton's return, a little while after the
arrival of the coach with the passengers
rescued by Caldecott’s gallantry and of
the Walton buggy, Neal, who was much
taken aback at the state of things as
revealed by the sergeant’s report, deter-
mined to make the best of a bad job.
He ordered Barton to make the necessary
arrangements for the inquests on the dead,
and to attend on the coroner, while he
himself went on with hi s official report
of the two “ affairs,” in which absolute
veracity was not so much studied as the
writer’s desire to stand well in the eye of
his chief. As soon as the report was
finished, the inspector despatched Crofton
with it to Molesworth. Besides the
official document he gave the young
trooper a second one, directed to the
editor of the Molesworth Chronicle con-
taining an account of the two stickings
up, in which the desperate, though unsuc-
cessful valour of Mr. Inspector Neal was
highly commended. A hint was also
given to Crofton that by a little judicious
colouring of the facts of the case, he
could materially promote the chances of
his own advancement.
By strict right, the inspector should
have warned the Narragai coroner that
his services were required, but it so
happened that that official and Mr. Neal
were on the worst possible terms As
the scene of the attack on the mail was a
few miles nearer to Mitta Mitta than to
Narragai (although in the Narragai
district), the inspector determined to
strain a point by sending for his very
good friend Tom Powys, the police
magistrate at Mitta Mitta, to hold a
magisterial inquiry. A trooper was
accordingly sent off in hot haste to
summon Mr. Powys.
Meanwhile, the coach passengers, Mr.
and Mrs. Cosgrove and Mr. Ross, had
been taking their ease at the inn, where,
finding themselves comfortable, they had
determined upon stopping until the
inquest was over. Miss Walton, worn out
with the excitement of the morning had
retired to rest in the room she shared
with Mrs. Cosgrove.
Caldecott, whose wound had been
carefully dressed by Mr. Hay, had fallen
off to sleep, The old gentleman who had
taken up his quarters in the same room
watched beside him, for having taken a
sudden interest in the young fellow he
had met under such strange circum-
stances, he was determined upon seeing
him through his trouble. The bite which
Mike had inflicted upon Caldecott’s wrist
was a very nasty wound. The inflamma-
tion had run up the arm, and Mr. Hay
who had a practical knowledge of simple
surgery was a little alarmed at the
symptons.
Mr. Hay was a gentleman colonist of
the old stamp. Born of good Northum-
brian blood—hjs father was a cadet of
the Kinnoull branch of the Scottish Hays
—he had been intended for the army, but
the peace of 1815 having destroyed his
prospects in that direction, he had studied
the law in Edinburgh with his maternal
uncle, a writer to the signet, in extensive
practice. But law had no charms for
young David Hay, who was better read in
the stud-book than in the Institutes, and
who, like the Douglas, preferred to hear
the field mouse chirping without doors to
the tame one chirping within. Having
ample means at his disposal, he hunted
and shot, fished and yachted to his heart’s
content and the dismay of his uncle, who
could do nothing with him. On the death
of his father, swiftly followed by that of
his mother, Hay realised his patrimony
and immigrated to New South Wales.
His love of adventure, thorough know-
ledge of stock, and command of money
naturally led him to turn his attention to
squatting. As a pioneer squatter he did
great service to the land of his adoption.
Besides having a wonderful knack of
acquiring the confidence of the blacks,
he possessed an eye for country that be-
came proverbial for its accuracy. For
years he was most successful in his
undertakings. He formed stations, sold


them at a profit, and was making money
rapidly. In 1840, being engaged to be
married, he devoted all his capital to the
purchase of a station within the settled
districts which he intended to make his
home. On the night before the day
arranged for the wedding, his betrothed
was killed in falling from her horse, and
“ even when she fell, the curse had fallen”
on poor David Hay, who from that time
was a broken man. He became careless.
Overseers robbed him. A reckless hos-
pitality wasted his means. Drought came
to wind up his estate, and did it in so
effectual a way that by 1850 he was a
ruined man, bereft of everything except
the love of his friends and the sweetest
disposition that ever God blessed a human
soul with. It was in the last-mentioned
year that Hay went to live with Mr. Ezra
Walton, of Uralmindry, really as friend
and counsellor, nominally as general
superintendent of his large squattages.
Towards evening, when the great heat
of the day had somewhat abated, Mr.
Walton went into Caldecott’s room, and
finding him awake, offered him his cor-
dial thanks for the service he had rendered
his daughter.
“ My friend, Hay, tells me your name
is Caldecott ? ”
“ Yes,” said George.
“Well, Mr. Caldecott, I shall be delighted
to have you over at my place as soon as
ever the inquest is over. The attendance
of my daughter, I find, can be dispensed
with—so the inspector says at least, and I
intend to drive her home the first thing
in the morning. You can come on with
Mr. Hay, and when at Uralmindry I hope
to be able to show you how highly I
appreciate your gallant conduct. I won’t
trouble you with talking more now. Hay
will see to you ; he is the best nurse in
the world, and rather likes a man to be
sick that he may have the pleasure of
doctoring him. Eh! David ?”
Hay protested against this with a shake
of his head.
“Well, be it so ! take care of Mr. Cal-
decott, and bring him out safe as soon as
you can.”
“ I hardly think I can accept your in-
vitation ’’—said Caldecott, reflecting that
even if his swag was found again that it
did not contain apparel suitable for a visit
to a place like Uralmindry, the home of a
“ well-tochered ” young damsel like Miss
Walton.
“ I will take no denial. Give me your
hand on it.”
A silent grasp ratified the arrangement,
and Ezra Walton left the room, murmur-
ing to himself, “ My God ! My God ! her
very face; the same eyes and lips! It
must be her son! Well, God is very
good! ”
Chapter Y.
But I remain’d ; whose hopes were dim,
Whose life, whose thoughts were little worth,
To wander on a darken’d earth
Where all things round me breathed of him.
George Caldecott was the only son of a
distinguished general officer, who during
a lengthened Indian experience had
acquired no small degree of both fame
and fortune. Unfortunately for his son,
General Caldecott had perished at
Sobraon ; and so the hero of this story
had lacked a father’s control from his
early boyhood. His mother, much against
her will, but in conformity with the last
wishes of her husband, had her only
child educated for the military profession.
As a gentleman cadet at' Sandhurst, the
youngster failed to distinguish himself.
He just passed the final examination, and
when he joined the sth Battalion of the
Rifle Brigade it was with the deliberate
purpose of enjoying life in a crack
regiment and without the faintest suspi-
cion of any intention to put his technical
military knowledge (such as it was) to
use, as a means of advancement in the
service. An old friend of his father’s
offered him a staff appointment, but he
declined with thanks, under the impression
that it would prove a “ bore,” his father’s
friend being a lieutenant-general with a
scientific hobby, which he expected hi s
aides to ride quite as often as he did
himself. Besides, the lieutenant-general
had daughters ranging from plain to
ugly; moreover, Caldecott had money -
The thing was not to be thought of.
As all men know, the Light Division did
right good service in the Crimea ; and as
one of the commissioned units of that
gallant corps d'armee , George Caldecott
did his share of the work. Rather more
than his share, since, escaping wounds
and possessing the constitution of a horse,
he never missed a day’s duty from the
hour he landed at Old Fort to the happy
moment in May, 1856, when, on “ urgent
private affairs,” he obtained a three
months’ leave of absence. Those three


months, which were chiefly spent in Paris
—in dissipation, and the wildest extrava-
gance—were the small beginnings of
times of financial difficulty, destined some
year or so later on in his career to
necessitate his selling out. Even the
time taken by England in suppressing the
Indian Mutiny was not of sufficient
duration to wean Caldecott from the
attachment which he had formed for a
French adventuress of the worst stamp,
whom he had met one fatal evening at
Wiesbaden. Directly affairs in Bengal were
sufficiently settled to justify his asking for
leave, he hurried off to Paris—to scatter
in a few months of mad folly the fortune
left him by his father—to well nigh its
last shilling.
A bill transaction with an “ exquisite ”
guardsman was the “ last straw ” which
finished poor Caldecott. He endorsed a
promissory note for Dandy De Yismes for
a “ thou.” De Yismes negotiated the
paper, thereby raising the needful for an
elopement with Coralie, his friend’s
mistress! The happy pair levanted to
Bucharest, leaving Caldecott to curse his
fate and meet the bill. As De Vismes’
papers were in before he went to Bou-
mania, and as the Horse Guards authori-
ties acquiesced in his wishes to retire
from Her Majesty’s service by the sale of
his commission, George, after consultation
with his brother officers, made up his
mind that honour did not compel him to
call out the scoundrel who had swindled
him. He, therefore, took the opportunity
for reflection which a cruel destiny thus
offered him to take stock of his position.
He found it desperately bad.
His mother was unable to help him.
There was nothing for it but to sell out,
and commence life anew. He, luckily,
found himself able to arrange for the pay-
ment of nearly all his liabilities ; and he
had taken the necessary steps for doing
so, when one morning he received a letter
from a celebrated bill-discounter, of
Savile Bow, requesting an interview.
The same afternoon George Caldecott
called upon Mr. Asher Hart, when the
following conversation took place, the
result of which exercised an important
influence on our hero’s future career.
(To be continued).
♦
Colonial Wedgewoods.—Timber split-
ters.
THE COMIC PAPERS.
Specimens of well known poems altered
to suit the advanced poetic taste in
which rhymes are neglected and metre
set at naught.
Specimen 1.
Night was coming on with considerable
rapidity,
As there proceeded thro’ an unimportant
Swiss hamlet
A young man who managed to carry,
in spite of the arctic severity of the
weather,
An ensign bearing the phenomenally
eccentric legend—
“ Keep on climbing up! ”
Specimen 2.
Under the umbrageous tree in the middle
of the village
The blacksmith’s forge may be found by
the stranger ;
The blacksmith, a person of herculean
frame,
Possesses, not unnaturally, hands in pro-
portion ;
And the biceps of his equally big
arms
Are as tough as cask hoops of an iron
description.
Specimen 3.
The young man who plays on the
sentimental banjo has enlisted in the
army;
And, unless he’s deserted, you’ll find him
with his regiment;
A sword big enough to be his father’s he
has strapped around him ;
And by the special pleasure of his
colonel he has also taken his banjo
into battle.
“ Land of Song ! ” he would have said ;
but the sergeant pounced on him for
talking in the ranks ;
And he would have added, under more
favourable circumstances,
“I will play to your praise on my banjo
presently.”
A REMARKABLE REMEDY.
A man in a neighbouring town having
heard that the ague could be cured by
crawling head first down the stairs when
the chill is coming on, tried it on Friday.


He felt the dreaded approach of the
shake, and dropping on his hands and
knees started down the front stairs. Just
as he started two old ladies came up on
the stoop to consult his wife in regard to
shipping seven hundred neck-ties to the
poor of New York, and it so happened
that the moment they opened the door
he lost his balance and came down upon
them like an avalanche with spokes in it,
and before they could even think of saving
themselves the enemy was among them,
and the next instant a horrible mixture
of humanity and cloth went revolving
across the sidewalk and into the street, tp
the unmixed astonishment of the neigh-
bours, and to the unconcealed disgust
of the participants. But it cured him.
LINES TO MY UMBRELLA..
Ah! what is that companion dumb,
That Autumn, Winter, Spring, or Sum-
Mer, I should always have? My um-
Berella!
But, ah ! too oft when shower-s come,
What is’t, as Yankees say, “ at hum ”
That I have left behind ? My um-
Berella!
What does too oft a loan become
To friends whose honesty is numb ?
(Friendship meets no return) —My um
Berella!
Henceforth, then, foul or fair, by gum !
Whether or no they hoist the “ drum,”
I’ll never part from thee, my um-
Berella!
Henceforth, too, I’ll my latest crumb,
My latest drop, my fortune’s sum,
Give to my friend—but not my um-
brella !
A near-sighted gentleman met an
acquaintance whom he saluted by name.
“ That ain’t my name,” protested the
other. “ That ain’t your name ? ” “Cer-
tainly not,” said the stranger. “ What’s
the reason it ain’t? ” demanded the near-
sighted gentleman, with a very severe
look. But not having prepared himself
for such a question the abashed stranger
slunk away without answering.
A GOSSIP WITH THE BOYS.
The cricket matches have doubtless
been with most of you the all absor-
bing topic of conversation during the
last few days, and the clever way in
which New South Wales (per force of
Sheridan’s brilliant play) pulled through
in the Intercolonial contest must have
gladdened your hearts, as we are bound
to confess it did ours. The Victorians
played a good game and lost—in a
manly fashion. Charles James Fox
used to say that the next greatest
pleasure to winning at hazard was
losing, and the records of the fast age
in which he lived tell us that he very
frequently enjoyed that “ second best”
delight. As, however, he enjoyed it
at his father’s expense, it is the less
difficult to understand the complacency
with which he would risk enormous
sums upon the turn of a die. There
is great truth in the remark of Mr.
Alexander Pope’s, “ I never knew any
man in my life who could not bear
another’s misfortunes perfectly like a
Christian.” \ye New South Welshmen
can bear the Victorian defeat with
singular equanimity. We can even go
so far as to say that they played
spendidly, that their defence was
grand, their trundling superb, their
fielding perfection. Praising them,
you see, in no way detracts from our
merit. Does it, now ? When the
British historian tells of the prodigies
of valour by which his victorious
countrymen won Hindostan at the
sword’s point, he generally takes pretty
good care to tell you what exceedingly
brave fellows were the Sikhs, Affghans,
Beloochees, and so on, that opposed
them. Perhaps you have remarked
this. To return, however, to the
Intercolonial match; it is now all over,
and we can, in the exuberance of our
complacency at winning, afford words
of praise for our opponents. But 0
boys ! what is to be said of those New
South Welshmen who, during the
match, ere Fate had declared to whom
she meant to award the crown, took
rude exception to the umpires’ rulings
when they were adverse to their side.
Those of you who were present on the new


ground—a very good one to our fancy—
must have witnessed,as we did, howafew
scurvy fellows—too many, though, for
the honour of the colony—jeered at
the umpires’ decisions, when given
against New South Wales, and made
the arduous duties of those gentlemen
intolerably onerous. This disposition
to suspect the integrity of umpires is
slowly on the increase ; and the reason
why it is on the increase is—as we
conceive—because in a certain set an
immense amount of gambling is made
to hinge on cricket. Now, we do hope
that you lads will do all you possibly
can, and you can do much, to check
this practice of criticising umpires in a
hostile tone during the continuance of
a match. The umpire should be sacred
as an ambassador. When his mission
is over, then criticise his action as
much as you like, and if you see reason
for it vote against his further employ-
ment in the same capacity. At the
late match it wasn’t the boys who be-
haved in the way we deprecate, but
bearded men who ought to have known
better ; and, therefore, you may per-
haps ask, why say anything to us about
it ? Well, we do so to point out the
bad form of the thing ; and to ask you,
who frequent the match grounds in
goodly numbers, to use your united
action in favour of the umpires ; to
accept their decisions, and to express
audible dissatisfaction at the conduct
of any one unmanly enough to gainsay
them. A clear field, no favour, and
the rigour of the game is all that the
true cricketer wants. The applause or
the jeers of the onlookers should be
for the splendid drive or the “ butter-
finger ” miss, by whomsoever made.
When the fiat, “ Out,” goes forth, the
cheers and counter cheers should be
for the well-placed ball or clever catch
that secured it, not for the umpire who
simply registers it; and in the moment
of supreme excitement, when nine
wickets have fallen, when the minutes
of the third day are fast running out,
when the board shews that yet some
six runs are a-wanting to make the tie,
be prepared to accept the “out” or
“not out,” as the decree of fate, the
roar of acclaim being for the
the decree, and not for the decree
itself. The rivalry between school and
school, between town and town, between
state and state, at the butts, or on the
river, or on the cricket-field, is fraught
with benefit to the race : it preserves
the patriot tone, while checking the
narrowness of provincialism ; but it
will be a bad day when the great national
sports shall have degenerated into
gambling wagers, when the whisper
that men tamper with their training to
sftit a “friend’s” betting book, shall
have swelled into a popular belief;
when the manly exercises which tend
to preserve the frame by developing its
energies, shall have been converted into
mere incentives of the auri sacra fames.
THE WAR NEWS.
The telegraphic intelligence flashed
from Europe this week indicates pro-
found disquietude in the political
world. Great Britain is steadily pre-
paring for war. On Wednesday even-
ing Mr. Gathorne Hardy informed the
House of Commons that the first
British Army Corps was in readiness to
take the field, and that the formation
of the second was being pushed on with
all possible despatch. The Austro-
Hungarian Government evidentlymean-
ing to support the views of the Eng-
lish Cabinet, intend asking for a war
vote of six millions sterling, and there
is scarcely a doubt of their request
being granted. Notwithstanding these
threatenings of war on the part of
England and Austria, we still hold
that the chances are in favour of a
lengthened truce. Russia has certainly
made terrible demands upon Turkey
as the conditions of peace ; yet she has
shown a desire to avoid irritating Eng-
land, which, considering the vacillating
conduct of the Beaconsfield councils, is
creditable to the advisers of the Czar.
She undertook not to occupy Gallipoli
after Lord Derby had intimated to the
Russian Ambassador in London that
the consequences of such a step would
certainly embroil the two Powers; and
she has also since withdrawn a demand


for the surrender of a portion of the
Turkish fleet. The peace conditions
cannot fairly be said to be absolutely
unreasonable. They display a perfectly
excusable determination on the part of
the Court of St. Petersburg to exact
from Turkey the most tangible and
material guarantees for future good
behaviour. They include the prohibi-
tion of the Dardanelles to all war ships,
and a war indemnity of fourteen thou-
sand millions of roubles. To cover the
war indemnity Turkey is required to
cede the cities of Kars, Batoum,
Bayazid, and Ardahan, besides all
Asiatic territory now in the occupation
of the Russians ; and also, as further
security, to give bonds chargeable to a
sinking fund, the interest on which is
to be guaranteed by Bulgarian and
Egyptian tributes to the Sublime
Porte.
It is quite possible that, as Russia
withdrew her demand for a cession of
part of the Turkish fleet, she may also
be disposed to waive the demand for
any hypothecation of Egyptian tribute
in her favour. If she does do so, it
will display an honourable desire for
peace, though we much fear that
English Conservatism will attribute it
to fear through Lord Beaconsfield’s
hectoring. If matters are tided over
until the 7th or Bth instant (when, it
is said, the Conference is really to
meet), there is every reason to expect
a temporary pacific settlement. The
danger is, of Lord Beaconsfield, backed
by a London mob, precipitating war
to gratify his consuming passion for
notoriety. Lord Lyons has been
named as the representative of Eng-
land at the approaching Conference.
He is a thoroughly capable man, and
is not likely to jeopardise a high repu-
tation to gratify the whims of the Pre-
mier, who, it is rumoured, represents
with fatal success the whims of a still
more exalted person. Lord Lyons
will represent England and no party—
else we are much mistaken ; and Lord
Derby’s sagacity is discernible in the
selection of so competent a representa-
tive. We attribute the delay in the
signing of the treaty of peace to the
fact of a special Turkish mission hav-
ing been sent to St. Petersburg, in
order to obtain a modification of the
terms of peace, the Sultan possibly
thinking that the Czar might be in-
clined to exercise his personal influence
in favour of an enemy so completely
at his mercy.
It is stated on the authority of
an English ministerial organ that in
the event of the first Army Corps
being despatched to the East, Lord
Napier of Magdala will assume the
chief command, with Garnet Wolseley,
of Abyssinian fame, as his chief of the
staff. No better selections could pos-
sibly be made, except that Robert
Napier is a very old man. In the
above observations we have endea-
voured to reconcile the conflicting
items of the news as actually wired.
There are doubtless many who see in
the delays interposed by Russia to the
signing of the treaty of peace nothing
but a design to involve the Powers in
a general war. We are not of that
number ; and are inclined to judge
Russia rather by what she has done
than by what her numerous “ kind
friends” and “ candid critics” assume
she is likely to do. It is unfortunate,
perhaps, that she keeps the full terms
of peace secret, as it affords opportu-
nities for the propagation of any
amount of diplomatic lying.
FUSILIER.
TOWN GOSSIP.
The Political Reform League met again
last week, and selected for the subject
of their deliberation the £SOOO vote for
prospecting. There were eighteen
persons present, and it is satisfactory
to learn that from that small number
three distinct ideas on the subject
emanated. What the ideas were we
are not informed ; but it is a great
thing to get three distinct ideas on any
subject; and, as the meeting adjourned
for a fortnight in order to allow time
for each of the eighteen to furnish a
written proposition, there is a prospect
that fifty-four ideas more or less dis-


tinct, will be submitted to the League
at their next meeting.
Says the Talmud— “ He who has
lent money should try not to meet him
to whom he has lent it.” Little Abed-
nego of the Blank Street Discount
Office, swears the Talmudic text has
got awfully “ mixed up and declares
that there are more nots in it than
there should be. Though he doesn’t
profess to be a scholar, he holds that,
in interpretation, common - sense
should be employed to reconcile abstru-
seness in the text; for “whothe devil,”
asks he, “ ever heard —out of the
Talmud —of such an unbusiness-like
sentiment.” From the mere business
standpoint Abednego may be right ;
and yet certain recent proceedings in
the courts seem to us to point to the
conclusion that excessive usury ought
to be put down in the interests of
public justice. A line should be drawn
somewhere—say at 100 per cent, per
annum, when the security is only
moderately good !
The other day a barrister, while
engaged in pleading the cause of an un-
fortunate client, put a number of ques-
tions to a witness of such an irrelevant
character, that there was no account-
ing for them, except on the plea of
nisi piius. To nearly every one of
these questions the learned and youth-
ful counsel retained by the opposite
side raised an objection ; and the ob-
jection was generally ruled by his
Honor to be fatal. Irritated by the
continual repetition by his learned bro-
ther of the words “ I object,” the barris-
ter rose in wrath to remonstrate, and in
doing so trod on the tail of a dog lying
under the table. Yow ow, ow, cried
the injured animal. “ Another objec-
tion from my learned friend,” said the
examining counsel. It is needless to
say that this objection also was fatal—
to the gravity of the court.
The subjoined piece of dramatic
criticism (?) we clip from the Evening
News —
“ That there are one or two shortcomings
noticeable in Mr. Creswick’s Hamlet must be ad-
mitted, as for instance, in the play scene, where
he is, in our opinion, too impatient to catch the
expression of the King’s face; and again, in the
soliloquy, exception can be fairly taken to the
reading of the passage — 4 From whose bourne no
traveller returns.’ Mr. Creswick emphasises the
word 4 traveller,' thus conveying the absurd im-
pression that it is only travellers who never return,
whereas the term 4 traveller ’ is employed to denote
all who ‘shuffle off this mortal coil.’ The em-
phasis should, therefore, obviously, be placed upon
the word * no.’ These imperfections are not lost
in the general blaze of excellence of the whole im-
personation. Trifling as they are, they stand out
all the more prominently because the character as
a whole is so well pourtrayed, just as the slightest
blemish would be more perceptible in a work of
art of a superior character.”
What can be said of such drivelling ?
The opinion of such a critic with regard
to the degree of impatience that the
face of the player acting the Prince of
Denmark ought to express is nothing
worth, because the fellow is simply a
fool—a fact we gather from his remarks
anent the emphasis placed by Mr.
Creswick on the word “ traveller ” in
the given quotation. Why didn’t this
wonderful creature give us the statu-
tory definition of traveller ? Why did
he pick out “no” for emphasis ? An
we were Creswick, we should feel aw-
fully inclined to place the emphasis on
the critic’s nose, by way of reminder
that a cobbler should stick to his last.
To paraphrase a remark of Desdemona
“ What would such a scribbler write of
Creswick, if he should take to praise
him?”
A thorough revolution is likely to
take place in connection with Parlia-
mentary reporting by the use of the
telephone, which we understand has
recently been introduced into the office
of the Melbourne Argus. Hon. mem-
bers will now have an opportunity of
whispering soft nothings into the ear
of the editor of the leading journal as
he sits in his sanctum. But we will
defy the instrument to reproduce,
under the most favourable circum-
stances, some of the scenes which take
place when debates wax warm and
members irate. We shall watch the
experiment with great interest.
On Tuesday an opportunity was
afforded to the new Attorney-General
of showing his mettle as leader in a
great criminal case : and it is not too
much to say that he made a mess of it.
His opening address to the jury in the
prosecution of the alleged will-forgers


was the dreariest piece of prosaic
utterance ever delivered by wearer of
silk and horsehair. And it was not
merely prose, but unintelligible prose.
The two wills got mixed up in Mr.
Foster’s speech to such a degree that
the jurors must have had hard work to
arrive at any conclusions as to what
he was driving at. He stated this and
then restated it, then that and contra-
dicted it; and, so to speak, tied him-
self in inextricable knots. The Chief
Jnstice yawned. Mr. Dailey yawned.
Mr. Simpson yawned ; and even Mr.
Windeyer (who ought to have sym-
pathy for a proser) yawned. The
jurors were all yawn. The fusty,
seedy public who haunt the court, and
who had come in extra nnmbers ex-
pecting a sensation, looked dismally
disappointed. One solitary J.P. on
the bench tried to appear inte-
rested, but looked as if he was in
great need of a soda-and-B. The only
fun was when Mr. Foster got hold of
the word ‘ ‘ corroborative,” which he
did a good many times. He made the
most of that word ! Like a hen with
a large worm, he metaphorically ran
frantically about with it, evidently in
dread lest Mr. Simpson. Mr. Dailey,
or Mr. Windeyer should get it from
him. And then his urs! they were
too terrible—oh, Mr. Foster !
Pray when you stick in conversation’s burrs,
Don’t strew your pathways with those dreadful
urs
We heard an eminent judge remark?
the other day, that crime and litiga-
tion were sadly on the increase, and
that, as he thought, the boasted pros-
perity of the colony was only skin
deep. The corps of the “ devil’s own ”
is a large one, it receives numerous ac-
cessions to its ranks every succeeding
term, and every mother’s son of them,
from the tip-top conveyancer down to
the police-court jackal, manages to eke
out an uncommonly good living. We
are not bloodthirsty, yet would cheer-
fully give our vote for the annual deci-
mation (say by battue, as good practice
for the volunteers) of the lawyers,
who, being in excess of the natural
demand for such cattle, are, by an in-
evitable law of political economy, com-
pelled in self-defence to create an
artificial demand for their services,
which the least prosperous and most un-
scrupulous of their number do to much
purpose, by working up points quite out-
side the question that may be at issue,
and so setting honest folk by the ears.
As much money is spent annually on
aimless, unsatisfactory litigation, as
would build a high-level bridge to the
North Shore, lay down tramways in
every street in the city, and purchase
a clock for the pediment of the Red-
fern railway station ! Some day (the
auspicious day of the Hellenic kalends)
we shall wake up to the fact that tri-
bunals of conciliation cut the ground
from under the lawyers’ feet, secure
cheap and swift justice, and, especially
in commercial cases, do their work with
one blow—no after-claps, no rules nisi,
no endless appeals ; and having awoke
to this fact, we shall very possibly (as
is too frequently our wont) go to sleep
again, charmed off by somniferous lul-
laby of “ Sleep, gentle creature, sleep,”
crooned in our too willing ears by
wizard chorus of Quirks, Gammons,
and Snaps !
Mr. Greenwood’s amendment on
Mr. McElhone’s motion, in re land
agents in particular, and the land office
in general, was characterised by a
bland vagueness and diffusive indefi-
niteness which amply evidence the
pains he has lately been taking to
qualify as the coming man. To have
got a deliberative Assembly, represent-
ing a colony which for years has been
languishing under a feeble, semi-
corrupt, get-at-able land administra-
tion to assert the matter-of-fact truism
that u some arrangemehts should be
made in the administration of the
Lands Department for the more speedy
dispatch of public business,” was a
feat worthy of a master of circum
locution. Mr. McElhone’s second re-
solution suggested a remedy of a defi-
nite character. There was danger of its
being carried, to the confusion of land
agents, when who but facile and adroit
Mr. Greenwood should step in, quite
deus ex machina like, with his so-called


amendment, which contained about as
much amending virtue as the tenth
power of nil. The public have for
years yearned for “some arrange-
ment ” by which the Augean stable of
the colony should be cleansed. The
press have clamoured for it for years.
Would-be statesmen for years have
promised it. Political crises have
turned upon the fact that the Lands
Office was—wdiat it still is. And then
when a rough outspoken fellow like
John McElhone actually proposes a
definite remedy for the sick depart-
ment, he is met by a patent truism to
the effect that the department is sick,
and that something ought to be done*
Mr. Greenwood, frantic with tooth-
ache, rushes off to Dr. Salibeerio, and
remedial treatment at that eminent
dentist’s forceps. Would it restore
ease to Mr. Greenwood’s nerves to be
told that it was really a bad case, that
his pet molar was honeycombed with
decay, that his gums were terribly in-
flamed, that some arrangement, oh
dear yes ! should certainly be made,
so that perhaps it would be as well if
he called again some other time, say
that day six months, when he had
nothing particular to do ? In the
meanwhile, there might be no harm
in seeking to compose the nerves by
-studying tw r o healthy aphorisms, viz.,
rest and be thankful, and grin and
bear it!
“MORE COPY.”
AN EDITOR’S PLAINT.
Once in Autumn, wet and dreary, sat
this writer, weak and weary, pondering
o’er a memorandum book of items used
before (book of scrawling head-notes,
rather ; items taking days to gather them,
in hot and sultry weather, using up
much time and leather) —pondered we
those items o’er. While we conned
them, slowly rocking (through our mind
queer notions flocking), came a quick and
nervous knocking—knocking at the
sanctum door. “ Sure that must be
Jinks,” we muttered—“ Jinks that’s
knocking at our door—Jinks, the ever-
lasting bore.”
Ah, how well do we remind us, in the
walls which then confined us, the papers
that lay behind us, and before us, and
around us, all scattered o’er the floor.
Thought we, “Jinks he wants to borrow
some old papers for to-morrow, and ’twill
be relief from sorrow to get rid of Jinks,
the bore, by opening wide the door.”
Still the visitor kept knocking—knocking
louder than before. And the scattered
piles of papers mudly cut some curious
capers, being lifted by a breeze coming
through another door; and we wished
(the wish was evil, for one deemed always
civil) that Jinks was at the devil, there to
stay to find his level—Jinks, the nerve-
unstringing bore!
Bracing up our patience firmer, then,
without, another murmur, “Mr. Jinks,”
said we, “your pardon, your forgiveness
we implore. But the fact is, we were
reading of some curious proceeding, and
thus it was, unheeding your loud knock-
ing there before—” here we opened wide
the door. But fancy now our feelings—
for it wasn’t Jinks the bore—Jinks,
nameless evermore ! But the form that
stood before us caused a trembling to
come o’er us, and memory quickly bore
us back again to days of yore—days when
“items” were in plenty, and where’er
this writer went he picked up interesting
items by the score. ’Twas the form of
him our “ devil,” in an attitude uncivil;
and he thrust his head within the open
door, with “ The printer’s out o’ copy,
sir, and says he wants some more.” Yes,
like Alexander, wanted more !
Now, this “ local ” had already walked
about till nearly dead ; he had sauntered
through the city till his feet were very
sore—walked through the street called
Market, and by-ways running off into the
portions of the town both public and
obscure ; had examined shop and cellar,
and had questioned every “ feller” whom
he met, from door to door, if anything
was stirring—any accident occurring— not
published hertofore—and had met with
no success; and he would rather guess,
he felt a little wicked at that ugly little
bore, with the message from the printer
that he wanted “ something more.”
“Now, ’tis time you were departing,
you sad scamp!” cried we, upstarting;
“ get you back into the office—office
where you were before, or the words that
you have spoken will soon get your bones all
broken,” (and we seized a cudgel, oaken,


that was lying on the floor), “ take your
hands out of your pockets and leave the
sanctum door ; tell the printer there’s no
copy, you ugly little bore ! ” Quoth the
devil, “ send him more ! ”
And our devil, never sitting, still is
flitting, still is flitting to and fro upon
the landing just outside the sanctum door.
Tears adown his cheeks are streaming
strange light from his eye is beaming—
and his voice is heard, still screaming,
“ Sir, the printer wants some more ! ”
And our soul, pierced with that scream-
ing, is awakened from its dreaming,
and has lost the peaceful feeling that we
ever had before ; for the fanoy will come
o’er us, that each reader’s face before us
bears the horrid words—“ We want a little
more 1 ” —American Paper.
CONJUGAL DECEPTION.
A young lady, newly married, being under the necessity of shewing all her letters
to her husband, sent the following to one of her intimate friends:—
I cannot be satisfied, my dear Cousin,
unless I pour into your friendly bosom
the various sentiments which swell
my almost bursting heart. I tell you my dear
I have been married now seven weeks, and
repent the day that joined us. My husband is
ugly, cross, old, disagreeable, and jealous.
A wife, it is his maxim to treat as a
plaything or menial slave; the woman,
he says, ought to obey implicitly.
An ancient maiden aunt, near seventy,
lives in the house with us : she is the de-
vil to all the neighbourhood round.
I am convinced my husband loves nothing more
than the glass, and his intoxication
often makes me blush for the unworthy thing
the man whose name I bear. To
crown the whole, mv former love
is returned, and I might have had
mine. Adieu, may you be as blest as lam un-
happy.
blest as I am in all respects
which has ever beer! in unison with mine
with the liveliest emotion of pleasure
husband is the most amiable of men.
have never found the least reason to
far in person and manners, unlike those
monsters who think of confining to secure
companion and friend, not as a
of his free choice, and neither party,
but each yield to the other by turns,
a cheerful, amiable, old woman
light of both young and old. She is ci-
generous and charitable to the poor,
than he does me. He flatters me more
for so I must call the excess of his love,
its object, and wish I could be more deserving
say all in one word, and so
is now my indulgent husband, and my fondness
a prince without the felicity I find in
able to wish you more I am
Your affectionate friend,
REBECCA SLY.
Two little magpies sat on a rail,
(As it might be Wednesday week),
When one little magpie wagged its tail
In the other little magpie’s beak.
Then doubling up his little claw hand,
Says he, “ Upon my word,
’Tis more than flesh and blood can stand,
Of magpie or any other bird.”
So they pecked and they clawed
At each other’s little eyes,
Till all that was left on the rail
Was the beak of one little magpie,
And the other little magpie’s tail.
LINES TO THE BIED OF FREEDOM.
All hail the American aigle
Proud bird of freedom, all hail
The fool that no one can enwaigle,
Or put salt on his beautiful tail.
On dit that yesterday the umbrella
makers gave thanks and prayed with tre-
mendous unction. The up-country water-
carriers, however, are not so grateful as
they ought to be.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Help Hope. —Too late for this week.
Grip. —We shall be glad to receive a
sketch or tale from you instead of an
essay.
W. G. B. and Tourist. —Declined
with thanks.
Hydrophobia. —Drink sweet oil mixed
with horse-radish and you may be
bitten by mad dogs with impunity,
at least so says an old herbal. We
would advise you to keep out of the
mad dog’s way ; prevention is better
than cure.
Enid. —ldyl is sometimes pronounced
with the i short, as in “ idiot.”
This is idiotic ; it should be pro-
nounced with the i long as in “ idle.”
Dubbo. —Mr. Bravo died from the
effects of tartar emetic on April 21,
1876. The cororner’s jury found
“ That there was not sufficient
evidence to fix the guilt upon any
person or persons.”


df
SYDNEY.
Railway Terminus L. Walton
George-street
f G. Hill
E. Turner
H. Hains
< W. Maddock
I E. R. Cole
I C. T. Sandon
J. J. Moore
Hunter-street .. Turner and Henderson
Pitt-street S. A. Kirby
King-street .. G. Wallace
William-street .. F. Pearce
Oxford-street...
Spragg and Adams
Mrs. Abbott
Sussex-street
SUBURBS.
Newtown .. R. West and Cos.
Ashfield
Burwood
S. Leonards .. Deacon and Sons
Balmain.. .. R. H. Paisley
Woollahra ..
Parramatta ...
Manly Beach.. P. Jenkins
COUNTRY.
Armidale .. H. G. Mallam
Goulbum .. J. Walsh
Maitland ... C. W. Clarke
Orange .. .. R. Lessels and Son
Wagga Wagga E. D. Leyson
YaBs .. .. B. Weaver.
Agents wanted for other parts of the colony.
QUEENS COLLEGE, CROYDON.
Lady Principal: Mrs. H. H. DAWSON
(ASSISTED BY COMPETENT GOVERNESSES AND PROFESSORS).
N.8.-NO PUPIL TEACHERS
FOR Resident Pupils the College (which is most healthily situated) offers every
advantage Dormitories, well ventilated; Plunge Baths Airy Class-rooms, &c.
Ihe Principal has introduced the system now so universal in the leading educa-
tional establishments in Europe, of imparting knowledge in the higher classes by
means of Lectures, and has secured the services of able Professors.
There is a Special Class for the Preparation of Candidates for Sydney University
Examination, 1878, under the charge of a gentleman who has been successful in
preparing pupils for previous University Examinations. Pupils can join at any time.
A course of Lectures in Physiology (Laws of Health), Physics and Mechanics, by
a Prizeman (m science subjects) of University Coll., London, has been arranged for
during the school terms of 1878.
Young ladies, not students of the College, can attend these lectures.
Dady pupils have their railway fare deducted from terms
PI tf 6 Queen ’ 8 Colle S e is within thr ee minutes walk of the Croydon Railway


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“Sydney Once a Week.”— lt is aneat>
well-printed little pamphlet, containing
twenty-four pages of reading matter,
which consists of short original papers,
written in a light free style, and of a few
extracts from other publications. Its pur-
pose is to give its readers “a good six-
pennyworth of literary pabulum, com-
posed of ingredients at once sparkling,
amusing, and original, and so arranged as
to avoid a suspicion of dulness.” Taken
as a whole, the magazine, which is edited
by Mr. C. H Barlee, is a very creditable
production, as well to the publishers as to
the authors, and if conducted according
to the plan indicated in the few words
above quoted, it will be an acceptable
addition to our colonial literature.— S. M.
Herald.
The Echo says:—lt is a very readable
publication, and, while it cannot aspire to
rank as the equal of the most popular
English magazines, it deserves to find
favour on account of the local interest
which attaches to its papers. The original
papers, of which there are several, are
written in a light, easy style, and with
considerable ability. We should like to
see the magazine prove to be a success,
for the desirableness of building up a
respectable colonial literature will hardly
be denied by any one and the establish-
ment of a good magazine is one of the
means towards that end. The publishers.
Messrs. Gibbs, shallard, and Co., are
entitled to commendation for the admirable
way in which they have got up the
magazine.— Echo.
The New Magazine. —Sydney Once a
Week Magazine for Town and Country
Headers is the title of a new weekly, edited
by Mr. C. H. Barlee, issued from the
Sydney Press, which bids fair to secure a
good share of public support. Its moderate
price, its handiness, the entertaining
reading it affords, and the concise, pleas-
ing manner in which the various topics of
the day are touched in its columns, must
naturally render the Sydney Once a Week
a welcome visitor in every house, and an
agreeable companion to every reader. —
Southern Argus (Goulbum).
“Sydney Once a Week,” a magazine
bearing the above title, has made its ap-
pearance in our city. It is edited by Mr.
Barlee, formerly" a member of the
staff of the Melbourne Argus, and a
humourist of some note. The work con-
tains sketches, tales, and articles, along
with the usual miscellanea of a magazine.
Judging by the contents of the first num-
ber, we think the magazine stands a better
chance of succeeding than many of those
publications which are horn but to die,
and which, in some cases, are disgraceful
to the literary efforts of our city.—
Evening News.
The Singleton Argus says: —The number
is very readable, is well printed by Messrs.
Gibbs, Shallard, and Co., and contains a
varied selection of original and extract
matter. We wish the proprietor every
success with his venture, and trust that his
efforts will do something more substantial
to encourage a taste for colonial literature
than those of others who have trodden in
the same uncertain path, have succeeded
in doing. We hail with pleasure all re-
spectable efforts to establish a republic of
letters in this colony, which at present is
too much confined in its patronage to news-
paper literature only. Mr. Barlee’s venture
is the best effort in this direction that we
have seen for some time.
“ Once a Week.” —Under the title of
“ Sydnev Once a Week,” the first number
of a neatly got-up octavo of over thirty
pages has just been issued. It is edited by
Mr. C. H. Barlee, who is, we understand,
assisted by a numerous staff of able con-
tributors. < The contents of this new pub-
lication are varied and interesting—too
varied, in our opinion, for the space at the
disposal of the editor. If we may he per-
mitted to offer a suggestion with regard to
the future, we would recommend that
everything in the shape of “ news ” items
should be omitted. We heartily wish the
proprietors success in their undertaking,
and certainly are of opinion that the excel-
lence of “ Once a Week” well deserves it.
—Yass Courier.
The contents of the new venture give
promise of a deserved success, should it
ever be attained. There is an attractive
variety about the articles, and the tastes of
every class of readers are consulted. Thus
we have a trenchant article, short and
pithy, on the political status in quo , a couple
of spirited domestic sketches, some comic
matter, and some chapters especially in-
tended for boys Among the last is a
scholarly commentary on a passage from
| the “ Paradise Lost ’ ’—intended for the use
jof University candidates —a clever set of


recurrent verses in Latin and an enigma in
French. The grams and sphinx-like puzzles
which usually fill this department of our
current literature, and should commend the
production to parents. We hop 1 the new
organ will enjoy a longer term of existence
than some of .its predecessors. — Namoi In-
dependent.
This serial contains well written papers
and sketches, entitled “ The Public
Health.” “Muff Cricketing,” “Best Dog
in the colony,” and a general summary o,
the Russo-Turkish War. Altogether Once
a Week promises well; and without coun-
try readers (who will probably support it
best), the 170,000 residents of Svdney
should keep it going—but we doubt it.
The price is 6d., and the publishing office
279 George-street, Sydney.— Molong Ex-
press.
Once a Week. —This is the title of a new
pamphlet, edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, of
Sydney. We have received a copy and
were highly amused, as well as entertained
with the writings; there is such a versa-
tility about them that all must be pleased.
It is notified that a summary of the
events of the present war will be given
for the accommodation of its readers,
and so do away with the tedious task of
perusing the complications daily appear-
ing in our metropolitan journals. Among
numerous, articles, in various strains,
there is a very humorous writing, en-
titled “My Balloon Adventurebut to
our fancy, the most amusing is one called
“ The best dog in the colony.” There is
a very good article termed “Etcetera,”
which gives an abstract of the events of
the week, In next issue a story will he
commenced, under the impressive heading
of “ The Mystery of the Wiseman’s
Ferry Road.” It is a useful, handy little
book, and well worth patronage. The
price is sixpence.— The Australian.
The Tenterfeld Star says:—Besides
containing a large amount of current
news, it possesses the attraction of afford-
ing to its readers much useful and
scientific information, combined with well
written tales and humourous sketches,
and other entertaining matter. The price
is sixpence, and this moderate charge
should command for the magazine the
wide circulation which it justly deserves.
We heartily recommend the magazine
to our readers.— Grenfell Record.
The Moruya Examiner says: —We have
looked the hook carefully through and can
confidently recommend it to our readers
and predict its success.
The new candidate for public favour
contains a number of smartly written
original articles and some well-selected
extract matter. It is got up in good style,
and well printed, containing twenty-four
demy octavo pages. — Albury Banner.
The new publication is both instructive
and entertaining; it is deserving of a
good circulation. —Border Post (Albury).
The new publication is both well got
up and very readable.— Western Post
(Mudgce).
The Bathurst Free Press says: —It con-
tains a large quantity of interesting read-
ing matter—grave, gay, ponderous, and
light. The editorship is evidently in good
hands, and if the editor’s hopes are real-
ized the paper will take its place with
“ The pleasant books that silently among
Our household treasures take familiar places,
And are to us as if a living tongue
Spake from the printed leaves or pictured faces.’
For he makes his hold assertion: “We
shall do our best to force ourselves into
notice, and to compel attention.” Once
a Week is well worth the sixpence that is
charged for the single copy.
Another attempt has- been made to
establish a literary magazine in Sydney.
The new venture takes the title of the
Sydney “ Once a Week.” Its type dress
is admirable, hut then the printers are
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard. and Co. The
number before us very fairly sustains the
aim stated, and.we shall be glad to see the
magazine prosper. —Maitland Mercury.
It is very creditably got up and judging
from the matter which this number (No.
1) contains, it is a magazine that will no
doubt receive a large measure of support
among Australian readers.— Western Ex-
aminer (Orange).
The Murrurundi Times writes:—“The
contents have a varied range, and many
of the articles possess a degree of humour
and literary merit which will commend
them to the majority of our readers. We
shall he glad to find enough appreciat on
to support anything in the shape of smart
writing which has about it no unworthy
element.”


“ Sydney Once a Week ” —We have
received the first two numbers of a small
neatly got up magazine bearing the above
title, which, in view of its superiori y to
the majority of weekly publications lately
issued from the Sydney Press, we feel it
our honest duty to notice with approba-
tion. Its contents (those of the two issues
we have received) are not only well written,
but are for the most part original and
local. They comprise a great variety of
light and instructive reading matter, which
should commend Once a Week to public
favour. Politics, the public health, and
other grave matters are ably treated in its
leading columns. There are also well
written original humorous sketches—we
note specially “The Best Dog in the
Colony” and “My Balloon Adventure,” —
and a few happy clippings from comic ex-
changes ; a page of town gossip; and an
epitome of the week’s war news. Ad-
mirably written papers, entitled “ Gossip
with the Boys,” appear in each issue, and
are, it ks said, to be continued regularly.
The verses in the first number, entitled
“ An Australian Idyll” are very far above
the average of contributions to the “ poets’
comer.” It is an effecting story, well told.
After the custom of English magazine
conductors, the proprietors of Sydney
Once a Week offer prizes to successfu
competitors in the riddle arena. In the
second number appeared the prologue of
a story called ‘ ‘ The Mystery of Wiseman’s
Ferry,’’which is to beth z piece de resistance
in the way of serialromance. Once a Week
which is edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee, a
litterateur of lengthened colonial experi-
ence, and published by Messrs.. Gibbs,
Shallard, and Co., we can conscientiously
recommend as a weekly magazine, enter-
taining, instructive, and of high tone.
Those who have not seen this publication
should buy copies, and judge of its merits
for themselves. We are certain they will
endorse our opinion.— Cumberland Mer-
cury.
The Coonamble Independent says : —“ The
first number, which we have received, is
well and ably written —the best sketch, in
our opinion, being a very humourous one,
entitled the “Best Dog in the Colony.”
We wish the proprietor every success, as,
in our opinion, the publication, if well
conducted, will supply a want long felt in
Sydney, and add to the far too small stock
of Australian literature. We have every
confidence in recommending “ Once a
Week” to the favorable notice of our
readers/*
The Sydney “Once a Week ” —The
sixth number of this serial has just been
published. Its literary merits and general
get up are equal to those cf the first
number which we had occasion to notice
favorably. It contains a large amount of
instructive and light leading ; the original
articles are entertaining, and the contents
of the number generally are judiciously
varied. The “Mystery of Wiseman’s
Ferry Boad,” has reached the third chap-
ter. The interest of the story in no way
flags. The “War News” and “Town
Gossip ” are readable articles, and the
comic papers sparkle with humour. There
are several pieces of original poetry; and
two or three pages devoted to “ Columns
for young readers,” containing charades,
puzzles, &c. Altogether the number does
credit to editor and printer. — S. M. Herald.
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISING.
Spaces on the Cover (for Quarterly or Half-yearly Advertisements),
by arrangement.
Liberal dhcount allowed for Standing Advertisements.
