

SYDNEY
ONCE A WEEK.
EDITED BY C. H. BARLEE.
No. 22, V ol. I.]
JUNE 15, 1878.
[Price 6d.
CALENDAR.
Day of
MEMORANDA.
SUN.
High
Water
Month
Week.
Rises.
Sets.
Sydney
COVE
June
15
Sat
Full Moon 9.56 a.m. Magna Charta signed, ,1215.
7. 5
4.56
9. 5 a.m.
16
S
Thomas Campbell died, 1844.
Trinity Sunday. Norman Macleod died, 1872.
7. 5
4.56
9.44 am.
17
M
St. Allan. Mail via Torres Straits leaves Sydney.
7. 5
4.56
10.23 am.
18
Tu
Battle of Bunker's Hill, 1775.
Battle of Waterloo, 1815.
7. 5
4.56
11. 0 a.m.
19
W
Spurgeon born, 1834.
7. 6
4.56
11.34 am.
20
Th
Corpus Christi. Accession Queen Victoria, 1837.
7. 6
4.57
12.14 pm.
21
F
Mail via San Francisco leaves Sydney.
Mail via Torres Straits due Sydney.
7. 6
4.57
12.53 p.m.
AGENTS will oblige by forwarding returns immediately after receipt ot
accounts rendered from this office.
Remittances, if by P. O. Order, to be made payable to C. H. Barlee,
Sydney.
THE ONE HORSE CITY.
We shall feel obliged to our Subscribers by an
early intimation of any irregularity in the
delivery of weekly numbers, that it may at
once be rectified.
N.B. —Advertisements for ‘‘ SYDNEY ONCE A
WEEK” will be received up to ten o’clock on
Thursday morning.
No. 4.
In this the concluding article under
the above heading, we shall seek to
point out how the importance of a
journal does not depend upon its
size, but upon its power to lead ; and
to suggest tbe practical means by
wbicb a leading journal may be eco-
nomically established with fair hope
of a great success.
No greater mistake can be made
than to suppose that the much wanted
daily must be of the dimensions of
the S. M. Herald ; or that the capi-


tal required to start it must needs
amount to some fifty, seventy-five,
or hundred thousand pounds. Such
notions might not be preposterously
absurd were the want of the day a
second S. M. Herald. That, how-
ever, is by no means the want. To
argue by analogy: What European
general in his sober senses, if called
on to do battle with an oriental army
cumbered with its unwieldy sumpter
train and its crowd of non-combatant
menials, would dream of endeavour-
ing to match impedimenta against
impedimenta ? The paper that will
successfully occupy the vacant place
in metropolitan journalism will not,
of necessity, be a big one. To start
on an immense scale would be a huge
error. It would be to commit one’s-
self to lines of action from which
there would be difficulty in departing,
even should they be found utterly
incompatible with subsequent inten-
tions. Prudence suggests a com-
mencement on a small scale, not
necessarily on a niggardly one —on a
small, handy, and thoroughly efficient
one ; one capable (if circumstances
should justify the course, and as they
required,) of being extended in any
or every direction, to allow of
legitimate development and healthy
growth.
If a paper were merely wanted in
order that there might be the means
of fighting the S. M. Herald , of out-
rivalling it, of crowding it out, then
there might be some savour of com-
mon sense in the idea of not starting
unless upon a capital of a hundred
thousand pounds or so. But a jour-
nal of such a character as we have
just said is not the want. What is
actually wanted is a daily paper that
will act as a light and agile correc-
tive to the leviathan of Hunter
Street; will enact towards it the
part which a compact, well-led
minority in opposition enacts towards
an overgrown majority, kept together
by the conservative instincts begotten
of love of place. Verbatim reports
of parliamentary, or judicial, or
synodical proceedings, of tea or prayer
meetings, are not a sine qua non of
daily journalism. Accurate synopses
are. To provide these, a far higher
capacity is requisite than that of the
mere shorthand writer. A good
working staff, numerically small, but
kept well in hand by a controlling
master mind, is more likely to be in
a position to purvey its collected in-
telligence in an acceptable readable
form than an army of shorthand
reporters, who, paradoxically as it
may sound, by their very truthful-
ness of word and letter, wholly fail
(save, of course, in exceptional cases)
to be true in spirit to the task of
putting the public en rapport with
the day’s history. Even truth must
be focussed. A comparatively small
but accurately edited daily paper
would command confidence so long
as it foreshadowed measures and
events, advocated Liberal ideas in


clear outspoken language, exhaustive-
ly collected and then systematically
distributed news, unveiled the secrets
affecting the public weal that vested
interest would carefully screen from
vulgar gaze—so long, in fact, as it
sought to do for the people what in
London the Daily Telegraph or Pall
Mall Gazette have done, as dailies,
or the Saturday Review has done as
a weekly; i.e., cater to the popular
taste by impartially probing all pub-
lic questions, unearthing all public
scandals, correcting errors—in brief,
by bringing the fierce light of
journalism to bear upon every place
whether it be high or low.
No ! the daily paper that helps to
strike out fresh life in the stagnant
life of a people needs not to be a big
one. Papers double the size of the
S. M. Herald might possibly be as
prone as “ grandmamma ” to seek to
stem the evils of corruption and
mis-rule by prescribing palliatives
which writer as reader well knew
could not be applied. The leading
Sydney journal will yet be the one
that to the men and women of the
colony commends itself as faithful
and intelligent reporter, honest critic,
and reliable guide—not the one that
rests its reputation upon either its
bulk or its circulation, and on these
alone.
Can a leading journal of the
type we have roughly sketched be
profitably established in Sydney
with fair hope of success ?
We answer emphatically, Yes !
easily, as well as profitably, and at
once !
There are men to be had thoroughly
competent to perform first-class jour-
nalistic -work (as gauged by the latest
British or American standard) ; men
whose cooperant labours would bring
out a leading daily paper, racy and
worthy of the soil. There is no
necessity to import brand new talent.
As the proverb says, a Longe fugit qui
suos fugit”
About six thousand pounds (£6000)
would be ample capital wherewith to
commence a well printed four-paged
penny morning paper. The figures
which we are prepared to submit are
based on calculations made by experts
in the several branches of journalism,
and are not the mere day-dreams of
persons to whom the workings of
newspaper enterprise are —something
to talk about.
We do not suggest that this capital
should be raised by shares in the
ordinary way ; because no company,
no board of directors, or committee
of management is likely to conduct
a newspaper efficiently. A leading
journal must speak, as it were, with
one voice, and that desirable consum-
mation cannot be effected by a mul-
titude of editors or editorial advisers.
Our suggestion is this, that one
or more moneyed men should enter
into partnership with the Promoters,
and take a sleeping interest in the
venture, receiving for their advance


of the requisite capital one-half of
the proprietary. The capitalists
would hold the plant under bill of
sale, and should be allowed entire
financial control of the undertaking,
appointing their own bookkeeper,
and taking charge of all receipts,
which after the first quarter would
yield a steadily increasing weekly
profit.
The Promoters and Capitalists
would of course have to agree upon
a programme of action, to which the
former, as managers of the jour-
nalistic side of the business, would
have to adhere loyally.
This scheme, we say, is thoroughly
feasible.
Is there any moneyed man in
Sydney willing to test it ? If so, let
him communicate with us. We can
satisfy any reasonable business mind
that we are fully prepared to make
all necessary arrangements at once,
that we are in a position to rally
round us, at a few hours’ notice, the
requisite staff, mechanical as well as
literary, for thoroughly carrying out
such an undertaking.
The Hour, then, is ripe for the
movement : may we venture to hope
that our remarks will attract the
Man, wisely speculative enough to
advance it by an investment, in all
human probability certain to be as
remunerative to himself as beneficial
to the ONE-HORSE CITY?
On Dit.— That A. Morris is at work
studying Japanese for the show at Jeddo.
BREACH OF PROMISE.
Breaches of promise of marriage are
generally made by men who have a lot of
money and a lot of sense. They are
usually made in this way : —A man says
to a woman, “ Fine day.” She says,
“ Yes, how fine !” He says, “Do you
like to listen to music while you eat
strawberries ” She says, “Oh yes !”
He says, “ How is everyone you know?”
This makes her weep, and say, “ How kind
you are to-day ! I never was so much
affected. How dearly I should like to be
asked every day how everyone is that I
know.” He says, “Pray don’t weep;
people may notice it. If you like I shall
ask you every day I see you how every
one is whom you know. On days I don’t
see you I shall write a post card to you
with the question on it.” She says,
“ Thank you very much. I cannot ans-
wer the question now. I cannot answer
the question until I see mamma. If you
wish you can ask papa. ”
For two or three days he always asks
her how everyone is, and then the first
day he neglects making the enquiry every
one calls him a heartless scoundrel ; and
some virtuous attorney, a friend of the
family, demands a thousand pounds of
him for the agony he has caused her.
When he refuses paying the money on
the spot, this is a breach of promise.—
(Babies and Ladders. )
Sydney Once a Week, by C. H.
Barlee. —This is really an excellent peri-
odical ; and we have much pleasure in
drawing our readers’ attention to it. The
articles are short and most interesting,
and embrace a pleasing variety of sub-
jects, handled in a vigorous and attrac-
tive manner. We would gladly have
given an extract from the number before
us (No. 18). It contains 13 articles, and
it would be hard to say which is best,
where all are so good. We wish the new
publication every success, and feel as-
sured that, if supported, it will be an
influence for good in our midst. We
might suggest to the management that,
with a view to binding, the practice of
numbering the first few pages of each
part, containing advertisements, &c., be
discontinued. —Inver ell Herald.
On Dit.— That the high falutin folk are
going to “ sink a well ” to Creswick.


ADVENTURES WITH THE
BLACKS.
Chapter 11.
The only communication between
our new location and the outer world
was through the police station before
mentioned, about four miles from us
on the opposite side of the river,
which at that point, where there was
a ferry boat, was about 300 yards
wide. In front of our huts it was
more than three times that width.
The force at the police station con-
sisted of an inspector and three
mounted troopers. Once during each
week they paid us a visit, just to see
that we were alive and well. They
seldom came oftener, on account of
the trouble of getting their horses
ferried across to and fro. We were
thus in a most isolated position, and
had to depend upon our resources and
to exercise all our vigilance to keep the
footing we had made in the black
man’s territory. Once every three
months, or thereabouts, a dray came
up from the head station with rations
and stores ; and its arrival was to
us as important an event and looked
forward to with as much anxiety as
that of a mail steamer is in the
metropolis of a small colony.
The non-arrival of the usual quar-
terly supply at the expected time on
one occasion nearly cost one of our
shepherds his life. The dray was
about three weeks overdue, and we
were getting short of flour and other
necessaries. At last we got so short
that we had to eat our mutton not
only without bread but without salt,
though we found afterwards that a
plentiful supply of the latter commo-
dity was easily obtainable by a sim-
ple process of evaporation from the
salt water lagoons on the plains near
the river. So we decided to send
one of the men across the river to
meet, and, if possible, hurry on the
dray.
Now, by this time, we had got on
such friendly terms with the tribe of
blacks living round about us, that I
used frequently to get one of them
to paddle me about the river in his
canoe to the different islands with
which it is studded, for purposes of
duck-shooting and fishing, and many
a day’s good sport did I have in that
way, blazing away into flocks of
water-fowl, which had probably never
before heard the sound of a gun. It
may not be out of place to give a
short description of the Murray
River Blackfellow’s canoe. It is
made of a single sheet of gum bark.
A large tree is selected, generally
one which slopes a good deal, and
which presents a smooth surface with
very few knots, sufficiently large to
cut out the canoe in one sheet. The
shape having been marked out, the
outer edge is cut through with a
tomahawk, and by inserting thin
pointed pieces of wood between the
bark and the trunk, the sap being
well up, the bark comes off in one
piece. The blackfellows then place
it carefully in some shady place, so
that the sun may not crack it, and
as it curls up they place short sticks
across it till it takes the required
shape. Any holes or cracks in the
bark are caulked with clay, and the
boat is complete, and ready for
launching. In the bow there is gene-
rally a large patch of clay, which
serves as a fire-place. A blackfellow
rarely travels without a firestick, at
least he did not before lucifer matches
were invented ; the process of mak-
ing a fire by drilling one piece of
grasstree through another not being


such a very easy one, even under
'avourable circumstances, and a very
lard job indeed in wet weather, when
the materials are in the least degree
damp. A supply of wax matches to
a blackfellow must be to him the
most wonderful invention, and the
greatest blessing. However, to re-
turn to my story.
The man we despatched to look
after the dray was a big, strapping,
good-natured fellow, Gilbert byname,
or Gibby, as he was generally called,
a Highlander. He could speak Eng-
lish well, but whenever he got excited
he would burst outinto Gaelic, which
I should say from the specimens he
used to give us at odd times, must
be one of the finest languages to
swear in possible. Our other shepherd
was also a Highlander, and as a good
deal of their conversation was car-
ried on in their mother tongue, I
was considerably more impressed by
it than edified.
Gilbert, instead of following the
river down and crossing at the ferry,
determined to take a short cut, and
very foolishly accosted the first
blackfellow he met, who turned out
to be a stranger, and by signs indi-
cated his desire to be taken across.
Accordingly he got into a canoe,
rather a large one of the sort I have
described, in the bow of which was
seated a lad of about ten or twelve
years of age, and was followed by
the blackfellow, who, standing up in
the centre of the boat, and taking a
vigorous sweep with his paddle, first
on one side and then on the other,
soon put about fifty yards between
himself and passenger and the shore.
Then he paused and asked Gibby
what he was going to give him. Upon
this Gilbert produced some bread
and meat which he had taken for his
journey, and offered the blackfellow
a portion for his fare. But this did
not satisfy the blackfellow, who pre-
sently, touching the plaid worn by
the Highlander, made him clearly to
understand that he wanted that too.
Upon this demand being refused, he
stooped down and began coolly to
bale water into the canoe with the
palm of his hand, with what object
there could be no manner of doubt.
Two minutes more and the frail ves-
sel would have sunk, and as the
river blackfellows are just as much
at their ease in the water as on land,
the only sufferer would have been
poor Gibby, who with his plaid and
his heavy boots would have gone to
the bottom like a stone, as he could
not swim a stroke.
In any case he was in danger, and
entirely at the mercy of the black,
the canoe, as will be understood by
the description I have given of it,
being of slight texture, and so nar-
row that it was as much as Gilbert
could do standing up with one foot
on either side to keep his balance.
The situation was critical, but Gibby
was equal to the occasion.
Seeing the blackfellow’s evident in-
tention to drown him first and rob
him afterwards, he did, perhaps, the
only thing, which could have saved
his life. Suddenly, and without a
word, he gave his treacherous guide
a tremendous blow with his fist be-
tween the eyes, which knocked him
clean out of the canoe, and sent Gil-
bert on all fours, and nearly on the
top of the piccaninny in the bow.
Quickly recovering himself he drew
out his sheen dhu , and putting it to
the throat of the boy pointed to the
shore and signed to him to paddle
his own canoe in that direction. The
other black in the meantime was


gesticulating violently to his son,
probably urging him to capsize the
boat, which a very little would have
done, and take to the water : but the
laa, who had neevr heard Gaelic
oaths before, was so intimidated by
the horrible imprecations uttered at
him by the infuriated Gilbert, that,
disregarding paternal injunctions,
and with a dagger at his throat, he
paddled back to the shore, and Gil-
bert once more set his foot on terra
Jirma, having had the narrowest es-
cape from a watery grave which he
was ever likely to have, if he lived a
hundred years.
He then proceeded on his way to
the ferry, and we did not see him
again for three days.
His absence from the station, of
course, left me, while the shepherds
were out with their flocks, alone at
the hut, and I am now about to re-
late my little adventure with the
blacks.
The Tatiara blacks, it appears, were
well informed of all that went on at
our camp, and had found out what
Gilbert was gone for, and that he
would be away for a day or two.
They resolved to attack the garrison,
thus weakened that very day.
Now the inspector of police, with
whom [ was on very friendly terms,
and who was well acquainted with
the habits and customs of the black-
fellows, had impressed upon me
several points to be observed in deal-
ing with them.
1. Always to keep strict faith
with them, but not to trust them ;
and if I went out shooting with a
blackfellow with whom I was not
well acquainted, to make him walk
before me instead of behind me.
2. Never to stir a yard from the
hut without my gun aud cartridge
pouch.
3. And to be especially on my
guard when any blackfellows came
near the place with their faces painted,
and without any gins or children.
Gilbert had not been gone more
than two or three hours, and I was
alone in the hut when from the win-
dow I saw a party of eight strange
blackfellows approaching. They
came within fifty yards of the front
door, and stuck eight spears in the
ground, which they left there, and
then retired. This, I afterwards
learned, was a native challenge as
practised by the Tatiara warriors.
Upon receiving this defiance, I at
once set to work to barricade the
door and to prepare for defence. I
had with me a double-barrelled gun
and three dozen round of ball cart-
ridge, which I carried with me all
day and had within arms length at
night, a single-barrelled gun, and an
East India Company’s cutlass which
I brought out from England with
me, also a bayonet with a short
handle. There was a large and
powerful dog called “ Blackfellow ”
—of whose prowess I might in a
future chapter relate some very inte-
resting anecdotes—chained up out-
side the hut, and inside it one of the
shepherd’s coolie dogs, who had left
his master when the sheep were
camped at noon and come home.
I spread the cartridges on my
bunk, looked to the caps of the two
guns, and then waited to see what
would happen.
I had not long to wait. Presently
the blacks returned, accompanied by
as many more. This time they came
nearly up to the door, and asked for
flour ; the dog, who was all the
while tearing at his chain, mad with


rage to get at them, keeping the
cowardly wretches from coming to
close quarters.
Then they went round to the hack
and tried to find out a weak place in
the slabs. Fortunately, the hut was
strongly built, and was imgregnable
to men without other weapons than
spears and waddies. Every time
they came up I pointed a gun at
them and threatened to fire ; but I
hesitated to commence shooting,
hoping to intimidate them and to
gain time until succour arrived.
To say that I was not greatly
alarmed, would be to exceed the
truth. The position afforded very
little encouragement. I was alone
in a hut in a wild, uninhabited spot.
The only white man near me was the
hutkeeper at the adjoining station,
who was probably besieged by another
party belonging to the same tribe.
The shepherds were two or three
miles away in different directions,
and I was surrounded by twenty or
thirty bloodthirsty savages —caught
like a rat in a trap, and with about
as much hope of escape.
All the stories I had heard of
murders by the blacks crowded into
my brain. I had only a few days
before been told by the police of a
case in which they arrived at a sta-
tion—having been attracted to it by
the sound of continual firing, during
a tour of inspection —just in time to
find the tenant of the hut lying dead
on the floor riddled with spears,
which must have been drilled into
him after his death, or while he was
dying, so numerous were the wounds,
and the bodies of twenty-three blacks
lying round about the place, whom
the poor fellow had shot before he
had gone under. I thought of the
hutkeeper who had been murdered at
the station below ns, on the other
side of the river, only a few months
before, and felt anything but com-
fortable at the prospect before me.
But although full of fear for my
life, I kept a watch on the move-
ments of the attacking party. Find-
ing they could not force an entrance,
they had retreated to a clump of she-
oaks about forty yards off the hut,
where a great deal of gesticulating
was going on. They were holding a
council of war, and I soon found out
what they 'were up to.
They were going to smoke me out.
I did not find this out all at once.
All that I perceived was, that spear
after spear kept striking in the roof,
and against the side of the hut, and
these I did not fear. But a cry of
pain from poor Blackfellow, who
had received his death-stroke from
one of these missiles, made me rush
to the door, and then I found out the
meaning of this continuous spear
throwing. Each spear had attached
to it a small faggot of dry bark
which was fired before it was dis-
charged. The hnt was thatched with
reeds from the river, and the black-
fellows thought to set it on fire in
this way. Happily, they did not
succeed.
Now, was the death of
poor Blackfellow, who was a great
favorite of mine, or the desperate
state of things generally which exas-
perated me, I cannot say ; but from
that moment all feeling of fear left
me, and I became perfectly cool and
collected.
There was one white-headed old
blackfellow, probably a Tatiara chief,
who appeared to direct the attack,
and I resolved to shoot him at once
and avenge the poor faithful animal
who had died at his post, but with-


out having a chance to fight for his
life.
The grey-haired old scoundrel was
standing in the centre of the mob
close to a sheoak tree, when I, resting
the barrel of my gun on the slabs of
the window or port-hole in front, took
a deliberate aim at his head and fired.
The ball must have shaved his head,
for a moment after I saw a patch of
white about the size of a half-crown
in the bark of the tree, apparently in
the exact spot where his head was a
moment before. With the other
barrel I wounded another of the
party, as he fell, then got up, and fell
down again, but finally got away.
The whole mob, after these two
shots, retreated out of distance to
devise some fresh scheme. I knew
now that they would persevere. My
friend, the inspector, used frequently
to caution us never to fire except in
self-defence, as for every blackfellow
shot, a white man is sure to suffer
sooner or later, even although months
or even years may intervene. The
law of vendetta is a sacred institu-
tion among the Tatiaras.
A bright thought now struck me.
The shepherds might or might not
have heard my two barrels fired in
quick succession, the signal agreed
upon as an appeal for assistance;
but I had another mode of commu-
nicating with one of them which had
not struck me until then, and I pro-
ceeded to put it into execution.
I took a piece of paper, and writing
on it the words, “ Come home, the
blacks have bailed me up,” tied it in
a handkerchief round the neck of the
coolie dog. I then gave him a good
hiding, although it went against my
heart to do it, and having extem-
porised a flight of stairs out of sundry
articles of furniture to reach to the
top of tbe chimney, I dragged Rover
up and thrust him through the
opening, from which he rolled on to
the roof and then to the ground. I
knew that he would at once join his
master. Then, feeling certain that
aid would soon arrive, I took my
place at the port-hole full of hope,
ready to defend my life against all
odds.
But I was not destined to distin-
guish myself by any deeds of daring.
My story has a very inglorious ter-
mination. Shortly after I had
despatched Rover with my message
to his master, and while that plucky
“ Hielan’-mon ” was hurrying at the
top of his speed to the rescue, the
dogs bringing the sheep after him in
a cloud of dust which I could see on
the plain for a couple of miles, I
heard the clanking of arms, and my
friends the three mounted troopers
rode up to the door of the hut and
dismounted. They came to pay their
weekly visit of inspection, and never
were visitors more welcome.
Five minutes later, and not a
blackfellow was to be seen of any
tribe within a mile of the place. If
they had sunk into the ground, they
could not have disappeared more
completely.
Walker.
The “Sydney Once a Week.”
—We have received the 18th number of
thL magazine, which shows undiminished
signs of vitality and vigour. It contains
a quantity of readable matter and deserves
support. —Bega Gazette.
igsiT “Once a Week.”—Last week’s
number of this interesting little publica-
tion has reached our table, and it is fully
up to its predecessors as regards the ex-
cellence of its original matter.— Border
Post.
A “ Bass Relief.”—A pint bottle of
the famous “ bitter.”


THE LADY ALICE.
[A Story told at a Gardeners’ Club.]
Chapter II. — Continued.
You begin to think, I fear, that I am
“ running to leaf,” and therefore, although
we gardeners have naturally a taste for
garnish, I must prune accordingly. After
a short visit, the* marquis and Lord Eve-
lyn went away with their friends ; and
rumours reached us from the servants’
hall, that ithe latter had left a brace of
hearts behind them, in custody of my
Lady Alice. The duke, it was said, re-
garded with complete approbation the
suit of the viscount, who was heir to an
ancient and wealthy earldom ; but the
daughter preferred the Guardsman.
That there was some special attraction
at the castle for these young gentlemen was
evident from the fact that they both re-
visited it a few months after their de-
parture, —together with a great number of
other guests, who were invited to celebrate
the coming of age of our marquis. And
now comes a chief event in my story. A
grand ball was to end the festivities, and
all the resources of our immense establish-
ment were to be taxed to the utmost, as
they say at the circus, to make the enter-
tainment a success. We gardeners were
busily engaged, I can assure you, in col-
lecting and preparing all our eligible plants
from the houses, carrying them to the
castle, and arranging them in the nails,
ball-room, &c. The demand for cut
flowers, upon the day of the ball, was (so
my father, then the head-gardener, pro-
nounced it) murderous; flowers for the
reception-rooms, flowers for the supper-
table. flowers for the hair, flowers for the
hand, and flowers for the gentlemen’s
coats.
As I was at that time head-foreman in
the plant department, the care of the
great conservatory was entrusted to me
during the night of the ball. I was to
replace any of the low flowering plants,
which formed an edging to the circular
beds, and which might be disarranged by
the trailing garments of the ladies ; to
supervise the fountains, which were at
times eccentric in their behaviour ; to
keep an eye upon the coloured lamps, &c.
When the guests came into the conserva-
tory, I was to retire behind a stage for
plants at the end of the building, where
I should be effectively concealed within
my leafy bower.
Here, without any attempt or de«ire to
listen, I overheard from time to time the
remarks of those who were passing near,
and I was specially impressed by the floral
instruction which I received for the first
time on that occasion. One gentleman
informed his partner that the berries of
the Solanum were “ a kind of Siberian
crab another, that the tulip, Rex rubro-
rum, was “ a double poppy a third, that
Eucharis amazonica was “one of those
lovely orchids and a fourth (a lady)
exclaimed in admiration, as she gazed
upon a bush of Cytisus, 1 Whac a dear
little duck of a young laburnum !” But
there were other flowers that night, which
even in Flora’s presence, were m-me ad-
mired than ours— an>l forget-
me-nots in the blue eyes of Beauty, roses
blushing and glowing on her cheeks, lilies
and tulips upon her —
“ Hands, lily white,
Lips, crimson red.”
much moie fascinating than which
we showed in pots. In foliage we sus-
tained a like defeat. They turned from
our Croton augustifolium to the shining
tresses of some Fair One wiih the Golden
Locks, and they saw no charms in our
Adiantum Capillus-veneris. when com-
pared with the maiden-hair of Venus’s
self.
The ball was nearly over. The carriage-
lamps of the departing guests were
g earning among our ancient < aks, as
though some of the planets had come
down to earth, and my own spec allamps
wiihin their bright pictoiial cases, were
also beginning to take their departure,
when, as I retired to my ambuscade, on
hearing voices, the Guardsman, with Lady
Alice on his arm, approached ami stopped
close in front of it. I saw hem through
the leaves, the handsomest man and the
most beautiful woman of all who met
there that night. It was n t only that
they were both tall and graceful in figure,
with features regular and refined, the
eyes bright, and the cheeks glowing with
.all the healthfulness and hopefulness of
youth ; but there was in both faces that
which I would term heart-beauty ; there
was goodness, gentleness, and tuth.
And yet, as “ these two, a maiden and a
youth, stood there, gazing,” or seeming to
gaze, upon an orange-tree covered with
its blossoms, I noticed upjn both the ex-


pression of a strange and sad perplexity.
For a while they were silent and then
the 8( ldier said “ I am going in a few
hours ; I must speak to you. Would you
—would you exchange those ” (and he
looked at the roses in her waving golden
hair); “ would you change them for these”
(and he touched one of the orange-
flowers) —“ for my sake —for me ?”
I shall never forget that beseeching
voice. It thrilled me through with the
anxiety which it expressed, and I leaned
forward to hear the answer. I —l—l
believe that I am engaged to the vis-
count.” Then for a few awful seconds
there might have been in that conserva-
tory no living soul, for there was no sound
save of distant music, faintly heard from
the ball. At last he spoke with a great
effort, —“ I have no right to ask you ; but
do you love him ?” And she, in a tone
which cut my heart like a knife, replied,
“ My father, the duke, wishes me to marry
him.” “ Not,” he said passionately, “if
you do not love him !” and then there
was another dreadful silence, broken by
these hopeless whispered words, “ I can-
not, I dare not, disobey the duke. Some
one is coming ; we must go.”
I do not think the Guardsman knew
quite what he was doing, but what he
did was this :he plucked a leaf from the
orange-tree, and gave it to her, and said,
“If ever there is hope for me, or I can
help you, send me this leaf.”
Then others joined them, and they
went their way. I stayed there, mute
and motionless, thinking what cruel ty-
ranny it was to crush those young loving
hearts, until a footman came to say that
the ball was over ; and then I hurried
home, weary and sorrowful; and I remem-
ber that before I went to bed that night,
I prayed that she might send him the
leaf. But Mrs. Oldacre, from whom I
never had a secret, declined to regard the
circumstances as becoming subjects for
doubt or petition. She sniffed at my
solicitude with a grand disdain, “ because
I know” she said, “that he will have the
leaf.”
Of course we kept the secret sacredly ;
but Phyllis, my wife’s sister, and maid to
the Lady Alice, seemed to us to know as
much as we did. She was ever sounding
the captain’s praise, or speaking of his
rival in anything but respectful terms,
alluding to him as “ that galvanised
mummy,” and expressing her belief that
he had been placed as a boy in a petrify-
ing well, and been imprudently taken
out before the process was complete.
“ And though I dare not speak my mind
to his lordship,” she said, “ I have had
the pleasure of telling his valet that we
don’t intend to marry a snow man.”
Nevertheless, we heard to our great un-
happiness that the wedding-day was fixed.
The announcement was painful to most of
us, but it seemed to have the strongest
and the strangest influence upon our sis-
ter Phyllis. She would no longer speak
of that which had been her one topic of
conversation. She had a nervous manner
and an anxious look. Sometimes she
would laugh almost hysterically; and
sometimes, my wife told me, she would
come to her in a paroxysm of grief and
tears, for which she would assign no
cause.
Then another strange incident hap-
pened to me. The evening before our
annual county flower-show I had been
occupied until it was almost dark, in tying
and packing a collection of stove and
greenhouse plants, which I was going to
exhibit, when, in taking a short cut from
the kitchen-gardens across the park to
my home, and passing over the long walk,
which is a continuation, as you know, of
the grand terrace, and extends for nearly
a mile through our woodland grounds, I
saw, ‘ten yards from me, but in such
earnest conversation that they never
heard my steps, two figures, and, dim as
the light was, I was quite certain that I
knew them. I almost ran the rest of my
way, and, in a fever of excitement, I
whispered to my wife, ‘ ‘ Lady Alice has
sent him the leaf.”
She received my information not only
with disbelief but derision, and next day
she sent for her sister Phyllis, to assist
her in disbelieving. They said it was
simply impossible ; that it was one of the
housemaids and the under-whip ; that
Lady Alice was in bed with the toothache
(oh, Phyllis, Phyllis!), and that the
eaptain was in Windsor barracks. And
when I suggested that as I was there, with
a brace of eyes in good working order,
and 'they were not, I must respectfully
take leave to differ : then they said, that
if I had seen anything, which they did
not for a moment believe, I ought to be
ashamed of myself spying into people’s
houses (half a mile off) at that time of
night, intruding into private walks, &c.


I could only plead that up to that hour I
had not been aware that after nightfall
the duke’s park was solemnly given up to
the young nobility, paired off, and dying
for love.
Finally, after reiterating for the (as
nearly as I can guess) forty-second time,
that I had seen nothing, they implored,
they insisted, that I should never reveal
to living creature that which I had seen ;
and I gave them at last my promise to
keep a secret, which nothing on earth
could have tempted me to tell.
* * * *
The marriage morning came. On the
day preceding I had decorated the church
as sorrowfully almost as though it had
been for her funeral, and at sunrise I had
arranged a bouquet (it was composed of
stephanotis, pancratium, gardenia, and
white rose-buds) which I had mourned
over as if for her coffin. “ And so,” I
sighed to myself, “ the leaf went, and
the lover came ; and yet there was neither
help nor hope. ”
The events of the day, as we ascertained
afterwards, were these : you will see that
they require no commentary.
The party at the castle was to assemble
in the librstry at 11 A.M. ; to leave the cas-
tle at 11.15, and to meet the viscount at
the church.
At 9 A.M. , Lady Alice’s favourite
cousin, and chief bridesmaid, went to see
her, and was met at her dressing-room
door by Phyllis, who told the young lady
that her mistress had passed a restless
night and had just fallen asleep.
At 10 A.M., on a second visit, the cousin
was informed by the maid that Lady
Alice would rather not see any one until
she came down for the marriage.
At 11 a.m. , the guests, with the family
met in the library.
At 11.15, a dozen carriages, three of
them having four horses, and two with
outriders, drew up in front of the castle.
At 11.25, the duke sent a servant to in-
form the Lady Alice that he hoped she
would come down at once.
At 11.35 the servant returned to inform
the duke that “ her ladyship mas not to he
found /”
Then the duke calmly requested that
her ladyship’s maid should be sent to him
in his morning-room.
And, after a long interval, the report
was brought to him, that “ her ladyship's
maid mas not to he found /”
Then some one discovered, on Lady
Alice’s writing-table, a note to her father
the duke. It was, so Phyllis informed
us, to this effect; that she had pleaded
in vain that she did not love the viscount
—that it could not be right that her
whole life should be turned into a lie—
that it should be a life of hatred when it
might be a life of love—that she was gone
with him who had won her heart, to be
his wife—and that she implored her
father to forgive her for her mother’s
sake.
The duke turned very pale, and the
duke sighed very heavily, when he had
read the note, as well, with his views, he
might. His only daughter was travelling
as fast as four horses could take her, and
had been travelling for six hours as fast
as four horses could take her, to marry a
younger son.
Then his grace wrote a few lines to the
viscount, who was waiting for his bride.
“ The kirk was decked at morning-tide,
The tapers glimmered fair ;
The priest and bridegroom wait the bride,
And dame and knight are there.
They sought her baith by bower and ha—
Theladie was not seen !
She’s o’er the Border, and.awa’
Wi’ Jock of Hazeldean.”
And once “ o’er the Border ” (I may as
well state here), they were married in
conformity with Scotland’s usage, that
they might be man and wife, should pur-
suers overtake, according to secular law ;
and subsequently, that they might be so
according to the laws of their Church and
conscience, by an ordained priest.
Three hours after the viscount had read
his note, all the visitors had left the cas-
tle ; and in it and around “grim silence
held her solitary reign.” The only person
who passed through our entrance gates
with a cheerfnl countenance (my wife in-
formed me) was my Lord Evelyn. He
was just as beaming with mirth and kind-
ness as ever. “ Sad business,” he said,
“ Mrs. Oldacre ; bad business —disgrace-
ful business,” with abroad grin on his face.
And then he began to sing something
(Mrs. 0. continued) about a way they
had in the army, or words to that effect.
Yes, they all fled from that stern and
stricken duke, as though they were seized
with a sudden fear that he was going to
bark and bite them. True indeed it was,
that then, and for many after-days, his
grace was not good company. He was
seen only by those who waited upon him t


and their report of his melancholy was
very pitiful. What think you happened
next ?
My friends (said the good old gardener
with tears in his kind blue eyes), it pleased
God in His goodness, by that great humil-
iation, to change, and, as I believe, to
save one of His creatures. Some three
weeks after the crisis, the duke left the
castle for the first time, and went to the
mausoleum. He remained there so long
that some of the household were begin-
ning to be alarmed, when he came quietly
home, and sent a note to his chaplain,
with whom shortly afterwards he had a
two hour’s interview. We have always
thought that he made then a first and
full confession. He was from that time,
at all events, an altered man. He sent
not only his pardon to his daughter, but
a fatherly invitation to her old home ;
and she came with her husband, and with
gladness for all our hearts.
This reconciliation, the first fruit of
that victory which he had won over self,
soon brought its great reward, partly in
the fact that the handsome Guardsman
succeeded, against all expectation, to the
headship of his house —a peerage, with
large estates —but chiefly in his daughter’s
grateful love.
We will leave him, if you please, as I once
saw him, and as ever since I have liked
best to see him, plucking an orange for
his grandchild, little Alice, from the very
tree whereupon grew the leaf. —From
“ The Six of Spades .”
NORFOLK ISLAND.
BY VIATOR
No. 7.
Presuming I may have tired the patience
of your readers in my repeated references
to the many attempts to escape from
Norfolk Island made by the convicts
imprisoned there, I shall devote this
present contribution to other matters ;
though I fear they will scarcely possess
the same interest as those gone before.
Yet it has been a source of much satis-
faction to myself, from what I have
listened falling from the lips of more
than one person, who were profoundly
ignorant as to my identity with the
writer, that my tales have been in many
quarters reasonably appreciated, and the
statements set forward not cavilled at as
untruthful or exaggerated.
The free population of Norfolk Island
were indeed motley in their grouping.
The Commandant was, as a rule, a retired
or half-pay officer in the Queen’s service
—at least, Captain Maconochie and Major
“ Joe ” Childs were. Poor John Price,
who was afterwards so brutally murdered
at Williamstown in Victoria, certainly
was an exception ; but Colonel Anderson,
also dead, when an officer in the 99th
Regiment, filled the office before Cap-
tain Maconochie’s removal, and the late
Colonel Morriset preceded him. In fact,
it was a duty singularly fitted to a mili-
tary man; but whether they returned
the compliment by proving fitted for it,
why that is not for me in this day to
determine —all those I have mentioned
are gone to their long homes, so I sup-
pose the de mortuis principle must apply
to them notwithstanding one of them cut
down every orange tree growing wild on
the Island on the questionable plea that
this description of fruit was too great a
luxury for the prisoners to enjoy ! Good
folks may question the accuracy of this
extraordinary statement ; but, verily r
truth it is.
Many of the Civil servants, such as
assistant superintendents, were also re-
tired military or naval officers ; and,
indeed, the duty required of them was by
no means arduous, while the salary and
the liberal allowances authorised, added
to the very economical style of living
comfortably to be practised at Norfolk
Island, made'the office somewhat enviable.
One fact may be asserted, that the free
society of the island was far above usual
average. Go where you will, the Queen’s
uniform is a passport to all society. There
are doubtless black sheep in every fold,
and all men, as a rule, “ do not come down
with the same ring,” and it is not denied
that there is often some reasonable sus-
picion [attached to an officer in H. M.’s
service who suddenly betakes himself to
private life with energies unimpaired ;
and though he may certainly have honor-
able reasons for doing so, yet if this cen-
sorious world of ours cannot ferret out
those same reasons, there floats about the
man a sort of halo of indefinite suspicion
that he had “ left the service for the ser-
vice’s good ” and joined us civilians for
our moral improvement.


Again, Norfolk Island was a capital
temporary retreat for hard-up subalterns,
who, with pockets emptied by the expen-
sive pleasures of Sydney, with a heavy
mess bill, the tailor becoming unruly, and
white kids, from force of impecunious
circumstances, being forced into double or
treble duty, were glad to receive sailing
orders for this very welcome haven
of rest from care, where they were safe
beyond the reach of personal dun-dom.
They couldn’t spend much money at the
Island unless they gambled ? but no
Queen’s officer ever goes so low as that ?
Their liquor was all the more delicious by
its exemption from duty, and their
caterer’s bill was next to nothing, as their
ration allowance* were liberal, their larders
well stocked with poultry, and their gar-
dens teeming with delicious fruit and
vegetables, and the only trouble lay in
mastication. And, finally, as to matters
of dress, they had no end of first-class
tailors, shoemakers, and hatters, whose
services were available “ on official requi-
sition ? ” A life in such an Eden as is
that Island, with all these pleasing con-
siderations, was not so hard a matter to
pull through as many good folks supposed
it to be.
Captain Maconochie took delight in
promoting refined amusements. From
the ranks of the “new hands ” he organised
a most excellent band which, on stated
occasions, played in the open air, when
all the free population who chose to avail
themselves of the privilege could listen
to really good performances. As I said
in one of my previous contributions, pic-
nics were of frequent occurrence, and in
these the Band was a great element.
Dances at individual residences were often
joined in ; certainly, the bachelors some-
what outnumbered the demoiselles now
and then, and verily the dear creatures
never were quoted at a higher premium
than during their stay at Norfolk Island.
It was very amusing to note the return of
the first boat boarding the vessel on her
arrival from Sydney—the anxious watch-
ing of the young (and old) single men for
the sign of a petticoat coming ashore, and
the disgust oftentimes when nothing in
that “line” had been shipped. One
amusing instance of this devotion to the
sex, especially when the object was more
than ordinarily good-looking, I will refer
to, of course omitting names.
A large ship appeared off the settle-
ment with the prison flag flying, having
come direct from England. Among her
passengers were a reverend gentleman,
his governess, and also his sister—he
being a widower. In their retinue he
had imported two of about the most rosy-
complexioned,bright-eyed, and eminently
pretty servant maids one would like to
have about a house. It so happened that
the governess and the parson’s sister, both
being spinsters, “stood no show” in
creation with the two domestics as to
good looks, and, indeed, as to general
“ get up.” Of course everyone of us
flocked to the pier to witness the landing
of such precious freight, and it almost
resolved itself into a friendly fight
amongst the more determinedly courteous
of the bachelors as to the assistance ren-
dered in handing the ladies out of the
launch. The trouble was as to identity
with position. We knew there were a
couple of each rank, mistresses and maids,
but how to choose “ which was which ”
—that was a momentary puzzle. Good
looks carried the day, however, and to
the evident disgust of the spinsters, the
maids received all the attention, while
the former constituted the rear guard,
bringing up the widower’s little children.
The mistake was soon pointed out, and I
don’t know which party felt the “sell”
most acutely—the men, at losing so
valuably pretty additions to the ball-
rooms ; or the spinsters, who had evi-
dently prepared themselves for captivation.
The girls enjoyed it most, and I can con-
fidently assert, “ caught a caution ” at
the hands (or mouths) of their superiors
for such presumption in walking off with
a bevy of eligible bachelors, each doing
his best to offer a courteous welcome ;
while they, the legitimate possessors of
the homage, were left out in the cold.
The landing of another lady, while
accompanied by circumstances of much
peril, was, when all was safely over, pro-
vocative of much cruel merriment. The
surf on the bar was very high, but
scarcely so dangerous as to prevent the
coxswain of the boat conveying passen-
gers over, trying the passage. The boat
suddenly capsized in the long roll of the
surf, and her living freight each strove
right vigorously to reach the shore ; but
the transit of the lady was wonderful.
There she sat on the waters, a veritable
example (not a “ thing ”) of life on the


ocean wave. Her petticoats were evi-
dently voluminous and thoroughly air-
tight : for, as her —(what shall I term
them ?) —her lower proportions became
immersed, in like ratio did the under
garments expand, and there she floated
in an upright position, fairly sitting the
sea. in the centre of a mound of inflated
flannel, and this peculiar life-preserver
no doubt saved her from drowning.
There were many capsizes in crossing this
treacherous opening in the reef, but only
one lady in air-tight unmentionables ever
came to temporal grief in the passage.
One incident which < >ccurred shortly before
my arrival at Norfolk Island I fancy will
form an interesting termination to this
week s contribution. A number of men
had escaped to Phillip Island, but in
course of time all were recaptured but
one, who pertinaciously defied all attempts
to secure him. The southern coast of this
island is very abrupt—exactly similar to
the S.W. portion of Pitcairn’s Island,
which I have visited, and the cliffs are in
some parts from 400 to 500 feet high, and
rise straight up from the water’s edge.
At one p >rtion of the summit of these
cliffs they rise to a somewhat conical
point, and to reach this special rock a
very narrow and dangerous passage must
be traversed, it being a little over a yard
or so in width. Standing on the extreme
end of this rock, it is with difficulty you
can reach far enough to view the sea at
its base, so wall-like are the rocks. As I
just now observed, one man still remained
on Phillip Island, free though imprisoned
there. He had no food or clothing ; he
dare not take shelter in the little hut
erected for shooting parties, nor could he
build himself any shelter. His life may
be well imagined—that of a wild beast
hunted to death—with the sagacity of a
bloodhound, and the desperation of a
doomed man. Driven from each hiding-
place by the search parties, he was at
length compelled to take to the cliffs
entirely as a refuge ; and his trail being
followed up, and hunted from that shelter,
gradually he was hemmed in, and re-
treated to this last rock. His pursuers
saw him there, and coming to the edge of
the pass called upon him to surrender.
He made some defiant reply, and the
question arose as to the method of his
capture.
But one man at a time could cross, and
everyone of the party hesitated to attempt
the passage. They could have shot him
down like game, certainly, but their
orders were to take him alive if possible.
In a short time, however, the rock was
reached, and a rush made for the unarmed
refugee. Calmly he waited the approach
of his trackers. Nearer and nearer they
came, and when within a very few feet of
their wretched prey, he suddenly threw
his hands up above his head, and with a
wild despairing yell threw himself head-
long over the rocks into the ocean a
very true exemplification of “ hunted to
death.”
It is unnecessary I should say the body
was never recovered, and, very possibly,
never sought for. He was only a convict
—a degraded, soulless, unconverted, and
lost wretch—who had given the Govern-
ment some little extra trouble, but who
had now saved her Majesty the cost of
many possible pounds of salt-horse and
coarsely crushed corn meal. “ The devil,
no doubt,” said the authorities, “ had got
for once his own.”
MARGUERITE.
Fair Marguerite 1 fair image of a poet’s
brain !
In words that breathe most sweetly
shadowed forth,
In every act of thine a grace is plain,
Token of thy soul’s purity, and inward
worth !
Thou wast not made] to dwell on this
rude earth !
The tempter, in the guise of love did seek
To tarnish with foul sin thy trusting
soul ;
Though man is oft deceitful, woman
weak,
Yet thou in heaven at last did reach
the goal.
The crouching fiend did lose his fancied
prey ;
While thou, on angel wings, wert borne
away,
Unto the brightness of the perfect day ;
Where One doth dwell, who spake in days
of yore,
“ Neither do I condemn thee ; go, and
sin no more.”
A.E.S.


TOMAHAWKED.
This is how the Saturday Review criti-
cises Mr. Hepworth Dixon’s latest novel,
“ Ruby Grey ” :
“ It will perhaps be fair to give some
idea of Mr. Dixon’s characters and plot.
The verb in this intolerable sentence is
Ruby Grey, the lovely and benevolent
daughter of Sir Phillip Grey, Bart., a
Bencher and Q.C. Sir Philip had the
blood of the Plantagenets in his veins.
Mr. Dixon’s delight in ‘ blood,’ and his
freedom with the Plantaganet tap, is
most genuine and generous. As a de-
scendant of kings and a Q.C., Sir Philip
had no sympathy with Fenians and Peep
o’ Day boys. He lived in rooms in the
Temple, and one ‘ Newgate Nash ’ was
really owner of his scanty furniture, for
the Q.C. was poor and deeply in debt.
His fair daughter lived with him in
chambers, and passed her time in minis-
tering to the wants of the distressed in
Whitefriars, and in evading the pursuit
of Newgate Nash, a serjeant learned in
law, but by taste and preference a low-
bred usurer. As she roamed at-will in
Hanging Sword Alley and Cut-throat
Lane, Ruby made many queer acquaint-
ances, among others Daniel Dale, a con-
sumptive newspaper reader, and his cousin
Norton Dale, the handsome clerk of a
Jewish attorney from Gibraltar. It
chanced that Ruby, Newgate Nash,
Norton Dale, and a Californian widow
who owned a silver mine, once met Jan
Plottchin, a Roumanian, and therefore a
villain, with Leo Santo, an odious libel
on Mazzini, in the Temple Church. All
parties, except Ruby, at once began to
plot in their peculiar styles. When ser-
vice was over and several trains were laid,
Ruby and Sir Philip met Daniel and
Norton Dale reading a New Testament
published by the Elzevirs, and ‘ worth
its weight in gold.’ The New Testament
and a silver snuff-box full of earth from
a grave were all that they retained of
their ancestral property. Daniel was
dying of consumption, which Sir Phillip
noticed when he saw him for the first
time, though the fact had escaped Ruby,
who had been trained ‘in the Zurich
schools,’ and who had nursed Daniel for
months. Norton presently proved that
he, at least, was in good training by
beating a villain who attacked Ruby in
the dark. In the course of the same
evening the Dales learned that, by the
death of a lunatic relation, they were
heirs to a large property. Daniel began to
take feebly to drink, and Norton gave Sir
Philip a much-needed cheque for fifty
pounds. It now struck the Royard that
Norton was a good man to introduce to
the secret society in Clerkenwell Green.
At a meeting of Socialists or some such
people, Mrs. Lightholder, the Californian
widow, happened to drop in, and ‘ de-
nounced ’ the Boyard to justice. ‘ A white
and haggard creature, whom they call the
Female Bee, and foundress of the Petro-
leum Club,” throws vitriol at the Boyard,
and
Norton' can hear the fizz ofgburning flesh.
This makes an effective ending to the
first volume. There are a good many
detectives and secret wells and staircases
in the second volume. The Boyard, in
spite of his burnt flesh, shows well to the
front, gets hold of Daniel Dale in Paris,
and makes him take to fatal dissipation.
Norton is|put into prison on the suspicion
of being an Industrial Bee, and is released,
apparently through ths influence of Miss
Janet Can tyre, daughter of the Secretary
of State, to whom he lent his pocket-flask
while she was enduring a brief but tumul-
tuous interval of misery in crossing the
Channel. The Californian widow enter-
tains all manner of scamps, who call
themselves Socialists. Sir Philip is
arrested, and placed in Clerkenwell gaol,
on the charge of being concerned in a
plot to seize the Tower, the Horse Guards,
and the Bank. The Boyard, one feels, is
at the bottom of it all ; but Ruby Grey is
made to suspect Norton Dale. When
once the Boyard (if it is-he, for we cannot
pretend to be sure) has lodged Sir Philip
in prison, his next thought is to get him
out again. A meeting is held on Clerken-
well Green, many of the characters descend
secret staircases, and the Boyard mines
and blows up part of the wall of the gaol,
and throws the warder down a well.
Disdaining mines, Sir Philip gave himself
up to justice, and Ruby, convinced of her
lover’s fidelity, ‘ held out her hand to
Norton,’ ‘He receives it tenderly. The
circle of sympathy is complete.’ Soon
afterwards Norton held out ‘ his second
hand.’ * With drooping lid and heaving
bosom she extends her hand to meet him,
Norton seizes and clasps it in his own.
The circle of emotion is complete.’ If


the circle of intelligence were only com-
plete, nothing would be left to desire.
We must be content to know that ‘in a
moment of delirious impulse they are
folded in each other’s arms.’ Yet, even
after this desirable consummation, Ruby
went down a well in her turn, and prowled
about in an arched vault. Here she
learned that her father was nominated
4 Civil Governor of the Confederated
English and Irish Republics,’ and that
he had ‘ ordered London to be burned.
On listening to this announcement, ‘ Ruby
uncurled her lips,’ which she had pre-
viously, it appears, worn in ringlets. The
conspirators now attempt to make her
marry the Boyard; but one Fifine 4 flashes
on ’ that nobleman, and announces that
he is already a married man. Some one
blows out the lamp, and the Boyard
escapes from his first wife, but only for a
time. Ruby Grey obtains an audience
from Lord Cantyre, the Secretary of State
and explains that the Boyard blew up
the gaol, stabbed the warder, and flung
him down a well, and that some one 4 saw
the dark episode.’ 4 The case is now
complete,’ and we have only to ask, like
little Peierkin, 4 What did they kill each
other for ? ’ The Boyard’s remarks are
exclusively profane, not to say blasphe-
mous, and cast no light on this dark busi-
ness. The story has neither character
nor plot; for a mass of absurd confusion
is not a plot, and a host of people who
uncurl their lips and wear 4 grave wimples ’
on their faces are not characters. 4 Good
God ! what stufE is this ? ’ Sir Philip asks
when he is arrested on the charge of
4 levying war against the Crown.’ He
receives no answer, and we cannot supply
one. ”
THE MYSTERY OF WISEMAN’S
FERRY ROAD.
CHAPTER XII.
“ Far along
From peak to peak, the rattling crags among
Leaps the live thunder.”
Height after height they slowly won ;
The fiery javelins of the sun
Smote the bare ledge ; the tangled shade
With rock and vine their steps delayed.
But through leaf openings, now and then,
They saw the cheerful homes of men,
And the great mountains, with their wall
Of misty purple girdling all.”
The rock cavern in which Lucy Walton
and George Caldecott found themselves
had evidently been tenanted (occasionally
if not regularly) for years. The retreat
it afforded was complete. No beating of
the storm, however pitiless, could force
the rain beneath its covert. A natural
fissure which from a recess on one side of
the cave wound itself to the outer day,
art had utilised as a chimney The recess
formed the fire-place, in which, wholly
without the ken of passer-by —if passer-
by, save the one or few who knew its
secret, the hiding-place had ever had —
log upon log might flare and crackle and
roar to heart’s content of its snugly shel-
tered inmates.
On the present occasion a clear heart
of fire smouldered deep in the pile of soft
erev ashes, over which hung a billy half-
full of tea.
In another recess opposite the fireplace
was a broad stone bench roughly hewn
out of the native rock. On this lay a
large and well-made ’possum rug. Holes
formed in the walls were the receptacles
of several tins and bags, apparently con-
taining provisions.
George Caldecott instinctively felt that
by accident he had hit upon the lair of
the outlaw, Devereux.
Lucy’s attention had been chiefly taken
up by the inscriptions with which the
walls were literally covered—initials,
dates, verses innumerable, all graved in
the smooth yellow stone with great pre-
cision. The dates were old ; some as far
back as 1826, but one or two later than
1831. The initials were almost invariably
monograms in which the letters J. A. and
L. P. were interwoven.
“ There must be some history about
this place,” said Miss Walton, “ what can
it be?”
Caldecott feared he could guess but too
accurately what it was. It surely was
the place where his mother’s betrothed
had dragged out days upon days of
misery.
“Oh 1 look there,” said Lucy, “ how
very sad 1 ” And as she spoke, she pointed
to the woe-tuned verses of the great
Italian, the lines awful in their haunting
melancholy—
“ Nessun maggior dolore
Che ricordarsi del tempo felice
Nella miseria”
carved in deep bold letters over the
entrance to the cave.


“ Poor man ! ” she continued, “ to think
of his having worn here, possibly all alone,
his sorrow’s crown of sorrow ? Who
could it have been ? Do you remember
any history with which this place could
be associated ?
“No,” said Caldecott, “but look how
terribly black its coming over again ! ”
“ Indeed it is,” said Lucy, “ well ! it’s
lucky we’ve got shelter ; though I’m sure
I haven’t the least idea what Mrs. Kenny
and Mrs. Cosgrove will say to us when
we get back. ”
Down rushed the rain in slanting lines :
the wind roared through the forest. To
seek to return to the camp was for a time
out of the question.
What would not George Caldecott have
given at this moment to have told his
love to Lucy and asked for an acknow-
ledgment of hers for him ? He felt she
loved him. He also believed that she
felt that he loved her. But he was tied
by his promise to her father not to declare
himself until after he had passed his
examination. There was no help for it
but to wait on in patience. And yet the
moment seemed so propitious !
“ Who could have lived here ? ” said
Lucy for the hundredth time. “ What a
romantic story we shall have to tell them
when we get back, shan’t we ? ”
“ Yes, I think we might manage to
make something of our adventure. I
only hope it will clear up in time for us
to make camp before sundown. It would
be very awkward to have to camp here,
wouldn’t it ? ”
“ Weil, yes,” said Lucy, blushing, “yet
we might be worse off. I’ve often heard
Papa talk of the miseries of cattle-droving,
and I’m sure a few hours in a secure place
like this would be comparative paradise
to camping out on a treeless plain.”
“ It would be perfect paradise to me,”
said Caldecott.
“ Oh ! that’s a matter of course,” was
Miss Lucy’s tart reply.”
Poor George did not relish the snub.
He failed to see that it was given for a
purpose ; that the girl did not wish to
take advantage of the position into which
her curiosity had led them to play the
sentimental lover.
After a brief silence she turned the
conversation, by alluding once again to
the stone inscriptions on the walls of the
cave.
“These must have been the work of
years,” she remarked, « and from what I
know of the history of the colony, they
must have been done by some escaped
prisoner. Don’t you think so, Mr.
Caldecott ? ”
“ Yes, I think they were,” replied
George, longing to tell her about Aldridge
and his mother, yet restrained from doing
so by feeling that it would not be right
to reveal the latter’s secret even to Lucy.
And yet Devereux was acquainted with
it ? But, then, as Caldecott reflected, it
was by accident, and not through any act
of his that the bushranger had learned it.
“ Well,” said Lucy reflectively, “I now
know what Wordsworth meant when he
wrote —
“ Ah ! what a warning for a thoughtless man,
Could field or grove, could any spot of earth
Show to his eye an image of the pangs
Which it hath witnessed; render back an echo
Of the sad steps by which it hath been trod.”
“ You are very right,
rich deep voice from the passage leading
to the mouth of the cave.
Lucy, frightened at the sound, instinc-
tively went to George’s side.
Ere a word could be spoken by either,
a tall swarthy man strode into the place.
George instantly rec< gnised Devereux,
who without noticing him, went on
excitedly to say : “ Yes’! you are very
right, madam, and so was Wordsworth.
If this spot could render back an echo of
the sad steps by which it hath been trod,
of the hellish thoughts by which it hath
been thronged, of the lost hopes by which
it hath been haunted, it would indeed be
a lesson for the thoughtless. But of
what avail are lessons ? Fate drives us,
thoughtful and thoughtless alike ; and
we must go by sad or jocund steps along
the appointed ways. Is i: not so, lady ? n
Something about the speaker as he
uttered the last words fascinated Lucy.
She looked up into his face with a full
frank smile.
“No ! ” she cried, “it is not so ?it
cannot be so ? we are not mere beasts of
burden, mere toys of fate ? ”
While she was speaking. Devereux was
devouring her features with hungry eyes.
“It cannot be!” he muttered, “and
yet—it is—it is—it is the face of Florence.
May hell ”
The imprecation was not finished.
With frightful violence and complete
unexpectedness, a thundercloud at that


moment burst directly over the forest
bay upcn which the cavern opened.
One vivid sheet of dazzling, blinding
whiteness, followed instantaneously by
one deafening shock of heaven’s mightiest
artillery, and then peal after peal of
reverberating echoes bellowing from out
the chasms of the cliffs and the wrinkles
of the hills.
And then, with a crash as of falling
mountains, down from the upper ledge of
the rocks immediately above the cave,
fell a huge, ponderous mass of stone, tons
upon tons of it! The splintered boulder
which had partially blocked up the
entrance to the cavern, so as to conceal
it from any but the most inquisitive
glances, was dashed out of the way by
the falling block.
In her great terror, Lucy swooned
away.
“ Take her into the farthest recesses of
the cave,” said Devereux to George, “it
would be madness to attempt to go out
ints the open. A great deal of stone
must be loosened, and we can’t tell when
the next piece will come dewn. Who is
she ; for the love of God, tell me who she
is?”
“ She is Miss Lucy Walton, Ezra
Walton’s only daughter,”
“ Never ! ” said Devereux, “ never : not
if Ezra Walton swore it by his God !
Never ! never ! never ! ”
Caldecott, terribly concerned about
Lucy, whom with Devereux’s help he had
carried to the stone seat in the farthest
recess of the cave, and placed very
tenderly on the ’possum skins which
covered it, paid but slight heed to the
outlaw’s excited words. If he thought
about them at all, his reflections took this
form, that acted upon by late events in
his criminal career, by his troubles, his
despair, and by his compulsory solitude,
the brain of the bushranger had partially
given way.
There was, however, no time for either
discussion or explanation.
The rain still fell in torrents; and
every few seconds huge fragments of
rocks would dash past the cavern entrance
in their mad leap from the heights above.
Devereux showed by his action that he
was quite as anxious as George Caldecott
about the condition of Miss Walton. He
had found some brandy among his few
stores, and with some of it had rubbed
her hands and forehead. A very little
he had passed between her lips.
The treatment, rough as it was though
tenderly meant, had a certain success.
At least, she speedily revived, or rather
began to revive under it : but, unfortun-
ately, just at the very moment when her
two attendants were in hopes she was
about to recover herself completely,
another vast mass of sandstone came
plunging down from the upper ledges of
the cliffs, one corner of it in its whirring
descent striking against the rock which
acted as a natural lintel to the entrance
of the cave, dashing it into a thousand
pieces.
On Lucy Walton the effect of this
second shock was to cause a relapse.
On the cave its effect was equally dis-
couraging. It had loosened several
stones, the inscribed surfaces of which
formed the walls of the retreat.
Several ancient fissuies were consider-
ably widened. From one of these rolled
out a considerable quantity of rubbish,
debris-residuum which native cats had
from time to time contrived to pull down
from the rocky ledge that had evidently
been used as a shelf by previous tenants.
Amongst the rubbish Devereux noticed
a small phial.
Knowing that it was none of his, he
took it up, wonderingly.
A brief glance at its contents satisfied
him it was worth keeping. With a
furtive look towards George Caldecott,
he placed it in his pocket. He then
returned to his place beside the stone
seat, whereon lay Lucy, still motionless.
Pointing to her, Devereux asked his
companion, “ Is she yours ? ”
“ Well, no; we’re not engaged yet ”
“ Who was her mother ? Answer me
that ! ”
“ She doesn’t know ; at least she never
knew her mother,” replied Caldecott.
“ Doesn’t know, eh ? Fate again, you
see ! Look here Caldecott, man ; what
would you say, supposing she were your
cousin ? ”
George, who had forgotten certain pre-
vious utterances of the man who was now
so passionately questioning him, knew
not what to reply, for the simple reason
he thought the man was mad.
(To be continued.)


A GOSSIP WITH THE BOYS.
We don’t know whether it is to be attri-
buted to the study of the “ barren coun-
terfeit of scientific grammar,” made
compulsory in the public schools of the
colony by the Wilkinsism of the Council
•of Education, that so many of the young-
sters one meets with are such splitters of
dry straws, such analysers of the dry bone
articulation of language, such contemners
of the ideas that underlay vigorous
speech, however rude or rugged, yet so it
is ; for one youth who reads Shakespere
-or Milton for the grand thought, the noble
wit or the profound philosophy, you will
find a dozen who peruse the author’s work
merely to discover whether this or that
conjunction is disjunctive adversative, or
•copulative continuative, or to be hyper-
critical over a noun sentence or a partici-
pial phrase. Some of the finest passages
in our literature are but a series of ellip-
tical propositions to the one-sided student-
ry of the average public school. The mis-
sion of culture, boys, is not to “ change the
bearing of a word,” but to teacH you to
live worthy of God’s breath in you. To
that end hold converse with His chosen
ones, talk reverently with poet and his-
torian, with Homer and Shakespere,
Tacitus and Macaulay, Horace and Pope,
•even with such ones as Shelley, or poor
Lucretius, “ chief poet of the Tiber side,
who denied divinely the Divine,” with
any, in fact, in whom His spirit was, com-
muning reverently—not to analyse their
speech, but to drink in their thought;
not to parcel out their words, but to in-
hale the aroma of their souls !
A correspondent (C. W.), writing on
the importance of modesty in the student,
pertinently says “ Too many of us,
alas ! are attracted by the false glitter of
Fame. Love of approbation is one of
facts, as it is one of the weaknesses of
our human nature ; but when this love is
tempered by wisdom, and desires praise
only for that which it deserves, it is both
lawful and laudable. But what pains
will not many of us give ourselves that
we may win the applauding smile ? What
follies we often perpetrate, and what
“ high fantastic tricks ” we play to please
a gaping crowd ! We study the classics
—not because they may profit us by ex-
ercising our minds, and improving our
taste and judgment, but too often for the
idle purpose of dazzling the eyes of our
fellows with Greek or Latin quotations.
To be able to read Homer or Virgil in the
original ; to scan the different metres ; or
to write an original ode in the language
of the past ; these, and these alone, too
generally comprise the ultima thule of a
student’s existence. The aim and end of
many is simply to make themselves a head
and shoulders taller than the rest of their
tribe by mounting on Greek and Latin
stilts. The wisdom and beauty of the
composition is often overlooked in the
eagerness to acquire the language itself.
In the admiration of the beautiful casket
we often overlook the priceless gem with-
in. Is is not so ? Do not many of us
pride ourselves more on our ability to
translate the classics than on the acquisi
tions which we have —or ought to have —
made from the stores of wisdom and
beautiful ideas, of which the language we
have mastered forms but the case ? Let
us take the lowest room, and soon we
shall hear a Master-voice saying to us
“ Friend, go up higher.”
Another correspondent (A E.S.), sup-
plements some remarks we recently made
anent the overdone boisterousness of Rug-
by football with the following lines, en-
titled —
THE GENTLE GAME.
“ Once more unto the breach, dear friends,
once more.”
So spake Will Shakespere— poet-prince
of yore ;
But we, degenerate sons, prefer another
strife,
Than ever Henry saw, in all his life.
Have we not found by far a nobler game,
That Harry’s Agincourt may well out-
shame ;
Where we run risk of broken legs and
arms,
“A gentle game,” our Sydney youth
which charms.
From Rugby’s sacred walls it honoured
came.


Swift flows the blood, alas ! ’tis from the
nose,
Who would be hero, heeds not kicks nor
blows ;
Who is most injured, most his valour
shews.
And gentler maids, who think it “ chic ”
to swoon
At mention of a combat pugilistical,
Fifty to one, (if you would be statistical)
Make it their study of an afternoon.
I would not for a moment dare gainsay,
The right of any to adore the game,
If they enjoymont find in such a way.
It perhaps may be my taste that is to
blame,
Or it may be a form of mild insanity,
With those who hold with muscular Chris-
tianity.
If unaccompanied by,—well, rude pro-
fanity,
It most conclusive is of great urbanity
To feel another fellow kick your shins
{To the onlooker here the laugh comes in).
To see the hopping, rubbing, grim
grimaces,
Or sickly smiles that overspread their
faces,
In spite of smiles from the approving
“ Graces.”
The tennis balls that France to Henry
sent,
Were used, we know, in a far different
way.
The answer came from many a bosom
rent,
When Agincourt did name the bloody
play.
Say, are our youths as prompt at honour’s
call,
As those of old —prepared to meet the
ball !
We hope, lads, you won’t forget young
Pearce, the hero of the “ Loch Ard ” dis-
aster. Never mind whether he is an Aus-
tralian or not. Whatever his nationality
be, he himself is clear grit, the makings of
a man. Ergo, as he has done a noble
deed with a fine self-denying bravery,
rally round Captain Trouton and help
that genial “ salt ” to make up such a
purse as shall give tangible expression of
the high esteem in which we New South
Welshmen hold the happy union of the
“ courage and compassion” which, as Ad-
dison tells us, “ makes the hero and the
man complete. ”
We hope the Sydney Grammar School
dramatic entertainment (which by-the-
bye, is to come off at the School of Arts,
and not at the Guild Hall) will have a
bumper house. On dit that the pro-
gramme is full of good thing,s and that
the sock and buskin training which the
“ poor players ” are going in for is quite
severe. May they be as liberally patron-
ised by the elite of Sydney, as “ Inpatri-
am populumque ” college boys are by the
fashion of England on each recurring
occasion of Westminster Play !
COLUMN FOR YOUNG READERS.
CHARADE.
( Original and Local).
On an Eminent Architect.
I’d have no hesitation in doing my first
To my whole ’gainst all comers for plan-
ning my second ,
Since in rules architectural deeply he’s
versed—
So at least by art-critics ’tis commonly
reckoned.
S.
CONUNDRUMS.
1. Why should young ladies not object
to the moderate use of tobacco by their
admirers ?
2. When is a mother heartily sick of
her children ?
3. Why is a blacksmith a dangerous
companion ?
4. Wby is a dinner in a canal boat like
Easter Sunday ?
ARITHMETICAL PUZZLE FOR
LATIN SCHOLARS.
Die quota nunc Hora est? Super est
tantum ecce 4 diei.
Quantum bis gemini exacta __ de luce
trientes.
ANAGRAMS.
( Written by Professor Augustus de Mor-
gan on his own name.)
Gus ! Gus ! a mature don !
And Gus must argue ? O ! ! !
Snug as mud to argue.
Must argue on gauds.
A mad rogue stung us.
Tug us ! 0 drag us ! Amen !
Dog ear us, man ! Gut us !
Damn us, a rogue tugs.


NONSENSE VERSES.
There was a young lady of Ryde,
Who parted her hair on one side.
When they said “ It’s awry,”
She replied, “ It’s a lie ! ”
That owdacious young lady of Ryde.
There was a young man of Sans Souci
Who’d eat his meat raw, so ’twas juicy ;
The result of this fare
Was continual nightmare,
Which cooked that young man of Sans
Souci.
TOWN GOSSIP.
The apathy displayed by each
succeeding Government in providing
for the health of the city is produc-
ing its natural result. We learn
from the City Health Officer’s quar-
terly report to 31st ult. that
Typhoid fever has been ravaging all parts of
the city, and scarcely a suburb has escaped without
giving its quota to the number of deaths caused by
this disease. It is now generally admitted that
typhoid fever is not an epidemic, as scarlet fever,
small-pox, &c., but it is produced from some local
cause giving the disease to all the susceptible who
are exposed to the poison. There are only very
few cases but that the origin of the disease can be
traced either to bad water or exhalations from
cesspits, made ground, sewerage, &c.
The time which should have been
employed in carrying out remedial
measures and in making preparation
for the summer is fast slipping
away, and the Beautiful City gets
dirtier and more unwholesome each
day. How many of the deaths re-
corded by the Health Officr in his
report were due to easily preventible
causes there are no statistics to show,
but that these causes have increased
the mortality to an alarming extent
few will deny. How long is this
state of sluggish indifference to
last ? When will the people of
Sydney awake from their lethargy
and insist upon a Health Bill as
being at least as directly important
to them as railway extension, cable
communication, or electoral reform ?
Surely it is no idle request that
there should be some legislation to
enforce the ordinary conditions of
healthy living such as exists iu all
other civilized countries, and that a
certain portion of the revenue should
be expended in the construction of
works to carry off the refuse from
dwellings, which is now allowed to
accumulate and spread death and
disease on all sides.
*
* *
A contributor asks us what on
earth can warrant the opening of
butchers’ shops on Sunday mornings
this present cold weather; as is, of
necessity, the practice during the
melting summer months. We can
offer but one suggestion as to the
reason. Possibly Materfamilias is
apprehensive that the present appe-
tising air is unfavorable to the
chances of Sunday’s provision escap-
ing the demands of Saturday night’s
late supper ; else there can be no
justifiable excuse for this unneces-
sary breach of Sunday discipline.
* *
*
It has oozed out in certain quar-
teers, usually well posted up in such
information, that, not content with
benefiting his aaopted country by en-
listing in the ranks of lunatic asylum
attendants, hospital warders, and
gaol confine’es, our “ Vagabond ” has
taken a more important public
matter in hand, and has actually
cast aside the comforts of the metro-
polis and its junkettings, and be-
taken himself to the far interior dis-
guised as one of the “ great unem-
ployed,” so as to afford definite
and reliable information as to the
superabundance of labor or the
lack of working population to keep
pace with it. No doubt, in due
course we shall receive, through our


venerable contemporary some stsat-
ling revelations on this question.
If we are to believe the,' state-
ments of certain anti-immigration
agitators, there are plenty of vaga-
bonds roaming about the country
crying out “We have got no work
to do and it will be interesting to
know how they escape engagements,
when there are so many employers
of labour looking out for hands.
* * *
Referring to the recent wrecks
on our coast, the Echo suggests that
a number of holes, funnel-shaped,
should be bored in the rocks, from
which, by a simple mechanical con-
trivance, sounds like those from fog-
horns could be made to issue. Could
not this plan be improved upon ?
We would suggest that a line of
rail be laid down on the coast and
the American engine be employed to
warn vessels of their proximity
thereto. Suburban residents might
form a deputation to the Minister
and point out the great advantage of
this proposal.
* *
*
In a recent case, tried before the
Supreme Court, a good deal of
roughness was shown to a new firm
which had, as it was alleged, been
“ pestering for business.” So far as
we can see, pestering for business is
a general sign of the times with old
as with new firms. They all do it;
and why not ? In the struggle for
orders the importunate man is bound
to go to the front. Ask Little Ben
Manuelson, the canvasser of infinite
assurance , if it isn’t so.
* *
*
Business men like their left hands
to be in full rapport with their right
ones. No doing good by stealth for
them ! When St. Dorothy’s annual
charity ball comes off there is al-
ways a chance for combining a few
good works with a little cheap ad-
vertising. Teste Bung and Bagall’s
handsome donation of toothpicks to
the supper committee and the plea-
sing notices it has secured them in
the daily papers !
* *
*
Mem. —Was the recent banquet
given by Mr. Hugh Taylor, M.P.,
to the Premier and the Colonial
Secretary a thank-offering for favors
received by, or promised to, Mr.
H. T.’s son-in-law ? Parramatta is
of that opinion. Promotion in the
Civil Service is now-a-days, even
with the “ Honest Ministry,” for the
sons and sons-in-law of reliable
members who vote on the right
ticket!
■X*
%
On Dit. —Mr. Driver will shortly
lecture at Darlinghurst on “ The
Use of the Gag.”
* *
*
At the Creswick banquet, Mr.
W. H. Cooper spoke first in re-
sponse to “ The Drama.” Can any-
one tell us why he was asked to
speak to such a toast at all ? Was
it because he had once, and unsuc-
cessfully, sought to woo Thalia, or
on account of his youthful connec-
tion with the ebon Muse of nigger
minstrelsy ? Cooper and the Drama!
What next ?
* *
*
Of old it was accounted danger-
ous to wink at an auctioneer; a
recently disposed-of District Court
case ought to teach us to be careful
not to walk on the same side of the
street with a commission agent.
* *
*
Mrs. Scott - Siddons at the


Theatre Royal, and Miss Jane
Coombs at the Victoria Theatre,
are the reigning stars of our dra-
matic-loving population. The former
pourtrays “ Puck,” in Shakespeare’s
“ Midsummer Night’s Dream,” very
pleasantly ; while the latter is draw-
ing very fair audiences in the sensa-
tional dramas of the age, such as
“ Pique,” and, lastly, “ Camille.”
She is a pleasing actress, with a
somewhat peculiar though not un-
pleasing tone of voice and emphasis
in delivery. She “ dresses ” ad-
mirably and in great taste, and is
also well supported by the clever
stock company there. We cannot,
however, let our notice pass without
questioning her delivery of the
simple French word Monsieur , which,
like many other actresses of greater
note, she will insist on pronouncing
“ Messue,” abbreviating also the
first syllable, determining De Nar-
ville’s prefix as “ M’sue.” It is
strange that so many of our rising
actors and actresses will persist in
this singular adaptation of so simple
a designation. As to her acting,
there can be but little question of
its excellence. We believe Miss
Coombs hails from the land of Stars
and Stripes, so that we desire not to
be considered too critical in our
notice.
* *
*
We are requested to note the ineffi-
cient accommodation at the Croydon
Platform. The receipts at this stop-
ping-place last month were £l3B,
and if the income accruing from re-
turn tickets taken in Sydney by
visitors to Croydon were added,
there would be a monthly revenue of
at least £l5O. With this large and
increasing traffic we think there
should be something more than a
booking-office 10 feet x 6 feet, half
of which is occupied by a large clock
and a set of pigeon-holes. The
Government have purchased a piece
of land adjoining, and Croydon
should now have a station to itself.
As for the bridge, no one wants it,
and very few would go over it if it
were erected.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
George. —We always decline M.S.S.
sent to us anonymously.
W. G. B. —Sectarian questions have no
charms for us. We leave them to the
casuists. “The Burial and Resurrec-
tion ” is wholly unsuitable.
G. F. —Many thanks. Any person
obtaining six yearly subscribers will be
placed on our free list for twelve months.
T. F. WIBSBNBR,
348
GEORGE ST.,
348
Half way between Hunter
Street and Post Office.
Lowest price marked in
plain figures.
Latest Novelties by
every mail.
Repairs faithfully ex-
ecuted.
/
*
WIESENER
348
sr
GEORGE
SYDNEY
m
m.
Gold Genevas from
£3 15s.
Silver Genevas from
from £2 ss.
Silver Hunting English
Levers from £5 10s.
Gold English Levers
from £lO.
E. P. and Fancy Goods.
Optical Goods in great
variety.
