

nzfti rds Gazette
PRODUCED BY THE NEW ZEALAND AND AUSTRALIAN SECTIONS
OF THE 3rd ECHELON, M. E. F.
No. i. Alexandria, 12th November, 1915.
Editorv “ROLLO”.
Associate Editors: GEOFFREY W. A. NORTON; J. D. BURNS; FRANCIS C. FORD; A. M. DAVID.
Australian Records Section
Editorial Remarks.
A PHILOSOPHER once said that the
r\ essence of Life is the .expression of Life,
and perhaps unnecessarily added
that the expression of Life is the expression
of Thought,
. Tf you read the above, paragraph carefully
and believe it true, you will (particularly if
you have studied even the most elementary of
text-books on Logic) undoubtedly come to the
conclusion that Life and Thought are one.
And so they are.
But Thought, like Life, is sometimes a
confused and confusing matter, even in the
case of such a sacrosanct and impersonal
person as an Editor. It fact it is (and in
respect to this point we deliberately challenge
criticism) the periodic conglomeration of
everything within reach of one’s mental or
physical, sensibilities.
Yet in Thought and in Life there is always
how ever mean the intelligence, and however low
the physical capability—an Ideal of some sort
And that brings us to our point: the first
point which we wish to press in this, our first
issue.
We, as the creators of a new printed
periodical, are also the creators, on a certain
plane or—if the phrase please you better—in'
a certain sphere, of a "new and undoubtedly
important Ideal
New, Ideals, like invalids and infants (vide
advertisements passim) require special
nourishment, and, after all, they are of more
use to the world in general than any helpless,
infant or comparatively helpless invalid.
Therefore we call on our readers —whoever
they be or wherever they be —for nourishment
for our Ideal. It matters not whether the
nourishment —in the cases of individual
contributors—is literary protein or literary
carbohydrate. The Editors will do their best
to apportion the constituents is such a way
that the' Infant Idea! will be well nourished
without running to fat.
The Editor.


“The Drum”
My Ned has gone, he's gone- away, he's gone
He's called, he's killed [ away for good ;
Him and his drum lies in the rain, lies in the
[ rain where they was stood
Where they was stilled.
He was my soldier boy, my Ned
Between these breasts he'd lay his head,
But now he's killed.
My soldier’s gone. His head now lies between
His drum is broke [ two naked stones,
There's none to mourn him in the rain, only
[ the rooks which watch his bones ;
Which watch and croak,
His great red hand is wasted bare,
That tapped his drum, that touched my hair,
Hark ! Not a stroke.
But what is this beside my heart, beside my
Tap, tap, tap, tap 1 [ heart that sounds ?
Oh, what is this that beats within, like
Rap upon rap ? [ drummers beating bounds,
What wonder have I felt and heard ?
Is it the wing-beats of a bird ?
Tap, tap, tap, tap I
My boy is gone, yet near my heart another
Though he be dumb, [boy lies now,
He thumps my heart like soldiers thump, he
To say he's come. [thumps a tow-row-row,
A drummer-boy, all gaily ores't
Will yet again be at my breast,
Hark ! There's his drum.
Neil Lyons.
(“The Drum” by Neil Lyons, who occupies a place in
English literature similar to that occupied by Guy de
Maupassant in France, first appeared in “The Clarion'*
and is considered to be the finest poem written on the
War.)
Homes,
There's a wonderful song we all know well—
When sung by a singer it hurts like hell —
It's about a place we all know well
It’s home, just home.
We've come many miles from the Austral Isle,
And we've lived in Egypt a good long while;
In our mode of living we've altered our style
From home our home.
We're working now on a clerical job
And a private per day gets just two bob :
In Egypt they know all the ways to rob,
Not like home, our home.
We're living now'in army tents
On a beautiful spot with many scents ;
The natives used it and paid no rents,
That's home, our home.
There's many a chap with “Feloose Keteer”
Who refused point blank to live down there :
And he's got a room'won't tell you where —
That's home, his home.
When peace on Europe again descends,
And those that were foes are again good friends,
A chap will be glad when his way he wends
To home, real home.
“2090 A.”
Ode to Good Friday or the “Records”
Lament
It's a long time to wait till Friday
It's a long way to go.
It's a long while to wait till Friday
When we all get our “dough”
Good-bye, Camp de Caesar,
Farewell Picture show
It's a long long while to wait till pay-day
So we must go slow.
(With very humble Apologies to Tipperary),
What was in Mm.
“Children”, said the teacher instructing the
class in composition, “you should not attempt
any flights of fancy, but write what is in.
you. Do not imitate any other person's
writings, or draw inspirations from outside
sources.”
As a result of this advice, Johnny Wise
turned in the following composition:
“We should not attempt any flites of fancy,
but rite what is in us. In me there, is my
stummick, lungs, liver, two apples, two cakes
and my dinner.”


THE MULE,
Shaker.
For a time the enemy’s gunfire lessened and
from their line the noise of musketry and
machine guns came sharply, a noise that was
tenser than the guns and more portentous. It
was as if one had been listening to a change
of orchestration in a symphony, as if, after a
heavy and almost dull prelude, the strings
were leading to a breathless finale.
The respite that followed the attack at dawn,
was brief, and the enemies artillery renewed
their bombardment with added vigour. The
rifle and machine gun fire gave way to shell
fire that shrieked and burst with, deadly
precision over the trench, the men of C. Coy.
of the ......... Battalion, A.I.F. had captured at
the point of bayonet a short while previous.
Seasoned though they were to. all the
dangers of the strenuous Gallipoli Campaign
they unconsciously flinched under the terrific
onslaught. And no wonder, for to be under
big gun fire is to see and realise the most
terrifying forces of modern warfare. Rifle,
machine gun and shrapnel fire are terrible and
at times perhaps more death-dealing, but in
the main they are as nothing compared with
big-gun-fire. Probably the only one thing
that rivals it in terrible impressiveness is to
stand • before an avalanche of gleaming
bayonets and meet the swift onrush of war-
maddened men, with the lust of blood running
hot in their veins. With regard to meeting
ah avalanche of gleaming bayonets the ...... th
had —comparatively speaking—the most utter
contempt for them, since they had again and
again repulsed the most fearsome of bayonet
charges, but it was not so with the enemy
when they “ Charged ’* for on such occasions
they swept all before them. Ever since the
landing on the glorious 25th of April 1915
when they were in the van of Australian
heroes who drove the Turks up the heights of
the now world-famed GABA TEPE they were
known as the “ dizzy limit A
It was not long before the enemy’s rain of
shells was replied to with vehemence, the 60-
pounders in the rear having “ranged” gave
them something to digest, as they crashed, and
with a moan and a rattle hurtled their derisive
replies.
Despite strong resistance after 3 hours solid
going, creating volcanoes along the line,
the enemy eased off their heavy artillery
bombardment, and set to work with a will with
shrapnel which unfortunately for C. Company
of the th broke like white wads of cotton
wool immediately over the heads causing such
havoc among them, that their position was
fast becoming untenable.
It was with a frown of obstinate annoyance
Captain TLB. of C. Company th Battalion
commonly known throughout the Regiment as
“THE MULE” saw at a glance that a grave
situation was quickly encompassing his Coy.
He bit his lip until the blood flowed. His
mind worked at an abnormal rate of speed, as
the minds of most humans do at a critical
moment, but his thoughts did not run as would
those of many another man placed in similar
circumstances. He was reviewing outstanding
features of his life, which resulted in a rude
shock, for he discovered that he had ruined his
life, disappointed a father and mother, lost
the love of a woman, and ail through a series
of mistakes, being too selfish, selfopiniated
and ' owning an unbecoming knack of
getting on the wrong side of people. This was
mainly through want of tact and foresight,
and constantly performing childish obstinate
actions which jarred on those he came in
contact with, especially his confreres in the
Army. Then again, he had a way that was
detrimental to him, intaking on responsibilities
that did not come within his sphere of duty, and
endeavouring to show out on his own weak
initiative. The wonder of it all he had the
good luck to miss being “wheeled” many a
time. Yet when anything failed to go his
way he put it either down to other peoples
foolishness or to pure “bad luck.”
It was galling to him to note that through
his many objectionable ways he had earned
the contempt of the men under his command
who did not hide their opinion of him as an
unmannerly and obstinate fool—“A perfect
mule”—they said amongst themselves. By
virtue of individual trouble and raising
dissension in the ranks of his Company he
had got himself into hot water with his
Commanding Officer*
Envy filled his heart whenever a fellow
Officer gained a justly earned honour or
promotion on the field, for ever since he had
set foot on Turkish Territory he had gone from
bad to worse and through his highminded
actions caused his men heavy Iqss as well as
often endangering the 'Regiment With ail


his faults no one could say a word against his
courage. It was about the only reason why
he was allowed to retain his rank, and that
coupled with the hope that he might have
been misjudged and he would eventually turn
out trumps.
Like a man in a dream he said in a low
strained voice to himself. Old pal (after all
a man's his own best pal). I'll give you one
more chance to make good. The chance of your
lifetime. For your own sake dont miss it —
through letting arise that damned stupid obst-
inate resentment of advice of turning Orders
to your own way of thinking. That is to say
don’t do anything on your own initiative. If
you do —well —your cake is dough. Remember
this campaign is not the place for inefficient
Officers. The Regiment cannot at the moment
afford to waste a life. As I said, I will give
you a chance to pull your honour out of the
fire of a very inglorious contempt, so see you
do it. My orders to you are to capture what
is marked on the map as B section trench
which is causing trouble on our left flank. If
you succeed in capturing the position hold
on to it at all costs but do not shift out of it
until you receive orders from me, accompanied
by re-inforcements. But, mark my words, not
an inch further do you go. The carrying out
of my orders is worth perhaps what you
like to make it worth, You have those orders,
“Carry 0n...... The words of his Commanding
Officer, the and Captain of his Soul.
With twitching fingers he reviewed the
obviously precarious position into which he had
led his men, just out of a kind of sheer
obstinacy. Hisvainfeelingshadbeenpricked to
anger by the words of his Commanding Officer,
as he vaguely remembered that he had made
up his mind then and there, despite what the
consequences might be not only to capture
the trenches singled out-but, if there was
a dog's chance showing, to go the whole
hog and capture the one that lay behind
it and, if oossible, the one beyond that.
He intended to show what he could do
when up against it, simply ignoring his
C.O's. warning, and so, perhaps selfishly,
gambling with the lives of the men under him,
not paying the slightest heed to the fact that
his company had of late through his many
indescretions been thinned out. And now the
result of his last action was an obvious failure.
The men under him were not of the material
hat cowards are made of; nevertheless they
were not utterly foolhardy, and in many ways
and remarks they let him know unmistakeably
their feelings.
With the sensation of failure rankling in
his mind he read on the faces of his men a
spirit of mutiny.
The enemy's shrapnel having eased a little,
by rapid movements they, under cover of a
hurricane of lead from rifles and machine guns,
made about him a 54 circle —of death — which
spelt the annihilation of the isolated company.
There was only one hope for the men and that
was speedy help from Reinforcements and
for him, absolutely none His career was
ended.
He was not a first rate medium for illumi-
nation but the cruel fact struck him with
blinding force that there was barely enough
ammunition to last out a half hour considering
the way the fight was going.
Now that his cup of mistakes was full he
would have willingly made an attempt in person,
to carry word to the Regiment of the dire
distress in which he had placed his men. The
five volunteers he had despatched for Reinfor-
cements had gone hardly a dozen yards from
the trench when they fell. It was rank suicide
to venture out of the trench, and he had no
right to leave his post. Yet he could not bring
himself to call for further volunteers to go for
aid. What was he to do ? Death surrounded
him and his men.
Suddenly his face lit up with a flush
of inspiration. He distinctly remembered
stumbling over a box of ammunition in tfce
swift rush and swirl of fighting when he
and his men captured at the point of bayonet
the second trench in the rear of his present
position. This the Regiment had held the
for sometime previously, right up to the
breaking of dawn of this, his fateful day.
S He also remembered that from a certain
point in the evacuated trench a view of the
Regiment could be obtained.
He cast a quick look at his men, all battle-
begrimed and fighting like devils trying to
hold the enemy in check, fighting against
awful odds and not only the odds of numbers.
Although a good number had “gone out”,
they were still giving more than-.they were
getting. ’
Acting upon a sudden decision he called
out briefly. “Lads I know where there is
ammuniton lm going for it.”


In a twinkling he had leapt out of the trench
and unflinchingly made for the spot amidst
a tornado of death.
It was beyond comprehension how he reached
the vacated trench into which he disappeared
from sight.
After a nerve-racking wait of about ten
minutes he appeared again and gamely com-
menced the struggle back to his men, staggering
as he came under the weight of the ammunition
he carried on his shoulder.
The men for a while forgot the fight dum-
founded with admiration as they watched him
fight his way back to them with the precious
load of ammunition he had so gallantly
obtained.
He was within 10 yards of the trench and
as a dozen men or more sprang out to relieve
him of his weight and help him into what
shelter their trench afforded it was seen that
he was mortally wounded. As they reached
him he dropped.
They lifted and carried him tenderly into
the trench where, with the words. ‘‘Spotted a
signaller —sent a message for help. The
boys are on the way up now. Got the
ammunition. Fight like hell” —the life passed
out of him.
The fresh supply of ammunition saved the
situation. It enabled the remnants of C
Company to hang out until reinforcements
arrived and relieved them.
When the opportunity came the relieved men
proceeded to the lines behind the Regiment
to rest after their gruelling, and, as they
went, discussing all that had happened they
ungrudgingly wiped off their previously heavy
score against “THE MULE”.
Methodical Madness.
An xAustralian Soldier in a well known
hospital in Egypt developed a habit of picking
up and examining bit of paper he could
find. A Medical Board decided he was
harmless and might be better for a trip to
Australia. On the trip to Australia he still
continued the practice and on arrival there he
was again boarded and the Board decided he
was too eccentric for active service. On
receiving his discharge he looked at it closely
and remarked with a dry smile. “Thanks!
That is the piece of paper I have been looking
for”.
A disinfected Prince.
According to the Berliner Tageblatt , the
Kaiser’s third son Prince Adalbert, who is an
Officer in the Navy, recently visited the eastern
theatre of war, and spent some time in the
trenches. On his departure he was provided,
in accordance with the regulations, with the
following certificate: “It is hereby declared
that H.R.H. Prince Adalbert of Prussia has
been disinfected, and is at present free from
vermin.”
D Imperatrix ! O Mater !
Though nations on the broken oath
A wider Empire strive to found,
And not by Honour nor by troth
Their treacherous ambitions bound,
England! Your sons are brave and true;
The God of Battles be with you!
The steep and bloody road you trod,
And crossed the never-furrowed seas,
With hope of sons and trust in God
To mould your world-wide destinies :
England! Your sons are brave and true;
The God of Battles be with you !
Sons who ride over Western plains,
Sons who know well the city’s din,
Sons who on Ocean’s stormy lanes
Their due in Peace’s honour win :
England! Your sons are brave and true;
The God of Battles be with you!
Still are we ready at your side,
In love, as in our honour, keen,
England, though half a world divide,
Or all a lifetime come between:
England! Your sons are brave and true;
The God of Battles be with you!
ROLLO.


How it was Done.
I’m an outlaw I know an’ I aint goin’ ter "Boost”
Of the way that I tike people darn,
I’m jist goin’ ter tell yer, wot yer nivcr wud giss
‘Ow I won the three stripes an’ a "Cram”
‘Twas away in "Orstralia” I wos moochin’ abart
Wen a cove comes an’ taps me quite lite
Sez ’e yer ’onest I can see bi yer "Dial”
Wot abart a prowl round tonite.
Twas me Major wot spoke an’ I knew bi ’is "Phiz”
There wos terrible trubble a’ead
So I sprung to the ‘tention an' sez wiv sum pride
I’m yer "Moses” ole son, I’m yer "Ped”.
So that nite wen the "Chimer” wos strikin’ up ten
I wos under the tree near the gate
Wen a whistle like the wal, of a Curlew I ’card
So I upped an’ saluted me mate.
We ’ave got ter git some baduns ternite
Sez ’e as we strolled darn the parth
An’ I’m goin’ ter ’ave ’em if it corsts me me ’ead
So I’spec yer ter foller (not ’arf)
Orl rite sir sez I I’m inter the job
An' He see yer thro’ wiv it too
I’ve brort me ole Baynet an’ Trenchin’ Tool ’elve
An’ He murder the bloke wot sez "Boo”
So we orf ter the place at the back of the pub
Where some coves played "Pitch-an’ a Toss”
An’ I crep’ alongside of the Major (you bet)
While ’e screwed orf the gints like a ’oss.
Ort of a suddint there wos a ’ell of a row
An’ out come the blokes bi the score
"Stan’ By” sez the Major but I didn’t ’ear
I wos too far away (Oh Lor)
Wen the argiemint wos o’er I started orf back
To the Boss or ter pick up ’is trak
Wen I got in the midst of a big mob o’ Drunks
Who started ter "chip” an’ throw "Slack”
Good Day Sonny sez one, are yer one o’ the "Pimps”
Wot sneaked on us rarnd at the "Crib”
Look at ’is Baynet an' ’elve yelled ’is mates
So I smiled an’ looked wise like a "Squib”
I farnd these artside an* I think they belonged
To ther ’op wot yer kicked rarnd ther way
An’ they orl cheered an’ yelled fer a pot of ther best
Per the kid wot ’ad not seen ther fray
So we ’ad a few pots an’ were all pretty full
Wen I twigged a big Piket (Oh Gor)
An’ leadin’ ’em wiv revenge in ’is voice
Wos ther Major wiv "Squirts” in galore
Heres me charnst sez I as I ’opped ter ther dore
An’ secf nuthink till ther ’ead wos in ‘earin’
’Ands up then I yelled at ther top of me voice
Keep quiet there that blitherin’ screamin’
Keep quiet there Ginger I went on ter say
I wont strarnt this row any longer
Yer me prisoners yer know an’ yer got ter be good
An’ at layin’ art men I’m a "Bonzer”
Then in ’ops ’is "Nibs” au’ wen ’e sor me
’is face orl blushed an’ ’e smiled
Got ’em orl Pard sez ’e, yez sur sez I
Rite, line up an’ number (kiddin wild)
We marched ’em orl up ter ther camp on ther ’ill
Me in front tryin’ ’ard not ter stagger
An’ ther ’ead tellin’ ther mob wot wos there, orl abart
Ther row at ther pub corld ther "Dagger”
Wen we ’ad ’em orl safe under canvas an’ guard
Ther ’ead commed alorng ter see me
I’m proud of yer lad’ sez ’e strate away
I’m goin’ ter promote yer, yer see
So divin’ darn deep in ’is parnts ’e lugged art
Three stripes an’ a cram an’ I smiled
Then ’e spat on ther back of’ an’ clapped ’em on me
An’ corld me ’is Fairy Gord Child
So thats ‘ow I came famus an’ ’ad a good squad
Ter look arter an’ drill fit ter fite
Cos I’m such a "Stunner” at bailin’ ’em up
Them thats many, but "Bally” well tite
I aint done no "Boostin’ ” I swear on me oath
I’ve tole yer ther tale fair an’ plain
I RUN an’ Bi Gawd if ever I’m pinched,
I’m ready ter do it again
‘‘Clipper”
For England.
The bugles of England were sounding o’er the sea
As they had called a thousand year, calling now to me :
They w 7 oke me from dreaming in the dawning of the day
The bugles of England ! And how could I stay?
The banners of England, unfurled across the sea,
Floating out upon the wind were beckoning to me,
Storm-rent and battle won, smoke stained and grey,
The banners of England ! And how could I stay?
O England, I heard the cry of those who died for thee,
Sounding like an organ voice across the wintry sea :
They lived and died for England, and gladly went their
England, O England how could / stay ! [way,
Love.
I say it wish its best, its oldest meaning,
My God be with you Dear on land or sea,
And guard you through the long days inter-
Till that glad hour which brings you [vening
[back to me.
My God be with you through
[the summer gladness
Thro’wintry days, and nights of calm starshine
Thro’every moments joy, thro’paths of sadness
May His will cherish you, Oh Love of a mine 1


Extracts from the “Dinkum Oil War News’'.
The “ News.”
AUSTRALIA THREATENED.
(.Special Cable from Milparinka).
June 23.
Great consternation has been caused in the
War Office by the discovery that several
captured Turks had plans of Broadmeadows
Camp in their possession, and a hydroplane
raid on the Northern Territory in feared.
KIEL CANAL.
The Germans have such fear of the British
Fleet raiding Kiel Canal that the engineers
have raised the bottom of it 30 ft. higher.
They forecast that if the British Dreadnoughts
now attempt the passage they will receive a
nasty bump.
CAPTURED TURKISH RIFLES.
It is known that the Turks are sapping
through to the ordnance stores to try and
recover some of their captured rifles. The
authorities have moved the stores, and the
chagrin of the Turks when they emerge on the
beach and discover their mistake may be
better imagined than described.
GLENELG NEED NOT FEAR.
Several airmen flew over London last night,
but as they were probably British there is no
cause for uneasiness at Glenelg !
POISON GAS.
The Germans are now using gas to poison
our troops, but they cannot charge as good as
the Melbourne suppliers of that smelly stuff.
WATERLOO DAY.
The “Waterloo Day” issue says a sensational
disclosure from our own special exclusive.
“The Dinkum Oil” is able to announce to-day
to its readers from exclusive source that the
Turks intend to celebrate the centenary of
the Great German Victory of Waterloo on
Friday by making another successful attempt
to drive the Australians and New Zealanders
into the sea.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
The Electric Elevator will not be working
up the Gullies for a while. Some cook stole
the current to make a pudding.
ELECTION NOTICE.
Mr. Soandso, the Liberal candidate, will
address the waiters at the pumps to-morrow.
Subject—“Blacklegs among the Turks.”
For Sale —Complete spy outfit for sale, five
cutlasses, and a yashmak.
A WARNING,
All members of the force are warned not to
let a copy of this paper get into the hands of
the Turks, as the information would be very
valuable to the enemy.
THE REASON WHY.
A v/ounded sniper captured the other night
proved to be a lady from a Turkish General's
harem. Since this occurred a great many men
have been anxious to go on looking for snipers.
SHIPPING NEWS.
A Greek bumboat laden with fruit, pipes,
matches, beer, &c., is long overdue.
The Advertisements,
Among the advertisements are thefollowing:
Full Private wishes to buy Guide Book to
London. Places safe from Zeppelin to be
marked with a cross.
Lance-Sergeant would exchange a grand
dugout piano for three tins of Maconochie's
rations.
Lost by a Poor Person—A strong pipe, last
smelt in some one's pocket up Monash Gully.
To Let—Nice dugout on the skyline. Owner
leaving for field hospital.
Wanted —Some nice girls to stroll with on
the Engineer's new pier.
Lost, a little tot. Very rum where it's got
got to.
Section Commander requires pair of good
field glasses to find his men when there is
shrapnel about.
Man with good memory would like the job
of taking messages from the troops to friends
in Cairo.
Wanted to Buy.—The 2nd Brigade will buy
large or small quantities of old beer. Fresh
beer not objected to’
Kaba Pepe Museum. —Come and see a piece
of extinct Australian butter now being
exhibited.
The Dinkum Oil.


How to play Tennis.
To play any game at all you must have the
necessary articles to play with. Have you
ever stopped to think for a moment how many
different kinds of games and pastimes there
are in which a ball is the leading and
indispensable feature? It occupies a prominent
place in the pastimes of Black and White,
Christians and Heathens of all races of
mankind. Or again have you ever given it a
thought to calculate how many millions of
people spend so much of their life in
occupying and devoting their attention in a
greater or lesser degree to the games in which
a ball is the predominant feature ? It is
almost a human impossibility to attempt it, so
we will pass on. Tennis in one of these
games in which a ball of a certain kind is
that predominant feature referred to. So far
so good. The next in order of importance is
a Racquet. There are many kinds of racquets
but a good one is the best. Then of course
being a game which is played in accordance
with certain rules and regulations it is
necessary to ha\e a Court or the prescribed
measured place for playing, with a net of
fixed dimensions crossing the centre. It is
also an absolute necessity to have special flat
soled shoes or boots not only to give greater
agility and comfort to the player but to
prevent a violent outburst from the owner of
the Court if you attempted to play, say in the
latest pattern Army boots.
The question arises “ What constitutes a
Tennis Player”? This probably brings me to
a few remarks which has greater bearing on
the title. To some extent it depends on the
individual. Some may have a notion that
they know all there is to know about the
game, when in reality in the opinion of those
capable of judging they would be termed
“Tyros”.
A “Player” of tennis to my mind is one who
could be termed a “first class player”. And
what course must be adopted to attain such a
high degree of efficiency in order to earn the
title “first class player” ? Tennis playing is
not a gift. To some it may be an easy matter
to attain a fairly high standard of play, but
to the great majority it necessitates months,
yes, and years of arduous and constant
practice, assiduous study of the game, and
careful attention to physical fitness, and this
will be more readily obtained if tennis is
indulged in from the point of view of a health
sport as well as for pastime, that is of course ail
other things being equal. And it is such
practice as this, and this study of fitness
which has produced our Wildings, Brookes
Parkes, McLoughlin, to mention only a few
of our modern first class players. (Alas, we
have recently had to mourn the loss of one
of the Wilding Brothers who was killed in
action, and the Tennis World is the poorer
by his decease). And what does this practice
consist of ? It means that in the first place
you must be in a proper attitude for serving,
You must hold your racquet firmly and secu-
rely and in the proper manner for a correct
service. You must see to it that the ball
touches where you intend it to touch, and
that when it is returned to you be sure and
hit it so as to get over the net and if possible
to beat your opponent. A keen observant
eye, an alertness and activity of body, a
promptness in deciding where you are going
to strike next, these are but one or two of
the items of study for the tennis Player,
and they are not accomplished in one Season,
nor yet two but over a period of years. It
cannot be gainsaid that Tennis apart alto-
gether for its own sake, and apart altogether
from the question as to whether you will
become an efficient player or not, is one of
the healthiest and finest sports in existence
for cultivating a sound mind and a sound
body, and anyone who participates in the
game at all will freely admit that he or she
feel both healthier and stronger as a result
of playing. I do not, therefore, wish to
discourage my readers by laying too much
emphasis on the “First class player” rather
would I wish to create an enthusiasm and
earnestness of purpose in aiming at “Idealism”
Many thousands of people of both sexes,
both young and old, derive great pleasure
and benefit every year as a result of indulg-
ing in this “Queen of Games’'.
An enthusiastic Tennis player thinks tennis,
talks tennis and dreams tennis, and he may
be heard to remarks “40 love” or “Your
service” when he is in blissful repose, or if
you happen to be his bedmate for the night
after an exciting Tennis afternoon, he fights
his battles all over again, and if you are
in striking distance you may have cause to
regret his enthusiasm for many days to come!
Pro.


EDITORIAL*
New Zealand Records Section.
Everything should be able to offer some
reasonable cause for its existence and a
startled world may well demand why we
should have thought it necessary to emerge
from the womb of Time and perch ourselves
upon the shoulders of an already overburdened
literary Atlas.
To Australia belongs the inception of the
idea enshrined in this Gazette. As everybody
knows Australia insists on being there on
every occasion of importance, as this undoubt-
edly is, and where the kangaroo is, there also
is the kiwi in close proximity.
The reason for the appearance of “ The
Anzac Records Gazette ” is not because it
claims to fill a need, nor yet because popular
clamour demanded it, but simply because it
had to come.
When massive intelligences are wasting
themselves in wrestling with the intricasies
of 103 s and 20Q0As, and deliberating on the
possible effects of vesicular colitis on a
Class B. man, it is obvious that they must have
an adequate outlet for expression.
Secure in a confortabie Bank balance (is
that P.T. 2—levy all paid ?) the Editors of the
Gazette can remain indifferent to hostile
criticism WE SHALL APPEAR AGAIN and
with the modesty characteristic of Anzacs
demand a place in the literary Sun.
Some ungenerous critics have suggested
that the object of the P.T. 2 levy was that the
Treasurer and Editor might worship more
frequently at a certain Baccanalian Shrine
that we all wot of, and, with backs against
convenient barrels absorb the bottled sunshine
of the Aegean Islands, but Rumour is here, as
ever, a mendacious strumpet.
Should w r e eventually sink into the limbo of
forgotten things, at least some of us,surcharged
with an excess of mentality, will have lived
our little hour or two and gone our way.
Seeing that the kiwi has proved a somewhat
unfruitful bird, a few suggestions as to future
contributions might not be out of place.
Living, as we do, in a land pregnant with
historic memories, it surely should not be
difficult for Spring Poets to mount their
Pegasus and find their inspiration after a very
short flight of fancy.
Those glorious sunsets, when the dying Sun
throws to far distances long spears of amethyst
and gold, melting to chrysophrase and dulled
jacinth as Night’s leaden fingers draw a
star-strewn pall over that sea of sand which
we know so intimately because we have not
only lived on, but have also eaten, it; some
Homeric Epic touching on our own boys’
exploits on the Peninsula, or even the homely
egg—for Egypt would not be Egypt without
the egg —, all these are fruitful themes.
Poetry, however, is a high and difficult Art,
and the waste-paper basket, the familiar friend
yawns conveniently handy ; Prose is easier
and essayists will have a patient hearing.
Frank expression of opinion on any subject
will be welcomed.
The essayist must expect the contrary
opinion to be expressed, but he can always
shield himself behind an armoured egotism
like Whistler, who, when contradicted by a
disputatious person, replied, “I am not arguing
with you, I am telling you.”
If it be true that the very walls of houses
exude faint aromatic fragrances of previous
occupants a subject is to hand in the house in
which we work. Where Sergeants now
decorously tread were once high revels held.
The Alexandrine Theseus here sought
patchoulied Ariadne, and, mounting the stairs,
paused for breath, cleared his throat, and,
twanging the light guitar, or its egyptian
equivalent, sang to his adored one thusly: —
“ Dear little maid, so debonnaire,
“ The meshes of your rippling hair
“ My heart entangled.
“ Its never quite recovered since,
“ For, like your summer dress of chintz,
“ Its badly mangled.”
The above is a free translation of an
Aramaic papyrus found by Sergeant Gamble
of the Pay Department in the tomb of the
Sacred Bull at Sakkara, and is reputed to
have been composed by Moses and sung by
him to Pharoah’s daughter.
The reference to the delinquencies of the
local washerman in the last line is singularly


appropriate even in these days of Sunlight
Soap and Kultur.
Sergeant Gamble is in posession of a much
older fragment which he calls '‘the Key to
Egypt” and, I understand, sings it to his own
tom-tom accompaniment at the Bairam
Festivities and on other select occasions, I
hope, later on, to induce this brilliant Author
to illumine the pages of this Gazette with
some samples of his scintillating wit. Unheed-
ing of the miracle of our birth, the world, that
huge censer, will still swing majestically
through Space; millions of sporadic efforts
like ours will appear and, as regularly,
disappear; one thing amongst this changing
Cosmos is certain, once you have paid your
piastre for the Gazette you can rest assured
that, on no account, will your money be
refunded.
Geoffrey W. A. Norton.
Letters to a Turkish soldier at the front.
The following characteristic letters written to a
Turkish soldier at the front may he read with
interest :
“To may dear son-in-law, Hussein Aga.
First I send you may best salaams and 1 kiss
your eyes. Your mother Atrf also kisses your
eyes. Mustafa also kisses your eyes, and
Mrs. Kerim also sends her salaams. Your
daughter Ayesha kisses your eyes. Should
you enquire after our health, thank God I can
tell you, we are all in health, and I pray God
we may continue to be so. Your letter of
4th of February we have received. Your
mother kisses your eyes and Abdullah kisses
both your hands. Your brother, Bairhanis
wife has died —may your own life be long—
but before dying she brought into the world a
child. The child also has died. What can I
say about the decrees of God ? Your brother
Bairham has also been taken as a soldier.
We pray God that his health may be
preserved. The money you sent has arrived.
Thank God for it, for money is scarce these
days. Everybody send salaams. Everybody
kisses your hands and your feet.
Good keep you from danger.”
Your father,
Faik.
Come and Surrender.
Having boasted that they had driven us
into the sea the Teutonized Turks are seeking
to beguile us into submission.
At Anzac the other day a German aeroplane
was seen to drop some papers, which were
carried by the wind into the Turkish trenches.
The Turks tied a couple to the tail of a bomb,
and delivered the stray leaflets into our lines.
It was a proclamation inviting us to surrender,
on the ground that our British men-of-war
had abandoned us to our fate, and we were
“ exposed to certain perdition by starvation or
thirst”. Australians and New Zealanders are
informed, that “Greedy England made you
fight under a contract. You may confide in
us for excellent treatment. Our country
disposes of ample provisions. There is enough
to feed you well and make you feel quite at
your comfort. Don’t further hesitate come and
surrender!” Peninsula Peess. (Vat you thinks !
The ANZAC boys were so “scared” and anxious
to surrender, that they rushed for the Turkish
trenches for a “feed” of Turkey before the
“certain perdition by starvation or thirst”
period arrived.
Editor “A.R. Gazette.”)
Notes.
It is hoped that the flow of contributions
will permit the Management to publish the
“A. R. G.” more or less regularly every four
weeks in future. It is also hoped that a cartoon
will be a regular feature of the paper, and
that subject suggestions for it will be plentiful.
This issue does not include a column of
short, topical, paragraphs, only because a
sufficient number of suitable contributions
were not received in time.
Will budding, burgeoning, and established
authors please note.
Ed. “A.R


TRIBUTIA.
My esteemed AUSTRALIAN friends, and
colleagues, —“Greeting.”
Never, since I have been allowed to breathe
in this vale of tears, has it been my good
fortune to be asked to pay you the eulogy
that is so peculiarly yours. And I know you
so well; for I have fought before on the plains
of the rolling South African veldt with you,
smokedthe calabasharound your AUSTRALIAN
bush fires, and with you I have drank deep
from the flowing bowl of Bacchus’ in the
haunts of the Bohemian. In the past we have
run the whole gamut of human emotions
together; and the bond is now being further
cemented in having the honour conferred
upon me, by an invitation to join you in an
awesome plunge into the Stygian realms of
fiction, fact, and fancy. Comrades my dive is
taken in a spirit of trepidation; for how can
one so humble as I expect to bridge this
literary abyss, without covering the fair name
of my honourable Australian colleagues in
obliquy. For the incontrovertible fact remains,
that, —leaping from the unfathomable wastes
of Africa, what right have I to take this
plunge into the vast unknown domains of the
KIPLING —esque; to wallow in the spume of
my self —conceit, and lead my newly found
friends astray. But the gauntlet has been
thrown down, and for that reason, have I
hurled myself into the arena; for our good
editor has skilfully fished me out of my
morbid seclusion, tactfully portrayed to me
the degenerate oblivion, into which, my callous
indifference to my pals from the Southern
Cross, had thrust me, and with a Parthian shot
he macerated my soul by informing me, that I
was wallowing in the spindrift of mental
torpidity, that was a stigma upon the
honoured name I bore, and an indelible blot
upon the escutcheon of the New Zealand
Records Section. The consoling cadence of
his last plaintive note of entreaty, switched
my mental machinery out of its withered
groove, causing me to start back appalled at
my criminal impotence, and has thawed the
chilled ventricles of my selfish heart. I weakly
remonstrated, that for me, —it represented a
terrific strain upon the mental plumb-line;
but he parried evasively by the information
that the genial atmosphere exuding from the
Australian domains, above those grey stone
steps, would impregnate me with the right
perspective and sense of proportion in the
task he ailoted me; and in the face of the
resistless mental pressure, he brought to bear,
—I succumbed; so he has mortised and dove-
tailed me into his scheme, and with a lordly
wave of the hand, ordered me to get on with
the job.
Renewed contact with you of late, has
stimulated me to an intense interest in life;
a visualization I have not experienced in
years.
Life, as viewed in all its erratic phases, in
this historic amphitheatre of the East, has to
me, been infused with a subtle humour, owing
to your charming naivete, and characteristic
elan. Your deft masterly grapple with the
Oriental cunning of the land of the Pharaohs,
has endeared you to us all, and welded more
firmly the bond of Kinship.
The manacles of self-restraint that have
been enforced upon recalcitrant guards, con-
ductors, porters, and their unholy following
of plebeian hordes of baksheesh mongers, is
due to your indefatiguable efforts, and the
milk of human Kindness that now exudes
from every pore of their dusky hides, is a
fount that owes its inception to your gentle
and loving contact.
The welcoming smirk on the face of Alien
restaurant waiters, speedily resolves itself into
an illuminating smile of wondrous brotherly
love, —when Australia saunters up the aisle;
and in the rendition of their bills have weakly
resigned themselves to fate, and feared to
array their wondrous powers of arithmetical
jugglery, against such barriers of mental
impregnability, — as your past microscopical
sublety had demonstrated. The phenomenal
drop in the inflated charges of the circumam-
bient hostelries will be inscribed on the
tablets of history, as the result of the invasion
to this benighted clime of the sons of
Australia.
For, on many occasions, the humble piastre,
in their hands, has bonne the equivalent value
of their golden brothers. Those ancient relics
of the bombardment, in the shape of vehicular
contraptions with their abbreviated equine
appendages, have increased their mileage, for
