

The Anzac Records Gazette
PRODUCED BY THE NEW ZEALAND AND AUSTRALIAN SECTIONS
OF THE 3rd ECHELON, M. E. F.
No. 2. Alexandria, nth December, 1915.
Editor : ?ROLLO?.
Associate Editors: Geoffrey W. A. NORTON; J. D. BURNS; Francis C. FORD; A. M. DAVID.
Editorial Remarks.
THE following criticism was received by
the Editor from a correspondent and, as
an Editor should always be ready to
meet fair criticism reserving, of course, the
right to reply we quote it as received :
Suggestion to the Editor of the ?Anz AC RECORDS GAZETTE.?
That in future, either the articles should be in
simple everyday language, or that a dictionary should
be supplied (free) to every subscriber. You see,
Mr. Editor, after a day struggling with such words
as: ?Endocarditis, Conjunctivitis, ulcerative pharyn-
gitis, and various intricate 103s. etc., our poor brains
are in a whirl, and what should be a source of amuse-
ment and relaxation becomes hard work (especially in
one or two instances), on account of the mental strain
involved in the deciphering of the meaning contained
in your jumble of dictionary extracts. Trusting you
will see you way clear to adjust this little difficulty
and so help one who is not
A University Graduate.
In reply to this criticism which is, after
all, perilously near the verge of being a com-
pliment, we -have little to say. The paucity of
our esoteric and exoteric inspiration with
respect to an appropriate retaliatory lucubra-
tion against our correspondent's extraordi-
narily unsophisticated indictment is probably
attributable to some innate mental obtuseness
which has been either temperamentally in-
hibited or casually acquired.
We do not, however?despite the particular
paucity above referred to ?acknowledge that
our first issue was ?or was intended to be
a purely lexicographical, philological, and,
from the physiological point of view, com-
paratively unintelligible tour de force.
To support our almost infantilely simple
reply to our correspondent's implied inter-
rogation, we give, in ?clear,? at the end of
our remarks, the meaning of some of the
words which we have just used. The termino-
logy of our reply is not uncompromisingly
guaranteed nor, in fact, is the orthography,
and where we give to words comparatively
unorthodox meanings (for somebody may
have a dictionary, and Editors should always
anticipate the possibility of accusations of


error) it should be unhesitatingly concluded
that we are sufficiently herbertspencerian
and bernardshavian and thomascarlylian to
be permitted to do so.
?Clear? of some of the words used above
(The others we are not quite sure about.)
Paucity shortage ; e.g. shortage of piastres,
such as is always experienced just before,
and sometimes just after Pay Day.
Unsophisticated A past participle expres-
sing the attitude ( and expressing it
extremely well) of the average young
lady of seventeen summers whom one
meets in this ancient, but largely artificial,
land of the Pharaohs. Sometimes leads
to complications, and should generally
be avoided.
Infantile An adjective expressing the qua-
lity of mind of which one accuses the
other man during and after an argu-
ment ; e.g. two members of the Australian
Records Section were heard to have a
long argument as to whether it was
correct to speak of the ??expiration of a
purpose?. One, at least, of them thought
of this adjective.
Uncompromising A present participle of
which the use should be entirely abolished
in Egypt, the Land, not of Bargains, but
of Bargaining. (N.B. Think of the oran-
guies? you have bought, the ?gharri?
fares you have paid or underpaid,
and calculate exactly how many times
you have forked out for anything, even
when under the influence of the persuasive
eloquence and glances of a Siren who
might have made an Odysseus feel fool-
hardy?the full price originally de-
manded.)
But the Editor is suffering from ?pituita,?
and a trifle of weariness, and finds interpreta-
tion difficult.
So we wish you as merry a Christmas as
may be and a New year in which your
measure of the true white man?s dignity will
assure you most of the happiness of the
Old, Old Years.
***
Mr. Blackburn says that ?a German con-
quest of Australia would leave it hardly, if at
all, ?worsened.? ?
Melbourne, the last stronghold of the
Australian Citizen Forces, had fallen. Over
the Town Hall floated the black, white, and
red flag of Germany. On the steps a general,
in a steel pickel-haube helmet, and a uniform
which fitted very tightly round his belt-line,
read in English the following proclamation :
You vas now loyal soobyects of der
Kaiser allretty. First of all, der Parliament
dissolfed vill be. Dot feller Plackburn vill
haf to go to vork mit a shoffel. All members
of Parliament must Germans be. In all pro-
fessions, der best yobs vill to German be
gifen. Dere don?t be no unions any longer.
I dissolve hereby der Owbitration Court, und
der minimum vage, he is dead alretty. Ows-
dralians shall not for some dimes, undil dey
proves demselves loyal Germans, be paid any
vages at all; but vill be rations allowed if dey
a goot 60 hours? vork per veek do. Nod unless.
Anybody dot don?t work, von?t eat, und you
have to vork preddy hard, too. Owsdralians
shall salute Germans by bumping deir noses
on der groundt drei times. If dey meet German
officers in an area bounded mit Shpring
Strasse, Shpencer Strasse, Lonsdale Strasse,
und Pflinders Strasse, dey shall toorn roundt,
und allow die officers to kick them, und vipe
deir boots on dem. Dey shall eat sausages
made of horses, sauerkraut, und black bread ;
dey shall keep off der grass, shall not valk on
die foopaths ; nor stay oudt after dark, nor go
into bier-houses, nor theatres, nor blay any
ding on deir pianos but Vagner, ondil further
orders.
Then Mr. Blackburn woke up screaming
for help.
(?Melbourne Argus.??)


Racing Results
The ?Caulfield Cup.?
1. Lavendo 6-1.
2. William the Silent.
3. Cyklon.
The ?Melbourne Cup.?
1. Patrobus 6-1.
2. Westcourt 50-1.
3. Carlita 7-1.
Won by half a neck. Carlita a length
away third.
Honours easy.
The Chancellor of the Order of the Legion
of Honour recently informed the Supreme
Commander of an allied army ?which shall be
nameless?, that they held 30 odd Crosses for
distribution to Officers who had distinguished
themselves.
Thirty officers, in due course received their
brevets, but not one of the recipients had
been recommended by the G.O.C.
A discreet enquiry elucidated the mystery.
Several other lists were in preparation at
H. Qtrs, at the time, and that of: ?Staff
Officers not yet inoculated against cholera?,
had been forwarded to the Chancellery in
error, and to even matters we hope the
disappointed knights were duly inoculated
vice their unexpectedly successful rivals.
Ran a Gallica.
To the Keeper of a Greek Wine Shop.
To you, brave Greek of modern time,
Descendant of a noble race,
These lines, indited in a thirsty mood,
Perchance may not be reckoned out of place.
When King and Country made their call,
You recked not aught of loss or gain,
But straightway closed your hospitable doors
And sailed to Greece across the Aegean main
And here I give you some advice;
Think not of Country, wrong or right,
Leave ?Tino? wrestling with his rusty sword
He does not need you, for he will not fight!
Your vinous drinks of ancient brew
Will strengthen, cheer us, give us dash?
While you, instead of risking life and limb.
Will reap the benefit, in much good CASH
J. S. M.
Generosity.
(The following is a translation from Poesies written by an
unknown Arab and discovered at Timbuctoo in the archives of
the ancient university of Sankore).
Said had taken unto himselt a widow whose
name was Hanifa and whose character was
detestable.
At all times she boasted of the qualities of
her first husband, his fortune and grand
relations.
Said, humiliated, suffered in silence.
One night as they slept side by side on the
narrow terrace of the roof, which was without
parapet, Hanifa began to dream ?and spoke
in her sleep.
She pronounced the name of her first
husband ?Osman !
She sighed, ?and she thanked him for his
caresses.
Suddenly Said pushed his wife violently
causing her to fall from the roof uttering cries
of terror.
That done ?he slept again At dawn
Hanifa ran to the Cadi. ?Honorable Cadi?
said she with grand salaam, ?last night my
husband, the traitor Said, tried to kill me.
?I was sleeping on the small terrace of our
roof when he threw me into space. I demand
that you imprison him.?
The old man despatched a servant for Said
and when he came asked of him ?Why did
you precipitate your wife from the roof of
your dwelling ??
?Venerable Cadi? answered Said, ?it
happened thus. We slept on the terrace the
space of which justs permits two people to
rest comfortably. Hanifa dreamed. Dreamed
of her first husband. She spoke to him! He
caressed her! ?
?Is that true Hanifa ??* ?I admit it? she
murmured.
?Blessed Osman lay between us? continued
Said. ?At once I perceived that he occupied
a vrey small place on the mat, ?and I pushed
my wife ! She fell! I regret it! But Osman
could sleep !?
V. G.


Eastern Wisdom.
FAITH.
Trust in God, yet tie the camel?s leg. ?
Mohammed.
HOPE.
Though trials vex thee, cast not Hope away;
Night is, O brother, pregnant with the day.?
Saadi.
CHARITY.
Put on armour that will harm no one; let
thy coat of mail be that of understanding,
and convert thy enemies to friends. ?
Guru Manak.
G. B. M.
A ?Fashion Note? in an English journal
states that the garter-pocket ?despite the
War maintains its popularity amongst
ladies of the (presumably) ?Smart Set?. Its
original institution was, no doubt, due to a
combination of circumstances, the
inconvenience realised after the discarding of
pockets in ladies? dresses, and the freedom of
access to the ?garter-line? which followed the
adoption of the slit skirt.
N.B.?-Our Curate has definitely resigned.
My New Career.
(Written?in great tribulation?by the Rev
late official Curate to the A.R.G.J.
As Curate of the A.R.G.
I am, of course, extremely holy,
Nursing, as you can daily see,
The ?sickly cast? of melancholy.
My sense of shock you then may guess,
For lately 1 have seen it stated
That ladies? pockets?vide Press?
With garters are incorporated.
The thought which tempts me now is such
I feel I must give up my billet,
Whether or not?doesn?t matter much ?
You get an equal saint to fill it:
I?ve fought the tempter?ah !in vain !
And, though you?re left distraught and
[lonely,
I?ll take ?e?er fashions change again?
To picking pockets??Ladies? only? !
Frenzied Finance
Daring the Bairam festivities a fellah after
painting the ?beled? red, or the Egyptian
equivalent, with what little feloos he had,
being desirous of a smoke of his cherished
nargileh and lacking the wherewithal,
approached the local Shylock for the loan of
4 P.T. Uncle consented to lend him 4 P.T. on
the new blue galabieh he?d on, and that was
to do till next Bairam, @ 100% payable in a
month. Mahmoud joyfully divested himself
and w T as going away humming those delight-
ful songs of Araby we are getting used to,
when Uncle called him back and said unto
him : thou art a foolish nigger (or words to
that effect) for thou wilt go forth and spend
4 P.T. in vile tombac and ruin thy liver : give
me the 4 P.T. instead, and you will only have
to repay me 4 P.T. next month. Salaam
aleikoom wah rachmet Allah barak atoom,
my son. And Mahmoud departed, thinking
something was amiss somewhere, as he was
without his 4 P.T. ; his smoke and his coat of
one colour and still owed the amount he
intended to borrow.
Rana Gallica.
From advertisement columns of ?Egyptian Gazette"
15/11/15.
TO LET furnished rooms for gentlemen or
officers. Moderate terms. Hot and cold
baths any time. Address H. Demetrescu,
No. 22, Rue Tewfik 2nd floor, Alexandria.
Ignorant Man.
Scene: Coffee shop kept by a Frenchman in
Mena Camp. Enter three burly Australians.
Aus. Gimme three caffy noyers ole sport.
Frenchman waves his hands and signifies
that he does not understand.
Aus. I want three caffy noyers.
Frenchman again indicates that he does
not understand.
Aus, (to friend) Blime Bill, ere?s a bloke
don?t understand 'is own bloomin? langwich.


19, Rue de Ramleh ?Redivivus.?
In far off Egypt?s sunny land,
There dwells just now a martial band ;
Whose Records sleep ?both fair and vile
In Rue de Ramleh?s ancient pile.
The men who labour day and night,
To keep those records just and right,
Are worthy of the meed of praise,
Embodied in these rotten lays.
The Infantry with heavy tread,
Work on returns just overhead.
Amids the ring of the typist?s bell
You can hear them curse Returns to H
The proud L.H. with mystic sway,
Whose rooms o?erlook the sunlit bay,
Murmur all day of the one O three
With the gasping breath of agony.
But who shall speak of the A.S.C.
The Hub of the universe to be ? [vile,
As they sweat day and night with statistics
And wish themselves back in the dear old Isle.
The Artillery with glowing pride,
O?erlooks the flowing human tide;
Its work performed with joy and glee
Enlivened by visions of ecstasy.
Of the Engineers and A.M.C.
There?s little to be told it seems to me.
Their work is lost in the realms of art
Where you and I could play no part.
I will not speak of the Higher Staff,
Perhaps my remarks might make them laugh ;
Or I might have future cause to repine
With my name on a Twenty Sixty Nine.
Elia.
The Taxi tete-a-tetes.
?Talking of nothing in particular? she
began, ?did you see that extraordinary
paragraph in last Thursday?s paper ? An officer
writing from the front says he was at a
farmhouse during the German bombardment,
and every time a shell burst all the hens on
the place would start to lay eggs.?
?Nothing extraordinary about that,? I
replied. S quite a natural thing. The hens
lay the eggs, and the enemy shell them. In
any case, didn?t you know that every time a
British warship appears on the horizon all the
German ships start laying mines ? ?
If it hadn?t been so dark in the taxi, I?ve
no doubt she?d have looked pained.
?Yes,? I continued mercilessly; ?and as
every time they lay a mine they cluck, they
are seriously thinking of renaming one of
their principal sanctuaries Cluxhaven.?
This roused her to a strong counter-attack.
?A poultry expert told me yesterday the
reason why the bombardment affected the
hens so strangely,? she began. ?Would you
like to know why ??
?Goon? I answered resignedly. ?I?ll be
the lamb.?
?Because,? she said triumphantly, ?every
time they saw a shell crack they were afraid
of coming under the German yoke.?
?Rotten!? said I disgustedly.
?Do you refer to the yoke or the joke ? ?
To both. One?s worse than the other.
Besides, it?s not only hens that are affected by
shell-fire. 1 saw a story yesterday from a
correspondent describing how he witnessed
24 Turks in a trench near the Suez Canal ?
Well ? ?
This is where the other poultry come in.
A British shell went whistling overhead. The
correspondent looked at the 24 Turks in the
trench, and what do you think he saw ??
Tell me quickly, quickly.?
? 24 duck ! ?
After that quite a lot of first-aid had to be
applied before I brought her round.
{extracted)
Ist Fed-up They tell me that some of the
Records Staff have a very taking ways
with them.?
2nd ? I quite believe it; my knife was
taken yesterday.?
At a certain camp in Egypt The Officer of
the Day was visiting the Guard at night, and
the Guard was a little slow in turning out.
The following conversation took place :
Oiderly Officer; ?Come on now, shake a
leg; am Ito be kept standing here all night ??
Voice from the Tent.??No Sir, call round
JP the morning.? Subsequently... (What the
Officer said did not pass the Censor).
?NMN?


An Open Letter to the King of Greece.
Dear Tino,
Do not think me familiar if I use your first
name, but my only previous experience of any
other person in the King business was with a
brown gentleman in Micronesia who was not
too scrupulous over a coco-nut deal which
occasioned my treating him as less than an
equal even though he called himself a King.
However my reason in writing to you is not
to talk of coco-nuts.
You have been a somewhat prominent
figure lately and have claimed the attention
of several nations who were uncertain as to
what attitude you really meant to adopt as
your last and final word in the painful business
which is convulsing the world.
To be quite fair, I think I ought to say that
we may have misjudged you to some extent,
but, against that, I plead that European poli-
tics are vailed in such a mist that it is im-
possible to obtain a true estimate of a parti-
cular man when details about him are so
vague and so purposely obscure.
We apparently attempted to treat with you
and continued our flirtation with Bulgaria zX
the same time.
That was not fair to you and you could
hardly be blamed at that time for not res-
ponding with more candour, but, since then,
you have proved yourself such an adept at
confusing the issue with a mass of words and
appeared before us in so many chameleon-like
changes that, to put the matter frankly, we
dont trust you.
No one can be neutral these days.
Neutrality has nothing moral in it, has no
common link with justice : it implies a wholly
passive interest in other peoples quarrels, and
when you claim the right to be neutral I answer
with one word ?Serbia ?
You wanted your own inviolability to be
promised and defined but, (and this is the
point I want to urge) all the time you had
obligations to fulfil and a promise to redeem
and your safety was a greater consideration
with you than your honour.
There was a time here in Alexandria when
there was some talk amongst those of us who
wear slouch hats of looting Greek shops in
town, (as a mere aside I may mention that the
Treasurer and I had already chosen our barrel
and decided where to plant it), but, with a
fuller knowledge of your position, we realised
that the fault lay, not with the Greeks of
Alexandria, but with you and you alone.
You stand for Greece-?that Greece which
once housed the Gods on Mount Olympus and
which hums yet with memories of the Odyssey
and the story of the siege of Troy?and you
come upon the world?s stage and indulge in
sword-rattling histrionics.
Why, even Senegal and Polynesia have
heard the Call and seen the Vision.
How then do you estimate the value of Life?
Has Commercialism bitten so deeply into
your soul that you cannot see that a nation
that moulds its standards on money values
and not on the redemption of its written
word is for ever discredited in the eyes of
honest men ?
Of what use is it for you to live when your
honour is in question ?
Because you promised, you know you pro-
mised, and a King?s word should be inviolate.
Is the dream of a revived Hellenism ever to
be realised, or is it but a mirage, the distorted
imaginings of a diseased brain ?
Consider Albert of Belgium, that Knight
Paladin of modern Romance, and Peter of
Serbia, whose declining years are gilded with
the determination to die with his people.
Heroic figures these, and they are your
contemporaries, but your place is not beside
them them though you all are Kings.
Already the first faint whisper of the verdict
of History comes echoing adown the corridors
of Time, soon to become a living voice.
It is better, as the Serbian Prime Minister so
finely expressed it, to die in beauty than to
live in shame.
Serbia, whom you swore to help, lies bleed-
ing, crucified, but dies in a blaze of beauty.
What harder, yet truer thing can I say of
you but that you live.
Gwan.


Extract from a New Plymouth Paper.
(New Zealand).
?An amusing story is being told of a ticket
which did not stay in its right place. The
comedy was enacted in a New Plymouth
shop-window, in which was exhibited a
leather waistcoat with a small ticket attached
indicating that five thousand of these were
needed for our representatives at the front.
Needless to say the waistcoat was a source of
great interest to relatives and friends of the
soldiers; but even so, the attention it attracted
was as nothing to the consternation the
elusive ticket caused later in the day. By
some means it was displaced and fell on to
some feminine garments of a flimsy nature,
and for some few hours a delicate article of
clothing which shall be nameless (it was white
and had pretty lace trimmings) bore the proud
announcement:
?Five thousand of these wanted for our soldiers.?
Howlers.
A mate of mine, seriously asked me,
while the transport was threading its way
through the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb, whether
a mountain on outright was Mount Vesuvius.
After gazing in awstruck silence at the
Pyramids for a while another of my bright
companions blurted out: ?Say, what do you
think old Bonaparte built them there heaps of
stones for, anyhow ?
When asked what my Religion was,
when sworn in, I said that, at best, I was an
undenominational Christian, and at worst a
mild Agnostic, whereupon the Sergeant re-
marked : Funny, I never heard of that French
Church, before.
A local shipping firm gave the command
of a dhow laden with sponges to an Arab
skipper and told him to deliver it to a firm in
Malta. The modern Columbus, after hope-
lessly cruising round the Mediterranean pond
for a month came back and reproachfully
said to his employer : Zhis no good, Mister,
mafeesh Malta,
Gallica-Rana.
Very Familiar.
At a largely attended trial held at the
Old Bailey an eminent English K. C. was
crossexamining a witness whose character he
was trying to place in as bad a light as
possible.
?Have you ever been in prison ?" he asked
witness.
?No Sir."
?Have your ever been in Court before ?"
?No Sir."
?Your face seems very very familiar to
me." Remarked the K.C.
?Oh yes, Sir?' was the reply ?I?m the bar-
man in hotel opposite."
Two of the New Army.
As is well known in Military Circles
Sandhurst is known as the ?Shop.?
Some newly created subalterns were sent
to join a British Line Regiment, suddenly
reported themselves at Headquarters and were
interviewed by the Colonel, who evidently
had received a wrong impression of one of
the new-fledged officers, turning to the Sub
he remarked ?from the Shop, aren?t you ? ?
?Well not exactly shop, Sir? was the
reply ?in the wholesale line.?
Correspondence.
Dear Mr. Editor,
There were two superintending clerks sitting
opposite each other, and an ORS of one Battn.
in No Sub Section complained that he
couldn't do a certain return in the specified
time.
Why, said No Sub Section Supt. Clerk,
No Sub Section has nearly all those
returns in and complete, surely we can get
ours in,
Then another Unit clerk chipped in and
said : OH ! But you see it took all the chaps
in N0... .. Sub Section a long time to enlist
and they are a deep thinking crowd. Therefore
it is only natural since they took a long time
to enlist that we on the other hand should take
a long time to do our returns, as we are not as
deep thinking as they.
I ask you which Sub-Section came off best
in this argument ?
L.E.F.
' (No Sub-Section, Ed. A.R.G.)


The men of the A.A.S.C.
Tearin? onward thro? the land
Marchin? day and night
A flankin? ?ere, attackin? there
Till the last big finishin? fight
?ls country?s proud of "Tommy??
The man as carries the gun,
But what of the Army Service Corps
And what of the work they?ve done
It?s Girders ?ere an? Pontoons there
An? stores for the 'ospital base
Odds'and ends for the General Staff
An? rice for the bloomin? Sayce.
An? the farther they go, the more they want
An? the ?arder it is to send
But the A.S.C. ?as to get it there
If it costs ?is life in the end
There?s them as looks down on the A.S.C.
?Cause ?e ain?t at work with the gun
But ?e?s daily sweatin? ?is level best
At work which ?as got to be done
For a gun?s no good, nor the man behind
Without both powder and grub,
When the Army wheel is a movin? round
The A.S.C?s the ?Ub.
Oh, it?s "Forage? ?ere an? "sleepers there?
All sorts by the ?undred ton,
An? the A.S.C. ?as to ?andle the lot
An? get none of the fightin? fun.
?E gets scanty sleep an? curses free
An? ?E ain?t much time to dine
But ?E?s doin? ?is dooty for Country an? King
When ?E?s feedin? the fightin? line.
HQRS.
To My Boy.
Thou art going to the fray,
Boy of mine ! Boy of mine !
From home and kin away,
Boy of mine ! Boy of mine I
But thou?rt battling for the right,
So thy God will give thee might,
And we?re sure to win the fight,
Boy of mine !
?Tis thy Mother bids thee go,
Boy of mine ! Boy of mine !
Spite of tears that overflow,
Boy of mine ! Boy of mine !
Yet my heart beats high for thee,
And when far across the sea,
Love and prayer will follow thee,
Boy of mine !
Then goodbye for a long day,
Boy of mine ! Boy of mine !
God be with thee all the way,
Boy of mine ! Boy of mine !
May Elis blessing rest on thee,
And when ours the victory,
Bring thee safe again to me,
Boy of mine !
Notes.
We regret to have to appear again
without the expected cartoon. At the last
moment it was found impossible to arrange it.
But we think we can promise that a cartoon
will appear regularly in future issues.
It is proposed to offer two prizes for the
best piece of original prose and the best piece
of original verse respectively in the case of
future issues : so we hope that both imagina-
tion and execution will be stimulated. The
exact form of the prizes has not yet been
definitely decided. Those who wish to com-
pete are asked to furnish names ?which will
be treated as confidential ?with their con-
tributions, as well as pen-names. The Editor
and Associate Editors are not eligible.
It is requested that literary contributions
be typed, whenever possible : that cuttings or
extracts be pasted on foolscap : and that only
one side of the paper be used.
Ed. A.R.G.
