

FEDERAL AIRPORTS
CORPORATION
Report
Period 13 June 1986 to
31 March 1987
The Parliament of the
Commonwealth of Australia
Presented 27 October 1987
Ordered to be printed 26 November 1987
Parliamentary Paper
No. 272/1987




^ FEDERAL
AIRPORTS
CORPORATION
Report
from 13-6-1986
to 31- 3-1987




FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
REPORT FROM
13 JUNE 1986 - 31 MARCH 1987


© Commonwealth of Australia 1987
ISSN 1030-2654
This work is copyright. Apart from any use as
permitted under the Copyright Act 1968, no part
may be reproduced by any process without written
permission from the Director Publishing and Marketing
AGPS. Inquiries should be directed to the Manager,
AGPS Press, Australian Government Publishing Service,
G.P.O. Box 84, Canberra, A.C.T. 2601.
Printed in Australia by Ambassador Press Pty Ltd, Sydney.


Federal Airports Corporation
Head Office
77 Dunning Avenue
Rosebery N.S.W.
2018
16 September 1987
Senator the Honourable Gareth Evans, Q.C.
Minister for Transport and Communications
Parliament House
CANBERRA A.C.T.
2600
Dear Minister
In accordance with the provisions of the Federal
Airports Corporation Act 1986 and the Audit Act
1901, I hereby submit on behalf of the Federal
Airports Corporation its report for the period
13 June 1986 to 31 March 1987.
Yours sincerely


INAUGURAL BOARD OF THE
FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
APPOINTED 13 JUNE 1986


CONTENTS
Chairman's Report
Introduction
Objectives
Corporate Matters
Finance
Staff
Administration
Financial Statements
Page
1
27
29




CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
The period between the appointment of the Board in
June 1986 and the end of the financial year on
31 Mkrch 1987 was one of intense activity. During
this time, all matters requiring resolution by
transfer day were addressed and the Corporation
was on target for the acceptance of full
responsibility for its airports from 1 July 1987.
Two matters which at the end of the Corporation's
financial year still required resolution were the
determination of the Corporation's capital
structure by the Ministers for Finance and
Aviation, and the approval of the Corporation's
superannuation scheme by the Minister for Finance.
These matters have still not been finalised.
A further and more fundamental issue which arose
towards the end of the Corporation's financial
year, and subsequently resulted in a deferral of
the transfer day, was the proposal to sell the
international terminals.


The financial uncertainties brought about by this
issue were a major matter of concern to the Board.
Following the Government's decision, announced in
the May 1987 Economic Statement, immediate action
was taken to confine Corporation spending to that
which was essential to meet commitments existing
at that time. The Board sought, and was granted, a
meeting with Ministers where it detailed the
financial impact and other issues which the
decision raised for the Corporation. Ministers
took the view that in the circumstances, the
Corporation could not proceed sensibly towards a
1 July transfer day.
Following that meeting, the vesting of the
Corporation was deferred by the Government until a
date to be set following the Federal election.
Since the decision to sell terminals was taken,
the Corporation has been involved in consultation
with the Minister and Departmental officials in
providing advice on the implications of
implementing that decision.
The Board of the Corporation has strongly
supported the Government's original concept of
airports being operated as largely autonomous
commercial entities to minimise costs to taxpayers
and airport users and provide a rational basis for
development and operation of airports.


It is pleasing, therefore, that the considerable
uncertainty which faced the Corporation, because
of the proposal to sell international terminals,
has now been removed, enabling that concept to be
realised.
The Corporation will now move as quickly as
possible to assume responsibility for its airports
and to establish the Corporation as a viable
commercial entity.
16 September 1987




INTRODUCTION
The Federal Airports Corporation Act 1986 sets the
Corporation's financial year as the period of 12
months commencing on 1 April. As the Corporation
came into being on 13 June 1986, this report
covers the period from that date until 31 March
1987 .
The Federal Airports Corporation Act 1986 received
assent on 4 March 1986 and was proclaimed in the
Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 10 June 1986
to come into operation on 13 June 1986.
Functions
The functions of the Corporation are set out in
Section 6 of the Federal Airports Corporation Act
in the following terms:
"(a) to operate Federal airports in
Australia;
(b) to provide the Commonwealth, govern-
ments , local government bodies, and
other persons, who operate, or propose
to operate, airports or facilities
relating to airports (including air-
ports and facilities outside Australia)
with consultancy and management
services relating to the development
and operation of those airports or
facilities; and
(c) such other functions relating to
airports, not being functions specified
in sub-section 8 (2), as are declared
by the regulations to be functions of
the Corporation."


This prescription of functions is further defined
by sub-section 8(1) of the Federal Airports
Corporation Act as follows:
"(a) reviewing the use and capacity of
existing Federal airports, determining
the necessity or desirability of
extending or otherwise altering Federal
Airports and carrying out necessary or
desirable extensions to, or alterations
of, Federal airports;
(b) carrying on commercial activities at,
or in relation to, Federal airports
(including carrying on such activities
in co-operation, or as joint ventures,
with other persons);
(c) providing, or arranging for the
provision of, facilities and services
at, or in relation to, Federal
airports;
(d) disposing of, or otherwise dealing
with, land which was previously a
Federal airport or part of a Federal
airport; and
(e) co-operating with, and providing
assistance to, the Department, to the
extent reguired by the Department, in
relation to matters dealt with by the
Department in respect of Federal
airports."
Transfer of Assets to the Corporation
In a schedule to the Federal Airports Corporation
Act, the following airports are included:
Sydney (Kingsford Smith)
Bankstown
Hoxton Park


Camden
Melbourne (Tullamarine)
Essendon
Moorabbin
Brisbane (Eagle Farm)
Archerfield
Coolangatta
Adelaide
Parafield
Perth
Jandakot
Hobart
Cambridge
Launceston
The Act provides that on a day fixed by the
Minister and published in the Gazette, the
"Schedule Airports" listed above are to become
"Federal Airports". On that day, all of the land
on which the airports are established is to be
vested in the Corporation. The buildings and
fixtures on the land do not vest automatically but
are to be transferred by a determination by the
Minister.
As part of the lead up to the transfer of assets
to the Corporation, the Department of Aviation has
identified those assets which should transfer to
the Corporation.
Transfer Day
The target date announced by the Minister was
1 July 1987 and the Corporation, during the period
covered by this report, geared up to meet that
target.
Board Meetings
The Board of the Corporation met on a monthly-
basis throughout the year with an additional
special meeting being held in December 1986.


During the course of the year, meetings have been
held in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane associated
with the inspection of airports at those
locations. The Board also inspected the Perth
airports during a visit, at the invitation of the
Minister, to the opening of the new Perth
International Terminal Building.
The Minister had discussions with the Board at the
August 1986 meeting.


OBJECTIVES
Government Objectives
The establishment of the Corporation followed an
in-principle decision by the Government in June
1984 when the then Minister ennunciated the
Government's objectives for airports as follows:
"(a) to retain major airports in public
ownership;
(b) to meet the present and future needs of
airport users in a safe, economic,
efficient and environmentally
acceptable manner; and
(c) to provide for the development and
operation of major airports through a
commercially self supporting National
Airports Authority."
Government Objectives for the Corporation
In deciding to move towards the establishment of a
statutory authority to own and operate the
airports, the Government set certain social,
financial, management and efficiency objectives as
follows:
"(a) Social
(i) to provide convenient facilities
for air travellers;
(ii) to make airports better
neighbours to the communities
which they serve; and
(iii) to be a good employer for
airport staff.


(b) Financial
(i) to place airports on a sound
commercial accounting basis to
enable financial performance to
be measured
(ii) to produce an adequate return on
airport investment; and
(iii) to improve revenues from
non-aviation activities while
taking account of other
objectives.
(c) Management and Efficiency
(i) to develop and manage airports
to meet the present and future
needs of airport users in a
safe, effective, efficient and
economic manner."
The Board is working to these objectives in
setting up the Corporation.
Objectives Adopted by the Corporation
The Board has adopted a number of specific
objectives for the Corporation and has included
them in the Corporate Plan submitted to the
Minister for the 1987/88 financial year. Key
objectives are:


Relationship with Governments, Airport Users and
Communities Served by Airports
. The establishment of the Corporation as a
responsible, responsive, profitable business
enterprise meeting all objectives set in its
legislation and those set for it by Government.
. The establishment of the Corporation as an
equal partner in the aviation industry as a
provider of services and infrastructure for the
convenient and efficient movement of
passengers, freight and aircraft.
. The facilitation of the passage of passengers
through its terminals and the provision within
the terminals, and on airports, of facilities
to meet the convenience and comfort of
passengers.
. The development of close responsive
relationships with the communities served by
airports and the promotion of a better
understanding of the benefit of the airports to
those communities.
Organisation and Staffing
. The establishment of a streamlined organisation
with a small head office responsible for policy
determination and performance monitoring, with
management of airports delegated to the Airport
General Managers.
. The development of the Corporation as a
cohesive unit enabling staff to identify with
corporate aims and achieve pride and
satisfaction in their work. Within this
objective the Corporation will focus on how the
whole of the staff can be involved in this
process.


Commercial and Property
The adoption of investment opportunities and
the encouragement of entrepreneurial activities
to improve the Corporation's non aeronautical
revenue stream.
The review of existing policies and practices
for the granting of leases on airports and the
development of a framework for future leases
which conforms with the Corporation's
responsibilities and objectives.
Operations
. The review by Airport General Managers, in
consultation with the carriers, of the
facilities available to them and to the
travelling public on airports. The
establishment of a priority listing of
upgrading needs.
The development of close liaison with other
agencies on the airports, in particular the
Customs, Health, and Immigration services to
facilitate their handling of passengers through
the Corporation's terminals.
Safety and Security
. The Corporation believes that safety and
security on its airports are of paramount
importance. It will continue to work closely
with other organisations on the definition and
acceptance of responsibility.


CORPORATE MATTERS
Corporate Plan
The Corporation is obliged by its legislation to
provide to the Minister, as soon as practicable
after the commencement of the Act, a corporate
plan, including a statement of the Corporation's
objectives.
The Corporation agreed a Corporate Plan for years
1987/88 to 1989/90 and a financial plan for
1987/88 at the Board meeting in March. These were
subseguently submitted to the Minister.
In the absence of a Ministerial determination of
the Corporation's capital structure, to meet the
requirements of its Act, the Corporation included
in the Financial Plan a level of aeronautical
charges based on assumptions as to the capital
structure and the Corporation's costs and
revenues.
Organisation
In deciding how it should proceed to establish its
organisation the Corporation was conscious of the
requirement to provide offers of employment to
some 1600 staff of the Department of Aviation who
were employed on functions to transfer to the
Corporation. Additionally, account was taken of
the Government's requirement for the Head Office
to be in Sydney, and the inappropriateness of the
Departmental three tier organisational structure,
including Regional Offices, to the needs of the
Corporation.
Management consultants were engaged to provide
advice on the organisation and, following the
presentation of their report, a special meeting of
the Board was held to consider organisational
options.


The Board decided that, while
organisation of the Corporation was
determination by the Chief Executive,
one with the following features:
the final
a matter for
it favoured
a highly decentralised management of day to day
activities, with clear responsibility being
vested in Airport General Managers to manage
their own airports
a small head office in staff relationship to
the Chief Executive, responsible for the
setting of policy and standards and for the
monitoring of performance.
Following his appointment, the Chief
adopted an organisation with the above
and including
Executive
features
the grouping of Melbourne (Tullamarine) and
Essendon under one General Manager
the grouping of all general aviation airports
under a General Manager, General Aviation
the grouping of the Tasmanian airports under
one General Manager.
The organisation is depicted in the following
chart.
It has been left to General Managers to develop
organisations suited to the particular needs of
their airports.




Consultation
The Board has consulted with the Minister for
Aviation on all significant issues of interest to
the Government, and during the period the Minister
joined the Board for a discussion with members.
Other meetings have taken place between Board
representatives, the Minister and his colleagues.
Regular monthly meetings have been held with the
Secretary of the Department of Aviation to ensure
a uniform approach between the Corporation and the
Department to the transfer of responsibilities.
Members of the Australian Mayoral Aviation Council
met with the Board following its meeting held in
Brisbane in March to discuss matters of mutual
interest.
Opportunities for addresses to other organisations
have been taken by both the Chairman and the Chief
Executive.


FINANCE
Initial Funding
The Government established the Corporation as a
self financing body from its inception, requiring
it to borrow funds to meet its establishment costs
and to offset these borrowings against revenues to
be received following the transfer of assets to
the Corporation. Initial funds of $100,000 were
made available to the Corporation by the
Government as a loan, free of interest, and
repayable by 30 September 1986. This loan was
duly repaid.
Prior to the establishment of the Corporation, and
in anticipation of its first year requirements,
the Loan Council had approved borrowings of $9.4M
for the Corporation for the year ending 30 June
1987. The Corporation has had to balance the
requirement for expenditure to enable it to be in
a position to commence operations on 1 July 1987,
with the need to minimise expenditures to keep its
debt burden as low as possible during a period in
which it had no revenue source.
At the close of the Corporation's financial year
on 31 March 19 87, with the Treasurer's approval,
as required under the Federal Airports Corporation
Act, an amount of $0.7M had been drawn down while
total liabilities of $0.9M had been incurred. In
addition, the Corporation had outstanding
contracts totalling $2.2M
Details of the Corporation's financial affairs and
position at 31 March are included in the Financial
Statements in this report.


Capital Structure
Because of its fundamental importance to the
Corporation's financial planning, a key matter
which has concerned the Corporation since its
inception is that of its initial capital
structure.
The Federal Airports Corporation Act provides that
once the assets to be transferred from the
Commonwealth to the Corporation have been
identified, the Ministers for Aviation and Finance
shall determine the value of those assets and the
amount of that value which should form a loan from
the Commonwealth to the Corporation.
The Board of the Corporation has provided advice
to the Ministers on the impacts of alternative
approaches to asset valuation and debt/equity
ratio on the future viability of the Corporation.
This matter is still under consideration by
Ministers.
Accounting Requirements
A major difficulty confronting the Corporation in
establishing itself as an operational entity was
the inappropriateness of data available from the
Department of Aviation financial system to the
requirements of the Corporation.
Departmental accounting is designed to meet the
reguirements of Government accounting as laid down
in the Commonwealth Audit Act 1901 and in the
Finance Regulations and Directions made under that


Act. The Corporation is subject to Division 2 of
Part XI of the Audit Act which covers "Public
Authorities Required to Keep Accounts in
Accordance with Commercial Practice".
It has therefore been required to establish a full
accrual accounting system from commencement of
operations. The Corporation was faced with a need
to base its financial planning on its best
estimates of airports costs and revenues available
to it and to establish a commercial accounting
system to handle its finances.
Accounting System
The Corporation has developed, as part of its
management information system, a computerised
financial system backed by a detailed accounting
procedures manual.
In the preparation of its accounting systems, the
Corporation was assisted by Ernst & Whinney. The
consultants prepared requests for proposals of
computer software and hardware, evaluated
proposals received and put forward recommendations
for the Corporation's consideration. Ernst &
Whinney also assisted in the design of the
Corporation's chart of accounts.
Details of contracts awarded are set out under the
heading of "Administration" later in this report.


Financial Plan
The Corporation is required by its Act to submit
to the Minister annually a financial plan,
including:
(a) a forecast of the Corporation's
receipts and expenditures;
(b) the Corporation's financial targets for
profits, rate of return and dividend;
(c) the performance indicators it has
adopted.
Because the Ministers had not determined the
capital structure which was to apply to the
Corporation, and as the Department of Aviation's
accounting system was not able to provide detailed
airport by airport costs and revenues, the
Corporation by necessity put forward a plan which
relied upon a number of assumptions.
The major assumptions made were that, in setting
the capital structure for the airports, Ministers
would apply a commercial valuation to the assets,
landing charges would continue at levels
consistent with those being charged by the
Department of Aviation and the loan component
applied by the Government in the capital structure
would result in a manageable debt burden.
On this basis and on the assumption of a transfer
day of 1 July, the Corporation put forward a
financial plan which met the requirements of the
legislation in respect of receipts and expend-
itures and financial targets. Given the lack of
commercial data on which to base performance


indicators, it was proposed to the Minister that
indicators be developed in light of the first
year's operations.
At the end of the Corporation's financial year,
the Minister's response to the Corporation's
proposals was awaited. It is clear, however, that
the financial plan will need to be reviewed in
light of Government decisions on capital
structure, taking into account also any Government
decision to sell passenger terminal buildings.
Banking
Following the calling of tenders from five banks,
Westpac Banking Corporation was appointed as the
Corporation's Bankers.
Audit
By the requirements of its legislation, the
Corporation is subject to Division 2 of Part XI of
the Audit Act 1901 and is therefore subject to
audit by the Auditor General. Discussions were
held with the Auditors during the year and an
audit carried out of the accounts for the period
ending 31 March 1987.
Tenders were also called for the appointment of
internal auditors for the Corporation from eight
major accounting organisations and Ernst & Whinney
appointed.
Insurance
As the Commonwealth acts as its own insurer, there
was not available, at the time of the
Corporation's establishment, a record of insurance
experience related to its assets, responsibility,
and functions.


The Corporation engaged Alexander Stenhouse
Limited to act as its insurance consultant and
broker. Work is proceeding on the establishment
of the Corporation's potential liability, prudent
levels of insurance and approaches to risk
management.
At the end of the financial year, Directors' and
Officers' Liability cover was being arranged and
the Corporation was working towards the
establishment of other appropriate insurance cover
from 1 July 1987.


STAFF
The Corporation was assisted in its formative
stages by the secondment of a small secretariat
from the Department of Aviation.
Chief Executive
The Board appointed as its Chief Executive Mr W.
A. Swingler, formerly Director of Information
Systems with Qantas Airways Limited. Mr Swingler
took up his appointment on 12 January 1987.
Senior Staff Appointments
At the end of the period covered by this report, a
number of senior appointments were imminent,
including those to positions of Airports General
Manager and Airports Manager and positions of
General Manager in the Head Office.
Other Appointments
Action is also in hand to make other appointments
to the Corporation, particularly to finance
positions, to ensure that the financial system was
operational by 1 July 1987.
Staff Transferring from the Department of
Aviation
In introducing the Federal Airports Corporation
Act into Parliament, the Minister gave
undertakings regarding Department of Aviation
staff, in the following terms:
"The rights and interests of employees
transferring from the Department of Aviation
to the Corporation will be protected. To
ensure that their employment is not
jeopardised the Government will require, as
a matter of policy, that the Corporation
offer positions to all staff whose functions


are transferred. While the Corporation will
have power to set conditions of employment
for its staff, it will also be required to
provide, at the time of transfer, offers of
conditions of employment to transferring
staff at least equivalent to those which
they enjoy in the Australian Public
Service."
In keeping with this undertaking the Department of
Aviation identified staff whose functions would
fully or partly transfer to the Corporation, to
enable offers of employment to be made.
Discussions with the ACTU and Unions
Immediately following the appointment of the
Board, an approach was made to the ACTU, seeking
discussions with representatives of the Council
and the unions on terms and conditions of
employment for Corporation staff.
A series of constructive meetings were held with
the nominated ACTU representatives and
representatives of those unions covering the
Departmental employees eligible for transfer to
the Corporation.
A memorandum of understanding was agreed with the
ACTU and the unions covering terms and conditions
to apply to staff. Action is now being taken to
embody the agreed provisions within awards.
Relocation of Staff
With the establishment of the Head Office in
Sydney and the need to move staff from the
Department's Regional Offices onto airports, there
has been a need to ensure that adeguate provisions
are made for relocation of staff.


Following discussions with the ACTU and the
unions, the Corporation decided that all staff
required to move interstate would be given 12
months notice of the move, with 6 months to decide
whether they wished to transfer or make some
alternative employment arrangements. The
Corporation has also decided that it will transfer
all Canberra staff accepting employment to its
Sydney Head Office as early as possible after the
vesting of its assets.
The Department has already been able to transfer
from Regional Offices to airports some staff who
will be joining the Corporation. The Corporation
will transfer all remaining staff to the airports
as soon as practicable.
The Corporation is most conscious of its
responsibilities to staff in this matter and will
seek, so far as is practicable, to meet the
individual needs of staff members in arranging
transfers.
Superannuation
The Federal Airports Corporation Act provides for
the establishment of a superannuation scheme
approved by the Minister for Finance.
Discussions have been held with the Department of
Finance regarding the content of the scheme to be
established and the approval of the Minister for
Finance to superannuation arrangements for the
Chief Executive and other staff is awaited.




ADMINISTRATION
Accommodation
Following the Government's decision that the Head
Office of the Corporation should be established in
Sydney, the Corporation's secretariat arranged for
accommodation to be made available in the Airport
Administration Building on Sydney (Kingsford
Smith) Airport.
Subsequently, a lease was taken of the floor of a
building at 77 Dunning Avenue Rosebery which has
been fitted out to meet the Corporation's
requirements.
The Corporation has made arrangements with the
Department of Aviation for existing accommodation
on the airports to be divided between the two
organisations.
Some additional work has been undertaken at the
Corporation's expense at Sydney (Kingsford Smith),
Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth airports to enable
computer systems and staff to be adequately
housed.
Management Information System
Following the calling of tenders, the
Corporation's consultants, Ernst & Whinney,
recommended that Clegg Driscoll Consultants
Proprietary Limited and associated suppliers of
computer software be engaged to provide the
Corporation's management information systems.


system were provided as
Various elements of the
follows:
Clegg Driscoll
Consultants Proprietary
Limited
Panache Business
Solutions Proprietary
Limited
Mayne Nickless Limited
NCR Australia
CSSP Proprietary Limited
Telecom Australia
EPS Consultants
Proprietary Limited
Ernst & Whinney were
and co-ordinators.
The provision of main
applications systems
software and hardware
Personnel System
Software
Payroll
Hardware Maintenance
Project Management
Software
Data Communications
Connections agreement
Financial Modelling and
Budgetting Software
retained as project managers
Contracts were let in February 1987 and
installation of hardware at Head Office and the
airports and application of the software packages
were on target for a 1 July transfer day.


FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE PERIOD
13 JUNE 1986 TO 31 MARCH 1987




MEMBERS' STATEMENT
We, the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman of the
Federal Airports Corporation, in accordance with a
resolution of the Corporation, hereby state:
(a) that, in our opinion and to the best of our
knowledge and belief -
(i) the accompanying Financial Statements
show fairly the operations of the
Federal Airports Corporation for the
period from 13 June 1986 to 31 March
1987 and the state of affairs of the
Corporation as at 31 March 1987
(ii) at the date of this certificate, there
are reasonable grounds to believe that
the Corporation will be able to pay its
debts as they fall due
(b) the Financial Statements have been prepared
in accordance with the Guidelines for the
Form and Standard of Financial Statements of
Commonwealth undertakings issued by the
Department of Finance and their form has been
approved by the Minister for Finance in
accordance with the requirements of the Audit
Act 1901.




FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 1987


FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
FOR THE PERIOD 13 JUNE 1986 TO 31 MARCH 1987
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these statements.


FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
FOR THE PERIOD 13 JUNE 1986 TO 31 MARCH 1987
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these statements.


FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
NOTES TO AND FORMING PART OF THE ACCOUNTS
PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 1987
NOTE 1
- STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A summary of the significant accounting policies adopted by
the Corporation is set out in this note. The policies adopted
are in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in Australia.
(a) Basis of the Preparation of the Accounts
These accounts have been prepared under the convention of
historical cost accounting.
(b) Fixed Assets
Fixed assets are carried at cost or at independent
valuation. Any surplus on revaluation is credited
directly to the asset revaluation reserve and excluded
from the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the disposal of revalued assets is
determined as the difference between the carrying amount
of the asset at the time of disposal and the proceeds of
disposal, and is included in the results of the
corporation in the year of disposal. Assets other than
freehold land are depreciated at rates based upon their
expected useful economic lives, using the straight line
method.
(c) Leasehold Improvements
Improvements to leasehold items will be written off over
the period of the lease or over the estimated useful life
of the improvement if that estimated useful life is less
than the period of the lease or if the lease is of an
indeterminate period.
(d) Pre-operating Expenditure
As at balance date, the Corporation had not taken respon-
sibility for its airports and was not in receipt of any
operating income. All expenditure incurred in the year
was therefore pre-operational in nature. On advice from
the Commonwealth Department of Finance, all pre-operating
costs have been expensed in the period and are therefore
reflected in the balance sheet as accumulated losses
rather than being deferred for amortisation against
future income periods.


NOTE 2
NON-CURRENT ASSETS (at cost)
$
Office furniture - head office 5,284
Less: Accumulated depreciation £6. 5,198
Leasehold improvements 1,840
Computers and related equipment 3,507
10,545
Building works-in-progress 33,995
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 44,540
NOTE 3 - CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Contracts for capital expenditure not otherwise
provided for in these accounts:
Payable within 12 months
. Computer Systems 1,920,400
. Building at Keith Smith Avenue - extensions 126,005
. Head Office establishment costs 201,600
2,248,005
NOTE 4 - DOUBTFUL DEBTS
No provision for doubtful debts has been made in these
accounts. Once the Corporation has commenced trading
provisions will be taken up as required.
NOTE 5
BOARD MEMBERS REMUNERATION
Labour and related costs includes Board members' remuneration.
All the Board members of the Corporation are part time members
and receive a fixed monthly salary set by the Remuneration
Tribunal. Total fees paid to members in the period were
$67,050.
NOTE 6 - AUDITOR'S REMUNERATION
The Auditors received no benefits or remuneration in the
period.
NOTE 7
INCOME TAX
Under Section 45 of the Federal Airports Corporation Act 1986
the Corporation is exempt from Income Tax. Accordingly, no
income tax provisions have been made.


NOTE 8
- RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
As the Corporation had not commenced trading at balance date
no reserves or provisions have been created other than
provision for depreciation as disclosed in Note (2).
NOTE 9
DIVIDENDS
No dividends have been paid.
NOTE 10 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Corporation is not aware of any contingent liabilities
that will affect its operations in the ensuing year.
NOTE 11 - RESOURCES PROVIDED FREE OF CHARGE
The Corporation was assisted during its formative stages by
the secondment of a small Secretariat from the Department of
Aviation. The costs of this Secretariat were met from Depart-
mental funds and amounted to $172,067. In addition, all
accommodation and office services for six staff were provided
free of charge to the Secretariat by the Department of
Aviation for 9 months.
NOTE 12 - SUPERANNUATION
The Corporation's legislation provides for the Corporation to
establish superannuation arrangements for its employees and
Chief Executive Officer subject to the approval of the
Minister for Finance. As at balance date, the Corporation had
sought an approval from the Minister for its proposed
arrangements. Pending the Minister's approval the Corporation
has accrued as a liability an amount of $2735 representing the
value of accumulated employer contributions as at 31 March
1987 at the rate of 15% of gross salary.
NOTE 13 - COMMENCEMENT OF OPERATIONS
As at balance date, the Commonwealth Government had not
announced a transfer day under Section 23(1) of the Act as the
day on which the Corporation would take full responsibility
for its airports and when its normal operations would
commence. The Corporation is awaiting further advice from the
Government on this matter.


NOTE 14 - OPERATING LEASES
As at balance date, the Corporation had arranged a lease for
three years for office premises at 77 Dunning Ave, Rosebery.
Occupancy of the premises had not commenced at balance date
and no rental expense was included in the determination of the
period's loss. The total lease commitments at balance date is
$606,728, classified as due
not later than 1 year - $182,018
later than 1 year but not later than 2 years - $208,021
later than 2 years but not later than 5 years - $216,689.
NOTE 15 - PRE-PAYMENTS AND DEPOSITS
Pre-payments and deposits included in the accounts are
comprised of




OFFICE OF THE
AUCXTOfVGENERAL
G.P.O Box 707
Canbtrn, A.C.T. 2601
T»l«phon« 48 471 1
F87/115
10 September 1987
The Honourable the Minister
for Transport and Communications
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Dear Minister
FEDERAL AIRPORTS CORPORATION
AUDIT REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Section 54 of the Federal Airports Corporation Act 1986
declares the Federal Airports Corporation to be a public
authority to which Division 2 of Part XI of the Audit Act
1901 applies. That Division (sections 63D to 63H)
prescribes certain matters relating to the accounts and
financial statements of the Corporation and their audit.
Pursuant to sub-section 63H(2) of the Audit Act 1901, the
Corporation has submitted for my report its financial
statements for the period 13 June 1986 to 31 March 1987.
These comprise a Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Statement,
Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds, and
accompanying Notes to and forming part of the Accounts.
The statements have been prepared in accordance with the
policies outlined in Note 1 to the Accounts and in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Form and Standard of
Financial Statements of Commonwealth Undertakings approved
by the Minister for Finance. The statements are in the form
i approved by the Minister for Finance pursuant to sub-section
63H(1) of the Audit Act. A copy of the financial statements
is enclosed for your information.
These statements have been audited in conformance with the
Australian Audit Office Auditing Standards.


In accordance with sub-section 63H(2) of the Audit Act, I
now report that the statements are in agreement with the
accounts and records of the Corporation and, in my opinion:
(a) the statements are based on proper accounts
and records
(b) the statements show fairly the financial
transactions for the period 13 June 1986 to
31 March 1987 and the state of affairs of the
Corporation as at 31 March 1987, and
(c) the receipt, expenditure and investment of
moneys, and the acquisition of assets, by the
Corporation during the period have been in
accordance with the Federal Airports
Corporation Act 1986. There was no disposal
of assets during the period.
Yours sincerely
Audi tor-General
