

Journal of the Australian Russian
Society
Price
Vol. 8. No. 9
APRIL, 1953.
3 d -
Registered at the G.P.0., Sydney, for
transmission by post as a periodical.
Australians honor Stalin
LONDON.—“Complete absence of pomp and ceremony was most impressive at Stalin’s funeral,” said Mrs.
Jessie Street. “It made those present feel that Stalin £ad remained close to the working people among whom
he was born and whose interests he had always prom oted.”
Mrs. Street was among the leading personalities of
the World Peace Movement who assembled in Mos-
cow to pay tribute to Stalin’s memory at the time of
his death and funeral.
Special messages of condolence were sent by the
Australian-Russian Society to the Soviet Ambassa-
dor in Australia, Mr. N. M. Lifanov, and to Professor
Denisov, President All-Union Society for Cultural
Relations wih Foreign Countries (V.0.K.5.).
Dr. H. V. Evatt, Leader of the Opposition, is also
another prominent Australian to pay tribute:
we should not forget.. .Stalin stood before the world
as the embodiment of Russia’s indomitable wih to
win in the struggle against Hitlerism, despite colossal
losses of life both of the armed forces and the civilian
population ”
Australian people, in groups and individually, also
expressed their sorrow at the passing of Joseph
Stalin whose guiding principles of peace, freedom and
friendship for peoples of all nations, endeared him
to the hearts of progressive mankind.
Soviet Ambassador to Australia (Mr. N. M. Lifanov)
has conveyed his message of thanks to the people
who expressed such sincere and widespread sympathy.
IN ALL LANDS THE PEOPLE PAID HOMAGE
As J. V. Stalin was laid to rest, more than one-third
of humanity—Boo million people of the U.S.S.R.,
People’s China, the European Democracies —stood in
silence for five minutes.
In every other country, too, the ordinary people,
those who love and desire the peace and freedom to
which Joseph Stalin dedicated his life, paid homage.
LONDON.—East and West Londoners packed halls
to pay tribute and respect to Stalin —900 people
crowded into the Shoreditch Town Hall to the first of
countless Memorial meetings held in Great Britain.
BERLIN—West Berlin overhead trains stopped for
five minutes’ silence at the time of the funeral. A
great meeting of 2000 in Dusseldorf called on all
Germans to continue Stalin’s work for peace.
In death as in life Stalin has strengthened the
friendship between nations. Sorrow has drawn peo-
ples closer and will serve as an impetus to the work
of such organisations as this Society.
Congress leaders in Klanpur. Hundreds of memorial
meetings have been held throughout the country
and nearly 1000 telegrams and 1000 letters of con-
dolence have been sent to the Soviet Embassy.
In Bombay tens of thousands stayed away from
work as a mark of respect. Flags flew at half-mast
over all Governmnt buildings in New Delhi.
ITALY. —Tram and bus drivers stopped work for
ten minutes.
CYPRUS. —More than 10,000 workers observed a
five-minute silence.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA.—By sunrise on the day that
Stalin’s body was laid to rest, the great Wenceslas
Square in Prague, 70 yards wide and nearly three-
quarters of a mile long, was already packed with
Czech workers.
INDIA. —10,000 people attended a meeting called by


On the personal initiative of Stalin, stupendous
construction tasks were pla/ced before the Soviet
people in 1950—tasks which they tackled with
unbounded enthusiasm, and which they will ac-
complish with still greater zeal in honor of their
beloved leader’s genius and humanity.
We republish here extracts from an article (1951)
by Soviet Academician A. Winter, whfch gives an
inspiring picture of the peaceful projects now in
course of construction and the benefits they will bring
to the Soviet —and the world peoples in conditions
of peace and friendly trade relations.
rpHE scale of the construction projects undertaken
in pursuance of the decisions adopted by the
Soviet Government in August and September of last
year (1950 Ed.) is as colossal as is their importance
for the country’s economic development.
They involve the building of huge hydro-electric
plants on the Volga, Dnieper and Amu Darya and
the irrigation of the Caspian and Lower Amu Darya
areas, the western part of the Kara Kum desert,
Southern Ukraine and the North Crimea.
The new hydro-electric stations, which are to be
completed in five or six years, will have an aggregate
capacity of 4,220,000 kilowatts.
Tremendous capacity
The Kuibyshev and Stalingrad plants will be the
biggest hydro-electric stations in the world, each
of them with a capacity exceeding that of Grand
Coulee or Boulder Dam, the biggest hydro-electric
plants in the United States.
The annual output will be upwards of 22,000 million
kilowatt-hours . . .
The additional 22,000 million kilowatt-hours of
electric power will be of immense importance to the
national economy.
The Volga will become one of the biggest water
arteries in the world . . . (Volga-Don canal completed
last year—Ed.). The Volga basin accounts for about
50 per cent, of the Soviet Union's total industrial
output; there are 65 million hectares of arable land
and 67 million hectares of forest there; it has more
than one and a half thousand wharves.
With the completion of the new hydropower sta-
tions the importance of the Volga basin will be greater
still.
The new stations will not only greatly stimulate
the growth of industries in the areas immediately
adjacent t® the river, but will also serve as a base
for wide-scale electrification of the industrial centres
of the Moscow Region, the Central Black-Earth Belt
and other more remote areas.
A big industry will be built to process the agricul-
tural produce raised on the 28 million hectares and
more of new irrigated land.
Food for 100,000,000
What will these new irrigated lands mean for the
Soviet people?
The total wheat crop in the new irrigated terri-
tories will be far greater than that of Canada, which
does not exceed 110 million centners.
The yields of other agricultural crops will be no
less remarkable, for ... in the areas where the new
irrigated lands will be located there are as many as
300 sunny and frostless days in the year.
Overfulfilled
Grand Vistas of the Stalin Epoch
This means that in the case of some crops, two or
more harvests can be gathered annually. Conditions
will be exceptionally favorable for animal husbandry
and poultry farming. The Soviet people will raise
in the new irrigated areas sufficient wheat, rye, rice
and other cereals, vegetables, fruit, ..meat, and dairy
produce to support a population of one hundred mil-
lion.
The new power stations will make it possible
widely to electrify the three major branches of the
national economy—industry, agriculture and trans-
port.
Because of its cheapness and abundance, power
will be freely used in agriculture, raising its pro-
ductivity. . .The work of connecting Moscow by water-
way with all the seas washing the European part of
the Soviet Union will be completed-. .New electric
railways of big carrying capacity will be built in the
areas adjacent to the great power stations end the
transmission lines.
A plentiful supply of cheap electricity will facilitate
the reconstruction of cities, will permit the wide use
of electricity in the home, and generally will bring
additional amenities to the Soviet people.
VALE PROKOFIEV
-PEOPLES ARTIST
Somewhat overshadowed by the death of Joseph
Stalin was the passing of another great figure in
Soviet and world life —Sergei Prokofiev, composer.
A deep respect of truth in all things, combined
with a passionate love for the ordinary people
and sincere patriotism has always been the theme
of Prokofiev’s art, consummated under the guid-
ance of Soviet life.
Figuring prominently in the Soviet discussions
of 1948, when the Soviet Government pinpointed
the responsibilities of musicians and other artists,
Prokofiev showed his greatness by accepting the
criticism as necessary help to the development of
realist, socialist art.
His assiduous application of the lessons learned
in this unique and truly democratic event in cul-
tural history, earned for hiic the Stalin Prize
of 1951 and further endeared him to the hearts
of the people.
His work along with that of many other Soviet
contemporary artists, will live to serve as a fur-
ther inspiration to, and enrichment of, the cul-
tural life of the people of the USSR and the world
in general.
Moscow builders have considerably exceeded their
1952 plan. Programmes for housing and schools,
kindergartens and nurseries and many other aspects
of city development have been fulfilled or over-
fulfilled. »
'III;


April, 1953
RUSSIA
Page Three
GIVE TO THE CAUSE OF TRUTH AND PEACE
By Gordon Horn, secretary.
"Russia has suffered a severe loss in the death of Joseph Stalin, the greatest man of our
time," writes a Society member when renewing membership. "To friends of Russia it is
very' like losing one known to them."
“‘TITOWEVER, no country or cause depends wholly on
one individual, no matter how great, and let us
hepe the future of Russia and the peace of the world
will be built firmly by his successors on the founda-
tions he well and truly laid. Wishing you well in your
activities . . .”
I wholeheartedly endorse the sentiments expressed
in this splendid letter and in the sorrowful feelings
of millions and millions of people throughout the
world.
Since the death of Joseph Stalin the campaign
■against the Soviet Union by daily press and other
publications has reached the lowest level of vicious
slander.
The passing of Stalin, man of the people, is being
□made the occasion for renewed efforts to create
division between the world’s peoples .
This places greater responsibilities than ever before
on the Society and its membership and friends. And
the increased responsibility coincides with a crisis in
the Society’s financial condition.
For that reason we are making a special appeal to
members and supporters for donations.
The Society urgently needs funds to reach ever
greater sections of the people and to effectively reply
to the slanders. I appeal to you to respond to the
need, to see the act of donating to the Society in the
light of investing money to ensure a quicker return
of, peace and security for our nation and the world.
Organisation of local functions in suburbs and
localities is another excellent means of building the
Society, both financially and numerically. And, of
-course, full support for all functions organised by
the Committee is vital.
MAY DAY IS OUR CONCERN
In these days when millions of “ordinary people
.are taking the cause of peace in their own strong
hands” (Stalin) in every land, May Day becomes
more and more important to members of organisa-
tions such as ours.
The first of May was originally established as an
international workers’ holiday, in 1899. Since that
year the day has found a permanent place in the
political life of all nations, and has been hsed to
display the “ordinary people’s” firm desire for friend-
ship between all nations.
May Day, 1953, will be a great step forward in
achieving this aim—and Australians will be playing
their part.
At the last Committee meeting of the Australian
Russian S«ciety it was decided that the Society
would participate in the May Day procession. It
was agreed to have a decorated float and to appeal
to members to inarch and carry a selection of
banners.
Volunteers! Send your name as a marcher for
peace and international friendship to the Society’s
Box 5264 GPO, Sydney, without delay.
The Society needs to continue and expand its work
more than ever before.
To do this your financial aid is the key. You have
rallied to the call for help before; I know you will
not fail to respond even more generously once again.
Special features next issue
This month Russia and Us takes the form of
a special memorial issue in honor ef Joseph
Stalin.
For that reason our regular feature —Our Sec-
retary Reports—has been dropped, and the
Guest Writer’s article is held over.
The Committee feels sure that both members,
and our guest writer, who is Newcastle Trades
and Labor Council Secretary, Mr. A. Dowling,
will approve of this decision.
Be sure net te miss these features in our next
issue.
Congratulations, wharfies!
The old rooms of the Sydney Waterside
Workers' Federation have been transformed
into a most attractive, comfortable and effi-
cient hall for cultural activity.
Our Secretary, Gordon Horn, writes that
members and officials of the Union deserve
special tribute for the wonderful contribution
they have made to the development of cul-
ture in this city.
It is of direct interest to the Society,
don points out, because regular film screen-
ings are being conducted there, including
Soviet films.
It is the best hall in Sydney for screening
16 mm films, not only for the comfort it
provides to audiences, but because acoustics
are perfect and, last but not least, there are
two projectors, which abolishes the need to
change reels during a film.
The Society plans to hire this hall and the
first screening there will be on Friday, April
17, 8 pm. The address is 60 Sussex Street,
(See Coming Events for details.)


Page Four
RUSSIA & US
April, 1953
Stalin
memorial
LTONOR to Joseph Stalin, the man, the humanist,
x the leader, who devoted his whole life to the cause
of uplifting humanity—that is the theme of the
special memorial evening which the Society will pre-
sent at the Russian Social Club, George Street, Syd-
ney, on April 9.
The life and work of Stalin, from the age of 15
when he first joined the Socialist movement until
the time ®f his death, will be presented in the already
tried and successful form of musical, pictorial cav-
alcade.
You will see the brutal oppression of the people
by the tsarist police matched by the heroism of the
people themselves; the courage of Stalin, hounded,
hunted, exiled, yet never once relinquishing his activ-
ities.
The friendship between Lenin and Stalin which
developed even before they had met, their joint ef-
forts to lead the people to freedom —and peace. Vic-
tory against the tsarist forces, the building of the
young Soviet Republic against terrible odds, the
critical years of intervention in which Stalin played
a dominant role.
Stabilising of the new economy and the building of
new industries to provide the Soviet people with the
necessities of life and the means of defending them.
Mobilisation of the population for war against nazi
invaders, victory once more and on to the mighty
construction projects of today.
All these have a place in the memorial presentation
of a man whom history determined should play one
of the greatest roles in the advance of mankind to
peace, prosperity and a full life.
Because Stalin symbolises the dreams and desires
of peoples of all colors and creeds, you cannot afford
to miss this colorful presentation of his life.
The Australian Russian Society
Box 5264, G.P.0., Sydney.
The undersigned subscribes to the aims of the
Society and wishes -to become a member and
receive a monthly copy of “Russia & Us.”
(Annual subscription 5/-, dating from me th
of joining).
NAME
(in block letters)
ADDRESS
Signature.
AN HISTORIC FILM
IN EVERY SENSE
“rpHE unforgettable year 1919” is the latest Soviet-
film to reach Australia. Released in Sydney at
the time of Stalin’s death, the story appropriately is
a tribute to the late Soviet Premier’s great qualities
of leadership—unswerving purpose, determination
and above all, humanism. It’s about the defence of
Petrograd against intervention, on which the fate
of the young Soviet Republic hung in balance.
Producer Mikhail Chiauerli, well know for his
historical films, especially “Fall of Berin,” has char-
acteristically brought this eventful period to life, with,
a finely drawn presentation of the closeness of Soviet
leaders to the people—and the incredible heroism
of the ordinary folk—the seamen, commanders and
soldiers, who inflicted a decisive defeat of the enemy
of the Soviet Union, right on the approaches of Red
Petrograd.
Color, photography, especially shots of the naval
battle, are particularly fine and combine with some
very fine acting to present what is a triumph for
Soviet cinematography and will be a delight for dis-
criminating film lovers.
Less pleasing spots in this otherwise fine production
is the introduction of the “female” interest, sweet-
heart of Sailor Shibayev, her presence on the fort
seems inexplicable; some acting by those portraying
the counter-revolutionary characters, particularly
Madame Butkevich borders on the “fruity melodrama”,
and finally, the somewhat caricature-like portrayal
of Churchill, Clemenceaux, Lloyd George and other
Versailles Treaty indentities hardly seems real for
individuals who did indeed attempt to destroy the
young Soviet Republic.
But these are minor weaknesses indeed, very much
■ outweighed by an accurate and vivid picture of the
heroic deeds and greatness of the Soviet people who in
fierce battles with their enemies, saved the first
Socialist State in the World. —8.8.
COMING EVENTS
Memorial to Stalin
RUSSIAN SOCIAL CLUB: 727 George Street, Syd-
ney, Thursday, April 9, 8 pm.
* * *
ROCKDALE: “A White Sail Gleams,” Soviet film
(with English captions); shows the adventurous;
spirit of children and the part they played in the
Russian people’s quest for a better life. Palais Grande
Hall, Frederick Street, Rockdale, Friday, April 10;,
8 pm.
* * *
RUSSIAN SOCIAL CLUB, 727 George Street, Syd-
ney. New Soviet color film “The Unforgettable Year
1919.” Shows the momentous days of the defence of
Petrograd against invasion. Wednesday, April 15',
8 pm.
* H- *
SYDNEY: Ever popular films, “Life of Lenin” and
“Construction in Moscow” (in color). Both these
films portray the struggle and achievements of the
Soviet people and the reason for their devotion to
Lenin and Stalin. 60 Sussex Street, Friday, April 17,.
8 pm.
Printed by Newsletter Prlntery, 21 Boss Street, Foreet Lodge, for the Australian Russian Society, Box 5264, G.P.0.. Sydney
