

The Elector:
A MAGAZINE OF POLITICS AND LITERATURE.
Price]
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1848.
[Threepen ce.
Spirit of the Sydney Journals.
PUBLIC MEETING AT THE SCHOOL
OF ARTS.
Notwithstanding all that has been written,
said, and done in favor of Messrs. Wentworth
and Bland, their warmest friends must confess
that at all events these gentlemen are decidedly
unpopular. It appears to us that there can be
no doubt whatever of the fact. Whether they
are held in great estimation by the majority of
electors is another thing; the majority of the
people most decidedly do not estimate them so
highly as they could wish. The popular solici-
tor, Bob Nichols, straining his voice in ineffec-
tual attempts to get a hearing from those who
upon another theatre are charmed with his
eloquence—the heroic Mr. Donaldson swelling
with indignation because his declamation cannot
be heard above that storm of voices, although
he is inwardly persuaded that could he get a
hearing he would be sure to convince—the
frantic Flood, although a son of the soil, which
he takes care to make known, becoming fright-
fully red in the face with screaming at the pitch
of his shrill pipe, that those who are before him
are a parcel of cowards—were all practical il-
lustrations of the evident truth that Messrs.
Wentworth and Bland are eminently unpopular.
So striking an exhibition has not often been
made, and it must be owned that the audience
enjoyed it amazingly. The blustering boasts of
Dr. Bland, who for once forgot his darling
theory, and roused excitement in his audience,
were worthy of Captain Bobadil, only a trifle
more out of place than were the hectorings of
that worthy. The comic pantomime of Mr.
Flood would not have disgraced the boards of
the Victoria, and those present testified their
admiration of his performance by repeated
plaudits.
Seriously, we never attended a meeting of the
kind at which a greater want of judgment and
tact was displayed. In a contested election
commotions must be expected, and the public
meetings at which electors of opposite predilec-
tions attend, were never known to be peaceable.
It was for Messrs. Wentworth and Bland, and
their friends to act in so judicious a manner as
to secure a hearing. But judiciousness was
out of the question. Dr. Bland indulged in a
panegyric upon his own courage, although he
was old, and in a tirade of abuse of the persons
before him. Such conduct, it must be admitted,
was well calculated to increase respect for him-
self, and to conciliate the anger of the audience !
What wonder that he did not obtain a hearing !
The entertainment furnished by Messrs.
Nichols, Donaldson, and Flood, was too good
to be foregone for the mere pleasure of hearing
speeches. Persons possessing any discretion
would at least have kept their temper on the
occasion, and if they did not think it worth while
to tire the audience into hearing, they should
calmly have announced their determination
immediately to adjourn the meeting, and have,
if necessary, carried it into effect. Quiet fixed-
ness of purpose would have been equally effec-
tual in winning respect, and in taming an
obstreperous audience. Of course we do not
for a single instant attempt to vindicate the as-
sembly for acting as they did. We do not blame
them for expressing their disapprobation, but it
was unworthy of their cause thus to stifle a fair
and impartial hearing. Had they allowed the
business of the evening to proceed in a proper
manner, they would have had every reason to
be satisfied with its result. They could have
negatived the motion in favor of Messrs. Went-
worth and Bland, and thus would not only have
gained a great triumph, but would have avoided
the disgrace which now attaches to them of
having unjustly deprived the late members of
the city of an opportunity of endeavouring to
vindicate their conduct in the Legislative
Council.
The proceedings of the meeting subsequent
to the candidates and their friends quitting the
place, speak eloquently as to the sentiments of
the working classes. It was moved and seconded
amidst general applause, and carried unani-
mously, that Messrs. Wentworth and Bland
are unfit persons to represent the City of Syd-
ney. It was also moved, seconded, and carried
amidst tremendous cheering, that Messrs. Lowe
and Lamb are proper persons to represent the
city. We shall make no comment upon this
spontaneous outburst of public feeling—it
speaks for itself.
Dr. Bland in his foolish remarks stated, and
some of the public prints have given currency
to the statement, that the audience at the School
of Arts consisted of hired ruffians assembled
there purposely to prevent any hearing from
being got. Every one who attended the meet-
ing and remained throughout knows that this
charge must be false. At the very best these
accusers can only have a strong belief that such
was the case; the utmost they can entertain
upon the subject is an opinion—and on the
strength of this opinion they do not hesitate to
insinuate that a crime of the worst description
has been committed by their opponents. The
character of Dr. Bland prevents us from giving
entire credence to the report which places so
gross a calumny in his mouth. As for the
other circulators of the infamous charge, from
them we expected nothing better. They may
employ such dishonest means of supporting the
cause which their interest induces them at pre-
sent to uphold, without exciting surprise, or
provoking reply. From such vile mouths
slander is an honor, praise a reproach. We
can but smile at the transparent, though un-
conscious inconsistency, with which they affect
an exalted tone of morality in their abuse of the
meeting for not listening to the remarks of
Messrs. Wentworth and Bland, and then dis-
play their own low-minded malignity in
charging their opponents with the basest con-
duct, the idea of which originated only in their
own malevolent imaginations. They strain
violently at the gnat, yet with the utmost com-
posure swallow the camel. They are the jack-
puddings, the mountebanks of the press, who
will treat you to any sleight-of-hand trick you
please, so long as they are paid for their trouble.
They are the chameleons of the genus scribbler,
assuming readily the colors of any party to
which chance attaches them. Principle among
such men is an empty sound, a wandering star;
party is their talisman, their polar star. Their
violent party invectives should be treated as
“an idiot’s tale, full of sound and fury, but
signifying nothing.”— Atlas, July 22, 1848.
IS MR. WENTWORTH THE MAN?
Do the citizens require an extension of the
elective franchise ? Then let them not return
Mr. Wentworth; for he was the first to con-
tract it, and has ever been the consistent
advocate of a high property qualification.—
Do they desire to see the labour market sup-
plied by free immigration in preference to a
revival of transportation ? Then let them not
return Mr. Wentworth; for transportation,
exileism, and such like expedients for keeping
down the price of labour, are his hobbies. So
long as he could see a chance of obtaining cheap
labour, he has never been particularly nice as
to the country or the class from whence the
labourers came, and has staunchly advocated, at
different periods, the introduction of convicts,
coolies, and cannibals.—Do the citizens wish to
have the land system of this colony reformed,
so that the laborer may look forward to the ac-
quirement of a property in the soil, and so that
there may be no bar to the gradual introduction
of an agricultural population into the unpeopled
wilds of Australia? Then let them not return
Mr. Wentworth; for he is the staunchest up.
holder of those baneful regulations, by which
the finest regions of this colony would be placed
almost gratis in the hands of a few individuals
whose interest it would be to preserve them in
their present state of barbarism. Is it esteemed
desirable that some more prompt measures
should be taken for providing against fever and
pestilence by the expulsion from the city of such
nuisances as the slaughter houses, and other
establishments of the same nature ? Then let
not the citizens return Mr. Wentworth; for
they know from experience that he will not ad-
vocate sanatory measures, if personal interests
stand in their way.— Chronicle, July 15.
MR. LOWE.
Every body knows, that Mr. Lowe has been
the champion of the people against the self-
aggrandizing schemes of the squatters. At first
he stood almost alone in his persevering denun-
ciations of the present depasturing regulations;
but of late some of his co-legislators have be-
gun to see the folly of their ways, and have
rallied around him. It now rests with the
colonists at large to express their opinion upon
this subject, in a manner too plain to be mis-
understood. There have been many subjects
upon which we have been at issue with Mr.
Lowe; but all lighter considerations give way
before the great questions to which we have
before alluded.— Chronicle, July 15.
Conundrum. —What is sweeter than sugar, Mr.
Lamb ?—D’ye give it up?—The monopoly of it.


DR. BLAND ON THE HERALD AND
THE “ OPERATIVES’ FRIEND!”
The Herald never advocated a good cause,
but invariably selected a bad one; the reason
was obvious: it upheld the interests of a small
section against that of the community, and its
vituperations, therefore, were looked upon by
him as a high compliment. From its very
commencement it had pursued this course. In
1840 it recommended the destruction, by base
and cowardly means, of the Aborigines of the
colony. Its next step was the endeavour to
create a schism in the community by preventing
a large portion of the emancipist population
from participating in those rights which belong
to all classes. Nay, that paper even went so
far as to say that if the Council of that day did
net insert certain clauses of a restrictive nature
they ought to be torn from their chairs. Let
them remember the abuse heaped upon Mr.
Blaxland from the same source ; but that
gentleman, like himself, treated its attacks with
the contempt which was participated in so
largely by the community of the colony. He
would, however, come to the remarks of the
opposing candidates. He would begin with
Mr. Lamb’s charges. The first complaint
against him (I)r. B.) was, that “ he was ig-
norant of commercial affairs, although indepen-
dent and honest.” If by ignorance of com-
mercial affairs was meant the keeping of books,
making bargains, or shipping and landing
goods, he must plead guilty, but he had yet to
learn that a thorough knowledge of these details
was essential to a legislator. English legisla-
tors were not commercial men in Mr. Lamb’s
sense of the term : most of the writers on poli-
tical economy were devoid of that sine qua non
—acquirement, and even the father of that com-
prehensive science, Adam Smith, had in reality
little knowledge of mercantile affairs, or, at all
events, those minutiae which were so essential to
make up Mr. Lamb’s beau ideal of a statesman.
Perhaps the real meaning was, that he (Dr.B.)
bad not a “ personal interest” in commercial
affairs; if so, Mr. Lamb had made a great
blunder, for nothing could be more inimical to
the interests of society than to choose a legisla-
tor with stron g personal feelings; it was in
fact making him a judge in his own cause.
What delayed the repeal of the Corn Laws ,
the Game laws, and a hundred other national
oppressions , but direct personal interest?
These things were all well understood in the
mother country : neither London, Liverpool,
nor other commercial towns, returned mercan-
tile men for that quality alone: those cities
were extremely cautious in trusting their affairs
to persons whose strong “ personal interest”
was likely to render them anxious to deal with
them for their own advancement, in preference
to the public good. What, for instance, was
the use of placing Mr. Lamb with all his won-
derful mercantile knowledge in prominent
direction of the Commercial Bank—did it pre-
vent the public from being robbed by a well-
planned series of schemes stretching over many
years? Did all Mr Lamb's knowledge, quick-
sightedness, and vigilance prevent this grievous
wrong ? That Bank, also, eschewing its legiti-
mate purposes, became in the hands of those
“ personal interest” gentlemen a taxing machine
upon the colony, placing burdens on the people
to an extent that might have roused even quiet
to sedition. Flour at j6‘loo per ton ; sugar at
jt‘4o per ton, and tea as exorbitantly high ?
were startling evidences, not of scarcity, but of
monopoly—not fostered by the funds of indivi-
duals, but of the institution to which that com-
mercial gentleman had access. Was it safe to
make a man a legislator upon such grounds ?
And if not, what other reason was there for
selecting Mr. Lamb for that honorable office ?
Perhaps upon the general high, liberal tone of
his sentiments ! Yet his name was to be found
amongst the 427 tuho signed a petition against
the introduction of any free institution into
this colony. Surely with such a demonstration
of his principles, it were madness to trust him
with the power to ruin their interests; surely
it were time to lift the veil from these seif-
enveloped designers, and meet the enemy face
to face. There was already a conspiracy of
the worst description formed amongst these
base and insidious hypocrites to destroy the
best interests of the colony. Men with such
principles as these, with all the commercial
knowledge of a Lamb, were not fit persons to
be the custodians of the liberties of the people.
One other circumstance he thought it necessary
to mention in Mr. Lamb’s political career, to
see how that gentleman’s “ personal interest”
theory was calculated to establish confidence.
When the Government proposed to reduce the
wharfage rates, considering that cheap wharf-
age would be beneficial to the colony, what did
Mr. Lamb say ? “ I have vested rights; I have
wharves of my own; I shall be a sufferer; no
cheap wharfage; no lowering rates for me.”—
These were his liberal opinions, and strenuously
did he argue them.— Hr. Bland's Speech at
the Public ( Ticket ) Meeting at the Fitz Roy ,
July 24.
REPORT OF THE MEETING CALLED
BY MESSRS. WENTWORTH AND
BLAND’S COMMITTEE AT THE
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
{From the Atlas.)
According to announcement, a meeting of
electors took place at the School of Arts on
Monday evening, for the purpose of hearing an
exposition of the sentiments of Messrs. Went-
worth and Bland. Long before 7 o clock, the
hour at which the meeting was to commence, a
very large number of persons were in attend-
ance, and, during the time it lasted, thrice as
many people as the theatre of the institution
would hold crowded about the doors and in the
street in front. Though there were many dis-
orderly persons present, evidently determined
upon preventing any of the observations of the
friends of Wentworth and Bland from being
heard, yet, from what we observed, the mass of
the persons in the place consisted of respect-
able tradesmen, who, although evidently op-
posed to the late members for the city, were
willing', indeed anxious, to afford them a fair
and impartial hearing. This, however, it was
impossible to get, and when we consider how
obnoxious Messrs. Wentworth and Bland, es-
pecially the former, have rendered themselves
to the working classes, we can scarcely be sur-
prised at the result. In the mother country,
the man who is decidedly unpopular can never
get a hearing, and although we cannot help re-
gretting that such should have been the case
with the meeting at the School of Arts, we did
not expect that the city members would have
met with a better reception.
After John Rose Holden, Esq. was called to
the chair, and had opened the business, Dr.
Bland proceeded to address the meeting. Such
a storm of uproar however greeted him that
what he said was audible only by those imme-
diately around. Shouts of execration were
uttered, and an ominous shaking of fists, espe-
cially at Mr. Wentworth, was displayed. Ac-
cording to the Herald , Dr. Bland’s observa-
tions were somewhat as follows :
“ The possession of the franchise which the
people enjoyed was owing to the exertions of
Mr. Wentworth and himself. They had
stepped forward to obtain free institutions for
the colony when it was not popular so to do.
That meeting might meet him with clamour;
but think as they might, he knew full well
that he and his late colleague, in the represen-
tation of the city of Sydney, were entitled to
their thanks. They had been unjustly at-
tacked ; and even had they done wrong, they
were entitled to what they (W. and B.) had so
long laboured to obtain for Australians—a fair
and impartial hearing. The attempt to stifle
their sentiments on this occasion was the mean-
nest and most contemptible subterfuge. They
well knew they dare not hear the truth, and
and they knew also that they had those before
them who had always told them the truth, and
who would tell them nothing but the truth.
But to proceed to the business of the evening—
he did not pretend to be an orator as Mr. Lowe
was, and he scorned to gain their applause by
the aid of an oily tongue and a false heart.
(Great uproar.) He was perfectly indifferent
to their applause or their condemnation. As a
boy he had been bred to face men, and as a
man—an old one, too—he would blush to quail
before a mob of poltroons and cowards such as
those were who were purchased to come and
suppress the truth. Around him he saw a
circle of honorable men, who, whether they
supported him or supported him not, would at
least hear him, and he called upon them to tes-
tify that he had at least done his duty on that
occasion.”
The continuous uproar compelled Dr Bland
to desist from any further attempts it obtaining
a hearing, and after Mr. G. R. Nichols, Mr.
Donaldson, and Mr. Flood, had made them-
selves red in the face in straining their voices
to be heard, the chair was vacated, and the
meeting adjourned, and Messrs. Wentworth
and Bland and their friends left the place by
the back. The audience, however, did not
depart, and some commotion took place, during
which the glasses of one of the lamps were
broken. After an interval, a Mr. M‘Phaii
came forward and addressed the meeting, as
near as possible to the following effect :
“ Fellow-citizens, I am one of yourselves—
I am a working man, one who has suffered
with yourselves from the misconduct of our
late members. (Applause.) I have frequently
attended meetings in the mother country, called
like the present by tyrants, which, instead of
representing, had misrepresented our interests,
their object being like that of our late worthy
representatives—to explain away their mis-
deeds ; but I have universally found, like as
you have acted this night, an insulted people
disdain to listen to those they so well knew
could give no good account of themselves.
(Cheers.) I would advise you to express your
sense of of Messrs. Wentworth and
Bland as your representatives, and I would
advise that you express yourselves as having no
confidence in those gentlemen. \ou should
always consult peace and order, but never let a
foolish propriety suppress that just indignation


which we all feel at the wanton manner in which
Mr. Wentworth has gone out of his way to abuse
and insult the working classes of Sydney.
Yes, Mr. Wentworth has denounced us all as a
parcel of drones, as too well fed, and too well
paid; that we can earn as much in two days
as will keep us drunk during the rest of the
week. He ridiculed the Government measure
in reference to the Savings’ Bank, for recog-
nising any poor class—there was no poor class,
said he—there should be no poor class in this
colony. And this man and his friends consider
themselves ill-used, forsooth! because they
have not got a quiet hearing. You would be
monuments of patience, indeed, if you listened
for a moment to such defamers. Much might
he raked up to shew the selfish policy of Mr.
Wentworth during the last few years, but it is
unnecessary to inform you of what you know
so well already. It is for our interests to
unite, heart and hand, in securing the election
of Mr. Lowe. (Great cheering.) That
gentleman, in his career as a legislator, has
shown himself to be a strenuous advocate of
those great principles dear to the heart of every
Briton, and, I am proud to say, to the citizens
of Sydney also. Let the Squatters, who con-
sider their interests all paramount, vote for
Wentworth—let the great landed proprietors,
if they choose, vote for Wentworth—but,
Heaven forbid that the working classes should
vote for the man who has done all he could to
oppress and degrade them. (Cheers.) Let
them combine together in a fixed determination
to prevent him from again attaining a position
which he has only disgraced. I move that this
meeting can place no confidence in Messrs.
Wentw'orth and Bland as their representatives,
and that they consider them unfit for the office.
If there is any fellow-workman among you
bold enough to declare his sentiments upon this
occasion, let him come forward and second it.”
(Cheering.)
A Mr. Bush then addressed the meeting to
the effect that having just given utterance to
his sentiments in reference to Messrs. Went-
worth and Bland, he had been told that he
would repent having done so. He, however,
was not to be intimidated from stating his opi-
nions, and in proof of this he would second the
motion which had just been made.
The motion was then put to the meeting and
carried unanimously. Another motion, to the
effect that Messrs. Lamb and Lowe were fit
and eligible persons to represent the city, was
also carried with great acclamation. After a
few words from a person present, urging the
audience, now that they had expressed their
sentiments, to retire peaceably from the place,
for their enemies would desire nothing better
than that they should demolish the useful insti-
tution in which they assembled, that they
might have something to say against them, the
meeting quietly dispersed.
CONDUCT OF MR. LAMB'S COMMIT-
TEE TOWARDS MR. LOWE.
The unjustifiable conduct of the friends of Mr.
Lamb, in the use they have made of Mr.
Lowe's first communication to the requisition-
's of Sydney, has excited the utmost surprise
and disgust in all honorable minds. Many of
those who were at first imposed upon by "the
deceit, but who now see clearly through it, have
withdrawn their support from Mr. Lamb,
under the impression that that cause cannot be
good which stands in need of such questionable
aid. We confess that we cannot blame them
for so doing, for promises njade under false
impressions are not to be considered as binding.
It remains for Mr. Lamb to decide whether he
will peril his election by countenancing so ex-
traordinary a proceeding on the part of his
friends.
The position of Mr. Lowe is not so equivocal
or inexplicable as Mr. Lamb’s friends and the
crafty Herald would make it appear. The
conduct of Mr. Lowe has been neither strange
nor inconsistent. He has done just what the
majority of persons in his situation would do.
A cursory statement of the facts of the case
will make this apparent. In gratitude to the
electors of Auckland and St. Vincent for having
elected him as their representative when com-
paratively unknown, Mr. Lowe again tendered
his services to them. On the same day that
his address was published, there appeared an
advertisement calling a meeting of the Sydney
electors favorable to Mr. Lowe’s return for
Sydney. The meeting took place, and a re-
quisition was addressed to that gentleman to
stand as a candidate for Sydney. His answer
to the requisition, stating the reasons v/hy he
declined acceding to the request of the electors,
is the document of which such unworthy use
is now being made. The requisitionists, deter-
mined if possible to secure the services of so
eminent a representative as the late member
for Auckland, addressed another communica-
tion to Mr. Lowe, requesting to know whether,
if the electors of Sydney voluntarily chose him
as one of their repi esentatives, he would accept
the seat. His answer was, “ Yes, I could not
so far insult the citizens of Sydney as to refuse,”
adding, “ I could not forego so great a triumph
for those principles with which I am identified.”
We confess we can see no inconsistency in
Mr. Lowe’s refusing to stand as a candidate, yet
accepting the seat if offered to him; nor do we
envy those possessed of such acute moral pre-
ception that they can discern the discrepancy.
Mr. Lowe has acted in the matter, not only
with propriety, but with self-denial, How few
of those so ready to carp at the motes which
their prejudice-distorted vision enables them
to behold in better men than themselves, would
have refrained from greedily clutching at the
honor which Mr. Lowe in the first instance
so magnanimously declined!
It is alleged, however, that as Mr. Lowe had
pledged his support to Mr. Lamb, he should
have carried his self-denial to so ridiculous an
extent as to refuse the representation of Sydney
if offered to him. It is not alleged even by
those contemptible enough to continue mislead-
ing the public in the manner they have done,
that Mr. Lowe did more than promise his sup-
port to Mr. Lamb, and we confess that we
regard the delicacy of the former in refusing to
stand as a candidate simply because he was
afraid that his doing so would tend to lessen
Mr. Lamb’s chance of success, as rather too
scrupulous and refined. Was there but one
member to be returned for Sydney, there
might be some reason for it; as it is, we do not
perceive any. Mr. Lowe however, gets no
credit for his self-denial; but when he fails to
be super-humanly generous, he is abused as
being uncommonly selfish. Let falsehood and
misrepresentation fester in their envenomed
malignity, truth wlil be still victorious. Every
mean lie, every w'hispered or blazoned calumny
that swells the malignant chorus of his enemies,
is an addional support to the cause of Robert
Lowe. Let private rancour and public hostil-
ity employ their unhallowed weapons—W'ith
industriour malignity rake up past events, again
prefer refuted charges, and, when that fails, in-
vent new ones—yet truth shall triumph.
Neither the charge of treachery preferred on
the one hand, nor the infamously false accusa-
tion of bigotry which has been made on the
other, will blind the people. They know who
are their friends; let them act accordingly.—
Atlas, Jidy 15th, 1848.
THE PATRIOTS AND THE PRESS.
The public journals which support the former
members of the City, are the Daily Advertiser
and the Australian, the former bound hand
and foot to Dr. Bland’s policy, the latter the
vile, the venal, the prostituted organ of Boyd
and Co. The former is serving its master
faithfully, the latter is still fulfilling the terms
of the bargain which consigned it to the un-
enviable position it holds among colonial jour-
nals. With a spirit consonant to its degraded
state, it has been for the last three weeks ex-
pending its strength in spurting its venom,
with so blind a ferocity however, that it can
injure none but itself. Its malevolence is too
undisguised, its hireling character too notorious,
and its utter destitution of principle too evident,
to allow its rancour to injure, or its advocacy
to mislead. Such supporters can do no good
to the cause of Messrs. Wentworth and Bland,
but must inflict incalculable injury upon it.—
Atlas, July 22nd, 1848.
A PATRIOT ON THE FRANCHISE.
(From the Weekly Register, September 7, 1844.)
Can any of our readers, who is deeply read
in the history of tyranny and Toryism, ancient
or modern, point out to us in the whole political
history of mankind an enactment so directly
subversive of every idea of civil liberty and
representative government as the following,
which has been added to the draft of a bill to
amend the Sydney Corporation Act, by the idol
of his country, W. C. Wentworth, Esq. ?
“ Provided always, and be it enacted, that
no tenant claiming to vote by reason of the
household qualification hereby created, shall be
entitled to any of the electoral privileges con-
ferred by this or the said before recited
Act, UNLESS HE SHILL PRODUCE TO THE COL
LECTOR OF HIS WARD, AT THE TIME OF MAKING
OUT THE CITIZENS LIST, A RECEIPT OR
RECEIPTS FOR THE PAYMENT OF
SIX MONTHS CONTINUOUS RENT,
FROM THE OWNERS OR PROPRIE-
TORS OF THE PREMISES in respect of
which such tenant claims to be entitled to such
electoral privileges as aforesaid."
There may be on record a proposition equally
atrocious with this, but we confess we do not
remember to have read or heard of it. We
know that ancient citizens have been banished
by ostracism, and that modern kings have lost
their crowns, and even their heads, for mere
trifles compared with such an inroad upon the
elective principle as that suggested by the
“ Austrafan Demosthnes.”
THREE MONOPOLIES.
Monopolist of Sugar ;
Monopolist of Land ;
Monopolist of Nonsense;
Lamb, Wentworth, and poor Biand !


Notices to Correspondents.
£
“X.Y.Z.” is informed that the scandalous ru-
mour that Mr. Lamb shook hands at the
back of the barracks with a shoemaker has
been already contradicted. He did no such
thing.
“An Elector” is informed that we are not
able positively to state, that Mr Wentworth
wrote Mr. George Hill’s address to the
Electors of St. Vincent and Auckland.
The internal evidence would give the author-
ship to our late member; but we have heard
that one of Messrs. Boyd and Co’s clerks
wrote it.
“ Son of a Briton” is informed that Mr. Lowe
will appear on the Hustings this morning.
“ABC.”—“ The Nuisance” man’s officious
interference w ill be represented in the right
quarter at a fitting time. This is not the
only instance of intimidation we have heard
of.
THE ELECTOR.
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1848.
ROBERT LOWE.
“ The present idol of the people !”—Speech of
Mr. Wentworth .’
If you are to believe his opponents, no one
ever was cursed with so many contradictory
vices as Mr. Lowe. Vanity thy name is
Lowe, says one censor. Mr. Lowe is stoic-
ally and insultingly indifferent to public
opinion, says another. He has never done
anything at all in Council is said on the
one hand : he has done a great deal of mis-
chief is asserted almost in the same breath.
Some say he is a mere declaimer, utterly
incapable of reasoning ; others that by the
subtility of his logic and the dexterity of
his fallacies he has misled the common
sense of the Council and the country. His
career in the Council is pointed at by some
as being nothing but a base truckling to
popularity ; by others as an attempt to en-
croach on the liberties of the subject, and
set up in opposition to them the privileges
of the Council and the higher classes. If
you are to believe these gentlemen, he is at
once a latitudinarian and a bigot—a time
server and an enthusiast —a sycophant and
an anarchist. Those who talk in this way
grossly underrate the common sense of the
intelligent electors of Sydney. They know
very well that virtue lies between two op-
posite vices, and that the surest test that a
man has hit the golden mean is when those
who are determined to blame him, at all
events blame him for contrary extremes.
Apply this test to the other candidates, and
the difference between abuse concocted for
sinister purposes in order to assail a cha-
racter which is above the reach of detrac-
tion, and censure, founded on fact, will at
once become apparent. For instance, we
often hear Mr. Wentworth accused of sel-
fishness, but did any one ever charge him
with a romantic and quixotic disregard of
his own interest when it happened to clash
with that of the public? We have heard
something of his helping himself to too
much, but did any one ever accuse him of
taking too little ? We have heard him
abused for his Usury Bill and paper cur-
rency scheme —the first of which would
have confiscated the property of the credi-
tor, and the second would have reduced us
to a state of depreciated currency and public
bankruptcy similar to that which is now
impending over France ; but did any one
ever accuse Mr. Wentworth of wishing to
make mortgagees too rich, or the circulating
medium in which debts are to be paid more
valuable? Mr. Wentworth’s zeal in raising
the franchise is undoubted; did any one
ever accuse him of being anxious to put it
too low ?
To Mr. Bland the same observation ap-
plies. He has been frequently accused of
being utterly useless and insignificant, but
nobody ever dreamt of attributing to him
any influence whether for good or for evil,
or any, even a mischievous activity.
So of Mr. Lamb. Something we have
heard about monopoly ; but he has never
been accused of a wish to sacrifice the in-
terests of the commercial to those of the
working classes, or to plunder the rich to
feed the poor.
Away, then, with this miserable and
transparent humbug to which the venal
servility of a prostituted press, and the
selfish and grasping policy of a number of
sections of the community, each of which
seeks to enrich itself at the expense of the
people, have lent themselves. Let it be
thoroughly understood, that while Mr.
Wentworth is desired by the Squatters,
because he has so large a stake in the
plunder of the community which they are
about to share among them —while Mr.
Lamb is desired by the Merchants, because
they believe that, in all cases, he will pre-
fer their interests to those of the Public—•
Mr. Lowe is a man of no class. He repre-
sents no selfish interest, he is supported
with no indirect views—he is the man of
the public, of the community, or he is no-
thing. He has no support to hope from
the Government, for to its encroachments
and abuses he has ever been an unflinching
opponent. He has no support to hope
from any religious sect, for as a legislator
he has ever shewn the most rigid impartia-
lity, and a total absence of intolerance or
prejudice. He has no support to hope from
the merchants, for he has never allowed
their interests to weigh a grain of sand
against the public interest. The lawyers
know that from him, though a lawyer,
they must expect no defence of the lucra-
tive abuses of the law. The squatters
know him a determined enemy of their mo-
nopoly. The agriculturists know that he
sternly refused Mr. Wentworth’s proposi-
tion for “ protection to native industry” in
the shape of a tax on bread. Thus advo-
cating the interests of no class, he is sup-
ported by none but by those who look be-
yond the narrow circle in which they live ;
who raise their minds to the consideration
not of what is good for them or their clique,
but for the whole. By them he is unani-
mously and enthusiastically supported.
Proud and happy are we to think that the
triumph of disinterestedness over selfish-
ness, of quiet dignity over meanness and
petulance, of the welfare of the many over
the intrigues of the few, is assured.
To the poll, then, Electors of Sydney:
and let this be the commencement of a new
era, in which the people shall no longer be
looked upon as the sport and plaything of
political adventurers —as a body to be
cajoled and flattered in public, laughed at
and betrayed in private ; but as a mighty
and self-acting power, thinking for itself,
judging for itself, and working, through
honest and independent representatives, for
the real end of all good government —the
greatest happiness of the greatest number.
R. Lowe.
THE FRIENDS OF FREE ELECTION
AND THEIR OPPONENTS.
It is curious to see the trouble which men
take to persuade us of their impartiality,
and their regard for their neighbour’s ho-
nour ; who, with almost the same breath,
make no hesitation in imputing unworthy
motives to their opponents in an election,
—■who make no halt even in setting down
to a virtuous fellow-citizen’s account the
most disreputable actions, without the
faintest probability of truth. Can it be
that in a public contest like the present,
the minds of men are worked up to such
unwonted zeal as inflames their mental
visions, till they see nothing clearly save
their own success —all manner of insult,
disorder, and violence on the part of their
enemies, and nothing but public rectitude,
patriotic exertion and certain triumph for
themselves. In some parts of South Ame-
rica, we are informed, the human tempera-
ment in many individuals is so acted upon by
occasional commotions of the natural ele-
ments, that men, usually of mild and peace-
able dispositions, suddenly become infuriated
homicides. We are willing to believe the
storm, long gathering in the element of public
feeling in Sydney, and which now begins
to burst over our heads in unexpected anger,
has a like effect on the weak intellects and
astounded hearts of many, who, in the
common walks of life, have been known
only as fair-dealing and estimable men.
Our faith in human virtue is too great, for
us to attribute, to innate depravity, the
rancorous insult and calumny, of all sorts,
so liberally dealt out on the friends of free
election, who have thought tit, in the exer-
cise of their constitutional right, to sup-
port Mr. Robert Lowe for the representa-
/f-T' /•> -77-- >■ .,' /?= •' " -..-• . r*.X* S?/U - ' . fSSs/?s'Z<~s
X /, •. V.',/r, /A/£ ' " “'•'j? V s' . >
/ » • —


tion of Sydney. We desire, however, to
say a few words in explanation of the po-
sition of these friends of the country, their
conduct, and their assailants.
We did hope, in the commencement of
the conflict, that the few unpretending men
who rallied together to resist the spirit of
public spoliation, and to punish the trans-
gressors against their infant liberties, would
have received some show of fair treatment,
from the rich and powerful faction on the
one hand, and the party rooted in old asso-
ciations and strengthened by years of poli-
tical intercourse on the other, to whom
they fearlessly presented their fair and
consistent opposition ; but our hopes have
been miserably disappointed. No weapon
has been too dishonourable for the use
of Messrs. Wentworth and Bland’s friends,
no trick of trade too mean, no art of decep-
tio n too low, no twist of misrepresentation
too cutting to conscience for the Committee
of Merchants. The former have not dis-
dained to retail the filthy falsehood of any
vagabond base enough to violate truth for
their purpose ; the latter have given way to
excesses of malevolent folly which render
them in the eyes of honest men painfully
ridiculous.
The men who support Mr. Lowe act
from a sense of the unfitness of the late
members to represent them in Council.
Most of them, we believe, were strangers to
each other before the present movement;
many of them were active supporters of
Messrs. Wentworth and Bland at the former
election ; but they all alike feel now that
their interests have been betrayed by the
late representatives, and that it is their
duty to oppose the re-election of those
gentlemen—and with all the energies they
possess. Their charges against the late
members may be thus hastily enumerated:
They charge Messrs. Wentworth and Bland
with having betrayed their trust. Firstly,
by their iniquitous efforts to contract the
Elective Franchise, and by their advocacy
of property in preference to personal right.
Secondly, on the part of Mr. Wentworth,
by voting for a high tax on the bread of
the people in a time of general distress
(1843). Thirdly, by confederating with
English capitalists, and others, to plunder
the people of the public lands. Fourthly,
by attempting to stifle the petitions of the
people against the renewal of transporta-
tion. Fifthly, by wickedly endeavouring
to introduce men of colour, and heathens,
and so to create, for the ends of private ag-
grandisement, an inferior class in the com-
munity. Sixthly, by their opposition to
the late measure of sanatory reform, therein
manifesting an unprincipled disregard of
the health and well-being of the citizens.
Lastly, by uniformly omitting all endea-
vours to enlarge our political institutions,
or to promote the public morals.
How have Messrs. Wentworth and Bland
answered these grave and repeated accusa-
tions ? Have they, as asserted by their
Committee, done all in their power to an-
swer these charges to the constituency ?
No; like drowning men, who grasp at
straws, they seize upon any pitiful pretence
to cover their inability to answer. The
disorder at the School of .Arts was a God-
send to them ; this was clear by the
efforts of Dr. Bland, and his friends, to
exasperate the people.
The position of Mr. Lowe’s supporters,
then, is that of avowed opponents to the
re-election of men to seats in Council who
have already failed in the faithful discharge
of the trust reposed in them. They have
no ends to serve beyond the advancement,
to their best ability, of the great principles
of national happiness and universal liberty.
The means they adopt for the furtherance
of their object are strictly legitimate ;
intimidation, coercion, corruption of all
kinds, they disdain ; seeking only by per-
suasion and reason to forward the cause
they have at heart. Yet how have they
been maligned and vilified !
The unjust charge, against Mr. Lowe’s
supporters, of having concerted a plot to
refuse a hearing to Messrs. Wentworth and
Bland, falls back heavily upon the heads of
the accusers. The electors will remember
who denounced the expression of public
opinion, at the most numerous and unani-
mous meetings ever held in the Colony, as
the “clamour of a rabble.” That and
many such helps of memory will assist
them in determining who are the enemies
of free discussion—Messrs. Wentworth and
Bland, or their opponents.
We will not point out the latent and
crafty spirit of opposition to Mr. Lowe’s
election, displayed by Mr. Lamb’s friends ;
but we earnestly caution every elector,
desirous of a change in the representation,
to keep his eyes wide open till four o’elock
on Friday next. Beware of the first sign
of treachery. Above all things, we hope
the electors will inquire into the public
conduct of the men whose claims are now
before you ; for we have the fullest confi-
dence that he who resolves to stand up in
defence of our infant liberties —he who
decides to strike at the unjust enormities of
class-legislation—all who are anxious to
be on the side of their country, in this
struggle, will vote for Robert Lowe.
H. Parkes
MR. GEORGE HILL ON EDUCATION
AND CIVIL GOVERNMENT!
An address from Mr. George Hill to the
Electors of St. Vincent and Auckland, bearing
date in Sydney, July 11, has been quietly going
the rounds of the united counties. Mr. Hill
informs the worthy electors that the new form
of Government proposed by the Colonial Mini-
ster, has been considered by him with great
care ! He also proclaims himself the friend of
General Education ! ! ,
ADDESS TO THE ELECTORS OF SYDNEY,
IL ho , when Wentworth and Eland retired
from their Meeting at the School of Arts ,
carried by acclamation a vote of “ Want
of Confidence in these Gentlemen,”
BY ONE OF THEMSELVES.
Ye friends of right who prov’d that night you’d
suffer wrong no longer,
Stand by your friend, and in the end, you’ll find
your cause the stronger ;
Cast up and count, the great amount, of Went-
worth’s generous actions,
The savage slaves, and convict knaves, and other
benefactions ;
He’d grind the poor man in the dust, and grudge
his honest savings ;
“ What right has he e’er to be free—or be for
ever craving
“ For work, while in the Savings’ Bank a shilling
is remaining :
“ Go spend your hoard for sickness stor’d, and
don’t come here complaining.”
This answer’d he, my friends, to ye, when once
for work we asked him,
And now he hopes to gain your votes—then from
his seat forth cast him,
And make him know, though somewhat slow, your
vengeance he must feel ;
Reject his vows, despise his bows —your rights
again he’d steal.
And care not for the venal Press—the Herald's
twaddling jeers,
And (often sold, corrupt and old) the Australian's
pointless sneers—
And, worse than all—base, abject, thrall —the
senseless Advertiser —
His dastard lies, my friends, despise—what idiot is
not wiser ?
They called you “ruffians, hir’d” to shout, by
“ clamour” truth to drown,
Aud let them say, whate’er they may, you’ll still
keep Wentworth down ;
You’ll have your right in his despite, and ne’er
need ye repine.
Though steep’d in gall, yourselves they call “ a
multitude of swine !”
Still let them rave, you ne’er need crave their
pardon or their grace—
By what you've done, you’ve justice won, for you
and for your race—
No “ ruffians” ye, but bold and free, you’ve told
your minds full clearly—
You’ve showed them that you ne’er will lose the
lands you love so dearly.
Show them ’tis vain to ask again your interest or
your favor ;
They sold their trust, then forth them thrust, for
all their past behaviour.
Can ye forget the monstrous debt you owe them
for their pains ?
With convict foot they’ve dared pollute Australia’s
sunny plains ;
Her fertile lands in their own hands they’ve seiz’d
for ever from you,
And slaughter-houses’ stench and filth they still
have kept upon you ;
And will ye now, these men allow, to treat you
thus for ever ?
Oh, learn at last, by what is past, to vote for
Wentworth— never !
CIVIS.
[Although we have inserted this Address of
“ Civis,” we must be understood not to agree
in opinion with him. We are totally averse to
the manner Messrs. Wentworth and Bland were
received at their meeting. It would have been
much better to allow those gentlemen to explain
themselves—give them a fair hearing, and then
pass a vote of censure.—Ed. El.]


PEACE! LAW!! ORDER!!!
Electors of Sydney: The day
of your victory is at hand: be you as obe-
dient to the Law as you are resolute in your
antagonism to tyranny. Defeat the malice of
the enemy by reaping the glory of your triumph
without stain or blot.
We will have no banners, no party colors, no
silly and antiquated gewgaws, on the twenty-
eighth of July. No senseless words emblazoned
on silken lures—no unmeaning baubles—shall
degrade our hands : our sublime motto—“ The
Greatest Happiness to the Greatest Number .”
W'ill be borne by a host of honest hearts.
Electors, Freemen, and Friends ! Be true to
yourselves on the day of Election. Australia
expects every man that day to do his duty.
MAINTAIN ORDER ! OBEY THE LAW! AND TRI-
UMPH IN PEACE !
Electors : Be early at your posts, and vote
for Liberty, and for Robert Lowe.
By order of the Committee conducting the
Free Election of Robert Lowe, Esq.,
J. R. Wilshire, J.P. Chairman.
J. K. Heydon, ) Joint
Henry Parkes, j Secretaries
PURITY OF ELECTION.
THE political friends of Mr. Robert Lowe,
and all who appreciate the principle in-
volved in the Free Election of Members of the
Legislature, are respectfully solicited to forward
their subscriptions towards the expences in-
curred in carrying on Mr. Lowe’s election for
Sydney, to any one of the undersigned :
Mr. Alderman Wilshire, Chairman of Com-
mittee
Mr. W. Coleman, 453, George-street, Trea-
surer
Messrs. J.K. Heydon, King-streetl
And > Secretaries
Henry Parkes, Hunter-street ;
Mr. Robert Stewart, cabinet-maker, Pitt-
street
Mr. Richard Peek, 452, George-street
Mr. Edward M‘Encroe, 321, George-street
Mr. B. Simms, watchmaker, Parramatta-street
Mr. Charles Appleton, Fort-street
Mr. Aaron, surgeon, 252, Pitt-street.
The surplus, if any, will be equally divided
between the Infirmary and the Benevolent
Asylum.
By order of the Committee conducting Mr.
Lowe’s election.
J. K. HEYDON, ) Joint
HENRY PARKES,) Secretaries.
Committee Rooms,
July 22.
MR. LOWE’S ELECTION
TO THE ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF SYDNEY.
Gentlemen,
the first time since you have possessed
. the elective franchise you are called upon
to discharge the sacred trust reposed in you,
apart from all selfish and corrupting influences
—with the sole aim of benefiting our common
country. You are called upon to elect a
man for your Representative in the Legislative
Council, without being acted upon by any per-
sonal influence of his, or of his friends : and, in
his election, to carry out the triumph of great
and righteous principles. And, with all re\ er-
ence we add, you are destined to be the glo-
rious instruments of that retributive justice
which ever overtakes the guilty.
We, who now ask you to send a man into
Council who shall be the unanimous and un-
biassed choice of the people, are too proud in
our strength, and too earnest in our single pur-
pose, to do more than look down with a feeling
of pity on our opponents. You need us not to
point out the misdeeds of the late members for
Sydney. The memory of wrongs is as a living
coal in the breasts of freemen.
Brother Electors! we ask you to vote for
Mr. Lowe, because we believe he will stren-
uously endeavour to enlarge the elective fran-
chise : to vote for him, because we believe he
will zealously advocate the cause of education :
for him, because we believe he will be the suc-
cessful advocate of an equitable alienation of
the public lands, and an economical expenditure
of the public money. In short, we ask you to
vote for Mr. Lowe, because we in our hearts
believe he will be the ablest defender, and the
most incorruptible promoter, of our common
rights and liberties, not being bound to any
party by the predilections of self-interest.
Electors and Freemen ! you have been told
that Mr. Lowe will not take his seat for Sydney
if elected; this is not true: —here are Mr.
Lowe’s own words—
“ In answer to a question from you whether
I would sit for the City if elected, I repeat ‘YES.’
1 could not so far insult the Citizens of Sydney
as to refuse.
“ Yours, very truly,
“ ROBERT LOWE.”
“ Half-past 4, July 7, 1848.”
From another letter of Mr. Lowe’s to the
Committee for whom we act, we would quote
a passage which shows that he is identified with
the great principle of riTRiTY of election,
whereon we shall take our stand in the forth-
coming contest. Mr. Lowe says :
“ Opposed as I am on principle to the system
so prevalent in the mother country of selling seats
to the highest bidder, it gives me great pleasure
to observe that the citizens of Sydney are entire-
ly free from this contamination, and that they do
not consider a lavish expenditure of his own or
THE PUBLIC MONET AS ANT RECOMMENDATION TO A
CANDIDATE OR A REPRESENTATIVE.”
Electors! Rally in the might and majesty of
our indestructible principles! Our motto is
“The greatest happiness to the greatest num-
ber.” Let our triumph be worthy of our
cause.
J. R, WILSHIRE, Chairman.
J. K. HEYDON. I
HENRY PARKES. j
Joint
t
Secretaries.
Central Committee Rooms,
July 7, 1848.
LOWE AND LIBERTY.
I ELECTORS OF SYDNEY
J ROBERT LOWE, ESQ.,
IS THE MAN FOR YOUR SUFFRAGES ! ! !
You who have been taught that “ Taxation
without Representation is tyranny, vote for
LOWE AND AN EXTENSION OF
THE FRANCHISE!
You who desire to see your children grow’ in
knowledge and virtue, vote for LOWE AND
EDUCATION!
You who wish economy in the public expen-
diture, vote for LOWE AND RETRENCH-
MENT!
You who want no slave-class of Coolies and
Cannibals, vote for LOWE AND BRITISH
IMMIGRATION!
You who hope for a prosperous rural people
to supplant a cormorant and alien squatocracy
vote for LOWE AND A FAIR ADJUST,
MENT OF THE LAND QUESTION! -
Original Correspondence.
THE APPROACHING CONTEST.
To the Editor of “ The Elector .”
He who, in his heart, says “ Advance Aus-
tralia,” and whose common sense is not blighted
by selfishness, will hail with enthusiasm the
success of the present conflict of principles
against individualism. In England, in Ame-
rica, and, I believe, in all countries where the
franchise is granted to the people, candidates
for seats in the legislature are chosen or re-
jected as their known political principles and
expressed opinions may, or may not, accord
with those of the electors; but in New South
Wales men and not measures seem to obtain
the votes of the people, and even the advocacy
of the press. For example, in Sydney we see
men with equal zeal voting for Lamb and
Lowe, though one candidate is an old-fashioned
Tory, and the other is an ardent Radical; and
these inconsistent electors seem as much elated
by the consummation of an absurdity as men
who possess the consciousness of having done
their duty. A stranger would certainly infer
that the Colonists were either grievously defi-
cient of political knowledge, and ignoraat of
their duties in the State, or were indifferent as
to the consequences of such imbecile conduct.
Happily there is some public spirit in the
Colony: the citizens of Sydney will make an
effort to relieve the Colony from such an ano-
malous and disgraceful position. Spontane-
ously, aud of their own will they have arisen,
as intelligent and independent men, who love
their country, to secure the triumphs, even
here, of those principles of progress and im-
provement which are being so rapidly deve-
loped throughout the world. Their language
is not “ success to Mr. Lowe,” but “ success
to the independence of election —to the enfran-
chisement of the people—to a just distribution
of the public lands—to the rights of man /
Mr. Lowe is but the exponent of the«e senti-
ments. They may admire him for Lis grtat
talents—they may feel grateful for his past
services in the Legislative Council—but they
would elect him only for his liberal views and
future usefulness. This is a gratifying fact.
This is true patriotism, and a step in the. right
direction, and whether successful or not in the
present instance, must ultimately produce a
good effect upon the Colony.
The Colony is too young to feel, as yet, the
consequences of class-legislation—but feel it
we shall as certainly as night follows day, and
that at no very remote period, unless the
people look to the evil and resolve upon its im-
mediate correction. This is the giant, evil,
battening on corruption through centuiics of
time, that has goaded all Europe into arms, and
against which universal intelligence has de-
clared a war of annihilation. Centuiics of
class-legislation have accomplished nothing but


the starvation of the millions. Then, how
culpable is the conduct of the people of this
infant State, with all the resources of happi-
ness and prosperity in their power, to evince
such gross neglect of their duties. We ought
to learn from the past; we ought to profit by
the experience of older States.
The working men and the tradesmen, whose
children will have to live by their labour, as
artisans, as mechanics, or as field-labourers and
stockmen—these are the men who should ever
remember, for they especially feel it, the inse-
parable connexion of the social and political
systems. Labour will be cheap : capitalists
know this, and rej lice in the prospect of it.
Both from the influx of immigrants, and from
the great increase of population by marriage,
the labour market must fall. Then, if the
labourer is unrepresented in the Councils of
the State—if he possess not the right of the
Elective Franchise, and the present Land Re-
gulations remain unaltered—how hopeless will
be his condition ? This is no illusion, but a
bitter fact, which will have to be realized, un-
less the Colonists avert it by a different policy.
The Colonial Minister would, I believe, accede
to a repeal of the Land Regulations, and to
an extension of the Suffrage, if the next Coun-
cil should be composed of such men as Mr.
Lowe, to make a strong representation upon
the subject.
Your obedient servant,
B. W.
TO THE ELECTORS OF SYDNEY.
{Per favor of the Editor of the Elector .)
THE STRUGGLE OF PRINCIPLE 13 COME !
Electors and Freemen, — In Robert Lowe
you have a consistent and eloquent Advocate
for an extension of the Franchise, —the reform
of our wretched and uncertain Laws, —the
spread of universal Education, —and the sup-
porter of every Just, Liberal, and Impartial
Measure! Such are the principles you will
sanction and honor by voting for Lowe.
The Candidate, in the present instance, is
entirely sunk in the purity of his principles ;
identify these principles as your own, and
honestly support them on the Day of Election.
Remember, many support Wentworth because
he is a native, —many support Bland because in
private life he has been a kind and benevolent
man, —many support Lamb because he is a con-
sistent old tory of the Lord Norbury school, who
would teach the Tradespeople to work hard and
leave- Politics to their betters, —but those only
support Lowe who approve of his principles ;
therefore, above all other considerations make
Ms election sure.
A DISFRANCHISED CITIZEN.
P.S.—I am a tradesman, with a large family,
and out of debt, living in my own freehold
house, rated by the Tax-gatherer at eighteen
pounds per annum, but I have no voice with
you at this election. Myself and family must
remain for ever unrepresented, unless you de-
termine to support no man who will not* pledge
himself to vote for a Ten Pound Franchise,
—if he refuses to give this pledge, he is no
friend to the Working Classes.
TO THE EDITORS OF THE “ DAILY ADVERTISER.’
{Per favor of the Elector.)
Having asserted in your issue of Monday
j ast, that the riot (as you call it) at the School
of Arts “ was raised by hired ruffians,” and that
you “ are prepared to prove it and having
passed unnoticed my note sent you immediately
after reading that statement, and in which I
called upon you to name the parties guilty of so
foolish a piece of villainy. I now publicly defy
you to the proof ; and I say that if your asser-
tion is not a wilful, deliberate, gratuitous false-
hood, there is only one explanation of your pos-
session of the means of proof, and that is that
the hiring wus by some of your party for the
purpose of taking advantage cf the electioneer-
ing “ cry” of unfairness against your opponents.
ISAAC AARON
July 26, 1848.
252, Pitt-street
Original Poetry.
THE SON OF THE SOIL.
He’s a Son of the Soil ! Look, Australians,
around
On this land, where all fruits of the earth might
abound !
Behold her bright meadows just fit for the plough,
Behold her green vallies ! If he would allow
These lands for the People, no country could be
More glorious, more fertile —no People more free !
But he won’t : all your efforts he’ll certainly foil :
Then vote for this liberal Son of the Soil !
He’s a Son of the Soil ! —and a boundless extent
He claims of this soil, at a nominal rent —
And, instead of the village where labourers gay
Are welcomed with smiles from the toils of the
day,
Tlibre are “ gunyas ” for Coolies, and cannibals
wild,
W r ho to tend his vast flocks from their homes were
beguil'd—
He lives on their labour, he sports on their toil ;
Then vote for the generous Son of the Soil !
He’s a Son of the Soil!—and the land of his birth
Is more favourd’ by Nature than region of earth ;
But famine may come—not a granary's filled—
Our hills and our vallies no peasants have tilled—
No, no ! Ample room for his cattle and sheep,
And what boots it how all, save his class, toil and
weep ?
To the poor he has given a mite from his spoil,
Then vote for this bountifid Son of the Soil !
He’s a Son of the Soil ! Base mechanic, what
right
Have you to this soil, where all Nature is bright ?
Those broad acres are his —erect not a shed
On this land which, unoccupied, savages tread.
Go, earn your bread with the sweat of your brow,
And compete with slave-labour —’tis all he’ll
allow :
He has stolen your rights, and your heirs he’ll
despoil,
Then vote for this fair-dealing Son of the Soil !
Tie’s a Son of the Soil ! But, under the sun,
For this country, that claims him, what good has
he done ?
Tie has locked up her lands in the hands of a few—
He has soiled her with convicts and cannibals too—
And he would, if he could, make her bosom still
bear
The refuse of Britain—her crime and despair :
lie has bartered his country and shared in the
spoil,
Then vote for this patriot Son of the Soil !
A.W. DOAK
TYRANNY AND IMBECILITY.
(On reading the report of the proceedings at the
School of Arts.)
Men, great in mind and of a courage true,
Alas ! have stood by tyranny unbow’d,
Braving the people’s anger, to subdue,
To win even admiration from the crowd !
But see, how unsustained by feeling proud,
By any natural strength of soul, are they,
Our renegado patriots, ’midst the loud
Scorn of the country which they dared betray—
Who trampled right, and spurned our prayers, but
yesterday !
O ! pity for their heart-decrepitude —
Their loss of shame—their impotence to stem
The torrent censures of offended, rude,
But honest men, who their bad acts condemn !
Shame to ourselves that we put trust in them,
Th’ unmasked pretenders to high intellect—
That we believed our hard-won fragile gem
Of freedom these false guardians would protect :
Shame, that we did such men to Honor’s place
elect !
Talk they of “ free discussion,” who, so late,
With “ mob” and “ clamour” on their traitor
tongues
Denied our voice a hearing in the State ?
Talk they of former services, who wrongs
Have heap’d on us—all insult that belongs
To tyrant natures —with the power we gave ?
Who tax’d our scanty bread, when Labour’s
throngs
Were starving in our streets ? Say, freemen
brave,
Shall recreant Wentworth more jeer, taunt, and
still enslave ?
Give him our suffrages, who fain would strip
Us of the right ? Life him to power, who strives
To sink our sons in serfdom ? Tamely sip
Ilis cup of gall prepared, through slavish lives?
No ! if the spirit of our race survives
Our change of clime—if we be Britons still—
No ! by our fathers’ strife, our homes and wives,
Perfidious Wentworth never more shall fill
The Council seat wo give. No ! by the People’s
will:
H. Parkes
THE WOLF IN LAMB'S CLOTHING.
0 ! pray, Mr. L—b, make not sugar so dear ;
We want it for tea, and we want it for beer ;
They may lend you large sums at the Bank, to be
sure,
But you need not employ them to grind down the
poor.
“ Thou shalt eat of thy bread in the sweat of thy
brow,”
’Tis the primitive curse—to its bidding we bow—
But, to double that curse, you squeeze gold from
our pains ;
Do, pray, Mr. L—b, seek for honester gains.
Accursed be that gold ! let it canker and rust,
'Mid the hate of the poor and the scorn of the just!
And last, at the hour of election, be they,
Who fawn on the poor whom they rob and betray.
You don’t like a Bushranger, Pirate, or Wrecker,
When they levy a tax for their private exchequer.
When you blame their extortions, just think of
your own—
Do, pray, Mr. L—b, let our pockets alone.
You have got a large house ; you have plenty to
eat ;
Without grudging our wives and our children
their meat;
Then, mighty Monopolist ! strain not your throat,
There's one thing you cannot buy up—’tis my
vote !
J.R. Wilshire.


THE NOMINATION.
Englishmen, and their descendants, love a“ fa* 1
field and no favorlet every man remember
this is our national boast. Let each candidate
on the hustings to-day have a fair and patient
hearing. It is due to the late members in com-
mon justice, and due to the dignity of the
people, to hear what account of their steward-
ship they have to give. And it is the right of
the new candidates to be allowed clearly to
state their claims to the suffrages of the citi-
zens. Hear what all have to say calmly and
impartially, and then by a forest of gleam-
ing hands show that the people’s choice falls on
Sparta’s worthiest son.
The friends of freedom cannot acknowledge
him who would refuse a hearing to their oppo-
nents. The man who attempts to put down a
speaker,or who dares to violate the peace to-
day, is an enemy to the popular cause.
CRUMBS FROM MR. WENTWORTH’S
TABLE.
“ What could be a better proof of the elec-
tor’s qualification than a receipt for the last
half year’s rent He was prepared to
meet with the clamour of those persons who
were improperly allowed to vote." —Speech in
Council, September 24, 1844.
“ Mr. Wentworth moved, that the duty on
flour and meal, which was at present fixed at
Is. 3d. per cwt., might be increased to 2s. 6d.
per cwt.”—Council Report, December 19,1845.
“ For a common laborer he considered 2s.
per day too high, and he was surprised that any
should complain of it Let England
empty her hulks and penetentiaries on our
shores, and we shall willingly receive them.”—
Speech in Council, August 18, 1843.
The following Address was read in all the
Roman Catholic Churches on Sunday last :
John Bede, by the Grace of God and the favor
of the Holy See, Archbishop of Sydney and
Metropolitan of Australia, to the faithful of
Sydney, greeting,
Beloved in Jesus Christ, —Pardon our anx-
iety if, on the eve of an event of much import-
ance to yourselves and to your country—the
election of members to represent you in the
Legislative Council—we offer that advice
which circumstances appear to demand. Truly,
would you be unworthy of the franchise, if you
did not bring to the exercise of it motives alto-
gether purified from the influence of prejudices
—national or local, and entertained by the spirit
of party. The individuals for whom you are
to vote, are called your Representatives, that is,
they form a portion of a Council assembled, to
speak and act in that Council as you yourselves
would speak and act, for the welfare and pros-
perity of your country, for the promotion of the
interests, civil and social, of all its inhabitants.
Were you in that Council, you would con-
sider yourselves conscientiously bound to give
the best advice, to advocate the best measures
for the general weal. Consequently, you are
to regard the exercise of the Elective Franchise
by which you are to depute others to speak and
act in your stead also a conscientious duty, —not
a mere matter of indifference which you may,
without blame, render subservient to the views
of party, or to the gratification of the feelings
generated by prejudice or partiality.
Moreover, let each one who possesses a right
to vote, remember that he holds for those who
are not duly qualified to vote, a sacred trust—a
trust which brings with it an additional motive
to elect men as his representatives who he sin-
cerely believes will consult the welfare of the
country, apart from all selfish ends or projects
of aggrandizement.
As, however, from the nature of human so-
ciety, different views will be taken by different
individuals. As these may deem measures salu-
tary which those consider pernicious, the Chris-
tian rule of doing unto others that which we
wish others to do unto us, obliges you to allow
to all that same freedom of choice, and liberty
to declare that choice, which you justly claim
for yourselves. To have recourse, therefore,
to intimidation, to abuse, to threats of aggres-
sion, betrays an ignorance of the real nature of
the franchise, and is, moreover, a breach of the
eternal laws of justice and of charity.
You, beloved in Jesus Christ, will prove
your sense of the great value of the franchise
by electing those to be your representatives
whom you honestly believe, all things consi-
dered, to be the best qualified and best disposed
to fulfil the trust reposed in them. But if
others differ from you in opinion, you will not
refuse to them the privilege of choice, which
you yourselves claim. In the name of the God
of charity, and for the credit of our holy reli-
gion, you will not only abstain from every act
which savors of aggression, but you will do
your utmost to repress every symptom of vio-
lence and even of rudeness. You will assist the
civil authorities in the preservation of peace,
of order, and of regularity by all the means in
your power, principally by the easiest of means
—your own good example and propriety of de-
meanour. We earnestly pray that good sense
and genuine patriotism may direct you in the
choice of your representatives, that they may be
just men—honest and true. Men, who in all
sincerity shall be anxious to devise and carry out
such measures as may spread contentedness and
comfort over the length and breadth of the
land ; —men earnestly desirous to promote
the well-being and happiness of all classes of its
inhabitants.
The peace and blessing of God be with you
all.
Published by order of his Grace the Arch-
bishop.
H. G. GREGORY
Vicar General.
“ With respect to the working classes so opposed
to him on this question, to them he would say,
that he, William Charles Wentworth, was their
best friend —did they hut Jcnow it!" — Went-
worth's Speech at the Fitz Roy Hotel, Monday
2ith July, 1848.
Yes, Wentworth undoubtedly is your best friend !
And slave-competition you’ll find in the end ?
He’ll raise all your wages, and add to your store ;
He’ll pay nothing to convicts —to you how much
more ?
Slaughter-houses are pleasant, in summer, no
doubt —
Most refreshing you’ll find all the smells they’ll
give out !
And Wentworth’s your friend, still to keep them
in town,
When Lowe and his mob would put butchering
down !
He’s got millions of acres for nothing, you know,
And he’ll sell a small field for a hundred, or so ;
And isn’t that friendly—to sell you your own ?
From your own share of meat to allow you—the
bone ?
The taxes you've paid, with a bountiful hand,
He'll expend through the length and the breadth
of the land ;
Retrenchment’s a humbug—and Billy, ’tis true,
Thinks the more you are tax’d all the better—for
you !
High wages is gammon—such gains are ill got —
And immigrants, surely, trustworthy are not.
Sure money’s temptation—and lest you’d be rash,
He’d prevent you from earning superfluous cash.
Employment is wanted—and Billy, your friend,
For Convicts and Savages quickly will send :
They’ll do your work cheaper, and then you may
live
On just what your friend, Billy Wentworth, will
give !
Billy Wentworth’s your friend, you donkey so dull,
We cannot drive anything into your skull ;
He says he’s your friend—did you but know it—
“ Is he indeed—can he hut show it
Commercial Candidate. —Mr. Lamb, on
the 16th September, 1845, opposed the petition
to the Home Government for the admission of
corn and flour, the produce of the colony, on
the same terms as Canadian.
City Candidate. —Mr. Bland opposed the
petition to the Governor to place on the estimates
the sum of .£7817, levied improperly for police
purposes, and that the same be applied to the
improvement of the city.—4th Nov. 1845.
PATRIOTIC MAXIMS.
EXTRACTS FROM CHARLES FOX.
Tyranny without Foundation. —lt mat-
ters not whether dominion arises from conquest
or from compact. Conquest gives no right to
the conqueror to be a tyrant; and it is no vio-
lation of right to abolish the authority which is
misused. But, for the serious and grave de-
terminations of the public judgment, I have the
highest value I ever had, and ever shall have.
If it be a weakness, I confess it, that, to lose
the opinion of even the meanest man, gives me
some pain ; and whatever triumph my enemies
can derive from such a frame of mind, they are
welcome to. Ido not, after the example of the
honorable gentleman who began this debate,
(Mr. Powys) hold the opinion of constituents
in disparagement. The clear and decided opi-
nion of the more reasonable and respectable
should, in my opinion, weigh with the member,
upon the same principle that, I think, the voic4
of the nation should prevail in this House, and
in every other plate.
Spirit of Englishmen.— This is the plan of
broad, just, liberal politics, that I always wish
to see observed through every part of the Bri-
tish empire; this is the way to treat with Eng-
lishmen—to conciliate their affections, and to
dispose them to peace. They abhor bargaining
when liberty is the object of the stipulation ;
they will not resign the ninth part of a hair in
a bargain; but will give themselves, if treated
with candour, fairness, and sincerity.
True Liberty. —Freedom, according to my
conception of it, consists in the safe and sacred
possession of a man’s property, governed by
laws defined and certain ; with many personal
privileges, natural, civil, and religious, which
he cannot surrender without ruin to himself,
and of which to be deprived by any other power
is despotism.
