

UNDER LOCK A KEY!!
Being Original and Graphic Pictures of Life in Gaol; An Exposure of Official
Corruption; Treating Particularly of the Reformatory Question, and Containing
Humorous Anecdotes of Judges, Barristers, Governors, Warders, and Other Persons,
BY JOHN W. LONGFORD
(Late Senior Warder and Recorder at Darlinghurst.)
No. 1.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1894.
PRICE 3d.
CONTENTS THIS WEEK:
Personal—Explanatory and Introductory—Attempts to Sup-
press—Gaol Life in 1849 —Convicts used as Messengers
Commit Burglary in the , City—Profligacy and Licentiousness
of High Officers —Anecdotes : Why he did not go to Rand-
wick —“ Prisoner'Wants his Hair, Sorr ! ” —On Warders.—“ The
Cronk Stiff.”—A Wealthy Vagrant.-—Anecdotes of the Courts.




Under Lock and Key.
[all rights reserved.]
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 18 9 4.
MR. JOHN WALTER LONGFORD.
To a very large number of our readers Mkr. J. W. Longford needs no
introduction, but for the benefit of others, and particularly those
abroad, a few words of explanation will not be inappropriate. For
many years Mr. Longford was engaged as Senior Warder and Recorder
at Darlinghurst Gaol. In the former capacity he gave such satisfac-
tion to Mr. Harold McLean, comptroller, Sir John Read, governor,
and Mr. John Lovett, governor, as to receive both their commenda-
tion and confidence. In the latter he was in close contact with the
judges who sat in the Quarter Sessions and Criminal Courts, and
possesses testimonials from the Chief Justice and all who presided at
Darlinghurst. On one occasion he was chosen to proceed to Bathurst
to quell a riot which had broken out in the gaol there and acquitted
himself satisfactorily, in fact, too well, for he was to some extent, a
victim of official jealousy. Possessed of a kindly disposition and
always ready to do a service for those in distress he was a
favorite with press and public, and not only so, but hardly one of the
thousands of prisoners with whom he was brought into close contact
but had pleasant recollections of his tact and warm-heartedness. Had
he been other than what is generally comprehended in the term “ a
white man,” he would to-day have been occupying that high official
position to which his ability entitled him. This is no uncalled for
eulogy but a plain, bold statement of the truth, and nothing is so pleasing
to Mr. Longford as the numerous expressions of good will and hopes
for future prosperity which he has received, since his retirement, from
judge, lawyer, private citizen, and even the so-called outcasts of
society, and under the circumstances, he values the opinions of the
latter in a more than ordinary degree. To be perfectly candid with
the public, who have a right to know the bona fides of anyone
coming before them in the position he does, Mr. Longford was
after many years of faithful service disrated for a very trivial
error of judgment. Rather than put up with the indignity
and his health breaking down, he retired from the service. He does


not pose here as one with a grievance but makes the explanation as
necessary to his subject. But it is evident that he is the victim of a
certain amount of official spite and the efforts made to block the issue
of Under Lock and Key are additional evidence in that respect. He
has long taken a deep interest in social questions and made a close
study of all that pertains to the seamy side of life. His varied ex-
periences in the pursuit of a knowledge of the ways of mankind under
exceptional circumstances will be found in the following pages.
INTRODUCTORY.
Despite extraordinary efforts, private and official, to the contrary,
the first issue of Under Lock and Key is here presented to the public.
This is no idle boast, but a plain statement of fact. That the publica-
tion of this weekly, under a somewhat novel title, will prove
profitable to the community, we think we can show in a few lines.
As the name suggests, the main idea is to write of prisons and prison
life, but embraced in that are subjects of social concern, affecting the
interest of every individual in the State. That the general treatment
of the convict portion of the community is far from satisfactory, must
be patent to all who read the daily press, or who have ever given the
subject a momentary thought, but we will go further and show that
into the whole system of gaol management abuses have crept in which
will not readily be believed, but which, ere the course of Under Lock and
Key is run, we will prove beyond all question. Mr. John W. Longford,
who is responsible for the bulk of the information, for years occupied a
position which enabled him to see for himself all the evils of the
system, and the Editor, from a lengthened Press experience in the
colonies, can speak with authority in reference to many matters of
officialdom, as the newspaper writer has a privilege of seeing behind
the scenes, enjoyed by no other section of the community. We are
fully aware both of the gravity of the task we have undertaken and
also the responsibility involved, but if anyone ever had to plead public
interest we are entitled to that plea. After due deliberation we have
determined to place the public in possession of information which they
ought to have, and which has been too long withheld from them. In
general, we will deal with the questions of prison discipline, the
criminal code and all that is incidental thereto in a broad sense, but
while at times it will be necessary to particularise, our aim is at
the whole system and not the individual.
Few of the present generation are perhaps aware that in June,
1849 iust eight years after its occupation, a Select Committee of the
Legislative Council inquired into “ the Discipline and Security of
Darlinghurst Gaol.” The chairman was Mr. Charles Cowper, father
of the present Sheriff, and there were also on the Committee such good
men and true as the Speaker, the Attorney-General, Mr. Geo. Allen,
Mr. William Bowman, and Mr. G. R. Nichols. In quoting from that
report we make no apology and though we deem it not necessary to
resurrect the names of the guilty parties, lest we do an injury


•to some of their descendants, the facts are so much on all fours with
our present object as to commend themselves at once to our readers.
'Every effort was made by the chief offenders to burke the inquiry, but
without avail.
The report set forth :
“ After an examination of 35 separate witnesses, extending over 19
days, it is with unfeigned regret that your Committee express the con-
viction that the evidence given by Mr. and (both in high
office) . . . was framed expressly with the intention of keeping them
(the Committee) in ignorance and of defeating the object of their
appointment.”
Further on the report continues : —“ They (the Committee) will
assume it to be an indisputable proposition that for the effective con-
trol and management of such an establishment as a public prison the
officers should, independently of the other qualifications necessary for
the proper discharge of their functions, be men of strict integrity and
of unquestionable moral character. Tried by such a test your Com-
mittee lament to say that, in their judgement the officers of Darling-
hurst Gaol must be held to be wholly unfit for the responsible duties
devolving on them. With the exception of the general cleanliness of
aspect exhibited by the gaol, and which circumstance appears to have
acted as a blind to conceal the enormities practised there, your Com-
mittee have been unable to discover any single circumstance connected
with its discipline or management not deserving of reprobation. The
general habits of Mr. and his subordinates appear to have been
those of open and undisguised licentiousness and even the agency of
the turnkeys has been unscrupulously employed in corresponding with
those illicit connections which Mr. maintained beyond the
walls of the gaol, while, encouraged doubtless by his pernicious
example the greatest profligacy appears also to have been carried on
within its precints.”
Some portions of the report read like romance and in this case truth
is indeed stranger than fiction, but the subject matter is so material to
our purpose that we cannot refrain from quoting further. After
mentioning that prisoners under sentence of solitary confinement were
employed as actors in musical and other entertainments and were sent
to their cells in a state of drunkenness and that turnkeys lived with the
female prisoners, this interesting report continues :
“And expirees from Norfolk Island employed as messengers to the
gaol have been allowed such unrestrained freedom that they were
enabled to perpetrate robberies and burglaries in various parts of the
city! ”
In conclusion, Mr. Cowper and his colleagues wrote :
“ They (the Committee) cannot bring it to a close without remarking,
though briefly, upon the evil effect, morally and socially, which must
have been produced during several years past upon the minds, not only
of the large number of criminals who have passed through Darling-
hurst Gaol, but also of those with whom they have come in contact. The
objects chiefly designed by the punishment of criminals, viz., the


deterring of others from the commission of crime and the reformation
of the actual offender, must have been completely frustrated, nor can
the committee indulge the hope that where such a total want of
discipline has prevailed and irregularities of so serious a character have
been permitted, any provision for the moral and religious instruction
of the criminals can have been attended by any permanently beneficial
effect.”
In 1849 the result of the inquiry was the dismissal of the chief
offenders referred to, and no doubt, if affairs at Darlinghurst did not
go on so well as in Utopia they then proceeded “ not so badly ” for a
while.
But in the course of nearly 50 years, corruption has gathered to an
alarming extent, not only in Darlinghurst, but in the whole criminal
system of the colony. In any case the system, even if honestly
carried out, is far from perfect. Were a special committee, of
composition equal to that of 1849, to inquire to-day they
would meet with revelations of a most startling character.
And to show that to be so is one of the main reasons for the
appearance of this journal. Licentiousness and profligacy may not be
so openly carried on to-day, but are still existent and, though we have
not the employment of Norfolk Island expirees in positions allowing
them to commit robberies and burglaries in the city, is the present
system, which allows the forger, the burglar, and all other sorts of
criminals to be liberated after serving a small portion of their long
sentences, through the influence of Members of Parliament and at the
discretion of the Minister of the day, a much better one ? Why the
judges have never jointly protested against this open flouting of their
sentences is in itself remarkable. Do we not all know, too, that the
same cursed influence procures milder treatment in gaol to those
fortunate enough to be able to make use of it ?
The Commissioners of 1849 pointed to the necessity in the proper
control and management of a public prison for the officers to possess,
independently of other qualifications, a reputation for strict integrity
and unquestionable moral character. That the officers of to-day
frequently can do little more than write their own names and are at
times guiltless of every qualification for the responsible and delicate
positions they hold will be detailed in due course. One case occurred
where a warder on duty had a carbine in his hand and was so utterly
ignorant of the use of the firearm that he pulled the trigger without
knowing it and nearly frightened himself to death. As a matter of
fact, ignorance and the toadyism which not unfrequently accompanies
it is often a sure road to promotion, while enlightenment and its at-
tendant lack of the crawling propensity is a bar sinister to preferment.
Then as to discipline, let us mention a flagrant example of mis-
management. At the present moment an official at Darlinghurst,
like Pooh Bah, has a multiplicity of duties. Not only is he senior
warder and flogger, but he has also charge of the gate—one of the most
delicate positions in the service. We have nothing to say against the
man holding the office. It is no concern of ours who or what he is, and
he may be an estimable citizen for ought we know. But we certainly.


protest in all seriousness against the impropriety of such a state of
things ; and those responsible for it should at once be called on to
effect an alteration. Few people are philosophical enough to wish to
associate with the common hangman, and few less would be inclined
to submit to such an individual being placed over them. Yet it would
not be more improper to give “ Nosey Bob ” a senior wardership.
Here we have the man who wields the cat not only placed in com-
mand of other officers, but actually he has to officially receive all who
visit the gaol, the Governor of the colony, the judges and all of woman-
hood who may be called upon to go to the gate ! It will be evident to
the most dense individual that a change should be at once made in
this respect. A man who undertakes to flog should occupy that
position apart from all others. The duty of flogging may or may not
be necessary, but the public has a right to expect that whoever accepts
the office will not, in common decency, be placed in responsible
positions in the public service. A former governor advised the officials
to petition against the flogger’s billet being held by one of their number,
and if he had not retired there possibly would not be this present
ground of complaint.
Reference has been made in quoting from the inquiry of 1849 to the
attempts of officials to prevent the truth coming out. No doubt the
same thing would occur again. Some interested persons have already
exhibited a deep concern in the publication of Under Lock and Key.
.Almost as soon as it was first known that the experiences of Mr. Long-
ford were to become public, efforts were made to find out both the
nature of the subject matter and also to secure the sole right to
publish certain extracts. Then legal advice was obtained as to the
power of Mr. Longford to issue his experiences and opinions, and
several times he was warned that he had better be careful. Why all
this concern ? Why take for granted that the contents of Under Lock
and Key are to be prejudicial to certain persons? Those who have
done no wrong have nothing to fear, and if they should be libelled or
injured they will have their remedy in the usual way. But this
premature crying out can be left to the public to form their own
conclusions, as they can upon the following incident.
When the publisher was fairly prepared, he issued a circular-letter
pointing out the scope and objects of this work. These were sent to
prominent citizens, and amongst others to Canon Rich, Mother Joseph,
and other clerical persons, and to the chief gaol officials at Darlinghurst.
They were enclosed in envelopes and delivered at the gate. But they
were not treated in the ordinary way. The following day the bundle
of letters was returned by messenger to this office with the following
official explanation:—
“ Darlinghurst Gaol, February 2, 1894.
Memorandum to Mr. J. W. Longford.
The Comptroller-General of Prisons has directed that correspondence of a
Erivate nature intended for delivery to non-resident officers of the prison must
e posted to their private address.
(Signed)
A. DELANEY
Chief Clerk of the Gaol.’*


Now, how did the official mind know that the letters were from Mr.
John Longford ? (As a matter of fact they were from the publisher.)
And why were the letters treated in this extraordinary way ?
For years letters, private or otherwise, for all officials have been
received at the gate and delivered in due course. This piece of petty
officialism proves three things. First, that the department is suffer-
ing from scare; secondly, that they have a spite against Mr. Long-
ford; and thirdly, the departmental letter on the face of it bears
proof of the incompetence of those in power to control themselves, let
alone other people. We would quote the circular to show that it
contains nothing of an objectionable nature, only space forbids. Many
of our readers have already seen it, and will bear us out in this
remark.
A great deal of space will be devoted to the Reformatory question.
Larrikinism is no doubt due, in the first instance to a lack of parental
control, and, under present conditions, the thoughtless youth soon
either becomes the regular gaol bird, or ends on the gallows.
A great blot, too, at present on our social system is the way in
which orphan girls are treated. They are hired from the asylums and
used as servants by people who, in many instances, are too mean to
pay for labor in the ordinary way. There is supposed to be depart-
mental control, but how ineffectual it is has been frequently brought
under our notice. So cruelly are these young children sometimes
treated—worked beyond their powers for long hours, ill-fed, growled
at continually and beaten inhumanly, that life is made a burden to
them. They run away, as a matter of course, and at the first
opportunity, there being absolutely no other alternative, they join the
ranks of those poor wretches who parade the streets at night, and for
whom any one with a spark of humanity can only feel pity. In the
light of his experience, Mr. Longford will give instances of how the
innocent one is driven into crime, and also state what, in his opinion,
is the best method of improving the present system. Of the utility
and effects of flogging, capital punishment, solitary confinement, long
sentences and the various views of different judges he will also
discourse in turn.
A few passages will be devoted to those outside the walls of gaol
but who by their evil practices are more deserving of punishment than
many who have passed through the ordeal. One instance will be
dealt with of an inferior Judge—now happily removed to another
sphere—who was guilty of the great sin of conspiring with a solicitor
to receive a bribe in a criminal case and after obtaining the fruits of
his guilt could not be even honest in his dishonesty, but treated the
person who he was supposed to let off lightly with the greatest
severity.
Another pest is a certain kind of criminal lawyer who “ feeds on
crimes and fattens on distress; ” who robs the criminal by every
artifice, and when he has got all, even knowingly sharing the proceeds
of robberies, leaves the victim to take his chance. In one case we
are aware of a certain solicitor, who has not only long defrauded a
client of a remittance but who insulted him grossly because he had


the temerity to demand his rights, and if the matter is not shortly
■before the Law Institute, as we are given to understand it will, we
will expose it in these columns.
Still another blood sucker is the Member of Parliament sometime
also a lawyer, who, parading as a democrat, trades upon his positio
and will not condescend to do a hand’s turn in the way of redressing
grievance for a poor man, but must first ask “ How much ? ” and ge
a satisfactory answer.
Apart from the graver subjects to be here treated, in order to interes
the general reader and also so as not to weary even those who are con
cerned from higher motives in the proper treatment of the unfortunat
criminal class, these pages will contain matters of an amusing nature
The mistakes made by ignorant warders, and they are legion, th
peculiarities of different governors and anecdotes of judges, barristers
etc., will be introduced weekly. Then there are hitherto unpublished
incidents in the careers of celebrated criminals—how they made thei
first start in the downward path and how they were confirmed in evi
practices by both the associations inside, and by the bitter persecution
which they met from public police and detectives outside. In this
way and so that a moral may be pointed and a lesson learned, passing
reference will be made to the famous Bertrand case (this man has beer
27 years in gaol), the Johns case, the Moonlight bushrangers, Jack
Thompson, the Makins, the Mount Rennie boys, etc. It will be
remembered what a stir was made when young Johns was hanged,
and how his friends wanted to get the body to give it a public funeral.
Mr. Longford was detailed to carry out the interment privately, and
disguised as a laborer, he conveyed the corpse in a dust cart during the
early hours of the morning to Newtown where a special train carried
it to Rookwood.
According to the regulations, a prisoner is allowed to grow a beard
and whisker for a certain term before his release, so that he won’t be
thrown upon society with tonsorial evidence of his having been in
government keeping. This concession has to be obtained in due form
through the Governor. One, Maguire, a warder, one day brought a
prisoner before Mr. Lovett. The usual salute having been passed,
Maguire proceeded reading from a document:—“ Tom Brown, sorr,
doing five years, served four and three months, wants his hair, sorr”
(Brown, it may be remarked, was as bald as the marble man).
Lovett looked at the man for a second and with a twinkle in his eye
replied, “ I can’t do it, Maguire, I can’t do it.” “ But I beg your
pardon, sorr, he’s entitled to it according to the regulations.” “ I
can’t do it,” replied Lovett in all seriousness. “But,” went on the
much perplexed Maguire, “ the regulations say he can have his hair
after a certain time.” “I don’t care,” responded Lovett. “Give
that man his hair ! Why, if I could do that I wouldn’t remain here a
day. I’d resign and make my fortune.” “Beg your pardon,” said
Maguire, “ I mean his whiskers.” “ Oh! that’s another matter,”
■Lovett responded, relaxing from stiff officialism, “ I suppose we can
allow that.”
The late Mr. John Lovett, who rose from warder to be Governor of


Darlinghurst, but who, dying of heart disease, did not long enjoy his
promotion, was a rough diamond, but a good hearted man, and he
dearly loved a joke. One day a friend asked him why it was that he
never saw him (John) at Randwick races. “Randwick!” replied
John, in his well-known drawling tone, and with his head high in the
air, “ When Igo away from here I like to have a holiday—a real
holiday. I did go to Randwick once, years ago, but I saw so many
familiar faces that I couldn’t help but think I was on duty all the
time ! ” Though this mot may not be appreciated in all quarters the
truth of the remark will be apparent to most people. Horse-racing,
pure and simple, is not objectionable, but it is well-known that what is
familiarly called the “ sport of kings ” has to drag more knaves along
with it than any other sport, or perhaps than all put together.
ON WARDERS.
The rational reader will agree with us that for the very trying and
responsible position of a warder a man of more than the average
intelligence and with some special natural qualifications should be chosen.
But, no, here, as elsewhere, the cursed political and other influences
work their way and it is not uncommon to find warders too ignorant
almost for the most degraded occupation in life, acting as keepers of
men who, despite the fact that they have offended against the law, are
ten times their superiors in every way. The fact is the warder lives in
an atmosphere of moral and physical corruption and even under an
almost perfect system, unless he be a man in the proper sense of the
term, grows callous to everything but the one idea of personal
preferment. For those who have incurred the weight of the arm of
the law he has no compassion whatever. All criminals are alike to
him, simply material which enable him to make a living, and unless
the unfortunates submit unreservedly to his will they suffer bodily and
mental pain as terrible as ever conceived by Dante. Not unfrequently
some miserable creature, growing heart sick of the dull and almost
hopeless monotony of his existence and, may be, made more miserable
by unnecessary harshnesss on the part of individual warders, lets
fall a rebellious word. The ignorant and tyrannical warder, over
zealous to distinguish himself, takes extreme measures at once and the
prisoner is made to pay dearly for his moment of forgetfulness, if
happily he be not goaded into some more serious act of rebellion. The
humane and experienced warder, when the prisoner shows forgetfulness,
takes in the situation at once and is conveniently blind or deaf to
small faults. Something like the following will often happen. The
prisoner accosting the warder says : —“ Look here, I’m tired of this. I
ain’t going to work any more. Do what you like. Hang me and be
done with it.” “ Don’t be foolish,” answers the intelligent warder, “ I
have nothing to do with your being here Go away and be sensible,”
and with that the officer judiciously looks after some other business.
On short reflection the prisoner accepts the advice and later on


apologises with genuine feeling, for his mistake. “ I forgot myself*”
he explains, “and did not know what I was doing.”
With the average warder the gaol bird, pure and simple, often gets
along splendidly. One of the larrikin class, for instance, comes in
with characteristic bounce: “Here lam again, mister! Got a job
for me ! I’ll go and do so and so ! I did it last time,” and off he
goes. He is quite at home, and treats the warder, who is at times of
the same kidney as himself, as an equal. He knows the run of the
ropes too well to commit a mistake, and is too cunning to make a rod
for his own back. Gaol for him is a matter of course. He is well
clothed and fed, and gets medical attention when necessary.
It is the unfortunate first offender, the apprentice to crime, the one
who can be reformed by rational treatment who suffers most, and by
his suffering affords a certain kind of recreation for the inhuman
warder—a pleasure like that which the cat enjoys as it plays with the
mouse.
The first offender is ushered in from the scene of sentence in a semi-
dazed condition. The ordeal he has just experienced, with all the
accompaniment of brain worry and hopes and fears, and remorse for
disgracing his family has left him nervous and despondent. Most of
what he has gone through has been a revelation, not so dreadful,
perhaps, now that it is over, but what is wrapped up in that sentence
to be served he fears with all the added terror which uncertainty
ever produces. He does not know what is expected of him and is sure
to do the wrong thing. Here is an incident which actually
occurred. A well-known bank manager on emerging from the
court was thus accosted by the warder: “ Oh, my gory, flash
bank manager, I’ll take that pretty moustache off yer, and
knock the starch out of yer carcase. Come here,” and with
that the man was hustled away like a wild beast. When a
more humane warder afterwards sympathised with him and advised
him to put the rough conduct down to ignorance, he replied that he
would sooner commit suicide than be habitually treated as that warder
had treated him.
All the inmates of the gaols have nicknames, according to
peculiarities, for the warders and officials, and are, therefore, often con-
versing about them openly without those talked about knowing it. Here
are a few samples of names by which the prisoners identify the warders:—
Long J., Jimmy the Bull, the Racehorse, Lobengula, Mad Mick,
Mickey, the Pig, Drop me a Line, Stumpy J., Cough Mixture, German
Charlie, Big Liz, Napoleon, Jimmy the Whisperer, Lord Harris,
Straight Edge, Exactly So, Lobster Face, the Crying Warder, Porky,
Dry Plate, the Braidwood Terrier, Gertie the Gardener, and Bucky the
Marine.
THE LANGUAGE OF THE CELLS.
Amongst all of the criminal class there is a sort of freemasonery and
slang language by which they communicate to one another and prevent


outsiders knowing their business just as effectively as if they made use
of some very foreign lingo. The experienced warder generally is
“up to snuft,” and can guess at the meaning of most of the
communications, but to the new chum the epistles are Greek. A
clandestine letter sent from a prisoner to a pal outside, or vice versa, is
known as a “ cronk stiff” in the language of the cells. And we give an
example below :
“ Hell’s Gates, Jan. 11, ’93.
Dear Jim—
Just a few lines to let you know the state of the poll. If you
follow out my instructions in a certain matter things will be very
“kush.” In the first place go out to the paddock at Newtown and
look after the grey filly, take her down to Wilkinson. Tell him she
was once in a circus and can do all sorts of tricks, such as go down
on her knees, <fcc., <fcc., and as she will be a valuable acquisition to his
stable, get him to let you put a partition in one of the large stalls and
keep her there with a view of a raffle ; and as it will be necessary to get as
much money as you can, get your governor and all the rest of the big
bugs to put their monniker down for a throw. My nose is getting a
bit short and if you can make up a poke you can let go the anchor by
the same screw and it will touch the bottom, ryebuck. The bearer of
this stiff has been a good kobber of mine in stir, and as he jerrys to the
lingo in this stiff, he will be able to explain everything. If you act
according to these instructions everything ought to be kush, and I
ought not to do longer than “ zwei moon ” or “ a drag ” at the outside.
On your next visit to me, if the things are as they ought to be, you can
give me the office by saying “ The filly is all right and in the stable,”
but if “M.M. ” or “ Lobengula ” happen to be at the talking trap
with me you can say pretty near what you like, they will never tumble
to your patter. —Yours in globo sivampo,
EDGE.”
The writer of the above was doing three years for conspiracy and in
order to get it transferred to the proper quarter a mate who was just
finishing his sentence and having his boots repaired arranged with the
snob, another prisoner, to secrete the important document in one of
the newly-built boot heels. The following is a free translation :
“ Darlinghurst Gaol, Jan. 11th, ’93.
Dear Jim—
Just a few lines to let you know how lam getting on. Follow
out my instructions, and everything will be all right. In the first
place go out to my house at Newtown to see my wife. Take her to
Judge Wilkinson, let her fall down on her knees and ask him to
recommend a release if she put in a petition. Further, try to see the
Governor of the Colony and get some influential citizens to sign the
petition. My tobacco is getting short and if you can make up a parcel,
you can send it in by the same warder and it will reach me safely.
The bearer of this note has been a good friend in here, and as
he understands the language in this letter, he will be able to explain
everything. I am obliged to write in this strain so as to avoid a


translation if discovered. If you act according to these instructions
everything ought to come right, and I should not do longer than two-
months more or three months at the longest. On your next visit to-
me, if the petition has gone in, you can let me know by saying that
you have seen the wife and she is well, but if Warder is in,
the visiting box you can say pretty well what you like, you know he
is too ignorant and illiterate to understand our conversation.—Yours
in trouble.
EDGE.”
The name of this signature is only known to the sender and receiver
so that be can be sure it is genuine and who it comes from.
There is also a system of telegraphy, a striking example of which,,
occurred one day at Berrima. At this gaol there had been a
visiting justice who was looked upon as a terror, and one day a
prisoner employed as a servant learned that this obnoxious
person had been removed. He communicated the glad tidings
to a few who were near him in the yard but it' was not possible
to pass it round viva voce in the ordinary way nor did the slang
vocabulary contain anything to meet the case. Several of the crowd
could see that there was something unusual and all were eager to hear
the news. Presently an old timer arose to the occasion* and, attracting
attention towards him, he picked up a thin piece of deal chip, placing
it across the bridge of his nose he broke it by a gentle pressure and
then held his hands up to his nasal organ to signify that he had sus-
tained serious injury. The crowd guessed the sign readily. “ The
Beak’s Broke” was the solution, and these words now perfectly in-
telligible were passed round the establishment without delay. To the
uninitiated it may be explained that “ The Beak’s Broke ” is another
way of saying the magistrate is done for or removed.
A WEALTHY VAGRANT.
One of the most responsible and at the same time objectionable
duties (especially when the subject, as not unfrequently happens, is in a
filthy state) of the warder is the searching of prisoners when first
brought in. If so much as the trifle of a gold stud is found upon the
man after the searcher has finished the official is liable to be fined
several days’ pay. A case of a somewhat sensational nature and
possessing some strange features happened not long since. A Persian
priest arrived in Sydney and began collecting for a Roman Catholic
Church in far off Asia. Public attention was directed to his occupa-
tion, and the local church, not recognising the bona Jides of the un-
fortunate stranger, he was sentenced to six months’imprisonment upon
a charge of vagrancy. The priest could speak but little English. He
had travelled in various parts of the world on the same mission and
was in possession of documents which purported to prove his genuine-
ness. He had been searched by the police, and again by a warder at
Darlinghurst, and was sent in charge of a “ lifer ” (a prisoner under
life sentence) to go through the usual baptismal bath. The priest


protested as well as he could against the whole proceedings but it was
of no avail. When he was stripped, the “ lifer ” noticed a mysterious
belt around the foreigner’s waist and ordered its removal in forcible
terms. Again the priest protested and resisted but the prisoner soon
removed it, and his curiosity as to what it really was was not lessened
by the great weight of the article. A warder was called in and on
closer inspection the belt proved to be a veritable horn of plenty, for
gold coins rolled out of it in such a way as to dazzle the eyes of
prisoner and warder, while the priest was so hurt at seeing his
treasures in the hands of the enemy that he was speechless. An effort
was made by a certain officious officer to have the money, which was
composed of gold coins gathered in various parts of the world and
equal to £SOO, confiscated and handed over to the very church which
had refused to recognise the man. It had been the rule in the old
days to confiscate all property found in this way on a prisoner, but in
this instance the rule was not adhered to. The priest on appeal had
his conviction quashed, and his money restored to him, and it may be
sure lost no time in shaking the dust of the country off his feet. What
were his opinions of the authorities and others here would be worth know-
ing. The “life” sentenced man, who really discovered the money,
sought to have the tact put down to the credit of his good conduct
marks, but he was choused out of the advantage by the officials who
took it all to themselves. One in particular, who was concerned in the
affair and who was not very long in the service, was shortly after-
wards promoted to a prominent position in the service.
The sum of <£lo,ooo was voted by the Legislative ‘ Council for the
erection of a gaol at Darlinghurst in 1835.
“ Gentlemen of the Jury,” said the Judge’s Associate, “you will,
when your names are called, please take your seats in the usual places,”
and forthwith the first man walked into the dock followed by a second,
before the mistake was noticed. This occurred in a country town
where the inhabitants were accustomed to be arraigned frequently for
sheep stealing and were more often tried by juries than employed in
that capacity.
It was on circuit at Dubbo. The calendar was a very heavy
one, and there were several of the leading barristers up from Sydney,
the great advocate, the late Mr. David Buchanan, among them. All
the accused were provided with counsel, except one, a hoary-headed
old man, who was accused of a serious offence. While preliminaries
were being arranged, this individual suddenly stood up and addressing
his Honor said : “ Excuse me, sir, but can’t I have one of these things
(pointing to the bewigged barristers) ? ” “ All the others have got one.”
Counsel were horrified at this vulgar man, and of course, none offered
to defend him. He had to take his chance, and it happened oddly,
enough, that of all the prisoners who stood at the bar during the whole
sitting he was the only one that was acquitted. The presiding Judge
upon the occasion was one who has the reputation of being a terror to
all who appear in the dock before him.


(Left-hand side going up King Street.)
43" Under the Electric Lamp hearing the icords “Theatre Royal." TEi
MR. POWER has always a Good Glass of Beer on Draught, an Excellent
Counter Lunch, and the Best of Spirits. Cleanliness and Civility is always
accorded to every one. A Telephone is kept on the premises.
fAY A VISIT TO POWER'S “ MACKAY'S HOTEL."


“UNDER LOCK AND KEY,”
Hi ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
TERMS : 6s. PER HALF YEAR.
We are Prepared to 'Deal with Advertisers, to
WHOM WE CAN OFFER A LIMITED SPACE , BUT
an Unrivalled Chance.
