

Sixteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Allocated Pensions
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
June 1995




Sixteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Allocated Pensions
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
June 1995


© Commonwealth of Australia 1995
ISBN 0 642 22910 4
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Senior Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Ms Krista Gerrard
Ms Ann Settin
Mr David Risstrom
Ms Janice Scarabottolo
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
Facsimile:
(06) 277 5719




CONTENTS
Contents
Page
Members of the Committee.i
Contents.iii
Chapters:
1. Introduction.1
2. Review of the Submissions Presented on
Allocated Pensions.3
3. Reassessing the Assessment of Allocated Pensions.5
Appendix:
A. List of Committee Reports.9


Repeal of the amendment to the Social Security
Act 1991 resulted in allocated pensions continuing
to be assessed as retirement income streams,
rather than as managed investments.


CHAPTER 1:
INTRODUCTION
Introduction
1.1 This report provides a summation of the events concerning the proposal
to change the treatment of allocated pensions for the purpose of the social
security means tests, and the subsequent repealing of the proposed changes prior
to them taking effect. The report canvasses the submissions and evidence
provided to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation on this issue, which
assisted the Government in forming its decision to repeal the proposed changes.
Outline of this report
1.2 Chapter 2 provides a brief overview of the submissions made to the
Committee prior to the decision to repeal the proposed changes to the treatment
of allocated pensions by the Social Security Act 1991 being announced.
Chapter 3 outlines the events influencing that decision.
1.3 The list of the submissions presented is contained in Appendix A of the
preliminary paper, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System. A list of supplementary submissions is contained in
Appendix B, and a list of witnesses is provided in Appendix C of that paper.
1.4 The Committee records its appreciation of the written and oral evidence
provided to this inquiry.




CHAPTER 2:
REVIEW OF THE SUBMISSIONS PRESENTED
ON ALLOCATED PENSIONS
Review of the Submissions Presented
2.1 This chapter provides a very brief summary of the issues discussed in
Chapters 2 to 6 of the preliminary paper Options for Allocated Pensions Within
the Retirement Incomes System.
2.2 The Committee received overwhelming evidence that allocated pensions
are a valued product among retirees. Allocated pensions provide a flexible,
simple and regular income stream by allowing flexibility in the number of
payments that must be drawn down annually as well as in the amounts that may
be drawn down.
2.3 The Committee also heard evidence that preferential tax and social
security treatment should be used to encourage products that avoid exposing
retirees to the longevity, replacement insurance and investment risks. These risks
are currently borne by the recipient of an allocated pension.
2.4 The Committee examined the facility for allocated pension holders to
access their capital by way of commutations, the process of changing from one
type of superannuation to another type. The nexus between limiting the
frequency, size and purpose of commutations and the attractiveness of allocated
pensions was noted.
2.5 The Committee heard concern that commutations may be used to avoid
income assessment for the purposes of taxation assessment and social security
means testing, though evidence suggested abuse of this facility was uncommon.
The options considered, in response, sought to strike a balance between the need
to minimise the risk of income assessment avoidance whilst maintaining the
advantages currently available to allocated pension holders.
2.6 The Committee also heard evidence concerning the proposed change to
the social security income and assets tests, which would have seen unrealised
gains being taken into account in the same way that they are for managed
investments. Repeal of the amendment has left this aspect of the income
assessment of allocated pensions unchanged.


2.7 Finally, evidence was heard that access to fringe benefits afforded by
pension entitlement was considered very important, with some retirees making
arrangements to receive a pension of as little as $1 per week in order to qualify
for the available non-pecuniary benefits.


CHAPTER 3:
REASSESSING THE ASSESSMENT
OF ALLOCATED PENSIONS
Re-assessing the Assessment of Allocated Pensions
What are Allocated Pensions?
3.1 Recent changes in superannuation policy have sought to respond to the
retirement income requirements of an increasingly ageing population in
combination with a low level of savings. In response, it is often argued that
retirement incomes policy needs to move away from a dependence on lump sum
retirement benefits towards an increasing use of income streams.
3.2 In recent years a product known as the 'allocated pension' has been
developed. Allocated pensions offer a regular income stream by maintaining an
account from which a pension is provided by a series of drawdowns from the
original invested capital and interest it accrues. Once the account funds are
exhausted, the pension ceases. Although allocated pensions are capable of
providing a regular income stream, this is not a mandatory feature of them.
Allocated pensions may also provide access to a lump sum if required by the
recipients.
The Proposed Changes to the Treatment of Allocated Pensions
3.3 Following the Government's Security in Retirement statement, the
Minister for Social Security, the Hon P.J. Baldwin, announced changes to the
treatment of allocated pensions and allocated annuities under the social security
income and assets tests.
3.4 An amendment to the Social Security Legislation Amendment Act
(No. 3) 1992 by the Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994
sought to amend, inter alia, Division 19 of the Social Security Act 1991.
3.5 The amendment sought to change the assessment of allocated pensions
by:
. amending the definition of investment income;1
1
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1992, section 137


. allowing for certain assets to be disregarded in calculating the value
of a person's assets;2 and
. amending the calculation of the value of annuities where allocated
pensions were involved.3
3.6 This amendment was assented to on 24 December 1992 and was due to
commence on the date of report to the Senate by a Senate standing or select
committee on the application of Division 19.4 The Senate resolved on
19 May 1993 that the Select Committee on Superannuation would inquire into
and report on the likely effects of the amendment to Division 19.
3.7 During the course of the Committee's public hearings on 5 and
9 November 1993 on that reference, it became clear that allocated pensions
provide simplicity and flexibility. It also became clear that it was not necessary to
modify the treatment of allocated pensions, as had previously been felt necessary
for the purpose of protecting the longer term benefits of retirement income
policy. The evidence received in those hearings is reviewed in the preliminary
paper, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System.
3.8 On 24 November 1993, a sub-committee of the Senate Select Committee
met informally with the Minister for Social Security to discuss the Government's
intentions regarding the commencement of the amendment. The Minister
indicated that the Government intended the amendments would commence from
the date of the Committee reporting.
3.9 In light of the submissions and evidence provided to the Committee and
the Government's intention to commence the legislation, the Committee
undertook to provide the Minister with an interim paper distilled from the range
of options heard during the course of its hearings. This paper outlined the
characteristics of allocated pensions that should be preserved and those that may
need modification in order for allocated pensions and similar types of products to
accord with the retirement incomes policy of self-sufficiency in retirement.
3.10 Subsequently, on 3 March 1994, the Chair of the Committee presented
the Committee's interim paper entitled Options for Allocated Pensions Within the
Retirement Incomes System to the Minister for Social Security.
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1992, section 138
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1992, section 139
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1992, section 2(13)
4


3.11 Having received and considered the options paper, the Minister for Social
Security wrote to the Chair of the Committee on 23 May 1994 proposing
amendments to the Social Security Act that would repeal the amendments to be
made by Division 19 concerning allocated pensions.
3.12 Prior to Division 19 coming into operation, Division 11 of Part 2 of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994 repealed Division 19 of
Part 2 the Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1992. The 1994
Act, which commenced on 1 July 1994, had the effect of repealing the proposed
changes to the Social Security Act 1991 concerning allocated pensions, without
those changes having come having into operation.
3.13 In summary, repeal of the amendment to the Social Security Act
1991 resulted in allocated pensions continuing to be assessed as retirement
income streams, rather than as managed investments.
3.14 The consultative processes employed by the Committee in the conduct of
this inquiry indicate the very constructive way in which the Committee can
interact with the Government to provide a positive result. The result achieved
will encourage the move towards retirement income streams.
Ageing Agendas: An update
3.15 The Minister for Social Security commissioned a Strategic Review of the
Pensions' Income and Assets Tests. This report, undertaken by Ageing Agendas,
was presented to the Minister on 27 November 1994.
3.16 Ageing Agendas made some 50 recommendations to the Government
with a particular focus on the adoption of a deeming system for the treatment of
all investments.
3.17 The recommendations of the Final Report of the Strategic Review of the
Pensions' Income and Assets Tests were considered in the 1995-96 Budget
context.




APPENDIX A:
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
List of Committee reports
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992) Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life
Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and
Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
and the Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992
(4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervisory Levy (May 1993)


Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Fees, Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry
into the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation
Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervision Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Privilege Matter Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill
(December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated
Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Super
for Housing (May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs I (August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs II (November 1994)


Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Guarantee - Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Allocated Pensions (June 1995)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No 98 of 1995
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-418
