

Choice
of
Fund
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Twenty-eighth Report
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
March 1998




Choice of Fund
Twenty-eighth Report
of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
March 1998


© Commonwealth of Australia 1998
Print ISBN 0 642 25167-3
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator Lyn Allison
Senator Stephen Conroy
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran
Senator the Hon Nick Sherry
Tasmania
Victoria
Victoria
Western Australia
South Australia
Victoria
Tasmania
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary: Mr Peter Hallahan
Executive Assistant: Ms Jade Ricza
Address:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (02) 6277 3439
Facsimile: (02)6277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at:
http://www.aph.gov.au/senate




CONTENTS
OVERVIEW
1
CHAPTER 1.5
BACKGROUND TO THE INQUIRY.5
Origin of the reference. 5
Conduct of the inquiry.5
CHAPTER 2. 7
THE CHOICE OF FUND PROPOSAL.7
Background to the legislation..7
The legislation.8
Choice options.8
Schedule for introduction. 10
Employee response to a choice of fund offer.10
Employer liability. 10
Defined benefit schemes.10
Frequency of choice.11
Education of affected groups.11
CHAPTER 3. 13
THE PRINCIPLE OF FUND CHOICE.13
Introduction.13
Support for the choice principle.13
Alternative views.15
Will competition reduce costs?.15
Does the proposal deliver true choice for employees?.18
Is there a demand for choice from employees?.20
Application to Public Sector schemes.21
Employer attitudes to choice of fund.21
CHAPTER 4.23
INVESTMENT CHOICE.23
CHAPTER 5.27
INFORMED CHOICE: EDUCATION.27
Introduction.27
Importance of education.27
Limitations of education.30
Education for employers.31
Paying for education.32
Consequences of inadequate education.33
Government response on education.33
Conclusions.^4


Contents
CHAPTER 6
37
INFORMED CHOICE - DISCLOSURE.37
Introduction.37
ISC discussion paper on disclosure.37
Comparing apples with apples.38
Key features statements.41
Conclusions.41
CHAPTER 7.43
THE TIMETABLE.43
Introduction.43
Employee and employer education.43
Tasks of employers and funds before implementation.45
Lack of finality of legislation.47
The case for no delay.48
Alternative options.49
Government position.50
CHAPTER 8.53
THE DEFAULT FUND.53
Introduction.53
The Default Fund - A Protective Mechanism.53
Setting the default fund.56
Conclusions.57
CHAPTER 9.59
INSURANCE.59
Introduction.59
Insurance associated with super.59
Automatic cover. 60
The insurance gap.61
Possible solutions.62
CHAPTER 10.65
LIABILITY.65
Introduction.65
Constitutionality of 32V.65
The limits of liability.67
CHAPTER 11.71
CONSUMER PROTECTION.71
Introduction.71
The U.K. experience.71
Commission driven selling...72
Relationships between employers and providers.74
Dispute Resolution.76


CHAPTER 12
79
OTHER ISSUES.79
Introduction.79
Defined Benefit Schemes.79
Excluded funds.81
Industry fund definition.83
Federal - State application of choice.84
Crediting rates/ reserving policy.85
Limits of S32U.86
Casual employees.86
CHAPTER 13.87
SUMMARY.87
CHAPTER 14
89
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.89
Government Senators’ view.89
Recommendation:. 89
NON GOVERNMENT SENATORS’ CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Labor Senators’ view.
The principle of choice.
Economic benefits.
Education.
Disclosure.
Timing.
Default fund.
Insurance.
Definition of‘industry-based funds’.
National consistency.
Removal of superannuation from federal awards.
Overriding Federal Awards: S32U.
Independent arbitrator.
Recommendation.
. 90
.90
.90
.90
.91
.93
.94
.95
.95
.96
. 96
.96
.96
.97
.97
AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS’ VIEW.
Senator Lyn Allison - Supplementary report
Member and the Industrial Relations Sy stem:.
Member choice or employer choice:.
Member choice and returns on funds:.
Member choice at whose cost:.
What sort of choice?.
Informed Choice:.
Uninformed Choice:.
Timing of Reforms:.
Portability of Superannuation:.
Conclusions:.
.98
.98
.98
.99
100
100
101
101
102
102
102
103


APPENDICES
Appendix A -
Appendix B -
Appendix C -
Appendix D -
Appendix E -
List of written submissions
List of witnesses at public hearings
List of Committee reports
Opinion - Denis Rose QC
Extracts from key features statement - William M Mercer


OVERVIEW
The Wallis Committee recommended that superannuation fund members should have greater
choice of fund. That Committee regarded education and information as 'the joint
responsibility of the industry and regulators', and considered that education should cover:
. rights of members;
. different life cycle needs and their implications for risk and return; and
. the benefits and costs of exercising choice.
Subject to the passage of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997, from 1 July 1998
employers will be required to offer new employees a choice about where their compulsory
superannuation guarantee payments are paid. Commencing on 1 July 2000, existing
employees will also have choice of fund.
The amendments contained in the Bill require employers to make compulsory superannuation
contributions (SG contributions) to a complying superannuation fund or RSA account in
compliance with the choice of fund requirements. The legislation imposes a higher rate ot SG
charge on employers who do not comply with the choice requirements. The choice of fund
requirements apply only to SG contributions and do not include discretionary or salary sacrifice
contributions to funds.
Employers will have three possible alternatives for satisfying their choice of fund obligations.
These are:
offer a limited choice of four complying superannuation funds or retirement
savings accounts (RSAs);
offer the employee unlimited choice; or
. specify- the fund through formal or informal workplace agreements.
Formal agreements are Australian Workplace Agreements (AWAs) and Certified
Agreements. The Government has announced that informal agreements would e accepte
where an employer nominates in writing the fund or retirement savings account o t e
employee's choice and the employer agrees to that nomination.
The Government’s choice of fund policy is long standing, and was originally announced in
the policy platform for the 1996 election, details of which are outlined in Chapter 2. In May
1997, the Minister for Social Security and the Treasurer further detailed t e proposa in e
budget document Savings - Choice and Incentive. Following several months of consultation
and negotiation with industry, the Assistant Treasurer, Senator t e on o em »
announced the final form of the proposal on 25 November 1997. The Government m o uce
1 Press Release AT 23, Assistant Treasurer, 25.11.1997. attachment.
2 See Chapter 2. paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2.


Overview
the Bill on 4 December 1997. The bill differed from the proposal announced in May 1997 in
two significant respects:
• The bill included a new “unlimited choice” option; and
• The limited choice option decreased from five funds to four.
The Committee encountered considerable support for the broad concept of choice of fund,
although many witnesses were doubtful to varying degrees about its practical operation.
Several witnesses said that a major advantage of the choice proposal was that it would
increase awareness of investment alternatives and understanding of the need to plan
retirement saving. They suggested that implementing choice will require individuals to have
greater knowledge of retirement savings options and increase their motivation to understand
its importance. Those witnesses considered that with choice and control, individuals are more
likely to feel a sense of ownership and take an active interest in saving for their retirement.
The Committee also encountered some dissent about whether the policy would deliver the
anticipated economic benefits. Witnesses advised the Committee that many funds already had
very low costs and good returns. These witnesses considered that choice of fund would force
low cost funds to increase outlays on advertising and administration and this would lead to
higher charges and lower returns.
The Committee heard that there was already a great deal of competition within the industry,
particularly between fund administrators and investment managers, driven by the demand of
well-informed trustees.
Some witnesses also questioned whether the policy was being driven by actual demand for
change on the part of employers and employees. They told the Committee that there was no
evidence that significant numbers of employees sought choice of fund. Further, employers
regarded choice as yet another unwanted administrative burden. The motives of some choice
supporters were also questioned, and there were suggestions that these groups may be
principally motivated by possible commercial advantage from the policy.
While the Committee encountered support for the choice principle, most witnesses
emphasised that the success of the policy depended on employees making an “informed
choice”.
“Informed choice” requires that employees understand the consequences of the decisions they
make and choose funds that best suit their personal circumstances and requirements. In many
cases, this may mean staying with their current fund. In order to make good decisions,
employees may need education about choice of fund, its benefits and its dangers.
Many witnesses called for extensive education campaigns to ensure consumers make an
informed choice. Employers, particularly small employers, also need education about their
obligations and how to satisfy them. Many cast doubt on whether such an education campaign
is achievable in the relatively short time before the legislation is to come into force.
Employees will also need access to useful, comprehensible information about the fund
alternatives, so that they can make valid comparisons. The information about fund


alternatives that funds and employers will provide to employees who are offered choice of
fund will be in the form of key feature statements.
It is important that the information provided to employees who are offered choice does not
create an atmosphere that encourages change for the sake of change. Australia must learn
from the U.K. experience.
The Government will determine the content of key feature statements through disclosure
standards contained in regulations that will be tabled in the Parliament after the legislation
passes. The Committee received evidence suggesting that key feature statements be
standardised and simplified, so that consumers can “compare apples with apples'’.
Almost all witnesses saw disclosure standards as a major issue. The ISC has released a
discussion paper on disclosure, however the final standards will not be known until the
regulations are released. Many witnesses, such as fund trustees, expressed concern about their
ability to prepare KFSs in time for the start-up date of 1 July 1998. Additionally, many
corporate funds will need to carefully consider whether they will continue to operate or close
and this decision may take time. Employers will also have to make changes to their
administrative arrangements to meet their obligations under this legislation.
Marked differences of opinion exist about whether the Government’s timetable is achievable.
The large financial institutions that have products prepared for the announced starting date are
anxious that the Government adhere to its announced timetable.
On the other hand, the significant majority of witnesses were concerned about the short time
interval remaining before the provisions of the legislation come into force. These witnesses
called for a delay in the implementation date, or a period of grace during which choice would
be optional. They advanced a variety of reasons for this, including:
. a lack of knowledge among employees and employers about choice and its
consequences, and a consequent danger that employees might not be in a
position to exercise “informed choice”;
. final disclosure requirements have not yet been released, leaving trustees little
time to prepare key feature statements;
. logistical difficulties, including concern, especially among smaller employers,
about contributing to a multitude of funds.
Some employers also consider that implementing choice of fund on the amiounced date
presents them with major logistical difficulties. For example, Coles Myer, the argest private
employer in the country , told the Committee that the task of changing their pay™ ^
accounting systems is huge and they were worried whether the task was ac leva e in
available time.
A number of other major issues also emerged during this inquiry. These included.
investment choice w ithin funds;


the default fund;
. insurance cover;
• liabilities of employers and others;
• consumer protection, including dispute resolution;
• application of choice to defined benefit schemes;
• the inclusion of excluded funds under unlimited choice;
. definition of industry funds;
• choice for people on state awards;
• crediting rates/reserving policy;
• limits of S32U;
• dispute resolution and
• implications of removing superannuation from the allowable matters list under
the Workplace Relations Act.
With the exception of the last matter listed above, each of these issues is discussed in the
body of the report.


CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND TO THE INQUIRY
Origin of the reference
1.1 On 1 December 1997, the Senate resolved that the following matter be referred to the
Select Committee on Superannuation for inquiry and report by 14 May 1998:
The introduction of choice of superannuation fund and the need for
education of employees and employers about the implications of choice,
including investment choice.
1.2 The Senate set the following terms for the conduct of the inquiry:
The committee's inquiry is to include, but not be limited to, the
provisions of the Government's legislation on choice of fund to be
introduced prior to the conclusion of the Spring 1997 sitting of the
Parliament.
That, for the purposes of the inquiry the committee take evidence from
the public, superannuation providers, employer and employee
organisations, consumer groups and Government agencies and conduct
public hearings as appropriate.1
1.3 Following a request from the Government not to delay the legislation, the Committee
agreed to report on those aspects of the reference which relate to the legislation by 24 March
1998.
1.4 The Government has also introduced the Workplace Relations Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill 1997 into the House of Representatives. This Bill removes
superannuation as an allowable matter under the Workplace Relations Act. Some groups
consider that this Bill is complementary to the Choice of Funds legislation. At the time ot
writing this report, the matter had not been referred to the Committee. It is therefore not
commented on extensively in the report but may be subject to a separate report by this
Committee.
Conduct of the inquiry'
1.5 The Committee advertised its reference on Friday 12 December 1997 in the Australian
Financial Review, and on the following day, in a major daily newspaper in each capital city.
1.6 The Committee conducted public hearings in Melbourne on 17 and 18 February,
Sydney on 19 and 20 February, and in Canberra on 2 March.
Senate Hansard, 1 December 1997, P9474.
1


Chapter 1
1.7 77 individuals and organisations sent submissions to the Committee. Appendices A
and B list the names of those who made submissions and the witnesses who gave evidence at
the public hearings.
1.8 The Committee expresses its appreciation to those persons and organisations who
made submissions and gave oral evidence.


CHAPTER 2
THE CHOICE OF FUND PROPOSAL
Background to the legislation
2.1 The Government first announced its choice of fund policy prior to its election in 1996.
The then Shadow Minister for Superannuation and Retirement Incomes, David Connolly MP.
presented a paper to LIFA in May 1995 that outlined the Coalition’s intended approach:
The Coalition has long supported greater freedom of choice for
superannuation contributors and greater competition between funds as
the best way to reduce costs and increase returns ...
There is no justification for over-riding employees’ right to choose the
fund into which their contributions should be paid. Most retirees will
become heavily dependent on the performance of their superannuation
fund, and their vulnerability will be significantly increased by their
inability to choose or change the fund into which their contributions are
paid.1
2.2 In an address to the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia in November
1995, the then Shadow Treasurer, Peter Costello MP, further elaborated on the Coalition's
position regarding choice of fund:
Under a Coalition government, no superannuation fund will enjoy the
privilege of a captive market dictated through industrial awards.
Employees will have a choice. They will be able to exit a poorly
performing fund. Superannuation funds will have to compete for
business.2
2.3 The Government described its choice of fund proposal in detail as part of the May
1997 Budget. The Government announced that it would introduce choice of fund for new
employees from 1 July 1998, and extend choice to existing employees within two years of the
date of effect of the legislation. Under the Government’s proposal, employers were required
to offer employees choice from among five or more complying superannuation funds or
Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) nominated by the employer.
2.4 The Government announced changes to this policy on 25 November 1997, following
extensive consultations with industry. Announcing the changes, Senator the Hon. Rod Kemp,
the Assistant Treasurer, said that the ‘enhancements’ would:
1
Superannuation and the Budget: Policy Development for the Next Century, a paper presented to LIFA by
David Connolly MP, Shadow Minister for Superannuation and Retirement Incomes and Member for
Bradfield, 25 May 1995.
2 The Federal Coalition’s approach to superannuation, address to ASFA by Peter Costello MP, Shadow
Treasurer, Melbourne, 2 November 1995.


Chapter 2
...improve the choice arrangements by significantly reducing the
administrative burden on employers while ensuring the key objective of
providing choice of fund to employees is achieved/
2.5 The major changes to the original policy were as follows:
. limited choice of five funds reduced to four; and
. introduction of a new ‘unlimited employee choice’ option.
The legislation
2.6 On 4 December 1997, the Government presented Taxation Laws Amendment Bill
(No. 7) 1997 in the House of Representatives. This bill includes provisions (contained in
schedule 5) that implement its announced policy.
2.7 The Government describes its objectives in introducing this proposal as follows:
The choice of fund arrangements are designed to give employees greater
choice and control over their superannuation savings, which in turn give
them greater sense of ownership of these savings. The arrangements will
increase competition and efficiency in the superannuation industry,
leading to improved returns on superannuation savings/
2.8 Schedule 5 of the Bill consists of a series of amendments to the Superannuation
Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (SGAA), the Retirement Savings Account Act 199 and
the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993, that are intended to give effect to the
Government's proposal.
2.9 In essence, the amendments require employers to make compulsory superannuation
contributions (SG contributions) to a complying superannuation fund or RSA account in
compliance with the choice of fund requirements. The legislation imposes a higher rate of SG
charge on employers who do not comply with the choice requirements.
2.10 The choice of fund requirements apply only to SG contributions and do not include
discretionary or salary sacrifice contributions to funds.
Choice options
2.11 Employers may satisfy their choice obligations using one or a combination of three
options:
a limited choice offer;
an unlimited choice offer; or
3 Press Release AT/23, 25 November 1997.
4 Second Reading Speech on the Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997, by the Parliamentary
Secretary (Cabinet) to the Prime Minister, the Hon Chris Miles MP.


• an Australian Workplace Agreement, certified agreement or specified informal
agreement.
2.12 If an employer opts for a limited choice offer, they must offer the employee a choice
of at least four complying superannuation funds or schemes and RSAs, including:
• at least one "public offer superannuation fund";
. at least one RSA or "capital guaranteed fund";
. if there is one or more "standard employer-sponsored funds" of which the
employer is a "standard employer sponsor" and of which the employee is
eligible to be a member - at least one of those; and
• if there is one or more "industry based superannuation funds" of which the
employee is eligible to be a member - at least one of those.5
2.13 Employers can also meet their choice obligations by providing 'unlimited employee
choice'. Under this option, an employee may select any complying superannuation fund or
RSA as the employer’s chosen fund.6 The employer would not have to provide the choice of
four funds and the employee would be responsible for the collection of information such as
key features statements.7
2.14 Employers can also use the AW’A/certified/informal agreement option to satisfy their
choice of fund obligations. Such an agreement would specify the agreed fund, as negotiated
between the employer and employee.
2.15 Informal agreements would be accepted where an employee nominates in writing the
fund/RSA of the employee's choice and the employer agrees to that nomination.
2.16 There are several other circumstances under which the legislation deems the choice of
funds obligations to have been satisfied and the employers do not have to make the otters
described above.
• the contributions are to an unfunded public sector scheme (other than the C SS or
PSS); or
• the contributions are made in respect of employees employed under a state
industrial award.
Unfunded public sector schemes
2.17 Employers providing superannuation to employees under unfunded defined benefit
public sector schemes generally do not have to offer choice of fund. The exception is in
5 Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997. Explanatory Memorandum, p. 65.
6 Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997, Explanatory Memorandum, p. 65.
7 Press Release by Senator the Hon. Rod Kemp. Assistant Treasurer, 25 November 1997, p. 2.
Attachment to Press Release by Senator the Hon. Rod Kemp, Assistant Treasurer, 25 November 1997,
p. 2.
8


respect of CSS and PSS members employed by the Commonwealth. In this case, the
Government has committed itself, through this legislation, to offering choice to
Commonwealth employees in the CSS and PSS from 1 July 2000.
State industrial award employees
2.18 Employers who make contributions for employees under state industrial awards are
also deemed to have satisfied the choice of fund obligations. They may, however, have to
satisfy obligations imposed under state legislation.
2.19 It is important to note that the situation in respect of federal award provisions is
different. This legislation over-rides federal award provisions and employers who employ
people under federal awards must offer choice of fund to their employees.
Schedule for introduction
2.20 Choice of fund is to be introduced in two stages:
• from 1 July 1998, new employees must be offered choice of fund; and
• from 1 July 2000, continuing employees who were employed prior to 1 July
1998 must also be offered choice of fund.
Employee response to a choice of fund offer
2.21 Employees have 28 days in which to respond to an offer of choice of fund. Choices
made after the 28 day deadline are of no effect unless the employer agrees to accept them.
2.22 If an employee fails to respond to an offer of choice of fund, the employer may instead
contribute to a default fund. This satisfies the choice of fund obligations. The original offer of
choice must specify the default fund and also contain prescribed descriptive information
about the default fund.
2.23 In the case of existing employees, the default fund is the fund to which the employer
previously contributed on behalf of the employee.
2.24 For new employees, the employer determines the default fund.
Employer liability
2.25 This legislation includes a provision at Section 32V that is intended to ensure that
employers cannot be held legally liable for actions they may take to satisfy the choice of fund
requirements. This was a matter that was identified as a significant area of concern by
commentators and the industry when the Government announced the choice of fund policy.
Defined benefit schemes
2.26 Choice of fund will apply to defined schemes. It is possible that employees who
choose to leave a defined benefit fund may receive reduced contributions. For example, they


may only receive SG minimum contributions rather than contributions in accordance with the
defined scheme they have just left. The Government has said, 'in such circumstances
employees will need to be informed by their employers of the full consequences of their
choice'.9
Frequency of choice
2.27 The legislation includes provisions that effectively limit employees’ rights to choose a
fund to one request per year. Employers will not be required to act on an employee's changed
nomination within twelve months of acting on a previous nomination. The Government has
included this provision to limit the costs to employers associated with employees frequently
nominating a different fund or RSA.
2.28 Employers may, however, make more than one choice offer per year if they wish.
They may also accept more than one request per year from an employee.
Education of affected groups
2.29 According to the Regulation Impact Statement contained in the explanatory
memorandum for the legislation, the ATO and ISC will provide assistance to groups affected
by the measure. In particular, the ATO will provide assistance through:
• new pamphlets specifically directed at those affected;
• existing internet facilities; and
• existing help lines.
2.30 Funds and RSA providers will also be required to prepare key features statements, in
accordance with ISC guidelines. Employers must supply a copy of a KFS for each fund
offered to an employee.
2.31 The ISC guidelines, which are dependent on the passage of legislation, cannot be
approved by the Senate until late May at the earliest.
2.32 The explanatory memorandum also notes that the private sector ‘may also contribute
to the education of affected groups’.10
9 Savings: choice and incentive, p. 26.
10 Explanatory memorandum, p. 73.




CHAPTER 3
THE PRINCIPLE OF FUND CHOICE
Introduction
3.1 The Committee encountered a range of views about the principle of choice, ranging
from strong support to a more critical appraisal. Some witnesses took no firm view either way
on the policy, preferring instead to accept the Government’s decision to proceed with its
policy, and to restrict their comments to the implementation details.
3.2 The Government places considerable emphasis on the benefits it considers increased
competition will bring to superannuation. A group of witnesses, while not necessarily
opposing the choice of fund principle, disputed whether choice of fund would deliver
economic benefits to employees.
3.3 Evidence was received questioning whether the choice of fund policy provides true
choice for employees. Some witnesses also questioned whether the choice of fund policy is
supported by an underlying demand for change or is a product of representations from groups
who hope to derive a commercial advantage from its introduction.
Support for the choice principle
3.4 William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, Australia’s largest firm of superannuation consultants,
welcomed the Government’s draft choice of fund legislation as a ‘positive contribution to the
development of the Australian superannuation industry’. Mercers told the Committee that:
It is clear that the Government has listened to concerns expressed by
employers and the superannuation industry and has made a number of
welcome changes.1
3.5 The Committee also encountered support for the Government’s view from a range of
other witnesses. For example, Mr Tony Aveling, Acting Chief Executive, Australian Bankers
Association said that:
Lack of member choice is an important reason why competition and
efficiency in this marketplace are not as strong as they should be.
Allowing member choice of fund will increase competition between
funds, it should enhance efficiency, and it will put downward pressure
on costs and encourage rationalisation of the industry. This is important
when saving for retirement, as a reduction in cost translates into higher
returns, the benefits of which should compound.2
3.6 Mr Aveling advised the Committee that the industry has a number of features that
suggest there is scope for considerable competitive gains. He said that there are a
1 Submission, p. 1
Evidence, p. 3.
2


Chapter 3
considerable number of small funds - only 4 per cent of active funds having assets in excess
of $1 million. In his view, this offers scope for substantial economies of scale in funds
management and administration. He illustrated his point by quoting how the administration
cost per member in defined benefit and corporate funds drops by a factor of 10 as the number
of members increases from 15 to 10,000. He concluded:
So the point is that modest cost reductions, therefore, should and can
provide substantial benefits to superannuants/
3.7 A number of witnesses also considered that giving people choice would increase
general community interest and understanding of retirement saving. For example, Mr Stephen
Child, Senior Manager, Technical Services, Commonwealth Bank, told the Committee that
choice offered individuals the opportunity to optimise their superannuation to their individual
needs and circumstances. He thought that without choice, people would have no motive to
take any interest:
...we firmly believe that, unless an environment is created where choice
can be exercised, individuals will lack the motivation to understand the
importance of retirement savings and how best to achieve their
objectives for retirement.4
3.8 The Investment and Financial Services Association (IFSA) considered that the
introduction of choice could have beneficial effects beyond compulsory minimum SG
contributions and lead to greater voluntary contributions ‘once people have a greater
understanding of how much they really need to put away to save for an adequate level of
retirement income.’5
3.9 Mr David Connolly, Director, Superannuation and Government Relations, Phillips
Fox and former member of the House of Representatives, saw introducing choice as a logical
second step after introducing compulsory saving for retirement through the SG system. He
told the Committee that:
Having instituted a compulsory environment for the collection of
superannuation, the next step in the process is to say to people, ‘If the
government is going to require you to contribute to your requirement
income, surely it is not unreasonable that you should have some say as to
where those funds go.’6
3.10 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia also lent its support to the
choice concept. ASFA’s Federal President, Ms Rosemary Vilgan, told the Committee that on
balance, ASFA had come out in favor of choice for a number of reasons. These reasons were
similar to those advanced by other witnesses. ASFA also were of the view that people
currently in inappropriate funds should be given the opportunity to move:
3 Evidence, p. 4.
4 Evidence, p. 199.
Evidence, Mr John Maroney, p.374.
Evidence, p. 253.
5
6


...the ownership by the members of their superannuation benefit, we
believe, is likely to increase. That is, their sense of belonging and their
understanding of their superannuation benefit is likely to increase. We
believe there will be some benefits from competition in the industry and
also that there are people in funds now which are not suitable for them,
and those people should be allowed to leave those funds.7
Alternative views
3.11 Alternative views on choice of fund fall into three broad categories:
• Will competition reduce costs?;
• Does the proposal deliver true choice for employees?
. Is there a demand for choice?
Will competition reduce costs?
3.12 The Government places considerable emphasis on the benefits it considers increased
competition will bring to superannuation. The Assistant Treasurer, Senator the Hon. Rod
Kemp, reaffirmed this principle in evidence during the Canberra public hearing:
We believe the direct benefits of increased competition are lower costs
and increase productivity. Competition does provide the spur for
business to improve its performance and to develop new and better
products, as well as to offer existing products at lower costs...
Choice of fund will increase competition and put pressure on
superannuation funds to improve their efficiency and investment
performance. The least efficient superannuation funds may merge—and
this has been put to me—with more efficient funds, as is often the
outcome in a competitive market environment.8
3.13 A number of witnesses, while not necessarily opposing the choice of fund principle,
disputed whether choice of fund would deliver economic benefits to employees.
3.14 Towers Perrin, a prominent firm of consulting actuaries, were amongst the several
witnesses who questioned the economic benefits of increased competition in choice of fund.
Mr Ken Lockery, Principal, considered that choice of fund was fully supportable on
democratic principles alone:
From our perspective, employee choice of superannuation fund is the
sort of individual freedom of choice that one can readily associate with a
democratic society such as that that we enjoy in Australia. Furthermore,
individuals are more likely to value and take an interest in something
where they have an element of choice or control. For those reasons alone
one could justify the introduction of a system giving far greater control
of the choice of superannuation fund to individual employees.
7 Evidence, p. 238.
Evidence, p 405.
8


3.15 However, Mr Lockery sounded a note of caution about the anticipated benefits of
competition. He argued that the majority of employees in large employer based or industry
funds would not receive any benefit and might instead suffer a net economic loss. He said that
this was because the Government had not recognised the intense competition that already
exists:
The key issue that the government has failed to recognise is the
efficiency of our present trustee based system in producing intense
competition at the wholesale level between investment managers and
between fund administrators. It is clear that many other industries'
participants support our view.9
3.16 Mr Lockery was of the view that costs would increase because of factors such as
greater marketing costs, administrative costs and costs of people switching funds. He thought
that particularly in the case of people who were in a default fund, ‘their net benefits will be a
little lower’. However, this had to be weighed up against the advantages:
Against that, it probably is fair to say that we have definitely seen in the
marketplace a lot of people looking at how they can improve their fund
with the advent of choice coming. That is the offset to that. That is the
case of somebody - particularly, say, employer sponsored funds - saying,
‘How can we make our fund more attractive to members? What can we
do better?’ In that sense, the mere threat of choice, if you like, is actually
having some positive benefit in the marketplace, because people are
saying, ‘Yes, we think we've got a good fund but maybe we could make
it a little better to be more competitive.’ 10
3.17 Towers Perrin recommended that ‘clear, objective benchmarks be established to
monitor the success or otherwise of the policy. They contended that such measurement should
be established before the Government put the policy in place:
If we do not set these benchmarks from the outset, we will have no way
of judging, in an informed manner, how well the new system is
performing and the impact of any changes to improve the system where
deficiencies are identified."
3.18 The Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees were also among the groups who
disagreed with the Government’s proposition that costs and fees would fall under choice. Mr
Geoffrey Cook, the Institute’s President was emphatic:
In my view the implication that costs are going to drop is totally wrong.
My view, and certainly the view of most of our members, is that costs
are going to rise. The arrangements are going to be to the disadvantage
of those members.12
9 Evidence, p.
10 Evidence, p.
11 Submission,
12 Evidence, p.
302.
308-9.
p. 11.
104.


3.19 Mr Cook attributed the likely increases in costs to a number of factors. These include
marketing, which he thought would increase ‘very materially’; administrative costs associated
with the transfer of members; and legal costs. ‘All of these add up to more and more dollars
which are going to be paid by our members out there.’ 13
3.20 It is clear that low overhead funds will have to increase expenditure on product
promotion if they are to survive in a fiercely competitive post choice environment. Some
indication of the competitive environment they may face is provided by current finance sector
expenditure on advertising.
3.21 Ms Helen Hewitt, fund Secretary, C+BUS, provided the Committee with information
about current expenditure on advertising in the finance sector. She noted that in 1997, this
sector spent $390 million on advertising, $216 million of which was on television advertising.
She said that ‘One big life office spends $1.5 million a month promoting superannuation to
the community.’14
3.22 Ms Hewitt speculated on what this might mean for C+BUS and attempted to quantify
the extra costs that might result from choice induced competition:
We think that for us to be able to effectively promote our product and
look after our existing members we will have to spend more money on
promoting our superannuation fund. We do not think that that is going to
benefit the members of the fund. For us to spend $12 million on
advertising - which we would not do, but if we were to - we would have
to take approximately one per cent off the crediting rate.15
3.23 Ms Hewitt concluded by casting doubt over whether competition would in fact
produce better retirement benefits for fund members:
If the objective of all of this is to increase competition so that people
have greater security and more money to rely on in retirement, 1 am not
sure that this objective is going to be met unless there is some way of
managing these costs.16
Government view on benefits of competition and effects on fund costs
3.24 The Committee sought information about the apparently conflicting views it received
during the Sydney and Melbourne public hearings concerning the likely effects of competition
on funds costs. The Government’s stated position is that it believes increased competition
will drive down costs and fees and result in better benefits for fund members. However,
several witnesses disputed whether this, in fact, would be the case.
3.25 Mr Keith Chapman, Acting Deputy Commissioner - Superannuation, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC), told the Committee that, overall,
13 Evidence, p. 104.
14 Evidence, p. 180.
15 Evidence, p. 181.
16 Evidence, p. 180.


the costs should drop because they are competitive. I think people are
going to compete on benefit investment portfolios, investment returns
and costs.'7
3.26 However, Mr Chapman acknowledged that individual funds may incur cost’.
3.27 The Committee sought information as to whether the ISC could provide any
information about the overseas experience of expenditure on advertising and marketing costs
when choice is introduced. Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner, Policy, ISC, told the
Committee that:
We have not undertaken any specific research on the impact on industry
compliance costs in terms of marketing the choice of fund. My
preliminary thought is that most market players would undertake their
own commercial assessment of the costs and benefits of investing dollars
into marketing and the likely returns against those investments.
3.28 Mr Larkin advised that there was some evidence of how competition could drive
down costs. He told the Committee that the ISC had:
...seen some evidence in the marketplace recently of the entry of indexed
funds offered by global fund managers, funds which significantly
undercut some of the active managers in the commercial marketplace
and can offer an investment management service.19
3.29 He said that this flows through to cheaper fees and charges for the end user, the
consumer. ‘I think these developments will gather pace as choice of fund is taken up.
Does the proposal deliver true choice for employees?
3.30 A number of contributors to the inquiry questioned whether the government’s choice
model will provide adequate choice for employees. For example, the Australian Consumers
Association, a supporter of the choice principle, contended that the Government’s model will
not allow choice for many employees:
It is effectively the employer’s decision over the type of choice offered
or whether there will be any choice at all.21
3.31 The submission acknowledged that there are ‘reasonable arguments’ for minimising
administrative loads on employers that may result from fund choice. However the Association
considered that the Government has not achieved an appropriate balance:
...the balance between employer cost and employee choice has shifted
too far away from fund members. It is not employee choice of fund."
17 Evidence, p. 434.
18 Evidence, p. 433.
19 Evidence, p. 435.
20 Evidence, p. 435.
21 Submission, p. 8.


3.32 The Association proposed an alternative model, under which the employer would take
responsibility for the default fund, coupled with open ended choice for those employees who
wanted it."2 Essentially, the Association’s model amounts to choice driven by employee
demand.
3.33 The ACTU also disputed whether the Government’s model provides employees with
adequate levels of choice. Ms Linda Rubenstein, Senior Industrial Officer, Australian Council
of Trade Unions, contended that the choice proposal in its current form actually offered
employees minimal choice. She said that:
...this legislation is not really about employee choice; it is about
employer choice. It is employers who have the lion's share of the ability
to choose. First of all, of course, it is the employer who chooses whether
to offer unlimited choice or restricted choice, and in reality it will be the
employers who choose whether to have workplace agreements -
particularly where they are AWAs.24
3.34 In common with other witnesses from the Trade Union movement, Ms Rubenstein
contended that the power relationship between employers and employees is such that the
employers wishes are likely to prevail leaving the employee with little real choice:
...although in theory under the legislation an employee can come to the
employer and say, T want this fund,' in reality the employer can say
'No', because you are going to need the employer's agreement for any
proposal of the employees. As we said in the submission, the reality is
the employer will say, T would like you to sign this AWA; I would like
you to sign this informal agreement,' and the employee will really not be
in a position to do anything else, even if they want to.25
Government position
3.35 The Committee sought information from the Assistant Treasurer about the extent to
which the Government’s proposal delivers choice to employees. The Minister noted that at
the moment, there is no choice for many employees:
The truth of the matter is that the employee does not have any choice at
the moment. He has no choice."6
3.36 The Minister advised that the Government aimed to give employees choice, but had to
balance this against employers’ interests:
In the end, we had to strike what we saw as a reasonable balance. We
believe that the proposals that we put down do deliver choice and that
they do so in a way which is cost-effective to employers. So it is a matter
22 Submission, p. 8.
23 Submission, p. 8
24 Evidence, p. 123.
25 Evidence, p. 123.
26 Evidence, p. 419.


of just striking the right balance. I accept that people of goodwill will
differ on that.2'
3.37 There are arguments both for and against the Government’s choice model and
alternative options. While some may see totally unlimited choice as a more reasonable option,
this also has shortcomings. Unlimited choice may impose excessive administrative burdens
on employers. While unlimited choice may be attractive for some well informed employees, it
does open up the possibility of poor decision making on the part of employees who are not
able to make an informed choice.
3.38 Unlimited choice, however, removes a number of potential legal problems in respect
of liabilities that were of great concern to many small employers. This is because
responsibility for selecting a fund shifts from the employer to the employee.
3.39 It can be argued that the four fund option places too much power in the hands of the
employer. However, while the employer is able to select the funds offered, this model
nonetheless does offer greater choice than that presently available to many employees and can
only be regarded as an improvement on the present situation.
Is there a demand for choice from employees?
3.40 Several witnesses, particularly those representing the union movement, questioned
whether many employees were in fact actively seeking choice of fund. They also questioned
the motives of some choice supporters, suggesting that these groups may in fact be driven by
the potential for commercial gain.
3.41 The view expressed by Mr Michael O’Sullivan, National Executive President of the
Australian Services Union, are representative of those who question the need for this policy.
Mr O’Sullivan suggested that the Government’s agenda in this area arises out of hostility
towards industry funds and lobbying by the banks and major life offices to gain a share of the
superannuation market. He told the Committee that:
We say they do not arise from any visible demand from employers or
employees, and they are likely to operate against the interests of both
employers and employees. They seem to us to stem from two things.
Firstly, the government appears to be very unhappy with the present
superannuation regime and especially industry funds...
Secondly, the legislation seems, to us anyway, to be manifestly the result
of successful lobbying by banks and life offices for an increased share in
the control of retirement savings...these commercial and profit-making
interests want a greater share of the pie. That seems to be driving the
choice legislation.28
3.42 Mr O’Sullivan considered that opening the superannuation market up to these groups
would have detrimental effects on his members, leading to poorer retirement benefits:
27 Evidence, p. 419.
28 Evidence, p. 54.


They open the gate to mis-selling. They open the gate to commissions.
They open the gate to increased fees and charges of entry and exit, and
they artificially impose marketing and advertising costs on an industry
which largely is without them at the present time—and a host of other
negative factors...29
Application to Public Sector schemes
3.43 The Committee received some “grassroots” evidence of public sector employee
discontent with the funds in which they found themselves. Mr Brian Wemdly and Mr Darryl
Brick, former defence force employees, wrote to the Committee complaining about the
defence force fund. Mr Wemdly’s “employer” contributions are locked into the fund until he
reaches retirement age. The value of his benefits is indexed to the CPI. He claimed that this
was ‘grossly unfair’, because almost all funds return better than the CPI.30
3.44 The Committee does not draw any strong conclusions from these complaints, which
are clearly based on a misunderstanding of the nature of unfunded defined benefit schemes.
However, these views usefully illustrate the principle that some people, when they are in
funds with low earning rates, are conscious that they could do better and might benefit from
the possibilities that choice of fund may offer.
3.45 The principle of choice is not being extended to military superannuation schemes.
Current members of the PSS and CSS will be offered choice of fund from 1 July 2000. The
Government has announced that it intends to close the PSS to new entrants from 1 July 1998
and will offer new Commonwealth employees choice of fund from that date.
3.46 The Committee is currently considering legislation concerning the application of
choice to Commonwealth employees and the closure of the PSS.
Employer attitudes to choice of fund
3.47 Generally, smaller employers have expressed concern about quickly coming to grips
with legal responsibilities and key features statements.
3.48 Some employers clearly saw the need to learn about and implement choice of fund as
an imposition. Two pithy comments made in a submission by Mr Stephen Cole, a patisserie
manager, summed up his views:
We are not in the financial services industry; we make cakes.
...business is hard enough without the imposition of yet greater
paperwork.31
3.49 Coles Myer, Australia’s largest private sector employer, supports the concept for
choice of fund. Coles Myer was, however, concerned about a number of issues relating to the
29 Evidence, p. 54.
30 Submission no. 11, p. 11
31 Submission no. I, p. 1.


implementation of the choice policy. In particular, Coles Myer was concerned about training
requirements for staff, changes to payroll systems and whether the company could meet the
Government’s announced start-up date.32
32 Evidence, p. 84-85.


CHAPTER 4
INVESTMENT CHOICE
Investment Choice
4.1 Investment choice generally refers to a differentiation of investment streams within
one superannuation fund, or to a provider offering a range of products with different levels of
risk and return. Less commonly, investment choice can also refer to choices about where
funds are invested. For example, funds may invest in industries and activities their members
consider morally, socially or economically desirable.
4.2 Investment choice products based on different risk and return profiles are generally
distinguishable by the names given to the products by providers. Three common descriptions
are:
. Capital guaranteed funds;
• Balanced funds; and
. Growth funds.
4.3 Investment choice allows consumers to choose an investment strategy that most suits
their personal circumstances. For example, people early in their working lives may be better
off in the long term with a high growth, higher risk product. This is because variations in
investment return will tend to even out over time, and their fund earnings can be maximised.
Conversely, people later in their working lives might prefer a fund that offers more security
so they can plan their retirement income requirements with some certainty.
4.4 However, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd advised the Committee that following the
introduction of investment choice in the United States, people tended to make more
conservative decisions than trustees would have made on their behalf. The result over the
longer term, retirement benefits are lower than they otherwise would have been.
4.5 Studies show that to date, Australians take a very conservative approach when offered
investment choice. This caution is reflected in slow take up rates where funds have offered
investment choice to members.
4.6 Many public offer and industry funds offer investment choice now. However, the
evidence given to the Committee indicates a generally low level of interest in or
understanding of investment choice. Ms Helen Hewitt of C+BUS recounted her fund s
experience with investment choice, concluding that there was not significant demand for
investment choice among members:
We offer three pretty traditional portfolios: the stable fund, the growth
fund and the balanced fund. There are some differences. Our growth
fund tends to have a slightly higher proportion of growth assets such as
property than a lot of other comparable funds. We believe it is slightly
different. Essentially, they are very similar to those offered.
1 Submission, Attachment, p. 8.


We sent out a publication to 250,000 members. We invited them all to
participate in member investment choice. Just a little over 2,000 made
some sort of inquiry and, as at the end of January, 310 made a choice.2
4.7 Several other witnesses made similar comments. Ms Sandra Birkensleigh of Coopers
& Lybrand referred the Committee to material published by ASFA concerning the take-up
rate of investment choice when it was offered. She noted that the following funds had offered
investment choice, with low levels of response:
. Hesta - 54 of its 125,000 members took advantage of member investment
choice;
• First State Super - 90 per cent of its participants did not exercise choice;
and
• BOC Gases superannuation fund - 12 out of 2,000 members made an
election under the choice regime.3
4.8 The slow take-up of investment choice may be associated with the generally poor
understanding of superannuation in the community. Concepts such as investment choice are
difficult for many people to understand. Mr David Knight, Compensation and Benefits
Manager, Coles Myer, linked the apparent reluctance to move to a lack of understanding and
need for education:
My observation is that there is not currently, amongst Coles Myer
employees, a high degree of understanding of the different sorts of
investment choices or the implications that flow from differing
investment profiles. I think that is a key issue in the education process.4
4.9 However, there is evidence that thorough education campaigns have produced higher
levels of response to offers of investment choice. Mrs Sandra Birkensleigh highlighted two
companies that offered investment choice to their employees:
• Coca-Cola Amatil - 64 per cent made an active choice; and
• Optus - 75 to 80 per cent exercised their right to investment choice.5
4.10 Ms Krvstyna Hassall, a member of the board of Westscheme who gave evidence in a
private capacity, corroborated Mr Knight’s view. Ms Hassall recommended offering
investment choice as part of the education process before proceeding to full choice of fund.
She considered that people would then have the opportunity to learn about the choices
available to them within the context of their existing funds, with which they may have greater
familiarity.6
2
3
Evidence, p. 184.
Evidence, p. 272.
4 Evidence, p. 88.
Evidence, p. 272.
Evidence, p. 288.
5
6


4.11 However, Ms Hassall considered that as employees increased in understanding, the
option should be open to progress towards full choice:
As they become more sophisticated, one must argue that, if a fund
cannot provide the sort of products or the range that they are looking for,
the mechanism should be within the legislation for them to move out and
to go to another fund. But I think that that should really be focused on
investment choice first.7
4.12 Aon Consulting Pty Ltd took a different view to that of Ms Hassall, recommending
that the choice of fund legislation be ‘deferred indefinitely’ and replaced with a choice of
investments regime. Aon Consulting considered that the most pressing need was for funds to
provide a viable choice of investment strategies. They argued that the Government’s
proposals had four shortcomings in that they do not:
. affect the total contributions being made to the superannuation system;
• ensure that members’ investment returns will increase;
• ensure that demands on he social security system will reduce; or
• create the environment where members can make effective choices appropriate
to themselves.8
4.13 The Committee sought information from Treasury representatives as to whether
offering investment choice might be a desirable first step in the process of introducing full
choice of fund.
4.14 Ms Deidre Gerathy, Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury, reminded the
Committee that many funds already offer investment choice. She added that investment
choice by itself would not fulfill the Government’s policy objective to increase competition
between funds:
I think that gets back to the policy rationale for the choice proposal in.
the first place - which is to provide competition and greater efficiencies,
which you obviously do not get from just choice of investment
strategies.9
4.15 In the current environment, with most corporate, public offer and industry funds
achieving good returns, the climate is not conducive to change. This may partially explain
why people have not generally taken up investment choice when it has been offered to them.
7 Evidence, p. 288.
8 Submission, p. 3-4.
Evidence, p. 459.
9




CHAPTER 5
INFORMED CHOICE: EDUCATION
Introduction
5.1 The Committee found widespread acceptance of the view that ‘informed choice’ is
necessary if the Government’s choice of fund proposal is to be successful. There are two
requirements for informed choice:
• education of consumers and employers; and
• adequate disclosure of information about funds.
5.2 This chapter covers evidence received by the committee concerning the importance of
adequate education. Chapter 6 discusses disclosure rules. It is important to note that many
witnesses commented about these issues in the context of discussing the commencement date
of choice of fund.
5.3 Many witnesses were concerned about whether there was sufficient time for
implementing appropriate education and communication programs before 1 July 1998.
Similarly, employers and funds have considerable work yet to be done before they are ready
to implement the Government’s policy, for example, in developing key features statements.
5.4 The Committee discusses the appropriateness of the implementation date in Chapter 7
of the report.
Importance of education
5.5 A large proportion of the witnesses and submissions to this inquiry emphasised that
success of the choice of fund policy requires adequate education of employers and employees
about their obligations and opportunities under the legislation.
5.6 To this end, many argued for a comprehensive communication and education
campaign to ensure employers understand their options and obligations, and employees both
understand their rights, and have the ability to make a choice that is appropriate for their
needs and circumstances.
5.7 The Committee encountered substantial support for adequate education from across
the spectrum of interests that gave evidence to the inquiry. In highlighting the comments ot
several groups below, the Committee stresses that these comments are included to indicate
some of the range of views represented and are by no means exhaustive.
5.8 Mr David Knight, Compensation and Benefits Manager, Coles Myer, a major
employer, supported the choice of fund concept but warned that adequate education of
employees is central:


Chapter 5
Clearly, the success of freedom of choice depends on high quality
communication material.1
5.9 The Australian Bankers’ Association (ABA), a strong supporter of the Government's
choice proposal, was one of the many who also saw education as critical to the success of the
policy:
The competitive benefits of choice are directly related to the ability of
employees and employers to use and understand the regime.2
5.10 The ABA saw a significant role for Government in the education process, which they
considered should incorporate a number of elements, including TV advertising:
It is our view that the communication and education task before us
involves reaching the hearts and minds of every employee and employer,
and bringing about a culture of active interest. That is why we have
recommended that the government take a high profile, active role,
preferably via TV, in communicating the choice regime. A major public
education campaign is also required.
5.11 The ABA explained why it took the view that a strong education campaign is needed:
...people see the system as complex, confusing and constantly changing.
Average balances are still low. With compulsion, people do not feel in
control. There is still a negative attitude to super as an investment in
some quarters. People may find the information on super too difficult to
understand. There is disinterest by some employers. There are low levels
of literacy. It is important that we understand the drivers of these views.
This is critical to making the education and communication effective. '
5.12 Mr Brian Thomas, Financial Products Manager, NRMA, suggested an alternative
approach to the advertising campaign proposed by other witnesses. Mr Thomas cautioned that
advertising campaigns may have short lives.
5.13 Mr Thomas proposed that the Government prepare and issue a short booklet that
would:
... form the basis of explaining to people all the generic information they
needed to know about superannuation and how the choice system works
for both employers and employees and, more importantly, what their
rights are under choice.4
5.14 Mr Ian Silk, of the Industry Funds Forum (IFF), provided the Committee with
information about literacy and numeracy levels amongst the Australian population which
highlights the need to adequately educate Australians about choice of fund.
1
Evidence, p. 85.
2 Evidence, p. 4 -5.
3 Evidence, p. 5.
Evidence, p. 315.
4


5.15 Mr Silk cited an Australian Bureau of Statistics survey undertaken in 1996 that ranked
adult Australians on their literacy and numeracy levels. Mr Silk stated that this survey found
that almost half of the Australian population have relatively low levels of literacy and
numeracy and are likely to have considerable difficulty in understanding choice of fund
information, such as key features statements. For this reason, the IFF strongly emphasised the
need for a well planned education program. Mr Silk concluded:
...if we look at those findings in the context of the issue that is currently
before the committee, it seems that it is an essential part of the
introduction of choice, if it is not to backfire, that considerable resources
and time be employed in informing and educating the community about
the issues that are before them, so that they are in a position to make an
informed choice.5
5.16 The Australian Consumers Association (ACA) also saw education as vital, and
considered that there must be a ‘serious effort to educate employees and consumers so that
they are aware of the potential implications of choice for their financial well being'. The
Association listed a set of objectives for education, so that people understand, as a minimum:
. why choice may be important for their retirement income;
• whether they have choice, and if so, what sort;
• how and when they can exercise choice;
• what happens if they don’t make a choice (and why there may be no
problem if they don’t choose);
. that they do not have to move from the fund they are currently in (i.e. to a
new fund);
• the serious implications of shifting out of defined benefit funds;
• where to go for further advice or information; and
. where to go if they have complaints/problems.
5.17 Mr Peter Kell, the ACA’s senior policy officer, emphasised that an education
campaign must avoid inducing people to change funds without good reason. Rather, the
message must be that people have the option of changing funds if their fund is inappropriate
to their circumstances:
I think it is important that people do not get the impression from an
education campaign that they must suddenly switch funds. That would
be a damaging message if people ended up believing that was the case.
They should be aware that they have the option but they do not
necessarily have to be switched.6
5.18 The ACA emphasised that consumer education about choice should be independent.
We see the core of any education campaign as being an independent
provision of information and advice, and other things, so that industry
5 Evidence, p. 29.
Evidence, p. 349.
6


has a role, consumer groups, all stakeholders, unions and employers
have a role. But that core of it has to be independent.
5.19 The ACA drew a clear distinction between education and public relations, warning
that there is a conflict between selling products and educating users of those products.8
Limitations of education
5.20 Despite the best efforts of governments, employers and providers, it is important to
appreciate there are limits to what education programs about choice of fund might be
expected to achieve. Mr Kevin Casey, representing AMP, sounded a note of caution and saw
the problem as long term:
The introduction of choice in superannuation will always cause
problems until you have a genuinely educated public, and that is a
generational type situation. We are not going to be able to magically
come up with a formula to educate the public to make an informed
choice in three or six months. All we can do is start to establish the
framework for this.9
5.21 The Committee also received evidence about the extent of low literacy and numeracy
skills in the community. For these people, it is unlikely that education will be of any real
benefit. Mr Ken Lockery, Principal, Towers Perrin, concurred with this view:
1 guess 1 have already said that 1 think that, with the best will in the
world, an education campaign will only affect a proportion of the
population and that there will be a w hole lot of other people who cannot
benefit from that simply because of their level of English, understanding
or whatever in that process.10
5.22 Mrs Sandra Birkensleigh of Coopers & Lybrand provided the Committee with useful
information regarding the results of education programs already conducted by employers
about choice. These programs had achieved mixed results:
In this month's ASFA magazine, Coca-Cola Amatil is noted as having
been awarded a prize for the best member communication program in
terms of the introduction of member choice. Sixty-four per cent of its
members made an active choice; 94 per cent of its members indicated
that they appreciated being provided with choice. This means that,
despite a first-class education program, 30 per cent of the work force
made no choice.
The Telstra fund offered investment choice in February 1997 to
approximately 72,000 members of its accumulation fund. Less than two
per cent showed any serious interest in departing from the default fund
provided by the trustee. Conversely, the Optus fund offered investment
Evidence, p. 350.
8 Evidence, p. 344.
9 Evidence, p. 356.
10 Evidence, p. 311.


choice approximately two years ago to its members and, following an
intensive education campaign, 75 per cent to 80 per cent of fund
members exercised their right to investment choice."
5.23 Mrs Birkensleigh’s evidence demonstrates that well designed and implemented
communication and education campaigns are effective change agents. Whether the choices
made by Optus employees were in fact good choices is, however, impossible to assess with
the available information.
Education for employers
5.24 Employers, particularly small employers, may also need assistance to understand their
obligations under choice of fund. The Committee received useful evidence from a parent who
is an “employer” by virtue of her involvement in the local kindergarten. Ms Rhonda
Holdsworth explained for the Committee how she came to be an employer:
1 was co-opted to a kindergarten committee in 1994 and then told that we
suddenly were the employers of the staff and we were going to manage
their wages, their uniform allowance, Workcover, superannuation - the
lot. None of us had any prior knowledge of those matters and none of us
were from that background.1:
5.25 Ms Holdsworth told the Committee that parents in this situation are very worried
about their liabilities concerning their ‘employees', the teachers. Superannuation presents a
major problem for Ms Holdsworth: ‘I cannot understand my own superannuation where I
work, let alone try to sort that out for someone in another industry’. She illustrated the
extent of the problem of low' employer awareness levels about obligations towards employees
by citing how her Centre had not been aware of its Workcover obligations and had
consequently been fined. She concluded:
That is the sort of thing you are facing with the superannuation changes
if you offer choices in lots of different funds. It is very difficult to
actually have any knowledge of it unless you are working in the area all
the time.14
5.26 .Employers may also need education about how to act in the best interests ol their
employees. ASFA, for example, advised the Committee that employers may need help to
determine what is an appropriate scheme for their employees and how to pick an appropriate
default fund:
Ms Smith - They need the information education campaign themselves
in terms of how to profile their employees, what types of schemes might
11 Evidence, p. 272.
12 Evidence, p. 193.
13 Evidence, p. 193.
14 Evidence, p. 194.


be appropriate for their employees, how to choose themselves, let alone
the public at large.15
5.27 The Committee received other evidence from a number of sources indicating that
employers’ and employees’ knowledge of the choice of fund proposal is lacking. A number of
employers who sent submissions clearly did not understand the options open to them under
the legislation.
5.28 The authors of the submission received from the Anglican Church of Australia, which
sought an exemption for churches from the choice of fund requirements, did not appear to be
aware of the unlimited choice option, or that they could satisfy their obligations within the
industrial relations framework through a certified or informal agreement.16
5.29 Evidence provided by Mrs Louise Matthews of Coopers & Lybrand supports the
Committee’s view that awareness is low. Ms Matthews cited a survey conducted by GIO, the
results of which the Australian Financial Review published on 22 December 1997. That
survey found that 78 per cent of employees and 42 per cent of employers were unaware of the
choice of fund regime to be implemented by 1 July 1998. Ms Matthews concluded: ‘That is a
staggering number of people who are still unaware that this legislation is going to be
implemented from that date.’17
Paying for education
5.30 A substantial education campaign about choice of fund is likely to be an expensive
exercise. ASFA advised the Committee it considered that such a campaign could be funded
from a surplus of regulation fees collected from the industry. Ms Rosemary Vilgan drew the
Committee’s attention to this possibility:
As indicated in our submission, we believe that there is some funding
required from the government but we would also like the committee to
know that the industry substantially overfunds its costs of self-
regulation. Our submission indicates that at the moment there is
probably at least $12 million in surplus, that the industry has paid. In
effect, there is money that the industry has paid which would ensure it
could self-fund the education campaign. The combination of that and
government funding would, in fact, make for a sizeable and long-term
education campaign. The intent of the levy was to cover costs but it is
far in excess of costs at the moment.18
5.31 Representatives of William M. Mercer Pty Ltd made similar comments to those of
Ms Vilgan about how an education campaign might be funded. Mr Colin Grenfell told the
Committee that supervisory levies far exceeded ISC supervisory expenses: ‘There is an
15 Evidence, p. 247.
16 Submission no. 50.
17 Evidence, p.275.
18 Evidence, p. 239.


excess of, I believe, approximately $30 million of accumulated fees over accumulated
expenses.’19
5.32 The Australian Bankers Association was one of several groups which considered the
Government should make a substantial contribution towards an education campaign:
The government, we believe, should find whatever funds are necessary
to ensure that the communication of this policy and the associated
education is as good as it can be, and that it covers all employees and all
employers.20
Consequences of inadequate education
5.33 Education of employers and employees should, if adequate, assist employees to make
good choices about their superannuation arrangements. Several witnesses cautioned that if
employees make poor or inappropriate choices, neither the interests of the individual nor the
nation will be served. There is a risk that employees will fail to maximise their retirement
incomes, leading to a lower standard of living in retirement and greater dependence on the
age pension.
5.34 Mr Geoffrey Cook of the AIST told the Committee that the risks to fund members of
making a poor choice were high, and were illustrated by the English experience of choice:
...we only have to look at the experiences, of which you are well aware,
that took place in England of veiy slick salesmen using sophisticated
sales techniques to persuade people to change from one fund to another.
The costs associated with this are significant but they can often be
persuaded to go from a better fund to a worse fund.'1
5.35 Mr Cook supported his comments with his own personal experience:
Indeed, I must say I have some insight into that because amongst some
‘ of my other roles I am the deputy chairman of the Over 50's Friendly
Society where we do sell investment products so I am aware of some of
the techniques that take place in this area and they do disturb me. I am
concerned - and our members, and the members that they in turn
represent - are very concerned about this whole question of making the
wrong choice.22
Government response on education
5.36 The Assistant Treasurer, Senator the Hon. Rod Kemp, informed the Committee he
agreed with the views put to the Committee that education is vital for getting the best results
from choice. Senator Kemp stated that:
19 Evidence, p. 159.
20 Evidence, p. 5.
21 Evidence, p. 105
22 Evidence, p. 105.


We have reiterated very strongly the belief that we have, which is
reflected by industry and by the submissions that you have received, in
the importance of the education campaign. It is important that people
make an informed choice and it is important that we have the strategies
to get out and to reach those people.23
5.37 Senator Kemp advised the Committee about the Government’s education strategy for
choice of fund. He told the Committee:
A communications strategy is currently being developed by the ATO in
conjunction with other agencies and industry. Briefly, this strategy will
involve the use of direct mail-outs to employers, seminar presentations,
Internet information and editorial and, of course, advertisements and
other material in selected journals. Information will also be disseminated
through peak bodies such as Chambers of Commerce and industry
associations. Particular emphasis will be given to new employees and to
employees changing jobs.24
... superannuation providers will play a significant role in the education
process. The communication program will have special regard to the
needs of women, young people and people from non-English speaking
backgrounds.25
5.38 The Committee sought information about the form of the education program and
asked the Minister whether the campaign would include television advertising. Senator Kemp
advised there is a range of options, but could not be specific. Mr Michael Monaghan added to
the Minister’s answer. He advised the Committee:
The key here is to find a hook to get people wanting to take an interest.
We have spoken to some financial trainers who have experience in
trying to get people interested in knowing about their financial affairs,
and we are building that knowledge into our program. We need to find a
way to get people interested. We believe that in an area like this it is
important to hit while the interest is up.26
Conclusions
5.39 The Committee notes the findings of the Wallis Committee in respect of education:
It is the joint responsibility of the industry and regulators to ensure that
consumers are educated and well informed. Education should cover
issues such as the rights of members, different life cycle needs and their
implications for risk and return, and the benefits and costs of exercising
choice.27
23 Evidence, p. 414.
24 Evidence, p. 406.
25 Evidence, p. 406.
26 Evidence, p. 417.
27 Wallis Report, p. 488.


5.40 The Committee notes and welcomes the Government’s commitment to educating
employees and employers about choice of fund. However, witnesses question whether
sufficient resources are being devoted to the task.28
5.41 The Committee notes the suggestion made by Mr Brian Thomas of the NRMA
concerning the production of a source document about choice. The requirement for education
about choice of fund is likely to be ongoing, as new people enter the workforce or are faced
with choice of fund for the first time when they change jobs.
5.42 The Committee is, however, mindful of the difficulties that will be encountered in
educating the Australian population about choice. There is a need for a multiple strategy
approach to education that incorporates elements such as those suggested by Mr Thomas, as
well as simpler material for those who are less able to comprehend such material or will not
take the time to read it.
5.43 The Committee is in substantial agreement with Mr Kevin Casey’s comments
regarding realistic expectations about what an education program might achieve. Clearly,
education will be an ongoing requirement and awareness of the possibilities that may arise
from introducing a choice of fund will take some time to develop.
5.44 This heightens the need for careful consideration about matters such as the features of
default funds and similar measures needed to provide safeguards for employees.
28 See, for example, Evidence, ABA, p. 8.




CHAPTER 6
INFORMED CHOICE - DISCLOSURE
Informed Choice - Disclosure
Introduction
6.1 Disclosure is the second essential element of informed choice. Under disclosure rules
that will be introduced by regulation following passage of the legislation, funds will be
required to disclose features such as entry fees, crediting rates, exit fees and commissions in
key features statements.
6.2 These key features statements will be an important tool that employees will use to
distinguish between the funds offered to them by their employers or, if they have unlimited
choice, by providers such as the superannuation funds, banks, credit unions and life offices.
6.3 The Government has announced that a new Australian Securities and Investment
Commission (ASIC) is to be established.1 ASIC will have responsibility for the regulation of
point of sale requirements for all investment products, including superannuation products.
ASIC is also to conduct a review of retail financial products to ensure that these products
provide information that enables comparison between products.2
ISC discussion paper on disclosure
6.4 On 17 December, 1997, the Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC) issued a
discussion paper on disclosure issues The ISC announced that the purpose of the disclosure
discussion paper is:
to seek industry and consumer group feedback on a number of technical
implementation issues associated with the design of disclosure rules
under the choice of fund policy. ’
6.5 The introduction of choice of fund requires an important change to the timing of the
revision of disclosure material to members. Currently, standard employer-sponsored members
are only supplied disclosure information ‘as soon as practicable after they become a member
of the fund’.4
6.6 However, the choice of fund initiative requires a different approach to allow
prospective fund members to examine the features of funds before they join. Accordingly, the
Government will, in the new regulations, introduce an ‘up-front’ disclosure regime. Under
this regime employers offering the limited choice of four funds must supply the employee
with a copy of the key features statements of the prospective fund before the employee joins.
1 ASIC was originally to have been named the Australian Corporations and Financial Services Commission
(ACFSC).
2 Disclosure Discussion paper, p. 4.
3 Disclosure Discussion paper, p. 4.
SIS Regulations, Division 2.3.
4


6.7 The disclosure discussion paper discusses what information trustees will have to
include in key features statements for disclosure to prospective members. However, the
details of the final requirements are as yet unknown.
Comparing apples with apples
6.8 A number of witnesses emphasised that, whatever the disclosure rules finally adopted,
it was important that prospective members of funds be provided with information that would
allow them to make valid comparisons between funds.
6.9 All witnesses emphasised that there was a need to ensure that the disclosure regime
needed to provide information that people could use. This is particularly important in view of
the relatively low levels of literacy and numeracy amongst a large proportion of the
population, as described in the previous section of this report on education.
6.10 Ms Sharon Barker, a Policy Coordinator with the Financial and Consumer Rights
Council, described the difficulties that consumers have comparing products. She said that:
We believe that it is essential that there is a standardised format for the
type of information that is provided to consumers or to the general
public to ensure that people have an opportunity to compare oranges
with oranges. We have some examples of consumers not being able to
compare different types of funds very well. We have examples of banks
offering different products, and it is very difficult for consumers to
compare those products.5
6.11 Ms Ann Byme, Convenor of the Industry Funds Forum, made similar comments. She
told the Committee that, at the moment, it is very difficult for people to compare
superannuation funds. She gave the example of differences in reporting dates for
superannuation funds, which made it difficult for consumers to make a valid comparison
about the earning rates of those funds:
Some - probably, I think, the vast majority, have a reporting date of 30
June; some, though, have a reporting date of 30 September, and some
have reporting dates of 31 December or 31 March. So, if you are doing a
comparison, particularly between the earning rates of those funds, it is
very difficult unless you have the same reporting date.6
6.12 Ms Byme also emphasised the importance of disclosing fees and charges in a form
that permits comparisons to be made. She told the Committee that public offer funds are
already required to disclose fees and charges in key features statements. However, the manner
in which the funds disclose these charges does not always give an accurate picture. She told
the Committee that:
In the current requirements for key features statements which are only
currently required for public offer funds, when you actually put together
your management expense ratio you do not always have to put in all of
5 Evidence, p. 22.
6 Evidence, p. 30.


your direct investment expenses. It is my understanding that if your
investments are in a pooled vehicle, because the return you get on that
vehicle is less the expenses then that does not have to be declared.7
6.13 Ms Byrne emphasised that:
We believe that information should be available so that members can
understand clearly what all the administrative charges and all the
investment charges are, and can actually do an accurate comparison.8
6.14 The representatives of William M. Mercer Pty Limited, Superannuation Consultants
and Actuaries, advised the Committee that they considered that a single regime for key
features statements is essential. Mr Steve Partridge told the Committee that currently the ISC
is proposing a shorter form of key features statements for choice of fund and a longer form, as
is already required, for public offer funds. He did not agree with this approach and told the
Committee that:
We think key features statements need to have investment return
information and fee illustrations that are very heavily standardised. That
is crucial, so that key features statements are comparable.9
6.15 Mercers’ representatives advised that, unless there is standardisation, it will be
extremely difficult for prospective employees to compare funds. Mercers recommended that
one approach that should be considered for the disclosure regime is for the percentage
reduction in benefits that arises from fees and charges to be tabulated. Mr Colin Grenfell, a
superannuation consultant and Actuary, told the Committee that Mercers considered that by
using this approach, it is possible to standardise and bring out the impact of fees and charges
for all types of funds.
6.16 In a supplementary submission, Mr Grenfell provided the Committee with two draft
forms of wording for key features statements that would illustrate the impact of fees and
charges on benefits.10 The tables provided by Mr Grenfell are attached at Appendix E. These
tables are the same as those proposed by the Institute of Actuaries in their submission to the
ISC on the disclosure issues discussion paper.
6.17 Mr Grenfell considered that key features statements would also need to be
supplemented by what he described as generic material. He told the Committee that:
We envisage that the key features statements would be specific to the
plan. We recommended to the ISC that, in addition to the key features
statements, you need some generic material about superannuation. It
would cover issues like risk and return, preservation, taxation, the
7 Evidence, p. 30.
8 Evidence, p. 30.
9 Evidence, p. 147.
10 Evidence, p. 148.


Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (if it exists) and all these issues
that relate to the market as distinct to relating to the plan.11
6.18 Ms Helen Hewett, the Fund Secretary of C+BUS, provided the Committee with an
illustration of the current difficulties that are faced in evaluating fees and charges from
current key features statements. She told the Committee that:
Recently we had a training session where there were 17 representatives
from different superannuation funds and people across the industry.
They were given a document that is put out in the marketplace by a very
well-known provider of superannuation, and they were asked to
calculate the fees. There were 14 different answers that came about.12
6.19 In common with a number of other witnesses, Ms Hewett concluded that:
...all of the disclosure requirements have to be uniform, so that there is
the same information available on each product, that is expressed in a
simple way, and so that all costs are easily identified.1'
6.20 It is clear that there is widespread support for a simplified disclosure regime that will
allow valid comparisons to be made between funds. An adequate disclosure regime is clearly
an important issue in consumer protection as well.
6.21 Ms Helen Martin of the Institute of Actuaries confirmed the importance of adequate
disclosure for consumer protection:
The disclosure regime is critical in that sense. I think a lot of the
developments that have happened in the individual insurance and
personal superannuation products have been because of the development
within the ISC and other industry bodies of good disclosure regimes so
that you can’t hide the commissions and charges to the extent that you
could in the past.14
6.22 The Committee explored the option of whether charges themselves could be
standardised so that consumers could readily understand the costs associated with investing
with particular funds. However, most industry witnesses opposed this idea. The evidence of
Mr Jock Rankin of the Institute of Actuaries was typical:
I do not think you can standardise fees and charges and so forth, but you
can standardise the disclosure, so that people understand that, if they go
into an industry fund they’re going to be up for much less in costs than
your average master fund. And they need to be able to look at a
document which tells them that.15
11 Evidence, p. 158
12 Evidence, p. 178.
13 Evidence, p. 178.
14 Evidence, p. 233.
15 Evidence, p. 235.


Key features statements
6.23 Key features statements currently produced by public offer funds can be complex
documents. The Committee received evidence from a number of sources highlighting the
importance of publishing documents most employees can understand.
6.24 The difficulties that employees may face when confronted with key features
statements were highlighted by evidence from Ms Krystyna Hassall. Ms Hassall, a director of
Westscheme, has a background of some 16 years in the superannuation industry. She
described an exercise she had undertaken to determine the sort of difficulties consumers
might have in interpreting key features statements.
6.25 Ms Hassall undertook an examination of the key features statements of two currently
available public offer funds. She told the Committee that she spent in excess of three hours
considering the two key features statements and had considerable difficulty understanding the
features of the two funds on offer.
6.26 The Committee questioned Ms Hassall about the difficulties she thought somebody
with low literacy and numeracy skills would face in interpreting these documents. She
responded:
My background is a legal background. I am not what you would call a
highly numerate person. When I looked at the calculations that I would
have to make to simply work out the historical return ... 1 realised that I
would certainly want someone else to check my calculations. So I have a
lot of sympathy for anyone who might have a lower literacy rate than
myself and even someone who has my numeracy skills will still be
struggling.16
6.27 Ms Hassall considered that the proposed key features statements should be tested on
ordinary Australians to see whether they could, in fact, comprehend the information put
before them. She thought that it was ‘ridiculous’ to rely on people within the investment
industry to assess how well a particular document communicates the features of the fund. She
concluded:
I think that what we should be doing is asking the man in the street.
After all, it is his money and his choice - we are imposing this on him by
regulation.17
Conclusions
6.28 The Committee is of the view that there is a need for a standardised approach to
disclosure issues within key features statements. The obstacles faced by prospective
consumers of investment products are already considerable and these should not be increased
by providing key features statements where direct comparisons between products are difficult.
16 Evidence, p. 291.
17 Evidence, p. 293.


6.29 The Committee considers that the suggestions for a method for comparing fees and
charges put forward by the Institute of Actuaries and William M. Mercer Pty Ltd have
considerable merit and should be considered by the ISC.
6.30 The Committee also considers that the ISC should commission field tests of key
features statements on employees. Disclosure is an essential element of informed choice on
which the success of the choice of fund proposal depends. The Committee believes that it is
important that the Government and the Parliament can be assured that consumers can
understand these documents and use them to make valid comparisons between the choices
offered.
6.31 The Committee is conscious of the tight timelines for finalising disclosure
requirements. The format and content of key features statements have not been set at the time
of writing.


CHAPTER 7
THE TIMETABLE
Introduction
7.1 A number of witnesses were adamant the legislation should pass without delay. ASFA
for example told the Committee:
...there should be no delay in the passage of the legislation and the
putting in place of appropriate regulatory and disclosure arrangements.
However, sufficient time should then be allowed for appropriate public
and employer education and for implementation and administration
systems to be put in place.'
7.2 Many witnesses, however, while anxious for legislative certainty, nonetheless
considered that funds and employers would have considerable difficulty in meeting the start-
up date of 1 July 1998 for new employees.
7.3 Many witnesses favoring a delay advanced reasons why they considered the
Government should postpone the commencement date. The reasons most commonly put
forward in support of a delay were:
• the need for employee and employer education;
. the enormity of the tasks facing employers and funds before implementation;
and
• lack of finality of disclosure standards.
7.4 Other witnesses, most notably those representing the banking sector, major life
insurance companies and the Investment and Financial Services Association of Australia
(IFSA), supported the Government’s announced commencement date of 1 July 1998 for new
employees. This support was frequently conditional.
Employee and employer education
7.5 Almost all witnesses who called for a delay in implementing the legislation expressed
concern regarding whether there was sufficient time to develop and implement a
comprehensive communication program.
7.6 The views of the Institute of Actuaries are typical of the many expressions of concern
which ranged across the spectrum of interest groups, from banks to trade unions. The Institute
advised the Committee that its concerns are twofold:
providers are not ready; and
1
Submission, p. 4.


Chapter 7
consumers are not ready.
7.7 The Institute’s President, Mr John Trowbridge, advised the Committee that in his
view, the need to educate consumers is the most important reason why the Government
should delay implementation:
It is too important an issue to go into without proper preparation. There
is a major education campaign needed, we believe, by providers,
employers and the government: a campaign which is intelligently and
carefully developed and conducted so that informed choice can be given
to consumers.2
7.8 Mr Trowbridge warned that the Government’s policy may be compromised if choice
is introduced without adequate consumer education:
If people make poor choices, then the whole legislation and the whole
idea of member choice may be compromised. That is the issue about
timing. We think that is very important.3
7.9 Mr Jock Rankin, the Institute’s Executive Director, reinforced Mr Trowbridge’s
conclusions. He considered that both individuals and the nation would be the losers if
employees exercised choice poorly, as individuals would be less likely to be able to make an
effective contribution to their own retirement needs:
...if choice is not properly exercised, there will be no net benefit to the
individuals trying to accumulate savings for their retirement, and no net
benefit to the nation. ...There is plenty of evidence to suggest that,
without the capacity to make informed choices...people are likely to
make poor choices. They will make choices which are either too
conservative for their personal circumstances or too risky for their
personal circumstances.4
2 Evidence, p. 220.
3 Evidence, p. 220.
Evidence, p. 221.
4


7.10 Significantly, the ABA, while not supporting a delay in the start up date for the
legislation, did not underestimate the magnitude of the task associated with ensuring
employers and employees are sufficiently well informed :
The thing that we found most significant was the almost unanimous view
that the communication effort ahead is large and is likely to take some
time.5
7.11 Most witnesses contended that the start up date simply will not leave enough time for
adequate education. Mr Ken Lockery’s views were typical of many:
I would in some ways prefer us to just stick to the concept that we have
and just give us some time to at least educate those people who can
benefit from that education. At the moment we just have no time to
educate anyone on the subject.6
7.12 Mrs Louise Matthews of Coopers & Lybrand thought employees would need time to
evaluate all that is put before them:
...employees are going to need time to absorb all of this information.
They are going to need education regarding the types of investment out
there, the investment cycles, the risk return profiles of particular asset
classes and the various types of products available. They are also going
to need to understand the overall objective of superannuation to
understand that it is a long-term investment and to move away from an
ideal that superannuation should be monitored on a quarterly basis or
even on an annual basis. It is something that should be locked away for
20 or 30 years. They need to understand the differences between the
different types of savings that they may have been exposed to.
Tasks of employers and funds before implementation
7.13 William M. Mercer, while supporting the Government’s initiative, were, however,
amongst the many who consider the Government’s timetable for introducing the legislation is
excessively tight, and called for a delay.
7.14 Mercers noted that much of the detail as to how the legislation will operate is yet to
emerge and ‘there is a great deal of work to do to determine the key features statements .
They pointed out that after the detail emerges, there is much that employers and funds must
do. Mercers listed the following tasks they considered may have to be undertaken:
• select funds (which requires collection and assimilation of a lot of information)
• carry out due diligence on the selected funds;
• make necessary amendments to existing funds to make them more competitive;
5 Evidence, p. 5.
6 Evidence, p. 311.
Evidence, p. 275.


. put robust insurance features in place;
. negotiate workplace agreements;
. put an information package to members; and
. put in place administrative procedures for paying contributions to a number of
funds.8
7.15 Mercers concluded:
It is difficult to see how all this can be done in time...9
7.16 Mrs Sandra Birkensleigh of Coopers & Lybrand addressed the tasks that trustees must
address:
On the trustee side, of course, there is the issue of allow ing time for key
features statements to be prepared and to ensure that any improvements
that a fund may need to make in order to be competitive under the choice
of fund regime can be completed by the commencement date.10
7.17 The tasks of employers are also numerous:
Some of the decisions that employers are going to need to make between
now and the implementation date are such things as whether to establish
or review the existing workplace agreements for new and existing
employees, as I have just mentioned, whether to review a total
remuneration structure for each employer, whether to provide limited or
unlimited choice, whether they are going to provide voluntary employer
contributions as well as SG contributions, and whether they are going to
continue making voluntary contributions to a fund of the employees
choice at all.
They also have to implement education and communication programs
for their employees. They may have to consider winding up an existing
in-house fund or to restructure the in-house fund benefits structure so
that it is more able to compete in an open marketplace. If that in-house
fund is to continue, they need to decide on the most efficient way to
produce a key feature statement, something that in-house funds have
never had to do before. If limited choice is provided, employers will also
need to provide their employees with a selection of four funds, and
determining those four funds would in itself be a major exercise."
7.18 Mrs Birkensleigh advised that if the start date is not deferred, employers may be
rushed into decisions that may not necessarily be in the best interests of their employees:
Employers will need to make decisions and, without deferral of the
commencement date, employers will unfortunately be greatly influenced
by the need to comply within a certain time frame as opposed to making
8 Submission, p. 2.
9 Submission, p. 3.
10 Evidence, p. 270.
11 Evidence, p. 274-5.


decisions which are appropriate for its employee base. Therefore, we
believe that allowing such a short time frame will result in some
employers executing their actions without due regard to the
consequences of those decisions.1'
7.19 While the choice of fund proposal applies initially only to new employees, turnover in
the labour force is substantial and many employers will have to address the choice of fund
issue in the first year of operation. Ms Helen Hewett, C+BUS Fund Secretary, reminded the
Committee of the extent of labour force turnover and what this means for employers:
...a little over two million people change jobs each year. On top of that
there are new entrants to the work force. We see this, even if it only
applies to new' employees from 1 July, as a huge task for people to try
and address, and we do not think it is possible.1’
Lack of finality of legislation
7.20 Regulations determining disclosure requirements will not be released until after
passage of the Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997. While there has been some
considerable discussion and consultation with industry as to the content of the standards,
trustees have been reluctant to develop key features statements until they are known.
7.21 The ISC has been critical of trustees for their apparent lack of preparedness for choice
of fund. Mr Keith Chapman, Acting Deputy Commissioner - Superannuation, made the
following comments at a 1997 ASFA seminar on choice of fund:
We have been very surprised at the lack of planning trustees have carried
out for the introduction of fund choice. A common ’reason’ that is given
is that ‘we don't have the legislation so can't plan anything’. I think this
is short sighted and potentially leaves these trustees in a position where
they will be behind the eightball from day one and the long term
viability of their funds could be at risk.
7.22 Mr Chapman acknowledged that ASFA has commented about the inability of trustees
to properly fulfill their fiduciary duties if trustees spend members funds on implementing
changes prior to legislative finality:
I agree that this comment has some value in certain circumstances but
where, for example, an approved trustee is involved which has capital
available outside the fund itself. I do not find this a compelling
argument.14
7.23 The Committee questioned representatives of the Australian Institute of
Superannuation Trustees (A1ST) regarding whether trustees should have been better prepare
Mr Stephen Gibbs, AIST's executive officer responded:
12 Evidence, p. 274.
13 Evidence, p. 180.
14 ISC Bulletin. September 1997. p. 56. 60.


I would have thought, with the greatest respect to the ISC, that the recent
events relating to the superannuation surcharge and the changes to early
release of superannuation benefits that were announced and then
amended would be ample evidence to show that trustees should not be
criticised. They should be commended for being cautious about not
moving along a path before the final rules are known.
...there have been a number of announcements that have subsequently
been implemented in a different way and I think trustees are justifiably
cautious about moving in terms of something that is proposed before
they know the final rules.15
The case for no delay
7.24 Other witnesses disagreed with those who called for the legislation to be delayed.
These witnesses advanced a number of arguments why they considered the legislation should
proceed on schedule.
7.25 The Australian Banking Association considered the benefits that choice would bring
to the market should not be delayed:
We support the 1 July start up, and we are working actively with the
ATO and the ISC and the government to achieve this. Our reason for this
is simple: the sooner the legislation can be introduced, the sooner the
competitive change can begin to permeate the market.
7.26 The ABA questioned the motives of those who call for a delay:
There are of course a number of people arguing for delay, and some of
these have genuine concerns about the amount of work that needs to be
done by 1 July. Our answer to that is: let’s take on the challenge. This is
very desirable if we all work together in the interests of the people, and
there is a lot of innovation that will come forward and allow people to
get through to that date.
We would point out also that there are some who feel threatened by the
prospect of increased competition and, tactically, could be arguing for
delay to protect their own vested interests. Where this does not coincide
with the public interest, we would argue that this should be rejected.
7.27 The AMP, while concerned about the tightness of the Government’s schedule,
questioned whether a delay would achieve anything. Mr Kevin Casey, Manager, Technical
Advisory Serv ices, told the Committee:
The ongoing educational campaign will take a very long period before
people actually get to the stage where they are genuinely able to
15 Evidence, p. 115.
16 Evidence, p. 4.
17 Evidence, p. 4.


understand the choices that they make. However by delaying this
process, it is only just pushing those problems out into the future.18
7.28 While fully supporting the need for education, Mr Casey indicated that he did not
consider an education campaign could solve the problems associated with poor understanding
of superannuation and the choice proposal in the short term:
The introduction of choice in superannuation will always cause
problems until you have a genuinely educated public, and that is a
generational type situation. We are not going to be able to magically
come up with a formula to educate the public to make an informed
choice in three or six months. All we can do is start to establish the
framework for this.1 ’
7.29 On the other hand, the Committee received contrary' comments questioning the
motives of those within the financial services industry who consider the proposal should
proceed without any delay. For example. Mrs Sandra Birkensleigh, Partner, Superannuation
Services. Coopers & Lybrand noted:
It is w idely know n that there are a number of vested interests in respect
of this particular legislation. The majority of the vested interests that
support a commencement date of I July 1998 are those that see this as
being an excellent opportunity for them to improve their market position
in terms of the financial products that they offer or to obtain additional
funds under management...Clearly spinning from this is the ability of the
sellers of those products to enhance their remuneration off the back of
increased sales volumes and so on and so forth."0
Alternative options
7.30 Several witnesses offered alternative solutions to the impasse between proceeding on
schedule and deferring the commencement date announced by the Government. For example,
Mr David Connolly effectively argued that it may be possible to make implementation
optional for the first six months:
...there is in fact a middle road in these things, as there often is. I think
there is a case for the passage of the legislation within its current
stipulated arrangements but perhaps, say. 31 December this year or some
appropriate date like that could be the start-up date. The reason I say that
is that 1 am genuinely concerned whether we will be able to get in place
the necessary information and education system between the passage of
the legislation, which may not be until after Easter, as 1 understand it,
and 1 July. A six months extension, effectively, in its application would
make life a lot easier. Now what that could mean is, if you are in an
18 Evidence.
19 Evidence.
20 Evidence.
i. 354.
i. 356.
>. 270.


operation which can start on 1 July well, great off you go but those w ho
cannot would have a further six months to get their show in place. 1
7.31 The AMP and IFSA made similar suggestions. AMP representatives, while supporting
the proposed start-up date, expressed concern about whether the legislation, including the
regulations necessary to set disclosure standards, could be put in place in sufficient time for
the industry and employers to respond appropriately. AMP suggested the Government waive
the penalty provisions of the legislation for the first six months.22 Effectively, this would
make the legislation optional for employers for six months, allowing those who are ready to
proceed to do so, while not penalising those who are unable to meet the deadline.
7.32 Mr John Maroney, the Acting Chief Executive Officer of IFSA, advised the
Committee that the legislation should be implemented on schedule, but with a penalty free
period of up to six months. He acknowledged there are concerns about the ability of
employers and others to adequately educate employees about choice by the start up date.
However, he thought that the protective mechanisms in the legislation lessened the risks:
Given the protections where employees can change their choice once a
year and a range of other protections in the system, member protection,
the disclosure rules et cetera, we do not believe that there are major risks
in taking that approach.23
7.33 Representatives of Towers Perrin also offered a solution in a supplementary
submission to the Committee. Towers Perrin advised there were reasons why the legislation
should proceed. They noted that unless the legislation proceeds, employers facing federal
award restrictions on fund choice will be unable to offer choice as originally announced. They
recommended that the legislation be amended to make offering fund choice ‘permissive’
rather than mandatory for the first twelve months.
7.34 Towers Perrin noted there is a precedent for this option in the SIS Act - Section 52(4)
permits rather than requires member investment choice.
Government position
7.35 At the Canberra public hearing on 2 March, the Assistant treasurer, Senator the Hon.
Rod Kemp, indicated the Government intends to proceed with its choice of fund proposal on
schedule. The government's position is that there will be sufficient time for employers and
funds to make the necessary changes to administrative arrangements.
7.36 Senator Kemp reminded the Committee that the details on choice of fund were
announced on 13 May 1997, so the proposal has been well known and in the public arena for
some time. He said ‘It really is a matter for Governments, in the end, to weigh in the
balance’.24
21 Evidence, p. 262.
22 Evidence, p. 354.
23 Evidence, p. 374.
24 Evidence, p. 407.


7.37 Senator Kemp assured the Committee that the Government would work very closely
with industry' to ensure that, where major problems occur, the problems would be dealt with
'in a sensitive fashion.’ The Minister noted:
It is often the case, in my experience, that a deadline will produce these
difficulties, as people wonder whether they are prepared or not.25
7.38 Mr Michael Monaghan, Deputy Commissioner, Superannuation, Australian Taxation
Office, assured the Committee there is still sufficient time for implementing education
programs:
Clearly, it is part of our role to ensure that the people who are making
decisions are equipped to do so, and we are satisfied that there is still
ample time for us to do that. There has been a lot of work going on in
preparing us to develop actual strategies to educate people, and we do
not see any reason why people who are making choices in July will not
be adequately equipped with information to help them do that.26
25 Evidence, p. 407.
26 Evidence, p. 407.




CHAPTER 8
THE DEFAULT FUND
Introduction
8.1 Some employees will be indifferent to exercising their right to choose a fund.
Reasons include:
• Satisfaction with their current superannuation arrangements
• Low levels of literacy or numeracy where employees lack confidence, feeling
unable or unwilling to choose.
• Lack of interest in making a choice.
For these people, the employer will pay contributions into a default fund.
8.2 Under the legislation, employers can choose a default fund for new employees. Where
existing employees are offered the choice of funds (although this is not compulsory until the
year 2000), the default fund is the fund to which the employer previously contributed on
behalf of the employees.
8.3 Witnesses reported to the Committee the importance of ensuring the fund is an
appropriate fund for the employees' needs.
8.4 For example, several witnesses questioned whether an RSA would be an appropriate
default fund for a young person. If the employer pays the employee contributions into a low-
growth product, these contributions would compound more slowly than invested in a higher
growth product, leading to a smaller benefit at retirement.
8.5 The Committee also received evidence about the desirable features of a default fund,
including the provision of insurance cover.
The Default Fund - A Protective Mechanism
8.6 It is impossible to predict how many employee contributions will be directed to
default funds. Witnesses advised the Committee they expected a considerable proportion of
the population to use the default option. While there are several reasons why this might
happen, poor literacy and numeracy levels are expected to be the major factors.
8.7 Mr Ken Lockery of Towers Perrin referred the Committee to a study showing that up
to 40 per cent of Australians have difficulty in interpreting a bus timetable. He said that for a
large part of the population, an education campaign, no matter how well directed, will be
fruitless:
I believe for a large part of the population that an education campaign,
no matter how well directed, will be fruitless...


Chapter 8
...Those people have no chance of making an educated assessment of
superannuation choice. They will have two logical choices to make. One
is to ask to stay in the fund they are already in, if they felt happy with
that fund; the other is to accept the default fund, which is largely what
they have at present, that is, their employer puts them into a fund. They
are the only logical outcomes for close to half of the population because
they have absolutely no chance of looking at information that will be
provided, no matter how much education is provided, and making a
sensible individual choice.1
8.8 For this reason, a number of other witnesses considered that the default fund should
play a protective role for people who cannot, or are unwilling, to make an active, informed
choice.
8.9 The Australian Consumers Association (ACA) saw the default fund as the most
important protective mechanism in the choice of fund regime. Mr Peter Kell addressed the
Committee:
Starting with the people who do not actively choose because we have a
compulsory system, what can we introduce to protect those people? In
our view, the most important protective mechanism is a standard for
funds that are default funds.2
8.10 Mr Kell expressed the view that the current choice proposal does not provide
sufficient protection, because there are no minimum standards specified:
The problem with this system is that there are no minimum standards
specific to default funds. There are basic minimum standards applying to
all funds such as reporting requirements, but the appropriateness and
quality of superannuation investments for large numbers of people will
effectively be the arbitrary' outcome of where they happen to work.
They may work somewhere where a high quality, appropriate default
fund is in operation. They may end up working somewhere where, to
put it bluntly, a dog of a fund is the one they end up in. There is nothing
in policy that prevents that sort of outcome.3
8.11 Mr Kell suggested that S32H of the legislation be amended to incorporate some
minimum standards for default funds. He suggested the following criteria, in order of
importance:
• long term capital growth;
. basic level of death and disability insurance;
• maximum limits on fees, in particular exit fees. 4
1
Evidence, p. 307.
2 Evidence, p. 339.
3 Evidence, p. 339.
Evidence, p. 340.
4


8.12 Mr Brian Thomas, Financial Products Manager, NRMA, also addressed this issue in
some detail. He told the Committee that in his view, the default fund “is a special type of
fund” and needs special features:
The features we think make sense are: a free look period, similar to life
insurance contracts so you can get out of it; compulsory portability, so
that if you are in it beyond 14 days and you want to transfer your
moneys that have accumulated, you should be able to transfer your
moneys out of the fund....
The other types of standards could be relating to fees and could be
relating to sensible investment options based on age. So you could
have a situation where, if an employee does not make a choice within a
certain time, then they are placed into what the trustees regard as a
sensible investment decision for their age - for example, a young person
may go to a growth orientated fund.5
8.13 Mr David Connolly of Phillips Fox, also expressed the opinion that the default fund
should incorporate insurance cover.
As it currently stands, it is quite clearly laid out that the default fund
does not have to provide insurance cover. Again, I think that is an issue
which you should address critically, because there is a strong case to
argue that the default fund ought to contain a component of insurance
cover.6
8.14 Committee members and several witnesses questioned whether low growth products
should be permitted as default funds. RSAs, which can be set as the default fund, were
particularly singled out for mention as inappropriate products for default fund purposes.
However, other witnesses disagreed with this view.
8.15 IFSA representatives advised the Committee they “would not advocate RSAs as
default funds”. However, IFSA’s Acting Chief Executive Officer, Mr John Maroney,
suggested that with appropriate education and disclosure, there was no reason why RSAs
should not be set as the default fund:
That would not mean, to my mind, barring RSAs from being a default
choice or really barring any ty pe of fund that is provided at the moment
from being available, provided we have the right rules on disclosure,
information availability and provision of advice.7
8.16 Mr Maroney went on to say that, given that employees have the option of making a
new choice once a year, IFSA would generally resist the idea of setting default fund standards
because this ‘tends to work against the underlying competitive pressures’. He concluded:
5 Evidence, p. 317.
6 Evidence, p. 255.
Evidence, p. 379.
7


If the government mandates these other parameters, that will cause the
market to lock in on those parameters, even if those parameters are not
really ideal from what you would really want to offer in the range of
benefits, costs and services to different sorts of customers. Some
customers like very low costs and are quite happy with infrequent and
standardised service. Others would prefer to have a more premium type
arrangement where you can get personal advice at the end of a phone
call. We would say the better way to do that is to make sure it is very
clear what people are getting into through disclosure, that there are good
levels of advice around and that people have flexibility which the annual
choice provides so that they can pick what suits them best.8
Setting the default fund
8.17 The Committee found there is a diversity of opinion about how the default fund
should be selected and by whom. Representatives of the trade union movement strongly held
the view that the default fund should be the award fund. Ms Linda Rubinstein, Senior
Industrial Officer, ACTU, told the Committee:
...we would recommend that the default fund should be in accordance
with the award. Where there is no award, one of two methods could be
adopted. The first is that it could be the fund to which the majority of the
employees are already belonging and the second is to pick up something
from the Workplace Relations Act. Where you do an AWA or a certified
agreement under the Workplace Relations Act, if there is no award in
place the commission or the Employment Advocate designates an award
for the purposes of measurement of the benchmark. That same principle
could be used.9
8.18 Other witnesses however were of the view that the legislation, as it currently stands, is
too restrictive. Coopers & Lybrand and IFSA representatives both advocated allowing the
employer to change the fund for existing employees as well as setting it for new employees.
8.19 Mrs Louise Matthews of Coopers & Lybrand told the Committee that the employer
should have the right to both set the default fund in respect of future contributions, and to
move existing balances to protect employees and employers against poor performing funds:
I am not suggesting that they have carte blanche to go about transferring
account balances from chosen funds. But, for instance, if a member has
not exercised choice and a default fund is in place, and 12 months down
the track the employer sponsor is not happy with the performance of that
default fund, currently the legislation only provides for that employer to
change the default fund in respect of future contributions and there is not
an ability of the employer sponsor to move the account balance from the
old default fund to the new default fund.10
8 Evidence,
9 Evidence,
10 Evidence,
). 379.
i. 131.
k 276.


8.20 Ms Matthews considered that if employers could not move balances, there would be a
proliferation of member accounts. She also held the view that allowing employers to move
balances should reduce administrative costs, as employers could consolidate past and present
accounts.11
8.21 1FSA representatives made similar observations. Ms Lisa Chadwick, a member of the
Retirement Savings and Incomes Forum, IFSA, informed the Committee:
...there will always be some percentage of people who do not feel able to
make a choice and just want to go along with whatever the employer's
choice is. The problem with the legislation, as we see it, is there is no
ability for the employer to change that default fund.
We are suggesting that the employer be allowed to change that default
fund to protect those very employees who do not feel able to make the
choices. There has to be a protection there for those people who prefer
the default fund. We are suggesting that they be allowed to actively
remain with the default fund if they want. For all those people who are
never going to tick a box, because they are just not interested in the
w hole thing, let the employer take over if they so desire.12
Conclusions
8.22 The Committee is of the view that there is a strong case for setting minimum
standards for default funds. The Committee considers it is likely that significant numbers of
superannuation accounts will default to these funds.
8.23 The Committee is particularly mindful of the evidence put forward by Towers Perrin
and other witnesses, cited elsewhere in this Report, about levels of literacy and numeracy in
the Australian population.
8.24 The Committee considers that while choice is important for those who can exercise it
responsibly, it is also important to ensure that default funds protect the interests of employees
who are unable to protect their own long-term interests. These people should not be
disadvantaged through being placed in inappropriate investment products. The Committee is
unconvinced that education and disclosure will be sufficient protection.
8.25 It is also important to remember that the fundamental purpose of a compulsory
superannuation system is to decrease future public dependence on the age pension. If
significant numbers of people find themselves in inappropriate, low growth products because
of decisions about default funds taken by employers, the objectives of the superannuation
system may be compromised.
11 Evidence, p. 276.
12 Evidence, p. 378.




CHAPTER 9
INSURANCE
Introduction
9.1 Many superannuation funds, particularly industry funds, provide life insurance cover
as part of the superannuation arrangements. While there is no requirement that insurance be
provided as part of superannuation, it is nonetheless very common practice. Further, it is
apparently regarded as a very desirable feature by both employees and employers, particularly
in high risk occupations where cover is either prohibitively expensive or unobtainable.
9.2 Several witnesses raised concerns about the implications of the choice of fund
proposal for life insurance associated with superannuation. There are two distinct areas of
concern:
• ending of automatic cover; and
• gaps in cover in the 56 day period between when an offer of a new fund is made
and acceptance.
9.3 The possibility that persons exercising their rights to choose a new fund might
inadvertently leave themselves without cover was a matter of considerable concern both to a
range of witnesses and to members of the Committee. As one witness observed, insurance
may be the great ‘sleeper’ issue arising out of the choice of funds initiative. It requires the
careful attention of Government and industry.
Insurance associated with super
9.4 Employees in industry funds frequently receive insurance cover as part of their
membership of the fund. In high risk occupations in particular, this is viewed as an important
safety net arrangement. This is because people in such industries cannot buy insurance or find
it prohibitively expensive.
9.5 Ms Helen Hewett, the fund secretary of C+BUS, explained the situation for people in
her fund which is a fund covering the building and construction industries.
...we have got almost 300,000 members and almost 19,000 employers
that participate in our fund... It is seen as a fairly high risk industry and,
before C+BUS came into existence in 1984, most employees in these
industries were not able to buy insurance. If they could buy it, if they
could afford it, they usually found that pre-existing injuries - such as a
knee injury, a neck injury or a back injury - were excluded. So
effectively they had very little in the way of security.1
9.6 Ms Hewett and a number of other witnesses advised the Committee that insurance has
been a very important part of the superannuation benefit, for both employers and employees.
Evidence, p. 178.


Chapter 9
We think that it is important to look after members throughout their
working life by providing them with the security that insurance gives,
and to also look after them in their retirement and make sure that their
families are adequately provided for/
9.7 Providing life insurance through superannuation has a number of significant
advantages for employees. The major advantage is low cost. This is achievable because
insurers assess risk on a group rather than an individual basis. As a result, employees can be
covered from the first day of their employment, with full cover in the event of injury or death
on the job.
Automatic cover
9.8 While insurers have provided automatic cover in the past, this will not necessarily be
the case under the choice of fund arrangements. Insurers are often prepared to offer
immediate cover where there is certainty that the employee’s contributions will be directed to
a particular fund, for example under an award arrangement. Mr Ian Silk of the Industry Funds
Forum explained:
Most of them are currently covered by industry funds, because we, that
is, the fund, take on the liability in most cases the moment the person is
employed, notwithstanding that they have not filled out an application
form and it has been received by the fund. The fund takes that on in
good faith because that employer's employees are members of that fund.'
9.9 Introducing choice of fund injects an element of uncertainty into the situation that will
affect the previously automatic provision of insurance cover. An employee with either
unlimited choice or a choice of four funds may choose any one of those funds. As there is no
certainty that contributions will be forthcoming, the insurer is unlikely to be willing to
provide automatic cover, as Mr Stephen Gibbs of the Australian Institute of Superannuation
Trustees explained:
Many funds have arrangements with insurers that guarantee coverage
from day one, even though no contributions have been received, because
it is certain that they will be. In a choice environment, it is no longer
certain that somebody will become a member, and whether the insurer
will in effect provide that universal coverage from commencement of
employment is something a trustee would have to review.4
9.10 Ms Helen Hewett of C+BUS provided similar evidence to that of Mr Gibbs
concerning the apparent unwillingness of insurers to provide automatic cover until a premium
is paid. She cited a well known industrial accident in Melbourne exhibiting the pitfalls of
gaps in insurance cover:
There have been lots of injuries and cases - and there was one very
well-known case in Melbourne a few years ago - where there was
2 Evidence, p. 178-179.
3 Evidence, p. 45.
Evidence, p. 116.
4


somebody killed and a number of building workers injured. That was
day one of the project and those people were new employees. They were
covered by insurance, but we are concerned that we will not have the
ability to do that because effectively people will be able to select against
us. Our insurer has said that it would be very difficult for them to
maintain the current policy conditions under a choice of fund
environment and that they would not be able to cover people until the
premium was received.5
The insurance gap
9.11 When circumstances require an employer to offer an employee choice of fund, they
have twenty eight days in which to make the offer. On receiving the offer, the employee then
has up to twenty eight days in which to accept. Up to fifty six days may elapse before an
employee becomes a member of the fund.
9.12 The Committee received evidence from a wide variety of witnesses expressing
concern that employees may unwittingly be left without insurance cover in the period before
the offer is made, until acceptance.
9.13 Further, employees exercising fund choice may, if not adequately advised, be unaware
of whether they will be insured under their chosen fund, or, if their cover will be restricted,
because of pre-existing injuries for example.
9.14 Mr David Connolly, Director, Superannuation and Government Relations, Phillips
Fox, saw the insurance gap as ‘one of the biggest problems that is faced’. He advised the
Committee that access to some insurance cover is of critical importance because ‘in the event
of somebody going under a truck or having to access TPD cover’, an adequate insurance
payment meant the difference between dependents having to rely on the social welfare system
indefinitely, or having some financial independence.6
9.15 Mr Connolly explained it was for that reason he proposed a universal and a
compulsory minimum level of insurance cover in the original coalition policy. He expressed
disappointment that his proposition had not been implemented by the current Government:
1 am saddened that that part of the policy has not apparently been taken
up - I might add that I think it is the only part of the policy that has not
been - and 1 am saddened to see that the industry representatives also do
not support that proposition.7
9.16 Mr Tony Wells, Director of Superchoice Software, graphically illustrated the
uncomfortable situation that employers may unwittingly find themselves in as a consequence
of an employee not being covered in the offer-acceptance period:
If it happened that an employee were disabled or died in the middle of
the fund choice procedure, and he fell between two insurance chairs in
5 Evidence, p. 179.
6 Evidence, p. 254.
Evidence, p. 254.
7


the middle of all of this, and his widow were to front up to the employer
and say, 'When I read the last member booklet that Fred got at the last
balance date, he was insured for $180,000. Where is the money? I have
got three starving kids,’ his employer would say, 'I am sorry, but he went
through this fund choice thing and he has not got any cover.' That would
be a horrible situation, to be avoided at all costs. It could happen, and it
could happen through either misunderstanding or even insurance risk
underwriting delays that occur or the 28-day delays happening with fund
choice, and so on.8
Possible solutions
9.17 The Committee received a number of alternative suggestions for addressing the
insurance issue. Broadly, these fall into the following categories:
. “Stand alone” insurance;
. “Back end” insurance; and
. Disclosure rules.
“Stand alone ” insurance
9.18 The Committee received several suggestions as to how “stand alone" insurance might
be provided to ensure employees remained covered when exercising their rights to choose a
new fund.
9.19 Mr David Connolly suggested it may be possible to allow an employer to establish a
separate stand alone fund which would be, in terms of the law, a superannuation fund which
would pay out the premiums for the insurance cover, irrespective of the superannuation
component. He said however, that this proposal “has problems of administrative costs .
9.20 Mr Tony Wells of Superchoice Software suggested employers should ‘revisit their
whole superannuation insurance arrangement, pick it all up and dump it into a stand alone
group risk master trust’. This suggestion is similar to Mr Connolly’s, as it separates out the
superannuation and insurance functions. As such, it shares the same difficulties.
9.21 Mr Graham Bird, Managing Director of Graham Bird and Associates, told the
Committee employers had asked him whether it would not be simpler for the employer to
arrange death and disability types of cover as an employee benefit rather than as a
superannuation benefit. Mr Bird told the Committee that while he thought this suggestion has
merit, employers who used this strategy would find the premium paid by the employer would
be regarded as a fringe benefit and therefore subject to fringe benefits tax.
“Back end" insurance
9.22 Mr Kevin Casey of AMP Insurance considered that ‘Ultimately, the market will
probably come up with a solution’ to the insurance problem. He advised the Committee that
8
Evidence, p. 80.


one of AMP's methodologies was to provide insurance cover that continues for a period of 30
or 60 days after a person leaves a fund. Employees in funds using Mr Casey’s method of
providing cover should therefore have continuity of insurance cover when they switch funds.
9.23 Mr Casey emphasised:
If you can do it at the back end, you can do it at the front end. That does
not mean to say it is a matter of magically waving the wand and it is
there. There are certainly fairly detailed actuarial and underwriting
calculations and considerations in all of that. There are possibilities
which the industry is already starting to think about...9
Disclosure
9.24 Mr Steve Partridge of William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, suggested ‘the only real answer to
that is very effective disclosure of death and disability benefits and the consequences of
exercising choice.’ Under Mr Partridge’s suggestion, there would be a requirement,
presumably incorporated in key features statements or other educational material, that clearly
warned employees to be aware of the consequences of changing funds.
9.25 Mrs Louise Matthews of Coopers & Lybrand offered a similar opinion. She advised
the Committee that disclosure requirements should cover a number of issues in respect of
insurance cover. These included:
• the level and the nature of the insurance cover being provided;
• all of the contractual obligations that are bound into that insurance cover, such
as whether there are any medical evidence requirements if a person changes
funds;
• whether cover is to be automatically provided and the level of that cover;
• the premiums of the cover, if met by the employee; and
• if an ability exists to transfer existing cover to a new fund, or to the individual,
and the terms of effecting such a transfer.
9.26 Mrs Matthews concluded this was ‘pretty important’ for older workers, and those in
poor health or in high risk occupations. She warned:
If they are not aware of changes to automatic acceptance levels, for
instance, they could possibly lose the amount of insurance cover or pay a
greater loading on their insurance premiums than they would ordinarily
if they had stayed with their original fund.10
9.27 Evidence from Departmental witnesses appears to indicate that the Government s
preferred approach to this issue is to rely on disclosure to ensure that employees who change
funds are aware of the consequences of their actions and the insurance implications that may
result. Mr Michael Monaghan assured the Committee:
9 Evidence, p. 357.
10 Evidence, p. 276.


...we would certainly see that as being an important educational issue
and an important thing to bring to employees' attention when they are
making a choice. They now end up in a fund through no choice,
sometimes with death and disability cover and sometimes not. So it is
certainly something that they need to know about when they do make a
choice."
11 Evidence, p. 430.


CHAPTER 10
LIABILITY
Liability
Introduction
10.1 Section 32V of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997, Schedule 5 states:
an employer is not liable to compensate any person for loss or damage
arising from anything done by the employer in complying with this part.
10.2 The purpose of this clause is to provide protection for employers from liability to
compensate any person for loss or damage arising from anything that the employer might do
in complying with the choice of fund requirements. For example, if an employee selects a
fund from material provided by the trustee or RSA provider through his or her employer in
compliance with the choice of fund requirements, and the fund subsequently performs badly,
the employer would not be liable to compensate the employee.1 The Committee received
evidence about two aspects of the liability clause:
• constitutionality of the clause
• limits to liability protection.
Constitutionality of 32V
10.3 The Committee received two submissions, one from Mr George Raitt of Blake
Dawson Waldron and another from the Chairman of the Law Council Superannuation
Committee, Mr John Morgan, both of which cast doubt on whether section 32V is
constitutional. Mr Raitt’s submission incorporated an opinion from Mr Dennis Rose, AM QC
that:
...the High Court would hold Section 32V to be beyond the
Commonwealth’s constitutional powers. I would expect Section 32V to
be wholly invalid, since there will be no acceptable way of reading it
down so as to leave it applying only to employers that were trading or
financial corporations ...2
10.4 In brief, Mr Rose’s opinion is based on an assertion that Section 32V would not have
a sufficient connection with taxation to be valid. A copy of Mr Rose’s opinion is attached at
Appendix D.
10.5 The basis for Mr John Morgan’s opinion was slightly different. Mr Morgan submitted
to the Committee:
1 Explanatory Memorandum, p. 69.
2 Submission, Mr George Raitt. Attachment page 3.


... we are concerned that clause 32V of the Bill is unconstitutional in that
it involves another matter in a law relating to taxation/
10.6 Mr Morgan recommended that the matter be referred to the Attorney-General for
opinion and, if the Law Council Superannuation Committee’s concerns were found to be
justified, other steps taken to ensure that employers are not exposed to legal risk in the choice
of funds environment.4
10.7 However, Mr Morgan advised the Committee that, provided an employer gives no
more information than is required under the legislation, it is difficult to envisage in what
circumstances an employer would be responsible for the poor performance of a fund.
10.8 He said the situation may be different if the employer negligently or deliberately gave
incorrect information or advice about the performance or investment profile of the fund.
10.9 In Mr Morgan’s view, Section 32V will only apply to those matters that the choice of
fund provisions require the employer to do:
Anything which the employer does in addition to those requirements, or
which represents an omission from those requirements, will carry the
same potential liabilities for the employer as the employer would
otherwise have borne in the absence of this Section.5
10.10 The Committee sought advice from representatives of the Australian Taxation Office
concerning the opinions about Section 32V. Mr Neil Olesen, Assistant Commissioner,
Australian Taxation Office, advised the Committee that the office had sought advice from the
Australian Government Solicitor on the question of the constitutionality of the provision and:
...their advice to us was that there was a reasonable prospect that the
provision would be found to be constitutionally valid.6
10.11 The Committee sought a copy of the advice from the AGS to the ATO. Mr Olesen
referred the matter to the Minister and, to date, the Committee has received no response.
10.12 Mr Olesen later added to his answer in a manner that indicated to the Committee that
the case for including Section 32V may be overstated in any case. Mr Olesen reminded the
Committee:
... an employer will face normal common law obligations in selecting a
fund for an employee, as they do at the moment, and as they have done
for a long time where there is not an award obligation. Those things have
not changed and have always been present. To the extent that some
people fear those possible liabilities might become greater under this, we
3 . Submission, p. 1.
4 Submission, p. 1.
5 Submission, paras. 5.1-5.4.
Evidence, p. 420.
6


think it is pretty easy to overstate the possibility of an employer being
liable for damages.
10.13 Mr Michael Monaghan, Deputy Commissioner, ATO, reinforced Mr Olesen's
comments. Mr Monaghan told the Committee:
... people are overlooking the fact that employers are now making
choices about what superannuation fund to put their employees in, in
many cases. So there is already in existence the issue you raise.8
10.14 Regardless of the validity of Section 32V, employers need to be aware that they have a
common law liability to exercise care when selecting funds for employees. This liability
cannot be legislated away.
10.15 The Committee accepts the evidence of Mf Monaghan and Mr Olesen that the case for
employer liability protection may well be overstated. As Mr Olesen noted, ‘the prospect of an
employer being liable ... is fairly slim’.9
10.16 However, the Committee understands that the Government included Section 32V as a
method of allaying employer concerns about the possibility that choice of fund may expose
them to liabilities in respect of the choices they offer their employees. Having obtained this
concession from the Government, the Committee expects that employers as a whole may well
be disturbed by opinions such as those offered by Mr Rose about whether the clause, in fact,
offers any protection.
10.17 The Committee urges the Government to resolve this issue quickly. The Committee
believes that it would be in the interests of the Government and employers for the opinions
from the Australian Government Solicitor concerning the constitutionality of the legislation
to be made available for parliamentary scrutiny prior to passage of the legislation.
The limits of liability'
10.18 The Committee considers that it is likely that a choice of fund initiative will lead to
increased demand for advice from employees who are faced with decisions that they must
make concerning their choice of superannuation fund come 1 July 1998. The Committee
received confirmation from several witnesses that this is a likely scenario.
10.19 Under such a scenario, it is likely that employees will seek advice on an informal basis
from their employers, from shop stewards, foremen and fellow workmates. The Committee
understands that there is some concern that that employers, particularly small employers and
others such as union officials may not be aware that they may be exposed to liability claims if
they give such advice. Further, there is some evidence that a dealer’s licence may be required
for the provision of investment information.
Evidence, p. 442.
8 Evidence, p. 443.
Evidence, p. 442.
9


10.20 The problem of liability for unlicensed advice extends beyond employers. Union
officials or employer representatives promoting industry funds for example may well find
themselves in the same situation. The Committee asked Ms Sally O’Loughlin of the CPSU
about whether union officials might have to obtain a dealer’s licence under the new choice
environment. Ms O’Loughlin replied:
If I thought I was being put in a position where I would have to give that
sort of advice and would need a dealer’s licence to do it, I suspect I
would probably not be a union official very much longer; it is not my
chosen career path. I think there is a very real concern for employers
about what level of advice we need to give to people and whether that
puts us in some sort of de facto financial advisory capacity. Clearly, it is
not any employer’s wish, I would have thought, to be in that capacity.
You have this terrible conundrum.10
10.21 The Committee sought information from the ATO and the ISC on this issue. The
information provided by the ISC appears to indicate that this may be a valid area of concern,
as the ISC proposes to include a prominent warning in key features statements about where
people should seek advice.
10.22 Mr John Larkin of the ISC advised the Committee that the ISC’s discussion paper
released in December 1997 foreshadowed a statement to be included in key features
statements provided by funds to employees. This statement will warn employees:
... if the employee had need of any information about the contents of the
KFS, he or she should not contact the employer, but rather contact the
fund trustee - and the telephone number was provided - or a financial
adviser.11
10.23 Mr Larkin concluded that this should be a ‘very prominent mechanism’ for ensuring
that employees understand the channels for seeking financial advice.
10.24 The Committee sought clarification from Mr Keith Chapman, Acting Deputy
Commissioner - Superannuation, ISC, concerning' the requirements for persons who provide
advice about superannuation. Mr Chapman advised that SIS Regulation 3.10 provides a
schedule of individuals who can receive commission from trustees for the provision of
advice and includes:
• licenced advisers under the Corporations Law;
• a number of incidental providers (eg: Accountants and solicitors); and
• life insurance companies.
10.25 Mr Chapman confirmed that life insurance agents are subject to the Life Insurance
code of conduct, which is currently administered by the ISC. Other intermediaries, such as
10 Evidence, p. 370,
11 Evidence, p. 422.


trustees, licenced dealers, investment advisers and accountants are fully regulated under the
licencing provisions of the Corporations law. However, the application of the licencing
provisions can vary in their application to different classes of persons, for example, trustees
of non-public offer funds and accountants who are providing superannuation advice
incidental to tax or accounting advice.12
10.26 The Committee considers that education material provided to employers and
employees and others about choice of fund should include “health warnings” about the proper
channels for seeking and giving advice. The Committee notes and accepts that the
Government has considered this issue and is taking appropriate steps to ensure that people do
not inadvertently give advice, as they have no protection against future liability claims if such
advice proves to be poor. It is important that employers, in particular, understand the limits of
the protection provided by Section 32V.
12 Correspondence from Mr Keith Chapman, Acting Deputy Commissioner - Superannuation, ISC,
Chairman of the Committee, Senator John Watson, 24 March 1998.
to the




CHAPTER 11
CONSUMER PROTECTION
Introduction
111 Choice of fund will inevitably lead superannuation providers to actively compete for
the business of employees to improve market share. Marketing costs will therefore rise.
However, in the long run, the Government believes that competition will drive costs down.
11.2 For the first time outside the sphere of optional private superannuation arrangements,
employees will encounter providers who will seek to persuade them to direct their SG
contributions towards particular products. The Committee received evidence indicating that
there is concern in some quarters about whether the consumers of superannuation services
and other financial services will be adequately protected from unscrupulous marketing
practices. Evidence from officials of the ISC refuted such claims.
11.3 Adequate education and full disclosure of fees and charges represent significant
consumer protection measures and the Committee has partially addressed this issue in
chapters 5 and 6 of this report. The Committee received evidence relating to a number of
other potential consumer protection issues. These include:
• commission driven selling;
. relationships between employers and providers; and
• dispute resolution.
11.4 A number of witnesses urged the Committee to be aware of what they refer to as the
“U.K. experience”, in which a large number of people in company pension funds were
persuaded to change their funds for personal pension plans, to their considerable financial
detriment.
The U.K. experience
11.5 The Government of the United Kingdom introduced a form of choice in the mid-
1980’s. Under this arrangement, employees were given the option of leaving their company
pension plans to establish personal pension arrangements. Many employees availed
themselves of this option, lured by unrealistic promises about expected benefits.
11.6 Decisions were made in an atmosphere which some analysts believed encouraged
members to actively make a choice.
11.7 The repercussions of this decision are still being felt. The Australian Consumers
Association advised the Committee that more than 570 000 cases of mis-selling ha een
identified, and the total compensation bill is now SAUS10 billion.
11.8 The Committee received a number of expressions of concern in submissions and
evidence that there is potential for the U.K. experience to be repeated in this country
result of the introduction of the choice of fund regime.


Chapter 11
11.9 In particular, witnesses expressed concern that providers’ agents would induce people
to switch funds with little advantage to the employee, but considerable advantage to the
provider in terms of the commission they were likely to earn.
Commission driven selling
11.10 William M Mercer Pty Ltd supplied the Committee with information about costs of
switching superannuation funds in Chile. Chile operates a compulsory private sector
superannuation system in which funds compete actively for members. Mercers advised that
according to Institutional Investor Magazine, 29 per cent of fund members in Chile switched
funds in the year ending June 1997. Much of this switching is triggered by salespeople who
are paid whenever a member switches funds. Approximately 38 per cent of the entire cost of
managing Chile’s superannuation system is related to costs associated with fund switching.1
The Committee received evidence that commission-driven sales of superannuation products
in Australia may produce similar results to those observed in Chile.
11.11 The Australian Manufacturing Workers’ Union was one of several who raised the
issue of commission selling. The Union noted that “the large profit driven financial
institutions use commission agents to sell their products’’. The Union considered that
polished sales deliveries would unduly influence the choice that employees might make:
With employees facing the complexities of comparing competing funds,
it is axiomatic that personalised service and a smooth sales pitch will go
a long way to influencing an employees’ choice of fund; and all of this
. will undoubtedly happen within a backdrop of saturation advertising and
promotion in the media by the larger financial institutions.2
11.12 The Union questioned whether the diversion of a member’s money into promotion and
sales activities was in the member’s interest and whether the providers’ marketing would
provide the employee with the information that will allow the employee to make a rational
decision.
11.13 The Union suggested that a more orderly and regulated method for the proffering of
choice would allow for greater balance in the delivery of sales information.3
11.14 Mr Stephen Gibbs, Executive Officer, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
(AIST), also viewed commission based selling as undesirable in a compulsory' superannuation
environment. Mr Gibbs said:
Commissions are okay for optional personal contributions but, in terms
of somebody’s superannuation guarantee payments, if you want to be
sure of avoiding the U.K. problem, you simply outlaw the payment of
commissions in those circumstances.4
1
Submission, attachment p. 7.
2 Submission, p. 4.
3 Submission, p. 4.
Evidence, p. 110.
4


...you will inevitably have the sales people there; there is nothing more
certain in our mind. When somebody else makes money out of
somebody changing funds, people will be convinced to change funds
when they should not - inevitably in my view.5
11.15 AIST considered that the United Kingdom's experience is a ‘stark reminder’ that there
needs to be adequate protection mechanisms in place so that individuals are not sold products
that are not in their best interests to buy;
Caveat emptor is not a concept which should apply when we are dealing
with what might be an individual's own savings and ... will be likely to
be their major source of income in retirement.
A bad decision early in life might, as people are living longer and
longer, result in 30 or more years of financial misery later on, and the
impact on the whole community by way of people being increasingly
reliant on government pensions and assistance in retirement, is obvious.6
11.16 Representing the Institute of Actuaries, Mr John Trowbridge acknowledged there is a
potential problem associated with employees being induced to make decisions that are against
their best interests. ‘There are clearly protections needed against sharp sales practices...’.
Mr. Trow bridge is of the view that key features statements by providers offer protection:
...one of the consumer protection issues here is to have key features
statements by providers. We want to prevent institutions, fund managers
of various kinds, pushing people into high expense rate and either high
risk or low risk earnings rate type funds w hen they are better off where
they are today. So the whole regime has got to push providers to be
responsible and make them accountable for trying to do the best for their
employees. There are clearly protections needed against sharp sales
practices and so forth...7
11.17 The Committee discussed the U.K. experience with ISC representatives at its
Canberra public hearing. Mr John Larkin told the Committee that the UK problem arose
from defined benefit scheme members being enticed to leave their schemes and join personal
pension plans that were sold on the basis of quite high commissions. Further, employers
provided less support to the personal pension plans than they w'ould have otherwise provided
had the employees stayed in the defined benefit fund.8
11.18 Mr Larkin told the Committee there are some important existing or foreshadowed
safeguards here that would protect against a situation, similar to that in the UK, arising in
Australia:
5
Evidence, p. 113.
6 Submission, p. 7-8
7 Evidence, p. 233.
Evidence, p. 432.
8


...it was foreshadowed in the budget announcement on choice of fund
that existing employees of defined benefit funds would be given a
statement explaining the consequences of a choice to leave a defined
benefit scheme. In our discussion paper released in December we
foreshadowed some of the items that would be included in that
disclosure statement. That would give those employees a basis for
making an informed choice.9
11.19 Mr Larkin also advised the Committee that there is quite stringent regulation of
financial advice in Australia. He listed the following safeguards:
. Securities dealers and investment advisers are licenced;
• Dealers and advisers are subject to rigorous disclosure requirements to disclose
commissions and material conflicts under the Corporations Law;
• The ISC administers a code of practice, in respect of life insurance agents, that
includes a requirement for agents to undertake a needs assessment before
recommending particular financial products; and
• Transparent disclosure rules at present administered by the ISC and also the
ASC.10
Relationships between employers and providers
11.20 The Committee received evidence arguing that there is potential for employees to be
locked into fund choices by their employer, where the fund choice is based more on the
interest of the employer rather than the employees. In particular, the practice of bundled
selling was raised as a potential issue, as was the issue of undisclosed inducements and
rewards.
11.21 For example, a provider such as a bank might offer favourable terms and conditions
on other products that it was selling to an employer, if the employer persuaded employees to
switch funds to those being offered by the bank. This would not necessarily be in the best
interests of the employees. Protection against this practice may however be offered under the
provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1974.
11.22 In many cases, relationships between providers and employers are innocent and may
in fact be in the interests of the employees. However, there is evidence of other situations
where the best interests of employees are not the major consideration.
11.23 Westscheme provided such an example to the Committee in its submission.
Westscheme submitted that there was evidence, within weeks of the Western Australian
Government’s choice of fund legislation, of employers being offered financial incentives to
meet their choice obligations through a service provider.
9 Evidence, p. 432.
10 Evidence, p. 432-3.


11.24 The ACA and several other witnesses considered that there should be strong
provisions against ‘deals’ between employers and product providers. The ACA told the
Committee that such deals work against the interests of employees, or unnecessarily restrict
choice.
11.-25 Accordingly, the ACA considered that the Committee should seek a clear opinion of
whether the Trade Practices Act provisions relating to “third line forcing” are adequate for the
protection of employees in such situations. The ACA also recommended that there be
disclosure of relationships between employees and product providers where the relationship
extends beyond the provision of superannuation."
11.26 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) also addressed this
issue. ASFA noted that where an employer has a financial relationship with a provider of
financial services including superannuation, there is a possibility of a perception of bias
arising if an employer nominates a fund provided by that financial provider.
11.27 ASFA however did not think that such a relationship should be disallowed. As Dr
Michaela .Anderson noted, ‘The other side to that is that you might be depriving people of
something that was really good’.12
11.28 ASFA and a number of other groups recommended that a full disclosure of financial
relationships between an employer and a financial provider be made to relevant employees
offered choice of fund.13
11.29 The Committee asked ISC, ATO and Treasury representatives whether there was a
need to regulate commission based selling more heavily, or to ban it completely.
11.30 Mr Larkin advised that commissions are a “traditional and quite normal method of
remunerating people who distribute financial products”. He sees no major problem with
commissions provided they are fully disclosed in a manner that is transparent to the
consumer. He reminded the Committee:
...in Australia we have quite strong disclosure of commissions. For
example, the disclosure rules administered under the SIS regime require
full disclosure of all direct and indirect commissions and adviser
remuneration. Under our life insurance regime, there is commission
disclosure and, indeed, benefit illustrations in respect of the impact of
fees and charges on regular premium products. So there are quite
stringent regulations.14
11.31 There are, however, limits to what regulation can achieve.
11.32 Committee members referred the officials to previous evidence about inducements
such as consumers being given mobile telephones in order to induce them to switch funds. Mr
11 Submission, p. 9.
12 Evidence, p. 243.
13 Submission, p. 16.
14 Evidence, p. 437.


Keith Chapman, Deputy Commissioner - Superannuation, ISC, confirmed this would be
difficult to prevent, and would require “extremely draconian’ legislation.1''
Dispute Resolution
11.33 Several groups advised the Committee there is a clear need for an alternative dispute
resolution mechanism, particularly in view of a recent Federal Court decision that removed
the powers of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.16
11.34 The Australian Consumers Association addressed this issue. In its submission, the
ACA argued that the regulatory gap created by the Federal Court decision needs to be
addressed urgently.
11.35 The Association expressed the view that if a legislative solution to this problem is not
possible, then an industry complaints scheme should be established “very quickly prior to the
introduction of choice of fund”.17
11.36 The ACA advised that the foremost requirement of a complaints handling mechanism
is that it must be compulsory for superannuation funds to participate. The ACA drew the
Committee’s attention to similar requirements for financial advisers’ licences:
...it will soon be a condition of holding a financial adviser’s licence that
the holder becomes the member of an industry complaints handling
body.18
11.37 A submission by National Legal Aid (NLA) also referred to the dispute resolution
problem. NLA noted that one of the aims of the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints)
Act 1993 is to provide relief for individuals as a result of unfair tactics in respect of the sale of
superannuation policies, but ‘those provisions are now constitutionally invalid."19
11.38 NLA also noted that the foreshadowed Life Insurance, Conduct and Disclosure Bill
1997 still has not been introduced into Parliament. NLA said the practical result of this is,
that there is an absence of regulation addressing problems within the superannuation industry.
11.39 NLA informed the Committee that the Government needs to act quickly to remedy
this situation because the practical effect is that superannuation funds are now largely
unaccountable.20
11.40 ASFA also addressed the issue of dispute resolution, advising the Committee there is
a need for an early stage and low cost mechanism for resolving choice disputes involving
employers.
15 Evidence, p. 437.
16 Wilkinson, Tuohey and Wall v CARE Superannuation Pty Ltd and others.
17 Submission, p. 11.
18 Submission, p. 11.
19 Submission, p. 2.
20 Submission, p. 2.


11.41 ASFA warned that the operation of choice of superannuation fund has the potential to
generate disputes between employers and employees on a range of matters both major and
minor, concluding that ‘what is needed is a dispute resolution mechanism which is able to
resolve choice disputes involving employers at an early stage and at a low cost’.
11.42 ASFA recommended the Government further investigate choice related dispute
resolution in the course of establishing the ASIC and the “gateway” for dispute resolution.




CHAPTER 12
OTHER ISSUES
Other Issues
Introduction
12.1 During the course of the inquiry, the Committee received evidence on a number of
other issues related to the choice of fund proposal. While these issues are important, they
were not central themes within the inquiry. However, the Committee includes some
discussion on each issue for the information of the Senate.
12.2 The matters covered in the following chapter are:
• Defined benefit schemes;
. Excluded funds;
. Industry fund definition;
. Federal - State application of choice;
. Crediting rates/reserving policy; and
. Limits of S32U (federal award over-ride);
. Dispute resolution; and
. Casual employees.
Defined Benefit Schemes
12.3 Several witnesses highlighted particular difficulties for defined benefit schemes in
relation to the application of the choice of fund legislation. Areas addressed include:
• re-entry rights;
. notice of exit; and
. contributions holidays.
Re-entry rights
12.4 Several witnesses, including IFSA and Coopers & Lybrand, informed the Committee
that members transferring in and out of defined benefits schemes, as will be their right under
the legislation, created difficulties for these schemes and left them open for exploitation by
transferring members.
12.5 Mrs Louise Matthews of Coopers & Lybrand believes this practice has the potential
to create funding difficulties for employer sponsors:
...the employer sponsor will never know where it stands in regard to its
membership base. It can leave a fund open to employees playing
arbitrage against the fund. In a defined benefit fund, it is the employer
sponsor who is taking the investment risk. So you can imagine that an


employee is quite able, during perhaps periods where there is a risk of a
negative or low return, to move into the defined benefit fund and hence
benefit from benefits that are promised under that fund, and then, during
fantastic investment periods, move out of the fund and enjoy actual
earnings in an accumulation style fund.1
12.6 Both Coopers & Lybrand and IFSA recommended that if a member chooses to
leave a defined benefit fund, the employer should have the right to reject that employee's
application to rejoin that fund at some later time.2
Notice of exit
12.7 Coopers & Lybrand advised the Committee that mass exodus of members from a
defined benefit fund could have serious consequences for funding calculations and solvency
of that fund. This would adversely affect the remaining members of the fund.
12.8 Ms Matthews told the Committee that defined benefits generally only maintained
sufficient liquidity to pay benefits as people terminate employment. She said that funds would
not hold sufficient liquid assets to accommodate a greater number of people leaving the fund
than those allowed for when fund managers estimate probable levels of member terminations
for that year.’ However, greater numbers might be expected to leave after the Government
introduces choice of fund.
12.9 Ms Matthews emphasised that superannuation is a long-term investment. Accordingly,
she argued that trustees should have the right to invest in long-term investments in order to
meet the benefits that have been promised under the fund and not have to keep excessive
funds in the money markets.
12.10 Coopers & Lybrand therefore recommended that members be required to give the
trustee and employer sponsor twelve months notice of their intention to leave the fund, to
allow the employer and trustee time to reorganise the fund's investments and cash flow-
problems appropriately.4
Contributions holidays
12.11 Mr John Tweedie, representing the Australian Bankers' Association, advised the
Committee that introducing choice of fund may increase costs for employers operating
defined benefits funds that are on a contribution holiday as a result of accrued surpluses.
12.12 Mr Tweedie explained the situation for employers in the following terms:
Many defined benefit schemes will be structured on the basis of a
multiplier times final average salary - say eight times final average
salary. When a person reaches the eight times final average salary level,
1
Evidence, p. 277-278.
2 See Evidence, p. 277-8, also Evidence, p. 386-7.
3 Evidence, p. 277.
Evidence, p. 277.
4


if choice is then offered - on my understanding of the way the legislation
is proposed - that choice would then have to be offered to the member
and, if the member employee chose another fund at that stage, the
employer would have to recommence contributions.5
12.13 The ABA recommended that the Government amend the legislation so that if the
person already has the maximum benefit and there is a benefit certificate from the actuary
saying that this person has all the benefits that are needed to satisfy the superannuation
guarantee, the employer should not be obliged to offer choice to that person.
12.14 The implications of choice of fund for defined benefit funds on contributions holidays
is a difficult issue. The Committee considers that the ISC should further consider this matter
prior to the commencement date.
Excluded funds
12.15 Excluded, or do-it-yourself funds, are superannuation funds with fewer than five
members.
12.16 Mr David Connolly, representing Phillips Fox, was one of several witnesses who
questioned whether excluded funds should be permitted under an unlimited choice offer.
Mr Connolly considered there may be major compliance issues if employers are compelled to
accept choices of DIY funds from employees. In particular, employers may have to satisfy
themselves that the DIY fund was, in fact, a complying superannuation fund.
12.17 Mr Connolly considered that checking that the fund nominated is a complying fund
would impose an unwanted administrative burden on employers:
What employers do not want to have to do is go through a compliance
regime to check that the fund is a complying fund.6
12.18 Mr Connolly recommended that excluded funds not be permitted under the unlimited
choice option.
12.19 Other witnesses offered different opinions about excluded funds. The ASCPA took a
strongly supportive view of the role of excluded funds within the choice regime. The Society
advised:
Excluded funds offer the ultimate expression of choice. Not only does
the member control where the contributions are made, but they have a
direct say in how contributions are invested, within the parameters set
down by SIS.7
12.20 The ASCPA acknowledged that there may be difficulties associated with offering an
excluded fund under the ‘limited choice option’ because of the requirement to produce a key
5 Evidence, p. 19-20.
6 Evidence, p. 257.
7 Supplementary Submission, 27 February, 1998, p. 1.


features statement. However, they considered that excluded funds are, and should remain, a
legitimate selection under an unlimited choice option. The ASCPA advised the Committee
that the major area where excluded funds can realistically be expected to be a major player in
choice is in the informal agreement option.8
12.21 Mr Murray Wyatt commented on what response employers should make if an
employee selected an excluded fund as part of an unlimited choice offer. He stated:
You get an advice from the ISC that your fund is regulated. For
payments between funds, the payer fund usually requires a copy of that
certificate before making the payment. That certificate could be
provided to the employer to substantiate that his payments are going to a
regulated fund - as a compliance certificate.9
12.22 Other witnesses confirmed Mr Wyatt’s view. For example, Mr John Tweedie, a
solicitor from the Commonwealth Bank who gave evidence on behalf of the Australian
Bankers Association (ABA) advised that because of the considerable penalties associated
with contributing to a non-complying fund, a prudent employer should make reasonable
inquiries to ensure that the fund is a regulated fund.
As I say, that would be a prudent course for the employer. If the
employee wants a particular fund, the employer wants to know that by
using that fund he will satisfy his obligations.10
12.23 The Committee sought information from representatives of the ISC and Australian
Taxation Office concerning the status of excluded funds under the legislation. Mr Olesen
confirmed that excluded funds may be offered as part of the limited choice of four funds
option.
12.24 Mr John Larkin of the ISC advised that the disclosure rules for excluded funds were
still ‘broadly under consideration’. He said:
Under present rules, excluded funds are not required to provide a key
feature statement - because in most cases the trustee and the employee
are one and the same person.11
12.25 The Committee sought information from the ATO/ISC concerning an employer’s
obligations where an employee nominated an excluded fund. Mr Chapman advised the
Committee that:
We would expect the employer to check whether the excluded fund was
regulated and whether it was complying. We are currently working to tiy
and get a full list of regulated funds up on our Internet home page so that
8 Ibid.
9 Evidence, p. 170.
10 Evidence, p. 17.
11 Evidence, p. 422.


people can do that electronically. We hope to have that done in the next
month.1'
12.26 Where excluded funds offer choice, the jurisdiction should rest with the ISC, not the
ATO.
Industry fund definition
12.27 Employers who choose the limited choice option must offer their employees at least
four choices. One of these choices must be an industry based superannuation fund of which
the employee is eligible to be a member.
12.28 Subsection 6(1) of Schedule 5, Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997 defines
industry based superannuation fund as a complying superannuation fund or complying
superannuation scheme that has two or more employer sponsors and that:
(a) complies with subsection 89(1) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Act 1993 (basic equal representation rules); or
(b) is nominated in a Commonwealth award, a State award, or a Territory award
immediately before the commencement of Schedule 5 to the Taxation Laws
Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997\ or
(c) is approved in writing by the Commissioner as an industry-based superannuation
fund.
12.29 Several submissions and witnesses to the inquiry disagreed with the definition of
industry based fund used in the legislation. Ms Ann Byrne, Convenor, Industry Funds Forum,
told the Committee that the definition used in the legislation means almost every master trust
and life office fund can now be an industry fund.13
12.30 Based on what she believed ‘the general community understands an industry fund to
be'. Ms By me recommended a considerably narrower definition of industry based fund.
12.31 Ms Byme stated that an industry fund should:
. have equal representation of employers and employees;
. have two or more employer sponsors; and
• operates on a not-for-profit basis.
12.32 Representatives of the Industry Funds Forum told the Committee that^ master trusts
more properly should be defined as fitting within the public offer fund category.
12 Evidence, p 423
13 Evidence, p. 32.
14 Evidence, p. 33.


12.33 Mr Ian Silk of the Industry Funds Forum explained why the definition in the
legislation is too broad:
The difficulty with the definition now is principally the part that states
that a fund is an industry fund if it is nominated in an award. There are
any number of Federal and State awards - hundreds - and many of those
reflect private arrangements between an employer and a union and their
employees. They have transported into an award a particular fund, a
commercial fund, a non-industiy fund. Because of the fact that it is in
one award in, say, the Northern Territory, in terms of this definition that
fund is regarded and defined as an industry' fund for the entire nation, for
every industry.15
12.34 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) made similar
comments about the definition of an industry fund. ASFA advised the Committee they
believed the definition of an industry fund to be too wide and included types of
superannuation funds not previously regarded as industry funds.
12.35 ASFA recommended the definition of ‘industry based superannuation fund’ be
amended to require that the fund have two or more non-associated employer sponsors and
comply with the basic representation rules or be approved by the Commissioner as an
industry based superannuation fund.
12.36 Mr Kevin Casey, the Manager, Technical Advisory Services, AMP, put an alternative
view to the Committee about the definition of an industry based fund. Mr Casey, who was
appearing on behalf of IFSA, told the Committee that over a period of time the classification
of superannuation funds had become blurred.
12.37 Mr Casey noted that the industry style funds had grown out of award type
superannuation. However, many were now also public offer funds. Mr Casey concluded:
We believe that there is now less distinction between a public offer and
an industry fund and therefore the definition which would require the
equal representation at trustee level would actually not, in fact, fit the
market as it is emerging.16
12.38 Mr Casey said that there would be competitive advantages to existing industry funds if
a more limited definition applied. This would exclude other funds from being classified as
industry funds and offered as industry funds under one of the four types of funds.17
Federal - State application of choice
12.39 For constitutional reasons, the choice of fund legislation does not apply to people
employed under state awards. Several witnesses contended that there was a need for a
national uniformity of approach.
15 Evidence,
16 Evidence,
17 Evidence,
>. 33.
>. 385.
». 385.


12.40 Some States have introduced their own choice of fund legislation. However, there are
differences in approach, and not all have legislation in place. The Western Australian
Government, for example, introduced choice of fund legislation as part of its 1995 industrial
relations reforms. Where the employer agrees, employees can also exercise choice in New
South Wales and Queensland.
12.41 ASFA advised the Committee that a lack of uniformity between the states and
commonwealth would make education campaigns difficult:
We think it is going to be difficult to have a national education campaign
when there are different workers doing different things or have rights to
do different things. That is where we would like the clarification
between Commonwealth and States.18
12.42 ASFA recommended that the Government meet with relevant state ministers to
achieve consistent and workable approaches, leading to national uniformity before the
legislation is implemented.19
12.43 Representatives of AMP also expressed concern about the lack of coverage by the
legislation of people on state awards:
There are concerns about the coverage of the choice of fund legislation.
Employees under state industrial awards will not be covered by the
legislation. Further, some states have introduced their own versions of
choice of fund that are not compatible with the federal government’s
measures. This adds to the cost and complexity. AMP believes that
harmonisation is necessary but acknowledges that it is a long-term
policy objective.20
12.44 Mr John Maroney of IFSA also expressed concern about this matter. He recognised
however that it was difficult to achieve a uniformity of views. He suggested the
Commonwealth could make use of its corporations power in order to exercise a federal
jurisdiction in respect of choice of fund.21
Crediting rates/ reserving policy
12.45 William M. Mercer Pty Ltd advised the Committee that choice of fund will present
particular problems for funds with high levels of reserves. Mercers considered that there is a
danger that members will switch out when reserves are low and in when, reserves are high.
12.46 Mercers considered that trustees may have to review their policy in respect of
crediting rates and reserves. Trustees may wish to avoid building up reserves further and
18 Evidence, p. 245.
19 Submission, p. 5.
20 Evidence, Ms Louise Sylva, p. 352.
21 Evidence, p. 3 86.


perhaps reduce them when setting crediting rates. They may also have to set future crediting
rates at a rate more closely related to the earning rate in each period.~
Limits of S32U
12.47 Section 32U of the legislation over-rides federal awards in respect of choice of fund,
‘to the extent that the employer instead makes the contributions on behalf of the employee...to
another superannuation fund that is a chosen fund or a default fund’.23
12.48 The Committee considers there is reason to believe confusion exists about whether
S32U has wider effects. For example, could the section affect the frequency with which
contributions are remitted? Would the SG provisions or the award provisions prevail? This
confusion may arise out of the Government’s proposal to remove superannuation as an
allowable matter from the Workplace Relations Act.
12.49 The Government has introduced separate legislation to remove superannuation as an
allowable matter. This change will, if implemented, have far reaching implications for how'
superannuation contributions are paid and to whom. The Committee, however, is of the view'
that its current terms of reference do not extend to this matter and that it would therefore be
inappropriate to discuss it at length in this report.
12.50 The Committee believes it would assist if the Minister were to clarify w'hether the
effects of S32U extend beyond nominating a particular fund for the purposes of an award,
prior to consideration of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) in the Senate.
Casual employees
12.51 Witnesses drew the Committee’s attention to the application of the choice of fund
legislation to casual employees. If casual employees are treated as new employees, larger
numbers of employees than originally anticipated may have to be offered choice of fund on
1 July 1998.
12.52 The Committee sought advice from officers of the Australian Taxation Office as to
whether such employees would have to be offered choice of fund. Mr Neil Olesen, Assistant
Commissioner, confirmed that casual employees are new employees each time they
commence a new employment relationship:
It would be the case, where they may start and stop employment with the
same employer frequently in a short time because of the nature of their
casual employment relationship. Yes, strictly speaking, they are new
employees each time they start a new employment relationship.24
22 Submission, Attachment 1, p. 10.
23 Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997
24 Evidence, p. 444.


CHAPTER 13
SUMMARY
13.1 Much of the evidence to the Committee supported the introduction of choice of fund,
or at least accepted the policy direction set by the Government. However, there is a deep
division between specialist providers of financial products who are anxious that choice
proceed in accordance with the Government’s announced schedule, and others who, for a
variety of reasons, advocate a delay or propose that choice be optional for a limited period, or
that choice be limited to investment within a fund.
The former group, which includes the banks, some specialist product providers and
some of the major life companies, have products ready for the introduction of choice and are
confident that they can prepare key features statements for their products before 1 July 1998.
The latter group, which includes the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia,
consumer and legal advocates, some major employers, small employers and many of the
major consulting groups, do not consider that employees or employers will be sufficiently
educated about choice. Concern was also expressed about the tasks that trustees and
employers must complete prior to the starting date. Further, this group wishes to see the final
form of the legislation, including the regulations that will govern key features statements,
before proceeding. At the time of writing, this information is not to hand.
13.2 In order for the choice of fund initiative to achieve its objectives, employers and
employees will both require education about choice of fund. Employers, particularly small
employers, will need to be advised about their obligations, responsibilities and options.
Employees will require information about their rights and how to make a sensible choice.
Many witnesses expressed concern about the cost of a choice regime to both superannuation
providers (in terms of high marketing and commission costs) and to employers.
13.3 It is important that choice of fund works primarily for the benefit of employees rather
than providers or employers.
13.4 Educational material associated with key features statements should discourage people
from exercising choice of fund until they have adequately informed themselves of the
consequences of changing funds, and understand what is being offered to them.
13.5 If employee choice proceeds, key features statements should incorporate clear
warnings about the consequences of choosing a fund, such as the adequacy and coverage ot
insurance and the possibility that insurance cover, where formerly provided, may lapse. The
statements should also incorporate a clear explanation about the relative risks associated with
each option.
13.6 The default fund must provide adequate protection for those people who cannot or are
unwilling to exercise choice. Several witnesses recommended that the employer should not
choose the default fund, and that the relevant industry fund should be the default fund.


Chapter 13
13.7 In circumstances where there is a dispute between the employer and the employee in
matters relating to choice of fund, there is a need for a nominated arbitrator. Some witnesses
considered that the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal was the most effective vehicle for
this task, although numerous witnesses, including a number of trade unions, argued that the
Australian Industrial Relations Commission had better expertise to deal with such disputes.
However, a recent Federal Court decision has removed the Superannuation Complaints
Tribunal’s powers to arbitrate on disputes. The Government is working with interested parties
to find a low cost dispute resolution mechanism. The Committee also intends to conduct a
round table group discussion to discuss this matter.
13.8 The choice regime would represent very significant change to administrative
arrangements for superannuation. If it is to proceed as planned on 1 July 1998, early passage
of the legislation and completion of the regulations on matters such as disclosure will be
necessary to provide legislative certainty. However, a large number of witnesses expressed
the view that a delay of at least a year would be prudent.
13.9 There is considerable evidence that people will perceive key features statements as
very complex. Given the limited amount of time for employees to be adequately informed,
there is a great deal of anxiety about potential responsibilities and liabilities. However, the
Assistant Treasurer, Senator the Hon. Rod Kemp, and officers of the Australian Taxation
Office, have assured the Committee that the necessary information will be available for new
employees before choice is introduced. The Minister and the officers expressed confidence
that sufficient time remains for the necessary arrangements to be put in place.


CHAPTER 14
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions and Recommendations
Government Senators’ view
14.1 Government Senators consider that there is clear support for the choice of fund
principle. Choice of fund will, in the longer term, bring significant benefits to employees.
14.2 The Government has acknowledged the importance of informed choice and has
indicated that the necessary education programs for employers and employees will be in
place. The private sector will also play a significant role in this process.
14.3 The Government has also consulted extensively on disclosure requirements.
Regulations setting disclosure requirements depend on passage of Taxation Laws
Amendment Bill (No.7) 1997.
14.4 Government Senators found the evidence presented about choice of fund to be very
persuasive. Government Senators also recognise the tight time for some people.
Recommendation:
Government Senators recommend that the Senate pass Taxation Laws Amendment Bill
, (No.7) 1997 w ithout further delay.
Senator John W at son
Chairman
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran


NON-GOVERNMENT SENATORS’ CONCLUSIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
Labor Senators’ view
14.5 Labor Senators acknowledge that the implementation of choice of superannuation
fund is potentially one of the greatest changes to superannuation since the introduction of the
Superannuation Guarantee.
14.6 Evidence provided to the Committee about the disastrous outcomes where other
countries have introduced choice of superannuation fund, particularly the United Kingdom
and Chile, suggests that the Committee should carefully consider any proposed choice of fund
model put before the Parliament. It is prudent for the Committee to begin in the first
instance, from the position of whether Australia should be implementing a choice regime,
with its inherent costs and risks to individuals’ retirement incomes.
14.7 The Committee received much evidence on choice of fund which supported the view'
that there is very little public demand for choice from employees. Labor Senators believe that
the Government’s choice model which will deregulate the retail superannuation market, does
not reflect the demand for choice from superannuation consumers. Rather, choice is being
driven by the Government’s ideology and vested interests who stand to benefit from choice.
The principle of choice
14.8 Labor Senators are not opposed to the principle of employee choice of fund, provided
that employees are not forced to choose and are able to make an informed choice. The
overwhelming weight of evidence provided to the Committee was for informed choice.
14.9 In addition, Labor Senators consider that choice should be implemented in a way that
will not disadvantage superannuation fund members and is simple to both comply with and
administer. Clearly, choice of fund should not put onerous compliance and administrative
burdens on employees, employers, or superannuation providers.
14.10 Labor Senators believe that the Government’s choice of fund model does not meet
these principles.
Economic benefits
14.11 Labor Senators’ doubt the Government’s major claim that the introduction of its
choice of fund model will benefit to consumers through increased competition in the
superannuation industry and lower costs, resulting in better retirement incomes.
14.12 The Committee received evidence from a variety of witnesses who refuted this claim.
Mr. Ken Lockery, Principal, Towers Perrin, noted that the majority of employees in large
employer based or industry funds would not receive any benefit and might instead suffer a net
economic loss. Mr Lockery quite rightly pointed out that the Government was ignoring the
fact that competitive choice already exists in the superannuation industry, at the wholesale
market level:


Son-Government Senators Conclusions and Recommendations
The key issue that the government has failed to recognise is the
efficiency of our present trustee based system in producing intense
competition at the wholesale level between investment managers and
between fund administrators. It is clear that many other industries’
participants support our view.1
14.13 Similarly, a submission by the Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
highlighted several costs areas which are expected to rise as a result of the Government’s
choice model, including marketing, administration and legal costs.
14.14 On the issue of marketing, Helen Hewett, fund Secretary, C+BUS, provided evidence
to the Committee that advertising budgets of industry based funds would have to rise to meet
the need to compete with other funds in the marketplace. Ms Hewett cast doubt on the impact
that competition would have on providing better retirement incomes for fund members.
14.15 Labor Senators also express their grave concern that the Government’s model of
deregulating the superannuation industry at the retail level will expose employees to products
with expensive entry, management and exit fees. For example, some personal superannuation
products and master trusts contain much higher fees and charges than industry funds and
many corporate funds.
Education
14.16 Education is clearly one of the most important components of delivering a choice
model. In particular, education is crucial if individuals are to make an informed choice,
which will require an appropriate general understanding of superannuation and an
understanding of the impact choice of fund will have on their retirement incomes.
14.17 Labor Senators believe that an education program must include three separate groups.
These are employees; employers, especially small business and community organisations; and
superannuation providers. The education campaign should have two phases - an introductory
phase and an implementation phase.
14.18 The Committee received a significant amount of evidence in support of a public-
funded education campaign, even from those organisations who are generally supportive of
the Government's choice of fund model.
14.19 The need for a comprehensive education campaign was highlighted in evidence to the
Committee from Mr Ian Silk, from the Industry Funds Forum, who cited evidence on the
relatively low levels of literary and numeracy rates in Australia. Mr Silk s evidence
demonstrated that many Australians do not have an adequate level of education to be able to
make an informed choice of superannuation fund.
14.20 Labor Senators recognise that there is clearly a need for a well-planned education
campaign, not only for employees but also for employers and superannuation providers.
14.21 When in Government, Labor's money tree campaign demonstrated how effective a
well researched, targeted and well resourced education campaign can be. _
1 Evidence, p. 302 - also para 3.15.


14.22 However, Labor Senators are sceptical about the Government's bona fides on an
education campaign for choice.
14.23 The Australian Taxation Office finds itself in an unenviable situation with regard to
the implementation of the Government's choice agenda. Clearly, the ATO has been left with
little choice but to implement a major initiative in an impossibly short timeframe.
14.24 Despite comments made by the Assistant Treasurer about the importance of education,
the Government obviously considers that ensuring employees are in a position to make an
informed choice is a low priority. There are two key factors that clearly indicate this is the
case:
. the indecent haste with which the government is seeking to implement this
policy; and
• the inadequate amount of money allocated for education.
14.25 Labor Senators note the comments made by Mr Michael Monaghan, Deputy
Commissioner, Superannuation, ATO, in which he assured the Committee that there was
sufficient time remaining for education of those who would have to make choices after 1st
July. He told the Committee that:
Clearly it is part of our role to ensure that the people who are making
decisions are equipped to do so, and we are satisfied that there is still
ample time for us to do that. There has been a lot of work going on
preparing us to develop actual strategies to educate people and we do not
see any reason why people who are making choices in July will not be
adequately equipped with information to help them to do that.*
14.26 The Committee sought further information from Mr Monaghan about the ATO's
timetable for conducting the necessary education program to accompany the choice of fund
implementation.
14.27 Mr Monaghan advised that:
We have just completed tendering for an advertising agency to undertake
this work on our behalf. We cannot announce the decision now, because
we are still completing the paperwork; but that is imminent. We have
already undertaken considerable research/
14.28 Labor Senators acknowledge that the ATO has already undertaken significant
background work towards implementing a campaign for educating employers and employees
about choice. However, it is extraordinary that, three months from the starting date, tenders
for conducting the Government's information campaign have not yet been announced.
14.29 Labor Senators consider that it is highly questionable whether an adequate campaign
can be managed and run in the remaining available time. Inevitably, some of the first people
Evidence, p. 407.
Evidence, p. 408.
3


who will be required to make a choice may not have received adequate education about how
they should go about making an informed choice.
14.30 Labor Senators also note Mr Monaghan’s comments about how there is a need to ‘find
the hook to get people wanting to take an interest’. Labor Senators believe that this indicates
that planning for the advertising campaign and education campaign is at a very preliminary'
level.
14.31 Labor Senators recommend that a well researched, resourced and targeted education
campaign be conducted before choice of fund is implemented. The education campaign
should be targeted at employees and employers, particularly small business employers.
14.32 Labor Senators further recommend that the start of choice of fund should be delayed
to provide additional time for an education campaign.
14.33 Labor Senators believe it is appropriate for the Government to make a substantial
contribution towards funding an education campaign and consider using part of the
supervisory levy raised by the ISC.
14.34 Labor Senators recommend that the Government consider implementing investment
choice as a first step towards educating the public about choice of fund.
Disclosure
14.35 Labor Senators welcome the change to an “up-front” disclosure model. It is essential
that consumers have the appropriate information and evidence in front of them before they
make a decision about choice of fund.
14.36 However, for employees to be able to make an informed choice decision, they must be
able to compare, on an equal footing, information about one superannuation fund with
information about another fund. This will require a consistent, standard disclosure regime for
the presentation of key feature statements.
14.37 Labor Senators recommend that choice of fund disclosure regulations provide only for
a consistent, single disclosure regime for key feature statements, similar to that proposed in
evidence by William M Mercer.
14.38 In addition, Labor Senators recommend that when designing the disclosure regime for
choice, the ISC consider including additional generic material in key feature statements, as
proposed by Mr Grenfell of Mercer’s.
14.39 Evidence from Ms Krystyna Hassall, with a background of some 16 years in the
superannuation industry, suggests that Australians without a detailed knowledge of
superannuation may have some difficulty in understanding the information presented to them.
14.40 For this reason, it is essential that key features statements are ‘road tested’ to ensure
that ordinary Australians can understand and apply the information they contain. An
appropriate level of understanding could be the 80 per cent understanding level which the
Government is applying to its incoming telephone call identification system.


14.41 Labor Senators recommend that the Government commission field tests of key feature
statements on employees and employers before final disclosure regulations are introduced
into the Parliament. The field tests should achieve a level of 80 per cent understanding before
the Government proclaims the legislation and proceeds with choice of fund.
Timing
14.42 The Committee received an overwhelming amount of evidence in support of delaying
the start date for choice.
14.43 Arguments for delaying the start of choice include allowing additional time for:
• a comprehensive education campaign;
• superannuation providers to prepare administration arrangements;
• employers to prepare for choice of fund; and
• the development of adequate and appropriate disclosure standards.
14.44 Labor Senators believe that there is a strong case for delaying the start of choice of
superannuation fund. The question should be, for how long?
14.45 On balance, of the several options for delay which were presented to the Committee,
Labor Senators recommend that the start date be delayed until at least 1 July 2000 and that
new and existing employees begin choice simultaneously. This recommendation is made for
several reasons.
14.46 First, the 1 July 2000 start date is the date set by the Government set for existing
employees in the transitional provisions of its own choice proposal. The confusion of having
two separate start dates for new and existing employees is unnecessary and unwanted.
14.47 Second, the superannuation industry and ordinary Australians are still suffering from
the last major superannuation policy the Government tried to rush through the Parliament:
the superannuation surcharge tax. Given the importance of choice of fund, it is essential that
any teething problems have an adequate lead time to be sorted out before the measure takes
effect.
14.48 Third, the delay will allow the Government, in consultation with industry and
consumer groups, to conduct a comprehensive and targeted education program.
14.49 Fourth, a delay will enable appropriate disclosure standards to be settled
14.50 Fifth, Labor Senators are concerned that choice of fund will lead to many complaints
from disgruntled employees and employers. With the recent Federal Court Bishop decision
effectively gutting the powers of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, it is important that
the issue of access to a cheap, fast and independent complaints body is resolved before choice
begins.
14.51 Labor Senators note that evidence provided to the Committee by Mr John Trowbridge,
President of the Institute of Actuaries and recently appointed as a member of the Treasurer’s
Financial Sector Advisory Council, strongly supported delaying the start date of choice.


14.52 Labor Senators also note the submissions of William M Mercer and Coopers and
Lybrand which outlined the many tasks employers will have to undertake before choice
begins.
14.53 On the issue of delaying choice, Labor Senators draw the Government’s attention to
an editorial in The Australian newspaper which discussed the Government’s desire to press
ahead with the 1 July 1998 start date:
...If the Government remains set on its course, it would provide
ammunition for critics who believe the member choice initiatives are
motivated more by a desire to water down union-affiliated industry fund
involvement in superannuation than by a genuine wish to empower
individual savers. [The Australian 2 March 1998, p.8].
14.54 Labor Senators therefore recommend delaying the start date of choice of fund until 1
July 2000 for both new and existing employees.
Default fund
14.55 Labor Senators believe the submission made to the Committee by Mr Peter Kell of the
Australian Consumers Association, on the issue of default funds, is worthy of closer
consideration.
14.56 In addition, Labor Senators support the concern expressed in evidence by the former
Coalition shadow Minister, Mr David Connolly, about the gaps in insurance cover that will
inevitably occur under the Government’s default fund arrangements.
14.57 Determination of the default fund is an area of the Government’s choice model that it
should reconsider. Removal of superannuation from awards is, in essence, removing an
established procedure for determining which default fund should apply and also removes the
independent arbitrator, the Australian Industrial Relations Commission.
14.58 Labor Senators endorse the Committee’s view that there is a strong case for setting
minimum default fund standards, particularly in the area of insurance cover and investment
choice.
14.59 The Committee received clear evidence that the majority of employees will choose the
default fund. Labor Senators recommend that the default fund not be the lowest common
denominator chosen by employers.
14.60 In addition, Labor Senators believe the Government should consider allowing the
default fund to be determined by reference to the relevant industrial award.
Insurance
14.61 Labor Senators draw attention to evidence from Mr David Connolly on the issue of
insurance cover, which Mr Connolly described as ‘one of the biggest problems faced’.


14.62 Mr Connolly, the author of the Government’s 1996 pre-election policy, told the
Committee that he was ‘"saddened" that the universal, compulsory minimum insurance model
he proposed was the only part of the Coalition policy which was not adopted.
14.63 Labor Senators believe that minimum insurance standards are appropriate, particularly
for default fund products.
Definition of ‘industry -based funds’
14.64 Labor Senators believe that the definition of ‘industry-based funds’ in the
Government’s choice of fund legislation is too broad.
14.65 Labor Senators recommend that the definition be amended to reflect the key ‘not-for-
profit’ feature that current typifies industry funds.
National consistency
14.66 The Government’s choice model will cause massive confusion for both employers and
employees due to the lack of consistency with other States’ choice of fund models and the
inconsistency between State and Federal award arrangements. Employers with workers
employed under both State and Federal awards, will be required to offer two different choice
of fund models. Employees who change industrial jurisdictions will also suffer.
14.67 Labor Senators believe that the Government should opt for a choice of fund model
which provides greater consistency between State and Federal jurisdictions.
Removal of superannuation from federal awards
14.68 Labor Senators note the Government’s intention to remove superannuation as an
allowable matter in federal industrial awards.
14.69 Many industrial awards provide for more frequent payments of superannuation
contributions (monthly or quarterly) than the superannuation guarantee. One of the many
adverse consequences of removing superannuation from awards would be a shift to annual
payments resulting in significant enforcement and compliance problems and a major
reduction in interest accruing on members’ accounts. This will result in lower retirement
incomes for many workers.
14.70 Labor Senators recommend that the Government not proceed with this policy which
would have a disastrous impact on the retirement incomes of low and middle income
workers.
Overriding Federal Awards: S32U
14.71 Labor Senators believe that Section 32U, which seeks to override superannuation
provisions in awards, will result in lower protection for employees particularly given that the
Government’s choice model effectively gives choice to employers, rather than employees.


14.72 In addition. Labor Senators note the Government’s hypocrisy in proposing to override
awards in respect of choice of fund, but not for the earnings base which could result in
employees being better off.
14.73 Section 32T allows employers to continue to use the notional earnings base for
calculating employees’ superannuation entitlements, for both existing and new employees,
despite the choice model overriding the award in other respects. The Government cannot
have it both ways.
14.74 Labor Senators recommend that Section 32U be removed from the bill allowing the
award to continue in operation.
Independent arbitrator
14.75 Labor Senators note the Committee’s summary' which states that in the event of a
dispute between an employer and employee relating to choice of fund, there is a need for a
nominated arbitrator.
14.76 Labor Senators recommend that superannuation should not be removed from the
industrial awards system and that the Australian Industrial Relations Commission should
remain as the independent arbitrator of disputes.
Stephen Conroy
Senator Chris Evans
Senator the Hon. Nick Sherry!
Deputy Chairman


AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS’ VIEW
Senator Lyn Allison - Supplementary report
14.78 The Government’s choice of funds arrangements represent the most significant reform
to superannuation since the 1992 Superannuation Guarantee legislation. Choice, in principle,
is difficult to oppose. In a perfect world, maximisation of choice offers good opportunities for
well informed consumers to identify and act on their best interests. However, the
superannuation system in Australia does not represent a perfect world, and consumers of
superannuation products may not be well informed.
14.79 The Government’s choice proposals need to be considered, in the light of existing
arrangements and the existing positions and rights of superannuation consumers and
providers. To pursue a choice regime for purely ideological reasons without consideration for
the real world impact on consumers, providers, employers and public finances will not
produce a good public policy outcome.
14.80 In assessing the Government’s choice regime, the Democrats will give primary
consideration to the interests of superannuation fund members, and consider how the choice
regime will change or impact on the investments, prospects, rights and protection of fund
members.
14.81 We are very conscious of the low level of understanding of and confidence in the
superannuation system among most Australian workers and many employers. More change of
unproven value is unlikely to improve confidence. Change should only be supported which
will clearly add to understanding and confidence.
Member and the Industrial Relations System:
14.82 This legislation also marks a major change in the status of superannuation as an
industrial matter. Over the past decade and a half, major improvements in superannuation for
workers have been achieved as a direct result of union agitation through National Wage Cases
and, following the failure of the Australian Industrial Relations Commission to deliver the
union’s desired outcome in 1991, Commonwealth SGC legislation. This industrial aspect of
superannuation is reflected in union representation on the large industry funds,
superannuation clauses in awards and in union offices providing advisory sendees to
members on superannuation matters.
14.83 The choice regime seeks to end the characterisation of superannuation as an industrial
matter by removing award superannuation clauses and by establishing superannuation
arrangements directly between employers and individual employees rather than by collective
determination. This very significant change should not be lightly dismissed. The unions have
built up considerable expertise in superannuation matters and have provided a highly
effective level of consumer advocacy on behalf of four million Australian workers with little
or no knowledge of investment matters.
14.84 Nevertheless, the passage of the SGC legislation and the SIS Act have resulted in
superannuation being partly regulated by two legal systems and two regulators, the ISC and
the AIRC. At the time of the 1996 Workplace Relations Act agreement with the


Australian Democrats ’ view
Government, the Democrats recognised that there could be some merit in having one piece of
legislation governing superannuation. However, the then Democrats Leader set the following
conditions on such a move:
Such legislation must ensure that workers are not made worse off as a
result of any overriding or repeal of award superannuation clauses. The
legislation should also not be used to undermine the industry
superannuation funds, which we believe have provided good value for
money for workers, or to provide an unfair advantage for the larger
financial institutions with large advertising and marketing budgets.4
14.85 These are still the primary concerns of the Democrats in assessing the best way
forward for choice in superannuation and consequential changes to awards.
14.86 The Government, for its part, argues that the choice regime will provide substantial
benefits for members. The Minister, in his second reading speech, argued that:
The choice of funds arrangements are designed to give employees
greater choice and control over their superannuation savings, which in
turn give them greater sense of ownership of these savings. The
arrangements will increase competitions and efficiency in the
superannuation industry, leading to improved returns on superannuation
savings.5
14.87 The testing of the assertions made in this statement have been the major subject of this
Inquiry. Will the proposed “choice” regime increase the control employees have over their
superannuation, or the control of employers? Is member choice the best way to increase
competition on returns on superannuation? Will competition lead to greater efficiency i.e.
lower costs?
14.88 The evidence to the Committee has provided little concrete support for proving the
Government’s claims. The Committee report summarises the evidence fairly
comprehensively and the Democrats propose to comment only on some of what we see as the
key issues.
Member choice or employer choice:
14.89 The Australian Consumers Association, while supporting moving to a choice regime,
was strongly critical of the Government’s proposal, arguing that it is effectively the
employer’s decision of the type of choice offered or whether there will be any choice at all.
Choice should be open-ended.6 The Democrats certainly have some sympathy that the
proposed choice regime places far too much weight on the rights of employers rather than
employees in defining this aspect of choice. The reforms announced in December made this
imbalance considerably worse. Such an approach reduces the scope and hence the quality of
the choice, and thereby the potential of the scheme as a whole to deliver a truly competitive
outcome.
4 Letter from the Leader of the Australian Democrats to the Minister of Workplace Relations 18/10/96.
5 Second Reading Speech, Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 7) 1997.
6 Submission, Australian Consumers’ Association, p. 8.


14.90 Against that, other submissions have raised very strong arguments against unlimited
choice. Indeed, unlimited choice would greatly increase employer costs, while the benefits to
individual employees would depend on how informed they were in choosing funds. The
South Australian Local Government Superannuation Scheme argued that the cost of
compliance for a defined benefit scheme would be such that it would result in an increase in
employer contributions.
Member choice and returns on funds:
14.91 In many cases, while members are still directed without choice into an industry fund,
there is heavy competition between funds in choosing investment managers and fund
administrators.' Because of the onerous nature of trustee obligations, fund trustees do tend to
shop around and regularly review the performance of their managers and administrators.
Importantly, they are in a position to make informed choices.
14.92 Making informed choices about likely investment returns will prove extremely
difficult for most workers. Indeed, the tendency identified by many witnesses before the
Committee for the less informed to err on the side of caution and conservatism, or take an
option which is inappropriate for their circumstances, is likely to reduce the long term returns
for many workers. While many submissions argued for extensive education to improve the
quality of choice decisions, it is unlikely that any but a very small minority of members will
have sufficient expertise to weigh up risks and returns and consistently achieve better long
term outcomes than professional fund trustees and investment managers.
14.93 It would be folly for the Parliament to approve a scheme which could result in the
reduction in long term rates of return on superannuation, or higher cost regimes, because any
reduction in superannuation payouts into the future will need to be offset by increased
pension payments. It may be that removing effective decisions about the best high retum/low
cost investment strategies from the hands of professional investors and placing it in the hands
of uninformed investors or employers could have a significant deleterious effect on national
savings.
Member choice at whose cost:
14.94 It is very clear from the evidence that choice, instead of reducing costs across the
industry as claimed by the Government, will considerably increase them as funds will need to
considerably increase spending on advertising, marketing and commissions to attract and
retain members. Industry funds utilising minimal marketing costs and improving economies
of scale, have been able to offer administration fees up to 80 per cent lower than commercial
funds. By contrast, it has been estimated that the costs of commissions, marketing and
widespread fund switching costs up to 18 per cent of contributions in the Chilean choice
system.8 A recent projection of low fee industry funds and the more high fee master trust
Evidence, Mr Ken Lockery, Towers Perrin, p. 302.
8 Submission, Industry Funds Forum, p. 11 and Submission, Motor Trades Association of Australia
Superannuation Fund Pty Limited, p. 4.


funds found that the low fee nature of industry super funds would result in a superannuation
payout $100,000 higher than the average master trust.9
14.95 Any disclosure requirements, worthy as they are, will add further to such heavy
administrative costs. Further, employers could face quite onerous administrative costs of
complying with choice, which becomes more costly with a larger number of casual workers.
Employees, faced with the need to make informed choices, will probably need to seek
independent financial advice at further personal cost. The costs of competition are likely to
be considerable. Against that, some efficiency savings will come from the likely mergers or
acquisitions of many smaller funds. However, without modifications to capital gains taxation,
these efficiency gains are unlikely to be maximised.
What sort of choice?
14.96 Choice need not be at the fund level - choice can and does occur within funds. Many
superannuation funds in Australia already offer choices to members about different types of
investments. Several submissions argued that this approach should be expanded first to help
educate workers about the types of judgements needed for choosing investment and risk
strategies before moving to full employer choice. Such an approach would have the advantage
of eliminating the heavy up front marketing costs that funds would face in a full choice
regime. However, the evidence from most funds offering investment choice is that few
members avail themselves of investment choice. Nevertheless, even if the proportion is small,
provided the cost to the funds of managing such choices are not excessive, then even
providing such choice is likely to increase “ownership” of superannuation in a positive sense
without the negative cost aspects of a full choice regime.
14.97 Investment choice could also allow for greater democratisation of superannuation
funds. It could be used as a means by trustees to gauge the desires of members on broader
investment policy decisions e.g. whether funds should invest funds offshore, or whether a
small proportion of funds could be allocated to venture capital or infrastructure, or small
business, or housing. Such an approach of allowing greater employee choice over investment
could partly free trustees from their onerous duties pushing them always towards maximising
short-term returns. Instead, all or some of the members of a fund express a preference for
investing, for example, in Australian businesses, then the trustees would be expected to
largely comply with that request. However, the greater the nature of choices provided,
obviously the greater the costs for funds.
Informed Choice:
14.98 The Committee report extensively outlines the need for high quality and user friendly
education of members and disclosure requirements. The Democrats strongly endorse the
sentiments of the Committee’s main report, and believe that all stakeholders - the
Government and superannuation providers - need to accept responsibility for developing an
informed market for superannuation products through education and disclosure. The
Democrats strongly support disclosure requirements aiming for simple and meaningful
comparisons for the key features of schemes rather than lengthy, technical text. Careful
Beth Quinlivan, Personal Investment, December 1997, p. 65.
9


piloting and testing of disclosure documents will need to be an essential part of any choice
regime. In an effort minimise problems with disclosure, the Democrats believe that the
regulatory regime must also extend to limiting the use of commissions and inducements
employers, and also the content and placement of advertising and marketing materials to
ensure that member choice is based on facts rather than marketing strategies.
Uninformed Choice:
14.99 Many workers, possibly the vast majority, would inevitably prefer not to make any
choice about superannuation. Certainly this has been the experience in the State schemes
offering choice in New South Wales and Queensland and where choice has been offered
within schemes. This makes the choice of the default scheme extremely important10.
Currently this is regulated by award clauses and tends to default to an industry fund where the
interests of members are protected by union trustees. This bill leaves the choice of default
scheme in the hands of employers. The Democrats believe that there is much merit in
maintaining industry funds as the appropriate default fund, but note concerns that the
Government’s proposed definition of industry fund may need substantial modification to
reflect funds with joint employer-employee trustees.11 If the Government proceeds to remove
the provision of award clauses setting the default scheme.
14.100 The level of individual and collective disputation is likely to increase if the
Government’s choice regime with its high discretions to employers is introduced. There is
clearly a need for maintaining an impartial dispute resolution mechanism,*“ a role which
many argue could continue to be performed by the Industrial Relations Commission,lj
particularly given the legal doubt over the future of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
and the general ineffectiveness of voluntary' regulation and dispute schemes.
Timing of Reforms:
14.101 If the Government proceeds with its freedom of choice regime, there is a strong case
for delaying the start-up date for the new scheme. These issues are canvassed in the main
report in some detail. The Democrats do wish to place on record our view that we do not
believe that a July 1 1998 date is feasible, particularly given the high administrative costs
superannuation providers already need to incur this year complying with the Government's
Superannuation Surcharge Tax legislation.
Portability of Superannuation:
14.102 To maximise the potential gains from choice, superannuation funds ought to be fully
portable. However, this could create serious problems for employers, particularly those with
defined benefit schemes. It would also require careful attention to the quantum of exit and
10 See Submission, Australian Consumers’ Association.
11 Submission, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees, p. 1.
12 Submission, The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Limited, p. 7.
13 Submission, Australian Council of Trade Unions, p. 4, and Submission, Motor Trades Association of
Australia Superannuation Fund Pty Limited, p. 4.


transfer fees charged by many superannuation providers, and to determining what is a
reasonable period of notice for providers to be given for transfer of funds. Fund switching
has the potential to become a significant cost burden for superannuation funds. The bill does
not clearly prohibit exit fees and charges which might be so high as to become effectively
anti-competitive..
Conclusions:
14.103 The Democrats see some merit in moving to improve the choice mechanisms within
the superannuation system as a means of enhancing the ownership and control by members
over their investments. However, this needs to be done in a way which maximises benefits to
employees while minimising costs to the system as a whole. The Government’s choice regime
as it presently stands does not effectively achieve this balance effectively, and will need to be
substantially amended to shift the balance back in favour of the interests of employees.




APPENDIX A
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
List of Written Submissions
No.
CH-
1 Mr Stephen Cole NSW
2 Mr M Walraven SA
3 Mr Roy Jeffery QLD
4 Mr Peter English WA
5 Mr Robert Draper NSW
6 Mr Robert Richardson TAS
Master Cleaners Guild of Western Australia (Inc) WA
8 Mr H A Rosario WA
9 Ad-Theme Creative Services Pty Ltd NSW
10 WALee QLD
11 Mr Brian Wemdly VIC
12 Messrs M R Nipper & Peter Weeks VIC
13 Phillips Fox NSW
14 Superchoice Software Pty Ltd VIC
15 Australian Portfolio Management Limited NSW
16 Rainmaker Information Services Pty Limited NSW
17 + Supp Australian Bankers’ Association VIC
18 +Supp Churches of Christ Provident Fund NSW
19 Australian Services Union VIC
20 Financial and Consumer Rights Council (Inc) VIC
21 Mr Carlos Smitz ACT
22 Institute of Actuaries of Australia NSW
23 Mr Marc Sun VIC
24 The Institute of Chartered Accountants VIC
25 Industry Funds Forum VIC
26 CSA Consulting Group VIC
27 Textile Clothing & Footwear Union of Australia VIC


28 Melbourne Grammar School VIC
29 Graham Bird Associates NSW
30 Mr Darryl Brick VIC
31 Coles Myer Ltd VIC
32 Australian Council of Trade Unions VIC
33 West Scheme WA
34 C+BUS VIC
35 Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST) VIC
36 Aon Consulting NSW
37 Community and Public Sector Union (CPSU) NSW
38 Australian Liquor, Hospitality & Miscellaneous Workers
Union (LHMU) NSW
39 Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry ACT
40 Timber Industry Superannuation Scheme VIC
41 Barrett Communications Ptv Ltd WA
42 Buck Consultants VIC
43 Coopers & Lybrand NSW
44 Mr Daryl Neilson WA
45 Transport Workers’ Union of Australia VIC
46 + Supp The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Limited (ASFA) NSW
47 William M Mercer VIC
48 Australian Education Union VIC
49 NRMA NSW
50 Anglican Church of Australia National Superannuation and
Retirement Office NSW
51 Commonwealth Bank NSW
52 + Supp Towers Perrin NSW
53 Ms Krystyna Hassall WA
54 Australian Manufacturing Workers’ Union NSW
55 Credit Union Services Corporation NSW
56 + Supp Association of Financial Advisers NSW
57 Motor Trades Association of Australia Superannuation Fund
Pty Limited NSW


58 + Supp Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants NSW
59 + Supp AMP ACT
60 Australian Nursing Federation VIC
61+Supp Host Plus VIC
62 Investment & Financial Services Association NSW
63 KPMG NSW
64 Victorian Employers’ Chamber of Commerce and Industry VIC
65 Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees’ Association (SDA) VIC
66 Australian Consumers’ Association NSW
6? National Legal Aid . NSW
68 Allen Allen and Hemsley NSW
69 Mr G D Raitt VIC
70 John Fairfax Holdings NSW
71 C+BUS - Director & Employer Representative VIC
72 Local Government Superannuation Scheme SA
73 Queensland Local Government Superannuation Board QLD
74 Macquarie Investment Management Limited NSW
75 Association of Professional Engineers, Scientists and
Managers, Australia ACT
76 Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia WA
77 Coca-Cola Amatil NSW




APPENDIX B
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
MELBOURNE, 17 FEBRUARY 1998
Mr Anthony Aveling, Acting Chief Executive, Australian Bankers’ Association
Ms Sharon Barker, Policy Coordinator, Financial and Consumer Rights Council
Ms Ann Byrne, Convenor, Industry Funds Forum
Mr Nick Blake, Industrial Officer, Australian Nursing Federation
Mr Geoffrey Cook, President, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
Mr Stephen Gibbs, Executive Officer, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
Mr Gary Healey, Director, Australian Bankers’ Association
Mr Jeremy Henderson, Research Officer, Industry Funds Forum
Mr Denis Jones, Assistant Federal Secretary, Australian Nursing Federation
Mr David Knight, Compensation and Benefits Manager, Coles Myer Ltd
Mr Michael O’Sullivan, National Executive President, Australian Services Union
Mr Ian Silk, Industry Funds Forum
Mr Peter Thompson, Employee Relations Manager - CML Stores, Coles Myer Ltd
Mr John Tweedie, Member, Superannuation Working Group, Australian Bankers’
Association
Mr Anthony Wells, Director, Superchoice Software Pty Ltd
MELBOURNE, 18 FEBRUARY 1998
Mr Stephen Child, Senior Manager, Technical Services, Commonwealth Bank of
Australia
Mr Brian Daley, Victorian Branch Secretary, Liquor, Hospitality and Miscellaneous
Workers Union


Appendix B
Ms Helen Hewett, Fund Secretary, C+BUS, Industry Superannuation Fund for the
Construction and Building and Allied Industries
Ms Rhonda Holdsworth
Ms Susan Hopgood, Acting Federal Secretary, Australian Education Union
Ms Jennifer Newcombe, Federal TAFE Officer, Australian Education Union
Mr Stephen Partridge, Principal, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Bradley Pragnell, Superannuation and Financial Planning Consultant, Australian
Society of Certified Practising Accountants
Ms Linda Rubinstein, Senior Industrial Officer, Australian Council of Trade Unions
Mr Marc Sun
Mr Murray Wyatt, Chairman, Superannuation Centre of Excellence, Australian Society
of Certified Practising Accountants
SYDNEY, 19 FEBRUARY 1998
Dr Michaela Anderson, Director, Policy and Research, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia
Mr Graham Bird, Managing Director, Graham Bird Associates Pty Ltd
Mrs Sandra Birkensleigh, Partner, Superannuation Services, Coopers and Lybrand
Mr Peter Charteris, Partner, Phillips Fox Actuaries and Consultants
Mr David Connolly, Director, Superannuation and Government Relations, Phillips Fox
Actuaries and Consultants
Mrs Krystyna Hassall
Mr Kenneth Lockery, Principal, Towers Perrin
Mrs Helen Martin, Councillor, Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Mrs Louise Matthews, National Superannuation Technical Consultant, Coopers and
Lybrand
Mr Tony Nemec, Consultant, Towers Perrin
Mr Jock Rankin, Executive Director, Institute of Actuaries of Australia


Ms Philippa Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Association of Superannuation Funds of
Australia
Mr Brian Thomas, Financial Products Manager, NRMA
Mr John Trowbridge, President, Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Ms Rosemary Vilgan, Federal President, Association of Superannuation Funds of
Australia
SYDNEY, 20 FEBRUARY 1998
Mr Christopher Blanchflower, Executive Director, Investment Strategy, Australian
Portfolio Management Limited
Ms Mara Bun, Policy and Public Affairs Manager, Australian Consumers Association
Mr Kevin Casey, Manager, Technical Advisory Services, AMP
Ms Lisa Chadwick, Member, Retirement Savings and Incomes Forum, Investment and
Financial Services Association
Mr Stephen Child, Member, Retirement Savings and Incomes Forum, Investment and
Financial Services Association
Mr John Craik, Past National President, Association of Financial Advisers
Mr John Hibberd, President, Association of Financial Advisers
Mr Peter Kell, Senior Policy Officer, Australian Consumers Association
Mr John Maroney, Acting Chief Executive Officer, Investment and Financial Sendees
Association
Mr Christian Mikula, Solicitor, Civil Litigation, National Legal Aid
Mr Dugald Mitchell, Consultant, Association of Financial Advisers
Mr Graham Morrow, Managing Director, Australian Portfolio Management Limited
Ms Sally O’Loughlin, Assistant National Secretary, Community and Public Sector
Union, PSU Group
Mr Peter Petersen, General Manager, Technical and Actuary, Australian Portfolio
Management Limited
Mr Ben Salde, Manager, General Law, National Legal Aid


Mr Noel Speers. National Industrial Officer, Community and Public Sector Union, PSU
Group
Ms Louise Sylva, Manager, Public Affairs, AMP Financial Services
CANBERRA, 2 MARCH 1998
Mr Leo Bator, Assistant Commissioner, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Keith Chapman, Acting Deputy Commissioner - Superannuation, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Ms Deidre Gerathy, Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury
Senator the Hon Rod Kemp, Assistant Treasurer
Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner - Policy, Insurance and Superannuation
Commission
Mr Michael Monaghan, Deputy Commissioner, Superannuation, Australian Taxation
Office
Mr Neil Olesen, Assistant Commissioner, Australian Taxation Office


APPENDIX C
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry'
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)


Appendix C
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs 1
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
- Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996
- Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Schedules 1,
9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)
Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges' Pension Scheme
(September 1997)


Twenty-sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Restrictions on Early Access: Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997
and related terms of reference. (September 1997)
Twenty-seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Contributions Tax Amendment Bills. (November 1997)
Super Taxing - An information paper on the Taxation of Superannuation and related
matters. (February 1998)
Twenty-eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Choice of
Fund. (March 1998)




APPENDIX D
OPINION
38T3 BDW 03 96793111
NO. 8733 P. 3/12
20. FEB. 1998 12:56
BLAKE DAWSON WALDRON
SOLICITORS
SUPERANNUATION GUARANTEE (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1992
PROPOSED SECTION 32V - WHETHER VALID
1. I am asked to advise whether the proposed section 32V of the Superannuation
Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 ("the Guarantee Act") would be valid.
2. My preliminary view is that section 32V would clearly not be valid.
Reasons
3. The proposed section 32V, as contained in the Taxation Laws Amendment Bill
(No. 7) 1997 (Schedule 5, Part 1, item 28), would read as follows:
"An employer is not liable to compensate any person for loss or damage arising from
anything done by the employer in complying with this Part"
4. The reference in section 32V to "this Part" is a reference to proposed Part 3A, as
to which proposed section 32A would state:
" This Part sets out the circumstances in which contributions are made in compliance with
the choice of fund requirements. This is important because a quarterly shortfall amount
for an employer may be increased where contributions do not comply."
Any such increase in the "quarterly shortfall amount" would result from the
application of proposed section 19(2A) or (2B).
5. It is clear that the choice of fund "requirements" would not impose any legal
obligations: an employer would be legally free not to comply with them. But if
the employer did choose not to comply, there could be an increase in the
employer’s relevant "quarterly shortfall amount", and consequently an
increase in the amount of superannuation guarantee charge ("charge") payable
by the employer for the relevant year.
13274077


20. FEB. 1998 12:57
38T3 BDW 03 96793111
NO. 8733 P. 4/12
2.
6. Proposed section 32V would not be limited to employers that were trading or
financial corporations, or carrying on business in a Territory, or otherwise
within the scope of the Commonwealth Parliament's legislative powers other
than its power under section 51(ii) of the Constitution to make laws "with
respect to ... Taxation ..." including its relevant "incidental" powers.
7. Section 32V would not be relevant in determining any taxation liability. Its
validity would depend upon whether it was within the scope of the
Commonwealth’s "incidental" powers, The question would be whether it had
a sufficient connection with the subject of taxation, in so far as that subject was
dealt with in the Guarantee Act (eg Leask v The Commonwealth (1996) 187
CLR579; Kizon v. Palmer (1997) 142 ALR 488, at 489, 511-518),
8. Clearly section 32V would not have a sufficient connection with taxation to be
valid. A provision subjecting a tax-payer to some taxation disadvantage where
the tax-payer fails to do something that the Commonwealth wishes to
encourage by means of the provision is a valid exercise of the taxation power -
even if the complete success of the legislation in achieving the
Commonwealth's object would result in the legislation yielding no tax
revenue at all (Northern Suburbs General Cemetery Reserve Trust v The
Commonwealth (1993) 176 CLR 555: the "Training Guarantee Case").
However, that is very different from a provision purporting to remove civil
liability under State law for loss or damage arising from the tax-payer's
compliance with the conditions needed to escape the taxation disadvantage.
9. For example, I do not think it could be seriously argued that, if the
Commonwealth gave an income tax exemption to any person who had
constructed a building for specified charitable purposes, the Commonwealth
law could (under the taxation and related "inddental" powers) provide that
the tax-payer should be free from civil liability under State law to pay
compensation for any loss or damage arising from the construction of the
building (contrast, for example, legislation making an amount of any such
compensation deductible from assessable income). In principle, the proposed
section 32V would be no different.
13274077


20. FEB. 1998 12:57
3813 EDW 03 96793111
NO. 8733 P. 5/12
10. The fact that section 32V would tend to promote the Commonwealth's
ultimate purpose in enacting the Guarantee Act would not be relevant since
that purpose is irrelevant to the characterisation of the legislation as a law with
respect to taxation ('Training Guarantee Case, above).
11. For these reasons, my preliminary view is that the High Court would hold
section 32V to be beyond the Commonwealth s constitutional powers. I would
expect section 32V to be wholly invalid since there would be no acceptable way
of reading it down so as to leave it applying only to employers that were
trading or financial corporations, or carrying on business in a Territory, or
otherwise within any of the Commonwealth's legislative powers in the
relevant respects.
Dennis Ro0£t£C
20 February 1998
13274077




APPENDIX E
Extract from Key Features Statement
WILL I PM M. MERCER 03 92455330 ■+ 6162775719
NO. 170
13:13
13/03/98
Second mmpte
of the two sections on fees and charges
for a “typical” accumulation plan
WHAT ARE THE CHARGES?
The Fund deducts from your account balance an administration charge of $1 per week
($52 peT year) while you continue contributing to the fund.
In addition, the investment management fees payable by the Fund for the year ending
30/6/97 were 0.6% of assets.
ILLUSTRATION
Using the standard assumptions (*) set by the Insurance and Superannuation Commission,
the following table shows the extra investment return needed each year to offset the impact
of charges and fees:
* The assumptions used include no initial account balance or transfer amount, no
member contributions and no insurance cover. For more information on other
assumptions, please see the enclosed supplementary notes on superannuation.


13/03/98
13:14
W ILL I AM M. MERCER 03 92455330 -» 6162775719
NO.170
Extract from Key Features Statement
First example
of the two sections on fees and charges
for a “typical” accumulation plan
WHAT ARE THE CHARGES?
The Fund deducts from your account balance an administration charge of $1 per week
($52 per year) while you continue contributing to the Fund.
In addition, the investment management fees payable by the Fund for the year ending
30/6/97 were 0.6% of assets.
ILLUSTRATION
Using the standard assumptions (*) set by the Insurance and Superannuation Commission,
the following table shows the percentage reduction in benefits after 5,10, 25 or 40 years
due to charges and fees:
* The assumptions used include no initial account balance or transfer amount, no
member contributions and no insurance cover. For more information on other
assumptions, please see the enclosed supplementary notes on superannuation.
The percentage reduction in benefit shown in each column increases the longer you have been
in the Fund. The reason for this is that the investment management fees increase in line with
the increases in your account balance.




THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 34 OF 1998
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
