

Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers
Association Superannuation Fund
Eighth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
August 1993




Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers
Association Superannuation Fund
Eighth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
August 1993


© Commonwealth of Australia 1993
ISBN 0 642 19543 9
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members
Appointed to the Committee on 1 July 1993 to replace
Senator Richard Alston.
* *
Committee Chair until 30 June 1993.
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Richard Gilbert
Mr Rod Adams
Ms Cath Drinkwater
Address:
Telephone:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
(06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




CONTENTS
Contents
Page
Members of the Committee. i
Contents. iii
Chapters:
1. Introduction . 1
2. Essence of the Inquiry. 7
3. Evidence - Initial Hearing . 11
4. Second Hearing and Related Evidence. 23
5. Prudential Controls. 33
6. Representation on Trust Structures . 43
7. Information to Members . 47
8. Vesting, Preservation and Portability . 51
9. Dispute Resolution and Other Matters. 55
10. Conclusion . 61
Appendices:
A. List of Witnesses. 65
B. Correspondence on Missing Documents. 67




CHAPTER 1 : INTRODUCTION
Introduction
1.1 Since its original appointment in June 1992, the Committee has sought
and considered a wide range of views on the regulation of superannuation
and, where possible, it has taken an interest in the actual operations of
superannuation funds endeavouring to identify elements of sound
administrative practice.
1.2 The Committee's attention has also been drawn to a number of
instances of malpractice and/or maladministration. In this regard, in its first
report, Safeguarding Super, the Committee reported in detail on two funds,
ABC Engineering and Byrnwood, where the trustees had not properly
discharged their duties as the custodians of the superannuation assets of
beneficiaries.
1.3 These case studies allowed the Committee to assess the scope for
fraud and malpractice under existing regulatory arrangements and to
consider the checks and balances which need to be in place to ensure that
the interests of fund members are upheld.
1.4 In Safeguarding Super the Committee concluded that an effective
regulatory framework is one in which:
• the duties, powers and responsibilities of trustees and directors
of corporate trustees are clearly defined;
• the rights of members to information, action against trustees and
directors and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms are
unambiguous; and
• the powers of the regulator to protect members' interests are
identified in legislation.1
1 Safeguarding Super, p 31


1.5 The Committee further concluded that a regulatory framework which
satisfies these criteria will promote investor protection and ensure equity
between members.2
1.6 The Committee's on-going interest in the regulation of superannuation
beyond the presentation of Safeguarding Super was confirmed when it
agreed to inquire into the activities of the Queensland Professional Officers'
Superannuation Fund.
Originating Submission
1.7 In November 1992, Submission Number 279 was received from Mr
Desmond O'Neill. He requested the Committee to carry out an investigation
into the Queensland Professional Officers' Association Superannuation Fund
(QPOASF).
1.8 This Fund was established under a Trust Deed on 11 June 1985,
between the QPOA and Messrs. C A Lee, W J Higham and D Martindale
as trustees. It was sponsored by the QPOA and the Professional Officers'
(Queensland) Credit Union for the benefit of the employees of those two
organisations. As provided in the trust deed the trustees change over time,
but are always the President, Treasurer and General Secretary of the
QPOA.
1.9 Mr O'Neill wrote in his capacity then as an executive member of the
Queensland State Service Union which formally amalgamated with the
QPOA on 1 January 1993. He is now an executive member of the new State
Public Services Federation of Queensland.
1.10 Attached to the submission was a copy of a confidential submission to
the Electoral and Administrative Review Commission (EARC), and the
Criminal Justice Commission (CJC), together with copies of correspondence
received in response to that submission. Mr O'Neill expressed frustration at
the lack of official interest in the matters raised by him.
2 ibid


1.11 While the submission included material and various allegations outside
the scope of the Committee's terms of reference, a quite specific and
substantive matter involved the transfer of funds out of the QPOA Scheme
in 1987 to certain beneficiaries. That transfer, and matters related to it,
provided the focus of this report but the Committee was conscious that
some witnesses wanted to widen the scope of the inquiry.
Conduct of the Inquiry
1.12 As a result of Mr. O'Neill's submission it was decided to pursue an
inquiry. As outlined in paragraph 1.2 this initiative was not without
precedent. The issues raised were pertinent to several of the Committee's
terms of reference and the Committee also perceived the opportunity to be
a means of reassessing the adequacy of both existing and superannuation
supervision legislation foreshadowed by the Government.3
1.13 The next step was to collect further evidence. The O'Neill submission
had essentially the character of adverse evidence, in naming various people
acting and benefiting in allegedly improper ways.
1.14 Those individuals named, and relevant organisations, were invited by
the Committee to respond to the O'Neill submission. Several of those invited
sought legal advice and some responses were submitted through solicitors.
The Committee also requested documents under the Composition and
Powers Resolution of the Senate.
1.15 Following the receipt of written evidence, a public hearing of the
Committee was scheduled in Brisbane on 29 April 1993, and a list of
witnesses invited to give oral evidence at that hearing was prepared. Two
witnesses declined the Committee's invitation to appear, instead submitting
written statements through their solicitors. However, they appeared as
witnesses at a subsequent hearing on 31 May 1993 in Brisbane, as did
witnesses from the administrator of the QPOA Fund, National Mutual
Limited (NML) and the consultants to the QPOA.
3
Bills first introduced in December 1992


Containing the Inquiry
1.16 The Committee found itself in an environment where similar issues
were, or had been, considered in a state parliament and other quasi judicial
bodies.
1.17 As Mr O'Neill's submission covered matters which had been
considered by the Queensland EARC, CJC and the Commission of Inquiry
into the Activities of Particular Queensland Unions (the Cooke Inquiry) and
debated in the Queensland State Parliament, the Committee experienced
considerable difficulty in containing its inquiry within its terms of reference.
Also, there were great pressures placed on the Committee to act in
judgment, or as arbiter, on the conduct of Union and other organisations'
affairs.
1.18 The inquiry and this report have been confined to those matters which
could reasonably be attributed to the objective, purpose and terms of
reference of the Committee. Under the Committee's original 17 terms of
reference the following were relevant:
(c) the adequacy of prudential control arrangements applying to
superannuation funds;
(h) the information available to members of superannuation funds;
(i) the representation of fund members in trustee structures of
superannuation funds;
(j) the dispute resolution mechanism available to members of
superannuation funds; and
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting and preservation
of benefits.
The Committee's Re-appointment - Terms of Reference
1.19 When the Committee was (initially) reappointed on 13 May 1993, a
specific term of reference for the Committee to inquire into, and report on,
the operation of the QPOASF was agreed by the Senate.


Framework of the Report
1.20 In Chapter Two the report identifies the essence of the inquiry.
Chapters Three and Four describe the written and oral evidence taken.
Chapters Five to Nine examine the relevant terms of reference as listed in
paragraph 1.18 in relation to the operations of the fund. Chapter 10, the
final chapter, details the Committee's findings and recommendations
regarding the operation of the fund and the need for increased prudential
control and supervision.




CHAPTER 2:
ESSENCE OF THE INQUIRY
Essence of the Inquiry
2.1 Submission 279 from Mr O'Neill amongst other issues included serious
allegations of mismanagement of the QPOA Superannuation Fund
amounting to breach of trust, and even conduct of a possible criminal
nature. However, on the available evidence and as determined by the terms
of reference, those more serious allegations could not be substantiated. The
Committee regarded the most significant area for examination was a
package of transfers to the personal funds of certain individuals on 31
January 1987.
Fund Structure
2.2 The fund allows members to contribute five per cent of their salary
with an employer contribution of 14 per cent. The entitlement of members
to the 14 per cent employer contribution is determined by the vesting scale
as set out in Table 2.1. Under that scale members are entitled to 100
per cent of employer contributions after ten or more years of service. In
addition, since 1988, there has been a three per cent productivity
contribution which is vested immediately.
Table 2.1
VESTING SCALE - QPOASF
2.3 The purpose of the Fund, as stated in the Deed, is the provision of
superannuation benefits for members of the Fund on their retirement or
incapacity and, in the event of a member's death, for that member's
dependants. The provisions relating to the payment of benefits from the
Accumulation Account are set out in Clause 13:


If a Member retires from the Service
(1) on or after his Normal Retirement Date
or (2) within five years of his Normal Retirement Date with the
consent of the Trustees
or (3) at any time with the consent of the Trustees on account of
ill health in circumstances in which the Member is not
Totally and Permanently Disabled
the Trustee shall pay to or for the benefit of that Member an amount
equal to his Retirement Accumulation at the date of his retirement.
2.4 In early 1987 there were approximately twelve members of the Fund.
Details of asset values are as follows.
Table 2.2
QPOASF - ASSET VALUES - 1986 TO 1992
2.5 On 31 January 1987, the following amounts were allegedly transferred
to the personal funds beneficiaries listed in Table 2.3. (The breakdowns of
the actual amounts transferred into Member and Employer Accumulations
are estimates provided by Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc (Consulting
Actuaries) who acted as Consultants to the QPOASF.)4
4
Towers Perrin November '92 Review, p 8.


Table 2.3
QPOASF - TRANSFERS 1987
Individual Details
2.6 One of the beneficiaries in receipt of the withdrawals in question,
Mr K Daly, terminated service with the Credit Union on 15 January 1988.
He had commenced employment on 12 December 1983 and had not
completed the minimum five years for the vesting of any Employer
Accumulation. By projecting the employer Accumulation at the date of
transfer to the date of termination, together with the prescribed employer
contributions at the earning rates achieved by the Fund over that time,
Towers Perrin estimated he may have benefited by an amount of some
$12 900 had his membership continued.
2.7 Ms R. Kinder terminated her employment on 1 June 1990, completing
more than 10 years and, therefore, Towers Perrin stated she had not gained
a financial advantage from the transfer.
2.8 Mr D. Martindale terminated his employment on 30 November 1990.
His commencement date was 28 January 1983 so his entitlement was 20%
of the value of his Employer Accumulation. Towers Perrin calculated his
estimated Employer Accumulation at the date of termination of employment
would have been $60 300, with a prescribed benefit of some $12 100.
Therefore he may have benefited by over $48 000.
2.9 Mr G. Rutherford has now completed over ten years service. It can
be argued that he has suffered significantly from the transfer in not
participating in the distribution of the Reserve Accumulation in March 1991.
2.10 Whether these individuals should have gained access to these funds
is examined in paragraphs 3.26 and 3.40.


Other Concerns
2.11 The Committee regarded the above transfers to be the principal
concern in the operation of this Fund. However, there are a number of
related matters to which the O'Neill submission and other evidence made
reference, and these are dealt with in later parts of the report.
Terms of Reference
2.12 Four of the Committee's terms of reference were regarded as directly
relevant to this inquiry, with a fifth (dispute resolution) less direct, but seen
as very significant. They are:
. prudential controls;
. member representation on trustee structures;
. information available to members;
. vesting of employer contributions; and
. dispute resolution mechanisms open to members.


CHAPTER 3:
EVIDENCE - INITIAL HEARING
Evidence - Initial Hearing
3.1 On 29 April 1993, at Parliament House in Brisbane, the Committee
held the first public hearing on the Queensland Professional Officers
Association Superannuation Fund (QPOASF). Nine witnesses appeared
while two others initially declined their invitation to appear and inter alia
submitted written statements. Those statements were incorporated into the
evidence along with several other documents tabled at the hearing.
3.2 Witnesses had previously been advised, and were reminded, that the
Parliamentary Privilege Resolutions allowed them to make application to the
Committee to have all or part of their evidence heard in camera. Under the
same resolutions, the witnesses also had the right to object to certain
questions. A number of witnesses expressed an interest in being represented
by counsel. This direct representation is not permitted by procedures for
Senate Committee hearings. However, with a committee's agreement,
witnesses may have counsel accompany them during the hearing and seek
private advice from them, but counsel cannot speak on behalf of a client or
cross-examine witnesses. Some witnesses took that option, one being
accompanied by a barrister and instructing solicitor.
Report of The Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC)
First Report
3.3 The ISC report was prepared for the Committee following a request
by a Committee member, Senator Kernot, at a public hearing of the
Committee on the Supervisory Levy on 26 March 1993. The ISC reported
that it is investigating the QPOASF for the tax years 1987/88 to 1991/92,
following concerns raised about the Fund and based on a report by Towers
Perrin.
3.4 The ISC concluded that members of the QPOASF would not suffer
financial harm due to the overpayment out of the Fund to the personal
funds of the four members on 31 January 1987 (see paras. 2.5 to 2.9). In this
regard a special trust has been established and funds of $34 304 have been
provided by the QPOA to compensate for the excess withdrawals, thereby


ensuring that current fund members do not suffer detriment upon being
entitled to a superannuation benefit on leaving employment.
3.5 In its evidence the ISC drew the Committee's attention to the
retrospective amendments to the trust deed of 23 August 1990. One
amendment inserted a new clause 35 dealing with transfers in and out of the
Fund. Sub-clause 35(b) allowed a transfer at the request of a member to
another fund an amount which the trustees, on the advice of the appointed
actuary, determined to be appropriate in the circumstances. This amendment
was retrospective to 1 July 1986. The relevant section of Clause 35 provides:
35(b) If at any time a Member requests his membership to be transferred
to another superannuation fund which is administered in
compliance with the Regulations and the Member releases the
Trustees from any further liability under the Fund then provided
the trustees of the other fund agree to accept such transfer the
Trustees shall transfer to the trustees of the other fund such
amount as the Trustees acting on the advice of the Appointed
Actuary determines to be appropriate in the circumstances.
3.6 On 13 November 1992, the ISC had issued a notice on the Fund
under sections 10 and 11 of the Occupational Superannuation Standards
Act, 1987 (OSSA) requesting additional information. The ISC reported that
the Fund requested an exercise of the Commissioner's discretion in respect
of possible breaches of OSSA and the Regulations. Such breaches could
result in the withdrawal of tax concessional treatment for the fund as
indicated in an earlier report from Towers Perrin. In considering any
exercise of discretion, the ISC stated it would be mindful of any adverse
finding on the benefits of the present members of the Fund.
3.7 The ISC advised the amendment of the trust deed to include
portability provisions did not in itself constitute a breach of Regulations, and
that clause 30 of the deed allowed retrospective amendments. However,
according to the ISC, whether there was a breach of OSS Regulation 11 and
Act sub-section 3(1) is dependant on further information being received and
assessed by the ISC. The information requested by the ISC included:
(a) confirmation of the provisions of the governing rules used to authorise
transfer out of the Fund of the benefits with respect to each of the four
members on 31 January 1987;


(b) details of the name of each personal fund to which benefits were
transferred on 31 January 1987;
(c) details of the complying status and governing provisions of each of the
personal superannuation funds;
(d) details of the steps taken by the trustees to ensure that the requirements
under Regulation 11 of the OSS Regulations were adhered to in respect
of the transfer of benefits;
(e) reasons why the full retirement accumulations were transferred out of the
Fund with respect to each of the four members on 31 January 1987;
(f) details of who the trustees/authorised officers of the fund were during the
period of time in which these events occurred; and
(g) details of any "special circumstances" which warrant the exercise of the
Commissioner's discretion.5
3.8 On completion of its investigations, the ISC undertook to refer to the
appropriate government agency any evidence which indicates prosecution
action should be taken against the Fund's former trustees.
Second Report
3.9 In a confidential letter to the Committee on 10 August 1993, the ISC
reported that its powers to investigate funds were limited. Apart from
questions of compliance it had 'not discovered any other evidence which
should be referred to another government agency for prosecution'. However,
the ISC further stated:
It might thus be possible for the members to have legitimate rights of
action against the trustees if the members believe that the trustees
breached their powers and duties under the Trust Deed.
The Towers Perrin Report
3.10 The Towers Perrin Report, known as the QPOASF Review of Events
- April 1993was also incorporated as evidence. Towers Perrin was originally
engaged by the trustees of the Fund and its initial report was handed down
5
ISC letter of 8 April 1993


on 9 November 1992. The later document of April 1993 brings together that
earlier report and subsequent information.
3.11 Featured in the later report was another possible extraordinary
withdrawal from the Fund. This was the case of Mr N. Buchanan who left
the service of the QPOA on 20 January 1987 after five years and nine
months service. The Committee notes that unlike the four original
beneficiaries (Mr Martindale, Mr Rutherford, Ms Kinder and Mr Daly) who
did not leave the service of the QPOA, Mr Buchanan did.
3.12 On account of his service Mr Buchanan was entitled to 20% of the
Employer Accumulation and 100% of his own Accumulation. This
entitlement was $11 442.68. A benefit payment request for this entitlement
was completed by the QPOASF on 28 January 1987, and forwarded to
NML, the administrators of the Fund.
3.13 However, NML paid Mr Buchanan a benefit of $21 871.14 out of the
Fund on 10 March 1987. On 9 June 1987, the QPOA Executive considered
a request from Mr Buchanan for a larger employer entitlement. It was
agreed to raise that component to 50% which increased the total benefit
now payable to $17 325.88 which was $4 561.26 less than he actually
received. The Committee notes that the QPOA Executive, not the Fund
Trustees, made this decision.
3.14 Later in 1987, or early 1988, NML discovered it had over-paid
Mr Buchanan. On 26 June 1988 NML reimbursed the Fund the difference
between what it paid him, and the revised benefit agreed by the QPOA
Executive plus interest, a total of $5 535.05.
National Mutual Response
3.15 Attached to the Towers Perrin evidence was an advice from NML
with the details of the Buchanan overpayment. It is appropriate to also refer
to the response by NML to a letter dated 9 December 1992 to Towers
Perrin's initial report to Mr S Curley, one of the Fund's current trustees.
3.16 NML relied on clause 30 of the trust deed to support the retrospective
amendment which 'legitimised' the 1987 transfers. The letter also points to
clause 30 as establishing NML's limited responsibility as administrator of the
Fund, for the actions of the trustees.


3.17 Regarding the 1987 withdrawals, NML stated their practice is not to
make such payments without appropriate authority from the trustees or
authorised delegate. However, they were unable to locate the relevant
Benefit Request Forms and associated documentation. They implied that
evidence (the Benefit Request Forms) of the four members leaving service
would have been required before benefits were paid out.
3.18 In its advice to the trustees, NML emphasised the need for much
tighter audit controls, and the Committee supports that emphasis.
Written Personal Statements
C A Lee and G C Rutherford
3.19 Mr Lee and Mr Rutherford submitted written statements instead of
accepting invitations to appear. (Subsequently they accepted an invitation
to give oral evidence at a second public hearing on 31 May 1993.) As the
then treasurer of the QPOA, Mr Lee was one of the original trustees of the
Fund, but in his statement he claimed very limited knowledge of the
mechanics of the 1987 transfers.6 As a trustee he relied on advice from
National Mutual. He claimed his only involvement was attendance at
meetings of the Board of the Credit Union and the QPOA where the
transfers were approved. He stated there were no separate meetings of the
trustees on this matter.
3.20 Mr Rutherford argued in his statement that there was no impropriety
about the 1987 transfer to his personal superannuation fund, emphasising
his continued service and that no excess benefit accrued to him.
Oral Evidence
Mr DF O'Neill
3.21 Mr O'Neill appeared in support of his original submission which began
the inquiry. He continued his allegations of impropriety relating to the 1987
transfers and doubted the existence of complying personal funds in two
instances. However, those doubts could not be substantiated.
6 Evidence, p. 33


Mr T R C Wilson and Mr K Lindeberg
3.22 Mr Wilson was employed by the QPOA from December 1977 to
February 1989. As a member, he claimed to have never received any
correspondence or progressive update of the fund. He said in fact that
knowledge of extraordinary (or ex gratia as in Buchanan's case) withdrawals
would have created much furore.
3.23 Mr Lindeberg was employed between June 1984 and 2 August 1990
by the QPOA and was a member of the Fund. He said:
When I joined the union, I was advised by Mr Martindale that the fund was one
of the better ones around with a higher than normal employer contribution. I was
told that I could only access the employer contribution when I either retired or
resigned, and then to a set formula. I was told that the fund would be
administered with equity and fairness - it was a staff fund.8
3.24 This witness also claimed contributors knew nothing of setting up of
individual funds by the Trustees.
Mr W J Higham
3.25 The next witness examined was Mr W J Higham. He was elected
President of the QPOA in 1984 and was one of the original trustees of the
Fund. He said the trustees relied on NML for day-to-day management of
the scheme and advice from time to time.9
3.26 Mr Higham placed a different interpretation from Towers Perrin on
clause 12 of the trust deed regarding the application of the Reserve
Accumulation of the Fund. He claimed the intent of the scheme was to
forward the interests of the QPOA as well as the interests of members of
the Fund. Clause 12, as interpreted by Mr Higham, allowed the trustees to
distribute reserve funds to individual members if they wished.10 The
Committee sought specific legal advice on the effect of clauses 11 -13 of the
trust deed from the ISC and was unable to agree with Mr Higham's
7 Evidence, p. 61
8 Evidence, p. 62
9 Evidence, p. 91
Evidence, pp. 93 - 95
10


interpretation. The ISC advised that the distribution of reserve funds should
be by credit to a members account and subject to the same conditions as any
benefit. None of the four beneficiaries at the time of the withdrawals
complied with these conditions.11
Mr D Martindale
3.27 Mr Martindale was General Secretary of the QPOA from 1982 and
was, with Mr Lee and Mr Higham, an original trustee of the Fund. The
Committee incorporated in Hansard a report by a firm of accountants on
the bona fides of Mr Martindale's personal superannuation fund established
on 15 February 1987.12
3.28 While Mr Martindale basically supported Mr Higham's interpretation
of clause 12, he claimed little knowledge of superannuation or understanding
of the trust deed. As the trustees were also on the QPOA Executive, no
separate meetings were held or minutes kept by the trustees. However, Mr
Martindale said he distributed the Executive minutes to staff after every
Executive meeting so giving access to Fund members. He also testified that
significant decisions on superannuation were referred to NML.13
3.29 The issue of Mr Martindale's previous employment was examined. He
said that part of the package offered him in 1982 included recognition of
previous service in relation to superannuation, but no formal explanation
was given or documentary evidence produced as to how this actually
influenced the 1987 payment from the Fund to him. Mr Martindale said
there had been no alarms raised by the Trust's auditors to any of the 1987
payments.14 (The Committee received no evidence of a 1987 audit.)
3.30 Mr Martindale said the retrospective amendment to authorise the 1987
payments was recommended by NML and went to the Executive and
Council of the QPOA. The Executive minutes would have been available to
each of the members he said.
11
Evidence, p. 179-180
12 Evidence, p. 104
13 Evidence, pp. 110 - 111
14 Evidence, p. 115


Mr K J Daly
3.31 Mr Daly was employed by the Professional Officers Credit Union, a
co-sponsor of the Fund, from December 1983 to December 1987. He was
another beneficiary of the 1987 payments and testified that his payment was
rolled over into a complying personal fund. He claimed a preference to
manage his own superannuation as the motive from withdrawing from the
Fund in 1987, and he was dissatisfied with the returns achieved by National
Mutual. Mr Daly was not a trustee, or on the Executive, and therefore was
not part of the formal decision making process on the Fund.
3.32 In a submission to the Committee, Ms Jan Sharpies, an observer
during the public hearings and an accountant and registered tax agent,
pointed out that the performance of Industry Superannuation Funds (as
reported in Personal Investment, February 1988) was between 17 and 18
percent compared with QPOASF earnings of 17 percent in 1987 and
18 percent in 1988.15
3.33 The Committee sought to clarify this matter and received advice
from NML that crediting rates for its Capital Guaranteed (DA) Fund were:
National Mutual added that whilst these are high by current standards, they
should be compared with returns on equity based funds for the period
ending 31 December 1986:
15 Submission of 6 August 1993 from Ms J Sharpies.
Submission of 6 August 1993 from National Mutual Limited.
16


3.34 The question arose of Mr Daly's role as a financial adviser to the
QPOA. He said this was restricted to assisting with the preparation of notes
to the annual financial statements prior to them being submitted to the
auditor. However, evidence was later produced which indicated Mr Daly
prepared the ISC and Income Tax Returns for the QPOA in 1989 in his
then capacity as a registered tax agent. It seemed strange to the Committee
that he could not recall acting as a tax agent for the union or whether he
billed for his services.17
3.35 With regard to the Fund Mr Daly said he had advised the board of
the Credit Union, as his employer, of the advantages of looking to a fund
manager other than NML. Secondly, he had pointed to individual
superannuation funds as an option that ought to be pursued.
Ms R Kinder
3.36 Ms R Kinder, the Assistant Secretary of the QPOA in July 1984, was
another beneficiary of the 1987 payments. She said her payment was rolled
over into a private superannuation fund and subject to independent audit.
Ms Kinder joined the QPOA and its Superannuation Fund in 1979 and
remained an employee until 1990 when she resigned. With regard to the
1987 withdrawals she said 'a number of consultants' had advised that it was
an appropriate way to manage a superannuation fund. Ms Kinder said she
was offered withdrawal by her employer and took it.18
3.37 Ms Kinder informed the Committee that she did not have a copy of
the 'authority' to withdraw the funds but suggested that the authority came
through: 'discussions of executive . . . '19
3.38 In evidence at the second public hearing, an officer from NML
informed the Committee that it was normal practice for the employer to
complete a form and give authority to withdraw funds and that it would be
signed by a person authorised by the trustees.
17
18
Evidence, pp. 144, 145
Evidence, pp. 135-139
Ibid p. 136
19


3.39 However, the NML witness contended that NML's recollection was
that each of the four beneficiaries gave 'leaving the service' as the reason for
withdrawing from the fund and that Roslyn Kinder was the authorised
officer who signed the Benefit Request Forms.20
3.40 The Committee observes that, if these recollections are true, then,
having regard to the fact that none of the four beneficiaries were leaving
service, clearly the transfers were contrary to the trust deed provisions. The
Towers Perrin Review supports this conclusion.21
Mr S Curley
3.41 Mr S Curley is the joint president of the State Public Service
Federation and formerly president of the QPOA. He is a current trustee of
the Fund. Mr Curley provided some background to the engagement of
Towers Perrin in 1992 to conduct a review of the Fund following a decision
of the governing body of his union.
3.42 The matter of missing or otherwise unobtainable documents was
significant during Mr Curley's evidence, with even legal advice being sought
by the Executive at one stage on the confidentiality of the superannuation
file which had been sought by Mr Curley. (This seemed odd to the
Committee as the trustees decisions were taken at executive meetings of the
union where non-trustees and non-beneficiaries attended as well as the
trustees.) As a trustee of the Fund he thought it ludicrous to be denied
access to that file.22
3.43 Mr Curley gave evidence on the events leading up to the 1987
withdrawals by referring to relevant Executive Minutes. A submission had
been put to the Executive to do something to improve the performance of
the Fund. Mr Curley claimed the four withdrawals eventually took place
without any evidence to suggest that the other contributors were aware of
what was happening.
20 Evidence, p. 270
21 Evidence, p. 17
22 Evidence, p. 150
Evidence, p. 155
23


Ms J M Eastwood
3.44 This last view of Mr Curley was challenged in the evidence of Ms J M
Eastwood, general secretary of the State Public Services Federation and
another current trustee. She commenced employment in July 1990 as
Assistant General Secretary. Ms Eastwood said the Minute books of the
Executive were freely available in the executive room for anyone to sit in
there and go through them.24
Statutory Declaration
Mr P D L Ranson
3.45 Mr Ranson's statutory declaration was incorporated as evidence.25
Mr Ranson was a councillor of the QPOA and attended council meetings
in May and June 1992. His Declaration stated that several councillors
wanting to examine the accounts of the Fund were denied such access by
the General Secretary, on the grounds that the only people who could
examine the accounts were the trustees of the Fund. At the time of the
withdrawals OSS Regulation 17 required trustees of superannuation funds
to provide, on request, certain financial and other information to members.
Such information included copies of auditors' reports.
3.46 The Committee considers there is a weakness in OSS Regulations in
not requiring Trustees to provide such information as a matter of course.
The Committee would regard it as imperative that SIS legislation take
account of this critical aspect of fund administration.
24 Evidence, p. 156
Evidence, p. 159
25




CHAPTER 4: SECOND HEARING
AND RELATED EVIDENCE
Second Hearing and Related Evidence
4.1 On 31 May 1993, again at Parliament House in Brisbane, the
Committee held the second public hearing in this inquiry and questioned
five witnesses. They were Mr Lee and Mr Rutherford (who had declined to
appear at the first hearing), Mr Mike O'Neill representing Towers Perrin
and two representatives from NML, Mr Peter Grace and Mr Bruce Webb.
4.2 The Chairman reminded witnesses of the relevant Parliamentary
Privilege Resolutions. Before the examination of witnesses began, three
documents were incorporated into Hansard. They were as follows.
ISC Legal Advice
4.3 The ISC advice provided an opinion on the effect of clauses 11 to 13
of the trust deed. This sought in response to the proposition put to the
Committee at the hearing on the 29 April 1993 by Mr Higham that the
extraordinary withdrawals were in accordance with the 'reserve' distribution
provisions of the trust deed. The ISC advised that such a distribution should
have been credited to member accounts and that, other provisions, namely
leaving service, still needed to operate before benefits could be transferred
(see paras 3.26 and 4.16).26
Letter from Ms J Eastwood
4.4 The letter from Ms Eastwood was in essence rebuttal of certain
evidence received at the previous hearing, in particular a Statutory
Declaration by Mr Peter Ranson regarding member access to minutes of
meetings of the Fund trustees.27
26
Evidence, pp. 178-179
Evidence, pp. 183-184
27


NML Submission
4.5 NML responded to previous evidence submitted and the submission
provided the focus for much of the oral examination of the two
representatives from NML.28 The NML written submission focussed on the
circumstances of the extraordinary withdrawals the retrospective
amendments to the trust deed, Mr Buchanan's overpayment and the ISC
determination that the Fund had breached OSS Regulation 17A in the 1989-
90 and 1990-91 financial years.
Oral Evidence
C A Lee and G C Rutherford
4.6 Mr Lee and Mr Rutherford appeared and, with the Committee's
agreement, were accompanied by a Queen's Counsel and instructing
solicitor.
4.7 Mr Rutherford vigorously defended allegations of impropriety and
implied conspiracy perceived to have been made against him by Mr
Lindeberg at the previous hearing. Much of this evidence was not relevant
to the Committee's terms of reference. Similarly, Mr Lee denied and refuted
allegations made against him.
4.8 Mr Lee emphasised that his support for the 1987 transfers was
motivated by portability considerations in accordance with what he
understood to be government policy at the time.29 He also believed if there
had been any legal obstacle, the fund manager (NML) would have alerted
the trustees. There was no favouritism he said, and any member could have
requested the same treatment.
4.9 Under questioning, Mr Lee said he was not aware of the need for
separate minutes to be kept of trustee meetings, nor had he received any
training in his duties as trustee. As he said:
Trustees were not positions that were sought; they came with a particular position
on the executive of the POA.30
28
29
Evidence, pp. 184-201
Evidence, p. 205
Evidence, p. 206
30


4.10 There was an intense examination of the Martindale situation in the
Committee's questioning of Mr Lee.31 He maintained that what Mr
Martindale was paid in 1987 was fully funded, even though a later actuarial
report found the other members of the fund were disadvantaged by the 1987
payments. (Mr Martindale had been employed in 1982 on the basis, inter
alia, that previous service would be counted for superannuation purposes.)
4.11 The issue of 'double dipping' arose in that Mr Martindale had been
paid his superannuation entitlement in full after his earlier period of service;
then in 1987, this previous service had been again taken into account in
calculating the amount of the superannuation payout. Mr Lee denied it was
'double dipping', and said he had not believed the QPOA had a
responsibility to fund any additional superannuation entitlement (nor indeed
was there a need to do so) if it wanted to employ Mr Martindale on a
certain basis. He persisted in his view that Mr Martindale merely got what
he was entitled to in respect of the employer contributions, which had been
made at the normal rate.
4.12 Mr Lee said he made no inquiries whether the withdrawals would
prejudice the position of the employer in respect of future contributions to
the fund. In the face of the subsequent actuarial report which found a
shortfall, he admitted he was wrong in believing there were sufficient
moneys available in the Fund to make the 1987 payments.32
4.13 During his period as a trustee, Mr Lee said he received no advice
whatsoever from NML and that most of his information came through the
secretary (of the QPOA - Mr Martindale).33 He said he had little
knowledge of the trust deed, having only glanced through it at the time of
signing and never receiving a copy.
4.14 Mr Lee said he had little understanding of the responsibilities of a
trustee and that it was Mr Martindale who gave advice on such matters to
members of the executive.34 Whether this gave rise to a conflict of interest
was not discussed at the time, but Mr Lee conceded such a conflict was
possible. However, he maintained the view that these were merely transfers
31
Evidence, pp. 208 - 217
32 Evidence, p. 218
33 Evidence, p. 213
Evidence, pp. 223-224
34


of benefits to another superannuation scheme, and that was the basis on
which NML paid the money over, although in his written submission to the
Committee he had acknowledged that the trust deed was 'silent' on this
matter and that a retrospective 'resolution' was passed to allow such
transfers.35
Mr Rutherford
4.15 On the Towers Perrin calculations Mr Rutherford was disadvantaged
by the 1987 transfers. However, he did not see any possible disadvantage at
the time. Mr Rutherford said he had no knowledge of how the fund was
administered, nor did he have access to the minutes.36
4.16 He denied indicating to Mr Milham of Towers Perrin that he had
resigned from employment to get access to superannuation funds, thus
refuting Mr Curley's evidence on this point at the 29 April 1993 hearing.37
However, the Committee believes that leaving the service of the employer
was a prerequisite for access to the benefits.
4.17 Regarding the payment itself, which was made by NML to his personal
fund, Mr Rutherford was not clear on whose direction that payment was
made, nor was Mr Lee. In fact, the question of the authority on which NML
made any of the 1987 payments became a key issue for the remainder of the
hearing.38
4.18 The other relevant evidence about how the payment to Mr Rutherford
came about was that, according to Mr Rutherford, who was on the executive
of the Credit Union, a recommendation came before his board from the
Credit Union's accountant, Mr Daly, that the funds be transferred. Mr Daly
of course was also one of the beneficiaries.
NML and Towers Perrin
4.19 Mr P G Grace and Mr B J Webb appeared as representatives of NML
while Mr M D O'Neill represented Towers Perrin. The Committee examined
35 Evidence, p. 34
36 Evidence, p. 225 -227
37 Evidence, p. 228
Ibid p. 229
38


the NML witnesses at some length before turning to Mr O'Neill, from
Towers Perrin then returning to Mr Grace and Mr Webb. (For simplicity,
the evidence of the latter two is not distinguished, but referred to as NML.)
4.20 NML spoke initially to their 27 May 1993 submission which had been
incorporated in evidence. Very quickly the point came to the missing
documentation relating to the 1987 payments. The Committee questioned
NML vigorously on this important issue, but with very little result beyond
the explanation that those documents had been submitted to the Cooke
Inquiry and were never returned. Neither NML witness was working with
the QPOASF client at the relevant time, but evidence was later given that
staff involved at the time had been questioned and had recalled sighting the
appropriate forms (See 4.35).
4.21 NML said they had not attempted to recover all documents submitted
to the Cooke Inquiry, and were not sure exactly what files had been
submitted and what had been returned, although some had. They had left
the matter of QPOASF documents and their recovery to the independent
inquiry being conducted by Towers Perrin.39 Having regard to the gravity
of the Cooke inquiry and the imperative for NML and the QPOA fund
administration to keep a proper set of records, the Committee believes it is
extraordinary that copies of all records submitted to the Cooke inquiry were
not kept in a secure area within NML. This point is compounded by the fact
that an NML print out of previous fund members, prepared for the Towers
Perrin Review, in November 1992, indicated that no record existed for the
payments to Mr Martindale, Ms Kinder, Mr Daly and Mr Rutherford. These
were the only cases where no such records were held.40
4.22 For the 1987 payments, NML agreed they received documentary
evidence from the trustees together with requests from the beneficiaries.
However, it was not clear who had signed the authorisations and of course
the actual documents were missing. NML expressed no doubt about paying
100 per cent vesting. This was allowed for in the trust deed they said, and
they had no reason to question the exercise of the trustees' discretion in this
respect.
39 Evidence, p. 237
40 Evidence, p. 18
41 Evidence, p. 239


4.23 At this stage of the evidence, the question of the Buchanan payment
was discussed.42 NML pointed to the evidence of written instructions from
the trustees to pay more than the 20 per cent vesting due to Mr
Buchanan.43 At a later date, Mr O'Neill of Towers and Perrin provided the
Committee with a copy of the relevant Benefit Request Form.44 The
Committee notes that, notwithstanding that there were some difficulties
regarding the quantum of the employer benefit, Mr Buchanan received his
benefits in accordance with the 'leaving service' provisions of the trust deed.
Audit
4.24 The rather vexed issue of audit was then examined. NML said there
was no request by them as administrators to have the QPOASF audited.45
Rather there was simply a calculation every three years to work out what
the reserve account was. (Note: Evidence at the previous hearing had cast
doubt on the existence, or at least adequacy, of audit coverage of the
QPOASF.)
4.25 In evidence subsequent to the hearing, Mr O'Neill of Towers Perrin
provided details of the legal requirements for the auditing of employer
sponsored superannuation funds such as the QPOASF.
4.26 They were essentially as set out in the following paragraphs 46 and 47
of Income Tax Ruling 294 issued on 22 March 1983, with effect from 1 July
1982.
Auditors Certificate
46. Bearing in mind the fiduciary nature of a superannuation fund it is
important that, at all times, the fund is conducted in accordance with its
constituent deed and complies fully with the requirements of Section 23F
of the Income Tax Assessment Act.
42
See paras 3.10 to 3.13
43 Evidence, p.192
44 Letter to Committee of 3 June 1993
45 Evidence, p. 243


47. From 1982-83, therefore, it will be a requirement that every year in the
case of a loan back fund and every three years in the case of other funds,
a certificate be supplied by an independent auditor verifying that the assets
of the fund actually exist in the fund, that they are in a form suitable for
the purpose for which they exist, i.e. that in the event of retirement of
resignation of employees the assets are readily realisable and indicating
whether, in the opinion of the auditor, the fund is being conducted in
accordance with its constituent document.
The QPOASF was not a loan back fund and therefore was required to be
audited every three years from 1982-83.
4.27 Occupational Superannuation Standard Regulation 17 (1) (c) was made
on 22 December 1987 with effect from that date. It states:
(c) an audit of the accounts and records of a superannuation fund shall be
required to be carried out, after the end of each year of income of the
fund but not later than the day by which the return referred to in
subsection 12 (1) of the Act is to be given to the Commissioner, by an
approved auditor and an auditor's report shall be required to be given to
the trustee or trustees of the fund in respect of each such audit.
The date, by which the return referred to in subsection 12 (1) of the Act
(the Annual Return) was to be given, depended on the date of
establishment of the fund. For the QPOASF the return date would have
been between April and June 1988. So the auditing requirements for the
1986-87 year were as described in 4.26 above.46
Other Matters
4.28 NML said an annual review process by them produced a statement
which went to each member. However, distribution was not direct, but by
the employer to whom NML sent all such statements as normal practice. In
preparing its report the ISC raised this inadequacy with the fund. The
Committee also endorses this because it would assist in ensuring that
members take a direct interest in the conduct of the fund and allow them
to have more direct and timely access to information about their retirement
benefits as they accumulate.
46
Letter of 3 June 1993


4.29 In response to questioning by the Chair, NML said it was 'pretty
common' in superannuation funds in 1987-88 to find the problems of lack of
proper record keeping and lack of trustees knowing their duties.47 NML
said they would accept the instructions of trustees provided there was no
conflict with the trust deed.
Mr Mike D O'Neill
4.30 In representing Towers Perrin, Mr Mike O'Neill first outlined the
history of the firm's involvement with the QPOA who had engaged them to
investigate, inter alia, the question of whether extraordinary withdrawals had
occurred from its superannuation fund. It was the judgment of Towers
Perrin that the 1987 payments were in the nature of transfers. Mr O'Neill
said:
At the time of the transfers none of the members had an entitlement to a benefit
at all, because they did not leave the service of the association, retire, die or
become disabled. All that happened was that, for each member, an amount that
had accrued in one fund was transferred to another.48
4.31 Besides the question of compliance with the deed, Mr O'Neill said the
issue was the possible detriment suffered by the remaining members of the
fund. The explanation here involves their non-benefit, in this case, from the
forfeited benefits normally available when other members left service early
(less than ten years). In the 1987 transferees' case none were forfeited of
course. The detriment is contingent on one or more of them leaving early,
and the calculation can only be made if and when that occurs.
The Correct Procedure
4.32 As outlined by Mr O'Neill the trustees should have approached the
employer sponsor (the QPOA) and obtained an undertaking, that any
detriment that occurred would be calculated by an actuary and made up by
the employer at the time. In the event, as soon as the QPOA actually
became aware of the detriment it moved to fund it, according to Mr
O'Neill.49
47 Evidence, p. 250
48 Evidence, p. 256
49 Evidence, p. 257


4.33 Mr O'Neill agreed that there was an intermingling of responsibilities
between those of trustee and those of QPOA official. Also, record keeping
was loose and there was a lack of understanding of the trust deed by the
trustees. In their report Towers Perrin had not suggested any fraud, theft or
intention to deceive said Mr O'Neill.
We just simply commented that the rules of the deed were not followed and that,
in some instances, the requirements of the legislation were not pursued.50
Towers Perrin viewed transfers as needing to be authorised specifically in
the trust deed.
Final Questioning of NML
4.34 The issue of missing documents arose again and NML agreed it was
'odd' that the particular papers surrounding the 1987 payments had gone
missing.51 As to how they saw the role of a fund administrator, NML said
the role, as distinct from that of the trustee, was now becoming clearer with
trustees making more decisions about what they require of an administrator.
However, in 1987 trustees viewed their own role as 'honorary' and 'NML was
expected to do everything'.52
4.35 Regarding the benefit payment requests in respect of the four
extraordinary payments, NML said that other personnel had recalled seeing
these forms, signed by Roslyn Kinder, one of the authorised officers,53 with
the box 'leaving the service' ticked.54
4.36 After some miscellaneous questions, the hearing concluded with a
direction that relevant documents apparently missing after submission to the
Cooke Inquiry would be pursued, both by the Committee and by NML.
Subsequent to the hearing the Committee was informed by both the
Queensland Government and NML that the four Benefit Request Forms
could not be found.
50
Evidence, p. 260
51 Evidence, p. 266
52 Evidence, p. 269
53 Evidence, p. 241
54 Evidence, p. 270




CHAPTER 5:
PRUDENTIAL CONTROLS
Prudential Controls
Relevant Term of Reference:
(c) the adequacy of prudential control arrangements applying
to superannuation funds
5.1 Prudential Controls are the measures instituted to supervise and
control activities in the superannuation industry to ensure the security of
contributor's funds.55
5.2 In this section the Committee examines these controls as they applied
to superannuation funds at the time of the extraordinary withdrawals in
January 1987. Essentially the only statutory controls were by taxation law.
In its first report, Safeguarding Super, the Committee recommended that
OSS be amended or replaced so that the ISC -
• can impose a range of civil penalties and institute criminal proceedings
against trustees and directors of corporate trustees;
• has power to remove trustees and directors of corporate trustees and
appoint judicial managers where it suspects that trustees/directors are not
fulfilling their fiduciary obligations. Such powers would need to have
appropriate safeguards for individuals who were subsequently found to be
innocent of any wrong doing; and
• be given power to institute civil proceedings against trustees and directors
of corporate trustees on behalf of members.5
55 Glossary, p xi of Safeguarding Super
Safeguarding Super, p 44
56


Those Duties of Trustees Relevant to the Inquiry
5.3 In this section the common law standards are examined. The authority
for the law in this area is Australian Superannuation Law and Practice the
reporter publication by CCH Australia Limited.57
• General
5.4 Persons who administer superannuation funds must act not only in
accordance with the provisions of the trust deeds governing their particular
funds, but must also pay due regard to the general trust law. They must
accordingly consider the duties of trustees generally. In many funds, the
deeds modify these duties, but may not eliminate them.
• Must act personally
5.5 Generally a trustee must act personally and 'as a general rule a trustee
sufficiently discharges his duty if he takes in managing trust affairs all those
precautions which an ordinary prudent man of business would take in
managing similar affairs of his own'.58
• On acceptance of trust
5.6 A trustee, on accepting the trust, should make himself thoroughly
familiar with the terms of the trust.
• Not to deviate from terms of trust
5.7 A trustee has an obligation to observe faithfully the directions
contained in the trust deed.
• To act impartially
5.8 A trustee has a duty to act impartially as between the beneficiaries,
especially where there are conflicting interests, or where different categories
of beneficiaries are involved in the trust. This may be of particular relevance
57
58
Paras 18-210 to 18-218
Speight v. Gaunt (1893) 9 App. Cas. 1 per Lord Blackburn at p. 19


in a payment of benefits on death. It may also be of significance if a fund
is being terminated.
• Not to delegate the trust
5.9 Trustees cannot delegate the performance of their duties unless they
have authority to do so. A trustee generally has power to act through agents
in particular matters.
• Not to Profit from the trust
5.10 'It is an inflexible rule of the Court of Equity that a person in a
fiduciary position ... is not, unless otherwise expressly provided, entitled to
make a profit; he is not allowed to put himself in a position where his
interests and duties conflict.'59
• To keep accounts and records
5.11 A trustee must keep proper accounts relating to the trust he is
administering. Trustees must also maintain records relating to the trust and
its beneficiaries. Certain trust documents must be available for inspection by
beneficiaries, namely all documents which contain information about the
trust which the beneficiaries are entitled to know.
Discharge of those Duties
• Generally
5.12 The Committee finds that the original trustees of the QPOA
Superannuation Fund have a record which, in a number of respects, is open
to criticism. It is possible they did breach trust law at the time of the
extraordinary transfers in January 1987, but at best it appears they were not
properly mindful of their duties as trustees or, if they were mindful, elected
to disregard them.
59 Bray v Ford (1896) AC 44 per Lord Herschell at p. 51


Acting personally
5.13 The 'prudent man of business test' would seem to be hard to satisfy on
the evidence presented at the hearings, but such a finding would depend of
course on a legal interpretation and is outside the scope of the Committee's
investigation.
• On accepting of trust
5.14 From evidence presented by the original trustees themselves there was
a very limited understanding of the trust deed, nor did the Committee find
much of an attempt by the trustees to become familiar with the provisions
of the deed. The Committee believes that, in singling out four members for
special benefits, that act at least should have caused the trustees to ensure
the provisions of the trust deed were complied with, seeking professional
advice if needed.
• Not to deviate from terms of trust
5.15 The Committee agrees with the finding of Towers Perrin that the 1987
transfer payments were a clear deviation from the terms of the deed. The
necessity of a formal amendment to validate the payments is evidence on its
own of such deviation, although there was an alternative interpretation of
clause 12 put forward by Mr Higham which, if correct, would have allowed
the payments.
5.16 The Committee sought legal advice on the view expressed by Mr
Higham at the hearing on 29 April, that clause 12 of the deed permitted the
distribution of reserve funds in the manner of the 1987 transfers. That
advice suggested:
(a) even if such a distribution could be made it should be by
credit to the member's account not cash payment, and
(b) payment of such an augmented benefit would be subject
to the same condition as any benefit, namely leaving
service.
5.17 The Committee heard some evidence suggesting the relevant benefit
payment request forms had been marked 'leaving service' which may indicate


that at least one trustee knew this was a requirement of the trust deed
before payments could be made.( See 4.35)
• To act impartially
5.18 The Committee considers this perhaps the most significant duty in
relation to the QPOASF inquiry. In making the extraordinary payments in
January 1987 to just four members, one of whom (Mr Martindale) was
himself a trustee, the Fund's trustees could not be seen to have acted
impartially. Even if the payments themselves were legitimate, which is
doubted, the fact that all other members were not offered similar
entitlements is evidence of breach of this duty. In this respect the Buchanan
payout in 1987 is also relevant.
5.19 The position of Mr Martindale arises here (see 5.22 also). At the
hearing on 29 April, in answer to a question on how many among the key
executives stood in some form of conflict of interest, Mr Martindale said
this. 'One, I suppose - I was a trustee and beneficiary.'60 There was no
evidence that Mr Martindale stood aside for the Executive consideration of
the benefit payments.
• Not to delegate the trust
5.20 The Committee found relevant the evidence from Mr Lee and Mr
Martindale of their reliance on NML for guidance and direction. Whether
that reliance amounted to technical delegation is arguable however, with
NML being formally the administrator of the Fund. A further point here is
the absence of formal Trustee meetings, and the corresponding 'defacto'
delegation of trustee responsibility to the QPOA Executive.
5.21 Such a delegation to the Executive clearly represents the employer
side of the superannuation scheme. The employee side of the plan received
no such special treatment.
• Not to profit from the trust
5.22 As he was both a fund trustee and a beneficiary, Mr Martindale's
involvement with his 1987 payment is relevant in that there was a potential
60
Evidence, p. 122


for a conflict of interest to occur. Did his interests and duties conflict? The
Committee considers his interests and duties did conflict and he created the
problem by placing himself in a such a position. A preferable course of
action for Mr Martindale would have been for him to disqualify himself
from the decision making process on the 1987 withdrawals.
• To keep accounts and records
5.23 The Committee found a significant deficiency here in relation to the
absence of trustee minutes, questionable audits and the lack of access to
documents by members of the Trust.
The Trust Deed
5.24 The main reasons for having such a document are to:
(a) set out the rights and obligations of the persons involved - the
members, the employer and the administrator of the fund (the
trustees);
(b) define the terms and conditions of the fund - the contributions,
the form and level of benefits, the circumstances in which
benefits are to be paid, the persons who are eligible to become
members, and so on;
(c) ensure that the fund will qualify for concessional income tax
treatment;
(d) permit prompt payment of the benefit arising on the death of a
member of the fund.61
5.25 The installation of a fund provides an opportunity for the employer
to improve relationships with employees. But the employer needs to be able
to satisfy the employees as to the terms and conditions of the fund. A copy
of the completed document relating to the fund should be produced on
request.
61
Australian Superannuation Law and Practice, CCH, para. 17-310


5.26 The trust deed is the document which governs a superannuation fund.
A major weakness in the QPOASF deed was a lack of reference to meetings
of the trustees and the absence of a provision for resolutions to be recorded
in the minutes of those meetings. [Note: The Committee also considers that,
given there were two sponsoring employers of the QPOASF (the QPOA and
the Credit Union), there should have been a second and separate set of
minutes kept.]
5.27 The Committee took a particular interest in the making of
retrospective changes to the trust deed. At issue was whether the insertion
in the trust deed of a new clause 35 was designed to 'legitimise' the
extraordinary withdrawal in that it permitted the transfer of benefits from
the QPOASF to another complying fund whether or not members remained
in service.
5.28 Whilst the Committee can understand the need to make retrospective
changes to a trust deed to ensure that legislative requirements are complied
with, it has had some difficulty in accepting the advisability of other
retrospective changes. Also, the Committee is concerned that changes to
trust deeds which change the financial position of members should be
executed only after members have been appropriately advised.
Role of the Administrator
5.29 Responsibility for administration of a fund rests with the trustees. The
trustees are not required to carry out the administrative work themselves,
but they are responsible for seeing that it is done and that the terms of the
trust are observed. In a small fund, the trustees may carry out the
administrative work themselves. They may establish and maintain the records
of members, make and record the investments of the fund, prepare and
lodge annual returns, issue statements to members, keep the accounts of the
fund, pay the benefits, keep minutes of their meetings and resolutions and
do all the other work relating to the fund.62
5.30 With the QPOA Fund, although small, it was mainly NML who acted
in this administrative capacity. The Committee found considerable
uncertainty about exactly what was, or should have been, the division of
62 CCH, para. 10-010


responsibilities between the trustees and the administrator. There is a need
for such arrangements to have greater formality and the Committee
considers the management role by NML should have contractual certainty
to ensure, inter alia, that performance can be assessed.
Role of The Regulator - OSS Regulations
5.31 The Occupational Superannuation Standards Act (OSS) governs the
conditions that each fund must satisfy before concessional tax treatment will
be available for contributions to the fund and for fund income. The OSS
Regulations spell out various operating standards for superannuation funds,
and otherwise flesh out the legislation.
5.32 OSS and the Regulations commenced on 21 December 1987, but in
most respects are deemed to apply from 1 July 1986. For practical purposes
this means that, for income years 1986/87 onwards, the supervision of
superannuation funds is undertaken by the ISC under OSS and the
Regulations.
5.33 The Committee notes that possible breaches of the Regulations by the
QPOA Fund have been indicated by the ISC.
Audit Requirements
5.34 Paragraphs 4.24 to 4.27 above provided an interpretation of the
requirements here. Documentation received by the Committee indicates an
audit of the QPOASF in accordance with those requirements was
undertaken for the year ended June 30 1988.
5.35 Under OSS Regulations the accounts and records of a superannuation
fund must be audited each year as part of the operating standards which a
complying superannuation fund must satisfy. The audit must be carried out
by an approved auditor.
5.36 The Regulations do not actually prescribe the nature of the audit to
be carried out, except that the auditor must satisfy himself that he is able to
provide the auditor's certificate which must be submitted by the fund to the
ISC. This certificate makes it clear that the auditor must conduct the audit
of the accounts and records of the fund in accordance with the Australian


Auditing Standards, and contains provision for the auditor to specify any
qualifications contained in the audit report.63
5.37 In relation to the years prior to 1987-88 the evidence was not always
clear in relation to auditing of the QPOA Fund. However, the Committee
expresses a general dissatisfaction with the apparent inability of whatever
auditing was done to raise some questions about the 1987 transfers at least.
(See also 3.17 and 3.28.)
5.38 Another point of concern to the Committee was the absence of
minutes of Trustee Meetings to accompany the accounts.
63
CCH, para. 11.210




CHAPTER 6:
REPRESENTATION ON
TRUST STRUCTURES
Representation on Trust Structures
Relevant Term of Reference:
(i) the representation of fund members in trustee structures
of superannuation funds
Trustees for Whom?
6.1 As the QPOA Fund was established on 1 June 1985, OSS Regulations
do not impose conditions relating to the appointment of trustees until
1995.64 At the time of the extraordinary withdrawals the trustees were
appointed by the employer sponsor, the QPOA. The Committee's concerns
about the appointment and role of trustees are in the context of the 1987
transfers. Especially is this so as one of the trustees at that time, Mr
Martindale, was a major beneficiary in that package of transfers. The
Committee considers the trustees could not be perceived to be acting for all
the members of the fund in its conduct over that period.
Conflicts of Interest
6.2 See also paragraphs 5.8 and 5.17 on the duty to act impartially. As
well as that specific duty to act impartially the Committee considers the
need to be seen to be acting impartially as important as the duty itself. More
balanced trustee representation assists that perception. For example, a non-
executive trustee may well have improved the trustee balance of the original
QPOA Fund.
64
CCH, para. 17.368


6.3 Mr Higham's evidence, which was contested by the Committee, stating
that the trustees acted in accordance with both the deed and in pursuit of
sound employer/employee relations was significant on this point (see
paragraph 3.25). It is quite legitimate for the Fund to be intended to
forward the interests of the sponsoring union as well as of the members.65
However, the Committee considers that the employer's interests in this
respect involve matters of employee management and relations, interests
which are not well served by unusual and undisclosed payouts to individual
members.
Meetings, Agendas and Minutes
6.4 It is proper that, at meetings of trustees, resolutions relating to
payments of benefits will be recorded. The deed will usually confer some
discretionary powers on the trustees, and the minutes will record how these
powers are exercised on each occasion. For example, when a member
resigns, the trustees may determine the amount of the withdrawal benefit
(the deed may set upper and lower limits to the amount of this benefit).66
6.5 Problems for the QPOASF in this area were apparent in much of the
evidence presented. For example, the absence of specific QPOASF trustee
meetings and minutes, and communication of these to members, was a
disturbing part of the inquiry and the Committee considers these deficiencies
were largely responsible for the subsequent confusion, mistrust and
allegations.
Obligation to All Members
6.6 Inherent in the law relating to trusts in general, and superannuation
funds in particular, is the protection of the interests of beneficiaries who, in
the case of superannuation funds, are the members. That of course means
all members. The Committee found that the actions of the trustees of the
QPOASF in 1987 did not fulfil this obligation. Only a select few were
offered the transfer option and, again here, the surrounding secrecy did little
to encourage confidence by other members in the trustees.
65 Mr Higham was a trustee at the time of the withdrawals
CCH, para. 8-710
66


Generally
6.7 The policy of tying trustee appointments to executive positions with
the sponsoring employer may be simple, but the Committee considers that,
of itself, it has little merit. Trustee representation, and the need for equal
representation from both employees and employers, was a matter considered
by the Committee in Chapter 5 of its first report Safeguarding Super and,
in particular, Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends that the requirement for equal
employer/employee representation should apply to all funds with arms'
length members; that is, funds with five or more members. 67
67 Safeguarding Super, p. 62.




CHAPTER 7:
INFORMATION TO MEMBERS
Information to Members
Relevant Term of Reference:
(h) the information available to members of superannuation funds
Requirements
7.1 As part of the operating standards under OSS Regulations, a
complying superannuation fund is required to provide fund members with
such information and reports on request by a member, or at specific periods
or on specified occasions, as prescribed in Regulation 18C to 18P. These
reporting and disclosure requirements are largely designed to provide fund
members with information in relation to their individual benefit entitlements,
as well as the operation and performance of funds. Additional information
requirements are imposed if the fund is a multi-member fund (i.e. a fund
with five or more members).
7.2 The operating standards require trustees of all superannuation funds
to provide information to their members in the following circumstances:
• when members (or before prospective members) join the fund;
• when members leave the fund;
• when requested by members;
• when alterations are made to the fund's governing rules; and
• regular reporting (at least annually) to members concerning
their benefit entitlements (i.e. the provision of a benefit
statement to each member).


7.3 For multi-member funds, the trustees are also required to provide the
following information to their members:
• advance notification of a return of surplus funds to employer
sponsors or of amendments to the fund's governing rules which
have a similar effect;
• advice to fund pensioners and people with deferred benefits of
the availability of certain reports on request; and
• annual information concerning the fund's financial condition,
investment objectives and administrative arrangements (i.e. an
annual report to members).68
7.4 See 5.25 regarding the availability of the deed, or at least the terms
and conditions of the fund. The Committee considers there was a gross
inadequacy at all times in the provision of information to members,
especially in relation to the 1987 transfers. In fact the Committee finds more
a measure of secrecy, at least in regard to the fine detail of those payouts.
As expressed elsewhere, this lack of openness was responsible for many of
the problems that emerged and gave rise to this inquiry.
Adherence to the Requirements
7.5 While the Committee may not have received all the relevant evidence
on information provided to members, it was found there was:
• not a culture or practice to involve members generally in the
operation of the Fund, especially its early years; and
• a policy of special arrangements for some members, and
apparent lack of reporting to other members, by the appointed
trustees which is contrary to the spirit and intent of the above
requirements.
68
CCH, para. 11.190


Minutes of Meetings
7.6 There was conflicting evidence on this aspect of reporting. The
Committee cannot resolve such conflict, but again the differences in
evidence pointed to a most unsatisfactory level of cooperation between
certain people involved with the Fund.
7.7 In any event, what was being debated was the Executive minutes, not
those of trustee meetings which of course did not take place in the proper
manner. In a strictly technical sense 'the minutes' never existed.
Accounts and Other Particulars of the Fund
7.8 Mr Ranson, a fund member, in his Statutory Declaration was quite
specific in the denial of access by councillors of the QPOA to the accounts
of the Fund. Whether those councillors were also members is not clear (See
3.42). In Ms Eastwood's letter published in the Hansard of the second
hearing, she disputed Mr Ranson's allegations of restriction on access to the
accounts.
7.9 In Mr Curley's evidence (see 3.35), the denial of access by him to the
QPOA superannuation file is significant, as it began a legal questioning of
the confidentiality of that file which became quite an issue in itself.
7.10 The Committee found on the basis of the evidence that fund members
had insufficient notice or knowledge of the Fund's accounts and trustee
decisions.




CHAPTER 8:
VESTING, PRESERVATION
AND PORTABILITY
Vesting, Preservation and Portability
Relevant Term of Reference:
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting
and preservation of benefits
8.1 The respective definitions are:
Vesting is the established entitlement of a member to his or her own
contributions to a superannuation fund, the employer's contributions,
and accrued interest.
Preservation is the maintenance of a member's entitlements in a
superannuation fund until a specified minimum age (usually at least
55).
Portability is allowing a superannuation plan to be transferred from
one fund (or one employer) to another.65
The Focus
8.2 In this chapter the Committee confines itself to the circumstances of
the 1987 transfers. The vesting provisions which applied are described in
paragraph 2.2 and Table 2.1 in Chapter 2.
The Vesting Outcomes
8.3 Details of amounts transferred are in paragraph 2.5 and Table 2.2.
The Committee found that at the date of the transfers none of the four
69
Safeguarding Super, June 1992, pp. xiii, xiv


beneficiaries had qualified for the full employer accumulation amounts
which were actually paid out.
8.4 However, Mr Martindale said that recognition of prior employment for
superannuation purposes was part of his appointment as General Secretary
in late 1982 (See 3.29). He commenced duty in that position on 28 January
1983 and concluded on 30 November 1990. 0 At a December 1982 meeting
of the Executive of the QPOA, a resolution was passed to recognise the
prior service in this way.
8.5 That Executive resolution was not a trustee determination as required
under the second limb of the definition of service in the trust deed.
Therefore, leaving aside the retrospective amendment of 1990, neither Mr
Martindale's nor any of the transfers of January 1987 were in accordance
with the beneficiaries' entitlements. The Committee believes that this aspect
of the inquiry highlights the inconsistencies which can arise when a body
other than the trustees assumes the decision-making role.
Preservation and Portability
8.6 OSS Regulations 9 and 10 contain standards setting out the benefits
which must be preserved if a fund is to qualify as a complying
superannuation fund. The manner in which the benefits are to be preserved
is set out in Regulation 11. Regulation 12 provides that preservation is not
required where the amount of the benefit is less than the specified figure.
Regulation 10 has operated from 22 December 1986 while 9, 11 and 12
apply from 1 July 1986.71
8.7 Regulation ll(l)(c)(ii) provides for three acceptable portability
arrangements, one of which is as follows:
The benefit may be transferred to another superannuation fund nominated by a
person in whom the benefit is vested, if that person is or becomes a member of
that other fund, and if that fund is required to preserve any benefits so transferred
in a manner which satisfies the standards under Regulation 11.
70
Towers Perrin letter of 13 November 1992
71
CCH, para. 34-750


Conclusion
8.8 Whilst the Committee in no way wishes to condone the improper
actions of the trustees in transferring benefits from the QPOASF to
individual funds, the Committee takes issue with the provision of the trust
deed which provided only partial vesting of employer benefits during the
early years of employment.
8.9 Had immediate and full vesting of benefits been a feature of the trust
deed, in all probability the dispute about the amount of benefits would not
have arisen.




CHAPTER 9:
DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND
OTHER MATTERS
Dispute Resolution and Other Matters
Relevant Term of Reference:
(j) the dispute resolution mechanisms available to members
of superannuation funds
Overview
9.1 The Committee found much of the evidence presented to the inquiry
demonstrated a lack of cooperation, professional application and general
goodwill in the operation of the QPOASF.
9.2 It was of concern to the Committee that several participants among
the witnesses and others who made submissions to the inquiry, were
motivated by interests apart from, or only incidental to, superannuation.
However, there were a number of superannuation aspects in genuine
dispute, mainly arising from the 1987 transfers, but also some of a more
general character which have been examined in the earlier chapters.
9.3 The Committee believes that to some extent it became something of
a clearing house, or release valve, for all manner of disputation involving the
QPOA. The complainants appeared dissatisfied with the QPOA and quasi-
judicial bodies investigating the QPOA. They believed their concerns
warranted further examination. Aside from the non-superannuation issues
which arose, this inquiry confirmed the need for a formal disputes resolution
framework in the superannuation arena.


The Solution
9.4 In its seventh report, Super Inquiry Overview, in the context of the
application of the adverse evidence rule, the Committee reported:
The Committee acknowledges that the existence of a low cost, accessible and
equitable dispute resolution mechanism is the appropriate means of settling such
disputes, but until such a tribunal of agency is established, consumers of
superannuation products will have no alternative other than to seek the assistance
of parliamentary committees to achieve a just settlement of a dispute.
It is acknowledged that for a number of reasons it is inappropriate for
parliamentary committees to assume this role. First, they run the risk of being
overwhelmed by complaints or allegations and thereby distracted from finalising
other equally important business. Second they are not well placed to adjudicate
on the merits of individual cases or to inquire into alleged wrongful conduct,
however, they may recommend that other agencies reconsider or investigate
decisions. Nevertheless, Committees can be a useful 'release valve' to allow
individuals who have exhausted other opportunities to express their concerns and
bring to the attention of legislators ideas for reform. 72
9.5 The sixth Committee report reiterated a specific recommendation from
its first report, that an external review body be established to adjudicate on
superannuation disputes.73 Such a body could scarcely have been more
useful than in the case of the QPOASF.
Related Difficulties Encountered by the Committee
9.6 In the course of its inquiry the Committee was confronted with various
allegations of impropriety, conspiracy and even illegal behaviour on the part
of persons associated with the QPOASF. Some of this evidence was
unsubstantiated and that which was irrelevant to superannuation was not
tested.
9.7 Another, but quite separate problem encountered by the Committee
was the extreme difficulty experienced in trying to examine the completed
Benefit Request Forms relating to the 1987 transfers. First it was discovered
72 Super Inquiry Overview, paras. 4.28, 4.29
73 Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions, Recommendation 3.9


that NML had included these forms with other documents submitted to the
Cooke Inquiry. Then NML disclosed they had not kept copies of material
submitted, due to the large volume involved, and the originals had not been
included in files returned to them on completion of that inquiry.
9.8 At the second public hearing on 31 May 1993, the Committee agreed
that these missing documents should be pursued, with NML and the
Committee secretariat both making the appropriate inquiries.
9.9 Following that direction, and following due process as well as seeking
cooperation, the Committee secretariat contacted the following Queensland
authorities:
• Department of Employment, Vocational Education, Training
and Industrial Relations (DEVETIR);
• State Archives; and
• Justice and Attorney-General's Department.
Also, the Chair wrote to the Group Managing Director of NML seeking his
cooperation in locating the missing documents. The responses to these
approaches indicated the documents had been lost. Appendix B has details
of the relevant correspondence while Figure 9.1 is an example of a benefit
payment request form in use in 1987.
9.10 The Committee considered the difficulties associated with sighting
these documents reflected poorly on NML in particular, and it is to be
hoped that better practices in securing important documentation will be
followed by NML as a result of the QPOASF experience.
Costs
9.11 In the area of dispute resolution the question of costs is important.
The QPOA has incurred substantial costs in the hiring of Towers Perrin as
consultants, having to 'top up' the fund to compensate for the effects of the
1987 transfers as well as expense in other direct and indirect ways. Witnesses
have employed legal counsel, suffered disruption to their lives and generally
much time has been taken up with wrestling over problems with the
QPOASF.




Conclusion
9.12 The Committee finds it strange that given all the documents produced
and examined in the course of this inquiry, it is the crucial Benefit Request
Forms which are missing. In oral evidence, NML agreed this was odd (see
4.34). The possibility of the intentional removal of the documents, by a
person (or persons) unknown, cannot be ignored. Particularly is the
Committee concerned because it is possible that these documents may have
contained evidence of conduct intended to mislead the fund administrator.
9.13 Whilst there has been a considerable level of disputation about the
operations of the fund, the costs incurred as a result of wrongful trustee
decisions have not detrimentally affected the entitlements of fund members.
In this regard one of the employer sponsors of the fund (the QPOA) has
made payments to a special fund to ensure that any shortfalls have been
corrected.




CHAPTER 10: CONCLUSION
Conclusion
10.1 The Committee's findings in this inquiry have been incorporated
throughout the report. Only two formal recommendations have been made.
Remembering that the inquiry was conducted in response to Submission
Number 279, from a union member alleging certain improprieties had
occurred in the conduct of the union's employee superannuation fund, the
purpose was to investigate only those matters raised which were relevant to
the Committee's terms of reference. With that in mind, the Committee
makes these final observations.
Generally
10.2 There was great value in the examination in depth of specific problems
associated with a single superannuation fund. Many of the issues and
recommendations arising from other Committee reports were strengthened
by the experience of the QPOASF inquiry.
10.3 Evidence presented at the public hearings, and by written submission,
suggested a sensitivity of the superannuation issue to other problems within
an organisation. Particularly for employer sponsored funds, there are clear
lessons to separate executive and trustee responsibilities not only to meet
the legal requirements, but to foster greater openness and confidence in
fund administration and management. Separate trustee meetings, and
greater openness in the management of the QPOASF, would have avoided
at least the worst of the problems which gave rise to this inquiry.
Government Supervision
10.4 The experience of the QPOASF crossed the periods before and after
OSS, and the introduction of the Superannuation Industry Supervision Bills
into the Parliament. The ISC has signalled its problems with the QPOASF
and some issues are still in question. However, the Committee considers
perhaps the more important role of government in preventing a QPOASF
situation is in the area of education, both of trustees and members as to
their respective rights and responsibilities.


10.5 The Senate Select Committee on Superannuation inquiry in the
QPOASF was undoubtedly a 'safety valve' and outlet for much of the
antagonism which underlay relationships between different parties associated
with the Queensland Professional Officers Association. In adjourning the
first public hearing in Brisbane, the then Chair expressed the hope that the
parties could 'resolve' their 'differences'.74
10.6 Through a close study of this one fund the Committee observed the
consequences when the principles of trust law are neglected or abused.
Recommendation 1;
The Committee recommends the early implementation of legislation to
increase the prudential control and supervision of superannuation funds.
Missing Documents
10.7 The Committee has expressed concern about the missing Benefit
Request Forms. The Committee's inability to obtain these forms reflects
poorly on a number of organisations. It seems extraordinary that the
QPOASF, NML, DEVETIR and the Queensland State Archives were
unable to assist the Committee. Similarly, it is of deep concern that these
organisations did not provide evidence of their maintaining a register of
documents with details of each document and its movements by date and
recipient.
Recommendation 2:
The Committee recommends that the Queensland Attorney-General and
Minister for Justice Investigate the circumstances surrounding the loss of
the four Benefit Request Forms, Further* the Committee recommends that
the Queensland Government review its archiving policy to ensure that all
evidence tendered to quasi-judicial bodies is retained.
74 Evidence, p. 173


Conclusion
10.8 This report clearly demonstrates that there needs to be a convergence
of the rights of members and the responsibilities of trustees. Where these
two essential ingredients of sound superannuation fund practice diverge,
there exists potential for unnecessary and protracted disputes. The QPOASF
experience has resulted in considerable expense being incurred by the
employer sponsor to 'top up' the Fund's loss of assets. Individual members
have expended time and money discovering what occurred during the period
under scrutiny. Likewise, the trustees, both past and present, have incurred
detriment which would have been avoided had the principles of trust law
and the provisions of the trust deed been upheld.
10.9 As a result of this inquiry into the QPOASF, in examining the
Superannuation Industry Supervisory Bills during the Budget 1993 sittings,
the Committee will use the following principles to test the legislation:
• Trustees should give members access to any information about
changes which may materially influence their superannuation
fund.
• Trustees should act in an impartial manner ensuring that
potential or actual conflicts of interest are avoided.
• Trustees should become aware of the provisions of the trust
deed which they administer and seek advice should they be
uncertain about the correctness of their actions.
• Trustees have an obligation to inform members about proposed
changes to the trust deed and seek their views.
• Members should have access to a low cost dispute resolution
mechanism should they wish to challenge a ruling of their
trustees.
10.10 The Committee concludes that what occurred in the QPOASF
reflected poorly on the employer body and its trustee representatives. The
maladministration, sloppiness of record keeping and the propensity of
certain persons to become involved in conflicts of interest were inexcusable.
From the vantage point of two years of experience in scrutinising the


superannuation industry, the Committee believes that the QPOASF was not
alone in this regard. The problems exposed in this inquiry yet again confirm
the Committee's view that there is a need for far reaching legislation to
ensure that trustees properly discharge their duties.


APPENDIX A
LIST OF WITNESSES
Appendix A: List of Witnesses
Brisbane, 29 April 1993
Mr S Curley
Joint President
State Public Services Federation
Mr K Daly
Ms J Eastwood
Joint Secretary
State Public Services Federation
Ms R Kinder
Mr G Rutherford
Brisbane, 31 May 1993
Mr Peter Grace
Corporate Superannuation Services Manager
National Mutual
Mr Cecil Lee
Mr Michael O'Neill
Consultant
Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby Inc.
Mr Gordon Rutherford
Mr Bruce Webb
Account Manager
National Mutual




APPENDIX B
COMMITTEE CORRESPONDENCE
ON MISSING DOCUMENTS
AUSTRALIAN SENATE
CANBERRA. A.C.T.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
33/1 (279) Pt 2
3 June 1993
Queensland State Archivist
PO Box 1397
Sunnybank Hills
QUEENSLAND 4109
PARLIAMENT HOUSE
CANBERRA. ACT 2600
TEL: (06) 277 3439
FAX: (06) 277 3899
Dear Madam
Documents Submitted to the Cooke Inquiry
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund
Under its terms of reference this Committee has undertaken an inquiry into the
operation of the above fund during the period 1985 - 1992.
In order to complete this inquiry the Committee needs to examine certain
documents, including those relating to withdrawals from the fund in 1985. Evidence
before the Committee by National Mutual indicated that they had previously
submitted their only copies of these documents to the Cooke Inquiry and therefore
they were unable to assist the Committee in this matter.
As the Cooke Inquiry has concluded, it is possible these documents have been
archived. If so, your cooperation is sought in the provision of these documents for
examination by the Committee. In particular, the following are requested:
. benefit payment request forms and other payment details of 1985
withdrawals in the names of: . K Daly
. R Kinder
. D Martindale
. G Rutherford;
. any other benefit payment forms; and
. all other documents submitted which involved the Queensland
Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund.
As the Committee needs to complete its final report on this matter without further
delay, your early response would be greatly appreciated.
You:
faithfully
Ridyrd Gilbert
Secretary


AUSTRALIAN SENATE
CANBERRA. A.C.T.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
33/1 (279) Pt 2
3 June 1993
Queensland State Archivist
PO Box 1397
Sunnybank Hills
QUEENSLAND 4109
PARLIAMENT HOUSE
CANBERRA. A.C.T 2600
TEL: (06) 277 3439
FAX: (06) 277 3899
Dear Madam
Documents Submitted to the Cooke Inquiry
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund
Under its terms of reference this Committee has undertaken an inquiry into the
operation of the above fund during the period 1985 - 1992.
In order to complete this inquiry the Committee needs to examine certain
documents, including those relating to withdrawals from the fund in 1985. Evidence
before the Committee by National Mutual indicated that they had previously
submitted their only copies of these documents to the Cooke Inquiry and therefore
they were unable to assist the Committee in this matter.
As the Cooke Inquiry has concluded, it is possible these documents have been
archived. If so, your cooperation is sought in the provision of these documents for
examination by the Committee. In particular, the following are requested:
benefit payment request forms and other payment details of 1985
withdrawals in the names of: . K Daly
. R Kinder
. D Martindale
. G Rutherford;
any other benefit payment forms; and
all other documents submitted which involved the Queensland
Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund.
As the Committee needs to complete its final report on this matter without further
delay, your early response would be greatly appreciated.
Yours faithfully
Ridi^rd Gilbert
Secretary


AUSTRALIAN SENATE
CANBERRA. A.C.T.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
3 June 1993
Mr Bob Marshman
Director-General
DEVET & IR
12th Floor, 199 Charlotte Street
BRISBANE QLD 4001
Dear Mr Marshman
Documents Submitted to the Cooke Inquiry
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund
Under its terms of reference this Committee has undertaken an inquiry into the
operation of the above fund during the period 1985 - 1992.
In order to complete this inquiry the Committee needs to examine certain
documents, including those relating to withdrawals from the fund in 1985. Evidence
before the Committee by National Mutual indicated that they had previously
submitted their only copies of these documents to the Cooke Inquiry and therefore
they were unable to assist the Committee in this matter.
Your cooperation is sought in the provision of these documents for examination by
the Committee. In particular, the following are requested:
. benefit payment request forms and other payment details of 1985
withdrawals in the names of: . K Daly
. R Kinder
. D Martindale
. G Rutherford;
any other benefit payment forms; and
all other documents submitted which involved the Queensland
Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund.
As the Committee needs to complete its final report on this matter without further
delay, your early response would be greatly appreciated.
33/1 (279) Pt 2
PARLIAMENT HOUSE
CANBERRA. A.C.T. 2600
TEL: (06) 277 3439
FAX: (06) 277 3899
Youj& sincerely
RicJ^-d Gilbert
Secretary


AUSTRALIAN SENATE
CANBERRA. A.C.T.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
8 June 1993
PARLIAMENT HOUSE
CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600
TEL: (06) 277 3439
FAX: (06) 277 3899
Mr Bob Scullen
Justice and Attorney-General's Department
Queensland
Fax: (07) 220 0289
Dear Mr Scullen
Further to our telephone conversation of 7 June 1993, I am writing to seek your
assistance regarding access to the documents re the Committee's inquiry into the
operations of the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund.
In this regard I attach a copy of the letter which was sent to the State Archives as well as
a copy of the reply.
It is with the above points in mind that the Committee would appreciate your advice on
whether the documents are still in the possession of the Queensland Government and if
so, whether copies could be forwarded to the secretariat. The Committee is particularly
interested in receiving copies of the benefit request forms relating to withdrawals by the
four persons mentioned in the attached letter.
I look forward to receiving your advice on this matter at the earliest possible juncture.
Yours sincerely
Secretary
Encs


PO Bov 1397, Sunnybank Hills Qld 4109
GENERAL ENQUIRIES
Telephone (07) 875 8755 Facsimile (07) 875 8764
GOVERNMENT RECORDS SERVICE
Telephone (07) 875 8725 Facsimile (07) 875 8765
H360/16
AB:LB
7 June 1993
Mr Richard Gilbert
Secretary
Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Dear Mr Gilbert
In response to your fax of 3 June 1993 regarding access to Cooke Inquiry documents, my
advise is that you seek authorisation for access from the Director General of the
Department of Justice and Attorney General. The Department of Justice and Attorney
General is responsible for the administration of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1950 and
is the only agency able to authorise access to Commissions of Inquiry material.
Yours faithfully
$nkC
Ms. L. McGre^r
State Archivist
A Business Unit of Administrative Services Department. Queensland Government


AUSTRALIAN SENATE
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
17 June 1993
Mr Geoff Tomlinson
Group Managing Director
National Mutual
447 Collins Street
MELBOURNE VIC 3000
Fax: (03) 618 4952
Dear Mr Tomlinson
Brisbane Inquiry by the Committee
Missing Documents of the QPOA Superannuation Fund
As you may be aware this Committee is inquiring into the Queensland Professional
Officers Association Superannuation Fund and has recently held two public hearings
in Brisbane on the matter. National Mutual is the administrator of this fund, and
at the second of those hearings Mr Peter Grace and Mr Bruce Webb appeared as
witnesses representing National Mutual.
The purpose of this letter is to express the Committee's concern at National Mutual's
inability to provide copies of documents vital to the Committee' inquiry. Your
cooperation is therefore sought in this matter.
In particular, four 1987 benefit payment request forms and associated
documentation have been sought. The response from National Mutual has been that
these documents were included in material submitted to the Cooke Inquiry in
Queensland, and appear not to have been included in those files which have been
returned following the completion of that inquiry, or were returned but are now
unable to be located.
The Committee finds it odd that copies of such documents were not kept. In any
event it is necessary for the Committee to now examine these documents as a matter
of first priority, and your cooperation would be greatly appreciated in locating these
documents and making them, or copies of them, available.
PARLIAMENT HOU
CANBERRA, A.C.T
TEL (06)277 3439
FAX: (06)277 5719
33/1 (279) Pt2
purs ysincenel
Senator the Hon. Nick Sherry
Chair


EN E;• EC .
-3-£l > -Jy5u
TEL: »S 1
The National Mutual Ufa Association of Australasia Limited ACN 004 020 437
National Mutual Centre 447 Collins Street Meibourno Victoria 3000
Telephono (03) 618 4983
G A Tomlinson
Group Managing Diroctor
18th June, 1983
Senator the Hon. Hick Sherry,
Select Committee on Superannuation,
Parliament House,
CANBERRA, ACT. 2600.
Fax* 06 277 5719
Dear Senator Sherry,
X refer to your letter dated 17th June, 1993.
Much aa we would like to do so, and much as it embarrasses ua not to be able
to do so, I am afraid we are not In a position to produce the documentation
you aeek.
Attached is a report from our Superannuation Manager in Queensland, Mr. Peter
Grace. The position ia as straightforward as explained by Mr. Grace.
X will contact you again after ve have been to the State Archives.
Yours sincerely.


SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE - OPOA SUPER fUHD
The facts of the case are as follows:
1. four 'Leaving Service' Benefit payments were processed In January 1987.
The benefits were calculated as resignation benefits as requested by the
authorised officer of the fund. Some time later we became aware that
the four employees had not resigned.
2. The Benefit Payment Request forms authorised us to pay 100% of the
employer account (1e full vesting) even though the members had not
served the normal period for such vesting level. However* the trust
deed allowed the trustees to pay a discretionary benefit.
3. There Is some confusion In the evidence about one of the members
(Martlndale) being "given credit for past service with QPOA". There are
allegations of double dipping < 1 e being paid twice for the same period
of service).
4. None of these three issues can be properly resolved without sighting the
documentation authorising the payments and the NM calculation records.
5. On 24.4.91, NM provided a box of files on the QPOA fund to the Cooke
enquiry - Investigating the behaviour of various Queensland Trade
Unions. The box was hand delivered by NM.
6. The files were of a considerable bulk (It over one third metre thick)
and the decision was taken not to copy It. No list of contents was kept
by NM either. The administration officer (no longer with NM) 1s adamant
that the relevant payment records were In the box.
7. On 28.5.91, the Cooke enquiry notified NM they had finished with the
files. The box was hand collected by NM. Ne had no reason to believe
any of the files were missing.
8. The files remained 1n the department for several months before being
returned to the filing compactus and to secondary storage.
9. On 10.8.92, Towers Perrin commenced an Investigation Into the fund. In
providing material for this Investigation we were asked for the
documentation on the four benefit payments. We assumed they would be 1n
the files. We are obviously embarrassed to find them missing.
10. We have conducted (and repeated) searches of all our files and cannot
locate the required documentation.
11. We have approached the Cooke enquiry to see If they have copies of any
of the flies we sent them or still have the originals. The Cooke
enquiry Is now complete and all the records are In the State Archives.
12. After some difficulties finding how to get authority to access the
Archives, we have today delivered a letter to Mr R L Marshman of the
Department of Employment, Vocational Education, Training and Industrial
Relations, who must authorise our application.


13. Our practices when making Benefit Payments Is to provide a copy of the
Benefit Payment Request forms to the employer to confirm the payment has
been processed. There is no reason to believe that was not done 1n this
case. QPOA have not been able to find their copies of the Benefit
Payment Request forms either.
M. Summary
We are embarrassed that we cannot now find the relevant Benefit Payment
Request forms. They did exist and there 1$ no doubt about that. We
believe that 1t 1s most likely the forms were not returned to us by the
Cooke enquiry.
In retrospect we should have copied every piece of paper that was handed
over to the Cooke enquiry no matter how big a task that was. At least
we would today have a copy of the relevant forms.
There Is still a prospect that the original forms or copies may be
available from the Queensland State Archives. We are persuing this as
fast as possible given that we need authorisation to proceed.


Pa 76 DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT.
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION. TRAINING AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Citibank Centre, 199 Charlotte Street, Brisbane. Postal Address: G.P.O. Box 69, Brisbane, 4001
Telephone: 22 52038
Facsimile: 22 90445
2 5 JUN 1393
Mr Richard Gilbert
Secretary
Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Dear Mr Gilbert
I refer to your facsimile of 3 June 1993, requesting documents
which had been submitted to the Commission of Inquiry into the
Activities of Particular Queensland Unions (the Cooke Inquiry).
The Cooke Inquiry which was established under the Commissions of
Inquiry Act 1950 and ceased to exist in August 1991.
As its activities and investigations were not subject to the
administrative oversight by this Department, all files and
documents held were lodged with the State Archivist according to
the provisions of the Libraries and Archives Act 1988.
A search of the records lodged with the Archivist was unable to
locate the documents requested. Enquiries made with persons who
assisted the Inquiry revealed that they believed the documents had
been returned to National Mutual.
incerely
DEVETIR
Helping 10 build best practices in Queensland workplaces


department of employment, *
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION, TRAINING**^ INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Citibank Centre, 199 Charlotte Street Blsbane. Postal Addreps: G.P.O, Box 69. Brisbane, 4001
Telephone; 22 52C38
' T JJM 1993
Facsimile: 22 90445
Mr P Grace
Manager Corporate Business
GFO 3ox 426
BRISBANE QLD 4001
Dear Mr Grace
I refer to your letter cf 17 June 1993 requesting access to
documents submitted to the Commission of Inquiry into the
Activities of Particular Queensland Unions (the Cooke
Inquiry).
As the activities of the Cooke Inquiry were not subject to
the administrative oversight of this Department all files and
records retained were lodged with the State Archivist when
the Inquiry ceased to exist.
Due to the particular sensitive nature of documents submitted
to that enquiry I am unable to accede to your request to
review documents which were retained.
An officer of this Department has carried out a Bearch of the
records held at the State Archives. The documents sought
could not be located amongst the records retained.
Persons who were assisting with the Inquiry have advised that
the original documents were most probably returned to
National Mutual and that no copy was made of them.
Yomrs sincerely
RJ1 MARSHMAN
Dirac tor-General
DEVETIR
Helping to build besi practices In Queensland workplaces


144 Edward Street, GPO Box 426. Brisbane. Qld. 4001. Telephone: (07) 227 3423 Fax: (07) 221 7001
Peter Grace, M.B>.. B Sc.. AAI.I.
Manager Corporate Bu*ine*i
28 June 1993
The Secretary
Senate Select Committee
on ^Sljperannuatlon
Ropnf SG 64
P£rllament House
Canberra act 2600
Dear Mr Gilbert
I am sorry to report that the search of the State Archives for material
used by the Cooke Enquiry Into the QPOA has not been successful.
Mr Greg Cumberland (of Department of Employment, Vocational Education,
Training and Industrial Relations) searched the records on our behalf.
There were some legal complications which prevented us easily getting
authority to search ourselves.
He could not find the originals or copies of the Benefit Payment Requests
for Martlndale Daly Rutherford and Kinder.
National Mutual obviously regrets that It cannot produce the documents.
A copy of the official letter from DEVETIR Is attached.
Sincerely
Attach.
GN1/3364/3/ST
Tu~ M~*:—-l 11.I .la Accnoialinn of Australasia Lid A.C.N. 004 020 437




- parliament of the
Commonwealth QF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 152 of 1993
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
„ ISSN 0727-418 .
