

21st Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
INVESTMENT OF AUSTRALIA’S
SUPERANNUATION SAVINGS
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
December 1996




21st Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
INVESTMENT OF AUSTRALIA’S
SUPERANNUATION SAVINGS
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
December 1996


© Commonwealth of Australia 1996
ISBN 0-642-25119-3
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members of the Committee
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary: Ms Bronwyn McNaughton (to 7/11/96)
Senior Research Officer: Mr Rod Adams
Executive Assistant: Ms Debbie McMahon (to 4/12/96)
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
Facsimile: (06)277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at: http://senate.aph.g0V.au




PREFACE
Preface
This report provides an overview and analysis of the legal, economic, and
social issues associated with the investment of superannuation savings. As such
it represents an audit of some of the current market-place trends and policy
developments in the area of superannuation investment.
Underlying its analysis was the Committee's recognition that the primary
purpose of superannuation is to provide retirement income. The Committee is
mindful that any changes to the superannuation system must reflect this
fundamental principle.




RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendations
Recommendation 3.1
The Committee recommends that the government review the intent and
operation of the infrastructure borrowings concessions and clarify the
position.
Recommendation 4.1
The Committee recommends the government investigate the establishment
of an independent and investor based credit-rating system for SMEs as a
joint initiative of government and the relevant business groups.
Recommendation 6.1
The Committee recommends that the government review and monitor its
superannuation policies and legislation to ensure the maximising of
retirement incomes is not being unduly affected by short term investment
considerations.
Recommendation 7.1
The Committee recommends that a review of superannuation investment
policies and practices be undertaken by this Committee in three years time.




CONTENTS
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
PREFACE
RECOMMENDATIONS
iii
v
vii
CHAPTER 11
BACKGROUND 1
The market place 3
Diversification 4
Globalisation and economic sovereignty 5
Conclusion 6
CHAPTER 29
BALANCED INVESTMENT 9
The history and source of the law 9
Trustees and investment 10
Prudent investing 11
SIS AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY 12
Non-fin ancial considerations 13
The American experience 14
Striking the balance 15
Fraud 19
Socially responsible investment 20
Economically targeted investments (ETIs) 21
Legal regulation of ETIs 22
A recent Australian case 23
Conclusions 25
CHAPTER 327
INFRASTRUCTURE 27
Infrastructure Borrowings Tax Concession 29
Infrastructure Investment In The United States Of America 32
Trading In Infrastructure 33
Conclusions 34
CHAPTER 435
INVESTING IN SMALLER ENTERPRISES 35
A CREDIT-RATING SYSTEM 36
Business loans 37
Equity capital 38
The problem of matching 38
Directed investment 41
Development capital 42
Conclusion 44


CHAPTER 5
SUPER FOR HOUSING 45
Investment in housing infrastructure 45
Home purchase assistance 48
The actu/National Mutual scheme 50
Conclusion 51
CHAPTER 653
SHORT TERMISM - PERCEPTION OR REALITY 53
The issue 53
Competition and choice 54
The short term perspective 55
POLICIES TO COMBAT SHORT TERMISM 60
Conclusion 63
CHAPTER 7_ 65
SUPER FUNDS AND SOCIAL OBJECTIVES 65
Broader objectives 65
Economically targeted investment (ETI) 66
Socially responsible investment 67
Informed choices 68
A NATIONAL STRATEGY TO HARNESS SUPER SAVINGS 69
Conclusion 70
APPENDIX A - CONDUCT OF THE INQUIRY 73
APPENDIX B - LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS 75
APPENDIX C - LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS 77
APPENDIX D - LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS 79
APPENDIX E - LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 83
APPENDIX F - GRAPHS
85


CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND
Background
1.1 The purpose of this inquiry is to examine the implications of the rapid
growth in superannuation fund assets, in particular for the availability of
development capital, the funding of infrastructure projects, the capital needs of
small and medium sized Australian enterprises and housing finance. The
Committee is required to consider the possible role that the investment of
superannuation savings might play in furthering broader social, economic or
industry policy objectives. It will also consider whether there is an undue focus
on short term results, and the need for long term investment in providing for
retirement incomes.
1.2 This examination of Australia's superannuation system will be premised
upon the understanding that the primary purpose of the assets held by
superannuation funds is the provision of retirement income. The funds
represent the retirement savings of fund members and their use must, in the first
instance, enhance their primary purpose.
1.3 With the advent of award superannuation in 1986, the establishment of
the Insurance and Superannuation Commission (the ISC) in 1987, the
introduction of the Superannuation Guarantee in 1992 and the implementation
of the SIS Act during 1994-95, Australia's super system has developed into a
world leader in many respects. Given the growth patterns that are evident and
that are anticipated to continue, it is therefore now timely to take stock of both
the extent and the nature of our superannuation savings.1
1.4 The ISC in its June Bulletin provides a snapshot of the state of the
superannuation system. At the end of the June quarter 1996, the value of total
assets in the superannuation system was $248.7 billion. This represented an
increase in the value of those assets of $25.5 billion over the year (11.4%).
During the year ending June 1996, member accounts increased by 973 000 to
15.9 million, employers contributed $17.5 billion (68%) and employees $8.2
billion (32%) into super funds.2
1.5 There are various estimates of the growth in the value of assets in the
super system. The Committee was told that the value of those assets will grow
1
For a description of the kinds of pension fund arrangements that exist in various other countries, see
Yours, Mine or Ours?Is There A Case For Directed Superannuation Investment, Parliamentary
Research Service, Research Paper No 32 1994/1995, pp49-54.
Insurance and Superannuation Commission Bulletin, June 1996, pp30, 33.
2


to some $400 billion by the year 2000,3 $500 billion by 20054 and to some
$2 000 billion by 2020.5 Superannuation fund investment therefore has a
significant and growing impact on investment patterns by Australians. This
growth in super savings has the potential to shape the economic health and
stability of the nation, especially if it grows at a rate around twice as fast as
expected economic growth and demand for capital over the next ten years, as
evidence put to the Committee by Mr Michael Costello, Deputy Managing
Director of the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX), suggests.6
1.6 Mr Costello said:
The net annual flow of funds into superannuation (contributions
plus earnings less costs, taxes and benefit payouts) is
approximately $12-15 billion or 3 per cent of GDP and has been
projected to grow to around 4 per cent of GDP over the next ten
years, or around $25 billion per year in today's dollars.
...The stock of superannuation assets is expected to grow strongly
over the next ten years, increasing from $240 billion now to around
$500 billion (in today's dollars) in 2005.7
1.7 Australia's universal super system is now firmly established and widely
accepted in concept. Its fundamental features of compulsory superannuation,
supplemented by voluntary arrangements, and operated largely through private
sector organisations, are strongly endorsed by the World Bank as important
aspects of a retirement income system.8 These features have been put in place
over the last decade, largely with bi-partisan support. The Committee intends to
examine this system and consider whether its present directions are well suited
for the future.
1.8 As the Australian Investment Managers' Association (AIMA) points out
in their submission, another feature of the last ten years has been the growing
role of fund managers in the intermediation of superannuation savings. AIMA's
members managed approximately $327 billion as at 30 June 1996. One reason
for outsourcing the investment function is the increasingly complex nature of
the financial markets. Outsourcing in this way means that trustees are able to
3 Submission from LISA Inc (SI-14), p 1.
4 Submission from AIMA (SI-21), p2.
5 Submission from Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (SI-18), p5.
6 Evidence, pS35.
Submission SI-19, para 1.1. (Note that these estimates predated 1996-97 Budget measures.)
Averting the Old Age Crisis - Policies to Protect the Old and Promote Growth, A World Bank Policy
Research Report, Oxford University Press, 1994.


rely on professional expertise and advice in relation to investment opportunities
and balancing risk and return.9
The market place
1.9 Superannuation savings are invested by the funds in the financial
markets. While stock exchanges are generally regarded as efficient markets,
their high degree of efficiency may also operate as a barrier to achieving high
returns.
1.10 In recent years, the western world has enjoyed sustained low inflation
and moderate economic growth. These factors have contributed to a stabilising
of the equities markets. However, they also mean that the huge returns from
equities that have been seen in the past will not readily be realised in the near
future.10
1.11 Australia's stock exchange is the tenth largest stock exchange in the
world on the basis of domestic market capitalisation, and eleventh largest on
the basis of turnover. However, it represents only 1.6% of the Morgan Stanley
Capital International (MCSI) world index (which includes 22 of the world's
mature markets). By way of comparison, the United States accounts for 41% of
the index, Japan 23% and the United Kingdom 9%. In the Asia-Pacific region,
Hong Kong has a 1.9% weighting, Malaysia 1.4% and Singapore 0.8%. Over
the past ten years, the Australian market has performed well, returning to
investors considerably more than the world average (+274% as opposed to
+ 199% on the Morgan Stanley Accumulation Indices).11
1.12 The ASX does not raise capital itself, but provides the market place
where capital may be raised and securities traded. The price signals reflected in
yields and share values are based on the information available to market
participants. Where the market is functioning efficiently, price signals help
direct capital to where it is most highly valued. As superannuation fund assets
grow, trustees and managers will exert pressure on the market to absorb the
funds and help put them to productive local use. The ASX states: 'Retention of
those funds in Australia will require a larger and more liquid capital market';
and identifies scale as an important factor in a market retaining the status of a
9 Submission SI-21, p3.
10 Evidence (Dr Gray), pS 18.
11 ASX submission to the Financial System Inquiry, Sept 1996, paras 1.1.6, 1.1.7.


distinct and well researched destination for both domestic and international
investment.12
1.13 In addition to the estimated 2.5 million Australians (or 21% of Australian
adults) who are direct investors on the Australian Stock Exchange, the ASX
advised that 'virtually all working Australians are now indirect owners of shares
through their superannuation fund investments'.13 In the June 1996 quarter, the
proportion of superannuation assets invested in equities was around 28 per
cent.14
1.14 The importance of superannuation funds to the national economy is a
trend evident also in other countries. In the United States, for example, pension
funds are increasingly being seen as the investment capital that drives the
economy. They own one fifth of all of the financial assets in the United States,
25% of the market value of all stocks on the New York Stock Exchange, and
over 32% of the daily trading on that stock exchange. They have been
described indeed as 'the owners of corporate America'.15
Diversification
1.15 As super fund trustees and managers seek out high yielding investments
with acceptable risk levels, there will inevitably be a greater diversity in
investment patterns. This diversification, or spreading of risk, can be expected
to embrace both domestic and overseas investments. 'The extent to which
domestic investment opportunities can claim the lion's share of this
diversification, vis a vis overseas avenues, will depend crucially on the quality
and competitiveness of Australia's capital markets', the ASX wrote.16 To the
extent that our market place is not fully representative of the Australian
economy, then increasingly Australian fund managers will be forced to look
overseas for the needed diversification.
1.16 As Australians look overseas for investment opportunities, so will other
countries seek to invest in Australia. Mr Michael Costello of the ASX told the
12 ASX submission to the Financial System Inquiry, Sept 1996, paras 1.2.5, 1.2.6.
13 Submission SI-19, para 1.1.
14 ISC Bulletin, June 1996, p31.
15 Superannuation US - Investment, Practices and Regulation, speech given to the Evatt Foundation./ACTU
conference 'Super 2000 - Investing in the Community', 24-25 November 1994, by Olena Berg, Assistant
Secretary, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, US Department of Labor, Washington DC.
16 Submission SI-19, para 1.1


Committee that one third of Australian market capitalisation is currently
foreign owned. He said:
Cross border trading in shares is a fact of life in this business,
which is a global business now. Some SUS4-5 trillion in shares are
traded across borders each year out of a possible SUS12-14
trillion.17
1.17 Trustees may find the increasingly global nature of financial transactions
difficult to accept, although globalisation is an inescapable fact in a world that
is shrinking.18 In the increasingly competitive quest to maximise returns for
their members, they will be required to acknowledge this aspect of the market
place. Indeed, super funds are at the forefront of the global trend, primarily
because of the large amounts of money they are investing.
1.18 To the extent that funds flow to productive areas of growth, however,
citizens will benefit. Mr Costello put the ASX's view that the attractiveness of
domestic equity investment would be hampered if the Australian market
continued to have poor representation of growth areas such as
telecommunications, infrastructure, utilities, agriculture and smaller growth
companies. This would mean that superannuation fund managers would be
unable to gain exposure to these areas without looking to overseas markets.19
1.19 Areas which are under-represented in Australia currently include
telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and agriculture. One area, however, that
is particularly well represented is resources, currently representing over 30% of
our stock market. Mr Costello pointed out that every major portfolio in the
world needs some representation in its portfolio of resources and that Australia
was among the few countries in the world where it was possible to gain that
exposure. This would account for some of the flow of funds into the Australian
market. Furthermore, this in-flow can be expected to increase because funds
from the US and elsewhere are currently not as internationally invested as they
should be in accordance with the theory of diversification.20
Globalisation and economic sovereignty
1.20 Diversification of portfolio is not the only reason that funds will flow
into Australia. The regulatory environment, and the extent to which it is viewed
17 Evidence, pS36.
18 For example, see address given by Ms Vivian Banta Eversole of the Chase Manhattan Corporation,
ASFA National Conference 1996, 'Making Our Savings Work', Brisbane 15-18 October 1996.
19 Evidence, pS36. Also see Evidence (Mr Costello), pS39.
20 Evidence (Mr Costello, Mr Bladier), ppS39-41.


as facilitative and flexible, are also important. The Committee was given the
example of an Australian technology company which chose to list on the
Australian Stock Exchange because, among other things, there was a lower
threshold and it was cheaper to list. Other favourable factors included less
regulation, fewer layers of bureaucracy to deal with and generally a more
helpful environment. In addition, the Committee was told that people here are
more prepared to invest substantially in this type of company and so there was
a higher price.21
1.21 Currency fluctuations will also be a factor affecting capital flow. The ISC
reports, for example, that during the March quarter it appears that super fund
managers took advantage of the enhanced buying power of the Australian
dollar and invested a further $3.6 billion overseas. This pushed the percentage
of super funds invested overseas from 15% to 15.6% over the quarter.22
1.22 On a purely economic rationalist view of the world, the Committee was
told, focusing on risk return, it might be expected that 40-50% of Australian
investment would go offshore, although the typical fund has about 20%
offshore. To take this even further, and giving no thought to any question of
economic sovereignty or Australian national economic interest, it was
suggested that a fund might consider investing as little as 2% in Australia as a
starting point, given Australia's equity trading weight in the world.
1.23 There seems to be little research data on the consequences of such global
capital flow, but clearly there are psychological barriers that run counter to
such an extreme position. While an economist might argue that an equilibrium
would be struck by capital flows, it is more likely that Australians would only
own a small portion of, say, Microsoft, whereas overseas interests might well
be able to purchase an Australian enterprise in its entirety. The question of
sovereignty transcends issues of pure economic rationalism.23
Conclusion
1.24 In the interest of maximising returns within an acceptable risk
framework, it is inevitable that fund managers would not be blind to the
advantages offshore investment opportunities may present. Many factors will
be relevant to such investment decisions, including currency volatility and
hedging and the spreading of risk and asset classes within the portfolio.
21 Evidence (Mr Costello, Mr Roche), ppS51-2.
22 ISC Bulletin, March 1996, p29.
23 Evidence (Dr Gray, Committee members), ppS23, S26.


1.25 While very many Australians would have a strong preference for
supporting Australian enterprise and productivity if and when such opportunity
presents itself within an acceptable risk framework, it is trustees and fund
managers who are responsible for implementing these investment choices. If
fund members have full information about the investment policies of their
funds and of the choices that their trustees and fund managers must make from
time to time, as well as the implications of such investment choices for the
provisions of retirement income, then they will be well placed to make their
views known to those responsible for the investment of their funds.




CHAPTER 2
BALANCED INVESTMENT
Balanced Investment
There has been an overly cautious approach to investment by some trustees
and their investment managers. This caution comes, in part, from a false
perception of 'prudence' encouraged by the regulatory environment. Some have
referred to this caution as 'reckless conservatism'.1
2.1 In this chapter the Committee examines investment by superannuation
funds in the context of the fiduciary responsibilities of trustees, the
requirements of law and the investment initiatives that are being taken.
Although the law requires trustees to act in the best interests of their
beneficiaries, there is a view that trustees are being too conservative. To make
an assessment of the health of the superannuation investment environment, it is
first necessary to look at the requirements of the law and the legal history of
superannuation investment.
2.2 The concept of 'reckless conservatism' has arisen out of the requirement
for prudency in investment decisions which some have argued has created a
caution in the minds of trustees which has been carried too far. One view
'attributes trustee conservatism to their duties and their lack of awareness of
investment principles'.2
The history and source of the law3
2.3 Superannuation funds are normally constructed as a trust. Ford and Lee
define a trust as:
... an obligation enforceable in equity which rests on a person (the
trustee) as owner of some specific property (the trust property) to
deal with that property for the benefit of another person (the
beneficiary) or for the advancement of certain purposes.4
1 Submission SI-11 (ASFA), p 1.
2 Submission SI-19 (ASX), p 15.
3 Note: In this chapter information was drawn from the Australian Housing and Urban Research Working
Paper 1, by Mark Jobling, A Legal Perspective on Targeted Superannuation Fund Investment: a
Comparison between the United States and Australia, referred to hereafter as the AHURI Paper.
Ford & Lee, Principles of the Law of Trusts (2nd ed, 1990), p8.
4


2.4 In this way a legal obligation is imposed on the trustee of a
superannuation fund to hold and deal with the assets of the fund (including
investment) for the benefit of the members of the fund.
2.5 Australian trust law developed from the English experience and it seems
English law on trustee investment began with the bursting of the South Sea
Bubble in 1720.5 Following the collapse of the South Sea Company, the
Chancery Court limited the range of investments to which funds paid into court
could be committed:
The Chancery Court also insisted that, without express
authorisation, a trustee was also confined to the range of
investments prescribed for funds paid into court. These
requirements formed the origins of the concept of 'authorised
investments' to which trustees had to adhere, unless the trust deed
or the beneficiaries allowed the trustee to depart from those
investments.6
2.6 For a long time government stock was the only form of investment
accepted without question and investment in private securities was described as
a 'species of gambling'.7 (Some may argue, with some of the complex and
speculative financial instruments available today, this comment may again be
relevant.) During the period it took for this restriction to be slowly eased by
statute, the lack of flexibility was overcome by individual trust deeds providing
wide investment powers.
Trustees and investment
2.7 With the power they have to invest trust funds, trustees have an equitable
obligation to invest them productively for the benefit of the beneficiaries unless
the trust deed provides otherwise. Two requirements need to be satisfied. First,
the investment must be authorised by the trust deed, the relevant state Trustee
Act or by a court. Secondly, it must be a proper investment in accordance with
the prudent person rule. There is a long history of case law on what this means
in practice.
2.8 The prudent person rule is now laid down in the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS), which includes as one of the covenants by
5 AHURI Paper, pi.
6 AHURI Paper, p 1.
Baron Hotham in Adze v Feuilleteau (1783) 1 Cox 24, 29 ER 1045
7


trustees:
...to exercise, in relation to all matters affecting the entity, the same
degree of care, skill and diligence as an ordinary prudent person
would exercise in dealing with property of another for whom the
person felt morally bound to provide.8
2.9 An examination of how the rule operates in practice has been provided in
a recent Australian case which is discussed later in this chapter. In addition the
ISC has provided guidelines to trustees in relation to the investment strategy
requirements of SIS.
Prudent investing
2.10 The prudent person test has changed over time and does not mean
trustees have to avoid all risk. The key distinction for the trustee is 'between a
prudent degree of risk on the one hand, and a hazard on the other'.9 An exercise
of professional judgment by the trustee in determining the risk is required, and
the larger the fund the greater the degree of risk that will be considered
reasonable.
2.11 Modem portfolio theory, which is based on the need for diversification,
to some extent contradicts the traditional tmst law approach to prudent
investment. One definition of this theory is:
The theoretical constructs that enable investment managers to
classify, estimate and control the sources of risk and return. In
popular usage, the term encompasses all notions of modem
investment, as well as portfolio theory. The end objective is to
select optimal combinations of assets to produce the highest
returns for a given level of risk, or the least risk for a given level of
return.10
2.12 Recent English case law supports modem portfolio theory as a desirable
investment strategy,11 an approach which is likely to be endorsed by Australian
courts.12
8 Section 52(2)(b).
9 Bartlett v Barclays Bank Trust Co Ltd [1980] 1 All ER 139 at 150.
10 County NatWest, Dictionary of Investment Terms Third Edition, p94.
11 Nestle v National Westminster Bank, unreported, Eng HC(ChD) No 1897, 1988.
Finn & Ziegler, 'Prudence and Fiduciary Obligations in the Investment of Trust Funds', (1987) 61 ALJ
329 at 332.
12


SIS and investment strategy
2.13 SIS recognises quite explicitly that prudence is to be judged in a portfolio
context. Section 52(2)(f) deems, inter alia, the following covenant to be part of
a fund's governing rules:
...to formulate and give effect to an investment strategy that has
regard to the whole of the circumstances of the entity including,
but net limited to, the following:
...(ii) the composition of the entity's investments as a whole
including the extent to which the investments are diverse or
involve the entity in being exposed to risks from inadequate
diversification ...
2.14 Thus there is clear evidence of a move in Australian law away from
analysing the prudence of investment in isolation and toward recognising
investment theories like modem portfolio theory.13
2.15 The ISC Superannuation Digest describes 'investment strategy' for SIS
purposes as follows:
An investment strategy is a plan for making, holding and realising
fund investments which reflect the fund's objectives (e.g.
increasing the value of members' interests) and circumstances. It is
used as a means of pursuing one or more investment objectives. A
strategy will rarely be concerned with individual investments,
rather a strategy should be concerned with asset classes. It may
include, for example, plans to invest in equities and if so, what
proportion of assets to invest.
It is important that once an investment strategy for the fund has
been formulated and implemented (in the light of the
circumstances of the fund as a whole) that it should also be
regularly monitored and reviewed to ensure that it remains
appropriate. It will be rare for a strategy once set in place to not
need some later revision in the light of the changing circumstances
of the fund as a whole (e.g. changes in the size and characteristics
of the fund's beneficiaries) and external economic conditions.
Diversification is a particularly important element in the
formulation of an investment strategy. Diversification normally
involves a spread of investments between different classes (such as
shares, property, fixed interest etc) as well as within each asset
class. However, the requirement to have regard to the need for
_diversification does not prevent a fund from formulating a strategy
13 AHURI Paper, pp5-6.


which may result in the holding of a single asset or a single class of
assets, providing that decision was made after proper
consideration...14
2.16 The Committee considers that the investment strategy requirement, as
overseen by the ISC, substantially assists in overcoming the criticism of
'reckless conservatism'.
Non-financial considerations
2.17 Trust law does not permit trustees to be influenced solely by political or
social concerns, but requires them 'to exercise their powers in the best interests
of the beneficiaries'.15 The Mineworkers case is the main authority where
Megarry VC said:
The starting point is the duty of trustees to exercise their power in
the best interests of the present and future beneficiaries of the trust
... When the purpose of the trust is to provide financial benefits for
the beneficiaries, as is usually the case, the best interests of the
beneficiaries are normally their best financial interests.16
2.18 It needs to be noted, however, that Megarry VC recognised that best
interests may not always be best financial interests. He stressed such a case
would be very rare, and the burden would be heavy on those so asserting, but
said:
... if the only actual or potential beneficiaries of a trust are all
adults with very strict views on moral and social matters,
condemning all forms of alcohol, tobacco and popular
entertainment, as well as armaments, I can well understand that it
might not be for the 'benefit' of such beneficiaries to know that
they are obtaining rather larger financial returns ... The
beneficiaries might well consider that it was far better to receive
less than to receive more money from what they consider to be evil
and tainted sources.17
2.19 Apart from the fiduciary duties to act in the best interests of their
members and to act with reasonable care, skill and diligence, trustees have
statutory duties to comply with SIS and other relevant legislation such as the
14 ISC Superannuation Digest, CCH Australia, para 3.431, 17-20.
15 AHURI Paper, p6.
16 Cowan v Scargill [ 1984] 2 All ER 750 at 760.
17 Cowan v Scargill [1984] 2 All ER 750 at 761-2.


state Trustee Acts, and by reason of the duties imposed by law, other
'consequential' obligations in practice, including:
. in the area of financial management: to ensure there are sufficient
liquid assets to meet the fund's ongoing liabilities (including
payouts to members as well as overheads); and
. effective risk management: an overriding duty not to accept an
excessive risk exposure in relation to a fund's total portfolio.18
The American experience
2.20 Private pension plans in the United States are governed by The Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
2.21 ERISA provides a broader definition of fiduciary than traditional Anglo-
Australian trust law, to include:
. a person who exercises any discretionary authority or control in
management or disposition of the fund's assets;
. those who render investment advice for a fee; or
. those who have any discretionary authority or responsibility in the
administration of the plan.19
2.22 This definition clearly includes investment managers. However, trustees
cannot generally delegate responsibility unless the plan employs an investment
manager who acknowledges their status as a fiduciary under ERISA in
writing.20 Having so delegated, the trustees are relieved of their fiduciary
responsibilities so long as they have:
. been prudent in selecting the investment manager;
. established investment guidelines; and
. regularly monitored the manager's performance.21
18 Submission SI-19, pp 14-15.
19 AHURI Paper, pi5.
20 Section 402(c)(3).
21 AHURI Paper, pp 15-16.


2.23 Fiduciaries have a duty of loyalty, to act in the best interests of
beneficiaries and for the sole purpose of providing benefits to them. The
prudent person standard of plan administration applies and requires fiduciaries
to discharge their duties:
... with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the
circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like
capacity and familiar with such matters would use in the conduct
of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims.22
2.24 There is a focus on the nature and requirements of each particular plan
which may include the need for liquidity, the size of the fund, and the ages and
characteristics of the employees. Subsequent regulations interpreting the rule
endorse modem portfolio theory as a method of judging prudence: 'the
prudence of investments must be judged in relation to their contribution to the
risk level of the entire portfolio'.23
2.25 The case law indicates that trustees need to use experts familiar with the
particular type of investment24 and to diversify assets to minimise the risk of
large losses, unless it is clearly not prudent to do so in the circumstances.25
Striking the balance
2.26 There is some pressure in Australia for trustees to use their investment
powers in various socially responsible ways. Doing so, in the absence of other
concerns, may prejudice the duty to act solely for the benefit of contributors.
'Pension funds stand as tantalising vehicles for those advocating the use of
funds to achieve other objectives such as regional development or employment
creation.'26 In the Committee's view, any consideration of the use of
superannuation funds in this way must be in full recognition that the funds are
the sole property of the members.
2.27 Within the framework described, trustees must strike an 'appropriate
balance between maximising the investment returns and minimising the
22 Section 404(a)(1)(B).
23 AHURI Paper, pi6.
24 Katsarod v Cady 744 F 2d 270 (2nd Cir 1984).
25 AHURI Paper, pi7.
26 AHURI Paper, p7.


exposure to risk of the monies under their control'.27 The Australian Institute of
Superannuation Trustees (AIST) made the following claim:
In the past three years trustees of superannuation funds, by
example and by being able to bring pressure to bear on their
service providers ... have achieved some significant watersheds in
broadening investment priorities in Australia's capital markets.
Their control of increasingly large accumulated investment capital,
and their drive to maximise financial benefits for members has led
to increasing diversification of funds' investments.28
2.28 Within the superannuation system in Australia there is a heavy
concentration of assets in the large funds. Of a total of around 120 400, 'the
largest 1100 funds (roughly all those with assets over $10 million) cover 85%
of industry by assets, and about 97% of members (as at December 1995)'.29
2.29 The allocation of superannuation fund assets as at March 1996 has 15%
invested overseas, and 85% invested in the Australian economy as:
2.30 Superannuation funds are not yet investing large amounts in development
and venture capital, infrastructure projects or small and medium enterprises
(SMEs). In its submission the ISC cited two recent studies:
. The National Investment Council found that less than one per cent
of superannuation assets are in SME-based investments, only 17
funds separately reported development capital investments ($536
million or 1.6 per cent of their total assets), and the proportion of
investment in venture/development capital by Australian
superannuation funds 'appears to be considerably less than in the
UK or USA'; and
. ASFA found a low interest in infrastructure and development capital
investment by superannuation funds, 'although 13 per cent of funds
27 Submission SI-18, p7.
28 Submission SI-18, p 1.
29 Submission SI-13 (ISC), pi
30 Submission SI-13, p2.


reported they would be actively considering infrastructure
investments and 17 per cent of funds development capital
investments within the next year'. (Note: Industry funds were
particularly active in this area with 28 per cent having at least some
form of development capital investment compared to nil by retail
funds.)31
2.31 One of the purposes in the Committee undertaking this inquiry was to
examine the structure of superannuation fund investment. The Committee notes
the need to recognise the different types of funds (and their trustee structures):
. corporate funds involving just one enterprise - with an average of
three employer and three employee trustees, but where trustee
numbers vary greatly (up to 14);
. multi-employer industry funds - with an average of four employer
representative trustees and four employee representatives, but again
numbers vary greatly (up to 16);
. public sector funds - an average of five employer and five employee
representatives;
. master trusts or public offer funds which are controlled by a trustee
board; and
. excluded funds, the so-called 'mum and dad' funds which generally
have two trustees.32
2.32 The break up of total superannuation assets as at June 1996 is as follows:
. public sector funds hold 26% ($64.5 billion);
. retail funds 24% ($59.5 billion);
. corporate funds 20% ($49.9 billion);
. excluded funds 10% ($24.2 billion);
. industry funds 6% ($14.6 billion); and
. annuity products, fund reserves and unallocated profits of life
office statutory funds hold the remaining 14% ($36 billion).
2.33 The requirement of funds to formulate and give effect to an investment
strategy is outlined above. In the light of other duties imposed on trustees, what
31 Submission SI-13, p2.
32 Submission SI-18, p6.


does this mean in practice? The ISC considers the following factors to be
important for trustees:
. the age profile of the members;
. their risk tolerance;
. the size of the fund;
. its likely growth rate; and
. whether it is a defined benefit or accumulation scheme.33
2.34 The strategy may often be expressed as target rate of return. Once the
strategy is set, the trustees need to consider what investment portfolio and
management options are available to them to implement their strategy. The ISC
says:
Normally, this will result in the trustees building a model of their
portfolio which will achieve the expected returns and match the
fund's long-term liabilities and the risk profile of its members.
This long-term model portfolio is usually called a strategic asset
allocation.34
2.35 Alternative strategies may include:
. less exposure to shares than otherwise where reserves are low or
where heavy retirement payments are imminent;
. a lower foreign currency exposure if the sponsoring employer of a
fund is a heavy exporter; and
. increased investment in indexed bonds as protection against future
inflation for a fund paying a significant number of inflation-indexed
pensions.'5
2.36 A key aim of the Committee's terms of reference was to initiate some
thinking about how the Australian economy, and community as a whole, might
benefit from the growing pool of superannuation monies. It is accepted that the
Parliament is most unlikely to approve the formal directing of investment of
superannuation assets. However, the question remains open as to what sorts of
33 ISC Bulletin, March 1996, pi3
34 ISC Bulletin, March 1996, pi4.
35 ISC Bulletin, March 1996, pl4.


innovative investment opportunities could and should be encouraged by
government.
2.37 From anecdotal evidence and other impressions in recent years there is a
discernible sense of powerlessness on the part of many members of
superannuation funds. The Committee believes there is generally an acceptance
and approval in the community of the superannuation regime now firmly
established in this country. It seems, however, that there is a lack of a sense of
'ownership', or involvement, by members of funds and the Committee believes
that offering more education, information and choice may be part of the answer.
2.38 The Committee considers that 'the community' can be fairly well equated
to the membership of superannuation funds, mainly as a result of the
compulsory superannuation system now in place. While the superannuation
system is expected to produce retirement incomes for its members, there is
nevertheless an expectation that, to some degree at least, community benefit
should ensue from the investment of superannuation funds. The issue then is
the kind of benefit and the expectations in the community, and what should be
done to reconcile the two.
Fraud
2.39 There is an expectation that superannuation assets will not be used for
fraudulent purposes or otherwise misappropriated. The ASX submitted:
With the enormous growth of superannuation fund assets and the
number of funds, the propensity for fraud (and the potential
amounts involved) will similarly increase. Accordingly, it may be
appropriate to reconsider whether the current system will be
adequate in the foreseeable future and possible ways fidelity cover
could be improved.36
2.40 A massive fraud on a pension fund was discovered in 1991 in the UK
following the death of Robert Maxwell. More than 400 million pounds sterling
was 'lost or misappropriated from the Mirror Group Pension Trust alone, and as
a consequence, thousands of past and present Maxwell employees lost their
pension entitlements'.37 Evidence to the UK parliamentary committee which
investigated the scandal suggested that Robert Maxwell had abused his position
as trustee to, among other things, engage in self investment.
36 Submission SI-19, pi2.
37 AHURI Paper, p8.


2.41 In Australia the SIS legislation is regarded as a strong protection from the
dangers of a Maxwell-type fraud in this country. The SIS regime is generally
regarded as a world leader and the UK is now adopting many of the principles
of SIS.
2.42 Over recent years there have been some rather dire predictions regarding
the vulnerability of the superannuation industry to fraud. However, the
evidence from the law enforcement agencies who participated in a conference
on superannuation crime does not substantiate these fears.38 At that conference
it was generally agreed that while frauds have and are occurring, there is a
resistance within the structure of the Australian superannuation system to large
scale fraud, as a result of the regulatory system and other checks and balances.
2.43 To date the incidence of fraud has been relatively minor, perhaps less
than $20 million, which is a small amount in the context of a $240 billion plus
industry. While not overly sanguine, the Committee is satisfied that the relevant
authorities are mindful of the need for constant vigilance and scrutiny to ensure
that the risk from all fraud is minimised, and indeed eliminated where possible.
2.44 While there have been recent calls for less black letter law and more self
regulation, the Committee considers that an appropriate balance has been struck
through the standards imposed by SIS and the proper resourcing of the ISC.
Socially responsible investment
2.45 The Committee's terms of reference raise the issue of whether investment
of a particular kind should be required of all funds. This is sometimes referred
to as 'directed investment'.39 The concept of directed investment was widely
rejected in both written submissions and oral evidence given to the
Committee,40 although there was some discussion of whether trustees could be
required to devote a specified period of time to the consideration of certain
kinds of investments.41 In the Committee's view, it is difficult to see how such a
proposal would work in practice. It is also difficult to see any parliamentary
support for the kind of changes that a proposal to direct investment in any
38 Conference jointly convened by the Australian Institute of Criminology and the University of Melbourne
Department of Criminology, held in Melbourne on June 21 1996.
39 On this topic, see generally 'Yours, Mine or Ours?’: Is There a Case for Directed Superannuation
Investment?, Parliamentary Research Service Research Paper No 32 1994/1995, Department of the
Parliamentary Library (henceforth PRS Research Paper No 32).
40 See, eg, submissions SI-11 (ASFA), p6; SI-14 (LISA), p 10; SI-15 (AMP), pi8; SI-19 (ASX), pi 1; and
Evidence (ASFA representatives and Committee members), pS21; although note Evidence (Mr Siddons,
Committee members), ppS92-5.
41 Evidence (ASX representatives, Committee members), ppS41-3.


particular way would require. To mandate a certain type of investment would
run counter to the present duty on trustees to maximise returns for the
beneficiaries. Presumably either returns would be lower or risks unacceptable-
if they were not, then investment would flow as a normal consequence of
market forces.
2.46 It is the Committee's view that there is no sustainable case for directed
superannuation investment. It does find a case, however, for the consideration
of 'socially responsible' investing and that in fact is what much of this report is
about. The Committee can do no better than to adopt another's words:
Notwithstanding the difficulty faced by trustees in identifying,
analysing and accessing suitably structured non-traditional
investment opportunities, the take-up of these opportunities by
trustees offers a potential 'win/win' outcome for both
superannuation fund members and the community at large.
Trustees should therefore be encouraged and assisted to explore
new areas of investment potential.42
Economically targeted investments (ETIs)
2.47 ETIs are investments 'which in addition to providing competitive risk-
adjusted rates of return by exploiting market inefficiencies, also provide
identifiable collateral economic benefits'.43 These benefits may include jobs,
housing or infrastructure. However, they are to be distinguished from social
investments which may involve accepting a lower return or higher risk to
achieve a socially desirable goal. ETIs provide competitive rates of return with
a collateral economic benefit.
2.48 They originated in the United States during the 1980s, remain still in an
early stage of development in that country and are untested in Australia:
The phrase 'economically targeted investing' became associated
with North American and European pension and superannuation
funds directing investments into activities which are expected to
create wealth for both the fund itself and for another group whose
welfare is of interest to the participants or sponsor of the plan.44
2.49 The rationale of ETIs lies in the imperfection of markets and the need to
provide capital to areas where traditional capital providers are reluctant to go.
There may be more complex structures involved with these sorts of investments
42 Parliamentary Research Service Research Paper No 32, p55.
43 AHURI Paper, p25.
44 Parliamentary Research Service Research Paper No 32, p37.


to make them attractive. Investments with high risk may be structured to
separate most of the risk from the financing. For example, the government may
absorb most of the risk (through guarantees perhaps) and allow the fund which
provided the capital to obtain a competitive rate of return.
Legal regulation of ETIs
2.50 As described above, ERISA imposes the prudent person and the
exclusive benefit rules. The interpretation of ERISA in relation to ETIs is
known as the prevailing rate test and allows fiduciaries 'to consider objectives
other than financial returns once they are satisfied that there is no sacrifice in
expected returns or risk on the investment'.45 The diversification requirement is
also relevant and must be taken into account in any targeted investments which
may, for example, be concentrated in one industry.
2.51 In Australia, ETIs which provide competitive risk-adjusted rates of return
will not violate a trustee's fiduciary duties. Even if a targeted investment offers
a lower rate of return, trustees may be able to establish prudency because of the
role that the particular investment plays in the diversification or stability of the
portfolio. However, as with ERISA in the US, trustees would need to 'consult
experts, conduct investigations of the investment and have documentation that
supports the inclusion of the asset in the portfolio'.46
2.52 The SIS Act requires trustees to covenant 'to ensure that the trustee's
duties and powers are performed and exercised in the best interests of the
beneficiaries'.47 The most likely position, as a result of the Mineworkers case,48
is that targeted investments offering a lower return but important collateral
benefits will not be seen as in the best financial interests of beneficiaries.
2.53 In addition, the sole purpose test required under SIS may be offended by
such targeted investments. Section 62(1 )(a) requires a superannuation fund to
be maintained solely for one or more of the following core purposes:
• benefits for each member on or after the member's retirement or
attaining the age of 65;
• the provision of benefits to the legal representative or the
dependents of a member on or after the death of the member,
45 AHURI Paper, p27.
46 AHURI Paper, p30.
47 Section 52(2)(c).
48 Cowan v Scargill [ 1984] 2 All ER 750.


provided the death of the member occurred before he or she retired
or reached 65.49
2.54 Accepting that targeted investments producing significant collateral
benefits, but lower returns, are not allowable in Australia, section 52(4) of SIS
becomes relevant. That section enables members to give investment directions
to trustees and may provide for members to make informed choices of
investments yielding lower returns.30 However, the issues relating to member
choice of investment are still under much debate in the superannuation
industry.
A recent Australian case
2.55 The case of Australian Securities Commission v AS Nominees Limited &
Others51 is helpful. The judgment examines many of the principles governing
management practices by trustees and the standard of care required of
superannuation fund trustees. The findings in this case formed the basis of an
information letter circulated to all approved trustees from ISC.52 The
Committee commends the ISC for this action and agrees with the ISC that the
comments made in that case 'provide a strong indication of how the courts may
regard a trustee's failure to adequately perform their duties in relation to a
superannuation fund'.53
2.56 The action had its origins in a random audit by the ISC in 1994 of four
superannuation entities of which AS Nominees (ASN) was the trustee.
Subsequently the audit was expanded and the concerns arising resulted in the
ISC referring the matter to the Australian Securities Commission (ASC) for
investigation under the Corporations Law.
2.57 The case that finally came before Justice Finn involved an application to
have a receiver or receiver and manager appointed, based on the conduct of an
investigation by the ASC which had begun in November 1994. Although the
ASC's action was based on the Corporations Law the judgment noted 'that here
49 ISC Superannuation Digest, CCH Australia Limited, para 3-614.
50 AHURI Paper, p31.
51 Reported at (1966) 133 ASR 1.
52 ISC information letter to all approved trustees, May 1996.
53 ISC information letter, p 1.


the emphasis on legal principle will be on the law of trusts and of fiduciary
obligations more so than on company law'.54
2.58 Some of the actions by ASN in relation to its investment decisions which
were found to have constituted 'a grave breach of trust' were:
. no minute of the decision;
. absence of independent financial advice or current independent
valuation of the investment property; and
. total absence of consideration of the interests of beneficiaries, in
fact a 'reckless indifference to its responsibility to the investor-
beneficiaries'.55
2.59 The judgment was strong on the failure to protect other investments
where charges over loans had been lodged late and where solicitors had not
prepared securities as instructed by the trustees, such neglect extending over
three years. He said this amounted to the 'trustee failing to take appropriate
steps to protect its investment given the concerns it is said to have had, or as a
prudent person, should have had'.56
2.60 The basic rule applied in the case was the prudent person test. That is,' in
managing a trust business the trustee should exercise the same care as an
ordinary, prudent business person would exercise in conducting that business as
if it were his or her own'. The judgment went on to distinguish this standard in
relation to trustees and company directors in the following way:
It is this which, often enough, is used to differentiate the
expectations properly to be had of trustees and of directors
respectively.57
... The person making investment provision for his or her future
may be expected to be somewhat more risk averse than the
corporate entrepreneur.58
54 Australian Securities Commission v_4S Nominees Limited & Others (1966) 133 ASR 1 at 3 {the ASN
case).
55 The ASN case at 28.
56 The ASN case at 32.
57 The ASN case at 12-13.
58 The ASN case at 29.


2.61 Accordingly, although not necessary for deciding the case, Justice Finn
found a higher standard of care for trustee companies which were:
. carrying on business in the now established field of superannuation;
. offering services as a funds manager to the public; and
• charging significant fees for such services.59
2.62 The fiduciary relationship was also stressed. That is, the beneficiaries of
each trust are entitled to expect the trustee to act in their interests, to the
exclusion of third parties, in its dealings in relation to each trust. Related to this
is the duty to act swiftly to protect trust investments, and the importance of
implementing and monitoring investment strategies.
2.63 The judgment says of SIS that 'it is entirely appropriate to use this
legislation to assist in illuminating the public interest in this matter'. Regarding
the public interest, Justice Finn said this case had indicated the need to uphold
high standards in the superannuation industry. Superannuation is an accepted
instrument in making retirement provisions for the Australian workforce, and
for increasing national savings, and there is also the compulsory aspect to be
considered.60 The Committee welcomes these views.
Conclusions
2.64 Regulatory controls on superannuation trustees are not onerous, but the
framework supports responsible, balanced and flexible investment of
superannuation assets in response to the needs and requirements of fund
members. The fundamental purpose of superannuation funds is to provide
retirement incomes for members, but increasingly the funds are realising that
there are many responsible ways of doing this within the present regulatory
framework.
2.65 There is nothing that requires the funds to actively seek alternative
investment opportunities outside the traditional areas such as equities, property,
fixed interest and cash, and it is unlikely that the Parliament would be prepared
to legislate for directed investment. In the following chapters the Committee
examines how investment patterns are changing to provide greater
diversification, and considers how opportunities for socially responsible
59 The ASN case at 12.
60 The ASN case at 61 -2.


investment may be taken up by the funds without compromising their
fundamental role to provide retirement incomes.


CHAPTER 3
INFRASTRUCTURE
Infrastructure
[The] return achieved by private investors in infrastructure is purely monetary
and relates only to revenue derived directly from the project, whereas the
return achieved by government also includes social and economic benefits...1
3.1 Infrastructure is a 'broad term for a range of economic and social assets
with some distinctive characteristics'.2 The stock of infrastructure in Australia
is valued at around $400 billion or one third of the nation's capital stock. What
is normally termed economic infrastructure accounts for 70 per cent of this
figure. This comprises transport and communication facilities, and the
production and transmission facilities for electricity, water and gas.
3.2 Social infrastructure comprises the other 30 per cent and includes
'hospitals, schools, police stations, day care centres and prisons':3
The Commonwealth is responsible for around 25 per cent of public
investment and the State/local sector 75 per cent. The States
provide a broad range of economic and social infrastructure
including roads, railways, schools, hospitals, prisons, and libraries.
In addition, State owned Government Business Enterprises (GBEs)
provide most of the infrastructure in areas such as water and power
supply.4
3.3 The longer term nature of most infrastructure projects matches the
essentially long term nature of superannuation in providing for retirement
incomes, so there is a natural synergy between the two. The Australian Mutual
Provident Society (AMP) told the Committee that superannuation funds should
invest in infrastructure:
There is in fact a strong argument that superannuation funds are the
natural investors given their capacity to become involved in patient
capital and their limited need for immediate cash flow ...
1 Submission (ASFA) SI-11, p3.
2 Economic Planning Advisory Committee (EPAC), Private Infrastructure Task Force Report, September
1995 (Task Force Report), p5.
3 Task Force Report, p6.
Task Force Report, p6.
4


This has certainly been the case in countries as diverse as
Singapore and Chile, where the national pension hinds have been
the engines used to capture national savings and stimulate long
term growth. Increasingly, European and North American pension
funds are following a similar pattern and long ago Canadian life
insurance and pension funds disintermediated the banks in that
country.5
3.4 Conceptually, infrastructure is a very appropriate vehicle for the
investment of superannuation savings. There are advantages too for the
economy in having the private sector finance those projects which would
otherwise have to be funded directly by government. This releases government
revenue for other spending priorities.
3.5 As governments increasingly privatise existing infrastructure and look to
the private sector to finance new developments, the need for private
infrastructure capital is obvious. According to the Australian Institute of
Superannuation Trustees (AIST), superannuation funds have been 'major
participants in the successful privatisation of many public sector enterprises'.
Examples cited are the privatisation of public energy facilities in Victoria, and
the development of the M2 Motorway in Sydney and the Transurban City Link
Project in Melbourne.6
3.6 It would appear that there is no reluctance by the funds to invest in
suitable infrastructure projects, and that there is in fact no shortage of capital.
Rather there is a shortage of suitable projects which meet the required risk and
return criteria. The Australian Council for Infrastructure Development
(AusCID), for example, submitted there was no shortage of either debt or
equity capital for projects and there was 'evidence that superannuation funds
[were] beginning to invest in infrastructure opportunities'.7
3.7 Infrastructure investments are resource intensive and it may be that only
the larger funds 'have the resources and the desire to participate in their own
right'.8 The Committee therefore notes with approval the existence of
infrastructure development funds such as the two established by AMP, one
specialising in equity and the other in debt.
5
Submission SI-15, p9.
6 Submission SI-18, p 18.
7 Submission SI-5, p2.
Submission SI-14, p6.
8


3.8 Anecdotal evidence indicates that investment in development capital and
infrastructure is growing.9 Opportunities in the infrastructure sector are
increasingly opening up to stock market investors and superannuation funds, as
the number of intermediaries offering investment in specific projects or in
special purpose infrastructure funds grows.
3.9 As super funds look more broadly for investment opportunities, and
experience in non-traditional investments increases, their interest can be
expected to continue. Because of the long time frames associated with such
investment, it is difficult at this stage to be definitive about the value of the
returns generally, although experience so far suggests they are worthwhile.
Infrastructure investment, of course, can also offer considerable social benefits
and contribute towards the nation's infrastructure base.
Infrastructure borrowings tax concession
3.10 The evidence included a number of references to the question of taxation
with respect to infrastructure projects.10 Accordingly, the Committee sought
expert evidence from officials of the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) on the
operation of section 51 AD and Division 16D of the Income Tax Assessment Act
1936 (the ITA Act).
3.11 The ATO told the Committee that the Development Allowance Authority
(DAA) and the ATO separately administer the infrastructure borrowings tax
concession. Concessional tax treatment is available once an infrastructure
borrowings certificate is granted. The DAA is responsible for certifying
whether the requirements for a certificate are met. The requirements are
specified in the Development Allowance Authority Act 1992 (the DAA Act).
3.12 There are three kinds of infrastructure borrowing:
. direct infrastructure borrowing - borrowing to spend on constructing
an infrastructure facility (s93F, DAA Act);
. indirect infrastructure borrowing - borrowing to lend to another
person for whom the borrowing will be a direct infrastructure
borrowing (s93G, DAA Act); and
9 For example see 'Development Capital and Infrastructure Funds' in Super Review, vol 10 no 9, October
1996, pp26-30, and 'Infrastructure Equity - do big assets equal big returns?' pp42-3.
10 For example, Evidence (Mr Nolan), ppS6, 9-10; (Mr Campbell), ppS58-61; (Mr Maroney), pS124.


. refinancing infrastructure borrowing - borrowing to refinance a
direct or indirect infrastructure borrowing or a previous refinancing
infrastructure borrowing (s93H, DAA Act).
3.13 There are certain technical requirements to be met by borrowers in each
of these categories in relation to their intention at the time of borrowing. A
direct borrower is also required to own, use or have effective control of the
facility for at least 25 years or to transfer to another borrower who intends to do
so.
3.14 The seven eligible types of infrastructure are a land transport facility; air
transport facility; seaport facility; electricity generating, transmission or
distribution facility; gas pipeline facility; water supply facility; sewage or
wastewater facility in Australia, where the service is provided to the public at a
charge (s93L, DAA Act).
3.15 The special tax treatment for infrastructure borrowings is available for a
maximum period of 15 years (sl59GZZZZD, ITA).
3.16 Once an infrastructure borrowing has been certified by the DAA, the tax
effect of the borrowings on borrowers and investors are:
. interest derived under infrastructure borrowings is not assessable to
investors;
. interest paid on infrastructure borrowings is not an allowable
deduction to borrowers;
• any profit or a trading, revenue or capital nature derived on disposal
or redemption of any debt instrument that constitutes an
infrastructure borrowing is tax exempt; and
• any loss of a trading, revenue or capital nature incurred on the
disposal or redemption of any debt instrument that constitutes an
infrastructure borowing is not tax deductible.11
3.17 The Committee notes the recent indication of the limits on the granting of
certificates by the DAA. The Treasurer, the Hon Peter Costello MP, announced
on 10 September that he had directed the DAA to not accept further
applications for infrastructure borrowings certificates until 30 June 1997. He
11 Description of infrastructure borrowings tax treatment is based on submission SI-23 (ATO); also see
Evidence (Mr Nolan, Mr Miller), ppS9-10.


said this was consistent with the government's earlier announcement that it
would keep infrastructure borrowings under review to ensure the program was
meeting its objectives. The DAA Act (s93Y) provides that the intended
maximum cost to the Commonwealth of the taxation consequences of the issue
of certificates may be specified in advance. The maximum amount for 1996-97
had been specified as $150 million and for 1997-98 $200 million. The DAA
had advised the Treasurer that it had on hand applications for total
infrastructure borrowings of $26.5 billion.12
3.18 The Committee heard evidence that the introduction of infrastructure
bonds had had a positive effect on the market:
We have seen quite a lot of activity in the market relating to
infrastructure bonds and we think that that has been a successful
policy change. Certainly, the superannuation funds have shown a
lot of interest in infrastructure bonds because they do help
maximise returns for the funds.13
3.19 Concerns were also noted. The Committee was told, first, that the types
of projects that can be financed by infrastructure borrowings were limited. It
was told, secondly, that the regulatory environment was a difficult one, and that
a person wishing to utilise infrastructure bonds to finance a project had to deal
with both the DAA and the ATO, and that this was time consuming. Thirdly,
there was a 'certain lack of certainty concerning the infrastructure bond rules'.
3.20 The uncertainty followed a 'possible change in government policy
concerning taxation incentives generally' and a changed interpretation 'of
various provisions of the infrastructure bond legislation in order to give effect
to that policy'. The result was that those who had lodged proposals with the
DAA did not have a clear understanding of whether their proposal was going to
be acceptable.14 Mr David Campbell of Fay, Richwhite advised the Committee
that the taxation provisions need clarification and defining. Mr Campbell said
he considered that they had been drafted in much broader terms than the
problem they were designed to address:
Consequently, they have captured projects of a different nature to
the projects that the provisions originally sought to affect.15
12 Press release from the Treasurer, the Hon Peter Costello, MP, 10 September 1996. Also see submission
SI 25 (The Treasury).
13 Evidence (Mr Campbell), pS58.
14 Evidence (Mr Campbell), pS58.
15 Evidence, pS60.


3.21 The Task Force on Regional Development, which reported to
government in 1994, addressed infrastructure bonds in some detail and made a
number of recommendations that were subsequently put into legislative form.
Among these were an extension of the definition of infrastructure and that a
body other than the ATO be responsible for approving projects for
infrastructure bonds. The Task Force envisaged such an agency comprising
both private and public sector representatives and having clear development
goals. Despite the criticism put to the Committee that this involves dealing with
two separate agencies, the Committee favours the role of the DAA in the
approval of infrastructure bonds and would support the clear articulation by the
DAA of the development goals that infrastructure bonds are intended to
achieve.
3.22 The Committee has been told there is confusion in the private sector
about the intent of the infrastructure bond provisions. It is essential that any
confusion be clarified if there is to be a healthy and productive involvement in
the provision of infrastructure by the private sector. Announcements mid-year
that no further applications for the bonds will be accepted, especially when
there is a perception of a lack of clarity regarding what is acceptable, are also
not conducive to the promotion of private investment in infrastructure.
Recommendation 3.1
The Committee reco
operation of the infras
i§!|!
jgp
I
that the govi
re borro
concessi
Infrastructure investment in the United States of America
3.23 The Committee looked at how the American experience with
superannuation investment in infrastructure could relate to Australia.
3.24 In the United States, much of the reporting on the experience of
infrastructure investment by the pension funds is in the context of economically
targeted investment (discussed in chapter 2). In the broader economic context
there were clear promises in the 1992 presidential campaign that the pension
funds would be providing the capital backing to heavy investment in the
country's infrastructure:
When the Clinton Administration took office, one of its major
goals was to face the task of global competition head on by
pursuing a strategy of encouraging investment in human and


physical infrastructure so as to enable the United States to compete
successfully and create high wage jobs.16
3.25 The sorts of investment projects undertaken are consistent with what
could reasonably be expected to occur in Australia. However, there has been
greater progress in this area than in Australia, and the American funds could be
fairly described as more sophisticated in their infrastructure initiatives. The
following two examples of pension fund investments are simple illustrations of
that:
. $200 million from the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths National
Pension Funds used by the Trust Company of the West investing in
energy infrastructure construction building throughout the country
with a projected lifetime return of 14 per cent; and
. Connecticut state's pension funds entering into a limited partnership
to invest $50 million in job creation and economic growth in that
state and receiving a 15 per cent return in 1993.17
Trading in infrastructure
3.26 It was put to the Committee that where there has been listing of projects
on the stock exchange there has been ready acceptance by private investors. Mr
Campbell claimed there was 'a huge market there which remains untapped at
this point'.18 To list on the exchange removes one of the big problems for
infrastructure projects given their long gestation period, namely that of
marketing them. It also makes them tradeable, enabling super funds to maintain
liquidity while investing in them.
3.27 The listing of utilities was specifically examined in evidence before the
Committee. At present there are virtually no utilities on the exchange, although
it is seen likely that the Victorian utilities, having just recently been privatised,
16 Superannuation US - Investment, Practices and Regulation, speech given to the Evatt Foundation/ACTU
conference 'Super 2000 - Investing in the Community', 24-25 November 1994, by Olena Berg, Assistant
Secretary, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, US Department of Labor, Washington DC,
Conference Papers, pi7.
17 Superannuation US - Investment, Practices and Regulation, speech given to the Evatt Foundation/ACTU
conference 'Super 2000 - Investing in the Community', 24-25 November 1994, by Olena Berg, Assistant
Secretary, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, US Department of Labor, Washington DC,
Conference Papers, p22.
18 Evidence (Mr Campbell), pS61.


might well be listed in 'two or three years time'.19 The ASX made the general
point about the need for greater representation on the exchange:
... the more investable products you have available to give you the
diversified spread, the more you will invest here rather than look
overseas to get set in those products.20
3.28 The ASX is in the process of developing a new index, indicating its
willingness to assist in creating listable products.21 The Committee finds this
encouraging and fully supports the initiatives of the ASX in creating a broader
range of listings, especially in assisting the marketing of infrastructure projects
in this way.
Conclusions
3.29 The Committee considers that investment in infrastructure is being
undertaken by superannuation funds at an appropriate rate and considers the
government's role is one of facilitation. It is the government's responsibility to
make this form of investment attractive to the funds, and to not allow doubts
about taxation provisions or other impediments to dissuade the funds from full
consideration of the opportunities for investment in this area.
19 Evidence (Mr Costello), pS49,
20 Evidence, pS49.
21 Evidence (Mr Costello), pS48,


CHAPTER 4
INVESTING IN SMALLER ENTERPRISES
Investing in Smaller Enterprises
As national savings become increasingly channelled into superannuation
funds, the importance of this source of saving for investment into small
business further increases whilst the pool of savings traditionally available for
small business proportionally reduces.1
4.1 Small business has traditionally looked to banks and similar institutions
as its basic source of debt financing. Since the advent of the super system now
in place, however, the role of superannuation funds as a source of saving has
grown and superannuation savings have tended to displace the more traditional
savings. Thus Small Business Victoria pointed out to the Committee the
concomitant increase in importance of superannuation savings to small
business in need of finance.
4.2 The Industry Policy Division of the Department of Industry, Science and
Tourism (DIST) also referred to the traditional reliance of small and medium
sized enterprises (SMEs) on debt finance, and to the fact that banks and 'bank-
like institutions' were the main provider, but it said:
... the shift in the direction of household savings away from banks
to superannuation funds may mean that the funds become a more
important indirect financier of SMEs. This could occur as the
banks continue to access an increasing proportion of their finance
from the wholesale capital markets by issuing bills and other
securities, and as superannuation funds continue to increase their
purchase of these securities to replace the reduction in the supply
of government debt.2
4.3 The Committee recognises an increasing sophistication in the capital and
savings markets. In particular the growth in the securitisation industry,
'combined with the growth in demand by superannuation funds for securities,
may lead to the securitisation of SME debt including loans and leases'.3 The
Committee is encouraged by this possible development as it would have the
two-fold effect of:
1 Submission SI-16 (Small Business Victoria).
2 Submission SI-17, p6.
Submission SI-17, p7.
3


. opening up the opportunity for SMEs to access the wider market for
investment by superannuation funds, correspondingly assisting the
funds with diversification in their investment spread; and
. helping to solve the inequalities in the matching equation between
large superannuation investment amounts and the much smaller
individual financing requirements of small business.
4.4 DIST commented that this might require government support, as in the
US 'where the securitisation of small business loans is stimulated by a Federal
government guarantee attached to the principal of Small Business
Administration loans'.4 The Committee is not in favour of such a guarantee as it
considers such a move an unwarranted incursion by government into the field
of commercial business finance.
A credit-rating system
4.5 The Committee does sees merit in an alternative proposed by DIST, the
development of a credit-rating system which could:
. facilitate more accurate 'price risk' assessment of SMEs by
institutions and therefore assist in increased non-secured lending to
SMEs; and
• stimulate the process of SME loan securitisation and so enable the
flow of debt capital from superannuation funds to SMEs.5
4.6 Such a system would support and strengthen the natural processes of
business financing and the opening up of opportunity. The Committee
envisions such a system as a joint initiative of government and those business
groups representative of SMEs, jointly funded by government and those
groups. The intelligence gathered and made available by such a system would
be along the lines of normal credit assessment, plus those additional
sophistications which are deemed helpful to the investment decisions by
superannuation funds.
4 Submission SI-17, p7.
Submission SI-17, p7.
5


Recommendation 4.1:
The Committee recommends the government investigate the establishment
of an independent and investor based credit-rating system for SMEs as a
joint initiative of government and the relevant business groups.
4.7 Independence would come from the establishment of a small specialised
agency to undertake the assessment work and deal with the inquiries. After the
establishment and initial research period, the Committee considers such an
agency could be largely self-funding through the charging of fees to those
potential investors who wish to use its services. However, some measure of on-
going financial support by both government and the relevant business groups
would also be seen as appropriate as evidence of their commitment to the
scheme.
Business loans
4.8 An initiative which the Committee notes with approval is the Super
Business Loans Program which was established by Industry Funds Services and
National Mutual Funds Management. This program facilitates commercial
loans at competitive rates to SMEs.
Through a new investment vehicle "Super Business Loans Trust",
around $200 million will be contributed by participating
superannuation funds and loans will range from $100,000 to $10
million.6
4.9 The program also allows investors to request loans to be allocated in
specific ways, 'such as to a particular industry or geographical region, to the
benefit of employers and employees in that area'.7 Returns from investments
made under the scheme can be measured against fixed interest benchmarks.
4.10 The Committee considers such programs go to the heart of what it
considers to be a desirable, but difficult to achieve, marriage between the
investment of superannuation savings and the needs of SMEs. It encourages the
further development of this and similar schemes.
6 Submission SI-18, p 17.
7 Submission SI-18, p 17.


Equity capital
4.11 Good business practice suggests that it is generally wise to have a
mixture of debt and equity capital. This is as true of SMEs as it is for big
business. Mr Chris Siddons, General Manager, Small Business Victoria,
pointed to the problems of small business being purely funded by debt and
consequently being extremely vulnerable to interest rate hikes, such as in the
early 1990s. He said of those businesses:
They have not got the buffer, as big companies do, of being able to
say, 'Sorry, we can't pay dividends for a few years, until we get
through the rough patch. We will then resume paying dividends'.
That is what the big companies did. The small companies just went
under.8
4.12 As a matter of principle the Committee considers it desirable that there
be avenues for superannuation funds to provide equity capital to small
business. The Committee recognises, however, the practical difficulties for
funds in assessing the merits of actually investing in this way within their
overall investment strategy.
4.13 Whether it be for the more developmental and venture companies, or
established small businesses in need of capital infusion, the problems are
similar. Indeed, the large volume of money most funds have available to
allocate to individual investment decisions may itself be a barrier to funds
taking up the investigation of investing in individual businesses, where the
amounts sought may be considerably less than the funds have to offer.
The problem of matching
4.14 There is a difficulty of matching the investment of superannuation
savings to the needs of investor ready business projects. The issue of small and
medium sized businesses being investor ready is particularly significant, as the
absence of such readiness is a natural barrier to the flow of investment. There is
a degree of understandable rectitude in the case of many entrepreneurial (in the
genuine sense) enterprises, where proprietors are reluctant to let go, especially
on an equity basis, of their sole financial control. The bridge to outside
investment is not easy to cross.
4.15 An initiative of the previous government which came to light during the
course of the inquiry was the establishment of an institutional investor
information service (IIIS) which was designed to attract financial support for
8 Evidence (Mr Siddons), pS94.


regional projects. In relation to this service or register the Committee received
this advice from the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA):
Certainly some government money was provided. Officers from
the department controlled the initial stages of it, but it was
certainly the investment managers who were running it ... but
AusCID was to manage the register. The investment community
would be vetted and a list of advisers would come from the
investment community who could go out and look at proposals and
help the people get them into a ready stage.9
4.16 In its submission, the Australian Council for Infrastructure Development
(AusCID) said its members had no experience of a capital shortage for well-
conceived and financially viable projects:
There may, however, be a market defect in relation to the
information flows between some classes of project
sponsors/promoters and the providers of finance.10
4.17 AusCID considers that government support may be warranted to
underpin the mechanisms to address the suspected market failure. It noted the
initiatives 'under way through the regional development mechanisms of the
Federal Department of Transport and Regional Development' to address the
issue. The Committee noted that Aus CID was 'prepared, subject to financial
approval, to participate in and manage the operation of a register of investor-
ready infrastructure projects in regional Australia'.11
4.18 The Committee sought advice from the Parliamentary Secretary
responsible for the project, the Hon Michael Ronaldson, MP. He advised that
the IIIS project was still being developed, although the Commonwealth 'had
agreed in principle to fund part of the establishment and running costs of the
IIIS for a period of two years, subject to State and Territory governments
agreeing to participation in and support for the project'. He said also that a
number of governments had shown interest in linking up with the proposal.
Departmental officials were working on funding arrangements with them.1^
4.19 In the Committee's view this is an important initiative, and the
Committee is pleased that its development continues despite the change of
government since it was first mooted. It should provide a cost effective method
9 Evidence (Dr Anderson), pS20.
10 Submission SI-5, p3.
11 Submission SI-5, p3.
12 Letter from the Hon Michael Ronaldson MP, Parliamentary Secretary, Transport and Regional
Development, to Senator John Watson, Chair of the Committee.


of combining projects and capital that together will be significant for
Australia's regional development. If it proves to be as successful as is predicted,
it will be a useful model.
4.20 The Victorian Employers' Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VECCI)
established the Business Finance Support Program as a joint initiative with the
federal government (which funded the project initially) to assist the matching
of money and projects. The Program Coordinator, Mr Bob Beaumont, said of
the aims of the program:
The primary considerations are to improve access to finance and
management schemes for growth small business. The secondary
focus is towards developing a gateway or entry point to the
establishment of a more formalised equity market at the SME
level.13
4.21 The program was launched in December 1994 and began to invite
participants in March 1995. In September 1995 a matching process was begun
'using a data base and several other mechanisms':
Since that time we have had four dozen, if you like, matches per se
and the capital outflows to date are just short of $5 million.14
4.22 The size of the individual amounts of finance being provided is between
$200 000 and $500 000 at this early stage of the program, but overseas
experience suggests $100 000 may be the eventual lower level. The availability
of capital declared is about $500 million. Projections of outflows have been
made to the end of the 1998 fiscal year and the predicted figure is 'around the
$50 million to $60 million mark'.15
4.23 The reason for much of the success of the program is said to be that 'the
small businesses realise they are not going to lose control':
The informal investors really are looking for opportunities to use
their skills and their capital to get a rate of return better than they
might be getting currently, say, in investment funds.16
4.24 On the question of rates of return, Mr Beaumont said:
... the expected rate of return that most investors go in for is a
flexible return, usually over a three to five year period. Anywhere
13 Evidence, pS78.
14 Evidence (Mr Beaumont), pS79.
15 Evidence (Mr Beaumont), pS86.
16 Evidence (Mr Beaumont), pS81.


between 30 and 50 per cent is what they look for, which is not
unusual. The beauty of this type of supply [of investors] is that
because 90 per cent of them are active, not passive, they bring with
them their management skills.17
4.25 The Committee supports this program for what it is doing and for what it
could achieve. In fact it could be seen as something of a model for the general
matching process. However, the sort of matching that is taking place under this
scheme has limited relevance for superannuation funds. Certainly the funds
should be aware of the program and of any advantage they see in it, but the
Committee considers that the relatively low individual investment amounts
being sought mitigates the involvement of superannuation funds to any great
extent.
Directed investment
4.26 Small Business Victoria raised the issue of requiring superannuation
funds to apply (say) one per cent of their savings pool 'towards SMEs or
companies that are in a developmental phase'.18 While the Committee is firmly
against recommending any form of directed investment of superannuation
savings, it does recognise that the SME sector is a legitimate investment option
for the superannuation funds.
4.27 One of the key problems for superannuation trustees in this area is the
lack of time available to examine and assess the value of investment in
particular businesses. The ASX commented that 'as part of the fiduciary
responsibility of a trustee, they should be made responsible to consider the
range of investment opportunities before them'.19 An interesting suggestion by
ASX was for a 'statutory requirement directing trustees to devote some
proportion of their time to actively consider investment in specific types of
investments'.20 These could include smaller growth companies.
4.28 The ASX commented that intermediaries who deal in specific
investments such as venture and development capital and growth companies
17 Evidence, pS82.
18 Evidence (Mr Siddons), pS90.
19 Evidence (Mr Bladier), pS42.
20 Submission SI-19, p 11.


report difficulties in getting busy trustees, or their advisers, to make time to
even consider these options. It seemed, according to the ASX, that:
... this resistance may arise from their lack of awareness of these
types of investments and potential returns and to a lesser extent
their averseness to risk.21
4.29 The Committee found this evidence, rather than being critical of trustees,
was more a recognition of the realities facing them in their investment decision
making process. The ASX 'think the problem is an information gap':
The problem is that people do not know about the existence of
these enterprises wanting capital and, if they were listed, do not
know about their stocks and are not prepared to spend the time and
money researching them because they are too small for it to be
worth their while.22
4.30 In response to this situation the ASX referred to an idea they were
developing to bring together the monies and the enterprises. An important
aspect of this new proposal would be to free such enterprises from the very
high costs associated with listing requirements. The ASX were unable to
disclose further detail of their proposal because of the commercial sensitivities
involved. Despite the lack of detail at this stage, the Committee would be
attracted to this concept, as it was presented by the ASX, if it would operate to
enhance the matching process and provide enhanced investment opportunities
for superannuation funds.
4.31 The Committee considers that directly mandating trustee time in the way
suggested by the ASX would not be feasible. In fact, many of the difficulties in
implementing such a proposal were acknowledged in the discussion Committee
members had with representatives of the ASX.23 This is not to say, however,
that SMEs may not present sound investment opportunities and trustees should
be aware of this.
Development capital
4.32 DIST provided an outline of the development of the Australian
development capital sector from which the SMEs have benefited.24 The value
21 Submission SI-19, pi 1.
22 Evidence (Mr Costello), p S44.
23 Evidence, ppS41-2.
24 Submission SI-17, p7.


of the sector is estimated (probably conservatively) at $1.9 billion. DIST points
out that:
... superannuation funds usually do not provide development
capital directly to small businesses, but rather a few put a small
amount of their portfolio in the hands of some of the development
capitalists who use their expertise to choose, through careful and
diligent analysis, which small businesses to invest in.25
4.33 A survey of the members of the Australian Development Capital
Association Ltd (ADCAL) indicated 'that there was $868 million of capital
under management for SME-based investments (companies with turnover of
less than $100 million) at the end of 1995'.26 Superannuation funds provided
about 37% of this and 50% of all new capital raised for SME-based investments
in 1995.
4.34 These are positive developments, although the figures are modest in
absolute terms. According to DIST:
Only about 8 per cent of all small firms aspire to significant (or
high) growth and of these, less than one-quarter are actively
seeking additional finance, with most looking for amounts of
$500,000 or less.27
4.35 Therefore only about two per cent of Australian small firms are in the
high-growth category seeking additional finance. The National Investment
Council reported that 'even among the small minority of firms that seek high
growth and want external equity, relatively few understand what is needed to
attract external equity investment'.28 Another study found that only nine of 52
firms met the fundamental requirements to attract external investors, those
requirements being:
. appropriate governance - separation of proprietor's business and
personal affairs;
. lack of dependence on key personnel; and
. an established market niche.29
25 Submission SI-17, p8.
26 Submission SI-17, p8.
27 Submission SI-17, p8,
28 Submission SI-17, p8.
29 Submission SI-17, p9.


4.36 The Committee considers there is a question of responsibility within the
individual SMEs themselves in relation to being investment ready. SMEs need
to come to terms with what is required to make themselves attractive to
potential investors, especially superannuation funds with their particular need
for clear and precise investment indicators. This is not a problem that
governments or the financial community can overcome for them.
Conclusion
4.37 The Committee considers there is only a limited role for government in
promoting superannuation investment in SMEs. It notes the increasing
sophistication of the financial markets and the growing participation of
superannuation funds in these market developments.
4.38 Superannuation trustees are increasingly turning to a wider range of
investment opportunities, albeit from a low base. Modem portfolio theory
provides the sound principles of increased diversification of investment, while
the SIS regulatory regime with its investment strategy requirement provides the
support in practice.
4.39 The Committee is not persuaded that there is a 'special case' for SMEs
over other types of non-traditional superannuation investment. It considers
there is need for SMEs themselves to become more involved and better
educated about what is happening in the financial markets around them, in
order that they may 'present' more attractively to those markets as potential
avenues for investment, and perhaps that they may avail themselves of the
investment opportunities available to enhance their businesses.


CHAPTER 5
SUPER FOR HOUSING
Super for Housing
5.1 The Committee is required to report on the implications of the enormous
growth in superannuation fund assets in Australia for housing finance. It has
considered two aspects of this question: investment in rental housing and
public housing stock by super funds; and the drawdown of an individual's super
funds to assist with the purchase of a home.
Investment in housing infrastructure
5.2 Typically, super funds have not invested directly in residential housing,
probably because of its low unit cost and high administrative requirements. If
super funds could be encouraged to do so, then a flexibility in the supply of
public housing could be introduced. This is not necessarily to suggest that more
housing is required, but that the private rather than the public sector build it,
thus freeing up government money for other uses. The Department of Social
Security (DSS) has advised the Committee of the Commonwealth's support for
private investment in public rental housing.1
5.3 Super funds will diversify their assets in order to reduce risk. Housing
can be part of this diversification if it can be packaged in such a way as to
provide the kind of returns that would attract super funds. Investment in
residential property may also help reduce volatility in a portfolio.
5.4 A project in housing could appeal to a super fund if the return was higher
than the typically benchmarked return on government bonds, for example. It
may be that housing projects could be packaged as some recent road projects
have been, where securities have been listed on the stock exchange. The
Committee was told that they had been readily accepted by investors and that
there was a huge untapped market for such projects. Of course, the usual
difficulties with infrastructure projects, such as the long gestation period,
would have to be taken into account. The bond market provides another
avenue. If a project were to be structured in such a way that there was a
tradeable debt instrument rather than bank debt, a super fund would be able to
invest and still maintain liquidity.2
1 Submission SI-20, p27.
Evidence (Mr Campbell), ppS61-2.
2


5.5 Examples of private involvement in public housing in New South Wales
include the PEP (Public Equity Participation) Schemes I and II. Under these
schemes, AMP purchased dwellings in Sydney which were then leased to the
NSW Department of Housing.3
5.6 In the first scheme, AMP provided initial capital to firnd the acquisition
of 1 000 dwellings which were let to public housing tenants. The homes were
leased to the NSW Department of Housing on a guaranteed inflation-linked
rental and guaranteed re-purchase after twenty-one years. The Department of
Housing assumed maintenance and management responsibility. The
Department and AMP share in any capital gain in the houses over and above
the compounded inflation rate. The overall cost to the NSW government was a
one-off payment used to subsidise the difference between the investor yield
required and net rental income.
5.7 The second project took the form of an extension of the first, involving
again a one-off payment by government.
5.8 AMP has also invested $100 million in a single placement of state
government guaranteed Victorian housing bonds, designed to provide housing
for low income families.4
5.9 These examples indicate one way housing can be 'packaged' into
something that may appeal to super funds, provided returns are within the
desirable parameters. AMP, however, has submitted that its analysis of such
investments indicates that residential real estate is the least attractive of all the
property classes for institutional investors, with other, alternative investments
in infrastructure providing substantially higher returns. AMP has said that
expectations of the returns and terms acceptable to attract institutional investors
in social housing are 'extremely optimistic'.5
5.10 The Committee notes differing views about what investment in social
housing infrastructure can offer the institutional investor. It is not in a position
to prefer one view over another. In so far as superannuation funds are
concerned, that is the task of trustees and their investment managers.
5.11 Lack of certainty about the taxation treatment of investment in housing
has caused the private sector difficulty. Section 51 AD and Division 16D of the
Tax Act, designed to deal with leasing arrangements with tax exempt entities,
3 Details of the projects are taken from submission SI-20 (Department of Social Security), pp28-9.
4 Submission SI-15, pi7.
Submission SI-15, pi7.
5


operate to deny normal business deductions to a private sector owner of
property who has entered into a lease arrangement with a tax exempt entity
such as a government, the Committee has been told.6
5.12 Mr Campbell, Director, Infrastructure Finance, Fay Richwhite Australia
Ltd, said:
It is obvious to see how this could impact in the housing arena,
where a private sector owner seeks to lease residential housing to a
state government authority for leasing to public supported tenants.
The very fact that the government enters into a lease with the
private sector could operate to deny the private sector owner the
tax deductions which you or I as individuals would be able to
access if we negatively geared a property investment.7
5.13 The Committee considered whether some kind of investment allowance
or special tax arrangement would be useful as a means of encouraging super
funds to invest in housing. Mr Campbell noted 'an obscure section of the tax act
which allows an investment allowance for short term traveller accommodation'
and suggested that a similar type of proposal might work in relation to
housing.8
5.14 Mr Campbell made it clear that, in his view, his proposal for super fund
investment in public housing infrastructure was viable without so-called tax
concessions, as long as the law was clarified to establish that the funds could be
entitled to the same sorts of deductions that personal investors would be
entitled to if they were to invest in residential property.9 To the extent that the
law is unclear in this way, the development of worthwhile projects could be
hindered.
5.15 The Committee recommended in chapter 3 that the government review
the intent and operation of the infrastructure borrowings concessions and
clarify the position. It believes this recommendation meets the concerns that
have been raised by Mr Campbell. It does not believe that investment in
housing infrastructure calls for any further special consideration.
6
Evidence (Mr Campbell), ppS58-9. (These provisions were examined in more detail in chapter 3.)
7 Evidence, pS59.
8 Evidence, pS59. The Committee has assumed reference was being made to Division IOC of the Tax Act.
Evidence, ppS60-l.
9


Home purchase assistance
5.16 From time to time, calls are made for the use of individuals'
superannuation monies to assist with a home purchase. In the 1993 election
campaign, both of the major parties put forward proposals to allow the use of
superannuation funds to finance the purchase of housing by members.10 In
October 1995, the Australian Democrats expressed support for a limited
drawdown of super funds for low to middle income earners to assist with home
purchase.11 More recently, the government in its pre 1996 election Housing
Policy Statement, said it was attracted to allowing first home buyers to
withdraw a portion of their superannuation contributions towards the cost of a
deposit on their first home. The Committee understands that steps are currently
underway to examine the implementation of this proposal.12
5.17 In its report Super for Housing13 the Committee proceeded cautiously,
noting many of the pitfalls inherent in such a proposal and advocating further
investigation if such a scheme were to be set up. It concluded that any such
scheme would have to be tightly targeted.
5.18 In this inquiry, the Committee received a number of submissions
claiming there was little justification for the introduction of a scheme whereby
super funds could be drawn down and used for the purchase of a home. These
included submissions from the Life Investment and Superannuation
Association of Australia Inc (LISA) and the Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia Limited (ASFA).14
5.19 A number of reasons are put forward in support of this position.
Arguably, Australia does not need greater investment in housing. It already has
one of the highest percentages of home ownership in the world, with around
70% of Australians living in owner occupied dwellings. Lower interest rates
mean that home affordability15 has increased and home accessibility16 has also
improved in recent years. In addition, home ownership receives favourable tax
treatment, for example in relation to capital gains tax.
10 See Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super for Housing, May 1994
(henceforth Super for Housing), ppl-3.
11 See submission SI-14. attachment 4.
12 Submission SI-20, para 5.3.
13 Twelfth Report, May 1994.
14 Submissions SI-14 (see especially attachment 4) and SI-11.
15 The relationship between median weekly family income and average monthly home loan repayments on
new loans, or the ability to meet ongoing mortgage repayments.
16 The ratio of deposit gap to annual income, or the cost of becoming a home owner.


5.20 Allowing access to superannuation for housing is more likely to increase
the average size or quality of dwellings (or allow people to increase current
consumption, with lower mortgage payments) than the rate of home ownership.
Thus additional investment in housing would be equivalent to consumption
rather than adding to the productive capacity of the economy.17
5.21 Superannuants are already able to access their super contributions in
situations of hardship. Hardship may include a case where a person may lose
his or her home if mortgage repayments cannot be met. In 1994-95, the ISC
received 39 680 hardship applications, 82% of which were accepted in full and
9% of which were accepted in part.18 Many of these related to housing.19
5.22 Average balances per fund member tend to be small - the Committee has
been told in the past that it would be some time in the next century before the
average account member balance was as high as $10 OOO20 - and proposals for
the draw down of super monies for housing have always only related to a
portion of those monies. Yet it is usually a minimum of 10% of the purchase
price that is required as a deposit on a home purchase. Based on home loan
figures for 1994-95, the average deposit required would be at least $7-9000.21 It
is likely that those who would be most in need of assistance for the purchase of
a home would be those most unlikely to have sufficient super monies to draw
down to assist.
5.23 It is undeniable that home ownership contributes to security in retirement
and that pensioners owning their own homes require less taxpayer support than
renters. Home ownership may be seen as an alternative form of saving, as a
source of security in later life, and as an opportunity to avoid the payment of
rent. Home ownership is an important component of retirement needs, then, but
it is not a substitute for income support, and comes at a cost to public saving:
... access to superannuation funds would direct savings from an
asset (superannuation) on which returns are taxed, even if
concessionally, to an asset (housing) were returns are not taxed.22
17 Fitzgerald, VW, National Saving - A Report to the Treasurer, June 1993, p61.
18 Insurance and Superannuation Commission, Annual Report 1994-95, p75.
19 The Committee has previously been told that the 'most common ground' on which the ISC releases super
monies relates to housing. See the Committee's Twelfth Report, Super for Housing, para 4.30.
20 Evidence to the Committee in Canberra on 25 February 1994 by Mr P Roberts, then Chief Executive
Officer of the Real Estate Institute of Australia.
21 Submission SI-14, attachment 4.
22 Fitzgerald, VW, National Saving - A Report to the Treasurer, June 1993, p61.


5.24 There would also be an adverse impact on a member's end benefit,
perhaps out of proportion to the relatively small withdrawal that might have
been made, because of the compound effect on the account of the interest
forgone. It is difficult to estimate the effect on the overall level of
superannuation funds if a 'super for housing' proposal were to be put in place.
While it might be small initially, when few people could be expected to have
sufficient super monies to draw down, the long term effects could be
considerable, with a consequent increase in uptake of publicly funded pensions
in addition to a reduced pool of national savings.
The ACTU/National Mutual scheme
5.25 The Committee notes the continuing success of the ACTU/National
Mutual Super Members' Home Loans (SMHL) scheme, set up in 1994, and of
other schemes that have adopted the practice of mortgage securitisation.
Securitised funding and lending operate on smaller overheads and therefore
assist more competitive housing finance. They do not require a base of equity
capital as do the traditional lending institutions like banks and building
societies, for example, and are not subject to prudential requirements for capital
backing for funds raised from mortgage-backed securities.23
5.26 Through the SMHL scheme, home loans are available to members of
funds which invest in a trust managed by National Mutual Funds Management.
Eighty funds have invested in the scheme, allowing some 4 million people
access to loans. The first loan was settled in August 1994 and over 7 000
people have applied for more than $700 million in home loans since the
commencement of the scheme.
5.27 The SMHL rate is currently 8.3%, having decreased from 8.7% mid
September 1996. These rates are among the most competitive available.
Schemes such as SMHL have increased competition in the home loan market
generally, so that borrowers generally have benefited from lower rates, at the
same time preserving their superannuation benefits for retirement.
5.28 The Committee notes predictions that within 2-5 years, 25% of new
lending for housing will be funded from securitised mortgages. In the United
States, for example, mortgage companies represented 56.4% of the market in
the last quarter of 1995 compared with 23.5% for the commercial banks and
15.7% for savings and loans institutions. Already mortgage managers, as
23 Submission SI-20 (DSS), para 4.1


opposed to the traditional lenders, have shown strong penetration of the home
lending market in Australia.24
5.29 It appears there are generally no substantial regulatory impediments to
the operation and development of mortgage securitisation, although there are
suggestions that the introduction of the Uniform Consumer Credit Code
(UCCC) in November 1996 might influence lenders to act more conservatively.
DSS has advised that discussions between state authorities and industry bodies
have been progressing towards ironing out technical details.25 The Committee
considers that the implementation of the UCCC should be monitored so that
any difficulties can be resolved at an early stage.
Conclusion
5.30 The Committee does not consider that the arguments in favour of a 'super
for housing' initiative outweigh the arguments against such a proposal. Indeed,
arguments in favour tend now to have been somewhat diminished by the
relatively recent introduction and proliferation of securitisation schemes,
compared with the appeal they have had in the past.
5.31 It is the Committee's firm view that super funds must continue to be
principally for the purpose of funding retirement income. They are not a source
of funds to cover the range of contingencies that might arise from time to time
in the course of a fund member's life. To the extent that genuine hardship
arises, the ISC is already empowered to deal with it, and does so.
5.32 Home loan schemes such as the ACTU/National Mutual scheme,
however, are an innovative and practical way of using super funds to help with
home purchase. They are able to facilitate home ownership without
jeopardising the fundamental role of super funds to provide retirement income.
Given the Australian situation of generally high levels of home ownership,
affordability and accessibility, it is the Committee's view that such schemes are
the preferred approach to assisting with home purchase, should a fund wish to
invest in that way.
24 Submission SI-20 (DSS), para 4.2.
25 Submission SI-20 (DSS), para 4.6.




CHAPTER 6
SHORT TERMISM - PERCEPTION OR REALITY
Short Termism - Perception or Reality
Such a culture of short termism not only permeates the funds management
industry, but its promotion through and by the mass media has resulted in an
increasing concern by the members of the funds about short term financial
returns on fund investments.1
The issue
6.1 The expression 'short termism' describes the practice of superannuation
funds taking a more than necessary short term position in their investment
spread. The definition provided by the Institute of Actuaries of Australia (IAA)
describes short termism 'as a preference for an investment policy which seeks
to minimise short-term fluctuations in the rate of return on assets'.2 There has
been extensive research and examination of short termism by a number of
people and organisation in recent times. There are differing views on whether,
and the extent to which, it is a problem.
6.2 The IAA believes 'that many superannuation funds are adopting a short-
term approach to their fund's investment policy':
... an overly short-term approach generally results in members
receiving superannuation benefits which are only a fraction of the
benefits which could be enjoyed under investment policies which
adopt a long-term focus. The result is a reduction in the level of
savings in the community and undue pressure on Government
revenue in paying age pensions. Consequently such short-termism
is contrary to the national interest and should be viewed with
serious concern.3
6.3 There is a view, however, suggesting short termism might be beneficial:
A lot of the market players - I am not talking about the financial
people, but a lot of the analysts and the economic thinkers - seem
to believe that the pressure of short-termism actually leads to better
1 Submission SI-18 (AIST), p24.
2 Evidence (Mr Grenfell), pS65.
3 Submission SI-6, p 1.


economic results and puts more pressure on directors to perform
than anything else.4
Competition and choice
6.4 Strong competition between fund managers has been one of the main
reasons for a short term perspective in superannuation investment. That is
because the measure of performance of fund managers is fairly well confined to
short term investment results. However, a proposition the Committee finds
difficult to dismiss came from the ASX, who said:
If a fond manager consistently performs quarter by quarter, that has
to be good for the owners of the fond.5
6.5 Competition does affect trustees and fund managers in their investment
outlook, in that:
. trustees and fund managers are preoccupied with short term returns
so as to look good and be competitive in the published comparative
tables; and
• members expect continually good results from their fund with no
short term losses.6
6.6 The general issue of choice has several relevant elements in the context
of short termism. First, there is the issue of the trustees' choice of fund
manager. Trustees will be heavily influenced by current performance levels of
fund managers. Secondly, there are those aspects of choice which relate to
members' choice of fund (which again will be influenced by current returns and
hence short term considerations), and member choice of investment which is
usually offered in the form of alternative investment portfolios.
6.7 Choice of fund may lead to a need for greater liquidity and therefore a
greater proportion of investments being held in cash. It was said that in some
funds where there is member choice there was no investment in property for
'exactly those reasons'.7
4 Evidence (Mr Costello), pS47.
5 Evidence (Mr Roche), pS47.
6 Submission SI-19, p 13.
Evidence (Dr Gray), pS17.
7


6.8 Other things being equal, it is generally thought that members will favour
the more conservative options when they are given a choice of investments.
This is perhaps understandable given the sensitive nature of retirement income
savings, and the propensity of individuals to conserve (and also keep liquid)
their superannuation assets. Again this leads to a short term approach to
investment. Where choice of investment is offered, the default option can often
be the most conservative, although the Committee notes with approval the more
flexible default provisions, relating to the age of the member, being offered by
some funds.
6.9 The SIS legislation provides for beneficiary investment choice.8 The
Committee considers that choice in this area need not necessarily be exercised
so as to maximise short term effects in contrast to the longer term. Treasury
said:
We have seen greater awareness of superannuation from the
household sector; it is one of the side effects of compulsory
superannuation. People now have to be thinking in terms of a
collective investment that is beyond just a bank deposit. If we start
to introduce choice, they have to realise that it is the long-term
benefits that they are looking at.9
6.10 The Committee considers the issue of choice is slowly and sensibly being
worked through by the industry. The Committee would stress, however, the
need for constant attention to the requirements of the members for
appropriately simple and accessible education to enable them to make informed
choices, particularly in relation to alternative investment portfolios.
The short term perspective
6.11 The Committee examined the underlying causes of short term orientation
toward investment. The IAA provided a comprehensive analysis of the factors
affecting superannuation investment and 'believes that some of the features of
the current superannuation environment are undesirable'.10 The more significant
follow.
6.12 Historically, most large funds were defined benefit funds where the
employer bears the investment risk. With the rapid growth in superannuation
savings, particularly through compulsory superannuation, the trend has been
toward accumulation funds where it is the members who effectively bear the
8 SIS Regulation 4.02 prescribes how this choice is to be offered.
9 Evidence (Mr Callaghan), pS6.
10 Submission SI-6, p8.


risks of the funds' investments. The argument is that 'the members are generally
more risk-averse and have a shorter time horizon than the employers'.11
6.13 The IAA provided a comparison of the investment policies of
accumulation and defined benefit funds and set out the evidence of short
termism among the accumulation funds.12 In terms of performance, the direct
implication of this evidence was that the returns from defined benefits funds
exceed those from accumulation funds. The submission went on to highlight
the trend toward accumulation funds in Australia:
Over the six years to 1993 private sector fund membership of
defined benefit funds grew by 670,000, but this is outweighed by
almost eight times as many new members of accumulation funds
over the same period
... The trend is even more pronounced for public sector funds ...13
6.14 Appendix F contains three graphs presented to the Committee depicting
both the historical decline in long term assets held by superannuation funds,
and projecting forward on the basis of three different assumptions:
(a) the status quo without policy changes;
(b) if wrong policy changes were made - especially further compulsory
vesting of employer benefits, and member choice of investment or
fund without adequate education; and
(c) where IAA's policy proposals were heeded - especially the need to
focus on adequacy of projected retirement benefits rather than
contributions or vested benefits, and encouragement of members to
take at least part of benefits as a pension or annuity instead of a
lump sum.14
6.15 Other IAA policy proposals, apart from those included in (c) above,
include the following:
. trustees should be educated about the dangers of short term
investment policies and encouraged to think about long term effects;
11 Submission SI-6, p8.
12 Submission SI-6, pp 14-19.
13 Submission SI-6, p20.
14 Evidence (Mr Grenfell), pS65,


. there should be education for members, especially where members
are given a choice of investment, and choice should not be
compulsory;
. funds should allow those members who resign to preserve their
benefits in the fund instead of transferring a lump sum to rollover or
some other fund (UK evidence shows this allows the trustees to
adopt a much longer-term investment horizon);
. members should be given adequate information about projected
benefits in order to allow them to plan for retirement, and the
government should promote member communications which focus
on expected retirement income rather than lump sums or vested
benefits;
. the taxation and regulation of superannuation should not be
designed to make more difficult the operation of defined benefit
funds;
. preservation and portability rules should be designed so as to
encourage longer term perspectives;
. there should be no compulsory vesting of voluntary employer-
financed benefits beyond the requirements of the Super Guarantee
system; and
. as well as members, trustees should receive intensive education
before the introduction of member investment choice.15
6.16 The Committee requested that the Retirement Income Modelling Task
Force (RIM) assess the IAA's propositions. RIM advised:
The Task Force's views on differences between investment returns
by type of fund have been influenced by essentially the same data
sources and research as quoted by the Institute of Actuaries.16
6.17 RIM emphasised that projected levels of aggregate assets of
superannuation funds 'are particularly sensitive to economic assumptions such
as the level of return achieved by various funds'. They cited an example of an
15 Submission SI-6, p30.
16 Submission SI-24, p2.


annual difference of one half of one per cent in return for the period to June
2005 changing the grand asset total by plus or minus $17 billion.17
6.! 8 The advice also made the following points in relation to the 'substantial
potential effects of variations in long term earning rates on the accumulated
benefits of individuals':
. for most persons the effects are cushioned because of the impact of
the age pension (and assets) tests, and to a lesser extent, the taxation
system; and
. to some extent the government, through the age pension and
taxation systems, bears part of the investment risk, and conversely
shares in the benefits of higher than average returns.18
6.19 In this way the benefits of longer term investment strategies, with their
higher overall returns, can be seen to benefit the whole community in terms of
the lower demand on taxation revenue.
6.20 The Committee considers the changing face of the work force, and the
difficulty for defined benefit funds in accommodating a growing army of
temporary and contract workers, is also relevant.19 As Dr Diana Olsberg,
Executive Director of the Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
(AIST), said:
[T]he nature of the work force is just not compatible any longer
with defined benefit funds. It is not only in those areas where we
have considered there to be a high labour mobility but virtually
across every area now. The short-term contract employment means
that it is just impossible to operate a defined benefit fund.
... [i]t is just not possible to any longer have defined benefit funds
that are realistic in terms of the administration and the proper
apportionment of benefits.20
17
Submission SI-24, p2.
18 Submission SI-24, p2.
19 In its 17th report. Super and Broken Work Patterns, the Committee examined in detail the situation of
workers with non traditional working lives.
Evidence, pSl 11.
20


6.21 The Committee is persuaded that accumulation funds are increasingly the
more appropriate vehicle to receive the super guarantee. Furthermore, the
Committee recognises:
... that there is a great need to encourage voluntary contributions by
members so that people, at times in their life when they actually
have got some surplus money ... can actually contribute into their
fund. That is only possible in an accumulation type fund.21
6.22 The requirement that member representatives constitute half the trustees
has resulted in a great number of inexperienced new trustees, many of whom
could reasonably be expected to lack investment expertise. This lack of
experience in itself would naturally lead to a less than adventurous investment
outlook, especially given the strict fiduciary obligation of tmstees to act in the
best interests of their members.
6.23 The Committee acknowledges, however, the valuable work in trustee
education and training being conducted by a number of organisations in the
superannuation industry.
6.24 More generally on the position of trustees and investment, the Committee
notes the view of Mr Michael Costello of the ASX:
... we think that there are trustees who believe that the law as
currently structured poses a fiduciary duty on them that leads them
down the short-term path. We think as a matter of law that that
may well not be a correct perception on their part, but if you are a
trustee you are probably not going to take the risk.22
6.25 One of the consequential obligations of trustees is the need to ensure, as
a matter of financial management, that the fund has sufficient liquid assets to
meet its outgoings. Accordingly, to the extent that a fund requires additional
liquidity to provide for the withdrawal of benefits on retirement or transfer to
another fund, or for any other reason, there will be a need for greater
conservatism in investment by that fund.
6.26 Therefore it is appropriate to recognise that different funds may require
different investment policies quite independent of any underlying bias or
conservatism. This may be due to their differing age profiles or current
popularity. Also, the same fund may change its investment strategies from time
to time in response to the changing profile or needs of its members.
21 Evidence (Dr Olsberg), pS 111.
22 Evidence, pS47.


Policies to combat short termism
6.27 The Committee considers there needs to be attention paid to situations of
undue short termism, bearing in mind that not all aspects of short term
investment are undesirable.
6.28 The Committee welcomes the consistent acknowledgment throughout the
evidence presented to it that the primary purpose of superannuation is to
provide for retirement income. The objective of maximising retirement
incomes, therefore, should be the primary consideration when trustees are
framing their investment strategies. The Committee agrees with Dr Michaela
Anderson of the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA),
who said:
6.29 The Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants (CPA) made
a recommendation that a think tank or forum be established, to meet every two
or three years to focus on the long term direction of superannuation. Such a
forum would comprise the government and relevant stakeholders.24 The
Committee thinks this could be a useful way of monitoring developments in
superannuation investment.
6.30 The payment of lump sums versus pensions was mentioned by the IAA in
relation to the issue of conservatism by members:
ASFA believes that the government should continually monitor
and review its policies and legislation so as to ensure that the prime
objective of maximising retirement income is not upset by short-
term considerations,
Much of the concern about members bearing the full risk of
fluctuation in asset values is that they may be 'forced' to take their
benefit at time of depressed values (eg when the sharemarket is at a
relatively low point).25
23 Evidence (Dr Anderson), pS 16.
24 Submission SI-22, ppl and 6.
25 Submission SI-6, p29.


6.31 The IAA says this view by members 'focuses on the capital value of the
benefit being paid, rather than the future income which that benefit may
generate'.26 It is interesting to note that of total superannuation benefits paid by
the funds in 1995-96 excluding transfers, lump sums accounted for 79% ($12.7
billion), while the remaining 21% ($3.4 billion) were paid as pensions.
However, the proportions are reversed when the capitalised value underlying
the pensions paid is calculated: $45 billion (77%) compared to the $12.7 billion
(23%) paid in lump sums.27
6.32 There is still something of a 'lump sum mentality' in Australia, but the
Committee considers that with the increased education of members of
superannuation funds, especially in relation to matters of choice of
superannuation product, a slow trend toward annuities and pensions can be
expected.
6.33 The Committee also noted the views of the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC), that 'one of the Commission's long-
standing concerns has been to avoid the situation where trustees, fund managers
and members place undue emphasis on short-term returns'.28 The ISC provided
some different emphases in listing some of the factors it saw as contributing to
a short term outlook. These factors included:
. the highly competitive but imperfectly informed private investment
market;
. SIS information disclosure requirements which place pressure on
trustees to declare stable positive annual returns;
. members lack of understanding of the long term nature of
superannuation;
. the short to medium term of trustee and fund manager appointments;
and
. the SIS penalty regime which may lead to greater trustee caution
and investment conservatism.
26 Submission SI-6, p29.
27 ISC Bulletin, June 1996, p30.
28 Submission SI-13, p7.
29 Submission SI-13, p7.


6.34 To assist members to assess the performance of their funds, the SIS
regulations require trustees to report annually their compound five-year returns,
as well as individual returns for the past five years. The SIS also has in place a
requirement for a balanced investment portfolio for superannuation funds/0
6.35 Other initiatives being undertaken to encourage the recognition of the
long term nature of superannuation include improved communication, and
education campaigns promoted by the ISC and other industry bodies31 to
encourage longer term investment.
6.36 A more technical and direct initiative has been to provide in the
legislation for the smoothing of interest rates credited to members' accounts.
The regulations allow trustees to increase the minimum guaranteed benefits by
amounts in excess of fund earnings to an extent which would make the fund
technically insolvent, provided this is in accordance with a plan designed by an
actuary to ensure solvency within five years.32
6.37 An industry based Working Party on Investment Performance
Measurement has also been set up which, among other things, is assisting the
education of members and trustees of funds in taking a long term perspective in
assessing investment performance. The ISC is represented on this Working
Party along with the IAA, Australian Investment Association (AIMA),
Australian Custodial Services Group, asset consultants and administration
systems firms.
6.38 Probably the point most forcefully made to the Committee by the IAA
was the need to disclose the retirement benefit:
It is quite incredible that we have a set of regulations that goes into
great detail about the need to disclose the current resignation
benefit of your plan but ... there is nothing in the regulations that
requires a superannuation trustee to quantify or disclose the
retirement benefits.33
6.39 Of course, in relation to accumulation funds, certain assumptions need to
be made to indicate what retirement benefit a member could expect to receive.
The IAA suggested that whenever a superannuation plan prepares an estimate
of retirement benefits the standard basis could be used, at least as one
30 Section 52(2)(f).
31 See, for example, LISA's Get Rich Slow campaign.
32 Submission SI-13, p8 and see SIS regulations 9.37 to 9.39.
33 Evidence (Mr Grenfell), pS71.


illustration.34 The 'standard' referred to here is that standard set of investment
earning assumptions used in disclosures in the life office area and set by the
ISC.
6.40 The IAA considers that, in the first place, funds should be encouraged
rather than required to produce such an illustration of retirement benefits, and
have put this as a recommendation to the ISC.35 The Committee supports this
view.
Conclusion
6.41 Recognising that a certain degree of short termism is a desirable and
necessary part of a fund's investment strategy, the Committee believes the issue
of short termism is of concern but that it is being appropriately addressed by the
relevant industry players. Provided awareness of the potential for problems is
raised, no special response by the government is required.
6.42 The Committee believes that its conclusions and recommendations
throughout this report will have the positive effect of moving superannuation
fund investment toward a stronger and longer term perspective. This will assist
the slow but steady progression to greater levels of annuities forms of
retirement income rather than lump sums. In turn this will benefit the members
by enhancing the prospects of satisfactory retirement incomes, and benefit the
nation by lessening the burden on the taxpayer and by encouraging healthy
domestic investment.
34 Evidence (Mr Grenfell), pS75.
35 Evidence (Mr Grenfell), pS75.




CHAPTER 7
SUPER FUNDS AND SOCIAL OBJECTIVES
Super Funds and Social Objectives
7.1 The essential question raised by the Committee's terms of reference is the
compatibility of the furtherance of broader objectives, whether they be
economic, social, industry or indeed other policy objectives, with the
fundamental obligations flowing from the trust relationship, supplemented by
legislative requirements. The trust relationship is pivotal to our superannuation
system, has shaped its development to date, and has been its fundamental and
defining characteristic. The Committee notes, however, the Budget 1996
announcement that retirement savings accounts are to be set up outside the
requirements of trust law.
Broader objectives
7.2 Social investment has been described elsewhere in this report as
investment which may involve accepting a higher risk or lower return to
achieve a socially desirable goal. This is in contrast to economically targeted
investment (ETI) where investment at a competitive rate of return will also
provide desirable identified economic benefits. It is also being used in contrast
to socially responsible investment, which is investment within the present
regulatory environment which might also meet socially desirable goals.
7.3 The furtherance of broader objectives, or socially responsible investment
as it has been referred to elsewhere in this report, is not necessarily
incompatible with trustees' legal and fiduciary obligations. In a discussion of
the breadth of trustees' duties, Mr Ian Court, President of the Australian
Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST), told the Committee:
There is never a simple answer ... it is a question of balance. The
key thing that was picked up in the SIS legislation ... was adopting
the modem portfolio approach. Under the old trust legislation, each
investment had to be looked at on its own merits. Under the SIS
approach, diversification is the key. In other words, if you have got
a spread of investment - short-term investments, long-term
investments, growth investments, defensive low-risk investments -
which produces an overall risk in return profile which meets your
trustee responsibilities, that is the key to it. Within that, those
trustees that are a bit more energetic - and I use that word because I
think this comes down to it and some managers can be quite lazy -
if they are prepared to spend the time and put the work into it, they
can construct their portfolio to produce some other benefits as well


without compromising that first benefit [ie maximising returns for
the members] and that is very important.1
7.4 The furtherance of broader objectives happens in practice. Mr Court also
told that Committee of a large industry fund which has a provision in its
investment policy statement that, all things being equal in terms of returns and
risks, trustees will prefer a project or investment 'which has job creation
benefits or maximises job creation'.2 The fund was a significant investor in the
building industry in accordance with that policy. Mr Court said:
[W]e have to be careful that by doing that we are not asking our
members to sacrifice returns because our primary responsibility or
only responsibility is to those returns. But within that there are
ways in which you can achieve both - good returns and maximise
jobs.3
7.5 ASFA described what it believes has been an 'overly cautious' approach
to investment by some trustees and their investment managers, stemming at
least in part from a false perception of 'prudence'. ASFA referred to this as
'reckless conservatism'.4
7.6 ASFA pointed out that there are strong technical reasons which should
prompt superannuation trustees to consider investing in development capital,
infrastructure and other types of non-traded asset classes. It will become harder
over the next decade for super funds to make significant gains in the highly
efficient markets in which they operate. Thus alternative asset classes that are
suitable for super funds in a risk-return trade-off need to be identified.5 Others
also noted that the increasing efficiency of the market would force trustees and
their investment managers to range more broadly in developing appropriate
investment strategies.6
Economically targeted investment (ETI)
7.7 The Committee was told that some industry funds have shown an interest
in ETIs, and have reported positive feedback from members who are keen that
their investment have a positive social side as well as being a good investment.
1 Evidence, pSl 15.
2 Evidence, pS 114.
3 Evidence, pSl 14.
4 Submission SI-11, pi.
5 Submission SI-11, p 1.
6 See, for example, Evidence (Mr Costello), pS35; (Mr Campbell), pS57.


Within a diversified portfolio, a small percentage of it may be invested in this
way in ETIs.7
7.8 The Committee was told that relatively little of this type of investment
has occurred, however, even in the United States, in part because it has been
thought that ETIs are incompatible with the fiduciary obligations that apply
under ERISA, in addition to the complexity that is usually associated with
evaluation of ETI options. An ETI clearing house arrangement was proposed to
overcome these difficulties by providing the information necessary for the
evaluation of an investment, although it was not proposed that it would obviate
the need for trustees to make their own inquiries and judgements.8
Socially responsible investment
7.9 It was suggested to the Committee that fund members could make their
views on desirable kinds of investment known to their trustee representatives. It
was recognised, however, that trustees were primarily bound to act according to
their legal and fiduciary duties, and seeking the best return for the members
would not necessarily result in the kind of investment otherwise sought by the
members.9
7.10 Trustees are required to make decisions in which the strict risk/retum
analysis and their duties under the law leave little room for the consideration of
objectives other than enhancing their members' financial interests. Funds may
demonstrate preferences in their investing, to the extent that returns are not
compromised.10 In the Australian context, there is little in the way of social
investment beyond this, because of the conflict with trustees' legal and
fiduciary obligations. The Committee was told that at least one fund had
considered the issues of ethical and environmental investment, but had 'been
unable to come up with a screen on our investment managers which could be
applied effectively and which would not compromise returns'.11
7.11 This kind of social investment is more common in the United States,
although no concrete and detailed examples were given. A structure was
described where 'traditional financial equity analysts' carry out a traditional
financial analysis, identifying a list of equities for purchase. A second team
7 Evidence (Dr Anderson), pS28.
8 'Yours, Mine or Ours?' Is There a Case for Directed Superannuation Investment? Parliamentary
Research Service Research Paper No 32 1994/1995, paras 13.1.2-3.
9 Evidence (Committee members, AIST representatives), ppS 115-16.
10 Evidence (Mr Court), pS 114.
11 Evidence (Mr Court), pS 114.


which has expertise in various social issues, perhaps involving churches,
environmental groups and others, 'put[s] a screen over that and sift[s] out the
ones that perform best by criteria which have been given to them by their
investors'.12
7.12 The Committee was warned that such an approach alone might not have
much impact on corporate behaviour despite its potential to make a fund
member 'feel good':
You can feel good by not investing in tobacco but, if you wanted to
effect some outcome because you had a view about tobacco, you
would probably need to look at corporate governance as well. It
was pointed out to me that in the US the twin approach of having
some say through voting shares as a shareholder and having your
social objectives screened gives you the best chance of whatever
outcome you are after.13
7.13 Although Australian markets have not yet developed the maturity of
American markets, an increasing breadth and depth will evolve as super funds
and investment managers seek out new areas of activity. The introduction of
increased investor choice will hasten this development.
7.14 Once fund members are being encouraged to more actively consider the
kinds of investments they want to be involved in, it is to be expected that funds
will seek to differentiate their products. One way of doing this will be to focus
on particular areas of investment. Provided other regulatory requirements are
met, the Committee considers this an entirely feasible approach and would
expect to see this kind of trend emerging in the near future. This is what it
would describe as socially responsible investment. In these circumstances, the
Committee sees little need for government intervention at this point.
Informed choices
7.15 Fund members will need information to assist in making their long term
investment decisions. They will need to be educated generally, so that they are
aware of the primary purpose of superannuation saving, and they will need to
be educated about the kinds of investment that are possible within the
regulatory framework. In particular, they will need to understand the necessary
long term perspective.
12 Evidence (Mr Court), pS 116.
13 Evidence (Mr Court), pSl 16.


7.16 To the lay person, superannuation is already a difficult issue to
understand. This needs to be kept in mind in future education and information
campaigns. If people feel hopelessly overwhelmed by the information and
choices available to them, a level of mistrust about the system generally may
develop, and this would not be helpful.
7.17 Already funds are required to provide certain information to their
members. To require them to provide more detailed information has cost
implications, although members faced with choices about investments will need
to be in a position to make informed decisions. The Committee views the
publication of an investment strategy to be a useful step in promoting informed
investing. Fund members should also be encouraged to engage in dialogue with
trustees as a means of enhancing the representative nature of trusteeship.
A national strategy to harness super savings
7.18 A view was put to the Committee that there was a need to develop a
'conscious national strategy' to take advantage of the asset of super funds to
determine our social and economic future. The recent pattern of decline in
Australian public investment, resulting from both reduced public investment
and a trend towards privatisation, formed the backdrop against which it was
said that there was a need to harness for social and economic purposes the
potential of savings in the form of superannuation.14
7.19 To maximise the use of super funds in this way, it was said there would
need to be a representative community input to decisions regarding the use of
the funds. Government, industry and unions should also be represented at the
decision-making level, it was argued. What was also required to make such a
scheme operate satisfactorily, even if its application were limited to only a
small portion of the aggregate of super savings, was 'a strong level of
government guarantee and government protection':
If the government not only underwrites or guarantees the outcomes
and the safety of such investments but also considers the
possibility of a top-up rate to ensure the attractiveness of the
return, then that would add to the saleability of the proposition ...
Alternatively, it could be dealt with by preferred tax treatment...15
7.20 Two methods of reconciling this approach with trustees' current
obligation to maximise returns for the beneficiaries were proposed: one was to
14 Evidence (Mr Michael Salvaris), ppS97-8.
15 Evidence (Mr Salvaris), pS99.


change the law and the other was to change the perception of the beneficiaries
so that this kind of investment was something that they would want.16
7.21 Notwithstanding a certain allure in this proposal, the Committee is
unable to foresee sufficient parliamentary will to revise our super system in this
way. This is particularly so given the developments in investment patterns and
in financial markets that the Committee has identified and described throughout
this report. It also reflects a firm view that the key purpose of superannuation
savings is to provide retirement income: the assets of super funds should not be
regarded as a public asset. To the extent that retirement incomes can be self-
funded, thereby reducing the pension burden for future taxpayers, and to the
extent that increased domestic saving leads to higher levels of domestic
investment, all Australians will benefit from the system presently in place.
7.22 In the Committee's view, it is also highly unlikely that future
governments would be inclined to underwrite such a scheme. With the growth
in super savings that has been witnessed over recent years and that is forecast to
continue, this would amount to a very significant financial commitment indeed.
Government involvement in such a way would be at odds with the general
nature of the Australian super scheme, in so far as it has been left to the private
sector to invest and manage super monies.
7.23 If a government in the future wished superannuation investment to
promote some objective beyond the benefit of its members, then it would need
to give consideration to how it might do this - whether by regulation or
incentive, for example. It would also need to give consideration to how the
appropriate standards of behaviour on the part of trustees might be judged, and
to the effect of consequent leakage from the superannuation system.
Conclusion
7.24 Australia's superannuation system is rapidly growing, dynamic and
complex. The Committee has found that the investment sector reflects these
characteristics, and is generally developing a maturity and sophistication in
accordance with its proper responsibilities. One measure of the significance of
superannuation investment is the holding in equities of some 25 per cent of the
total market capitalisation of the Australian Stock Exchange.
7.25 There are signs that the existing structures of the superannuation system
may be changed so as to have an impact on the investment sector, notably with
16 Evidence (Mr Salvaris), pS99.


the introduction of Retirement Savings Accounts without trust structures. The
Committee considers there is a need for Parliamentary oversight of such
changes.
The Committee recommends that a review
policies and practices be undertaken by this Commi
vestment
tree years time.
44
Senator John Watson
Chair




APPENDIX A
CONDUCT OF THE INQUIRY
CONDUCT OF THE INQUIRY
1 The terms of reference for this inquiry were first referred to the Committee in
November 1995.1 Following the federal election in March 1996, and the re-
establishment of the Committee, the terms of reference were re-adopted.2
2 The Committee advertised nationally for submissions and received 25
written submissions. A list of written submission received by the Committee
appears at Appendix B.
3 Two public hearings were held; in Sydney on 28 August 1996 and in
Melbourne on 5 September 1996. A list of witnesses who appeared before
the Committee appears at Appendix C.
4 The federal election and the commencement of the 38th Parliament occurred
during the course of the Committee's inquiry into this matter, although the
consideration of written and oral submissions, and the preparation of this
report, has taken place entirely during the 38th Parliament.
1 Journals of the Senate, No 208, 29 November 1995, p 4236.
Journals of the Senate, No 14, 29 May 1996, p 255, and see also Journals of the Senate, No 20, 20 June
1996, p352.




APPENDIX B
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS




APPENDIX C
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
LIST OF WITNESSES A T PUBLIC HEARINGS
Sydney, 28 August 1996
Dr Michaela Anderson, Director, Policy and Research, Association of Superannuation Funds
of Australia Limited
Mr Robert Bladier, Consultant Strategic Policy, Australian Stock Exchange
Mr Michael Callaghan, First Assistant Secretary, Financial Institutions Division, Department
of the Treasury
Mr Michael Costello, Deputy Managing Director, Strategy, Australian Stock Exchange
Dr Jack Gray, Member, Investment Committee, Association of Superannuation Funds of
Australia
Mr Geoffrey Miller, Executive Officer, Legislative Services, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Darrel Nolan, Assistant Commissioner, Legislative Services, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Ian Robinson, Assistant Secretary, Superannuation Policy Branch, Department of the
Treasury
Mr Michael Roche, Economic Policy Consultant, Australian Stock Exchange
Mr Simon Shields, Honorary Chairman, Investment Committee, Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia
Melbourne 5 September 1996
Mr Robert Beaumont, Program Coordinator, Victorian Employers Chamber of Commerce
and Industry
Mr David Campbell, Director, Infrastructure Finance, Fay, Richwhite Australia Limited
Mr Ian Court, President, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
Mr Christopher Durack, Research Officer, Life, Investment and Superannuation Association
Mr Paul Francis, Member, Superannuation Practice Committee, Institute of Actuaries of
Australia


Mr Colin Grenfell, Member, Superannuation Practice Committee, and Member, Retirement
Income Policy Committee, Institute of Actuaries
Mr Con Hristodoulidis, Senior Economist, Victorian Employers Chamber of Commerce and
Industry
Mr John Maroney, Executive Director, Life Insurance and Superannuation Association
Dr Diana Olsberg, Executive Director, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
Mr Michael Salvaris, Senior Research Fellow, Centre of Urban and Social Research,
Swinburne University of Technology
Mr Christopher Siddons, General Manager, Small Business Victoria
Mr Raymond Stevens, Member, Retirement Incomes Policy Committee, Institute of Actuaries


APPENDIX D
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in Twenty-
one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992) Interim
Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super - the
Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee Bills
(June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the Financial
System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and Social
Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory Levy
(May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees, Charges and
Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry Overview
(June 1993)


Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision Bills
(October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for the
Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes
System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing (May
1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I (August
1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee - Its
Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated Pensions
(June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and Broken
Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)


Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996 -
Schedule 1




APPENDIX E
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
LIST OF ABBREVIA TIONS
ACTU
AIST
ASFA
ASX
ATO
DIST
DSS
LISA
MPT
SI
SIS
SME
SMHL
sub
The Committee
UCCC
Australian Council of Trade Unions
Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
The Association of Superannuation Funds in
Australia Ltd
The Australian Stock Exchange Limited
Australian Taxation Office
Department of Industry, Science and Tourism
Department of Social Security
The Life Investment and Superannuation Association
of Australia Inc
modem portfolio theory
Super investment (the shorthand title of this inquiry)
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
Small and medium size enterprise
Super Members' Home Loans scheme
submission
The Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Uniform Consumer Credit Code




APPENDIX F
GRAPHS
GRAPHS


'fflLC'*/








THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No 390 of 1996
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
