

Privilege Matter Involving
Mr Kevin Lindeberg
and Mr Des O’Neill
Eleventh Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
December 1993




Privilege Matter Involving
Mr Kevin Lindeberg
and Mr Des O’Neill
Eleventh Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
December 1993


© Commonwealth of Australia 1993
ISBN 0 642 20066 1
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members
Secretariat Staff:
Acting Secretary:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Ms Krista Gerrard
Mr Glenn Hunter
Ms Cath Drinkwater
Address:
Telephone:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
(06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




CONTENTS
Contents
CONTENTS
Page
Members of the Committee. i
Contents. iii
Chapters:
1. Mr Kevin Lindeberg . 1
2. Mr Des O'Neill. 3
3. Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd. 5
4. Conclusion . 7
Appendices:
A. Mr Lindeberg's letter dated 20 November 1993 . 9
B. Rules of Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd . . 17
C. Mr O'Neill's letter dated 3 December 1993 . 55
D. Committee's letter dated 1 December 1993 . 59
E. Mr Lee's letter dated 15 December 1993 . 61




CHAPTER 1
Mr Kevin Lindeberg
Mr Kevin Lindeberg
1.1 On 20 November 1993, Mr Kevin Lindeberg wrote to the Senate
Select Committee on Superannuation regarding a possible matter of
privilege involving himself and the Queensland Professional Credit Union
(the Credit Union). A copy of the letter, with attachments, is attached and
marked "A".
1.2 Mr Lindeberg has alleged that he and his wife have been subject to
discriminatory behaviour by the Queensland Professional Credit Union
Board, as a result of his giving of evidence to the Senate Select Committee
on Superannuation in Brisbane on 29 April 1993 in relation to its inquiry
into the operations of the Queensland Professional Officers' Association
Superannuation Fund (QPOASF). The Queensland Professional Credit
Union is a body associated with the Queensland Professional Officers'
Association Superannuation Fund.
1.3 The alleged discriminatory behaviour is the attempt by the Board to
terminate Mr and Mrs Lindeberg's membership of the Credit Union on the
ground of ineligibility.
1.4 Mr Lindeberg became entitled to be a member of the Credit Union
when he was an employee of the Queensland Professional Officers'
Association (QPOA). He ceased to be an employee of the QPOA in
August 1990 when he was dismissed.
1.5 Mr Lindeberg received a letter dated 16 November 1993, from the
Credit Union, that informed him that he was no longer eligible for
membership, and requested that he complete forms to terminate his
membership.
1.6 Although he is no longer an employee, Mr Lindeberg has submitted
that he remains eligible for membership of the Credit Union at the
discretion of the Board. The basis for his claim is Rule 7(i)(b)l(iii) which
states:


states:
Shareholding membership may be granted to the following:
(iii) Members of the Society who were formerly qualified but ceased
to be eligible for membership subject to the approval of the
Board.
1.7 A copy of the Rules of the Queensland Professional Credit Union
Ltd are attached and marked "B". Mr Lindeberg has stated in his letter of
20 November 1993 that he is aware of other people in his position who
continue to enjoy membership.


CHAPTER 2
Mr Des O'Neill
Mr Des O'Neill
2.1 On 3 December 1993, Mr Des O'Neill wrote to the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation regarding a possible privilege matter
involving himself and the Queensland Professional Credit Union. A copy of
the letter, with attachments, is attached and marked "C".
2.2 Mr O'Neill has alleged that the Queensland Professional Credit
Union ('the Credit Union) has refused to accept his application for
membership as a direct consequence of his giving evidence at a hearing of
the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation.
2.3 Attached to Mr O'Neill's letter, marked "C", is a letter to Mr O'Neill
from the Queensland Office of Financial Supervision advising him that the
refusal by the Credit Union to grant him membership had been considered
and no breach of the Financial Institutions Legislation had been established.




CHAPTER 3
Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd
Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd
3.1 On 1 December 1993, the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation wrote Mr CA Lee, Chairman of the Queensland
Professional Credit Union Ltd, informing him of the allegations that had
been made by Mr Lindeberg and seeking a response generally, and in
relation to specific issues. A copy of the letter is attached and marked "D".
3.2 On 15 December 1993, Mr Lee wrote to the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation expressing surprise at Mr Lindeberg's
allegations and stating that it was not the case that Mr Lindeberg's giving
evidence to the Committee had resulted in his exclusion from the Credit
Union. A copy of this letter is attached and marked "E".
3.3 Mr Lee has stated that a number of matters had been referred to
various authorities at the instigation of Mr Lindeberg, for example, a special
general meeting of the Credit Union, submissions to the EARC, CJC, Police,
Cooke and the Superannuation Committee's inquiry, and 'no findings were
made adverse to the Credit Union'.
3.4 In response to a request by the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for information regarding Board's policy on the application
of Rule 7(i)(b)l(iii), Mr Lee stated that 'the Board does review membership
eligibility and there have been three instances in the past where the Rule in
question has been enforced'. No additional information about the Board's
policy on this Rule was supplied.
3.5 Mr Lee also stated that 'Mr Lindeberg has suffered no detriment as
he is eligible to apply for membership of a number of other Queensland
Credit Unions'.




CHAPTER 4
Conclusion
4.1 The Senate Select Committee on Superannuation considers that Mr
Lindeberg and Mr O'Neill may have been subjected to penalty in respect to
evidence given to its inquiry into the operations of the Queensland
Professional Officers' Association Superannuation Fund and, therefore,
pursuant to the Privilege Resolution of the Senate of 25 February 1988, has
resolved to report these facts and this conclusion to the Senate.
Conclusion




APPENDIX A:
MR LINDEBERG’S LETTER
DATED 20 NOVEMBER 1993
Mi Lindeberg's Letter Dated 20 November 1993
Kevin Lindeberg
12 Winster Court
ALEXANDRA BILLS Q 4l6l
20 November 1993
Mr Richard Gilbert
Secretary
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Dear Mr Gilbert
RE: QUEENSLAND PROFESSIONAL OFFICERS ASSOCIATION SUPERANNUATION
FUND (QPOASF)
I wish to lodge an official grievance with the Senate in respect
of a discriminatory act against my wife and myself at the hands of
the Queensland Professional Credit Onion Board following the sworn
evidence I gave to your Committee in Parliament House Brisbane on
29 April 199) on the above superannuation fund.
Please find enclosed:
(a) Copy of letter from Board Chairman Mr Cec Lee, dated 16
November, 1993 attempting to terminate our membership on
the grounds of ineligibility;
(b) Copy of my letter, dated 20 November 1993, to Mr Lee in
reply;
(c) Copy of a series of motions I attempted to have debated at
the October 1993 credit union AGM. The motions were supplied
in time for circulation to the entire list of shareholders
but the Board, following legal advice, ruled that they were
not proper motions, and they were not heard.
I am still eligible for membership at the Board’s discretion. Under
the rules this is therefore an act of expulsion, and I believe is
clearly linked to evidence I gave to the Senate Select Committee, as veil
as my submissions in reply.
I am aware of other people in my position who continue to enjoy member-
ship at the Board’s discretion, and I have little doubt whatsoever that
there are many others whom I do not know.
You will note that Mr Des O'Neill seconded the motions (c). He
deposited monies with the credit union, received a membership number
and then seconded the notice of motions. Shortly afterwards the Board
rejected his application without explanation. I raised the natter at
the 1993 AGM with Mr Lee but he would not explain the Board's reasons,
notwithstanding the rules state no explanation has to be given.
As you are aware Mr O'Neill and I gave evidence to your Committee
- and supplied submissions - which touched on activities by Messrs
Lee and Rutherford affecting the superannuation fund.
I gave my evidence in the honest belief that it would assist in establish-
ing the truth of what occurred within the ^FCA, credit union and to t.te
QPCAZF recantin' the extraor :inary withdrawal s and otr.er related mat: *;
e* 3ucr.ar.an's extraordinary payout, misleading evidence etc. Yc u r
report, I believe, sustains concerns held by rar.y people trat certain


ko a whistleblower oy family has already suffered the indignity
of my 6uriden dismissal from the union after 6 years as its senior
organiser shortly after I involved the Queensland Fraud Squad in
the prima facie rorted credit union directorship ballot of 1989*
I am still unemployed. I am still fighting to clear ay name of the
contrived charges used by Mr Martindale to dismiss ae and ruin ay
professional reputation as an industrial relations practitioner.
One charge - the Peter Coyne Case/Shredding of the Heiner Inquiry
Documents and Tapes - was touched on in sworn evidence on 29 April
1993.
I believe this act of the credit union Board is clearly a reprisal
to evidence I gave to your Committee, and my recent actions of
attempting to inform the shareholders about the QPOASF and its
relationship with the credit union Board.
Whilst Mr O'Neill must speak for himself, I believe that he has
been treated in like manner by the credit union Board.
Tour Committee provided an indispensible and almost last-resort
forum in which these matters of real public interest could be
aired and pursued. If nothing else, witnesses who appear before
Senate Select Committees prepared to give sworn evidence and
assist Committees in their work on behalf of the Australian
community should be able to do so without fear of intimidation
or reprisal.
Accordingly I request that
and tak^rhatever action it
the Senate investigate this grievance
deems necessary or appropriate.


Kevin Lindeberg
12 Winster Court
ALEXANDRA HILLS Q 4l6l
20 November 1993
Mr C A Lee
Chairman
Queensland Professional Credit Union Limited
Capital Hill
85 George Street
BRISBANE Q 4000
Dear Mr Lee
I am in receipt of your letter dated 1? November 1993.
Under the society's rules (Membership Eligibility) Rule 7(i)b(iii)
I am eligible for membership.
That rule states:
"Members of the Society who were formally qualified but ceased
to be eligible for membership subject to the approval of the
Board."
Under Rule 7(i)b(vi) my wife remains eligible also.
I have enjoyed continuous society m$maership since joining around
July 1984, and after my disnisssrtf~mronr the Queensland Professional
Officers Association, Union ofcvEMioyees, in August 1990.
I have no intention of resri^rn^g my membership. I have never
expressed a desire to do lroj%ith any society officer.
I must presume that the Board understands the society's own rules
and therefore this sudden decision must be seen for what it is:
an expulsion. It is therefore discriminatory at best, or worse
against the background of events on the the public record.
I found your letter most illuminating and confirming in content as
I had heard very disturbing outside gossip several days be fore
receiving your official "private" Board communication of your
intention to expel me.
Appropri^e
bodies 6hall be
informed of these matters.


16 November 1993
Head Offke:
85 George Street
Brisbane
Postal Address:
POBo* 12140
Brisbane
Elizabeth Street. 4002
Branch Office:
til floor (P1a;a level)
Rowes Arcade
235 Edward Street
Brisbane
Telephone: (07) 221 6444
free Call: (008) 1 72 054
facsimile: (07) 221 4631
Mr & Mrs Kevin Llndeberg
12 WLnster Court
ALEXANDRA HILLS QLD 4161
Dear Mr & Mrs Llndeberg
RE: YOUR MEMBERSHIP NUMBERS 64435 & 67335
Recently the Board had occasion to review your Membership of the Credit
Union and in terms of the Rules, you are HQdonger eligible for Membership.
Would you please sign the attached Termination of Membership forms and
return them to our Head Office. failure to terminate your Membership
with the Credit Union within 14-d^^'wlll result in the automatic closure of
your accounts.
You should be aware that you need to make alternate arrangements for any
regular payments originating from your savings accounts.
Yours faithfully
C A LEE
CHAIRMAN
CAL:KP
Enel.


Termination of
Membership
H««d Oflkr
15 Ctwgt Su«*t
Bmturw
Poitjl Addrru:
POBoi 12 WO
Eliiltxth St/Mt 400;
•ranch OWca
1 n floor (Hare lf»*0
•own Arcade
2J5 tdward Surer
Telephone: (07) 221 MAC
I/We wish to resign from membership with the Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd., and to obtain a refund of my Share Caprtal
(HO 00) with the balance of my/our savings account and interest accrued thereon, so as to dose my/our account with the Credit Union
and terminate membership.


Termination of
Membership
H«*d OWk«:
»5 Ooty* Sl/frM
PoiUl Addr*u:
PO Bo* 12140
tlujtxlh St/«( 4002
J/»nch Officr
1 it floor (fU2i L«v»0
down A/ttdt
TJSWrtird Strut
T*l«phon«: (07) 271 4444
I/We wish to resign from membership with the Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd., and to obtain a refund of my Share Capital
(J10 00) with the balance of my/our savings account and interest accrued thereon, so as to close my/our account with the Credit Union
and terminate membership.


The Secretary
Queensland Professional Credit Union
Capital Hill
85 George Street
BRISBANE Q »QOO
Dear Sir/Madaa
RE: NOTICE Of MOTIONS TOR 28 OCTOBER 1993 AOM
In accordance with the notification the following notice of motions
ia submitted for debate at the AOM to be held on Thursday 20 October 199J:
1. "That the Returning Officer for ballot of directors no longer be
any director or employee of the credit union, and that the
Returning Officer be an appropriately qualified independent outside
person, and that the QPCU Limited Constitution be altered
accordingly to give effect to the change,"
2. "That in light of evidence given at Parliament House Brisbane on
29/V93 and 31/5/93 to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
(SSCS) in its investigation into extraordinary withdrawals from
the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation
Fund (QPOAST) on 30/1/198? which breached the Trust Dead and caused
a significant financial detriment to the Fund, this meeting of
QPCU shareholders calls on the Chairman of Directors, a trustee of
the QPOASF at the time the breach occurred, to stand down from the
QPCU Board in the interest of the QPCU’s public and financial
standing."
3. "That in light of evidence given at Parliament House Brisbane on
29/V93 and 3V5/93 to the SSCS in its investigation into
extraordinary withdrawals from the QPOASF on 20/1/87, and evidence
from National Mutual Life that the NHL Benefit Payment Request forts
indicated that the four people had "resigned their employment" to
access monies, this meeting of shareholders calls on Mr Cordon
Rutherford, General Manager and QPCU Director, to fully explain
his actions being one of the aforementioned people, againat the feet
that he never ceased bis employment with the credit union at the
said date and remained employed throughout.”
. "That thia meeting of shareholders calls on each Director to infora
the meeting whether any action of his own volition has been taken
to satisfy himself of the truth of the matter concerning the con-
tradictory evidence given to the SSCS at Parliament House by
QPCU Director and General Manager Mr Rutherford and National Mutual
Life in accessing superannuation monies. If bo action haa been taken
this meeting seeks an explanation as to the reasons why."
5. "That this meeting of shareholders calls on each Director to state
whether he waa aware or informed that the Cooke Commission of Inquiry
while investigating the QPOA had subpoened QPOASF documentation froa
National Mutual Life to investigate** the extraordinary withdrawals
from the Fund before the QPCU Board authorised the expenditure of
^92,000 of credit union funds at the Inquiry."
6. "That this meeting of shareholders cslls for an explanation concerting
the appearance of QPCU Directors Lee and Rutherford at the Senate
Hearing in Parliament House Brisbane on 31 1993:
(i) why did they send statements on 29/V93 ratner than
attend personally when first requested;
(it; did the pay for their legal representation, and if
ao, w.nai was the cost to the credit u.nio^:
(ill) if the credit union paio the fees,
Motions roved tv ■ Kevin Lmoeberg
oasis «>s it




APPENDIX B:
OF THE QUEENSLAND
PROFESSIONAL CREDIT UNION LTD
RuIes ofthe Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd
RULE 1.
NAME OF SOCIETY
The name of the Society is:
"Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd"
RULE 2. REGISTERED OFFICE
The address of the Registered Office of the Society is:
"85 George Street, Brisbane"
The Board shall have the power from time to time to change the situation of the
Registered Office, and, in the event of a proposed change, notice thereof shall be
sent to the SSA in the form required by the Code.


RULE 3.
INTERPRETATION
In these Rules, unless the context otherwise indicates or requires, the following
terms shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them:
(a) "The Society" means the Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd.
(b) "The Code* means the Financial Institutions Code, as modified by any
exemption or declaration given or made by the relevant SSA for the
time being in force and applicable to the Society and includes, where
the context allows all other provisions of the Financial Institutions
Legislation.
(c) ‘The Seal* means the Common Seal of the Society.
(d) "SSA" means the Queensland Office of Financial Supervision or such
other State Supervisory Authority as shall from time to time supervise
the Society.
(e) "Board of Directors" or "Board* or "Directors" means the Board of
Directors for the time being of the Society or a majority of them.
(f) "Member" means a Member of the Society.
(g) "Special Resolution" means a resolution carried in accordance with
Section 255 of the Code.
(h) "In Writing" or "Written" includes printing, typing or other modes of
representing or reproducing words in a visible form.
(i) "Month" means a calendar month.
(j) "Standards" means the Standards made under Section 28 of the
AFIC Code.
(k) "Loan" includes continuing credit arrangement.
Words importing the singular number include the plural number; and words
importing the masculine gender include all genders and vice versa.
Headings are for guidance only.


RULE 4.
OBJECTS
The objects of the Society shall be the rendering of services to and promoting the
economic or social interest of its Members, particularly in relation to the
undermentioned objects:
(a) To raise funds by subscription, deposit or otherwise, as
authorised by the Code; and
(b) To apply those funds, subject to the Code and these Rules, in
providing financial accommodation to Members and in such
other ways as are authorised by the Code and these Rules;
and
(c) To encourage savings among Members; and
(d) To promote co-operative enterprise, and to provide programs
and services to its Members, to assist its Members to meet
their financial needs.


RULE 5.
POWERS
(a) The Society shall have the legal capacity of a natural person, subject to
Section 118 of the Code.
(b) Without limiting the generality thereof, the Society shall have the power to:
(i) Raise money for any of its objects, on loan or by negotiation of
Promissory Notes or prescribed Bills of Exchange: and
(ii) Receive money on deposit; and
(iii) To make and enter into arrangements for the provision of insurance; and
(iv) To provide counselling and other services for Members to assist them
in the proper management of their finances; and
(v) Acquire shares in an association or a special services provider by
purchase or otherwise; and
(vi) Hold a subsidiary, but only if approved of by the SSA; and
(vfi) Act as Trustee; and
(viii) Obtain registration as a foreign Society under the Financial Institutions
Legislation of another particular State; and
(ix) Acquire by purchase, lease, donation, devise, bequest, or otherwise
any real or personal property and sell, exchange, lease, assign, transfer
or surrender to the Crown any such property; and
(x) Do anything else that it is authorised to do by the Financial Institutions
Legislation or these Rules.
RULE 6. CAPITAL
The capital of the Society shall be raised by the issue of shares of a nominal value
of two dollars ($2.00) each and in such other ways as the Board shall from time to
time determine in accordance with the Standards. Each shareholding Member
shall hold five (5) shares only Shares shall be all of one class, withdrawable,
ranking equally and wth no contingent liability attached thereto.


RULE 7. MEMBERSHIP
Rule 7 (I) * Membership Eligibility
(a) Types of Members:
There shall be two (2) types of Membership:
1. Shareholding Membership:
2. Depositing Membership.
A person shall not be admitted as a Member unless that person is within the
common bond set out below.
(b) Qualifications for Membership:
1. Shareholding Membership may be granted to the following:
(i) Financial members and employees of the Queensland Professional
Officers’ Association and its successors or assigns; and
(ii) Employees of the Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd. and any
Association or Special Services Provider of which the Society is a
member; and
(iii) Members of the Society who were formerly qualified but ceased to be
eligible for membership subject to the approval of the Board; and
(iv) The widow or widower of a Member of the Society; and
(v) The defacto partner of a Member of the Society; and
(vi) Persons over the age of 18 years who are Members of the immediate
family of Members (e.g. husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister or
parent); and
(vii) Persons not being members of the Queensland Professional Officers’
Association whose employment is related to Queensland Professional
Officers’ Association members on either an occupational, professional
or employer basis, such criteria being determined by the Board; and
(viii) Such other persons as are approved by the Board.
2. Depositing Membership may be granted to:
(i) Any persons, regardless of age, or any Body Corporate which is
approved by the Board;
(ii) Depositing Members shall not be entitled to borrow from the Society
but shall have all other rights as Members, except for minors who shall
not vote or hold office;
(iii) Any person who is a depositing Member may, subject to the approval
of the Board, apply at any time for shareholding membership;
(c) Transitional
All persons who had money deposited with the Society as at 30 June 1992
but were not otherwise Members shall be eligible for Membership
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.


Rule 7 (il) - Joint Membership
Membership of the Society may be Joint subject to the following:
(a) the register of Members must indicate that the Membership is Joint;
(b) the Joint Members will be entitled to choose the order in which they are
named in the register of Members, but failing any such choice, the Society
may enter the names in the order it considers appropriate;
(c) the Joint Member who is named first in the Society's register of Members, is
the primary Joint Member;
(d) subject to these Rules, but without affecting the right of a Member to obtain
a copy of the balance sheet from the Society on demand, a notice or other
document may be given or sent to the primary Joint Member;
(e) for the purpose of determining *
(i) who is qualified to vote on a resolution at a Meeting of the Society; and
(ii) the number or proportion of Members required to give effect to any
provision of the Financial Institutions Legislation, or the Society Rules;
Membership is taken to be solely that of the primary Joint Member.
Rule 7 (iii) - Corporate Membership
A Body Corporate may be a Member of the Society.
(a) A Body Corporate that is a Member of the Society may, by written notice
given to the Society, appoint an individual to represent it at Meetings of
Members of the Society.
(b) A person appointed under (a) above is entitled*
(i) to receive notice of all Meetings of Members in the same way as a
Member of the Society; and
(ii) to exercise the same rights of voting as a Member of the Society.
(c) A person appointed under (a) above is eligible to be elected as a Director of
the Society if the Appointee holds qualifications required for holding office as
a Director.
Rule 7 (iv) * Register of Members
The Society shall keep a Register of Members in accordance with the Code and
Regulations.
An entry in the Register of Members may be made so as to indicate that the shares
or deposits are held by a Member in trust for another person, club, society or other
unincorporated association where that person notifies the Society of that fact.
Such an entry shall contain the words as Trustee a*ter the name of the member.


RULE &
MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION & ADMISSION CHARGE
Application for Membership shall be made in writing, on the prescribed form,
accompanied by such sum as the Board decides from time to time as an
admission charge.
RULE 9. MEMBERSHIP APPROVAL
No applicant shall be deemed to be a Member until the application has been
approved and accepted by the Board, and in the case of Shareholding Members,
the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for the purchase of five (5) two dollar ($2.00)
shares, has been paid in full.
An application for Depositing Membership shall not be approved unless the deposit
is lodged with the application or within such time as the Board shall specify. If the
application for Membership is not approved, any money lodged with the application
shall be returned to the applicant.
RULE 10. MEMBERSHIP REJECTION
Subject to the Code, the Board or its Delegate shall have full power to reject or
defer any application for Membership of the applicant or any other person or body
corporate without being answerable to the Society.
RULE 11. MEMBERSHIP - EXERCISE RIGHTS
A shareholding Member shall have the right to make application to borrow
immediately he is admitted to Membership.
Subject to Rule 19 (f) (Postal Ballot Procedure), and Rule 41 (xxi) (Standing
Orders), all Members except for Minors, shall have the right to vote or hold office
immediately they are admitted to Membership.


RULE 12.
RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF MEMBERS
Rule 12 (I) - Cessation of Membership
A person shall cease to be a Member and shares (if any) shall be cancelled and
the value repaid -
(a) where a person fails to make a deposit within the time specified by the
Board in Rule 9 (Membership Approval).
(b) where that person is expelled from the Society in accordance with these
Rules;
(c) where that person is no longer eligible to be a Member of the Society,
subject to the decision of the Board in accordance with these Rules;
(d) where a Member’s depositing accounts have had a Nil balance and the
Member has not conducted any transactions on his depositing
accounts for a continuous period of one (1) year or such other period
as the Board from time to time shall determine and where there is no
outstanding loan;
(e) where a Member’s depositing accounts have had a minimal balance as
determined by the Board and the Member has not conducted any
transactions on his depositing accounts for a continuous period of one
(1) year or such other period as the Board from time to time shall
determine and where there is no outstanding loan;
(f) on their death, provided there are no loans outstanding or credit
balances in any deposit account;
(g) in the case of a corporation, where it is wound up;
(h) in the case of an individual, where the person becomes bankrupt and
the proper officer of the Society disclaims in accordance with the
provisions of the laws relating to bankruptcy; and
(i) where the person resigns from the Society.
Rule 12 (II) • Liability of Shareholders
The liability of shareholding Members in the Society to whom a loan has been
made shall be limited to the amount payable under or in relation to the loan.
Rule 12 (III) • Estates of Deceased Members and Members whose estates have
been sequestrated or assigned
The rights and liabilities of estates of deceased Members and Members whose
estates have been sequestrated or assigned are set out in the Code and
Regulations.


RULE 13.
TRANSFER OF SHARES
A share may not be sold or transferred.
RULE 14.
SALE OF SHARES
Shares shall not be quoted for sale or purchase at any Stock Exchange or in any
public manner whatsoever.
(i) A Member may be expelled from the Society by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of
Members of the Society assembled in a Special General Meeting for the
violation of any of these Rules. Provided that no Member shall be expelled
unless upon a charge made in writing to the Secretary by way of motion
calling for the expulsion of such Member signed by three (3) Members and
clearly setting forth the rule and violation thereof, and provided further that
written notification of the charge or charges shall be posted by the Secretary
to the Member at least twenty-one (21) days before the Special General
Meeting at which the question of expulsion is to be determined. Any
Member whose expulsion has been duly moved in accordance with this rule
shall be entitled to attend at the Special General Meeting and to cross
examine the Members making the charge and to call evidence in on their
own behalf.
(ii) The Board at its discretion may declare the shares (if any) of such Member
forfeited and proceed to dispose of the shares.The Board shall pay to such
Member the proceeds of the forfeited shares, less any amounts due or
owing to the Society and the cost of disposing of such shares.
(iii) Any Member whose shares have been forfeited shall continue liable to the
Society for any amounts due and owing by him to the Society and the same
may be recovered as a debt in any Court of competent jurisdiction.
RULE 16. ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES
If any dispute under the Rules between the Society and any of its Members or a
person claiming by or through a Member arises, it is to be referred to the Board
and if the Board cannot amicably settle the dispute, it shall be referred to the next
Annual General Meeting for decision.
RULE 15.
FYPFI 1 FH MEMBERS


RULE 17.
CHARGES
The Board may from time to time determine the charges payable by a Member to
the Society in connection with any service provided by or on behalf of the Society
to the Member or to any other person at the request of the Member.
Such charges may include, but shall not be limited to, charges relating to:
(a) any service rendered in connection with the making, maintaining,
varying or discharging of any loan;
(b) the production at any place of any document of title or other document
relating to the Member’s property mortgaged to the Society and in its
custody or control;
(c) the supply of a copy of any document of title, security document or of
any information contained therein;
(d) the supply of any information or document relating to a Member’s
deposits with the Society or to his Membership of the Society;
(e) all outgoings incurred by or on behalf of the Society in relation to a
Member including all stamp duty, government and statutory charges;
(f) provision of a copy of the Society’s Rules;
(g) any other service which is incidental to an account of the Member or
any transaction conducted on an account.
Any charges payable by a Member pursuant to this rule (together with any other
debt howsoever incurred) shall be a debt due by the Member to the Society and if
unpaid, the Society may charge the shares or the credit balance of any deposit
account of the Member. Any share in respect of which the whole of the capital has
been appropriated pursuant to the charge shall be forfeited. If the deposit account
has insufficient credit balance to pay the debt, the Member shall be personally
liable for the balance debt owing to the Society.
The Society shall notify Members annually of its right to charge the shares and the credit
balance of a deposit account in such form as the Board determines from time to time.
RULE 1a FINES
Subject to the provisions of the Code:
(a) In relation to any one infringement of the Rules of the Society by a member,
the Board may at its discretion impose a fine not exceeding five dollars
($5.00) provided that any one Member shall not at any one time be liable to
pay fines exceeding twenty dollars ($20.00) or the prescribed maximum amount.
(b) The Board shall have the power at its discretion to remit any fine or fines
imposed provided that the Member liable to pay same shall show good
cause for such remission.


RULE 19.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Rule 19 (a) - Method of Appointment and Number of Directors
The Board shall be elected by Postal Ballot.
The Board shall consist of seven (7) natural persons who shall be Members
of the Society.
Rule 19 (b) - Directors to Retire by Rotation and Period to Hold Office
Directors shall hold office for a term no longer than three (3) years;
Directors shall retire in rotations of 2 Directors one year, 2 Directors the next
year, and 3 Directors the following year;
Retiring Directors are eligible for re-election;
To ensure the continuation of rotations of 2, 2 and 3, the Board shall, by a
majority vote, adjust the rotations accordingly in appropriate, circumstances,
provided that the term of any Director does not exceed three (3) years.
Rule 19 (c) - Remuneration of Directors
The Members of the Board shall receive such fees, concessions and other
benefits as are approved from time to time by an Annual General Meeting.
Rule 19 (d) • Directors Declaration of Interest
A Director of the Society who is or becomes in any way (whether directly or
indirectly) interested in a Contract, or proposed Contract, with the Society,
must declare the nature and extent of the interest to the Board at the times
and in the manner required by Section 240 of the Financial Institutions Code.


Rule 19 (e) * Director Qualifications
(I) - Employee Directors
The Members of the Society may, elect one (1) Employee of the Society
nominated by the Board to be a Director of the Society. An Employee
Director of the Society is NOT eligible to be the Chairman of the Board.
(II) - Qualifications of Directors
Subject to Rule 19 (e) (0 (Employee Directors), a person is not eligible to be
a Director of the Society if the person -
(a) is a minor; or
(b) subject to Section 228 of the Corporations Law attains the age of 72
years; or
(c) is not a Member of the Society; or
(d) is an employee of the Society; or
(e) is bankrupt, has applied to take the benefit of any law for the relief of
bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounded with his or her creditors or
made an assignment of his or her remuneration for their benefit;
or
(f) is prohibited from being a Director of a body corporate by the
Corporations Law; or
(g) has been convicted in the last ten (10) years •
(i) of an indictable offence in relation to the promotion, formation or
management of a body corporate; or
(ii) of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty; or
(iii) of any prescribed offence


Rule 19 (f) - Election of Directors • Postal Ballot Procedure
The following procedures shall be followed for the conduct of a ballot to fill the
vacated offices:
(i) The Secretary shall be the Returning Officer. If the Returning Officer requires
assistance in the carrying out of any aspect of the duties set out herein or if
the Returning Officer is unable by reason of illness or other sufficient cause
to attend to such duties the Returning Officer may appoint one or more
Deputy Returning Officers (who shall not be Directors of the Society) to
carry out those duties;
(ii) For every election the Secretary shall prepare a Roll of Electors, which shall
consist of the names alphabetically arranged of persons duly registered as
Members up to but not including the date of closure of nominations;
(iii) The Roll of Electors shall be certified by the Chairman and when so certified
as being correct shall be conclusive evidence of the right of all those
Members to vote;
(iv) On or before such day as the Board may appoint (but at least ninety (90)
days before the Annual General Meeting) the Returning Officer shall give
notice to all Members of the intention to hold an election of Directors and
shall call for nominations for Candidates from each Member;
The notice shall specify:
(a) a day not less than fourteen (14) or more than twenty-eight (28)
days after the posting or delivering of such notice as the day for
nomination of Candidates which day shall be the last day for the
receipt of nomination of Candidates;
and
(b) the address of the office of the Returning Officer where all
nominations must be received;
(v) In order that a person may become a Candidate for election that person
shall be nominated by not fewer than five (5) persons entitled to vote and
be eligible under Rule 19 (e). Those persons shall sign the nomination
paper and after obtaining the consent in writing of the person so nominated
shall forward or lodge the nomination to the Returning Officer at the address
of the Returning Officer's office so as to be in the Returning Officer's hands
before four (4) o’clock on the closing day for nomination of candidates;
A Candidate for Election as Director of the Society who is or becomes in
any way (whether directly or indirectly) interested in a Contract, or proposed
Contract, with the Society, must declare the nature and extent of the interest
to the Board at the times and in the manner required by Section 240 of the
Financial Institutions Code;


Rule 19 (0 Election of Directors - Postal Ballot Procedure (continued)
(vi) If the number of persons who are duly nominated does not exceed the
number of Directors to be so elected the Returning Officer shall declare
such persons duly elected Directors at the next Annual General Meeting;
(vii) If by the day for the nomination of Candidates the number of Candidates for
Directors exceeds the number of Directors to be elected, the Returning
Officer shall appoint a day (being a day that is not less than fourteen (14)
days before the date of the Annual General Meeting) on which the poll shall
close and the result of the election shall be ascertained. Every poll shall
close at the hour of four (4) o’clock in the afternoon of the day so appointed;
(viii) If a poll is required to be taken, the Returning Officer shall transmit by post
a voting paper to every person whose name is listed on the roll of Electors
at such time as the Board may determine;
Upon a Member making and transmitting to the Returning Officer a statutory
declaration that the Member has not received the voting papers or that the
voting papers received by the Member have been lost or spoilt or destroyed
and that the Member has not already voted the Returning Officer may issue
duplicate papers to the Member;
If in the event of strikes or industrial action, the Board is of the opinion that it
would be appropriate to extend the day fixed for the dosing of the ballot,
the Board may extend the day fixed for the dosing of the ballot and shall
notify the Returning Officer accordingly;
Candidates may submit background notes which shall be posted to all
Members with the voting papers provided the notes:
(a) do not exceed two hundred (200) words. For the purpose of this
Rule an abbreviation or acronym shall count as one word;
(b) are received by the Returning Officer by the time and date
nominated by the Returning Officer as "the stipulated dosing
date*. The stipulated dosing date shall be nominated by the
Returning Officer at the time he acknowledges nominations of
Candidates;
(ix) Every voting paper shall contain the names in full in alphabetical order of all
Candidates for election and shall be endorsed by the Returning Officer;
(x) Each Voter shall mark the voting paper by placing the number "1" in the
square opposite the name of the Candidate who is the first preference of
the Voter and may give contingent votes for all the remaining Candidates by
placing, as the case requires, the figures "2\ "3", "4", (and so on), in the
squares opposite the names respedively so as to indicate by numerical
sequence the order of preference for the Candidates and transmit it to the
Returning Officer;


Rule 19 (f) Election of Director# - Postal Ballot Procedure
(xi) The Returning Officer shall be responsible for security and safekeeping of all
voting papers until they have been opened, examined and counted;
(xii) Each Candidate at their own cost may appoint one (1) Member to be their
Scrutineer at the place appointed for the opening, examination and counting
of voting papers;
(xiii) The Returning Officer shall, at four (4) o’clock in the afternoon of the day
appointed for dosing the poll or as soon as possible thereafter and at the
Returning Officer’s office, in the presence of such Candidates and
Scrutineers as may attend, proceed to open, examine and count the
number of the votes received by each Candidate, and shall make out a
written statement signed by the Returning Officer and countersigned by any
Scrutineers who are present and consent to sign, containing the numbers in
words as well as figures of the votes cast for each Candidate as counted,
and shall at the same time and place declare the names of the Candidates
elected, and shall forthwith certify to the SSA, by writing under the Returning
Officer’s hand, the names of the Candidates so elected and the date of the
declaration of the result of the election;
(xiv) (a)
Where there is only one (1) Candidate to be elected, the Candidate who has
received the largest number of first preference votes shall, if that number
constitutes an absolute majority of votes, be elected. If no. Candidate has
received an absolute majority of first preference votes, the Returning Officer
shall make a second count. On the second count, the Candidate who has
received the fewest first preference votes shall be excluded, and each voting
paper Indicating further preference counted to the Candidate next in the
order of the Voter's preference. If any Candidate then has an absolute
majority of votes, that Candidate shall be declared elected; if there is no
Candidate who then has an absolute majority of votes, the process of
excluding the Candidate who has the fewest votes and counting each of the
voting papers in favour of the excluded Candidate to the continuing
Candidate next in the order of the Voter’s preference shall be repeated until
one (1) Candidate has received an absolute majority of votes. The
Candidate who has received an absolute majority of votes shall be declared
elected. If on any count, two (2) or more Candidates have an equal number
of votes and one (1) of them has to be excluded, that Candidate amongst
them who had the least number of votes at the last count at which they had
not an equal number of votes shall be excluded. If such Candidates had an
equal number of votes at all preceding counts or there was no preceding
count, the Returning Officer shall determine between them by lot which of
them shall be excluded;
In this Clause, the expression "Continuing Candidate" means the Candidate
not already excluded at the count. If during the allocation of preferences
voting papers indicate no further allocatabie preference those voting papers
shall be set aside and the absolute majority required for election shall be
recalculated on the basis of the remaining number of voting papers;


Rule 19 (0 Election of Directors - Postal Ballot Procedure
(xiv) (b)
Where more than one (1) Candidate is to be elected, the Candidate who
has received the largest number of first preference votes shall, if that
number constitutes an absolute majority of votes, be elected. If no
Candidate has received an absolute majority of first preference votes, the
Returning Officer shall make a second count. On the second count, the
Candidate who has received the fewest first preference votes shall be
excluded, and each voting paper indicating further preference counted to
the Candidate next in the order of the Voter’s preference. If any Candidate
then has an absolute majority of votes, that Candidate shall be declared
elected; if there is no Candidate who then has an absolute majority of votes,
the process of excluding the Candidate who has the fewest votes and
counting each of this Candidate’s voting papers to the continuing Candidate
next in the order of the Voter’s preference shall be repeated until one
Candidate has received an absolute majority of votes. The Candidate who
has received an absolute majority of votes shall be declared elected. If on
any count, two (2) or more Candidates have an equal number of votes and
one (1) of them has to be excluded, that Candidate amongst them who had
the least number of votes at the last count at which they had not an equal
number of votes shall be excluded. If such Candidates had an equal
number of votes at all preceding counts or there was no preceding count,
the Returning Officer shall determine between them by lot which of them
shall be excluded;
In this Clause, the expression "continuing Candidate* means the Candidate
not already excluded at the count. If during the allocation of preferences
voting papers indicate no further allocatable preference those voting papers
shall be set aside and the absolute majority required for election shall be
recalculated on the basis of the remaining number of voting papers;
After the first elected Candidate has been determined all of the ballot papers
(except those for the elected Candidate that do not indicate further
preference) shall be recounted to determine the second elected Candidate.
The method of counting of the vote for the first elected Candidate shall be
repeated for the counting of votes for the second elected Candidate and
any additional Candidate necessary to fill vacant positions provided that any
preference votes cast for any Candidate already declared elected shall be
counted to the Candidate next in preference to the Candidate already
elected;
(xv) At the time of the counting of votes the Returning Officer shall produce, for
the information of the Scrutineers (if any), the roll of Electors who have been
posted voting papers and duplicate voting papers;


Rule 19 (0 Election of Director# - Postal Ballot Procedure (continued)
(xvi) At the examination of the voting papers every voting paper which:
(a) Does not bear the endorsement of the Returning Officer;
or
(b) Is manifestly irregular;
or
(c) Is so imperfectly executed that the intention of the Voter cannot
with certainty be ascertained;
shall be rejected;
(xvii) The Returning Officer shall forthwith after declaring the result of the election
enclose in one packet all the voting papers (whether formal or °thef^'se)
together with the roll of Electors signed as aforesaid, shall securely fasten
and seal up the packet, shall endorse upon it when so sealed a concise
description of the contents thereof and the date of the closing of the po I.
and shall sign such endorsement, and shall cause the sealed packet to e
delivered to the Chairman. The Chairman shall keep the same for ttuee (3
months after the receipt thereof and at the expiration of such period sha
cause the voting papers to be destroyed;
1^ The names of the persons elected shall be announced at the Annual
General Meeting of the Society and in such other places as the Board may
determine.
Rule 19 (g) - Election of Chairman of the Board
At the fret meeting of the Board after each Annual General Ifeting Ithe
of the Board shall elect a Chairman to hold office until the next An
Meeting.
Whenever the term of office of the Chairman ceases for any ^offiS^the
(Directors • Method of Removal) or Rule 21 (Directors • Vacation of Office)
BoLrd sha„ elect a new Chairman from amongst its members and determ,ne the
period for which the new Chairman shall hold the office.


RULE 20.
DIRECTORS - METHOD OF REMOVAL
(a) A Director may be removed from Office by Special Resolution of a Special
General Meeting of the Society.
(b) The Special General Meeting may fill any casual vacancy created as a
consequence of removal of a Director. If the vacancy is not filled at the
Meeting at which the Director is removed, the vacancy may be filled by the
Board as a casual vacancy.
(c) Such person appointed by the Meeting or the Board to fill the vacancy shall
retire at:
(i) the next Annual General Meeting of the Society; and
(ii) where his appointment takes effect after the day for nomination of
candidates has passed but before the next Annual General
Meeting of the Society, the next Annual General Meeting of the
Society subsequent thereto.
(d) A person who retires in accordance with paragraph (c) may stand for re-
election as a Director and the provisions of Rule 19 (f) (Postal Ballot
Procedure) shall apply.
(e) A Director may not be removed from office, and the office of a Director does
not become vacant, except as provided by the Code and these Rules.


RULE 21.
DIRECTORS - VACATION OF OFFICE
(i) The office of a member of the Board shall automatically become vacant if
the Director -
(a) dies; or
(b) becomes an employee of the Society; or
(c) having been elected as a Director under Rule 19 (e) (Employee
Directors), ceases to be an employee of the Society; or
(d) is absent from three (3) consecutive ordinary meetings of the
Board without its leave; or
(e) ceases to be a Member of the Society; or
(f) resigns by written notice addressed to the Board; or
(g) is three (3) months in arrears in relation to money due to the
Society and has failed to make arrangements for payment
satisfactory to the Society; or
(h) becomes bankrupt or applies to take the benefit of any law for
the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounds with his or
her creditors or makes an assignment of his or her remuneration
for their benefit; or
(i) is prohibited from being a Director of a body corporate by the
Corporations Law; or
(j) is convicted—
(i) of an indictable offence in relation to the promotion,
formation or management of a body corporate; or
(ii) of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty; or
(iii) of any prescribed offence; or
(k) completes a term of office and is not reappointed or re-elected.
(ii) Subject to Section 228 of the Corporations Law, the office of a Director shall
become vacant at the next Annual General Meeting of the Society after the
Director attains the age of 72 years.


RULE 22.
DIRECTORS - CASUAL VACANCIES
(a) A vacancy on the Board caused otherwise than by the removal of a Director
by resolution of a General Meeting of the Society may be filled by the
Board, provided the person appointed is qualified in terms of Rule 19.
(b) A person who is appointed by the Board to fill a casual vacancy shall retire
at:
(i) the next Annual General Meeting of the Society; and
(ii) where his appointment takes effect after the day for nomination of
candidates has passed but before the next Annual General
Meeting of the Society, the next Annual General Meeting of the
Society subsequent thereto.
(c) A person who retires in accordance with paragraph (b) may stand for re-
election as a Director.
RULE 23. POWERS AMD DUTIES OF THE BOARD
The business and affairs of the Society shall be conducted by the Board, who shall
have the control of all business carried on by or on account of the Society, the
determination of the persons to be employed therein, other than the members of
the Board or Auditor, the fixing of the remuneration to be paid for work or services
done or rendered to or on account of the Society, and the appointment or removal
of all other persons necessary for conducting the business, and may assign to any
such person such duties and salaries as they think fit The Board may delegate
such powers and functions to Officers of the Society subject to the Code.
The Board shall develop, establish and maintain policies in accordance with the
Standards. The Loans policy shall include the limits and criteria for various types of
loans.
The Board shall in all things act for and in the name of the Society and shall do all
things and execute all documents, or authorise the doing and executing of such
things and documents, for fully carrying into effect the objects of the Society, and
the resolutions passed at the Meeting thereof, and all acts, documents, and orders
done, executed, or given by them, or the persons authorised by them, under the
powers by these Rules delegated to them or any of them, shall have the same
force and effect as if they were done, executed and given by a majority of the
Members of the Society at a Special General Meeting thereof.


RULE 24.
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board shall meet at such times and place, or places, as they shall consider
advisable, but not less frequently than once in every calendar month. Seven (7)
days notice of such meeting is to be given, except when matters of urgency
necessitate immediate calling together of the Board. Every question at such
meeting shall be decided by a majority of the Board members present, and if the
votes be equal the Chairman of the meeting shall have a second or casting vote.
Quorum - Four (4) Board members shall form a quorum.
A Special Board meeting must be called by the Secretary if the Chairman or any
two (2) Directors request it. Forty-eight (48) hours notice of such meeting shall be
given.
Electronic Meetings
Whenever it is necessary that the Directors meet together for the discussion of
business and it is inconvenient for them to gather together for the purpose, then
such of them as are in Australia and would (if meeting together in person)
constitute a quorum may conduct a meeting of Directors by simultaneous audio or
visual electronic communication. Resolutions passed at such a meeting shall be as
valid and effectual as if passed at a meeting of the Directors called and constituted
at which each of those Directors was personally present.
Resolution In Writing in Ueu of Meeting
(a) A resolution in writing which is signed and dated by all the Directors for the
time being in Australia, shall be as valid and effectual as if it had been duly
passed at a meeting of Directors duly convened and constituted. Any such
resolution may consist of several documents in like form each signed by
one (1) or more Directors.
(b) A resolution pursuant to paragraph (a) shall be deemed to have been
passed on the day (according to the dates of signing) when the resolution
shall have been signed by all the Directors for the time being in Australia. If
a signed copy of the resolution shall be returned to the Secretary undated,
the Secretary shall fill in the date on which it was received and the same
shall be deemed to have been signed on that day.
(c) For the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b):
(i) A telex, telegram or facsimile transmission sent by a Director shall
be deemed to be signed and dated by such Director; and
(ii) A reference to all the Directors for the time being within Australia
does not include reference to a Director who. at a meeting of
Directors, would not be entitled to vote on the resolution.


RULE 25.
THE SECRETARY
The Board shall appoint a Secretary. The Secretary shall attend all Meetings of the
Society and Board as far as possible, and shall keep a record of the persons
present and the Minutes of the proceedings of such Meetings such Minutes to be
signed by the Chairman. The Secretary shall keep the accounts, documents, and
securities of the Society in such manner as the Board shall appoint. He shall
receive the subscriptions, fines, and other payments due to the Society, whether by
Members or other persons, and shall as far as practicable attend every meeting of
the Board and present a report
RULE 26. APPOINTMENT AND SECURITY - OFFICERS
(i) Without prejudice to the general powers conferred on the Board by the
Code or these Rules, the Board shall have the power to appoint and, at
their discretion, remove or suspend officers, clerks, agents, and servants,
and to fix the powers, duties and remuneration of same, or, when so
deemed necessary, to delegate such powers of appointment, suspension,
removal, and fixing of duties and remuneration.
(ii) The Board shall at all times maintain such Fidelity Guarantee Insurance as
required by the Code and Standards as security for the good conduct and
satisfactory discharge of the duties of all Directors and Officers having
receipt or charge of any money belonging to the Credit Union. Provided
such Insurance is current, Officers having receipt or charge of any money
belonging to the Credit Union shall not be required to provide security.
RULE 27. INDEMNITY
Subject to the provisions of the Code, members of the Board, Secretary, and other
officers of the Society for the time being and every and each one of them and their
heirs, executors, and administrators shall be indemnified and kept harmless out of
the assets or profits of the Society from and against all actions, costs, charges,
losses, damages, and expenses which they or any of them, they or any of their
executors or administrators shall or may incur or sustain by or by reason of any act
done, concurred in, or omitted in or about the execution of their duty, or supposed
duty, in respective offices, except such, if any, as they shall incur or sustain by or
through their own wilful neglect or default respectively, and none of them shall be
answerable for the acts, receipts, neglects, or defaults of the other or others of
them, or for joining in any receipt or other act for the sake of conformity or for any
loss of expense happening to the Society through the insufficiency or deficiency of
title to any property acquired by order of the Board for or on behalf of the Society
or for the insufficiency of deficiency of any security in or upon which any of the
movers of the Society shall be invested or for any loss or damage arising from the
insolvency or tortious act of any person with whom any monies, securities, or
effects shall be deposited, or for any loss or damage occasioned by any error of
judgement or oversight on his part, or any other loss, damage or misfortune
whatever which shall happen in the execution of the duties of his office or in
relation thereto, unless the same happen through his own dishonesty.


RULE 28.
FUNDS MANAGEMENT
The management of tire funds of the Society shall be in the hands of the Board
who shall open with a Bank, Building Society, an Association or Special Services
Provider of which the Society is a Member, or with the permission of the SSA,
another Credit Society, one or more Accounts in the name of the Society into
which monies received shall be paid as soon as possible after their receipt. AJI
Cheques drawn on the Society’s Accounts and all drafts, bills of exchange,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments for and on behalf of the Society
shall be signed by such persons as may be authorised from time to time by the
Board.
RULE 29. APPLICATION AND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS
(i) The Board may approve loans to Members for any worthwhile purpose and
may invest any of the funds of the Society in accordance with its policies
and the Code and Standards.
(ii) The Board or subject to the Code, its delegate, shall decide all applications
for loans and all such applications shall be made in' writing on the
prescribed form and lodged at the registered office of the Society or at any
office where the Society conducts business and all such applications shall
state the security offered for repayments and such other particulars as the
Board shall require from time to time.
(iii) The Board or subject to the Code, its delegate, shall have full power and
discretion to allow or refuse any application and to arrange and fix with each
Member to whom a loan may be made the conditions with which such
Member shall comply, the terms and conditions upon which a loan is to be
made and repaid, any deduction from premium, the conditions upon which
a borrowing Member may redeem the amount due before the expiration of
the period for which the loan is made and the terms upon which any
mortgage securing the loan may be redeemed.
(iv) The Board or subject to the Code and Standards, its delegate, is further
empowered at its discretion to alter, vary, suspend, cancel or extend any of
the terms or conditions of any loan and to enforce all rights of the Society
against any defaulting Member.


RULE 30.
INTEREST RATES
The minimum rate of interest that may be paid on Members' deposit accounts shall
be as determined by the Board from time to time and the maximum rate of interest
that may be paid by Borrowers shall be as is determined by the Board from time to
time.
RULE 31. CUSTODY OF SECURmES
All books of accounts, securities, documents and papers of the Society, other than
such (if any) as the Board may direct to be kept elsewhere shall be kept at the
Registered Office in such manner and with such provision for their security as the
Board shall direct.
RULE 32. COMMON SEAL
(i) The Seal of the Society shall be kept in the Registered Office of the Society
and shall at all times be in the custody of the Secretary or otherwise in such
custody as the Board shall direct.
(ii) The Seal shall not be used or affixed to any document or instrument except
by authority of the Board and in the presence of two (2) members of the
Board or one (1) member of the Board and the Secretary who shall sign
every instrument to which the Seal shall be so affixed.
(iii) The device of the Seal shall contain the name of the Society and the words
"Common Seal" within two concentric circles.


RULE 33.
ACCOUNTS TO BE AUDITED
(i) The Board shall before the day on which notice of the Annual General
Meeting is given in each year, cause its books, accounts and securities, and
the balance sheet made up to the 30th day of June preceding together with
the Annual return up to the said 30th June to be Audited by the Auditors.
The Board may require an audit at any other time in accordance with the
Standards.
(ii) THE AUDITOR:
(a) Shall have access to all books, papers, deeds, documents and
accounts; and
(b) Shall examine and audit trading account, profit and loss account,
and balance sheet, and the funds, securities, and effects, and verify
the same with a banker's or other relative certificate (which certificate
he is empowered to obtain) and the accounts and vouchers relating
thereto and by examining the securities held; and
(c) Shall report to the Society upon such examinations and audit giving
details of the matters and things examined and audited and as to
whether same were found to be correct, duty vouched, and in
accordance with law, and setting out in what respect, if any, the
same were found to be incorrect, unvouched or not in accordance
with law; and
(d) Shall have such other powers and duties held or cast upon him
under the Code and Standards; and
(e) Shall furnish to the SSA such information as the Code shall require.
(iii) The Board of Directors shall lay before the Annual General Meeting the
accounts, notes to the accounts, Director’s Report and Statement, as
audited with the report of the Auditor.


RULE 34.
AUDITORS
(a) An Auditor shall be appointed in accordance with the Code.
(b) A person or firm appointed as Auditor of the Society shall hold office:
(i) until death, removal or resignation from office; or
(ii) until ceasing to be capable of acting as Auditor in accordance with
the Code.
(c) An Auditor of the Society may only be removed from office by Special
Resolution at a General Meeting of the Society.
(d) Should an Auditor of the Society be removed, another shall be appointed at
the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
(e) The Society shall pay all reasonable fees and expenses of its Auditor
including the Auditor’s expenses in giving a report required to be given
under the Code or Standards.
(f) The payment to the Auditor shall be made only after Board Approval.


RULE 35.
DISTRIBUTION OF SURPLUS
(i) The Society may, as determined by the Board apply any surplus arising in
any year from the business of the Society as follows:
(a) The surplus arising out of the operations of the Society, after
allowing appropriate reserve levels, belong to and benefit all
Members with no Member or group of Members benefiting to the
detriment of others;
(b) This surplus, after allowing appropriate reserve levels, will be
directed to improve or provide services in furtherance of the objects
of the Society as the Board may determine from time to time. No
portion shall be distributed directly or indirectly to members except
as bona fide services or products of the Society.
(ii) The Society may set aside out of any annual surplus an amount to be
credited to a General Reserve Fund, which at the discretion of the Board
may be used to recoup losses or meet contingencies arising from the
operations of the Society.
RULE 36. LOSS ON OPERATIONS
Any loss which occurs in the operations of the Society, in accordance with a
Resolution by the Board, may be recouped, (in the financial period the loss may
occur), from General Reserves to the extent to which they exist; or may be
recouped from future profits. Any loss which is not so recovered shall be met out
of the capital of the Society.


RULE 37. MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
Rule 37 (1) - Interval Between Annual General Meetings
The Annual General Meeting of the Society shall be held at such time as the
Board determines but within five (5) months following the end of the
financial year, or such extended period as the SSA may permit. No less
than fourteen (14) days notice shall be given of the holding of the Annual
General Meeting.
Rule 37 (II) - Order of Business at Annual General Meetings
At each Annual General Meeting of the Society the order of business shall be-
(a) The confirmation of the minutes of the preceding Annual General Meeting
and of any Special General Meetings held since that Meeting.
(b) The presentation of the report of the Board.
(c) The presentation of the audited Accounts and Balance Sheet and the
Auditor's Report.
(d) The announcement of the Results of the Election of members to the Board
of Directors.
(e) The fixing of remuneration of Directors.
(f) Consideration of any Special Resolution of which the required notice shall
have been given to Members.
(g) Consideration of any other general business of which notice shall have
been given in writing to the Secretary at least seven (7) days prior to the
Meeting.


Rule 37 (III) • Notices of Meetings
(a) Written notice of an Annual General Meeting may be given personally or by
post to each Member of the Society at least fourteen (14) days before the
date of the Meeting; and
(b) Written notice of a Special General Meeting may be given personally or by
post to each Member of the Society at least seven (7) days before the date
of the Meeting.
(c) Alternatively, notice of an Annual General Meeting or Special General
Meeting may be given to the Members of the Society by advertisement
published no later than the times required in paragraph (a) or (b) in a
newspaper circulating generally -
(i) in the area of the State in which the Society operates; and
(ii) If the Society operates in another State, or other States - in the other
State or States.
(d) Notice of all General Meetings shall be sent to the Society's Auditor.
(e) Notice of a General Meeting of the Society shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place at the registered office and each other office of the
Society over a period of at least -
(i) in the case of an Annual General Meeting - fourteen (14) days
immediately before the date of the Meeting; and
(ii) In the case of a Special General Meeting - seven (7) days
immediately before the date of the Meeting.
(f) Where a Member changes address, the Society must be notified of the
change within seven (7) days and the Member’s new address entered
forthwith in the register of Members.
(g) The failure by a Member of the Society to receive notice of a General
Meeting required to be given to the Member does not invalidate the
Meeting.


Rule 37 (lv) • Special Resolutions
(a) A Special Resolution, as prescribed, is a resolution passed by a majority of
not less than two-thirds (2/3) of those Members who, being entitled to vote -
(i) in any case - are present, at a Meeting at which a motion for the
passing of the Resolution is moved and vote on the Resolution; or
(ii) in the case of a merger or transfer of engagements, as prescribed,
vote on the resolution by a postal ballot conducted in accordance
with the Regulations.
(b) In the case of a Special Resolution passed at a Meeting, unless a division is
demanded, a declaration by the person presiding at the Meeting that the
resolution has been carried by a specified majority is conclusive evidence of
the fact.
(c) Written notice of a proposed Special Resolution, setting out its terms, may
be given personally or by post to each Member of the Society who is
entitled to vote on the resolution at least twenty-one (21) days before the
date of the Meeting or close of the postal ballot.
(d) Alternatively, notice of a proposed Special Resolution, setting out its terms,
may be given to the Members of the Society entitled to vote on the
resolution by advertisement published at least twenty-one (21) days before
the date of the Meeting or dose of the postal ballot in a newspaper
drculating generally -
(i) in the area of the State in which the Sodety operates; and
(ii) if the Society operates in another State, or other States - in the other
State or States.
(e) A purported Special Resolution in relation to which notice has not been
given in accordance with subsection (c) or (d) is of no effect.


Rule 37 (v) • Quorum for Meetings of the Society
The Annual and Special General Meetings shall be held at such places as
the Board may from time to time decide upon.
At least thirty (30) Members of the Society entitled to vote shall be
necessary to constitute a Meeting. If that number be not present within
thirty (30) minutes of the time of Meeting, the Meeting shall, if it be the
Annual General Meeting of the Society or a Special General Meeting called
by the Board stand adjourned for seven (7) days. If a quorum is not in
attendance at the adjourned Meeting, the Board shall have the power to
carry out the business of the Meeting.
If the Special General Meeting has been called in pursuance of a requisition
signed by the Members and no quorum is in attendance thirty (30) minutes
after the Meeting, the Meeting shall be dissolved. Any General Meeting may
be from time to time adjourned for any period not exceeding twenty-eight
(28) days.
At each Meeting the Chairman of the Board shall preside, or in the
Chairman's absence, one (1) of the other Board members. Should no
member of the Board be present, a Chairman shall be chosen from
amongst the Members present.


RULE 38. REQUISmONS FOR A MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
(I) The Board may, at any time, at its own discretion, call a Special General
Meeting. Seven (7) clear days notice shall be given stating the time and
object thereof, and at such Meeting no other business shall be transacted
than that specified in the notice convening it
(ii) Any thirty (30) Members entitled to vote may by requisition in writing under
their hands, to be sent to the Secretary and to contain the objects of such
Meeting, require a Special General Meeting of the Society to be convened,
and upon such requisition being received the Secretary shall, within twenty-
one (21) days, convene a Meeting within three (3) months. No other
business shall be transacted at such Meeting than that specified in the
requisition.
(iii) (a) A Requisition for a Special General Meeting:
(i) shall state the purpose of the Meeting and, where its
purpose includes the movement of a Special Resolution,
shall set out that Special Resolution;
(ii) shall be signed by each person making the requisition;
(iii) shall be deposited at the registered office of the Society;
(iv) may consist of several documents each signed by
persons making the requisition.
(b) Where the Board on the requisition of the required number of
Members calls a Meeting, it may in addition to the purpose of
the Meeting as stated in the requisition, set down other
business to be dealt with at that Meeting.


RUUE 39.
ALTERATIONS TO RULES
(a) By Special Resolution:*
(i) Subject to sections 127, 129 and 130 of the Code, the Rules of the
Society may be altered only If the alteration has been approved by
Special Resolution.
(ii) A Member desiring to affect an alteration of these Rules may, instead
of or in addition to requisitioning of a Meeting in accordance with
Rule 38, notify the Board of that fact in writing, setting out the
reasons therefore.
(iii) The Board may cause the proposed alteration of these Rules to be
included in the business of a Meeting of the Society.
(b) By Board of Directors:-
(i) the Rules of the Society may be altered by a resolution of the Board
only if the alteration:-
is required by or under the Financial Institutions
Legislation; or
is to give effect to a standard under the Financial
Institutions Legislation.
(ii) the Society shall give written notice of the alteration to its Members
not later than the day on which notice is given of the next General
Meeting of the Society.
Subject to the prior written approval of the SSA, such notice may be
given to Members in accordance with the method detailed in Rule 37
(iii) (c) (Notices of Meetings).
RULE 40. INSPECTION OF MINUTES AND REGISTER OF MEMBERS
Any Member shall be allowed to inspect the minutes of the Meetings of Members
of the Society, the Member's own account, and subject to Sections 259 (4) and
263 (4) of the Code the Register of Members during business hours at the
Registered Office of the Society, or at any place where the same are kept, subject
to such Regulations as to the time or manner of such inspections as may be made
from time to time by the Board of the Society.


RULE 41. STANDING ORDERS
At all Meetings of the Society the business shall be conducted in accordance with
the following standing orders:-
(i) In any case not provided for by these standing orders the decision of
Chairman shall be of full force and effect.
(ii) Members Desiring to Speak:
Any Member desiring to speak shall rise in his place and address the
Chairman. If two (2) or more Members rise at the same time, the Chairman
shall call upon the Member who, in his opinion, first rose to speak.
(iii) Member to Resume His Seat:
Any Member speaking shall at once resume his seat-
(a) If the Chairman rises to speak,
or
(b) If a point of order is raised, and shall not resume his speech until the
point of order is decided.
(iv) Member to Speak Only Once:
A Member can speak only once upon any question before the Meeting
except -
(a) In reply upon an original motion
(b) In explanation or correction of some matter during the debate;
(c) Upon a point of order raised during the debate;
or
(d) Upon a resolution being carried that he be now heard.
(v) Member Not Held to Have Spoken:
(a) A Member who used the words "I second the motion* or ’amendment*
as the case may be, shall not be deemed to have spoken to the
question before the chair, and may exercise his right to speak at a later
stage, always provided he is not the third consecutive speaker on the
one side.
(b) For the general purpose of debate, however, he shall be deemed the
second speaker if in the affirmative.
(vi) Motion Duly Proposed:
(a) When a motion has been duly proposed and seconded the Chairman
shall at once proceed to take votes thereon, unless some Member
rises to oppose it or to propose amendment.
(b) Any proposals of a Member in the country shall be treated as a motion
and be dealt with at the Meeting.


Rule 41 • Standing Orders (continued)
(vii) Motions - How dealt with:
All motions shall be:
(a) Duly proposed and seconded;
(b) Of an affirmative character;
(c) The property of the Meeting;
(d) Withdrawn only by leave thereof;
or
(e) May be adjourned from time to time until a decision is arrived at
(viii) Motions May Be Amended:
A motion may be amended at any time during the debate thereon by:
(a) Striking out certain words;
(b) Adding certain words;
or
(c) Striking out certain words and inserting others in their place.
(ix) Amendment Becomes the Motion:
Upon any amendment being carried it shall take the place of the original
motion, and may be further amended until a decision is arrived at.
(x) A Motion May Be Superseded:
A motion may be superseded at any time:
(a) By another motion that it be discharged from the notice paper;
(b) By a motion that the next business be proceeded with, being resolved
in the affirmative.
(xi) Not More Than Two (2) Members to Speak:
Not more than two (2) Members shall speak in succession either for or
against any question before the Meeting, and if, at the conclusion of the
second speaker's remarks, no Member rises to speak on the other side, the
motion or amendment shall be at once put to the Meeting.
(xii) No Member to Move Mors Than One (1) Motion:
No Member shall be allowed to move more than one (1) motion or
amendment relative to any one question.
(xiii) Member Asking a Question:
In the event of a Member asking a question, no discussion shall be allowed
on the question unless a resolution is moved.
(xiv) Motions or Amendments In Writing:
No discussion shall take place except on a motion or amendment moved
and seconded and put in writing, if so demanded by the Chairman.
(xv) Member May Explain:
Any Member, with the consent of the Chairman, may offer an explanation of any
particular expression used by him, but must confine himself strictly to such.


Rule 41 - Standing Orders (continued)
(xvi) Motion of Dissent
The rulings of the Chairman on points of order shall be final, subject always
to motion of dissent: the motion of dissent allows statement of reason by
the Chairman and mover of dissent only.
(xvii) Time allowed for Speaking:
The mover of any original motion shall be allowed five (5) minutes to
introduce It, and shall be allowed five (5) minutes to reply. No other Member
shall be allowed to speak for more than three (3) minutes at any one time,
unless a two thirds (2/3) majority of the Members present (by resolution)
agree to the limit on any speaker being extended to such length as may be
specified in such resolution.
(xviii) Time Allowed for Motion:
Should any question have occupied the attention of the Meeting for thirty
(30) minutes the discussion on such question shall be deemed to have
closed and the Chairman shall forthwith call on the mover to reply unless
the Meeting decide by a majority resolution to continue the discussion of the
matter in question.
(xix) That the Debate Be Now Concluded:
A motion “That the debate be now concluded* may be moved at any stage
of a debate, and shall be immediately put to the Meeting without dissension.
If lost, the debate shall continue as if such motion had not been moved. If
carried, then the amendment (if there be an amendment) or motion, if no
amendment has been moved thereon, immediately under discussion shall
be put to the Meeting with no further discussion other than the mover of the
motion may exercise his right of reply.
(xx) Motions Cannot Again Be Moved:
Any motion accepted or rejected by a Meeting of the Members cannot again
be moved unless a special call of the Members has been made, when the
resolution to rescind or adopt (as the case may be) must be carried by a
two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Members present.
(xxi) Motion: How Put:
The Chairman shall put all questions in a distinct and audible voice to the
Meeting by first asking all those in favour to raise their hands to be counted
and then asking all those against to raise their hands to be counted. If a
division is demanded the Chairman shall ask those voting in favour to go to
the right and those voting against to go to the left. The meeting shall
appoint Scrutineers to count the vote.
Each Member, who was a Member at the date of calling the meeting, shall
have only one (1) vote, except if that person has been appointed to
represent a Body Corporate Member of the Society, in which case he may
vote as an individual Member and in that other capacity. Proxy votes shall
not be permitted.
Motions shall be passed by a simple majority except in the case of a special
resolutiQn or as otherwise required in these Rules.


Rule 41 • Standing Orders (continued)
(xxii) Motion to Disagree with Chairman’s Ruling:
When a motion to disagree with the ruling of the Chairman has been duly
proposed and seconded, the Chairman shall appoint a substitute and then
vacate the Chair until the motion has been disposed of by the Meeting.
(xxiii) No Member to Speak:
No Member may speak to any question after it has been put by the
Chairman nor during a division, except to a point of order.
(xxiv) No Member May Vote:
No Member shall be allowed to vote who was not present when the
question was first put.
(xxv) Members Must Vote On Division:
Every Member present during a division must vote, or his vote will be
counted with the side on which he is sitting.
(xxvi) Chairman’s Ruling:
On divisions at all Meetings where the vote is equal, the Chairman shall
declare that the matter be resolved in the negative.
(xxvii) Misbehaviour at Meeting:
The Chairman shall have power to deal with any Member for misbehaviour
in the Meeting, and after twice cautioning the offender, such offender shall
be required to leave the Meeting.
(xxviii) Meeting Beyond Control:
The Chairman shall have power to adjourn any Meeting which is beyond his
control.
(xxix) Adjournment of Debate:
A motion for the adjournment of a Meeting may be proposed at any time or
for the adjournment of the debate at any time during such debate, and shall
be at once put to the Meeting by the Chairman, unless time is mentioned.
When time is mentioned in a resolution for adjournment of the debate, the
discussion shall be strictly confined to the question of time, and any
amendment in connection therewith.
(xxx) Member Leaving the Room:
Any Member desirous of leaving the room during the currency of the
Meeting shall first obtain the permission of the Chairman.
RULE 42. WINDING UP
The Society may be wound up in accordance with the Code
RULES




APPENDIX C:
MR O’NEILL’S LETTER
The seQ&fpD 3 DECEMBER 1993
Mr O'Neill's Letter Dated 3 December 1993
The S^
The Senate Select Committee
on Superannuation
Parliament House.
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Attention Mr Richard Gilbert
Des O'Neill
69 Hutton Rd
Ferny Hills 4055
Ph (h) 07 3514969
Ph (w) 07 2276015
3
December, 1993
Re: Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd
Dear Mr Gilbert
I refer to my letter of 3 September to the Office of Financial
Supervision a copy of which has been previously forwarded to
your office.
I have attached a copy of a letter in reply, dated 22
September, 1993, from the Office of Financial Supervision.
The Office of Financial Supervision has suggested that I take
up the matter, of the refusal of the credit union to accept my
application for membership, up with the society direct.
I have previously contacted the Queensland Professional Credit
Union Ltd, General Manager, Mr Gordon Rutherford, direct by
telephone and requested a reason as to why the Board refused
to accept my application for membership.
The reply from Mr Rutherford was to the effect that the
society board does not comment of membership matters and a
reason was refused.
I believe that the action taken by the credit union board was
a direct consequence of my giving of evidence to the Senate
Select Committee on Superannuation earlier this year.
I know of no other reason of why the Board decided to reject
my application. I am not a bad credit risk and in any case my
account was a deposit account with a balance of two hundred
and forty five dollars ($245-00).
I believe that the action by the credit union Board or certain
members of that body, in the rejection of my application for
membership has resulted in a prima face breach of the
privilege conditions attached to the giving of evidence to
Senate Committees.
I now ask the Senate Committee to investigate the
circumstances involved in this matter.
yours faithfully,
Des O'Neill


QUEENSLAND OFFICE OF FINANCIAL SUPERVISION
22 September, 1993
QOFS Ref: GF
Mr Des O'Neill
69 Hutton Rd
Ferny Hills Q. 4055
Dear Sir,
Re: Refusal of Membership of Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd
We refer to your letter of 3 September, 1993 which requested that we investigate a
refusal by Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd to grant you membership of
the Society.
We advise that we have considered the matter raised, and have not established
that any breach of the Financial Institutions Legislation has occurred. We do not
intend taking any action against the Society in regard to this matter.
If you consider that the rejection of your application was unjustified, we suggest that
you take the matter up with the Society directly.
Yours faithfully,
Stephen Maitland
Chief Executive Officer
i \crodrtun\0rofota\o n«£ doc
5' - :.0C’
•;00 CUES'.' :*^E£T GPO 30X -*S2 sV'.SASt 0 JCC'
3 1-.om£ o' :: 0172 fACS(M".t j ■ :1 m,
O'NEILL.DOC


Office of Financial Supervision
G.P.O. Box 452
BRISBANE Q. 4001
Attention: Mr Sim
Des O'Neill
69 Hutton Rd
Ferny Hills 4055
Ph (h) 07 3514969
Ph (V) 07 2276015
3 September, 1993
Re: Queensland Professional Credit Onion Ltd
Dear Mr Sim
I refer to our telephone conversation today regarding the
rejection of my application for membership of the above credit
union.
As you are no doubt aware the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation recently completed its investigation into the
Queensland Professional Officers' Association Superannuation
Fund. I was responsible for initiating the investigation into
this fund by the Senate Select Committee.
The Queensland Professional Officers' Association
Superannuation Fund is a joint fund for the benefit of
employees of both the union and its associated body the
Queensland Professionals Credit Union Ltd.
On 17 August, 1993, I made application for full membership of
the credit union. Under the rules of the body, I gualify for
full membership by way of my membership of the State Public
Services Federation (Queensland) Union of Employees. As from
1 January, 1993 the Queensland Professional Officers'
Association Union of Employees ceased to exist and all members
were absorbed by the SPSF(Q).
On 19 August, 1993, I seconded a series of six motions to be
discussed at the Annual General Meeting of the credit union in
October, 1993. A copy of these motions is attached and all
relate to the results of the Senate Select Committee's
investigation into the superannuation fund.
I acknowledge, from our discussion, that your body has the
authority to investigate and request the reasons on why my
application for membership was rejected.
Could you please carry out such an investigation as soon as
possible as I wish to report any findings to the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation?
I have attached copies of all of the relevant correspondence
in regard to this matter.
I wish to thank you for consideration of this matter.
yours faithfully,
c.c. Mr Richard Gilbert


QUEENSLAND PROFESSIONAL CREDIT UNION LTD
BOARD MEMBERS
CHAIRMAN:-
BOARD MEMBERS:-
Mr Cec Lee
Mr Bryce Beikoff
Mr John Blake
Mr Des Boyland
Mr Ralph Donnett
Mr John Lloyd
Mr Gordon Rutherford


APPENDIX D: J
COMMITTEE’S LETTER *
DATED 1 DECEMBERul99&
Committee's Letter Dated 1 December 1993
VIBERuB^lian senate
CANBERRA. A C T
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
PARLIAMENT HOUSE
CANBERRA. AC T 26::
TEL (06)277 3439
FAX (06)277 5719
1 December 1993
Mr CA Lee
Chairman
Queensland Professional Credit Union Ltd
Capital Hill
85 George Street
BRISBANE QLD 4000
Dear Mr Lee
The Committee has received a letter from Mr Kevin Lindeberg which alleges that his
giving evidence to the inquiry into the operations of the Queensland Professional
Officers Association Superannuation Fund has resulted in his exclusion from your
Society. Pursuant to the Parliamentary Privilege Resolution of 23 February 1988
(attached), the Committee has resolved that it seek your response in this matter.
The Parliamentary Privilege Resolution provides for the committee (in this case the
Select Committee on Superannuation) that receives information on matters of witness
protection to examine the primary facts, form an opinion that the witness may have
been subjected to or threatened with penalty or injury arising from the giving of
evidence and, if required, report the matter to the Senate. It is then in the hands of
the Senate to determine whether the matter should be referred to the Committee of
Privileges which would then conduct a formal inquiry.
The Committee is particularly interested in being advised of the grounds on which the
Board deemed Mr Lindeberg ineligible to continue as a member of the Society. The
Committee would also be grateful to be advised of the Board's policy in reviewing
membership eligibility generally, especially in relation to Rule 7 (i) (b) 1. (iii). In this
regard the Committee requires information on the number and frequency of Board
determinations to exclude members under this rule.
Thanking you in anticipation of your assistance in this matter.
Yours sincerely
Richard Gilbert
Secretary




- APPENDIX E:-
MR LEE’S LETTER
DATED 15 DECEMBER 1993
Mr Lee's Letter Dated 15 December
1993
15 December 1993
Mead Office;
8S Ceorgt Street
Brisbane
Postal Address:
PO Bo* UHO
8nsbane
fliaabeth Street, 4002
8r»nch Offkr
lit floor (Wo/j iI'vr'i
Rowm A/ctd*
iJS fOward Sir* , t
6ritb<n«
Tetephor* (0/i.vi
free C«fl (00K» ios4
f*Cjlmil< (0/1 /,'< 4r>tt
Mr Richard Gilbert
Secretary
Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Dear Mr Gilbert
I acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 1st December 1003 concerning Mr
Lindeberg and confess to being surprised that he would allege his giving
evidence to your Inquiry has resulted in his exclusion from the Credit
Union. Clearly this is not the case.
in Mr Lindeberg's case he became a Member by virtue of his employment
with the Union and when he ceased to be an employee of the Union in
August 1990, he ceased to be eligible for Membership of the Credit Union.
The Board has been conscious of Mr Lindeberg’s Ineligibility under the
Rules since August 1990. however from 1989. at his instigation, there were
a number of matters referred to various authorities which were of concern
to the Credit Union eg. a special general meeting of the Credit Union,
submissions to EARC. CJC, Police. Cooke Inquiry as well as your Inquiry
in each instance, where the Credit Union was contacted, the Board has
taken the matter very seriously and offered complete co-operation and
disclosure. Ultimately, no findings were made adverse to the Credit Union
The Board only wrote to Mr Lindeberg concerning his Ineligibility under the
Rules, after it was quite satisfied all outstanding matters had been dealt
wiih and completed ie. at the conclusion of the 1993 Annual General
Meeting, where a report on Mr lindeberg’s remaining Superannuation
matters had been received and adopted by Members at the Annual General
Meeting. To have contacted Mr Lindeberg any earlier in this regard may
have led to the Credit Union's motives being questioned.


Mr Undeberg's Ineligibility under the Rules could have become an issue at
any time since August 1990. when he ceased to be an employee of the
Union, however the Board was quite prepared to allow these issues to be
fully discussed at a number of successive Credit Union Annual General
Meetings.
With respect, I would vigorously contend that Mr Undeberg's ineligibility
under the Rules has nothing at all to do with his evidence to your inquiry,
in this regard Mr lindeberg has suffered no detriment as he is eligible to
apply for Membership of a number of other Queensland Credit Unions.
Rule 7(l)(b) 1(1H) states:-
"Shareholdlng Membership may be granted to.Members of
the Society who were formerly qualified but ceased to be eligible
for Membership subject to the approval of the Board."
During the last twelve months or so there have been sixteen Instances
where Members have terminated their Membership of the Credit Union
voluntarily because they are no longer working In the Public Service.
Additionally, the Board doe9 review Membership eligibility, and there have
been three Instances in the past where the Rule In question has been
enforced.
In conclusion. I am deeply concerned that your Committee may have an
opinion that there is a perception of unfairness in this matter, and I would
hasten to assure you this Is Incorrect.
Yours faithfully
CHAIRMAN
CAL.KP




_ THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No, 431 Qf
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-418
