

PRUDENTIAL SUPERVISION AND
CONSUMER PROTECTION FOR
SUPERANNUATION, BANKING AND
FINANCIAL SERVICES
THIRD REPORT -
AUDITING OF SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON SUPERANNUATION AND FINANCIAL SERVICES
The Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
September 2001




PRUDENTIAL SUPERVISION AND
CONSUMER PROTECTION FOR
SUPERANNUATION, BANKING AND
FINANCIAL SERVICES
THIRD REPORT -
AUDITING OF SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
The Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON SUPERANNUATION AND FINANCIAL SERVICES
September 2001


Commonwealth of Australia
ISBN 0 642 71158 5
This report was printed by the Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra,
ACT 2600.


MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE




TERMS OF REFERENCE
On 22 September 1999 the Senate resolved that:
(1) A Select Committee on Superannuation and Financial Services be appointed
with effect on and from 11 October 1999, with the same functions and powers
as the Select Committee on Superannuation appointed by resolution of the
Senate on 5 June 1991, and reappointed on 13 May 1993 and 29 May 1996,
except as otherwise provided in this resolution.
(2) The committee inquire into matters pertaining to superannuation and financial
services referred to it by the Senate and inquire initially into:
(a) prudential supervision and consumer protection for superannuation,
banking and financial services;
(b) the opportunities and constraints for Australia to become a centre for the
provision of global fmancial services; and
(c) enforcement of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge;
and report on paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) by the last day of sitting in June
2000.*
(3) The committee have power to consider and use for its purposes the minutes of
evidence and records of the Select Committee on Superannuation appointed in
the previous three Parliaments.
(4) The committee consist of seven senators, three nominated by the Leader of the
Government in the Senate, two nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in
the Senate and one nominated by other parties or independent senators.
(5) The nomination of the final member to be determined by agreement between
the other parties and independent senators and, in the absence of agreement,
duly notified to the President, the question of representation on the committee
of other parties or independent senators be determined by the Senate.
(6) The Senate, by subsequent resolution, appoint a member of the committee as its
chair.
*(On 8 June 2000 the Senate granted an extension of time in which to report to
7 December. On 6 November 2000, the Senate granted a further extension of
time in which to report to 15 March 2001. On 6 March a further extension was
granted to 24 May 2001. On 23 May 2001 a further extension was granted to
27 September 2001. On 28 August 2001 a further extension was granted for
the presentation of the final report of the Select Committee on Superannuation
and Financial Services on prudential supervision and consumer protection for


superannuation, banking and financial services to the last sitting day in March
2002.)


TABLE OF CONTENTS
MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE.i
TERMS OF REFERENCE.iii
PREFACE.vii
RECOMMENDATIONS.ix
ABBREVIATIONS.xi
CHAPTER 1
THE INQUIRY
Background to the inquiry.1
Conduct of the roundtable.2
Structure of the report.3
Acknowledgments.3
CHAPTER 2
AUDITORS’ ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS
What is the role of auditors and actuaries under the SIS Act?.5
Who may be an auditor or actuary under the SIS Act?.6
What are the reporting obligations of auditors?.6
What action may be taken against auditors?.7
CHAPTER 3
EXPECTATION VS REALITY: DOES THE SIS ACT MEASURE UP?
Is there an ‘expectation gap’ about what auditors do?.9
The adequacy of reporting requirements under the SIS Act.13


CHAPTER 4
THE NATURE AND RELIABILITY OF AUDIT REPORTS
The nature of audit reports.21
The reliability of audit reports.23
The Committee’s views.25
CHAPTER 5
THE ROLE OF THE PROFESSIONAL BODIES
The role of professional bodies.29
Qualifications and experience of auditors.33
APPENDIX 1
SUBMISSIONS RECEIVED.41
APPENDIX 2
WITNESSES WHO APPEARED BEFORE THE COMMITTEE AT PUBLIC
HEARINGS.51
APPENDIX 3
TABLED DOCUMENTS/EXHIBITS.63
APPENDIX 4
SUPERANNUA TIONINDUSTR Y (SUPER VISION) A CT1993
PART 16—ACTUARIES AND AUDITORS OF SUPERANNUATION ENTITIES.67
APPENDIX 5
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
75


PREFACE
This report presents the results of a roundtable on auditing of superannuation funds,
which the Committee conducted under its reference to inquire into and report on
prudential supervision, consumer protection for superannuation, banking and financial
services. It is the Third Report which the Committee has presented under this
reference.
As foreshadowed in both its First Report and Second Report, during the course of its
inquiry into the regulatory framework, and subsequent inquiry into five case studies,
the Committee became concerned that the standards of auditing, especially of
superannuation funds, were not as high as they should be. In the wake of recent
corporate collapses, and the mismanagement of some superannuation funds, the
Committee wants to ensure that the bar is lifted not only for trustees, but also for
auditors of superannuation funds.
The Committee acknowledges that a gap exists between the community’s expectations
of auditors and what auditors actually do. However, the Committee does not accept
that auditors have only a limited role. Audit reports need to be able to be relied upon
more widely than is currently the case. In particular, they must be able to be relied
upon to provide early warning of potential fund failure.
The Committee notes that the accounting standards for superannuation are more
rigorous than those applying in the commercial area and that, generally, most auditors
of superannuation entities in Australia are performing at a high standard. However, it
is essential for the profession to take a more forward-looking approach to improving
the standards of auditing, and to do much more to address the expectation gap which
exists in the community. The Committee therefore calls on the profession to take a
broader and more proactive approach, rather than confining itself to explaining the
limitations of their traditional role.
The Committee has made a number of recommendations designed to improve the
standards of auditing of superannuation funds. These include strategies to:
• tighten the current reporting requirements under the SIS Act to require auditors
to report directly to the regulator in certain circumstances;
• ensure genuine auditor independence;
• expand the nature of audit reports by requiring the auditors to assess and
comment on the fund’s risk management and investment strategies in accordance
with guidelines prepared by APRA;
• require a follow-up to qualified audit reports;
• provide increased assurance about the effectiveness of the governance
arrangements in place by requiring large funds to undertake a prudential review
every five years; and


• improve communication with fund members by routinely providing them with
the auditor’s reports.
Superannuation is compulsory, with funds under management increasing yearly. As
such, the Committee considers that the standards which apply to its management must
be higher than for commercial companies where people may choose to invest.
Implementation of the Committee’s recommendations will help to provide the
community with greater assurance that their superannuation savings are safe and their
retirement incomes assured.
I commend the report to the Senate.
Senator John Watson
Committee Chair


RECOMMENDATIONS
1. The Committee recommends that Part 16 of the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993 (the SIS Act) be amended to require auditors to report
to the regulator any breach of compliance with the Act or suspicion of a
fund’s unsatisfactory financial position, at the same time as they report such
issues to the trustee, (paragraph 3.45)
2. The Committee recommends that the SIS Act be amended to require that
auditors of superannuation funds be independent and that the auditor of a
company is not also the auditor of its superannuation fund, (paragraph 3.46)
3. The Committee recommends that APRA prepare a set of guidelines outlining
the specific areas which should be addressed in the audit report on
assessments of risk management systems and investment strategies for
superannuation funds, (paragraph 4.25)
4. The Committee recommends that where a qualified audit report has been
issued (other than merely on a technical ground such as a late return), there
should be a formal requirement for a follow-up audit to be conducted within a
specified time, (paragraph 4.26)
5. The Committee recommends that the auditor’s report on a superannuation
fund be sent, as a matter of routine, to all fund members, in order to improve
accountability and ensure transparency of the trustee’s actions and
communication about the fund’s financial state, (paragraph 4.27)
6. The Committee recommends that the larger superannuation funds regulated
by APRA be required to carry out a prudential review, at a minimum of once
every five years, (paragraph 4.28)
7. The Committee recommends that APRA consult with the relevant
professional and regulatory bodies with a view to developing a requirement
for trustees to provide a statement to the auditor prior to the audit of a
superannuation entity. The statement would certify that the accounts were
believed to be in good order and to comply with the SIS Act, and would note
any areas of weakness or concern in the fund’s financial and management
strategies, (paragraph 4.32)
8. The Committee recommends that the current move within the accounting and
auditing profession to require the formal assessment of competency in
auditing superannuation funds proceed as a matter of some urgency,
(paragraph 5.42)




ABBREVIATIONS
AASB
ANAO
APRA
ASIC
ATO
ICAA
ISC
NIA
RMS
SIS Act
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board
Australian National Audit Office
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Australian Securities and Investments Commission
Australian Taxation Office
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
the former Insurance and Superannuation Commission
National Institute of Accountants
Risk Management Statement
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993




CHAPTER 1
THE INQUIRY
Background to the inquiry
1.1 This is the Third Report which the Select Committee on Superannuation and
Financial Services has produced under a reference it was given when the Senate
agreed on 22 September 1999 to establish the Committee with effect from 11 October
1999. The reference was:
(a) prudential supervision and consumer protection for superannuation,
banking and financial services.
1.2 On 20 August 2001, the Committee tabled its First Report on that term of
reference.1 The First Report addressed the adequacy of the regulatory framework. On
30 August 2001, the Committee tabled its Second Report on the same term of
reference.2 The Second Report addressed the outcomes of the Committee’s inquiry
into five case studies.
1.3 In both reports the Committee indicated that it had some concerns with the
standard of auditing, and foreshadowed the holding of a roundtable to discuss issues
relating to the auditing of superannuation funds.
1.4 The Committee took this step because, in the wake of recent corporate
collapses and the mismanagement of some superannuation funds, it was concerned to
ensure that trustees, fund managers and regulators could have confidence in the
standard of audit reports and rely on them as one mechanism which could give early
warning of potential fund failure.
1.5 The Committee wants to ensure that the bar for not only trustees, but also
auditors, fund managers and administrators, is raised to a level at which the whole
community can have complete confidence in the safety of their superannuation
savings and their retirement incomes. As superannuation is compulsory, it is the view
of the Committee that it cannot be treated in the same way as a commercial company,
such as a mining company. Ensuring that the auditing of superannuation funds is
conducted at the highest possible standard is one of the key features of an effective
governance framework.
1 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation and Financial Services Prudential Supervision and
Consumer Protection for Superannuation, Banking and Financial Services: First Report, August 2001.
2 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation and Financial Services Prudential Supervision and
Consumer Protection for Superannuation, Banking and Financial Services: Second Report - Some Case
Studies, August 2001.


1.6 This report presents the results of that roundtable.
Conduct of the roundtable
1.7 The Committee invited representatives from the national regulators of
superannuation entities - the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA), the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) and the Australian
Taxation Office (ATO) - to participate in the roundtable. Key professional bodies,
namely the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, CPA Australia, the Institute of
Actuaries of Australia, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (ICAA),
and the National Institute of Accountants (NIA), were also invited. Two individuals
with specialist expertise, Professor Tony Harris and Mr John Shanahan, also attended,
as did a representative from the Australian National Audit Office (ANAO).
1.8 The Committee conducted the roundtable at a public hearing on Thursday 23
August 2001 at Parliament House in Canberra.
1.9 Because of constraints of time, only seven submissions were received/ A list
of all organisations which made submissions is at Appendix 1. A list of witnesses
who attended is at Appendix 2. Tabled documents and exhibits received in connection
with the inquiry are at Appendix 3.
Issues considered at the roundtable
1.10 The aim of the hearing was primarily to explore issues associated with the
auditing of superannuation funds, including the following issues which were
circulated as a basis for discussion:
• the adequacy of auditing and accounting standards - What are community
expectations of auditors? Are auditors doing enough to meet those expectations?
• the adequacy of reporting requirements under the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993 (the SIS Act) - What are the obligations on auditors?
Are these adequate? How can they be enforced more effectively? Should these
obligations be extended to include reporting directly to the regulator? How can
audit independence be assured?
• the nature of audit reports - Should audit reports include a risk assessment?
should they be prepared more frequently? Should they include ancillary reports
such as actuarial reports?
• the reliability of audit reports - Are the regulators able to rely on audit reports
to provide early warning of potential fund failure? Should the regulators make
more use of external audits?
3 Submissions on auditing were received from the NIA (Submission No 224), ICAA (Submission Nos 236
and 241), APRA (Submission Nos 237 and 239), Mr Tony Harris (Submission No 238) and the ATO
(Submission No 240).


• the role of professional bodies - How can they ensure adherence by their
members to ethical standards? How can they raise the overall standard of the
auditing profession?
• the qualifications and experience required for auditors of small, medium
and large superannuation funds - What qualifications are currently required?
Are they adequate?
Structure of the report
1.11 Chapter 2 sets out the current statutory framework for auditors of
superannuation funds, including their role, mandatory qualifications, reporting
obligations and the available remedies where they have not fulfilled their obligations.
1.12 Chapter 3 considers the first two issues discussed at the roundtable, namely
whether there is an ‘expectation gap’ concerning auditors of superannuation funds and
the adequacy of current reporting requirements under the SIS Act.
1.13 Chapter 4 considers the nature and reliability of audit reports, including
whether such reports should include risk assessments, whether they should be
conducted more frequently and whether they should include a wider range of
information.
1.14 Chapter 5 considers the role of the professional bodies in regulating
superannuation, and the qualifications and experience required of auditors.
Acknowledgments
1.15 The Committee is grateful to the organisations and individuals who attended
the roundtable and in some cases made written submissions relevant to the issues
being explored. The Committee also acknowledges the assistance provided by staff in
the Committee Secretariat, especially the Inquiry Officer, Louise Gell.




CHAPTER 2
AUDITORS’ ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS
2.1 This chapter considers:
• the role of auditors and actuaries under the SIS Act;
• the qualifications required of auditors;
• the obligations on auditors to report certain matters to the regulators; and
• the available remedies where auditors have not fulfilled their responsibilities.
What is the role of auditors and actuaries under the SIS Act?
2.2 Regulated superannuation funds are subject to strict financial management
standards under the SIS Act. Part 16 of the SIS Act sets out the obligations for
actuaries and auditors of superannuation entities (see Appendix 4).
Auditors
2.3 Two types of audits are required annually: an audit of the fund’s financial
statements and accounts, and, following legislative amendments in December 1995, a
compliance audit.1 The audits must comply with an approved form as set out in
superannuation circulars2 and must be given to the trustees within specified time limits
(between four and nine months after the end of the year of income, depending on the
type of fund).3
2.4 The financial statements have been developed to be consistent with audit
reporting formats recommended by the professional accounting bodies. The
compliance audit is required to reflect the entity’s compliance with the requirements
of the SIS Act for the whole year of income. Such matters include requirements
relating to trustees’ duties and restrictions on their activities, the appointment of
investment managers, the provision of information to members and the keeping of
minutes and other required records. From 1996/97, the approved form for an auditor’s
report included the concept of materiality, that is, an auditor must qualify an audit
report where he or she is of the opinion that an identified breach is material.
1
SIS Acts. 113,
2 For example, APRA Superannuation Circular No. IV.A.4: Responsibilities of the Approved Auditor
August 1999; ATO Superannuation Circular No. 1/2000 for self-managed superannuation funds.
3 Within four months for public offer entities, other than excluded public offer funds; within nine months
for self-managed superannuation funds; and within six months for any other superannuation entities.


Actuaries
2.5 Only defined benefit funds are required to have an actuarial investigation at
least once every three years.4
Who may be an auditor or actuary under the SIS Act?
2.6 An ‘approved auditor’ of a superannuation entity other than a self-managed
superannuation fund regulated by the ATO must be:
• the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory; or
• a registered auditor under the Corporations Law who is either associated in the
prescribed way with a specified professional accounting organisation or is
approved by the regulator.'
2.7 For the small self-managed superannuation funds regulated by the ATO the
rules are somewhat more flexible. An approved auditor must be:
• the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory;
• a registered auditor under the Corporations Law; or
• associated in the prescribed way with a specified professional accounting
organisation.
2.8 Regulations under the SIS Act provide that the following associations are
acceptable:
• membership of the Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants, the
ICAAortheNIA;
• membership or fellowship of the Association of Taxation and Management
Accountants; or
• fellowship of the National Tax and Accountants Association Ltd.6
2.9 An actuary under the SIS Act is a person who is a Fellow or Accredited
Member of the Institute of Actuaries of Australia.7
What are the reporting obligations of auditors?
2.10 Under Part 16 of the SIS Act some reporting obligations are mandatory while
others are discretionary.
4 SIS Acts. 31; regs9.25 -9.33.
5 SIS Act s. 131 and reg 1.04. Reg 1.04(2A) which allows for approvals by the regulator may cover, for
example, persons whose religious or political beliefs do not allow them to be members of a professional
accounting organisation.
6 Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994 Schedule 1 AAA.
7 SIS Act, s.10.


2.11 Where a person carrying out auditing or actuarial functions forms the opinion
that it is likely that:
• a contravention of the Act or regulations may have occurred or may occur, or
• the fund’s financial position may be, or may be about to become,
‘unsatisfactory’,
the person must inform the trustee in writing about the matter.
2.12 The financial management standards set out in regulations under the SIS Act
cover the circumstances in which a fund is considered to be in an ‘unsatisfactory
financial position’.8 Essentially, the auditor or actuary must consider that the
superannuation fund’s assets are inadequate to cover the fund’s liabilities.
2.13 As well as informing the trustee of any problems, the auditor or actuary may
tell the regulator. If the auditor or actuary does not do so, he or she must request the
trustee to provide a written report within a reasonable time about the action the trustee
has taken or proposes to take to remedy the problem. If the trustee does not comply,
or if the auditor or actuary is dissatisfied with the trustee’s action or proposed action,
the auditor or actuary must give the regulator a written report on the matter.9
What action may be taken against auditors?
2.14 Auditors who do not provide their reports to the trustees within the required
time may be prosecuted for an offence under the Act.10 Any person who knowingly
gives false or misleading information to the regulators is also guilty of an offence.11
2.15 The regulators may also disqualify a person from being an approved auditor
if the person:
• has failed to perform adequately and properly the duties of an auditor under the
SIS Act or any auditors’ duties required by law; or
• is otherwise not a fit and proper person to be an approved auditor.12
2.16 The regulators may also refer details of a matter to a professional body for
consideration of disciplinary or other action.13 Such referrals are subject to secrecy
obligations.14
8 Reg 9.01 to 9.45, especially regs 9.03-9.04.
9 SIS Act ss. 129(6), 130(5).
10 SIS Acts. 113.
11 SIS Act Part 26.
12 SIS Acts. 131.
13 S. 131A.


14 Under Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998 s. 56 if APRA is the regulator and S.252C of
the SIS Act if the Commissioner of Taxation is the regulator.


CHAPTER 3
EXPECTATION VS REALITY:
DOES THE SIS ACT MEASURE UP?
3.1 This chapter considers the first two issues discussed at the roundtable,
namely:
• community expectations of auditors; and
• the adequacy of current reporting requirements by auditors under the SIS Act.
Is there an ‘expectation gap’ about what auditors do?
3.2 A key issue discussed at the roundtable was the community’s expectations of
auditors and whether there was a ‘gap’ between what users of financial reports
expected of auditors and what auditors actually did.
3.3 Mr John Shanahan, an independent consultant, expressed concern about what
he saw as very high expectations of auditors:
I think a lot of community expectation is that the auditor is not there just
checking financial statements and compliance but that the auditor is
somehow a broader type of insurance policy. That concerns me. The auditor
will look at financial statements and does have obligations under the SIS
legislation and APRA to report on compliance. My view is that a lot of
compliance reporting is fairly mundane. Has a trustee been appointed
properly? Has he kept minutes for 10 years? Are they properly filed? People
are looking for more security on their investment decisions, which is not
properly the function of the auditor.1
3.4 Mr Shanahan said that nevertheless, he believed the requirements for auditing
of superannuation funds needed to be improved, and that auditors should take a
broader view of the status of a fund. He also supported the concept of a board of
superannuation auditors to ensure that standards were rigorous.2
3.5 Professor Tony Harris agreed with the notion of an ‘expectation gap’:
There is indeed an expectation gap, and everyone around this table is aware
that this is an issue which has concerned the accounting and auditing
profession for some considerable time. The profession tries to address the
expectation gap by telling the community the very limited role that auditors
play today in the financial and superannuation services as well as in the
broader commercial sector. I appreciate the concern that this committee has
1 Committee Hansard, p. 1308.
Committee Hansard, p. 1308.
2


that it may be that another solution is to expand the role of auditors to better
meet a part of that expectation gap ... there is some scope for auditors to
comment, for example, where there are systems failures within managers of
superannuation funds/
3.6 Professor Harris noted, however, that the accounting standards for
superannuation were significantly better than those in the commercial area ‘which are
characterised by ambiguity and flexibility, to put it mildly’.4
3.7 ICAA representative Mr Keith Reilly cautioned that there was no guarantee
against the loss in value of any investments over time, even those of superannuation
funds, despite community expectations that insurance companies, superannuation
funds and banks ‘do not go broke’.5 He said there were ‘lessons to be learnt’ from
two reports which he tabled: a 1994 research study commissioned by the ICAA and
the Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants to investigate the audit
expectation gap,6 and a 1996 follow-up report.
3.8 The 1994 research report differentiated between two components of the
expectation gap:
• ‘unreasonable expectations’, that is, the difference between the expectations of
users and the reasonable standards of auditing and financial reporting that could
be expected of the auditing profession; and
• ‘inadequate performance’, that is, the difference between the reasonable
standards that could be expected of auditors and what was actually being
delivered by them. The Working Party concluded that the most serious concerns
raised at that time related to this second issue, which became the focus of its
report.8
3.9 The main theme of the report’s recommendations was that the auditing
profession needed to be more proactive not only in relation to technical and ethical
standards, but also in quality control and corporate governance.9 The report made
many recommendations, including:
• improving quality control through a consistent quality assurance program with
independent lay oversight, professional registration of principal accounting
3 Committee Hansard, p. 1312.
4 Committee Hansard, p. 1312.
5 Committee Hansard, p. 1313.
6 Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants & ICAA A Research Study on Financial
Reporting and Auditing - Bridging the Expectation Gap: Executive Summary, 1994.
Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants & ICAA Beyond the Gap, 1996.
8 Ibid, p. 1.
9 The report emphasised (p. 2) that further proactivity was the “only answer” to performance issues
concerning auditing and financial report preparation.


officers and auditors, and publication of a separate annual report of disciplinary
findings;
• examining and improving the existing financial reporting scope and making
appropriate changes. Some of the areas to be developed included:
• reporting on bases other than that of ‘mere legal form’;
• developing consistency in accounting policies adopted by different entities;
• providing more frequent financial reports; and
• improving the relevance and comparability of information;
• perfecting the existing auditing scope and making appropriate changes, including
developing a conceptual framework for auditing as well as strict standards to
govern ‘other services’ provided by auditors;
• improving the accounting and auditing environment by such means as
reconstituting the Australian Accounting Standards Board with several full-time
members, improving supervision and discipline standards, and the profession
taking a leading role in setting and promoting corporate governance standards.
3.10 The follow-up report in 1996 outlined those priorities and the advances that
had been made since 1994. Overall, the 1996 report endorsed the proactive approach
and, in particular, supported initiatives in quality assurance and enhancement of the
disciplinary process. The report also endorsed the need for external professional
review and monitoring of accounting and audit standards, the importance of a high
standard of corporate governance practices and the desirability of harmonising
Australian accounting and audit standards with international standards as far as
possible.
3.11 During the roundtable another representative from the ICAA, Mr Richard
Rassi, commented that while auditors had been criticised recently, the relationships
between key stakeholders, namely the trustees, fund administrators, investment
managers, professional advisors and the regulators, needed to be considered. He also
argued that the criticism of auditors needed to be kept in perspective:
There is no doubt that the auditing profession has been under attack in
recent times, but it is really important that the politicians, the public and
regulators do not generalise the findings of certain cases and apply those
findings or concerns to the audit professional overall. If you have a look at
the track record, it has not been that bad — considering the number of audit
opinions that have been issued since the SIS legislation first came in. Very
few auditors have been successfully accused and tried for negligence or
indeed struck off as not being suitable to act as approved auditors.10
10 Committee Hansard, p. 1309.


3.12 Mr Rassi pointed out that the superannuation audit profession had been ‘doing
a lot of positive things’ recently:
For example, at the moment a new accounting standard has been released in
exposure draft form for comment which attempts to improve the quality of
external financial reporting and at the same time get some balance between
the cost and the benefit of financial reporting. The profession is in the
process of updating the auditing guidance statements that are applicable to
auditors of super funds. It continues to provide courses to practitioners and
they are constantly under review and being improved upon. The profession
has also been quite busy considering issues of independence, and this is an
exercise that has been undertaken by the profession overall.11
3.13 Representatives of other professional bodies also emphasised that most
auditors were performing at a high standard.12 APRA representative Mr Roger Brown
also reminded the Committee that the primary responsibility for managing a
superannuation fund lay with the trustees, and that it was important not to blur the line
of responsibility between the trustees and the auditors.13
The Committee’s view
3.14 The Committee was somewhat disappointed that the roundtable did not ‘think
outside the square’, despite the Committee’s exhortations to look beyond the current
legislative provisions and the traditional functions of auditors of superannuation
funds. The Committee noted that in some cases the participants seemed somewhat
defensive of auditors’ current role and what they considered to be unrealistic
community expectations.
3.15 The Committee also notes that despite what appear to be some important
advances in the financial reporting environment following the 1994 research report on
the audit expectation gap, that report’s broad approach to matters such as reporting on
bases other than mere legal form, increasing the frequency of reporting, and
improving the relevance and scope of information in financial reports appears to be
somewhat diminished in the follow-up report in 1996. While clearly emphasising the
need for quality, best practice, improvements in administration and accountability, the
later report does so from a perspective of adjusting the present framework rather than
re-examining the basis for that framework.
3.16 The Committee believes that auditors are not doing enough to address the
expectation gap with the community, despite having made some efforts in the mid
1990s. As the community becomes better educated about their superannuation funds’
financial position and more aware of their responsibilities to check on trustees’
11 Committee Hansard, p. 1309. The accounting standard is AAS 25 Financial Reporting by
Superannuation Entities.
12 Comments by Mr Edge of the AASB and Mr Reilly of the ICAA at Committee Hansard, pp. 1319, 1321.
13 Committee Hansard, p. 1315.


performance, the significance of this issue will only increase. The Committee also
considers it essential that the professional bodies devote more resources to improve
public education about their role.
3.17 Nevertheless, the Committee notes that discussion of other issues during the
roundtable suggested that some expansion to auditors’ roles might be possible and
even acceptable to the professional bodies. Those issues are considered in the next
chapter.
The adequacy of reporting requirements under the SIS Act
3.18 As noted in Chapter 2, under sections 129 and 130 of the SIS Act auditors
must report to a fund’s trustees if, during the course of the auditing, they identify a
breach of the legislation or form the view that the fund is, or is about to be, in an
unsatisfactory financial position. The auditors may also report to the regulators,
although this is not mandatory unless the trustee fails to take appropriate action.
3.19 APRA representative Mr Roger Brown said that APRA needed to be able to
rely on funds’ accounts and audit reports on compliance.14 In its circulars on the
responsibilities of approved auditors, APRA has stated that issues of principal concern
include:
• that the auditor is independent and is seen to be free of any conflicts of interest;
• that there is a letter of engagement from the trustee to ensure that all parties are
clear on the services being provided;
• that appropriate audit evidence is obtained;
• that sufficient documentation of the audit is maintained; and
• that management letters are issued to fund trustees as a matter of course,
regardless of whether there are issues of concern.15
3.20 Mr Brown said that auditors’ notification to APRA under section 129 (that is,
compliance) was very rare, and that he had been able to identify only two such
notifications in a brief review of APRA’s files. However, he noted that approximately
one in eight funds, excluding the small APRA funds, has a qualified audit report
attached to its annual return. He estimated that 80 per cent of those qualified reports
related solely to the late return of the report.16
14 Committee Hansard, p. 1314.
15 APRA Superannuation Circular No. IV.A.4 Responsibilities of the Approved Auditor, referred to in
Committee Hansard pp. 1314-1315.
16 Committee Hansard, p. 1315.


3.21 Commenting on the very small number of auditors’ notifications to the
regulators, Mr Malkin from CPA Australia said that the current provisions were useful
in that:
... [auditors] have the ability to negotiate with the trustees a way of
rectifying either actual breaches or potential breaches. By so doing we can
assist the trustees in repairing and making healthy the funds before they get
to the stage of having to be reported to APRA or the ATO as being badly
breaching funds, if you like ... In 90 per cent of cases — in fact, probably 99
per cent of cases — the trustees are very happy to listen to us and rectify the
problems that they have got themselves into, perhaps inadvertently, before it
even gets to the regulator. By so doing we are in fact the eyes of the
regulator and we are taking a lot of pressure off the regulator by providing
our competency in helping to rectify these funds.17
3.22 The roundtable discussed whether auditors should be compelled to report
directly to the regulator where they had identified a compliance breach or possible
unsatisfactory financial position. Mr Brown said that APRA would support such a
requirement, noting that it would currently be open to the professional bodies to
recommend such action by their members even though it was not mandatory under the
SIS Act:
While in my experience the bulk of auditors are good auditors and would be
happy to accede to such a request - particularly if it is promoted by their
professional bodies - I see, like you, more funds at the bottom end of the
market which are encountering difficulties, and frequently the auditors of
those funds would be less willing to comply with a voluntary request.18
3.23 Mr Phelps concurred with Mr Brown’s views, saying it would now be
feasible for auditors to report all problems to APRA, following the transfer to the
ATO of the responsibility for regulating most funds.19 Mr Shanahan also supported
mandatory reporting requirements for auditors.20
3.24 In relation to whether such requirements should also apply to the 220,000
self-managed superannuation funds regulated by the ATO, Assistant Commissioner
Ms Lesley East said that the ATO was in a different position as it did not require audit
reports for those funds to be lodged. If there were any qualifications, Ms East
advised, these should be included in the fund’s annual tax returns. Only if a problem
was detected would the ATO pursue the matter further and ask to see the audit
report.21
17 Committee Hansard, p. 1322.
18 Committee Hansard, pp. 1315-1316.
19 Committee Hansard, pp. 1316.
20 Committee Hansard, p. 1318.
21 Committee Hansard, pp. 1317.


Alerting the regulators
3.25 The roundtable also discussed the adequacy of means by which issues of
concern were drawn to the regulators’ attention.
3.26 In response to a question from the ICAA, APRA representative Mr Brown
said that APRA would not consider that submitting a qualified audit report was
sufficient notification to satisfy the requirements of section 129.22
3.27 Mr McKean representing the Australian National Audit Office agreed that the
traditional audit model was backward looking and did not look at early warnings.23
However, he noted that one of the dangers that needed to be considered was that an
auditor’s expression of concern about the solvency of a fund could in itself exacerbate
the problem and create the failure itself. In order to avoid such a situation, he
suggested consideration of a model that encompassed a ‘gale warning type system
where you may have a warning range from say, one to five’, with one flagging a
minor concern and five indicating a more serious breach. This would ensure that the
regulator was alerted to any potential failure and was better prepared to step in when
necessary.
Independence of auditors
3.28 Another issue discussed at the roundtable was auditors’ independence. Mr
Rassi from the ICAA commented that the profession ‘has been quite busy considering
issues of independence’, although he did not elaborate.24
3.29 Professor Harris suggested that there was ample evidence to suggest that
audits were not always conducted at arm’s length:
I would argue that the audit of Tricontinental and the audit by Deloittes of
AWA were marred by lack of independence. I am sure that the SEC will
say that the audit of Sunbeam was marred by lack of independence. I am
sure that we will see with HIH that there will be problems with
independence, as there will be with the audit of Harris Scarfe.“5
3.30 Professor Harris commented that the 1994 research report commissioned by
the ICAA and Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants to consider the
audit expectation gap:
... was the first time I had ever seen the industry in Australia address this
issue. They tentatively started discussing who should appoint the auditor
and that it may not be in the best interests of auditors or society to have, in
effect, managers appointing the auditors as occurs now in the corporate
22 Committee Hansard, p. 1322.
23 Committee Hansard, p. 1330.
24 Committee Hansard, p. 1309.
25 Committee Hansard, p. 1320; Submission No. 238.


world. The first time I saw that discussion was in 1993, and it has not been
pursued since.26
3.31 Professor Harris also commented that the United Kingdom equivalent of the
Audit and Assurance Standards Board ‘is significantly much more outspoken about
this problem in the United Kingdom than I see in Australia’.27
3.32 APRA representative Mr Brown noted that APRA had raised the issue of
auditor independence with the professional bodies in the past:
We have seen instances of severe lack of independence and we have on
occasion disqualified auditors primarily for that reason. In a survey amongst
our supervisory staff, they identified that as an issue in perhaps two to five
per cent of the funds which we review. So it is not, in audit parlance, a
material issue in terms of frequency, but certainly in those funds where it is
an issue it does represent, in my view, a risk to members.28
3.33 Mr Brown noted that it was frequently argued that one accounting firm could
both prepare the accounts of an entity and audit them, and that ‘Chinese Walls’ within
the firm could ensure independence. He said:
That position is certainly arguable, but perhaps particularly in smaller
practices it can come under legitimate question. There is not, in our view, an
easy answer to that. At the extreme you would say that no entity could
simultaneously prepare the accounts of a body and also audit it. That would
require, in our view, significant restructuring within the accounting and
audit profession.29
3.34 In its written submission, the ATO stated that the failure to maintain
independence was ‘the greatest perceived risk we have identified to date’.30 The ATO
said that in view of both its research and anecdotal evidence, it was ‘supportive of any
potential industry review on the issue of auditor independence’.31
3.35 However, there was no general agreement amongst the professional bodies as
to whether a lack of auditors’ independence was a significant issue. Mr Reilly from
the ICAA commented that the audit issues under discussion were similar to those
being debated internationally. He argued that if there was evidence to suggest an
auditor had become too close to the trustees and was not acting independently, there
26 Committee Hansard, p. 1320.
27 Committee Hansard, p. 1320.
28 Committee Hansard, p. 1316.
29 Committee Hansard, p. 1316.
30 Submission No. 240, p. 5.
31 Submission No. 240, p. 6.


were ‘more than adequate disciplinary processes’ to allow for ‘fairly immediate
action’ by the professional bodies/2
3.36 Mr Edge of the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board also queried
whether there was any evidence of a systemic problem rather than isolated instances,
pointing out that the regulators, like doctors, ‘only see the sick people’ and that
generally speaking, Australia had ‘accounting and auditing standards of the highest
quality’.33 He said no examples put to him had indicated that the problem with a
superannuation entity had been the lack of independence or the lack of a Chinese
wall.34
3.37 ICAA representative Mr Reilly argued that in general, the auditing profession
adhered to requirements and standards, and estimated that 70 per cent of audit
practices ‘are doing the right thing’ and presented ‘no problem whatsoever’. Another
10 to 12 per cent performed the work appropriately but did not document their work
as required by the standard. He estimated that in about 8 per cent of cases reviews had
to be done again due to ‘more serious problems’, and that in ‘a very small number of
cases’ the ICAA had excluded members.35
Committee view
3.38 The Committee notes that APRA regulates approximately 3,780 funds
excluding the small APRA funds (that is, those with less than five members where not
all of the members are trustees).j6 If one in eight of those funds has a qualified audit
as Mr Brown suggested, and 20 per cent of those qualified audits concern breaches
more serious than simply late returns, this equates to potentially serious breaches
being noted in relation to about 90 funds. As Mr Brown did not offer any other details
of the type of fund where serious breaches are reported, it is not clear to the
Committee how many members this number of funds could involve, but it is
potentially thousands.
3.39 As it has stated previously, the Committee believes that all funds that invest
monies for the purpose of providing a retirement income stream must be fully
protected. Accordingly it would seem that the problem of possible breaches of the
Act is significant and that all possible steps should be taken to ensure that the
regulator’s attention is drawn to those matters as quickly as possible.
3.40 Independence of the auditors of superannuation funds is also a crucial issue,
as the Committee noted in its First Report.37 The Committee recommended in that
32 Committee Hansard, p. 1317.
33 Committee Hansard, p. 1319.
34 Committee Hansard, p. 1319.
35 Committee Hansard, p. 1321.
36 According to figures supplied by APRA - see First Report, p. 19.
37 First Report, pp. 95-96.


report that APRA should work more closely with the peak professional bodies in order
to identify ways to improve adherence by auditors to professional and ethical
standards and ensure genuine auditor independence.38 The Committee notes that the
Minister for Financial Services and Regulation has recently announced the
appointment of a corporate governance expert, Professor Ian Ramsay, to examine
audit independence more generally.39
3.41 Although a number of examples were cited, the Committee did not hear
evidence of a major systemic problem concerning auditor independence in the area of
superannuation. Nevertheless, the Committee considers that auditor independence
would be enhanced by a mandatory requirement in the SIS Act that auditors report
directly to the regulator any breach of the legislation or concerns about the fund’s
financial position, at the same time as they report such events to the trustee. Such
notifications should include a clear indication of the auditor’s opinion as to the
seriousness of the identified problem, in order to assist the regulator in monitoring the
situation.
3.42 Another way of assisting independence might be to introduce compulsory
disclosure provisions for auditors in order to avoid any conflicts of interest. Although
this issue was not specifically discussed during the roundtable, the Committee is
especially concerned to ensure that the auditor of a company is not also the auditor of
its superannuation fund. Arm’s length auditing is essential to preserve independence.
3.43 The Committee notes that the SIS Act contains no specific requirement for
auditor independence, although the lack of independence may obviously be a
consideration in a regulator’s decision to disqualify an auditor for unsatisfactory
performance.40 However, there are independence requirements in the relevant Code
of Professional Conduct, particularly through Auditing Principle (AUP) 32 Audit
Independence which provides guidance to auditors in applying legislation,
professional ethics and auditing standards. Amongst other matters, AUP 32
emphasises the need for auditors to ensure that they are able to conduct the audit free
from the governing body’s intervention, that their independence is not impaired by
becoming involved in management or decision-making and that undue influence does
not arise through the level of fees derived from other services and the threat of loss of
those fees.41
3.44 As auditor independence is becoming an increasingly important issue both
nationally and internationally, the Committee considers that the solution should be
38 Recommendation 16.
39 Minister for Financial Services and Regulation Press Release No. FSR/057 “Rebuilding Confidence in
Australia’s Audit Profession”, 2 August 2001.
40 Under s. 131 of the SIS Act.
41 AUP 32 is discussed in Spencer, T for the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority, The Audit of Superannuation Funds, Audit Guide No. 4, Australian
Accounting Research Foundation, 1999, pp. 32-35.


stronger than a guiding principle. Accordingly the Committee recommends that the
SIS Act be amended to reflect the need for auditor independence and in particular to
provide that the auditor of a company is not also the auditor of its superannuation fund
because of the problem of perceived or actual loss of independence.
Recommendation 1
3.45 The Committee recommends that Part 16 of the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993 (the SIS Act) be amended to require auditors to report to
the regulator any breach of compliance with the Act or suspicion of a fund’s
unsatisfactory financial position, at the same time as they report such issues to
the trustee.
Recommendation 2
3.46 The Committee recommends that the SIS Act be amended to require that
auditors of superannuation funds be independent and that the auditor of a
company is not also the auditor of its superannuation fund.




CHAPTER 4
THE NATURE AND RELIABILITY OF AUDIT REPORTS
4.1 This chapter deals with the nature and reliability of audit reports. It discusses
some of the issues considered at the roundtable, including:
• whether audit reports should include a risk assessment;
• whether they should be prepared more frequently; and
• whether they should include a wider range of information, for example actuarial
reports.
The nature of audit reports
4.2 As noted in Chapter 2, auditors of superannuation funds are required to
prepare both a financial audit report and a report on compliance with the SIS Act
requirements.
Emphasis of auditors ’ reports
4.3 Mr Chris Malkin from CPA Australia said much more emphasis was being
put on the prudential controls related to administration of funds rather than the mere
‘green ticking’ of the financial statements and the assessment of compliance with the
Act. He said that the profession was ‘very conscious of raising the standards’, and
that the ICAA and CPA Australia were giving some attention to improving reporting
‘that could be better attuned to fund members’ needs and, in particular, the
development of more explicit standards for explaining the risk management strategies
adopted by the trustees’.1
4.4 Ms Martin from the Institute of Actuaries of Australia agreed that auditors
were identifying risk management issues ‘in a number of instances now’ in their
annual audit reports.2 However, there was no onus on the trustees to necessarily act
on the risks that had been identified. She suggested that this might be an area of
regulation that could be improved, explaining:
... ideally we would like to see some sort of process put in place, with a
better risk management framework around the regulation of superannuation
funds — something that requires superannuation trustees to have a proper
risk management approach in place that identifies all the key risks that the
1 Committee Hansard, p. 1324-1325.
2 Committee Hansard, p. 1326.


funds face and that seeks advice on those key risks and how they can be
mitigated...3
4.5 She elaborated on the sorts of requirements that could be considered:
Rather than just saying that the trustee has to consider and formulate an
investment policy, they need to more specifically require the trustee to
identify particular investment risks and have in place a strategy that actually
deals with those risks. Perhaps there even needs to be a requirement for the
trustee to take professional advice on investment strategy and, if they choose
not to follow that professional advice, to place some whistleblowing
responsibility on the professional who provides that advice. So I think there
is a need for some sort of forward looking risk management framework to
try and deal with some of the issues that have emerged through the
committee process.4
4.6 Like Mr Malkin, Ms Martin emphasised the need to be conscious about
imposing additional costs on funds without any material benefit. She noted that
actuarial reports are already required for certain types of superannuation funds,
namely defined benefit funds.
4.7 Both Mr Brown and Mr Venkatramani from APRA supported the requirement
for risk management statements to be made by trustees and in turn addressed in audit
reports. Mr Venkatramani said:
I do believe that there is a good case for maybe making risk management
statements not merely good practice but perhaps mandatory for trustees.
Then auditors and others who are involved can express an opinion on the
adequacy and effectiveness of those practices.'
4.8 ICAA representative Mr Rassi also suggested that a prudential review of
superannuation funds could be made mandatory, in addition to the current audit
requirements. Such a review could include an assessment of the fund’s risk
management approach, corporate governance structure and other related issues. Mr
Rassi said a prudential review process would be ‘an extremely healthy exercise’,
particularly for the larger funds.6 He added that such a review could be conducted by
the same auditor as carries out the existing audits, as this would be cost effective and
would help in that the auditor would already be aware of some of the fund’s risks.7
However, later in the discussion Mr Rassi stated that the prudential reviews he had
carried out of large funds’ risk management systems cost between S30,000 and
3 Committee Hansard, p. 1309.
4 Committee Hansard, p. 1309.
5 Committee Hansard, p. 1328.
6 Committee Hansard, p. 1327.
7 Committee Hansard, p. 1327.


$50,000, compared with total audit fees of between $20,000 and $40,000.8 He noted,
however, that for the large funds with substantial assets under management, such costs
were ‘miniscule’.
Frequency of reporting
4.9 CPA Australia representative Mr Malkin did not support audit reports more
frequently than once a year, due to the costs:
... every time a trustee spends money on administering a fund, it is reducing
the amount of retirement benefit that the members are going to enjoy when
they are able to get that retirement benefit.9
4.10 However, he noted that where an auditor had identified a possible breach of
the Act and had given the trustee a defined time in which to rectify the situation, the
auditor would go back to the fund to check on the progress rather than waiting until
the next financial year’s annual audit. Consequently in those circumstances the
auditor was looking at the fund ‘progressively during the year’.10
Reporting to fund members
4.11 The Committee was told that the auditor’s report was not required to be sent
to the members of a superannuation fund, although the auditor would be named in the
fund’s annual report and members did have a right of access to the auditor’s report.
The reliability of audit reports
4.12 A related issue raised for discussion at the roundtable was whether the
regulators could rely on the current audit report format to provide them with early
warning signals of fund failure.
4.13 Various views on the current audit report format were expressed. ANAO
representative Mr McKean reiterated earlier comments that the auditing process was
backward looking. He suggested that in order to be reliable in terms of picking up
early warning signals, the process ought to be an ‘auditing at the moment’ process.11
4.14 Mr Shanahan expressed concerns about the delay in the lodgement of audit
reports, that is, up to nine months after the end of the financial year for the small self-
managed funds. He argued that if 80 per cent of qualified reports were due to late
lodgement, the audit process was so delayed that it was difficult to be of any use in
terms of providing early warnings.12
8 Committee Hansard, p. 1333.
9 Committee Hansard, p. 1325.
10 Committee Hansard, p. 1325.
11 Committee Hansard, p. 1330.
12 Committee Hansard, p. 1329.


4.15 Mr Shanahan also compared the much more detailed audit reports on banks
that were provided to the prudential regulator. Those reports ‘pick many more holes’.
He noted, however, that the large number of superannuation funds may make similar
requirements unworkable in the regulation of superannuation:
There are only a limited number of banks. I do not believe you could have a
much more detailed report on prudential management issues. You [could]
do it perhaps with the large or the medium super funds, but to look at this
for the entire population of 220,000 I think would be fairly difficult.1J
Revising the format of audit reports
4.16 Mr Shanahan said he was not persuaded that the present format of the audit
report for superannuation funds would be useful unless ‘a particular prudential
direction to the audit function’ was made clear:
Every auditor at the moment says, ‘APRA has set out what we will put in
the audit report. We will all follow that. We cannot depart from that.’ 1
worry that our audit reports are so pro forma that you would all almost have
to have a qualification in flashing neon lights and say, ‘Look in this
additional paragraph. Something is wrong,’ before it gets noticed.14
4.17 Professor Harris suggested that APRA, as the basis for the audit report,
prepare a set of specific questions to which they want specific answers.1' ICAA
representative Mrs Orchard agreed:
... auditors would be willing to do a wider review of the risk management
systems assessments of the fund but we would need some guidelines within
which to work — for what is expected within that — so that an opinion
could be formed. We cannot just say that the risk assessment is appropriate.
That leaves the auditor quite wide open and does not give us a scope within
which to work.16
4.18 Accordingly Mrs Orchard suggested that APRA develop appropriate
guidelines for superannuation funds regarding audit report requirements. There was
general support around the table for this suggestion, with APRA representative Mr
Phelps saying such action would take a few months.17
13 Committee Hansard, p. 1329.
14 Committee Hansard, p. 1329.
15 Committee Hansard, p. 1329.
16 Committee Hansard, p. 1332. The ICAA in an earlier written submission also noted that ‘External
auditors are more than happy to assist APRA in its prudential supervisory role, provided that the work
requested is specific, rather than a vague general request to inform APRA of anything that APRA might
need to be aware of (Submission No. 236, p. 2).
17 Committee Hansard, p. 1332.


The Committee’s views
4.19 As the Committee noted in its First Report, it is essential that the regulator
have effective risk management procedures in place in order to ensure that early
warning signals of impending fund failure are detected.18 In addition, the Committee
considers it essential for all funds to have a risk management strategy, as well as the
investment strategy that is currently required under the SIS Act,19 and for auditors to
review those strategies as part of the audit process. As part of the review of the risk
management strategy, the Committee considers that it would also be appropriate for
auditors to address issues associated with capital adequacy.
4.20 In order to assist auditors to assess and comment on funds’ risk management
and investment strategies, as well as capital adequacy issues, the Committee believes
that APRA should prepare guidelines outlining the specific areas which should be
addressed in the audit report. The results of the auditor’s assessment should be
included in a fund’s annual report. The ATO should also give consideration to
developing guidelines to assist auditors in preparing audits of small self-managed
superannuation funds.
4.21 The Committee considers that where a qualified audit report has been issued
(other than merely on a technical ground such as a late return), there should be a
requirement to conduct another audit within a specified time prior to the next financial
year’s audit. The Committee notes the potential cost impact, particularly on the
smaller funds, of more frequent audit processes, but considers that the rewards in
terms of significant savings through improved fund security and early warning of
potential problems outweigh those considerations.
4.22 The Committee also believes that auditors’ reports should be sent to the
members at the same time as the annual report, in order to improve communication to
members on their fund’s financial state. The Committee is mindful of the fact that not
all members would necessarily understand or be interested in the details contained in
such reports, but believes that the need for greater transparency and accountability in
fund management justifies such a course.
4.23 The Committee considers it would be good practice, and part of an effective
governance framework, for a prudential review to be carried out for superannuation
funds regulated by APRA, particularly the larger funds. In order to avoid imposing an
undue financial burden on the smaller funds, such a review need not be carried out
annually, but should be required say every five years for the larger funds (as defined
by APRA). It would not be necessary to make such reviews mandatory for the small
self-managed superannuation funds regulated by the ATO, since all members of such
funds are responsible for the management of their own money.
18 First Report, pp. 42, 45-46.
19 The fund’s governing rules must include certain covenants by the trustees (s. 52(2)), including a covenant
to formulate and give effect to an investment strategy.


4.24 Finally, the Committee notes that audit reports on banks are more detailed
than those required for superannuation funds. The Committee considers that it would
be impractical for the small and medium sized funds to move to this standard.
However, the Committee considers that there may be merit in the longer term for
consideration to be given to moving towards requiring the audit reports for large funds
to ultimately be prepared to the same standard as that required for banks.
Recommendation 3
4.25 The Committee recommends that APRA prepare a set of guidelines
outlining the specific areas which should be addressed in the audit report on
assessments of risk management systems and investment strategies for
superannuation funds.
Recommendation 4
4.26 The Committee recommends that where a qualified audit report has been
issued (other than merely on a technical ground such as a late return), there
should be a formal requirement for a follow-up audit to be conducted within a
specified time.
Recommendation 5
4.27 The Committee recommends that the auditor’s report on a
superannuation fund be sent, as a matter of routine, to all fund members, in
order to improve accountability and ensure transparency of the trustee’s actions
and communication about the fund’s financial state.
Recommendation 6
4.28 The Committee recommends that the larger superannuation funds
regulated by APRA be required to carry out a prudential review, at a minimum
of once every five years.
4.29 The Committee also considered whether trustees should be required to
provide more detailed information to auditors, in order to assist them in identifying
particular issues of concern when conducting their audits. At present, the SIS Act20
requires trustees each financial year to prepare a statement of financial position; an
operating statement; a statement of cash flows; and such accounts and statements as
are specified in the regulations.21 There is no requirement for trustees to alert the
20 SIS Acts. 112.
21 There is an additional requirement for superannuation funds which invest in derivatives (such as options,
futures and warrants). A Risk Management Statement (RMS) must be prepared and the trustees or the
directors of the fund’s investment management company must certify in writing to the auditor that they
have met their responsibilities with respect to the RMS (such as having it in a form that is appropriate
and consistent with the guidelines set out in APRA’s Superannuation Circular No. II.D. 7 Derivatives
and its 1998 addendum). The auditor must then report to the trustees or the directors of the investment
management company his or her opinion as to whether those assertions are fairly stated.


auditors to any concerns about the fund’s operation or to request the auditor to pay
particular attention to an issue.
4.30 Nevertheless, there is opportunity for such concerns to be raised during the
audit engagement process. The letter of engagement recommended for use by
auditors22 clearly sets out the parameters for undertaking the audit. For example,
when the audit is in progress, trustees may be required by the auditors to answer
particular questions that arise.
4.31 The Committee has considered the possibility of requiring trustees to certify
to the auditors, prior to the audit taking place, that the accounts are in good order and
comply with the requirements of the SIS Act, and to indicate any systemic weaknesses
or issues of concern in the fund’s management or operations. The Committee
acknowledges that this suggestion would have significant implications for the SIS Act
regime. Matters to be determined would include specifying the types of information to
be provided by trustees, the standard of evidence required to establish a contravention
of this requirement, the consequences of any contravention (that is, whether civil or
criminal) and the appropriate penalty. Consequently the Committee considers that this
matter should be examined by APRA in consultation with the relevant professional
and regulatory bodies.
Recommendation 7
4.32 The Committee recommends that APRA consult with the relevant
professional and regulatory bodies with a view to developing a requirement for
trustees to provide a statement to the auditor prior to the audit of a
superannuation entity. The statement would certify that the accounts were
believed to be in good order and to comply with the SIS Act, and would note any
areas of weakness or concern in the fund’s financial and management strategies.
22 Spencer, T for the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority, The Audit of Superannuation Funds, Audit Guide No. 4, Australian Accounting Research
Foundation, 1999, Appendix C, p. 206. APRA’s Superannuation Circular No. IV.A.4 Responsibilities of
the Approved Auditor, para 14 notes that one of several issues about which APRA is concerned is that
letters of engagement are issued, in order to ensure all parties are clear on the services being provided.




CHAPTER 5
THE ROLE OF THE PROFESSIONAL BODIES
5.1 This chapter discusses the part played by the professional bodies for auditors
and actuaries, in particular:
• the role of professional bodies for auditors and actuaries in the regulation of
superannuation; and
• the qualifications and experience required of auditors under the SIS Act.
The role of professional bodies
5.2 Professional bodies have an important part to play in ensuring appropriate
standards of auditing for superannuation funds. Their means include:
• setting appropriate standards for membership, which in turn qualify auditors as
approved auditors under the SIS Act;
• providing education and training to members;
• working with the regulators where appropriate; and
• taking disciplinary action.
5.3 Before opening these issues to discussion, the Chair reminded participants
that the purpose of the roundtable was to develop more early warning signals to help
prevent fund failure. Referring to the list of 10 key audit issues for superannuation
funds identified by Mr Rassi in 1999 (discussed in the Committee’s First Report1), the
Chair asked participants to consider proactive measures to try to lift the standard.2
Education and training
5.4 Representatives of the professional bodies outlined a range of continuing
educational programs that were in place for auditors. Mr Malkin from CPA Australia
stated:
The profession — certainly CPA Australia and the [ICAA] — is constantly
revising the training and education programs for auditors of super funds ...
Those types of programs are being continuously updated and strengthened.
We are recognising all the types of error messages that Mr Rassi has
1
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation and Financial Services, Prudential Supervision and
Consumer Protection for Superannuation, Banking and Financial Services: First Report, 2001, paras
3.15-3.17.
Committee Hansard, p. 1335.
2


included in this report, and they are being addressed through the education
process.3
5.5 Ms Susan Orchard from the ICAA elaborated on the type of education and
training provided by the professional bodies:
It includes face-to-face education, communication with members on what is
happening in super — which we conduct with our superannuation and
financial planning practitioners on a weekly basis — as well as education
through magazines and other forums that we have to communicate with
members. I think we are seeing an improvement in the audit process. The
areas that we have highlighted are highlighted back to trustees and,
hopefully, we should then see these issues being resolved by the trustees as
they become better educated.4
5.6 She noted that many of the problems highlighted by auditors ‘really come out
of the education of trustees’. This was an area which the superannuation industry as a
whole had been committed to addressing, particularly over the last two years through
the efforts of APRA, ASFA and other bodies such as the ICAA.
Working with the regulators
5.7 Mr Agland from the NIA noted that it was important for the professional
bodies to work with the regulators.5 Mr Malkin stated that the ICAA and CPA
Australia had ‘a very strong, very healthy relationship with both the ATO and APRA’,
noting that the regulators participated in training courses for members.6
5.8 There was agreement amongst participants that the communication between
the professional bodies and APRA could nevertheless be improved. APRA convenes
regular meetings of a superannuation national audit consultative committee, inviting
representatives of each of the professional bodies from which superannuation auditors
may be drawn as well as the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, the Australian
Accounting Standards Board, ASIC and the ATO. The Committee was told that there
had been occasions where not all the bodies had participated in these meetings, due to
a ‘communication breakdown as sometimes occurs when bodies change people who
are organising things’. At the last meeting in April 2001, for example, no
representative of the professional bodies had attended.8
3 Committee Hansard, p. 1335
4 Committee Hansard, p. 1335.
5 Committee Hansard, p. 1336.
6 Committee Hansard, p. 1337.
7 Committee Hansard, p. 1338.
8 Committee Hansard, p. 1338.


Action against auditors whose performance is inadequate
5.9 There was discussion of what the regulators and professional bodies did when
problems with a particular auditor were identified. Mr Brown said that when APRA
identified a fund that was in difficulty, as well as working with the trustees:
... we will review how many super funds the auditor is engaged with in
deciding how much effort we put into addressing the shortcomings of that
auditor. If the answer is few, it may be that we would call the person in and
encourage them to expend their energies in ways other than auditing super
funds. That is reasonably effective, because in most instances where that
happens the person involved audits very few super funds.9
5.10 In response to a question from the Committee about APRA’s capability to
deal with the matters of concern it identifies, Mr Brown said that in order to fully
address every issue that APRA discovered, ‘we could expand the resources that we
use manifold’.10
5.11 ICAA representative Mr Reilly suggested an informal mechanism for referral
by the regulator to the professional bodies would be beneficial:
... so that [the regulator] could say, ‘There is a member there. The member
has had some failings and they are not doing a lot of audit work,’ or, ‘The
failings are there. Can you help the member?’ A lot of our work is in fact in
the education area. People are fallible; they do make mistakes along the
way. They may only be small mistakes and our disciplinary area is seen as
hitting people hard, but quite a lot of the time the discipline committee is
saying, ‘You’ve got it wrong. What’s the answer?’ and the member has said,
‘Sorry. These are the things that I have put in place to make sure it’s right
next time around.’ It would depend on the severity of the issues. So we are
open to working with [APRA] and with the ATO on that basis, as well.11
5.12 However, Mr Brown said this informal approach was not possible under the
current legislation:
Because there is a formal power in the SIS Act for us to refer and because
that can be seen as detrimental to the interests of the auditor, it is not open
for us to pick up the telephone and say, ‘Hey, we’ve got a problem with
such and such an auditor.’ We have to go through a formal process of giving
that person natural justice. We have to give them an opportunity to respond
to the issues that we have with them and then the referral has to be formal,
unless it is that the auditor, of his or her own volition, is prepared to come to
the professional bodies and say, ‘APRA had these concerns with me and
suggested I take on a certain level of training.’ But, given both the secrecy
9 Committee Hansard, p. 1336.
10 Committee Hansard, p. 1336.
11 Committee Hansard, p. 1336.


provisions within the APRA Act and the formal referral provisions within
the SI(S) Act, there is not the capacity for us to work at that sort of informal
level.12
Other issues: improving trustees ’ performance
5.13 Participants also discussed some of the ways in which the performance of
trustees could be enhanced, noting that the audit process was designed to identify
problems. Mr Rassi commented that there had been improvements in relation to some
issues that had been identified in 1999, particularly in relation to the timely
finalisation and lodgement of fund accounts which was a matter ‘we have been
drumming into all our clients’.13
5.14 APRA representative Mr Brown said that legislative amendments that
changed certain SIS Act offences to strict liability offences from January 2001 had
helped in improving the performance of trustees in terms of their record-keeping:
Previously, if a trustee kept the accounts in a shoebox and they were a total
shambles, to launch a prosecution it had to be proven that that failure to
maintain the records properly was reckless or deliberate. Now it is sufficient
to simply prove the fact of failure, although there are statutory defences. We
have not yet launched a prosecution under those strict liability provisions,
but we have already seen, very strongly, that the change in the legislation
has focused trustee attention remarkably. When we go and talk with trustees
and we have difficulties with a particular fund, we see that the willingness
of the trustees to respond promptly and effectively has been very much
enhanced. Even before we have implemented the powers that we have been
given, their beneficial effect is being seen.14
5.15 Another APRA representative, Mr Venkatramani, said that APRA’s power to
accept enforceable undertakings from trustees and other associated parties was another
valuable tool for the regulator.15
The Committee’s view
5.16 The Committee believes it is essential that the professional bodies and
regulators working together to identify common problems in auditing of
superannuation funds and develop appropriate training. Effective measures also need
to be in place to ensure that ‘problem’ auditors are identified and appropriate early
remedial action is taken, either by way of further training, disciplinary action or
exclusion and disqualification where necessary. The Committee encourages the
regulators and the professional bodies to keep lines of communication open between
12 Committee Hansard, pp. 1336-1337.
13 Committee Hansard, p. 1337.
14 Committee Hansard, p. 1338.
15 Committee Hansard, p. 1338.


them. As noted in Chapter 3, the Committee also considers it essential that the
professional bodies devote more resources to educating the public about their role.
5.17 The Committee notes APRA’s concerns about natural justice in terms of the
suggestion that the regulators might provide informal advice to the professional bodies
about auditors about whom they may have concern. However, the Committee
considers that APRA in conjunction with the professional bodies should consider
ways in which this issue might be addressed, including any amendment to the SIS Act
that is required.
Qualifications and experience of auditors
5.18 As outlined in Chapter 2, auditors of superannuation funds regulated by
APRA are required to be registered company auditors as well as members or fellows
of a prescribed professional body. For auditors of ATO-regulated funds, membership
or fellowship of a professional body will suffice. The Committee was interested to
explore whether the current standards were sufficient and whether the different
requirements for the two types of funds were desirable.
5.19 Mr Agland, General Counsel for the NIA, noted that while the SIS Act and
regulations did not expressly require auditors to have suitable experience, this was in
effect demanded by their membership of professional bodies:
We have set standards as to the qualifications of members at different levels.
We have requirements in relation to ethics and in relation to codes of
conduct. We have means to investigate members. We also have
requirements in relation to continued professional education. The way the
legislation sits, it is taking our rules and our regulations and, in effect,
applying those. That puts the pressure onto us as the accounting bodies to
ensure that those members out there are appropriate to do these types of
audits.16
5.20 Mr Agland described the NIA’s three levels of membership:
• associate membership, for which a two year Advanced Diploma in Business
Accounting was required. The NIA would not consider such a person suitable to
audit a superannuation fund because of a lack of the necessary qualifications or
experience;
• membership, which requires either a degree or graduate certificate in
professional accounting from the University of Southern Queensland (a course
which includes subjects on business ethics) plus at least three years’ experience;
and
• a recently created level of membership, called Professional National Accountant.
This level requires a university degree or the Bachelor of Financial
16 Committee Hansard, pp. 1339-1340.


Administration created by the NIA in conjunction with the University of
Southern Queensland. A public practice certificate is also necessary, and
‘greater requirements as far as their ethics and codes of conduct are
concerned’.17
5.21 Mr Agland said that the NIA would prefer only those members at its top
Professional National Accountant level to do audits of the superannuation funds
regulated by APRA, stating:
It is not so much the qualification that [auditors] take at the beginning;
almost as important is their experience level. We think they should have the
basics they learn in university or under a course, then they should have
certain years out in practice, and then after that taken a course that is more
specific to superannuation funds.18
5.22 Mr Agland said that the NIA’s members tended not to deal with the larger
superannuation funds, since their expertise was in dealing with the smaller funds.
5.23 The Committee asked whether auditors should be licensed. Mr Agland did
not support that suggestion, on the basis that it might exclude many accountants who
were sufficiently skilled to audit the small funds:
Licensing creates problems in and of itself, I think. The registered company
auditor is a clear example of something that was a great idea but the
specifications to become an RCA are such that there are very few registered
company auditors out there, which forces them to do a lot of work that
people of their experience and their skill probably do not need to undertake.
There are other people who could undertake a lot of that work. We would
not want to see a licensing arrangement that cut off the majority of
accountants who would not be able to undertake small superannuation
funds. If you want to say that those sorts of people cannot undertake audits
of large funds then that is fine but I think in reality the large funds would go
to the big accounting firms anyway.19
5.24 In response to questioning from the Committee, Ms East said that the ATO
was happy with the current requirements that auditors of small self-managed funds
need only be members of specified professional bodies.20 However, Mr Reilly said he
was ‘not too sure’ that the ICAA or CPA Australia were satisfied with those less strict
requirements, noting that the ICAA was concerned about inadequate audits of some of
the smaller funds because of the implications for the profession:
We have concerns with some of the anecdotal evidence coming back —
prior to the ATO becoming involved in the smaller funds — at the ISC level
17 Committee Hansard, p. 1340.
18 Committee Hansard, p. 1340.
19 Committee Hansard, p. 1341.
20 Committee Hansard, pp. 1341-1342.


and of course via APRA, that some of the smaller funds are not being
audited appropriately. Our quality review program has tended to suggest
that that is a fairly minor area for our members, but we are tarred with the
same brush. As soon as a regulator says, ‘There has been an audit failing,’
we automatically say, ‘Well, was it us? Or was it them? Or was it some
other group along the way?’21
5.25 Mr Reilly explained his concerns about having only a requirement for
membership of a professional organisation:
... merely saying that if you are a member of a particular organisation you
are then able to do an audit places quite a lot of reliance back on that
particular individual and that individual’s professional organisation to
ensure that they actually comply with the rules. So, whilst I am not about to
say that chartered accountants, CPA or NIA members are breaching those
requirements, I think the fact that at the APRA level you require a registered
company auditor to do APRA funds is appropriate, because at least the
registered company auditor structure ensures that that person has met a
minimum level of competence over a period of time.22
5.26 Mr Reilly said, however, that he did not support the way in which the
registered company auditor structure currently operated and that he was aware ASIC
also did not support it. He referred to a 1997 report by a Working Party of the
Ministerial Council for Corporations which had recommended a move away from
experience determined on a strict ‘hours-based approach’ (that is, only satisfying a
requirement for a certain number of hours to be completed) to an audit competency
approach.23 Mr Reilly said he believed that the Government had given a commitment
to implement that report and that he hoped legislation to give effect to the
recommendations would be introduced by the new Government, since he believed the
recommendations had bi-partisan support.-4
5.27 Mr Reilly went on to say:
One of the issues that the working party report highlighted was the fact that,
once you got your ticket, you effectively had it for life. Of the 7,000
registered company auditors that were actually on the ASIC register, there
might have been only 4,500 that were active auditors. It is becoming
increasingly harder for a professional to become a registered company
auditor because of the change in the way that the requirements have been
administered. So I think that is good.25
21 Committee Hansard, p. 1343.
22 Committee Hansard, p. 1342.
23 Report of a Working Party of the Ministerial Council for Corporations Review of Requirements for the
Registration and Regulation of Company Auditors, AGPS 1997.
24 Committee Hansard, p. 1342.
25 Committee Hansard, p. 1343.


5.28 Mr Reilly suggested that tighter requirements might be needed for auditors of
the small funds regulated by the ATO:
The Institute and CPA Australia are uncomfortable with the fact that there
are some other organisations — and I am not necessarily referring to the
NIA ... — where mere membership does not give any indication of audit
competence. I would argue that mere membership of the Institute or CPA
Australia by itself does not necessarily mean you are a competent auditor —
further requirements and training are involved.
We would like to think that this committee — once we have an audit
competency regime in place — can look at utilising that rather than just
mere membership of a professional body in terms of doing the audit of any
superannuation fund.26
The competency-based approach
5.29 Mr Reilly explained the ICAA’s approach:
... the model that we have worked on is a logbook type structure where you
gain experience on particular audits and then work under the direction of a
registered company auditor, who is the mentor. The registered company
auditor signs off once the particular person has met and demonstrated that
degree of competence. It is a much better way than it simply being a matter
of hours.27
5.30 He went on to explain the disadvantage of the ‘hours worked’ approach:
The problem with the hours approach is that if you come from a small
practice you simply are not going to get the number of hours that you would
have from a larger practice, or if you come from a major practice you may
spend quite a lot of your time doing other work than audit work. You can
spend a lot of hours and still be pretty incompetent. That is not directed at
anyone — it is anecdotal evidence. Present company excepted. We think it
is a far better approach and it is the approach that the major accounting
organisations are using. They are saying that before you are promoted from
being an audit senior to an audit supervisor to an audit manager to an audit
partner, you have to demonstrate that you have reached appropriate
competency levels, otherwise you do not go any further. Competency has
certainly been supported over the last 10 years in a whole range of different
training areas.28
5.31 Mr Shanahan also supported competency standards as ‘essential’, stating that
the industry needed to be ‘much more rigorous in auditors of superannuation funds
26 Committee Hansard, p. 1343.
27 Committee Hansard, p. 1344.
28 Committee Hansard, p. 1344.


meeting the experience qualification’.29 However, he also considered more was
needed by way of a licence ‘or a separate chapter of superannuation auditors’, stating
that the problem:
... is a lack of experience and knowledge of the legislation. The legislation
is complex. We keep amending acts. The regulations keep changing. APRA
bring out guidance every two years, an addendum in between, and then toss
in derivatives as well.
It is complex. You need specialist knowledge. I have no problem saying, ‘I
would like to see specialist people there.’ I do worry if we say, ‘Great news
to the rest of the world: we now have better superannuation auditors.’ ...
People will say, ‘Well, so what?’30
Where the problem might lie
5.32 Mr Shanahan also said that he did not consider the problem lay with the staff
who actually carried out the audits, but instead at a more senior level:
... my experience is that I have a great degree of confidence in the staff that
do the audits. I believe the people we recruit into the auditing profession
from universities with our in-house training do a great job. They find
everything that needs to be found. It is in the audit management, the audit
supervision and partner clearance level where people make the decision:
‘Oh, we have seen that; we can live with it.’ I have got a great belief in the
ability of our audit staff; I do worry about some of our audit management...
In audit files I examine in investigatory work, I find that everything that
needs to be found is documented in the files. You then have to ask the
question: why was it not raised in an audit report or the issue resolved with
the client?jI
Taking appropriate action against auditors
5.33 Mr Shanahan said he was concerned about the current system of regulation of
auditors, particularly the time taken for the process:
I believe that ASIC has some of the problems that APRA has. If an audit
failure is identified by a regulator you have to follow a due process at law
and immediately they bring in lawyers and the whole thing slows down. I do
not believe that the self-regulation practised by the professional bodies is as
speedy or as efficient as some would have us believe/2
29 Committee Hansard, pp. 1308, 1344.
30 Committee Hansard, p. 1345.
31 Committee Hansard, p. 1345.
32 Committee Hansard, p. 1346.


5.34 In response, ASIC representative Mr Mackintosh noted that while the process
was sometimes ‘cumbersome’, principles of natural justice had to be followed/'3
5.35 Mr Shanahan said he believed the system of self-regulation needed
strengthening, citing as another example the available disciplinary remedies:
If people get disciplined by the CALDB [Companies Auditors and
Liquidators Disciplinary Board] then they are reported to the Institute or
CPA Australia and quite often they say, ‘You’ve been dealt with. We won’t
do anything more than that. You can’t have double jeopardy.’34
5.36 APRA representative Mr Brown noted in response that APRA had
disqualified ‘in the order of 20 auditors over a period of time’.35
5.37 The Committee was interested to ascertain the number of auditors who had
been disciplined or excluded by the professional bodies. In response to the
Committee’s questions on notice, the ICAA advised that four people had been
excluded from its membership in the last two years, although none of those cases
concerned audit function matters. While the ICAA does not maintain statistics about
the source of particular complaints, a review of its disciplinary files for the past three
years indicated that APRA had referred three matters to it. The ICAA noted,
however, that the discipline of registered company auditors was the primary
responsibility of the Companies Auditors and Liquidators Disciplinary Board, since
only that Board could revoke registration and thus prevent individuals from acting as
company auditors.36
5.38 As an example of action that had been taken against auditors, the Committee
asked about any disciplinary action taken by the professional bodies in two cases,
namely those concerning auditors of Adelaide Steamship and AWA. The ICAA noted
that ‘by the time the various legal actions had concluded both auditors had retired and
the Institute is not aware that any action was taken by ASIC’.37
The Committee’s view
5.39 The Committee acknowledges that the professional accounting bodies seek to
position themselves as leaders in finance, accounting and business advice and that
they strive through their endeavors to maintain and enhance their high public standing.
The profession acknowledges that its success and public recognition is dependent on
the commitment and support of members.
33 Committee Hansard, p. 1347.
34 Committee Hansard, p. 1346.
35 Committee Hansard, p. 1347.
36 Submission No. 241, p. 1.
37 Submission No. 241, p. 1.


5.40 Recognising the endeavors by the professional bodies to maintain and
enhance their public standing, the Committee supports the profession’s move towards
having auditing competency formally assessed, rather than merely having a
requirement that a certain number of hours be completed. The Committee considers
that superannuation is a specialist area, that experience in this type of work is
essential, and that requiring formal assessment of competency in auditing of
superannuation funds should proceed as a matter of urgency.
5.41 The Committee also believes that the current system whereby a higher
standard is demanded of those who carry out audits of superannuation funds under
APRA’s regulation is justified. For the small self-managed superannuation funds
regulated by the ATO, where all the members are trustees and thus are responsible for
the management of their fund, the Committee believes there is insufficient evidence at
this time to impose requirements additional to the membership or fellowship of
professional bodies that is currently prescribed. However, in light of the concerns
expressed by some of the professional bodies at the roundtable about the adequacy of
auditing of some of those small funds, this situation should be monitored.
Recommendation 8
5.42 The Committee recommends that the current move within the accounting
and auditing profession to require the formal assessment of competency in
auditing superannuation funds proceed as a matter of some urgency.
Senator John Watson
Committee Chair




APPENDIX 1
SUBMISSIONS RECEIVED
1. Mr Peter Williams, WA
2. Mrs Patricia A. King, NSW
3. Mr Dan Scheiwe, Queensland University of Technology, QLD
4. Mr Peter Armstrong, VIC
5. Industry Funds Forum (IFF)
6. Australian Consumers’ Association (ACA)
7. Australian Taxation Office (ATO)
8. The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
9. Mr Jeremy Porteus, WA
10. Care Incorporated, Financial Counselling and Consumer Credit Legal Service
11. Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC)
12. Consumer Credit Legal Service Inc
13. National Farmers’ Federation (NFF)
14. WA Shearing Contractors Association (Inc)
15. NFF (Supplementary Submission)
16. Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
17. Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASF A)
18. NRMA
19. William M. Mercer Pty Ltd
20. Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants (Now CPA Australia)
21. Ms Fiona Ogilvy-O'Donnell, VIC
22. Automotive, Food, Metals, Engineering, Printing and Kindred Industries Union
(AMWU)


23. Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
24. Mr John Teasdale, SA
25. Council of Small Business Organisations of Australia Ltd (COSBOA)
26. Financial Services Consumer Policy Centre (FSCPC)
27. Investment & Financial Services Association (IFSA)
28. Phillips Fox Actuaries and Consultants
29. Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
30. Institutional Analysis Pty Ltd
31. AMP
32. Corporate Super Association
33. Process Pack Pty Ltd
34. Goodman Fielder Limited
35. Mr Shawn Fracchia, ACT
36. Westpac Banking Corporation
37. ' Puzzle Financial Advice P/L
38. Towers Perrin
39. AMWU (Supplementary Submission)
40. ASFA (Supplementary Submission)
41. Mr Shawn Fracchia, ACT (Supplementary Submission)
42. Queensland Furnishing Industry Superannuation Trust (QFIST)
43. Mr Geoffrey Heaton, QLD
44. Association of Independent Retirees Inc, SA
45. Industry Fund Services Pty Ltd
46. Puzzle Finance Advice P/L (Supplementary Submission)
47. Mr Gary Lanham, Minter Ellison, QLD
48. Ms Carmel Reading, QLD


49. Institute of Actuaries of Australia
50. Tasplan Super
51. The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (Supplementary
Submission)
52. ACTU (Supplementary Submission)
53. De Santis Management Agency
54. Australian Conservation Foundation
55. Puzzle Finance Advice P/L (Supplementary Submission)
56. Ms Carmel Reading, QLD (Supplementary Submission)
57. Mr Pat Hannan, QLD
58. IFF (Supplementary Submission)
59. Towers Perrin (Supplementary Submission)
60. REST Superannuation
61. Tasplan Super (Supplementary Submission)
62. Mr Greg Lisk, NSW
63. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
64. ASFA (Supplementary Submission)
65. Phillips Fox, Actuaries and Consultants (Supplementary Submission)
66. Insurance Council of Australia Ltd (ICA)
67. Hotel Motel & Accommodation Association of Queensland (HMAA
Queensland)
68. Confidential
69. Confidential
70. Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
71. Confidential
72. Financial Planning Association of Australia Ltd (FPA)
73. APRA (Supplementary Submission)


74. First Samuel Limited
75. ATO (Supplementary Submission)
76. Department of the Treasury
77. The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (Supplementary
Submission)
78. Investment Initiative
79. Institute of Actuaries (Supplementary Submission)
80. Australian National Audit Office (ANAO)
81. Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
82. ACA (Supplementary Submission)
83. Confidential
84. Confidential
85. Mr Daryl Dixon, Writer and Consultant, ACT
86. Association of Financial Advisers
87. Department of the Treasury (Supplementary Submission)
88. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
89. Law Employees Superannuation Fund (LESF)
90. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
91. ASIC (Supplementary Submission)
92. Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
93. ATO (Supplementary Submission)
94. Confidential
95. Confidential
96. Mr John Crosby
97. Mr & Mrs R D & M I Gregg
98. Morton Family Superannuation Fund


99. Mr Spencer Bell
100. Name withheld
101. Mr John Crosby (Supplementary Submission)
102. Mr & Mrs Richard & Jennifer Kaan
103. Mr & Mrs P R & V T Marshall
104. Mr Dominic Galati
105. Name withheld
106. Watts Family Superannuation Fund
107. Saxby Bridge Financial Planning Pty Ltd
108. Price Waterhouse Coopers
109. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
110. Confidential
111. Mr & Mrs RD&MI Gregg (Supplementary Submission)
112. Mr & Mrs P R & V T Marshall (Supplementary Submission)
113. The McKellar Family Superannuation Fund
114. Name withheld
115. Mr John Crosby (Supplementary Submission)
116. Australian Securities & Investments Commission (ASIC)
117. Mr & Mrs P Sautelle
118. Mr Phil Dally
119. Mrs Helen Hills
120. Name withheld
121. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
122. Confidential
123. Ms J M Schott
124. Mr & Mrs L & S Morrell


125. Mr Michael Spaulding
126. Mr Ian Young
127. Mr Gordon Dilger
128. Name withheld
129. Ms Cherylyn Harris
130. The Hon Ray Groom MHA
131. Mr & Mrs Arnold & Maureen Sierink
132. Ms Jocelyn Walsh
133. Name withheld
134. Mr & Mrs Neville & Margaret Newman
135. Mr Alastair Shepherd
136. Mr John Woods
137. MrPCToomey
138. Mr Jeff Trimmer
139. Mrs Janice Holland
140. Mr & Mrs Colin & Laurel Trevena
141. Tasmanian Ombudsman
142. Mr John Meyer & Ms Jill Dalrymple
143. Mr & Mrs David & Marie Hudson
144. Ms Gillian Maguire
145. Confidential
146. Mr & Mrs G R & M J Shuptrine (Supplementary submission)
147. John, the Duke of Avram
148. Ms Margaret Mitchell
149. Department of Justice and Industrial Relations
150. The Law Society of Tasmania


151. The Law Society of Tasmania (Supplementary submission)
152. Garrisons Financial Advisers
153. Tasmania Police
154. Mr Arnold Sierink (Supplementary submission)
155. Mr Peter Worrall
156. Confidential
157. Mr & Mrs Pidd
158. Ms Pev McIntyre
159. Mr N W Tesdorf
160. McCulloch & McCulloch Mortgage Fund
161. Mr Anthony Clennett
162. DW&IMTapping
163. Piggott Wood & Baker
164. Mr Peter Kang-Scheit
165. Mr Jon Jovanovic
166. Rae & Partners, Lawyers
167. Mr NW Tesdorf
168. Ms Anne Moutafis OAM
169. Mr Charles Phillips
170. Confidential
171. Department of Justice & Industrial Relations (Supplementary submission)
172. Mr James G Turner
173. E R Henry Wherrett & Benjamin
174. Confidential
175. Mr David Newitt
176. Pi ggott Wood & B aker


177. Tasmanian Trustees Limited
178. Paul Cook & Associates
179. Eastside Financial Services
180. Resource Management & Planing Appeal Tribunal
181. Mr & Mrs A D & M Oldham (Supplementary Submission)
182. Kingborough Council
183. Dobson, Mitchell & Allport
184. Mr & Mrs Arnold & Maureen Sierink (Supplementary Submission)
185. Garrisons Pty Ltd (Supplementary Submission)
186. Mr D Gillie, Mrs S Sutcliffe & Mr B Griffin
187. Barringtons
188. Mr Mark Johnson
189. Mr Donald Hurburgh
190. Legal Ombudsman, Tasmania
191. Murdoch Clarke
192. Official Liquidator of D W & I M Tapping Pty Ltd
193. Australian Stock Exchange Limited (ASX)
194. Mr J Meyer (Supplementary Submission)
195. Mr Sydney Dwyer
196. The Solicitors'Trust
197. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
198. Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) (Supplementary
Submission)
199. Australian Property Institute (Tasmanian Division)
200. Valuers Registration Board
201. The Law Society of Tasmania (Supplementary Submission)


202. Garrisons Pty Limited (Supplementary Submission)
203. Confidential
204. Confidential
205. Sorell Council
206. Garrisons Corporate Services (Supplementary Submission)
207. Mr Peter Worrall (Supplementary Submission)
208. The Law Society of Tasmania (Supplementary Submission)
209. Australian Stock Exchange Limited (Supplementary Submission)
210. Department of Police and Public Safety, Tasmania (Supplementary
Submission)
211. P G Brownrigg & Associates
212. Mr Jeff Trimmer (Supplementary Submission)
213. Department of Justice & Industrial Relations, Tasmania (Supplementary
Submission)
214. Name withheld
215. Australian Securities & Investments Commission (Supplementary Submission)
216. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
217. Mrs Janice Holland (Supplementary Submission)
218. Confidential
219. Confidential
220. Official Liquidator of Commercial Nominees of Australia Limited
221. Australian Securities & Investments Commission (Supplementary Submission)
222. Arthur Andersen
223. Confidential
224. National Institute of Accountants
225. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
226. Ferrier Hodgson Management


227. Mr S P Dwyer (Supplementary Submission)
228. Murdoch Clarke (Supplementary Submission)
229. Mr C E Clark
230. Clerk Walker & Stops
231. Garrisons Corporate Services (Supplementary Submission
232. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
233. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
234. Legal Ombudsman (Tasmania) (Supplementary Submission)
235. Australian Property Institute, Tasmanian Division
236. The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
237. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
238. Mr Tony Harris
239. APRA (Supplementary Submission)
240. Australian Taxation Office
241. The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (Supplementary
Submission)
(Submissions 1-95 were tabled on 22 May 2001 when the Committee tabled its report
on term of reference (c) Enforcement of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge.
Submissions 96-237 were tabled on 20 August 2001 when the Committee tabled its
First Report on term of reference (a) Prudential Supervision and Consumer Protection
for Superannuation, Banking and Financial Services.)


APPENDIX 2
WITNESSES WHO APPEARED BEFORE
THE COMMITTEE AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
Monday, 15 May 2000, Sydney
Australian Mutual Provident Society Ltd
Mr Kevin Casey, Senior Strategy and Technical Adviser
Mr Gerald Naughton, Senior Investment Manager
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Dr Michaela Anderson, Director, Policy and Research
Ms Philippa Smith, Chief Executive Director
Financial Services Consumer Policy Centre
Mr John Berrill, Partner Superannuation, Martin Blackburn Cashman
Mr Chris Connolly, Director
Mr Khaldoun Hajaj, Researcher
Australian, Food, Metals, Engineering Printing and Kindred Industries Union
Mr Barry Terzic, National Research Officer
Retail Employees Superannuation Trust
Mr Damian Hill, Administration Manager
Mr Elliott Sabbah, Operations Manager
Phillips Fox Actuaries and Consultants
Mr Michael Rice, Managing Director
Investment and Financial Services Association
Miss Lynn Ralph, Chief Executive Officer
Ms Annabelle Kline, Senior Policy Manager
Tuesday, 16 May 2000, Sydney
Australian Stock Exchange
Ms Rosemary Kennedy, National Manager, Interest Rates Markets
Mr Michael Roche, Executive General Manager, Strategic Planning and
Corporate Relations
Australian Centre for Global Finance, Treasury
Mr Leslie Hosking, Chief Executive Officer
Miss Maryanne Mrakovcic, General Manager


Australian Financial Markets Association
Mr Kenton Farrow, Chief Executive
Mr John Rappell, Director Research and Policy
Dr George Gilligan
Prof Gordon de Brouwer
Vanguard Investments Australia Ltd
Mr Jeremy Duffield, Managing Director
Skandia Assurance and Financial Services
Mr Johan Hofvander, Regional Manager, Asia-Pacific
Mr Ross Laidlaw, Country Manager
International Banks and Securities Association of Australia
Mr Robert Webster, Executive Director
Friday, 9 June 2000, Melbourne
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
Mr Graham McDonald, Chair
Ms Nicole Cullen, Deputy Chairperson
Mrs Margaret McDonald, Director
Osborne Associates
Mr Bradley Treadwell, Managing Director
Insurance Council of Australia Ltd
Mr Philip Maguire, Deputy Chief Executive
Ms Joan Fitzpatrick, Member International Committee for General
Insurance
Mr Vincent McLenaghan, Chairman, International General Insurance
Committee
Reserve Bank of Australia
Mr Ric Battellino, Assistant Governor, Financial Markets
Dr Robert Rankin, Head of International Department
Finance and Treasury Association
Mr Anthony Michell, Technical Manager, Policy, Research and
Professional Development
Australian Banking Industry Ombudsman
Mr Colin Neave, Banking Ombudsman
J B Were & Son
Mr Terrence Campbell, Executive Chairman


Ms Priscilla Boreham, Corporate Counsel
Ms Lisa Gay, General Counsel
Australian Securities and Investment Commission
Mr Alan Cameron, Chairman
Ms Delia Rickard, Director, Office of Consumer Protection
Ms Jillian Segal, Commissioner
Mr Shane Tregillis, National Director Regulation
Australian Accounting Standards Board
Mr Keith Alfredson, Chairman
Thursday, 15 June 2000, Melbourne
Australian Council of Trade Unions
Ms Linda Rubinstein, Senior Industrial Officer
Industry Funds Forum
Ms Ann Byrne, Convenor
Ms Anne-Marie Darke, Executive Member
Corporate Super Association
Mr Mark Cerche, Chairman
Mr Nicholas Brookes, Secretary
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia
Mr David Coogan, Chairperson, Superannuation Taskforce
Mr Richard Rassi, Partner Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
William MMercer Pty Ltd
Mr Wayne Walker, Executive Director
Mr John Ward, Manager, Research and Information
Ms Fiona Ogilvy-O’Donnell
Towers Perrin
Mr Kenneth Lockery, Principal
CPA Australia
Mr Bradley Pragnell, Superannuation Policy Adviser
Association of Independent Retirees Inc
Mr Alan Beaton, President, South Australian Division and National
Councillor


Friday, 16 June, 2000, Brisbane
Puzzle Finance Advice Pty Ltd
Mr Bruce Baker, Director
Mr Gary Lanham
Mr Mervyn Whimp
Hairdressers Association Superannuation Fund
Mrs Yvonne Bell, Consultant to Fund
Mr Jeffrey Osborne, Director (Trustee Company)
Mrs Carmel Reading
Law Employees Superannuation Fund
Mr Peter Short, Chairman
Mr Ray Rinaudo, Director
Voyager Resort Ltd
Mr Geoff Heaton, Company Secretary and Resort Manager
Mr Dan Scheiwe
Mr Paul Henderson
Friday, 14 July, 2000, Canberra
Australian National University
Prof Peter Drysdale, Head Australia-Japan Research Centre and Acting
Director Asia Pacific School of Economics and Management
Prof Anthony Milner, Dean, Faculty of Asian Studies
The National Office for the Information Economy, Department of
Communications, Information, Technology and the Arts
Dr Rodney Badger, Deputy Chief Executive Officer NOIE and
Executive Director Information Technology
Mr Phillip Malone, Acting General Manager, E-Commerce
Mr Gregory Piko, Acting General Manager, Information and
Communications Industry Development
Mr Brenton Thomas, Acting General Manager, Consumer and
Competition Branch
Namoi Cotton Cooperative (teleconference)
Mr Andrew Lennon, Risk Manager
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co Ltd (teleconference)
Mr Ian Edney, Vice President Taxes
Mr Alistair Mytton, Manager, Corporate Tax Advisory


Australian Principals ’ Centre
Mr Nicholas Thornton, Chief Executive Officer
Australian Greenhouse Office
Dr David Harrison, Special Adviser, Emission Trading
Dr Gary Richards, Manager, National Carbon Accounting System
Mr Stephen Moran, Director, Climate Section, Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade
Securities Institute of Australia
Ms Penelope Le Couteur, Managing Director
Mr Darren Davis, National Policy Adviser
Department of the Treasury
Mr Blair Comley, General Manager, Indirect Tax Division
Mr Bruce Paine, General Manager, Business Entities and International
Tax Division
Mr Gary Potts, Executive Director, Markets Group
Mr Michael Willcock, General Manager, Financial Markets Division
Mr Leslie Hosking, Chief Executive Officer, Axiss Australia
Australian Taxation Office
Mr James Killaly, Deputy Commissioner, Large Business and
International
Friday, 1 September 2000, Canberra
Australian National Audit Office
Mr Peter White, Executive Director, Revenue Branch
Mr Norman Grimmond, Senior Auditor Performance Audit Services
Group
Financial Planning Association of Australia
Mr Con Hristodoulidis, Senior Manager, Public Policy
Mr Maurice Pinto, Chairperson, Superannuation and Retirement
Incomes Committee
Australian Consumers Association
Ms Louise Petschler, Senior Policy Officer, Financial Services
Australian Taxation Office
Mr David Diment, Assistant Commissioner, Superannuation
Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Dr David Knox, President
Ms Jane Ferguson, Director Public Affairs
Ms Christa Marjoribanks, Member, General Insurance Practice
Committee


Australian Institute of Criminology
Dr Adam Graycar, Director
Dr Peter Grabosky, Director of Research
WA Shearing Contractors Association (teleconference)
Mr Neville Munns, Secretary
Monday, 16 October 2000, Canberra
Care Incorporated
Mr David Tennant, Director
National Farmers Federation
Mr Richard Calver, Director, Industrial Relations
Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
Mr Jim Freemantle, Chairman
Mr Jim Larkey, Executive Director
First Samuel Ltd
Mr Anthony Starkins, Managing Director
Association of Financial Advisers
Mr John Hibberd, President
Mr Dugald Mitchell, Consultant
Tuesday, 17 October 2000, Canberra
Australian Securities and Investments Commission
Mr Sean Hughes, Director, Deposits, Investment, Superannuation and
Consumers
Mr Peter Kell, Coordinator, Office of Consumer Protection
Ms Angela Longo, Senior Lawyer
Ms Delia Rickard, Office of Consumer Protection
Mr Malcolm Rodgers, Director, Regulatory Policy
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Mr Roger Brown, Senior Manager, Rehabilitation and Enforcement
Mr Keith Chapman, General Manager, Specialised Institutions Division
Mr Leslie Phelps, Executive General Manager, Specialised Institutions
Division
Mr Darryl Roberts, General Manager, Policy Development and Statistics
Department of the Treasury
Mr Roger Brake, General Manager, Retirement and Personal Income
Division
Mr Raphael Cicchini, Manager, Superannuation Unit, Retirement and
Personal Income Division


Ms Jan Harris, General Manager, Consumer Affairs Division
Mr William Keown, Acting General Manager, Financial Institutions
Division
Mr David Maher, Analyst, Financial Institutions Division
Mr Michael Rosser, Manager, Investor Protection Unit, Financial
Markets Division
Ms Karen Witham, Manager, Superannuation and Insurance Unit,
Financial Institutions Division
Mr Michael Willcock, General Manager, Financial Markets Division
Australian Taxation Office
Mr Leo Bator, Deputy Commissioner of Taxation
Mr David Diment, Assistant Commissioner of Taxation
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
Mr Allan Asher, Deputy Chairman
Mr Carl Buik, Director, Consumer Protection
Friday, 30 March 2001, Canberra
Mr Spencer Bell (private capacity)
Mr John Crosby (private capacity)
Saxby Bridge Financial Planning Pty Ltd
Mr Phillip Dally, General Manager
Mrs Marianne Gregg (private capacity)
Mr Richard Kaan (private capacity)
Mrs Jennifer Kaan (private capacity)
Mrs Valda Marshall (private capacity)
Mr Eric Watts (private capacity)


Friday, 18 Mav 2001. Hobart
Department of Justice and Industrial Relations
Mr Peter Maloney, Director, Legislation of Policy
Mr Leon Morrell (private capacity)
Mr Allan Oldham (private capacity)
Mrs Mary Oldham (private capacity)
The Hon Ray Groom, Shadow Minister for Justice (Tas)
Law Society of Tasmania
Mr Timothy Bugg, Past President
Ms Christine Harvey, Deputy Secretary-General, Law Council of
Australia
Mr Philip Jackson, President
Mrs Jan Martin, Executive Director
Toomey Maning and Company
Mr Patrick Toomey
Ms Cherylyn Harris (private capacity)
Ms June Schott (private capacity)
Mr Arnold Sierink (private capacity)
Mrs Maureen Sierink (private capacity)
Mr John Meyer (private capacity)
Mr John Woods, Official Liquidator of D W & I M Tapping Pty Ltd
Mr John Fyle (private capacity)
Mr David Newitt (private capacity)
Mrs Melba Truchanas (private capacity)
Tasmanian Ombudsman
Mr Anthony Allingham, Senior Investigation Officer
Garrisons Pty Ltd
Mr Philip Creswell, National Audit and Compliance Manager, and
Company Secretary
Mr John Sikkema, Managing Director
Mr Michael Spinks, Executive Director
Mr Peter Worrall, Manager, Lewis Driscoll and Bull
Mr Peter Joyce, Manager, McCulloch and McCulloch
Mr John McCausland, Editor The Mercury and The Sunday Tasmanian


Tuesday. 12 June 2001, Sydney
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Mr Peter Hedge, Partner
Australian Stock Exchange
Ms Luise Elsing, Manager, Companies, Sydney
Mrs Karen Hamilton, General Counsel and Company Secretary
Australian Securities and Investments Commission
Mr Simon Dwyer, Regional Commissioner
Mr Michael Gething, Western Australian Regional Commissioner
Mr Ian Johnston, Executive Director, Financial Services Regulation
Mr David Knott, Chairman
Mr Ian Mackintosh, Chief Accountant
Mr Darren McShane, Director, Managed Investments
Ms Jan Redfem, Regional General Counsel
Ms Jillian Segal, Deputy Chair
Mr Shane Tregillis, Executive Director, Policy and Markets Regulation
Mr Peter Wood, Executive Director, Enforcement
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Mr Earl Burgess, Senior Manager, Rehabilitation and Enforcement
Mr Bill Gole, General Manager, Coordination, Rehabilitation and
Enforcement
Mr Thomas Karp, Executive General Manager, Diversified Institutions
Mr Leslie Phelps, Executive General Manager, Specialised Institutions
Division
Mr William Stow, Manager (Legal), Rehabilitation and Enforcement,
Specialised Institutions Division
Mr Craig Thorbum, General Manager, Diversified Institutions Division
Friday. 15 June 2001. Hobart
Mr Cyril Clark (private capacity)
Mr Sydney Dwyer (private capacity)
Law Society of Tasmania
Mr Timothy Bugg, Past President and Council Member
Mr Philip Jackson, President
Mrs Jan Martin, Executive Director
Ms Christine Harvey, Deputy Secretary-General
Australian Property Institute
Mr Louis Rae, Chairman, Valuers Registration Board
Mr Raymond Westwood, Chairman, Complaints Commission; Board
Member, Australian Valuation and Property Standards Board; and
Tasmanian Divisional Chairman, Australian Property Institute


Mr Paul Wilson, Tasmanian Divisional President, Australian Property
Institute
Ms Judith Paxton, Tasmanian Legal Ombudsman
Mr Bernard Harrington, Retirement Manager, Centrelink
Monday. 25 June 2001, Canberra
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Mr Earl Burgess, Senior Manager, Specialised Institutions Division
Mr Les Phelps, Executive General Manager, Specialised Institutions
Mr William Stow, Manager, Specialised Institutions Division
Mr Graeme Thompson, Chief Executive Officer
Thursday. 23 August 2001. Canberra
National Institute of Accountants
Mr Reece Agland, General Counsel
Mr Paul Bartley, Deputy State Chairman SA
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Mr Roger Brown, Senior Manager, Specialised Institutions Division
Mr Les Phelps, Executive General Manager, Specialised Institutions
Division
Mr Senthamangalam Venkatramani, General Manager, Diversified
Institutions Division
Australian Taxation Office
Mrs Lesley East, Assistant Commissioner
Mr Trevor Thomas, Assistant Commissioner
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board
Mr William Edge, Board Member
Mr Richard Mifsud, Executive Director
Australian National Audit Office
Mr David McKean, Executive Director, Assurance Audit Services
Group
Australian Securities and Investments Commission
Mr Ian Mackintosh, Chief Accountant
Mr Douglas Niven, Deputy Chief Accountant
CPA Australia
Mr Christopher Malkin, Vice President Victorian Division; Member,
Superannuation Centre of Excellence


Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Ms Helen Martin, Senior Vice President
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
Mrs Susan Orchard, Superannuation Technical Consultant
Mr Richard Rassi, Chairman, National Superannuation Taskforce
Mr Keith Reilly, Technical Adviser
Professor Anthony Harris (private capacity)
Mr John Shanahan (private capacity)
(Hansard transcripts of the nine hearings held in 2000 were tabled on 22 March 2001
when the Committee presented its report on term of reference (b) - The opportunities
and constraints for Australia to become a centre for the provision of global financial
services. Hansard transcripts of the five hearings held by the end of June 2001 were
tabled when the Committee presented its First Report on term of reference (a) -
Prudential Supervision and Consumer Protection for Superannuation, Banking and
Financial Services. )




APPENDIX 3
TABLED DOCUMENTS/EXHIBITS
1. ASFA submission on Financial Services Reform Bill. May 2000 - tabled by
Ms Philippa Smith, CEO, ASFA, 15 May 2000, Sydney.
2. Correspondence from Hesta Super Fund to Barry Terzic, AMWU, dated 12 May 2000
relating to Superannuation - Process Pack - tabled by Mr Barry Terzic, National
Research Officer, AMWU, 15 May 2000, Sydney.
3. Extract from Workplace Relations Act 1996 - tabled by Mr Barry Terzic, National
Research Officer, AMWU, 15 May 200, Sydney.
4. Correspondence to APRA, dated 20 August 1999 and correspondence from APRA,
dated 9 September 1999 relating to monitoring gainful employment for members over
age 65 - tabled by Ms Lynn Ralph, CEO, IFSA, 15 May 2000, Sydney.
5. Opening statement by Mr Les Hosking, Chief Executive Officer, Australian Centre
for Global Finance and fact sheets about the Centre - tabled by Mr Les Hosking,
CEO, Australian Centre for Global Finance, 16 May 2000, Sydney.
6. AFMA 1999 Australian Financial Markets Report - Overview - tabled by Mr Kenton
Farrow, Chief Executive, Australian Financial Markets Association, 16 May 2000,
Sydney.
7. IBSA 1999 Annual Report - tabled by Mr Robert Webster, Executive Director,
International Banks and Securities Association of Australia, 16 May 2000, Sydney.
8. ‘Disclosure Model’ - tabled by Ms Ann Byrne, Convenor, Industry Funds Forum,
15 June 2000, Melbourne.
9. The following documents, issued by the Queensland Department of Justice and
Attorney-General were tabled by Mr Baker, Puzzle Financial Advice Pty Ltd, 16 June
2000, Brisbane:
• Enduring Power of Attorney
• Powers of Attorney Act 1998
• Advance Health Directive
• Statutory Health Attorney
• Enduring Power of Attorney - long form.
10. Law Employees Superannuation Fund (LESF), Annual Report to Members for the
year ending 30 June 1999 - tabled by Ms Carmel Reading, 16 June 2000, Brisbane.


11
12
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
A document issued by the Hotel Motel & Accommodation Association of Queensland
entitled ‘ Important notice to members - EPAS superannuation 28/9/98’ - tabled by
Mr Geoff Heaton, 16 June 2000, Brisbane.
Report prepared for ASIC by Phillips Fox Actuaries and Consultants, Financial
Products and Intermediary Remuneration, 10 November 1999 - provided by ASIC in
response to questions taken on notice at the public hearing in Melbourne on 9 June
2000.
A document entitled, ‘An IOSCO Technical Committee Release: International
Securities Regulators Issue New Economy Bulletin, Sydney Australia 19 May 2000’,
provided by ASIC in response to questions taken on notice at the public hearing on 9
June 2000.
Response by Ms Yvonne Bell, Hairdressers Association Superannuation Fund, to
questions taken on notice at the public hearing in Brisbane on 16 June 2000, relating
to names of trustees and the court involved.
A document entitled, ‘National Bandwidth Inquiry - Report of the Australian
Information Economy Advisory Council’, provided by National Office of Information
Economy in response to questions asked at the public hearing on 14 July 2000.
Four discussion papers, ‘Establishing the Boundaries’, ‘Issuing the Permits’,
‘Crediting the Carbon’ and ‘Designing the Market’, provided by the Australian
Greenhouse Office in response to questions asked at the public hearing on 14 July
2000.
Final Report from the Centre for International Economics Canberra and Sydney,
which was commissioned by the Australian Greenhouse Office, provided by the
Australian Greenhouse Office in response to questions asked at the public hearing on
14 July 2000.
Australian Institute of Criminology brochure outlining the Institute's function, aims
and programs, tabled by Dr Adam Graycar, Director, at the committee's public
hearing on 1 September 2000.
Australian Institute of Criminology brochure No. 56 - Superannuation Crime - tabled
by Dr Adam Graycar, Director, at the committee's public hearing on 1 September
2000.
Australian Institute of Criminology brochure No. 132 - Fraud & Financial Abuse of
Older Persons - tabled by Dr Adam Graycar, Director, at the committee's public
hearing on 1 September 2000.
Australian Institute of Criminology brochure No. 139 - Substitute Decision Making
and Older People - tabled by Dr Adam Graycar, Director, at the committee's public
hearing on 1 September 2000.
Chant Links & Associates, 1999 Superannuation Guarantee Audit Summary Report,
provided by the Australian Taxation Office and received as an exhibit to the inquiry
on 3 October 2000.


23. Brochure entitled Code of Ethics & Rules of Professional Conduct, provided by the
Financial Planning Association and received as an exhibit to the inquiry on 3 October
2000.
24. National Farmers' Federation publication Reform, Spring 2000, provided by Mr
Richard Calver, NFF, during the public hearing on 16 October 2000.
25. Article entitled Disclosure paper on the current commission disclosure issue in
Australia, provided by Mr John Hibberd, Association of Financial Advisers at the
public hearing on 16 October 2000.
26. Policy/discussion paper entitled Distribution Disclosure or Commission? Bias and
Conflict of Interest Examined, provided by Mr John Hibberd, Association of
Financial Advisers at the public hearing on 16 October 2000.
27. Australian Competition and Consumer Commission - Overview of consumer
protection functions, October 2000, tabled by Mr Allan Asher, ACCC, at the public
hearing on 17 October 2000.
28. Approval of external complaints resolution schemes, tabled by the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission at the public hearing on 17 October 2000.
29. A User's Guide to ASIC, tabled by the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission at the public hearing on 17 October 2000.
30. ASIC more than a corporate watchdog, tabled by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission at the public hearing on 17 October 2000.
31. Educating Financial Services Consumers, discussion paper tabled by the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission at the public hearing on 17 October 2000.
32. Submission to the Review of the Code of Banking Practice, tabled by the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission at the public hearing on 17 October 2000.
33. Submission to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Corporations and Securities
inquiry into fees on electronic and telephone banking, tabled by the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission at the public hearing on 17 October 2000.
34. Documents provided by the ACCC in response to questions taken on notice at the
public hearing on 17 October 2000.
• Report to the Australian Senate on anti-competitive and other practices by health
funds and providers in relation to private health insurance for the period ending
30 June 2000;
• Debit and credit card schemes in Australia. A study of interchange fees and
access. Reserve Bank of Australia, Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission, October 2000;
• ACCC submissions - First, Second and Third - to the Financial System Inquiry
(Wallis Inquiry) 1996 and 1997.


35. Extract from Hobart Council minutes of 4 February 1990 on Trust Account
Inspections - tabled by Mr C E Clark on 15 June 2001 in Hobart.
36. Extract from Minutes of a Meeting of the Executive Committee held at Hobart on
Monday, 28th May 1990 at 1.00 pm - tabled by Mr Jackson, Law Society of Tasmania,
on 15 June 2001 in Hobart.
37. Memorandum from the Legal Ombudsman, Tasmania to Legal Profession Act
Review at the Department of Justice and Industrial Relations, Hobart dated 1
September 2000 - tabled by Ms Judith Paxton, Legal Ombudsman on 15 June 2001 in
Hobart.
38. Legal Ombudsman Annual Report for 1 January to 31 December 2000 and covering
letter to the Hon P. J. Patmore, MHA, Attorney-General, Tasmania - tabled by Ms
Judith Paxton, Legal Ombudsman on 15 June 2001 in Hobart.
39. Legal Ombudsman Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 1999 - tabled by
Ms Judith Paxton, Legal Ombudsman on 15 June 2001 in Hobart.
40. A research study on financial reporting and auditing - bridging the expectation gap,
CPA Australia/ICAA, December 1993 - tabled by Mr Keith Reilly, Institute of
Chartered Accountants in Australia (ICAA) on 23 August 2001 in Canberra.
41. Beyond the gap, CPA, June 1996 - tabled by Mr Keith Reilly, Institute of Chartered
Accountants in Australia (ICAA) on 23 August 2001 in Canberra.
42. Report of a working party of the Ministerial Council for Corporations, Review
of requirements for the registration and regulation of company auditors, July
1997 - provided by Mr Keith Reilly, Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
(ICAA), received as an exhibit to the inquiry on 18 September 2001.


APPENDIX 4
SUPERANNUATION INDUSTRY (SUPERVISION) ACT 1993
PART 16—ACTUARIES AND AUDITORS OF
SUPERANNUATION ENTITIES
128 Object of Part
The object of this Part is to set out special rules about actuaries and auditors
of superannuation entities.
129 Obligations of actuaries and auditors—compliance
When section applies
(1) This section applies to a person in relation to a superannuation entity
if:
(a) the person forms the opinion that it is likely that a contravention
of this Act or the regulations may have occurred, may be
occurring, or may occur, in relation to the entity; and
(b) the person formed the opinion in the course of, or in connection
with, the performance by the person of actuarial or audit
functions under this Act or the regulations in relation to the
entity.
Section does not apply if the person believes that his or her opinion is not
relevant to the performance of actuarial or audit functions
(2) This section does not apply to the person if the person has an honest
belief that the opinion is not relevant to the performance of those functions.
Trustee to be told about the contravention
(3) Subject to subsection (3A), the person must tell the trustee of the
entity about the matter in writing.
The person may not have to tell the trustee about the contravention
(3A) The person does not have to tell the trustee of the entity about the
matter if:


(a) the person has been told by another person who is subject to
section 129 that:
(i) that other person has already told the trustee about the
matter; and
(ii) that other person has also told APRA about the matter
or has given the trustee a written notice under subsection
129(5); and
(b) the first-mentioned person has no reason to disbelieve that other
person.
Penalty for misleading information
(3B) If:
(a) this section applies to a person; and
(b) that person is aware of a matter that must, under this section, be
told to the trustee; and
(c) the person knowingly tells another person that he or she has
taken the action described in subparagraphs (3A)(a)(i) and (ii)
when the person has not taken that action;
the person is guilty of an offence against this subsection.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months.
APRA may be told
(4) The person may tell APRA about the matter. The person is not liable
in a civil action or civil proceeding in relation to the telling.
Trustee’s report
(5) If a person:
(a) tells the trustee about the matter; and
(b) does not tell APRA about the matter;
the person must, as soon as practicable, give the trustee a written notice
requesting the trustee to give the person, before the end of the period
specified in the notice, a written report about the action (if any) the trustee
has taken, or proposes to take, to deal with the matter. The period specified
in the notice must be reasonable. The trustee must comply with the request.


Report to APRA
(6) If:
(a) a person makes such a request; and
(b) either:
(i) the trustee does not comply with the request; or
(ii) the trustee complies with the request, but the person is
dissatisfied with:
(A) the action taken, or proposed to be taken, by the trustee
to deal with the matter concerned; or
(B) the inaction of the trustee in relation to the matter
concerned;
the person must give APRA a written report about the matter as soon as
practicable after:
(c) if subparagraph (b)(i) applies—the expiry of the deadline for the
receipt of the report; or
(d) if subparagraph (b)(ii) applies—the person becomes dissatisfied
as mentioned in that subparagraph.
Offence
(7) A person who intentionally or recklessly contravenes subsection (3),
(5) or (6) is guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a fine not
exceeding 50 penalty units.
130 Obligations of actuaries and auditors—solvency
When section applies
(1) This section applies to a person in relation to a superannuation entity
if:
(a) the person forms the opinion that the financial position of the
entity may be, or may be about to become, unsatisfactory; and
(b) the person formed the opinion in the course of, or in connection
with, the performance by the person of actuarial or audit
functions under this Act or the regulations in relation to the
entity.


Trustee to be told about the financial position
(2) Subject to subsection (2A), the person must tell the trustee of the
entity about the matter in writing.
The person may not have to tell the trustee about the financial position
(2A) The person does not have to tell the trustee of the entity about the
matter if:
(a) the person has been told by another person who is subject to
section 130 that:
(i) that other person has already told the trustee about the
matter; and
(ii) that other person has also told APRA about the matter
or given the trustee a written notice under subsection 130(4);
and
(b) the first-mentioned person has no reason to disbelieve that other
person.
Penalty for misleading information
(2B) If:
(a) this section applies to a person; and
(b) that person is aware of a matter that must, under this section, be
told to the trustee; and
(c) the person knowingly tells another person that he or she has
taken the action described in subparagraphs (2A)(a)(i) and (ii)
when the person has not taken that action;
the person is guilty of an offence against this subsection.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months.
APRA may be told
(3) The person may tell APRA about the matter. The person is not liable
in a civil action or civil proceeding in relation to the telling.
Trustee's report
(4) If a person:
(a) tells the trustee about the matter; and
(b) does not tell APRA about the matter;


the person must, as soon as practicable, give the trustee a written notice
requesting the trustee to give the person, before the end of the period
specified in the notice, a written report about the action (if any) the trustee
has taken, or proposes to take, to deal with the matter. The period specified
in the notice must be reasonable. The trustee must comply with the request.
Report to APRA
(5) If:
(a) a person makes such a request; and
(b) either:
(i) the trustee does not comply with the request; or
(ii) the trustee complies with the request, but the person is
dissatisfied with:
(A) the action taken, or proposed to be taken, by the tmstee
to deal with the matter concerned; or
(B) the inaction of the trustee in relation to the matter
concerned;
the person must give APRA a written report about the matter as soon as
practicable after:
(c) if subparagraph (b)(i) applies—the expiry of the deadline for the
receipt of the report; or
(d) if subparagraph (b)(ii) applies—the person becomes dissatisfied
as mentioned in that subparagraph.
Offence
(6) A person who intentionally or recklessly contravenes subsection (2),
(4) or (5) is guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a fine not
exceeding 50 penalty units.
When financial position is unsatisfactory
(7) For the purposes of this section, the financial position of an entity is
taken to be unsatisfactory if, and only if, under the regulations, the financial
position of the entity is treated as unsatisfactory.


131 Auditors-—disqualification orders
Disqualification order
(1) APRA may make a written order (disqualification order)
disqualifying a person from being an approved auditor for the purposes of
this Act if:
(a) the person has failed, whether within or outside Australia, to
carry out or perform adequately and properly:
(i) the duties of an auditor under this Act or the
regulations; or
(ii) any duties required by a law of the Commonwealth, a
State or a Territory to be carried out or performed by an
auditor; or
(iii) any functions that an auditor is entitled to perform in
relation to this Act or the regulations; or
(b) the person is otherwise not a fit and proper person to be an
approved auditor for the purposes of this Act.
Date of effect
(2) A disqualification order takes effect on the day specified in the order.
The specified day must be within the 28-day period beginning on the day on
which the order was made.
Notification
(3) APRA must give a copy of the order to the person.
Gazettal
(4) APRA must cause particulars of the disqualification order to be
published in the Gazette as soon as practicable after it is made.
(4A) If APRA’s decision to make the disqualification order is varied or
revoked by APRA as a result of a reconsideration under subsection 344(4),
APRA must cause particulars of the variation or revocation to be published
in the Gazette as soon as practicable after the decision is made.
(4B) If:
(a) APRA’s decision to make the disqualification order is
confirmed or varied by APRA as a result of a reconsideration
under subsection 344(4); and
(b) the decision as so confirmed or varied is varied or set aside by
the Administrative Appeals Tribunal;


APRA must cause particulars of the Tribunal’s decision to be published in
the Gazette as soon as practicable after it is given.
Revocation
(5) APRA’s may revoke a disqualification order. APRA’s power to
revoke may be exercised:
(a) on APRA’s own initiative; or
(b) on written application made by the disqualified person.
Revocation—decision on application
(6) If an application is made for the revocation of a disqualification order,
APRA must decide to:
(a) revoke the order; or
(b) refuse to revoke the order.
Revocation—grounds
(7) APRA must not revoke a disqualification order unless APRA is
satisfied that the person concerned:
(a) is likely to carry out and perform adequately and properly the
duties of an auditor under this Act or the regulations; and
(b) is otherwise a fit and proper person to be an approved auditor for
the purposes of this Act.
Revocation—date of effect
(8) A revocation of a disqualification order takes effect on the day the
revocation is made.
Reasons for revocation
(9) If APRA decides to refuse an application for revocation of a
disqualification order, APRA must cause to be given to the applicant a
written notice setting out the decision and giving the reasons for the
decision.
Gazettal
(7) If APRA revokes a disqualification order under subsection (5), APRA
must cause particulars of the revocation to be published in the Gazette as
soon as practicable after it occurs.


131A APRA may refer matters to a professional association
(1) If APRA is of the opinion that an approved auditor or an actuary:
(a) has failed, whether within or outside Australia, to carry out or
perform adequately and properly:
(i) the duties of an auditor or an actuary under this Act or
the regulations; or
(ii) any duties required by a law of the Commonwealth, a
State or a Territory to be carried out or performed by an
auditor or an actuary; or
(iii) any functions that an auditor or actuary is entitled to
perform in relation to this Act or the regulations; or
(b) is otherwise not a fit and proper person to be an approved
auditor or an actuary for the purposes of this Act;
APRA:
(c) may refer the details of the matter to the persons specified in
subsection (2); and
(d) if APRA does so—must inform the person to whom the details
are referred of the person’s obligations under subsection
346(6B).
(2) The persons specified in relation to an approved auditor or an actuary
for the purposes of subsection (1) are those members of the auditor’s or
actuary’s professional association whom APRA believes will be involved:
(a) in deciding whether the professional association should take any
disciplinary or other action against the auditor or actuary in
respect of the matter referred; or
(b) in taking that action.
(3) In relation to an approved auditor, the power of APRA under
subsection (1) may be exercised whether or not APRA has made a written
order disqualifying the auditor under subsection 131(1).
(4) If, under this section, APRA refers details of a matter involving an
approved auditor or an actuary, APRA must, as soon as practicable but, in
any event, not later than 7 days after the referral, by notice in writing given
to the auditor or actuary, inform the auditor or actuary:
(a) of the fact that a matter has been referred under subsection (1);
and
(b) of the nature of the matter so referred.


APPENDIX 5
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Reports of the Select Committee on Superannuation
(1991-1998)
□ Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements
in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
□ Papers relating to the Byrnwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
□ First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding
Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
□ Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
□ Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure
in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
□ Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
□ Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November
1992)
□ Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal
and Social Links (December 1992)
□ Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervisory Levy (May 1993)
□ Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
□ Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)
□ Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August
1993)


□ Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervision Bills (October 1993)
□ Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)
□ Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege
Matter Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
□ A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
for the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the
Retirement Incomes System (March 1994)
□ Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for
Housing (May 1994)
□ Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs
/(August 1994)
□ Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs
II (November 1994)
□ Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Guarantee - Its Track Record (February 1995)
□ Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
□ Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
and Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
□ Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of
the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
□ Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve
Bank Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
□ Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions
of the Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other
Measures) Bill 1996 - Schedule 1 (November 1996)
□ Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Investment of Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
□ Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Retirement Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
□ Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)


□ Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Schedules 1,9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)
□ Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges' Pension
Scheme (September 1997)
□ Twenty-sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Restrictions on Early Access: Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill
1997 and related terms of reference. (September 1997)
□ Twenty-seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Contributions Tax Amendment Bills. (November 1997)
□ Super Taxing - An information paper on the Taxation of Superannuation and
related matters. (February 1998)
□ Twenty-eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Choice
of Fund. (March 1998)
□ Twenty-ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and Amendment
Bill 1997, Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997, Superannuation
Legislation (Commonwealth Employment - Saving and Transitional Provisions)
Bill 1997. (April 1998)
□ Thirtieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Workplace
Relations Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1997. (May 1998)
□ Thirty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Resolving
Superannuation Complaints - options for dispute resolution following the Federal
Court decision in Wilkinson v CARE. (July 1998)


Reports of the Select Committee on Superannuation and Financial
Services
(1999 - 2001)
□ Choice of Superannuation Funds (Consumer Protection) Bill 1999 (November
1999)
□ Superannuation Legislation Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1999 (November 1999)
□ Roundtable on Choice of Superannuation Funds (March 2000)
□ Provisions of the Superannuation (Entitlements of Same Sex Couples) Bill 2000
(April 2000)
□ New Business Tax System (Miscellaneous) Bill No 2 2000 (June 2000)
□ Financial Sector Legislation Amendment Bill (No 1) 2000 (August 2000)
□ Interim report on the Family Law Legislation Amendment (Superannuation) Bill
2000 (November 2000)
□ Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation Contributions) Bill 2000 (December
2000)
□ Family Law Legislation Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 2000 (March 2001)
□ The opportunities and constraints for Australia to become a centre for the
provision of global financial services (March 2001)
□ A 'reasonable and secure' retirement? The benefit design of Commonwealth
public sector and defence force unfunded superannuation funds and schemes
(April 2001)
□ Enforcement of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge (April 2001)
□ Issues arising from the Committee's report on the Taxation Laws Amendment
(Superannuation Contributions) Bill 2000 (May 2001)
□ Report on the Provisions of the Parliamentary (Choice of Superannuation) Bill
2001 (August 2001)
□ Prudential supervision and consumer protection for superannuation, banking and
financial services - First Report (August 2001)
□ Prudential supervision and consumer protection for superannuation, banking and
financial services - Second Report - Some case studies (August 2001)




THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 218 of 2001
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
