

Resolving
Superannuation
Complaints
Options for dispute resolution following
the Federal Court decision in Wilkinson v CARE
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
31st Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Canberra
July 1998




Resolving
Superannuation
Complaints
Options for dispute resolution following
the Federal Court decision in Wilkinson v CARE
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
31st Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Canberra
July 1998


Commonwealth of Australia 1998
ISBN 0 642 25186 X
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Tasmania
Tasmania
Victoria
Victoria
Western Australia
South Australia
Victoria
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary: Peter Hallahan
Principal Research Officer: Celia Tancred
Executive Assistant: Jade Ricza
Address:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (02) 6277 3439
Facsimile: (02) 6277 5719
Senator John Watson
Chair
Senator the Hon Nick Sherry
Deputy Chair
Senator Lyn Allison
Senator Stephen Conroy
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran
This report is also available on the Internet at:
http://www.aDh.gov.au/senate




CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1
1
Background.1
History and functions of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.1
The Wilkinson v CARE decision.2
Senate reference.2
Background briefing paper.3
Conduct of the Forum.4
CHAPTER 2.5
Government and Industry Briefing.5
Government.5
Industry.6
CHAPTER 3.9
Forum Process.9
Framework of forum.9
Essential elements.9
Options.11
CHAPTER 4.13
Interim Solution.13
Introduction.1..13
Effect of Federal Court ruling.13
Proposed interim solution.14
Implementation.16
Conclusion.17
Recommendation.17
CHAPTER 5.19
Industry Complaints Body.19
Outline of the option.19
Existing models.20
Forum views.20
Enforcement and certainty.27
Funding. 29
Evaluation.31
Conclusions.31


Contents
CHAPTER 6
33
Reconstitute the SCT as Part of the Federal Court.33
Outline of the option.33
Precedent. 33
Forum views.34
Evaluation.38
Conclusions.38
CHAPTER 7.41
Amend the Complaints Act and Other Legislation.41
Outline of the option.41
Forum views.42
Evaluation.49
Conclusion.50
CHAPTER 8.51
State Based Body.51
The option.51
Precedents.51
Forum views.52
Evaluation against criteria.53
Conclusions.53
CHAPTER 9.55
Status of Matters Already Decided by the SCT.55
Introduction.55
Conclusion.56
Recommendation.56
CHAPTER 10.57
Conclusions. 57
APPENDIX A...59
List of Participants at Public Forum.59
Sydney, 28 April 1998.59
APPENDIX B.61
Background Briefing Paper Prepared by Andrew Fairley of IFS Fairley.61
APPENDIX C.75
List of Committee Reports.75


CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND
History and functions of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
1.1 In its first report, Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation, the
Committee recommended 'the establishment by legislation of an external disputes
resolution mechanism'.1
1.2 The Government accepted the Committee's recommendation with
modification and subsequently established an independent statutory authority, the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (SCT), following passage of the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (the Complaints Act). The SCT commenced
operating on 1 July 1994.
1.3 The SCT provides a mechanism for superannuation fund members to resolve
complaints about decisions or conduct of trustees, insurers, Retirement Savings
Accounts (RSA) providers, superannuation providers and certain other decision
makers in relation to regulated superannuation funds, approved deposit funds, life
policy funds, annuity policies and RSAs.2
1.4 In the first instance, the SCT is required to attempt to resolve disputes without
resorting to arbitration and resolves the majority of disputes in this way. However,
where conciliation proves ineffective, S37 of the Complaints Act gives the SCT the
power to review trustees' decisions.
1.5 The Complaints Act requires the Tribunal to affirm trustees' decisions if it
finds them to be 'fair and reasonable in the circumstances'.3 Where this is not the case,
the Tribunal has a number of options:
• remit the matter to which the decision relates to the trustee, insurer or other
decision-maker for reconsideration in accordance with the directions of the
Tribunal; or
• vary the decision; or
• set the decision aside and substitute a decision for the decision set aside.
1 Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation, First Report of the Select Committee on
Superannuation, June 1992, recommendation 11.4.
2 Superannuation Complaints Tribunal Annual Report 1996-97, p. 90.
3 S37(6) of the Act.


Chapter 1
1.6 However, in making a decision, the Tribunal must not do anything that would
be contrary to law, to the governing rules of the fund concerned and, if a contract of
insurance between an insurer and trustee is involved, to the terms of the contract.
The Wilkinson v CARE decision
1.7 On 14 February 1998, the Federal Court handed down a decision in Wilkinson
V CARE4 which effectively removed all of the SCT's powers to make determinations.
1.8 In the first instance, the Court unanimously found that the SCT was only
entitled to receive (and therefore, resolve) complaints concerning trustees’
discretionary decisions.5
1.9 A majority of the Court also found that the exercise by the SCT of its
determination making power under S3 7 of the Complaints Act constituted the exercise
of a judicial power, in breach of the Constitution.
1.10 The Tribunal's conciliation powers remain in place. However, the Court's
decision means that where conciliation fails, the only avenue for fund members to
resolve disputes with trustees is through the courts.
1.11 In its first Report, Safeguarding Super, the Committee noted that the
predominant view in evidence supported establishing a dispute resolution mechanism
that 'avoided the courts as far as possible'. The Committee held the view that the cost
of litigation in the courts was so high that it offered no real rights to members.6 The
loss of the SCT's determination powers must therefore be considered a serious setback
for superannuation fund members, leaving them with no effective avenue of pursuing
complaints about trustee decisions.
1.12 The gravity of this situation led to a number of initiatives, including a series
of workshops sponsored by the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
(ASFA) and the forum sponsored by this Committee which forms the basis of this
report.
Senate reference
1.13 Following a proposal from within the Committee, on 7 April 1998 the Senate
referred the following matter to the Committee for inquiry and report:
4 Also referred to informally as the Bishop case.
5 A discretionary decision is one where the trustee is lawfully entitled to choose between different results,
for example, the allocation of a death benefit among one or more deserving dependants of a deceased
member of a fund. A non-discretionary decision is one where the law allows there to be only one correct
decision, for example, whether or not the death of a member of a fund gave rise to a death benefit or not.
Source: Paper prepared for the Committee by IFS Fairley, p. 2.
6 Safeguarding Super - the regulation of superannuation, First Report of the Select Committee on
Superannuation, June 1992, p. 136.


Options for dispute resolution consequential on the Federal Court decision
concerning the powers of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.
1.14 The Committee decided that the most appropriate way of approaching this
reference would be to conduct a "round table forum", at which representatives from
the Government, the superannuation industry, the legal profession and consumer
groups could freely exchange views about the most appropriate method of addressing
the problem.
1.15 The Committee invited a range of representatives of these groups to attend the
forum, which it conducted in Sydney on 28 April 1998. A list of those who
participated in the forum appears at Appendix A.
Background briefing paper
1.16 In order to provide a legal and structural framework for the forum discussion,
the Committee commissioned a Melbourne firm of superannuation lawyers, IFS
Fairley, to prepare a background briefing paper. The Committee circulated the paper
to the forum participants to provide a foundation for the subsequent discussions. A
copy of the paper appears at Appendix B.
1.17 The background paper is divided into several parts. Firstly, the paper
identifies ten essential features of any future superannuation complaints handling
mechanism, (described in paragraph 3.3)
1.18 Having identified the essential features of a complaints handling scheme, the
paper went on to canvass three alternative dispute resolution models that might be
established in the aftermath of the Federal Court decision. These were:
• establish a complaints body to be run by the industry;
• reconstitute the Tribunal as part of the Federal Court. This solution would
see the abolition of the Tribunal and effectively, the creation of a division
within the Federal Court dealing with superannuation; and
• rewrite the law to ensure constitutional validity of the SCT.
1.19 The paper concluded:
If the Commonwealth wishes to bypass the courts, there is no easy route to
solving the difficulties exposed by Wilkinson for the Complaints Act.
Whilst it is highly desirable to be pursuing the creation of a system which
replicates that of the Tribunal, it may be that the nature of Australia's
Constitutional arrangements is such that some elements of the Tribunal's
objectives (fair, just, economical, informal and quick) will need to be
sacrificed at the altar of practical expedience in the light of difficult
Constitutional issues.


Conduct of the Forum
1.20 The forum's program was divided into four distinct sessions:
• reports on Government and industry responses to the Federal Court
decision;
• discussion on criteria to be used for selecting a method of resolving
disputes;
• discussion on options; and
• discussion on status of matters previously determined by the SCT.
1.21 The following chapters of the Committee's report reflect this structure.


CHAPTER 2
GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY BRIEFING
2.1 Following the Full Federal Court decision in the Wilkinson and Leshem cases,
both Government and industry have been working to address the problems which the
ruling has created for dispute resolution in the superannuation industry.
Government
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
2.2 Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission, briefed the forum on Commonwealth initiatives in
response to the ruling, and policy issues under consideration for addressing the issue.
2.3 He advised that the Government had lodged an application for special leave to
appeal the Federal Court decision to the High Court.1 The High Court has now
granted leave to appeal, however, the case may not be heard until the last quarter of
this year.
2.4 Given the likely delay in obtaining a High Court ruling, the Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal (SCT) is placing greater emphasis on inquiry and conciliation in
an effort to resolve more complaints prior to review. The government has obtained
legal advice that the SCT’s inquiry and conciliation role is unaffected by the Court's
ruling on the validity of its review powers.
2.5 Mr Larkin told the forum that, following consultation with peak industry
associations, consumer groups, the SCT and legal advisers, the ISC had identified a
number of options to address the complaints review void left by the Tribunal’s loss of
power to make determinations. They are:
• to create a special division of the Federal Court to exercise the SCT’s
review function;
• to amend the SRC, SIS and RSA Acts to overcome the current
jurisdictional and constitutional problems;
• to dismantle the Tribunal and establish an industry based complaints
handling scheme; and
• to amend the SRC Act to enable the tribunal to arbitrate with the consent of
the parties.
1 Evidence, p. 3


Chapter 2
2.6 The first three options are identical to those identified in the IFS Fairley
background paper.
2.7 The fourth option would require the parties to a dispute entering into
agreements to be bound by a Tribunal award which would be enforceable under
contract law and state arbitration laws. Since such a scheme would rely on the
consent of the parties on a case by case basis, it is not considered a viable long- term
option but rather, an interim measure to deal with the growing backlog of SCT review
cases, pending a permanent solution.
2.8 Mr Larkin indicated that the Government is continuing to work through the
policy issues associated with each of the options, while remaining ‘fully committed to
an accessible, low-cost and effective alternative dispute resolution mechanism for
fund members’.2 He noted, however, that there is no single perfect solution:
All of the options have certain disadvantages and advantages in terms of
sustainability against future legal challenge, workability, efficiency,
flexibility, cost, enforcement, accessibility, coverage and implementation
time frames. This means the government's eventual decision on this matter
will inevitably involve some risk management compromises and trade-offs/'
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
2.9 In the wake of the Federal Court decision, the SCT has concentrated on
investigating the prospects of legislative solutions to the problem, among them the
possibility of establishing a merits review body. Mr Neil Wilkinson, Chairperson of
the Tribunal, pointed out the benefits, in terms of its considerable expertise
accumulated over the past four years, of making the Tribunal the basis for any new
body. He indicated that, in his view, setting up such a statutory scheme, or an industry-
body were ‘the two most serious options’ meriting the forum’s attention.
2.10 However, he noted the difficulty of gaining the degree of coverage and
compliance necessary for establishing a viable industry-based dispute resolution
scheme in the extremely diverse superannuation sector. Comparable schemes in
banking and insurance have a relatively small number of member companies in
contrast to the many thousands of regulated superannuation funds, RSA deposit takers
and insurers who would need to be involved in a superannuation industry body.4
Industry
2.11 Ms Philippa Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia Limited (ASFA), briefed the forum on the results of two
2 Evidence, p. 5
3 Evidence, p. 4
Evidence, p. 9
4


workshops her organisation had recently held on the SCT impasse. The workshops,
which focussed on the structural and operational issues to be considered before
adopting any solution, were attended by a range of lawyers, representatives from
industry, corporate and retail superannuation funds, and Government, consumer
groups and statutory bodies.
Structural issues
2.12 The principal structural aspects identified in the ASFA workshop discussions
were governance (or confidence) and trustee matters. It was seen as vital to public
confidence in any dispute resolution scheme that legislative changes ensure:
...coverage of the industry—100 per cent if possible—the ability to enforce
decisions so that they are determinative, and some relative certainty into the
future about what is happening.5
2.13 Ms Smith indicated that workshop participants were concerned that proposed
attempts to shore up the SCT legislatively could fail to deliver certainty.
2.14 On trustee matters, the ASFA workshops stressed the need for any
replacement scheme to balance trustee responsibilities with legitimate consumer
rights, flagging the duty to give reasons for trustee decisions and the duty to act 'fairly
and reasonably’ as issues requiring further consideration. Workshop participants
highlighted the need for special expertise concerning trust responsibilities in any new'
superannuation disputes body.
Operational issues
2.15 ASFA discussions to date have indicated a strong preference for a dispute
resolution scheme that operates in a ‘non-legalistic, accessible and low-cost’ manner.
The key to achieving this outcome is flexibility - the ability to draw on a range of
alternate dispute resolution tools to suit the circumstances of a particular case. This
could include using single-member panels or adjudicators in cases involving small
amounts, and panels drawn from consumer and industry groupings where cases
involve larger amounts or are complex in nature.6
2.16 Ms Smith also indicated that it was important that any new body be able to
report to industry regulatory bodies or to the public on systemic problems identified
by the complaints resolution process.
2.17 Finally, Ms Smith noted the industry’s strong caveat that, should the preferred
option be the establishment of an industry scheme, the body should be funded from
the existing levy on superannuation funds and involve no additional cost to industry.
5 Evidence, p. 6
6 Evidence, pp. 7-8




CHAPTER 3
FORUM PROCESS
Framework of forum
3.1 The background paper commissioned by the Committee to provide a
framework for the forum's deliberations identified three main topics for discussion:
• essential elements of a superannuation disputes resolution scheme;
• options for a disputes resolution mechanism; and
• evaluating suggested options against the criteria.
3.2 Following the briefings from government and industry representatives, the
Committee Chairman, Senator John Watson, opened the forum to group discussion of
the essential elements of a superannuation disputes resolution scheme.
Essential elements
3.3 The background paper prepared for the Committee as a framework for the
forum discussions by IFS Fairley Superannuation Lawyers, proposed a number of
essential criteria which must be met in a successful superannuation disputes resolution
mechanism. These are:
• Accessibility - the scheme should be easily accessible by complainants,
with minimal bureaucratic or legal requirements;
• Independence - the scheme must be seen to be independent of the industry
and of employers, insurers, consumer or other interest groups;
• Procedural fairness - the scheme must accord procedural fairness to all
parties;
• Economy - the scheme should provide informal and cost effective
procedures for complainants nationwide;
• Speedy decision making - the scheme should aim for a simple, transparent,
consistent and flexible decision making process, consistent with the
principles of procedural fairness;
• Constitutional validity - the scheme should be able to withstand legal
challenge, whether to the exercise of its review function or the scope of its
decision making;


Chapter 3
• Complaint criteria - the scheme should reflect the present limits on
jurisdiction - to review trustee decisions as they relate to a particular fund
member, and not those that relate to the management of a fund as a w'hole;
• Binding decisions - the scheme should have the necessary legislative
backing to ensure that its determinations are binding on fund trustees;
• Expertise - the scheme should have specialist and technical expertise in the
area of superannuation; and
• Costs - the scheme should be funded either directly or indirectly from the
superannuation levy currently paid by fund trustees.1
3.4 Forum participants, in separate correspondence to the Committee, and in the
course of the morning’s discussion, generally agreed that the above criteria formed a
good basis on which to evaluate any proposed resolution mechanism. Ms Janet
Murphy, of the Consumer Affairs Division, Department of Industry, Science and
Tourism, drew the forum’s attention to a set of benchmarks for industry-based
customer dispute resolution schemes, drafted by a Working Group including
representatives of the current major industry schemes, and issued by the former
Minister for Customs and Consumer Affairs in August 1997.
3.5 The benchmarks included three additional criteria:
• accountability;
• efficiency; and
• effectiveness.
3.6 Ms Murphy suggested these additional elements should also apply to any
superannuation complaints body, a view supported by Mr Michael Lillicrap,
representing the Industry Funds Forum.2 Ms Murphy noted that public accountability
was essential to engender confidence in such a body:
Part of accountability is highlighting any systemic industry problems for the
relevant body or bodies. This is not just dealing with complaints as
individual complaints. Where there is a systemic issue with a particular
company, a particular trustee or across the industry, complaints should be
brought to the attention of the appropriate bodies.3
3.7 She noted the need for ensuring efficient operations in dealing with disputes -
by keeping track of complaints, ensuring the process deals with consumers
expeditiously, and regularly reviewing the scheme’s performance. The third element
she proposed, effectiveness:
1 Background Briefing Paper, p. 4-6.
2 Evidence, p. 21.
3 Evidence, p. 11.


...wouia email me scnemes naving terms oi reierence mat are cieariy
understood by all parties, so its jurisdiction and what it can and cannot deal
with must be clearly spelt out and clearly understood and there should be
periodic review not only of its terms of reference but of the way it is
operating.4
3.8 Several participants nominated effective enforcement of decisions,
particularly against a recalcitrant party, as a necessary component of any complaints
handling mechanism. It was also suggested by Mr George Raitt, of Blake Dawson
Waldron, that the scheme should provide ‘limited avenues for appeal consistent with
competing objectives of ensuring that justice is done while reducing costs and delay in
achieving a binding outcome.’5 Both Mr Raitt and Ms Philippa Smith of ASFA put
forward national coverage of all service providers and persons affected by their
decisions as desirable features for inclusion.
3.9 Mr George Williams, Senior Lecturer in Law, Australian National University,
broached the topic of the relative weighting of the essential elements. He noted that
the element of constitutional validity or certainty is crucial to whatever form of
scheme might be established. However, he cautioned against interpreting this as
meaning that any replacement scheme should be immune from constitutional
challenge:
...to my mind that is set far too high as a criterion. I think it is almost
impossible to ever establish a body like this, given recent High Court
decisions, that could be described as unassailable.6
3.10 Mr Williams noted that attempts to maximise certainty, for example by
establishing a court based scheme, or a national body established under territory law
to be taken up by complementary state legislation, could significantly impact on other
desirable criteria such as fairness, economy, informality and speed.
Options
3.11 In the background paper distributed prior to the forum, participants were
asked to consider the merits of three alternatives for consideration by the Government:
• to establish an industry complaints body (examined in Chapter 5 of this
report);
• to reconstitute the SCT as part of the Federal Court (examined in Chapter
6); and
4 Evidence, p. 11.
5 George Raitt, Complaints resolution mechanisms in the superannuation industry and the issue of judicial
power, a paper prepared for the Law Institute of Victoria Journal, p. 1.
6 Evidence, p. 15.


• to amend the Complaints Act to ensure constitutional validity (examined in
Chapter 7).
3.12 During discussions, forum participants identified a number of other options
for consideration. These were:
• establish an industry code of practice under the Trade Practices Act
(examined within Chapter 5);
• establish a state based body (examined in Chapter 8); and
• allow the SCT to arbitrate complaints by consent (Chapter 4).
Industry code of practice
3.13 Mr Andrew Rogers, QC, of Clayton Utz, suggested setting up an industry
code of practice under amendments to the Trade Practices Act that could prescribe all
the desirable elements canvassed by the forum. He envisaged a situation in which it
would be compulsory for every participant in the superannuation industry to subscribe
to a scheme of dispute resolution encompassing all those elements.'
State based body
3.14 A fifth option, put forward by Mr George Williams, was the establishment of
a state-based body. He indicated this could best be achieved by having the
Commonwealth legislate for say, the Australian Capital Territory, to establish a
complaints body and for that legislation to be extended across the country via
complementary state legislation. He cited the Corporations and Securities Panel as an
example of a national body successfully established using this technique.8
SCT to arbitrate by consent
3.15 A further option, nominated by Mr John Larkin, of the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission, would involve amending the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 to enable the SCT to arbitrate disputes with the
consent of the parties:
The parties in dispute would enter into agreements to be bound by a tribunal
award on a case-by-case basis. The arbitration award would be enforceable
under contract law and state arbitration laws.9
3.16 This option is considered to be an interim solution only and the Committee
discusses it in the following chapter.
7
Evidence, p. 17.
Evidence, p. 15.
Evidence, p. 5.
8
9


CHAPTER4
INTERIM SOLUTION
Introduction
4.1 Under the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (the
Complaints Act) the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (SCT) was established to
hear complaints from members concerning decisions made by the trustees of regulated
superannuation funds. The Complaints Act allows for an inquiry and conciliation
process. In the event of the conciliation process failing to resolve a dispute, the
Tribunal makes a formal determination, after reviewing the matter, as to whether a
decision made by trustees was fair and reasonable.
4.2 Statistics published by the Tribunal show that around 79 per cent of all
‘within jurisdiction' complaints have been resolved at the inquiry' and complaint
stages, with the remaining 21 per cent of complaints proceeding to review.1
4.3 As outlined in Chapter 1, the Federal Court decision in Wilkinson v CARE
(Wilkinson), handed down on 12 February 1998, made two key findings:
• that, as a matter of interpretation of the Complaints Act, the SCT is only-
entitled to receive complaints concerning discretionary decisions made by
the trustee as opposed to decisions which are not discretionary; and
• that any exercise by the Tribunal of its determination-making pow er under
S37 of the Complaints Act is an invalid exercise of the judicial power of
the Commonwealth.
Effect of Federal Court ruling
4.4 As the Federal Court's ruling removed the SCT's determinations power, there
have been no SCT review meetings since February and no further determinations have
been released. As at 31 March 1998, the tribunal had a backlog of 211 matters
awaiting review, with new complaints continuing to be received at a higher than
average rate.2
4.5 In response to the decision, the Government lodged an application to the High
Court for special leave to appeal the Federal Court decision, which the Court has
granted. However, as ISC Assistant Commissioner, Mr John Larkin, noted in his
1 Superannuation Complaints Tribunal Annual Report 1996-97, p. 62.
2 SCT Statistical Bulletin, Issue No. 11, p. 8-9.


Chapter 4
briefing to the forum, the case is not likely to be heard until the end of this year, and a
decision could be delayed for a further few months.3
4.6 While the Government has been examining other options for addressing the
complaints review gap left by the decision, implementing these options may take
considerable time.
4.7 Given the time concerns (and in the case of a High Court appeal, the uncertain
prospects) associated with implementing the options, and the growing backlog of
cases awaiting review, forum participants urged a speedy resolution of the impasse.
Mr John Berrill, representing the Consumers Federation of Australia, spoke of the
problems facing consumers:
The uncertainty and delay for those persons with complaints before the SCT
at the moment are intolerable. Many of those people have had complaints in
various stages for anything up to one to two years—for claims processing it
is anything up to two to three years. The delay is unacceptable. The ongoing
uncertainty of the review mechanism will affect decision making of trustees
on an ongoing basis if there is no effective review in place. It is also
certainly undermining consumer confidence in the superannuation industry.4
4.8 Mr Michael Lillicrap, of the Industry Funds Forum, endorsed these
comments. Speaking from the trustees’ perspective, he urged the group to consider
both a long term and an interim solution:
...we have to find an interim solution that works....
I would hope that one of the things we can help you and the government to
do is identify what is a workable interim solution and what sort of longer
term solution we here—and the people we represent—would favour if it
turned out that the constitutional problems prevented the SCT being revived
in any form. 5
Proposed interim solution
4.9 Discussion of a possible interim solution focussed on two models:
• a non-legislative voluntary arrangement using SCT facilities; and
• amending the SRC Act to enable the SCT to arbitrate with parties' consent.
3 Evidence, p. 3.
4 Evidence, p. 12.
5 Evidence, pp. 21 -22.


Non-legislative arrangement
4.10 Under a ‘non-legislative* model, an industry representative suggested that
funds could be prepared to enter ‘some voluntary arrangement, using the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal... and agree voluntarily to submit to its
decisions’ to facilitate short-term dispute resolution. 6 This plan envisaged either a
form of arbitration or alternatively a second round of conciliation under SCT auspices,
where the original conciliation process had not achieved a satisfactory outcome.
4.11 The forum discussed whether trustees would have power to enter such an
arrangement. The legal argument ranged from the prohibition on trustees accepting
third party direction' to the lack of scope for such activity in trust deeds. The question
of how other parties to a complaint, eg insurers, could be joined in the process and
what binding effect any decision would have on all parties was also raised.
4.12 While there was some opinion supporting the possibility of trustees being able
to engage in a voluntary scheme under current legislation, it appears that there is no
power currently available under the Complaints Act for the SCT to assume an
arbitration role. Mr Larkin told the Committee:
...our view is that any attempt to build a consent to arbitration function on
to the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal would require legislative
amendment.8
Legislative amendment
4.13 Another possible option would involve amending the Complaints Act,
enabling the Tribunal to arbitrate with the consent of the parties to a dispute. The
parties would enter into agreements to be bound by a tribunal award on a case-by-case
basis and the award would be enforceable under contract law and state arbitration
laws.
4.14 Addressing the question of the trustees' position, especially concerns
expressed by some forum participants that agreement to such a system could be a
fundamental breach of their fiduciary duties, Mr Larkin indicated:
...the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act could be amended to
override any restriction arising from trustees' equitable obligations and any
restriction on trustees entering into such arbitration agreements on a
voluntary basis.9
6 Evidence, Mr Michael Lillicrap, p. 27.
7 S58, Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.
8 Evidence, p. 30.
9 Evidence, p. 30.


4.15 Mr George Raitt, of Blake Dawson Waldron, drew attention to the power for a
trustee to compromise disputes contained in many tmst deeds and a similar implied
power in most state trustee legislation. In his opinion:
...if those either expressed provisions or implied provisions under state law
have sufficient coverage of the industry it may not be necessary to amend
the act or the regulations.10
4.16 As to whether there were any constitutional implications concerning the
enforcement of an SCT arbitration ruling, Mr Larkin noted:
Under this interim measure there would be no compulsion on trustees to do
anything. Their decision to enter into a contract whereby they would
voluntarily accept an arbitral ruling of the tribunal is purely voluntary and
any enforcement of the SCT's ruling would rely on contract law. It therefore
overcomes any suggestion of judicial power in the enforcement of the
tribunal ruling because the enforcement is derived from the consent of the
parties rather than from any other mechanism.11
Implementation
4.17 Forum participants were divided on how best to implement a short-term
solution based on the second option and canvassed a variety of legislative
amendments. These included:
• amending the SRC Act (and possibly SIS ) to give the SCT an arbitration role;
• amending SIS to incorporate changes to fund operating standards;
• amending the trustee covenants in s 52 of SIS; and
• amending the restrictions in S58 and 59 of SIS on trustees receiving directions.
4.18 Because of concerns that the legislative process could extend over several
months, especially if a Federal election were to intervene, forum participants queried
Mr Larkin concerning the likelihood of the Government implementing proposed
legislative changes by speedier means, either by regulation or by use of the ISC
Commissioner’s modification power. He indicated that these suggestions could be
further explored.
4.19 Asked by the Committee whether amendments to facilitate an interim solution
could be incorporated in a Bill already before the Senate, Mr Larkin agreed that
‘procedurally that should be possible’. He noted, however, that any such action or
10 Evidence, p. 35.
11 Evidence, p. 34.


amendments would be subject to the Government’s policy formulation and approval
processes.12
Conclusion
4.20 The forum participants supported the initiative to urgently implement an
interim solution to the current impasse, pending identification of a longer-term
solution to the problem. The most feasible interim solution appears to be to introduce
legislation allowing the SCT to arbitrate disputes by consent.
Recommendation
The Committee therefore recommends that the Government, in consultation with
industry and the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, investigate the feasibility of
putting an interim solution in place.
If it proves feasible to put an interim solution in place, the Committee recommends
that the Government introduce legislation to provide an interim solution as a matter of
urgency.
12 Evidence, p. 30.




CHAPTER 5
INDUSTRY COMPLAINTS BODY
Outline of the option
5.1 The first option considered by the forum was to replace the SCT with an
industry based complaints handling scheme.
5.2 Mr John Larkin of the ISC identified the key advantages and disadvantages of
this approach:
One advantage of an industry based scheme is the sense of industry
ownership and accountability that can potentially flow from such
arrangements and the flexibility of a non-statutory scheme to adapt and
respond quickly to the changing superannuation environment. A
disadvantage could be the implementation lead times and the challenge of
obtaining universal coverage and compliance in the highly diverse
superannuation sector. 1
5.3 There are two possible models for establishing such a scheme. These are:
• a legislatively backed scheme; or
• a voluntary scheme.
5.4 A legislatively backed scheme would require providers of superannuation and
like products to be members of the scheme. Membership of the scheme would require
the member to be contractually bound to abide by its decisions.
5.5 A voluntary scheme does not compel providers to join the scheme or abide by
its decisions. However, industry codes of practice may require providers to join such
schemes. Voluntary regulatory schemes have operated successfully, particularly in the
field of insurance, for some years.
5.6 Mr Larkin cautioned that further examination of legal issues associated with
coverage and enforcement mechanisms would be required if the Government opts for
an industry model. However, he indicated that preliminary legal advice provided to
the Government indicated that 'the option of requiring funds to be a member of an
industry based scheme appears feasible'.2
1 Evidence, p. 5.
2 Evidence, p. 5.


Chapter 5
Existing models
5.7 There are several existing industry complaints bodies. Three well known
examples are:
• the General Insurance Enquiries and Complaints Scheme;
• the Life Insurance Complaints Service (LICS); and
• the Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman (TIO).
5.8 The first two are voluntary schemes established by consenting decision
makers. The third, the TIO, was initially based on licence conditions for the carriers
but membership for carriers is now compulsory under Part 10 of the
Telecommunications Act 1997?
5.9 The parties are expected to abide by the decisions of the panels or boards of
those bodies but there is no statutory requirement for either party to comply.
Compliance relies on a contract between the member and the industry body.
Forum views
5.10 Forum discussion of the industry options covered the following major issues:
• alternative models - which is most appropriate for dealing with
superannuation complaints?
• coverage - ensuring that trustees participate in the scheme;
• enforcement - ensuring that trustees abide by and implement decisions;
• certainty - is the authority of the body to make decisions legally
sustainable?; and
• funding - who pays for the body?
Alternative models
5.11 While industry representatives and several other forum participants favoured
the creation of an industry based alternative dispute resolution (ADR) scheme to
replace the SCT, they expressed differing views about how it should be established.
5.12 Some participants advocated self-regulatory models established by industry
without the need for legislative backing, along the lines of the life and general
insurance industry schemes. Others supported a statutory co-regulatory structure.
This would have a governing body consisting of government, consumer and industry
representatives.
3
Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman 1997 Annual Report, p. 3.


5.13 Mr Paul Bean of LICS, and Ms Lyn Ralph of the Investment and Financial
Services Association (IFSA) were amongst those who preferred the self regulatory
model. They suggested that a new superannuation disputes resolution scheme could be
developed in conjunction with schemes already available, citing the time and cost
savings:
There are actually schemes out there that exist now that with some review
and alteration and change to terms of reference could make quite a good
home from the consumer's point of view and be done quite quickly too as
opposed to starting from scratch yet again another scheme in this sector.4
5.14 Ms Ralph indicated that IFSA envisaged one scheme to cover a variety of
financial services and products, believing it a mistake, in a post-Wallis environment,
'to isolate superannuation from the rest of its financial services that the consumer will
see more and more as a package’.5
5.15 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd (ASFA) expressed
a different view, preferring a legislatively backed co-regulatory scheme. ASFA
viewed this structure as necessary to maintain public confidence in the superannuation
industry.6
5.16 Ms Philippa Smith stressed ASFA’s strong preference for a separate scheme
for superannuation products, citing the inability of existing self-regulatory schemes to
cater for what her organisation regards as the special features of superannuation,
including the role of trustees, compulsory contributions, and preservation.
I do not think ...that it is a matter that it is as convenient as just slotting it
into one of the schemes that are currently operating because I do not think
they meet the standards, or the options, of what we need to get to.7
5.17 Speaking from the trustee’s point of view, Mr Michael Lillicrap, general
manager of REST, representing the Industry Funds Forum, also endorsed the need for
a separate scheme:
From my point of view, they [trustees] will be looking for a separate body to
any of those that exist now. 1 think Philippa Smith has talked about the need
for some sort of legislative compulsion. That in itself would make this a
different type of arrangement than others and I think the trustee problems
probably make superannuation a different type of problem; you have to be
much more careful with the legal structure. So I think both of those argue
for a separate body.8
4
Evidence, p. 44-45.
5 Evidence, p. 44.
6 Evidence, p. 6.
7 Evidence, p. 45-46.
8 Evidence, p. 49.


5.18 Mr John Berrill, representing the Consumers Federation of Australia,
favoured using an existing body because of likely implementation delays in
establishing a new industry scheme. He stressed that the key issue for his constituency
is a speedy resolution of the present impasse and expressed a preference for using
existing mechanisms such as the SCT or LICS to avoid lengthy delays in resolving the
issue.9
Coverage
5.19 The forum participants acknowledged that the success of an industry disputes
resolution body depends on maximum participation by superannuation providers in
the complaints resolution scheme.
5.20 There are a number of possible methods of ensuring full coverage. In the case
of voluntary schemes, industry codes of practice require participation. LICS, for
example, relies on a voluntary code of practice developed by the ISC to achieve
maximum coverage.10
5.21 Some forum participants, including ASF A, questioned whether a voluntary
approach would be sufficient in the case of a scheme dealing with superannuation
complaints. ASFA argued that the compulsory nature of superannuation made
continued public confidence and support vital for any complaints mechanism.
Maximum coverage of the industry, secured through legislation requiring membership
of an approved scheme, would underpin that confidence.
5.22 Mr George Raitt acknowledged the limitations associated with voluntary
codes of practice in a paper prepared for the Law Institute of Victoria. He wrote:
Voluntary industry schemes such as the insurance enquiries and complaints
schemes and the banking industry ombudsman rely on comprehensive
adoption within the industry. In industries with larger numbers of service
providers, such as the franchising industry, lack of broad acceptance by
service providers would be likely to cause a voluntary scheme to fail.
Legislative backing for a scheme is in my view the only way to gain
comprehensive coverage of the large number of service providers in the
superannuation industry.11
5.23 Ms Janet Murphy, of the Department of Industry Science and Tourism’s
Consumer Affairs Division, endorsed ASFA's approach as being most likely to ensure
coverage in the superannuation industry.12
9 Evidence, p. 12
10 Evidence, Mr Paul Bean, p. 20.
11 George Raitt, Partner, Blake Dawson Waldron, Complaints resolution mechanisms in the superannuation
industry and the issue ofjudicial power, p. 7-8.
12 Correspondence to Committee dated 15 May 1998.


5.24 The forum discussed various methods of providing legislative backing to
ensure coverage in an industry based scheme. These included:
• Amending the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS) to
require funds to be members of an industry scheme;
• Using the pow er under the Trade Practices Act 1974 (TPA) to prescribe a
code of practice which would require trustees to belong to an industry
dispute body; and
• Using the legislative proposals in the Corporation Law Economic Reform
Program (CLERP) to make a licence to provide a financial service
conditional upon the holder being a party to an external complaints scheme
approved by the relevant regulator.
Amending the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
5.25 Ms Philippa Smith of ASFA considered that one method of achieving general
coverage for a new industry scheme would be through amendments to the SIS Act.
Such amendments might require providers to participate in a disputes resolution
scheme. Ms Smith expressed a preference for such an arrangement:
The way forward, as I see it, is that there is legislative backing through the
SIS legislation probably requiring membership of an approved scheme
hopefully just one scheme or a limited number of schemes the contractual
arrangements then being with the funds and, through the trust deeds, to live
by the decisions of that approved scheme. I see that providing relative
certainty as opposed to the other options...13
5.26 There is a potential conflict between Trust Law, which prohibits trustees from
accepting directions from third parties, and any general law' requirement compelling
trustees to participate in a disputes resolution scheme. Mr David Maclean explained
the law of trusts and how it affects trustee behaviour:
The actual rule under the law of trusts is that trustees must act independently
and personally and cannot bind themselves to having their decisions made
by someone else or accepting decisions made by someone else. So if a
trustee did enter into an industry scheme and bind himself to doing whatever
the industry scheme personal body decided, as far as the members are
concerned that would be a breach of trust which they could just ignore.
5.27 However, the SIS legislation currently exempts trustees in relation to
directions given by the SCT.15 Ms Smith suggested that it would be possible to amend
the relevant sections of SIS, deleting "Superannuation Complaints Tribunal" and
13 Evidence, p. 45.
14 Evidence, p. 28.
15 S58(2) of SIS.


substituting "an approved industry based disputes resolution scheme". These
amendments would then allow trustees to amend their trust deeds, ensuring that the
governing trust document permitted them to accept such directions.
5.28 Ms Smith concluded:
As a consequence of these changes, it is our legal understanding that
trustees would then be in a position to enter into a contractual agreement
with the industry based dispute resolution body.16
Code of practice under the Trade Practices Act
5.29 The Hon. Andrew Rogers, QC, Clayton Utz, raised the idea of giving an
industry body legislative backing by using the Trade Practices Act 1974 (TPA) to
prescribe a code of practice for the superannuation industry.
5.30 While Mr Rogers raised this possibility in the context of the forum's
consideration of an industry based complaints body, the use of codes of practice may
have application under other disputes resolution options.
5.31 Mr Rogers envisaged that such a code would prescribe all the elements
regarded as desirable in an industry scheme and would require all industry participants
to subscribe to an approved dispute resolution mechanism.
5.32 Raising the issue of constitutional invalidity, Mr David Maclean queried
whether members of such a scheme would be legally bound to enforce its decisions,
noting:
...it looks to me like the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal under another
name if you have to use a federal statute to compel the members of the fund
and the trustees to submit to the binding decision of some third party.17
5.33 Mr Rogers indicated that enforcement of decisions would rely on members
having an agreement with the scheme that accepted the outcome of the dispute
resolution process as binding. In his opinion:
...if you combine contract underpinned by the code of practice, then you
would be achieving a constitutionally valid scheme which could have all
these attributes that people desire.18
5.34 Ms Janet Murphy, of the Department of Industry Science and Tourism,
advised the forum that from 1 July 1998, the Minister for Customs and Consumer
Affairs will have power under the TPA to prescribe two types of codes:
16 Correspondence dated 15 May 1998, p. 9.
17 Evidence, p. 19.
18 Evidence, p. 18.


• a mandatory code, which will automatically bind all members of an
industry; or
• a voluntary code, which will bind only those industry members who
choose to sign the code.
5.35 She noted that, in keeping with accepted benchmarks for a good industry
code:
...where a code is prescribed under the Trade Practices Act, it would likely
also provide for dispute resolution mechanisms, and members of the
industry would - depending on the contractual arrangements in that industry
- be bound to that dispute resolution mechanism. 19
5.36 However, Ms Murphy indicated that the option of ‘having a dispute scheme
hanging off a code’ could pose legal difficulties:
I have to say that we are in the process of seeking legal advice to see
whether there would be constitutional problems in requiring members who
sign up to a code to also be bound by a dispute resolution scheme. I think
the concept has a lot of attractions, but again I guess we are mindful of
possible constitutional limitations.20
5.37 She also indicated that the amendments to the TP A were primarily formulated
to address systemic problems in the relationship between an industry and its
consumers, rather than as a tool of prudential management.
I do not think that we had envisaged that the starting point for prescribing a
code would be whether an industry based dispute resolution scheme was
working or not, or whether it had adequate coverage or not.21
5.38 Mr John Larkin of the ISC supported this approach, noting that although
codes had been established for the life insurance and general insurance sectors to deal
primarily with market conduct issues, such as the keeping of adequate records and
good investment management practices:
I cannot say that a code of practice for the superannuation industry is high
on our agenda. We have sought to promote industry best practice through
other mechanisms for example, the publication of our good practice guide
for trustees...It is not beyond the realm of possibility that we could
contemplate it if it was going to facilitate a long-term solution to complaints
handling.22
19 Evidence, p. 56-57.
20 Evidence, p. 19.
21 Evidence, p. 57.
22 Evidence, p. 57.


5.39 Mr John Edstein expressed strong concern that a compulsory code for the
superannuation industry would place additional restraints on trustees and compromise
the flexibility of the present system. He noted that, in framing its superannuation
legislation in 1993, government had identified trust law as the appropriate framework
for regulating superannuation funds, in that the provisions of S52 of SIS largely reflect
the covenants imposed on a trustee by trust law.23
5.40 Ms Murphy subsequently backed Mr Edstein’s preference for the retention of
the SIS legislative regime. In a letter to the Committee she noted that, while
prescription of a code under the TP A was one method of achieving coverage, ‘SIS is
already in place and could provide the legislative backing necessary to obtain
coverage for any industry dispute scheme.’
In addition, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) is responsible for enforcing codes prescribed under the TPA. It
would appear anomalous to have the ACCC enforcing a code relevant to the
financial services industry which, under the new regulatory arrangements
for the financial services sector, will be the responsibility of the proposed
Australian Securities and Investments Commission.24
CLERP
5.41 Mr John Fox, Australian Securities Commission (ASC), raised the possibility
of using Corporations Law instead of or in addition to the SIS Act to ensure coverage
of an industry dispute resolution scheme or other scheme25. An advantage of such an
approach would be that the use of the uniform state legislation underpinning the
Corporations Law would avoid the issue of Commonwealth constitutional invalidity.
5.42 Mr Fox advised the forum that the CLERP initiative might provide a method
of compelling providers of financial services, including superannuation, to participate
in a complaints resolution scheme:
...there is a CLERP proposal that will include as a condition for
participation in the system if you like, a registration condition that the
financial participant be party to an approved scheme. Having regard to the
comments being made about the advantages of potentially building the
substitute for the SCT on state and territory law as a way of side-stepping
the constitutional issues, I am flagging that as one route that may be able to
take advantage of it.26
23 Evidence, p. 58.
24 Correspondence to the Committee dated 15 May 1998.
25 Mr Fox's proposal was originally discussed in the context of the State based scheme suggested by Mr
George Williams.
26 Evidence, p. 67.


5.43 Mr Fox considered that an advantage of this approach is that it builds on an
existing legislative framework. 'We are really talking about a few lines of text if we
are talking about a licence condition.'27 However, Mr Fox emphasised that this is an
untested proposal, and there are a number of issues that the Government would have
to resolve.
5.44 One of the issues to which Mr Fox referred is the problem of interposing
trustees into such an arrangement. (See para 5.26 above, also see following section on
enforcement)
5.45 ASFA opposes this proposal. ASF A considers that a licence provision under
CLERP requiring trustees to participate in a disputes resolution scheme would fail to
'adequately address the special features of superannuation and the trustees'. Ms Smith
concluded:
The CLERP proposal seeks, wherever possible, to harmonise between
industries, products and services. In the case of superannuation, ASFA does
not believe that this is appropriate.28
Enforcement and certainty
Introduction
5.46 Coverage and enforcement are separate but closely related issues. As
discussed in the preceding section, the forum identified a number of possible methods
of ensuring general coverage by an industry based complaints body. There is,
however, some doubt as to whether these methods may also be used to enforce
determinations of the body.
5.47 The Federal Court decision in Wilkinson V CARE established a link between
enforcement of SCT decisions and the exercise of judicial power. If federal legislation
enforces an industry scheme's decisions, the body may face similar legal challenge to
that which removed the SCT's powers.
5.48 A possible conflict with trustees' duties may also arise, as Trust law generally
prevents trustees from accepting directions from third parties (see para 5.26).
5.49 The following section of this report examines the forum's views on these
issues.
27 Evidence, p. 69.
28 Correspondence dated 15 May 1998. p. 7.


Enforcement, judicial power and trustee responsibilities
5.50 The forum identified enforcement as the major shortcoming of the industry
body option. Mr David Maclean identified the scope of the judicial power problem as
it relates to enforcement of decisions by an industry based complaints body:
Industry bodies generally have a dilemma. If the tmstee is bound as a result
of a federal statute to comply with the determination of whatever industry
body it is, then that will open up the judicial power arguments.29
5.51 Mr Maclean pointed out that even if the judicial power problem is avoided by
not binding the trustee to decisions, difficulties may arise in respect of trustee's
obligations:
If the trustee is not bound, then the trustee cannot act on it because to act on
it would be a breach of trust.30
5.52 Effectively, this combination of difficulties poses major enforcement
problems for an industry body.
5.53 Mr Andrew Rogers QC described how decisions might be made binding. In
the arrangement he outlined, the trustees would be required to participate in the
scheme through legislation and be bound to accept the body's decisions under separate
contractual arrangements:
...the obligation to participate is legislated but the obligation to comply with
the result of the dispute resolution process is contractual."1
5.54 However, Mr George Williams considered that indirect enforcement of
decisions using contractual arrangements might still be open to challenge. In his view,
this rules out any attempt to require compliance through legislation:
If it simply involves the imposition of a contract or the imposition of some
other legislative means of ensuring enforcement, the odds are that a court
would look through that and say that indeed this is exactly what has been
done previously and found to be invalid via some other attempt, so I think it
really comes down to the idea that it is not likely to be feasible, under the
law as it currently stands, to have a legislative based power of enforcement
for a non-judicial body. I think that is what the law is telling us.32
5.55 The forum discussions indicate that enforcement is difficult to achieve
through legislation. However, this does not necessarily mean that industry schemes
29 Evidence, p. 47.
30 Evidence, p. 47.
31 Evidence, p. 46.
32 Evidence, p. 50


can be ruled out, as voluntary schemes, which rely solely on contractual arrangements
to bind members to the scheme's decisions, apparently function successfully.
5.56 Mr John Larkin also cautioned against overemphasising the potential
difficulties associated with enforcement of determinations:
The fact that you cannot legislate for the enforcement of determinations
should not be overemphasised as a constraint on the option because with
sufficient industry ownership, peer pressure and accountability within the
private sector, those forces can operate to ensure a high level of compliance
anyway, as they do at present in current industry based schemes.33
5.57 Mr Neil Wilkinson, however, questioned whether the success of voluntary
industry schemes could be replicated without legally enforceable determinations in the
wider field of superannuation.
I think we slid over the issue of enforcement in relation to industry or
private bodies on the basis that there is not a problem at the moment with
those bodies which are dealing with a small group w'hich voluntarily
becomes part of the scheme. What we are dealing with is a much larger
group, an enormous, very diverse group, where there is no industry' body.
ASFA represents certain people, IFSA represents certain people and IFF
represents certain people. There is overlapping between all of these, and
there are some that are not attached effectively anywhere. The enforcement
under either scheme seems to me a risk area, notwithstanding the experience
that Paul Bean referred to.34
Funding
5.58 Funding for private industry based dispute resolutions schemes, such as the
LICS and the TIO, is the responsibility of their member companies. At the TIO, for
example, each member meets the direct cost of cases raised against it, together with a
proportion of the overhead and capital expenses based on its percentage of total
complaints to the scheme.35
5.59 The Commonwealth Government funds the existing superannuation disputes
resolution mechanism, the SCT, from part of the proceeds of an annual supervisory
lew on superannuation entities. The net cost of SCT operations for the 1996-97
financial year was $2 284 000.j6
5.60 At the forum, industry participants stressed from the outset of the discussions
that their support for an industry based dispute resolution body was conditional on the
33 Evidence, p. 51.
34 Evidence, p. 67.
35 Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman 1997 Annual Report, p. 48.
36 Superannuation Complaints Tribunal Annual Report 1996-97, p. 103.


option being cost neutral to industry. In her briefing on the outcome of earlier
industry workshops in the wake of the SCT impasse, Ms Philippa Smith of ASFA
conveyed general industry sentiment that superannuation providers should not face
additional imposts for the establishment or funding of any proposed alternative
disputes body.
There was one caveat ffom the industry perspective, you will notice the big
'No'. We were saying that this should not be of additional cost to the
industry. A levy is already raised and, if we do pursue an industry
alternative option, we say the money already raised by that levy should be
utilised for both the establishment and ongoing operation of any industry
alternative. I have to stress that that is a very real caveat from the industry's
perspective.37
5.61 Noting the significant cost38 carried by members of other industry dispute
resolution tribunals, Mr Andrew Fairley sought clarification from government
representatives as to whether portion of the monies collected through superannuation
fund levies could be used to fund a private scheme.
5.62 Mr John Larkin advised the forum that, although talk about funding an
industry based scheme was premature, various options, including ‘a corresponding
reduction in the levy for superannuation funds’ could be explored/9
5.63 Citing existing precedents of governments to private sector bodies, Ms Lynn
Ralph of IFSA proposed two funding options:
The first choice is you take the money that is currently being allocated to the
scheme and the levy that is being raised for it and the government makes a
contribution to the body.which seems to me to be the easiest way or
alternatively the SIS levy is reduced accordingly and it is left to the industry
and all the stakeholders involved to start to argue about who is going to pay
what...40
5.64 In discussing the mechanics of various funding methods for a private scheme,
industry representatives were concerned that all sections of the industry share costs
equitably. Mr Fairley proposed a ‘user-pays’ scheme whereby all funds would pay a
reduced levy and then meet the cost of any complaints against that fund.
5.65 Mr Michael Lillicrap, general manager of REST, acknowledged that large
funds like REST generally pay more than smaller funds under the present SCT levy
scheme. However, he cautioned that the high cost likely to be faced by funds with
37 Evidence, p. 8.
38 For example, members of LICS paid fees totalling SI 029 000 in the year ended 31/12/97. LICS Annual
Review 1997, p. 40.
39 Evidence, p. 43.
40 Evidence, p. 45.


large memberships (and consequently higher complaint rates) under a case-by-case
‘user-pays' principle could act as a disincentive for effective complaints resolution.
One of the things I believe should be avoided is a case-by-case, user-pays
principle because that has the consequence that each time the fund is facing
a decision about what to do when somebody registers a complaint, if you
build the hurdle of cost for it high enough, it simply does not bother to take
any action on large numbers of complaints the same thing that happens in
the court system now where, if you are facing a very large cost, you simply
give in, and people use that to their own advantage. 41
Evaluation
5.66 The major shortcoming of this option is uncertainty about whether
determinations can be made binding on the trustee. The use of a combination of
statutory codes of practice requiring membership of a disputes resolution body and
contractual arrangements for enforcement purposes appears to offer a reasonable
solution. However, difficulties associated with resolving superannuation disputes
through voluntary mechanisms should not be underestimated.
5.67 While industry strongly supports the overall concept of this option, there is no
apparent agreement within the industry as to the most appropriate model. This is a
major obstacle to its implementation.
5.68 Unless structured with great care, an industry scheme may also carry with it
the difficulty of a perceived lack of independence - the industry sitting in judgement
on the behaviour of its own members. Even with this caution, such perceptions can be
fatal to independence.
5.69 The question of funding is also critical to the viability of this option. It is clear
that the industry's support for the option is strictly conditional on there being no extra
cost to industry.
Conclusions
5.70 There is little doubt that an industry based complaints resolution body is a
potentially viable alternative to the SCT. Sufficient examples of such a body already
exist in Australia and elsewhere to demonstrate that the concept can work
successfully.
5.71 However, the Committee is of the view that the Government should only
support this option if questions about enforcement can be resolved and the industry
agrees on an appropriate model.
41 Evidence, p. 49.




CHAPTER 6
RECONSTITUTE THE SCT
AS PART OF THE FEDERAL COURT
Outline of the option
6.1 The second method of providing a dispute resolution mechanism considered
by the forum participants was to reconstitute the tribunal as a division within the
Federal Court of Australia. Under this proposal, the existing Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal would be abolished, with the new division of the Federal Court
established in its place.
6.2 The background paper prepared by IFS Fairley described how the new
division might work in practice. The paper envisaged that much of the work of the
new superannuation complaints division could be undertaken by judicial registrars,
under powers delegated by the court. Judges of the Court would supervise the
activities of the registrars. Persons having matters determined by a registrar also retain
a constitutional right to a fresh hearing of any decision by a judge.
6.3 The paper also envisaged a monetary limit on cases that the registrars could
consider, with cases concerning amounts over the limit being transferred to a federal
court judge for determination.
Precedent
6.4 There is a precedent for establishing such a mechanism within the Federal
Court. Under the Workplace Relations Act, jurisdiction was transferred from the
Industrial Relations Court to the Federal Court and the Court has established a system
under which Judicial Registrars conduct hearings.
6.5 The jurisdiction of Federal Court registrars in respect of the Workplace
Relations Act includes claims of unlawful termination of employment and money
claims of up to $10 000. The registrars also have jurisdiction in respect of other
matters before the Federal Court where the value of the subject matter does not exceed
$100 000.1
6.6 A system of judicial registrars also operates under the Family Law Act. The
validity of the registrar system under the Family Law Act has been challenged in the
High Court, which confirmed the existence of the power to delegate judicial power to
the registrars, subject to certain limits.
1
Correspondence from Mr M Damien Murphy, Judicial Registrar, Federal Court of Australia and
Industrial Relations Court of Australia, dated 7 May 1998.


Chapter 6
Forum views
6.7 In Wilkinson V CARE, the High Court found that the SCT had improperly
exercised judicial power, in breach of the Constitution. Creation of a division of the
Federal Court for resolving superannuation complaints, where the power exercised is
expressly judicial, is therefore a logical method of ensuring that a superannuation
dispute resolution mechanism is beyond constitutional challenge.
6.8 However, consumer and industry representatives strongly opposed this option,
as did a number of other forum participants. The option gained some support from
others, particularly those from within the legal profession.
6.9 The major reasons associated with opposition to this option appear to be a
perception that any option associated with a court would be expensive, slow and
legalistic.
Opposing views
6.10 Representing the Consumers Federation of Australia, Mr John Berrill
reminded forum participants that a major reason for establishing the SCT was to
provide an alternative to the traditional court system. He said that the court system,
particularly in respect of superannuation issues had been '...too expensive, too slow,
too legalistic and it has certainly not been user friendly.' He also expressed concern
about the possibility of a fresh hearing before a judge, in the event that one party to a
complaint is dissatisfied with a registrar's decision:
The idea of a de novo appeal review before a federal judge, with the cost
and time implications that will have, appears very unattractive to us.2
6.11 Mr Steve Gibbs of the Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees also
considered the court option undesirable, as he thought that having to take a complaint
to a court would deter complainants:
If you have a system where people have to make complaints to the Federal
Court, no matter what process is then put in place to deal with them, you
will largely solve the problem of superannuation complaints, because
no-one will make them. The mere fact of having to make them to a body
like the Federal Court will militate against people making them....I think the
Federal Court alternative is the least preferable of the ones that I have
heard.3
6.12 Ms Jenny Lawton of the Carlton & Fitzroy Financial Counselling Service
considered that any consideration of the court option also required consideration of
how people would get adequate legal advice and representation. She advised that the
2 Evidence, p. 12.
3 Evidence, p. 54.


general lack of legal aid resources weighed against this option for most fund
members:
...it is completely pointless to imagine that that would be a viable dispute
resolution forum for the majority of working people in superannuation funds
and their dependants, howsoever styled. It would be completely pointless to
continue to canvass the Federal Court option without also canvassing how to
ensure that people get adequate legal advice and representation. As a person
who advises people on an almost daily basis about their financial problems,
I can assure you that, with the status of Legal Aid and of other community
organisations in this country, that is just not possible.4
6.13 Mr Michael Lillicrap, who represented the Industry Funds Forum, also
criticised the assumption that placing complaints within the jurisdiction of a court
would produce a sounder legal outcome. He recounted his experience in courts as
General Manager of REST, and compared these experiences with his encounters with
the SCT:
I have to say - without intending any disrespect for the legal system - that it
is rare to find anyone in a court case, whether it be the barristers, the
solicitors or the judge, who understands any of the issues in the courts I
have been in.5
... I cannot say I ever walk away from a tribunal decision feeling it was
irrational and incomprehensible. That is my almost invariable reaction when
I walk away from a court.6
6.14 The Hon. Andrew Rogers QC, a former judge, also spoke against the courts
option:
It seems to me, if I may say so, that if you can get away from the court
system and get these complaints into a dispute resolution mechanism which
has as little involvement with legalism and lawyers as possible, you are
travelling down the right path. For almost 50 years I have been a lawyer, but
that has not convinced me that that is really a great way of resolving
disputes. Sometimes you need them; sometimes you do not.7
Views in support
6.15 While many forum participants spoke against the court option, several of the
representatives of the legal profession who were present defended the role of the
courts in the dispute resolution process.
4
Evidence, p. 55.
5 Evidence, p. 56.
6 Evidence, p. 56.
Evidence, p. 18.
7


6.16 Mr John Morgan, representing the Law Council Superannuation Committee,
wrote to the Chairman of the Committee prior to the forum, arguing that this
possibility offered the best method of addressing the judicial decisions problem and
providing a constitutionally sound method of resolving superannuation disputes. He
wrote that 'The way to avoid doubt over what is judicial power is to give the function
to a real court'. He continued:
Courts also happen to be the best form of dispensing justice that western
society has been able to devise over the last 400 years, and I do not see why
superannuation fund members should be given anything less. They should
be entitled to the independence and quality of adjudication that a real court
provides.8
6.17 Mr Morgan acknowledged that costs and time delays had been a problem, but
that these issues could be addressed in a new structure through the following
measures:
• The court's rules could preclude awards of costs;
• The division (of the court) should specialise in superannuation complaints;
• The court's procedural rules could be designed to make 80% of the progress in
20% of the time. For instance, the judge could be given discretions to be
interrogatory in procedure (rather than strictly adversarial) and, if need be, to
relax rules of evidence where appropriate;
• Asa safeguard, parties could be given the right to appeal the facts as well as the
law - in case these more expedient first instance procedures resulted in defects.
The right to appeal the facts may have to be only with leave from the appellate
court, but there should be some assurance that the purity of the adversarial
system could prevail;
• A duty solicitor could be appointed to assist parties with their claims; and
• A mediation function could operate as with most courts already.
6.18 An important feature of Mr Morgan's proposal is that the provisions of the SIS
legislation would need to be amended to ensure that trustees, in making decisions,
exercised their discretionary powers on a "fair and reasonable" basis. Amending SIS
to impose this standard allows Courts to review the substance of how a trustee
exercised a discretionary power, and not just the correctness of the process the trustee
went through to exercise that power.9
6.19 Mr Morgan reinforced his written comments at the forum. He agreed that
there wras no need for a full court hearing in minor disputes, which could be resolved
in a small claims tribunal. However, he reminded the forum that:
8 Correspondence to Senator Watson, 27 April 1998.
9 Correspondence to Senator Watson, 27 April 1998, p. 2.


I think there axe also very complex disputes. There have been a number of
comments about lawyers and I cannot resist responding to them; but I must
admit they sound to me a little bit like saying that, in a disability claim
involving the assessment of medical matters, you should not actually ask a
medical man about it. A lot of issues relating to superannuation do involve
legal issues, and I think that the legal methods and systems and lawyers can
assist in that process.10
6.20 Several other representatives of the legal profession present at the forum also
spoke in favor of the court option. Mr George Raitt of Blake Dawson Waldron
attacked the view that courts by their nature must be expensive and inaccessible:
... there is no rule in the constitution that to be a court it must be too slow
and expensive to be helpful.11
6.21 Mr Andrew Fairley made a similar point, that the forum participants were
concentrating on the experience of current Federal Court processes which would not
necessarily be replicated in the proposed new division of the Court:
I do not think that would necessarily be the case in circumstances where you
were able to get the federal court to establish a system of registrars who
were then able to be accompanied by a set of rules that were actually drafted
so that they were massively accessible by complainants. So you are really
looking at quite a different body from the Federal Court processes that you
might have in your mind today, with the usual discovery and interrogatory
processes and so on.1"
Limitations
6.22 Mr Dennis Rose AM QC, of Blake Dawson Waldron, identified a possible
limitation of the court option. He said that if the new division were to be established, it
would be constitutionally limited to making decisions of a judicial nature. If the
Government's High Court appeal succeeds and the Court finds that the SCT's exercise
of power was non-judicial, this may create problems for a division of the Federal
Court intended to hear superannuation complaints.
6.23 Mr Rose was also of the view that the power of the SCT to make a decision as
if it were a trustee in substitution for the decision of the original trustee is not a
judicial function.13 It follows that the division of the Federal Court would have to
operate on a quite different basis to the current SCT.
10 Evidence, p. 52.
11 Evidence, p. 56.
12 Evidence, p. 56.
13 Evidence, p. 51.


6.24 Mr George Williams, Barrister, Senior Lecturer in Law and Fellow, The
Australian National University, agreed with Mr Rose's opinion, noting that it would be
necessary to exercise care in legislative change to ensure that the new body exercised
judicial power as opposed to non-judicial power. He also suggested that establishing
the new body might be more complex than expected, requiring 'a greater
reconstruction than has been suggested in the papers'.14
Evaluation
6.25 This option scores well in terms of providing a high level of independence,
procedural fairness and certainty about the constitutional soundness of decisions.
However, as noted by Mr Rose and Mr Williams, it would be necessary to exercise
care to ensure the decisions required and taken are of a judicial nature.
6.26 However, forum participants disagreed about whether certainty should be an
over-riding priority. As noted by Mr George Williams (at paragraphs 3.9 and 3.10),
there is a risk that other criteria might be compromised.
6.27 There is some doubt as to whether the option satisfies the criteria of economy
and speed. While Mr John Morgan has proposed a number of methods of streamlining
court processes, it remains to be seen if these proposals could address potential
difficulties in this area.
6.28 Economy may be particularly affected by the right to a de novo (fresh)
hearing, which creates the potential for a duplication of the complaints hearing
process with associated costs. The experience in the Federal Court suggests that a
considerable proportion of complaints will proceed to such a hearing, inevitably
involving complainants in a full court process. Material supplied to the Committee
shows that of the 926 cases that judicial registrars finalised in 1996-97, approximately
25 per cent proceeded to review.15
6.29 If there is a likelihood that a major proportion of complaints proceed to
review before a judge, it is difficult to argue that this option can adequately satisfy the
economy criterion, as presumably such a review would require representation, at
considerable cost to trustees and complainants.
Conclusions
6.30 As noted in Chapter 1 of this report, the predominant view expressed during
the Committee's first inquiry supported establishing a dispute resolution mechanism
that 'avoided the courts as far as possible'. In Safeguarding Super, the Committee
14 Evidence, p. 15.
15 Correspondence from Mr M. Damien Murphy, Judicial Registrar, Federal Court of Australia, Melbourne,
dated 7 May 1998.


noted that the cost of litigation in the courts was so high that it offered no real rights to
members16.
6.31 During and after the forum, the Committee received evidence that the
perceived shortcomings of resolving superannuation complaints within the Federal
Court structure can be overcome. Flowever, it was clear during the forum that industry
and consumer group opposition to the option is deeply entrenched.
6.32 While reconstituting the SCT as part of the Federal Court may offer greater
certainty than other options, unless industry and consumer reservations can be
comprehensively addressed, the option cannot be considered acceptable at this time.
16 Safeguarding Super - the regulation of Superannuation, First Report of the Select Committee on
Superannuation, June 1992, p. 136.




CHAPTER 7
AMEND THE COMPLAINTS ACT
AND OTHER LEGISLATION
Outline of the option
7.1 The third option considered by the forum was to amend the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (the Complaints Act), the Superannuation
Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS) and the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997
(RSA Act). The objective of these amendments would be to reconstitute the SCT
under amended legislation designed to avoid the problems identified in the Federal
Court decision.
7.2 In its decision, the Court identified two issues that have since prevented the
SCT from exercising its determination making powers. These were that:
• the functions conferred on the SCT by the Complaints Act to review
trustees' and insurers' decisions constitute an invalid conferral of the
Commonwealth's judicial power under the Constitution; and
• the legislation does not entitle the SCT to review non-discretionary trustee
decisions.
7.3 In order to address the Court's finding, the Government would need to amend
the legislation to give the Tribunal the power to conduct a full merits based review of
trustees' decisions without the present threshold test of whether the trustee's decision
is "fair and reasonable", as currently required under S 14(2) and S37 of the Complaints
Act.
7.4 Under a merits based review, the decision of the tribunal would be made
exactly as if it were a trustee making the decision for the first time. Mr Dennis Rose
AM QC described how this might work in practice:
If, of course, it is decided that the actual trustee's decision was
inappropriate, the tribunal would then make a decision as if it were the
trustee. The legislation would provide that, for all purposes, the decision of
the tribunal should be treated as if it were the decision of a trustee.1
1 Evidence, p. 64.


Chapter 7
7.5 Mr Rose further explained that putting the Tribunal in the same position as the
trustee would permit the Tribunal to deal with both discretionary and non-
discretionary decisions.2
7.6 Mr Rose and Mr George Raitt also outlined further safeguards that may have
to be included in the amended legislation to ensure that the powers exercised by the
reconstituted Tribunal could not be held to be judicial in nature. They suggested that
the amendments would be in terms needed to ensure that each party' has the option of
having the matter determined by the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal or a court.
Under this proposal, a complainant would have the option of going either to the
Tribunal or a court, and the trustee would have a right to have proceedings removed
from the Tribunal into a court.
7.7 Mr Rose and Mr Raitt advised that their opinion is strongly supported by a
High Court decision in Shell Co of Australia Ltd v Federal Commissioner of Taxation
(1930) 44 CLR 530 at 544-545, concerning the former Taxation Boards of Review/
7.8 Amendments to SIS and the RSA Act may also be required to address the
manner in which tribunal determinations may be enforced.
Forum views
7.9 Forum discussion on this option focussed principally on whether legislative
change could achieve a reasonable degree of certainty that the reconstituted tribunal
would not be subject to further constitutional challenge. Other issues considered by
the forum included:
• The "fair and reasonable" test and trustee responsibilities;
• Enforcement; and
• Shortcomings of the SCT.
Certainty
7.10 Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission, advised the forum that an advantage of this option is
that it preserves the existing tribunal infrastructure with its public profile and familiar
procedures and enables continuity of the complaints on hand. However, he
acknowledged that a disadvantage of the option is that there will continue to be some
risk of further legal challenge to the tribunal, as the option addresses some but not all
of the cumulative factors that led to the Full Federal Court majority judgment.4
2 Correspondence, 22 May 1998.
3 Correspondence, 22 May 1998.
4 Evidence, p. 4.


7.11 Mr Neil Wilkinson, Chairperson of the SCT, advised the forum that the
Attorney-General's Department had provided advice to the effect that re-establishing
the SCT as a merits review body 'was probably a viable way to go in a legislative
cure'.5
7.12 Representing the Consumers Federation of Australia, Mr John Berrill
apparently gave greater weight to ensuring a speedy solution rather than guaranteeing
absolute certainty. He expressed support for using an existing structure, either the SCT
or the Life Insurance Complaints Service, for dispute resolution purposes:
It is certainly our preference for a solution that does not involve major
legislative redrafting. Therefore, we think that the use of existing
mechanisms and structures such as the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
or the Life Insurance Complaints Service are preferable. If you are
establishing a completely new system with new infrastructure it is going to
take a lot of time and that is an undesirable result.6
7.13 Mr George Williams expressed the view that, with modification, this option
offers the best method of attempting to maintain the system as it existed prior to the
Federal Court's decision. However, he cautioned that while amendments to the act
could attempt to insulate the tribunal from challenge in the courts, some uncertainty
would inevitably remain:
...in doing that it is important to realise that that is a risk management
process. I do not think any legal adviser could say that there is a way of
insulating the body completely from legal challenge without perhaps taking
away the very power that it needs to operate.7
7.14 Mr Andrew Fairley and others were of the view that certainty is an issue of
over-riding importance:
Of all the essential elements for any alternative superannuation complaints
process, probably the overriding important one is that it simply be
unassailable in the courts. I do not believe that the government can afford to
be going forward with a scheme that simply is unclear and in a year or two
or three years time, we are back in exactly the same situation as we are in
today.8
7.15 Ms Philippa Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia (ASFA) summed up her organisation's views in respect of
constitutional certainty:
5 Evidence, p. 9.
6 Evidence, p. 12.
7 Evidence, p. 61.
8 Evidence, p. 10.


On the basis of current constitutional advice, there is sufficient uncertainty
as to whether the SCT would be properly constitutionally constituted and
thus able to withstand another legal challenge, even if amended. The only
way of definitively knowing whether this would be within the powers of the
constitution would be to wait for the High Court's decision of the appeal
9
case.
7.16 The viability of this option depends ultimately on how much weight the
Government and other affected parties wish to place on constitutional certainty. In the
Committee's view, Mr George Williams summed up the situation succinctly:
One is that we should be dealing with a body that must be unassailable from
constitutional challenge, and to my mind that is set far too high as a
criterion. I think it is almost impossible to ever establish a body like this,
given recent High Court decisions, that could be described as unassailable.
....I think you also need to see that there is a degree of risk management
here. You should not set the level of certainty so high that you do away with
the other criteria, such as establishing a body which is fair, economical,
informal and quick.10
The "fair and reasonable" test and trustee responsibilities
7.17 It is generally acknowledged that if the SCT is to be validly reconstituted
through amendments to the Complaints Act under this option, it will probably be
necessary to remove the threshold test as to whether the trustee's decision was "fair
and reasonable".
7.18 Ms Philippa Smith advised the forum that the prospective removal of the
words "fair and reasonable" is of concern to ASFA.11 Ms Smith subsequently wrote to
the Chairman of the Committee, expressing concern that by moving to a full merits
review body, the SCT would gradually adopt a legalistic approach, similar to that of
the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.
7.19 Ms Smith emphasised that resolution of superannuation complaints requires
"flexible, informal and accessible" disputes handling procedures. She was of the view
that moving towards a more legalistic approach "would not adequately meet the needs
of consumers nor fund participants".12
7.20 Ms Smith identified an additional risk for trustees if the threshold test of "fair
and reasonable" is removed:
9 Correspondence, 15 May 1998.
10 Evidence, p. 15.
11 Evidence, p. 8.
12 Correspondence, 15 May 1998.


I see a problem if we are thinking of a merits review body which will stand
in the shoes of a trustee, without the words ‘fair and reasonable' being there;
because you are then creating a real risk of double jeopardy from the
trustee's point of view, which has to be considered.13
7.21 Mr George Williams also addressed “fair and reasonable” criteria. He said
that there were two options available. These were to:
• remove those criteria entirely and replace them with explicitly policy based
objectives; or
• retain the fairness and reasonableness criteria but make it clear that those criteria
were commercial rather than legal criteria.
7.22 Referring to the latter option, he offered the opinion that while this is a
'halfway' solution, it goes some way toward avoiding the problems identified by the
Federal Court.14
7.23 Questioned about the policy objectives that might be adopted in the absence
of the "fair and reasonable" criteria, he suggested that these might be determined in
accordance with what trustees and beneficiaries saw as objectives in resolving
disputes:
I would suggest that maybe the industry could determine certain policy
objectives beyond simplv fair and reasonable objectives which were policy
rather than legal criteria. 5
7.24 Some forum participants did not see the removal of the "fair and reasonable"
criteria as disadvantageous, pointing to a current inconsistency between the duties of
trustees and the application of these criteria under the Complaints Act. Mr John
Edstein pointed out that the general law' does not require a trustee to be fair or
reasonable:
We have in part come to grief because of that. It is incredibly difficult
advising a trustee who is trying to behave as a proper fiduciary and then
have this overlay test of being fair and reasonable as well.16
7.25 Mr John Morgan continued this theme. He considered that there is a need for
a greater degree of symmetry between the review method and trustee's duties:
If we are to change the duties of the trustee, that ought to be done expressly.
That raises the issue of fairness and reasonableness. We can enter a legal
debate about the duty of a trustee in making a decision and how that lines up
13 Evidence, p. 21.
14 Evidence, p. 61.
15 Evidence, p. 63.
16 Evidence, p. 58.


with a general administrative law duty of fairness and reasonableness or
procedural fairness or merit or fairness in its full merit sense but the trustees,
when they make their decision, must be able to do so confidently, knowing
what the test is that is going to be applied and that it is the same test which
they are required to apply. 17
Enforcement
7.26 In its decision that any exercise by the SCT of its determination making
power was an invalid exercise of the judicial power of the Commonwealth, the
Federal Court majority decision relied, in part, on the view that the Tribunal's
determinations are enforceable by civil injunctions and criminal penalties.
7.27 While the SCT had no power to enforce its own decisions, its determinations
were nonetheless indirectly enforceable using a number of mechanisms. As noted by
Mr George Williams, the SIS Act provides effective machinery for the enforcement of
determinations by the Tribunal whereby a decision of the Tribunal can be enforced by
civil injunction and criminal penalty. It is irrelevant that the SCT Act does not do the
actual enforcing or that its determination takes effect as a decision of the trustee.18
7.28 In the background paper prepared for the Committee, Mr Andrew Fairley also
identified a range of enforcement mechanisms including:
• it is an operating standard under SIS and its Regulations for trustees to comply
with determinations of the Tribunal;
• it is an offence under S34(2) of SIS for the trustees to fail to comply with the
determination;
• persons affected by a determination of the Insurance and Superannuation
Commissioner (ISC) can seek an injunction from the Federal Court to compel
the carrying-out of a determination (S315 of SIS);
• S65 of the Complaints Act requires the Tribunal to report to the ISC any non-
compliance with the determination by a trustee, and the ISC can determine to
investigate;
• since a determination takes effect as a new decision of the trustees, the
determination is enforceable on that basis in the State Supreme Courts; and
• court action can be commenced under S289(3), S313(1 A) by the ISC, or an
investigation can be commenced under S263 of SIS.19
17 Evidence, p.11-12.
18 George Williams, The end of the roadfor the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, 1998, p. 7.
19 Background paper, p. 1.


7.29 A consequence of the Federal Court decision therefore is that a reconstituted
SCT or its replacement must be seen to be incapable of enforcing its decisions, as this
enforcement may be held by the Courts to be an exercise of judicial powers.
7.30 The question therefore arises as to how trustees may be obliged to implement
decisions of a reconstituted tribunal or other body without invoking judicial powers.
As noted by Mr George Williams:
It is a fundamental weakness of this option. The Commonwealth can create
bodies such as the SCT as forums for the resolution of disputes but it cannot
give such bodies the power to make their decisions binding. The power of
enforcement lies solely with the Courts.20
7.31 Mr George Raitt considered that in the situation where a recalcitrant trustee
decides not to appeal but not to implement the decision of the tribunal, the reasoning
of Sundberg J in the Federal Court decision suggests that there is still judicial
discretion as to whether to compel the trustee to carry out the decision. It does not
follow' that the decision will be enforced automatically. However, Mr Raitt considered
that it was still possible to compel the trustee to carry out the decision without
invoking judicial powers:
It seems to me that that could be provided for by putting a high burden on
the trustee to demonstrate that, although he has not appealed within the
statutory' procedure, nevertheless, there is some overriding defect which
ought to prevent the court awarding enforcement. It seems to me that the
costs of that action ought to be the costs of the fund because, after all, the
trustee faced with the decision has not done the proper thing and appealed
but has refused to carry it out. I would have thought, with those burden of
proof issues and costs issues, enforcement, strictly in accordance with the
constitution, ought not be an insurmountable problem.21
7.32 Mr Raitt further addressed the enforcement issue in a paper submitted to the
Committee. He advised that he could see no reason why a decision of the SCT on a
merits review ought not to be binding and take effect as a decision of the trustee under
the governing rules of the trust, having no higher status in law than an ordinary trustee
decision. Mr Raitt concluded that in his opinion, the matter could be clarified by
amending legislation.22
7.33 Mr Neil Wilkinson distributed a paper on SCT enforcement proceedings to
the forum participants. The paper notes that the Court, in all cases, is required to turn
its mind to the question of whether a particular matter should be enforced, indicating
that decisions of the tribunal are not ‘automatically’ enforceable. He advised the
20 George Williams, The end of the roadfor the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, 1998, p. 10.
21 Evidence, p. 66.
22 George Raitt, Complaints resolution mechanisms in the superannuation industry and the issue of judicial
power, a paper prepared for the Law Institute of Victoria Journal, p. 7.


forum that, notwithstanding the Federal Court's ruling on the existing enforcement
scheme, the tribunal believes that enforcement can be dealt with under the proposed
merits review approach by amendments to various provisions by:
...strengthening the text of the relevant provisions so as to make it clear that
the enforcement of SCT decisions is dependent upon the discretion of the
Court and that the Court is obliged to exercise that discretion in every
case.23
Shortcomings of the SCT
7.34 Ms Lyn Ralph, Executive Director of the Investment and Financial Services
Association, expressed doubts that a re-vamped SCT would meet consumer or
industry needs. She was of the view that a public sector complaints resolution body
like the SCT would not be sufficiently responsive to meet changing circumstances and
that a superior result would be achieved in the private sector:
Whether we can fix this scheme or not, I fear that in the longer term the
inflexible ways that unfortunately the public sector sometimes has to operate
having been there for a while, I know the difference between the way the
private sector operates and the way the public sector must operate we are
not going to get the sort of scheme that is going to be responsive to the
changing times as superannuation evolves in this country. Philosophically,
the sooner the scheme comes into the private sector, the better/4
7.35 In the event the Government decides to proceed with the option of retaining
the SCT under an amended legislative scheme, several forum participants, called for
change to its operational methods to render it a more user-friendly mechanism. Mr
John Berrill, noting the need for improved accessibility to the tribunal, said:
The whole idea of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal when it was set
up was as an alternative to the courts, and accessibility was a key element of
it. We need a system that is less legalistic and bureaucratic as little as
possible and, in particular, we think that that requires a system that has a
secretariat that gives general advice and assistance to complainants, many of
whom will have no idea about superannuation and very little knowledge
about how to have their matters determined, how to have their complaints
dealt with and what their rights are.25
7.36 Mr Berrill's comments reflect a recommendation made by this Committee in
its 18th report. In that report, the Committee recommended that the Government
establish a limited Government funded superannuation advice service within existing
community legal or credit advice centres. The Government rejected this
23 Superannuation Complaints Tribunal Executive Summary, The Federal Court and the Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal: Appeals, Judicial Review, Penalties and Enforcement, 27 April 1998, p. 12.
24 Evidence, p. 44.
25 Evidence, p. 13.


recommendation, arguing that existing measures were in place to assist members of
superannuation funds with their complaints, including the obligation on the SCT to
assist a person in making a complaint. The Government's response also asserted that
regional offices of the SCT assist people who want to make complaints and that the
SCT can be relied upon to provide accurate and impartial assistance in resolving
complaints.26
7.37 The Committee understands that in reality, the SCT offers a very limited
advice service to potential complainants and that the limited scope of this service is a
source of industry dissatisfaction with its performance, as reflected in Mr Berrill's
comments.
Evaluation
7.38 The major advantage of adopting this option is that it would provide a level of
continuity with current operations of the SCT, particularly with regard to
establishment procedures and cases already in progress. However, the major
disadvantage is that it is impossible to guarantee constitutional certainty about
whether future decisions of the Tribunal will suffer further legal challenge in the
courts.
7.39 While legal opinion provided to the Committee indicates a degree of
confidence that the constitutional challenges posed by the Federal Court decision can
be overcome, the Committee notes comments made by Mr John Larkin in his
introduction that the option addresses some but not all of the cumulative factors that
led to the full Federal Court majority judgment about the unconstitutional nature of
the Tribunal's powers.
7.40 The Committee is, however, mindful of comments made by Mr George
Williams that it may not be desirable to give certainty overall priority' in determining
whether an option should or should not be adopted. In all the options presented there
must be a degree of risk management. It is therefore apparent that while uncertainty
afflicts this option, there can be no absolute certainty in respect of the other options.
7.41 There is also some doubt about whether a reconstituted SCT's decisions can
be enforced. The same arguments that exist in respect of the industry scheme option
also apply to the SCT and might be addressed using similar strategies.
7.42 The extent to which this option would satisfy the criterion of economy
depends on whether trustees are willing to abide by its decisions. In the event that a
trustee does not implement a decision of a tribunal but does not appeal against that
decision, it would appear that a complainant would have to resort to the courts to gain
enforcement of decisions against recalcitrant trustees.
26 Government response to the eighteenth report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation.


7.43 If the Government elects to implement this option and amends the Complaints
Act and other legislation in accordance with the strategies discussed in this chapter,
this may improve trustee's views about the way in which the SCT deals with
complaints. The Committee notes that there has been some criticism of the SCT's
current criteria used in dealing with complaints. Several commentators have called for
closer alignment between the way the SCT conducts reviews and trustees discharge
their responsibilities.
Conclusion
7.44 The Committee considers that reviving the SCT through amendments to the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 and other legislation offers a
viable alternative for consideration by the Government, if questions about certainty
and enforcement can be resolved.


CHAPTER 8
STATE BASED BODY
The option
8.1 A further option identified during the Forum is to establish a dispute
resolution body under State legislation. Mr George Williams proposed this alternative
as a method of insulating the review body from similar constitutional challenge to that
encountered by the SCT.
8.2 Mr Williams contended that a body established under State legislation could
not be found to exercise judicial power in breach of the Constitution because State
bodies are not subject to the separation of judicial power.
8.3 Mr Williams considered that this option is subject to a number of limitations.
These included a fracturing of the superannuation legislation and problems with
gaining a unified system. However, he outlined a methodology for establishing such a
body in a way that would assure a degree of certainty and uniformity.
8.4 In his proposal, the Commonwealth could legislate for the Australian Capital
Territory to establish a complaints tribunal. The State Parliaments could then pass
identical complementary legislation. While established by legislation in each State and
Territory, only one body would be established with a commonality of membership and
interest across Australia.
Precedents
8.5 The Commonwealth and States have co-operated to establish such a body in
the past. Mr Williams pointed out that this is how the Corporations Scheme works and
that is exactly how a body similar to the SCT, the Corporations and Securities Panel,
was established by the Commonwealth in exercising its powers for the Territory.
8.6 Mr Williams explained that the Commonwealth had adopted this approach
because the High Court had held for many years that the Commonwealth's exercise of
power was not subject to judicial power legislation when it is exercising power for the
Territories. Assuming established legal precedent applies, the body would not be
subject to the limitations the Federal Court identified.2
1 Evidence, p. 15.
2 Evidence, p. 15.


Chapter 8
Forum views
8.7 Mr Andrew Rogers QC agreed that Mr Williams' proposal is feasible. He
advised the Forum that the proposal is technically sound but politically difficult:
For whatever my personal views were, I would think that legally and
constitutionally the notion that you should have the exercise of the Territory
power and then adopt it State-wide would be a sound one. How politically
feasible it is is almost like trying to predict what the High Court is likely to
decide in a given case.3
8.8 Mr Steve Gibbs of the AIST considered that, while Mr Williams' option was
perhaps least likely to suffer constitutional challenge, it would take the longest
possible time of all the options considered to implement.4
8.9 Mr Mark Cerche of the Corporate Superannuation Association considered that
Mr Williams' suggestion was in fact the only effective method for establishing a
dispute resolution mechanism along the lines of a tribunal. He advised the Forum that
his Association is concerned principally with certainty. He told the Forum that the
current uncertainty associated with trustee's decisions is intolerable:
We are dealing with the property rights of individuals and it is intolerable
not to know whether the decisions we take are correct or not and then on
review whether the decision-maker in view of our decisions has the power
to do so. It simply causes the system to fall into disrepute. So I believe that
we should aim for legal certainty as the ultimate goal here. If that means that
the system is not as cheap and efficient as others would like it to be, that is
the price we have pay for the certainty that property rights demand.5
8.10 Mr Williams himself cast doubt on whether the State-based alternative was a
viable option. He told the Forum that
... I personally doubt whether it is a viable option at the moment, given time
and given the political willingness to achieve legislation across all of the
States and the Northern Territory. It may be that five or 10 years down the
track this is the solution that is left, but it is hard to see that it is viable as
things currently stand.6
8.11 Ms Janet Murphy from the Department of Industry, Science and Tourism and
Consumer Affairs echoed these views in a letter to the Chairman of the Committee,
following the forum. While acknowledging the constitutional advantage of having the
Commonwealth create a tribunal in the ACT and ‘copying’ its legislation to the states,
she emphasised that the time it would take to achieve uniform legislation and the lack
3
4
Evidence, p. 17.
Evidence, p. 20.
Evidence, p. 22.
Evidence, p. 62.
5
6


of any guarantee that the legislation would remain uniform throughout the States and
Territories were major disincentives to adopting this option.
Evaluation against criteria
8.12 The main attraction of adopting this option is certainty. It is likely that it
would be free of the constitutional difficulties in relation to the exercise of judicial
power that have crippled the SCT.
8.13 Constitutional lawyers at the forum pointed out that the High Court has
sanctioned similar legislative arrangements in relation to other tribunals, notably the
Corporations and Securities Panel.
8.14 The Committee notes, however, the significant difficulties highlighted in
forum discussion concerning the political difficulties of negotiating and maintaining a
unified dispute resolution system in the States and Territories.
8.15 The probable length of time required to implement such a scheme is also a
major disadvantage.
Conclusions
8.16 The Committee considers that this option is sound and offers a high level of
certainty. However a number of factors militate against its adoption.
8.17 Firstly, the evidence suggests that there would be a considerable time delay
before it could be implemented.
8.18 Secondly, there may be difficulties associated with passing consistent
legislation through all the State legislatures. Making any future amendments may also
be a cumbersome and difficult process, as amending legislation would have to pass
through the Parliaments of each State and Territory.
8.19 For these reasons, the Committee does not consider the option is viable at this
time. However, should difficulties associated with the other options prove
insurmountable, the option should then be re-assessed.
7
Correspondence dated 15 May, 1998.




CHAPTER 9
STATUS OF MATTERS ALREADY DECIDED BY THE SCT
Introduction
9.1 Because the SCT has been found to exercise powers without proper authority,
it may be held that any past decisions it had made are, in fact, invalid. Mr John Larkin
of the ISC confirmed this view. He advised the Forum that:
Our view is that compliance with an invalid SCT determination will not
provide a defence for a trustee in an action for breach of duty. So in other
words, if a trustee has otherwise breached their fiduciary duty and
implemented an SCT determination, the full Federal Court ruling will not
provide the trustee with a defence.
9.2 However, Mr Larkin emphasised that whether or not trustees encounter
difficulties as a result of having implemented invalid SCT determinations ultimately
depends on how they have exercised their fiduciary duties:
If they have complied with their governing rules and fully complied with
their fiduciary obligations they seem to be at a pretty low risk of being
exposed to legal action, but it depends on a case-by-case basis.1
9.3 Several Forum participants questioned whether the government had given
consideration to introducing legislation to validate past decisions of the SCT.
Mr Dennis Rose AM QC advised the Forum that there were precedents for taking this
course of action. Mr Larkin advised that, at this stage, the Government had not
considered legislation to validate past decisions.
9.4 Forum participants expressed a range of different opinions as to whether this
matter was of sufficient importance to justify special legislation to validate decisions.
9.5 Mr Michael Lillicrap of REST was of the view that the cases concerned were
not of sufficient monetary value to justify the expense of introducing legislation. He
said that REST had nine of the 50 or 60 cases where the Tribunal had varied the
decision of the trustee. If REST had to pay out on all the nine cases, the total cost
would be an additional $49 000. He was of the view that it would be infinitely cheaper
for funds to pay out twice.2
9.6 Other forum participants disagreed and suggested that the Government look at
this issue to see whether it could be rectified by a relatively simple piece of legislation
1 Evidence, p. 69.
2 Evidence, p. 70.


Chapter 9
or whether it was a more complex matter. Mr David Maclean illustrated how, if
legislation wasn't passed to validate past decisions, considerable problems could be
created for trustees. He explained that if a trustee had a decision overturned by the
Tribunal and acted upon the Tribunal's invalid determination, the trustee would
probably be obliged to try to get the money back from the beneficiary of the Tribunal's
decision upon the basis that money had been paid out by mistake. He concluded,
'legislation, if it can be done, would be a very good idea'.3
9.7 Mr John Larkin advised that the possibility of a High Court appeal (leave to
appeal having subsequently been granted) might well be forestalling litigation in
respect of past SCT decisions. Mr Andrew Fairley agreed, noting that:
I think it would be a pretty ambitious litigant that would commence
proceedings before the High Court came to its determination.4
Conclusion
9.8 It was clear during the forum that there is some concern about the possibility
that persons affected by past decisions of the SCT may seek to re-open these
decisions. The financial impact on the parties to these decisions is unknown. It is also
unclear where liability may lie or how invalid awards might be recovered, if at all.
Recommendation
The Committee recommends that the Government investigate the feasibility of
introducing legislation to validate past decisions of the SCT.
3 Evidence, p. 71.
4 Evidence, p. 71.


CHAPTER 10
CONCLUSIONS
10.1 The Committee considers that there is both a need and considerable support
for an interim solution to the current impasse, pending identification of a longer-term
solution to the problem. The most feasible interim solution appears to be to introduce
legislation allowing the SCT to arbitrate disputes by consent.
10.2 In the longer term, there appears to be two viable options available to the
Government to put a superannuation complaints resolution body in place. These are:
• replace the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal with an industry scheme;
and
• revive the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal through amendments to the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 and other legislation.
10.3 While both of these options are viable, neither is without its own associated
difficulties. It is a matter for the Government to decide the weight it will allocate to
the various assessment criteria for each of the two options. As noted during the forum
by Mr John Larkin of the ISC, the Government's eventual decision will inevitably
involve some risk management compromises and trade-offs.
10.4 There is little doubt that the first option, an industry based complaints
resolution body, is a potentially viable alternative to the SCT. However, the
Committee is of the view that the Government should only consider this option if
questions about enforcement can be resolved and the industry agrees on an appropriate
model. The Committee also notes that the question of funding remains a significant
issue that must be resolved if the option is to proceed.
10.5 The second option, reviving the SCT through amendments to the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 and other legislation also offers
a viable alternative for consideration by the Government. While questions about
certainty and enforcement remain to be resolved, legal opinion provided to the
Committee after the forum suggests that these obstacles can be overcome.
10.6 The Committee considers that this option has a number of advantages over
abolishing the SCT and establishing a new body. In the Committee's view, it should
be possible to make the required amendments to the Complaints Act and other
legislation and restore a complaints resolution process more quickly than would the
case if the Government were to introduce legislation for a new industry based body.
Further, the option largely preserves existing complaints resolution structures and
permits continuity of current cases. Finally, fund members will be more likely to be
perceive the SCT as independent of the industry.


Chapter 10
10.7 If the Government decides to implement this option, it is clear that there will
have to be significant changes to the SCT's complaints resolution procedures. There is
a level of dissatisfaction with how the SCT has operated in the past.
10.8 The Committee considers that one method of addressing industry, trustee and
consumer concerns about the SCT might be to establish a governing board for the
SCT comprising representatives of these groups as well as legal and government
representatives.
10.9 The other two options considered by the forum were:
• reconstitute the SCT as part of the Federal Court; and
• establish a state based body.
10.10 The Federal Court option may offer greater judical certainty than other
options. However, it was clear during the forum that industry and consumer group
opposition to the option is deeply entrenched.
10.11 Establishing a state based body is also a sound alternative, offering a high
level of certainty. However, probable time delays before such a body could be
established and uncertainties associated with passing consistent legislation through all
the State legislatures militate against the option. However, should difficulties
associated with the other options prove insurmountable, the option should be re-
assessed.
10.12 The final matter considered by the forum was the status of matters already
decided by the SCT. While there were divergent views, some Forum participants
expressed concern about the possible consequences of re-opening matters already
decided. The Committee considers that the Government should investigate the
feasibility of introducing legislation to validate past decisions of the SCT and makes a
recommendation to this effect in Chapter 9.
Senator John Watson
Chairman


APPENDIX A
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS AT PUBLIC FORUM
Sydney, 28 April 1998
Mr Paul Bean, Life Insurance Complaints Service
Mr John Berrill, Consumers Federation of Australia
Mr Mark Cerche, Corporate Superannuation Association
Mr John Edstein, Editorial Board, Superannuation Bulletin
Mr Andrew Fairley, IFS Fairley
Mr John Fox, Australian Securities Commission
Mr Steve Gibbs, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
Mr John Larkin, Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Ms Jenny Lawton, General Insurance Enquiries and Complaints Scheme
Mr Michael Lillicrap, Industry Funds Forum
Mr David Maclean, Barrister
Mr Christian Mikula, Australian Consumers Association
Mr John Morgan, Law Council Superannuation Committee
Ms Janet Murphy, Consumer Affairs Division, Department of Industry, Science and
Tourism
Mr George Raitt, Blake Dawson Waldron
Ms Lynn Ralph, Investment and Financial Services Association
Hon Andrew Rogers QC, Clayton Utz
Mr Dennis Rose QC, Blake Dawson Waldron
Ms Philippa Smith, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd
Mr Neil Wilkinson, Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
Mr George Williams, Law Program, Research School of Social Sciences, Australian
National University




APPENDIX B
SUPERANNUATION COMPLAINTS TRIBUNAL
ROUND TABLE DISCUSSION WITH SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON
SUPERANNUATION
SYDNEY, TUESDAY, 28 APRIL, 1998
Background Briefing Paper Prepared for the Committee
by Andrew Fairley of IFS Fairley
A. INTRODUCTION
A round table discussion has been convened by the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation to canvass all the options currently available to the Government and the
superannuation industry to provide a dispute resolution mechanism to deal with
superannuation complaints by members. The forum follows the decision of the Full Federal
Court in Wilkinson v CARE (Wilkinson), handed down in February, 1998.
Participants at the round table discussion comprise a broad representation of industry-
stakeholders.
Where this paper refers to "trustees", it incorporates a reference to trustees, RSA providers,
superannuation providers and other decision makers.
B. BACKGROUND TO ISSUE - DECISION OF FULL FEDERAL COURT
1. Under the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 ("Complaints Act")
the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal was created to hear complaints from
members concerning decisions made by the trustees of regulated superannuation
funds. The Complaints Act allowed for a conciliation process. In the event of the
conciliation process failing to resolve the dispute, the Tribunal made a formal
determination after assessing whether decisions made by trustees were fair and
reasonable. (In some circumstances complaints could be made about the decisions
of the fund insurer).
2. Under the Complaints Act the Tribunal could affirm or vary or set aside the decision
of the trustees. Any new determination took effect as a new decision of the trustees.
The Tribunal had no power to enforce its own decisions but the determination was in
fact enforceable in a number of ways. First, it was an operating standard under the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS) and Regulations for trustees
to comply with determinations of the Tribunal. Second, it was an offence under
s.34(2) of SIS for the trustees to fail to comply with the determination. Third,
persons affected by a determination of the Insurance and Superannuation
Commissioner (ISC) could seek an injunction from the Federal Court to compel the
carrying-out of a determination (s.315 of SIS). Fourth, s.65 of the Complaints Act
required the Tribunal to report to the ISC any non-compliance with the
determination by a trustee, and the ISC could determine to investigate. Fifth, since
the determination took effect as a new decision of the trustees, the determination was
enforceable on that basis in the State Supreme Courts. Sixth, court action could be
commenced under S289(3), S.313(1 A) by the ISC, or an investigation could be
commenced under S263 of SIS.


3. In Wilkinson, the Full Federal Court (Lockhart, Heerey and Sundberg JJ) made the
following key findings:
(a) It was found that as a matter of interpretation of the Complaints Act, the
Tribunal was only entitled to receive complaints concerning discretionary
decisions made by trustees as opposed to decisions which were not
discretionary. A discretionary decision is one where the trustee is lawfully
entitled to choose between different results (for example, the allocation of a
death benefit among one or more deserving dependants of a deceased
member of a fund). A non-discretionary decision is one where the law
allows there to be only one correct decision (for example, whether or not the
death of a member of a fund gave rise to a death benefit or not).
(b) The finding that the Tribunal was only entitled to receive complaints
concerning discretionary decisions was a unanimous finding of the Court.
(c) It was found (by majority; Sundberg J dissenting) that any exercise by the
Tribunal of its determination-making power under s.37 of the Complaints Act
was an invalid exercise of the judicial power of the Commonwealth. The
majority judgements relied upon the following factors:
(i) First, that disputes between trustees and members have the character
of private disputes between citizens in relation to property. Disputes
of that kind belong in the courts and have always been dealt with in
the courts and are quite unlike the disputes that are dealt with by the
Commonwealth Administrative Appeals Tribunal or tribunals such as
the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. Trustees of uperannuation
funds don't make administrative decisions of any governmental kind.
(ii) The jurisdiction of the Tribunal is activated by a complaint by a
member. Accordingly to Heerey J, only a government body can bring
such a complaint, thus the procedure in the Tribunal resembles that
of a plaintiff bringing a proceeding in a court.
(iii) The Tribunal makes binding adjudications upon rights and obligations
of members and trustees arising from past events by applying the
Complaints Act and the general law.
(iv) The Tribunal's determinations don't involve the application of policy
considerations.
(v) The Tribunal's determinations are enforceable by civil injunctions and
criminal penalties.
4. The effect of the decision of the Federal Court is as follows:
(a) the Tribunal has no power to make any determinations whatsoever;


(b) the Tribunal may only have power to deal with complaints concerning
discretionary decisions made by trustees (or insurers);
(c) if conciliation by the Tribunal does not resolve a dispute, then the members
and the trustees can only resolve their disputes by agreement or by bringing
proceedings in the courts;
(d) every determination made in the past by the Tribunal was made invalidly and
should not have been acted upon by trustees of funds. Members who have
been disadvantaged by determinations of the Tribunal may be able to sue the
trustees;
(e) members who have benefited from determination of the Tribunal may be
required to hand the benefit they received back to the trustees.
C. OUTCOMES SOUGHT
In bringing together key stakeholders in the industry to discuss the alternative courses of
action that are available to Government, before the High Court Appeal is heard in
Wilkinson, the Senate Committee is recognising the need for a pro active approach to
dealing with the problem. It could be a period of up to 18 months before any finality is
reached by the High Court, and during that time, no effective dispute resolution mechanism
is available to members of superannuation funds outside the court system.
The Senate Committee believes that by bringing parties together to talk through the issues, it
can make recommendations to Government on a new approach.
The outcomes sought by the Senate Select Committee from the round table discussion are as
follows:-
1. to obtain a complete understanding of the options that Government has available to it
to provide a complaints resolution mechanism for superannuation fund members;
2. to seek to achieve a consensus view amongst the industry on the most appropriate
option for the Government to proceed with;
3. to ensure that the preferred system to be pursued by Government for the
implementation of a superannuation complaints scheme for members is acceptable
under the Constitution;
4. to establish an implementation process for the preferred system.


D.
ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS OF SUPERANNUATION COMPLAINTS HANDLING
SCHEME
The Committee believes that there are a number of essential elements which must be met in
a successful alternative superannuation complaints scheme. It is proposed to set out brief
details of each of those elements, and to then reference any options back to the achievement
of those criteria.
The essential elements are as follows
1. Accessibility
The complaints scheme must be easily accessible by complainants with minimal
bureaucratic or legal requirements. It should not be necessary for a complainant to
require legal advice or representation.
Forms and procedures should be designed to be user friendly, with a transparent
process.
2. Independence
Any scheme must be seen to be independent of the industry or any sectional group.
The existing Tribunal includes members who were stakeholders in the industry,
including lawyers and trustees. These people were not perceived to lack any
independence, and were in fact selected for their experience and skill in the industry.
The selection was made by the Governor in Council pursuant to the Complaints Act,
and there is thus a public perception of independence.
For any scheme to retain credibility, this perceived independence from employers,
insurers, consumer groups and other interest groups must be maintained at all costs.
3. Procedural Fairness
It is essential that the principles of procedural fairness be accorded to all parties. A
government body is under a duty to accord procedural fairness and a private body is
not.
Fundamentally, procedural fairness requires that the Review Panel Members are, and
are perceived to be, free from bias. Also, a fair hearing requires that each party
knows what is put by another party and is given adequate opportunity to reply.
What the duty to act fairly requires must be determined in the circumstances of a
particular case. Whilst it is acknowledged that most of the issues arising from
complaints can be dealt with by written submissions, there may be a need,from time
to time, for appearance e.g. where there is a conflict of evidence, where credibility’ or
personal characteristics are at issue, where allegations are grave, or where parties


cannot express themselves effectively in writing. Where requested by a party and the
circumstances of a case warrant it, scope must be provided to allow this to happen, in
a cost-effective way. Scope must also be available for representation if the
circumstances warrant it.
4. Economical Forum
Section 11 of the Complaints Act requires the Tribunal to pursue the objective of
economy. Any system considered should continue to strive for that objective. This
can be achieved through
(a) rules and process which do not require a complainant to necessarily engage
legal assistance;
(b) use of video conferencing facilities for hearings around Australia where
hearings are required;
(c) maintenance of existing criteria as to the issues a member can bring before
the body as a complaint rather than expanding jurisdiction to include "fund as
a whole" issues.
5. Quick Decision Making
Section 11 of the Complaints Act also sets the objective of speed or quickness in
both conciliation and review. This requires process which is uncomplicated,
transparent, consistent and flexible.
With increased hearings, it may be necessary' for members of the Tribunal to conduct
review meetings in places other than Melbourne more frequently, or use video
conferencing as a method of providing accessibility. The provisions of
Superannuation Legislation Amendment Bill 1997 presently before the Senate
provide for a proposed change for section 9 of the Complaints Act, to allow the
Tribunal to be constituted by one, two or three members as selected by the
Chairperson. This will assist in quick decision making.
The requirement for quick decision making may also lead to a review to some of the
time limits which are presently in place under the Complaints Act, to shorten them,
where consistent with principles of procedural fairness.
6. Constitutional Validity
Following the decision in Wilkinson, and the fact that the issues in that
decision are to be considered by the High Court, it is essential that any
system adopted outside the courts is unlikely to be successfully challenged in the
courts.
Accordingly, the system must try to ensure that there is no exercise of
judicial power, and that the breadth of decision making for the body
encompasses both discretionary' and non discretionary trustee decisions.


7. Limits on Jurisdiction - Reflect Existing Complaint Criteria
Members and persons affected by a decision should be able to continue to
complain in relation to the decisions of trustees as it relates to that member.
The complaints process ought not to extend to trustee decisions outside
section 14(6) of the Complaints Act, that relate to the management of a fund as a
whole.
One method of ensuring the retention of this limit is to include in any
legislation a list of those trustee decisions which are reviewable, and those
which are not reviewable, plus defined standing provisions.
8. Decision Binding on Trustee
Under the general law of trusts, if a decision made by a third party (such as the
Tribunal) is not binding on the trustee, then the trustee is not obliged to carry it out.
Trustees would in fact act in breach of trust if they acted in accordance with a non-
binding decision of a Tribunal or other body.
Under the Complaints Act, section 41(3) has the effect that the determination of the
Tribunal stands as a decision of the trustees, and the Full Court has decided that
section 41(3) means a determination is binding on the trustee.
9. Specialist Expertise
It is essential that appointees to any body possess appropriate and necessary
expertise. There is a specialist and technical area of law and practice that applies to
trustees of superannuation funds.
10. Costs to be Met by Fund Levy
At present the costs of funding the Tribunal fall on the ISC, which costs are in turn
met directly or indirectly by the levy exacted from superannuation funds annually.
Any new system should continue to rely on funding, directly or indirectly, from the
superannuation levy paid by fund trustees. There should not be an imposition of a
specific charge on a per complaint basis on the trustee of a fund in respect of which a
complaint is made.


E.
ALTERNATIVES TO BE CONSIDERED
The three alternatives which are the only serious options for consideration by Government,
and which should form the basis of discussion appear to be as follows
1. Industry Complaints Body
(a) Existing Precedents
There are already in operation in Australia a number of industry complaints
bodies, including the General Insurance Enquiries and Complaints Scheme,
the Life Insurance Complaints Service, and the Australian Banking Industry
Ombudsman.
These bodies are all voluntary private industry bodies established by
consenting decision makers.
They contain conciliation procedures and arbitration procedures, and the
parties are expected to abide by the decisions of the panels or boards that
make the decision. However, there is no legal requirement for either party to
comply.
A voluntary industry scheme is not considered to be a viable option, in that
the trustees of 4,500 superannuation funds cannot be expected to all agree
voluntarily to sign up with an industry complaints body, and agree to be
bound by their decisions. Accordingly, the only type of industry body that
should be considered is one which is supported by legislation, to require,
either directly or indirectly, participants to be bound by decisions of that
body.
(b) Structure of Body
None of the bodies currently in existence are appropriate precedents for an
industry complaints body for the reasons set out above. To establish a
complaints body, there would need to be a peak industry body established,
which was governed by representatives from various areas of the
superannuation industry, to be represented on a board of directors. This
board of directors may establish an independent council who would have
responsibility for the operations of any such industry complaints body. The
council would determine such matters as
(i) the structure of the complaints process;
(ii) the types of complaints heard;
(iii)
enforcement arrangements;


(iv) powers of the body;
(v) rules and evidence and method of operation;
(vi) membership of the decision making body;
vii) disciplinary powers for non-compliance.
(c) Binding Determinations
In order for such a body be effective, there would need to be an element of
compulsion for trustees of non-excluded superannuation funds joining up.
This could be done in a number of ways including:-
(i) providing a legislative sanction for failure to agree to be bound by
decisions of the body - either directly in SIS or indirectly through, for
example, the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992;
(ii) to require that every fund trust deed include a requirement that the
trustee would be bound by the decision of any such industry scheme.
(d) Measure Against Essential Elements
In measuring the industry option against the essential elements of a
superannuation complaints handling scheme, the following difficulties arise:-
(i) Independence
An industry scheme carries with it the difficulty of a perceived lack of
independence - the industry sitting in judgement on the behaviour of
its own members. There would need to be a very careful selection of
members of any such body, and of any independent council
controlling the body, to ensure that any perceptions of lack of
independence at a decision making level were diminished. Even with
this caution, such perceptions can be fatal to independence.
(ii) Procedural Fairness
Any such industry body will establish its own processes, which may
exclude rights to hearings, representation etc. These will all be
included in terms of reference of any such body established. There
will thus be no guarantee of procedural fairness, under the
Administrative Decision (Judicial Review) Act or S 39 of the
Judiciary Act.
(iii) Economical Forum
Existing industry complaint bodies impose a cost on the company
being complained against. If this model of payment was replicated,


the funding cost could impose very significant and unacceptable costs
on trustees, particularly where frequent complaints were made, some
of which were vexatious or of little moment. Whilst it may be
economical for members, it would not be economical for the industry,
if trustees had to pay for the complaint handling mechanism, and
legal advice as well.
(iv) Constitutional Validity
In the event that legislation is enacted by the Federal Government
which either directly or indirectly seeks to impose a requirement on
superannuation fund trustees that they will be bound by and required
to enforce any decisions of such an industry tribunal, the same
difficulties apply as were considered in Wilkinson.
Whether the compulsion to comply is direct, as with the current
provisions of the Complaints Act, or indirect, such as using the
Superannuation Guarantee Legislation, on the current view of the Full
Federal Court, there is a grave danger that it would fail to be
Constitutionally valid, on the basis that it would be a divestment of
judicial power.
In the event that trustees were required to include in their trust deed a
provision which obliged them to be bound by and to implement any
decision of such a body, there is a difficulty that any such provision
could be considered by the courts to be void as ousting the jurisdiction
of the court. There is a line of authority which is that it is repugnant
to a trust deed and contrary to public policy to grant legal rights to a
member of the trust and then include a provision in the trust deed that
seeks to deny the member access to the courts by providing that the
decision of some person or body is binding in the event of a dispute
between members and trustees: Re Raven (1915) 1 Ch 673; Mends v
Stackhouse (1948) 77 CLR 232.
(v) Decision Binding on Trustee
Existing industry models are not able to make any decisions binding
on the parties, except by gentleman's agreement. If any system is
introduced which will bind the trustee, then the issue of the exercise of
a judicial power arises, but in this instance, it could be considered to
be judicial power delegated to a non-government body rather than to a
Commonwealth Government Tribunal.
(vi) Cost
Any such scheme would probably be unlikely to be funded by
Government but rather it would be expected to be funded by industry.
This will have significant cost implications for trustees, and will not


meet the requirement of being funded by the annual levy on
superannuation funds.
2. Reconstitute the Tribunal as Part of the Federal Court
(a) Precedents for Approach
This solution would see the abolition of the Tribunal, and effectively the
creation of a division within the Federal Court dealing with superannuation.
This course has been implemented under the Workplace Relations Act, which
has transferred jurisdiction to the Federal Court from the Industrial Relations
Court and set up a system of Judicial Registrars who conduct hearings in the
same way as judges.
The system would constitute the Federal Court as the body which would hear
complaints from members. The Federal Court would be required to make
rules which would delegate certain judicial powers of the Judges of the
Federal Court to Judicial Registrars, who would hear the superannuation
complaints. As with the Workplace Relations arrangements, the Judicial
Registrars would have a limit, in dollar terms, for claims which they could
hear, and amounts over those limits would be heard by a Judge of the Federal
Court.
Judges would maintain a supervisory role over the activities and decisions of
the Judicial Registrars, with an automatic right of review existing for parties
in the Federal Court, on a de novo basis. This would involve a review of both
facts and law.
A system of Registrars has also been in operation under the provisions of the
Family Law Act for many years, and has worked successfully. The decision
of the High Court in Harris v Caladine (1991) 172 CLR 84 concerned the
validity of Registrars in the Family Court. In that case the High Court
confirmed that power exists for Federal Court rules to be made to delegate
judicial power to registrars subject to certain limits
(i) Mason CJ and Deane J said that so long as two conditions are
observed, the delegation of some part of the jurisdiction, powers and
functions of a Federal Court to its officers is permissible and
consistent with the control and supervision of the court's jurisdiction
by its judges:
• the first condition is that the delegation must not be to an extent
"where it can no longer properly be said that, as a practical as well
as a theoretical matter, the judges constitute the court. The judges
must continue to bear the major responsibility for the exercise of
judicial powers at least in relation to the more important aspects of
contested matters"


• the second condition is that the delegation must not be inconsistent
with the obligation of a court to act judicially and that the
decisions of the officers of the court in the exercise of their
delegated jurisdiction, powers and functions be subject to review
or appeal by a judge or judges. If the exercise of delegated
jurisdictions, powers and functions by a court officer is subject to
review or appeal on questions of both fact and law, the delegation
will be valid. If the review is by way of hearing de novo, the
delegation will certainly be valid.
(ii) Dawson J said that a Federal Court could, subject to any restrictions
imposed by Parliament, delegate to suitable officers such of its
functions as it thinks fit, but Parliament can't compel the court to
exercise any of its judicial functions through such an officer.
(iii) Gaudron J said that a Federal Court may only delegate its powers on
terms designed to ensure that the judicial process will be observed.
Appropriate procedures must exist for supervision by the Court, both
as to the observance of the limits attached to the delegation and to the
exercise of those powers.
(b) Measure Against Essential Elements
In measuring the reconstituted Tribunal as a division of the Federal Court
against the essential elements of a superannuation complaints handling
scheme, the following difficulties arise
(i) Economical Forum
Special rules would need to be enacted by the Federal Court for
Judicial Registrars to hear cases. These rules would need to reflect the
Federal Court procedures, fees, and administrative process, unless
other specific arrangements could be negotiated to the contrary.
This would necessarily involve greater cost for a complainant, and
difficulty for a complainant not able to engage legal assistance.
The difficulty of economy maybe able to be overcome by special
funding from Australian Securities and Investment Commission
(ASIC) to offset the costs which would otherwise be required, such
costs being a transfer of the costs of operating the Tribunal to
subsidising the superannuation division of the Federal Court.
(ii) Quick Decision Making
The rules for the superannuation division of the Federal Court would
need to be changed significantly from the normal Federal Court rules,
in order to ensure speed of complaint hearing.


(c) Costs
Arrangements would need to be put in place to ensure that monies collected
by the ISC, and subsequently ASIC would be available to operate this Federal
Court option.
3. Amendment of Complaints Act Still Ensuring Constitutional Validity
(a) Speculative Discussion
Any discussion on this option must be seen as speculative, until such time as
the High Court has determined its position, from the appeal in Wilkinson.
What is clear is that the Government cannot afford to proceed with a different
option from the Tribunal, only to find that 3 years on, the process is
challenged again, and is again found wanting Constitutionally.
(b) New Provisions
Any amended Complaints Act must include the following
(i) The ability for the Tribunal to make decisions in relation to
non-discretionary trustee decisions, as well as discretionary decisions.
This was clearly the intention of Parliament, and can be
accommodated by amending the Act so that there is a full merits
review of the decision.
(ii) The decision must be binding on the trustee as now; otherwise the
trustee cannot act on it.
(iii) It must remove the enforceability of the decision through SIS to avoid
at least part of the problem adverted to by the Full Court in Wilkinson.
(c) Enforceability Options
Where a decision of the Tribunal is binding on a trustee, but the decision is
not enforceable under SIS, then for the trustee not to act upon it is a breach of
trust. Rights are created in the person in who's favour the Tribunal has made
a determination. However, if the trustee does not act upon it, what remedies
are available ?
One option is to leave the beneficiary with the option of pursuing a trustee
who will not comply with a determination of the Tribunal through the State
Supreme Courts. This is costly, and involves significant delays in achieving
justice.
A second alternative in circumstances where a trustee does not comply with a
binding Tribunal determination is for ASIC to utilise monies that it has
accumulated from the annual superannuation levy to commence proceedings


13
in the Federal Court on behalf of the member in whose favour the Tribunal
has made a determination, funded by ASIC. The action would be a hearing
de novo in respect of the dispute which had been considered by the Tribunal.
It would not be an action seeking to enforce the decision of the Tribunal per
se.
(d) Measure Against Essential Elements
In measuring the amendment of the Complaints Act option against the
essential elements of a superannuation complaints handling scheme, the
following difficulties arise
(i) Economical Forum
The process of having the matter heard before the Tribunal would be
economical. However, if a trustee did not comply with the orders of
the Tribunal, unless ASIC were prepared to fund the action of the
member before the Federal Court, to have the matter heard on a de
novo basis, considerable court costs would need to incurred by a
member, and there would be significant delays through the State
Courts.
(ii) Constitutional Validity
The constitutional validity of this alternative is uncertain. Although
there is a clear separation between the determination of the Tribunal,
and the enforcement of that determination, there is nevertheless a link.
There is also the concern that the enforcement of the decision of the
Tribunal is but one indicia of the exercise of judicial power, and it
may well be that judicial power has been exercised in the actual
determination by the Tribunal, without the need for enforcement.
Until the High Court has spoken, no firm conclusion seems likely.
The High Court might agree with the majority, or it might agree with
Sundberg J or it might decide the matter on a significantly different
basis.
In the case that has just been decided, the High Court split 3-3 in an
appeal from the Full Court of the Federal Court on a question of
judicial power under the rules of the Federal Court: Gould v Brown
(1998) 72 LJR375.
(iii) Costs
A decision will clearly need to be made in principle, in relation to this
alternative, as to whether ASIC would be prepared to stand behind


members who needed to enforce decisions of a Tribunal, where the
trustee refused to implement same.
CONCLUSION
If the Commonwealth wishes to bypass the courts, there is no easy route to solving the
difficulties exposed by Wilkinson for the Complaints Act. Whilst it is highly desirable to be
pursuing the creation of a system which replicates that of the Tribunal, it may be that the
nature of Australia's Constitutional arrangements is such that some elements of the
Tribunal's objectives (fair, just, economical, informal and quick) will need to be sacrificed at
the altar of practical expedience in the light of difficult Constitutional issues.


APPENDIX C
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)


Appendix C
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
- Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of
the Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill
1996 - Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Schedules
1, 9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)
Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges' Pension Scheme
(September 1997)
Twenty-sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Restrictions on Early Access: Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997
and related terms of reference. (September 1997)


List of Committee Reports
Twenty-seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Contributions Tax Amendment Bills. (November 1997)
Super Taxing - An information paper on the Taxation of Superannuation and related
matters. (February 1998)
Twenty-eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Choice of
Fund. (March 1998)
Twenty-ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and Amendment Bill
1997, Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997, Superannuation Legislation
(Commonwealth Employment - Saving and Transitional Provisions) Bill 1997. (April
1998)
Thirtieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Workplace
Relations Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1997. (May 1998)
Thirty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Resolving
Superannuation Complaints - options for dispute resolution following the Federal Court
decision in Wilkinson v CARE. (July 1998)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 143 of 1998
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
