

22nd Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
RETIREMENT
SAVINGS
ACCOUNTS
LEGISLATION
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
March 1997




Twenty-second Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
RETIREMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
LEGISLATION
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
March 1997




CONTENTS
Page
Members of the Committee.i
Contents.iii
GOVERNMENT SENATORS' REPORT.1
Chapter 1. Retirement Savings Accounts .3
Chapter 2. Issues .9
Chapter 3. Technical Issues.19
OPPOSITION SENATORS' REPORT.23
Chapter 1. Retirement Savings Accounts.25
Chapter 2. Choice .33
Chapter 3. Issues .37
Chapter 4. Technical Issues.51
AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRAT SENATORS’ REPORT.57
Appendices:
1. List of written submissions .67
2. List of witnesses at public hearings.69
3. List of committee reports .71




GOVERNMENT SENATORS' REPORT
RETIREMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS LEGISLATION
MARCH 1997




CHAPTER 1
RETIREMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
Introduction
1.1 On Budget night, 20 August 1996, the Treasurer, the Hon. Peter Costello
MP, announced that the Government would introduce Retirement Savings
Accounts (RSAs) to "enhance competition and choice in superannuation". Mr
Costello indicated that these would be a "simple, low cost product".1 The
Government considered that RSAs will give employees "greater scope to
control the management of their superannuation savings".2
1.2 Giving effect to this decision, on 4 December 1996, the Government
introduced the Retirement Savings Accounts Bill 1996, the Retirement Savings
Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Bill 1996 and the Retirement Savings
Accounts Superi’isory Levy Bill 1996 into the House of Representatives. The
provisions of these Bills are to take effect on 1 July 1997.
Conduct of the Inquiry
1.3 On 12 December 1996 the Senate referred the provisions of the Bills to
the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for examination and report by
27 February 1997.
1.4 The Committee wrote to selected organisations inviting submissions. It
also advertised this reference in The Australian Financial Review on Tuesday
11 February 1997 and received a number of inquiries from other persons who
were provided with information about the inquiry.
1.5 As a result the Committee received 20 submissions from those persons
listed in Appendix 1, and held three public hearings, two in Canberra on 11 and
25 of February and one in Melbourne on 21 February 1997. A list of witnesses
who appeared at those hearings is at Appendix 2.
Retirement Savings Accounts Bill
1.6 Provisions of the Retirement Savings Accounts Bill (RSA Bill) allow
banks, building societies, credit unions, life insurance companies and
prescribed financial institutions to provide superannuation accounts that do not
1 1996/97 Budget Speech, House of Representatives Hansard, p. 3269.
Second Reading Speech on the RSA Bill
2


CHAPTER 1
require the trustee structure presently required for superannuation providers to
receive concessional taxation treatment. Subsequent to foreshadowed
Government amendments to this Bill, certain friendly societies will be included
as approved financial institutions, where the Australian Financial Institutions
Codes (AFIC codes) apply to them. Details of the new structure will be
contained in the regulations.
1.7 The RSA Bill provides for the functional supervision of RSAs by the
Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC). The Bill is based on the
regulatory regime currently in place for superannuation entities under the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993. This will ensure that the
treatment for RSAs is as consistent as possible with that which applies to
existing superannuation products.,J
1.8 Provision is made for:
. the approval of RSA institutions and the capacity for that approval
to be suspended or revoked;
. annual reporting to the ISC by RSA providers;
. the clear delineation of basic duties and responsibilities of RSA
providers;
. rules relating to the opening of RSAs and disclosure by RSA
providers;
. a mechanism to deal with benefits in respect of members that have
left employment or who are lost, and unclaimed benefits;
. the collection and use of tax file numbers;
. certain disclosure obligations on auditors of RSA providers; and
. powers for the ISC to enable effective enforcement of the retirement
income and other standards on RSA providers.4
1.9 It is important to note that by establishing the role of the ISC as
functional regulator of RSA providers, the legislation effectively imposes a
dual regulation regime, as prudential regulation of providers remains with
"home" regulators. For example, prudential supervision of banks marketing
RSAs will remain with the Reserve Bank of Australia, while functional
supervision will fall to the ISC.
3 Retirement Savings Accounts Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, p 1.
Retirement Savings Accounts Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, pp 1-2.
4


Retirement Sav ings Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Bill
1.10 The Retirement Savings Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Bill
(CA Bill) contains provisions amending a number of Acts to create a similar
environment to that currently applying to existing superannuation products
such as superannuation funds and approved deposit funds by:
• putting in place an equivalent taxation regime of RSAs as applying
to existing superannuation products;
• allowing employers to make Superannuation Guarantee
contributions to an RSA;
• allowing the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal to deal with
complaints concerning RSAs;
• allowing RSAs to be used as a rollover vehicle for preserved
superannuation benefits; and
• providing for a mechanism for the calculation and collection of the
RSA supervisory levy.3
Retirement Savings Accounts Supervisory Levy Bill
1.11 Provisions of the Retirement Savings Accounts Supervisory Levy Bill
(Levy Bill) create a levy to be paid by entities providing RSAs. The purpose of
this levy is to recover the costs of supervision by the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC) in monitoring the compliance with
retirement income and other superannuation standards.6
1.12 The Levy Bill proposes to effect full recovery of the ISC's supervision of
RSAs. It does this by imposing a levy on RSA providers (banks, building
societies, credit unions and life insurance companies) that offer RSAs and who
lodge an annual return with the ISC.
1.13 This Bill makes provision for the application of:
. a retirement savings account levy on RSA providers consisting of
two components - the basic levy amount and the late lodgement
amount;
5 Retirement Savings Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, p 1
Second Reading Speech on the Levy Bill
6


. the basic levy amount to be prescribed by regulation based
principally on the amount of assets and/or the amount of RSA
money they hold - to not exceed $30,000;
. a late lodgement amount calculated monthly and added to the basic
levy - intended to encourage timely lodgement and cover additional
costs of processing late annual returns; and
. the total late lodgement amount being the sum of the monthly
amounts calculated.'
The current trustee system
1.14 At present superannuation products are issued under a trust structure.
This requires trustees to be responsible for the actions of the trust according to
trust law, and to observe various prudential and other regulations mainly
contained in the Superannuation (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS) and the
regulations made under that Act.
1.15 The incentive to comply with SIS is the 15 per cent concessional rate of
tax which applies to complying superannuation hinds. Non-complying funds
are subject to the normal taxation regime for companies and trusts which would
normally mean the company tax rate.
1.16 The trustee structure reflects that superannuation monies are held by the
funds on behalf of their members. Any net earnings on investments are
credited to members' accounts, rather than to the investment entity. Financial
institutions such as life offices, banks, credit unions and building societies are
not prohibited now from the provision of superannuation services, as they can
establish subsidiaries with a trustee structure so as to construct complying
funds. A number of such subsidiaries now exist.
What RSAs will do
1.17 The proposed RSAs are seen to address three problems arising from
superannuation arrangements, namely lack of choice, small balances and
proliferation of accounts. In the words of the Treasurer's press release of 20
August 1996:
RSAs will be a simple, low cost, low risk product especially suited
to those with small amounts of superannuation, such as itinerant
and casual workers, those wishing to amalgamate several small
Retirement Savings Accounts Supervisory Levy Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, p 1
7


superannuation accounts and those nearing retirement (wishing to
minimise risk). Their introduction will complement existing
arrangements by increasing competition and choice in the
superannuation industry, thereby putting downward pressure on
fees and charges, and encouraging better standards of sendee.
1.18 There has been general agreement that the returns on RSAs will be less
than other superannuation accounts. This reflects in part the capital guaranteed
structure of RSAs where the amount invested cannot be reduced by negative
investment returns. The proposal for a maximum limit for RSAs was rejected
by the Government. Instead it was decided to require RSA providers to inform
holders of their investment options when the limit is reached. This will allow
RSA holders to remain with their RSA if they wish.




CHAPTER 2
ISSUES
A mixed response
2.1 The introduction of the RSA legislation has provoked a mixed response
among those organisations who contributed to the inquiry. Some potential RSA
providers clearly support the concept, although they have concerns about some
aspects of the legislation. For example, the Credit Union Services Corporation
(Australia) Ltd (CUSCAL) welcomed the initiative, advising the Committee
that:
We see RSAs as increasing consumer choice in superannuation by offering a
different risk return profile to that offered by superannuation funds. They will
provide a capital guaranteed product that is simple to operate, convenient to
access, highly portable and with low or no fees. They will be a safe and secure
savings mechanism for people who are unsure or uncomfortable about other
more complex savings arrangements.1
2.2 It should be noted that CUSCAL has long sought a "on balance sheet"
superannuation product and made several submissions to this Committee to that
effect during 1994/95.
2.3 On the other hand, the Association of Permanent Building Societies
(APBS) cast doubt on whether its members would be willing to offer RSA
accounts. While supporting the concept of a simple, deposit based retirement
account, the APBS expressed concern at the Government's approach as
requiring RSAs to have too many characteristics of superannuation products.
The Association advised the Committee that the viability of small accounts in
ordinary savings accounts is already causing problems for deposit taking
institutions and expressed disappointment that "more complex and special
attention will be required for small RSA accounts".
2.4 The Australian Bankers' Association (ABA) assessed RSAs cautiously,
expressing the view that its members had a range of concerns about the nature
of the product. The Chief Executive of the ABA, Mr Mark Addis, told the
Committee that the ABA was "anxiously awaiting the regulations that will
accompany the legislation." He expressed the view that it was difficult to assess
1
CUSCAL Submission, p. 1.


what sort of product could be developed until these regulations became
available.2
2.5 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA),
questioned the need for RSAs, arguing that the existing superannuation system
already met the needs of most individuals. However, in common with many
other contributors to the inquiry, ASFA accepted that RSAs would be
established in accordance with the Government's policy and concentrated its
response on the provisions of the legislation.
2.6 The Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and the Transport
Workers' Union (TWU) were unequivocal in their opposition to RSAs. The
ACTU argued that prior to the introduction of the trustee system, financial
institutions operated for the benefit of their shareholders rather than policy
holders, and the trustee system played a significant role in reforming that
system. The ACTU's concerns centred around the issue of "choice" in the
superannuation system and potential implications of allowing employers to
open RSAs for their employees without their consent.
2.7 The Council of Small Business Organisations of Australia, represented
by Mr Rob Bastian, supported the concept of RSAs. He advised the Committee
that he favoured bank operated superannuation vehicles over superannuation
funds, because of what he considered to be a relative inaccessibility of
superannuation monies to the small business capital market:
We do believe very strongly that the lenders are far more capable of managing
large amounts of money back to the marketplace than are the much more
conservatively managed superannuation funds. So, our preference would be to
accentuate the money in the banks as best we can.3
2.8 Mr Bastian also indicated that he supported a general simplification of
superannuation:
...superannuation is found by the smaller employers to be fairly
confusing...anything we can do to stabilise it and make it simpler would
obviously be welcomed by the sector.
2.9 The Government members of the Committee understand that Mr
Bastian's concerns about the availability of capital from superannuation funds
are shared by many in regional Australia. There has been criticism of current
superannuation arrangements from the decentralised and regional areas of
2 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.
Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.
3


Australia in that Super Guarantee monies are sent to the principal metropolitan
cities tor investment, denying regional areas of funds. An RSA provided by the
smaller funds may be of benefit to regional Australia.
Issues canvassed in this report
2.10 Submissions and evidence received by the Committee during the inquiry
identified a number of broad issues associated with RSAs. These included:
• Who can offer a RSA?;
• Choice;
• Nature of the Capital Guarantee;
• Incentives to employers;
• Regulatory regime; and
• Disclosure standards.
2.11 These issues are examined in the following paragraphs of this chapter of
the report.
2.12 The Committee also took evidence about a range of more technical issues
associated with the operation of RSAs. Chapter 3 deals with these issues.
Who can offer RSAs?
2.13 Under the provisions of the Retirement Savings Accounts Bill 1996,
banks, building societies, credit unions, life insurance companies, friendly
societies (see para 1.6) and prescribed financial institutions can market RSAs.
Several witnesses and submitters argued that existing superannuation trustees
should also be able to offer RSAs, including the right to use the term "RSA" as
a product description.
2.14 The Investment Funds of Australia (IFA), for example, argued
essentially, there was no difference between an RSA and a cash based
superannuation fund. Accordingly, the IFA submitted that superannuation fund
trustees should "have access to the simpler and cheaper structure that is being
proposed for RSAs." The IFA contended that this was "an important issue of
competitive neutrality".4
2.15 Similarly, the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
submitted that all providers of RSAs and RSA equivalent products, including
4
Submission, p. 2.


those operating within trust structures should be able to use the single
identifying term 'RSA'. ASFA argued that to do otherwise would confuse
consumers and provide RSA institutions with an unfair competitive advantage.
2.16 The Committee sought clarification of this issue from the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC). Dr Darryl Roberts, First Assistant
Commissioner, Policy, Legal and Actuarial Division, ISC, advised the
Committee that this issue "is likely to be in the regulations" and that the term
"RSA" could be used by "lookalikes" that met the requirements:
The Government has indicated that there should be an opportunity for
traditional public offer funds that provide broadly equivalent products to
qualify for the lighter disclosure...
Our current understanding is that the term [RSA] could be used by RSAs that
are covered by the legislation and by lookalikes that met the requirements. We
would expect other products not to use that term.5
Choice
2.17 Clause 51 of the RSA Bill permits an employer to open an RSA without
the consent of an employee. The representative of the ISC explained that under
this provision, the employer may fill out an RSA application form with the
employees' details and lodge that form with an RSA provider. The RSA
provider will then open the account and send the relevant disclosure
documentation to the employee. On receipt of this documentation, a "cooling
off' period applies and the employee has 14 days in which to decide whether to
retain funds in the RSA or transfer them to another fund. 6
2.18 Several contributors to the inquiry expressed concern about this
provision. They argued that over the longer term, savings held in RSAs would
earn interest at a lower rate than is likely to be achieved in a conventional
superannuation fund. Accordingly, the question of employee choice about
whether the employer contributed to an RSA or a superannuation fund is
important, as an employee whose superannuation savings are in a RSA might
be financially disadvantaged in the longer tenn.
2.19 Organisations who opposed this provision in the legislation generally
acknowledged that other provisions within the legislation do allow employees
to transfer their funds out of the employers' RSA to a fund of their choice if
dissatisfied. Ms Elena Rubin, Senior Industrial Officer, Australian Council of
5 Evidence, 25 Feb 1997.
Evidence, 25 Feb 1997, Dr Roberts, opening statement.
6


Trade unions, questioned the adequacy of this protection, arguing that
employees were often in a weak position in respect to the balance of power in
negotiations with employees:
...the industrial reality is that if an employer opens up an RSA, each individual
employee will have the onus of putting up their hand and saying "I don't like
the choice you made for me" and in the workplace that will not happen, no
matter how much the employee wants to change that arrangement...7
2.20 The Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST) raised
similar concerns. AIST contended that it was essential that employee choice
was built into the legislation. Dr Diana Olsberg told the Committee that:
It is very difficult, particularly for low income workers who have very
marginal power compared to the employer to actually defy the choice the
employer has made...8
2.21 The AIST argued that the issue of choice was compounded by other
factors, such as any commercial arrangement that may exist between an
employer and an RSA provider. This relationship might influence the nature of
the choice that the employer might make for the employee.
2.22 Dr Darryl Roberts of the ISC advised the Committee that the Section 51
provision directly mirrors section 153 of the SIS Act, under which an employer
can apply to make contributions to a public offer superannuation fund without
the consent of an employee. He stated that under both SIS and the RSA Bills,
employers can fill out a single application form for multiple employees.
2.23 Dr Roberts pointed out that the RSA legislation does not make any
change in relation to the freedom of employers to choose a fund for
Superannuation Guarantee contributions. Neither does the legislation disrupt
any existing industrial framework. Dr Roberts confirmed that following
amendments to the Superannuation Guarantee Act, employers could make SG
contributions to RSAs as well as regulated superannuation funds. However, this
does not mean that employers have an automatic right to shift their SG
payments to RSAs:
...consistent with existing industrial relations agreements, if employers are
subject to an industrial agreement or award which does not include a reference
Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.
8 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.


to RSAs then the employer will presumably not be able to use RSAs to fulfil
their SG obligations.9
2.24 The ISC argued that the legislation incorporates two important
protections for employees whose employers open RSAs on their behalf:
• a ‘free look period’, under which employees can elect to transfer the
balance of the account to another RSA or fund within 14 days of
receiving the disclosure documentation from the RSA provider; and
. the employee can request that the RSA account balance be
transferred at any time to another fund.
2.25 The ISC acknowledged that RSA institutions can require up to 12 months
notice for liquidity and administrative reasons, or because of the terms of the
contract. For this reason, it may take up to twelve months for the balance to be
moved to the employees' nominated fund. However, the ISC maintained that:
These consumer protection measures provide portability and ensure that
employees remain in full control of the RSA once it is opened...
...the RSA regime retains the degree of choice available in the existing
superannuation system, and adds a new product to the market, and provides for
better portability.10
2.26 The Government members of the Committee acknowledge that questions
of choice do arise in respect of RSAs as employees' superannuation savings
may be diminished if their retirement savings are locked into a low-return
retirement savings vehicle. A compromise solution suggested to the Committee
was that employers be required to offer employees the choice of a RSA account
or a conventional superannuation product.
2.27 The Government members of the Committee note however the ISC
evidence that many RSA provisions including those relating to choice mirror
the provisions of the SIS Act, under which employers can also open
superannuation accounts for their employees under similar conditions as those
that will apply to RSAs.
2.28 Given that the Government is committed to the concept of increasing
choice in superannuation, The Government members of the Committee
consider that the Government should address the issue of employee choice in
9 Evidence, 25 Feb 1997, Dr Roberts, opening statement.
10 Evidence, 25 Feb 1997, Dr Roberts, opening statement.


both RSAs and trustee products in any overall review of choice in
superannuation. The Government members of the Committee are of the view
however that these issues should be addressed separately from the RSA
legislation.
Nature of the Capital Guarantee
2.29 A number of potential RSA providers questioned the inclusion of the
capital guarantee provisions for RSAs, arguing that deposits in banks, credit
unions and building societies are already capital guaranteed. Mr Raj Venga,
Director, Policy and Compliance, APBS, summarised the view:
...the concept of negative returns simply does not apply to deposits. There
cannot be a negative return, because you are contracting to repay the amount
with or without interest that has been deposited. So it applies to life insurance
company models but certainly not to banks building societies and credit
unions.11
2.30 The Committee further explored the meaning of the capital guarantee that
is expected to be an essential feature of this product. Under questioning,
representatives of the ABA acknowledged that while the capital is guaranteed
against negative earnings, situations may arise where a deposit in an RSA
might be eroded by bank fees. Mr Addis told the Committee:
What we are saying is the capital is guaranteed against negative earnings but
admits the possibility that there may be some erosion of the capital in the
unlikely event I would expect, that fees and charges are greater than positive
earnings.12
2.31 The Government members of the Committee note that S38(2)(i) of the
RSA Bill gives reserve powers to the ISC, permitting standards to be prescribed
in relation to "fees that may be charged for the provision of RSAs". While the
ISC indicated that there is currently no intention to regulate fees or monitor
them in any systematic way, the Government members consider that the ISC
should survey the fees and charges applied to RSA accounts to ensure the
capital guaranteed nature of RSAs is not undermined by unreasonable fees and
if necessary, consider the use of its S38 reserve powers. Additionally, the
Government members consider such monitoring is essential to ensure that the
Governments' objectives for RSAs to be a simple, low cost product are met.
11 Evidence, p. 22.
12 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.


Incentives to employers
2.32 A number of contributors to the inquiry considered that the Government
should prohibit RSA providers from offering incentives or inducements to
employers to use a particular RSA product. For example, a bank might offer a
business a reduced rate of interest on borrowings if the employer opens RSA
accounts for employees with that bank. Submittors argued that there were a
number of shortcomings associated with such a practice:
• Competition takes place between providers and third parties;
. Competition is not necessarily based on the merits of the product;
. The interests of the RSA holder may be secondary.
2.33 Representatives of the Australian Banking Association took a different
view. Mr Addis of the ABA told the Committee that as long as they are not
improper, incentives are part of normal business relationships:
I cannot see that it is a conflict of interest. I really wouldn't want to speculate
on the nature of the incentives, or the quantification of those incentives, but the
notion of incentives is part of any business relationship, part of the negotiation
of any relationship. It is part and parcel of normal business. As long as it is not
improper, as long as people are comfortable with those arrangements, then so
be it.13
2.34 The Australian Consumers' Association (ACA) drew the Committee's
attention to Section 47(IV) of the Trade Practices Act which prohibits 'Third
Line Forcing' and other exclusive dealing in general terms. However, the ACA
and others considered that there is a clear need to clarify the types of practices
that should be prohibited as unreasonable and specify appropriate penalties.14
Regulatory regime
2.35 A variety of financial and other organisations expressed reservations
about the regulatory regime that will apply to RSA providers.
2.36 The Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies (AAPBS)
expressed disappointment about the regulatory environment that is to apply to
RSA providers. AAPBS considered that the structure imposed under the RSA
legislation was excessively and unnecessarily complex, giving rise to higher
administrative costs and making the product a marginal economic proposition.
13 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.
14 Submission, Australian Consumers' Association, p. 3.


Mr James Larkey, the executive director of the APBS, summed up the society's
position:
At this stage we are anything but bullish about the future of RSAs. We think
an opportunity for a low-cost, simple bank deposit product that would qualify
for superannuation savings privileges is probably being lost.15
2.37 ASFA also expressed concern that there will be no clear separation of
responsibilities, for example in complaints resolution, suggesting that in the
longer term, it would be simpler to move towards a singe complaints regulator.
2.38 Dr Darryl Roberts of the ISC addressed concerns about the dual
regulatory regime at the Committee's first public hearing. Dr Roberts
acknowledged that the ISC is conscious of potential problems that might arise
as a result of adopting a dual regulator approach. He explained the ISC's
proposed approach in the following terms:
Therefore, to avoid the danger of encroaching on the domain of an RSA
provider's traditional prudential supervisor with adverse consequences, we
intend to closely coordinate and cooperate with that supervisor and to generally
take a non-intmsive approach to the regulation of compliance with the
retirement income standards. Essentially, this means a system of
self-assessment whereby the RSA providers themselves will need to certify in
writing that they clearly understand the RSA requirements, that they have
adequate systems in place to meet those requirements and that they have, in
fact, been fully complying with those requirements. By adopting this
self-assessment approach, we hope to minimise the regulatory overlap and
compliance burden which might otherwise result from not having the
prudential supervision and the functional regulation of a superannuation
provider housed in the same agency under the one roof.16
2.39 Dr Roberts emphasised that should this system of self assessment break
down, the ISC would intervene promptly:
For example, we will immediately and intensively investigate any suspected
breaches of the preservation, disclosure or other superannuation standards
brought to our attention by way of market intelligence or customer complaints.
If remedial action by the RSA product provider is required, we will ensure that
it occurs.1'
15 Evidence, p. 17.
16 Evidence, p. 26.
17 Evidence, p. 26.


Disclosure
2.40 The RSA Bill does not specify disclosure standards. Rather, it enables
the Government to make regulations that will set standards in this area. These
regulations were not referred to the Committee and indeed had not been made
available during the Committee's examination of the legislation. However, the
Government members of the Committee consider that it is appropriate to advise
the Senate of the nature of concerns about disclosure requirements that emerged
during the inquiry.
2.41 A common theme was that consumers should be provided with adequate
information to make informed choices, including fees and expected returns.
However, excessively detailed material was considered counterproductive as
experience has demonstrated that excessively large amounts of material is
likely to be ignored. Additionally, excessive disclosure requirements will
impose excessive costs on RSA providers.
2.42 For example, the IFA representative, Mr Richard Gilbert advised the
Committee that the prospectus documents required for ordinary, cash based
funds can be as long as 50 pages. He said that the key features statement should
not exceed six pages.18
2.43 Other general points raised include that:
. Opinion is mixed about whether the proposed "health warning" at a
balance of $10 000 is adequate. Some support this level, others
argue that there should be also a "health warning" in the initial
disclosure documents;
. Several organisations offered opinions about what should be
included in disclosure documents. Common elements included
information about fees, commissions and charges; the nature of the
capital guarantee; historical and future returns; dispute resolution
information; preservation and access; information about the $10 000
"health warning".
. Commonly, potential RSA providers sought that disclosure rules be
kept "simple and minimal".
18 Evidence, p. 5.


CHAPTER 3
TECHNICAL ISSUES
Introduction
3.1 In its submission to the Committee the Australian Bankers' Association
identified a number of problems it saw in the Bills. The more significant of
these involved:
. the need to consult with the prescribed regulatory authorities
regarding action toward potential or existing RSA providers;
• the need to notify an employer of suspension or revocation of
an RSA provider's licence;
• inconsistency with the SIS legislation with regard to operating
standards;
• problems in the application of the prohibition on interest off-
setting arrangements;
• the transfer of RSA balances;
. the requirement on RSA providers to hold money on trust in
certain circumstances
. inconsistency with SIS regarding complaints against RSA
providers; and
. a number of matters relating to the taxation arrangements.
3.2 Also, the Committee particularly noted the problems in the Bills
identified in the submission from the Life Investment and Superannuation
Association of Australia (LISA). Significant among these were:
. doubts about the relevant prudential supervisor of RSAs
offered by life companies;
. the double taxation of income and the relevant tax rate;
. consultation with the relevant regulator;
. consequences of suspension or revocation of RSA provider's
approval for employers;
. inconsistency of operating standards with SIS;
. monies to be held on trust;
. disclosure requirements;
. refunding of employer contributions; and
. death and disability cover.


3.3 Submissions made to the Committee by other organisations also raised
technical issues similar to those referred to above.
The Government's amendments
3.4 On the afternoon of its final public hearing on this matter on 25 February
1997, the Committee received the amendments which the Government would
be introducing into Parliament during the passage of these Bills.
3.5 The amendments to the RSA Bill are aimed at:
. providing for the relevant prudential regulator to be consulted
before the ISC makes decisions affecting RSA institutions;
. removing the requirement that certain money be held on trust;
and
. making miscellaneous technical drafting improvements.
3.6 Amendments to the Consequential Amendments Bill seeks to:
. limit the scope of who is regarded as a 'representative of an
RSA provider' for the purposes of the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993;
. enable the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal to be
constituted by any three Tribunal Members;
. modify the tax regime on RSA providers by:
removing concerns that the provisions could result in
the double taxation of amounts credited to RSAs;
ensuring that the RSA component of an RSA
provider's income is not reduced by tax paid in
relation to an RSA that is withdrawn by the RSA
provider from the RSA; and
ensuring the RSA providers cannot offset losses
against RSA income.
. ensure that the intercorporate dividend rebate applies
appropriately to life assurance company RSAs; and
. ensure that tax file number provisions applying to ordinary
bank accounts do not apply to RSAs.


3.7 As the Committee did not receive the amendments until shortly before its
final hearing, it has not been able to examine in detail whether the amendments
to be moved by the Government to these bills adequately address the technical
issues and anomalies identified by the ABA, LISA and other organisations. The
Committee sought information from the ISC about the extent to which the
amendments addressed these problems.
3.8 The Committee also independently examined the amendments. The
Government members of the Committee are satisfied that they appear to resolve
what it found to be the main difficulties with this legislation arising out of the
submissions and oral evidence.
Conclusions and Recommendations
3.9 The market for RSA products may be somewhat limited, as it is likely
that the interest paid on deposits in RSAs will probably be significantly less in
the longer term than the rates paid by most superannuation funds. Nonetheless,
risk aversive investors such as those approaching retirement and persons who
prefer a simpler product than conventional superannuation will find RSAs
attractive.
3.10 While proponents and opponents of this legislation have given the
concept of RSAs a mixed reception, the Government members of the
Committee consider that on balance, RSAs will be a useful addition to the
range of retirement savings products and add to the choices that are available.
Recommendation
The Government members of the Committee recommend that the Bills be
passed with the Government amendments as presented to the Committee.
Senator John Watson Senator Alan Ferguson
Chairman
r
Senator Julian McGauran




RETIREMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS LEGISLATION
OPPOSITION SENATORS' REPORT
Opposition Senator's Report
MARCH 1997




CHAPTER ONE
RETIREMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
Introduction
1.1 During the 1996 March Election Campaign the Coalition parties gave a
commitment to allow financial institutions such as banks, building societies, credit
unions, life offices and super funds to offer individual superannuation.
1.2 The election document also stated that " the Coalition's intention is not
replace existing superannuation funds, but to complement current options by
expanding the range of options open to consumers."1
1.3 On Budget night, August 20 1996, the Treasurer announced that the
Government had decided to " allow banks, building societies, credit unions and
life insurance companies (life offices) to provide superannuation without a trust
structure in the form of Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs). RSAs will be
"capital guaranteed'. The accounts, into which a member and / or an employer on
the members' behalf will be able to make deposits, will be fully portable, owned
and controlled by the member, and subject to the retirement income standards of
superannuation products, including preservation. RSAs will also be able to accept
superannuation contributions on behalf of non-working and low income spouses."2
1.4 In the second reading speech, the Parliamentary Secretary (Cabinet) to the
Prime Minister, the Hon Chris Miles said the following:
"Retirement savings accounts - or RSAs for short - have a central role to play in the
Government's strategy for increasing choice and competition in the superannuation sector.
Choice gives employees greater scope to control the management of their superannuation
savings."
Conduct of the Inquiry
1.5 On 12 December 1996 the Senate Selection of Bills Committee referred the
package of legislation for RSAs to the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for full public examination.
1.6 The Committee wrote to selected organisations inviting submissions. It also
advertised this reference in The Australian Financial Review on Tuesday
1 Coalition March 1996 Election Policy " Super For All"
2 1996/97 Budget Press Release entitled "Retirement Savings Accounts".


11 February 1997 and received a number of inquiries from other persons who
were provided with information about the inquiry.
1.7 As a result the Committee received 20 submissions from those persons
listed in Appendix 1, and held three public hearings, two in Canberra on 11 and 25
of February and one in Melbourne on 21 February 1997. A list of witnesses who
appeared at those hearings is at Appendix 2.
Retirement Savings Accounts Biil
1.8 Provisions of the Retirement Savings Accounts Bill (RSA Bill) allow banks,
building societies, credit unions, life insurance companies and prescribed financial
institutions to provide superannuation accounts that do not require the trustee
structure presently required for superannuation providers to receive concessional
taxation treatment. Subsequent to foreshadowed Government amendments to this
Bill, certain friendly societies will be included as approved financial institutions,
where the Australian Financial Institutions Codes (AFIC codes) apply to them.
Details of the new structure will be contained in the regulations.
1.9 The RSA Bill provides for the functional supervision of RSAs by the
Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC). The Bill is based on the
regulatory regime currently in place for superannuation entities under the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993. This will ensure that the
treatment for RSAs is as consistent as possible with that which applies to existing
superannuation products.
1.10 Provision is made for:
. the approval of RSA institutions and the capacity for that approval to
be suspended or revoked;
. annual reporting to the ISC by RSA providers;
. the clear delineation of basic duties and responsibilities of RSA
providers;
. rules relating to the opening of RSAs and disclosure by RSA
providers;
. a mechanism to deal with benefits in respect of members that have left
employment or who are lost, and unclaimed benefits;
. the collection and use of tax file numbers;
. certain disclosure obligations on auditors of RSA providers; and
. powers for the ISC to enable effective enforcement of the retirement
income and other standards on RSA providers.4
3 Retirement Savings Accounts Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, p 1.
Retirement Savings Accounts Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, pp 1-2.
4


1.11 It is important to note that by establishing the role of the ISC as functional
regulator of RSA providers, the legislation effectively imposes a dual regulation
regime, as prudential regulation of providers remains with "home" regulators. For
example, prudential supervision of banks marketing RSAs will remain with the
Reserve Bank of Australia, while functional supervision will fall to the ISC.
1.12 The Opposition members of the Committee note that the regulation of RSAs
will continue to remain uncertain due to the existence of the Wallis Inquiry into
the Financial Services Sector. The Committee anticipates that a number of Wallis'
recommendations and the subsequent Government response may in fact result in a
radical overhaul of the current regulatory regime.
1.13 The Opposition members therefore note that due to this current environment
it may be appropriate for the Committee to examine the provision and supervision
of RSAs post Wallis.
Retirement Savings Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Bill
1.14 The Retirement Savings Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Bill (CA
Bill) contains provisions amending a number of Acts to create a similar
environment to that currently applying to existing superannuation products such as
superannuation funds and approved deposit funds by:
• putting in place an equivalent taxation regime of RSAs as applying to
existing superannuation products;
• allowing employers to make Superannuation Guarantee contributions
to an RSA;
. allowing the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal to deal with
complaints concerning RSAs;
. allowing RSAs to be used as a rollover vehicle for preserved
superannuation benefits; and
. providing for a mechanism for the calculation and collection of the
RSA supervisory levy.3
Retirement Savings Accounts Supervisory Levy Bill
1.15 Provisions of the Retirement Savings Accounts Supervisory Levy Bill
(Levy Bill) creates a levy to be paid by entities providing RSAs. The purpose of
Retirement Savings Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, p 1.
5


this levy is to recover the costs of supervision by the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC) in monitoring the compliance with retirement
income and other superannuation standards.6
1.16 The Levy Bill proposes to effect full recovery of the ISC's supervision of
RSAs. It does this by imposing a levy on RSA providers (banks, building
societies, credit unions and life insurance companies) that offer RSAs and who
lodge an annual return with the ISC.
1.17 This Bill makes provision for the application of:
. a retirement savings account levy on RSA providers consisting of two
components - the basic levy amount and the late lodgement amount;
. the basic levy amount to be prescribed by regulation based principally
on the amount of assets and/or the amount of RSA money they hold -
to not exceed $30,000;
. a late lodgement amount calculated monthly and added to the basic
levy - intended to encourage timely lodgement and cover additional
costs of processing late annual returns; and
. the total late lodgement amount being the sum of the monthly amounts
calculated.7
The Superannuation System
1.18 In 1992 the Labor Government, with bipartisan support introduced the
Superannuation Guarantee Charge Act 1992. This legislated for a compulsory
employer contribution to be made to an employee's superannuation account the
total contribution level is to be 9 per cent by the year 2001-2.
1.19 The SGC was the first pillar in what has become an unique system of
superannuation saving. Australia's superannuation system has been recognised by
the World Bank as being a leader. Founded upon three pillars, these being
compulsory employer contributions, the ability to voluntarily save for retirement
and the continuance of a universal pension safety net. The Australian
superannuation system provides a high level of security and flexibility.
1.20 Retirement incomes is one of the greatest challenges facing a modem
market driven economy. Australian demographics indicate that by the year 2026
6 Second Reading Speech on the Levy Bill
Retirement Savings Accounts Supervisory Levy Bill 1996, Explanatory Memorandum, p 1
7


the average age of the population will be 418. The Labor Government took the
decision in 1992 to introduce a compulsory system of superannuation savings to
achieve the dual aims of ensuring that citizens could expect a decent standard of
retirement income, as well as fostering intergenerational equity.
1.21 The SGC followed the 1985 Productivity Wage Case in which the
Commission determined that all employees would receive a productivity wage
increase of j per cent which would be delivered through an employee's
superannuation.
1.22 It is against this background that superannuation policy in the 1990's has
been formulated. Foremost in all policy consideration has been, and must
continue to be so, the fact that superannuation is part of an employees wage that
has been compulsorily saved.
1.23 In 1995 the Labor Government announced that all employees would be
required to save one per cent of their average weekly earnings into superannuation
from the 1996-97 year. This employee contribution would rise to three per cent by
the year 2002.
1.24 The Labor Government also announced that it would match the employee
contribution. The total cost of this policy announcement once fully implemented
is to be $4.5 billion in the year 2002.
1.25 This initiative was developed in order to achieve the maximum amount of
contributions into superannuation. It has been well documented by a number of
industry experts that for an employee to have a sufficient level of income in
retirement contribution levels have to be in the realm of between 12 to 15 per cent
of an employee's average weekly earnings.9
1.26 The Labor Government considered that the 9 per cent employer
contribution, 3 per cent employee contribution and the matching 3 per cent
government co-contribution represented sound policy mix.
The current trustee system
1.27 Given the compulsory nature of superannuation savings the Labor
Government considered it appropriate to ensure that public confidence was
maintained through a world class system of prudential regulation. In 1993 the
8 Australian Bureau of Statistics, Projections of the Populations of Australia, Slates and Territories, 3222.0,
Table 9.5
9 The extension writing os Vice Fitzgerald regarding the requirement for 18 per cent of an employees average
weekly earnings to be contributed to super, ASFA publications and more recently the Coalition Government's
own National Commission of Audit.


Labor Government introduced and implemented, with bi-partisan support the
Superannuation Industry Supervision (SIS) Act 1993.
1.28 Fundamental to this system is the principle that superannuation monies must
be managed on trust. Arguably the most demanding commercial test in Australian
law, at present, trustees of superannuation funds are both personally and
professionally criminally liable for their actions in relation to the investment,
management and administration of superannuation monies.
1.29 A crucial part of this trustee structure is the equal representation of both
employer and employee representatives at Board level. For a decision to be
binding a two thirds vote must be taken, thus ensuring that no class of member can
dominate the superannuation fund.
1.30 Due to the compulsory nature of the system, the SIS Act provides for
compensation in the event of theft or fraud. The combination of these protections
facilitates a high level of public confidence in the overall security and stability of
the superannuation system.
1.31 At present superannuation products are issued under a trust structure. This
requires trustees to be responsible for the actions of the trust according to trust
law, and to observe various prudential and other regulations.
1.32 The incentive to comply with SIS is the 15 per cent concessional rate of tax
which applies to complying superannuation funds. Non-complying funds are
subject to the normal taxation regime for companies and trusts which would
normally mean the company tax rate.
1.33 The trustee structure reflects that superannuation monies are held by the
funds on behalf of their members. Any net earnings on investments are credited to
members' accounts, rather than to the investment entity. Financial institutions such
as life offices, banks, credit unions and building societies are not prohibited now
from the provision of superannuation services, as they can establish subsidiaries
with a trustee structure so as to construct complying funds. A number of such
subsidiaries now exist.


Individualised Superannuation
1.34 Individualisation of superannuation occurred in the United Kingdom
through the encouragement of individual superannuation products from 1988. It is
currently estimated that 1.5 million people may have to be compensated costing
the United Kingdom government between four to eight billion dollars.
1.35 In his recent visit to Australia, Mr Tom Ross of the United Kingdom
National Association of Pension Funds stated,
And I think it's the best illustration I have come across in the financial world, at any rate,
that giving people freedom, flexibility and the ability to exercise choice without suitable
education and without adequate regulation of those who were purveying the choices is a
recipe for disaster."10
1.36 The SIS Act was the Australian response to the Maxwell disaster.
1.37 Given the compulsory nature of the superannuation system and the fact that
superannuation represents an individual's retirement income, it is essential that
Government policy maintains a secure and safe system.
1.38 In this environment it is entirely appropriate that the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation examine these RSA bills to ensure that the broad
thrust of retirement incomes policy is being maintained.
What RSAs will do
1.39 The proposed RSAs are seen to address three problems arising from
superannuation arrangements, namely lack of choice, small balances and
proliferation of accounts. In the words of the Treasurer's press release of 20
August 1996:
RSAs will be a simple, low cost, low risk product especially suited to
those with small amounts of superannuation, such as itinerant and
casual workers, those wishing to amalgamate several small
superannuation accounts and those nearing retirement (wishing to
minimise risk). Their introduction will complement existing
arrangements by increasing competition and choice in the
superannuation industry, thereby putting downward pressure on fees
and charges, and encouraging better standards of service.
1.40 There has been general agreement that the returns on RSAs will be less than
other superannuation accounts. This reflects in part the capital guaranteed structure
10 the 1996 ASFA Conference Edition of SuperFunds.


of RSAs where the amount invested cannot be reduced by negative investment
returns. The proposal for a maximum limit for RSAs was rejected by the
Government. Instead it was decided to require RSA providers to inform holders of
their investment options when the limit is reached. This will allow RSA holders to
remain with their RSA if they wish.
1.41 However a number of organisations namely the Australian Council of Trade
Unions, the Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees and the Australian
Consumers' Association amongst others did indicate that they believe the $10 000
mark to be a considerable level of accumulated superannuation savings for those
employees who earn the average weekly wage.
1.42 These organisations highlighted the absolute necessity for a clear statement
in relation to the health warning, and suggested that the health warning used for
cigarette smoking may in fact be appropriate.


CHAPTER TWO
CHOICE
Theory
2.1 As outlined in Chapter One, the Government's policy motivation to allow
financial institutions to offer RSAs is to encourage an expanded level of
consumer choice.
2.2 The Government would appear to be committed to the argument that
expanded consumer choice will have the flow on effect of providing employees
with a greater degree of control over their own superannuation.
2.3 Before exploring a number of concerns with the RSA bills in Chapter
Three, it is appropriate to engage in some discussion surrounding the theory
and rhetoric of choice.
2.4 Choice is an expression of the theory of the individual. As the role of the
individual is heightened in the community, a corresponding need for a variety
ot choices to be articulated may arise. Individuals will increasingly desire the
ability to express their own ideas and needs demanding a number of
alternatives to be offered, in order to express this changing nature of society.
2.5 The development of this social, economic and cultural phenomena may
lead to both a dispersion and disintegration of cohesion and consistency
throughout both systems and policy. An individual's capacity to determine and
choose their own destiny is contingent upon the recognition of the declining
ability of the community to formulate a cohesive and consistent response to an
external force.
2.6 Integral to this theory is the nexus between responsibility and choice.
For individuals to take responsibility for their choices it is fundamental that
they are able to comprehend what the choices are and what these choices will
mean in the longer term.
2.7 For example, if an individual is not able to foresee what will occur if they
do not save for their retirement, it is not correct to say that they have made a
choice between saving and not saving and thus are capable of being responsible
for their decision.
2.8 If individuals are to bear the ultimate responsibility for their decisions it
is fundamental that they are in a position to make informed and effective


choices. However, if choice is merely a mechanism set in place to highlight the
fact that there is no government co-ordination, then surely both the individual
and the community must then question the true commitment to choice and the
individual's right to determine their own future.
2.9 Choice as a concept is premised upon the assumption that individuals
have an unfettered ability to determine all possible alternatives, are able to
evaluate these and have the tools within their means to make informed
decisions.
2.10 In the event of any or all of these factors being constrained or hindered, it
must be accepted that the individual's ability to make a true choice has been
diminished. In examining the RSA bills it is essential that the concept of what
constitutes a real choice is contrasted against the rhetoric of an individual
having a perceived choice.
2.11 To have a choice implies access to information and some criteria against
which to compare this information. It then follows that the individual must be
sufficiently informed in order to comprehend key concepts and themes.
2.12 The issue of education is even more important when dealing with
technical issues such as financial products and / or superannuation. Education
provides the individual with a vital tool with which they can assess the validity
of information.
2.13 Together with the issue of education is the need for information to be
capable of easy comparison. This aids the consumer in evaluating information
and then being in a position to be able to make an informed choice.
2.14 The third issue that is fundamental to the concept of choice is that an
individual must be in a position to freely determine their preferred option.
2.15 The rhetoric of choice can, and has to some extent, blindly accepted the
metaphor of the 'level playing field' and the ability of an individual to be in a
position to bargain effectively and freely.
2.16 Free and unfettered choice is a pure theoretical construct that has little
connection with the day to day realities of a person's individual circumstances.
It is therefore necessary for policy initiatives to recognise that 'choice' however
it is dressed up will only ever be a chimera of the real thing.
2.17 Given this, it is therefore critical that whatever options are available to
policy makers to enhance the delivery and operation of a choice regime are
maximised.


2.18 In this context, a government sponsored education campaign is critical if
the Coalition is to match its rhetoric with substance. The Opposition members
of the Committee strongly recommend that such a campaign be implemented.
2.19 To this end the Opposition members find a suggestion by Mr Peter
Downes of Jacques Martin extremely helpful. Mr Downes suggested that the
levy currently raised by the ISC from superannuation funds might be used to
sponsor an education campaign. He stated:
I understand that there is a surplus there now [ in the pool of levy funds] and that would
seem to me to be a good way of spending the money in the interests of government, the
membership and the industry.1
Evidence, Mr Peter Downes, Jacques Martin 21 February.




CHAPTER THREE
ISSUES
A mixed response
3.1 The introduction of the RSA legislation has provoked a mixed response
among those organisations who contributed to the inquiry. Potential RSA
providers have a number of concerns about aspects of the legislation. However,
a number of submitters to the Committee did welcome the concept of a simple,
flexible and portable superannuation account. For example, the Credit Union
Services Corporation (Australia) Ltd (CUSCAL) welcomed the initiative,
advising the Committee that:
They will provide a capital guaranteed product that is simple to operate,
convenient to access, highly portable and with low or no fees. They will be a
safe and secure savings mechanism for people who are unsure or
uncomfortable about other more complex savings arrangements.1
3.2 It should be noted that CUSCAL has long sought a "on balance sheet"
superannuation product and made several submissions to this Committee to that
effect during 1994/95.
3.3 The Association of Permanent Building Societies (APBS) cast a
significant level of doubt on whether its members would be willing to offer
RSA accounts. While supporting the concept of a simple, deposit based
retirement account, the APBS expressed concern at the Government's approach
as requiring RSAs to have too many characteristics of superannuation products.
The Association advised the Committee that the viability of small accounts in
ordinary savings accounts is already causing problems for deposit taking
institutions and expressed disappointment that "more complex and special
attention will be required for small RSA accounts".
3.4 It should be noted that the Australian Bankers' Association (ABA)
assessed RSAs cautiously, expressing the view that its members had a range of
concerns about the nature of the product. The Chief Executive of the ABA, Mr
Mark Addis, told the Committee that the ABA was "anxiously awaiting the
regulations that will accompany the legislation." He expressed the view that it
1
CUSCAL Submission, p. 1.


was difficult to assess what sort of product could be developed until these
regulations became available.2
3.5 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA),
questioned the need for RSAs, arguing that the existing superannuation system
already met the needs of most individuals.
3.6 The Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) expressed a number of
fundamental concerns regarding RSAs, although noting that this did not mean
that the ACTU opposed the RSA concept. In arguing the case before the
Committee, Ms Elana Rubin, Senior Industrial Officer for the ACTU noted that
prior to the introduction of the trustee system in superannuation, financial
institutions operated for the benefit of their shareholders rather than policy
holders. She highlighted the competing interests of shareholders as compared
to members, emphasising that the trustee system has played, and continues to
play, a significant role in reforming that system. The ACTU's concerns centred
around the issue of "choice" in the superannuation system and potential
implications of allowing employers to open RSAs for their employees without
their consent.
3.7 The Council of Small Business Organisations of Australia, represented
by Mr Rob Bastian, supported the concept of passbook superannuation. To the
extent that RSAs meet this simple, flexible and fully portable requirement,
COSBOA was broadly supportive of the introduction of RSAs. He did advise
the Committee that he favoured bank operated superannuation vehicles over
superannuation funds, because of what he considered to be a relative
inaccessibility of superannuation monies to the small business capital market:
We do believe very strongly that the lenders are far more capable of managing
large amounts of money back to the marketplace than are the much more
conservatively managed superannuation funds. So, our preference would be to
accentuate the money in the banks as best we can/'
3.8 It should be noted that this conclusion was premised on the assumption
that the increased loan book available to banks as a result of RSAs would
provide small businesses with increased opportunities to access cheap funds.
The extent to which this will occur cannot be determined and the Opposition
members of the Committee note with some concern the degree to which
COSBOA based their support for passbook superannuation on this access issue.
2 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.
Evidence. 21 Feb 1997.
3


3.9 Mr Bastian also indicated that he supported a general simplification of
superannuation:
...superannuation is found by the smaller employers to be fairly
confusing...anything we can do to stabilise it and make it simpler would
obviously be welcomed by the sector.
3.10 Mr Bastian also annunciated a significant degree of concern regarding
the possible disclosure that may become applicable to employers who open
accounts on behalf of employees. Mr Bastian suggested that his membership
would be less than supportive, if they were required to disclose all relevant
documentation regarding RSAs to employees. He said:
My instinct is that if in such a circumstance you can institute the
matter of choice on the employee's part and remove the matter of
compulsion by the state on the employer, then my sector would
respond joyfully." He went on to say, " But if the state then comes
to the employer and says this is what you've got to do and there
heaps of it, and if you don't get it right, we'll penalise you... then
we would oppose that.4
3.11 He was very supportive of establishing a nexus between the RSA
provider and the superannuant, as opposed to between the employer and the
RSA provider. As he stated, the first premise that must be foremost is the fact
that superannuation is in fact employees retirement incomes.
Issues canvassed in this report
3.12 Submissions and evidence received by the Committee during the inquiry
identified a number of broad issues associated with RSAs. These included:
• Who can offer a RSA?;
• Choice;
. Nature of the Capital Guarantee;
• Incentives to employers;
• Regulatory regime; and
• Disclosure standards.
3.13 These issues are examined in the following paragraphs of this chapter of
the report.
4
Evidence, Mr Bastian 21 February.


3.14 The Committee also took evidence about a range of more technical issues
associated with the operation of RSAs. Chapter 4 deals with these issues.
Who can offer RSAs?
3.15 Under the provisions of the Retirement Savings Accounts Bill 1996,
banks, building societies, credit unions, life insurance companies, friendly
societies (see para 1.6) and prescribed financial institutions can market RSAs.
Several witnesses and submitters argued that existing superannuation trustees
should also be able to offer RSAs, including the right to use the term "RSA" as
a product description.
3.16 The Investment Funds of Australia (IFA), for example, argued
essentially, there was no difference between an RSA and a cash based
superannuation fund. Accordingly, the IFA submitted that superannuation fund
trustees should "have access to the simpler and cheaper structure that is being
proposed for RSAs." The IFA contended that this was "an important issue of
competitive neutrality".3
3.17 Similarly, the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
submitted that all providers of RSAs and RSA equivalent products, including
those operating within trust structures should be able to use the single
identifying term RSA'. ASFA argued that to do otherwise would confuse
consumers and provide RSA institutions with an unfair competitive advantage.
3.18 The Committee sought clarification of this issue from the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC). Dr Darryl Roberts, First Assistant
Commissioner, Policy, Legal and Actuarial Division, ISC, advised the
Committee that this issue "is likely to be in the regulations" and that the term
"RSA" could be used by "lookalikes" that met the requirements:
The Government has indicated that there should be an opportunity for
traditional public offer funds that provide broadly equivalent products to
qualify for the lighter disclosure...
Our current understanding is that the term [RSA] could be used by RSAs that
are covered by the legislation and by lookalikes that met the requirements. We
would expect other products not to use that term.6
3.19 Opposition members of the Committee note that the Coalition parties
explicitly stated in their March 1996 Election Campaign statement that
5 Submission, p. 2.
Evidence, 25 Feb 1997.
6


superannuation funds would be allowed to offer individual superannuation,
RSAs. Opposition members also note that the leaked Cabinet Submission
regarding RSAs notes in its opening paragraph, " The Government announced
its commitment to allow banks, building societies, credit unions, life insurance
companies (life office), complying superannuation funds and other financial
intermediaries to offer Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs).."(emphasis
added).7
3.20 Opposition members of the Committee therefore believe that in the
interests of providing real choice, a level playing field and competitive
neutrality, it is imperative that Government move to amend the legislation in
order to allow complying superannuation funds to offer RSAs.
Choice
3.21 Clause 51 of the RSA Bill permits an employer to open an RSA without
the consent of an employee.
3.22 This issue was one of the most canvassed issues during the course of the
Committee's examination of the RSA bills. The ability of an employer to open
an RSA account on behalf of an employee raises a number of issues regarding
the efficacy of the provision of choice to consumers.
3.23 In addition to this, the ability of an employer to open an account on
behalf of an employee raises privacy concerns. For example, at present the
RSA bill does not require any physical proof of the existence of the proposed
RSA holder nor any proof of the relationship between the proposed RSA holder
and the employer.
3.24 ASFA suggested that there may be instances where a partner may request
his or her employer to open an RSA on behalf of their partners, in order to
access the announced 18 per cent superannuation tax rebate.s
3.25 ASFA indicated a number of concerns regarding the provision of consent
on behalf of the spouse whose name may used to open the RSA.9 Given the
current absence of a 100 point identity test, which is standard procedure when
opening a deposit account, there is nothing to prohibit this kind of behaviour.
1996 Cabinet Submission regarding RSAs, which was leaked to the Opposition and made publicly
available via the internet.
8 On August 20 1996, the Treasurer announced that an 18 per cent tax rebate of up to $3000 would be
available to spouse who contributed to the superannuation accounts of a low income or non working
spouse. Treasurer's Budget Press Release titled "Superannuation Reform".
9 Evidence, Mr Foxton 21 February.


3.26 Representatives of the ISC explained that under section 51, the employer
may fill out an RSA application form with the employees' details and lodge that
form with an RSA provider. The RSA provider will then open the account and
send the relevant disclosure documentation to the employee. On receipt of this
documentation, a "cooling off period applies and the employee has 14 days in
which to decide whether to retain funds in the RSA or transfer them to another
fund. 10
3.27 Several contributors to the inquiry expressed concern about this
provision. They argued that over the longer term, savings held in RSAs would
earn interest at a lower rate than is likely to be achieved in a conventional
superannuation fund. Accordingly, the question of employee choice about
whether the employer contributed to an RSA or a superannuation fund is
important, as an employee whose superannuation savings are in a RSA might
be financially disadvantaged in the longer term.
3.28 The majority of submissions received by the Committee questioned
adequacy of the "14 day cooling off period", arguing that employees were often
in a weak position in respect to the balance of power in negotiations with
employees:
...the industrial reality is that if an employer opens up an RSA, each individual
employee will have the onus of putting up their hand and saying "I don't like
the choice you made for me" and in the workplace that will not happen, no
matter how much the employee wants to change that arrangement...11
3.29 The Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST) raised
similar concerns. AIST contended that it was essential that employee choice
was built into the legislation. Dr Diana Olsberg told the Committee that:
It is very difficult, particularly for low income workers who have very
marginal power compared to the employer to actually defy the choice the
employer has made...12
3.30 The AIST argued that the issue of choice was compounded by other
factors, such as any commercial arrangement that may exist between an
employer and an RSA provider. This relationship might influence the nature of
the choice that the employer might make for the employee. This point was
supported by the ACTU, the Community and Public Sector Union, the
10 Evidence, 25 Feb 1997, Dr Roberts, opening statement.
11 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.
12 Evidence, Ms Elana Rubin, Senior Industrial Officer of the ACTU, 21 February


Transport Workers Union, the Australian Consumers Association and a number
of others.
3.31 Dr Darryl Roberts of the ISC advised the Committee that the Section 51
provision directly mirrors section 153 of the SIS Act, under which an employer
can apply to make contributions to a public offer superannuation fund without
the consent of an employee. He stated that under both SIS and the RSA Bills,
employers can fill out a single application form for multiple employees.
3.32 Dr Roberts pointed out that the RSA legislation does not make any
change in relation to the freedom of employers to choose a fund for
Superannuation Guarantee contributions. Neither does the legislation disrupt
any existing industrial framework. Dr Roberts confirmed that following
amendments to the Superannuation Guarantee Act, employers could make SG
contributions to RSAs as well as regulated superannuation funds. However, this
does not mean that employers have an automatic right to shift their SG
payments to RSAs:
...consistent with existing industrial relations agreements, if employers are
subject to an industrial agreement or award which does not include a reference
to RSAs then the employer will presumably not be able to use RSAs to fulfil
their SG obligations.13
3.33 The ISC argued that the legislation incorporates two important
protections for employees whose employers open RSAs on their behalf:
. a ‘free look period’, under which employees can elect to transfer the
balance of the account to another RSA or fund within 14 days of
receiving the disclosure documentation from the RSA provider; and
. the employee can request that the RSA account balance be
transferred at any time to another fund.
3.34 Opposition members of the Committee however are inclined to question
the soundness of the ISC arguments. Whilst section 153 of the SIS Act does
provide for a sponsor employer entity to lodge an application form on behalf of
an employee, it does not provide for an employer to unilaterally transfer
superannuation monies from one fund to another without some indication of
employee consent. The Opposition members understanding of section 51 of
the RSA Bill is that an employer is granted such a right.
13 Evidence, 25 Feb 1997, Dr Roberts, opening statement.


3.35 Opposition members also note that section 153 of the SIS Act does not
allow an employer to open a number of superannuation accounts for a number
of employees with only one form. Opposition members' understanding of
section 51 of the RSA Bill is that an employer need only provide to an RSA
provider one application form, even if the employer is opening a number of
employee accounts.
3.36 The Opposition members of the Committee also note that an employer
under section 153 of the SIS Act must comply with industrial awards.
Employers, must therefore comply with rulings of the Industrial Relations
Commission. The Industrial Relations Commission has made a number of
rulings regarding the ability of an employer to choose and open an RSA on
behalf of an employee.
3.37 Opposition members of the Committee note the comments of Ms Elana
Rubin, Senior Industrial Officer, ACTU regarding this issue,
" Choice of funds should not rest with the employer - such a practice denies
employees ownership of their superannuation benefits and is contrary to the
Government's stated objective of promoting greater consumer choice...Employers
have no direct interest in ensuring employees' superannuation contributions are
paid into low cost and efficient superannuation saving vehicles which meet both
the retirement needs and employment patterns of their workforce. Employers
have no direct interest in ensuring that superannuation contributions are placed in
a superannuation vehicle which has an investment programme which meets the
risk profile and aspirations of their employees."14
3.38 The Opposition members of the Committee consider that due to the
employees' undeniable ownership of the superannuation contribution, it is
unacceptable that the employer has the ability and legal right under the RSA
bill to direct employees superannuation contributions to their own choice fund.
Opposition members believe if the RSA product is to be remotely consistent
with the policy intentions of the Coalition Government, the legislation must be
amended to ensure that the choice associated with taking out an RSA is that of
the employee's, not the employer's.
3.39 The ISC acknowledged that RSA institutions can require up to 12 months
notice for liquidity and administrative reasons, or because of the terms of the
contract. For this reason, it may take up to twelve months for the balance to be
moved to the employees' nominated fund. However, the ISC maintained that:
These consumer protection measures provide portability and ensure that
employees remain in full control of the RSA once it is opened...
14 ACTU submission p 5 - 6.


...the RSA regime retains the degree of choice available in the existing
superannuation system, and adds a new product to the market, and provides for
better portability.1 ?
3.40 The Opposition members of the Committee consider that for the RSA to
be a fully portable account, RSA providers must be required to roll over
accounts to other funds in a much shorter period of time than the currently
provided for period of twelve months. Opposition members of the Committee
recommend that the RSA bill be amended to require RSA providers to roll over
Nature of the Capital Guarantee
3.41 A number of potential RSA providers questioned the inclusion of the
capital guarantee provisions for RSAs, arguing that deposits in banks, credit
unions and building societies are already capital guaranteed. Mr Raj Venga,
Director, Policy and Compliance, APBS, summarised the view:
...the concept of negative returns simply does not apply to deposits. There
cannot be a negative return, because you are contracting to repay the amount
with or without interest that has been deposited. So it applies to life insurance
company models but certainly not to banks building societies and credit
unions.16
3.42 The Committee further explored the meaning of the capital guarantee that
is expected to be an essential feature of this product. Under questioning,
representatives of the ABA acknowledged that while the capital is guaranteed
against negative earnings, situations may arise where a deposit in an RSA
might be eroded by bank fees. Mr Addis told the Committee:
What we are saying is the capital is guaranteed against negative earnings but
admits the possibility that there may be some erosion of the capital in the
unlikely event I would expect, that fees and charges are greater than positive
earnings.17
3.43 Opposition members of the Committee note that S38(2)(i) of the RSA
Bill gives reserve powers to the ISC, permitting standards to be prescribed in
relation to "fees that may be charged for the provision of RSAs".
15 Evidence, 25 Feb 1997, Dr Roberts, opening statement.
16 Evidence, p. 22.
17 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.


3.44 Opposition members also note that CUSCAL indicated that they did not
believe it would be commercially worthwhile for their institutions to charge
fees. Ms Barbara Livesey, Senior Policy Adviser CUSCAL indicated that
CUSCAL did not expect any of its credit unions to charge fees. She also
indicated that if the Committee were so inclined as to attempt to recommend
the regulation of fees and charges, CUSCAL would be supportive of a
Committee recommendation prohibiting fees and charges rather than regulating
them.
3.45 Ms Livesey also noted the need for consumers to be able to easily
compare fees, charges and interest rates across a wide range of RSA products.18
3.46 Opposition members of the Committee consider that the ISC should
survey the fees and charges applied to RSA accounts to ensure the capital
guaranteed nature of RSAs is not undermined by unreasonable fees and if
necessary, consider the use of its S38 reserve powers. Opposition members also
consider that all fees and charges should be disclosed up front to the
prospective RSA holder. Additionally, Opposition members consider such
monitoring is essential to ensure that the Governments' objectives for RSAs to
be a simple, low cost product are met.
Incentives to employers
3.47 A number of contributors to the inquiry considered that the Government
should prohibit RSA providers from offering incentives or inducements to
employers to use a particular RSA product. For example, a bank might offer a
business a reduced rate of interest on borrowing's if the employer opens RSA
accounts for employees with that bank. Submitters argued that there were a
number of shortcomings associated with such a practice:
. Competition takes place between providers and third parties;
. Competition is not necessarily based on the merits of the product;
. The interests of the RSA holder may be secondary.
3.48 Representatives of the Australian Banking Association took a different
view. Mr Addis of the ABA told the Committee that as long as they are not
improper, incentives are part of normal business relationships:
I cannot see that it is a conflict of interest. I really wouldn't want to speculate
on the nature of the incentives, or the quantification of those incentives, but the
notion of incentives is part of any business relationship, part of the negotiation
of any relationship. It is part and parcel of normal business. As long as it is not
18 Evidence, 25 February.


improper, as long as people are comfortable with those arrangements, then so
be it.19
3.49 The Australian Consumers' Association (ACA) drew the Committee's
attention to Section 47(IV) of the Trade Practices Act which prohibits Third
Line Forcing' and other exclusive dealing in general terms". However, the ACA
and others considered that there is a clear need to clarify the types of practices
that should be prohibited as unreasonable and specify appropriate penalties.20
• i • • i i
3.50 Opposition members of the Committee consider that this issue has the
potential to be very damaging. Opposition members recommend that such a
prohibition should be placed in the legislation so as to avoid any such
behaviour.
3.51 The Opposition members take this view especially given the presence of
a due diligence defence within the legislation. The Opposition members note
that the Wallis inquiry is currently studying Part V of the Trade Practices Act
and there is increasing speculation about the possibility of it being removed in
so far as it impacts on the financial services industry.
3.52 In this uncertain environment, the Opposition members consider it
important that consumers, -RSA holders, are provided with every available
opportunity to protect themselves.
3.53 In keeping with this sentiment, the Opposition members also note with
interest the ACTU's point regarding the level of disclosure that should occur
where the RSA provider and the employer have a business or commercial
relationship.
3.54 The ACTU, AIST and the ACA all noted that in circumstances where the
employer and the RSA provider have a business relationship, the nature of this
business relationship should be disclosed to the employee.
3.55 All three organisations emphatically noted this point should the situation
remain that employers are able to open an account on behalf of an employee.
Regulatory regime
3.56 A variety of financial and other organisations expressed reservations
about the regulatory regime that will apply to RSA providers.
19 Evidence, 21 Feb 1997.
20 Submission, Australian Consumers' Association, p. 3.


3.57 The Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies (AAPBS)
expressed disappointment about the regulatory environment that is to apply to
RSA providers. AAPBS considered that the stmcture imposed under the RSA
legislation was excessively and unnecessarily complex, giving rise to higher
administrative costs and making the product a marginal economic proposition.
Mr James Larkey, the executive director of the APBS, summed up the society's
position:
At this stage we are anything but bullish about the future of RSAs. We think
an opportunity for a low-cost, simple bank deposit product that would qualify
for superannuation savings privileges is probably being lostv1
3.58 ASFA also expressed concern that there will be no clear separation of
responsibilities, for example in complaints resolution, suggesting that in the
longer term, it would be simpler to move towards a singe complaints regulator.
3.59 Dr Darryl Roberts of the ISC addressed concerns about the dual
regulatory regime at the Committee's first public hearing. Dr Roberts
acknowledged that the ISC is conscious of potential problems that might arise
as a result of adopting a dual regulator approach. He explained the ISC's
proposed approach in the following terms:
Therefore, to avoid the danger of encroaching on the domain of an RSA
provider's traditional prudential supervisor with adverse consequences, we
intend to closely coordinate and cooperate with that supervisor and to generally
take a non-intrusive approach to the regulation of compliance with the
retirement income standards. Essentially, this means a system of
self-assessment whereby the RSA providers themselves will need to certify in
writing that they clearly understand the RSA requirements, that they have
adequate systems in place to meet those requirements and that they have, in
fact, been fully complying with those requirements. By adopting this
self-assessment approach, we hope to minimise the regulatory overlap and
compliance burden which might otherwise result from not having the
prudential supervision and the functional regulation of a superannuation
provider housed in the same agency under the one roof.22
3.60 Dr Roberts emphasised that should this system of self assessment break
down, the ISC would intervene promptly:
For example, we will immediately and intensively investigate any suspected
breaches of the preservation, disclosure or other superannuation standards
brought to our attention by way of market intelligence or customer complaints.
21 Evidence, p. 17.
22 Evidence, p. 26.


If remedial action by the RSA product provider is required, we will ensure that
it occurs.2^
Disclosure
3.61 The RSA Bill does not specify disclosure standards. Rather, it enables
the Government to make regulations that will set standards in this area. These
regulations were not referred to the Committee and indeed had not been made
available during the Committee's examination of the legislation. However, the
Opposition members of the Committee consider that it is appropriate to advise
the Senate of the nature of concerns about disclosure requirements that emerged
during the inquiry.
3.62 A common theme was that consumers should be provided with adequate
information to make informed choices, including fees and expected returns.
However, excessively detailed material was considered counterproductive as
experience has demonstrated that excessively large amounts of material is
likely to be ignored. Additionally, excessive disclosure requirements will
impose excessive costs on RSA providers.
3.63 For example, the IFA representative, Mr Richard Gilbert advised the
Committee that the prospectus documents required for ordinary, cash based
funds can be as long as 50 pages. He said that the key features statement should
not exceed six pages.24
3.64 Other general points raised include that:
. Opinion is mixed about whether the proposed "health warning" at a
balance of $10 000 is adequate. Some support this level, others
argue that there should be also a "health warning" in the initial
disclosure documents;
• Several organisations offered opinions about what should be
included in disclosure documents. Common elements included
information about fees, commissions and charges; the nature of the
capital guarantee; historical and future returns; dispute resolution
information; preservation and access; information about the $10 000
"health warning".
23 Evidence, p. 26.
24 Evidence, p. 5.


. Commonly, potential RSA providers sought that disclosure rules be
kept "simple and minimal".
3.65 The Opposition members of the Committee consider it appropriate to
offer a number of guiding principles in relation to the area of disclosure. The
Committee is agreement with the Australian Consumers' Association, Jacques
Martin, the ACTU, AIST, ASFA and CUSCAL. In order to ensure free and
effective choice it is imperative that prospective RSA holder receive all
relevant information regarding fees and charges, the rate of return, the level of
risk associated with the product in addition to a health warning at the time that
the RSA holder is contemplating establishing a RSA.
3.66 The Opposition members also consider it important to ensure that the
RSA holder receives all such information on a regular basis. The Opposition
members are attracted to the cigarette style health warning regarding the
$10,000 proposed limit. The Opposition members also consider it to be highly
desirable if such health warnings could be distributed regularly, preferably
annually to the RSA holder.
3.67 Should employers remain legally capable of opening an RSA on behalf
of an employee, the Committee considers it appropriate that the responsibility
to disclose fees, charges, rates of return and risk profiles as well as the health
warning should also fall to the employer. That is the Committee considers the
burden to be too onerous on RSA providers if they are required to provide
information in the first instance to the employer and then upon having an
account opened for them the RSA provider has to inform the RSA holder.
3.68 The Committee is of the opinion that the best relationship would be
between the RSA holder and provider. However if the relationship is to be
brokered at the outset, the intermediary, the employer must be liable for some
of the responsibility associated with disclosure.


CHAPTER FOUR
TECHNICAL ISSUES
Introduction
4.1 In its submission to the Committee, the Australian Bankers' Association
identified a number of problems it saw in the Bills. The more significant of
these involved:
. the need to consult with the prescribed regulatory authorities
regarding action toward potential or existing RSA providers;
. the need to notify an employer of suspension or revocation of
an RSA provider's licence;
. inconsistency with the SIS legislation with regard to operating
standards;
. problems in the application of the prohibition on interest off-
setting arrangements;
. the transfer of RSA balances;
. the requirement on RSA providers to hold money on trust in
certain circumstances
. inconsistency with SIS regarding complaints against RSA
providers; and
. a number of matters relating to the taxation arrangements.
4.2 Also, the Committee particularly noted the problems in the Bills
identified in the submission from the Life Investment and Superannuation
Association of Australia (LISA). Significant among these were:
. doubts about the relevant prudential supervisor of RSAs
offered by life companies;
. the double taxation of income and the relevant tax rate;
. consultation with the relevant regulator;
. consequences of suspension or revocation of RSA provider's
approval for employers;
. inconsistency of operating standards with SIS;
. monies to be held on trust;
. disclosure requirements;
. refunding of employer contributions; and
. death and disability cover.


4.3 Submissions made to the Committee by other organisations also raised
technical issues similar to those referred to above.
The Government’s amendments
4.4 On the afternoon of its final public hearing on this matter on 25 February
1997, the Committee received the amendments which the Government would
be introducing into Parliament during the passage of these Bills.
4.5 The amendments to the RSA Bill are aimed at:
. providing for the relevant prudential regulator to be consulted
before the ISC makes decisions affecting RSA institutions;
. removing the requirement that certain money be held on trust;
and
. making miscellaneous technical drafting improvements.
4.6 Amendments to the Consequential Amendments Bill seek to:
. limit the scope of who is regarded as a 'representative of an
RSA provider' for the purposes of the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993;
• enable the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal to be
constituted by any three Tribunal Members;
. modify the tax regime on RSA providers by:
removing concerns that the provisions could result in
the double taxation of amounts credited to RSAs;
ensuring that the RSA component of an RSA
provider's income is not reduced by tax paid in
relation to an RSA that is withdrawn by the RSA
provider from the RSA; and
ensuring the RSA providers cannot offset losses
against RSA income.
. ensure that the intercorporate dividend rebate applies
appropriately to life assurance company RSAs; and
. ensure that tax file number provisions applying to ordinary
bank accounts do not apply to RSAs.


4.7 As the Committee did not receive the amendments until shortly before its
tinal hearing, it has not been able to examine in detail whether the amendments
to be moved by the Government to these bills adequately address the technical
issues and anomalies identified by the ABA, LISA and other organisations. The
Committee sought information from the ISC about the extent to which the
amendments addressed these problems.
4.8 The Committee has also independently examined the amendments. The
Opposition members of the Committee have a number of concerns with the
amendments to section 60 of the Retirement Savings Accounts Bill in
particular. These amendments remove the trust relationship in the situation of a
suspense account. Instead the relationship will be one of a debtor and creditor.
The Opposition members believe that it may be appropriate, in the situation of
a suspense account to maintain the trust relationship instead of the debtor and
creditor relationship.
4.9 Due to the time difficulties constraining the Committee's deliberations,
the Opposition members of the Committee cannot be fully confident in
approving the legislative package establishing the RSA regime. This concern is
emphatically reiterated due to the absence of the regulations during the course
of the Committee's examination of the RSA regime.
Conclusions and Recommendations
4.10 The market for RSA products may be somewhat limited, as it is likely
that the interest paid on deposits in RSAs will probably be significantly less in
the longer term than the rates paid by most superannuation funds. Nonetheless,
risk aversive investors such as those approaching retirement and persons who
prefer a simpler product than conventional superannuation may find RSAs
attractive.
4.11 While proponents and opponents of this legislation have given the
concept of RSAs a mixed reception, the Opposition members of the Committee
consider that RSAs may be a useful addition to the range of retirement savings
products and add to the choices that are available. However the Opposition
members consider it to be critically important to the government's agenda to
ensure that the RSA product originally proposed and the product offered are
akin to one another.
4.12 The Opposition members of the Committee consider that given the
forcefulness of some of the submissions received and the consistency of


opinion on a number of issues, it is entirely appropriate for it to recommend to
the Senate a number of amendments.
Recommendations
The Opposition members of the Committee recommend that the bills be
amended so that employers must be able to show that consent has been given
by an employee to open an RSA account.
The Opposition members of the Committee recommend that the bills be
amended to ensure that an employer must use a different application form for
each RSA that they open.
The Opposition members of the Committee believe that it is critical to informed
choice that any commercial relationship in existence between the employer and
the RSA provider is disclosed to the employee. The Opposition members
consider this point to be fundamental, particularly in the event of the Senate
refusing to amend the bills in relation to the employer's ability to open an RSA
on behalf of an employee.
The Opposition members of the Committee also believe the regime of
disclosure to be critical to the issue of choice. Disclosure should up front,
before the RSA is opened. This information should include fees and charges,
interest rate, commercial relationship between RSA provider and employer and
cigarette style health warning regarding the low growth, low return nature of
the product.
The Opposition members believe that due to the low growth, low return nature
of the RSA product RSA holders must be notified regularly, at least annually
through the health warning of the dangers of using an RSA for long term
financial planning reasons.
The Opposition members of the Committee recommend that when the RSA
reaches the $10,000 the holder must be notified separately, with a health
warning a range of information indicating alternative options.
The Opposition members of the Committee recommend that the bills be
amended to provide for a specific prohibition on third line forcing, so that RSA
holders are protected from such behaviour.


The Opposition members of the Committee recommend that the definition of
capital guarantee be amended to reflect the sentiment that accounts cannot be
diminished by fees and charges.
The Opposition members of the Committee recommend to government the
need for a government sponsored education campaign. The Opposition
members consider it to be exceptionally vital if the government is going to
meet its commitment to provide expanded consumer choice in the
superannuation product market.
The Opposition members of the Committee recommend that the Government
amend the legislation to allow complying superannuation funds to offer
individual superannuation products such as RSAs in order to remain consistent
with its election statements and Cabinet Submission regarding the provision of
RSAs.
Senator the Hon. Nick Sherry
Deputy Chairman




AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRAT SENATORS' REPORT
Australian Democrats Senator's Report
RETIREMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS LEGISLATION
MARCH 1997




REPORT BY SENATOR LYN ALLISON
AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS MEMBER
The Australian Democrats support the introduction of Retirement Savings Accounts. We
endorse the recommendation of the Government Members report that the Government
amendments to the legislation be passed. However, we believe that further amendments are
necessary to the legislation to ensure its workability and adequate consumer protection..
The Government members report adequately summarises the background and evidence to the
inquiry, and it is not intended to repeat this. By way of further background, it should be noted
that the Committee took considerable evidence on the issue of Superannuation Savings
Accounts in the review of the Superannuation Guarantee System. In the Fifteenth Report of
the Committee, tabled in February 1995, the Coalition/Democrat members of the committee
supported the introduction of Superannuation Savings Accounts as a further means of
alleviating the small amounts problem in the SGC system. The Committee majority further
recommended that the development of Superannuation Savings Accounts should be allowed
providing:
• they came under the jurisdiction of the Superannuation Compliance Tribunal;
• consumer protection was further enhanced by additional funding for the Consumer Credit
Legal Service to provide representation and advice in the absence of trustees. This was
consistent with the Committee's recommendation in its Ninth Report that the Government
consider supporting the establishment of an independent superannuation advisory service;
• accounts were not subject to entry or exit fees;
• the rate of return was comparable to that of long-term deposits; and
• there was a maximum amount for such accounts of $3,000 beyond which balances are
transferred to a managed fund (although the account can be reopened with a balance of
zero).1
The legislation as presented by the Government falls short of the "best practice" criteria set
down by the Committee in 1995. Indeed, the legislation will need to be substantially amended
to ensure that Australian workers are able to maximise the benefits and minimise the costs
that the introduction of RSAs to the superannuation system will engender.
1. Choice:
Both the Government and Opposition members' reports refer to the problems in the
legislation in relation to constraints on the ability of employees to freely choose the
Fifteenth Report of the Committee p. 102


superannuation vehicle of their choice. The Democrats accept that full freedom of choice
would be difficult in relation to superannuation. Indeed, we acknowledge there are arguments
against freedom of choice given the general level of knowledge of or interest in financial
matters among many Australian superannuation fund members. The heavy fiduciary
obligation placed on the trustees of their funds reflect and recognise that shortcoming. The
Coalition has vigorously promoted RSAs as an additional option for employees, with the
Coalition's pre-election superannuation policy promising that:
RSAs will provide Australians with greater freedom of choice.2
The policy also pledged to increase the freedom of choice open to workers in relation to
superannuation, pledging that a Coalition Government would:
• require awards and workplace agreements to offer a choice of up to five funds including
employer, industry, personal superannuation and RSAs. Additional funds many be used
with the employer's concurrence;
• allow employees not covered by awards to choose a fund in consultation with their
employer....3
The Policy goes on to note that:
The small amounts problem could be resolved by allowing employees greater freedom to
choose the fund into which contributions may be consolidated, the current inflexibility of
the superannuation system is contrary to other areas of policy where the Labor
Government has promoted deregulation to encourage greater competition so as to reduce
fees and costs to consumers. The Coalition accepts that unlimited freedom of choice would
impose an onerous and costly burden on employers, however limited freedom of choice
will provide the benefits of competition without the costs associated with forcing
employers to pay into a multitude of funds.4
While the Democrats welcome the view expressed by the Government members (paragraph
2.28) that the Government should address the issue of employee choice in both RSAs and
trustee products in an overall review of superannuation, we do not agree that it is
inappropriate to consider choice issues in relation to this legislation. Choice has always been
a fundamental rationale for introducing RSAs. If the introduction of RSAs does not expand
opportunities for freedom of choice, then the rationale for their introduction is flawed.
The Democrats believe that the legislation as it stands not only fails to expand the
opportunities for choice open to employees, but embeds a process which precludes employee
choice. Indeed, section 51 of the Act which permits an employer to open an RSA account
without the consent of the employee and allows an employer to continue to direct
contributions to an RSA even after the employee has directed to transfer funds to another
: Super for All - Security and Flexibility' in Retirement Coalition Policy February 1996 p. 11
3 ibid p. 13
4 ibid p. 14


fund picks up the worst aspects of the current SIS legislation but without the offsetting
assurance that the rights of employees will still be protected by the trustees. Indeed, the
absence of trustee protection for members funds, combined with the lower returns that all
observers accept will be delivered by RSAs, make it doubly important that the decision to
enter into an RSA is solely that of the employee.
In addition to that, choice must be real. That is, for RSAs to play a role in reducing the costs
of the current superannuation industry, employees must have a real choice to join the relevant
industry fund (or, if there is no industry fund some other managed fund) or an RSA.
Recommendation No 1:
The Democrats recommend that the legislation be amended such that:
An employee cannot join an RSA unless they have been provided with the following
choice:
- joining an RSA with the financial institution to which their salary is paid; and
- joining any other RSA (if any) to which the employer is prepared to agree; and
- joining the relevant industry' fund; and
- if there is no industry' fund, joining any other superannuation fund which the
employer nominates.
The choice should be in form provided by the ISC which explains the difference
between RSAs and superannuation funds and the likely lower long term returns from
an RSA. The ISC must be required to produce Plain English guides which make the
choice easy to make.
Where an employee has failed to nominate a fund within a given period of receiving the
documentation, the employer may open an RSA account, or an account with the
relevant industry fund or, in the absence of an industry fund to such other fund as is
approved for SGC purposes.
2. Fees and Charges:
The Government's clear intention is that RSAs be low cost. Indeed, the Explanatory
Memorandum makes this quite clear:
RSAs will be a simple, low cost, low risk product especially suited to those with low
amounts of superannuation, such as itinerant and casual workers. "
The legislation allows the ISC to set standards in relation to fees, and gives the SCT the
ability to modify the terms and conditions of RSAs. However, in evidence , the ISC indicated
that it has no intention of monitoring fees in any systematic way. The Democrats share the
concern of the Government members and the Opposition members that monitoring of fees is
essential to ensure that the Government's objectives for RSAs to be a simple, low cost
product are met.
Explanatory Memorandum p.l


This must be a minimal requirement - it however fall well short of best practice. Best
practice, as outlined in the Committee's Fifteenth Report and also in the submission from the
Credit Unions (CUSCAL) would be no fees at all. Indeed, it is hard to see on what basis fees
should be justified. The legislation does not require RSA providers to set up a trustee
structure. Deposits will be regular (probably quarterly), withdrawals quite rare. The costs
should be minimal - the capital is quite immobile.
Recommendation No 2:
The legislation should be amended so that RSAs are entirely free from fees. Failing that,
fees and charges should be closely monitored by the ISC, with intervention where fees
fail to meet the criteria of a low cost product.
3. Disclosure Rules:
The Democrats welcome the statement by the Treasurer that RSAs will have disclosure
requirements that are quite similar to traditional superannuation vehicles. However, we are
concerned that much more of the detail of these standards are to be left to regulations
compared with the SIS legislation. Disclosure is particularly important at the account opening
stage, but should also encompass regular reporting. The Australian Consumers Association
proposed the following should be clearly addressed in the initial disclosure:
There are several key elements that consumers must understand when purchasing RSAs:
fees, charges an commission in dollar terms;
• a clear explanation of risk;
• historical and possible future returns (which allow for the impact of inflation);
• where to go if disputes arise;
• preservation and access;
• the importance of the 'switching balance' ($10 000) and the requirement to consider
higher investment returns;
• cooling off period.
Further consultation and consumer testing is required before the final framework for
disclosure can be determined. ACA believes that focus group testing is necessary for the
best outcome - full consumer understanding - to be achieved.6
The Democrats endorse this approach to disclosure, and commend it to the ISC. The
disclosure regime must be kept easy to understand and low cost, while providing the
maximum possible information. The responsibility for developing appropriate draft
information statements should rest with the ISC.
Recommendation No3:
The legislation be amended so that:
i. Where an RSA provider receives an application from an employee to open an account,
they must disclose in a Plain English statement to the employee all fees and charges on
ACA submission p.4


the account (in the event that Recommendation No 2 is not accepted), historical and
further investment returns with fair comparison with managed funds, and information
on risk, dispute resolution and exit and transfer of accounts;
ii. Where an RSA provider receives an application from an employer to open an
account without the consent of the employee, they must provide to the employee, in
addition to the above, informing them of the right to move to another fund within 28
days and outlining the difference between managed funds and the RSA.
Where an employer is advocating that their employees join a particular RSA, the employees
need to be assured that the employer will not receive any financial benefit from the RSA. The
ACA raised the concern in evidence that the provisions of section 47 of the Trade Practices
Act in relation to "third line forcing" may not be adequate to prevent employers and RSA
providers entering into such financial arrangements. The ACA argued a clear prohibition on
inappropriate conduct between RSA providers and employers was needed in the legislation.
Failing that, the nature of the relationship between employers and the RSA providers must be
fully disclosed.
Recommendation No 4:
The legislation be amended to provide a specific prohibition on third line forcing
between RSA providers and employers, and to ensure that the disclosure regime
includes full disclosure of any incentives or commissions received by the employer in
rleation to promotion of the RSA.
4. Maximum Amount for RSAs:
All members of the Committee acknowledged that RSAs will deliver lower investment
returns than managed funds. This is the nature of a low risk capital guaranteed product.
However, as pointed out by the ACA, if employees - largely by inertia - hold all ot their
superannuation savings in RSAs, they stand to retire with substantially less retirement
savings than if they had invested in a managed fund. The illustration given by the ACA in
their submission showed that the shortfall over a full working life could be as much as j6 to
58 per cent. Yet, it is the Democrats expectation that lack of understanding of the
superannuation system, combined with heavy advertising by RSA providers, will lead to
many lesser informed workers leaving the bulk of their savings in RSA vehicles. This may
suit itinerant workers, or workers very close to retirement seeking low risk product. But,
clearly RSAs are of limited value to the vast bulk of workers for significant superannuation
savings.
The Fifteenth Report of the Committee recognised this, proposing a maximum balance of
$3,000. Similarly, the Government acknowledges this, calling for a notice to be sent to the
employee when the account reaches $10,000. While the $3,000 balance may be somewhat
low. the legislation certainly falls short in ensuring that employees are able to make fully
informed choices about maximising their retirement savings.
Recommendation No 5:
The legislation be amended so that


i. The balance at which a warning should be issued is reduced from $10,000 to $5,000,
with a further warning issued when the account reaches $10,000 and $15,000.
ii. The warning must be in a form prepared by the ISC which compares average RSA
returns with managed and capital guaranteed funds.
iii. There must be no exit or transfer fee on movement at the threshold amount.
iv. The statement must include an options sheet which includes the relevant industry
fund nominated by the ISC, a managed fund nominated by the RSA provider (if any)
and may also include the RSA, and such other choices as the financial institution wishes
to provide.
v. If the person fails to respond within 2 months, a further notice should be sent.
vi. If the person fails to respond within another two months, the RSA provider must
transfer the balance of the account to a managed fund approved for the purpose by the
ISC and inform the person accordingly.
5. Other Issues:
Consumers must be in a position where they can challenge unfair terms of an RSA in the
courts if they need to. The defence provided in section 168 to RSA providers of "due
diligence" will make it extremely difficult for RSA providers to be held to account for their
actions. Indeed, the defence does not occur in the SIS legislation .The ACA warned that:
The introduction of a due diligence defence is first and foremost a benefit for corporate
lawyers, secondly for RSA providers and a clear backwards step for consumers/
The ACA also expressed concern that courts in section 73 and 75 were not given the remedy
of varying contracts, or requiring the repayment of money received by the party to the RSA.
Recommendation No 6:
Section 73(1) and 75(2) - Court relief powers should include capacity to vary terms and
conditions of RSA, and even closing of an RSA and refund of money. The Mdue
diligence” test (section 168) should be repealed.
To encourage a level playing field in superannuation, if other superannuation funds are to be
allowed to offer "like-minded" products, these should be able to take the form of and be
called RSAs. Full disclosure of fees and full explanation of the benefits of the managed funds
should equally apply.
Recommendation No 7:
Superannuation funds offering like products that meet the requirements for an RSA
should be entitled to label them as RSAs.
The legislation provides that RSA providers may take up to 12 months to refund an RSA after
an account holder has requested the account be closed or transferred. This is an
extraordinarily restrictive provision given that it is likely that most RSA balances will be
ACA submission p.2


fairly small (i.e. less than $10,000). There is no justification for this latitude, which is
potentially anti-competitive.
Recommendation No 8:
RSA providers should be required to transfer the balance of RSAs within 28 days of
being requested to do so by a member without any exit or transfer fees. Where a
balance is more than $10,000, they may apply to the ISC for an extension where the
provider can show that the provider will require additional time to secure the funds
necessary to repay the account.
Senator Lvn Allison




APPENDIX 1
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS




APPENDIX 2
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
CANBERRA, 11 FEBRUARY 1997
Mr Patrick Boneham, Assistant Director, Policy Branch, Insurance and Superannuation
Commission
Ms Jennifer Dwyer, Acting Director, Policy Branch, Insurance and Superannuation
Commission
Mr Richard Gilbert, Executive Director, Investment Funds Association of Australia
Mr James Larkey, Executive Director, Australian Association of Permanent Building
Societies
Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner, Policy Branch, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Dr Darryl Roberts, First Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Legal and Actuarial Group,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Mr Stephen Taylor, Administration Manager, Greater Building Society, Australian
Association of Permanent Building Societies
Mr Raj Venga. Director, Policy and Compliance, Australian Association of Permanent
Building Societies
MELBOURNE, 21 FEBRUARY 1997
Mr Mark Addis, Chief Executive, Australian Bankers' Association
Mr Robert Bastian, Chief Executive, Council of Small Business Organisations of
Australia Ltd
Mr Stephen Child, Member. Retirement Savings Committee, Life Investment and
Superannuation Association
Mr Ian Court, President, Australian Institute of Superannuation Tmstees
Mr Peter Downes, Manager, Government Business Development. Jacques Martin
Industry
Ms Jennifer Dwyer, Acting Director, Policy Branch, Insurance and Superannuation
Commission


APPENDIX 2
Mr Peter Foxton, President, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Gary Healey, Director Research, Australian Bankers' Association
Mr Martin Jilovsky, Principal Consultant, Jacques Martin Industry
Ms Kerri King, Member, Retirement Savings Committee, Life Investment and
Superannuation Association
Mr Gordon MacKenzie, Member, Taxation Committee, Life Investment and
Superannuation Association
Miss Brenda Mills, Manager, Regulatory Information, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia
Dr Diana Olsberg, Executive Director, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees
Mr Michael Peters, Partner, Freehill Hollingdale and Page
Ms Elana Rubin, Senior Industrial Officer, Australian Council of Trade Unions
Mr Kevin Scott, Joint National Secretary, Finance Sector Union of Australia
CANBERRA, 25 FEBRUARY 1997
Mr Patrick Boneham, Assistant Director, Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Ms Mara Bun, Policy and Public Affairs Manager, Australian Consumers Association
Ms Jennifer Dwyer, Acting Director, Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Mr Chris Gration, Senior Adviser, Policy and Public Affairs
Mr Peter Kell, Senior Policy Officer, Australian Consumers Association
Mr John Larkin. Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Insurance and Superannuation
Commission
Ms Barbara Livesey, Senior Adviser, Policy and Public Affairs
Dr Darryl Roberts, First Assistant Commissioner, Policy Legal and Actuarial Division,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission


APPENDIX 3
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry' (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)


LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security. Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
- Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)


Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996
- Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No 39 of 1997
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
