

Safeguarding Super
First Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
THE REGULATION
of
SUPERANNUATION
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
June 1992


© Commonwealth of Australia 1992
ISBN 0 642 17563 2
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat,
and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


PREFACE
Preface
A civilised society endeavours to ensure that its citizens can maintain a reasonable
standard of living during retirement. Governments have a key role to play in formulating
policies for the provision of retirement income through either the social security system
or private means.
In Australia, the past decade has seen fundamental change in the retirement incomes
debate. An increasing awareness of changing demographic structures and the likely
impact of these on government outlays, increased longevity and higher expectations about
the standard of living of retirees have meant that we as a community have had to rethink
the way in which we provide for retirement.
Consequently, significant changes have occurred including the introduction of a minimum
pension standard expressed as a proportion of Average Weekly Earnings, the
introduction of award superannuation, the growth of major industry superannuation
funds, the establishment of a rollover market and a plethora of legislation concerning the
taxation treatment of superannuation. It was in the context of these changes that the
Senate established a select committee to inquire into and report on superannuation.
This first report of the Committee, Safeguarding Super, addresses those terms of
reference which have a direct bearing on the security of superannuation funds and the
need for such moneys to be invested in a way which maximises retirement savings. In this
context the Committee acknowledges the work of the Australian Law Reform
Commission (ALRC) in its recently published report on Collective Investments:
Superannuationand further acknowledges that an exchange of views and ideas took place
between the Commission and the Committee during the preparation of both reports.
The Committee heard evidence which has led it to conclude that, whilst there has been
a small number of superannuation fund failures, there does not appear to be widespread
malpractice in this industry. However, the Committee is conscious that increases in
superannuation savings will inevitably attract operators who will seek to use
superannuation moneys for their own use. The Committee was strongly of the view that
appropriate safeguards need to be put in place now to minimise the risk of fraud,
misappropriation and bad management practices.
This report defines those areas requiring attention and makes a number of
recommendations on the structure of the industry and its prudential framework. The
Committee is conscious that the costs and benefits of regulation need to be carefully
considered and fine judgements are often made on the optimal level of government
intervention. We think that the right balance has been struck in our recommendations.
It is the hope of the Committee that the recommendations contained in the report will
be the subject of informed public discussion on superannuation.
NICK SHERRY
CHAIR
June 1992


Front left to right:
Senators R. Alston (Deputy Chair) N. Sherry (Chair), S. West
Rear left to right:
Senators J. Watson, G Kemot and B. Childs.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Committee Members
Senator N Sherry Chair
Senator R Alston Deputy Chair
Senator B Childs
Senator C Kemot
Senator J Watson
Senator S West
Former Members of the Committee during this Inquiry:
Senator M Lees 13.08.92 - 17.10.91
Senator S Spindler 21.06.91 — 13.08.91
Secretariat Staff:
Mr R Gilbert
Ms L Curran
Mr M Game
Mr R Power
Miss H Hibbitt
Secretary:
Principal Research Officers:
Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
Tasmania
Victoria
New South Wales
Queensland
Tasmania
New South Wales
South Australia
Victoria
Telephone: (06) 277 3439




Contents:
Contents
Page
Preface i
Committee Photograph ii
Members of the Committee iii
Contents v
List of Abbreviations ix
Glossary xi
List of Recommendations xv
Chapter 1 Introduction 1
— Terms of Reference 1
— Conduct of the Inquiry 2
— Reporting Strategy 3
— Notation Used in this Report 3
Chapter 2 Retirement Incomes in Australia 5
• Pensions
- Historical Developments 5
— Ageing Population and Dependency Ratios 7
— Pension Outlays 8
- Current Age Pension Policy 8
• Superannuation
— A National Superannuation Scheme 9
— Award Superannuation 10
— Compulsory Employment Based Superannuation 13
— Superannuation Targets 14
— The Superannuation Industry 16
Openly Marketed Superannuation 17
Employmen t Based Superann ua tion 18
Master Trusts 18
Public Sector Superannuation 19
Industry Schemes 19
— The Growth and Composition of Superannuation Funds 19
— Conclusion 21


Chapter 3 Constitutional Arrangements 23
- The Problem 23
— The Current Regulatory Regime 23
- The Scope for Wider Powers 25
Towards Universal Superannuation Coverage 25
Increased Prudential Controls 26
- Longer Term Measures 27
Chapter 4 Regulation of Superannuation Funds 29
— What is Prudential Supervision? 30
— Current Arrangements 31
- Proposed New Framework 38
Regulator 38
Duties of Trustees 41
Powers of Regulator 43
Rights of Members 44
ATTACHMENT * 51
Chapter 5 Trustee Representation 57
— Member Representation 61
— Independent Trustees and Custodial Trustees 64
— Education 66
— Master Trusts 69
Chapter 6 Surpluses and Inactive Accounts 73
— Surpluses in Defined Benefit Funds 73
— Surpluses in Accumulation Schemes - Lost or Inactive
Members 81
Chapter 7 In-House Asset Rule 85
Chapter 8 Regulation of Fund Managers 89
— Entry Requirements 89
— Concentration of Funds Management Activities 93
- Role of Advisers 95
— Accountability to Trustees and Members 97


Chapter 9
Investment by Superannuation Funds
101
— Development and Venture Capital 105
— Infrastructure 107
— Conclusions Regarding Development Capital and
Infrastructure Investment 109
— Overseas Investment 110
- Housing 112
ATTACHMENT 115
Chapter 10 Institutional Competition 117
— Approved Deposit Funds and Deferred Annuities 117
- Bank Account Superannuation 120
— Pension and Annuity Providers 125
ATTACHMENT 132
Chapter 11 Dispute Resolution Mechanisms 135
— The Perceived Need 135
- Possible Models 137
Banking Industry Ombudsman 137
The LIFA Scheme 138
State Insurance Office - Victoria 139
The Law Reform Commission Proposal 139
State Government Schemes 139
Commercial Arbitration 140
The ASFA Proposal 140
— Dispute Minimisation and Resolution 140
- Internal Review 141
- External Review 142
MINORITY REPORT — Report by Senator Kemot on
Chapter 9 — Investment by
Superannuation Funds 145
Appendix 1 List of Submissions 151
Appendix 2 Witnesses Who Appeared Before the Committee 157
Appendix 3 Retirement Income Stream Account (RISA) 161




LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
List of Abbreviations
AAPBS
ABS
ACM
ACTU
ADF
AFCO
AIF
AIIM
AIRC
ALRC
AM
AMP
ARF
ASC
ASFA
ASX
ATO
AWE
AWU
BT
BUS
CFM
Corporations Law
County NatWest
CPI
DA
DAF
DIR
DSS
EPAC
ETP
GDP
HESTA
HOSTPLUS
IAA
IFA
IOOF
IOSCO
Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
Australian Bureau of Statistics
Australian Chamber of Manufacturers
Australian Council of Trade Unions
Approved Deposit Fund
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Australian Infrastructure Fund
Australian Infrastructure Investment Management
Australian Industrial Relations Commission
Australian Law Reform Commission
AM Corporation Ltd
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Australian Retirement Fund Pty Ltd (sponsoring
organisations are the Australian Chamber of Manufacturers
and the Australian Council of Trade Unions)
Australian Securities Commission
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Australian Stock Exchange Limited
Australian Taxation Office
Average Weekly Earnings
Australian Workers Union
Bankers' Trust Australia
Building Unions Superannuation Fund for employer bodies
and unions in the building industry, together with the
ACTU
Commonwealth Funds Management Ltd
The Corporations Law, set out in the Corporations Act 1989
County NatWest Australia Investment Management Limited
Consumer Price Index
Deferred Annuity
Development Australia Fund
Department of Industrial Relations
Department of Social Security
Economic Planning and Advisory Council
Eligible Termination Payment
Gross Domestic Product
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia which
administers the industry scheme for health employees
Host Plus Pty Ltd. It is the superannuation scheme for
persons in the hospitality and liquor industries
Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Investment Funds Association of Australia Limited
Independent Order of Odd Fellows of Victoria
International Organisation of Securities Commissions


IR&D Board
ISC
ITAA
Jacques Martin
LIA
LIFA
Mercers
MLC
MMBW
MTIA
NML
Noble Lowndes
OSS Regulations
OSSA
PST
RBA
RBL
REST
RISA
Rothschilds
SGL
STA
Tasplan
TCA
TPC
TPF&C
Westscheme
Industry Research and Development Board (Department of
Industry, Technology and Commerce)
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936
Jacques Martin Pty Ltd
Life Insurance Act 1945
Life Insurance Federation of Australia
William M Mercer Campbell Cook and Knight
MLC Ltd
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works
Metal Trades Industry Association
National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Limited
Noble Lowndes Superannuation and Consultants Limited
Regulations under the Occupational Superannuation
Standards Act 1987
Occupational Superannuation Standards Act 1987
Pooled Superannuation Trust
Reserve Bank of Australia
Reasonable Benefits Limit
Retail Employees Superannuation Trust (an industry
superannuation fund primarily for employees in the retail
and pharmacy industries)
Retirement Income Savings Accounts
Rothschild Australia Asset Management Limited
Superannuation Guarantee Levy
Superannuation Trust of Australia (whose Trustee is
Employer Union Superannuation Pty Ltd)
Tasplan Superannuation Fund for employees and employers
in the private sector in Tasmania
Trustee Companies Association of Australia
Trade Practices Commission
Towers Perrin Forster and Crosby, Inc
Westscheme Pty Ltd is the superannuation scheme for
employees and employers in the private sector in Western
Australia


GLOSSARY
Glossary
Accumulation Fund
Allocated Pension
Annuity
Approved Deposit Fund
(ADF)
Arms' Length
Award Based Contributions
(or Award Superannuation)
Beneficiary
Capital Guaranteed Fund
Capital Stable Fund
A superannuation plan where the employer and/or
employees contribute a set amount that accumulates
and earns income for the benefit of the members.
A pension where the member has his own account
against which pension payments are debited and to
which any investment earnings are credited. The
pension will continue until the death of the pensioner,
or until the account is exhausted. Upon death, any
balance remaining in the account is paid to a
designated beneficiary as a (taxable) lump sum
payment, or is applied to secure a further pension
payment to a surviving spouse.
A private pension for a fixed term or for life usually
bought with a member's Eligible Termination Payment
(ETP). An annuity can be bought so that regular
repayments are made back to the member in the form
of a pension.
A tax-effective method of investing a member's ETP.
The lump sum payment and the earnings on it remain
tax free while in the fund. An ADF has to be
withdrawn by age 65.
A term which refers to the relationship between the
employer company and the members of a
superannuation fund. If the members of the fund are
employees of the sponsoring company, an arms' length
fund is said to exist.
Contributions determined by an Industrial Tribunal
paid by the employer to a superannuation plan for all
eligible employees.
The person who receives the benefit from a
superannuation plan, annuity, pension, death or
disability insurance.
The original capital and sometimes declared
investment return are guaranteed.
These funds have slightly more risk than capital
guaranteed funds because, in addition to low risk fixed
interest assets, they often include investments in low
risk equities or shares.


Commutation
Deferred Annuity Fund
(DAF)
Defined Benefits Fund
Dependency Ratio
Eligible Termination
Payment (ETP)
Equities
Family Fund
Friendly Society
Fund Administrator
Fund Manager
In-House Asset
Lien
Term used to describe the process whereby one type
of superannuation benefit is commuted (changed) to
another type, for example conversion from a pension
to a lump sum.
Money held in an annuity until retirement, after which
regular payments are made to the member.
A superannuation fund that contracts to pay a
member a fixed or defined amount of money that is
linked to the salary level.
Proportion of non-workers (defined as those under 15
and over 65) to those of working age.
The lump sum paid to a member on retirement, job
termination or death. It includes superannuation
contributions and accrued sick leave, but not holiday
pay or long service leave. ETPs can be rolled over
into approved rollover funds (ADFs and DAFs).
Stocks and shares not bearing fixed interest.
A superannuation fund which is a non-arms' length
fund in which the members of the fund are owners of
the sponsoring business.
A society which by voluntary subscriptions provides for
the relief or maintenance of its members and their
families in sickness, old age, etc.
The person nominated by the fund trustees to receive
contributions and on their instructions make payments
to retirees and transfer assets to the fund manager for
investment.
The person nominated by fund trustees to invest
assets of a superannuation fund.
An investment made by a superannuation fund in the
company sponsoring the superannuation plan, that is,
the company which is employing the contributors to
the fund.
The right to hold property or to have it sold or
applied for payment of a claim.


Life Office
Life Policy
Lost Member
A firm which sells life insurance and other insurance
products, for example, life cover, superannuation
bonds, annuities and superannuation.
A contract of insurance agreed to when a person
purchases life insurance.
The classification given to a member of a
superannuation fund whose current postal address is
not available.
Lump Sum Benefit A benefit paid out in a single cash payment.
Master Trust A trust arrangement which allows a single trustee
appointed by the promoters of funds to administer
and manage the superannuation funds of a number of
employers.
Occupational Superannuation Pension or retirement benefit arising from an
employment contract.
Portability Allowing a superannuation plan to be transferred
from one fund (or one employer) to another.
Preservation Maintenance of a member's entitlements in a
superannuation fund until a specified minimum age
(usually at least 55).
Prudential Controls The measures instituted to supervise and control
activities in the superannuation industry to ensure the
security of contributor's funds.
Reasonable Benefits Limit The maximum limit on the amount a member can
(RBL) receive from superannuation, ADFs or DAFs, with
preferential taxation treatment. The limit can be
calculated from a member's highest average salary.
Repatriation of Surplus The act of transferring surplus assets in a
superannuation fund to the sponsoring employer.
Rollovers When a member changes jobs and takes an ETP from
a superannuation fund, ADF or DAF, this lump-sum
can be transferred to other schemes without losing the
tax advantage.
Securities
Financial instruments which are evidence of debt or of
property. Bonds, certificates of stock and shares are
documents which indicate the existence of a security.


Surplus
Superannuation Fund
Trust
Trust Deed
Trustee
Unfunded Superannuation
Vesting
Those assets of a superannuation fund that represents
the excess of accrued earnings and contributions over
the fund's accumulated liabilities.
Fund designed to produce retirement benefits for
members. To attract tax concessions, it must have
these characteristics: (a) be indefinitely continuing,
and (b) be maintained solely for following purposes:
provision of benefits for fund members, or for
dependants of each member in the event of death, or
any other purpose allowed by the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission in writing.
A fiduciary relationship in which one person (the
trustee) holds the title to property for the benefit of
another (the beneficiary).
Formal document setting out rules governing how a
fund operates.
The person or persons responsible for carrying out the
rules of a Trust Deed.
A superannuation plan where no fund has been
established but superannuation benefits have been
defined; and the employer meets the costs of benefits
as they arise.
The established entitlement of a member to his or her
own contributions to a superannuation fund, the
employer's contributions, and accrued interest.


LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS IN RELATION TO:
List of Recommendations
(Chapters 1 and 2 do not contain any recommendations)
- CONSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Recommendation 3.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government seek wider counsel on its powers
over superannuation and, following this, legislate directly for the regulation of
superannuation, relying on a combination of its constitutional powers over taxation,
corporations and pensions.
Recommendation 322:
The Committee recommends that the Government explore the possibility of obtaining
a referral by the states, either formal or de facto, of their power over superannuation.
- REGULATION OF SUPERANNUATION FUNDS:
Recommendation 4.1:
The Committee recommends that the ISC become the sole regulator of
superannuation products to give certainty and clarity to the operation of the industry.
However, the Committee acknowledges that the RBA and ASC may consider it
necessary to impose some additional requirements on institutions which fall within the
ambit of their regulatory responsibilities. If this is the case, there is clearly a need for
greater effective co-ordination between the regulatory authorities than occurs at
present.
The Committee recommends that the RBA, ISC, ASC and TPC liaise both formally
and informally on a regular basis.
Recommendation 4.2:
The Committee recommends that an independent review of ISC resources be carried
out following tabling of the Government's response to this report so that ISC resources
are compatible with its increased regulatory responsibilities. The Committee endorses
the 'user pays' concept as a means of supplementing budgetary allocations.
The review should include analysis of improvements required to procedures to ensure
that the ISC is able to provide figures on the superannuation industry for the previous
financial year at the time its Annual Report is tabled in Parliament. The Committee
believes that it is unacceptable that statistics produced by the ISC are up to four years
out of date.


Recommendation 43:
The Committee recommends that the Government introduce legislation to give a
greater degree of statutory independence to the ISC by appointing a panel of
commissioners with proven expertise in superannuation from a wide cross-section of
the community.
Recommendation 4.4:
The Committee recommends that the Occupational Superannuation Standards Act
(OSSA) be amended or replaced so that the duties and responsibilities of trustees and
directors of corporate trustees are clearly spelt out, including a duty:
• to maintain a diversified portfolio unless members advise to the contrary;
• to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity;
• to limit the level of in-house investment (see Chapter 7);
• to keep proper accounts;
• to ensure the equitable treatment of members of superannuation funds;
• to inform members about matters materially affecting the fund;
• to seek independent legal, auditing, and actuarial advice;
• to avoid conflicts of interest; and
• to be personally responsible for the administration of the trust.
To facilitate consumer understanding of trust deeds, the Committee recommends that
the legislation prescribe the wording of these provisions in trust deeds.
The Committee further recommends that neither the original trust documents nor any
amendment of them can authorise a departure from any of the statutory requirements.
Recommendation 43:
The Committee recommends that all trustees should be Australian residents and be
required to pass a 'fit and proper person' test analogous to that required under the
Corpora dons Law.
Recommendation 4.6:
The Committee recommends that legislation prescribe that an industry fidelity fund be
established to protect members in the event of fraud. Levies would be determined by
reference to size of assets.


Recommendation 4.7:
The Committee recommends that OSSA be amended or replaced so that:
• the ISC can impose a range of civil penalties and institute criminal proceedings
against trustees and directors of corporate trustees;
• the ISC has power to remove trustees and directors of corporate trustees and
appoint judicial managers where it suspects that trustees/directors are not
fulfilling their fiduciary obligations. Such powers would need to have
appropriate safeguards for individuals who were subsequently found to be
innocent of any wrong doing; and
• the ISC be given power to institute civil proceedings against trustees and
directors of corporate trustees on behalf of members.
Recommendation 4.&
The Committee recommends that sufficient resources be given to ISC staff retraining
development and recruitment so that it can discharge its increased responsibilities as
envisaged in this report.
Recommendation 4.9:
The Committee recommends that OSSA be amended or replaced so that the rights of
members are clearly identified in legislation including:
• the right to seek recovery of loss from trustees and directors of corporate
trustees;
• the right to information about financial statements, auditors and actuarial
reports, investment strategy and change in ownership of the corporate trustees;
• the right to information about proposed changes to the trust deed;
• the right of access to an alternative dispute resolution process; and
• the right for benefits to remain unencumbered, i.e. the employer cannot place a
lien over actual or emerging benefits.
Recommendation 4.10:
The Committee recommends that the ISC, in conjunction with union, employer and
industry groups, examine the practicalities of OSSA giving members the right to
requisition a meeting for the purpose of:
• giving directions to the trustees or directors of the corporate trustees which are
consistent with the terms of the deed; and
• removing the trustees or directors of the corporate trustee provided that any
trustees appointed subsequently maintain the requirement for equal
employer/employee representation.


Recommendation 4.11:
The Committee recommends that:
• OSSA be amended to require the fund's auditor to be independent of the
sponsoring employer(s), union (s) or promoter;
• A Board of Superannuation Auditors be established and that only auditors
registered with the Board be able to sign the audit certificates on
superannuation funds' annual returns;
• registered superannuation auditors be required to audit anti-fraud internal
controls within the fund and report to members on the fund's procedures for:
— regular reconciliation of accounts
— regular supply of statements from investment managers
— checks on benefit entitlements, proof of identity etc. before benefits are
made
— authorisation of payments to members, investment managers and
creditors
— custody procedures for share certificates, bonds and stocks etc.
— signatory procedures;
• where the registered superannuation auditor believes internal controls are
inadequate, the auditor be required to advise the ISC if the scheme has failed
to take action to rectify deficiencies identified in the audit within two months;
• registered superannuation auditors be required to report on the assets and
liabilities of superannuation plans, including the level of in-house assets and if
the fund is a defined benefit fund, whether the fund is underfunded and/or its
capacity to meet promised benefits;
• registered superannuation auditors be given powers to audit the decision
making process of the fund's investment managers for the selection of asset
categories, sectors and securities;
• registered superannuation auditors be required to advise the ISC of any
qualified finding on the superannuation scheme; and
• relevant details of the actuarial report be incorporated in the audit report
following each actuarial review.
Recommendation 4.12:
The Committee recommends that high priority be attached to the ISC developing an
effective random audit program.
Recommendation 4.13:
The ISC should be required to create and maintain a national database along the lines
of the ASC companies database so that the financial press and industry experts can
report independently on superannuation funds with arms' length members; that is,
funds with five or more members. The information available on the database should
include:


• financial information;
• names of trustees, fund managers, fund administrators, auditors and other
advisers;
• proposed amendments to trust deeds;
• proposed repatriation of surpluses;
• performance against benchmarks.
The Committee recommends that financial information on the database should be
available within six months of the end of the financial year or at the time the
information is made available to members if this is earlier.
- TRUSTEE REPRESENTATION:
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends that the requirement for equal employer/employee
representation should apply to all funds with arms' length members; that is, funds with
five or more members.
Recommendation 5-2:
The Committee recommends that a list of persons willing to serve as trustees be
maintained by the ISC which would be authorised to provide both employee and
employer groups with details of the list to assist in the selection of trustees.
The Committee further recommends that in the event that employer or employee
groups were unable to agree on a mechanism for selection of their nominees, the ISC
be given arbitration powers (provided the matter is not under consideration by the
AIRC) and that the ISCs determination be binding on all parties. Where such
determinations are made by the ISC, they should operate for a period no longer than
three years.
Recommendation 53:
The Committee recommends that employer-sponsored and industry funds have no
mandatory requirements for independent trustees and that this be left to individual
funds. However, to lessen the possibility that trustees could be pressured or coerced by
particular interests associated with the fund, the Committee recommends that trustees
be provided with legislative protection against action which would unfairly disadvantage
them. For member trustees, this would include protection against unfair dismissal and
discrimination in career advancement.
Recommendation 5.4:
The Committee believes that trustee education is essential for the long term viability
of the industry and recommends that such education be given high priority by both the
Government and the industry. Recognising that the structure of the superannuation
industry is still evolving, particularly with respect to trustee representation, the
Committee recommends that prescribed courses and training should not apply for the
time being.
The Committee further recommends that the ISC should require details of the
educational qualifications and/or superannuation-specific training or experience of


persons nominated as trustees. If the educational qualifications or superannuation-
specific experience of trustees as monitored by the ISC have not shown significant
improvement after three years, compulsory education standards should apply. The
Committee commends the establishment of the Australian Institute of Superannuation
Trustees Inc, and recommends that nationally accredited courses in superannuation be
available in all states within five years.
Recommendation 5J>:
The Committee recommends that all master trust arrangements, including those
offered by life offices, be required to have an independent public trustee.
Recommendation 5.6:
The Committee recommends that each individual plan or sub-plan with arms' length
members in master trust arrangements be required to have a policy committee
comprising equal representatives of employers and employees to advise the trustee.
Recommendation 5.7:
The Committee recommends that Regulation 13(e) of the OSS Regulations be
amended to require all plans nominated in industrial awards to have equal
employer/employee representation.
- SURPLUSES AND INACTIVE ACCOUNTS:
Recommendation 61:
The Committee recommends that the Government conducts an investigation to
determine whether surpluses are being used for the purposes that are intended; that is,
to act as a reserve against investment fluctuations. Following this review, the
Committee recommends that the Government re-examine the 1995 timetable for
removing the tax deductibility to the fund of a repatriation of surplus to the employer.
Recommendation 62:
The Committee recommends that OSSA be amended so that for defined benefit
schemes:
• all trust deeds be required to include clauses outlining the methods by which a
surplus can be repatriated to the sponsoring employer, and that any changes
required to give effect to this requirement be submitted to members for
approval beforehand;
• members be given at least three months' prior notice before a surplus is
repatriated;
• members must be supplied with a summary when such notice is given which
includes the financial status of the fund, including the accrued retirement
benefits index;


• members upon request are entitled to a copy of the original trust deed and all
amendments and dates of amendments up to the date of the proposed or
actual repatriation of any surplus or transfer;
• a minimum funding standard be satisfied immediately after repatriation — this
minimum standard to be at least 110% of accrued retirement benefits;
• the amount of surplus that can be held in a fund is restricted — the level to be
an amount not more than 20 per cent of the liabilities of the fund; and
• where members are to be transferred from one scheme to another, members
must be advised of the clause(s) in the deed under which the transfer is being
effected;
• where members are to be transferred from one scheme to another, that
members be given two months' prior notice so that they have adequate time to
seek advice on the implications of the transfer.
Recommendation 63:
The Committee recommends that the fund's actuary be required to report on the level
of employee and employer contributions in the context of members' RBLs.
Recommendation 6.4:
The Committee recommends that the Government investigate the nature and extent
of reserves in accumulation schemes and whether reserves are being maintained for
their proper purposes. The Committee further recommends that the status of reserves
in accumulation schemes be clarified in the OSS Regulations.
Recommendation 65:
The Committee recommends that:
• a central fund be established for lost member accounts so that all funds can be
swept periodically, say every six or 12 months, in order that administration
charges on such accounts be minimised;
• the accounts could be identified either by tax file numbers or by a
superannuation number;
• an appropriate Commonwealth agency should tender out the administration of
such a fund on a fee for service basis, on a long term contract (for example,
five years) and that arrangements be made with the Australian Tax Office so
that information on the balance of the account could be forwarded to
individuals; and
• where the person is in irregular employment or changes employment frequently,
the person should have the option of rolling over contributions in the central
fund into an appropriate industry or employer scheme.


- IN HOUSE ASSET RULE
Recommendation 7.1:
The Committee recommends that funds which do not have arms' length members be
subject to the same rules as other funds. The Committee considers that to do
otherwise would provide scope for tax avoidance.
Recommendation 72:
The Committee recommends that the in-house assets rule be reduced from ten per
cent to five percent.
- REGULATION OF FUND MANAGERS:
Recommendation 81:
The Committee recommends that trustees who act as investment managers of
superannuation funds be required to have a dealers licence. It is intended that such
licensing requirements would operate in conjunction with entry requirements for
trustees as outlined in Chapter 4. Trustees whose only investments were bank deposits
would be exempt from the dealers licence requirements.
Recommendation 82:
The Committee recommends that a 'fit and proper person' test be introduced to all
investment managers similar analogous to the conditions under the Life Insurance Act
(LIA). The Committee further recommends that the need for capital adequacy be
examined by the ISC and ASC. The Committee considers that a minimum level of
capital adequacy expressed as some percentage of cash flow is desirable for funds
managers, as are minimum educational qualifications, but is anxious that any such
controls do not discourage niche marketing and that Australian practice is consistent
with that overseas.
The Committee further recommends that the need for formal industry-specific
educational qualifications be examined by the ISC and the ASC and investment
competency measures, similar to dealers licensing requirements, be considered by the
ISC in its review of the Life Insurance Act.
Recommendation 83:
The Committee recommends that the TPC monitor the funds management industry to
ensure that it remains open and competitive.
Recommendation 84:
The Committee considers that the 'bundling of services by the actuarial firms warrants
further examination by the ISC and TPC, particularly as actuarial advisers to
superannuation funds are not subject to any regulatory oversight.


Recommendation &5:
The Committee supports legislation requiring trustees to establish investment targets
and for investment managers to report against those targets. The Committee
recommends that trustees be able to seek compensation from fund managers where
the latter have failed to fulfil the conditions of the management contract.
Recommendation &6:
The Committee recommends that the ISC, the Institute of Actuaries, the Australian
Institute of Trustees Inc and other professional bodies devote resources to improving
public awareness of long term returns, as well as improving the ability of funds
managers to focus on those long term returns.
The Committee further recommends that trustees be required to explain to members
the strategies being employed to achieve a real rate of return over a given period,
preferably at least five years.
- INVESTMENT BY SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
Recommendation 9.1:
Given the attractiveness of infrastructure investment for superannuation funds, the
Committee recommends that the anomalies in the Income Tax Assessment Act
(TTAA) which discourage investment in infrastructure by superannuation funds be
removed.
Recommendation 92:
The Committee recommends that no investment controls be placed on superannuation
funds to compel them to invest in particular areas such as development or venture
capital or infrastructure.
The Committee further recommends that trustees should have to report to members
and to the ISC on investments in new asset classes such as development and venture
capital and infrastructure investment.
Recommendation 93:
The Committee recommends that the issue of directing investment of superannuation
moneys be re-examined by an appropriate Senate Committee within three years.
Recommendation 9.4:
The Committee recommends that no special restrictions be placed on superannuation
funds investing overseas.


- INSTITUTIONAL COMPETITION:
Recommendation 10.1:
The Committee recommends that the existing legislative differences between ADFs
and superannuation funds be removed.
Recommendation 10.2:
The Committee supports the entry of new entrants into the superannuation industry as
this will widen consumer choice and introduce more competition to the industry.
The Committee recommends that cross-subsidisation of the administration costs of
bank superannuation products and other banks products be legislatively prohibited
under the Banking Act and that this be monitored by the Reserve Bank.
The Committee further recommends that legislation require consumers to be
adequately informed about the implications of a low risk profile for bank account
superannuation in terms of retirement benefits, and that the ISC and the industry
conduct an education campaign to explain to consumers the importance of risky assets
in an investment portfolio.
Recommendation 103:
The Committee recommends that the annuity market be opened up to firms of
sufficient size and financial strength. Such funds would be required to meet special
solvency and reporting requirements as evidence of their ability to provide indexed
income streams.
Recommendation 10.4:
The Committee recommends that the Government introduce legislation to regulate the
provision of allocated pensions and other flexible retirement income products as soon
as possible.
The Committee further recommends that unit trust arrangements meeting solvency
and reporting requirements be allowed to offer term-certain annuities.
The Committee notes that if the Government does not address broader socio-economic
issues in this context, such as the preservation age, there could be a substantial cost to
revenue from such arrangements.
- DISPUTE RESOLUTION MECHANISMS:
Recommendation 11.1:
The Committee recommends that the ISC produce simply worded, descriptive
literature on superannuation, suitable for distribution to all existing and prospective
fund members through the individual funds.


Recommendation 11.2:
The Committee recommends that, as a matter of high priority, the OSS Regulations be
amended to require that, as a condition of compliance, each fund should:
• develop and publish its policies relating to dispute resolution;
• nominate a person or persons to whom queries and complaints should be
addressed;
• undertake that, if that person cannot resolve the matter, it will be referred to
the trustees, who should be required to make a decision within 90 days of
referral to them and to provide reasons for that decision in writing; and
• notify full particulars of these procedures to members on entry and annually
thereafter.
Recommendation 113:
The Committee further recommends that these provisions should be fully implemented
within two years of their promulgation and that the ISC should monitor their
introduction and operation.
Recommendation 11.4:
The Committee recommends the establishment by legislation of an external disputes
resolution mechanism, at the earliest practicable date, with the following features:
• a management board comprising nominees of the Commonwealth and
participating state governments, industry bodies and representatives of the
unions, women's and consumer groups;
• a review authority chaired by an ombudsman, who would sit with two other
members drawn from a panel of fund trustees and other people with
appropriate experience. The ombudsman and panel members would be
appointed by the Minister from names submitted by the board;
• staff and supporting facilities arranged by the board and financed equally by
participating governments and industry groups;
• the functions of the existing superannuation review mechanisms conducted by
LIFA and the participating states to be transferred to the new authority;
• the authority should not have power to review cases on their merits but should
be confined to ensuring that the trustees' powers have been exercised properly
and that all relevant evidence has been considered;
• decisions of the authority would be final and binding on all parties; and
• the ombudsman and the management board should publish annual reports.




CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION
Introduction
Terms of Reference
1.1 On 5 June 1991 the Senate established a Select Committee on Superannuation to
inquire into, and report on, the following matters:
(a) the constitutional arrangements governing superannuation;
(b) the taxation arrangements which apply to superannuation;
(c) the adequacy of prudential control arrangements applying to superannuation
funds;
(d) the implications for the financial system of the expected growth in
superannuation fund assets;
(e) the investment of moneys by superannuation funds;
(f) the ownership of surpluses in defined benefit superannuation funds;
(g) the level and structure of fees and commissions charged in relation to
superannuation fund membership and asset management;
(h) the information available to members of superannuation funds;
(i) the representation of fund members in trustee structures of superannuation
funds;
(j) the dispute resolution mechanisms available to members of superannuation
funds;
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting and preservation of benefits;
(l) the appropriate means of providing adequate superannuation for part time and
casual employees and the feasibility of providing superannuation for people
outside the workforce;
(m) the rate of employer non-compliance with superannuation awards;
(n) the possibilities for simplifying superannuation;
(o) the feasibility of providing improved benefits to superannuation arrangements in
lieu of increased contributions under superannuation awards in appropriate
circumstances;
(p) the need for an appropriate target and timetable for the achievement of adequate
levels of superannuation; and
(q) any other relevant matters, including superannuation arrangements existing in
other countries.


Safeguarding Super - June 1992
Conduct of the Inquiry
1.2 The Committee commenced its inquiry by placing advertisements in daily
newspapers in each capital city calling for written submissions. In addition, the
Committee made contact with the major industry organisations associated with
superannuation inviting their participation. Letters were written to each of the State
premiers and Territory chief ministers and relevant Commonwealth ministers seeking
their participation.
1.3 During the period August 1991 - May 1992, over 200 written submissions (listed
in Appendix 1) totalling more than 3 000 pages of evidence were received. With the
exception of a very small number which contained possibly adverse or irrelevant evidence,
the Committee published all submissions on receipt. This approach assisted in keeping
its work at the forefront of public debate and allowed witnesses to have the benefit of
access to the views of other witnesses prior to appearing at the inquiry.
1.4 The Committee made a decision not to hear any oral evidence until it had
received almost all of its written submissions and had had the opportunity to consider in
private sittings some of the complex issues which underpin retirement incomes policy.
Consequently, during October-November 1991 a series of technical briefing sessions were
convened which were addressed by senior public servants, members of key professional
bodies associated with superannuation and Committee secretariat staff. This aspect of the
inquiry greatly assisted Committee members in understanding and appreciating many of
the issues which arose in both oral and written evidence.
1.5 Public hearings, on 24 separate occasions, were conducted in Canberra, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide and Hobart during the period 10 February 1992
to 3 June 1992. The transcript of evidence for these hearings includes oral submissions
from over 200 witnesses drawn from the public and private sectors, professional bodies,
community and welfare groups as well as individuals (listed in Appendix 2). Over 2 500
pages of oral evidence was recorded by Hansard. Again, in keeping with the Committee's
stance of releasing evidence to promote public debate, uncorrected Hansard transcripts
were circulated with the proviso that any re-publication be accompanied by an
acknowledgment of their status as uncorrected proofs.
1.6 In conducting its inquiry, the Committee did not set out to pursue individuals or
organisations with the intention of finding instances of maladministration,
misappropriation or fraud. Instead, where pursued, such lines of inquiry were embarked
upon with a view to making recommendations to improve the regulatory infrastructure
which governs the administration and investment of superannuation funds.
1.7 The resolution establishing the Committee required that it report to the Senate
on or before the last day of sitting in May 1992 but that it have leave to report from time
to time on its proceedings and evidence taken, along with making any such interim
recommendations as it may deem fit. In this regard, on 9 December 1991, the Committee
Chair tabled in the Senate a background paper entitled Super System Survey — A
Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in Twenty-One Countries, which
principally addressed term of reference (q), and briefly reported on the progress of the
inquiry.


1.8 On 25 March 1992, following the public hearings convened in Perth, the Chair
tabled a letter to the Treasurer and relevant transcripts of proceedings which expressed
the Committee's concerns about the affairs of the Byrnwood Superannuation Fund. The
Chair also took the opportunity to give another brief report on the progress of the
inquiry.
1.9 The volume and complexity of evidence under consideration by the Committee
presented it with considerable difficulties in meeting its reporting deadline. This problem
was compounded when, on 4 May 1992, the Senate referred to the Committee, with
another tight reporting deadline, the Superannuation Guarantee Bills. It was with these
considerations in mind that the Committee sought the agreement of the Senate to extend
its time of reporting.
1.10 With the Senate's concurrence, the Committee's reporting schedule is as follows:
Reporting Strategy
(i) present a report on regulatory issues which addresses terms of reference
(a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (h), (i) and (j) to be tabled before the Senate
concludes its 1992 Autumn sittings;
(ii) present a report on or before 17 June 1992 on the Superannuation
Guarantee Bills which addresses terms of reference (1), (m), (o) and (p);
and
(iii) present a report on or before 10 September 1992 which addresses those
terms of reference and other relevant matters not covered in previous
reports, that is, terms of reference (b), (g), (k), (n) and (q). This report will
focus on consumer issues, simplification of superannuation, the interaction
between superannuation and the social security system and other matters
not addressed in earlier reports.
1.11 The Committee acknowledges and records its thanks to those individuals and
organisations who assisted the inquiry by making written and/or oral submissions. The
Committee also acknowledges its use of material contained in a previous Senate report
on retirement incomes entitled Income Support for the Retired and the Aged - An
Agenda for Reform which was tabled by the Standing Committee on Community Affairs
in August 1988.
Notation Used in this Report
1.12 This report refers to written and oral evidence taken at both the Committee's on-
going inquiry into superannuation issues and its specific inquiry into the Superannuation
Guarantee Bills. In order to clarify which inquiry is being referred to, the Committee
adopted the following practice:
• written submissions to the on-going (or general) inquiry are referred to as 'Sub
No. xx';


• written submissions to the inquiry into the Superannuation Guarantee Bills are
referred to as 'SG Sub No. xx' (SG standing for 'superannuation guarantee');
• oral evidence to the general inquiry (recorded in the uncorrected proof copy of
Hansard) appears as 'Evidence, p xx'; and
• oral evidence to the inquiry into the Superannuation Guarantee Bills (recorded
in the uncorrected proof copy of Hansard) appears as 'SG Evidence, p xx'.


CHAPTER 2
RETIREMENT INCOMES IN AUSTRALIA
Retirement Incomes in Australia
2.1 The retirement incomes policy which operates in Australia has two components:
the provision by government of an age pension funded from consolidated revenue and
private superannuation plans supported by taxation concessions. There has also been a
small group of retirees who have relied on investments not supported by superannuation
tax concessions. For most of Australia's history since 1908, the emphasis in the area of
retirement incomes has been on the age pension. Recently, however, demographic, social
and economic forces have given superannuation a greater prominence, and underpin the
decision of the Senate to establish a committee to inquire into superannuation.
PENSIONS
Historical Developments
2.2 A Commonwealth Government funded age pension was introduced in 1909
following the enactment of legislation in 1908 based on section 51 (xxiii) of the
Constitution, which allows the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to invalid and
old age pensions. This initiative superseded pension schemes which had been established
as early as 1900 in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2.3 With the exception of the 1970s, for most of the period since 1909 the pension has
been granted on the basis of need established by a means test which has been used to
limit the availability of the benefit and to ensure that it is granted on the basis of genuine
need.
2.4 Between 1920 and 1970, age pension coverage increased from 32 per cent to
60 per cent of the eligible population. During the 1970s, significant liberalisation of the
means test occurred and following a number of reforms, age pension coverage peaked
in 1978 at almost 78 per cent. In 1980 those in receipt of service, widow, invalidity and
aged pensions accounted for 87 per cent of the eligible age group. \ Table 2.1 shows the
trends in pension coverage for 1971-91. Liberalisation of the means test in the 1970s
resulted in over 87 per cent of the population of pension age receiving a pension in some
form (i.e. service, widow, invalidity or aged pension). Further changes to the means test
have reduced the level of coverage to 75.6 per cent.
Statistics Section, DSS Social Security Pensioners and Beneficiaries as a Proportion
of the Population and Labour Force, Canberra 1992.


Table 2.1
PENSION COVERAGE 1971-91
(Recipients of Service, Widow, Invalidity & Aged Pensions)
Source: Statistics Section, Department of Social Security, Canberra
2.5 A major government initiative in the development of a retirement incomes policy
to address the medium and long term needs of an ageing population occurred in 1989
with the release of the Better Incomes: Retirement into the Next Century statement,
which endorsed the key conclusions of the Cass Review of the social security system, viz:
• any major changes in retirement income policy need to be gradual in
view of the long term expectations, plans and commitments involved;
• the aged pension should remain the cornerstone of equity and adequacy
in the retirement income system;
• improvements in arrangements for retirement income will need to occur
within the context of the present age pension and superannuation
systems;
• incentives to work and incentives to save must be maintained and
improved; and
• arrangements should be as simple as possible, consistent with the need
for equity and effectiveness?
Minister for Social Security Better Incomes: Retirement Income Policy in the Next
Century 1989. AGPS, p 17.


Ageing Population and Dependency Ratios
2.6 The Better Incomes Statement expressed a commitment to 'maintain the age
pension as an adequate base level of income for older people'3 but went on to state that
persons retiring in the future would require a standard of living consistent with that
experienced whilst in the workforce. The statement also signalled that one of the real
challenges facing governments would be the retirement income needs of an ageing
population. The Department of Social Security (DSS) submission4 to the inquiry stated
that, as the large post war baby boom generation begins to reach age pension age in 20
years' time, there will be around 4.1 million people aged 65 and over, or 17 per cent of
the projected population. In the year 2031 these figures will rise to 5.2 million people or
around 20.1 per cent of the projected population. This compares with around 11 per cent
today, or 1.9 million people.
2.7 In a number of submissions, reference was made to aged 'dependency ratios', that
is, the ratio of labour force participants to aged persons. A more complete picture of
dependency can be given by using a total dependency ratio, which recognises that
children, the disabled and the middle-aged who are adult care givers experience very
limited labour force participation. Crude dependency ratios (those which take into
account children and aged persons only) express the number of dependent persons per
100 members of the labour force and give a different view of the ageing population issue.
They show that the ageing of the population is offset somewhat by a declining
dependency on the part of the younger population. Table 2.2s shows Australia's position
relative to other selected industrialised countries for 1980, 2000 and 2025. Whilst
Australia's crude dependency rate is less than some of its overseas counterparts, it will
increase significantly and present a major challenge to retirement incomes policy makers.
2.8 The challenge of an ageing society was taken up by the Jones Committee in its
recent report on expectations of life into the 21st century6. Whilst that Committee's
report down-played the ageing population problem, it found that the dependent elderly
make heavy demands on the social welfare and health system and that, unlike the costs
of caring for children, a small proportion only of the costs is met from private sources.
2.9 Other commentators7 suggest that dependency ratios are limited because they do
not take into account the differential expenditure levels of the very old and the very
young, economic growth and changing expectations regarding an adequate level of
retirement income.
3
ibid p 3.
Sub No. 127, pp 2-4.
J H Schultz et al, Economics of Population Ageing 1991, Auburn House NY. pp
71-76.
Report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee for Long Term
Strategies Expectations of Life Canberra, AGPS, 1992, p 61.
opcit Schultz et al, p 3.
7


Table 2.2
Total Crude Dependency Ratios for Selected Industrialised Countries, 1980-2025
Source: United Nations, Department of International Economic and Social Affairs,
1985. Periodical on Ageing: 1984. Vol. 1, No. 1. New York: United Nations.
Notes:
(i) The total crude dependency ratio is the number of 'dependent'nersons per
100 persons of labor-force age and equals l3£es 0-14] + (ages pO + ) x jqq
ages 15-59
(ii) Countries are ranked by 1980 total dependency ratio.
Pension Outlays
2.10 The Economic Planning and Advisory Council (EPAC)8 estimated that age
pension outlays will increase from 2.8 per cent of GDP in 1985 to 4.5 per cent in 2025
if age pensions as they are presently structured increase in line with movements in
average weekly earnings. DSS analysis of the ageing population issue also indicates that
the national pension bill will increase considerably. Its projections show that age pension
outlays will grow from 2.5 per cent in 1991 to around 5.1 per cent in 2031 if the single
pension is maintained at or around 25 per cent of average weekly earnings9.
Current Age Pension Policy
2.11 Current government policy provides age pensions to people who have reached the
age of 65 for men and 60 for women, subject to residency and income and assets tests.
Pensions are also paid to the spouses and eligible carers of age pensioners10. The
standard pension has been set at or above a level of 25 per cent of average weekly
earnings and is indexed twice yearly according to movements in the Consumer Price
Index.
Sub No. 127, p 3.
ibid.
DSS Annual Report 1990 — 1991, p 81.
10


2.12 At 30 June 1991 there were 1.41 million persons in receipt of the age pension.
The Commonwealth anticipated spending $10.36 billion on age pensions in 1991-92. To
these figures should be added service pensioners in receipt of a total of $2.34 billion,
resulting in overall pension outlays of $12.06 billion.
2.13 Unlike most other OECD countries, Australia does not require that retirees take
retirement benefits in pension form. In recent years the Government has sought to
encourage benefits in this form by having a higher Reasonable Benefit Limit (RBL) for
people who take at least half their superannuation benefit as lifetime non-commutable
indexed pensions or annuities.11
2.14 One of the problems of this policy which has been the subject of considerable
attention during the Committee's hearings is the practice of 'double dipping'. Double
dipping involves taking a superannuation lump sum which has received significant tax
concessions, consuming it rapidly and then receiving an age pension. Whilst the evidence
given to the Committee was largely anecdotal and not based on any systematic
longitudinal data, 'double dipping' is common in Australia.12 It was submitted, however,
that there are legitimate uses for lump sums other than purchasing an income stream,
for example, paying out mortgages and other debts. Double dipping is facilitated by the
preservation age for superannuation benefits being set at a lower age than the age
pension age for men (65 years) and women (60 years). It is this policy scenario which
allows some retirees who retire before the pensionable age to spend their lump sums and
at a later stage become eligible for the full pension13 or a greater pension benefit than
would have been available had the lump sum not been dissipated.
2.15 Retirees who take superannuation benefits not subject to compulsory preservation
age before age 55 have them taxed at significantly higher rates. Award superannuation
contributions and contributions for which tax deductions are allowed are subject to
preservation. However, compulsorily preserved benefits can be accessed under the
hardship provisions of the Occupational Superannuation Standards Act (OSSA), taxed at
a pre 55 years rate and used for purposes other than retirement. These issues will be
examined in detail in the Committee's third report.
SUPERANNUATION
A National Superannuation Scheme
2.16 There have been a number of attempts to replace the non-contributory pension
with a national superannuation scheme funded by earnings-based contributions from all
employees and/or levies on employers. The first general initiative occurred in the period
1909-39 and was given impetus by the movement towards national superannuation
schemes in Europe, where a number of countries were already providing compulsory
pensions funded by both individual and government contributions.
Sub No. 195, p 35.
Sub No. 127, pp 14-15.
ibid.
13


2.17 During this period three governments, all of them comprising non-Labor party
coalitions, mooted and/or passed laws to replace the non-contributory age pension. The
culmination of these initiatives was the passing of the National Health and Pensions
Insurance Act 1938which provided for flat rate benefits funded by flat rate contributions
by both employers and employees as from 1939. However, the difficult economic
conditions and the onset of the Second World War resulted in the legislation not being
implemented.
2.18 During World War II, Labor governments embraced the concept of national
superannuation. The National Welfare Fund, established in 1943 by the Curtin
Government, was designed to finance pension benefits and provide a base from which
future payments could be made but had as its initial objective the financing of the war
effort.
2.19 In 1945 the Chifley Government introduced an additional levy on personal income
tax which, along with a payroll tax from employers, was credited to the National Welfare
Fund. There was, however, no direct link between contributions and benefits and the
pension continued to be allocated on the basis of the means test. The National Welfare
Fund, whilst established as a means of establishing a base from which a national
superannuation fund could be operated, was in practice merely an accounting device until
its abolition in 1985.
2.20 Further attempts to institute a national superannuation scheme were made in 1973
when the National Superannuation Inquiry, chaired by Professor K.J. Hancock, by
majority made recommendations to the Whitlam Government which were subsequently
submitted to the Fraser Government and rejected in 1979.
Award Superannuation
2.21 The first formal development in occupational superannuation in Australia is
believed to have occurred in 1862 when the Bank of New South Wales introduced a
pension scheme for its employees. Other advances in occupational superannuation
occurred when public sector schemes for State and Commonwealth employees were
introduced as early as 1884, in the case of NSW, and the first Commonwealth scheme
was set up in 1922. Commonwealth involvement in encouraging employment-based
superannuation in the private sector commenced in 1915 when legislation was passed
allowing employers to deduct superannuation contributions against assessable income.
There occurred some growth in this type of superannuation but it did not become
widespread in the white collar workforce until the post-World War 2 period.
2.22 The first survey of superannuation coverage conducted by the Australian Bureau
of Statistics (ABS) in 1974 revealed that 32 per cent of all employees were covered. The
next set of survey data published in 1979 saw this figure rise to 43 per cent. Figure 2.1
shows the relative growth of superannuation coverage for full and part-time employees
from 1983 to 1991.


Source: ABS (Cat. No. 6344.0) - Graph courtesy of Statistics Group, Parliamentary
Library.
2.23 ABS data14 on the pattern of superannuation coverage by sex, industry and
nature of employment (whether full or part-time) reveals marked differences in the
spread of superannuation. For example, highest overall levels of coverage have been
achieved in public administration and defence (90 per cent), communications (92 per
cent), electricity and water (94 per cent) whereas the lowest levels of coverage were
recorded in recreation, personal and other services (47.1 per cent), agriculture, fishing,
forestry and hunting (52 per cent) and construction (61.2 per cent).
2.24 Superannuation coverage by gender data shows that female coverage has
increased from 26.3 per cent in 1979 (this figure reflected full-time employment only) to
78.5 per cent (full and part-time data) in 1991 which is two percentage points less than
male coverage. The part-time — full-time 1991 coverage data indicates that full-time
workers (80 per cent) are twice as likely to have superannuation coverage compared to
their part-time counterparts (42.3 per cent).15 ,
14
15
ABS Employment Benefits Australia, July 1991.
ibid


2.25 Occupational status also appears to be an aspect of coverage in which significant
differences prevail. For example, ABS data16 shows that 97.5 per cent of managers and
administrators, and 94 per cent of professionals have superannuation coverage. However,
only 55 per cent of sales persons are covered. Figure 2.2 shows the relative coverage of
superannuation by occupational status.
Source: Employment Benefit Australia, July 1991, ABS (Cat. No. 6334.0) -
Graph courtesy Statistics Group - Parliamentary Library.
2.26 A key development in moves to increase significantly the level of coverage of
superannuation occurred in 1986 when the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
was successful in having the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission (the Commission)
decide that it would formally approve agreements between employers and employees
relating to contributions to approved superannuation funds resulting from wage increases
up to a maximum of 3 per cent. However, the Commission at that juncture was not
prepared to arbitrate on superannuation awards.
2.27 There followed a decision in 1987 under which the (now) Australian Industrial
Relations Commission (AIRC), in addition to certifying agreements and making consent
awards (in cases of last resort), announced it would arbitrate on superannuation matters
including disputes about the funds into which contributions should be paid. Following the
16
ibid.


decisions of the Commission and the AIRC, superannuation has become an integral
feature of almost all of the awards of the AIRC and the relevant State tribunals, and
coverage has been extended to over 70 per cent of awards including 90 per cent of
employees subject to a federal award17. In addition, there is a significant number of
employees who are not covered by award superannuation but are in receipt of retirement
income benefits from their employer.
2.28 The 1990-91 wage case included a claim by the ACTU, supported by the
Government, for a further three per cent round of award contributions to
superannuation. In April 1991 the AIRC adjourned the superannuation claim and
requested that the Commonwealth Government convene a national conference on
superannuation involving all relevant parties. Instead, the Government announced that
it would instead pursue compulsory superannuation coverage by passing legislation. The
Committee notes that the business community has made requests of the Government to
convene a national conference on superannuation and that this opportunity has not been
taken up.
Compulsory Employment Based Superannuation
2.29 In the August 1991 Budget, the Treasurer foreshadowed the Government's
intention of introducing a Superannuation Guarantee Levy (SGL) commencing on 1 July
1992. In December 1991, the Treasurer issued a paper on the levy which stated that it
would facilitate:
• a major extension of superannuation coverage to employees not
currently covered by award superannuation;
• an efficient method of encouraging employers to comply with their
obligation to provide superannuation to employees; and
• an orderly mechanism by which the level of employer
superannuation support can be increased over time, consistent with
retirement income policy objectives and the economy's capacity to
paf.
2.30 As stated above, the SGL is designed to address inter alia the problem of non-
compliance. Evidence given to the Committee by the Department of Industrial Relations
(DIR)19 was that, out of 2 880 000 private sector employees covered by awards,
approximately 2 050 000 were actually receiving award superannuation. The expressed
reasons for non-compliance, the monetary value of which is estimated to be accruing at
a rate of $700 million per year, are threefold. First, and most significant according to
DIR, is basic employer ignorance about the fact that an obligation exists. Second, there
is a group of employers who understand that an obligation exists but are unable to come
DIR Sub No. 81, p 10.
Superannuation Guarantee Levy Paper, December 1991.
Sub No. 81. Additional evidence of 1 May 1992, pp 2-3.
19


to grips with its complexities and therefore do not meet their obligations.20 Third, there
is a group of employers who are aware of the obligation and its provisions but elect not
to comply with the relevant award/s. The Committee only knows of one survey which has
been carried out on non-compliance (the DIR Survey) and therefore it was not able to
reach a conclusive view on the reasons for this problem. A number of employer
organisations contested the findings, saying that the capacity to pay was an issue for firms
in financial difficulties. A further reason for non-compliance, given by one employer body,
is the reluctance of some employers to contribute to a superannuation fund which has
been nominated by a wage tribunal and which may not be the fund preferred by the
employer or employee.21
2.31 The Government stated that the SGL will increase breadth of coverage by
encouraging employers to provide a minimum level of superannuation set initially at
three per cent for small business with payrolls of less than $500 000 and five per cent for
larger businesses. Those employers not providing the minimum level of coverage will be
liable for a penalty to cover the superannuation guarantee shortfall, the major portion
of which will be deposited by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) into complying funds
for the benefit of those employees on whose behalf it was collected.
2.32 The Government plans to increase the depth of coverage by requiring that over
a period of nine years the percentage will increase to nine per cent. It is further proposed
to find ways whereby employee contributions and tax cuts could be harnessed to increase
the contribution level to 12 per cent by 2000-2001.
Superannuation Targets
2.33 In its hearings, the Committee sought opinions from a number of expert witnesses
regarding the level of contributions which would be required to generate a retirement
income consistent with predetermined living standards. Generally, the advice to the
Committee was that contributions of between 10 and 15 per cent over a 40 year period
were needed to generate a retirement income of between 40 and 70 per cent of final
salary. There was no universal agreement on what a minimum level of desirable, let alone
taxpayer subsidised, retirement income should be. Also, there was no general agreement
on who should meet the costs of increased superannuation contributions and what
timetable for its introduction should be adopted. This lack of consensus on a fundamental
question in the retirement incomes debate illustrates the need for vigorous community
discussion on this issue.
2.34 A useful starting point in such a discussion is contained in evidence given by
William M Mercer Campbell Cook and Knight (Mercers) which advised that a person
on average weekly earnings would need to contribute five to six per cent of salary over
a working lifetime to generate income equal to the present single age pension.22
Evidence, pp 1833-4.
Evidence, p 879.
Evidence, p 3.
22


2.35 The Institute of Actuaries submitted that, based on an employer contribution of
ten per cent and an employee (or member) contribution of five per cent plus a real rate
of return on investment income of two per cent, net of tax, and assuming current tax
arrangements, the following lump sum benefits would be generated:23
Table 2.3
2.36 Should the member purchase an annuity with the above mentioned lump sums the
following net income streams based on a retirement salary of $35,000 would be
generated:
Table 2.4
r
* Assumptions
(i) life-time annuity indexed to the CPI
(ii) male age 65 with a spouse age 62 (this is not substantially different to a
female age 65 with a spouse age 68)
(iii) 50 per cent reversion of annuity to spouse
(iv) no guaranteed minimum payment period
(v) purchase price of $13 200 per $1 000 per annum of annuity (expenses have
been ignored).
Sub No. 108 Appendix, pp 8-10.


2.37 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) used the
Government's projected increase in compulsory superannuation contributions as per the
SGL (final projection nine per cent employer and three per cent employee contribution
in lieu of a wage increase) and found that the following benefits would accrue to
members24:
Table Z5
* Assumptions
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
Employer contributions:
Member contributions:
Tax on employer contributions:
Expenses and insurances:
Pension annually CPI indexed:
9% of salary
3% of salary
15%
10% of contributions
85% pension reversion to spouse upon
retiree's death
Commutation factor is 15 — i.e. if a lump sum benefit were convertible to a
pension/annuity, the first annual payment would be equal to one fifteenth of that lump
sum.
The Superannuation Industry
2.38 Superannuation in Australia is a most complex matter. It is provided in and
outside the workplace and by a range of financial institutions. Figure 2.3 attempts to
place in context the various types and classes of superannuation and other forms of
retirement income.
24
Sub No. 89, p 28.


Income derived from investment
not supported by
superannuation tax concessions
(However, 'negative gearing'
provides substantial tax
advantages)
2.39 The superannuation fund to which an individual belongs largely depends on
employment status. There are two broad categories of superannuation schemes, namely,
openly marketed (or publicly available) schemes and employer sponsored (or
employment based) superannuation. Under current legislation superannuation funds
which comply with the regulations administered by the Insurance and Superannuation
Commission (ISC) are eligible for tax concessions on superannuation contributions, fund
income and benefits paid, which in the 1991 Tax Expenditure Statement were estimated
to be $3.6 billion.
Openly Marketed Superannuation
2.40 Openly marketed superannuation schemes fall into two classes. The first, personal
superannuation, is usually taken up by the self-employed or those employees whose
employer does not offer superannuation as part of an employment package or, in cases
where it is provided, it is insufficient to fund retirement.
2.41 Contributors to personal superannuation can choose to contribute by way of single
premium or pay on a regular premium basis (super savings plan). Traditionally, life
offices, friendly societies and firms offering unitised trust arrangements have been the
major offerers of personal superannuation, although more recently banks have taken an
increasing interest.
2.42 Rollover funds, the second form of openly marketed superannuation, were
introduced to encourage persons changing employment or opting for early retirement to


preserve superannuation entitlements until retirement age is reached. These funds are
operated by banks and other financial institutions (Approved Deposit Funds — ADFs)
and life offices (Deferred Annuities — DAs) and deposits are restricted to Eligible
Termination Payments (ETPs). ETPs include payments made to employees when leaving
employment. They can include payments from a superannuation fund or any other
inducements to retire early but exclude accrued annual and long service leave. Rollover
funds receive concessional tax treatment in that the tax liability is deferred until
retirement age.
Employment Based Superannuation
2.43 Employer sponsored superannuation and industry award schemes constitute this
class of superannuation. Employer sponsored schemes can be both contributory (where
both employer and employee contributions are made) or non-contributory (where only
the employer contributes). These funds have trust deeds which establish whether the
scheme is a defined benefit or defined contribution (or accumulation) scheme. In the case
of defined benefit schemes, it is usual for the employee to make a contribution based on
a percentage of salary and for the employer to bear the risk in that a certain benefit as
defined in the trust deed is payable to the employee on retirement. Rates of return on
fund earnings, and other factors such as the number of contributors who leave the fund
early and are not paid their full actuarial entitlement, can result in the fund accruing an
actuarial deficit or surplus in which case the employer has certain rights and/or duties
under the relevant trust deed to adjust contributions to balance assets and liabilities. This
matter is further commented on in Chapter 6.
2.44 Defined contribution (or accumulation) schemes entail employees and employers
making pre-determined contributions, usually based on a percentage of wages, into a fund
which grows according to the success of investment activities. At certain intervals, usually
12 months, member accounts are credited with a proportion of investment income.
Therefore, the size of the accumulated funds on retirement is difficult to estimate with
a high degree of precision, although actuarial models can give useful approximations of
final accumulated funds. The great majority of award-based industry schemes are
accumulation, or defined contribution, schemes.
Master Trusts
2.45 Current regulations mean that a complying fund can have any number of members.
In the interests of efficiency many funds elect to use the services of experts to assist in
the administration of the fund and funds management. To this end, some employers,
especially those operating small businesses, enter into master trust arrangements in which
the administration and management of funds is handled by an independent trustee
appointed by the promoter of the fund. Master trusts are offered by life insurance firms,
banks and other specialist financial institutions. There is a range of master trust products
available including those which allow contributors to elect their own risk and return
profiles under which funds can be invested.


2.46 Another option available to employer based funds is to conduct their own fund
administration and trustee responsibilities, but contract out the investment of member
funds by placing funds in a pooled superannuation trust (PST). PSTs only accept funds
in amounts above a set threshold level, for example $50 000.
Public Sector Superannuation
2.47 Public sector funds, which have a membership of approximately two million
employees, constitute a significant component of employer sponsored superannuation.
These funds are usually established under statutes of parliament rather than trust deeds
but have trustees appointed to administer each scheme. They are subject to
Commonwealth regulations relating to superannuation funds, are government guaranteed
in respect of benefit payments and, in most cases, are unfunded. An unfunded scheme
is one where an employer has not contributed to match liabilities as they accrue. The
level of unfunded liabilities25 for public sector superannuation schemes has been
estimated to be approximately $80 billion26.
Industry Schemes
2.48 Industry schemes were established in response to decisions of the various wage
tribunals to award workers a three per cent wage equivalent in the form of employer
contributions to occupational superannuation funds to provide new or improved benefits
in certain industries. These funds are usually administered by trustees nominated by the
peak union and employer organisations.
2.49 Most industry funds are defined contribution, or accumulation, schemes. In 1991
approximately 2.3 million employees were members of industry schemes.27
2.50 There are also a number of award superannuation schemes in the public sector
which were set up following the three per cent award superannuation decisions of the
Commission, the AIRC and State wage tribunals. According to an ASFA survey, over one
million public sector employees belong to this category of superannuation fund.
The Growth and Composition of Superannuation Funds
2.51 Government policy changes, the advent of award superannuation and changing
community expectations regarding the need to contribute to retirement have had a
significant impact on superannuation fund assets, which have grown from $32.6 billion
in 1983 to a current level of $140 billion and are estimated to reach between $300 and
$600 billion by 2000.28 Figure 2.4 shows this trend. A more precise estimate of the level
of funds in the year 2000 can only be made when a long term earning rate firms and
longer term government policy regarding taxation and compulsory contributions is finalised.
25
A small number of private sector employer sponsored superannuation funds have
unfunded liabilities.
26 Superfunds, November 1991, pp 18-21.
27 Superfunds, September 1991, pp 15-16.
ISC Submission, No. 151, p 15.
28


Graph courtesy of Colonial Mutual Investment Management - Infrastructure
Development Corporation. (Attached to Submission No. 210.)
2.52 Dr Vince Fitzgerald of the Allen Consulting Group has conducted research into the
growth of the components of superannuation stocks based on 1991 Budget policies. He
estimates that in 2010 superannuation assets will total approximately $1 400 billion in
current dollars, or 7.5 per cent of current GDP, compared with five per cent in 1991.
2.53 The composition of investment for Australia's superannuation assets as at 31 March
1991 appears in Table 2.6.
Table 2.6
Source: ABS data, but taken from V W Fitzgerald Australia's Superannuation Savings:
Nestegg or Honey Pot? October 1991, p 44.


2.54 A breakdown of superannuation assets by financial sectors as estimated from ISC
and ABS statistics as at June 1991 appears in Table 2.7.29
Table 2.7
2.55 Evidence given to the inquiry indicated that fund assets were concentrated in the
larger funds, for example, in 1987/88, according to ISC data, the largest 462 funds had
an average level of assets of $58 million whereas 99 per cent of funds had on average
assets of approximately $145 OOO30.
Conclusion
2.56 In the chapters which follow, the Committee addresses in greater depth a number
of the issues and trends raised in this introduction. The need for an enhanced regulatory
environment more attuned to the needs of the industry and its participants is one of the
key themes which emerges. Another theme is the need for consumers of superannuation
to have their interests protected and upheld to ensure that the system meets their
retirement income needs. Finally, the report examines the need for increased competition
in the superannuation industry and makes recommendations to foster competition in the
context of the rapid growth of superannuation funds.
29
ibid.
ibid p 15.
30




CHAPTER 3
CONSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Constitutional Arrangements
The Problem
3.1 The overwhelming weight of views put to the Committee sought a single,
Commonwealth regulator over all superannuation products, irrespective of the type of
institution involved.
3.2 The Committee supports this view, given the size, complexity and economic and
social ramifications of the industry. The Constitution, however, does not confer direct
power over superannuation on the Commonwealth, other than that covering its own
employees, which it exercises, and as a component of its unfettered powers over the
Territories under sl22, which it does not exercise.
3.3 In the absence of specific Commonwealth power, the States must be presumed to
be able to regulate superannuation directly, except to the extent that the Commonwealth
is able to operate indirectly through its other powers.
3.4 In consequence, superannuation is currently regulated by a range of
Commonwealth and State laws and authorities, a situation which leads to unnecessary
confusion, uncertainty and inefficiency.
The Current Regulatory Regime
3.5 All of the States and the Northern Territory conduct superannuation schemes for
their employees and those of their instrumentalities. The extent of Commonwealth power
over these schemes, particularly with regard to regulation and taxation, is a matter of
both political and legal dispute.
3.6 The New South Wales, Queensland and South Australian Governments stressed
to the Committee their view that Commonwealth intervention in the internal affairs of
their funds was an unnecessary and unwelcome duplication of regulatory power.1 At a
subsequent hearing, a delegation representing all State and Territory governments put
it to the Committee that:
... since the State governments are subject to so many other regulations and
stipulations about the conduct of their employees and the way they run
their financial affairs, another layer from the Commonwealth is quite
unnecessary and simply adds to the complexity and the cost of the
schemes.2
Evidence, pp917-18, 1176-77, 1499-1504.
SG Evidence, p 124.
2


3.7 The States were concerned that they would be required to amend their
superannuation legislation retrospectively in order to comply with the guarantee
legislation.3 They were strongly opposed to any suggestion that they should be compelled
by Commonwealth legislation to fund their schemes.4
3.8 Further, the South Australian Government's Superannuation Fund Investment
Trust recently challenged the Commonwealth's power to levy tax on its income. The High
Court, in a majority decision, found that the Fund's interest income was taxable but ruled
unanimously that the assessment for capital gains tax was in breach of si 14, which
exempts State property from Commonwealth taxation.5
3.9 Trusts, friendly societies, building societies and credit unions, all of which have,
or could have, activities relevant to superannuation, fall within the ambit of the States.
Insofar as fraud may take place within funds, this would also be a matter for State action.
3.10 The Commonwealth's power over invalid and old age pensions — s51 (xxiii) — has
been used since 1908, with the introduction of means-tested pensions for males aged 65
and over and females aged 60 and over.
3.11 The insurance power — s51 (xiv) - is the base on which the Life Insurance Act
1945 and the Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner Act 1987 rest. Under the
former Act, many superannuation-related products offered by life insurance companies,
including life policies, annuities, master trusts and personal superannuation, are subject
to direct Commonwealth regulation.
3.12 When income tax was introduced in 1915, the income of superannuation funds was
exempt from the new tax and both employers and employees were allowed deductions
in respect of their contributions.
3.13 This early grant of tax relief is significant in that it opened the way for conditions
to be attached, that is, the taxation concessions could be made subject to compliance with
whatever requirements the government imposed on the funds. Thus, the taxation power
- s51 (ii) — became the foundation on which the Commonwealth's control of
superannuation was built and on which the Occupational Superannuation Standards Act
1987 (OSSA) rests. That Act and the regulations made under it establish a supervisory
regime, operating standards and benefit limits for funds, compliance with which is a
precondition for the tax concessions.
3.14 Reliance by the Commonwealth on the tax power to regulate superannuation,
however, has many unsatisfactory features. In particular, a failure by trustees to comply
with OSSA is not an offence in itself and therefore "offenders" cannot be prosecuted by
any federal agency. The only penalty is loss of tax concessions, which punishes the
members, who may also be the victims, and not the perpetrators.
ibid\ p 114.
ibid, p 120.
Australian Financial Review, 26-2-92.
5


3.15 For this reason, there is power under OSSA to waive the penalty in the case of
less serious offences, effectively allowing them to go unpunished. In other circumstances,
loss of tax concessions may be an inadequate penalty where, for example, the members
have suffered serious financial losses as a result of the trustees' actions.
3.16 The conciliation and arbitration power — s51 (xxxv) — has been invoked through
the inclusion of provisions for industry-wide superannuation in federal industrial awards.
This has greatly expanded the proportion of the workforce covered by superannuation.
The power does not, however, permit the Commonwealth to legislate directly in the area,
nor does it embrace workers whose conditions are governed by State awards or
workplace agreements.
The Scope for Wider Powers
Towards Universal Superannuation Coverage
3.17 The recent and proposed increases in superannuation coverage and the parallel
increase in the volume of investable funds have, in the wake of a small number of
failures in the collective investment industry, brought into question the adequacy of the
regulatory powers available to the Commonwealth. Furthermore, notwithstanding the
rapid spread of award superannuation, the number of people involved remain well short
of the Government's target of virtually universal coverage. The previous chapter describes
the limitations of existing policy and how the Government proposes to increase depth and
breadth of coverage. Some of the implications of these changes will be dealt with in a
later report.
3.18 In pursuit of this objective, the Superannuation Guarantee legislation is an attempt
to make the provision of a specified level of cover compulsory for all employees between
18 and 65. The use of the taxation power to achieve this end has been called into
question by a legal challenge to its similar use under the Training Guarantee Levy Act
For this and other reasons, the Government is examining other avenues through which
it may be able to exercise a more secure and more comprehensive degree of regulatory
power over superannuation.
3.19 It is possible that the Commonwealth could legislate for superannuation for
employees in areas where it has general powers, such as banking — s51 (xiii) — insurance
s51 (xiv) - interstate and overseas trade and commerce - s51 (i) - and, subject to the
existence of an appropriate treaty, the external affairs power — s51 (xxix). Such action
would not, however, enable it to exercise any general power over superannuation.
3.20 The insurance power may offer further scope, insofar as many schemes provide
life and/or disability cover for employees. However, the uncertainty inherent in the
investment-linked benefits provided by defined contribution schemes casts considerable
doubt on whether they would be held to be 'insurance'.


3.21 Reliance on the pensions power was strongly advocated by LIFA.6 With regard
to the possible use of this power — s51 (xxiii) — Mr Dennis Rose QC, Chief General
Counsel, Attorney-General's Department, told the Committee that —
the pensions power — the power to make laws with respect to invalid and
old age pensions— would enable the Commonwealth Parliament to regulate
private superannuation schemes so far as they provide for pensions for
people over 60 or to people who are incapacitated, either wholly or
partially?
3.22 He believed that the power would extend to lump sum benefits only in so far as
they were paid in commutation of pensions, but not otherwise. It would not extend to the
regulation of those aspects of schemes which dealt with the provision of benefits to
dependants of deceased employees.8
3.23 Nevertheless, he felt that these gaps in the scope of direct regulation could be
covered by prudential controls designed to ensure the financial viability of funds to pay
pensions. These controls could take into account both actual and contingent liabilities
of funds, including those benefits which could not be directly regulated.9
Increased Prudential Controls
3.24 Another power which offers scope for the general regulation of superannuation
is that over trading or financial corporations — s51 (xx). The Commonwealth has
proposed that one of the conditions for superannuation funds' eligibility for the taxation
concessions should be that the trustee of every fund beyond a minimum size be an
incorporated body.10 Although the corporations power has not been fully tested, there
is a strong probability that a company whose principal function was to act as trustee of
a superannuation fund would be regarded as a financial corporation.11
3.25 A combination of the corporations and pensions powers was advocated by the ISC
and the ALRC.12
3.26 Reliance on the corporation power would enable the directors of the trustee
company to be held directly accountable to the controlling authority, which could institute
6
Sub 114, p 6.
Evidence, pp 1197-98.
ibid
ibid.
Review of Supervisory Framework for the Superannuation Industry,
Commonwealth Treasurer, Ministerial Statement, 20 August, 1991 p 5.
Evidence, p 1198.
Sub No. 151, p 2; Collective Investments, Superannuation ALRC Report No. 59,
p 61.


proceedings against them for breaches of the relevant legislation. Mr Rose expressed the
view that:
the use of the tax power combined with the corporations power really offers
the simplest, neatest scheme because there are no holes in that as there are
in the pensions power}3
3.27 Subsequent to the appearance of Mr Rose, the ISC told the Committee that it had
been advised by the Attorney-General's Department that the Commonwealth could
exercise, through the ISC, an enforcement power over superannuation funds which would
be based on a combination of the taxation, corporations and pensions powers.14
3.28 The Committee welcomes these proposals as offering an immediate and effective
method of regulation within the Commonwealth's own powers.
Recommendation 3.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government seek wider counsel on its powers
over superannuation and, following this, legislate directly for the regulation of
superannuation, relying on a combination of its constitutional powers over taxation,
corporations and pensions.
Longer Term Measures
3.29 In the event that this solution should be found to be inadequate for any reason,
four further possibilities were considered by the Committee as offering longer term
prospects —
• the passage by all States and Territories of uniform legislation;
• the referral by all States to the Commonwealth, as provided by s51 (xxxvii), of
their powers over superannuation;
• the automatic adoption by the States and Territories of Commonwealth legislation
applying in the ACT, as amended from time to time; and
• seeking an amendment of the Constitution.
3.30 The first of these would be a task of major proportions, as it would require
complete unanimity among all governments over every detail of the legislation and every
subsequent amendment.
Evidence, p 1199.
ibid, pp 1847-48.


3.31 The second, advocated by Mercers, would also involve substantial political
difficulties but, if it could be achieved, would provide a simple and direct regulatory
framework.15
3.32 The third, proposed by Mr Julian Lucas, amounts to a de facto referral of power
and has been adopted successfully in the case of the corporations law.16 In the
Committee's view, it would be as effective as a formal referral of power.
3.33 Finally, it would be open to the Government to seek to amend the Constitution
by way of referendum, as recommended by ASFA, the accounting bodies and Westpac,
to give the Commonwealth power over superannuation but, in the light of the past record
of lack of success in constitutional referendums, the Committee is not attracted to this
course.17
Recommendation 3.2:
The Committee recommends that the Government explore the possibility of obtaining
a referral by the states, either formal or de facto, of their power over superannuation.
Sub No 79, App. 5, p 3.
Evidence, p 311.
Sub Nos 89, p 10; 119, p 6; 132, p 5.
17


CHAPTER 4
REGULATION OF SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
Regulation of Superannuation Funds
The superannuation system which is proposed by the present Government
is perhaps unique by world standards. It will be a curious combination of
compulsory but private sector located funding. It has the potential, as we
see it, to be the best combination of features in the world, comprising
competition,in the free market sense, and prudential government guidance.
But we make a very strong proviso to that, that these ingredients be
blended in the right balance.
Ken Dance, ASFA, Evidence p 643.
4.1 Under OSSA, the rights of members to receive benefits must be fully secured at
all times. This provision has meant that a superannuation scheme is usually set up as a
trust. A trust is an arrangement under which assets are held by specified persons (the
legal trustees) who are legally bound to use those assets for the benefit of other persons
(i.e. the beneficiaries of the trust).
4.2 The general duties of a trustee are:
• to observe the terms of the trust deed and carry out the duties defined in the
deed;
• to act impartially;
• to act in the best interest of members;
• to act personally, i.e. not to delegate responsibility;
• not to derive a profit from the trust;
• to keep proper accounts and to provide information to members;
• to properly invest trust funds; and
• to avoid conflicts of interest.
4.3 A paper by Lord Browne-Wilkinson notes the differences between traditional and
superannuation trusts. These differences include the points that, in superannuation
trusts:-
• the beneficiaries are not volunteers;
• there is an underlying contract of employment;
• the size of the trust fund is variable;
• the employer continues to have a financial interest; and
• the trustees have power to amend the scheme.1
4.4 Nonetheless, he concluded that with codification of certain aspects of trust law,
trusts were the appropriate entity for superannuation funds. This was a view shared in
many submissions to the Committee including those from the ISC, the ASC, the
Attorney-General's Department, Treasury, ASFA, LIFA and others.
The Right Honourable Lord Browne-Wilkinson Equity and its Relevance to
Superannuation Today, paper presented to a National Conference for Lawyers on
Superannuation, February 1992, pp 1.5-1.10


4.5 Given the strong preference for retaining the trust structure of superannuation,
the Committee has focused on the areas where it believes current prudential controls are
inadequate.
What is Prudential Supervision?
4.6 The goals of prudential supervision have been identified by the Government as
being to ensure that:
• superannuation remains a secure, efficient and viable means by which people can
provide for their own retirement; and
• the superannuation industry contributes to the Government's broader economic
goals of promoting savings, efficient investment and sustainable economic
growth.2
4.7 Within these broad macro-economic goals, the ISC sees the primary objective of
prudential supervision as placing superannuation savings at the lower end of the risk
spectrum thus enabling them to perform an effective role in the retirement income
system3. This is a view shared by the Treasury which argues that the primary purpose
of supervision is to provide appropriate security for retirement savings while not
inhibiting the accumulation of adequate retirement income from superannuation4. In this
context, Treasury noted that:
• absolute security of superannuation benefits is not attainable;
• there are significant costs to an inappropriate level of supervision; and
• there are 'moral hazard' dimensions to prudential supervision.5
4.8 The ASC traverses similar ground and suggests that:
... the primary goal in the regulation of superannuation should be to
promote efficiency in the capital markets by ensuring that investor
protection and investor confidence are maintained and by encouraging
competition through the creation of a 'level playing field1 between
superannuation and other comparable investment products and between
their issuers.6
2
Statement on the Prudential Supervision of the Superannuation Industry, released
by the Treasurer concurrently with 1991/92 Budget.
Sub No. 151, p 2.
Sub No. 195, p 20
ibid p. 21
Sub No. 186, p 3.
6


4.9 The Committee supports these goals and believes that the appropriate regulatory
framework is one in which:-
• the duties, powers and responsibilities of trustees and directors of corporate
trustees are clearly defined;
• the rights of members to information, action against trustees and directors and
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms are unambiguous; and
• the powers of the regulator to protect members' interests are identified in
legislation.
4.10 A regulatory framework which
satisfies the above criteria will promote
investor protection and ensure equity
between members. Provided the
regulatory framework does not
discriminate between different providers
of superannuation, such a regulatory
structure should also enhance the
efficiency and competitiveness of the
industry and contribute to broader macro-
economic goals.
Current Arrangements
4.11 Currently, regulation of retirement
investments is arranged on institutional
rather than functional lines. As a
consequence:
• life insurance companies offering
superannuation are governed by
the ISC;
• banks offering superannuation are
governed by the RBA, the ISC and
the ASC;
• friendly societies, building societies
and credit unions are governed by
various pieces of State legislation;
• managers outside these structures must comply with both ISC and ASC
regulations.
4.12 All submissions received by the Committee recognise that the Commonwealth
Government has a role to play in enforcing minimum prudential standards. The OSSA
currently contains prudential and reporting standards (see Figure 4.2) and new


information disclosure standards will apply from 1 July 1992. Requirements under the
Corporations Law and LIA are shown in Figures 4.3 and 4.4.
Figure 4.2
the existing prudential and reporting standards under OSSA are:
• equal member and employer representation on trustee boards of funds which have 200 or
more members (to apply to all large funds from 1995);
• a prohibition on borrowing by funds other than for short term cash flow purposes (i.e. a
prohibition on gearing);
• a requirement that investments by funds other than in in-house assets must be at arm's
length (i.e. must be on commercial terms);
• a restriction on loans to, or investments in, an employer sponsor to 10 per cent of total
assets, subject to some transitional provisions;
• a requirement that the rights of members to benefits be fully secured and not subject to
lien;
• a prohibition, subject to some transitional provisions, on a fund lending money to members;
• a requirement that the fund's accounts must be audited once a year by an independent
auditor;
• in the case of defined benefit funds, a requirement that actuarial reports be prepared at
least once every three years;
• a requirement to report to members when they join a fund, annually, on termination of
membership and on request; and
• a prohibition against reduction of accrued benefits, other than with the approval of all
members or with the approval of the Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner.
There are also specific requirements under OSSA relating to pooled superannuation trusts and
approved deposit funds.
4.13 The new information disclosure requirements (reproduced in the Attachment to
this chapter) have generally been endorsed by the industry and will substantially improve
the level of investor protection by making the financial details and investment policies of
the fund readily available. Notwithstanding the existing and proposed new requirements,
OSSA is fundamentally flawed because:-
• the penalty for failure to comply with the legislation (withdrawal of tax
concessions) detrimentally affects members' entitlements;
• members can only take action against trustees for mismanagement or fraudulent
behaviour through costly and uncertain court action;
the rights, powers and responsibilities of trustees are not defined in the legislation;


• the ISC has no powers to appoint judicial managers to preserve the assets of the
fund or to take other action to protect fund members;
• the responsibilities of fund managers, auditors and other financial advisers to
trustees and members are not clearly identified;
the legislation is silent on the ownership and disposition of surpluses; and
there is no alternative dispute resolution mechanism.
4.14 There is widespread agreement that prudential supervision needs to be improved
and that there needs to be a lot more certainty and clarity in the law. However, there is
divergence about how this might be achieved.


4.15 ASFA believes that the philosophy underpinning reform to prudential supervision
should be:
To enhance trustees' capacity and willingness to represent members
properly, not to interfere with their decision making:7
However, a number of caveats were attached to this statement. In particular, ASFA:
• supported minimum entry requirements for trustees;
• supported the equal trustee representation standards that have been put in place;
• considered there should be a range of sanctions to fit the transgressions made by
trustees;
• supported increased member disclosure;
• considered that implementation of an industry-wide alternative disputes resolution
mechanism was perhaps desirable; and
• considered some trust law principles could be codified and included in Federal
legislation.8
4.16 ASFA's views were shared by many submissions to the Committee. However,
LIFA suggested that any new rules must consider factors such as the need for enhanced
education and training of trustees and the new accounting standards for superannuation
funds.9 LIFA is strongly opposed to superannuation trustee incorporation and suggests
that the Government should draw on the pensions power contained in the Constitution
to legislate on trustee matters.10
7
Evidence, p 643.
ibid.
Sub No. 114.
ibid.
10




4.17 Mercers suggested in their evidence to the Committee that there were four arms
to regulation aimed at achieving the objective of a simple, easy to run system and one
which would increase the level of safety. These were member trustees, regular,
understandable disclosure, diversification of assets and regular financial examination.11
4.18 The ISC in its submission suggested that the measures announced in the 1991/92
Budget should provide an adequate level of protection for members' benefits while not
restricting the competitiveness and efficiency of the superannuation industry.12 It
suggested that:
it is essential that the ISC should have the necessary powers to ensure that the
fund members are adequately protected. However, such powers should derive
directly from the OSS legislation, not from trust deeds of individual funds.It is
our view that this should involve codifying in the OSS legislation the more
important trustee obligations under trust lawP
4.19 The ASC believes that the current regulation of collective investments, of which
superannuation is a part, is inadequate for both investor protection and competitive
neutrality between different types of collective investments14. It suggested to the
Committee that:-
• superannuation trusts should be held in the name of a responsible entity which is
totally responsible for the administration of that trust;
• if that responsible entity puts investments with a custodial trustee, then the custodial
trustee should be an approved depository;
• if the responsible entity is carrying on investment, that investment manager must hold
a dealer's licence;
• the regulator for superannuation funds should have sufficient power to be able to act
extremely quickly in relation to perceived fraud or mismanagement by responsible
entities, and be able to act very quickly in relation to removal of directors or removal
of the entire responsible entity.15
4.20 AMP, County NatWest, BT, Westpac and others all stressed the importance of
a specialist regulator. BT told the Committee that:
11
Sub No. 79, pp 37-38.
12 Sub No. 151, p 13.
13 Attachment to supplementary submission, Sub No. 151.
14 Evidence, p 1301.
Evidence, Hartnell, pp 1301-02.
15


... there is a great difference between an approach to regulation which is
supervisory, based on information and understanding of the risks in the products
and developments in the industry, and looking to take early action like the Reserve
Bank does to steer the whole system in the right direction ... the other extreme
[approach]is prescriptive, relies on writing down rules and perhaps even on force-
fitting new types of institutions into existing rules — in this case force-fitting
superannuation into a corporation law framework — and relies mainly on ex post
prosecution when something goes wrong.16
4.21 In its recent report on collective investments, the ALRC recommended that the
law should provide that the conditions under which a superannuation fund, ADF or a
PST attract taxation concessions include a condition that, at all times during the relevant
year of income, there was a 'responsible entity' for the fund and that the responsible
entity would be regulated by use of either the corporations power or the pensions
power.17
4.22 It was also suggested at the public hearings that it might be more appropriate to
separate the legal rights and responsibilities of directors and members of superannuation
schemes and the access to tax concessions. The ASC suggested that:
... the major problem with collective investments generally is that, to the extent the
trustee is a company, the company has high fiduciary responsibilities to the
beneficiaries but the directors who are running the company do not. So the law will
not personally impose on those directors an equivalent responsibility to the high
fiduciary standard that is on the company. That effectively means that one can get
a trustee company going into liquidation.... but the directors do not have the same
personal level of responsibility in respect of the high trust that the company
carried.18
4.23 Mr Langfield-Smith in his evidence to the Committee suggested the ISC continue
to regulate the taxation and prudential aspects of superannuation but the ASC consider
all the relevant aspects of investor protection19. He went on to argue that the ASC
takes:
... a more effective stand in terms of attempting to get wide input to all their policy
statements, which indicates the way in which they exercise their discretionary
powers and it is now a requirement that they hold a public hearing before they
formulate a policy. That is the sort of thing that the Insurance and Superannuation
Commission does not do, although it tends to consult the people being regulated
16 Evidence, p 840.
17 ALRC, Report No. 59, p 31.
18 Evidence, pp 1314-15.
Sub No. 156, p 1.
19


and ignores employees ....20
4.24 Taking a slightly different tack, AM suggested that it would be appropriate to
introduce certain prudential standards for public funds in a similar way to the current
specific rules for industry funds.21
4.25 Evidence that the Committee received from individuals and welfare and consumer
groups indicates that the ISC is seen as a 'captive' of the industry. There was a clear
perception that ISC staff did not consult with consumer groups or devote sufficient
resources to consumer issues. AFCO, in its evidence to the Committee, stated that the
ISC had low credibility with consumers.22
Proposed New Framework
Regulator
4.26 As many witnesses stressed to the Committee, the superannuation industry does
not necessarily need more rules but rather, it needs a consistent industry-wide framework
in which to operate over the long term. As already noted, the ASC regarded
superannuation as one form of collective investments and argued that it should be subject
to the same rules as other collective investments. The Commonwealth Bank argued
strongly for a common set of regulations for the industry because:
it will certainly increase the scope for efficiency of the industry by reducing the
administrative burden and hence reducing the costs of running superannuation,
which ultimately will reflect in the price of products to the consumer.23
4.27 BT, Rothschilds and the IFA have canvassed the possibility of superannuation and
other forms of collective investments being subject to separate legislation with the one
regulator administering the rules.
4.28 Westpac told the Committee that it:
firmly believes that a single, superannuation regulator for all investment products,
including superannuation, is not desirable given the complex technical differences
that exist among various investment products. We believe that the ISC should
continue to be the lead regulator for superannuation and should be able to use
powers under the corporations law to review, audit, investigate and monitor the
activities of superannuation fund managers and trustees. It already has significant
experience and knowledge of the superannuation industry and has developed a
20
ibid.
21 Sub No. 96, p 5.
22 Evidence, p 1941
23 Evidence, p 822.


sound and informative style of consultation with the industry. The benefits
associated with consultation include a non-adversarial dialogue between providers
and regulator and a relatively free transfer of information.
4.29 The Committee considers that superannuation differs from other collective
investments in a number of important respects. Firstly, superannuation generally is a
condition of employment and therefore is not chosen in the same way as investments in
unit trust arrangements. Secondly, superannuation is illiquid and frequently the member
may not be able to access the benefit until age 55, implying that it is an investment which
is held for decades rather than a number of years. Finally, superannuation is an essential
part of the Government's retirement incomes policy and consumers are therefore entitled
to clear, consistent regulation for all superannuation products. Accordingly, the
Committee believes that there is a need for a specialist superannuation regulator.
4.30 Bearing in mind the rapid growth of the industry since 1983, along with the
product innovation and substantial regulatory change, the Committee believes that the
ISC has the technical expertise and understanding of the superannuation industry to
assume primary supervisory responsibility.
Recommendation 4.1:
The Committee recommends that the ISC become the sole regulator of superannuation
products to give certainty and clarity to the operation of the industry.
However, the Committee acknowledges that the RBA and ASC may consider it
necessary to impose some additional requirements on institutions which fall within the
ambit of their regulatory responsibilities. If this is the case, there is clearly a need for
greater effective co-ordination between the regulatory authorities than occurs at
present.
The Committee recommends that the RBA, ISC, ASC and TPC liaise both formally
and informally on a regular basis._
4.31 If the ISC is to remain the primary regulator of the superannuation industry, its
level of resources needs to be addressed. The Committee examined the Budget allocation
for the ISC and the ASC, along with their respective responsibilities.
4.32 The ASC is the sole national authority responsible for the administration of the
national Corporations Law regulating corporations, securities and futures markets. Some
of the companies that report to the ASC are public superannuation funds and fund
managers. The ISC is the primary regulator of the superannuation industry and is
responsible for administering OSSA, LIA and the Insurance Agents and Brokers Act.
24
Evidence, p 673.


4.33 Superannuation funds and life offices hold around 20 per cent of the total market
capitalisation on the Australian Stock Exchange.25 If foreign companies listed on the
Australian Stock Exchange but not having operations on a significant scale in Australia
are excluded, the figure is towards 30 per cent.26 There is thus a need to ensure that
the ISC has adequate resources to be an effective regulator.
Table 4.1_
RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNDING
OF THE ASC AND ISC
4.34 The Committee believes that the ISC is inadequately resourced to carry out its
present functions, let alone to assume the additional responsibilities envisaged by this
report. The Committee notes that the Department of Finance is currently examining the
resource needs of the ISC and that RBL administration may be passed to the Australian
Taxation Office. The Committee urges the Government to attach high priority to
upgrading the resources of the ISC.
25
26
V W Fitzgerald and I R Harper Super Preferred or Level Playing Field?, p 38.
ibid.


Recommendation 4.2:
The Committee recommends that an independent review of ISC resources be carried
out following tabling of the Government's response to this report so that ISC resources
are compatible with its increased regulatory responsibilities. The Committee endorses
the 'user pays' concept as a means of supplementing budgetary allocations.
The review should include analysis of improvements required to procedures to ensure
that the ISC is able to provide figures on the superannuation industry for the previous
financial year at the time its Annual Report is tabled in Parliament. The Committee
believes that it is unacceptable that statistics produced by the ISC are up to four years
out of date.
4.35 The Committee was concerned that welfare and consumer groups saw the ISC as
a captive to the superannuation industry. Also, the Committee considered that the ISC
was unable to be as frank in its evidence to this inquiry as were the TPC and the ASC.
The Committee believes this reflects the ISC's role in advising Government on policy
matters. A greater degree of statutory independence would enable the ISC to more fully
represent the interests of all those affected by superannuation matters, as well as
enhancing the consultative and deliberative processes of the ISC.
Recommendation 43:
The Committee recommends that the Government introduce legislation to give a
greater degree of statutory independence to the ISC by appointing a panel of
commissioners with proven expertise in superannuation from a wide cross-section of the
community.
Duties of Trustees
4.36 The Committee supports the continuation of existing arrangements whereby
retirement income savings are managed and invested by the private sector. In this
context, greater legislative certainty needs to be given to the duties, policies and
responsibilities of trustees and directors of corporate trustees. The Committee supports
the view put by many witnesses that trust law principles should be codified and included
in legislation.


Recommendation 4.4:
The Committee recommends that the Occupational Superannuation Standards Act
(OSSA) be amended or replaced so that the duties and responsibilities of trustees and
directors of corporate trustees are clearly spelt out, including a duty:
• to maintain a diversified portfolio unless members advise to the contrary;
• to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity;
• to limit the level of in-house investment (see Chapter 7);
• to keep proper accounts;
• to ensure the equitable treatment of members of superannuation funds;
• to inform members about matters materially affecting the fund;
• to seek independent legal, auditing, and actuarial advice;
• to avoid conflicts of interest; and
• to be personally responsible for the administration of the trust.
To facilitate consumer understanding of trust deeds, the Committee recommends that
the legislation prescribe the wording of these provisions in trust deeds.
The Committee further recommends that neither the original trust documents nor any
amendment of them can authorise a departure from any of the statutory requirements.
4.37 Given the fiduciary responsibilities of trustees, the Committee considers that a 'fit
and proper' person test should be applied to all persons nominated or elected as trustees.
This would mean that any person who was a declared bankrupt or who had been
convicted of fraud or dishonest conduct would be ineligible to act as a trustee.
Recommendation 4J):
The Committee recommends that all trustees should be Australian residents and be
required to pass a 'fit and proper person' test analogous to that required under the
Corporations Law.
4.38 In recent months there has been a great deal of discussion about the need for a
defalcation fund and/or a reserve fund. The Committee accepts the arguments against
a reserve fund but notes that the superannuation regulatory regime centres on trustees
and disclosure.


4.39
The ACTU told the Committee that:
... all of the directors of corporate trustees of industry funds are liable
personally because they are all corporate trustees. ... [The ACTU has]
advised trustees that they ought to take out insurance and get very clear
undertakings and reports from administrators and others to whom they
delegate powers27
4.40 ASFA has also promoted a voluntary trustee insurance scheme.28 The ASC
suggested that an industry-wide compensation scheme such as solicitors' fidelity funds or
stock exchange fidelity funds would be appropriate.29 It argued that:
... straight fraud, straight crime is usually adequately fundable within a
modest compensation scheme ... But, if you go wider than that, it is just
transferring assets from one sector to another?0
4.41 Whilst indemnity insurance could be required of all trustees and directors of
corporate trustees, the Committee believes that this would be unnecessarily costly and
impact adversely on small funds. The Committee strongly believes that there should be
a mechanism to enable members to be compensated for fraud and was of the view that
a defalcation fund was the most appropriate mechanism.
Recommendation 4.6:
The Committee recommends that legislation prescribe that an industry fidelity fund
be established to protect members in the event of fraud. Levies would be determined
by reference to size of assets.
Powers of Regulator
4.42 Under current arrangements the only penalty the ISC can impose for breach of
OSSA and associated Regulations is to withdraw tax concessions. In effect, the
perpetrators of the breach (the trustees) are immune from penalty whilst the victims (the
members) suffer severe financial disadvantage if the ISC is unable to enforce the rules
(for example, see the case study on ABC Engineering). There was widespread consensus
in evidence put to the Committee that a range of penalties to fit the crime was needed.
Both the ISC and the ASC strongly argued that the regulator should have powers to act
to protect members' interests.
27
Evidence, pp 363-4.
Sub No. 89, p 33.
Evidence, pp 1316-17.
ibid, p 1317.
30


Recommendation 4.7:
The Committee recommends that OSSA be amended or replaced so that:
• the ISC can impose a range of civil penalties and institute criminal proceedings
against trustees and directors of corporate trustees;
• the ISC has power to remove trustees and directors of corporate trustees and
appoint judicial managers where it suspects that trustees/directors are not
fulfilling their fiduciary obligations. Such powers would need to have
appropriate safeguards for individuals who were subsequently found to be
innocent of any wrong doing; and
• the ISC be given power to institute civil proceedings against trustees and
directors of corporate trustees on behalf of members.
4.43 Evidence given to the Committee by a range of witnesses and the ISC's description
of its own activities raise doubts about the ISC's ability to discharge its increased
responsibilities without a substantial change in its corporate philosophy. The concern of
the Committee is that staff who may have been able to discharge administrative and
functional tasks well, will not be able to pursue the more interventionist and activist role
for the ISC envisaged by this report.
Recommendation 4.&
The Committee recommends that sufficient resources be given to ISC staff retraining
development and recruitment so that it can discharge its increased responsibilities as
envisaged in this report.
Rights of Members
4.44 If implemented, the recommendations outlined above will greatly improve the
level of investor protection available to members of superannuation schemes. However,
the Committee believes that as trustees have powers to amend the scheme and the
members have little or no choice of fund, legislation should also specify the rights of
members.


Recommendation 4.9:
The Committee recommends that OSSA be amended or replaced so that the rights of
members are dearly identified in legislation including:
• the right to seek recovery of loss from trustees and directors of corporate
trustees;
• the right to information about financial statements, auditors and actuarial
reports, investment strategy and change in ownership of the corporate trustees;
• the right to information about proposed changes to the trust deed;
• the right of access to an alternative dispute resolution process; and
• the right for benefits to remain unencumbered, i.e. the employer cannot place
a lien over actual or emerging benefits. _
4.45 Whilst the Committee supports the principle of members having powers to remove
trustees and directors of corporate trustees through meetings, it is concerned that for a
large geographically disparate membership, grievances against trustees may be more
effectively addressed by the ISC or industrial relations tribunals. It appeared to the
Committee that whereas the ISC has acknowledged expertise in superannuation,
industrial relations tribunals have a great deal of expertise and experience in negotiating
settlements to work-related grievances. The Committee believes that many potential
grievances against trustees could be resolved by conciliation and arbitration such as
occurs in the industrial relations tribunals. However, the Committee recognises that
tribunals may only have powers to arbitrate disputes between members and trustees in
funds nominated in industrial awards. This raises the spectre of the ISC arbitrating on
disputes between trustees and members for certain employer-sponsored schemes and
master trust arrangements and the industrial relations tribunals arbitrating where the fund
is nominated in an industrial award. In such circumstances there is clearly scope for
divergence in the interpretation of any legislative guidelines regarding the powers of
members to convene a meeting. Accordingly, the Committee believes that further work
as outlined in the following recommendation is required.


Recommendation 4.10:
The Committee recommends that the ISC, in conjunction with union, employer and
industry groups, examine the practicalities of OSSA giving members the right to
requisition a meeting for the purpose of:
• giving directions to the trustees or directors of the corporate trustees which are
consistent with the terms of the deed; and
• removing the trustees or directors of the corporate trustee provided that any
trustees appointed subsequently maintain the requirement for equal
_employer/employee representation._
4.46 Whilst some witnesses suggested that superannuation funds be required to have
annual general meetings31, the Committee does not believe the cost of such meetings
could be justified at present given the relatively uneducated membership. The Committee
suggests that a requirement for annual general meetings be kept under review, but that
priority be given to increasing community understanding of superannuation.
4.47 The Committee notes that the new information disclosure requirements to operate
from 1 July 1992 have been generally endorsed by the industry but believes that there are
three areas where information disclosure could be further improved:
(i) audit by the fund's auditor;
(ii) compliance auditing by the ISC; and
(iii) increasing the amount of information publicly available.
31
Sub Nos. 38, 48.


4.48 In circumstances where superannuation funds are managed and invested by the
private sector, the auditor assumes special significance for the security of funds. Some
witnesses, including Mr Boffa32, County NatWest,33 the Attorney General's
Department34 and Prudential35, agreed that the Government could be more
prescriptive in what it required of auditors. The Committee notes that the ISC has begun
discussions with the accounting profession with a view to improving the superannuation
content of professional development programs and that the ISC is participating with the
32
Evidence, p 522.
Sub No. 98, p 105.
Sub No. 107.
Sub No. 41.
35


accounting profession and others in the drafting of an audit guide for superannuation
funds which will be made available to auditors generally.36
4.49 The Committee believes that the auditor plays a key role in prudential supervision
because the ISC relies on the certification of an independent auditor as to a fund's
compliance with the OSS Regulations. The joint submission from the Institute of
Chartered Accountants and the Society of Certified Practising Accountants made some
particularly useful suggestions with regard to that role37 and the Committee's
recommendations reflect this input.
36
37
Sub No. 151, p 13.
Sub No. 119.


Recommendation 4.11:
The Committee recommends that:
• OSSA be amended to require the fund's auditor to be independent of the
sponsoring employer(s), union(s) or promoter;
• A Board of Superannuation Auditors be established and that only auditors
registered with the Board be able to sign the audit certificates on
superannuation funds' annual returns;
• registered superannuation auditors be required to audit anti-fraud internal
controls within the fund and report to members on the fund's procedures for:
— regular reconciliation of accounts
— regular supply of statements from investment managers
— checks on benefit entitlements, proof of identity etc. before benefits are
made
— authorisation of payments to members, investment managers and
creditors
— custody procedures for share certificates, bonds and stocks etc.
— signatory procedures;
• where the registered superannuation auditor believes internal controls are
inadequate, the auditor be required to advise the ISC if the scheme has failed
to take action to rectify deficiencies identified in the audit within two months;
• registered superannuation auditors be required to report on the assets and
liabilities of superannuation plans, including the level of in-house assets and if
the fund is a defined benefit fund, whether the fund is underfunded and/or its
capacity to meet promised benefits;
• registered superannuation auditors be given powers to a udit the decision making
process of the fund's investment managers for the selection of asset categories,
sectors and securities;
• registered superannuation auditors be required to advise the ISC of any
qualified finding on the superannuation scheme; and
• relevant details of the actuarial report be incorporated in the audit report
following each actuarial review. __
4.50 If the Committee's recommendation in respect of internal audits is accepted, the
ISC compliance audit can be targeted at areas where there is reason to believe members'
entitlement might be at risk. The ISC acknowledges that its audit program needs
strengthening and consultations have begun with the Australian Taxation Office on how


the ISC audit effort can be co-ordinated with that of the ATO.38 The Committee
believes that the ISC is inadequately resourced to carry out this function at present.
Recommendation 4.12:
The Committee recommends that high priority be attached to the ISC developing an
effective random audit program.__
4.51 In order to facilitate greater investor protection and public awareness of
superannuation, the Committee believes that there should be wider discussion of
superannuation issues. By requiring disclosure to the public at large, the investment
strategies and financial statements of funds can be analysed by industry experts, the
financial community and the media. The Committee notes the ALRC recommended that
only large funds be required to provide information to the ASC.39 However, evidence
presented to the Committee indicates that problems are more likely to arise in small
funds.
Recommendation 4.13:
The ISC should be required to create and maintain a national database along the lines
of the ASC companies database so that the financial press and industry experts can
report independently on superannuation funds with arms' length members; that is,
funds with five or more members. The information available on the database should
include:
• financial information;
• names of trustees, fund managers, fund administrators, auditors and other
advisers;
• proposed amendments to trust deeds;
• proposed repatriation of surpluses;
• performance against benchmarks.
The Committee recommends that financial information on the database should be
available within six months of the end of the financial year or at the time the
information is made available to members if this is earlier.
4.52 The Committee recognises that implementation of the recommendations in this
report will impose additional costs which may particularly disadvantage smaller funds.
However, the Committee considers it desirable that some existing small funds join master
trust arrangements so that ISC resources can be better targeted on audit and compliance
procedures.
Sub No. 151, p 13.
ALRC Report No. 59, op cit, p 134.


ATTACHMENT - CHAPTER 4
TEXT OF NEW INFORMATION DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS RELEASED BY
THE TREASURER CONCURRENTLY WITH THE 1991/92 BUDGET. THE
STANDARDS WILL APPLY FROM 1 JULY 1992
OCCUPATIONAL SUPERANNUATION STANDARDS (OSS) REGULATIONS:
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO MEMBERS OF SUPERANNUATION
FUNDS
Existing reporting arrangements
Existing Occupational Superannuation Standards Regulations reporting arrangements are
primarily concerned with the provision of benefit entitlement information to
superannuation fund members. An outline of these arrangements is set out in the
Attachment to this paper.
Certain funds may also be subject to separate reporting arrangements which require that
information relating to the financial and administrative affairs of the fund be provided
to trustees or members. Life offices are required to provide information to policyholders
under ISC Circulars 273, 276, 290 and 291 which deal with single premium as well as
regular premium products. Funds structured as prescribed interests are subject to the
disclosure and other provisions of the Corporations Law.
Proposed wider reporting requirements
Amendments to the existing disclosure arrangements will give effect to the following
additional requirements for superannuation funds. These proposals will, of course, be the
subject of further consultation with industry and other bodies during the process of
development of the necessary amendments to the OSS Regulations.
Appropriate arrangements of a similar nature remain to be developed for Approved
Deposit Funds and, in addition, consideration will be given to the particular
circumstances of Pooled Superannuation Trusts.
Commencement
The additional disclosure requirements for superannuation funds will apply to funds
complying with the standards and conditions prescribed under the OSS Act and will be
phased in from 1 July 1992. In particular, annual reports on the financial condition and
administrative arrangements of funds will be required in respect of the 1992-93 and
subsequent years of income.
Application
The additional disclosure requirements will apply to all funds with 5 or more members.
The requirements will allow fund trustees either to provide the information set out in
paragraphs 7-18 to members or to satisfy themselves that such information has been
provided to members. The effect of this is that the requirements for provision of


information to members on their entry to a fund will be substantially satisfied in the case
of life insurance based superannuation arrangements by the provision of information
required under ISC Circular 290 by the life office, with additional information necessary
to comply with these disclosure requirements being provided by the trustee or by the life
office.
Additional information to be provided on request
On request by a member, trustees are to provide prompt and convenient access to, or
to ensure prompt access is provided to:
(a) audited accounts of the fund; and
(b) fund governing rules, or provisions of the rules that are relevant to the particular
interests and circumstances of the member.
Additional Annual Information to Members
Trustees are to provide each member with a notice or annual report, or be satisfied that
each member is provided with appropriate notification, as soon as practicable but in any
event within a period of not more than 6 months of the end of each year of income
(9 months in the case of funds providing benefit statements to members more than once
a year).
This notice will be required to contain all such information as members of
superannuation funds would reasonably require, and reasonably expect to have provided,
for the purpose of making an informed judgement as to the financial condition and
administrative arrangements of the fund. Details of any significant or material change
subsequent to the date of the notice will be required to be provided by addendum.
The notice will provide the following specified information:
(a) the name of the superannuation fund;
(b) a statement whether it is the trustees' intention to operate the fund as a complying
superannuation fund and, if so, a statement that they have no reason to believe
the fund will not be accepted as a complying superannuation fund or, if that is not
the case, a statement of the reasons why it may not be or has not been accepted
as a complying superannuation fund;
(c) the following advice relating to fund or sub-plan accounts -
(i) where the accounts have been audited at the time of issue of the notice,
advice that fund audited accounts and auditor's report are being distributed
to members or are available on request by members. Where such audited
accounts are not distributed to members with the notice, the notice is to
include abridged financial information and a statement as to whether there


were any qualifications in the auditor's report and details of any such
qualifications;
(ii) where the accounts have not been audited at the time of issue of the
notice, advice as to when the audited accounts are likely to be distributed
or are likely to be available on request. Consideration will be given to
requiring the relevant abridged financial information drawn from the draft
accounts to be included. Details of any material variations to this financial
information or any qualifications in an auditor's report received subsequent
to the issue of the notice will be required to be provided to members;
(iii) the abridged financial information (to be developed by the ISC in
consultation with relevant industry and other bodies and issued as
guidelines) will show information such as the net assets available to pay
benefits, the amount of investment revenue and contributions received and
benefits paid, together with other key information of relevance to the fund
type;
(d) where employers of members contribute to a fund or sub-plan, a statement that
all contributions which, to the knowledge of the trustees, are payable by employers
have been received, or if there are known to be substantial or material arrears,
information as to any action being taken regarding those arrears;
(e) a statement of the fund or sub-plan investment objectives and the policy and
strategy being used to meet those objectives. This statement will include -
(i) details of the classes of assets (along the lines of those shown on the ISC
Annual Return form) in which the fund or sub-plan was invested and
details of the total assets of the fund or sub-plan at the last balance date
and the immediately preceding balance date, subdivided to show the
amount or proportion represented by each of those classes of assets;
(ii) an outline of any futures, options or other derivative mechanism strategies
relevant to fund or sub-plan assets;
(f) where at balance date the value included in the balance sheet of any single
investment, or the combined value of all investments in the same or associated
entities exceeds 10 per cent of the total value of the fund or sub-plan assets as
shown in the balance sheet, a description of all such investments and their values.
(This disclosure requirement will extend to investments made by a fund manager
on behalf of a superannuation fund. An investment in a 'pooled' arrangement will
be considered a single investment.);
(g) where an investment manager or other financial advisers or consultants have been
appointed to control the investment of all or any part of the fund, the name(s) of
the manager(s) appointed and, if the manager is associated with the fund trustees,
sponsor or administrator, details of that association;


(h) a statement of the basis on which the fund's crediting rate and reserves are
determined;
(i) the names of the trustees holding office during the period to which the notice
relates, as well as at the reporting date to which the notice relates and, for each
such trustee, advice as to whether that trustee was appointed by members, the
employers or some other person or group;
(j) the names of the members of any separate sub-plan management committee at
the reporting date;
(k) advice of fund or sub-plan members' right of access to the documents specified
in OSS regulation 17(l)(i) and to the additional information specified to be
provided on request at paragraph 7 above;
(l) advice as to where (and to whom) members may make inquiries regarding the
fund (including requests for access to audited accounts, actuarial reports and
governing rules or other information that is required under the Regulations to be
available on request);
(m) in addition to the existing requirements for the disclosure of the amount or rate
of net earnings allotted to the member, advice as to -
(i) the amount (or basis of calculation) of any fees, charges or other expenses
charged to the member's account or to the fund or sub-plan;
(ii) the actual rate (or amount) of earnings of the fund or sub-plan in the year
of income to which the accounts relate and in the previous two years of
income (or such lesser period as may apply); and
(n) a summary of governing rule provisions, or the fund's policy, with respect to fees
and charges applicable to accounts (whether active or dormant) including -
(i) initial or establishment charges;
(ii) continuing management, administrative service charges (including fees
levied against fund earnings);
(iii) termination charges.
Missing Members
In recognition of administrative difficulties being experienced by funds, consideration will
be given to providing some relaxation of the annual reporting requirements in a situation
where it is clearly established that a member is no longer able to be traced.


Pension and deferred benefits
The arrangements will require members who are fund pensioners (including reversionary
beneficiaries), or who have deferred benefits, to be advised once a year that the annual
information outlined above is available to them on request.
Additional information to be provided prior to entry
Before, joining a fund (in the case of an employer sponsored fund, before joining or as
soon as is practical thereafter), trustees are to provide to a member or to be satisfied
that a member is provided with:
(a) a copy of the above mentioned additional annual information last issued to
members, where necessary updated (by addendum if appropriate) to allow for
material changes;
(b) where a benefit relevant to a member is determined on the basis of actual or
credited earnings, advice of the actual and credited rates which applied for each
of the last three completed accounting periods. (In the case of unitised
arrangements, unit price movements for each of the three accounting periods
could be substituted.)
The existing Regulations will also be amended to make it clear that the member or
prospective member need only be provided with details of the kinds of benefits provided
by the fund or sub-plan for, or in respect of, that member.
Information to be provided at exit
Consideration will also be given to amendment of the existing disclosure requirement in
respect of death benefit to ensure that advice of the amount of any death benefit that
remains current after the date of exit from the fund, and the period of effect of such
continuing cover, is provided.
Additional personal superannuation information before entry
In the case of personal superannuation (where not subject to prospectus requirements
under the Corporations Law or ISC guidelines to life offices), in addition to the reporting
requirements applicable to funds generally, trustees are to provide, or to be satisfied that
the following additional information is provided, prior to entry to the fund:
(a) the name and address of the controlling company or sponsoring organisation of
the fund;
(b) name and address of ultimate owner of corporate trustee (if different from the
controlling company or sponsoring organisation above);


(c) names and addresses of any administration managers or other appointments made
by the trustee(s) in conjunction with the operation of the fund;
(d) a summary of the key features of the operation of the fund;
(e) the manner in which the value of the account will be determined on termination
(to the extent that this is not provided in accordance with regulation 17(l)(g)).
Additional information relating to master trust and similar arrangements
The annual and entry disclosure requirements outlined above will apply to master trust
or master fund arrangements in the same manner as they will apply to other
superannuation funds, subject to provision of the following additional information:
(a) the name and address of the company controlling or sponsoring the master trust
fund; and
(b) the identity of any relevant sub-plan.
Return of surplus to employer
Appropriate arrangements for the provision of information to members in advance of a
repatriation of surplus moneys from a superannuation fund to a sponsoring employer will
be developed.


CHAPTER 5
TRUSTEE REPRESENTATION
Trustee Representation
5.1 Given the increasing importance of superannuation in personal wealth (see
Table 5.1) the Committee believes that the issue of representation on trustee structures
assumes increased significance. In this chapter, the term 'trustee' should, depending on
the context, be taken to mean:
• a natural person who is a trustee of a fund;
• a corporation which is the trustee of a fund; or
• a natural person who is a director of a corporate trustee.
Table 5.1_
THE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF THE HOUSEHOLD SECTOR
Source: RBA Bulletin, November 199-1
5.2 The Committee received a range of views about possible changes to existing
requirements for trustee representation. Under current rules, only private sector funds
established on or after 16 December 1985 and public sector funds established on or after
25 May 1988 with 200 or more members are required to have equal member and
employer representation. Using figures provided by the ISC for 1987-88, this represents
less than one per cent of all superannuation funds (see Table 5.2). From 1995, all funds


with 200 or more members will be required to have equal employer/employee
representation. However, master trust arrangements can obtain exemptions under OSSA
for equal employer/member representation.
5.3 Some of the points put to the Committee are that:
• current arrangements and those foreshadowed to apply from 1995 are
satisfactory;1
• further proposals on trustee representation should be deferred until after 1995;2
• all trustees should be required to be members of the fund;3
• member representative trustees should be elected by the members;4
• equal representation of members and employers on trustee boards or
management committees should be extended to all schemes with arms' length
members;5
• the concept of equal representation and employee members is appropriate for
large industry-based funds but there should be no compulsion for smaller funds;6
• equal employer/employee representation rules are inappropriate for public funds
and life office master trusts;*
• the appointment of an authorised public trustee corporation as trustee should be
considered;8
• participation of employers and employees in the trustee function is inconsistent
with the prescribed interests provisions of the Corporations Law and so a board
of management advising an independent public trustee may be more
appropriate;9
1
Sub Nos. 100, 151.
Sub Nos. 89, 73.
Sub Nos. 8, 52.
Sub Nos. 107, 26, 52, 82.
ALRC recommendation plus Sub Nos. 79, 90, 128, 113.
Sub No. 95.
Sub Nos. 138, 73, 120.
Sub No. 156.
Sub Nos. 119, 117, 120 and 156.
9


Table 5.2
ALL SUPERANNUATION FUNDS : NUMBER OF FUNDS BY INDUSTRY CATEGORY AND MEMBERSHIP SIZE - 1987-68
(Number)
Source: ISC


• where representation on boards of trustees is equal as between employers and
employees, there should be an outside chairperson with no voting rights. This
would facilitate consensus;10
• for funds with 100 or more members or $5 million in assets there ought to be a
requirement for an independent trustee;11
• investors in master trusts do not have effective representation;12
• there should be a requirement for a minimum number or proportion of the board
of trustees to comprise persons competent in superannuation;13
• it is not necessary to have public trustees because the manager will generally have
better resources and skills to discharge fiduciary duties;14 and
• trustees should be required to undergo specialist education.15
5.4 Traversing this contentious ground has not been easy for the Committee. The
Committee believes that the issue of trustee representation can be separated into distinct
parts:
• firstly, whether member representation is desirable and if so, the threshold level
at which this should apply. Related to this issue is whether trustees should be
elected or nominated by employer and employee groups;
• secondly, the need for an independent trustee on employer-sponsored and
industry funds or whether there should be an independent custodial trustee;
• thirdly, whether minimum education qualifications should apply; and
• fourthly, the particular circumstances of master trusts and whether a private sector
public trustee should be required for life office master trusts.
10
Sub Nos. 138, 141.
Evidence, p 623.
Sub Nos 138, 141.
Sub No. 95.
Sub No. 105.
15
Sub Nos 66, 108, 119, 115.


Member Representation
5.5 Various witnesses have argued that member representation is in itself a good
protective safeguard against fraud and malpractice. The Committee endorses the
comments made by the ISC, the ACTU, ASFA and others that active member interest
is a potent form of prudential supervision.16
5.6 Mercers argue that:
Member trustees is something to be encouraged for two reasons: one, it
engenders a spirit of cooperation between management and employees...
At the other level, our experience is that member trustees become the best
salesmen for superannuation in the workforce. If they believe in it, and see
the benefits of it, they spread the gospel}1
5.7 Leaving aside the issue of master trusts, most submissions to the Committee
supported member representation on trustee structures for large funds. One of the few
to not support this principle was Mr W A Lee, who objected to the requirement for
equal employer/employee representation on the following grounds:
• neither representatives were selected for their expertise; and
• decisions by employee/employer representatives may be guided by political, rather
than purely financial policies.18
5.8 ASFA repeatedly made the point in its evidence19 that trustees, whether they are
elected or nominated by employees or employers, have a duty to act in the best interests
of all members of the fund.
5.9 Having regard to the fact that the moneys in superannuation funds belong to the
members, the Committee believes that there is a need for an arms' length relationship
between the employer and the superannuation fund and that members have a right to
participate in the decision making process of the fund.
5.10 Both Mr Noel Davis20 and Mr Jeremy Henderson21 in their evidence to the
Committee suggested that member representatives can be compromised in their position
as trustees because their jobs are important to them. Whilst Mr Davis suggested that the
way around this was to have at least one independent trustee, Mr Henderson suggested
that nominations should come from the appropriate peak union body and that
16
Evidence, p 643, 1721.
Evidence, p 37.
18 Sub No. 78, p 5.
19 Evidence, p 643, 649, 652.
Evidence, p 623.
Evidence, p 1622.
21


communication processes were very important so that members were aware of who the
trustees were and how they could be contacted.
5.11 With respect to the threshold level at which equal employer/employee
representation should apply, the Committee endorses the view put by the ISC22, Jacques
Martin23 and others, that the threshold should be lower than the current level of 200
members. The Committee notes that the recent ALRC report on collective
investments24 recommended that equal employer/employee representation apply where
funds had 50 or more members. The Committee recognises that the vast majority of
funds (87 per cent)25 have fewer than five members and that, under the ALRC
proposal, 2 539 funds would be subject to the equal trustee representation requirement.
5.12 However, assuming that all funds with five or more members had arms' length
members, implementation of the ALRC recommendation would mean that around 8 700
funds26 would be exempt. In effect, approximately 3.5 times as many funds with arms'
length members would be exempt from the equal trustee representation requirement as
those that were subject to it. The Committee heard some evidence to suggest that
improper and fraudulent practices were more likely to occur in small funds. The
circumstances of the Byrnwood case (see Figure 5.2) and ABC Engineering (see Chapter
4) bear this out and therefore the Committee favours a threshold lower than the current
level of 200 members.
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends that the requirement for equal employer/employee
representation should apply to all funds with arms' length members; that is, funds with
five or more members.
5.13 The Committee is conscious that many witnesses expressed concern about the
reticence of employees to put themselves forward for nomination as trustees because of
the perceived onerous responsibilities. The Committee recognises that in many small,
non-unionised workplaces employees maybe unwilling to nominate themselves as trustees
yet would have difficulty in nominating persons who could represent their interests. As
trustee representation is still evolving, the Committee considers it premature at this stage
to require all trustee representatives to be elected by the membership and suggests that
further consideration be given to means by which employees in non-unionised workplaces
can be represented if they do not wish to be trustee themselves. A list of possible
nominees maintained by the ISC would be one means of overcoming this difficulty.
22
Sub No 51.
Sub No 90.
24 ALRC, Report No. 59, p 178.
Derived from Table 5.2.
ibid.
26


5.14 The Committee received representations from one of the employer groups
involved in the health care industry about a dispute involving the selection of employer
representatives for Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia Ltd (HESTA)(see
Figure 5.1)27. The Committee understands that under current arrangements there is no
provision for an independent arbitrator to adjudicate on such issues.
Recommendation 5.2:
The Committee recommends that a list of persons willing to serve as trustees be
maintained by the ISC which would be authorised to provide both employee and
employer groups with details of the list to assist in the selection of trustees.
The Committee further recommends that in the event that employer or employee
groups were unable to agree on a mechanism for selection of their nominees, the ISC
be given arbitration powers (provided the matter is not under consideration by the
AIRC) and that the ISCs determination be binding on all parties. Where such
determinations are made by the ISC, they should operate for a period no longer than
three years.
Figure 5.1_
Case Study — HESTA
The National Association of Nursing Homes and Private Hospitals is an employer association
representing the industrial and political interests of private health care proprietors. Members of the
Association are required to make award superannuation contributions on behalf of their employees
to the fund.
The rules of the HESTA fund provide that election of employer directors is determined by a ballot
of the employer members of the fund. However, employer contributors are not automatically
'members' of the fund. The National Association of Nursing Homes and Private Hospitals alleges
that some of the original employer directors have sought to monopolise representation in the trustee
structure of HESTA by 'stacking' an annual general meeting to vote out of office a director
representing the National Association and that they failed to admit as new members of the fund any
nursing home or private hospital employer contributor to HESTA who is a member of the National
Association.
An employer representative trustee of HESTA, Mr Wynward, advised the Committee that the rules
of HESTA provide that only those organisations of employers or employees that contemplate
HESTA in the industrial award structure and which are registered or are recognised by Federal or
State industrial tribunals can be eligible to apply for membership of HESTA.
Source: Sub Nos 56, 144, 157, 165. _
27
Sub Nos 56, 144.


Independent Trustees and Custodial Trustees
5.15 ASFA in its evidence to the Committee noted that:
The independent trustee is more removed in terms of voting... and perhaps
less open to being influenced in the process, if that is a significant risk. But
they are also less in touch with the members and the views of members and
what is actually happening in the workplace. It needs to be borne in mind
that the rules in regard to equal representation also provide for decisions
by two thirds of the trustees voting in favour. So, effectively, an
independent trustee does not solve a deadlock ...28
28
Evidence, p 652.




5.16 Professor Knox told the Committee that he thought any requirement for an
independent trustee could:
... be an extra piece of bureaucracy that is unnecessary.29
5.17 The ASC in its evidence argued strongly for a majority of independent trustees
because if the law is built around employee or employer controlled trustees, there is
always the possibility of Maxwell-type problems.30 The ISC also spoke in favour of
independent trustees, arguing that:
... there must be circumstances where trustees, for whatever set of reasons,
who are there representing certain interests - and so-called independently -
do not always act in an independent fashion.31
5.18 TCA said that there are several advantages to a corporate (public) trustee,
principally, independence and the fact that such companies have the necessary expertise
in investment strategies, taxation and legal issues. Moreover, it was argued that a public
trustee has a responsibility to keep abreast of developments and this is not always
possible for private trustees.32
5.19 On the balance of evidence, the Committee believes that a single independent
trustee would not break a deadlock and that with the new reporting requirements to
operate from 1 July 1992, trustee decisions will be open to far greater scrutiny than is
presently the case. Moreover, if the Committee's recommendations in respect of penalties
for breaches of legislation are accepted, trustees may be less likely to succumb to
particular pressure.
Recommendation 5.3:
The Committee recommends that employer-sponsored and industry funds have no
mandatory requirements for independent trustees and that this be left to individual
funds. However, to lessen the possibility that trustees could be pressured or coerced by
particular interests associated with the fund, the Committee recommends that trustees
be provided with legislative protection a gainst action which would unfairly disadvantage
them. For member trustees, this would include protection against unfair dismissal and
discrimination in career advancement.
Education
5.20 The Committee heard a range of views about whether trustees should be required
to have specialist education.
29
Evidence, p 898.
Evidence, pp 1307-1308.
Evidence, p 1850.
Evidence, p 262.
32


5.21
ASFA commented that:
... [trustees] should be ordinary, honest, careful people with a great deal of
commonsense. The job is to look after and represent fund members and to
balance their conflicting interests. They do not need to be professionals to
do this. They may need to seek advice from experts and engage them to
perform various services, where appropriate.In many ways they are perhaps
parallel to politicians, who do not have to be experts, but they have
available to them expert advice.33
5.22 The joint submission from the accounting bodies noted that a high level of skill
and knowledge is required of a superannuation fund trustee. Many trustees are forced
to rely on the use of advisers to clarify, explain and administer their funds and the
submission argued that if legislation were to prescribe minimum levels of skill and
knowledge of company directors, similar action should be taken in relation to
superannuation fund trustees.34 The West Australian Minister for Industrial Relations
believes that it is necessary to establish an Australia-wide syllabus for training courses for
trustees and suggested that the ISC would be a suitable body to establish it.35
5.23 BUS noted in its evidence to the Committee that it supported:
... the proposal to develop an Australian Institute of Superannuation
Trustees Inc to help in promotingexcellence and integrity by trustees in the
performance of their duties on behalf of members, to assist in developing
the knowledge and skills of trustees and to create a forum which currently
does not exist where trustees of industry funds, corporate funds and public
sector funds could share experiences and assist each other?6 [Emphasis
added]
5.24 Since BUS gave its evidence to the Committee, the Australian Institute of
Superannuation Trustees Inc has been founded by the Conference of Major
Superannuation Funds as an independent non-profit, incorporated association with the
following objectives:
• to promote ethical and effective performance standards by trustees;
• to improve the knowledge and skills of trustees, including the administration and
management of assets of superannuation funds;
• to develop a code of conduct for trustees; and
• to enhance the sound management and security of superannuation by trustees on
behalf of their members.
33
Evidence, p. 643
Sub No. 119.
Sub No. 115.
Sub No. 7, p 377.
36


5.25 County NatWest in its submission suggested that the introduction of secondary and
tertiary subjects in superannuation will facilitate development of the long-term
perspective which is needed if superannuation and retirement incomes policy is to be
successful.37 ACM believes that there is an argument for the establishment of formal
education courses specialising in superannuation and suggests that responsibility rests with
government to provide or subsidise training for trustees.38
5.26 On the question of compulsory education, the Committee notes that many
witnesses argued strongly for compulsory, specialist training. Mr Renton in his evidence
to the Committee noted that:
... You can have an admirable truck driver, but he does not necessarily
have the skills and the resources to make investment-type decisions or
superannuation-type decisions... there are plenty of people who could be
elected by members of funds and be members' representatives without
necessarily being expert in superannuation matters.
5.27 MMBW suggested that trustee education be obligatory40 whilst MTIA suggested
that reasonable member representation should be provided subject to the individual
trustees being capable of properly exercising their responsibilities. In order to carry out
responsibilities, trustees require appropriate knowledge of, and where possible due
experience in, the related legal, financial, administrative and investment disciplines.41
ASFA argued that it was not appropriate to mandate minimum educational qualifications
because it cuts across the whole notion of a representative trustee.42
5.28 The Committee believes that the trade union movement, ASFA and other industry
groups have made significant progress in educating trustees. The Committee is also of
the view that employers are increasingly conscious of the need to allow trustees to be
adequately trained and supported.
37
38
39
40
41
42
Sub No. 98, p 24.
Sub No. 95, p 15.
Evidence, p 139.
Sub No. 66, p 2.
ibid
Evidence, p 649.


Recommendation 5.4:
The Committee believes that trustee education is essential for the long term viability
of the industry and recommends that such education be given high priority by both the
Government and the industry. Recognising that the structure of the superannuation
industry is still evolving, particularly with respect to trustee representation, the
Committee recommends that prescribed courses and training should not apply for the
time being
The Committee further recommends that the ISC should require details of the
educational qualifications and/or superannuation-specific training or experience of
persons nominated as trustees. If the educational qualifications or superannuation-
specific experience of trustees as monitored by the ISC have not shown significant
improvement after three years, compulsory education standards should apply. The
Committee commends the establishment of the Australian Institute of Superannuation
Trustees Inc, and recommends that nationally accredited courses in superannuation be
available in all states within five years.
Master Trusts
5.29 Master trust arrangements can be provided by banks, life offices and funds
managers. Under OSS Regulation 13(e), certain master trusts may obtain approval from
the ISC to be exempt from the equal representation rules. Together with other legislative
requirements this means that:
For Banks: The Reserve Bank requires that an independent public trustee
must be appointed for any fund managed by a subsidiary of a bank in
which investments are available to the public. Failure to do so will require
banks to hold capital against those managed funds.
For Life Offices: There are no requirements under OSSA or LIA for
public superannuation funds managed by life offices to have an
independent public trustee.
For Funds Managers: Public superannuation funds subject to the
Corporation Law must have an independent public trustee.
5.30 With respect to life offices, the Committee is concerned about the potential for
a conflict of interest to arise where the trustees are also employees of the fund promoter.
5.31 BT stated that private sector public trustees are not suitable or necessary to
protect the interests of the unit holders.43 BT commented that:
... trustee companies were really a creature from the last century or some
other time which were there to do a particular limited role with respect to
43
Sub No. 105, p 6.


administration of private estates and so forth. With the rapid development
of the unit trust industry, they have grown to have this new role which is on
a scale many times greater than that old business. In a lot of the cases the
trustee companies do not have the capital to actually fulfil the fiduciary role
right to the end of the course.
5.32 BT also commented that public trustees do not have the systems to put adequate
fiduciary controls or audit controls in place and that they added inefficiency to the
system. AM, in its submission, argued that life offices should be required to have a
public trustee.45
5.33 National Mutual argued that independent custodial trustees would be introduced
at substantial cost.46 However, in the absence of a private sector public trustee, it is
possible for conflicts of interest to arise as the evidence by National Mutual Ltd (NML)
and Mr Foley made clear (see Figure 5.3). It is of concern to the Committee that
National Mutual's action appears to be at odds with Regulation 5 of the OSS Regulations
which state that:
... a trustee of a superannuation fund must not be a party, or give effect, to
the exercise of a lien over prescribed benefits by another person.
Evidence, pp 847-848.
Sub No. 96, p 5.
Evidence, p 1883.
46


Recommendation 5.5:
The Committee recommends that all master trust arrangements, including those
offered by life offices, be required to have an independent public trustee.
5.34 The other area of concern to the Committee is that master trust arrangements are
not required to have member representation. AMP advised the Committee that, as the
independent trustee may have a similar role in a number of plans or be involved in other
activities, to have directors representative of employers and employees was unlikely to
be practicable.47 It suggested, however, that similar representation could be achieved
by the establishment of a policy committee.
5.35 The policy committee could be structured so that each individual plan — or in the
case of multi-employer plans, each sub-plan - could have equal representation in line
with current regulations. AMP saw the advantages of a policy committee as being that:
• legal responsibilities could rest with the independent corporate trustee and
appropriate sanctions would be available under the corporations power of the
Constitution; and
• member nominees are more likely to put themselves forward where
responsibilities are advisory rather than legal.
5.36 AMP noted that in respect of personal superannuation plans, there was no need
for representation through a committee because the decision to join or leave the fund
was solely at the members' discretion. However, the Committee notes in this context that
the effect of early termination on policy values may prevent individuals from Voting with
their feet'.
Recommendation 5.6:
The Committee recommends that each individual plan or sub-plan with arms' length
members in master trust arrangements be required to have a policy committee
comprising equal representatives of employers and employees to advise the trustee>
5.37 Another issue brought to the attention of the Committee was a loophole in OSS
Regulation 13(e). This Regulation enables the Commissioner to grant an exemption from
the equal employer/employee representation requirement for occupational
superannuation funds established after 16 December 1985.
5.38 The AWU claimed in its submission to the Committee that the National
Superannuation Fund administered by Federation Life Insurance (now Financial Synergy)
and the Australian Farm Superannuation Plan (managed by Australian Eagle) should not
47
48
Sub No. 120, p 35.
ibid.


have been given interim listing by the ISC under Regulation 13(e) of the OSS
Regulations. Both these plans are nominated in the Pastoral Industry
(Superannuation) Award 1988 and, unlike other industry funds, there is no requirement
for equal employer/employee representation because they are sub-plans in a master trust.
5.39 The ISC told the Committee that the grafting of an industry fund onto a master
trust arrangement, thereby avoiding the requirement for equal representation, was a
loophole in the regulation and that there should be appeal mechanisms available to the
various parties if exemption is given under OSS Regulation 13(e).50 The Committee
notes the ISC submission but believes stronger measures need to be taken which
guarantee equal employer/employee representation.
Recommendation 5.7:
The Committee recommends that Regulation 13(e) of the OSS Regulations be
amended to require all plans nominated in industrial awards to have equal
employer/employeerepresentation.
49 Sub No. 181, pp 6-7.
Supplementary submission to Sub No. 151.
50


CHAPTER 6
SURPLUSES AND INACTIVE ACCOUNTS
Surpluses and Inactive Accounts
Surpluses in Defined Benefit Funds
6.1 The Committee heard a great deal of conflicting evidence about the ownership
of the surpluses in defined benefit funds. In general, the industry has argued that the
trust deed is the arbiter of who owns the surplus; but that where this is not clear, the
sponsoring employer should be entitled to any of the surplus because the employer bears
all of the investment risk. However, many in the industry acknowledge that there is a
need for some legislative guidance. For example, Noble Lowndes in its submission to the
Committee suggested that in addition to any trust deed requirements:
• there be a minimum funding standard which must be satisfied immediately after
any repatriation;
• this minimum standard be that the market value of assets represent at least 110%
of accrued retirement benefits; and
• details of any repatriation be disclosed to the fund members.1
6.2 The Attorney-General's submission notes that greater certainty as to the ownership
of superannuation fund surpluses needs to be established to avoid costly court
proceedings and to ensure equity.2 The ALRC recommended repatriation of surpluses
be illegal except where:
• the actuary has certified there is a surplus;
• the amount (or sum of the amounts) paid since the actuary's certificate was given
is not more than 50% of the amount certified by the actuary;
• the responsible entity has given members two months written notice of the
intended repatriation.3
6.3 ASFA, Mercers, and Mr Cliff Newman4 argued in their evidence that if the
Government were to regulate the treatment of surplus as it arises, employers will tend
to under-fund, rather than contribute at the optimal level. They all stressed that a surplus
can be a transitory affair because of movements in the stockmarket and other asset prices
and that any legislative requirements need to be carefully considered.
1
Sub No. 80, p 12.
Sub No. 107, p 19.
ALRC, Report No. 59, op cit p 248.
Evidence, pp 48, 664, 735.
4


6.4 From 1 July 1992, the ISC will require that a return of surplus be disclosed in
advance to members. This will be a significant improvement on current rules which only
require trustees to notify the members and the ATO within two weeks of the
repatriation. The Committee is also aware that from 1995 the return of a surplus in a
defined benefit fund to the sponsoring employer will no longer be tax deductible to the
fund. Under current taxation arrangements, the surplus repatriated to the employer is
included in the employer's assessable income and the fund is entitled to a corresponding
deduction so that future deductible contributions up to the same amount may be made
by the employer without attracting any tax liability to the fund. However, contributions
of the same dollar amount made in later years will not, in real terms, be of the same
value to the fund as the amount refunded. Any additional contributions beyond the
amount of the repatriation will attract tax. From 1 July 1995, no deduction will be
available to the fund on repatriation of the surplus and the future contributions will have
to be increased to cover the cost of the tax.5 These changed taxation arrangements will
remove much of the incentive to return the surplus; hence, employers are more likely to
take advantage of contribution holidays if the fund builds up a substantial surplus.
6.5 The Committee has some difficulty accepting the view of many in the industry
that, because the employer bears all the investment risk, the employer should be entitled
to the surplus where the trust deed is silent. The repatriation of surpluses, even if
conducted in accordance with the trust deeds, always has the potential to destabilise the
employer-employee relationship. The Committee was particularly concerned about the
issues involving a surplus in defined benefit funds that were raised by Chifley
Superannuation Services, Mr Noel Davis, Mr Cliff Newman, Mr Ian Langfield-Smith, the
Shell Superannuation Rights Committee and Mr David Hughes. The Committee
understands that all employer sponsored trust deeds have a provision for the employer
to wind up the plan at any time should the employer so decide. This action may be taken
to protect the employer from any major downside on the investment return.
6.6 Both the Shell Superannuation Rights Committee and Mr D Hughes6 argued that
surpluses arise from a variety of factors, including the vesting arrangements operating
before 1987 which meant that members leaving the fund received only their own
contributions plus a nominal rate of interest on those contributions, plus the investment
return on employer and member contributions. They provided a schematic representation
of how the surplus in the Shell fund arose (see Figure 6.1). Whilst Shell has not made
a formal submission to the Committee, it has provided a copy of a letter sent to Shell
staff regarding the surplus. An excerpt from that letter is given in Figure 6.2.
6.7 Both the Shell Superannuation Rights Committee and Mr Hughes argue that there
should be:
some form of legislation to say that if members do contribute to
superannuation funds, especially defined benefits funds, any surplus that is
generated and subsequent re-allocation of assets, if there is any, should go
E A Slater, Superannuation Fund Surpluses, Butterworths, Service 14, Sydney
1991, p 12 412.
Evidence, p 632, p 636.
6


back in part to the members.7
6.8 Mr Noel Davis argued that large surpluses in superannuation funds are a form of
tax minimisation8 and suggested that restrictions similar to those which have been
imposed in the United States and the United Kingdom be developed in Australia.9 He
suggested that if the surplus was restricted to an amount that was 10-20 per cent greater
than the liabilities of the fund, this would represent an adequate reserve in the fund and
there would be no tax avoidance as presently occurs.10 The ATO told the Committee
that to its knowledge the accumulation and repatriation of surpluses had not been used
as a tax minimisation measure.11
Recommendation 6.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government conducts an investigation to
determine whether surpluses are being used for the purposes that are intended; that
is, to act as a reserve against investment fluctuations. Following this review, the
Committee recommends that the Government re-examine the 1995 timetable for
removing the tax deductibility to the fund of a repatriation of surplus to the employer.
6.9 Mr Davis also raised the issue of employers gaining access to the superannuation
fund moneys by the employer company terminating the employment of their employees
and re-employing them in an associated company. Unless the trust deed provides for
vesting, the amount remains in the fund and invariably gets distributed to the principals
of the organisation.12 This was an issue vigorously taken up by Chifley Superannuation
Services which calls the practice 'Legal Stealing'. (Refer to Figure 6.3.)
6.10 The Committee believes that much needs to be done to combat the problem of
employers 'creaming off the surplus. The Committee is particularly concerned about the
repatriation of a surplus consequent to changes to the trust deed.
7
ibid, p 634.
Evidence, p 621.
ibid.
10 ibid, p 622.
Evidence, p 2059.
ibid, pp 622-23.
12


Source:
Fund receives a 15% tax credit for surplus removed.
Shell Superannuation Rights Committee, Submission No. 166. (Similar diagram
tabled by Chifley Superannuation Services at Sydney public hearings).


Source: Excerpt from letter to Shell staff, from Mr Ric Charlton, Shell Chair and Chief Executive Officer.
Forwarded to the Committee following evidence given by Mr Hughes and Mr Collins.


Reproduced from documents tabled by Chifley Superannuation Services at Sydney
public hearings, 18 February 1992.


6.11 The case put by Chifley Superannuation Services was that in the event of a
takeover, members of the fund in the takeover target are transferred into the raider's
superannuation fund and the surplus is tied up in the fund in the takeover target. Chifley
contends that the new fund usually has what it calls 'illusionary' increased benefits,
commonly better vesting, but the transfer provisions and winding up provisions in the new
fund are different. Chifley suggested that key amendments to the original deed were:
• 'Members Interest' was changed to 'Accrued Rights';
• 'Equitable Distribution' was changed to 'Ascertained Benefit';
• 'No Reversion' was changed to 'Reversion to Employer'; and
• 'Company Contributions Irrevocable' was changed to 'Reversion to Employer'.
6.12 Mr Newman corroborated Chifley's evidence and said that he had
... seen the trust deed altered in such a way that the members can only get
a certain level of benefit — it certainly would not be less than their vested
benefits — and the balance can be repatriated to the principal employer
under the trust deed.13
13
Evidence, p 728.


Recommendation 6.2:
The Committee recommends that OSSA be amended so that for defined benefit
schemes:
• all trust deeds be required to include clauses outlining the methods by which
a surplus can be repatriated to the sponsoring employer, and that any changes
required to give effect to this requirement be submitted to members for
approval beforehand;
• members be given at least three months prior notice before a surplus is
repatriated;
• members must be supplied with a summary when such notice is given which
includes the financial status of the fund, including the accrued retirement
benefits index;
• members upon request are entitled to a copy of the original trust deed and all
amendments and dates of amendments up to the date of the proposed or actual
repatriation of any surplus or transfer;
• a minimum funding standard be satisfied immediately after repatriation — this
minimum standard to be at least 110% of accrued retirement benefits;
• the amount of surplus that can be held in a fund is restricted — the level to be
an amount not more than 20 per cent of the liabilities of the fund;
• where members are to be transferred from one scheme to another, members
must be advised of the clause(s) in the deed under which the transfer is being
effected; and
• where members are to be transferred from one scheme to another, that
members be given two months' prior notice so that they have adequate time to
seek advice on the implications of the transfer.
6.13 Mr Langfield-Smith, in his evidence to the Committee, said that he was aware of
some schemes which expressly limit the payout to the member to the RBL limit.
However, the fund did not take that into account in determining the level of employee
contributions so that employee contributions were in fact enabling employer contributions
to be reduced. Mr Langfield-Smith said that under current regulatory arrangements the
fact that employee contributions were excessive need not be brought to the attention of
members.14
14
Evidence, p 169.


Recommendation 6.3:
The Committee recommends that the fund's actuary be required to report on the level
of employee and employer contributions in the context of members' RBLs.
Surpluses in Accumulation Schemes — Lost or Inactive Members
6.14 In accumulation schemes, surpluses arise for three reasons:
• investment earnings are not credited in full to members' accounts;
• contributions on or behalf of lost members are credited to reserves; and
• where employer contributions do not immediately vest in the employee.
6.15 With respect to the first issue, the Committee believes that accumulation schemes
should be able to build up reserves to smooth the investment returns that are available
over a period of years. Smoothing of investment returns in this way may also help
attenuate the focus on short term investment returns and redirect attention to the long
term performance of the fund. The Committee is conscious however, that reserves in
accumulation schemes raise concerns between different generations in the fund (inter-
generational equity concerns) and that these require careful consideration.
Recommendation 6.4:
The Committee recommends that the Government investigate the nature and extent
of reserves in accumulation schemes and whether reserves are being maintained for
their proper purposes. The Committee further recommends that the status of reserves
in accumulation schemes be clarified in the OSS Regulations.
6.16 The Committee heard a wide range of views on the best means of dealing with
benefits attributable to lost members. The ISC noted in its evidence that tax file numbers
should be used to trace inactive members and advised the Committee that it had 'worked
feverishly'15 on developing approved preservation vehicles. These would have included
the development of an ADF for that purpose, but the Attorney-General's Department
had advised that an approved deposit fund would not be able to accept such payments.
The Committee was advised that the ISC was considering
allowing a fund, or groups of funds, to set up a superannuation fund, the
sole purpose of which would be the sweeping in of such unclaimed moneys
or to preserve benefits where the beneficiary cannot be found}6
15
Evidence, p 1856.
ibid.
16


6.17 The ISC suggested at least two other options to the Committee. The first was that
industries could decide to set up a vehicle to cover all industry funds with lost members,
or employers could decide to set up a fund that covered employer-sponsored funds. The
second approach would be to have an unclaimed-money approach with provisions similar
to those in the Banking Act or in the LIA where moneys that were clearly not traceable
to any particular individual would revert to consolidated revenue, but would be available
at some later date if the individual was discovered.17
6.18 The Committee has conducted its own research on lost members (See Table 6.1).
Survey results show that in the hospitality industry, lost and inactive members can be as
high as 40% of total membership. The practice of dealing with lost members varies
between funds and the Committee believes it desirable that uniform standards be
developed.
Recommendation 6L5;
The Committee recommends that:
• a centra1 fund be established for lost member accounts so that all funds can be
swept periodically, say every six or 12 months, in order that administration
charges on such accounts be minimised;
• the accounts could be identified either by tax file numbers or by a
superannuation number;
• an appropria te Commonwealth agency should tender out the administra tion of
such a fund on a fee for service basis, on a long term contract (for example, five
years) and that arrangements be made with the Australian Tax Office so that
information on the balance of the account could be forwarded to individuals;
and
• where the personis in irregular employment or changes employment frequently,
the person should have the option of rolling over contributions in the central
fund into an appropriate industry or employer scheme.
Evidence pp 1856-57.


Table 6.1_
SURVEY OF LOST OR INACTIVE MEMBERS IN INDUSTRY FUNDS
* 'lost' defined as members for whom current address is not available.
# 'inactive' defined as those who did not receive contributions in previous six months.
** Figures not available.
*** Includes members who have 'preserved' funds - actual number of 'lost members' not provided.
Source: Response to survey undertaken by Committee. Fourteen industry funds were asked to respond to
a series of questions.




CHAPTER 7
IN-HOUSE ASSET RULE
In-House Asset Rule
7.1 Under the in-house asset rule, superannuation funds are limited in their power to
invest in, or lend to, their sponsor companies. The rule is designed to prevent employers
from regarding superannuation schemes as sources of internal funding for their businesses
or using superannuation funds to defend themselves from a takeover bid. The in-house
asset rule, being phased in to ten per cent by 1995, was examined by the Government,
in consultation with the superannuation industry, last year and was found to be
appropriate.
7.2 However, the Committee notes that the Attorney-General's submission to the
Committee and the ALRC have both recommended a lower figure of 5%, arguing that
an in-house investment is not the same as any other investment of a superannuation
scheme because if the employer goes out of business, not only will members lose their
jobs but their superannuation scheme will suffer a loss which it may not have suffered if
it had not invested in-house.1 The recent House of Commons Social Security Committee
report on The Operation of Pension Funds noted other reasons in the UK context (see
Figure 7.1). ASFA notes in its submission that the in-house asset standard may require
refinement.2
Source: Cited in The Operation of Pension Funds Second Report of the Social
Security Committee, House of Commons, session 1991-92, pp xvii-xviii.
1
Sub No. 107, p 15, and ALRC, Discussion Paper 50, p 165.
Sub No. 89, p 28. ASFA notes The fact that the current in-house limits are based
on the historical cost of assets can lead to some inappropriate results. However,
it is recognised that a change to market value could create other problems. The
ISC is currently addressing difficulties concerning the in-house asset standard.1


7.3 Mr Noel Davis in his evidence to the Committee 3 argued that when the financial
circumstances of the employer become difficult, moneys in the superannuation fund are
often regarded as being accessible and can be treated in one of three ways:-
• moneys can be lent to the employer;
• the funds can be wound up and the money in them distributed to the principals; or
• the moneys can be misappropriated through fraud.
7.4 Mr Davis noted that where a breach of the in-house asset rules is involved, the fund
then attracts maximum marginal tax rates of 48.25 per cent,
but a desperate employer is not the least bit concerned that an adverse tax
rate will be imposed on the superannuation money if it is a matter of
survival.4
7.5 Mr Davis went on to note that the loan can be made interest-free, in which case the
superannuation fund does not pay the adverse tax rate, or alternatively, the employer can
pay a low interest rate — in which case not much tax is paid by the superannuation fund.
Moreover, even if the interest rate on the loan is at a commercial rate, the employer gets
a deduction for 39 per cent and the fund is paying 48.25 per cent. If the two are regarded
as being all part of the one, as some employers undoubtedly do, there is not much
difference in terms of the tax deduction and the tax paid.5
7.6 Mr Lee in his submission argued that in-house investments should be prohibited.6
Mr D Schwarz7 said that all family funds, i.e. those with no arms' length members, should
not have to comply with the in-house asset rule because of the cost of capital to small
business. Mr Lucas made a similar point in his submission8 and evidence to the Committee.
Recommendation 7.1:
The Committee recommends that funds which do not have arms' length members be
subject to the same rules as other funds. The Committee considers that to do otherwise
would provide scope for tax avoidance.
7.7 Writing in the aftermath of the Maxwell fraud case, the recent House of Commons
Social Security Committee report on The Operation of Pension Funds noted that:
Controls on self investment,... are not a panacea. Indeed, it is the Committee's
3
Evidence, pp 622-24.
Evidence, p 622.
ibid
Sub No. 78, p 7.
Sub No. 17, p 1.
Sub No. 22, p 3.
8


view that a complete ban on self-investment would be counterproductive. If
self-investment were banned entirely, it would lead, in some cases, to the
forced sale of pension fund assets, which could be directly contrary to the
interests of employees and pensioners. There is also no evidence to suggest
that even if there had been a total ban on self-investment this would have
prevented Maxwell from carrying out his fraud since there would still have
been the necessity for strong directors and trustees to oppose him. We do,
however, believe that the government's introduction of a 5 per cent ceiling on
self-investment with limited exclusions, is a prudent and sensible reform within
the existing structure of the law.9
7.8 The Committee notes that the proposed new information disclosure requirements to
be introduced from 1 July 1992 (see Attachment A, Chapter 4) will require trustees to
report percentages of asset classes and also to report to members any single asset that
amounts to more than ten per cent of the assets of the fund at balance date by market
value.10 The Committee believes, however, that there remains scope for balance sheet
restructuring and that it may be possible for funds to exceed the ten per cent rule during
the year and not be detected unless the ISC is able to pursue an active audit program. As
the Committee noted in Chapter 4 and in its earlier statement on the Byrnwood case11,
there is a need to improve ISC audit procedures at the earliest possible opportunity to
detect breaches of the in-house assets rule and impose appropriate penalties on trustees.
7.9 The Committee recognises that any lowering of the in-house asset threshold is likely
to cause some difficulties for the superannuation funds of those large employers which make
up the top 20 stocks on the stock market. The Committee also believes small funds with
arms' length members are at greater risk of insolvency. Figures by the ISC for 1986-87, show
that small funds were more likely to have a level of in-house assets exceeding
ten per cent(see Table 7.1) However, the Committee believes that the increased fiduciary
duties of trustees, together with other changes to prudential arrangements recommended
in this report, will not require a distinction to be made between small and large funds.
Recommendation 7.2:
The Committee recommends that the in-house assets rule be reduced from ten per cent
to five percent.
9
Social Security Committee, op cit, p xix.
Prudential Supervision of the Superannuation Industry, Statement by the
Treasurer.
11
Report to the Senate, March 1992.


Table 7.1
NUMBER OF FUNDS* IN EACH CATEGORY - 1986-87
PERCENTAGE OF INVESTMENTS IN IN-HOUSE ASSETS
Employer Supported Funds with assets not all in individual insurance policies.
Source: ISC. Figures for later years are not available.


CHAPTER 8
REGULATION OF FUND MANAGERS
Regulation of Fund Managers
Where regulation has the effect of creating barriers to entry or threatening
the viability of small players or perpetuating concentration among fund
managers, it is not in the interest of superannuation fund members or the
community as a whole.
Linda Bardo Nicholls, County NatWest evidence, pp 99-100.
8.1 Fund managers play a vital role in the superannuation industry because they are
charged with earning an investment return on the members' funds. During the course of
the inquiry, four issues involving fund managers were highlighted:
• entry requirements for fund managers;
• concentration of fund management activities;
• the role of advisers; and
• accountability to trustees and members.
Entry Requirements
8.2 Entry requirements can take two forms:
• minimum capital or solvency requirements; and
• minimum educational qualifications.
8.3 Investment management services for superannuation funds are currently provided
through one of three avenues:
• registered life insurance companies;
• companies holding a dealers licence provided by the ASC, including bank fund
management activities; or
• directly by the trustees of the funds themselves.
8.4 The IAA noted in its submission that whilst the life insurance industry is closely
regulated by the ISC with minimum capital adequacy standards and tests applied as to
the fitness of persons to be involved in the management of life insurance companies and
regular disclosure requirements, these tests did not necessarily extend to cover investment
management competence.1
Sub No. 108, p 6.


8.5 Under the ASC licensing requirements for dealers licences, greater emphasis is
placed on investment management competence and the financial strength of the
investment manager, and less emphasis is placed on capital requirements and regular
reporting of investment management activities.2
8.6 Trustees of superannuation funds who directly invest the funds' assets are not
required to hold a dealers licence, nor do minimum capital or solvency standards apply.
8.7 The Committee agrees with the IAA that the two questions requiring resolution
are:
• whether trustees of superannuation funds who directly invest the assets of the fund
should be licensed; and
• whether the ASC dealers licence requirements and the requirements for life
insurance companies should be brought into line.3
8.8 With respect to the first issue, a dealers licence is prima facie evidence that the
applicant has adequate educational qualifications and relevant experience. If the
Committee's recommendations in Chapter 4 are implemented, only fit and proper
persons would be able to be trustees or directors of corporate trustees. However, the
Committee also considered that where the trustees are directly undertaking the
investment management activities of the fund themselves, they should be subject to
licensing requirements.
Recommendation 8.1:
The Committee recommends that trustees who act as investment managers of
superannuation funds he required to have a dealers licence. It is intended that such
licensing requirements would operate in conjunction with entry requirements for
trustees as outlined in Chapter 4. Trustees whose only investments were bank deposits
would he exempt from the dealers licence requirements.
8.9 Weighing the arguments for competitive neutrality between life offices and other
fund managers was a difficult task for the Committee.
8.10 The IFA argued in its evidence that:
If you raise the quality and set proper prudential standards for those who
are permitted to manage these [superannuation] funds, you will eliminate
the large number of difficulties which may occur through incompetence or
other things at a later date.4
ibid pp 6-7
ibid, p 7.
Evidence, p 2026.
4


8.11 To this end, the IFA supported a minimum level of capital adequacy so that
managers can demonstrate that they are of substance and have sufficient capital to
manage the business on a day-to-day basis. In addition, tertiary qualifications and a track
record in funds management were seen as necessary.5
8.12 Rothschilds advised the Committee that, in the UK, regulations require fund
managers to have sufficient resources to cover cashflow over some minimum period such
as two months. This concept takes account of fund managers of different size and would
not discriminate against small, niche fund managers who could offer specialist services
but may not meet minimum capital requirements.6 Rothschilds also suggested that fund
managers should be registered and that they should have to undergo examinations.7
8.13 On this same question of entry requirements for fund managers, BT noted that:
The fact that there is no regulation does seem a bit surprising, but it is not
obvious that it is having really adverse effects at the moment.8
8.14 Nonetheless, BT supported entry requirements for fund managers, expressing a
preference for entry controls analogous to the insurance industry.9 (See Chapter 4 for
details of prudential controls on life offices.)
8.15 The TCA told the Committee that:
The lessons that we have learnt from the last two or three years are that
there has to be a commitment by the fund managers to the work they are
doing... Many of the fund managers have been totally undercapitalised...
if your own money is at stake you tend to have a far higher
commitment...10
8.16 The TCA suggested that fund managers be required to have a minimum
capitalisation plus additional capitalisation related to the size of funds under
management.11 The joint submission from the accounting professions also suggests
minimum capital requirements for fund managers.12
8.17 The TPC notes in its submission that prudential supervision should not be allowed
to develop into a barrier to entry' in the superannuation industry. In particular, the
Evidence, pp 2026-2027.
Evidence, p 1551.
Evidence, p 151.
Evidence, p 851.
Evidence, p 852.
Evidence, p 262 -264.
Evidence, p 263.
Sub No. 119, p 11.
12


prudential rules should be flexible enough to encourage niche marketing.13 In its
evidence the TPC argued that:
Government policy does need to have regard to those outcomes sought by
consumers and that regulations should interfere with those only where there
is some sensible prudential reason.14
8.18 The ALRC report proposes a 'fit and proper person' test for fund managers, and
recommends that a corporation or individual should not have custody of the assets of a
superannuation fund as investment manager unless it had a dealers licence and net assets
of at least $5 million.15 The ALRC made no recommendations with respect to other
entry requirements, noting that the earlier proposal to have net assets of $5 million or
be a member of a professional indemnity fund with cover of at least $5 million would not
necessarily:
... guarantee the performance or integrity of an investment manager yet
may operate to keep out of the industry small but talented investment
managers}6
8.19 The ALRC recommended that capital adequacy be addressed through dealers
licence requirements, noting that if a risk-weighted capital requirement for securities
dealers as proposed by IOSCO is implemented in Australia, additional minimum capital
and net asset requirements will be unnecessary.17
8.20 It is axiomatic that life offices play an important role in fund management
activities. As noted by the ANZ in its evidence:
The people with the huge history, the long track record and the very large
volume of funds already under management are the long established life
companies. They have just got so much more behind them in that area.18
8.21 An article on 'Managed Funds' in the ABS publication Economic Indicators notes
that:
Statutory funds of life offices are the major employers of professional fund
managers. They had $90.1 billion invested through fund managers at
30 June 1991, or 95.6 per cent of their total unconsolidated assets.
8.22 The Committee concluded that the fact that life offices were not required to meet
investment management competency tests had not meant that their capabilities in this
13
Sub No. 145 p 4.
Evidence, p 1251.
ALRC Report No 59, op cit pp 75-82.
16 ibid, p 81.
18
ANZ evidence, pp 472-473.


regard were inferior to those of the rest of the fund management industry. Indeed, as the
following section illustrates, life offices occupy a dominant position in the industry.
Recommendation 8.2:
The Committee recommends that a 'fit and proper person' test he introduced to all
investment managers similar to the conditions under the Life Insurance Act (LIA). The
Committee further recommends that the need for capital adequacy be examined by the
ISC and ASC. The Committee considers that a minimum level of capital adequacy
expressed as some percentage of cash flow is desirable for funds managers, as are
minimum educational qualifications, but is anxious that any such controls do not
discourage niche marketing and that Australian practice is consistent with that
overseas.
The Committee further recommends that the need for formal industry-specific
educational qualifications be examined by the ISC and the ASC and investment
competency measures, similar to dealers licensing requirements, be considered by the
ISC in its review of the LIA.
Concentration of Fund Management Activities
8.23 The fund management industry is heavily concentrated as Table 8.1 illustrates.
Table 8.1
MAJOR MANAGERS OF AUSTRALIAN SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
Source:
Noble Lowndes Superannuation Investment Performance Monitor,
June 1991; and ISC Submission to the House of Representatives Standing
Committee Inquiry Into the Banking Industry, August 1991 (updated).


8.24 The fund managers, in their evidence to the Committee, said that the industry was
intensely competitive.1’
8.25 BT argued that:
• in addition to the top five managers, there were more than 25 other managers of
wholesale superannuation funds and a further 22 managers of ADFs and Rollover
Funds;
• there is a very high level of real competition between fund managers and fund
management in Australia and it is probably the most open and accountable
business in the world; and
• there is a range of potential new entrants into the fund management business.20
8.26 AMP went on to suggest that tangible evidence of this competition was the net
inflow and outflow of funds under management over the last two years.21 Rothschilds
also pointed to the number of new entrants into the industry — suggesting that 13 years
ago there would have been eight or ten fund managers competing, whereas now there
were in excess of 45.22
8.27 There was a divergence of views amongst the fund managers on whether
concentration in fund management would continue. CFM suggested that whilst there has
been a predominance of balanced fund managers in Australia to date, as trustees became
more sophisticated there would be greater sector specialisation which would enhance
competition in the industiy.23 Expressing a contrary view, Rothschilds suggested that if
the regulatory environment continues to squeeze small company-sponsored funds there
is a danger of greater concentration in the funds management industry because the larger
company sponsored funds and industry funds tend to appoint the larger fund managers.
8.28 The Committee is satisfied that the funds management industry is open to new
entrants and that no Government action is required to counter the dominance of a few
fund managers. However, there was a suggestion by Jacques Martin that there is little
price discrimination in the fees charged by the major fund managers. Jacques Martin told
the Committee that:
... [fund management] is the only area of fees in superannuation which has
not been savagely reduced by the advent of the industry scheme system.24
19
See for example AMP evidence, p 1746, BT evidence, p 853.
20 BT Sub No 105, pp 11-12.
21 Evidence, p 1746.
Evidence, p 150.
23 Evidence, p 1292.
24 Evidence, p 405.


8.29 However, as noted by AMP, the selection of a fund manager is not only
determined by price. It suggested that the process was determined by a combination of
factors, the primary ones being:
• the performance of the investment manager;
• the quality of individuals and the organisation concerned in a qualitative sense;
• the strength and depth of management; and
• the stability and risk profile attaching to the underlying performance.25
8.30 ACM advised the Committee that large funds are better placed to negotiate on
the fees and charges by investment managers because they are offering a potential
investment manager a very large sum of money.26 ACM went on to argue that:
The capacity of a manager to manage a large sum spread in different
avenues and produce a very competitive rate, or almost guarantee a certain
rate above the average, requires a good deal of skill. It requires a great
knowledge of the market place, in an increasingly complex market place,
and a capacity to move very quickly. It also rests very largely on the skills
of the individuals who are specifically managing that money, not necessarily
the size or the credibility of an organisation with whom they might work.
8.31 If the track record and quality of the individuals and the investment strategy in the
top fund managers are significantly ahead of the rest of the field, then fees charged could
reflect this qualitative difference. So long as the industry remains open to new entrants
who can prove their expertise in particular segments, the Committee does not believe
Government action is warranted.
Recommendation 8.3:
The Committee recommends that the TPC monitor the funds management industry
to ensure that it remains open and competitive.
Role of Advisers
8.32 The Committee has been advised that the normal procedure for the selection of
a fund manager would be for trustees to seek expressions of interest. A short list would
then be drawn up and the short-listed funds invited to make a presentation to trustees.
Frequently, the final decision is referred to an investment committee. It would appear
that almost all trustees of large funds engage a firm of consulting actuaries to advise
Evidence, p 1746.
Evidence, p 423.
Evidence, p 424.
27


them in the shortlisting process and the ultimate selection of the fund manager.
8.33 It appeared to the Committee that the advisers sit at the apex of a triangle of
power and effectively work as the 'gate-keeper' between the fund and the fund manager.
They are the conduit through whom fund managers must work in reaching the trustees
because the advisers undertake the quantitative modelling for trustees and help them
design an asset allocation structure suitable to the particular scheme.
8.34 Whilst the Committee was not presented with any firm evidence that the
relationship between advisers and fund managers on the one hand, and advisers and
funds administrators on the other hand, materially affected the appointments made by
trustees, it is clear to the Committee that the advisers occupy extremely influential
positions and are not subject to any regulatory oversight.
8.35 CFM suggested to the Committee that:
The Australian experience at the moment is probably similar to that in the
United States where there is a very powerful advisory function to trustees
of new schemes and I think that relates to the newness of some of the
trustees to their tasks... From our experience, there is a considerable desire
on the part of trustees to do the best by the contributors to their scheme
and there is a feeling that they want to be fully briefed by advisers in
relation to investment matters. But I am not aware of, nor to my knowledge
have we seen a situation where there might be too great an influence by
advisersj28
8.36 The MMBW Employees Superannuation Fund had a more sanguine view,
suggesting that there was complementarity between the actuary and the investment
manager. It advised the Committee that:
... the actuary provides the 'number crunching... the investment adviser...
reviews the efficiency of our investment structure, examines alternative
scenarios as to whether they will improve the return we are likely to get
and the risk profile of the investments. You put the two together and see
whether they fit?9
8.37 Given the lack of financial expertise of many trustees, the Committee was of the
view that the actuary would not only provide the number crunching but would also
evaluate the investment strategy proposed by the fund manager. In addition, the
Committee is aware that advisers employed by trustees are normally employees of the
major actuarial consulting firms and these firms are also embarking on funds
management and funds administration activities.
28
Evidence, p 1289.
Evidence, p 255.


Recommendation 84:
The Committee considers that the 'bundling of services by the actuarial firms warrants
further examination by the ISC and TPC, particularly as actuarial advisers to
superannuation funds are not subject to any regulatory oversight.
Accountability to Trustees and Members
8.38 The Attorney-General's Department told the Committee that one area of
regulation of collective investments that needed upgrading was:
... the superintendence by contributors of the investment strategies being
followed by their trustees and fund managers.30
8.39 This was a view put strongly by AFCO which told the Committee that the surveys
of pooled investment managers and rollover vehicles which were undertaken by various
firms were inaccessible to consumers because of the fees charged. AFCO advised the
Committee that:
From our perspective as community advocates, that sort of elitism in
information gathering of information distribution is completelyunacceptable
and is indicative of the elitism in terms of the management of the funds.
We believe that the Government needs to blow that open by actually
enabling consumers on the ground and particularly their statutory bodies,
which are representing their interests, to access information that is relevant
on these investment strategies. We are not going to change the fact that
people with a particularly limited range of backgrounds and beliefs are
managing our money. That is going to continue for a considerable period
of time. However, we do need to actually get information about what they
are doing out in the community so at least we have the opportunity to
criticise it31
8.40 It appeared to the Committee that some funds were already taking positive steps
to communicate the investment strategy of the funds to members. For example, ARF told
the Committee that members should be advised of:
[the fund's]investment strategies and performance, the basis on which fund
managers are chosen, and the asset allocation, crediting rates, fund earning
rates, if we create reserves, and a reasonable outline of administration
charges and fees?2
Evidence, p 1205.
Evidence, p 1949.
Evidence, p 319.
32


8.41
MTIA pointed to the STA which endeavoured:
... in a fairly positive way to communicate with members fairly regularly on
the investment policy and performance of the fund. Quite apart from
individual member statements and annual reports, special investment
reports have been prepared and forwarded to all members of the fund.
Those reports have gone into some detail as to what the investment strategy
is, the asset class structure, and the investment managers who are used.
8.42 AMP cited in its evidence to the Committee that trustees are now taking much
more formally their obligations with respect to investment strategies and goals34 and are
being more precise in specifying what they want the investment manager to do.35 The
Committee welcomes this development and notes that the new information disclosure
requirements to operate from 1 July 1992 will require trustees to advise members of the
fund's investment philosophy strategies and the strategies undertaken to achieve stated
goals.
Recommendation 8-5:
The Committee supports legislation requiring trustees to establish investment targets
and for investment managers to report against those targets. The Committee
recommends that trustees be able to seek compensation from fund managers where
the latter have failed to fulfil the conditions of the management contract.
8.43 Whilst there is no shortage of public information on returns achieved on funds
under management, it was clear to the Committee that publication of such data on a
monthly and quarterly basis focused attention on short-term returns rather than strategies
which would assist in the long term growth of the fund. Whilst some funds publish
investment returns against accepted industry benchmarks and measure the performance
of the funds' manager, it is of concern to the Committee that the industry has failed to
develop strategies which would enable trustees and members to evaluate the appropriate
long-term investment strategies to meet the funds' liabilities.
8.44 The IR&D Board, in its evidence to the Committee, suggested that fund managers
be required to report on long term performance. Speaking specifically about income
streams, Mr Hanley, a former Chairman of the Board, said that:
... I really want to know how much my fund manager made in terms of long
term income flow, because that is eventually wealth creation. I would also
want to knowhow much he made from share trading, which I see as a zero
sum game ... Lastly, I want to see what the inflation issue is and what the
impact of inflation is on his performance. The guy I want to put my money
Evidence, p 981.
Evidence, p 1747.
ibid.
35


with is the fellow who can develop that long term, wealth creating, income
flow..?6
8.45 The Institute of Actuaries noted in its submission that:
... a significant problem exists in that superannuation fund assets for many
funds are invested for stability of investment returns rather than for
achievement of high long-term returns?1
8.46 Satisfactory real investment returns are critical to funded defined benefit schemes
since there is a clear relationship between the level of real investment returns and the
level of contributions required to provide the benefits. In accumulation schemes, although
the assets and liabilities are both dependent on investment earnings, the relationship
between the earnings rate of the fund and a member's salary determines (other things
being equal) the relationship between his/her benefit and the standard of living at
retirement.
8.47 The IAA argued that the risk averse nature of superannuation trustees would
become more of a problem in the future due to the introduction of the new accounting
standard AAS25 relating to the valuation of assets in superannuation funds.38 The IAA
advised the Committee that in conjunction with other industry professions, it was
developing a set of standards to focus trustees more towards a longer-term
perspective.39 The IAA felt that the education program currently under way will take
a long time to show results.40
8.48 As many submissions to the Committee noted, focus on short-term investment
returns has become more prevalent with the trend towards accumulation schemes. SBC
Dominguez Barry outlined the problem to the Committee in the following terms:
Fund Managers have an obligation to maximise the return on funds within
safe limits. The constraints are:
• the three-monthly investment return mentality;
• the requirement to report against benchmarks on particular asset
classes;
• the need to minimise the transmission effects to the Australian
market from a major shakeout offshore through the use of options
and future's contracts; and
36
Evidence, p 1969.
Sub No. 108, p 16.
ibid, p 12
ibid, p 14.
ibid.
40


• liquidity — the need to get in and out of stock quickly:41
8.49 With respect to developing longer term investment prospectives, the Alexander
Consulting Group advised the Committee that:
funds investment and advice will be a growth area (over the next decade)
and communicating to members whether the policy has been successful or
not. Introducing virtually compulsorypreservation on all benefits would tend
to encourage funds to invest more in the equities market than in fixed
interest because members would then be looking through until age 65years
at least, and then even beyond 65, if the cash-back pension-type
arrangements come into place. In that case, they can afford to invest a
large amount in equities, because if there is a negative return in any
particular year, it is not really relevant in the long scheme of things,
provided the long term trend is accomplished,42
Recommendation 8.6:
The Committee recommends that the ISC, the Institute of Actuaries, the Australian
Institute of Trustees Inc and other professional bodies devote resources to improving
public awareness of long term returns, as well as improving the ability of funds
managers to focus on those long term returns.
The Committee further recommends that trustees be required to explain to members
the strategies being employed to achieve a real rate of return over a given period,
preferably at least five years.
Evidence, pp 1929-1930.
Evidence, p 869.
42


CHAPTER 9
INVESTMENT BY SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
Investment by Superannuation Funds
9.1 There has been much debate recently over the investments made by
superannuation funds. The Committee notes that trustees have generally adopted
extremely conservative investment strategies as Table 9.1 illustrates. The previous chapter
outlined the difficulties which arise when the focus is on short term returns.
Table 9.1
NON-UFE OFFICE SUPERANNUATION FUNDS* AND ADF's ASSETS
source: V W ritzgerald and 1 K Harper Super rrelerred or Level Flaying
9.2 Industry schemes have been particularly conservative in their investment
strategies. The typical asset structure of a mature industry scheme is:1
Other funds might have greater exposure to property and less in the way of capital
guaranteed products. Only one witness suggested to the Committee that superannuation
funds have at times been involved in 'speculative' activities.2
9.3 Figures provided by the ISC show that in 1987-88, 68 per cent of the
$33,247 billion in assets (excluding life insurance policies) of private sector
Field1? p 38.
Equities
Fixed Interest
Capital Guaranteed
Listed Property Trusts
Cash
35%
25%
25%
5%
10%
Development Capital and Potential Claims, G A Grant, General Manager;
Jacques Martin; Paper presented to HR Conference.
Mr Daryl Dixon, SG Evidence, p 79.
2


superannuation funds was accounted for by the largest 462 funds (assets over $10 million)
and 81 per cent by the largest 2 355 funds (assets over $1 million). For public sector
funds, of the $33 billion in assets reported to the ABS in 1987-88, 85 per cent was
accounted for by the largest 11 funds (assets over $500 million) and 95 per cent by the
largest 25 funds (assets over $100 million).3
9.4 The ISC concluded that if each life office was treated as one 'fund', 74 per cent
of the total assets of superannuation funds and ADFs is accounted for by 490 funds
comprising:
• five life offices;
• 12 ADFs;
• 11 public sector funds; and
• 462 private sector funds; or4
87 per cent is accounted for by 2 422 funds comprising:
• ten life offices;
• 22 ADFs;
• 25 public sector funds; and
• 2 355 private sector funds.
9.5 Alternatively, if a common threshold of $10 million across all categories is set, the
largest 600 funds account for 91 per cent of total assets, that is:
44 life offices;
32 ADFs;
62 public sector funds; and
462 private sector funds.
9.6 This means that there are only 462 private sector funds, or less than one per cent
of all superannuation funds, that are significant in a funds management sense.5 A survey
of industry funds in the September 1991 issue of Superfunds showed that only five funds
undertook the investment management function themselves and all other funds employed
life offices or BT or Westpac as their fund managers.
9.7 One of the most strident criticisms of superannuation funds, life offices and fund
managers is that they have not invested in 'high risk' or 'patient capital' ventures to any
great extent.
Unpublished evidence.
ibid.
There are approximately 100 000 superannuation funds in Australia. See Table
9.2.


9.8 Jacques Martin told the Committee that:
... if you can find a fund manager with more than 30 stocks in his
Australian equities portfolio,you have someone who is madly diversified.
You have fund managers with as few as 20 stocks.6
9.9 The conservatism of trustees and funds managers has led to calls for direction of
superannuation funds investments. The main arguments for superannuation fund
investments being channelled into particular areas are that:
• superannuation funds receive tax advantages and as a quid pro quo should direct
investments into particular areas in the national interest;
• compulsory superannuation savings should be used to fund infrastructure or
public housing in lieu of public sector financing because government policies will
increase the size of superannuation funds at the expense of other financial
institutions;
• superannuation funds have shown no interest in voluntarily investing in venture
and development capital and should therefore be compelled to do so; and
• Australia is short of capital and therefore superannuation funds should not be
allowed to invest overseas rather than in Australian industry.
9.10 IOOF suggested that incentives be offered to superannuation funds which invest
in approved areas addressing the needs of new technology, export-oriented industry and
public infrastructure. It recommended a new 30/20 rule as a basis for exempting the
earnings of superannuation funds from tax.7
9.11 In general, however, the superannuation industry is opposed to prescriptive
investment guidelines arguing that investment controls for non-prudential reasons will
dilute the responsibilities of trustees.8 In addition, it is argued that prescriptive
investment guidelines will reduce returns and increase the riskiness of the investment
portfolio.
9.12 A number of reports have recently considered the need for investment controls
on superannuation funds.9 The Government has eschewed non-prudential controls on
investments by funds because it is concerned to create a policy environment which
6
Evidence, p 405.
Sub No. 59, p 9.
See for example, Sub Nos. 89, 95, 102, 106, 114, 119.
See for example The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade,
Australia's Current Account Deficit and Overseas Debt, 1992; the Report of the
Task Force on the Commercialisation of Research Bringing the Market to Bear
on Research, 1991; and the Industry Commission report, Availability of Capital,
1991.


maximises superannuation fund earnings and the ultimate benefits available to fund
members.10 The Treasury submission argued that:
... it would clearly be inimical to the Government's policy objectives if
investment controls resulted in lower overall retirement incomes.n
9.13 The Treasury submission also noted that:
Investment guidelines could also:
• run the risk of distorting asset markets and resource allocation with
adverse consequences for overall economic efficiency,
• conflict with trustees' obligations to invest in the best interests of
their members; and
• leave the Government open to claims for compensation if
investments in the prescribed areas performed poorly or failed}2
9.14 Treasury argued that superannuation funds are broadening their investment
horizons without government intervention. It advised the Committee that:
... as the volume of funds available for investment by superannuation
funds increases, market pressures will ensure that this trend continues as
trustees and managers strive to maintain competitive investment returns.
(By definition, if the rapidly increasing supply of superannuation savings
continues to be directed solely to those areas where superannuation funds
have traditionally invested, the rate of return on those assets will fall.) ...
It is therefore unlikely that, given the flexibility of capital markets,
investments offering competitive returns will not be able to attract
investment support.
9.15 Tangible evidence of the broadening of the investment horizons of
superannuation funds is provided by the Development Australia Fund (DAF) which is
a joint venture of the Australian Chamber of Manufactures, the Australian Council of
Trade Unions and AMP. It is a national investment fund available to the trustees of large
superannuation funds,with a minimum investment of $500 000.
9.16 The Fund is investment driven, which means that return, security, diversification
and the need for a balanced portfolio dictate investment selection. The Committee was
advised that, subject to these fundamental criteria, investments are selected so as to
benefit Australia by providing capital in areas where it is particularly needed. Such
10
Prudential Statement on Supervision of Superannuation Industry.
Sub No. 195, p 25.
ibid, p 26.
ibid.
13


investments include housing, manufacturing with an emphasis on increasing exports and
reducing imports, successful businesses whose growth requires further capital
development and some special opportunities uniquely available to the Fund.
9.17 Longer term asset allocation of the DAF is likely to be:
• 40% listed shares
• 30% housing
• 10% business development
• 10% fixed interest
• 5% special opportunities
• 5% cash
Development and Venture Capital
9.18 With regard to development and venture capital, Mr G Grant noted that there
are three avenues open to trustees to invest in this asset class:
• debt;
• direct investment in a project or company; and
• indirect investment through a Development Capital Fund.
9.19 Mr Grant observed that the debt method is unattractive to trustees and that:
... no credible mechanism seems to be in place to facilitate either of the
other options}*
However, the MTLA advised the Committee that the Superannuation Trust of Australia
is involved in a specialist investor which concentrates on the bottom 20 per cent of the
listed share market.15
9.20 Mr Block advised the Committee that the actuaries TPF&C had calculated that
1-3 per cent of total assets could be put in high risk assets to achieve a long term real
return.16 However, he went on to argue that development and venture capital requires
specialist managers. He said that in the United States there is not only a professional
venture capital market, but highly specialised mutual funds or unit trusts which provide
capital for small and medium business. He argued that the:
... best way forward... is to encourage major superannuation funds to set
up small venture capital subsidiaries.11
14
G.A. Grant, opcit
Evidence, p 987.
Evidence, p 1925.
Evidence, p 1925.
17


9.21 Fitzgerald and Harper noted that in both North America and the United
Kingdom, pension funds and life offices can become significant suppliers of capital to
specialist intermediaries who are in turn important suppliers of equity funds to small and
middle business.18 They went on to note however, that the top 200 US pension funds,
controlling over US$15 trillion, have only about 0.3 per cent of their total portfolios in
venture capital and similar funds, but nevertheless provide a substantial part of new
capital flows to that area. The longer established UK venture capital and related vehicles
account for higher proportions of UK pension fund portfolios - up to several per
cent.19
9.22 The Committee agrees that development and venture capital vehicles require
specialist management but was unable to agree on how development capital vehicles
could become part of the capital markets framework.
9.23 The IR&D Board, in its evidence to the Committee suggested that:
... the problem is that in Australia we have a very underdeveloped capital
market by comparison with the rest of the world ... This market is
probably at the cowboy end of the spectrum and because of that there is
a great need for it to be nurtured and developed,20
9.24 It went on to argue that:
... there is no doubt that a trustee is probably capable of being persuaded,
rationally, of the benefits of investment for long term economic
development. It is in his interest to do that if he or she has members who
believe that too. It is rarely in the interests of a professional funds
manager to do that because at the end of the day the funds manager is
in the business of managing funds to earn fees, and short term
performance is the major marketing tool in selling funds management
services ... As far as development capital managers specifically are
concerned, I think it would be fair to say that most of the people who
have operated in that field in Australia, if they were operating in the US
or UK markets, would have made quite a good living because those
environments are so much more friendly to venture and development
capital investment. In Australia it has been diabolically difficult over the
last decade ... [Finally] I would have to say that the lack of adequate
management to manage high growth potential businesses is a more serious
problem than the lack of skilled and experienced intermediaries,21
9.25 It appears to the Committee that with increased involvement of members in the
trustee role, better education of trustees, compulsory preservation of benefits and the
18
19
20
Fitzgerald and Harper, op cit p 41.
ibid
Evidence, p 1965.
Evidence, p 1967.
21


gradual move towards taking benefits as income streams rather than lump sums, there
will be more pressure exerted on the fund management industry to provide vehicles for
long-term venture and development capital. In this respect, it is particularly pleasing to
note formation of institutional investment in small and medium sized companies with high
growth potential such as National Mutual's association with the Advent Group (refer to
the Attachment to this chapter).
Infrastructure
9.26 Investment in infrastructure is an another area where calls have been made for
compulsory superannuation fund investment. Such investment in infrastructure is
necessary for long term economic growth. It is essentially long term and relatively illiquid,
and offers trustees the opportunity of matching the funds' liabilities with assets. Figures
9.1 and 9.2 show returns on infrastructure relative to other investment.
Source:
Submission No. 210.


Source:
Submission No. 210.
9.27 Australian Infrastructure Investment Management (AIIM) advised the Committee
that without a specialist fund which could provide management expertise in infrastructure
investment, it was unlikely that superannuation funds would invest in infrastructure.22
However, AIIM also pointed to anomalies in the Income Tax Assessment Act (ITAA)
which require correction if superannuation funds are to become equity investors in
private sector infrastructure projects.23 AIIM is particularly concerned about application
of the public trading trust provisions to the specialist fund which would mean that the
income of the fund would be taxed at the corporate rate rather than the concessional
superannuation fund rate. Furthermore, it would appear that there are some difficulties
with the specialist fund being established as a pooled superannuation trust and that
taxation losses accruing to the fund in one project may not be able to be offset against
income fr om other projects.
9.28 Using information provided by AIIM it also appeared to the Committee that
infrastructure investment could provide trustees with an asset class that would generate
long term rates of return with less volatility than Australian equities. Further details on
AIIM are provided in the Attachment to this chapter.
22
Sub No. 210, p 2.
ibid, pp 3-4.
23


Recommendation 9.1:
Given the attractiveness of infrastructure investment for superannuation funds, the
Committee recommends that the anomalies in the Income Tax Assessment Act (ITAA)
which discourage investment in infrastructure by superannuation funds be removed.
Conclusions Regarding Development Capital and Infrastructure Investment
9.29 The Committee agrees with ACOSS that the current taxation system has
advantaged housing and superannuation at the expense of infrastructure and industry.24
Whilst ACOSS was not opposed to prescriptive investment guidelines for non-prudential
reasons, it was wary of channelling funds. ACOSS advised the Committee that if the
Government tried to direct the form of superannuation fund investment, there are:
... some quite difficult questions of definition. ... One of the dangers
actually is that the purposes will be chosen because they are easy to
define; for example, housing - it is easy to define whether something is
housing or not, but not necessarily the appropriate purpose that you want
to pursue.25
9.30 An alternative approach is to require funds to disclose their investments in
specified categories so that consumers can compare the investment profile of funds and
strategies for long term growth. The definitional problems alluded to above are reduced
if funds are only required to provide information. This measure would be consistent with
the recommendations outlined in Chapters 4 and 8 for trustees to maintain a diversified
portfolio and to inform members about the investment strategy of the fund.
Recommendation 9.2:
The Committee recommends that no investment controls be placed on superannuation
funds to compel them to invest in particular areas such as development or venture
capital or infrastructure.
The Committee further recommends that trustees should have to report to members
and to the ISC on investments in new asset classes such as development and venture
capital and infrastructure investment. ___________________
9.31 As knowledge of investment strategies and funds management becomes more
widespread and sophisticated, the Committee believes that trustees will be prepared to
consider sectoral specialists or niche marketers to a far greater degree than is currently
the case. There is clearly an onus on financial markets to respond to the need for long
term investment strategies to pre-empt any community pressure to introduce prescriptive
investment guidelines.
24
Evidence, p 1371.
Evidence, p 1382.
25


Recommendation 9.3:
The Committee recommends that the issue of directing investment of superannuation
moneys be re-examined by an appropriate Senate Committee within three years.
Overseas Investment
9.32 Overseas investment by superannuation funds offers opportunities for portfolio
diversification and reducing the volatility of investment returns. It can also have a positive
impact on the balance of payments by providing dividends and other income from
overseas. However, because of currency risks and higher costs, AMP noted that:
... international investments must offer the prospect of superannuation
returns if they are to be rationally justified26
9.33 In aggregate, superannuation funds currently have around 13 per cent invested
in overseas assets. Life offices have a similar proportion of their assets invested offshore.
However, the level of international investments will vary between funds. AMP told the
Committee that it was unlikely that the average level of international investments would
be above 30 per cent.27
9.34 Most submissions to the Committee argued against prohibition on overseas
investment. Jacques Martin was:
... bemused by the proposition that overseas investment by Australians
can lead to economic disaster when the most powerful economies of the
world are the most substantial foreign investors,28
Recommendation 9.4:
The Committee recommends that no special restrictions be placed on superannuation
funds investing overseas.__ :___
26
27
Sub 120, p 20.
ibid.
op cit, p 9.
28


Table 9.2
FUNDS WHOSE ASSETS ARE NOT ALL INDIVIDUAL INSURANCE POLICIES : NUMBER OF FUNDS AND TOTAL INVESTMENTS BY TYPE OF ASSET
AND TOTAL INVESTMENTS SIZE - 1986-87
Note: Funds which did not state total investments at balance date have been treated as having no investments at balance date. They therefore make no
contribution to the investment amount totals. Funds which did not provide details of the percentage of investments held in one or more of the investment
areas have been treated as having no investments in that area. Where the percentages stated by funds did not total 100 per cent they have been included
without modification, except for sampled records which were adjusted.
Source:
ISC.


Housing
9.35 The ACTU, the AAPBS and others have suggested that members be able to
access their entitlements in superannuation funds for housing. Whilst the details of the
schemes vary, the Committee received a number of representations on the broader issue
of whether it is desirable for superannuation funds to become involved directly in housing
finance.
9.36 The Committee wishes to make it clear that in the following discussion it is
distinguishing between individual arrangements between the member and the fund and
wholesale arrangements such as the DAF's involvement in low-cost housing in NSW.
9.37 ASFA strode the middle ground on the housing issue noting that:
... We have no problem at all with a properly constructed scheme that
would enable people to access that for homes. We have a philosophical
view that, if you try to use superannuation for too many purposes, you are
going to end up dissipating it and it will not achieve the central objective
of retirement incomes. But housing is quite clearly different. The Cass
report demonstrates very clearly the linkage between home ownership and
standard of living in retirement. We do not see that home ownership is
inconsistent with the retirement income policy objectives,29
However, ASFA went on to note that whilst it had no in-principle objections:
... getting it to work in practice is not easy.30
9.38 LIFA adopted a similar position, noting the administrative complexities of a
housing loan arrangement within a superannuation fund, the cost in terms of reduced end
benefits and the fact that the time when people will need the money is the time when
there is not much money in the fund to borrow against.31
9.39 The ACTU told the Committee that there were some administrative and policy
issues to be resolved and that:
... We do not believe it is necessarily appropriate for members to borrow
from the fund as a whole. We have some concern about the proposition
that members should be able to borrow from their vested account,
because if it is at commercial rates then it is simply providing another
form of financing rather than necessarily providing relief, and it is the
members borrowing their own money and repaying a rate of interest. It
does not relieve the interest payments. There would also be some
administrative problems for the funds. They would have to administer a
Evidence, p 1128.
ibid.
Evidence, p 296.


mortgage arrangement. But we have said that we are very supportive of
a notion which allows fund members to access their vested superannuation
entitlement to put towards the purchase of a house.32
9.40 Westpac advised the Committee that it made sense to allow people to access
their superannuation savings in order to fulfil the need to own their own home but that
most of the collateral for such a loan is in the property itself.33
9.41 The AAPBS outlined their proposed Household Savings Plan (HSP) to the
Committee. The HSP:
• would be a savings account which operated as a personal superannuation plan
and be subject to the tax rules for superannuation and the OSS Regulations; and
• would permit a percentage of the accumulated funds to be invested as a first or
second mortgage for the purpose of buying a first home termed the HSP
mortgage.34
9.42 The attraction of the plan rests on the current taxation deductibility arrangements
for personal contributions by self-employed persons and gainfully occupied persons who
do not receive an employer financed benefit other than under an award and the
preferential treatment of investment income earned by superannuation funds. Compared
to normal savings, the HSP would allow a taxpayer with a 39.25 per cent marginal rate
to accumulate 60 per cent more savings over a ten year period and 90 per cent more
savings over a 20 year period (assuming annual contributions of $3 000 and interest of
10.5 per cent).35
9.43 Mr Mansfield supported the principle of allowing superannuation savings to be
used for housing but was concerned about possible distortion in the housing market and
equity between members.36
9.44 The Committee acknowledges that reliance on rental housing is a significant cause
of aged poverty but notes that housing is already significantly advantaged through the
taxation system because of the non-taxation of capital gains on owner-occupied housing
and imputed rental income. In the time available to it, the Committee has not been able
to gather sufficient evidence for it to make specific recommendations on whether
superannuation savings should be used for housing. In particular, the Committee is
concerned about the effect that such arrangements might have on the retirement benefits
accrued by members. The Committee received sufficient evidence for it to conclude the
compounding effect of investment income was critical in the accumulation of final
32
33
34
35
Evidence, p 370.
Evidence, p 688.
Sub No. 148.
ibid
Evidence, p 1323.
36


benefits but was not presented with detailed evidence on the effects that a housing loan
arrangement might have on final benefits. The Committee intends to report on this issue
in its third report.


ATTACHMENT - CHAPTER 9
The Advent Group and National Mutual
The Advent Management Group (AMG) manages development capital funds on behalf
of mainly institutional investors. Its expertise is in managing investments in private
companies and smaller listed companies. AMG is an autonomous part of the National
Mutual Group.
Major shareholders are:
National Mutual Life 53%
Founders and Staff 38%
Colonial Mutual Life 9%
Each company in AMG is the specially established manager of an investment fund:
• Western Pacific Management Company Pty Ltd manages Western Pacific
Investment Company Ltd, an unlisted public company, ex-Management
Investment Company (MIC), with capital raised of $29.5 million;
• PVM Management Pty Ltd manages Australian Pacific Technology Ltd, a listed
ex-MIC which raised $29.5 million;
• Advent Tourism Fund Management Ltd manages Advent Tourism Development
Fund, an unlisted non-trading trust which, along with Austin Venture Capital Ltd,
provides $10 million for tourism industry investments; and
• Advent Western Pacific Management Pty Ltd manages Advent Western Pacific
Ltd, a listed development capital fund which raised $26.5 million.
Australian Infrastructure Fund
Australian Infrastructure Investment Management Limited (AIIM) has been formed as
a joint venture between Colonial Mutual Investment Management Limited and
Infrastructure Development Corporation Pty Limited. AIIM is in the process of raising
approximately $200 million for the Australian Infrastructure Fund (AIF). AIF has been
established as Australia's first dedicated infrastructure fund to invest exclusively in
Australian infrastructure projects. AIF is structured in the usual form of an investment
unit trust.
AIF is seeking funds from a number of major superannuation funds and institutions,
which are currently taxed at either 15 per cent or zero per cent tax rates. Current
indications are that 55 per cent of unit holders will be superannuation funds and 45 per
cent tax exempt institutions. These entities are attracted to the concept of AIF because
it provides a vehicle which facilitates diversification of investments in Australian
infrastructure and provides access to skilled management expertise in this highly
specialised area.


Total funds raised within AMG since its establishment in 1984 are $95.5 million.
AMG is an affiliate of the Advent International Network of development capital
companies which covers 18 countries world wide. In this network, AMG maintains direct
links with the individual affiliates as well as with the Boston-based central co-ordinating
company. The Network manages over $US 1 billion in development capital worldwide.
This Network provides AMG with direct access to experienced people and organisations
around the world to:
• help with the due diligence on potential investments, assessing markets and
technologies;
• assist Australian companies in which AMG invests to develop their international
operations through finding distributors or partners; and
• keeping in touch with relevant international trends/techniques etc. in the
management of development capital.


CHAPTER 10
INSTITUTIONAL COMPETITION
Institutional Competition
10.1 As already noted in this report, the superannuation industry is not homogeneous.
This chapter looks at some of the issues arising from competitive neutrality at the
institutional level.
Approved Deposit Funds (ADFs) and Deferred Annuities (DAs)
10.2 ADFs and DAs were created in 1983 to receive rollover benefits for members who
were unable or did not wish to transfer their superannuation benefits from one fund to
another. By rolling over their superannuation benefits into these specialist vehicles,
individuals were able to avoid penalty rates of tax on benefits received prior to age 55.
Thus they chose to preserve their benefits. At the time, there were no public
superannuation funds in existence to receive such funds. The assets of ADFs and DAs
have grown from nil in 1983 to $24.5 billion.1 Of this amount, $9.2 billion is in ADFs.2
Banks and funds managers dominate the ADF market.
10.3 In its Policy Issues Paper 1991, ASFA identifies four main differences between
superannuation funds and ADFs:
• contributions may be accepted by superannuation funds but not by ADFs. ADFs
may only receive benefits arising upon termination of employment by way of
rollover;
• a benefit which has been rolled over into an ADF, and which is not required to
be preserved, may be withdrawn at any time. On the other hand, if such an
'unpreserved' benefit is retained in the superannuation fund after termination of
employment it may not be withdrawn until some subsequent employment or
retirement;
• once a person has retired, benefits must be paid out of a superannuation fund, or
a pension may commence to be paid, regardless of age, whereas benefits may
remain in an ADF until age 65; and
• on the other hand, provided a person has not retired, benefits may remain in a
superannuation fund after age 65, whereas benefits cannot remain in an ADF
under any circumstances beyond that age.3
10.4 There is no definition of a DA in OSSA. Essentially, it is a life insurance policy
which the purchaser can elect to convert into an annuity at some time in the future.
1
TPF&C ADF/Annuity League Table published by Rice-Kachor Research,
March 1992/ April 1992.
ibid.
Sub No. 89, p 141.
3


10.5 ASFA notes that since the introduction of ADFs, compulsory preservation rules
have been introduced and extended. The application of these rules will be further
extended with the SGL.4 ASFA advised the Committee that it has become increasingly
common for employer-sponsored funds to allow members who terminate their
employment to leave the benefits in that fund and that the current differences in rules
for ADFs and superannuation funds are:
... unnecessary, maybe confusing, and can be iniquitous.5
10.6 ASFA recommends that the differences imposed by legislation between ADFs and
superannuation funds be removed.6
10.7 IFA also recommended removal of the legislative differences between
superannuation and rollover products so that ADF managers could offer investors a
wider choice. IFA also suggested that this would be an important part of simplification
of superannuation.7
10.8 AM Corporation suggested that ADFs were now redundant and that ADFs could
be converted into public master trust super funds. It suggested that:
... an important consequence... would be that the existing moneys in ADFs
(over $10 billion) could more easily be encouraged to provide income
streams.8
10.9 The Commonwealth Bank argued in evidence to the Committee that:
.. [the rollover vehicle] is arguably the most important development in
superannuation.. since it was introduced in 1984.
10.10 The Commonwealth Bank suggested that without rollover vehicles, one of two
things could happen. Firstly, the money could be spent instead of being preserved for
retirement. Secondly, the money could be lost because small amounts would remain in
the superannuation fund which people would never claim. The Bank noted that these
small amounts are very expensive to administer and that ultimately the cost is borne by
the consumer.10 An advantage of rollover vehicles cited by the Commonwealth Bank
was that consumers retain control of their money and have the flexibility to match the
4
ibid.
ibid.
ibid, p 143.
Sub 154, p 9.
Sub No. 96, p 5.
Evidence, p 822.
Evidence, pp 822-823.
10


investment risk profile with their own needs.11
10.11 In its submission, the ISC noted that ADF trust deeds have typically provided for
redemption of investments within seven to 30 days of request. Over the past 12-18
months, a small number of ADFs which are substantially invested (80 per cent or more)
in unlisted property trusts have been unable to meet the repayment 'upon request'
requirement because of the depressed property market and the unprecedented demand
for redemption of investments in unlisted property trusts.12
10.12 The Attorney-General announced on 23 July 1991 the introduction, with
immediate effect, of a standard 12 month notice period for withdrawals from all existing
unlisted property trusts. As a result, the ISC has indicated that the Commissioner would
exercise his discretion to treat ADFs affected by this announcement as complying funds,
given the special circumstances of their inability to repay depositors 'upon request'.13
10.13 The ISC noted that:
As ADFs are the custodians of retirement income moneys, the
arrangements which are put in place, in the longer term, concerning
redemption periods, will need to require them to properly match their
investments to the 'upon request requirement. The ISC is liaising with the
ASC concerning this matter and will develop proposals to meet this end.
10.14 The Committee concluded that the existing legislative differences between ADFs
and superannuation funds were unnecessary and added a further layer of complexity to
a system which is greatly in need of simplification. If ADFs were able to accept
contributions, as well as to receive rollover moneys, the Committee believes that the
liquidity problems faced by many ADFs could be ameliorated. While recognising that the
main institutional beneficiaries of these changes will be banks and funds managers, the
Committee considers that this will further enhance competition in the superannuation
industry.
Recommendation 10.1:
The Committee recommends that the existing legislative differences between ADFs
and superannuation funds be removed.
11
12
13
Evidence, p 823.
Sub 151, pp 29-30.
ibid, p 30.


Bank Account Superannuation
10.15 The Treasury submission noted that the Government's announced commitment
to a competitive superannuation industry raised concerns relating to wider institutional
access to the superannuation industry and the issue of increased portability of individual
superannuation benefits.14
10.16 Treasury noted that:
... wider institutional access to the superannuation industry is a desirable
objective but will require appropriate measures to ensure that the
superannuation tax concessions are effectively confined to superannuation
and cannot flow through to non-superannuation activities. It will also be
vital to ensure that an appropriate prudential framework applies to such
institutions.15
10.17 In evidence to the Committee three of the four major banks argued strongly in
favour of bank account superannuation.16 ANZ argued that bank account
superannuation will be particularly attractive to farmers and small business employers as
well as the self-employed and part-time workers because of its simplicity and security.17
The ANZ Superannuation Savings Account to be offered by ANZ Life will:
• accept employer and/or employee contributions;
• provide access at any ANZ branch;
• provide standard bank facilities such as statements and inquiries via branches and
ATMs;
• be fully vested and fully preserved;
• have a bank account cost structure;
• invest in bank deposits; and
• offer optional life assurance.18
10.18 ANZ suggested that bank account superannuation would be:
... comparable with capital stable superannuation funds ... It will not be
14
Sub No. 195, p 25.
ibid
The banks were ANZ, CBA and Westpac.
Evidence, p 448.
ibid.
18


seeking to compete with balanced funds which invest in equities and
properties because they take more risk in the hope of gaining a reward that
is better than a completely safe investment avenue.19
10.19 ANZ argued that bank account superannuation would meet two market segments.
The first segment is one which wants:
... a safe, stable product with a predictable return™
10.20 The second segment
... wants a catchment facility to satisfy requirements such as the
superannuation guarantee levy, whilst the members are sorting out whether
they want to invest in a balanced portfolio of shares, equities, fixed interest
and so on.21
10.21 The Commonwealth Bank also cited simplicity and security as reasons for the
attractiveness of bank account superannuation and suggested another benefit would be
that it would provide banks with a pool of funds for banks to on-lend.22 (See Figure
10.1 for diagram which shows the risk return spectrum.)
10.22 Whilst both ANZ and the Commonwealth Banks emphasised the low risk nature
of bank account superannuation, Westpac noted in its evidence to the Committee that
passbook type arrangements would widen investor choice and that it is:
... entirely possible to construct passbook savings programs that permit the
investors to have access to equity type investments.
10.23 In terms of operation, Westpac suggested that a passbook system would be
analogous to an advantage saver product where the investor can make periodic
contributions and be advised periodically of interest entitlements.24
10.24 The Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies (AAPBS) also argued
in favour of passbook savings accounts for superannuation. The AAPBS saw such
accounts being linked to housing finance.
19
20
21
22
23
Evidence, p 467.
ibid
ibid.
Evidence, p 823.
Evidence, p 677.
Evidence, p 682.
24


Tabled by Commonwealth Bank of Australia at Public Hearings on 19 February 1992.


10.25 Provided that there was a level playing field, National Mutual told the Committee
that it had no difficulties with new superannuation providers entering the industry. In
particular, National Mutual was concerned that banks would be able to sell directly to
the public without the requirement for trust deeds or prospectuses and that those assets
would be treated as part of their normal bank deposits.25
10.26 AM does not believe that bank account styled Individual Retirement Accounts
would work in Australia because:
• people need to be convinced to utilise superannuation (i.e. it needs to be 'sold';
it is not 'bought');
• superannuation saving should be dovetailed into the person's overall financial
planning and therefore professional financial advice was generally advisable;
• the performance of dedicated, professional superannuation investment managers
far outperforms the returns available on bank accounts. This means that returns
on bank account superannuation will be less, with consequent implications for
social security expenditure; and
• the level of disclosure required.26
10.27 SBC Dominguez Barry, in its evidence to the Committee, argued that investing in
cash or fixed interest securities would not achieve the Government's retirement income
objectives.27 The IAA made a similar point in its submission to the inquiry and provided
the tables given at the Attachment to this chapter as an illustration.
10.28 It appeared to the Committee that the desirability of banks offering
superannuation passbook accounts was closely related to member choice and portability.
Consumer groups also saw significant cost advantages over personal superannuation
policies offered by life offices.29 In this context, the Committee notes that the life
assurance industry was asked to provide full details of fees and commissions to the
Committee and was assured that this information would be treated in camera. Despite
ample opportunity to do so, the life assurance industry failed to provide the Committee
with sufficient information on fees and commissions. The response reinforces the views
put by consumer groups and others that the life assurance industry fails to provide
sufficient information to enable consumers to make informed choices. The Committee
will be making specific recommendations on fees and commission in its third report.
25
Evidence, p 193.
Sub No. 96, p 2.
Evidence, p 808.
Sub No. 108, p 16.
See for example Gillian Moon, Evidence, p 1039.
29


10.29 Regarding portability, Treasury argued that whilst:
... there are cogent arguments for greater portability of superannuation
benefits, ... they must be balanced against the administrative problems...
associated with allowing fund members to move their entitlements between
funds.30
10.30 Treasury also noted that greater portability had implications for funds' liquidity
risks with consequent effects on investment decisions and it pointed to the administrative
costs associated with portability.31 Other witnesses, however, discounted the
administration costs associated with member choice, suggesting that technology such as
electronic funds transfer could be utilised.32
10.31 The arguments against bank account superannuation were generally that this form
of investment would not provide an adequate return because it would not have the
equity-type investments necessary for long term growth. (See the Attachment at the end
of this chapter for the importance of high risk investment.) There was also concern that
bank account superannuation could further entrench the focus on short term investment
returns.
Table 10.1
IMPACT OF ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT STRATEGIES ON RETIREMENT BENEFITS
Source:
Submission No. 150, page 14.
10.32 The Committee concluded that while investing in fixed interest securities might be
appropriate for someone nearing retirement, it is certainly not appropriate for an
individual entering the work force. This was a point pursued vigorously by the University
of NSW Superannuation Economics Research Group which argued that customising risk
30 Sub 195, p 25.
31 ibid
Sub Nos 71, 141.
32


exposure to the age of different contributions should be compulsory.33 Table 10.1
illustrates the impact of alternative investment strategies on retirement benefits.
10.33 Whilst many submissions spoke in favour of member choice,34 there was
widespread recognition of the administrative problems this could pose for employers and
concern that the focus on short term investment returns would be exacerbated.35 The
Queensland Government Superannuation Office advised the Committee that in the
United States where there is significant freedom of choice for individuals, the evidence
is that:
... a significant amount of what otherwise would be superannuation savings
... is being consumed by extensive marketing efforts by various institutions
to attract clientele. While from a free market perspective one would be
quite comfortable with that if one felt that the people making those choices
were making them on an informed basis, the infancy of superannuation in
Australia en masse would tend to indicate that people are yet to come to
that point, and in fact are relatively unaware of most financial issues, and
it will be a considerable time before they are aware',36
10.34 With respect to customised asset allocations, the Queensland Superannuation
Office argued that at present people do not have sufficient information that allows them
to make a rational choice. As evidence of this phenomenon, the officials pointed to the:
... time and effort being spent in trying to communicate with members who
in many instances are less than enthusiastic about the prospect of becoming
aware of those things?1
Pension and Annuity Providers
10.35 At present only life offices are able to issue complying annuities and some
superannuation funds, mainly public sector schemes, provide pensions for their members.
A complying pension or annuity is one which:
• is payable for life;
• has no residual capital value; and
• is indexed to the lesser of five per cent and/or the CPI.
33
Sub No. 150, p 16.
See for example ANZ, Rothschilds, County NatWest
See for example, Evidence p 56 and p 144.
Evidence, p 1173.
Evidence, pp 1173-1174.
37


Recommendation 10.2:
The Committee supports the entry of new entrants into the superannuation industry as
this will widen consumer choice and introduce more competition to the industry.
The Committee recommends that cross-subsidisation of the administration costs of
bank superannuation products and other banks products be legislatively prohibited
under the Banking Act and that this be monitored by the Reserve Bank.
The Committee further recommends that legislation require consumers to be
adequately informed about the implications of a low risk profile for bank account
superannuation in terms of retirement benefits, and that the ISC and the industry
conduct an education campaign to explain to consumers the importance of risky assets
in an investment portfolio.
10.36 The Government introduced changes to the RBL rules in the 1988 Economic
Statement to encourage retirees to take their benefits in the form of income streams, but
despite this, annuities and pensions remain unpopular because:
• there is a fear of capital loss on premature death;
• there is a desire to bequeath capital assets;
• it is expensive to purchase an adequate lifetime pension; and
• some doubt exists about the life industry's capacity to provide annuities in the
future because of the solvency requirements under the LIA.
10.37 Whilst recognising that there are certain taxation impediments to taking
superannuation benefits in the form of pensions and annuities (these anomalies will be
canvassed in the Committee's third report), the Committee believes that institutional
factors may also play a role.
10.38 Mercers advised the Committee that currently a retiree can purchase an annuity
or pension in one of three ways:
• taking a lump sum benefit, paying tax and then purchasing an ordinary annuity
from a life office;
• transferring the fund benefit direct to a life office to purchase a rollover annuity;
or
• receiving a pension from a superannuation fund directly.
10.39 A number of submissions called for funds of sufficient size and financial strength


to be able to provide annuities and pensions directly to retirees.38 Such funds would be
subject to special prudential safeguards. Mercers argued that:
... the trustees, in deciding what pension they will provide for a given 'lump
sum' do not have the objective of making abnormal profit or paying
commissions to agents. As such, the ability of a fund to offer pensions
imposes on the large financial institutions providing annuities a genuine
and most effective competitive discipline. At the same time, the trustees of
a fund should be able to'transfer1 their pension obligations to any financial
institution meeting the Government's prudential safeguards. The liquidity
that this will inject into the retirement incomes system is both powerful and
effective — as is evident overseas.29
10.40 The IFA advised the Committee that:
... the current need for a company to hold an insurance licence in order to
operate in the annuity market is not seen by IFA members as a
competitively neutral position. While it may be argued that the reserves
provisions of the Life Insurance Act ensure that the money to pay annuities
will always be there, IFA believes that its members should be able to satisfy
criteria without the need to hold an insurance licence.w
10.41 The IFA went on to argue that growth in the annuity/pension market will be
delayed until the public develops an acceptance of, or is forced to accept, pensions in lieu
of lump sums. Under current arrangements it argued that most of the growth would
accrue to the life offices41 even though the investment and administrative skills needed
to manage annuity type products already exist amongst IFA's membership.
Recommendation 10.3:
The Committee recommends that the annuity market be opened up to firms of
sufficient size and financial strength. Such funds would be required to meet special
solvency and reporting requirements as evidence of their ability to provide indexed
income streams.
10.42 In December 1991, the average amount of annual income that could be purchased
with $100 000 from three major Australian life offices was $6 923.42 (This was based on
male age 65, spouse age 60, indexation of five per cent per annum, 85 per cent reversion
to spouse and ten year guarantee period.)
38
See for example Sub Nos 136, 79, 59, 154.
Sub No. 79, p 8.
Sub No. 154, p 7.
ibid
Supplementary submission to Sub No. 95, p 1.
42


10.43 One of the reasons that the cost of life-time annuities is prohibitive is the solvency
requirements on life companies in the LIA. Life companies are required to discount their
liabilities at a rate no higher than 12 per cent. SBC Dominguez Barry estimated that:
... if the existing solvency requirements for life annuities remain unchanged
and assuming an average capital requirement of $11 for every $100
invested in a pension based on [certain] assumptions, this would require
capital of $15 to $21 billion to support this level of life pension.43
10.44 SBC Dominguez Barry went on to note that:
... those managers of superannuation funds that have limited access to
capita! are arguing quite strongly for the need for more flexibility in product
design
10.45 Mr Newman told the Committee that the issues that needed to be addressed in
developing an innovative, complying annuity market were:
• setting competitive annuity prices, consistent with sound underwriting;
• within the constraints of a capital-guaranteed fund, determining investment
policies that realistically hedge against inflation;
• establishing adequate contingency reserves;
• setting upper indexation limits (if any);
• developing deferred annuity options reflecting occupational rather than select
mortality — both for groups and individuals — and penalties for early withdrawals;
• financing new business strains under an LIA minimum standard (if any);
• developing participating CPI indexed annuities, which would distribute investment
profits derived before disinvestment of purchase price becomes significant;
• developing CPI indexed annuities backed by investment linked funds;
• whether purchase prices of annuities should be based on a medical assessment of
the annuitants (life insurance in reverse!) and whether there is a sound basis for
the development of an impaired lives annuity market, including total and
Mr R Barry, Report to the Committee for the Economic Development of
Australia, 10 December 1991. The assumptions were that the:
private sector must fund a pension that provides 30 per cent of A WE for
30 per cent of the retired population in the year 2000. The pension would
be indexed at 5 per cent per annum and the return on the fund (discount
rate) would be 8.5 per cent.


permanent disablement with a reasonable prospective of longevity.45
10.46 The Committee also noted evidence of the Women's Economic Think Tank that
women are severely disadvantaged by the current pricing of annuities because of their
longevity and their generally smaller superannuation benefits.46
10.47 One of the products referred to by the industry as meeting consumer needs for
more flexibility than provided by complying annuities, is the allocated pension. An
allocated pension is a pension:
... where the member has his own account against which the pension
payments are debited and to which any investment earnings are credited.
The pension will continue until the death of the pensioner, or until the
account is exhausted. When the member dies, any balance remaining in the
account is paid to a designated beneficiary as a [taxable] lump sum
payment, or is applied to secure further pension payments to a surviving
spouse. Part or all of the pension may be selected by the member. Current
providers of allocated pensions have, however, set self-regulatory guidelines
such as maximum and minimum pension levels.*1
10.48 ASFA suggested to the Committee that allocated pensions:
... could play a vital role in overcoming the lump sum mentality and in
encouraging benefits to be taken in pension or annuity form.48
10.49 AM told the Committee that:
... the allocated pension is a natural extension of the allocated [defined
contribution] type of super fund, but there is a need for a consistent set of
rules as the major providers of allocated pensions have received a range of
slightly different approvals to their self regulatory approaches.49
10.50 The allocated pension has become extremely popular as shown by the four main
national providers capturing 11 per cent of the Retirement Income Stream market in
1990/91. The following table shows the breakdown:
44
ibid.


Table 10.2
RETIREMENT INCOME STREAM MARKET
#
based on AM LifeTrack, Bains, Connelly & Temple, Le Fort
based on Solomon & Associates, Consulting Actuaries Report
Source: AM Corporation Sub No. 96.
10.51 SBC Dominguez Barry noted that if the Government allows a more flexible
scheme such as allocated pensions, it runs the risk that retirees will revert back to it for
the aged pension.50
10.52 The ASFA Working Party on Superannuation Pensions has recommended that
regulations should be introduced for allocated pensions which cover such issues as:
• periodicity of pension payments;
• minimum and maximum pension payment;
• the right to partial or full commutability;
• the tax on the commuted amount;
• eligibility criteria should be consistent with deferred annuities and annuities;
• prudential standards;
• disclosure; and
• treatment under social security income and assets test consistent with annuities.51
10.53 The Alexander Consulting Group provided the Committee with details of
Retirement Income Savings Accounts (RISAs). This is a variant of the allocated pension.
A consumer guide to this type of retirement income is given at Appendix 3 of this report.
10.54 As Table 10.2 illustrates, the major annuity market in Australia is term-certain
annuities. IFA advised the Committee that:
45
Sub No. 3, opcit, p 17.
Sub No. 126, p 9.
46


... from a financial institution's view point, term-certain annuities have the
same characteristics and risk as securities such as debentures.52
10.55 The IFA noted that unit trust arrangements, including ADFs, currently cannot
retain rollover moneys for beneficiaries past the age of 65 and they are therefore
precluded from offering a term-certain annuity for retirees. IFA recommended that a
level of solvency reserves should be established for institutions capable of offering term-
certain annuities and the unit trust managers able to meet this criterion should be able
to offer term-certain annuities.53
10.56 The Committee was attracted to this recommendation as it would introduce a
further element of competition in the annuity market. This would encourage retirees with
relatively small ETPs to take their benefits as income stream.
Recommendation 10.4:
The Committee recommends that the Government introduce legislation to regulate the
provision of allocated pensions and other flexible retirement income products as soon
as possible.
The Committee further recommends that unit trust arrangements meeting solvency and
reporting requirements be allowed to offer term-certain annuities.
The Committee notes that if the Government does not address broader socio-economic
issues in this context, such as the preservation age, there could be a substantial cost to
revenue from such arrangements.
52
opcit, p 8.
ibid.
53


ATTACHMENT - CHAPTER 10
LONG-TERM INVESTMENT RETURNS - SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
RATE OF INCREASE (% PER ANNUM) IN:


NOTES:
The figures for G (government securities), S (shares), O (other securities) and P
(property) sector performance as well as Total fund performance have been derived
where possible from the average rates of return of funds participating in the IMS
survey up to 1987 and the TPF&C survey subsequently.
Where figures for each sector performance were unavailable from these surveys, they were
obtained from the average performance of the appropriate units in the No 2 Statutory Funds
of the AMP society and National Mutual.
For some early years, figures were obtained from Stock Exchange Indices and Commonwealth
bond yields.
The Total fund performance statistics for periods prior to 1 July 1970 were based on a model
fund with the following investment proportions:
- 30% G, 15% O, 55% S where statistics were available for G, O and S sectors only.
- 40% G, 60% S where statistics were available for G and S sectors only.
ASW is average weekly total earnings for males as published by the Australian Bureau of
Statistics.
CPI is the Consumer Price Index eight capitals figure for All Groups published by the
Australian Bureau of Statistics.
Real Return is equal to the ratio of the rate of Total investment return to the rate of increase
in AWE.
Source:
Superfunds, June 1990, pp 21-22.




CHAPTER 11
DISPUTE RESOLUTION MECHANISMS
Dispute Resolution Mechanisms
The Perceived Need
11.1 The substantial increase in the membership of superannuation schemes
consequent upon the introduction of award superannuation, combined with the legal and
taxation complexities surrounding the subject, will create a large pool of contributors with
very little, or no, background knowledge of many of the principles involved. The large,
and increasing, balances standing to the credit of members will, over time, become the
major avenue of individual savings apart from home ownership. The fact that, in some
circumstances, entitlements may be determined at the discretion of fund trustees adds to
the already fertile ground for misunderstanding and disputation.
11.2 Some of the matters which may not be readily understood are:
• the charging to individual accounts of administration fees, contributions tax and
insurance premiums;
• the failure in some instances to disclose all fees and commissions;
• the charges levied on the early cancellation of some policies;
• the methods of dealing with broken periods of service;
• the frequent provisions requiring trustees to allocate benefits between conflicting
parties, for example, former and current spouses of deceased members, or
between other dependants;
• the differences between defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, in
particular, the consequences of major changes in asset values;
• the meaning and significance of technical terms such as vesting, preservation,
reasonable benefits and the various types of annuity currently available; and
• medical problems, such as total and permanent disability and eligibility for life
insurance.
11.3 All of the foregoing relate to the entitlements of individual members, but
differences of a broader, more general character may arise over matters such as the
election of trustees, investment policies, the alteration of trust deeds and the degree of
employer influence over trustees. The difficulties may, in part, be the product of an
environment in which the rights of members are limited and the providers of
superannuation products have overwhelming power which, under the present regulatory
regime, is difficult to question or challenge.


11.4 In August last year, the Treasurer stated that:
The Government considers that consumers should have an appropriate
forum to settle any disputes between themselves and the superannuation
funds. To this end, the Government will be working with industry
participants to develop a suitable low-cost dispute resolution mechanism.
Such a mechanism should raise consumers' confidence in the
superannuation industry and increase their willingness to invest in
superannuation.1
11.5 The predominant view put to the Committee was that there was a need for the
establishment of such a mechanism which was independent of the fund manager
concerned and which avoided the courts as far as possible. Among the organisations
taking this view were the ACTU, MTIA, Jacques Martin, Clayton Utz, LIFA, the
principal accounting bodies, the TPC and organisations representing pensioners and
consumers.2
11.6 Nevertheless, the Committee noted that there was very little quantitative evidence
as to the actual extent of disputation, that is, how many disputes occurred each year,
what the issues were, how they were resolved and at what cost. The Committee was
therefore unable to gain any idea of the scale of the problem and had some difficulty in
devising an appropriate solution.
11.7 A significant minority of witnesses held that no new arrangements were called for.
MMBW felt that the nature and structure of trustee bodies provided for adequate review.
Reliance on the courts discouraged frivolous claims while providing for the resolution of
serious claims. An outside authority would be costly and might become a de facto
regulator by making determinations which reflected its own thinking.3 ACM also felt that
dispute resolution was a matter for internal arrangement by each fund.4 ANZ opposed
the establishment of any new mechanism, expressing the view that most disputes could
be defused by allowing greater freedom of choice so that members could Vote with their
feet'.5
11.8 On balance, the Committee concluded that, notwithstanding the paucity of factual
evidence as to the extent of the problem, several considerations dictated that the
establishment of an external review mechanism, within the compliance framework of
OSSA, was highly desirable:
1
The Hon John Kerin, MP; Review of Supervisory Framework for the
Superannuation Industry, Press Release No. 73; Canberra, 20 August 1992.
Sub Nos. 106, pp 20, 24; Sub No. 55, p 17; Sub No. 90, p 16; Sub No. 20, p 2; Sub
No. 114, pp 49-51; Sub No. 119, p 15; Sub No. 145, p 12; Sub No. 125, pp 21-22;
139, p 9.
Sub No. 66, Section 10.
Sub No. 95, p 16.
Sub No. 73, p 6.
5


• superannuation was already compulsory for a large section of the community and
it was government policy that all employees should be covered. The Government
therefore had a duty to ensure that members' rights were protected;
• it was highly desirable that justice should not only be done but should also be seen
to be done;
• the cost of litigation was so high that it offered no real rights to members;
• the ability to vote with one's feet offered no comfort to, for example, dependants
of deceased employees who might be denied access to benefits or to members
who might suffer heavy losses on withdrawal from a fund; and
• the factors set out in Paragraph 11.2 above make it highly probable that there will
be a sharp increase in disputation in the next few years.
Possible Models
Banking Industry Ombudsman
11.9 In 1990, the Australian banks, with the exception of two banks operating only in
single States, combined to establish an independent ombudsman with power to deal with
claims up to $100 000.6 The procedures to be followed in the resolution of disputes
comprise the following:
• the customer and the bank must endeavour to reach agreement;
• if the parties are deadlocked, the ombudsman may call a conference and act as
a mediator.
• as a last resort, the ombudsman arbitrates the dispute; and
• the decision is binding on the bank if accepted by the customer.
11.10 The Ombudsman is appointed by, and answerable to, a council comprising three
former bankers, three consumer representatives nominated in conjunction with the
Commonwealth Minister for Consumer Affairs and an independent Chairman, currently
Sir Ninian Stephen. The scheme is financed and administered by the banks, acting
through a board on which the Reserve Bank is represented.
11.11 Every bank branch has literature describing the service and the ombudsman's staff
is independent of the banks. The Ombudsman produces an annual report which is
available to the public.
11.12 In 1991-92, the Ombudsman estimated that the office would receive 50 000
telephone inquiries and 5 000 written complaints.
Evidence, pp 1975-79.


The LIFA Scheme
11.13 LIFA has recently established a formal disputes resolution procedure with the
following components:
• an Industry Code of Practice for dealing with inquiries and complaints. The main
elements of the Code are the nomination by each company of a senior officer to
whom all complaints are referred, the entry of every complaint on a register and
the establishment of time limits for the acknowledgment of, and decision on, each
dispute;
• the establishment within the LIFA secretariat of an inquiry and complaints service
charged with the provision of advice and assistance and which also carries out a
conciliation role between the parties;
• a three-member Complaints Review Committee which arbitrates disputes not
settled at the company or LIFA level. The members are chosen by the Insurance
Industry Complaints Council (see below), LIFA and the Commonwealth Minister
for Justice and Consumer Affairs, who nominates a consumer representative. The
Committee's decisions are binding on the companies, but not the complainants;
and
• The Insurance Industry Complaints Council, which oversees the whole complaints
process, but cannot overturn Committee decisions. The Council is chaired by a
former federal Attorney-General and has two industry and two consumer
representatives.
11.14 The arrangements are fully funded by the companies, but both the Committee and
the Council are required to report publicly each year.7
11.15 AFCO was highly critical of the LIFA scheme, 'primarily because of the lack of
independence and the lack of accessibility'.8 Any complaints body would need to be 'as
fully independent of industry as possible' and to have 'strong consumer involvement in
the management of the process'. It regarded the banking industry ombudsman as the
*best possible alternative that we can obtain at the moment'.10
11.16 In the Committee's view, however, the two mechanisms have much more in
common than is implied in the AFCO criticisms. Both are wholly industry financed but,
in each case, the industry has gone to considerable lengths to obtain consumer
representation on the controlling bodies, with ministerial involvement in their choice.
Both require genuine attempts by the parties to reach agreement prior to arbitration and
both schemes include provision for publishing annual reports.
7
Sub No. 114, pp 45 - 49.
Evidence, p 1941.
ibid, pp 1942, 1944.
Ibid, p 1944.
10


State Insurance Office - Victoria
11.17 The Victorian State Insurance Office has established its own 'ombudsman' - the
Consumer Appeals Centre, with power to make determinations up to $400 000.11
11.18 A major part of the Centre's activities is the provision of information and advice,
since poor communication has been found to be the major cause of complaints.
11.19 Nearly all complaints are resolved by conciliation, with senior company officers
participating. Only one complaint in every 200 proceeds to arbitration.
The Law Reform Commission's Proposal
11.20 In its report Collective Investments - Superannuationthe Law Reform Commission
proposed the establishment of two separate schemes - an advisory service and a dispute
resolution service.12
11.21 The advisory service would be established within the ISC and would be responsible
for the provision of educational material and the conduct of a general information
service. It would advise fund members on their rights and should establish a panel of
conciliators to assist in resolving disputes.
11.22 The report recommended that all funds should establish their own internal dispute
resolution mechanisms and that all members and prospective members be fully informed
of their existence.
11.23 The report also recommended the establishment of an external dispute resolution
mechanism wholly financed by the Commonwealth, on the grounds that it would be part
of a scheme to implement Commonwealth policy. Disputes would be determined by a
panel independent of government, the schemes and the regulator. The panel would be
selected by the minister from names submitted by interested parties.
11.24 The report expressed the view that the panel should not be able to decide issues
on their merits but should confine itself to deciding whether the trustees had properly
applied the provisions of the relevant laws or deeds, that is, whether they had taken all
relevant material, and no irrelevant material, into account and whether they had acted
in good faith. Bona fide decisions of trustees, exercising their discretion properly, should
not be interfered with.
State Government Schemes
11.25 Most superannuation schemed operated by State governments give members the
right, if dissatisfied with decisions of the superannuation board or trustees, to appeal to
outside tribunals, such as the industrial commissions, an ombudsman or the courts. The
external review bodies are able to reconsider the full merits of cases, not merely the
Sub No 135.
Law Reform Commission, Report No 59, pp 185 - 196.
12


propriety of the procedures.13
Commercial Arbitration
11.26 Mr N Renton suggested to the Committee that the commercial arbitration system
offered a suitable alternative to dispute resolution through the courts.14 While there
may be merit in this proposal, the Committee believes, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, that a specialist body is more likely to develop the expertise necessary to build
up the required degree of public confidence.
The ASFA Proposal
11.27 ASFA, while questioning the need for an external dispute resolution mechanism
in the absence of any 'rigorous statistical or other evidence', has drawn up a proposal for
such a scheme.15 The main features of the proposal are:
• every fund should nominate an officer to whom complaints may be referred;
• a member should have the right to have the matter reviewed by the trustees;
• these procedures should be advised to fund members on joining and annually; and
• an external, statute-based review panel, supported by a secretariat within the ISC
should be established. The panel would comprise experienced fund trustees drawn
from government, employer and union nominees. The panel, and a 'high-profile'
chairman, would be appointed by the Minister.
11.28 The mechanism should deal with disputes over individual rights and the conduct
of a fund as a whole. The panels should be limited to reviewing the bona fides of the
processes, not the merits of the cases before them. Decisions should be in writing and
binding on all parties. Some user contribution toward the expenses of the mechanism
would be appropriate.
11.29 The ASFA proposal states that in the interests of simplicity and economy, funds
with access to the LIFA scheme and the State government reviewing processes should
be exempt from the proposed mechanism.
Dispute Minimisation and Resolution
11.30 The Committee endorses the view, expressed by many witnesses, that the better
informed members of superannuation funds become, the less will be the likelihood of
misunderstanding and disputation. Funds should be encouraged to produce their own
explanatory literature, setting out in the simplest terms how they operate and the rights
ASFA, Supp. Sub No 89, p 3.
Evidence, p 142.
Supp Sub No 89.
15


and obligations of members.
11.31 But there is also a need for general educational material outlining the nature of
superannuation itself, the various types of schemes in operation, the taxation implications
and the technical terms used. The Committee believes that the Government has the
responsibility to produce such material.
Recommendation 11.1:
The Committee recommends that the ISC produce simply worded, descriptive literature
on superannuation, suitable for distribution to all existing and prospective fund
members through the individual funds.
Internal Review
11.32 The Committee recognises the desirability of encouraging the internal resolution
of disputes on grounds of simplicity, speed and economy. Experience with the
mechanisms described above indicates that the great bulk of disputes are amenable to
resolution in this way. In the Committee's view, the procedures should be formalised,
made compulsory and publicised.
Recommendation 11.2:
The Committee recommends that, as a matter of high priority, the OSS Regulations
be amended to require that, as a condition of compliance, each fund should:
• develop and publish its policies relating to dispute resolution:
• nominate a person or persons to whom queries and complaints should be
addressed;
• undertake that, if that person cannot resolve the matter, it will be referred to
the trustees, who should be required to make a decision within 90 days of
referral to them and to provide reasons for that decision in writing; and
® notify full particulars of these procedures to members on entry and annually
thereafter.
Recommendation 11.3:
The Committee further recommends tha t these provisions should be fully implemented
within two years of their promulgation and that the ISC should monitor their
introduction and operation.


External Review
11.33 There will always remain a hard core of disputes that cannot be satisfactorily
resolved internally. The only external avenue currently available to most members is
through the courts - a costly, time-consuming and often distressing process.
11.34 The Committee therefore believes that decisions of trustees should be subject to
external review and considered a range of options to give effect to this view.
11.35 A statutory body could be established by the Commonwealth along the lines of
other quasi-judicial authorities, such as the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the
Commonwealth Ombudsman or the Human Rights Commissioner. Alternatively, the
authority could be established by the industry, with government participation in some
form.
11.36 The former would have the advantage of visible independence, but would run the
risk of bringing into being a formal bureaucratic structure, involving the probability of
high costs, delays and unnecessary formality.
11.37 The Committee prefers the approach adopted by LIFA and the banks and
proposed by ASFA, whereby the review authority is established by the industry but the
Minister appoints the arbitrators from names submitted by representatives of all
interested parties. A joint management body could be established with similar
representation. As the recent and prospective growth in superannuation is a key objective
of government policy, the Committee believes that it is reasonable for the Government
to bear at least half of the costs to be incurred.
11.38 While ASFA, in the interests of economy and simplicity, proposed that disputes
involving superannuation should continue to be dealt with under the existing LIFA and
State government procedures, the Committee believes that, as far as possible, all types
of superannuation should be dealt with by a single authority. Accordingly, the LIFA
mechanism, beyond the conciliation point, should no longer be involved with
superannuation disputes. Constitutional limitations would probably require that
participation by the States would be optional. Existing arrangements operating in non-
participating States would remain undisturbed.
11.39 The reviewing authority could comprise one person acting alone, as with the
banking ombudsman, a bench of say three, as employed by LIFA and as proposed by the
ALRC, or one or more selected from a wider panel, as proposed by ASFA. A further
refinement could be a permanent presiding member, or ombudsman, possibly with legal
qualifications, sitting with two other members, chosen from an expert panel of persons
experienced in the administration of superannuation.
11.40 The Committee is attracted to the latter structure, as it combines the benefits of
continuity, which a single ombudsman would bring, with the wider range of views and
experience which the panel of experts - for example, major fund trustees and professional
fund administrators - would bring.


11.41 A matter of considerable importance is the scope of the authority's powers of
review. As noted above, the powers proposed by both the ALRC and ASFA would not
extend to a reconsideration of the merits of the disputes, but merely to the propriety of
the procedures used and the relevance and completeness of the material considered, as
is the current position of the courts.
11.42 The State tribunals, on the other hand, have unrestricted powers of review and
are able to place themselves in the position of the trustees and exercise their own
discretion as if they were the trustees.
11.43 In the Committee's view, the strict limitation of the role to procedural propriety
and relevance of evidence would provide an adequate review mechanism. The proposed
codification of trust law principles and duties of trustees set out in Chapter 4 will provide
for a range of penalties enforceable against trustees if there is a breach of fiduciary duty.
In addition, the rights of members will be clearly identified in the legislation and the ISC
will be able to protect members' interests and to take action against trustees.
11.44 In cases where the matters in dispute concern the individual rights and
entitlements of members, decisions of the authority should be final. In matters that
concern fund policy and the interests of members in general, the authority should have
the power to report the circumstances to the ISC, with any recommendations it sees fit.
The Committee expects that the ISC would comment on all such reports, and any action
taken on them, in its Annual Reports.
Recommendation 11.4:
The Committee recommends the establishment by legislation of an external disputes
resolution mechanism, at the earliest practicable date, with the following features:
• a management board comprising nominees of the Commonwealth and
participating state governments, industry bodies and representatives of the
unions, women's and consumer groups;
• a review authority chaired by an ombudsman, who would sit with two other
members drawn from a panel of fund trustees and other peoplewithappropriate
experience. The ombudsman and panel members would be appointed by the
Minister from names submitted by the board;
• staff and supporting facilities arranged by the board and financed equally by
participating governments and industry groups;
• the functions of the existing superannuation review mechanisms conducted by
LIFAand the participating states to be transferred to the new authority;
• the authority should not have power to review cases on their merits but should
be confined to ensuring that the trustees' powers have been exercised properly
and that all relevant evidence has been considered;
• decisions of the authority would be final and binding on all parties; and
• the ombudsman and the management board should publish annual reports.




MINORITY REPORT ON CHAPTER 9 -
INVESTMENT BY SUPERANNUATION FUNDS - SENATOR KERNOT:
The first part of recommendation 9.2 states:
The committee recommends that no investment controls be placed on
superannuation funds to compel them to invest in particular areas such as
development or venture capital or infrastructure.
The assumptions underlying this recommendation are that :
• the investment choices made by superannuation fund trustees and their fund
managers are superior in all circumstances to any mandated investment policies;
• superannuation funds having been given massive commercial advantages against
other institutions in competing for savings, should then be able to invest purely as
they see fit, without any regard to the welfare of the nation and the economy; and
• superannuation funds are not an integral part of the economy, but exist in a
vacuum which involves only the maximisation of monetary returns irrespective of
the effects of such a policy on the Australian economy.
This recommendation and the assumptions underlying it are not supported by the
Australian Democrats.
Fund management is a specialised function. There is no doubt that the decentralisation
of investment management throughout the economy has some benefits in terms of risk
diversification and in terms of producing a competitive fund management market.
Professional fund managers employ sophisticated investment strategies and techniques.
Notwithstanding this, recent experience has shown that private fund managers can also
deliver poor returns to members. This is particularly so for funds which have large
commercial property holdings at the moment.
Added to this have been the very conservative investment strategies pursued by many
funds during the 80's, especially the concentration of investment in capital-guaranteed
products.
The second argument goes to the core of the legitimacy of the concessional taxation
treatment of superannuation. The Parliament has decided that superannuation is
important to national welfare and as such it encourages savings in this form. Without this
concessional treatment it is certain that assets in superannuation funds would be greatly
below what they are today.
The tax expenditure involved in this concession is approximately $3.5 billion and is by far
the largest granted by the Federal Government. This is expected to grow. This means
that the public incurs an opportunity cost of public expenditure equal to $3.5 billion every
year. Certainly fund members benefit from this system, but does the public get value out
of this foregone revenue?


The third point is perhaps the most important. It is argued by the industry that their duty
is to maximise the returns to members and that there will be losses if any interference
takes place. This ignores the possibility of greater returns from investments in Australian
firms because of higher levels of general economic activity which arise from increased
local investment. Increased local employment will also obviously lead to increased total
membership of superannuation funds.
What we are dealing with is a massive part of national savings. Why is it so unreasonable
that there is some regulation by the Government to try to ensure that not only are
individuals assisted to enjoy a higher level of retirement income, but also that Australian
businesses are assisted?
SPECIFIC AREA - DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL
The venture and development capital sector has long been perceived as weak in
Australia. Various governments have identified the need for patient equity investment in
Australian businesses and have introduced measures to try to address the inadequate
supply of such capital.
Moreover, the financial market has not reached a state of maturity which will ensure that
funds are automatically channelled into this vital area of investment. In this regard, the
evidence given by Mr D Hanley of the Industry Research and Development Board
(IRDB) is most instructive:
The problem is that in Australia we have a very underdeveloped capital
market by comparison with the rest of the world. I have had to plead for
money in all of the markets. This market is probably at the cowboy end of
the spectrum, and because of that there is a great need for it to be
nurtured and developed. People talk about the market as if it were a real
market — it is not. It is controlled by a whole series of interests that I do
not think are present in some of the larger and more liquid markets
available overseas. We should not compare ourselves with New York, we
certainly should not compare ourselves with London and probably, thank
God, we are not the same as Tokyo.1
The Australian Industry Development Corporation (AIDC) is a public institution created
to assist developing businesses. AIDC is a specialist manager in this area and has
operated successfully.
The Management and Investment Company (MIC) scheme, which provided generous 'up-
front' taxation concessions for venture capital investments, was severely affected by the
flight to quality which occurred after the 1987 stock market crash and has now been
terminated.
Evidence given to the Committee shows that the problem of lack of development capital
is still unaddressed. Given the long term nature of compulsorily preserved benefits,
Evidence, p 1965.


superannuation funds are the ideal patient capital providers; superannuation is also the
Government's chosen growth area in national savings, and as such should provide more
of the capital for the future growth of Australian industry.
The major capital market failure is in the area of the commercialisation of research. This
is particularly tragic for Australia, as we now acknowledge the need to diversify out of
commodity-based trade and into higher value sectors. Yet we see our research effort
continually acquired by foreign investors with a longer term investment horizon. The
Gene Shears technology was one recent high profile example of the continuation of this
disturbing trend.
Belatedly, the Government has announced the creation of the Australian Technology
Group (ATG) to specifically address this market failure. However, there is great
uncertainty as to whether it will be able to find private sector investors to match the $30
million in equity. This is a ludicrous situation, addressed by the same old solution: Svait
for the market to provide'. Australia has been waiting for too long, it cannot afford to
wait any longer.
The second Government initiative in this area is the Pooled Development Fund (PDF)
proposal currently before the Parliament. This involves the creation of special entities to
invest in small and medium sized firms. These will be taxed at 30 per cent instead of
39 per cent. As such, PDFs are not attractive to superannuation funds, although they
might be attractive to other institutions and to some individuals.
A far simpler way would be to mandate that a small proportion of superannuation fund
assets (one per cent) be diverted into a National Development Fund. This fund will
provide capital to ATG and to PDFs and will be used to develop Australian industry. In
addition, the fund would ensure that there is always a sum of money available to ensure
that vital technology does not become controlled by foreign interests.
What must be remembered is that the long term interests of superannuation fund
members are enhanced by, and largely dependent upon, a healthy Australian economy.
The Committee has recommended (Recommendation 9.3) that, as usual, the Parliament
should ignore the problem and re-examine the matter later. This is simply not good
enough. Both Senator Button and Mr Keating have previously stated that the
Government was not impressed by the performance of the superannuation sector in this
area, yet they have shown little inclination to be pro-active.
Mr Dennis Hanley, the retired chairman of the IRDB and current Board member of
Memtec Ltd, gave evidence to the Committee that the short-term nature of the reporting
of investment performance will always work against the provision of development capital:
In my opinion, nothing is going to happen in the present environment unless
some form of compulsion starts the ball rolling?
Evidence, p 1959.


The Prime Minister has been very keen to urge us to integrate more fully into Asia. Why
does not the Government learn from the successful economies? Much of the recent
gains of the Asian region have come about because there has been a plentiful supply of
cheap capital.
Alternative Recommendation 9.2 (Senator Kemot)
That a National Development Fund (NDF) be established with one per cent of the
assets of superannuation funds, the money to be invested in the Australian Technology
Group and to provide patient development capital for small and medium size
Australian firms.
The performance of the NDF, and the general development capital market, should be
reviewed after 10 years to see if the sector has developed enough to disband the NDF
or whether the mandatory centralised fund is still necessary.
OVERSEAS INVESTMENT
Recommendation 9.4 states:
The Committee recommends that no special restrictions be placed on
superannuation funds investing overseas.
There is no doubt that there are good reasons for superannuation funds investing
overseas. The motivation is obviously the return which a particular investment is expected
to yield and the broader question of portfolio diversification.
However, there are other effects of offshore investment which must also be taken into
account. Foreign investment of Australian savings achieves the export of jobs to the
actual destination of the investment.
Under the current system trustees must think solely of the welfare of their members. As
such they are prevented by law from considering the national interest. Parliaments are
charged with the responsibility of promoting the national interest. This conflict of interest
in policy direction must be resolved.
There is no question that job creating investment in Australia increases national welfare
and provides health, welfare and social benefits in excess of the direct monetary benefits
to the employees concerned. This benefit must not be ignored by this Parliament.
I accept that it is neither feasible nor desirable to ban offshore investment by
superannuation funds entirely. However, the Committee has adopted a completely hands-
off approach which could theoretically lead to the investment of the total assets of the
superannuation industry offshore.


The assets of superannuation funds benefit from taxation concessions. If these are then
invested overseas, employment and taxation benefits accrue to the other country at the
expense of Australian taxpayers. Did we learn anything from the corporate failures of the
1980s?
There must be a repudiation of the pursuit of the level playing field; it is a naive and
atavistic experiment. I therefore recommend that:
Alternative Recommendation 9.4 (Senator Kemot)
• an absolute limit of 20% of assets of a superannuation fund be allowed to be
invested offshore; and
• the Parliament introduce a tax regime which is preferential to investments in
Australia, rather than the absurd policy of capital export neutrality which has
_been another legacy of the 1980s._ :__




APPENDIX 1
SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
SUBMISSIONS
Appendix 1
No. 1 Gynn, W J
No. 2 Fisher F
No. 3 Newman, C A
No. 4 The Liquor Trades Union
No. 5 Perry, K F
No. 6 Walsh, A
No. 7 Buildings Union Superannuation
No. 8 N E Renton & Associates
No. 9 Serendip Publications
No. 10 InterData Pty Ltd
No. 11 Not a submission
No. 12 Trau, Dr J
No. 13 McJannet, D
No. 14 Davies, D
No. 15 Garrett, P R
No. 16 Samson, S W
No. 17 Schwarz, D
No. 18 Restuccia, V
No. 19 Downs, B
No. 20 Clayton Utz
No. 21 Adams, G
No. 22 Lucas, J M
No. 23 Cartledge, O
No. 24 Hearn, G
No. 25 Foley, E
No. 26 Civil Service Association of WA
No. 27 E S Owens & Co
No. 28 Independent Schools Superannuation Trust
No. 29 Burns, W G
No. 30 In camera
No. 31 ACT Council of Social Service Inc
No. 32 Hughes, D
No. 33 Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
No. 34 Australian Salaried Medical Officer
No. 35 Australian Council of Social Service
No. 36 Belshaw, W J
No. 37 Smith, B
No. 38 Boffa, G
No. 39 Arthur Andersen & Co
No. 40 Williams, T
No. 41 Prudential Life Underwriters Association (NSW)
No. 42 Nipper, M R G and Weeks, P L
No. 43 Prudential Assurance Company Ltd


No. 44
No. 45
No. 46
No. 47
No. 48
No. 49
No. 50
No. 51
No. 52
No. 53
No. 54
No. 55
No. 56
No. 57
No. 58
No. 59
No. 60
No. 61
No. 62
No. 63
No. 64
No. 65
No. 66
No. 67
No. 68
No. 69
No. 70
No. 71
No. 72
No. 73
No. 74
No. 75
No. 76
No. 77
No. 78
No. 79
No. 80
No. 81
No. 82
No. 83
No. 84
No. 85
No. 86
No. 87
No. 88
No. 89
No. 90
No. 91
No. 92
Retired Associate Members' Branch Public Service Association of NSW
Myuna Pty Ltd
du Cros, N
Fisk, B
Trustee Companies Association
Australian Lifewriters Association
Australian Small Business Association
Long, P D
Knox, Professor D
Tribunal on Homosexuals and Discrimination
Chamen, P
Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia
National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
Duesburys
Morgan Stockbroking Ltd
IOOF Australia
Non-Government Schools Superannuation Fund
The Alexander Consulting Group
Metal Manufacturers Limited
National Australia Bank
Women's Action Alliance (Australia)
Chamber of Commerce & Industry of WA
MMBW Employees' Superannuation Fund
Yann, R N
Secondary Colleges Staff Association
Ulverstone Chamber of Commerce
Belshaw, M
Wilson, The Hon Ian, MP
Crouch, W G
ANZ Bank
Independent Insurance & Superannuation Agencies
Cooley, L M
Australian Finance Conference
Northern Territory Superannuation Office
Lee, W A
Mercer Campbell Cook & Knight Inc
Noble Lowndes
Department of Industrial Relations (ACT)
Klumpes, Dr P J M
National Farmers Federation
WA Government Employees Superannuation Board
Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
Smith, A W J
Turner, M
White, B
The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd
Jacques Martin
CSA Consulting Group
Mansfield, G


No. 93
No. 94
No. 95
No. 96
No. 97
No. 98
No. 99
No. 100
No. 101
No. 102
No. 103
No. 104
No. 105
No. 106
No. 107
No. 108
No. 109
No. 110
No. Ill
No. 112
No. 113
No. 114
No. 115
No. 117
No. 118
No. 119
No. 120
No. 121
No. 122
No. 123
No. 124
No. 125
No. 126
No. 127
No. 128
No. 129
No. 130
No. 131
No. 132
No. 133
No. 134
No. 135
No. 136
No. 137
No. 138
No. 139
No. 140
No. 141
Civic Securities Pty Ltd
Australian Retirement Fund
Australian Chamber of Manufactures
AM Corporation Ltd
The Taxpayers' Association of Tasmania
County NatWest
In camera
National Mutual
Chifley Superannuation Services
Commonwealth Funds Management Ltd
Coles Myer Ltd
National Association of Personnel Consultants Ltd
Bankers Trust Australia Limited
Australian Council of Trade Unions
Attorney-General's Department
The Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Retirement Benefits Office
The Motor Inn & Motel Association of Australia
Langley-Bates, D
NSW Farmers' Association
MTAA Superannuation Fund
Life Insurance Federation of Australia Inc
Minister for Productivity and Labour Relations, WA
Metway Corporation
NSW Minister for Industrial Relations
Australian Society of CPAs
AMP
Hanson, Mr J H
Minister of Transport, Correctional Services, Finance
Moon, G
The Taxation Institute of Australia
Australian Pensioners & Superannuants Federation and Combined
Pensioners & Superannuants Association of NSW
Women's Economic Think Tank
Department of Social Security
Director-General, Office of the Cabinet — Queensland Government
Davey & Associates
Women's Electoral Lobby Australia Inc
de Visser, L
Westpac Banking Corporation
Griffin, P
Australian International Pilots Association
SIO Consumer Appeals Centre
Australian Friendly Societies Association
Whittimore-Hull, J
Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Rothschild Australia Asset Management Limited


No. 142
No. 143
No. 144
No. 145
No. 146
No. 147
No. 148
No. 149
No. 150
No. 151
No. 152
No. 153
No. 154
No. 155
No. 156
No. 157
No. 158
No. 159
No. 160
No. 161
No. 162
No. 163
No. 164
No. 165
No. 166
No. 167
No. 168
No. 169
No. 170
No. 171
No. 172
No. 173
No. 174
No. 175
No. 176
No. 177
No. 178
No. 179
No. 180
No. 181
No. 182
No. 183
No. 184
No. 185
No. 186
No. 187
No. 188
No. 189
No. 190
Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia
Jacques Martin - Reply to Tasmanian Taxpayers
National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
Trade Practices Commission
Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
Smith, Dr G F
Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
Docker, A R
University of NSW Superannuation Economics Research Group
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Department of Community Services & Health
Crawford, G J
Investment Funds Association of Australia Limited
Australian Taxation Office, Commissioner of Taxation
Langfield-Smith, I
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia
National Mutual - Nexis Proprietary Limited
Weijers, A J
Foster, W
Gierczycki, L M
Ramakrishnan, H
Permanent Trustee Company Limited
Industry Research and Development Board
HEST Australia Ltd
The Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
Unity Action Group for Retired Persons
Crome, I
Campbell, B G
Knight, Dr J
Australian Council on Smoking and Health
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Clothier, D P
Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
In camera
Selstay Pty Ltd
J G Mulhallen & Sons (Vic) Pty Ltd
Armstrong, W J
Rutter, A
The Australian Workers' Union
Sly and Weigall
In camera
In camera
SA Employers' Federation
Australian Securities Commission
Grey, P
Pacific Industrial Investments
CIG Employees' Superannuation Fund
Reserve Bank


No. 191 Aitkin, J
No. 192 Harrower E
No. 193 Grace E
No. 194 University of Melbourne
No. 195 The Treasury
No. 196 SBC Dominguez Barry Ltd
No. 197 Financial Planning Association of Australia
No. 198 CIFC
No. 199 Australian Eagle Superannuation
No. 200 Ellis, M
No. 201 Moore, E J
No. 202 Morley, B
No. 203 Tindal, B
No. 204 Shell Australia Limited
No. 205 Treasury, Tasmania
No. 206 Mathews, S R
No. 207 In camera
No. 208 Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission
No. 209 In Camera
No. 210 Colonial Mutual Investment Management
No. 211 Pollard, D
No. 212 Advance Bank




APPENDIX 2
WITNESSES WHO APPEARED BEFORE THE COMMITTEE
Appendix 2
WITNESS/ADDRESS
IOOF Australia
Actuarial Consultant, Tribunal Working Group
Alexander Consulting Gruop Ltd
AM Corporation Limited
AMEV Life Assurance
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Attorney-General's Department
Australian Society of Chartered Public Accountants
Australian International Pilots Association
Australian Pensioners Superannuants Federation
Australian Council of Social Service
Australian Small Business Association, NSW Division
Australian Finance Conference
Australian Securities Commission
Australian Lifewriters Association
Australian Federation of Business and Professional Women
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Australian Banking Ombudsman
Australian Taxation Office
Australian Friendly Societies Association
Australian Council on Smoking and Health
Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
Australian Workers Union
Australian Retirement Fund Pty Ltd
Bankers Trust Australia Ltd
Dr Owen Cartledge
Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Chifley Superannuation Services
Civil Service Association of WA Inc.
Clayton Utz Solicitors
Combined Pensioners and Superannuants of NSW Inc.
Superannuation Financial Services
Date of Appearance
10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
21 February 1992, SYDNEY
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
21 February 1992, SYDNEY
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
24 February 1992, CANBERRA
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
6 March 1992, CANBERRA
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
6 March 1992, CANBERRA
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
25 March 1992, CANBERRA
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
15 April 1992, CANBERRA
25 March 1992, CANBERRA
10 March 1992, PERTH
6 March 1992, CANBERRA
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
6 March 1992, CANBERRA
10 March 1992, PERTH
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
10 March 1992, PERTH
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
18 February 1992, SYDNEY


Commonwealth Bank of Australia 19 February 1992, SYDNEY
Commonwealth Funds Management Limited 6 March 1992, CANBERRA
Commonwealth Funds Management Limited 6 March 1992, CANBERRA
Mrs Lorna Cooley 13 February 1992, HOBART
County NatWest Australia Investment Management 10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
Mr Gary Crawford 10 March 1992, PERTH
Mr John Dermody 6 March 1992, CANBERRA
Federation of Industrial, Mechanical and Engineering Employees
Comalco
Mr John Foley
Former Redundant Employees from West Australian Newspapers
Actuary, Godwins Australia Pty Ltd, and Consultant
Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia
Government Employees Superannuation Board
Professor Robert Gregory
Mr Denis Hanley
Mr Graeme Hearn
Health, Housing and Community Services, Department of
HEST Australia Ltd
Host-Plus
Independent Schools Superannuation Trust
Industrial Relations, Department of
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Investment Funds Association of Australia Ltd
Associate Professor David Knox
Mr Ian Langfield-Smith
Mr William Lee
Life Insurance Federation of Australia
Lifewriters Association
Liquor Trades Union
Mr Julian Lucas
Mr Garth Mansfield
Mercer Campbell Cook & Knight
MMBW Employees Superannuation Fund
Ms Gillian Moon
13 February 1992, HOBART
1 April 1992, CANBERRA
10 March 1992, PERTH
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
10 March 1992, PERTH
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
10 March 1992, PERTH
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
25 March 1992, CANBERRA
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
30 March 1992, CANBERRA
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
21 February 1992, BRISBANE
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
6 March 1992, CANBERRA
10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
Motor Trades Association of Australia
Industry Superannuation Fund Pty Ltd
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
10 April 1992, CANBERRA


Motor Inn, Motel and Accommodation Association
Mr Clifford Newman
Myuna Pty Ltd
National Mutual Life Association of Australia
National Mutual Life Association
National Superannuation Group, Arthur Andersen & Co.
National Association of Nursing Homes and
Private Hospitals Inc.
National Farmers Federation
New South Wales Superannuation Office
Nexis Pty Ltd
Noble Lowndes Superannuation Consultants Ltd
Occupational Health and Safety Training Unit
Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia
Productivity and Labour Relations, Department of
Provident Fund, Comalco
Prudential Life Underwriters (NSW)
Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd
Public Service Association of New South Wales
Queensland Government Superannuation Office
Mr Nicholas Renton
Reserve Bank of Australia
Retail, Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Retirement Benefits Office
Rothschild Australia Asset Management Limited
Mr Siegfried Samson
SBC Dominguez Barry Limited
SBC Dominguez Barry Ltd
School of Economics, University of NSW
Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
Social Security, Department of
South Australian Superannuation Fund Investment Trust
South Australian Treasury
South Australian Employers Federation Inc.
Superannuation Office, NT Government
Taxation Institute of Australia
Taxpayers Association of Tasmania
Trade Practices Commission, the Commissioner
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
10 March 1992, PERTH
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
1 April 1992, CANBERRA
21 February 1992, BRISBANE
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
6 March 1992, CANBERRA
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
13 February 1992, HOBART
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
10 March 1992, PERTH
10 March 1992, PERTH
13 February 1992, HOBART
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
21 February 1992, BRISBANE
10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
6 March 1992, CANBERRA
10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
13 February 1992, HOBART
19 February 1992, SYDNEY
10 April 1992, CANBERRA
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
4 March 1992, CANBERRA
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
10 March 1992, PERTH
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
13 February 1992, HOBART
4 March 1992, CANBERRA


Dr Jerry Trail
Treasury, Department of the
Trustee Companies Association of Australia
Mrs Margaret Turner
Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Westpac Banking Corporation
Mrs Beverley White
Mr Trevor Williams
Honourable Ian Wilson, MP
Women's Action Alliance
Women's Economic Think Tank
Women's Electoral Lobby, Australia
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
15 April 1992, CANBERRA
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
13 February 1992, HOBART
11 February 1992, MELBOURNE
18 February 1992, SYDNEY
13 February 1992, HOBART
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
9 March 1992, ADELAIDE
10 February 1992, MELBOURNE
20 February 1992, SYDNEY
25 March 1992, CANBERRA


APPENDIX 3
RETIREMENT INCOME STREAM ACCOUNT
(RISA)
Appendix 3
Source: The Alexander Consulting Group
Q1 What is RISA?
A A RISA is an arrangement for a retired person to have his money managed for
him. It is hoped that widows will soon be able to utilise the facility.
Q2 How does RISA work?
A Exactly the same as an investment account. Your investment is the opening
balance. The account is credited with investment income on the balance remaining
from time to time. The account is debited with your drawings and with the
manager's charges.
Q3 Who can issue RISAs?
A Life insurance companies and other financial institutions approved by the ISC. To
be approved, a financial institution must prove experience in investment
management and its suitability to manage individuals' savings for retirement.
Q4 What types of investment are available to me if I purchase a RISA?
A Most RISAs will be invested in tax-free balanced portfolios with wide discretion
for the managers to invest in any kind of investment. These portfolios, with
significant share and property investments at most times, are expected to have the
best 'growth' features over the long term and to provide the best protection
against inflation. There is no reason why capital-stable or capital-guaranteed
investment mediums, or a mixture of types of investment, cannot be used provided
the investment managers have tax-free facilities.
Q5 Lots of organisations will manage my money for me, including unit trusts. What
is different about RISA?
The essential differences from other money arrangements are firstly, that RISA
meets Government requirements for payment of a retired income and secondly,
because it is part of the approved retirement income system, there are significant
taxation advantages.
Q6 What are the Government requirements?
A The fundamental requirement is that you must make regular drawings of specified
amounts from your account. The drawings which you must make are related to
your age and to the balance remaining in your account.


Q7 Why do minimum drawings depend on age?
A The idea is to enable a RISA investor to spread his income over the rest of his
life. So younger investors might not be required to draw even the income earned.
Drawings are required because the purpose of the system is to provide retirement
incomes.
Q8 You referred to younger' investors. Can anyone buy a RISA?
A At the present time, RISAs are only available to retiring members of
superannuation funds. Later, it is hoped that anyone who wishes to buy an
immediate retirement income stream will be able to buy a RISA in just the same
way as anyone can buy an immediate annuity. However, the 'market' is expected
to be
retired persons who have lump sum superannuation money or personal
savings which need to be transformed into an income stream
widows and disabled persons who receive lump sum superannuation.
Q9 What is the scale of minimum drawings?
A The balance held 3 months before the beginning of a financial year (or the
amount invested where the person made his investment after that date) is divided
by a factor, as follows, to give the minimum quarterly rate of drawing during that
financial year.
Age last Factor Age last Factor Age last
b'day on b'day on b'day on
1 July 1 July 1 July
Factor
Q10 How do I know how much I must draw?
A Your manager will issue you a quarterly statement. When your March statement
is issued he will tell you not only the balance standing to your credit but how
much you must draw from the next 1 July. He will automatically pay the minimum
unless you have nominated a larger amount.


Qll How frequently will payments be made?
A Monthly. Lump sums can be drawn at any time. Tax will be deducted from both
regular drawings and lump sums.
Q12 Are there any maximum drawings?
A No, but remember that all drawings other than the return of your undeducted
purchase price are taxed as income. So if you draw too much in one year, you
may increase the rate of tax on all of your income, including your regular
drawings. Most RISA holders will draw only what they need for regular income
needs and use the lump sum facility for special capital requirements.
Conserve capital, maximise the income credited to your account and protect your
old age!
Q13 You said there are taxation advantages. If drawings are taxable, what are the
advantages?
A The first advantage is that your investment suffers no tax at all while it is in your
RISA account. It is a significant advantage to pay tax only on what you draw and
not on what you earn. This increases dramatically the 'compounding ' power of
your savings.
Q14 You said that this is the first advantage. Are there others?
A The other very significant advantage concerns the undeducted purchase price.
Q15 The undeducted purchase price. What is that?
A This is the amount invested which has not qualified for a taxation deduction,
ordinary savings for example. A superannuation benefit on which tax has been
paid becomes 'ordinary' money and like personal savings invested in a RISA (or
annuity) is an undeducted purchase price.
If a superannuation benefit is rolled over before tax, the pre 1 July 1983
component and, usually, the employee's personal contributions made on and after
1 July 1983 are an undeducted purchase price.
Q16 What then is the advantage attaching to the undeducted purchase price?
A No tax is payable on the undeducted purchase price component of drawings. All
other drawings are taxed as income. The undeducted purchase price component
is determined by a formula which produces relatively large tax free components
early on and smaller ones later.


Q17 That should make the minimum drawings go further in the years following
retirement when travel and other activity are popular. Are there any other
taxation factors?
A Yes, indeed. If you roll your super over before tax, the post 30 June 1983
component earns a 15% tax rebate.
Q18 That all sounds complicated.
A It isn't really. The manager records your undeducted purchase price and tells you
on each statement how much has been drawn and how much remains to be
drawn. He will also tell you how much of your credit is post 30 June 1983 super
money and the rebate earned.
Remember that if you paid the tax on your super and then invest in a RISA (or
an annuity) you will not be entitled to a post 30 June 1983 component rebate.
Q19 What happens if I invest my money in a market linked RISA and the market
crashes?
A You simply ride it out. Because you will normally draw only a very small
proportion of your balance at any one time, you will ride out all the ups and
downs of the market. Your credit follows the experience line of the manager. It
is sure to bounce up after a decline in prices and similarly to be 'cut down to size'
after a boom. Your long term drawing capacity will follow the manager's
underlying trend line.
The important action to be avoided is cashing out in a downturn. The ISC will be
considering whether a maximum should be imposed on lump sum drawings to stop
RISA holders from 'shooting themselves in the foot' by pulling out when the
market is down.
Q20 Can I top-up my RISA with additional investments?
A Not after you have commenced drawings except by adding any roll over which you
may have kept in an Approved Deposit Fund. However, the final rules may
authorise the payment of lump sum contributions at any time.
Q21 What are the advantages of a RISA over an annuity?
A There are several advantages
the ability to leave one's undrawn capital to heirs (this has special
significance to many people who have a lump sum option at retirement,
particularly where the member or his spouse is in poor or indifferent
health)
protection against inflation through participation in a mixed trust under
experienced management


flexibility in income with the opportunity to blend into social security
retention in a very real sense of the 'ownership' of one's savings (The
ability is there to change managers but, as a general rule, this would not
be a frequent occurrence.) The ability to withdraw even one's full balance
is provided but is seldom exercised.
Q22 What are the advantages of a life annuity over a RISA?
A A life annuity continues at its contractual level however long the annuitant or
annuitants live. A RISA could fall away and would fall away rapidly if drawings
significantly exceed earnings.
It is possible to buy a fully indexed annuity at the present time. Although the
income is low relative to capital, initially, this is the only means of ensuring that
real income is maintained. The supply of such annuities is likely to be limited and
when inflation is expected to rise they probably will not be available at all.
Q23 Speaking of income relative to capital, annuities seem to be a good deal, don't you
think?
A Annuities effected in the high interest rate era provide a very good income
stream. New annuities are not nearly so good. Annuities reflect for their whole
life, the economic conditions prevailing at the time of purchase.
Annuities and RISA's are alternatives. It is a matter of weighing up the pros and
cons of each.
The average rate of return on a RISA should be better than on an annuity
because the manager is not constrained by guarantees as is the issuer or an
annuity.
The long livers may do well out of annuities. Those who live a short period
transfer some of their capital to the long livers.
Some people will be happy to lock-in their income through an annuity and will be
content to accept that on death after expiry of the term certain (if any) there will
be no residual payment available to children. The residual payment on death
during the term certain declines quite rapidly.
Whilst annuities are generally unsatisfactory at the present time, RISAs present
the opportunity to buy in at relatively low prices because of the depressed share
and property markets.
Q24 I have only a modest lump sum. The annuity is really very small. Is a RISA any
better?
A Yes. You can draw your RISA at a rate sufficient for you or live on and then
move to social security. Better still, your adviser will work out a drawing plan to


blend your RISA income with social security. You can 'fine tune' your program as
you go along or make a major change e.g. drawing it down more rapidly or
slowing the drawings to a minimum to best suit your changing circumstances.
Family circumstances can change quite dramatically after retirement. Misfortune
does befall some families. (Dad had a good super but he bought an annuity. We
have four kiddies still at school since Tom's illness it has all been uphill and will
stay that way.)
Q25 I am not 65 yet. When should I buy my RISA? I have some personal savings, my
Company super and super from a previous job rolling up in an ADF.
A Your RISA commences when you retire but you can retain your ADF credits and
roll them into your RISA later (but not after age 65 of course).
Q26 If I have a lot of money in my super, is there anything special to watch out for?
AS As a general rule, it is not a good idea to accumulate your super over the lump
sum reasonable benefit limit (RBL) unless you can go a long way over and,
hopefully, approach the pension RBL.
If you go over your lump sum RBL the choices are
pay tax at your marginal rate on the excess
take at least half your lump sum as what is called a complying pension.
This has the effect of reducing the lump sum subject to concessional
taxation treatment.
At the present time, only an indexed, non commutable life annuity is a complying
pension.
Hence, if your super rubs up against your lump sum RBL it is generally a good
idea to retire, transfer it to a RISA and start drawings.
It is important to consult your adviser. There are choices to be made and
unfortunately it is the case that very few people can make an informed decision
without guidance.
Q27 Why does switching to a RISA avoid the excess benefits problems?
A Once you are in a RISA it doesn't matter how much you earn, it will accumulate
tax-free. Of course, the more you earn, the greater your drawings must be.
Q28 What happens if I die?
A The balance standing to your credit is payable. A spouse can continue to draw
income under the RISA, as before but the minimum drawings are adjusted for the
spouse's age.


Q29 What is the taxation position if the balance is paid as a lump sum?
A Any undrawn undeducted purchase price is payable tax free. The remainder is
taxable but subject to rebate where applicable.
Q30 To whom is the balance payable?
A Typical superannuation trust provisions apply. The Trustee has a discretion to pay
one or more dependants or the legal personal representative of the deceased.






THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 182 of 1992
ORDERED TO 8E PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
