

24th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
SCHEDULES
1,9 & 10
OF
TAXATION LAWS
AMENDMENT BILL
(NO. 3) 1997
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
June, 1997


Twenty-fourth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
SCHEDULES 1, 9 & 10
OF
TAXATION LAWS AMENDMENT BILL
(NO. 3) 1997
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
June 1997


© Commonwealth of Australia 1997
ISBN 0 642 25138 X
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Peter Hallahan
Mr Rod Adams
Mr James Greentree
Ms Jade Ricza
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
Facsimile: (06)277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at: http://senate.aph.gov.au


CONTENTS
CONTENTS. i
CHAPTER 1.1
BACKGROUND.1
Origin and conduct of the inquiry.1
The schedules.1
The issues..:.. 1
CHAPTER 2.3
CAPITAL GAINS TAX EXEMPTION.3
What it does, why and to whom.3
The Committee's examination.3
Active and passive assets.3
Controlling Interest.4
Seven day limit on making an eligible termination payment (ETP).5
CHAPTER 3. 7
AGE LIMIT FOR SUPERANNUATION CONTRIBUTIONS.7
What this provision does.^
Some background to the provision.^
Comment.^
CHAPTER 4.9
SPOUSE CONTRIBUTIONS.9
What the provisions do.^
Background and comment on the proposal.^
Preservation.^
Promoting the proposal.* ^
CHAPTER 5.13
RECOMMENDATIONS.13
REPORT BY AUSTRALIAN LABOR PARTY SENATORS.15
APPENDIX 1 - LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
APPENDIX 2 - LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
APPENDIX 3 - LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS




CHAPTER 2
CAPITAL GAINS TAX EXEMPTION
Capital Gains Tax Exemption
What it does, why and to whom
2.1 Provisions in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 'allow
small business taxpayers to claim an exemption from tax on capital gains made on the
disposal of all or some of their active business assets if the proceeds are used for retirement'.1
The limit on the amount exempted for this purpose is $500,000.
2.2 The provisions recognise the fact that many small business people are not financially
able to contribute to superannuation in the same way as other individuals, due to the need to
reinvest earnings into their business. Also, many small businesses are regarded by their
individual owners as, in effect, superannuation at the end of the owner's active business life.
Those taxpayers eligible for the exemption are:
individuals conducting business as sole traders or in partnership, and companies
and trusts where there is a controlling individual who is also an employee of the
company or trust.2
The Committee's examination
2.3 Primarily, the Committee sought to satisfy itself that the provisions as drafted would
achieve the stated purpose of providing a superannuation concession to small business
owners. In general, the Committee found the evidence presented at the public hearing,
especially by the representatives from the Australian Taxation Office (ATO), indicated that
the stated purpose was being achieved by the provisions of Schedule 1.
2.4 However, there were some technical matters which raised specific questions for
consideration.
Active and passive assets
2.5 The Association of Taxation and Management Accountants addressed the issue of
restricting the exemption to the disposal of active business assets and its non-application to
passive investments.3 An active asset is:
one which, at a particular point in time, is used by the taxpayer in carrying on a
business, for example, plant, machinery, and a factory of a manufacturing
business. An active asset also includes an asset which is held ready for use in
1 Second Reading Speech, Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997.
2 Second Reading Speech, Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997.
Submission TaxBill-1, p 4.
3


that business or an intangible asset which is held ready for use in that business,
such as goodwill.4
2.6 Other requirements are that the asset must be active for least half of the period that the
taxpayer owned the asset, and active at the time of disposal. In this regard the Committee had
concerns about the situation where a small business proprietor, such as a farmer, is struck ill
and leases out the business pending recovery from the illness, only to then find that no return
to work is possible and the business needs to be sold. The Australian Taxation Office (ATO)
advised that in such circumstances:
there is a rule that says, provided it was active up to the point where you ceased
to carry on the business, and provided you then sell the business within 12
mbnths, we will treat that as active.5
'2.7 The other alternative available is for such a person to return and reactivate the
business. In that case, the requirement that the asset must have been active for half of the time
comes into play.
Controlling Interest
2.8 This exemption has been extended beyond sole traders and those in partnerships, to
benefit those with controlling interests in trusts and private companies. The cut-off point is 50
per cent, 'so that two people can benefit out of a company structure or out of a trust
structure'.6 The ATO said the person needs to have at least 50 per cent control of voting rights
and the rights to capital and income:
The definition of control is about limiting it to two people per company.7
2.9 The Association of Taxation and Management Accountants submitted that this
limitation was too restrictive and cited the example of a business such as a fruit or flower
shop, or a restaurant, which needs to operate beyond normal working hours. Such a business
may demand a partnership of two couples and as such would not fall within the controlling
interest test for the purposes of this exemption.
2.10 However, the Committee recognises the need to retain a simple concept of controlling
interest if the target group is to be reached. Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the
exemption is not unduly restrictive, nor has it been extended beyond what was the intention
to provide a benefit for small businesses.
4
Explanatory Memorandum, Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997, p 17.
5 Evidence, p 38.
6 Evidence, p 42.
7 Evidence, p 43.
8 Submission TaxBill-1.


Seven day limit on making an eligible termination payment (ETP)
2.11 The Australian Society of Certified Public Accountants (ASCPA) raised a potential
problem with the short time frame in which a taxpaying entity has to make an ETP after
receiving an amount of actual consideration in respect of a sale of assets. They said:
An ETP must be made to the controlling individual within 7 days after the
taxpayer receives an amount of actual consideration. Is the time frame of 7 days
realistic in light of the fact that we are dealing with a sale of a small business
where a multitude of red tape comes into play.9
2.12 As part of the single-controller conditions, there is a new section 160 ZZPZH (5) in
the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936. This provides that a private company or trust must
make an ETP to the controlling individual(s) within 7 days after making the election to take
the exemption, or within seven days after the taxpayer receives an amount of actual
consideration, whichever comes later.
2.13 The ASCPA submission may have overlooked the latter qualification. The provision
allows for longer term planning than merely the seven day limitation, as the payment details
will be apparent before the seven day period is triggered. However, while recognising the
discipline imposed by this provision, the Committee believes there may be an unfair impact
on those businesses in remote areas who may need more time to contact their financial
services provider in relation to the actual payment of the ETP.
9
Submission TaxBill-3.




CHAPTER 3
AGE LIMIT FOR SUPERANNUATION CONTRIBUTIONS
What this provision does
3.1 Schedule 9 of the Bill has the effect of requiring employers to continue to pay the
superannuation guarantee until employees reach the age of 70 years.
Some background to the provision
3.2 In its Seventeenth Report, Super and Broken Work Patterns, this Committee
recommended regulations be amended to allow regulated superannuation funds to accept
contributions from and for persons over age 65.1 Subsequently, in the 1996/97 Budget the
Government announced that it would allow people over age 65 to continue contributing to a
complying superannuation fund or RSA (Retirement Savings Account) up to age 70. The
proviso is that they maintain a bona fide link with the paid workforce by being gainfully
employed for at least 10 hours per week.2
3.3 There are amendments to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations
which will facilitate these over age 65 voluntary contributions as from 1 July 1997.
3.4 Schedule 9 of the Bill now before the Committee increases, from 65 to 70 years, the
age threshold at which employers are no longer required to provide superannuation support
for their employees under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992. The
Schedule also amends the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995 to the same effect.
3.5 These changes are a direct consequence of the Government's 1996/97 Budget
announcement outlined above. The amendment will apply from 1 July 1997 and also includes
those employees who have already turned 65 as at that date.
Comment
3.6 The Association of Taxation and Management Accountants (ATMA) submitted that
age limits for superannuation contributions are unnecessary and should be removed. They
also said that in enacting such a provision as in Schedule 9, 'the existing rights of the
individual to retire should not be compromised’.3 They added:
The increase in age limit is viewed as a positive move which would extend the
existing choice of individuals (employees) in determining when they wished to
retire. From the perspective of employers (many of whom are represented
1 Super and Broken Work Patterns, Recommendation 4.2.
2 Explanatory Memorandum, Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997, p 80.
3 Submission, TaxBill-1, p 11.


through membership of the ATMA), the increase in age limit for superannuation
purposes has little bearing.4
3.7 The Committee agrees with the substance of these comments and supports this
change.
4
Submission, TaxBilM, pi 1.


CHAPTER 4
SPOUSE CONTRIBUTIONS
What the provisions do
4.1 Schedule 10 of the Bill provides a taxation rebate to a person who contributes to
superannuation on behalf of a low-income or non-working spouse. The rebate is calculated as
18 per cent on contributions up to a limit of $3000. This limit is reduced where the spouse's
assessable income exceeds $10,800. Overall there is provision for a rebate of up to $540 per
annum to a taxpayer where:
• the taxpayer has a spouse;
. the taxpayer contributes to superannuation on behalf of his or her spouse;
. the contributions made are not deductible to the taxpayer;
. both the taxpayer and spouse are Australian residents; and
. the spouse's assessable income is less than $13,800.1
4.2 Contributions made on behalf of spouses that exceed the limit of $3,000 will not
attract the rebate.
4.3 All spouse contributions will be treated as undeducted contributions and will be
preserved. This is consistent with the principle that contributions which receive tax
concessions should be subject to preservation, and 'funds will have to put in place
arrangements to identify what contributions are spouse contributions and earmark those for
preservation'.2 Mr Larkin, Assistant Commissioner (Policy) of the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC), added:
We acknowledge that this will require some different interim administration
arrangements leading up to the introduction of the new broader preservation
rules ffom 1 July 1999. We also note that it is really a choice for individual
funds as to whether they accept spouse contributions, and they will have to
make their own commercial decisions about the costs and benefits of doing so.
Background and comment on the proposal
4.4 In Chapter 11 of its Seventeenth Report, Super and Broken Work Patterns, this
Committee examined the issue of spouse contributions in some detail. At that time there was
considerable evidence in favour of providing for spouse contributions. However, the ISC at
1
Explanatory Memorandum, Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997, p 79.
2 Evidence, p 33.
3 Evidence, p 33.
Tabled in November 1995.
4


that time submitted that, while as a form of income splitting this might be attractive on
retirement income grounds, the revenue and equity implications needed to be examined.5
4.5 On the Bill presently before the Committee, the Australian Council of Social Service
(ACOSS) oppose the provisions of Schedule 10, because they say the effect would be to:
. mainly benefit high income couples; and
. increase barriers to workforce participation by married women, in reducing the
incentive to work when combined with the spouse rebate and the family
payment and the associated stringent income tests applying to "second earners".6
4.6 The Life, Investment and Superannuation Association of Australia (LISA) raised a
. number of issues in its submission, mainly related to the complementary amendments to the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations. Generally, the Committee found the
evidence from the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) and the ISC satisfied the points arising
in the LISA submission. However, some comments on those matters are warranted.
Preservation
4.7 The LISA representatives at the public hearing were concerned about consistency in
the treatment of all superannuation accounts with regard to preservation, given the major
changes to preservation to apply generally in 1999. They said:
we want to ensure that there is no inconsistency between current preservation
requirements and any that might apply to spouse contributions.7
4.8 Paragraph 4.3 above describes the requirements for preservation of the spouse
contributions. While the Committee notes there may be some administrative difficulties
created for funds, it could not accept the proposition that the spouse contributions should not
be preserved. Without preservation, the integrity of this proposal in better providing for the
retirement incomes of low income spouses would be undermined.
4.9 Mr Larkin of the ISC distinguished between what are essentially two separate classes
of spouse for the purposes of this rebate and in relation to the payment of preserved benefits.
One class is the non-working spouse (although the Committee has difficulties with that
terminology) and the other is the low-income class. Mr Larkin looked at the issue of
retirement and the payment of benefits:
In respect of the non-working spouse, the concept of retirement is meaningless;
they are not retiring from work as such and, therefore, there will be an age based
trigger for the payment of the preserved benefit from the fund. But to the extent
that that non-working spouse may come into the workforce at some point during
5 Submission SW Sub No 9.
6 Submission TaxBill-4, p 4, together with some additional advice obtained from Mr Davidson.
Evidence, p 6.
7


Spouse Contributions
their life cycle then the normal triggers of retirement would reapply to that
person.8
4.10 The Committee is satisfied that the proposed preservation treatment is appropriate.
Promoting the proposal
4.11 LISA indicated they would be pushing to educate the community generally as to the
benefits of saving and the benefits of allocating money to non-working spouses.9
4.12 The Committee regards this rebate proposal as an important initiative in promoting
savings for retirement. In that regard, some attention should be paid to encouraging the funds
to accept spouse contributions. LISA had the view that 'generally speaking':
it would seem to be a service that trustees of superannuant funds would
generally want to provide.10
4.13 The Committee requested that the modelling for this proposal be provided to it. To
date, the modelling has not been provided.
8 Evidence, p 36.
9 Evidence, p 8.
10 Evidence, p 9.




CHAPTER 5
RECOMMENDATIONS
The Committee recommends those provisions of Schedules 1, 9 and 10 referred to this
Committee for examination be passed.
However, the Committee believes the Government should examine the seven day period in
relation to the capital gains tax exemption, as outlined in paragraphs 2.11 to 2.23.
Senator John Watson
Chair




REPORT BY
AUSTRALIAN LABOR PARTY SENATORS
ON SCHEDULES 1, 9 AND 10 OF THE
TAXATION LAWS AMENDMENT BILL (NO. 3) 1997
1.1 While in agreement with the main part of the Committee's report, Labor Senators wish
to make the following additional comments in respect of schedules 1 and 10 of this
legislation.
Schedule 1: Capital Gains Tax exemption on the sale of a small business for retirement
1.2 This provision of the Bill will see business owners who, upon the sale of their
business, will be able to rollover up to $500,000 in capital gains tax (that would have
ordinarily been payable to the ATO) into an approved retirement product, providing the net
business assets of the business do not exceed $5m.
1.3 Evidence presented to the Committee and in particular from the Association of
Taxation and Management Accountants highlighted a number of problems with this section
of the Bill regarding its practical operation.
1.4 The Association was critical of the fact that if a business has more than two owners
each with less than 50% ownership of the business, then they would all fail to qualify for
rollover relief. The Bill fails to address this matter in the context of what constitutes business
control.
1.5 Evidence supported the fact that this measure will fail to assist small business owners
unless they are a single person working as a sole trader, or a couple working in a partnership
without any other family involved. Many small business operators will therefore not be able
to access the exemption.
1.6 Further issues brought to the attention of the Committee were those relating to the
equity aspects of the CGT exemption.
1.7 A small business operator with $5 million in net business assets would be equally as
eligible for the CGT exemption as a small business owner who has only $100,000 in net
business assets, and who would be genuinely expected to use the CGT exemption on the sale
of the business to fund their retirement. In this sense, the CGT exemption can be accessed by
those who potentially have significant means to fund their own retirement without the need
for taxpayer funded assistance.
1.8 Labor Senators note that the ATO gave evidence to the Committee that cost to
revenue modelling on the CGT exemption was done by the Australian Taxation Office and


the Treasury but this information was not provided to the Committee by the Assistant
Treasurer when requested. This material is important in determining the equity impact of this
measure.
1.9 In the absence of such information the Committee is hampered in deciding the merits
of this proposal from an equity perspective.
Recommendation
1.10 Labor Senators recommend that in light of the evidence presented to the Committee,
the Government take the opportunity to review the legislation in the context of its
workability, intended beneficiaries and equity impact.
Schedule 9: Contributions after age 65
1.11 Labor Senators do not oppose this measure.
Schedule 10: Spouse rebate
1.12 This measure will provide up to a maximum 18% tax rebate to the contributing spouse
of up to $3000 of contributions made to the superannuation fund or RSA of what generally
will be his/her non-working spouse's fund or RSA, provided the non-working spouse's
taxable income does not exceed $13 800.
1.13 Labor Senators have concerns relating to the equity aspects of the spouse rebate as
contained in evidence presented to the Committee by ACOSS.
1.14 ACOSS informed the Committee that high income earners would seem to have the
most to gain from the 18% spouse rebate and are most likely to have additional funds
available to contribute to the superannuation fund or RSA of a non-working or low income
spouse.
1.15 Considering while there is a $ 13 800 upper income test it will still be possible for the
non-working spouse to have considerable assets, and the high income earning spouse will still
qualify for the full rebate. For example a non-working spouse could have $200,000 in a cash
deposit earning 5% or $10,000 interest and their high income earning working spouse can
still qualify for the full 18% rebate. It is doubtful that many low to middle income earners
will be in a similar position to take advantage of this tax rebate.
1.16 Once again the ATO gave evidence to the Committee that the RIM Taskforce had
modelled the spouse rebate proposal. This modelling was not presented to the committee as
requested, and the committee is still waiting for the Assistant Treasurer to provide such
information.
1.17 It would seem as in the case of the CGT rollover proposal that the Government is
reluctant to release the RIM modelling on this proposal as to its equity merits.


Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997
1.18 This proposal would therefore appear from an equity perspective to be dubious and
skewed towards high income earners while being paid for by low to middle income earners.
At this stage the Government has failed to present any evidence to the contrary.
Recommendation
1.19 Labor Senators recommend that the Government immediately release the modelling
undertaken by the RIM Taskforce on this measure so that the Committee can make a full and
proper assessment as to the equity impact of this proposal.
Senator the Hon. Nick Shei
Deputy Chairman
Senator Chris Evans




APPENDIX 1
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS


APPENDIX 2
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
CANBERRA, 4 JUNE 1997
Ms Sharon Baker, Legislative Services, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Robert Bastian, Chief Executive Officer, Council of Small Business Organisations
of Australia
Mr Shayne Carter, Member of the National Superannuation and Financial Planning
Committee, Institute of Chartered Accountants
Mr Damian Hill, Member, Retirement Savings Committee; Life, Investment and
Superannuation Association of Australia
Dr Kim Houghton, Projects Manager, Council of Small Business Organisations of
Australia
Senator The Hon Rod Kemp, Assistant Treasurer
Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner (Policy), Insurance and Superannuation
Commission
Mr Neil Oleson, Assistant Commissioner, Australian Taxation Office
Ms Sandra Peacock, Assistant Commissioner, Legislative Services; Australian Taxation
Office
Mr Kenneth Robinson, Convenor, Retirement Savings Committee; Life, Investment
and Superannuation Association of Australia
Ms Julie Tinnion, Director, Superannuation Section; Department of the Treasury


APPENDIX 3
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)


List of Committee Reports
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996
- Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Schedules 1,
9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997


Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Seiect Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs 11
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
-Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No 97 of 1997
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
