

Super - Restrictions on
Early Access
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
26th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Small Superannuation Accounts
Amendment Bill 1997
and related terms of reference
Canberra
September 1997




Super - Restrictions on
Early Access
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
26th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Small Superannuation Accounts
Amendment Bill 1997
and related terms of reference
Canberra
September 1997


© Commonwealth of Australia 1997
ISBN 0 642 25149 5
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator the Hon Nick Sherry Deputy Chair
Senator Lyn Allison
Senator Stephen Conroy
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran
Tasmania
Tasmania
Victoria
Victoria
Western Australia
South Australia
Victoria
Secretariat Staff:
Mr Rod Adams
Mr James Greentree
Ms Jade Ricza
Mr Peter Hallahan
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Secretary:
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
Facsimile: (06)277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at:
http://www.aph.gov.au/senate/coinmittee/commfp.html




CONTENTS
CONTENTS.j
CHAPTER 1.1
BACKGROUND.1
Origin of the inquiry and terms of reference.1
Conduct of the inquiry.2
The Committee's task.2
CHAPTER 2.5
PRESERVATION OF SUPERANNUATION.5
What preservation means.5
The Government's policy.5
The value of preservation.6
The leakage problem.7
These changes in the broader context of preservation, and of national savings.7
RIM Modelling.8
Cost to revenue.10
Conclusions.10
CHAPTER 3.13
ABOLITION OF THE $500 THRESHOLD.13
What this measure means. 13
The Committee's previous work.13
The new evidence.13
Conclusion - what about a lower threshold?.15
CHAPTER 4.17
REPLACING THE HARDSHIP TEST... 17
What this change does.17
Transitional arrangements.17
Previous consideration of hardship by this committee. 18
Appropriateness of objective rules for access on hardship grounds.18
Inflexibility and related problems.19
Compassionate grounds.21
Residual discretion or right of appeal?.22
The recent history on hardship applications under the former rules.24
Super - a first option in hardship?.24
Combining objective and subjective tests for hardship.26
Conclusions.27
CHAPTER 5.29
PERMANENT DEPARTURE.29
Effect of the changes.29
The Government's changes to the application of ..30


Contents
The changes to visa rules.31
The Roach Committee.34
The ambit of the Super Guarantee: do temporary residents fit in?.35
Limiting SG exemption to the sub-class 413 visa criteria...37
Temporary entrants and the labour market: are they job takers?.38
The new old 413 requirements - administrative problems for employers.40
What is achieved by removing early release for permanent departure?.43
Retrospective, prospective, or another perspective?.45
The notice period: transition impossible?.47
What about the job makers?.49
A threefold burden:.51
One - the burden on temporary entrants.51
Two - the burden on employers.52
Three - the burden on superannuation funds.52
Are temporary entrants likely to become reliant on Australian social security?.53
International social security agreements.54
Permanent departure of Australian citizens and permanent residents.55
Generally - regarding superannuation.57
Australian citizens and permanent residents.57
Temporary residents.58
CHAPTER 6.61
RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE GOVERNMENT'S CHANGES.61
Prelude.61
The Committees recommendations.62
Abolition of the $500 threshold.62
Release of monies on departure overseas.62
Hardship and compassionate grounds.63
CHAPTER 7.65
REPORT ON THE SMALL SUPERANNUATION ACCOUNTS AMENDMENT BILL 1997.65
Background.65
What the SHAR is.65
The future of SHAR.66
What the amending Bill does.66
Hardship and compassionate grounds.68
APPENDIX A.71
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS.71
APPENDIX B.73
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS.73
MELBOURNE, 13 AUGUST 1997.73
SYDNEY, 14 AUGUST 1997.73
CANBERRA, 20 AUGUST 1997.74
APPENDIX C.77
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
77


CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND
The early release principles dealt with in the Bill have been introduced already in the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) (SIS) Regulations which apply to complying funds.
These principles ... have not had the opportunity of going through the same Parliamentary
review process as an Act as they were introduced by way of regulations.1
Origin of the inquiry and terms of reference
1.1 On 19 June 1997, the Senate referred the Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment
Bill 1997 to the Committee for inquiry and report by 28 August 1997. The provisions of this
Bill tighten the arrangements relating to the early release of monies held in the
Superannuation Holding Accounts Reserve (SHAR).
1.2 The principles dealt with in this Bill are to be applied to the entire superannuation
system. Accordingly, on 26 June the Senate extended this reference as follows:
That the following matter be referred to the Select Committee on Superannuation for
inquiry and report:
(1) That the Senate notes that the Government has introduced the Small Superannuation
Accounts Amendment Bill 1997 which contains three principles for tightening the
provisions governing the early release of superannuation benefits as outlined by the
Government in the 1997 budget documents:
(a) to remove access to superannuation monies where the balance is less than $500;
(b) to restrict access to superannuation monies for persons under preservation age
who are permanently leaving Australia; and
(c) to restrict access to superannuation monies on the grounds of severe financial
hardship by instituting a new severe financial hardship test which requires
persons to have been in receipt of specified Commonwealth income support
payments for a continuous period of 52 weeks if under age 55, or for a
cumulative period of 39 weeks if over age 55.
(2) That, given that these principles are to be applied to the entire superannuation system,
the issues in paragraph (1) be referred to the Select Committee on Superannuation for
a comprehensive analysis and full public hearings on their implication, particularly
their impact on low and middle income earners.
(3) That the committee report by 28 August 1997.
1
Submission 11, ASFA, p. 1.


Chapter 1
1.3 The Committee was granted two extensions of time to report. On 27 August 1997, the
Senate extended the reporting date to 11 September 1997, and on 4 September 1997 further
extended the date to 25 September 1997.
Conduct of the inquiry
1.4 The Committee advertised the reference in the Australian Financial Review on 2 July 1997,
and contacted a number of organisations directly inviting their submissions. Three public hearings
were held: in Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra on 13, 14 and 20 August 1997 respectively. A total
of 21 submissions were received and the names of those making submissions, together with a list of
witnesses who gave evidence at the public hearing, are listed in Appendices A and B.
1.5 The Committee thanks those persons and organisations who made submissions and
gave evidence.
The Committee's task
1.6 The Committee was required to do two things:
• to recommend on the provisions of the Small Superannuation Accounts
Amendment Bill 1997 as referred; and
• to inquire into and report on the matters raised in the Bill, in accordance with the
broader terms of reference of 26 June 1996.
The Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997
1.7 The SHAR was established by the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995 (SSA
Act), commenced operating on 1 July 1995 and is administered by the Australian Taxation
Office. It is a fee-free collection system for small superannuation contributions, and provides
for employers to pay superannuation contributions to the SHAR rather than to superannuation
funds. SHAR was established to accept contributions from employers where the employer's
superannuation fund will not accept a particular contribution because of requirements that
fees and charges cannot exceed the interest earned on such amounts. It is part of the small
amounts protection regime.
1.8 Amendments in the Small Superannuation Accounts Bill restrict the circumstances
when monies held in SHAR can be withdrawn. Those circumstances are as set out in the
broader terms of reference (1) (a), (b) and (c) set out in paragraph 1.2 above. The
amendments tighten the preservation arrangements in the SHAR. These amendments were to
take effect on 1 July 1997, but do not apply to withdrawal requests lodged with the
Commissioner of Taxation before that date.
1.9 Chapter 7 of this report constitutes the separate report on the Committee's inquiry into
this Bill.


The broader reference
1.10 As stated in the terms of reference, the matters raised in the amendments to the Small
Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997 are also to apply to the whole of the
superannuation system. To achieve the changes, the Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Regulations and the Retirement Savings Accounts Regulations needed to be amended with
effect from 1 July 1997. Consequently, Statutory Rules Nos 150 - 153 amending those
regulations were gazetted on 26 June 1997,2 and tabled in the Parliament on 25 August 1997. '
1.11 While the Committee has no reference to examine the amended regulations
themselves, the following information is given in the event of the disapproval of the Senate
with those regulations. The Acts Interpretation Act 1901 provides that regulations 'shall be
laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the making
of the regulations'.4 This allows for the disallowance provision to come into effect:
If either House of the Parliament, in pursuance of a motion of which notice has
been given within 15 sitting days after any regulations have been laid before
that House, passes a resolution disallowing any of those regulations, any
regulation so disallowed thereupon ceases to have effect.5
1.12 The Committee's responsibility, however, was to inquire into the issues and not to
recommend on the amending regulations themselves. Accordingly, the following chapters
examine, in turn, the issue of preservation generally and then the three specific issues raised
by the amendments, namely:
• abolition of the $500 threshold;
. release of monies to a non-resident only after preservation age; and
. replacement of the 'severe financial hardship1 test with an objective test of
hardship based on receipt of specified Commonwealth payments for a specified
period.
2
Insurance and Superannuation Commission , ISC Policy Legislation Update, No. 5/97.
3 Journals of the Senate, No. 116, pp. 2307-8.
4 See section 48.
Section 48(4) of the Acts Interpretation Act cited at p. 343 of Odgers' Australian Senate Practice, 7th Ed.
5




CHAPTER 2
PRESERVATION OF SUPERANNUATION
The broad principle underlying preservation rules is that benefits which have received
concessional taxation treatment should be preserved. However, there is wide recognition that
this principle is not fully reflected in current preservation rules}
What preservation means
2.1 Superannuation benefits are generally required to be "preserved" in the
superannuation system until retirement age which is on or after age 55. However, early
release is possible under certain circumstances.
2.2 Subject to the governing rules of the individual superannuation funds, early release of
preserved benefits has previously been permitted under superannuation law in the following
circumstances:
• permanent incapacity;
• where the balance is less than $500 and the individual has ceased employment
with all depositors;
• permanent departure from Australia;
• severe financial hardship; and
• any other condition of release which the Insurance and Superannuation
Commissioner approves to provide benefits for an ancillary purpose (most
commonly compassionate grounds).
The Government's policy
2.3 The Government changes, under examination by the Committee, affect the last four ot
the above circumstances for early release of preserved benefits.
2.4 In the 1997-98 Budget the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security issued a joint
statement on savings and retirement incomes policy, Savings: Choice and Incentive. Included
in that statement were measures to streamline and tighten arrangements for the early release
of superannuation savings. To come into effect from 1 July 1997, the new measures aimed to
ensure that superannuation is better directed towards the provision of retirement income.
2.5 These new measures were:
. removal of the "permanent departure from Australia" condition of release;
1 Retirement Income Modelling Task Force, Aggregate Analyses of Policies for Accessing Superannuation
Accumulations, June 1997, p. 4.


Chapter 2
removal of the $500 preservation threshold;
. replacement of the current discretionary system for release on 'severe financial
hardship' grounds (administered by the Insurance and Superannuation
Commission), with an objective test to be administered by fund trustees and
Retirement Savings Account providers; and
. reform the 'compassionate grounds' condition of release."
2.6 The last of these measures, compassionate grounds, has been dealt with by replacing
the broad discretion of the Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner with defined criteria
that must be satisfied for early release. This matter is dealt with in Chapter 4 alongside
consideration of the new hardship provisions.
2.7 As mentioned in paragraph 1.9, the Statutory Rules to amend the relevant regulations
to give effect to these changes were gazetted on 26 June 1997. The relevant Superannuation
Industry (Supervision) Regulations and Retirement Savings Accounts Regulations were
thereby amended and the changes took effect at law.
2.8 The Government decided, through the Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment
Bill 1997, to extend the reforms to the Superannuation Holding Accounts Reserve (SHAR) 'to
ensure complete coverage of all superannuation savings arrangements'. This application of
the changes to SHAR was the subject of the initial reference of these reforms to the
Committee for inquiry and report.
The value of preservation
2.9 Under superannuation law, preservation generally means that members of a
superannuation fund cannot access the money in their superannuation account until
retirement. This is consistent with the very notion of superannuation as the provision of
retirement incomes.
2.10 The SHAR currently only permits contributions to be accessed by an individual for
whose benefit they are held, where that individual:
• has a balance less than $500 and the person has ceased to be employed by all
depositors;
• is in severe financial hardship;
• has retired because of permanent disability;
• has turned 65; or
. is not an Australian resident and not employed in Australia.
2 Insurance and Superannuation Commission, Policy Legislation Update, No. 5/97.
3 Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997, Second Reading Speech.
ibid
4


The leakage problem
2.11 This Committee has taken a consistent view that leakage of superannuation monies
should be minimised. In its Fourth Report, Super - Fiscal and Social Links tabled in
December 1992, the Committee said:
Ideally, all net accumulation of funds, whether from contributions or fund
earnings, should be retained until needed to produce retirement income and not
dissipated on changing jobs or becoming unemployed as frequently occurs.5
2.12 In that report, the Committee talked about the 'optimum operating conditions' for
achieving the government's objectives of'increasing the incomes of retirees and reducing the
burden of aged care on the national budget'. The Committee added:
The final link in the chain is closed when the benefits are taken in the form of,
or are used to, generate retirement income. The use of benefits for any other
purpose, however necessary or worthy, detracts from the central purpose of
superannuation, that is, the provision of retirement income.6
These changes in the broader context of preservation, and of national savings
2.13 Apart from the changes that are the subject of this report, the Government made two
other major announcements in the 1997-98 Budget in relation to access to superannuation,
They were:
• that, from 1 July 1999, all future contributions (including member contributions)
and earnings are to be preserved; and
• to increase the preservation age from 55 to 60 by 2025 (as announced by the
previous Government), to be phased in from 2020.
Insert by Labor and Democrat Senators on inconsistencies in the Government's
superannuation policy
2.14 The Government's 1997 Budget Statement, Savings: choice and incentive states:
This Government is committed to a retirement income policy that
provides encouragement for individuals to achieve a higher
standard of living in retirement than would be possible from the
Age Pension alone, but also ensures that all Australians have
security and dignity in retirement.7
2.15 In addition, the Government has stated on numerous occasions that it believes
superannuation monies should be used to provide a better standard of living for people in
retirement. That is a laudable sentiment and one which the Australian Labor Party strongly
5 Super - Fiscal and Social Links, p. 12,
6 ibid
7
Savings: choice and incentive, Joint Statement by the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security,
13 May 1997, p. 2.


endorses. Tightening the early release provisions is one way of ensuring a better retirement
income than would have been expected if people access their superannuation funds before
they are ready to retire.
2.16 However, Labor and Democrat Senators consider that the Senate Select
Committee's inquiry into the early release of superannuation has clearly highlighted the
Government's inconsistent approach to superannuation and retirement incomes policy. The
Government is, on the one hand, legislating to tighten the early release of superannuation
and, on the other hand, it is asking people who are over age 55 but below retirement age
and in receipt of an income support payment to draw down on their superannuation savings
before they are ready to retire. This is completely contrary to the Government's claim that
the changes to preservation and new tightening of early release measures will
... increase national saving through greater accumulation of
superannuation savings, leading to reduced pension outlays as
individuals achieve higher levels of income in retirement.8
2.17 People aged over 55 but below Age Pension age who are affected by the
Government's inconsistent measures and have to draw down on their superannuation
before retiring, will clearly not contribute to national savings, will potentially increase pension
outlays once they have exhausted their modest retirement nest egg and will not achieve a
higher level of income in retirement.
2.18 Labor and Democrat Senators urge the Government to rethink its superannuation
and retirement income objectives and policies which display a distinct lack of consistency.
Insert by Coalition Senators
2.19 Coalition Senators note that the measures introduced by the Howard Government
concerning people who are over age 55, referred to by Labor Senators in paragraphs 2.16
and 2.17, are only returning to the situation that existed under the previous Government
until March 1993. Prior to that date, only compulsorily preserved superannuation assets
were exempt from social security income and assets tests until age pension age.
RIM Modelling
2.20 The Retirement Income Modelling Task Force (RIM) undertook some detailed
modelling on, inter alia, the change in national savings as a result of the new preservation
policy announced in the Budget. Increases in national savings as a result of the package of
new preservation measures are calculated to be $493 million or 0.08 per cent of GDP in
1999-00, rising to $12 383 million or 0.87 per cent of GDP in 2019-20.9
2.21 The new restriction on early access to superannuation will have an immediate positive
impact on national savings. RIM estimates the effect of these changes in 1997-98 will be an
increase of $115 million in national savings in 1997-98.10
8 ibid, p. 18.
9 June 1997 RIM paper, Aggregate Analyses of Policies for Accessing Superannuation Accumulations,
p. 7.
10 June 1997 RIM paper, p. 8.


Insert by Labor Senators on the claims of immediate positive impact on national savings
2.22 Labor Senators do not concur with the Committee's claim, based on figures
produced by the RIM Taskforce, that the tightening of early release provisions will 'have an
immediate and positive impact on national savings.' Labor Senators point out that there are
inconsistencies between the assumptions made by the RIM taskforce to produce the figures
on the increase in national savings and the ISC and DSS evidence. If the RIM assumptions
are incorrect, the opposite effect to that intended could occur and national savings may
decrease.
2.23 The RIM taskforce modelling states that
The essential input to the analysis is the extent of the reduced
outflow from superannuation fund assets resulting from the policy
... In the analysis presented ... the assumed reduction in total
outflow is initially around $120m pa compared with current total
hardship flows of $180m and uncertain amounts for persons going
overseas on a permanent basis.11
2.24 However, the evidence given to the Committee by the ISC and DSS apparently
contradicts the assumption that the Government's policies on tightening the release of
superannuation on severe financial hardship grounds will result in a reduction in leakage
from the system, at least in terms of the number of applications for early release under
severe financial hardship provisions.
2.25 In response to Committee questioning about what influenced the decision to set the
objective test limits at 52 and 39 weeks, the ISC replied
One factor which informed the policy formulation of these
measures was the statistic that approximately 65 per cent of
current applicants [for severe financial hardship] are on DSS
benefits and if you take that figure alone you have to conclude
that this will result in some tightening of their own tests ... Our
expectation is that these new rules will result in a greater
tightening than would otherwise have been the case if the
discretionary system remained.12
2.26 The ISC had earlier stated that the number of applications for early release of
superannuation on severe financial hardship grounds was 78,648 in 1996-97.
2.27 However, the ISC did not 'have a clear indication' of the number of people who would
be eligible for the early release of superannuation under the new objective test, assuming
they had a superannuation account, stating simply that 'The number of people ... is very
large'.14
11 ibid
12 Evidence, pp. 179-180.
13 Evidence, p. 176.
14 Evidence, p. 178.


2.28 Evidence given by the DSS in response to Committee questioning on how many
people would qualify was more definitive.
It is in the order of one million.15
2.29 With one million people automatically qualifying for access to their superannuation
under the Government's new objective test for financial difficulty, the potential exists for
many more than the 78,648 applications which accrued in 1996-97.
2.30 While not all of the approximately one million people who are automatically eligible
for the early release of up to $15,000 of superannuation under the new objective test would
have superannuation assets, Labor Senators believe that the new measures could increase
superannuation leakages from the system.
2.31 In addition, Labor Senators consider that the RIM taskforce figures do not seem to
have accounted for the certain increase in pension outlays as a result of the above
mentioned measures to include superannuation assets in the Social Security means test for
over 55s.
Cost to revenue
2.32 The Government's measures to tighten early release of superannuation will have a
medium term fiscal cost.
2.33 This is because the taxation on early release is payable at the rate of 20 per cent.
Under the new preservation rules, the money will stay in Australia until individual expatriates
are at least age 55 and retired. In those circumstances, the first $90 474 (as at 1 July 1997)
will be received tax free.
2.34 The Government has estimated the cost to revenue as follows:
These measures will have a medium term fiscal cost, due to reduced tax receipts
from lower withdrawals from superannuation. The cost of the changes is
estimated to be $9.6 million in 1997-98, $10.2 million in 1998-99, $45.8 million
in 1999-2000, and $t 16.4 million in 2000-2001.16
Conclusions
2.35 The Committee regards the principles of preservation as very important. However, the
Committee recognises that some provision for early access to superannuation is a recognised
feature of the established superannuation framework in this country.
2.36 Australia has in place a sophisticated privately-funded universal superannuation
system which in many respects is unique in the world. Part of the development of that regime
has been providing for the early access to preserved benefits under certain circumstances. The
15 Evidence, p. 178.
16 Savings: choice and incentive, Joint Statement by the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security,
13 May 1997, p. 19.


Committee believes the continuation of some restricted and disciplined means of early access
is itself a principle which is needed as a pressure valve, and to promote belief and confidence
in the system.
2.37 During the course of its inquiry, the Committee came to believe that there may be a
basic lack of understanding by the bureaucracy of the differences between Australia's
superannuation system and overseas retirement incomes schemes.




CHAPTER 3
ABOLITION OF THE $500 THRESHOLD
By accessing their super, members dissipate their own retirement income. With the
introduction of member protection, the importance of cashing benefits under $500 to avoid
onerous charges no longer exists.1
What this measure means
3.1 The effect of this amendment is that individuals will no longer be able to request
payment of their superannuation account balances on the basis that the balance is less than
$500. This had been the only automatic right to early access of superannuation benefits - for
those persons who left employment and had only small balances in their superannuation
accounts.
The Committee's previous work
3.2 In its Fifteenth Report, Super Guarantee Its Track Record tabled in February 1995,
this Committee examined evidence on the consequences of allowing access to balances less
than $500. The Committee recommended the removal of access to preserved amounts of less
than $500 as the second of three elements in its proposal to alleviate the small accounts
problem. (The other two elements were changing the Super Guarantee threshold from $450
per month to a quarterly amount of less than $1350, and the removal of contributions tax for
the first $500 of contributions.) To date there has been no Government Response to the
Committee's Fifteenth Report.
3.3 The Committee, in its Seventeenth Report Super and Broken Work Patterns tabled in
November 1995, confirmed this recommendation 'that, subject to the small accounts problem
being properly rectified, access to preserved amounts of less than $500 should be removed’.
The new evidence
3.4 In this inquiry into the Government's changes to early release of superannuation, the
Committee was presented with arguments both for and against abolishing the $500 threshold.
What may have initially seemed a fairly simple issue turned out to require serious
examination, as the Committee was able to see this measure in the wider context of early
access.
1 Evidence, Ms Brenda Mills, p. 78.
Super and Broken Work Patterns, p. 76.
2


Chapter 3
A retrograde step?
3.5 William M Mercer Pty Ltd submitted that this change was indeed a retrograde step
and considered 'it would have been preferable to retain the $500 threshold'.3
3.6 They said that many members of superannuation funds will not, or will not be able to,
roll these small amounts over into larger benefits they already have. The resulting
proliferation of small balances in the system, and the escalating costs of administering these
accounts, are of concern to Mercers and to the Committee. Noting the fact that many
employers find it easier to contribute for all employees rather than only those who earn more
than $450 a month, Mercers submitted:
We also expect that there will be numerous cases where amounts rolled over
will be very small, say under $50. In many of these cases the cost of accepting
and processing the rollover will exceed the monies received ...
Whilst small balances themselves are subject to member protection provisions
the related administration costs must fall somewhere and are consequently
certain to retard the growth of other members' balances.4
3.7 The number of superannuation accounts in the system continues to rise. The
Committee notes the figures at the end of March 1997 of 'almost 16.4 million member
accounts for the approximately 6.7 million workers who have superannuation'. This was up
300 000 or 1.8 per cent over the previous quarter and the increase represented 'a return to the
usual pattern'.5 While not directly a matter for this inquiry, the continual expansion of
multiple small accounts is of concern to the Committee. Also, the introduction of retirement
savings accounts from 1 July 1997 can only be expected to increase the number of
fragmented superannuation benefits.
Or reducing leakage?
3.8 A different view from the above was taken by the Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia (ASFA). They believe abolition of the threshold is desirable in preventing
leakage from the retirement incomes system:
This is particularly relevant both for SHAR which has a predominance of
accounts with less than $500 and for superannuation funds with low average
fund balances.6
3.9 The majority of SHAR (Superannuation Holding Accounts Reserve) account holders
are low income or casual workers.7 ASFA believes:
3 Submission 7, p. 2.
4 ibid
5 Insurance and Superannuation Bulletin, ISC March 1997, p. 26.
6 Submission 11, p. 1.
7 See Chapter 7 for further description of SHAR.


It is desirable that these account holders be encouraged to save amounts less
than $500 as this is the first step for these holders to start saving for their own
retirement. By accessing these amounts, the actual holders may dissipate their
own retirement income for present day purposes.8
3.10 The Committee acknowledges that the removal of the threshold is not in the self-
interest of superannuation funds, as payment of the $500 is easier to administer than to have
the benefits retained in the fund or transferred to an eligible rollover fund. As a matter of
principle, the Committee would support minimising leakage and encouraging low income
earners to preserve and build on their small superannuation savings.
3.11 With member protection on balances less than $1000 preventing such accounts from
erosion from fees and charges, 'the importance of gaining access to benefits under $500 has
diminished’.9 Member protection was one of the conditions of the Committee's previous
recommendation as outlined in paragraphs 3.2 - 3.3 above. The Committee acknowledges
ASFA's view that maintaining the $500 limit is 'based on a concern for the fund members'
best interests and the integrity of the retirement income system'.10
Maintaining a threshold if no rollover
3.12 Although there was no evidence on the point, the Committee considered the
possibility of maintaining a threshold only where, in individual circumstances, it could be
demonstrated that a rollover into another account was not possible. However, the Committee
decided that such an arrangement, while sound in principle, would be too difficult to
administer.
Access is still possible
3.13 To place abolition of the $500 threshold in full context, the Committee notes the
system still allows for access of such amounts if the permanent incapacity, financial hardship
or compassionate grounds tests are satisfied.
Conclusion - what about a lower threshold?
3.14 The Committee had no direct evidence suggesting a lower threshold, but considers
this may well be the solution to the problems raised by Mercers outlined above. A figure ol
(say) $200 could be substituted for the former $500, as the threshold below which benefits
may be automatically accessed.
3.15 Such a lower threshold would accommodate the need to preserve amounts of some
significance on which superannuation savings could reasonably be built. At the same time it
would alleviate the funds of responsibility for maintaining accounts of no consequence to the
holders of those accounts.
8 Submission 11, p. 2.
9 ibid
10 ibid




CHAPTER 4
REPLACING THE HARDSHIP TEST
We are aware that there is a need for early access on hardship grounds. We are also aware
that the present system is lacking in objectivity and fairness.1
What this change does
4.1 One of the Government's key measures to restrict early access to superannuation was
to create an objective test for severe financial hardship.
4.2 Formerly, the hardship test allowed individuals to access their superannuation where
the Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner determined in writing that the individual
was in severe financial hardship. If the Commissioner so determined, persons were able to
obtain access to preserved benefits of a single lump sum. The lump sum could not be more
than the amount determined by the Commissioner. Persons were also able to obtain access to
benefits on compassionate grounds.
4.3 These former subjective tests for hardship have been replaced by objective tests
requiring applicants to satisfy specific conditions, and a defined set of criteria for
compassionate grounds. In the case of hardship, the new test involves receipt of
Commonwealth income support payments for a minimum continuous period. The
Government's changes also shift the responsibility for assessing hardship applications from
the Commissioner to individual funds.
4.4 The Commissioner still decides applications on compassionate grounds, but exercise
of this discretion is now confined by a series of objective criteria spelt out in the new
regulations.
Transitional arrangements
4.5 The changes to the provisions for granting access on severe hardship and
compassionate grounds were subject to a transitional arrangement. Applications made before
1 July 1997 would be considered under the old rules.
4.6 Given that the new regulations were gazetted on 26 June 1997, there were effectively
only a few days that individuals could make application under the old rules, if they were in
fact aware of the changes.
4.7 Of course, the changes had been announced in the May Budget statements, but hardly
in such a way that a significant number of people who could be affected by the changes could
reasonably be expected to have had notice of them. In any event, the nature of claims under
these provisions is not something than can be planned in any real sense. Hardship just
happens.
1
Evidence, Mr Davidson, p. 124.


Chapter 4
Previous consideration of hardship by this committee
4.8 In its 4th Report, Super - Fiscal and Social Links, tabled in December 1992, the
Committee stated 'that the abolition of early access to benefits in cases of hardship should be
one of Australia's long term retirement incomes goals'.2 However, the Committee could not
unanimously agree on a timetable to implement its abolition policy. Instead, the Committee
recommended that the Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC):
. work towards the abolition objective;
• promulgate a policy to ensure consistent treatment of applications; and
• develop tighter hardship rules.3
Action by the previous government
4.9 In June 1994, the then government made regulations to tighten the hardship test for
early release of superannuation benefits. It amended the test from 'financial hardship' to
'severe financial hardship'.4 Despite this stronger definition, it is generally accepted that the
ISC has been less than severe in assessing applications of early release on the hardship
ground in recent years.
Appropriateness of objective rules for access on hardship grounds
4.10 The Committee agrees with the Government that more objective criteria are
appropriate for assessing early access on the grounds of hardship. However, the Committee
has some problems with the inflexibly of the new provisions.
4.11 To qualify for early release now, a person has to be:
• aged less than 55 years and 39 weeks and satisfy the fund trustee that the person
has been receiving Commonwealth income support for 52 weeks continuously;
or
• aged 55 years and 39 weeks and satisfy the funds trustee that the person has
been receiving such income support for a cumulative period of 39 weeks after
the person turned 55.5
2
3
4
Super - Fiscal and Social Links, December 1992, p. 29.
ibid - also noted in the Committee's 7th Report, Super Inquiry Overview, at p. 24.
Part 1 of Schedule 1, Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations, amended by SR No 189 of
1994.
5 New subregulation 6.01 (5) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations.


Inflexibility and related problems
Case studies on the restricted definitions for compassionate grounds and income support
4.12 Two case studies provided in evidence to the Committee outline two aspects of the
inflexible character of the new objective tests for hardship, and of the defined compassionate
grounds.
4.13 The first case is that of the Hutchinsons. This information was provided in a
submission from the Tasmanian Assistant Ombudsman to whom the Hutchinsons had
written.6
4.14 On 9 June 1997, Mr Gordon Hutchinson received severe spinal injuries which totally
incapacitated him for work. He was not covered by statutory compensation or private
disability insurance. As the Hutchinsons were covered by private health insurance, Mr
Hutchinson was hospitalised privately for some six or seven weeks and requires
physiotherapy for about a year, costs which are not rebated under Medicare and only partly
covered under their top private medical insurance cover.
4.15 To satisfy the new compassionate grounds for meeting medical expenses, there is a
requirement that:
the treatment is not readily available to the person, or the dependant, through the
public health system.7
4.16 The Hutchinsons failed on that ground. It is something of a cruel irony that it was the
use of the private medical system itself which caused the hardship. Mr Hutchinson is on the
DSS sickness benefit while Mrs Hutchinson receives the DSS parenting allowance and a
State Domiciliary Allowance. They have 'very little savings'.8 Accordingly, they had applied
for the early release of $6 000 in superannuation to help meet the anticipated shortfall of
between $ 10 000 and $ 15 000 on medical costs over the next year.
4.17 In a second case examined in some detail by the Committee. Mr Gordon Haywood
was a person retrenched from employment who had taken his wife and young family to a new
country location to make a fresh start. They had bought a cheaper house in order to be free of
a mortgage. Mr Haywood had commenced an accountancy course full-time in order to
improve his prospects for worthwhile future employment.
4.18 He had been in receipt of Austudy for over 12 months. While the family was
managing successfully on a frugal budget, they were suddenly faced with an unforseen
taxation bill. They had unsuccessfully sought early release of superannuation to cover this bill
which could not be paid for out of any other source. The Haywoods were denied early release
of their superannuation as neither Austudy, nor the income received by Mrs Haywood,
6 Submission 15, Office of the Tasmanian Ombudsman, p. 3.
7 See new subregulation 6.19A (3)(b) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations.
8 Evidence, Mrs Hutchinson, p. 22.


satisfied the definition of Commonwealth income support under the new rules on the early
release of superannuation.
Long term Commonwealth income support - not necessarily evidence of hardship
4.19 A person may be on long term Commonwealth income support for various reasons,
and may not be necessarily in hardship so as to warrant early access to preserved
superannuation benefits. This point was raised by Mr Kit Hauptmann, a financial counsellor,
who commented:
They [the superannuation fund] do not ask any questions about what sort of
hardship. My understanding at the moment is that if you meet that criteria you
will get it.9
4.20 An even stronger point is this. The inflexible nature of the income support definition
may itself invite further leakage from the superannuation scheme, and encourage those in
receipt of Commonwealth income support to access their superannuation regardless of any
hardship.
4.21 However, the Committee notes the statement of the ISC that the funds themselves
may impose additional requirements before early access is granted (discussed in paragraph
4.32 below). Just how well this would work in practice is unclear, given that individuals
would have the reasonable expectation of succeeding in a hardship claim on the basis of what
the SIS or parallel regulations provided.
Not always a black and white situation
4.22 Mr John Berrill, a superannuation lawyer, agreed that it was not always the case that
people in receipt of Commonwealth income support for over 52 weeks were in financial
hardship.
4.23 More importantly, he also pointed out that there are people not in receipt of social
security who are in financial hardship, yet will fall outside the new defined compassionate
grounds.10 As Mr Berrill said:
People have debt crises; there are people with substantial loans, with hire
purchase arrangements; there are people who are in mortgage debt, where
foreclosure is not imminent but renegotiations of loans take place on
unfavourable terms."
Cashing restrictions
4.24 The new conditions for release on "severe hardship" grounds provide that the amount
permitted to be released from an ADF is limited to a single sum in each 12 month period. The
9 Evidence, p. 26.
10 Evidence, p. 28.
11 Evidence, p. 29.


minimum amount is $1 000 except where the person's benefits are less than that amount, and
the maximum is $15 000.12
Compassionate grounds
4.25 Specific provisions under the heading of "compassionate ground" have now been
included in superannuation regulations, but not in the Small Superannuation Accounts
Amendment Bill 1997 on which the Committee is separately reporting in Chapter 7.
Previously, granting access on compassionate grounds was part of the then discretion of the
ISC, as supplementary to the former severe financial hardship test.
4.26 The new compassionate grounds cover the following payments:
. to treat life threatening illnesses;
. for medical transport;
• to prevent foreclosure by a mortgagee, or the exercise of an express or statutory
power of sale over the family home;
. for home or vehicle modifications to accommodate the special needs of a
severely disabled member or dependant; and
. for palliative care, and funeral and burial expenses.13
4.27 Under the new regulations, there are substantive evidentiary requirements before the
Commissioner can be satisfied that early release can be made on one of these compassionate
grounds. For example, the following are the requirements in relation to medical treatment and
foreclosure:
(3) The Commissioner cannot be satisfied that money is required for medical
treatment unless 2 registered medical practitioners (at least one of whom must be a
specialist) certify that:
(a) the medical treatment is necessary to:
(i) treat a life threatening illness or injury; or
(ii) alleviate acute, or chronic, pain; or
(iii) alleviate an acute, or chronic, mental disturbance; and
(b) the treatment is not readily available to the person, or the dependant, through the
public health system.
12 Item 105 of Schedule 1 of SIS Regulations,
13 Regulation 6.19A( 1) of SIS.


(5) The Commissioner cannot be satisfied that money is required on the ground
mentioned in paragraph (1) (b) [foreclosure or exercise of mortgagee power of sale] unless
the person gives to the Commissioner a written statement from the mortgagee that:
(a) payment of an amount is overdue; and
(b) if the person fails to pay the amount, the mortgagee will:
(i) foreclose the mortgage on the person's principal place of residence; or
(ii) exercise its ... power of sale over the person's principal place of residence.14
4.28 Release of benefits on compassionate grounds is, of course, also subject to the rules of
the individual fund, which may or may not release benefits on compassionate grounds.
Comments
4.29 The Committee notes that the cashing restriction for release on a "compassionate
ground" limits the amount payable to:
a single lump sum not exceeding an amount determined by the Commissioner
that is reasonably required in the circumstances taking into account the person's
financial capacity.15
4.30 However, in relation to payments to prevent foreclosure or exercise of a power of sale
over the family home, the amount that can be released is limited, and:
cannot exceed an amount equivalent to 3 months repayments and 12 months
interest on the outstanding balance of the loan in any twelve month period.16
4.31 In relation the release of benefits to prevent foreclosure, the Committee notes the
comparison made by Ms Noelle Kelleher of Ernst and Young to the situation of someone
renting:
But, if you are a tenant, you are renting and you are facing eviction, there are
really no grounds in there at all for the ISC to release your benefits to you. In
some respects, I would have thought that that individual was probably in a
worse-off position than someone who has a home.17
Residual discretion or right of appeal?
4.32 There is no discretion for the ISC to grant early release of superannuation benefits in
relation to compassion or hardship other than according to fixed criteria outlined above. The
appeal situation differs between hardship and compassionate grounds as follows.
14 Regulation 6.19A(3) and (5) of SIS.
15 Explanatory Statement, Statutory Rules 1997, No. 152.
16 ibid
17 Evidence, p. 64.


On hardship
4.33 In addition to the objective test for hardship, individual funds can ’either apply an
additional objective test, if they wish, by way of amendment to their governing rules, or to
provide for a subjective test'.18 This leaves them open to appeal, as the ISC explained:
It is not something that most of them have been anxious to do, because as soon
as you introduce a subjective test you expose that to challenge. You expose the
trustee to potential complaints to the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, and
that is not something that most of them relish.19
Compassionate grounds
4.34 The ISC advised that, while there are no formal rights of appeal on the compassionate
grounds, the ISC itself will be 'maintaining the arrangements which have existed to this point;
that is, that there will be an internal ISC review if a person complains'. They added:
My understanding is that there have already been a couple of requests for
reconsideration of a knock back on a request on compassionate grounds. That
revisiting is done in an area on the ISC quite separate from the area which is
making the primary decisions.20
4.35 The Committee notes that any further appeal is to the Federal Court.21
4.36 Ms Robin Hopcroft, the Tasmanian Assistant Ombudsman, argued for a discretion
rather than an appeal, 'because if they went on an appeal and review and the review body
applied exactly the same tests, they would find that they would be excluded by the
regulations'.22 With special reference to the case of the Hutchinsons discussed above at
paragraphs 4.13 to 4.16, Ms Hopcroft said:
It would really have to be a discretion so that their circumstances can be
assessed, because, when they took out that private medical insurance precisely
to guard against the type of accident that subsequently happened and that caused
their financial hardship and led to their application of compassionate grounds,
they had no idea that their private medical insurance would act as a disentitler to
being able to access superannuation on compassionate grounds."’’
18 Evidence, p. 179.
19 Evidence, p. 179.
20 Evidence, p. 181.
21 Evidence, p 181.
22 Evidence, p. 23.
23 Evidence, p. 23.


The recent history on hardship applications under the former rules
4.37 The ISC provided figures on the number of applications for early release on financial
hardship grounds in recent years.24 Also, for the last four years the breakup of the results of
the applications are provided in the following table.25
Table 4.1
4.38 As can be seen by these figures, the number of applications doubled over the two
years from 1994-95 to 1996-97.
4.39 The total amount paid out in 1996-97 was $254 million or 0.09 per cent of total
superannuation assets, compared to 1995-96 where the amount paid out was $249 million
which represented 0.07 per cent of superannuation assets.26 The corresponding figures for
1993-94 and 1994-95 were $203 million (or 0.04 per cent) and $223 million (or 0.05 per cent)
respectively.27
4.40 The Committee accepts these figures as ample evidence that changes needed to be
made to the policy of early release for hardship.
Super - a first option in hardship?
4.41 An area of concern to the Committee was the indication in some of the evidence that
individuals in financial difficulty may be encouraged to access their superannuation as almost
a first option. Mr Hauptmann (a financial counsellor) described the process as follows:
Part of our investigation into their financial situation is to ask if they have been
working. If people say, 'Yes ... I say to them, 'Have you been working in the
24 Evidence, p. 176.
25 Additional details provided later by the ISC.
26 Evidence, pp. 177-8.
27 Answers to Questions taken on Notice, Treasury Advice of 2 September 1997, p. 6.


past 10 years?' If they say yes, I say, 'There could be superannuation that we
can access to relieve this diabolical situation.' It is mainly a tool that is coming
to me as a practitioner, and a lot of my colleagues would do the same.28
4.42 Mr Hauptmann cited past cases he had been involved with, where early access to
superannuation had enabled people to manage their way out of very difficult circumstances,
and where, to some extent at least, the new rules would prevent access.
4.43 While in no way seeking to prevent those in genuine financial hardship from being
assisted to recover from their difficulties, the Committee considers there does need to be strict
limits on the use of superannuation for this purpose. The Committee appreciated the frank
and helpful evidence on this issue from those associated with welfare groups.
4.44 Of course, some evidence conflicted with the Committee's view. For example, Mr
Peter Davidson, from the Australian Council of Social Service, said:
To provide a bit of context, we have argued consistently, including before this
committee, that superannuation should be broadened to cover other long-term
saving needs...29
4.45 Mr Davidson did not regard early release of superannuation on hardship grounds 'as a
backdoor route towards achieving those ends', and accepted 'that the rules need to be
reasonably tight'/0 He said:
We would support the use of the standard social security income and assets test
as a hurdle which people must cross before they can attain early access on these
grounds.31
4.46 The Committee cannot agree, as it sees the relationship of universal superannuation to
the social security system in Australia in terms of superannuation alleviating the burden on
the age pension. As a fundamental matter of principle, superannuation has no role in
supporting or underpinning the social security system.
4.47 Australia's superannuation system provides for compulsory and other contributions to
be made to individuals' accounts which grow and are held for the benefit of those individuals'
retirement, or on attaining preservation age. That is the policy behind the granting ot
concessional taxation to superannuation savings.
4.48 In Super - Fiscal and Social Links, the Committee noted 'that the principal purpose of
superannuation is to provide for retirement and thereby alleviate possible future hardship' .
The report said of superannuation:
It should not be regarded as a fund available for stand-by relief during the
period of a normal working life. In those circumstances, the Committee believes
28 Evidence, p.
29 Evidence, p.
30 Evidence, p.
31 Evidence, p.
30.
125.
125.
125.


that social security is the proper channel through which emergency relief is
available, rather than through a loss of future superannuation benefits/2
4.49 It is, of course, open to the Government to establish some other kind of public or
compulsory savings regime specifically aimed to assist individuals in times of severe
financial difficulty.
Combining objective and subjective tests for hardship
4.50 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) has provided the
Committee with guidelines about how the release of benefits on hardship grounds could
combine both objective and subjective tests. The text of that advice reads as follows:
1) Prior to age 55, persons must have been in receipt of Commonwealth Income support
payments continually for three months at the date of application and must have
evidence of this.
In satisfying the objective test, trustees can be reasonably satisfied that the person is
suffering financial hardship.
Trustees would then assess the individual's circumstances to determine whether
additional funds (over and above the social security benefit) were necessary. The
release of any benefits would be at the discretion of the trustees and it would be
possible (either via regulation or via the governing rules) to limit payments to meet
accounts which must be paid by trustees from the individual's account. This would
avoid benefits being received directly by the individual.
2) For persons aged 55 or more, the objective test would be a statement by the
appropriate Government department or agency that the person satisfies the criteria for
a support payment (the person may not be eligible because their superannuation
benefits may preclude them from receipt of the payment).
The trustees would apply the subjective test as above with payment limited to the
discretion of the trustees and to the accounts presented to trustees.33
4.51 The Committee appreciates this contribution by ASFA, but has some problems with
the directing of payments in the way suggested.
4.52 A three month receipt of income support period is a sensible proposal. Also, the
Committee is mindful of the need to attach a subjective test, if for no other reason than to
avoid the situation of automatic early access to superannuation following a period on income
support.
32 Super - Fiscal and Social Links, p. 28.
33 Information provided by fax on 2 September 1997.


Conclusions
4.53 The Committee considers the former system for the making and assessment of
hardship claims for early release of superannuation was leading to an unacceptably high level
of leakage in the superannuation system.
4.54 Perhaps more important though was the implied message, that:
• early access to superannuation was easy to obtain; and
• accrued superannuation entitlements could be a "first port of call" when in any
financial difficulty.
4.55 This situation was unhealthy if the integrity of superannuation as part of a retirement
incomes policy was to be upheld.
4.56 However, the Committee considers the detail in the changes made by the Government
to the hardship and compassionate grounds provisions may have "thrown the baby out with
the bath water". While the concept of individual hardship is often difficult to reconcile with
the need to preserve superannuation for retirement, the Committee considers the Government
may have over-reacted to the understandable problems of the ISC in administering the former
provisions.
4.57 The Committee considers that the new objective grounds for hardship may have not
been fully researched. Restricting the definition of income support to certain Commonwealth
payments seems unduly restrictive, while the lack of additional criteria beyond a period in
receipt of payments may actually encourage the early access of superannuation.
4.58 Other forms of income support would seem equally relevant for purposes of this
objective test. Also, the Committee considers the period in receipt of such income needs to be
reduced to three months, and a subjective test needs to be attached.
Insert by Labor Senators on reducing the qualifying period
4.59 In a climate of high unemployment, high redundancy rates and community wide job
insecurity, workers who are retrenched or are made redundant should be able to access
their superannuation, if in severe financial difficulty, after a reasonable waiting period.
Further Committee conclusions
4.60 Some form of official guidance to superannuation funds in applying an additional
subjective test seems appropriate. A total inability to meet essential and immediate living
expenses would seem a reasonable subjective criteria.
4.61 In the compassionate grounds area, the Committee is inclined to view the new
objective criteria as having more the character of defined desperation than compassion. To
attempt to strictly define such grounds, although no doubt based on the ISC's experience
under the former tests for hardship, is a conceptually flawed exercise. In the Committee's


view, the concept of "compassionate ground" necessarily implies a sympathetic discretion,
albeit to be exercised only in rare circumstances.
Labor Senators' further Conclusion
4.62 Labor Senators conclude that a reasonable waiting period in continuous receipt of
income support needed to satisfy the objective test for severe financial hardship should be
twelve weeks.


CHAPTER 5
PERMANENT DEPARTURE
Subsequently, I met with Treasury in Canberra -1 do not know who they were - and I tried to
help them understand the visas.... The quotation I got back -1 can quote it because it was so
memorable - was that 'they had to consider the macroeconomic indicator shift effect of
making such a decision'.1
Effect of the changes
5.1 Before the changes to early release provisions, persons with preserved superannuation
benefits could access such benefits if they could satisfy the superannuation fund's trustee that
they were departing Australia permanently.2 As a result of the changes, preserved benefits
will be released to a person who claims to have left Australia permanently only if that person
has reached preservation age.
5.2 This change has been effected simply by omitting 'permanent departure from
Australia1 as a condition of release of benefits.'
There are two aspects
5.3 This removal of early access to superannuation is highly significant in itself, as it
affects both
. Australian citizens and permanent residents; and
. those expatriates returning overseas after limited stays in this country.
5.4 However, the Committee found the more important issue raised in evidence to be the
application of the Super Guarantee (SG) to temporary entrants to Australia. If SG does not
apply to temporary entrants, then the issue of early access does not arise.
5.5 The Committee has divided this chapter into three parts. Part A will deal with
exemptions from SG. Part B will cover the early release of superannuation benefits on
permanent departure, and Part C sets out the Committee's conclusions.
1 Evidence, Ms Pauline Mathewson, p. 139. On this issue see the section 'Limiting SG exemption to the
sub-class 413 visa criteria' below.
2 Permanent departure means as from Australia.
3 See the Retirement Savings Accounts Regulations (Amendment) regulation 3, which omits subregulation
4.01(2) of the Retirements Savings Accounts Regulations; and Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Regulations (Amendment) regulation 3, which omits subregulation 6.01(2) of the Superannuation
Industry (Supervision) Regulations.


Chapter 5
PART A:
EXEMPTIONS FROM SUPER GUARANTEE
The Government’s changes to the application of SG
5.6 Following the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Temporary Entry of
Business People and Highly Skilled Specialists (the Roach Committee, see paragraphs 5.26-
5.31 below), the Government established new visa sub-classes for business temporary
entrants effective from 1 August 1996. This changed the application of SG to business
people. There had been an exemption from SG requirements for holders of the sub-class 413
(executive) visa, but not for other visa sub-classes used by business temporary entrants.
5.7 Following the recommendations of the Roach Committee, the Government established
a new visa sub-class, 457 (business (long stay)) visa, which applies to business temporary
entrants from 1 August 1996. Initially there was no exemption from SG for 457 visa holders.
However, on 25 June 1997 the Assistant Treasurer announced that an exemption will apply to
those holders of a 457 visa who would have qualified for the formerly issued sub-class 413
visa.4 As noted above, holders of the 413 visa had been exempt from SG requirements, and of
course those holders of 413s issued prior to 1 August 1996 (the date of commencement of the
457 visa) remain exempt.?
5.8 The Government said in the 25 June 1997 press release that the announced exemption
from SG requirements was justified because the executives involved 'are usually in Australia
for only short periods and have retirement income arrangements in place in their home
countries'.6 The exemption will not extend to the much larger number of sub-class 457
business temporary entry visa holders:
as to do so would be likely to give rise to labour market distortions by making
non-residents cheaper to employ than similarly skilled Australians. Favouring
non-residents in this way would not conform with the Government's job creation
priorities for Australians.7
5.9 The measure was described by the Government as 'broadly consistent with overseas
practice'. In recognition of the concerns of non-residents affected by the changes to
preservation rules:
the Government, through the Department of Social Security, has entered into
negotiations with other countries to include provisions within bilateral social
security agreements that would exempt employers of temporary non-residents
from each country's compulsory contributory pension schemes. Such
arrangements are common practice among most industrialised countries.8
4 Press Release No. AT/10 of 1997.
5 See the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Regulations, subregulation 7(1).
6 Press Release No. AT/10 of 1997.
7 ibid
8 ibid


Page 31
5.10 The Government has also said it would be prepared to negotiate agreements to allow
non-residents to transfer superannuation monies to an approved pension plan in their home
country.9 In return, Australians leaving foreign countries could transfer their pension
entitlements back to approved superannuation funds in Australia.
The changes to visa rules
5.11 In 1996, the Government made changes to the visa rules in relation to business
temporary entrants, following the report of the Roach Committee.
Temporary residents
5.12 Prior to the changes to visa rules, business people entered Australia, as temporary
residents, under the following visa sub-classes:
. 411:exchange;
. 412: independent executive;
. 413: executive; and
• 414: specialist."
5.13 To give effect to the Roach Committee's recommendations, the Government
established the sub-class 457 visa which applies to business temporary entrants from 1
August 1996. This 457 visa replaced the 412, 413 and 414 visas. People who already held a
visa of one of the sub-classes which was replaced continued to hold that visa. As at 11 July
1997 there were 6,296 sub-class 413 visa holders in Australia.12
5.14 The 411 visa was retained. This covers:
. the temporary entry of 'skilled people from overseas to come to Australia to
broaden their work experience and skills while guaranteeing Australian residents
similar opportunities overseas; or
. people under certain bilateral exchange agreements'. J
9 ibid
10 Business Temporary Entry: Future Directions - Report by the Committee of Inquiry into the Temporary’
Entry of Business People and Highly Skilled Specialists (the Roach Committee Report (1995).
11 The Roach Committee Report, p. 57. It also noted that business people entered Australia as visitors,
under 672 (business visitor (short stay)) and 682 (business visitor (long stay)) visas. These visas have
subsequently been superseded by the 456 (business (short stay)) visa (see paragraph 5.19 below).
12 Statistics provided by the Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs (DIMA).
13 DIMA, Fact Sheet 53: Temporary Residence in Australia (1997), p. 2. This fact sheet provides a
convenient description of visa sub-classes being considered in this chapter.


457 Visas
5.15 The 457 visa covers business entry of three months to four years for:
• personnel (executives, managers and specialists) for companies operating in
Australia;
• personnel from offshore companies seeking to establish a branch in Australia,
participate in joint ventures, or fulfil a contact awarded to an offshore company;
• independent executives seeking to establish a new business or joining existing
businesses in Australia; and
• personnel coming under a labour or Regional Headquarters agreement.14
5.16 The holder of a 457 can apply for an additional 457 visa after the initial one expires. It
is also possible to enter the country on a sub-class 457 visa, but stay for less than three
months.
5.17 The issue of sub-class 457 visas is about 25 000 each year.15 As at 11 July 1997 there
were 26 138 holders of 457 and equivalent (412, 413, and 414) visas currently resident in
Australia.16 About 60 per cent of 457s are held by primary applicants, and about 40 per cent
are held by their dependants (who are mainly spouses and children).17 All holders of 457
visas, whether they are primary applicants or dependants, have rights to work in Australia.18
5.18 It should also be noted that there is a separate visa for the domestic staff of
independent executives and senior executives holding 457 visas.19 Holders of the sub-class
427 (domestic worker (overseas executive)) visa may not change employer or remain in
Australia after the permanent departure of their employer.20
456 Visas
5.19 In addition to the 457 visa, there is also the sub-class 456 (business (short stay)) visa.
There are several differences between 456 and 457 visas, but they both basically cover the
same kinds of people. The important difference between the two is that a 456 visa allows
entry for up to three months,21 although this stay can be extended. A 456 visa can be issued
for single entry, or for multiple entry for five years or the life of the passport, whichever is the
longer period.22
14 DIMA, Fact Sheet 53, p. 1.
15 Evidence, DIMA, p. 150.
16 Australia, DIMA, unpublished statistics.
17 Evidence, DIMA, p. 158.
18 Evidence, DIMA, p. 157-8.
19 DIMA, Fact Sheet 53, p. 2.
20 Facsimile message from Mr R. Vagg, DIMA, to Committee Secretariat of 1 September 1997, p. 8,
21 Evidence, DIMA, p. 150.
22 Evidence, DIMA, p. 150.


5.20 Holders of the 456 visa (whether primary applicants or dependants) have work rights
in Australia. Such rights allow holders to undertake their business activity in Australia. It
should be appreciated that the visa is designed for business visitors, rather than being
intended to operate as a short stay work visa.
5.21 Approximately 300 000 sub-class 456 visas are issued a year, and 'the average length
of stay is of the order of 10 days or less'.23 Examples of business conducted by 456 visa
holders are attending negotiations and conferences.24 Approximately five per cent of 456
visas are held by dependants.25
5.22 Both the 456 and 457 visa sub-classes belong to the Temporary Business Entry (Class
UC) visa class.
Other relevant visas
5.23 There are other visa sub-classes which may be relevant to some industries, for
example visas in relation to entertainment, sporting and cultural activities. Examples
include the:
. 419 (visiting academic) visa;
. 420 (entertainment) visa;
. 421 (sport) visa;
. 423 (media and film staff) visa; and
. 424 (public lecturer) visa.
5.24 Other relevant visa sub-classes include the 417 (working holiday) visa, and the 410
(retirement) visa.
New Zealand visitors
5.25 Following the introduction of The Migration Reform Act on 1 September 1994, there
was a legal requirement for all non-Australians to hold a visa authorising their entry to, and
stay in, Australia. As a result, a special category temporary residence visa (SCV) was
introduced for New Zealand citizens. The method of issuing, and the conditions attached, are
as follows:
• when presenting their passports for immigration clearance in Australia New
Zealand visitors are considered to have applied for a visa, and subject to health
and character concerns, will automatically receive an SCV which is issued
electronically;
• their passports are stamped, showing the date of arrival in Australia which is the
only evidence provided or necessary to show they are holders of an SCV;
23 Evidence, DIMA, p. 150.
24 Evidence, DIMA, p. 150.
25 Facsimile letter from DIMA, 1 September 1997, p. 1
26 Evidence, DIMA, pp. 158-159.


. there are no conditions attached to the visa, and the New Zealand citizen is able
to work and study in Australia without restriction as long as he or she remains a
New Zealand citizen.27
The Roach Committee
5.26 This Committee was established in 1994 to examine business temporary entry to
Australia. The Roach Committee recommended 'simplified and streamlined procedures which
will enable employers of good standing to bring in key business personnel quickly and
smoothly'.28 One of the Roach Committee's central recommendations was the creation of a
new visa class for all business temporary entrants.29
5.27 The Roach Committee noted that the 'policies and procedures governing the
temporary entry of key business personnel were developed at a time when the objective was
to achieve an Australian workforce self-sufficient in all skills'.30 However, the Committee
said:
A country of Australia's size cannot expect to be completely self-sufficient at
the leading edge of all skills in the area of key business personnel. When world
trade in services is based on different countries developing specialised skills in
different areas, it is not realistic for Australia to attempt to develop specialised
skills in all areas.31
5.28 In relation to the application of SG to business temporary entrants, the Roach
Committee noted that:
In the majority of cases, key business personnel are employed in Australia for
less than 2 years, and the administration costs of collecting SGC for such short
time frames, and of withdrawal at the time of departure from Australia are
significant. More importantly, many temporary residents already contribute to a
business pension or superannuation fund overseas ... They are in effect required
to contribute to two funds at the same time.32
Key recommendation
5.29 In the light of the above comments, the Roach Committee recommended:
that employers be exempt from the requirement to pay the Superannuation
Guarantee Charge in respect of all holders of the proposed single business
temporary entry visa.”
27 Fact Sheet issued by DIMA, faxed to secretariat on 17 September 1997.
28 The Roach Committee Report, p. 4.
29 Roach Committee, p. 27.
30 Roach Committee, p. 1. Emphasis in original.
31 Roach Committee, p. 2.
32
33
Roach Committee, p. 42.
ibid.


5.30 The Government did not follow this recommendation. This was one of only two of the
Roach Committee's recommendations which were not followed.34 The Committee was
informed that the SG issue was a Treasury portfolio matter, rather than an Immigration
matter.35
5.31 As outlined in paragraph 5.7 above, initially there was no exemption from SG for 457
visa holders, but on 25 June 1997 the Assistant Treasurer announced that an exemption will
apply in respect of those who would have qualified for the formerly issued 413 (executive)
visa.36 Several witnesses expressed concern over how this policy will be administered (see the
section on 'The new old 413 requirements' below).
The ambit of the Super Guarantee: do temporary residents fit in?
5.32 The Superannuation Guarantee (SG) was introduced in 1992. The policy behind SG
were outlined in the Second Reading Speech to the Superannuation Guarantee
(Administration) Bill 1992, where the then Treasurer outlined expectations of what SG would
achieve:
The increased self-provision for retirement will permit a higher standard of
living in retirement than if we continued to rely on the age pension alone. The
increased self-provision will also enable future Commonwealth governments to
improve the retirement conditions for those Australians who were unable to fund
adequately their own retirement incomes.
... self-provision will increase the flexibility in the Commonwealth's Budget in
future years, especially as our population ages, and will increase our national
savings overall, thus reducing our reliance on the savings of foreigners to fund
our development. 7
5.33 SG became relevant to this inquiry because many submissions and witnesses argued
that there should be an exemption from SG requirements for temporary residents employed in
Australia. This evidence came from:
. the American Chamber of Commerce in Australia (AmCham) - in favour of
exemption for holders of sub-class 457 visas;38
. Arthur Andersen - in favour of exemption for 'exempt visitors' under section 517
of the Income Tea Assessment Act 1936, or for 456 and 457 visa holders;
• the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd (ASFA) - in favour of
exemption for 'travellers' (which appears to include the sub-class 457 visa
among others);40
34 Evidence, Ms Pauline Mathewson, p. 132. Ms Mathewson who is a Partner, Migration Services, Cooper
& Lybrand, was a member of the Roach Committee. The other recommendation which was not followed
was that there be an exemption from the Medicare levy for temporary entrants (ibid, p. 132).
35 Evidence, DIMA, p. 156.
36 Press Release No. AT/10.
37 House of Representatives, Hansard, 2 April 1992, p. 1764.
38 Evidence, Mr Charles Blunt, p. 105. Mr Blunt is the Chief Executive of AmCham.
39 Submission 19, Arthur Andersen, p. 2.
40 Evidence, p. 79.


• Coopers & Lybrand - in favour of exemption for 457 visa holders;41
. Ernst & Young - in favour of exemption for all temporary entrants to
Australia;42
• Gilton Business Consultants, Immigration and Visa Specialists - in favour of
exemption for 457 visa holders;43
. the accountancy firm Greenwood Challoner & Co - in favour of exemption for
all temporary entrants;44
. the International Banks and Securities Association of Australia (IBSA) - in
favour of exemption for 'temporary non-resident employees';45
. John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd - in favour of exemption for 'all temporary business
visa holders with existing superannuation arrangements';46
. K.PMG, Chartered Accountants - in favour of exemption for 457 visa holders;47
• Price Waterhouse - in favour of exemption for 456 and 457 visa holders; and
also in favour of exemption for non-residents, employed by a non-resident
employer, who are exempt from Australian income tax and fringe benefits tax
pursuant to a double taxation agreement;48 and
. William M. Mercer Pty Ltd - in favour of exemption for all temporary entrants
who are in Australia for less than a certain period of time.49
The pro-exemption principle
5.34 While different views were put as to the desired scope of an exemption from SG, the
Committee found a common principle behind the support for exemption. This was perhaps
best expressed in the submission of John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd:
We believe the problem is that the government seems to be losing sight of the
purpose of compulsory superannuation, which is to ensure that as many
41 Submission 8, Coopers & Lybrand, p. 6. Coopers & Lybrand also suggested an exemption along the lines
of the provision for 'exempt visitors' under section 517 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936. See
Evidence, Mr Mike Forsdick, p. 136. Mr Forsdick is a Partner of Coopers & Lybrand.
42 Evidence, Ms Noelle Kelleher, p. 62. Ms Kelleher is Principal, Director - Superannuation, Ernst &
Young.
43 Submission 4, Gilton Business Consultants.
44 This appears to follow from the discussion between Mr Bill Baillie, Partner, Greenwood Challoner & Co,
and the Chairman of the Committee at Evidence, pp. 107-108. But cf the reference to exemption for 'non
residents visiting for short term assignments' in Submission 12, Greenwood Challoner & Co, p. 11.
45 Submission 20, IBSA, p. 2.
46 Submission 3, John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd, p. 3.
47 Submission 5, KPMG, p. 8. However, in his oral submission, Mr Emery Feyzeny, Superannuation
Partner, KPMG, stated that KPMG supported exemption from SG for all temporary residents, saying 'I
think that is really what we are putting' (Evidence, Mr Emery Feyzeny, p. 94).
48 Submission 9 Supp, Price Waterhouse, p. 7.
49 Evidence, Mr Ray Stevens, p. 7. Mr Stevens is a director of William M. Mercer Pty Ltd.


Australians as possible are self-funding in retirement and not dependent on the
pension.30
5.35 Mr Robert Gillen, a Partner of Price Waterhouse, related this principle to the relevant
visa holders:
The people we are seeking the exemption for [holders of sub-class 456 and 457
visas] are not allowed to retire here. If they wish to, they have to change their
visa...51
5.36 The Committee in its Fifteenth Report said:
As the SG arrangements were designed to provide for or to supplement the
retirement benefit of Australians, there seemed to be little rationale for
legislating for overseas workers temporarily employed in Australia to be subject
to SG obligations.52
5.37 Coalition Senators recognise there is a case for exempting temporary residents from
SG on this principle. (See however para 5.150.)
5.38 Labor and Democrat Senators disagree, believing that on balance, there is no case
for exempting any temporary residents from SG.
Limiting SG exemption to the sub-class 413 visa criteria
5.39 As noted above, on 25 June 1997 the Assistant Treasurer announced that an
exemption from SG requirements will apply to those holders of a 457 visa who would have
qualified for the formerly issued 413 (executive) visa.33 The basic reasons advanced by the
Government for exempting holders of a sub-class 457 visa who would have qualified for the
formerly issued sub-class 413 visa was that:
the executives are usually in Australia for only short periods and have
retirement income arrangements in place in their home countries'.54
50 Submission 3, John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd, p. 2. John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd is an Australian subsidiary of
the global Swire Group. The Swire Group employs over 800 staff in Australia, operating in transport and
agriculture, among other areas (see ibid, p. 1).
51 Evidence, p. 53; and see also Submission 9 Supp, Price Waterhouse, p. 1. Mr Gillen's position is Partner
and Australasian Director, International Assignment Services, Price Waterhouse. For other similar
statements to the Committee see: Evidence, Mr Feyzeny, p. 89, and Submission 5, KPMG, pp. 3-4;
Evidence, Mr Baillie, p. 108; and Evidence, Mrs Theresa. Rasmussen, p. 114.
52 Super Guarantee: Its Track Record (1995), p. 131. In that report the Committee recommended that 'the
Government extend exemptions from the requirements of SG to all non-resident workers where there is
sufficient evidence that superannuation is being paid in the country of residence' (Recommendation 11.1,
p. 132).
53 Press Release No. AT/10.
ibid.
54


5.40 In regard to this decision, Treasury said:
There were basically two main reasons: the labour market distortions and
assisting Australia's negotiating position in relation to social security
agreements.55
5.41 The issue of labour market distortions is considered below and social security
agreements are considered in Part B of the chapter.
Temporary entrants and the labour market: are they job takers?
5.42 The Committee has considered the Government's argument that an exemption from
SG requirements in respect of holders of 457 visas would cause labour market distortions by
making temporary entrants cheaper to employ than similarly skilled Australians.56 There was
evidence on the remuneration of expatriate employees in this visa sub-class;37 and the costs to
employers of expatriate employees in comparison with the costs of employing comparable
Australians.
5.43 The Committee found that holders of 457 visas tend to be from the more highly
remunerated segments of the workforce. The Department of Immigration and Multicultural
Affairs (DIMA) told the Committee that, on the basis of DIMA's monitoring of the 457 visa:
it is fairly clear that the usage is at the top end of the labour market - that is,
executives and highly skilled workers - usually in areas where there is an
acknowledged shortage of Australian skills available.58
5.44 Price Waterhouse referred to a 1996 survey of 120 companies in Australia, which
stated that the average annual salary of these companies' expatriate employees was $96 621/
5.45 Mr Gillen, of Price Waterhouse, explained the significance of expatriate employees'
place in the workforce this way:
The expatriates we are really talking about are generally senior level people or
those with specific skills and, as such, they are effectively employment creators.
They are not taking employment away from other Australians.60
5.46 This issue is considered in detail in the section 'What about the job makers?' below.
55 Evidence, p. 157. In relation to labour market distortions, see the quotation from the Assistant Treasurer's
Press Release No. AT/10 reproduced at paragraph 5.8 above.
56 See paragraph 5.8 above.
57 Given that the 456 visa permits stay of up to three months (although stay can be extended), it would be
unusual for it to be used by an expatriate employee. As was noted above in paragraph 5.20, the 456 visa
is designed for business visitors. Accordingly, this section only discusses the 457 visa. However,
additional costs such as travel costs, referred to in paragraph 5.46, would apply regardless of the specific
visa which a temporary entrant holds.
58 Evidence, p. 151.
59 Evidence, Mr Gillen, p. 50.
60 Evidence, p. 42.


5.47 The Committee received consistent evidence that expatriate employees are
significantly more costly to employ than comparable Australians. Mr Gillen said 'the cost of
bringing expatriates into Australia is somewhere between two to three times the cost of
employing a local'.61 Coopers & Lybrand has a rule of thumb that an expatriate costs 'between
200 to 300 per cent of the cost of an Australian'.62
5.48 Mrs Theresa Rasmussen, of Outokompu Mining Australia Pty Ltd, told the
Committee that in her company's experience:
the cost of employing an expatriate versus a local, including repatriation, is over
200 per cent higher and the annual cost of employment is about 45 per cent
higher for an expatriate.63
5.49 John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd submitted that:
By the time we arrange visa applications and sponsorship, cover airfares,
resettlement and housing costs and the myriad other expenses involved in
relocating employees, the cost far exceeds that for any local equivalent.
5.50 DIMA told the Committee that the information which it consistently receives from a
wide range of companies is that:
for an Australian company to bring in an overseas skilled worker would cost
between 2'h times to four times that of an Australian worker because of travel
costs, housing costs, education costs, medical costs and so on.
5.51 The Committee is aware that the sub-class 457 visa includes the dependants of
primary applicants (also true with the 456 visa). As has been noted above, such dependants
do have work rights. Treasury said:
If those spouses and dependants come here, have a job in Australia, it is possible
that if they were exempt from SG that would create labour market distortions,
obviously depending on what work they took.
5.52 While acknowledging Treasury's concern, the Committee believes that the matter
should be put into perspective. As at 11 July 1997 there were 26 138 holders of sub-class 457
and equivalent (ie 412, 413, and 414) visas in Australia.67 According to DIMA, about 40 per
cent of these visas are held by dependants,68 which gives a figure of about 10,500 dependants
61 Evidence, p. 43.
62 Evidence, Ms Mathewson, p. 137.
63 Evidence, p. 114. Mrs Rasmussen is the Manager - Administrative Services of Outokompu Mining
Australia Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of the Finnish metals company Outokompu Oy, which operates globally
(Submission 2, p. 1). Outokompu Mining Australia Pty Ltd 'employs approximately 200 people,
including contractors' (Evidence, p. 113).
64 Submission 3, John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd, p. 2.
65 Evidence, p. 151. For a description of the additional costs incurred in employing an expatriate employee,
in the case of the ANZ Banking Group, see Submission 9 Supp, Price Waterhouse, Appendix 3.
66 Evidence, p. 157.
67 Australia, DIMA, unpublished statistics.
68 Evidence, DIMA, p. 158.


on sub-class 457 visas in Australia as at 11 July 1997. Many of those dependants would not
be seeking employment in Australia, for example because they are children, or because they
choose not to be in the workforce.
5.53 Accordingly, the Committee considers that an exemption from SG requirements69 for
457 visa holders would not cause labour market distortions, or at least not any significant
distortions, by making sub-class 457 visa holders cheaper to employ than similarly skilled
Australians. However, the Committee is also aware of the perceptions of distortion and
relative advantage that exempting these visa holders may create.
The new old 413 requirements - administrative problems for employers
5.54 The Committee was told that there would be friction between staff if holders of the
same visa sub-class were treated differently in relation to SG.70 In 1995-96 the numbers of
413 and 414 visas were, 4 299 (sub-class 413); and 8 488 (sub-class 414).71
5.55 The Committee has some difficultly in seeing how the exemption for holders of the
sub-class 457 visa, who would have previously qualified for the 413 visa, will be
implemented. The Committee understands that monitoring and compliance will be handled
by the ATO.72
5.56 When asked whether the sub-class 413 visa requirements would be laid down in
legislation, the ATO, replied:
I would expect that is a method by which that could be given effect. It is too
early to say whether that would be the way it would go.7 ’
5.57 The Committee does not share the view that nearly two months after the Assistant
Treasurer's public announcement of the exemption is 'too early' to know how it will be
implemented.
The criticisms
5.58 Mr John Gillespie, an experienced migration agent and the principal of Gilton
Business Consultants, said:
I think that it is absurd when we have a system that uses a criteria which no
longer exists to make a judgment'.74
69 SG is currently set at 6 per cent of salary, and is scheduled to increase to 9 per cent.
70 Evidence, Ms Mathewson, p. 140.
71 DIMA, Fact Sheet 53: Temporary Residence in Australia (1997), p. 2.
72 Evidence, Treasury, p. 154.
73 Evidence, p. 155.
74 Evidence, p. 77.


5.59 Ms Brenda Mills of ASFA stated that:
We believe that employers would be performing quasi-immigration duties by
determining visa criteria, which would lead to those criteria being applied
unevenly according to employers' willingness or expertise at administering
them.75
5.60 Mr Feyzeny of KPMG described it as 'somewhat unsatisfactory' that employers would
have to apply a subjective test in determining whether a person meets the sub-class 413 visa
requirements.76
5.61 IBSA submitted that, on the basis of its discussions with the ATO:
the classification guidelines [for the 413 visa requirements] are too broad and
subjective to afford certainty ... and, consequently, provide an unsatisfactory
outcome for employers.77
5.62 Mr Ray Stevens, of William M. Mercer Pty Ltd told the Committee that:
to ask an employer to decide whether this person would have qualified for a 413
visa, when even the Department of Immigration experts have problems putting
people into the right category, is an unreasonable imposition on the employer.78
5.63 Mr Stevens further described the exemption as 'a bandaid approach'.79
From a member of the Roach Committee
5.64 Ms Pauline Mathewson, a Partner in Coopers & Lybrand who was a member of the
Roach Committee, explained that one of the reasons that the Committee recommended
rationalising the business entry visa sub-classes was the difficulty in distinguishing between
the separate visa sub-classes:
One of the reasons we wanted to have one visa class was that it was simply
confusing. There was a blurring of distinction between 413 and 414. I guess the
best example is if you have, say, a geological engineer who is working in a mine
and earning $200,000 a year. I would deem that person who might be running
the mine to be an executive but the chances are that an immigration officer
might say that is a technical role, so he is a 414 visa holder. We said that is
meaningless and it does not make any difference. There is no point in having the
distinction.80 ^
5.65 Ms Mathewson described self-assessment as being 'an unworkable situation'.81
75 Evidence, p. 79. See also Submission 11, ASFA, p. 6.
76 See Evidence, pp. 93-94.
77 Submission 20, IBSA, p. 2.
78 Evidence, p. 8.
79 Evidence, p. 9.
80 Evidence, p. 132.
81 Evidence, p. 133.


Treasury's response
5.66 Treasury, however, appeared to be either unaware of difficulties for employers in
applying the sub-class 413 visa test, or to regard any such difficulties as being insignificant.
The Department told the Committee she 'understood that it is not all that difficult for
employers to know who would have fallen into that category [the sub-class 413 visa]'.82
Treasury did not explain the basis for its understanding.
Comment
5.67 The Committee is concerned that the responsibility for a complicated test, the test for
whether or not one meets the criteria of the 413 visa, which was originally undertaken by an
expert agency will be transferred to employers with no experience of this test. The reason for
this approach is not obvious, and was not explained to the Committee.
82 Evidence, p. 154.


PART B:
EARLY RELEASE OF SUPER ON PERMANENT DEPARTURE
What is achieved by removing early release for permanent departure?
5.68 Treasury outlined the Government's approach to early release of superannuation
benefits as follows:
Given that the basic rationale of the superannuation system is to improve
retirement incomes, the starting point for considering these measures would
seem to be that benefits should only be released in limited circumstances. It is
also important to have a set of rules which are as simple as possible, efficient,
transparent and effective. It is almost inevitable in these circumstances that a
line will need to be drawn.8j
National savings
5.69 Treasury explained the Government's belief that tightening early release of
superannuation benefits would increase national savings:
Obviously, intuitively, these measures will increase national savings. There will
be a reduction of leakage of moneys from the superannuation system, so there
will be more money in the form of superannuation assets than there would
otherwise be. As a consequence of that, there should be an increase in national
84
savings.
5.70 However, as the Government's Retirement Income Modelling Task Force (RIM), has
noted:
Unfortunately for some components of early release, particularly for the release
of benefits for persons going overseas on a permanent basis, there are no data
available on the current arrangements'83
Abuse of the system
5.71 The Government is concerned at abuse of the permanent departure ground for early
release of superannuation benefits. Treasury outlined the Government's concern at abuse in
the following way:
One difficulty is that there is anecdotal evidence that under the previous
arrangements people were providing false evidence that they were leaving
Australia.86
83
84
85
86
Evidence, p. 144.
Evidence, p. 148.
Aggregate Analyses of Policies for Accessing Superannuation Contributions (1997), p. 8
Evidence, p. 164.


5.72 Anecdotal evidence was also referred to by ASFA,87 and Coopers & Lybrand.88
Treasury acknowledged that their anecdotal evidence of abuse of the permanent departure
ground related to Australians rather than temporary entrants.89
5.73 Of course, removing permanent departure as a ground for early release of benefits
would reduce early withdrawals from the superannuation system, and that should have a
positive effect on national savings. The Committee also accepts that there is a potential for
abuse of the current arrangements, although there was no evidence provided of actual abuse.
RIM's work
5.74 In estimating the effects of all measures to tighten early release of superannuation
benefits announced in the 1997-98 Budget, RIM has stated:
the assumed reduction in total outflow is initially around $120m pa, compared
with current total hardship flows of $180m and uncertain amounts for persons
going overseas.90
5.75 Given the significance of the other grounds for early release of benefits, it would
appear that the amount of money currently leaving the superannuation system due to
permanent departure is significantly less than $120 million. The amount would be even less
in respect of temporary entrants.
5.76 These figures also need to be considered against total superannuation assets of $279.5
billion as at the end of March 1997.91
Comments
5.77 The Committee does not have detailed information on the problems of abuse, and of
reduction in national savings, which the Government is attempting to address by removing
the permanent departure ground. However, it is clear that the dollar figures involved are not
large in terms of the superannuation system as a whole.
5.78 Although the Committee appreciates the Government's concerns in relation to
reduction in national savings, as they apply to Australians and permanent residents, the
applicability of these concerns to temporary entrants is not immediately obvious. In this
context the Committee notes the observation of Mr Kevin Casey, Member of the Tax Policy
Committee of ASFA:
87 ASFA stated that 'there has been anecdotal evidence of Australian residents who have claimed to have
permanently departed by producing evidence based on the purchase of a one-way air ticket but have in
fact returned to Australia' (Submission 11, p. 5).
88 Coopers & Lybrand stated that they 'understand that there is strong anecdotal evidence' of false
declarations of permanent departure by superannuation fund members to trustees (Submission 8, Coopers
& Lybrand, p. 3).
89 Evidence, p. 165.
90 Aggregate Analyses of Policies for Accessing Superannuation Contributions (1997), p. 8. The prediction
is that the measures will have a positive effect on national saving of .02 per cent of GDP in 1997-98.
91 Insurance and Superannuation Commission Bulletin, March Quarter 1997, p. 26.


If that person is only here temporarily, is that money really set aside for
retirement in the Australian environment? You would have to say no; therefore I
would not count allowing its release out of the system when that person
emigrates back to their home country as leakage out of the Australian system.92
5.79 However, Treasury explained the Government's concern in relation to temporary
entrants' savings for retirement as follows:
I accept that in a lot of cases these people will not come back to Australia, but in
a number of cases they could very well come back to Australia. They might find
it such a suitable place for their particular lifestyles that they do actually want to
come back here and retire, and in those circumstances we would not want them
falling back on the aged pension system.9'’
5.80 This concern is considered below in the section 'Are temporary entrants likely to
become reliant on Australian social security?'.
5.81 The Government has also stated that the removal of permanent departure as a ground
for early release of superannuation benefits 'is broadly consistent with overseas practice1.
However, it is not clear if the Government regards this as a reason for adopting its course.
Treasury did not appear to put much weight on this point:
The other thing, too, is it actually brings our arrangements more into line with
overseas practice. We were talking about the US before and this is a situation
that they have over there as well. That is not necessarily a reason why we should
follow it, of course, but there is a range of issues.95
Retrospective, prospective, or another perspective?
5.82 There was serious concern expressed by parties affected by the removal of permanent
departure as a ground for early release of superannuation benefits, that this measure is
retrospective, as it applies to benefits existing before the measure's commencement. The
retrospectivity argument was advanced in broadly similar terms by several organisations:
. Arthur Andersen submitted that denying 'access to contributions made prior to
the [1997-98] budget and based on the law at that time, effectively amounts to
retrospective application of the proposed changes';96
. Coopers & Lybrand stated that the measure was retrospective 'as existing
benefits are caught';97 and
• IBSA contended that 'the proposal is retrospective, as it affects arrangements
already in place'.98
92 Evidence, p. 79.
93 Evidence, p. 165.
94 1997-98 Budget Paper No. 2: Budget Measures 1997-98, p. 193.
95 Evidence, p. 165.
96 Submission 19, Arthur Andersen, p. 4.
97 Submission 8, Coopers & Lybrand, p. 4. See also Submission 10, AmCham, p. 3
98 Submission 20, IBSA, p. 1.


5.83 Mr Feyzeny, of KPMG, saw the application to existing superannuation benefits of the
removal of the permanent departure ground as being contrary to a politically bipartisan policy
against retrospectivity:
Certainly, the view has been that for quite some time now retrospective
legislation was a no-no as both governments had agreed that they did not wish
to alter people's planning towards retirement expectations or imposts. So I think
that [the measure] seems to be contrary to unwritten policy..."
5.84 The Government did not accept that the measure is retrospective. Treasury appeared to
see the issue of retrospectivity as being in large part a matter of one's point of view:
[W]here new measures are implemented there are obviously a number of ways
in which they can be implemented, ranging from totally prospective - and each
person has a different view about what is prospective and things like that. I
could say that these measures are prospective, because they were announced on
13 May and took effect from 1 July.100
5.85 Treasury was asked by the Committee whether the Government had considered
having transitional provisions, so that temporary entrants in Australia prior to the
commencement of the measure were not affected by the new rule. The Department indicated
that this was considered to create too many complexities.101
5.86 There are clearly different views between Government and the superannuation
industry as to what constitutes retrospectivity. The following is the view of Pearce and
Geddes as outlined in their text Statutory Interpretation in Australia:
All legislation impinges on existing rights and obligations. Conduct that could
formerly be engaged in will have to be modified to fit in with the new law. It
cannot therefore be said that in this sense legislation is retrospective because this
is true of all legislation. Legislation only operates retrospectively if it provides
that rights and obligations are changed with effect prior to the commencement
of the legislation.102
5.87 Mr Charles Blunt, the Chief Executive Officer of AmCham, told the Committee that:
Most of the employees of foreign companies that are impacted by this measure
are fairly senior people. If they are of US origin, retrospective removal of a
benefit is an anathema to them. They find it particularly offensive, and it is most
unlikely to occur in a US jurisdiction. They equate that sort of change with the
sort of change that you would expect to have in a country that is not democratic.
Hence it does nothing to enhance our reputation in boardrooms overseas.103
99 Evidence, p. 91. See also Submission 5, KPMG, p. 5.
100 Evidence, p. 173.
101 Evidence, pp. 173-174.
102 D.C. Pearce and R.S. Geddes, Statutory Interpretation in Australia (4th ed 1996), p. 244, See also A.
Palmer and C. Sampford, 'Retrospective Legislation in Australia: Looking Back at the 1980s' (1994) 22
F L Rev 217, esp at p. 219.
103 Evidence, p. 102.


The notice period: transition impossible?
5.88 There was criticism of the notice period given in relation to the removal of the
permanent departure ground, and in particular of the notice given of the transitional
arrangement.
5.89 The removal of the permanent departure ground was announced in the 1997-98
Budget on 13 May 1997. The relevant part of the Budget Papers stated:
The Government will reform the current arrangements for early release of
superannuation benefits, with effect from 1 July 1997.... Superannuation funds
will be able to release benefits to a person who claims to have left Australia
permanently only after that person has reached preservation age. This is broadly
consistent with overseas practice.104
5.90 The regulations removing permanent departure as a ground for the early release of
superannuation benefits were made on Wednesday 25 June 1997, published in the
Commonwealth Gazette on Thursday 26 June 1997, and commenced on Tuesday 1 July
1997 |(b RegUiatjon 5 0f SR 1997 No. 153 provided a transitional arrangement, as follows:
. a written request to a trustee before 1 July 1997 would be dealt with as if the
early release provisions had not been amended by SR 1997 No. 153.106
The criticism
5.91 William M Mercer Pty Ltd stated their concern at the short notice between the Budget
announcement and commencement of the new provisions.107 They suggested that in future a
period of six months notice should be given for comparable changes; this would allow
superannuation funds to make necessary administrative changes, and allow individuals to
'adjust their expectations'.108
5.92 Mr Michael Forsdick, of Coopers & Lybrand, said that his multinational clients who
employ expatriates, were 'quite horrified' by the Government's measure in relation to the
permanent departure ground: 'not only the retrospective nature of it, but also the very short
time frame in which it was announced'.109
104 1997-98 Budget Paper No. 2: Budget Measures 1997-98, p. 193.
105 The regulations were the Retirement Savings Account Regulations Amendment (Statutory Rules (SR)
1997 No. 151) and the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations (Amendment) (SR 1997 No.
153).
106 A transitional provision was not necessary in respect of SR 1997 No. 151, as the legislation establishing
retirement savings accounts (the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997) did not itself commence until 1
July 1997.
107 Submission 7, William M Mercer Pty Ltd, p. 1. This concern applied to all the measures being
considered by the Committee, not only to the removal of permanent departure as a ground for the early
release of superannuation benefits.
108 ibid
109 Evidence, p. 134. Mr Forsdick is a Partner of Coopers & Lybrand. Retrospectivity is considered above.


5.93 There was consistent criticism of the shortness of the period between the gazettal of
the SIS Regulations Amendment and its commencement (from Thursday 26 June 1997 to
Tuesday 1 July 1997). Ernst & Young submitted that superannuation fund members had 'at
most two working days to become aware of this regulation and to act upon it ... this was
grossly unfair'.110 At a public hearing, Ms Noelle Kelleher of Ernst & Young said regarding
the shortness of the notice period:
It is impossible for people to do business like that."1
5.94 Mr Blunt said that AmCham had conducted a survey of its members on the changes to
preservation rules, which had invited comments:
Some of the comments about the transitional arrangements are, to put it politely,
quite rude. They suggest that to have three or four days' notice that there is an
opportunity to apply for a return of funding is just a joke.112
The Government's response
5.95 The Government did not accept criticism of the notice period as valid. In response to a
question as whether the notice period for the transitional arrangement under SR 1997 No. 153
was four days. The Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC) replied that this was not
the case. Instead, they said the relevant notice was:
From the time of the budget announcement, because that was clear cut in respect
of the permanent departure overseas."’
5.96 Treasury supported this view when it said:
The measure was announced in the Budget on 13 May. It took effect from 1
July. So people did have some indication of what was to happen.... Obviously a
line needs to be drawn somewhere."4
Comment
5.97 The Committee considers it would be preferable to give greater notice of future
comparable changes than from the Budget announcement to commencement on 1 July 1997.
In respect of the transitional arrangement for overseas departure, the Committee considers
that, for all practical purposes, notice was from gazettal. The notice period which was
provided, from Thursday 26 June 1997 to Tuesday 1 July 1997, was then clearly inadequate.
110 Submission 6, Ernst & Young, p. 2.
111 Evidence, p. 61.
112 Evidence, p. 103.
113 Evidence, p. 168.
114 Evidence, p. 159.


What about the job makers?
5.98 There was evidence which indicated that the removal of the permanent departure
ground, as it affects expatriates, will discourage employment of expatriates in Australia, and
the establishment of operations in Australia by foreign companies, in particular the
establishment of Regional Headquarters (RHQs).
5.99 Mr Gillen of Price Waterhouse described overseas perception of the measure as:
not good.115
5.100 Mr Blunt told the Committee that the perception that Government would make
changes to law affecting business retrospectively would have an impact on business
confidence:
There are certain very positive factors associated with investing and locating in
Australia, and there are a number of hurdles. This is perceived as another
hurdle. I would not like to try and quantify the impact that the perception that
the government will introduce retrospective changes will have on future
decisions, but it is there.116
5.101 Ms Mathewson said that the complexity of the Australian taxation system discouraged
foreign companies from establishing operations in Australia, and that the application of SG to
expatriate employees added to this complexity.117
Value of expatriates
5.102 The Committee was told that Australia was heavily reliant on expatriates to introduce
new skills and business practices, particularly in high technology fields.118 Outokompu
Mining Australia Pty Ltd stated that it employed expatriates for two principal reasons: to
obtain specialist expertise, and to provide experience to undergraduate trainees.119
5.103 IBSA submitted that expatriate employees 'make a significant contribution to both the
investment banking sector and the economy through the transfer of new skills and alleviating
identified skill shortages', as well as assisting employment growth of the association's
members 'which was 30% over the three years to mid-1996'.120 DIMA informed the
Committee that following the deregulation of the financial sector in the mid-1980s,
115 Evidence, p. 48. Price Waterhouse's submission was supported by twenty-two business, including large
employers of expatriates. See Submission 9 Supp, Price Waterhouse, Appendix 8.
116 Evidence, p. 104.
117 Evidence, pp. 136-137. See also Submission 19, Arthur Andersen, p. 4.
118 Submission 8, Coopers & Lybrand, p. 4.
119 Submission 2, Outokompu Mining Australia Pty Ltd, p. 3.
120 Submission 20, IBSA, p. 2. Forty-nine institutions engaged in wholesale banking and financial market
related business belong to IBSA, see attachment to Submission 20.


approximately 200 permanent residents and 2 000 temporary entrants have come to Australia
to work in the financial sector.121
5.104 DIMA stated that the Australian financial sector had lacked specialists in foreign
exchange dealing and Information Technology to cope with the post-deregulation expansion
of the sector, and that since deregulation 'something like 10 000 additional jobs have been
created for Australian workers'.122
Incentives for Regional Headquarters
5.105 There are concessions available under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 to
encourage multinational companies to establish RHQs in Australia. Price Waterhouse
explained the role of an RHQ as follows:
An RHQ provides support services to its associated companies located in other
countries in the same region and acts as an intermediary between those
associated companies and the parent company located elsewhere.
5.106 The Committee can readily appreciate that the location of RHQs in Australia is
significant for growth in trade and employment.
Competing with other countries for RHQs
5.107 Price Waterhouse undertook a comparison of Australia with other regional
jurisdictions where multinational companies could consider locating Asia Pacific RHQs. The
results of the comparison were as follows.
5.108 Temporary entrants, or their employers, were not required to make contributions to a
superannuation or pension fund in China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, New Zealand or Thailand.
There was a requirement to make contributions in Indonesia, Japan and Singapore. However,
in the case of Singapore it was possible to obtain an exemption from this requirement, and
Price Waterhouse were of the view that this exemption was routinely granted. In Indonesia
and Japan the expatriate was able to obtain a lump sum payment of their benefit on permanent
departure from the country.124
SG as a disincentive for RHQs
5.109 Price Waterhouse considered that SG, as it affects expatriates, was a disincentive to
establish an RHQ in Australia, as compared to other locations in the Asia Pacific region.
Ms Noelle Kelleher, of Ernst & Young, told the Committee that she had been involved in
costings for companies considering where to establish an Asia Pacific RHQ. She said that
Australia was 'invariably' more expensive than the alternatives, and that:
121 Evidence, DIMA, p. 152.
122 ibid
123 Submission 9 Supp, Price Waterhouse, p. 3.
124 The following information is from Submission 9 Supp, Appendix 4.
125 Submission 9 Supp, Price Waterhouse, p. 3.


A lot of the feedback that we are getting here is that, if there is one more impost
here in Australia, they [companies] just really will not consider Australia for a
regional headquarters.'26
5.110 The Committee considers that the requirement that superannuation benefits must be
preserved until preservation age for 456 and 457 visa holders, will be a discouraging factor to
those foreign companies wanting to establish operations such as RHQs in Australia.
A threefold burden:
5.111 The Committee was told that the removal of the permanent departure ground, as it
affects temporary residents, will place burdens on the temporary residents themselves, their
employers and on the trustees of their superannuation funds.
One - the burden on temporary entrants
5.112 The point was made to the Committee that the amount of superannuation benefits
which might be preserved would often not be a large sum, certainly not in a person's overall
retirement plans. Mr Feyzeny said 'the employee sees the money that goes into the
superannuation as being something which is almost intangible'.127
5.113 Mr Blunt talked of the disadvantage of preservation to persons permanently departing
Australia, who would otherwise have received their accumulated SG.128
5.114 Mr Gillen, of Price Waterhouse, neatly summarised the costs which would be placed
on temporary entrants in obtaining access to their preserved superannuation benefits:
The expatriates themselves do not understand why they are required to
contribute. They do not plan to retire here.... If you look to 20 or 30 years time
when they retire, these individuals are going to need to file an Australian tax
return. Whether their tax file number is still current will be doubtful... They are
then, presumably, going to have to pay someone to do their Australian tax
return, because they most probably have not lived here for a period of time. It is
just creating unnecessary work for what would generally be reasonably small
amounts of money.129
5.115 The Committee was also informed that temporary entrants could be liable to double
taxation in respect of the earnings of their superannuation savings.130
126 Evidence, p. 64.
127 Evidence, p. 92.
128 Evidence, p. 104.
129 Evidence, p. 44.
130 On this issue see Submission 5 Supp. KPMG considered the situation regarding the US. On the basis of
case studies, KPMG concluded 'that there is genuine potential for double tax' in the circumstances of
their case studies (p. 5). Furthermore, KPMG stated that currently 'there is no efficient mechanism or
authority under the domestic tax laws of Australia and the US, or in fact under the Treaty between the
two countries, to relieve this double tax exposure'.


Two - the burden on employers
5.116 The Committee received evidence that the preservation of superannuation benefits of
expatriate employees until preservation age will increase costs to employers. This issue is
significant, as it is conservatively estimated that the cost of SG to employers in respect of
expatriate employees is currently over $85 million per annum.131
5.117 It appears that most expatriate employees continue in home country retirement plans
while in Australia. Mr Gillen said:
the large majority of employers actually maintain their people in their home
country superannuation or pension plans while they are in Australia.132
5.118 Some, but not all employers who maintain home country superannuation, require the
employee to pay their SG to the employer when it is accessed by the employee. This is called
'equalisation'.1'3 Ms Noelle Kelleher, Principal, Director - Superannuation, Ernst & Young
told the Committee that the removal of the permanent departure ground:
effectively means that they [employers] have then got the added superannuation
burden for actually having those people come to Australia, because there is just
no way of actually having any form of equalisation policy in place.1’4
Three - the burden on superannuation funds
5.119 It seems that the removal of the permanent departure ground will place additional
administrative expenses on superannuation funds,13' which means a cost ultimately to all
members of superannuation funds. There are additional costs to superannuation funds in
relation to members overseas as compared to those members in Australia.
5.120 Mrs Elke Malcolm, of Mercantile Mutual Life, said it can be 'quite costly' to keep in
touch with overseas members.136 There will be cases where temporary entrants work in
Australia for a very short period of time at an early point of their life. Preservation of such
people's superannuation benefits in Australia will create disproportionate costs.
131 Evidence, Mr Gillen, p. 49. This figure rises (assuming no inflation) to about $130 million in 2003, when
SG will have risen to 9 per cent of salary.
132 Evidence, p. 44. Ernst & Young advised that about 90 per cent of expatriate employees of their clients
would continue to contribute to home country retirement plans (Submission 6 Supp).
133 This is explained in Evidence, Ms Louise Fitt, p. 91. Ms Fitt is Director, International Executive tax,
KPMG.
134 Evidence, p. 60. See also Submission 21, Arthur Andersen (Tokyo Office). The Committee was also told
that organisations employing foreign entertainers are expecting that they will have to pay additional
money to entertainers so as to compensate for the unavailability of SG on permanent departure
(Evidence, Mr Baillie, p. 109).
135 'superannuation fund' refers generally to superannuation providers.
136 Evidence, p. 116. Mrs Malcolm is the Manager - Administration, Corporate Markets Group of
Mercantile Mutual Life. Mrs Malcolm gave as examples of additional costs: overseas postage, and
(where contact has been lost) costs in attempting to find the member at the time of paying out benefits.


5.121 Mr Peter Lamrock, company secretary of John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd and a trustee of
the Swire group retirement plan, said:
the administrative effort in order to track a small amount of money over a
period of up to 30 or 40 years until the age of 55 would be out of all proportion
to the amount of money actually held.1”
5.122 ASF A expressed concern that most of the expatriate employees' money which will be
preserved due to the removal of the permanent departure ground, would become unclaimed
money (which falls to government) as it would be impossible to trace members.138 It is to be
hoped that ASFA's prediction is not realised. However, it would appear that, to quote KPMG:
the longer the period between departure from Australia and the entitlement to a
benefit, the greater the likelihood that it will become impossible to trace the
139
owner.
5.123 The preservation of temporary entrants' superannuation benefits will clearly bring
with it additional administrative costs to superannuation funds. To the extent that such
preserved benefits will become unclaimed moneys, the removal of the permanent departure
ground appears to incur additional costs with no benefit to any members.
Are temporary entrants likely to become reliant on Australian social security?
5.124 The Government has expressed concern that temporary entrants might retire in
Australia and become a burden on Australian social security (see paragraph 5.78 above).
Temporary entrants could retire in Australia through becoming permanent residents, or by
obtaining a specific retirement visa which gives temporary residence (the sub-class 410 visa).
5.125 To obtain a 410 (retirement) visa the applicant must meet a financial test.140 Holders
of this visa are ineligible for Medicare or Social Security benefits, and they should therefore
ensure satisfactory medical insurance coverage. Holders of this visa do not have work rights.
The visa is for temporary residence only. The initial visa is for four years, but it is possible to
receive extensions with each extension being for no more than two years. Holders of 410
visas are not a burden on the Australian social security system. As at 11 July 1997 there were
1171 holders of sub-class 410 visas in Australia.
5.126 The Committee considers that the Government's concern in this area, which it has not
quantified, must be weighed against the burdens imposed by the removal of the permanent
departure ground. There are burdens on the temporary entrants themselves, on employers and
137 Evidence, p. 75; see also Submission 3, John Swire & Sons Pty Ltd, p. 2. This view was also put by other
witnesses, see: Evidence, Mr Stevens, p. 10; Mr Gillen, p. 44; and Mr Murton, p. 49. Mr Stevens is a
Director of William M Mercer Pty Ltd. Mr Murton is a Senior Consultant at Price Waterhouse.
138 Submission II, p. 3. This risk was also referred to by KPMG
139 Submission 5, KPMG, p. 6.
140 The applicant (or the applicant and his/her spouse) must have: resources available for transfer to
Australia not less than $500 000; or the applicant (or the applicant and his/her spouse) must have
resources available for transfer to Australia not less than $150,000 and also have pension rights and/or
investment capital which are sufficient to provide an income stream of not less than $35 000 per year.
Letter from DIMA, 29 August 1997.


on superannuation funds; and there is a discouraging effect on foreign companies wanting to
establish operations in Australia.
International social security agreements
5.127 The Committee was told that removal of the permanent departure ground would assist
the Government in negotiating international social security agreements with other countries.
Such agreements would cover matters such as providing exemptions for Australians working
overseas from foreign social security taxes. The Department of Social Security (DSS),
described the effect of the measure as follows:
The US is the best example. If we were to give a unilateral exemption, there
would be no particular reason why they would give us one, because we would
have already given away the exemption.141
5.128 There appeared to be a degree of confusion among Government advisers about the
role which international social security negotiations had played in the Government's deciding
to remove the permanent departure ground. Treasury said the following about the decision to
limit the exemption:
There were basically two main reasons: the labour market distortions and
assisting Australia's negotiating position in relation to social security
. 142
agreements.
5.129 However, DSS said this in reply to a question on the effect of removing the permanent
departure ground on international social security negotiations:
I do not think that motivated these changes at all.143
5.130 DSS told the Committee that Australia has eleven social security agreements with
foreign countries.144 Currently S712 million is paid into Australia per year in foreign social
security payments, and Australia pays out $137 million per year to those countries with
whom we have agreements.14'^
Using superannuation in international negotiations
5.131 The Committee is concerned about the use of superannuation policy as a bargaining
chip in relation to international social security negotiations. Firstly, as ASFA has noted,
bilateral agreements 'would take a significant amount of time to establish before they can be
utilised'.146
141 Evidence, p. 163.
142 Evidence, p. 157.
143 Evidence, p. 163.
144 Evidence, p. 175.
145 Answers to Questions taken on Notice, Treasury Advice of 2 September 1997, p. 5
146 Submission 11, ASFA, p. 7.


5.132 Secondly, the Committee was told that it is difficult to compare Australia's SG system
with foreign social security taxes, as the SG system is privately administered rather than a tax
arrangement.147 However, DSS said that the Australian system was comparable 'in so far as
there is a mandated percentage that you have to put in'.148
5.133 Thirdly, the Committee notes that it would appear that the measure may add to
difficulties in other areas of international relations. The Committee notes public reporting of
the US International Trade Commission's criticism of Australia's business migration policies
as a barrier to trade in services.149 The Committee believes that the changes to preservation
rules in relation to permanent departure, in so far as they apply to temporary business
entrants, may complicate relations with foreign countries in respect of these issues.
5.134 However, given the often delicate, and necessarily confidential, nature of international
negotiations, it is difficult for the Committee to comment further on the Government's
assessment of the value of its stance on preservation of benefits in relation to international
social security negotiations.
Permanent departure of Australian citizens and permanent residents
5.135 The Committee received evidence from Mr Charles Moses, an Australian citizen who
will be personally affected by the changes to preservation rules. He was the only Australian
citizen personally affected by these changes to make a submission to the Committee.
5.136 Mr Moses has applied for permanent residence in Canada. He expects to permanently
depart Australia soon, so as to live in Canada with his wife who is a Canadian citizen. Mr
Moses was highly critical of his inability to access his superannuation benefits:
I am now dictated to by the government to maintain my retirement investment
in a country of which I will no longer be a resident and possibly a citizen.130
5.137 Mr Moses was concerned that he will have to begin saving for retirement afresh when
he is in Canada as he will not be able to transfer his Australian superannuation into a
Canadian retirement savings vehicle.11'1 Also he said he 'will be disadvantaged by monitoring
the performance of my superannuation from the other side of the world, something I am not
looking forward to'.152 Mr Moses was also greatly concerned that his Australian
superannuation savings would be eroded by management fees and inflation.
5.138 The Committee notes Mr Moses' personal circumstances, and can understand his
concerns. However, the Committee believes that the issues which he raises are more related
147 Evidence, Ms Fitt, pp. 95-96.
148 Evidence, p. 162.
149 AAP, 'US questions labour trade restrictions', The Australian Financial Review, 26 August 1997, p. 3
150 Submission 1, p. 2.
151 ibid
152 Submission 1, p. 3.
153 Submission 1, p. 2. Also see Evidence, p. 57.


to member protection, rather than relating directly to the removal of the permanent departure
ground.
5.139 As was noted above, the Committee accepts that removing the permanent departure
ground would reduce early withdrawals from the superannuation system, and that this, in
turn, should have a small positive effect on national savings. The Committee accepts that
there is a potential for abuse of the current arrangements.
5.140 The Committee had much less of a problem understanding the Government's
proposals in respect of the departure of Australian citizens and permanent residents, than it
did with temporary residents.


PART C:
CONCLUSIONS
Generally - regarding superannuation
5.141 The Committee reiterates its view that the primary purpose of superannuation in
Australia is the provision of retirement income for Australians. The importance of this social
and economic objective is reflected in the concessional taxation treatment which
superannuation receives. Providing for Australians' retirement will be undermined if their
superannuation savings are dissipated. The Committee supports rules which will promote the
purposes of superannuation.
5.142 The Committee is concerned, at a time when there is general community support for
measures to increase the level of meaningful employment in this country, that the
Government's measure to remove the permanent departure ground for early access may have
this unintended side effect. Foreign companies may be dissuaded from establishing
operations in Australia, and there may be a consequent dampening of growth in trade and
employment for resident Australians.
5.143 The Committee notes that there is a lack of data on the magnitude of early
withdrawals from the superannuation system due to permanent departure. However, the
Committee recognises that removing permanent departure as a ground for early release of
benefits would reduce early withdrawals from the superannuation system, and this should
have a positive effect on national savings. The Committee also accepts that there was at least
a potential for abuse under the old arrangements.
Australian citizens and permanent residents
5.144 The Committee therefore concludes that, in the case of Australian citizens, permanent
departure should not be a ground for early release of superannuation benefits. The Committee
is aware that, particularly given the cultural diversity of the Australian community, there will
be Australians who spend much of their lives overseas. Nevertheless, given the right of an
Australian to reside in Australia in their retirement, the Committee concludes that the
superannuation savings of Australians who have permanently departed Australia should be
preserved until preservation age.
5.145 If an Australian citizen who has permanently departed Australia were to subsequently
lose their citizenship, then there may be a case for early release of superannuation benefits in
such circumstances, as the former citizen would have lost his or her right of return to
Australia (although the person could apply for a visa to enter Australia). The Committee
notes that where an Australian loses their Australian citizenship that this would generally be
due to a choice made by that Australian (for example, by voluntarily taking citizenship of
another country).154
5.146 Although the Committee does not consider a recommendation necessary on this
matter, the Government may wish to give further consideration to provide for the early
154 See section 17 of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948.


release of superannuation benefits to Australians who have permanently departed Australia
and subsequently lose their Australian citizenship.
5.147 The Committee understands that permanent residents do not have the same rights of
return enjoyed by Australian citizens. However, the Committee believes that there is a
significantly higher probability that such persons will retire in Australia than non-Australians
who are only in Australia temporarily.
5.148 Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the superannuation savings of permanent
residents of Australia who have permanently departed Australia should also be preserved
until preservation age. However, as outlined in paragraph 145, the Government may wish to
consider providing for early release of benefits to permanent residents who have permanently
departed Australia, and who are subsequently unable to legally return to Australia.
Temporary residents
5.149 The case of temporary entrants to Australia is different from that of Australian citizens
and permanent residents. Temporary entrants are welcomed and valued members of our
community while they are here, but there the Committee sees no need for them to be required
to save in Australia for a retirement that they will not share with us.
5.150 The weight of evidence supported exemption from SG for holders of 456 and 457
visas. However, for reasons of consistency, the Committee considers there should be no
exemption, but these people should be granted early access to their superannuation on their
permanent departure from Australia.
5.151 Committee members differ in their views about when the Government should move to
allow early access on permanent departure. Coalition Senators considered that such access
should be delayed until the conclusion of social security agreements (see recommendation
6.3).
5.152 The Committee's inquiry was not involved directly with other temporary visa holders.
But on the principle described in paragraph 5.149, the Committee concludes there is a good
case for such people to also be granted early access to superannuation on their permanent
departure overseas.
5.153 In summary, the Committee concludes that the Government's removal of permanent
departure as a ground for early release of superannuation benefits should be supported, except
as it applies to temporary entrants, all of whom should be exempt from the measure (within
the constraints described in paragraph 5.151).
Insert by Coalition Senators
5.154 The Coalition Senators recognise the strong evidence in favour of exemption from
SG for business class (456 and 457) visa holders and, in the absence of exemption, at least
full access to benefits on permanently departing overseas. However, the Government
wishes to maintain the integrity of its changes in order to successfully negotiate social
security agreements with other countries. (See Chapter 6 for details on the Government's
position.)


5.155 While the Coalition Senators appreciate the Government's position, they express
their concern at:
. the length of time it takes to conclude these social security agreements; and
. the lack of appreciation by the bureaucracy of the difference between
Australia's superannuation system and those of other countries.




CHAPTER 6
RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE GOVERNMENT'S CHANGES
Discussion with experts could have allowed the government's objectives to be achieved in a
more simple manner.1
Prelude
6.1 The Committee fully supports the principles behind the preservation of
superannuation entitlements for retirement income purposes. The Committee's views on
preservation were outlined in Chapter 2.
The Government's position
6.2 Following the receipt of so much evidence critical of the Government's changes to the
application of Super Guarantee (SG) to holders of business class visas, the Committee
approached the Assistant Treasurer seeking details of the situation of Australians who
temporarily reside in certain countries which are our major trading partners. The Assistant
Treasurer responded in the following terms.
While scheme details vary between countries, payroll-based social security taxes are levied
which, among other things, provide employees with pension benefits in retirement. As the size
of the pension benefit depends on the level of lifetime contributions, and 'contributions' are
compulsory (including for Australians who are temporarily resident overseas), these schemes
are taken to be broadly equivalent to our Superannuation Guarantee.
Generally, such contributions are non-refundable and benefits are non-transferable. Further,
most countries have a minimum contribution period before any entitlement to a pension
benefit arises. Thus, Australians who temporarily reside in the countries under consideration
are generally not entitled to a refund of their contributions either on permanent departure or
retirement. ...
• Australians temporarily employed in the US derive no benefit from their
contributions unless they remain in the US for at least 10 years.
• Australians temporarily employed in Japan nearly always forfeit at least some
and potentially a large share of their direct contributions. Contributions made
after three years in Japan are non-refundable.
Until April 1985 Japan allowed foreigners a full refund on departure. This
was replaced by a "no refund" policy for all contributors. This changed to
the current arrangements in late 1994T
1 Evidence, Mr Ward, Manager Research and Information, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, p. 3
Letter to the Chair from the Assistant Treasurer, 3 September 1997.
2


Chapter 6
6.3 The Committee also questioned whether the tightening of the early release of benefit
rules would assist Australia's negotiating position in bilateral social security agreements, in
particular with the United States. The Minister replied as follows.
I understand the United States has indicated to the Department of Social Security that
unilateral refunds of contributions or exemptions on Australia's part are an obstacle to an
agreement. It is embedded in US social security law that US agreements must operate to
prevent double contributions. If double contributions are not an issue, the US is not required
to avoid double contributions and therefore has no need for an agreement.3
Comments
6.4 The Committee understands that most other countries have a system where
superannuation is included as part of government's taxation regime, similar in character to
Australia's Medicare system for example. In Australia, superannuation under SG is paid into
personal accounts for the benefit of individuals and protected by the principles of the law of
trusts. Accordingly, Australia's scheme is different in both concept and in practice.
The Committees recommendations
6.5 Recommendations on the three areas of the broader reference follow. The original
reference on the SHAR Bill is considered separately in the following chapter.
Abolition of the $500 threshold
Recommendation 6.1
The Committee supports the abolition of the $500 threshold but recommends the Government
a lower threshold of $200.
Senator Lyn Allison does not support this recommendation. The Australian Democrats are
not persuaded that low income workers are better off being required to hold such small
amounts in superannuation funds and will reserve their position on this matter.
Release of monies on departure overseas
Recommendation 6.2
In relation to Australian citizens or permanent residents departing overseas for whatever
period, the Committee recommends retaining the Government's change for the release of
superannuation benefits only after such persons have reached preservation age.
recommendation the Labor and Democrat Senators add the following:
3
ibid


There should be a reasonable transition period of six months from the date of operation of the
revised regulations to allow those people who were leaving Australia to notify their
superannuation fund of their intention.
The transition period for people notifying their superannuation fund should end on 30
December 1997 and will only apply to those people who are planning on leaving Australia
before 30 December 1998.
Recommendation 6.3
For temporary residents in Australia holding temporary visas, Labor and Democrat Senators
recommend that, on their permanent departure overseas, these visa holders be granted full
access to all preserved superannuation benefits.
The Coalition Senators acknowledge that the evidence received during the inquiry
overwhelmingly supports the position that temporary residents in Australia holding
temporary visas be granted full access to all preserved superannuation benefits on their
permanent departure overseas.
However, the Coalition Senators note the continued unfavourable treatment of Australians
employed overseas in respect of social security taxes in countries such as the United States, as
described in the Assistant Treasurer's letter. The Coalition Senators consider that if the
Government agreed to grant full access to all preserved benefits for temporary residents at
this time, this may unduly weaken its position in respect of the social security agreement
negotiations yet to be concluded.
The Coalition Senators believe that, in the longer term, holders of 456, 457 and 411 visas
should be granted access to their superannuation on permanent departure. Such access should
occur as social security agreements are concluded. The Coalition Senators express their
concern at the slow rate of making these agreements, and the lack of understanding of the
differences between Australia's superannuation system and that of other countries.
Recommendation 6.4
The Committee recommends that there be no exemption beyond those already granted from
the application of the Super Guarantee for temporary residents.
Hardship and compassionate grounds
Recommendation 6.5
The Committee recommends that the following changes be made to the Government's new
test for severe financial hardship:


(a) the income support definition be extended, beyond those Commonwealth
income support payments presently specified, to include all like payments;
(b) the required period of receipt of such payments be reduced; and
(c) a subjective test be added, being the total inability to meet reasonable and
immediate family living expenses.
Labor Senators conclude that a reasonable waiting period in continuous receipt of income
support needed to satisfy the objective test for severe financial hardship should be twelve
weeks.
Recommendation 6.6
The Committee recommends that the Insurance and Superannuation Commission be the
appropriate body to assess claims on grounds of severe financial hardship.
Recommendation
The Committee recommends that the criteria designated under the compassionate grounds
provisions be expanded to include a residual discretion for the Insurance and Superannuation
Commissioner to release benefits, other than in accordance with the listed criteria, where such
serious and special circumstances exist as to justify compassionate consideration.


CHAPTER 7
REPORT ON THE SMALL SUPERANNUATION ACCOUNTS
AMENDMENT BILL 1997
These amendments are consistent with measures announced in the 1997-98 Budget reforming
current arrangements for the early release of superannuation benefits to members.1
Background
7.1 As outlined in Chapter 1, the first step in the inquiry behind the first six chapters of
this report was the Senate referring the Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill
1997 to the Committee on 19 June 1997 for inquiry and report by 28 August 1997. The
provisions of this Bill tighten the arrangements relating to the early release of monies held in
the Superannuation Holding Accounts Reserve (SHAR).
7.2 The Committee is still required to make a separate report on the above Bill, and that is
the subject of this chapter.
What the SHAR is
7.3 The SHAR is a collection mechanism administered by the Australian Taxation
Office.2 It was established to receive superannuation contributions from employers which are
required to be paid under the Super Guarantee Scheme (SG). SHAR was foreshadowed by the
then Treasurer in June 1994 as part of a policy to protect small superannuation accounts from
being eroded by fees and charges. The legislation establishing SHAR was the Small
Superannuation Accounts Act 1995.
7.4 SHAR comprises separate notional accounts for individuals, with each individual only
allowed one account. Money credited to an individual's account is not held on trust.
Accordingly, the money may not be dealt with in any other way other than in accordance with
the SHAR legislation.
7.5 This reserve is not a superannuation fund or superannuation scheme. Deposits are not
superannuation contributions and do not attract contributions tax within SHAR. However,
employers may treat such deposits as superannuation contributions for the purpose of SG and
be able to claim these deposits as deductions for income tax purposes.
7.6 While SHAR was established primarily for the collection of deposits in lieu of
contributions under SG, it may also accept other amounts. For example, employers may wish
to provide superannuation support for certain employees even though SG may not be required
for them if, say, their monthly wages are below $450.
1 Second Reading Speech, Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997.
2 Information in this section has been drawn from Australian Superannuation Law and Practice, CCH.,
paras 55-100 to 55-120.


Chapter 7
The future of SHAR
7.7 The Committee notes that it is 'the Government's intention that SHAR will be
gradually phased out over a 2 year period':
Whilst the Government has not finalised the precise details of this process,
individuals who have money held on their behalf in SHAR and do not access
their money before SHAR is phased out, will not lose access to their money.
The Government will ensure arrangements are put in place so that those
individuals will retain access to money consistent with the rules which apply to
access to other superannuation entitlements.3
7.8 The following table provides details of SHAR membership as at 25 August 1997.4
Table 7.1
Insert by Labor and Democrat Senators
7.9 Labor and Democrat Senators wish to highlight their concern for the monies
contained in SHAR accounts whose owners are untraceable or have unconfirmed
addresses, which totalled some $172 436 as at 2 September 1997. The Government has
indicated its intention to phase out SHAR but has not announced the detail of this proposal.
Labor and Democrat Senators are not yet convinced that SHAR should be phased out, or
that the Government has in place adequate alternative mechanisms to deal with the problem
of small accounts. Labor and Democrat Senators recommend that the Senate closely
examines the Government's legislation with the intention of ensuring that people do not lose
their funds if the Government closes SHAR.
What the amending Bill does
7.10 The Bill amends the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995 'to tighten the
arrangements relating to the early release of monies' held in the SHAR./ The amendments
have the following effects:
abolishing the $500 threshold;
3 Answers to Questions taken on Notice, Treasury Advice of 2 September 1997, p. 4.
4 ibid
5 Second Reading Speech, Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997.


• replacing the "severe hardship" test with an objective test of hardship based on
receipt of specified income support payments for a certain period; and
• releasing monies to non-residents only after preservation age (currently age 55).
7.11 In the previous four chapters, the above effects have been examined in relation to the
superannuation system proper, and recommendations have been made in Chapter 6. In the
case of the SHAR accounts the Committee makes the same findings.
7.12 The Committee notes that no provision for early release on compassionate grounds
was included in the Bill. For the sake of unifomiity, the Committee considers that
compassionate grounds should be provided for in SHAR in the same manner as for the
superannuation system proper.
7.13 Accordingly, the Committee recommends that the Small Superannuation Accounts
Amendment Bill be amended to give effect to the following recommendations.
Recommendation 7.1
The Committee supports the abolition of the $500 threshold but recommends the Government
substitutes a lower threshold of $200.
Senator Lyn Allison does not support this recommendation. The Australian Democrats are
not persuaded that low income workers are better off being required to hold such small
amounts in superannuation funds and will reserve their position on this matter.
Recommendation 7.2
In relation to Australian citizens or permanent residents departing overseas for whatever
period, the Committee recommends retaining the Government's change for the release of
superannuation benefits only after such persons have reached preservation age.
To this recommendation the Labor and Democrat Senators add the following:
There should be a reasonable transition period of six months from the date of operation of the
revised regulations to allow those people who were leaving Australia to notify their
superannuation fund of their intention.
The transition period for people notifying their superannuation fund should end on 30
December 1997 and will only apply to those people who are planning on leaving Australia
before 30 December 1998.


Recommendation 7.3
For temporary residents in Australia holding temporary visas, Labor and Democrat Senators
recommend that, on their permanent departure overseas, these visa holders be granted full
access to all preserved superannuation benefits.
The Coalition Senators acknowledge that the evidence received during the inquiry
overwhelmingly supports the position that temporary residents in Australia holding
temporary visas be granted full access to all preserved superannuation benefits on their
permanent departure overseas.
However, the Coalition Senators note the continued unfavourable treatment of Australians
employed overseas in respect of social security taxes in countries such as the United States, as
described in the Assistant Treasurer's letter. The Coalition Senators consider that if the
Government agreed to grant full access to all preserved benefits for temporary residents at
this time, this may unduly weaken its position in respect of the social security agreement
negotiations yet to be concluded.
The Coalition Senators believe that, in the longer term, holders of 456, 457 and 411 visas
should be granted access to their superannuation on permanent departure. Such access should
occur as social security agreements are concluded. The Coalition Senators express their
concern at the slow rate of making these agreements, and the lack of understanding of the
differences between Australia’s superannuation system and that of other countries.
Recommendation 7.4
The Committee recommends that there be no exemption beyond those already granted from
the application of the Super Guarantee for temporary residents.
Hardship and compassionate grounds
Recommendation 7.5
The Committee recommends that the following changes be made to the Government’s new
test for severe financial hardship:
(a) the income support definition be extended, beyond those Commonwealth
income support payments presently specified, to include all like payments;
(b) the required period of receipt of such payments be reduced; and
(c) a subjective test be added, being the total inability to meet reasonable and
immediate family living expenses.


Labor Senators conclude that a reasonable waiting period in continuous receipt of income
support needed to satisfy the objective test for severe financial hardship should be twelve
weeks.
Recommendation 7.6
The Committee recommends that the Insurance and Superannuation Commission be tire
appropriate body to assess claims on grounds of severe financial hardship.
Recommendation 7.7
The Committee recommends that compassionate grounds be provided for on the same basis
as in the superannuation system proper. This would include a provision for a residual
discretion for the Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner to release benefits, other than
in accordance with the listed criteria, where such serious and special circumstances exist as to
justify compassionate consideration.
Senator John Watson
Chairman




APPENDIX A
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS




APPENDIX B
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
MELBOURNE, 13 AUGUST 1997
Mr John Berrill, Partner, Superannuation, Maurice Blackburn & Co
Mr Robert Gillen, Partner, Australasian Director, International Assignment Services,
Price Waterhouse
Mr Kit Hauptmann, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Counsellor, Financial
Counselling Service Southern
Mr Ronald Haywood
Mrs Marion Haywood
Ms Robyn Hopcroft, Acting Assistant Ombudsman and Acting Public Guardian, Office
of the Ombudsman, Tasmania
Mrs Debbie Hutchison
Ms Noelle Kelleher, Principal, Director - Superannuation, Ernst & Young
Mr Michael Moses
Mr John Murton, Senior Consultant, Price Waterhouse
Mr Raymond Stevens, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Michael van Schaik, Associate Director, International Assignment Services, Price
Waterhouse
Mr John Ward, Manager, Research and Information, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd
SYDNEY, 14 AUGUST 1997
Mr William Baillie, Partner, Greenwood Challoner and Company
Mr Charles Blunt, Chief Executive Officer, The American Chamber of Commerce in
Australia
Mr Kevin Casey, Member, Tax Policy Committee, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia


Appendix 2
Mr Peter Davidson, Senior Policy Officer, Australian Council of Social Service
Mr Emery Feyzeny, Superannuation Partner, KPMG
Ms Louise Fitt, Director, International Executive Tax, KPMG
Mr Michael Forsdick, Partner, Coopers & Lybrand
Mr John Gillespie, Principal, Gilton Business Consultants
Mr Peter Lamrock, Company Secretary, John Swire and Sons Pty Ltd
Mrs Elke Malcolm, Manager, Administration - Corporate Markets Group, Mercantile
Mutual Life
Ms Pauline Mathewson, Partner, Migration Services, Coopers & Lybrand
Ms Brenda Mills, Manager, Regulatory Information, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia
Mrs Theresa Rasmussen, Manager, Administrative Services, Outokumpu Mining
Australia Pty Ltd
Mr Matthew Wilson, Corporate Lawyer - Superannuation, and Manager, Mercantile
Mutual Custodians, Mercantile Mutual
CANBERRA, 20 AUGUST 1997
Mr Leslie Blacklow, Assistant Secretary, International Programs Branch, Department
of Social Security
Mr Eric Brookbanks, Assistant Secretary. Business Branch, Department of Immigration
and Multicultural Affairs
Mr Roger Brown, Assistant Commissioner, Supervision Branch, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Mrs Deidre Gerathy, Assistant Secretary, Superannuation Policy Branch, Department of
the Treasury
Mr Grant Goodwin, Director, Superannuation, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Robert Heferen, Senior Officer, Legislative Services, Australian Taxation Office
Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner (Policy), Insurance and Superannuation
Commission


Mr Tony McDonald, Acting Director, Superannuation Section, Superannuation Policy
Branch, Financial Institutions Division, Department of the Treasury
Mr Steve Meredith, Director, Skilled Entry, Department of Immigration and
Multicultural Affairs
Mr Neil Oleson, Assistant Commissioner, Australian Taxation Office
Ms Bernadette Power, Director, Policy, Services and Treaties, International Programs
Branch, Department of Social Security
Mr Eric Rojahn, Director, Financial Markets Policy, Retirement Programs Branch,
Department of Social Security




APPENDIX C
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)


Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
-Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996
- Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Schedules 1,
9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)


List of Committee Reports
Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges' Pension Scheme
(September 1997)
Twenty-sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Restrictions on Early Access: Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997
and related terms of reference. (September 1997)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 157 of 1997
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
