

Super
Supervision Bills
Ninth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Occupational Superannuation Standards Amendment Bill 1993
Superannuation (Financial Assistance Funding) Levy Bill 1993
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential Amendments Bill 1993
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993
Superannuation (Rolled-Over Benefits) Levy Bill 1993
Superannuation Supervisory Levy Amendment Bill 1993
October 1993




Super
Supervision Bills
Ninth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Occupational Superannuation Standards Amendment Bill 1993
Superannuation (Financial Assistance Funding) Levy Bill 1993
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential Amendment Bills 1993
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993
Superannuation (Rolled-Over Benefits) Levy Bill 1993
Superannuation Supervisory Levy Amendment Bill 1993
Canberra
October 1993


© Commonwealth of Australia 1993
ISBN 0 642 19778 4
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON SUPERANNUATION
NINTH REPORT
SUPER SUPERVISION BILLS
CORRIGENDUM
ecommendation 12.2 of the Senate Select Committee's Ninth Report, entitled Super
upervision Bills, is incorrect.
>n page xi, Recommendation 12.2 last line, delete '1995' and insert '1994'.
>n page 65, Recommendation 12.2 last line, delete '1995' and insert '1994'.
28 October 1993




MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator Sue West Deputy Chair
Senator Bruce Childs
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Cheryl Kernot
Tasmania
New South Wales
New South Wales
Western Australia
South Australia
Queensland
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Richard Gilbert
Ms Krista Gerrard
Mr Glenn Hunter
Ms Cath Drinkwater
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




CONTENTS
Contents
Page iii
Page
Members of the Committee. i
Contents. iii
Chapters:
1. Introduction . 1
2. The SIS Bills: An Overview. 5
3. Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993 . 9
4. Clause 64 - Prohibition on Superannuation Funds
Acquiring Assets from Members or Relatives. 17
5. Public Offer Funds - Clause 18 . 25
6. Fund Managers and Custodians. 33
7. Auditors and Actuaries . 41
8. Regulated Superannuation Funds. 47
9. Tax File Numbers . 51
10. State Superannuation Schemes. 55
11. ISC Powers and Co-ordination of Commonwealth Powers 59
12. Technical Matters . 63
13. The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential
Amendments Bills 1993 . 67
14. Introduction to Consumer Matters. 71
15. The Superannuation Complaints Tribunal. 73


Super Supervision Bills
CONTENTS
Page
Chapters:
16. Issues: The Complaint. 79
17. Issues: Legal Representation and Consumer Assistance 89
18. Other Consumer Issues . 95
Minority Report by Government Members
- Senators Qiilds, Evans and West - on Clause 64
Prohibition on Superannuation Funds Acquiring Assets
from Members or Relatives . 101
Appendices:
A. List of Committee Reports. 103
B. List of Written Submissions. 105
C. List of Witnesses at Public Hearings. Ill
D. Draft Amendment to Clause 64 Prepared for Senator
Watson. 117
E. Freehill's Advice on Public Offer Funds Transitional
Provisions. 119
F- Attorney General’s Department Opinion on Public Offer
Funds Transitional Provisions. 121
AIMG Draft Practice Note on Soft Dollar Dealings . . 123
H. Attorney General's Department Advice on Application
of Corporations Powers. 125
I* Prime Minister’s Letter to State Premiers. 127
J- Glossary of Terms. 129


LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
The Recommendations in this report are either recommendations for
amendments to the Bills or recommendations for future government
consideration. Accordingly, these have been preceded by either
'Amendment to XXX Bill' or 'For Government Consideration'.
Chapters 1, 2 and 3 do not contain any recommendations.
The Committee recommends that the Bills be agreed to subject to the
following amendments:
Recommendation 4.1: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Clause 64 - Acquisition of Assets by Funds from Members or Relatives
The Committee recommends that clause 64 be amended to allow certain
types of assets to be acquired by a superannuation fund from a member
or relative of the member at an arms length price.
These assets are to include only freehold or leasehold property, which
reflects true market value, that is used wholly or exclusively in the
business of the member or member's relative, plus certain strictly defined
marketable securities.
The Committee further recommends that the sole purpose test be
strengthened to ensure that any asset or assets included in the exemption
provided under clause 64 acquired by the superannuation fund from a
member or member's relative does not contravene the sole purpose test.
The Government Members of the Committee - Senators Childs, Evans
and West have recommended in a minority report that this amendment
not be agreed to.


Recommendation 4.2: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Penalty for Breach of Clause 64
The Committee recommends that the penalty for breach of clause 64 be
amended to provide a maximum penalty of 200 penalty points (one
penalty point equals $100) and/or one years imprisonment.
Recommendation 5.1: For Government Consideration
Public Offer Funds - Transitional Arrangements
The Committee recommends that the Government consider amending the
Corporations Law to provide public offer superannuation fund managers
with the right to request that the trustee retire on the grounds that it is in
the best interests of unit holders.
Recommendation 6.1: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Clause 65 Superannuation Fund Borrowings
The Committee recommends that short term borrowing be allowed where
it was 'not intended' that the borrowing would be needed, rather than if
the need for the borrowing 'was not reasonably foreseeable'. Accordingly,
clause 65 should be amended to substitute the words 'not intended' for
'not reasonably foreseeable'.
Recommendation 6.2: For Government Consideration
Duties of Custodian
The Committee recommends that, following the implementation of the
SIS legislation, consideration be given to spelling out in regulations the
duties of custodians.


Recommendation 6.3: For Government Consideration
Capital Adequacy for Custodians and Fund Managers
The Committee recognises the need for a capital adequacy requirement
to establish the substance of custodians and, to a lesser extent, provide a
financial buffer in the case of insolvency. The Committee recommends
that in drafting regulations the ISC continue to consider a more
comprehensive and flexible approach to the capital adequacy
requirements for fund managers and custodians.
Recommendation 6.4: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Removal of Investment Manager
The Committee recommends that provisions relating to the removal of
fund managers consequent to a responsible officer becoming a
disqualified person be amended to ensure that there is not an automatic
termination of the manager.
The Committee further recommends that in these cases it is the duty of
the fund manager to remove the disqualified person from any financial
dealings with the fund.
Recommendation 6.5: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
ISC Discretion regarding Custodians
The Committee recommends that the Government monitor the operation
of SIS legislation to ensure that it does not result in any harsh or
unintended consequences for custodians who temporarily fail to satisfy
eligibility requirements.


Recommendation 6.6: Recommendations for JCCS
’Soft Dollar Commission'
The Committee recommends that the Joint Committee on Corporations
and Securities investigate 'soft commissions' as part of its inquiry into
institutional investment.
Recommendation 7.1: For Government Consideration
Appointment of Auditors
The Committee recommends that the ISC monitor closely the
appointment and termination of auditors in the superannuation industry
and, if necessary, advise the Government that legislation be introduced to
protect auditors from unjust or unreasonable termination.
Recommendation 7.2: For Government Consideration
Removal of Auditors
The Committee recommends that the ISC continue the practice of
notifying the professional accounting bodies where it has cause to believe
that an auditor should be removed.
Recommendation 7.3: For Government Consideration
Registration of Auditors
The Committee further recommends that, in accordance with the
Committee's first report Safeguarding Super (Recommendation 4.11), the
Government, in consultation with the professional accounting bodies,
again consider establishing a register of superannuation auditors and that
the register consist of persons who have completed the training
prescribed by the accounting professions.


Recommendation 8.1: For Government Consideration
Referral of Superannuation Powers
The Committee reiterates the recommendation of its first report that the
Government explore the possibility of obtaining a referral by the states,
either formal or de facto, of their power over superannuation.
Recommendation 8.2: For Government Consideration
Corporate Trustees ISC/ASC Returns
The Committee further recommends that the ISC and ASC implement a
system of registration and filing where only a single return is required by
corporate trustees of superannuation funds.
Recommendation 9.1: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Collection and Use of Tax File Numbers (TFNs)
The Committee recommends that the SIS legislation be amended to allow
superannuation funds to collect member TFNs, subject to member
consent, from the date the Bill receives Royal Assent. In addition, the
Committee recommends that the SIS legislation be amended to allow
superannuation funds, to use TFNs for taxation and transfer of benefits
purposes.
Recommendation 10.1: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Exemption of States from SIS Provisions
The Committee recommends that the Bill be amended to exempt the
States and the Northern Territory. It is further recommended that, if
required, the ITAA and the Superannuation Guarantee Charge
(Administration) Act be amended to ensure that existing
treatment/coverage for certain state superannuation schemes under those
Acts is maintained.


Recommendation 11.1: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
ISC Discretions and Reporting to Parliament
The Committee recommends that having regard to the impact of the SIS
legislation on the superannuation industry, the Government amends the
SIS legislation to have the temporary powers of modification and
exemption for the ISC continued until 1 July 1996. The Committee
recommends that during this period the ISC develop definitive guidelines
on discretions to replace the existing broad powers.
The Committee further recommends that the ISC report annually to
Parliament on the frequency, incidence and nature of the exercise of its
discretions.
Recommendation 11.2: For Government Consideration
Unclaimed Money - State and Commonwealth Legislation
The Committee recommends that the Government negotiate with the
States and the Northern Territory with a view to agreeing to amendments
to the SIS and relevant state legislation to enable Commonwealth
legislation on unclaimed superannuation moneys to operate to the
exclusion of state law.
Recommendation 11.3: For Government Consideration
Exclusion of Board Members of Trustee Companies
The Committee recommends that the ISC liaise with the ASC with a view
to overcoming the exclusion of board members of trustee companies from
participating in the company's conduct as trustee of a superannuation
fund by the operation of section 232A of the Corporations Law.


Recommendation 12.1: Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Definition of Market Value
The Committee recommends that the Government amend the SIS
legislation to insert the following definition of 'market value':
Market Value is the estimated amount for which an asset should
exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing
seller in an arm's length transaction after proper marketing wherein the
parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudentially and without
compulsion.
Recommendation 12.2 Amendment to the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Bill 1993
Dates of Election for Regulated Funds
The Committee recommends that the Senate agree to a Government
amendment extending the dates of elections for superannuation funds to
become regulated funds under SIS according to the following schedule:
Type of fund Last Date of Election
Governed by statute 30 June 1995
Less than five members 31 December 1994,
or on the last day of its 1994/95 year
of income, whichever comes first
More than five members
28 July 1995


Recommendation 13.1: Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Consequential Amendments Bill 1993
Definition of Value of Property in Bankruptcy
The Committee recommends that the Consequential Amendments Bill be
amended to include a definition of 'the value of the property1, which
outlines a method of valuation and specifies a point in time at which the
valuation is to occur.
Recommendation 16.1: Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill
1993
Jurisdiction of Tribunal to Review Prior Decisions of Trustees
The Committee recommends that the Government regulate to exclude
from the Complaints Tribunal those matters involving trustee decisions,
made prior to the commencement of the Superannuation (Resolution of
Complaints) Act, as to who is entitled to a benefit which has already been
paid.
Recommendation 16.2: For Government Consideration
Exclusion of Certain Matters by Regulation
The Committee recommends that the Government not exclude from the
Tribunal's jurisdiction, the parts of a complaint involving issues of
procedural fairness and the legal interpretation of the terms 'disability1 in
a deed.
Recommendation 17.1: For Government Consideration
Establishment of Independent Superannuation Consumer Advisory
Service
The Committee recommends that the Government consider supporting
the establishment of an independent superannuation consumer advisory
service by way of grants from Consolidated Revenue over three years.
The Committee further recommends that the Government review the
funding arrangement with a view to industry assisted funding after the
expiry of the three year period.


Recommendation 18.1: Recommendation for Amendment to the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993
Standard of Proof for Tribunal Decision
The Committee recommends the Bill be amended to specify that the
degree of satisfaction required for the Tribunal to affirm a decision
pursuant to clause 37(2) of the Bill is that of reasonable satisfaction, that
is, satisfaction on the balance of probabilities.
Recommendation 18.2: For Government Consideration
Notifying Members of Rights of Review of Trustees Decisions
The Committee recommends that the ISC address the issue of notifying
members of their right to have an adverse decision of a trustee reviewed
by the Superannuation Consumer Complaints Tribunal.




CHAPTER 1 : INTRODUCTION
Introduction
Reappointment of the Committee
1.1 On 13 May 1993 the Senate resolved that the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation be reappointed to allow it to complete three
matters which had not been finalised when the 1993 federal election was
called.1 Subsequently, on 19 May 1993, four additional matters were
referred to the Committee, namely:
• legislation to implement the recommendation in the Committee's
first report, Safeguarding Super,
• increasing superannuation contribution from nine to 12 per
cent;
• the interaction between allocated pensions and the social
security system; and
• the use of superannuation funds to finance the purchase of
housing by fund members.
1.2 In referring these new terms of reference the Senate resolved that
the Committee report on or before the last sitting day of each of the budget
and autumn sittings until the end of the Parliament or until the Committee
presents its final report, whichever first occurs.
1.3 The Committee commenced its inquiry into these four matters by
placing advertisements in a number of key newspapers and journals inviting
written submissions. In addition, it contacted more than 500
persons/organisations who had expressed an interest in being on the
Committee's mailing list which was compiled during the inquiry on its
original terms of reference.
1
Appendix A is a list of the Committee's reports since its establishment in June
1991.


Referral of the Bills
1.4 Following the introduction of the Superannuation Industry
Supervision Bills (SIS Bills) into the House of Representatives on 27 May
1993, the Committee agreed that at the earliest opportunity it should
convene a series of public hearings. The SIS Bills package comprises:
1.5 In essence, the SIS Bills represent the Government's response to the
recommendation of the Committee's first report, Safeguarding Super. On
5 October 1993, following the introduction of two of the Bills into the
Senate, the Senate resolved that the Committee present its report on or
before the last sitting day in October 1993.


Conduct of the Inquiry
1.6 Having taken evidence on the need to increase the prudential control
and supervision of superannuation funds during its initial period of
appointment, the Committee was well placed to comment on the provisions
of the Bills. In order to gain a better understanding of the more complex
and possibly controversial aspects of the Bills, the Committee convened
public hearings in Melbourne (22 September), Sydney (23 September) and
Canberra (24 September). During these hearings 214 pages of oral evidence
was taken from persons/organisations who had made a written submission
(see Appendix B). Appendix C includes a list of witnesses who appeared at
the public hearings.
1.7 In order to facilitate wider discussion of the Bills, the Committee
agreed that unless otherwise ordered, written submissions would be
published on receipt. Likewise, the Committee circulated uncorrected
Hansard transcripts as they became available. References to oral testimony
are to page numbers in these Hansard proofs. These appear in footnotes as
'Evidence p xx'. Written submissions to the inquiry appear as 'SIS Sub
No xx'.
Appreciation
1.8 The Committee records its appreciation of the written submissions
and oral evidence to this inquiry. The Committee also acknowledges the
cooperation of the Parliamentary Secretary, Senator the Hon Nick Sherry,
and officers of the Insurance and Superannuation Commission who attended
the public hearings. Further, the Committee acknowledges the cooperation
of the Parliamentary Secretary responsible for the ISC, the Hon Gary Johns
MP, for providing the Committee with further informal briefings by ISC
officers, and for publishing Government amendments to the Bills prior to
their introduction in the House of Representatives and before the
Committee's public hearings on the Bills. This greatly assisted the
Committee's examination of a number of matters germane to the inquiry.
The Committee appreciates the technical research support provided by the
Parliamentary Research Service.


Structure of the Report
1.9 Chapter 2 of the report gives an overview of the package of Bills
(hereafter referred to as the SIS Bills). Chapters 3 to 12 have been devoted
to the principal bill, the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993.
The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential Amendments Bill
1993, which inter alia will protect superannuation interests in cases of
bankruptcy, is examined in Chapter 13. Chapters 14 to 18 address the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993. In Chapters 4 to 18
there are both recommendations for amendments to the Bills and
recommendations for Government consideration and response. The
Committee recommends that the package of Bills be agreed subject to these
recommendations for amendment.
1.10 Following Chapter 18 there is a minority report on clause 64 of the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993 which has been prepared
by the Government Members of the Committee, Senators Childs, Evans and
West. This report recommends that recommendation 4.1 not be agreed to.


CHAPTER 2:
THE SIS BILLS: AN OVERVIEW
The SIS Bills: An Overview
2.1 The package of SIS Bills is designed to increase significantly the
prudential control and protection of the superannuation industry and
substantially strengthen the security of superannuation savings. The Bills
provide for a number of significant changes which will affect the consumers
of superannuation products and services. Under the SIS legislation
consumers will have access to a low cost dispute resolution mechanism and
have benefits automatically rolled-over when they transfer or leave
employment.
2.2 The Bills represent the culmination of an intensive and prolonged
examination of the regulation of superannuation by a number of government
agencies, the Australian Law Reform Commission and the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation during the past two years. To a large extent
the changes proposed in the Bills are the result of Government initiatives
to implement compulsory superannuation coverage and an increasing
recognition within the community that superannuation savings should be
subjected to tighter prudential and supervisory controls.
2.3 In its first report, Safeguarding Super, the Committee recommended
far reaching change in the superannuation industry designed to safeguard
retirement income savings. Whilst the Committee acknowledged there had
only been a small number of fund failures, it stated that it was conscious
that increases in superannuation savings will inevitably attract operators who
will seek to use superannuation moneys for their own use. Accordingly, the
Committee called on the Government to implement measures to minimise
the risk of fraud, misappropriation and bad management practices.
2.4 In a number of its reports the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation has affirmed its belief that the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC) should be given increased regulatory
powers and assume the status of prime regulator of all
superannuation-related personal and collective investments. The Bills
provide for the ISC to have this enhanced regulatory power over the
$169 billion national stock of superannuation assets.


Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993
2.5 This Bill is the most important of these seven SIS Bills and is
designed to:
• increase the level of prudential protection provided to the
superannuation industry;
• increase the security of superannuation savings; and
• increase the protection and rights of superannuation fund
members.
2.6 This Bill was the subject of the overwhelming majority of the 95
written submissions received by the Committee. In Chapters 4 to 12 the
Committee examines in detail the key issues which arose during the inquiry
in connection with the Bill.
2.7 The Committee recommends that this Bill be passed subject to the
amendments in Chapters 4 to 12.
Superannuation Industry (Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993
2.8 This Bill will establish arrangements for the resolution of complaints
made by members and beneficiaries of superannuation and approved deposit
funds regarding the decisions of trustees. It provides for a low-cost dispute
resolution mechanism for the superannuation industry.
2.9 The Committee received evidence on this Bill from industry,
consumer and government sources and has made recommendations and
observations which appear in Chapters 14 to 18.
2.10 The Committee recommends that the Bill be passed subject to the
amendment in Chapter 18.


Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential Amendments Bill 1993
2.11 This Bill makes amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936
and other Acts arising from the repeal of OSSA. Another feature of this Bill
is that it amends the Bankruptcy Act 1966 to specify the extent to which
superannuation and life insurance moneys are protected in the event of
bankruptcy. Chapter 13 examines the submissions on this proposal.
2.12 The Committee recommends that this Bill be passed subject to the
amendment in Chapter 13.
Occupational Superannuation Standards Amendment Bill 1993
2.13 This Bill repeals the provisions of the Occupational Superannuation
Standards Act 1987 (OSSA) which have been replaced by the prudential
compliance standards of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill
1993. Also, it provides for new arrangements to collect levies to operate the
scheme to protect funds affected by fraud and to administer the rolled-over
benefits funds. Further, the Bill changes the title of OSSA to the
Superannuation Entities (Taxation) Act 1993.
2.14 The Committee recommends that this Bill be passed without
amendment.
Superannuation (Financial Assistance Funding) Levy Bill 1993
2.15 This Bill provides for a levy on superannuation funds and approved
deposit funds to provide financial assistance to any funds that suffer loss as
a result of fraud or theft.
2.16 The Committee recommends that this Bill be passed without
amendment.
Superannuation Supervisory Levy Amendment Bill 1993
2.17 This Bill amends the Superannuation Supervisory Levy Act 1991 as
a result of amendments to certain sections of OSSA.


2.18 The Committee recommends that this Bill be passed without
amendment
Superannuation (Rolled-Over Benefits) Levy Bill 1993
2.19 This Bill provides for the imposition of levies on certain
superannuation funds for the purposes of recouping the cost of maintenance
by the ISC of a register of certain rolled-over benefits.
2.20 The Committee recommends that this Bill be passed without
amendment.


CHAPTER 3:
SUPERANNUATION INDUSTRY
(SUPERVISION) BILL 1993
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993
3.1
This is the principal Bill in the SIS Bills package and is designed to:
• increase the level of prudential protection provided to the
superannuation industry;
• increase the security of superannuation savings; and
• increase the protection and rights of superannuation fund
members.
3.2 To establish a comprehensive framework of prudential supervision
the Bill encompasses a broad range of matters including:
• constitutional powers and types of superannuation funds;
• trustees, members, employers, investments and reserves of
superannuation funds;
• fund administration, return of surplus and unclaimed benefits;
• obligations of auditors and actuaries;
• losses from fraud or theft, penalties and removal of
superannuation tax concessions; and
• public sector superannuation schemes, the role of the ISC and
transitional provisions.


Responsibility
3.3 The ISC will have the responsibility of implementing the provisions
of the Bill and will play the major role in the prudential supervision of
superannuation funds. It will have the power to audit and investigate funds
and it will be an offence to deliberately mislead or deceive the ISC.
Constitutional requirements
3.4 To be eligible for concessional tax treatment under the SIS Bill,
superannuation funds will need to be legislated pursuant to either the
pensions or the corporations powers of the Constitution.
3.5 The pensions power requires that the fund has the sole or dominant
purpose of providing old age pensions, whilst the corporations power
requires that the trustee is a trading or financial corporation. Where either
of these are met the fund must make an irrevocable election to the
Commissioner of the ISC to have the provisions of the SIS Bill apply to the
fund. This will enable superannuation funds to be regulated by
Commonwealth legislation.
Trustees - appointment, duties, powers and protection
3.6 Only suitable persons shall be allowed to be appointed as trustees.
Under the Bill bankrupts or persons with a conviction of an offence
involving dishonest conduct will not be permitted to be appointed as a
trustee. Funds will need to provide and publish to members procedures for
the appointment and removal of trustees.
3.7 The Bill seeks to codify the duties of trustees so that they cannot be
avoided or modified. These duties require trustees to act honestly, exercise
diligence and care, formulate and implement investment strategies, keep
trust accounts separate, exercise prudential management over any trust
reserves and allow a beneficiary access to any prescribed information or
documents.
3.8 The SIS Bill also sets out the powers that trustees can exercise in
order to carry out their duties. Under the SIS provisions, the trust deed
must not permit the trustee to be subject to direction by any other person,


permit a discretion to be exercised in relation to the fund without the
consent of the trustee or permit the governing rules of the trust to be
amended without the consent of the trustee.
3.9 In addition, the Bill outlines protection that is available for trustees
in carrying out their duties which includes indemnity from fund assets for
any liabilities incurred as a trustee. This indemnity does not extend to
dishonesty, wilful or reckless negligence, or a criminal or civil penalty
imposed for a breach of the legislation.
3.10 Trustees will also have the right to seek professional advice, the cost
of which can be paid out of the fund. Trustees will be protected against
victimisation to ensure that they are not pressured or coerced into doing
things against the best interests of beneficiaries.
Members of superannuation funds - representation
3.11 The Bill provides a choice for member representation on the trustee
board of employer sponsored funds. The choice is either equal
employer/employee representation on the board of trustees or a professional
trustee. The equal representation requirements do not apply to funds with
fewer than five members.
3.12 Professional trustees must be licensed with the ISC and be companies
that have at least a certain prescribed level of net tangible assets. The
Government has foreshadowed that, initially, it will regulate to set the
minimum level at $5 million.
3.13 Where a member has an inquiry or complaint the trustee must
establish a procedure to ensure that the complaints or inquiries are dealt
with within 90 days. Where a member is still dissatisfied they can complain
to the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal to be established under the SIS
legislation.
Employers
3.14 The Bill provides that where an employer is unhappy with the way
the fund is being managed, and believes that it will no longer be a suitable
fund for the employees, the employer can cease contributions without this
constituting possible victimisation of the trustee.


3.15 Where an employer deducts superannuation contributions from an
employee's salary, the contributions must be remitted to the fund within 28
days following the month in which the deduction was made.
Superannuation funds - investments and managers
3.16 To ensure that superannuation funds are properly invested and
managed, trustees must appoint investment managers. Restrictions will be
placed on who can be appointed as an investment manager. Companies
cannot be appointed as investment managers where a director or executive
has been involved in an offence involving dishonesty, or if they are in
receivership. Where an investment manager takes custody of assets they
must be companies of substance, with at least $5 million in net tangible
assets2.
3.17 Trustees must formulate investment strategies for their funds which
must be communicated to members. All investments must be made at arms
length to ensure that they are genuine investments, whilst in-house assets are
to be restricted to no more than five per cent of the market value of the
fund. In-house assets are investments in an employer sponsor or associate.
Prohibition on certain superannuation fund investments
3.18 Superannuation funds will be prohibited from providing loans to
members or relatives or from acquiring assets from members or relatives. In
addition, funds shall not be allowed to borrow money. An exemption from
this prohibition will be allowable where the fund borrows to make a
payment to a beneficiary which it is required to make under law, but only
where the borrowing term does not exceed 90 days and the amount
borrowed does not exceed ten per cent of the value of the fund. No
exemption will apply where the fund is an Approved Deposit Fund (ADF).
3.19 A further exemption to this prohibition on borrowing will apply
where temporary borrowings are required to cover the settlement of
securities transactions.
3.20 Where a trustee maintains reserves, an investment strategy for their
prudential management must be formulated.
2
See para 3.12.


Fund administration
3.21 To ensure efficient fund administration occurs, the SIS Bill places
certain legislative requirements upon the business management of the fund.
These requirements include the keeping of minutes and records of all
trustee meetings for at least ten years, records of changes in trustees and
account keeping and production of annual reports. Trustees will be required
to file annual returns with the ISC within a prescribed period.
Obligations of auditors and actuaries
3.22 The Bill imposes certain disclosure obligations upon auditors and
actuaries. Where an auditor or actuary discovers a breach of the law or is
concerned that a breach may occur, they are required to inform the trustee
and request appropriate action be taken. Where no action is taken the
auditor or actuary must inform the ISC.
Losses from fraud or theft
3.23 The Bill provides that where a fund is facing difficulty in paying
benefits as a result of fraud or theft, it may apply to the Treasurer for a
grant of financial assistance. The grant would be funded by means of a levy
on the superannuation industry.
Public sector schemes
3.24 The provisions of the Bill are intended to apply equally to both
public and private sector schemes.
Unclaimed benefits
3.25 Unclaimed benefits will arise where:
• the beneficiary has reached the eligibility age for a
pension;
• the trustee determines that a benefit is immediately payable in
respect of the beneficiary;
• the beneficiary has not applied to have the amount of benefits
in the fund paid to him or her; and


• the trustee, after making reasonable efforts to find the
beneficiary, is unable to pay the benefit.
3.26 Trustees are required to pay unclaimed money to the ISC
Commissioner and provide the Commissioner with a statement of unclaimed
monies together with the tax file numbers of those to whom the unclaimed
benefits have been credited.
Eligible rollover funds
3.27 The Bill provides for the automatic rollover of certain benefits
between funds for members who cannot be located or have left a fund.
3.28 For an amount to be eligible for rollover, the trustee must have
determined that under the governing rules of the fund the benefit is
immediately payable in respect of a member, that 90 days have elapsed since
the benefit became payable and that at least two consecutive prescribed
reports to members of the fund have not been received by the member.
3.29 Eligible rollover funds (ERFs) will be required to notify the ISC of
all members on whose behalf they hold funds. The ISC will keep a central
register of these benefits.
Penalties under the Bill
3.30 The Bill introduces a regime of penalties against trustees who do not
act in accordance with its provisions. In the event that a trustee contravenes
a provision, for example insider trading, a particular penalty will apply. Four
categories of penalties for contraventions exist, namely:
• civil penalty;
• strict liability;
• fault liability; and
• civil liability.
These penalties can only be imposed by a court of law.
3.31 Contravention of a civil penalty requires the standard of proof in civil
cases, that is, proof on the balance of probabilities. The monetary fine does
not exceed $200 000. Where trustees contravene a civil penalty knowingly,


intentionally or recklessly they may be exposed to criminal prosecution and
be liable for up to five years imprisonment.
3.32 Contravention of a strict liability provision involves proof beyond
reasonable doubt, however the trustee has the defence of reasonable excuse,
that is, the trustee has taken all reasonable steps to prevent the
contravention occurring.
3.33 Contravention of a fault liability provision requires proof beyond
reasonable doubt that the trustees contravention was intentional or reckless.
3.34 Civil liability provisions are designed to allow beneficiaries to sue a
trustee for any loss they may have suffered by the trustee's contravention of
the provisions of the Bill.
Reversal of onus of proof
3.35 Generally in criminal prosecutions, the onus is on the prosecution to
prove all of the elements of an offence. In relation to the contravention of
some of the provisions of the SIS Bill, for example the insider trading
provisions, the Bill provides for a reversal of the usual onus of proof. This
means that, where a breach has occurred and a defence may be available to
the defendant, the onus lies on the defendant to establish that the defence
is available to the defendant.
Transitional arrangements
3.36 The SIS legislation will commence at the beginning of the 1994/95
year of income which for the majority of funds is 1 July 1994. The earliest
start date for any fund is the 1 December 1993.
3.37 Superannuation funds that were supervised by both the ASC and the
ISC before the SIS legislation will only be supervised by the ISC from 1 July
1994.




CHAPTER 4:
CLAUSE 643 -
PROHIBITION ON
SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
ACQUIRING ASSETS FROM
MEMBERS OR RELATIVES
Clause 62 - Prohibition on Superannuation Funds
Acquiring Assets from Members or Relatives
Clause 64 has arisen from the questionable practices of a
small section of the superannuation profession, who are more
concerned with the 'gimmicks1 of superannuation, rather than
the long term true benefits that superannuation provides.4
Introduction
4.1 This chapter examines one of the most controversial aspects of the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993, clause 64. The chapter
outlines the policy underlying clause 64, the submissions received on the
issue and evidence provided at the public hearings plus a recommendation
for an amendment to the Bill.
4.2 Of the total submissions received by the Committee on the SIS
legislation approximately one half were concerned with the impact of clause
64 which prohibits regulated superannuation funds from acquiring assets
from fund members or their relatives. Clause 64 is designed to take effect
from 27 May 1993 as an anti-avoidance measure to prevent superannuation
fund members selling assets to their superannuation fund in order to obtain
cash benefits. Such transactions, according to a number of witnesses, have
the potential to abuse the concessional tax treatment afforded to
^ Clause 64 was Clause 62 when the Bill was introduced in the House of
Representatives
John Fraser, SIS Sub No 40
4


superannuation funds.5 Further examples of the current abuse involve
members selling private assets to their fund, such as houses and boats in
order to obtain cash benefits. The ISC Commissioner, Mr George Pooley,
advised the Committee that there are a number of schemes in existence that
are designed to manipulate assets in this way.6
4.3 The early date of effect was achieved by way of amendment to OSS
Regulations. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has given notice
that it will move a motion of disallowance of this regulation.
Issues raised
4.4 The majority of written submissions received focused on the following
areas of concern with clause 64, namely:
• its complete prohibition is too harsh as it discriminates against
legitimate business transactions and small business activities;
• it prevents people from funding their own superannuation funds
and in particular discriminates against the self employed;
• it fails to take into account the same types of investments held
in different names;
• it appears easy to avoid simply by interposing another entity
between the superannuation fund and the member; and
• its imposition of a jail sentence for breaches is too severe.
4.5 The Committee heard further evidence in relation to the impact of
clause 64 at the public hearings. The evidence provided reinforced the
impression that many in the superannuation industry view clause 64 as a
draconian measure that is designed to 'crack a nut with a sledgehammer'.
4.6 Two witnesses, John Fraser and Tony Kincaid indicated that a
degree of confusion and 'woolly thinking' surrounded the development of
5
Tony Kincaid, John Fraser, evidence p 87
^ Evidence p 182


clause 64.7 Mr Fraser provided an example of the types of abuse that clause
64 is designed to prevent, such as the selling of assets to a superannuation
fund to overcome cash flow problems. He also gave some examples of how
clause 64, in its present form, can be rendered inoperative.
4.7 It was suggested by Mr Kincaid that one way in which clause 64
could be avoided would be to transfer assets of the same value into another
person's superannuation fund and have them transfer assets into your
superannuation fund. Written submissions also described in detail how
clause 64 could be avoided by similar means or by interposing a third party
between the member and superannuation fund, so that the asset is sold to
the third party and then on-sold to the superannuation fund. Once again,
although higher transaction costs are incurred, clause 64 could be easily
avoided.
4.8 The Committee also noted that there is an absence of empirical
evidence supporting the need for clause 64. This point was highlighted in
evidence provided to the Committee by the ISC who advised that their
position was based on information that a number of organisations were
providing advice on how to manipulate assets in a way that clause 64 is
designed to prevent.8
4.9 The Committee believes that to a large extent the problems which
have given rise to measures to prohibit funds acquiring assets from members
or relatives (clause 64) are the result of promoters who offer superannuation
arrangements which are at odds with the rationale of concessional tax
treatment afforded to superannuation. The Committee is of a view that the
Government should monitor closely the activities of these promoters with a
view to making their activities subject to the requirements and penalties of
clause 64 and other relevant provisions of the SIS legislation.
Alternatives to clause 64
4.10 A common feature of both the written submissions and the evidence
provided at the public hearings concerned suggested ways in which clause
7 Evidence p 89
** Evidence p 182


64 could be amended to enable it to provide an effective anti-avoidance
mechanism whilst enabling certain transactions between a members and their
superannuation funds to take place.
4.11 Alternatives to clause 64 focused upon the need of the ISC to
analyse the type of transaction rather than its source. Accordingly,
exemptions to clause 64 were suggested as a means of enabling the type of
transaction to be scrutinised to ensure that dubious transactions such as the
selling of paintings or holiday homes to the superannuation fund are
prohibited. Precedent for this treatment of these transactions, it was
suggested, could be found in Capital Gains Tax provisions of the Income
Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA)9.
4.12 The Committee noted that a major advantage associated with
differing between types of assets is that, prima facie, it would allow a
distinction between different types of transactions to occur. That is, the sale
of legitimate assets on a commercial basis to a superannuation fund would
be permissible, whilst the sale of assets that clause 64 is designed to prevent
would still be disallowed.
4.13 A major question that arose in connection with the exclusion of
certain types of assets is whether it would be preferable to specify what
transactions should be entered into or what transactions should not be
entered into. Evidence provided by John Fraser suggested that it would be
more appropriate to describe the types of investments that are acceptable
to a superannuation fund and specify that these transactions be carried out
on an arms length basis.10 In addition, a report could be attached to each
ISC return detailing where a member-orientated transaction was involved.
4.14 Another approach to changing clause 64 was suggested by Jim
Richardson, who recommended that the legislation specify what types of
assets cannot be acquired by a superannuation fund from a member or
relative of a member, for example such assets would include:
• jewellery;
• motor vehicles;
a
Greenwood Challoner, SIS Sub No 42
10 Evidence p 89


• boats; and
• a print, etching, drawing, painting, sculpture or similar work of
11
art.
4.15 In outlining these exemptions Mr Richardson drew attention to the
current definition of personal use assets, in section 160B of the ITAA 1936,
as a precedent for such exclusion.12
4.16 Strengthening of the sole purpose provisions of the Bill rather than
employing a blanket prohibition under clause 64 was yet another approach
which the Committee considered. The sole purpose provisions, as contained
in clause 60 of the SIS legislation, require the trustee of the fund to
maintain the fund solely for certain purposes. These purposes are divided
into core and ancillary purposes. Core purposes are those for which the
fund must be maintained, for example, the provisions of benefits to each
member of the fund upon reaching a prescribed age, although the member
has not retired.
4.17 Ancillary purposes are those for which the fund may be maintained,
in addition to the core purposes, for example, the payment of death benefits
wholly or partly to a member's estate.
4.18 As it is apparent that the SIS legislation is framed to allow clause 64
to complement the operation of the sole purpose test, it would appear from
a number of submissions that a more appropriate alternative would be to
provide certain exemptions from clause 64, whilst increasing the powers of
the ISC under the sole purpose test.
4.19 When providing exemptions from the operation of clause 64, regard
must be given to achieving a balance between its original objective and a
more equitable approach as outlined in the various submissions. Therefore,
it was argued, exemptions from clause 64 should only relate to the
acquisition of freehold or leasehold property which reflects true market
value, that is used wholly or exclusively in the business of the member, and
11
ibid
SIS Sub No 42
12


certain strictly defined marketable securities.13 In this regard the ISC
prepared a draft amendment which defines marketable securities. This
appears in Appendix D and includes a share; or unit; or bond or debenture;
or a right on option; or any other security; listed for quotation in the official
list of a stock exchange in Australia.
4.20 It could be argued that this would provide a seemingly more
equitable alternative which would allow superannuation funds to acquire
certain assets from members, whilst at the same time providing the
Government with certain checks and balances to ensure that the
concessional tax treatment afforded to superannuation funds is not abused.
The Committee acknowledges that strengthening the sole purpose test is a
move away from its traditional use. However, given the nature and impact
of clause 64, the Committee considers that some change is needed to
balance the competing interests which became evident during the inquiry.
Recommendation 4.11
The ( '■ MiimiUee recommend* that clause 61 be amended to ajk
typr* n isveis to be acq tilled by a sup&iimiitftiori fund from a n
relative el the member M nr ns length price.
These assets are Jo include only freehold or leasehold J^opei
reflects tide market value, that is*used wholly or exclusively m \ h
of the member t>r member's relative, phut certain Strictly defined n:
arj|ef£tble
The Committee^ |
strengthened t&.tn
provided undet cl
member otimeinbe
Wtfpm INH
| assets included in the-exempt ion
the superannuation fund Irotn a
Penalty for breach of clause 64
4.21 Another major issue surrounding clause 64 concerns the penalty for
a breach of the provision which can be up to two years imprisonment. A
13
COS BOA, SIS Sub No 49 provided the Committee with guidance on what type
of marketable securities could be included within the amendments.


common feature of most submissions on the matter concerned the
abhorrence at such a penalty, some describing it as totally inappropriate for
the offence involved. 4
4.22 When designing penalties for the breach of certain provisions, regard
must be given to the severity and nature of the mischief that the provision
is designed to prevent. The Committee noted that the imposition of a jail
sentence for a breach of clause 64 would appear to be excessive given its
intention.
Reco
4 be
amended to provide a maximum penalty of 200 penalty points (one penalty
point equals $100) and/or one years imprisonment
14
Greenwood Challoner, SIS Sub No 42




CHAPTER 5:
PUBLIC OFFER FUNDS -
CLAUSE 18
Public Offer Funds - Clause 18
'As Hope J. A in Parkes Management Ltd v Perpetual Trustee Co
Ltd (1977) ACLC 40-354 observed, the Manager's position in the
whole scheme is central to its existence and its removal in a very real
sense changes in an important way the character of the scheme'15
*We note that there are many management companies which are ill
equipped or unable to perform trustee functions or meet the capital
adequacy or net tangible assets tests proposal'16
Introduction
5.1 This chapter outlines the issues faced by public offer funds as a result
of the SIS legislation provisions for transitional arrangements and elections.
It describes the operation of a public offer fund and the reasons underlying
the single entity concept. There follows an analysis of the difficulties facing
public offer funds as to whether the trustee or manager should be appointed
as the single responsible entity (i.e. a corporate trustee) and the issue of the
irrevocable election to become a public offer fund.
5.2 Under the SIS legislation public offer funds (i.e. funds offering
superannuation products to individual members of the public) will come
under the prudential control of the ISC. Previously they were regulated by
the Australian Securities Commission (ASC). It is envisaged that these
15 Bankers Trust, SIS Sub No 36, p 4
Trustees Companies Association of Australia, SIS Sub No 33, p 2
16


public offer funds will be operated by a single entity being the corporate
trustee who may be either the fund manager or the trustee company. Under
Corporations Law these funds are operated under the joint control and
management of a trustee and a fund manager.
Public Offer Funds
5.3 A public offer fund is essentially any fund which is not a standard
employer sponsored fund unless a declaration has been made by the ISC
Commissioner to the contrary under clause 18(6). These funds are,
therefore, superannuation schemes offered to the public through a
registered prospectus. An indication of the money invested in public offer
funds and Approved Deposit Funds was provided by Mr Peter Hutley, who
advised that members of the Investment Funds Association (IFA), currently
manage $14 billion in these types of funds.17
Single entity concept
5.4 Currently public offer superannuation funds operate on a dual entity
basis comprising the trustee and the fund manager. A major objective of the
SIS legislation is to ensure there is a move away from the dual entity
structure to a single responsible entity, that is, either the trustee or the fund
manager should operate the fund.
SIS legislation
5.5 The SIS legislation is silent on the issue of whether, in the transition
from the present arrangements, the trustee or manager should become the
responsible entity. Instead it sets out the procedures for achieving single
entity status. These include, for example, how the trustee or fund manager
should give notice of retirement. The legislation does not provide for the
circumstances under which either the trustee or fund manager should retire.
17 Evidence p 127


Who should be the responsible entity?
5.6 The Committee has received a number of submissions on which party
should become the responsible entity for the superannuation fund under the
SIS legislation, most of which support the appointment of the manager as
the responsible entity. The reasons include:
• the manger will have committed substantial amounts of capital
and resources to the establishment and operation of the fund;
• the manager will have put its reputation at stake in relation to
the management of the superannuation fund; and
• the manager will have adopted specific strategies and
investments techniques for managing the fund.18
Collective Investments: Other Peoples Money19
5.7 The Committee has noted the recommendations made in the
Australian Law Reform Commission (ALRC) Report No 6520 concerning
the management of collective investments which stated:
The split responsibility presently prescribed by the law should cease.
The scheme operator should have a clear set of obligations, prescribed
by law, that it owes to the investors in the scheme. These would include
the obligation to act honestly in all matters concerning the scheme and
to prefer the interests of the investors to its own interests in all matters
concerning the scheme.21
5.8 The ALRC concluded that where agreement cannot be reached on
which party (the trustee or fund manager) should become the single entity,
ultimately the fund manager should assume that status.
18
Bankers Trust, SIS Sub No 36
19 The Australian Law Reform Commission (ALRC) - Report No 65 Collective
Investments: Other People's Money, AGPS, Sydney, 1993
20 ibid
21 The Law Reform Commission Report No 65 Collective Investments: Other
People's Money, 1993, Summary p 5


5.9 In contrast, the submission by the Trustees Companies Association
of Australia (TCA) argued against any unfair or arbitrary removal of
trustees22. TCA submitted that any removal of trustees would effectively
eliminate a layer of prudential control for the superannuation fund.
5.10 The Committee was advised that in many cases the promoter or
investors may wish to retain the existing independent trustee and that
existing funds management companies may be unable to meet the
requirements placed upon them by the SIS legislation, such as the proposed
$5 million capital adequacy requirement.23
5.11 The impression gained by the Committee through both written
submissions and oral evidence is that there is a need for a definite
appointment of either the trustee or manager as the responsible entity for
the superannuation fund, which should take place as soon as practicable
after the commencement of the SIS legislation.24 However, constitutional
and administrative considerations make the achievement of this objective
extremely difficult.
Constitutional issues
5.12 For example, the automatic appointment of a manager as the single
responsible entity raises certain constitutional issues about which the
Committee has received varying opinions. One view is that section 51(xx) of
the Constitution, the corporations power, does not permit the
Commonwealth to legislate for one of the competing parties to be approved
as the single entity.
5.13 Another view, which was contested, was that the automatic
appointment of a fund manager may constitute an acquisition of property
(that is, for example, the denial of a trustee's commission) by the
Commonwealth of a kind which requires just terms' within the meaning of
section Sl(xxxi).25 26
22
SIS Sub No 33
ibid
23
24 MLC Investments, SIS Sub No 86, also advised the Committee of the need to
have a streamlined solution to the transitional issue from dual to single entity,
as did Potter Warburg Asset Management, SIS Sub No 89, and Sly & Weigall
SIS Sub No 79.
IFA, SIS Sub No 37 (Freehill's opinion) - See Appendix E
25


5.14 The Committee believes that the lack of legal certainty in this area
is sufficient to warrant caution. To act decisively in favour of either the fund
managers or the trustee companies may subject the Commonwealth to a
legal challenge involving substantial claims for compensation. Accordingly,
the Committee does not recommend the automatic appointment of either
the trustee or manager as the single responsible entity for the fund.
Alternatives to automatic appointment
5.15 The Committee considered the option of providing grandfathering
provisions to enable the trustee and fund manager to continue their current
dual entity arrangement until one party becomes the single entity at a
predetermined date in the future. This would involve the existing scheme
not accepting any new members and a new scheme being created into which
members of the existing scheme could transfer. However, given the need for
stability and certainty within the superannuation industry this option is
unnecessarily complex and time consuming and therefore has limited merit
only.
5.16 Another approach would be to convene a meeting of members of the
fund to determine their choice of who should be the single entity.27 The
Corporations Law currently provides for the removal of the trustee or fund
manager by a resolution of 50 per cent or more of the value of units in the
trust. However, many trust deeds have separate removal provisions which
may favour trustees.
5.17 In some funds the removal of the fund manager may only require an
ordinary resolution, being 50 per cent of a certain unitholders votes. Whilst
the trustee removal may require a special resolution, being 75 per cent of
a certain percentage of unitholder votes.29 The removal of a fund manager
under these circumstances would appear to be inequitable. The Committee
noted the Law Reform Commission Report No 65,30 which provided for
the appointment of either the trustee or fund manager under the transitional
26 Attorney General's Department, Chief General Counsel's opinion of 21 October
1993 - Appendix F
27 Bankers Trust, op cit
28 ibid, p 4
ibid
ALRC, op cit
30


arrangements for collective investments. The Report recommended that
within 18 months application of one party to remove the other party can be
made to the ASC, provided the other party agrees. If this does not occur
within 18 months the Report recommended that the manager be
automatically appointed.
5.18 Whilst this solution might appear to provide certainty it is predicated
on the possible removal of one of the competing parties, a course of action
already described as having potentially adverse outcomes for the
Commonwealth (see para 5.13).
5.19 The Committee was advised of another solution in an additional
submission made by the Investment Funds Association which recommended:
that additional covenants be inserted in the Corporations Law which
place the manager on even footing with trustee by allowing it to request
the trustee to retire if the manager believes that it is in the best
interests of unitholders that further interests in the scheme are able to
be issued after 1 July 1994. Freehill's advice supports this action.31
5.20 The Chief General Counsel's opinion is that this advice does not
offer a solution in that it omits to expressly provide that the assets vest in
the management company and that if an express provision were made it
could be 'characterised' as a law with respect to the 'acquisition of
property'.32
5.21 Notwithstanding this, if a dispute arises between the trustee and the
fund manager it is of critical importance that neither party be or be seen to
be placed at an unfair advantage. For example, if a ballot is required to
determine single entity status, the right of one party to request that the
other stand down could give it an unfair electoral advantage. It is possible
that the party with the right under Corporations Law to request that the
other stand down may use this power to add moral and legal force in any
campaign to become the sole entity. The Committee believes that this is an
unsatisfactory arrangement.
31 IFA Additional material of 21 October 1993 to Sub No 37
32 See Appendix F


• §
t3iB::.G0ver'iimcrkt,-cS3fisideF ::am6ndmg: t he
ie public offer supef^nnyai;on tuna managers
it the trustee retire on the ^rotinds that |t is in
<ferv : l
Election to become a Public Offer Fund is irrevocable (Clause 18)
5.22 Under the SIS legislation, where a fund chooses to become a public
offer fund it must make an irrevocable election to do so. The Committee has
received a number of submissions stating that the necessity for the election
to be irrevocable is unnecessarily restrictive.33
5.23 It was submitted that circumstances may change and at a later date
the fund may wish to revert to an equal representation arrangement, for
example, as a means of avoiding the potentially higher operating costs
associated with public offer funds.34 In these cases it is the Committee's
understanding that the election may be revoked following a declaration by
the Commissioner that the fund is not a public offer fund under clause
18(6). This can only occur where the Commissioner is satisfied that the
internal corporate trustee will provide for equal employee/employer
representation.
5.24 Mercers submission proposed that this should be clarified in the
legislation.35 The Committee was unable to form the opinion that this is
necessary for the reason that clause 18(6) provides adequate scope for the
revocation of the election.
33
34
William M Mercer, SIS Sub No 72
ibid
ibid
35




CHAPTER 6:
FUND MANAGERS AND
CUSTODIANS
Fund Managers and Custodians
Introduction
6.1 This chapter addresses the impact of the SIS legislation on both fund
managers and custodians, and makes observations and recommendations on
the following issues:
• borrowing;
• definition of custodian and investment manager;
• capital adequacy requirements;
• removal of investment manager;
• dismissal of custodians for breach of eligibility requirements; and
• 'soft dollar' or undisclosed commissions in funds management.
Borrowing - clause 65
6.2 Prior to amendments introduced into the House of Representatives
on 27 September 1993, the SIS legislation allowed superannuation funds to
borrow in exceptionally limited circumstances only. More specifically the
clause allowed superannuation funds to borrow up to ten percent of fund
assets for up to 90 days for the purposes of paying a benefit where there
was a cash flow problem. However, the amendments now allow
superannuation funds to borrow on a temporary basis to cover the
settlement of securities transactions and provide that borrowing can take
place where it does not exceed seven days and the amount borrowed does


not exceed ten per cent of the value of the assets of the fund. The
borrowing is further limited to circumstances where the need Svas not
reasonably foreseeable'.
6.3 The Law Council of Australia submitted that, due to the mechanics
of international financing systems, in many cases it was likely that short term
financing to settle transactions would be necessary.36 This view was also
expressed by witnesses from the National Australia Bank, who submitted
that, due to the nature of international trading activities, it is highly probable
that a funding mismatch could occur.37
6.4 Accordingly, the Committee believes that the words 'not intended'
should replace 'not reasonably foreseeable'. This would clarify the intent of
the legislation and take into account the realities of international financing.
Recommendati
The Committee recommends thai
it wa;> Viol intended' that thfc&m
clause 65 should be amended to substitute the words not intended' for 'not
reasonably foreseeable'. .
Definition of custodians and investment managers
6.5 The custodian's role is to hold the legal title of the assets whilst the
investment managers invest the assets of the fund to obtain the maximum
benefit for the fund members. Several submissions to the Committee raised
the concern that the definition afforded to both a custodian and an
investment manager were not clear and in practice could lead to a conflict
of duties.38 39
36
Evidence p 153
37 National Australia Bank, SIS Sub No 26
ibid
Bankers Trust SIS Sub No 28
39


6.6 The Government addressed this matter by introducing an amendment
in the House of Representatives defining a custodian as 'a person
performing custodial duties in relation to the assets of the entity, and is
designed to have the normally accepted meaning as given within the
superannuation industry’.40
6.7 The Committee believes that, whilst this change is in the right
direction, it still leaves in doubt the respective roles of fund managers and
custodians. For example, the current definition afforded to an investment
manager under clause 10 allows for no discretion to be made by the
investment manager between different investments. Therefore, this definition
may also cover some of the functions that are performed by custodians.41
6.8 Given the key roles that both investment managers and custodians
play in the superannuation industry, investing and holding assets for
superannuation fund members, it is vital that their roles be clearly
defined.42
Capital adequacy requirements - clause 120
6.9 Clause 120 provides that custodians must have a prescribed value of
net tangible assets, otherwise known as a capital adequacy requirement. The
Treasurer's press release of 27 May 1993, indicated that $5 million would be
the minimum prescribed value.
40 Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993, Clause 10
41 National Australia Bank, SIS Sub No 26
42 K Richards, SIS Sub No 52, alerted the Committee to the need under SIS for
the trustee of a small employer sponsored fund to obtain a dealer's licence when
dealing in securities, further advising that the ASC requirements made this
difficult.


6.10 It was submitted that, whilst being a means of ensuring that a
custodian is an organisation of substance, a blanket capital adequacy
requirement of $5 million dollars provides little assistance to fund members
should the custodian become insolvent, and is an altogether inadequate form
of prudential supervision as compared to other capital requirements such as
the risk weighting of assets43. Unfortunately, time limitations prevented the
Committee from exploring a viable system of asset risk weighting. This, along
with the option of having a simple scale of net tangible assets relative to
funds managed, could be considered by the Government when it is
preparing regulations to the implement capital adequacy requirements.44
6.11 The Committee noted that small funds, in cases where an investment
manager wishes also to act as a custodian, should they be unable to meet
the $5 million capital adequacy requirement, they can appoint an outside
entity to act as custodian provided that entity satisfies the capital adequacy
requirement.
-, | | jL* (
The Committee recognises tftfc hedtfTbf% capital adequacy requirement to
establish the substance of custodians and, to a lesser extent, provide a
financial buffer in the case of insolvency. The Commit tee recommends that
in drafting regulations the ISC continue to consider a more comprehensive
and flexible approach to the capital adequacy requirements for fund
managers and custodians.
Removal of investment manager - clause 118
6.12 Subclauses (1) and (2) of clause 118 set out when a person and an
individual or a body corporate becomes a disqualified person. A 'disqualified
person' is prohibited from being a fund manager or custodian. County
NatWest submitted that under clause 118, a body corporate is a 'disqualified
person' if any 'responsible officer', that is a director, secretary or executive
43
County Nat West SIS Sub No 65
44 AAPBS, SIS Sub No 76, submitted that the definition of an approved guarantee
be broadened to include an approved building society.


officer, has been convicted of an offence involving dishonesty or has been
the subject of a civil penalty under the SIS provisions. County Natwest
further advised that this 'strict liability' provision does not allow any
flexibility to take account of particular circumstances to allow the manager
to remedy the situation.45
6.13 This provision, therefore, has the potential to result in an investment
manager losing its entire superannuation funds as a result of a single breach
by an individual employee. The Committee believes that this consequence
appears to be unduly harsh. However, it is not unreasonable to expect that
any responsible officer who commits an act of dishonesty should not be in
a position of authority and that the ISC and the fund should be in a position
to remove such persons.
Reccmsmendation 6.4;
und
managers consequent to a responsible officer becoming a disqualified
m of
the
fund manager to remove the disqualified person from any financial dealings
Dismissal of custodians for breach of eligibility requirements - clause 120
6.14 The Committee also received submissions claiming that the provisions
involving the dismissal of custodians under clause 120 are too harsh.46 For
example, National Australia Bank submitted that where the custodian ceases
to comply with the eligibility requirements under clause 120, the trustee must
automatically dismiss the custodian.
45
ibid, p 20
National Australia Bank, SIS Sub No 26
46


6.15 In addition, clause 120 allows no time for the custodian to endeavour
to correct its position. This could result in harsh and unintended
consequences if the custodian only breaches the eligibility requirements
temporarily.
Recommendation ^ ^
Ibe Committee recommends that the Government monitor the operation
of SIS legislation io ensure that it does not result in any harsh or
unintended consequences for custodians who temporarily fail to satisfy
eligibility requirements.
II jjjj I v;
. ' .
*Soft commissions'
6.16 The term 'soft commission' refers to undisclosed commissions,
reimbursement for expenses incurred or non-monetary forms of payment.
The Investment Funds Association advised the Committee that, for example,
under this method of remuneration a funds manager may enter into an
arrangement with a stockbroker to provide a certain amount of business to
the stockbroker and that the funds manager may provide services in lieu of
the normal stockbroking fee.47 Such practices may also provide scope for
tax minimisation, as undisclosed commissions may not be included in the
broker's taxable income. Bankers Trust also advised the Committee on soft
commissions and following their appearance provided a copy of the AIMG
draft Practice Note of 23 September (see Appendix G).
6.17 On a number of occasions during its two year inquiry into
superannuation the Committee has stated that there should be openness and
transparency in the setting of fees, charges and commissions throughout the
superannuation industry in order that consumers of services are able to
compare relative prices and services. Unless sound reasons can be posited
in favour of the practice of charging soft commissions, the Committee is of
the view that the industry work on a 'commission only' basis. Failing this, the
Commonwealth, through its corporations powers, should legislate against
soft commissions.
47 Evidence p 133






CHAPTER 7:
AUDITORS AND ACTUARIES
Auditors and Actuaries
The efficacy of the SIS legislation realty stands on auditors being
independent and doing the right thing because after all members of
superannuation funds only have an independent auditor to have an
independent view - so that, what is said is being done, is being done
Introduction
7.1 This chapter addresses concerns raised by auditors about their role
under the SIS legislation. The Committee has reiterated its views on the
need to establish a register of superannuation auditors and a
recommendation is made on the appointment and termination of auditors.
7.2 The Committee did not receive any submissions from the actuarial
profession per se, or other interested parties, on the role of actuaries under
SIS. The Committee understands that auditors will rely upon actuaries to
issue certificates that the fund is fully funded. Under the Superannuation
Guarantee legislation actuaries are required to provide superannuation
funds with actuarial certificates under Part IX of the ITAA.
Auditors and Actuaries - Part 16
7.3 The Committee received a number of submissions on the role of
auditors under the SIS legislation, namely:
• the responsibilities being placed upon auditors under SIS are
too onerous;
48
Andrew Skinner, evidence p 139


• auditors need some form of protection from trustees who may
seek to influence their work;
• consideration should be given to appointing auditors for a set
term; and
• consideration should be given to implementing a system of
registration for superannuation auditors, although such auditors
would not need to be registered company auditors but, as a
minimum, show proficiency in superannuation.49
Auditor's responsibilities
7.4 A number of submissions suggested that under SIS auditors would
be placed in an invidious and overly-onerous position in that they would be
expected to discharge responsibilities beyond reasonable professional
expectations.50 The Committee noted these sentiments but concluded that
auditors will play a vital and critical role in maintaining the high standards
of ethical and prudent conduct in the superannuation industry and that the
SIS legislation should focus on this imperative. Amongst other things, this
is predicated on the need for the auditor to have an ongoing interest in the
conduct of the fund throughout the year and not be a 'mere visitor' after
balance date.
7.5 The Committee stresses that superannuation audits should be
conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards.
7.6 Under clause 126 of the SIS Bill, auditors are required to inform the
trustee when they form the opinion that it is 'likely' that a contravention of
the SIS Act or regulations 'may have occurred', 'may be occurring or may
occur'. This requirement is the result of an amendment introduced into the
House of Representatives on 27 September 1993, which amended the
original requirement in the SIS legislation that auditors must notify the
trustee if they form the opinion that a contravention 'may occur'.
7.7 The Committee believes that the amendment to ensure that the
auditor forms the opinion that it is 'likely' a contravention 'may occur' will
49 Andrew Skinner, SIS Sub No 27
ICAA/CPA's
50


assist in alerting auditors to make findings about undesirable investments
and accounting practices. In addition, it will provide a special focus for
auditors to judge whether a superannuation fund is operating according to
SIS standards.
Recommendation 7.1;
The Committee recommends that the ISC monitor closely the appointment
and termination of auditors in the superannuation industry and, if
necessary, advise the Government that legislation be introduced to protect
auditors from unjust or unreasonable termination,
Auditor protection
7.8 It was submitted that, given the 'expanded1 and 'proactive' role of
auditors as proposed in clauses 125-128 and the increased responsibility that
these provisions entail, auditors should be afforded greater protection under
SIS.52 Concern was expressed that the legislation did not protect auditors
from the 'whim of trustee’ change and that auditors who did not perform
'low cost' audits would have their services terminated. It was suggested that
the integrity and independence of auditors could be strengthened by
appointing them for 12 months or even longer periods.53
7.9 The ISC informed the Committee that it would 'look again at the
issue' but indicated that it had some 'practical difficulty' which centred on
the nature of the auditor's task which could involve one or two audits, ^a
single visit or on-going involvement in monitoring a superannuation fund.
51
Ms N Gallery, SIS Sub No 31, provided some interesting and noteworthy
comments on the information that members need and the role that auditors
should play in monitoring the quality thereof which the ISC could consider in
developing regulations and guidelines.
52 Andrew Skinner, Evidence p 111
Robert Brown and John Gorsh, p 143
53 ibid
Evidence p 194
54


Register of auditors and auditor removal
7.10 Further to recommendation 4.11 in its first report, Safeguarding
Super; the Committee again considered the proposal to establish a register
of superannuation auditors. Although the Committee agrees with this
proposal in principle it is concerned that, at this stage, given the large
number of superannuation funds and the differing levels of skills required
to audit the range of superannuation funds, a register of auditors would be
difficult to establish and administer.
7.11 However, the Committee notes the call by the ASCPA/ICAA Joint
Superannuation Committee to have the professional bodies manage their
own internal affairs in relation to the removal of auditors and the proviso
that the ISC Commissioner, if dissatisfied, can take appropriate action under
the SIS legislation.55 The Committee respects the rights and wishes of the
professional bodies to be able to manage their own internal affairs but
reiterates its position that it is in the public interest that superannuation
auditors be disqualified should they be in breach of fundamental duties. The
Committee believes that effective and on-going consultation between the
ISC and the professional accounting bodies is of critical importance to the
maintenance of high standards of superannuation audits.
. . 4IJ!
The Committee recommends that the ISC continue the pract
the professional accounting bodies where it has cause to t
auditor should be removed.* A. * *
7.12 The Committee noted the desire of the professional accounting
bodies to have the SIS legislation address the duties of auditors and
actuaries separately56, however, this evidence did not establish conclusively
any tangible benefits that would arise from such a distinction.
55 Evidence p 143
Joint ASCPA/ICAA submission
56


Recommendation 73:
The Committee further recommends that,' in accordance with the
Committee's first report Sa feguarding Super (Recommendation 4.11), the
-gain
the
register consist of persons who have completed the training prescribed by
the accounting professions.




CHAPTER 8
REGULATED SUPERANNUATION
FUNDS
Regulated Superannuation Funds
8.1 This chapter outlines the difficulties and consequences of provisions
in the SIS legislation for superannuation funds to become regulated
superannuation funds. A regulated fund is a fund which elects to become
subject to the provisions of the SIS legislation. Having become a regulated
fund, the fund is thereby entitled to concessional tax treatment.
Regulated superannuation funds - clause 19
8.2 Clause 19 of the Bill states the requirements for a fund to become
a regulated superannuation fund. Should these requirements not be met the
fund will not be a complying superannuation fund and will, therefore, not
be eligible for concessional tax treatment. The Bill sets out two alternative
tests for a fund to become a regulated superannuation fund. The trustee of
the fund must be a 'constitutional corporation' or a fund must be a 'pension
fund'.57
8.3 A constitutional corporation is either a trading or financial
corporation. The legislation assumes that a body corporate which acts as the
trustee of a superannuation fund is a trading or financial corporation by
virtue of that fact. The Treasurer's press release of 27 May 1993 stated that
'if the trustee is a body corporate then it is a financial corporation by virtue
of its activity as trustee of a superannuation fund, and so the fund falls
under the corporations power'.
57
Sly & Weigall, SIS Sub No 79.
A number of submissions commented adversely on their perception of the need
to incorporate under SIS.
Compass Financial Services, SIS Sub No 47
Allanfield Financial Services, SIS Sub No 74
The Committee noted that there is an alternative to incorporation, which
involves satisfying the pensions test.


8.4 It was submitted that judicial interpretation suggests that a body
corporate would not automatically be construed as a trading or financial
corporation.58 Ms L Slater drew the Committee's attention to the case of
the State Superannuation Board v Trade Practices Commission (1982) ISO
CLR 282 in which the test of whether a trustee constituted a financial
corporation was said to be based on the number, frequency and complexity
of the transactions undertaken by the trustee.59 Ms Slater indicated that
that some small superannuation funds operating under the corporate trustee
provision may have difficulty in achieving the standing of a trading or
financial corporation.60 At the request of the Committee the ISC provided
a copy of the advice on this matter prepared by the Chief General Counsel.
This appears in Appendix H.
8.5 Whether a fund could satisfy the old age pension test if all funds
were commuted and none taken as an old age pension was another
constitutional issue raised by the Law Council. The Treasurer's press release
which accompanied the introduction of the Bills in the Parliament states that
'such a fund is covered by the pensions power even if the effect of the
commutation option has been that in fact the fund has always paid out the
benefits as lump sum commutations'.
8.6 In its first report the Committee considered a number of longer term
measures needed to strengthen the constitutional base of any enhanced
prudential controls. Whilst acknowledging that there would be substantial
political difficulties, it was agreed that the most simple and direct regulatory
framework would be achieved by the referral by all states to the
Commonwealth, as provided by s51 (xxxvii) of the Constitution, of their
powers over superannuation. The Committee is still of this opinion.
Ilie Committee reiterates the recommendation of its first report that thl
Government explore the possibility of obtaining a referral by the states
either formal or de facto, of their power over superannuation.
58 Australian Law Council, SIS Sub No 28
59 SIS Sub No 28
Evidence p 149
60


Trustee registration requirements
8.7 The Committee also noted that the registration requirements placed
on trustee companies by the ISC and ASC may be excessive and that
consideration should be given to implementing a more efficient form of
registration to reduce compliance costs and unnecessary duplication of
administration. Having trustee companies prepare one single return which
is then used jointly by the ISC and ASC would promote efficiency. Under
this arrangement the ISC could remit any moneys owing to the ASC on a
regular basis.
Recommendation 8.2:
The Committee further recommends that the ISC and ASC implement a
system of registration and filing where only a single return is required by
corporate trustees of superannuation funds.




CHAPTER 9:
TAX FILE NUMBERS
Tax File Numbers
9.1 This chapter outlines the issues surrounding the access to and use of
Tax File Numbers (TFNs) under the SIS legislation. It concludes with
recommendations on the expanded use of TFNs in tracking superannuation
funds. The Government proposes allowing superannuation funds to obtain
and hold a member's TFN for the purpose of transferring it to an eligible
rollover fund (ERF). Under SIS legislation, provision has been made for the
automatic rollover of certain benefits between funds for members who have
left the fund or cannot be located. In addition, the ISC will maintain a
register of superannuation fund members whose benefits have been
deposited in an ERF.
9.2 The submissions received by the Committee focused on two major
issues involving TFNs, namely:
• the date at which superannuation funds can begin to collect
TFNs; and
• the purposes for which superannuation funds can use TFNs.61
TFNs - date of collection
9.3 Under the SIS legislation superannuation funds will not be able to
collect TFNs from members until the SIS legislation commences on 1 July
1994. The submission by Noble Lowndes proposed that superannuation
funds be able to collect TFNs from superannuation fund members prior to
1 July 1994 to enable the updating of relevant material and the collection
of TFNs prior to the commencement of the lost member provisions of the
SIS legislation.62 The Committee believes that there is merit in this proposal.
61
Noble Lowndes SIS Sub No 25
ASFA SIS Sub No 68
Noble Lowndes, op cit
62


Use of TFNs
9.4 The second major issue raised in connection with TFNs involved
their use by superannuation funds. Under SIS, TFNs can only be used in
very limited circumstances, for example transferring a benefit to an Eligible
Rollover Fund. However, where the fund is paying a benefit to a member,
it will still have to ask the member for the TFN, even though the fund
already has it.63 64
9.5 The submission received from the Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia (ASFA) proposed that superannuation funds should be
able to use TFNs for any purpose directly related to the conduct of the
fund.65 The submission by Noble Lowndes proposed that employees who
disclose their TFNs for employment purposes should also be deemed to
have disclosed them for superannuation purposes.
9.6 The Committee acknowledges that these proposals would streamline
the administration of superannuation. It is further acknowledged that the
lost member problem, which involves tracking small amounts of
superannuation for hundreds of thousands of employees (some of whom
may have as many as four superannuation accounts), needs to be addressed
in an effective and efficient way. However, the expanded use of TFNs gives
rise to a number of privacy considerations.
Tax File Numbers
9.7 The Privacy Commissioner has inter alia advised the Committee on
the collection and use of TFNs for superannuation purposes. The
Commissioner has expressed concerns about any extension of the use of
TFNs beyond the original policy intent of the TFN legislation, which
involved the ISC's access to TFNs based on the administration of the
'reasonable benefits limits'. The Commissioner believes the options of earlier
access to, and increased use of, TFNs by superannuation funds and the ISC
as being outside this original policy intent. Notwithstanding this, the
Commissioner gave qualified support for earlier access to and increased use
of TFNs. The qualifications include:
63
64
ibid
SIS Sub No 25
SIS Sub No 68
65


• that individual members are given notice of the practice at point
of first collection of the TFN;
• that individual members are notified of the purpose of collection
and any subsequent proposed uses;
• that individual members are informed that giving a TFN is
voluntary for the purposes of identifying members, who may
later need to claim benefits from an eligible rollover fund or the
ISC; and
• that individual members are given the opportunity to opt for a
specific collection for each authorised person.66
9.8 The Committee acknowledges these concerns and recommends that
they be taken into account in amending and implementing the legislation.
9.9 Of paramount importance in the expanded use of TFNs in
superannuation funds is the need for members to give express consent to the
purposes for which they are being collected.
Recommendation 9*1:
The Committee recommends that the SIS legislation be amended to allow
superannuation tods to collect member TFNs> subject to member consent,
from the date the Rill receives Royal Assent, In addition* the Committee
recommends that the SIS legislation be amended to allow superannuation
funds, to use TFNs for taxation and transfer of benefits purposes.
66
SIS Sub No 94




CHAPTER 10:
STATE SUPERANNUATION
SCHEMES
Tax File Numbers
'Because of the construction of the Commonwealth
Constitution, there are inherent difficulties in applying some
of the ISCs proposed powers to statutory schemes'.6
10.1 This chapter analyses the difficulties experienced in applying the SIS
legislation to state public sector superannuation schemes and concludes with
a recommendation for an amendment.
10.2 The Committee has received submissions from the Cabinet Office of
both Queensland and NSW, claiming that the SIS legislation contains a
number of provisions which undermine the power of the States to legislate
and make policy in regard to their public sector superannuation schemes.68
10.3 The focus of the submissions is the seemingly inordinate amount of
power that the SIS legislation provides the ISC to regulate state public
sector superannuation schemes. The Queensland Government submission,
for example, challenged the appropriateness of the ISC (a Commonwealth
agency) having the power to suspend or remove a trustee body (appointed
under a state law) and appointing a temporary trustee.69
10.4 The States submitted that as they already have a high level
prudential control and supervision under their own statutes, SIS provided
an unnecessaiy additional layer of regulation.70 In this regard the NSW
Government Superannuation Office provided information (see Figure 10.1)
on the prudential controls applicable to NSW public sector superannuation
schemes.
10.5 It was on the above grounds the States submitted that they be
exempted from the SIS provisions.
67
The Cabinet Office, NSW SIS Sub No 69
ibid
The Cabinet Office, Queensland, SIS Sub No 66
69 SIS Sub No 66, p 4
SIS Sub No 69
70


Source:
Paper presented by the NSW Superannuation Office on
23 September 1993.


Exclusion of public sector schemes
10.6 The Committee was further advised that should the states be granted
exemption from the SIS provisions, there would be two unintended
consequences:
Firstly, concessional taxation treatment would cease for fund earnings
and benefit payments from an exempted, and thus non-complying,
superannuation scheme. Secondly, this non-compliant status would
mean that employer contributions to exempted superannuation schemes
would not be recognised for the purposes of the Superannuation
Guarantee Charge (SGC) legislation.71
10.7 The joint submission recommended that either an amendment to the
ITAA (S267) and the SIS Bill (Clause 45) would be needed to ensure the
maintenance of concessional taxation treatment of public sector schemes and
the deeming of contributions made by employers to these schemes as
satisfying the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992
requirements.72
10.8 The Committee is in receipt of a letter from the Prime Minister to
State Premiers which proposes that compliance with SIS be automatically
required unless an exemption has been granted. Subject to certain
conditions the Prime Minister has stated that exemptions would be available.
These conditions include undertakings by relevant StateATerritory
governments:
• to guarantee the liabilities of the scheme by ranking the accrued liabilities
of the scheme equally with State/Territory bonds; and
* to ensure compliance with the main operative provisions of the SIS
legislation (vesting, preservation, disclosure and, where applicable, prudent
investment).73
10.9 The Committee acknowledges the difficulties that the States have
with the SIS legislation and agrees that amendments should be made to
71
72
Joint submission from NSW, Qld, WA, Tas and NT, Submission No 90.
ibid
See Appendix I
73


accommodate the right of state parliaments to legislate in the area of state
public sector employee superannuation. The Committee understands that
the states are prepared to adopt parallel prudential controls and supervision
which are consistent with the SIS standards.
Recommendation 10,1:
The Committee recommends that the Bill be amended to exempt the States
and the Northern Territory. It is further recommended that, if required, the
ITAA and the Superannuation Guarantee Change (Administration) Act be
amended to ensure that existing treatment/coverage for certain state
superannuation schemes under those Aets is maintained.


CHAPTER 11:
ISC POWERS AND CO-ORDINATION
OF COMMONWEALTH POWERS
ISC Powers and Co-ordination of Commonwealth Powers
Introduction
11.1 This chapter examines the following issues with respect to the SIS
legislation:
• ISC discretions and exemptions;
• unclaimed money provisions;
• the interaction between the Corporations Law and the SIS
legislation.
ISC exemptions and modification - Part 29
11.2 Under part 29 of the SIS legislation the ISC has the power to modify
or exempt the application of the provisions of the Bill, and the regulations,
once it has received Royal Assent. However, certain powers provided for
under Part 29 are of a temporary nature only and will expire on 30 June
1994.
11.3 The Committee was advised by ASFA that these powers be
continued at least in the formative years or until narrower criteria are
formulated.
11.4 A longer term view of the Commissioner's discretionary power was
posited by the Law Council of Australia. It advised that after 1 July 1994,
the anticipated date of commencement for SIS, trustees may erroneously
and unintentionally make decisions based on the standards of OSSA. With
this in mind Council argued that the Commissioner should have an indefinite
discretion where there is an unintentional breach of the new SIS standard.


11.5 The Committee acknowledges the Senate Scrutiny of Bills Committee
Report No 3 of 1993 (18 August 1993) in which concern was expressed
about the ISC Commissioner's power to exempt and modify the application
of the law without any set criteria or Parliamentary supervision.
11.6 The Committee is of the view that the legislation is complex, far
reaching and is being superimposed on a diverse and evolving industry. In
this environment it is reasonable to expect that the prime regulator, the ISC,
should have some discretion to ensure that the legislation is administered
both flexibly and equitably. However, it is of critical importance that the ISC
not assume the powers of the Parliament in legislating superannuation
policy. To ensure that this does not occur a system of reporting and
accountability needs to be instituted. Accordingly, consistent with the report
of the Scrutiny of Bills Committee, the Committee believes that the current
provision of the Bill be agreed to with an amendment that the ISC report
annually on the frequency, incidence and nature of the exercise of its
discretions.
Recommendation
.
discretions to
Unclaimed money provisions - Part 22
11.7 Under clause 219 a benefit will become unclaimed money if it is
immediately payable in respect of a person who has reached the eligibility
age for an aged pension and the trustee is unable to locate the beneficiary
after making reasonable efforts to do so. The Law Council raised the issue


of whether or not the unclaimed money provisions under the SIS legislation
would override the unclaimed money legislation of the States or
Territories.74
11.8 It was argued that should no provision be inserted, the unclaimed
money may have to be paid to the States and Territories. (That is, the
unclaimed moneys in superannuation funds would be subject to state
unclaimed money legislation before a member reaches pensionable age).
Recommendation 11,2:
The Committee recommends that the Government negotiate with the States
and the Northern Territory with a view to agreeing to amendments to the
SIS and relevant state legislation to enable Commonwealth legislation on
unclaimed superannuation moneys to operate to the exclusion of state law.
Interaction of SIS legislation with Corporations Law
11.9 Several submissions raised a concern that under current Corporations
Law a trustee company that is limited by Guarantee will have difficulties in
fulfilling its obligations to fund members due to restrictions placed upon
directors under section 232A.75 Section 232A operates to exclude a
director, who is a fund member in a company limited by guarantee, from
participating in Board decisions which relate to the company's conduct as
trustee of the superannuation fund. This also ^oses a problem for
representative trusteeship under the SIS legislation. 6
11.10 Where the directors of a company, who are not also fund members,
cannot form a quorum, a general meeting of the company will need to be
called to deal with these matters 77 The Committee acknowledges that the
current operation of section 232A of the Corporation Law may cause certain
74
SIS Sub No 28, p 13
75 Mallesons Stephen Jaques SIS Sub No 80, p 7
Sly and Weigall, SIS Sub No 79
76 Sly and Weigall, SIS Sub No 79, p 4
77 Malleson Stephen Jaques, SIS Sub No 80, p 7


problems for companies limited by guarantee who act solely as trustee of a
superannuation fund.
Rccnmm£iit&&£ian 11*3;
rl ; 1
I Kc i ’nimutcc (the: ISC iki
Ih $ i'ym.
..iiiominf
ptinic:ipatmji in the company* cundna a; trustee uj a *upenmmuUun diJ
the ppemiton i:4 >rmorj 232A xrf the C^rpflratfam Law ■


CHAPTER 12:
TECHNICAL MATTERS
Technical Matters
12.1 This chapter analyses a number of technical matters which the
Committee believes should be addressed, namely:
• lack of a definition for market value; and
• equal representation requirements for non-associated employers.
Market value definition
12.2 The Committee considered a submission from the Australian Institute
of Valuers and Land Economists (AIVLE) which proposed that a definition
of market value be inserted in the SIS legislation.78
12.3 The submission indicated that the definition of 'value' under clause
10 of the SIS legislation means 'market value' and includes 'amount'.79 The
SIS legislation, however, contains no definition of market value. The term
market value is used in other parts of the legislation, for example, in the in-
house asset provisions. The Committee has used the AIVLE definition of
'market value' in formulating recommendation 12.1.
The Committee recommends that the Government amend the SIS
legislation to insert the following definition of 'market value':
Market Value is the estimated amount for which an asset should exchange
on die date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an
arm’s length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had
each acted knowledgeably, prudentiaOy and without compulsion.
78 SIS Sub No 82
SIS Sub No 82, p 1
79


fiqual representation requirements for non-assodated employers - clause 90
12.4 The Committee considered a proposal that under clause 90,
superannuation funds that have Statutory Accounting Periods (SAPs), which
balance prior to 30 December 1993, may have difficulties in meeting the
equal representation requirements in non-associated employer-sponsored
superannuation funds. The Committee was advised that the funds
affected are those which have more than one employer sponsor, and have
at least one employer sponsor who is not associated with any of the other
employer sponsors.
12.5 The Committee acknowledges that funds in this position will be
placed at a disadvantage as they will have to comply with the equal
representation rules from as early as 1 January 1994, whereas other funds
will have until 1 July 1995 to adopt the equal representation provisions. The
Committee understands that the ISC will use its powers to exempt or modify
the legislation in respect of these funds. As it could be construed that such
a discretion exceeds the bounds of delegated legislative power, the
Committee believes that the ISC should report to the Parliament annually
on the nature and frequency of such exemptions or modifications. (Refer to
Recommendation 11.1)
Key Dates of Commencement
12.6 The SIS legislation provides that a superannuation fund must make
an irrevocable election, pursuant to caluse 19, to become a regulated
superannuation fund subject to the SIS provisions. Andrew Fairley advised
the Committee that practitioners and regulators would have difficulty in
meeting the demands of the 1 July 1994 date of election. He proposed that
the burden could be eased by having a later date of election for the
'excluded funds' (funds with less than five months).81
12.7 The ISC has advised that the Government has addressed these
concerns by extending the dates by which superannuation funds must elect
to become regulated superannuation funds. Funds whose governing rules are
in statute, will have until 30 June 1995 to make an election in accordance
80 William M Mercer, SIS Sub No 72
81 SIS Sub No 91, pp 1-2


with clause 19. Funds with less than five members will have until 31
December 1994 to make an election, whilst funds with more than five
members will have until 28 July 1994 to make the election.
Recommendation 12.2
The Committee recommends that the Senate agree to a Government
amendment extending the dates of elections for superannuation funds
to become regulated funds under SIS according ..to the following
schedule:
Type of fund Last Date of Election
Governed by statute 30 June 19 95
Less than five members 31 December 1994,
or on the last day of its
1994/95 year of income,
whichever comes first
More than five members 28 July 1995




CHAPTER 13:
THE SUPERANNUATION INDUSTRY
(SUPERVISION) CONSEQUENTIAL
AMENDMENTS BILL 1993
The Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Consequential Amendments Bill 1993
AMENDMENT OF THE BANKRUPTCY ACT 1966
Introduction
13.1 This Amendments Bill affects the property that is available to
creditors and that which is protected in bankruptcy; includes pensions as
defined in the SIS Bill as 'income' for the purposes Part VI of the
Bankruptcy Act 1966, and makes certain provisions in governing rules of
superannuation funds and approved deposit funds void.
Property available to creditors and property that is protected
13.2 Section 116(1) of the Bankruptcy Act 1966(the Act) provides for the
property of a bankrupt that is available for division among the bankrupt's
creditors. Section 116(2) of the Act lists property of a bankrupt that is not
available for division among a bankrupt's creditors.
13.3 Section 116(2) is amended by the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Consequential Amendments Bill 1993. These amendments
have two major effects. First, the requirement that policies of life assurance
or endowment assurance that are protected by section 116(2) must have
been in force for two years before the commencement of bankruptcy; and
the requirement that similarly protected policies for annuities must have
been in force for at least five years before the date of bankruptcy are


removed. Second, the new paragraph (2)(d) broadens the property that is
not available for division among a bankrupt's creditors to include
superannuation policies, the interest of the bankrupt in, or payment from,
a regulated superannuation fund or approved deposit fund. However, there
is a limit on the amount that can be protected by the new section 116(2)(d).
The proposed section 116(5) limits the amount protected by section
I16(2)(d) to the pension Reasonable Benefit Limit (RBL). The pension
RBL is determined in accordance with section 140ZD of the Income Tax
Assessment Act 1936. The RBL for the 1994-95 year of income is $800 000
and is indexed for each subsequent year.
13.4 The Committee is concerned that the removal of the time limits may
provide a means by which bankrupts can avoid creditors.
Part IV of the Bankruptcy Act 1966
13.5 Division 4B of this Part requires a bankrupt who derives income
during the bankruptcy to pay contributions towards the bankrupt's estate
and enables the recovery of certain money and property for the benefit of
the bankrupt's estate. This Amendments Bill adds to the definition of
’income' pensions within the meaning of the SIS Bill.
13.6 This Part of the Act allows a trustee in bankruptcy to assess a
threshold amount as necessary income for the bankrupt and the amount
received in excess of that figure divided by two must be paid to the trustee
for creditors. When taken in totality the proposed changes restrict a
bankrupt from taking advantage of the generous provisions relating to the
period before bankruptcy.
Certain governing rules to be void
13.7 The Bill proposes that a new section be inserted into the Act to void
any provisions in the governing rules of a superannuation fund of an ADF
which have the effect of cancelling, forfeiting, reducing or qualifying a
beneficial interest of a member who becomes a bankrupt, who commits an
act of bankruptcy or who executes a deed of assignment or arrangement.
The Committee notes that in Re Bond; Ex parte Ramsay (Hill J, Federal
Court of Australia, 30 November 1992) a forfeiture clause which purported
to defeat benefits to which a member had become absolutely entitled was


held to be void. The Committee also notes that this decision has been
appealed and a decision has been reserved by the Full Federal Court. The
Committee supports the amendment.
Submissions
13.8 The Committee received one submission concerning the provisions
dealing with bankruptcy in the Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Consequential Amendments Bill 1993.82
Breach of the sole purpose test
13.9 Mr Tony Marks of Macquarie Investment Management Limited
raised the issue of whether or not a trustee would be in breach of the sole
purpose test if the trustee made a payment of a benefit to someone other
than a member of a dependant83. The Committee notes that the
legislation does not deal with this matter explicitly. Clause 58(l)(b)(v) of
the SIS Bill however provides that an 'ancillary purpose' includes ’the
provision of such other benefits as the Commissioner approves in writing.'
It is anticipated that the Commissioner would use this discretion in
circumstances where a creditor sought to have access to that part of a
bankrupt's superannuation above the RBL. Alternatively, the trustee could
pay the bankrupt member their entitlement and the trustee in bankruptcy
could subsequently access the amount through the usual means.
'the value of the property
13.10 Mr Marks also raised the issue of the definition of the term 'the
value of the property'. He submitted that it is of particular importance for
there to be some certainty concerning the method of evaluation that is to
be used and the point in time at which the evaluation is to occur. He
submitted that the date that an individual is declared bankrupt would
provide certainty as well as avoiding complex and disputable calculations.
82
SIS Sub No 85
ibid
83


13.11 Mr Marks raised a number of other points relating to taxation
matters. Although these issues will need to be addressed, they fall beyond
the scope of the Committee's current terms of reference.


CHAPTER 14:
INTRODUCTION TO CONSUMER
MATTERS
Introduction to Consumer Matters
14.1 In the course of its inquiry into superannuation, the Committee has
identified a number of issues of particular interest to consumers where
reform is required. These issues will also be of relevance to providers of
superannuation who seek to provide a high standard of service to their
clients. Of paramount importance is the establishment and effective
operation of the proposed Superannuation Complaints Tribunal pursuant to
the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993.
14.2 Chapter 15 examines the structure of the disputes resolution
mechanism that will be established by the Superannuation (Resolution of
Complaints) legislation. Chapter 16 examines the type of complaints that the
Tribunal will have the jurisdiction to review. Chapters 17 and 18 examine
the predominant issues that have been raised in the course of the
Committee's inquiry.
14.3 In its first report, the Committee identified matters which may not
readily be understood and therefore might become the subject of a dispute
between a member of a superannuation fund and the fund. Some of these
matters relate to the entitlements of individual members. Other matters that
might be subject to dispute are of a more general character such as the
election of trustees, investment policies, the alteration of trust deeds and the
degree of employer influence over trustees.84
14.4 The Committee noted in its first report that the predominant view
was that there was a need for the establishment of an independent dispute
resolution mechanism that provided an alternative to the court system.
84 Safeguarding Super, June 1992, p 135
ibid, p 136
85


14.5 The Committee examined possible models for such an alternative
dispute resolution mechanism and recommended that it be mandatory for
all trustees to establish an internal dispute resolution mechanism. In respect
to the external review of trustees' decisions, the Committee concluded that
the decisions of trustees should be externally reviewable.
14.6 It was considered that a quasi-judicial statutory body could be
established to review trustees' decisions where the internal dispute resolution
mechanism had not resolved the complaint. Alternatively, it was considered
that an industry authority could be established. The Committee preferred
the latter and recommended that an industry review authority be established
with the power to ensure that trustees' powers had been properly exercised
and that all relevant evidence had been considered.
14.7 Notwithstanding the Committee's recommendation, the Government
has decided to establish a quasi-judicial statutory review body. This is, of
course, the proposed Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.
14.8 In August 1992, the Committee issued an Issues Paper entitled Super
Charges. In that Paper, the Committee again identified the need to examine
the establishment of a low-cost, external dispute resolution mechanism.86
14.9 In its sixth and seventh reports, Super-Fees, Charges and
Commissions and Super Inquiry Overview, respectively, the Committee
reiterated its earlier recommendation that a low cost and accessible external
review body should be established.87 88
14.10 The Committee's belief that a formal disputes resolution mechanism
in the superannuation arena is necessary was confirmed in its inquiry into
the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund. The
findings of the Committee are set out in its eighth report entitled Inquiry
into the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund.
14.11 The Committee received a significant number of written submissions
in relation to 'consumer issues' within its terms of reference. The Committee
heard evidence on these and other 'consumer issues' during the hearings on
these Bills.
Super Charges, August 1992, p 63
Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions, June 1993, p 48
Super Inquiry Overview; June 1993, p 37
s*>
87
88


CHAPTER 15:
THE SUPERANNUATION
COMPLAINTS TRIBUNAL
The Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
The Complaints Mechanism
15.1 The Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill (hereafter 'the
Bill') establishes a Tribunal, which is to be known as the Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal (hereafter 'the Tribunal'). The objective of this Tribunal
is to provide mechanisms for the conciliation of complaints between trustees
and members of superannuation funds and, where conciliation is
unsuccessful, for the review of decisions of the trustees to which the
complaints relate. The review mechanism is to be fair, economical, informal
and quick.89 Figure 15.1 shows the proposed mechanism.
The Complaint
15,2 The Tribunal cannot deal with a complaint unless the complainant
has attempted to have the dispute settled by way of the trustee's internal
dispute resolution mechanism established in compliance with clause 96 of
the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) legislation. A trustee is required
by that clause to establish arrangements for dealing with complaints and
inquiries within 90 days.
89
Superannuation (Resolution Of Complaints) Bill 1993, clause 11


Beneficiary/member makes
inquiry into or complains
about a decision of the trustee
in relation to the
beneficiary/member
Trustee to deal with the
inquiry or complaint within 90
days [clause 96 SIS]
Complainant [clause 15 S(RC)]
lodges complaint [clause 14
S(R Q]
in writing with Tribunal [clause
17 S(RQ1
Tribunal to attempt to resolve
complaint by conciliation
[clause 11 S(RC)] and parties
are generally required to act on
their own behalf
[clause 23 S(RC)j
Successful conciliation:
Written terms of agreement
lodged with Tribunal and
complaint treated as withdrawn
clause 31 S(RC)] _
Unsuccessful conciliation:
Review meeting of Tribunal.
Written submissions permitted;
no oral submissions as of right
[Part 6 S(RC)]
Determination that may affirm,
remit, vary or set aside and
substitute trustee's decision
[clause 37 S(RC)]_
Appeal to Federal Court on
questions of law [clause 46
S(RC)] _


15.3 Where the trustee's internal dispute resolution mechanism is
unsuccessful a complainant may lodge a complaint with the Tribunal. Clause
16 of the Bill provides that the Tribunal must help a complainant where they
need help in making their complaint.
Reviewable Decisions
15.4 Clause 14(1) of the Bill provides that a decision of a trustee of a
fund, made either before or after the commencement of the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act, in relation to a particular member or
former member of a regulated superannuation fund or a particular
beneficiary or former beneficiary of an approved deposit fund, is a decision
that the Tribunal has the jurisdiction to review. A decision of a trustee is
defined in clause 4 of the Bill as the making or failure to make a decision
by a trustee or by a person acting for a trustee.
Non-reviewable decisions
15.5 Clauses 14(2) and 14(5) provide that certain complaints are outside
the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Certain funds will be excluded from the
jurisdiction of the Tribunal and decisions of trustees of those funds will not
be reviewable by the Tribunal. Complaints relating to certain matters will
also be excluded. These excluded funds and excluded matters will be
prescribed by regulation.
The Grounds
15.6 Clause 14 provides that a complaint may be made about a trustee's
decision on three grounds. The grounds of review are that the decision was
in excess of the powers of the trustee, that the decision was an improper
exercise of the powers of the trustee or that the decision is unfair or
unreasonable.
The Complainant
15.7 Clause 15 is exhaustive in answering the question of 'who may make
a complaint?'.


15.8 In relation to a trustee's decision regarding the payment of a benefit,
clause 15(l)(a) provides that a person who has an interest in the benefit, or
a person who claims to be entitled to benefits through such a person, or
such persons' agents may make a complaint. Clause 15(2) sets out the
circumstances when a person does not have an interest in a benefit for the
purposes of clause 15(l)(a). Essentially, where a person who satisfies the
criteria of clause 15(l)(a) has been notified by the trustee of the proposal
to pay a benefit, and of the correct prescribed period of time in which to
object, and that person has not objected, that person does not have an
interest and therefore is not able to make a complaint.
15.9 In relation to a decision of a trustee that does not concern the
payment of a benefit, clause 15(l)(b) provides that a member or former
member of a regulated superannuation fund or a beneficiary or former
beneficiary of an approved deposit fund or such persons' agents or personal
legal representatives may make a complaint.
The Conciliation Process90
15.10 In the first instance, the Tribunal is required to attempt to settle a
dispute by way of conciliation. The Tribunal may arrange conciliation
conferences if it thinks it is desirable. These conferences may be conducted
by telephone or by other means of communication and statements at
conferences are privileged. Where a conciliation is successful and terms of
agreement are put in writing and lodged with the Tribunal, the complaint is
treated as withdrawn.
The Review Process91
15.11 Where a dispute is not resolved by way of conciliation, the Tribunal
is to convene a review meeting. Parties to the dispute may make written
submissions but may not make oral submissions unless the Tribunal so
orders. The Tribunal may inform itself of any matter relevant to the review
of a decision in any way it thinks appropriate. In its review of decisions, the
Tribunal has all the powers, obligations and discretions of the trustee.
90
Part 5 of the Bill
Part 6 of the Bill
91


The Determination92
15.12 The Tribunal is to make a determination in writing that affirms,
remits, varies, or sets aside and substitutes the trustee's decision. The
Tribunal must affirm the trustee's decision if it is satisfied that the decision
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Appeals93
15.13 A determination of the Tribunal is appealable to the Federal Court
on a question of law. Where a complainant does not defend an appeal
instituted by another party, the Federal Court may not order costs against
the complainant.
92
Clause 37
Clause 46
93




CHAPTER 16:
ISSUES: THE COMPLAINT
Issues: The Complaint
Reviewable Decisions
16.1 In its sixth report the Committee noted that a small minority of
consumer complaints were so serious that they constitute serious and wilful
malpractice on the part of a very small number of participants in the
industry. Accordingly, the Committee recommended that the proposed
Tribunal adjudicate on consumer complaints arising out of personal
superannuation contracts entered into after 1 July 1992, the date of
commencement of the compulsory superannuation arrangements, where
these have not been resolved at the company or industry level94.
'Retrospectivity
16.2 It was noted in paragraph 15.4 above that decisions of trustees made
either before or after the commencement of the Superannuation (Resolution
of Complaints) Act will be reviewable, unless otherwise excluded. This
provision was one of a number of amendments to the SIS Bill successfully
moved by the Government in the House of Representatives. The amended
provision reads:
"Complaints
14(1) This section applies if the trustee of a fund has made a
decision (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) in relation
to:
(a) a particular member....
(b) a particular beneficiary...."
(The amendment is shown in bold type.)
94
Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions, June 1993, paragraphs 3.85 and 3.9


16.3 Concerns have been raised by industry organisations that this
provision could create a double liability for trustees who have made and
acted upon decisions in relation to the payment of some benefits. For
example, in the case of a death benefit where a number of parties are
claiming to be entitled to the benefit, and the trustee has made a decision
as to who is entitled to the benefit, and has made the payment
accordingly.95 If the Tribunal determined that a different person was the
beneficiary, the trustee would be required to make a payment to that person
and then attempt to recover the money it initially paid out.
16.4 It was also submitted that 'trustees have historically been advised not
to enter reasons for their decision making processes, or the documents upon
which they have relied, into their minutes'.96 Trustees therefore may be
required to enter into the dispute resolution process with no record of why
the decision was so made and having forgotten the reasons that the
decisions were taken. Although this may be so in some practices, the
Committee accepts the submission of Mr Noel Davis that the common law
requires principles of natural justice to be applied by trustees when they
make decisions97, for example, in respect to disability claims. In support of
his submission, Mr Davis cited a decision of the New South Wales Supreme
Court, Chammas v Harwood Nominees Pty LtcPs. The Committee does not
accept that past poor practices by trustees are sufficient reason to deny a
complainant access to the Tribunal.
16.5 However, in some circumstances, it may be that where a decision has
been made by a trustee, prior to the commencement of the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act, in respect to the issue of who is entitled to
the payment of a benefit, that the Tribunal should not have the jurisdiction
to review that decision. This would arise only in circumstances where more
than one party is claiming the benefit and where the benefit has been paid
by the trustee. The Tribunal would retain the jurisdiction to review decisions
in respect of complaints made by the person who has been determined by
the trustee to be the beneficiary. The Tribunal would retain the power to
review decisions of trustees where a benefit has not been paid or where only
95
William M Mercer Pty Ltd, SIS Sub No 72
Andrew Fairley & Associates, SIS Sub No 91
96 Andrew Fairley & Associates, op cit, covering letter, p 2.
97 Evidence p 104, 106
(1993) 7 ANZ Insurance Cases 61-175.
98


one party is claiming to be the beneficiary, that is, where there is no risk of
a trustee being liable to pay out a benefit twice.
Recommendation 16.1
The Committee recommends that the Government regulate to exclude from
the Complaints Tribunal those matters involving trustee decisions, made
prior to the commencement of the Superannuation (Resolution of
Complaints) Act, as to who is entitled to a benefit which has already been
paid.
16.6 The legislation does not allow decisions of trustees going back for
many years to be heard by the Tribunal. The Bill provides a discretion for
the Tribunal to consider complaints relating to decisions of trustees made
more than 12 months prior to the complaint, but generally there is a 12
month cut-off." The Committee supports this component of the Bill.
Non Reviewable Decisions: Excluded Complaints
Introduction
16.7 It was noted above in paragraph 15.5 that complaints relating to
certain funds and matters will be excluded from the Tribunal’s jurisdiction.
The Government has stated that complaints relating to questions of
disability will be prescribed by regulation to be excluded from the Tribunal's
jurisdiction.100 There was some concern that complaints relating to life
office personal superannuation disputes may also be excluded however, the
ISC stated that '[t]he Government has said that the Tribunal is going to hear
those sorts of complaints'.101
99
ISC, evidence p 190
100 Attachment to Treasurer's press release of 27 May 1993, section 8, p 10
101 Evidence p 187


The debate surrounding the 'medical cases'
16.8 The Committee has received many submissions that express concern
about the proposed exclusion of complaints involving medical issues. The
consumers' concern is that if these type of complaints are excluded, the
complainants, in reality, will have no forum in which to have their complaint
heard. The Committee has also received submissions concerned that
disability claims would 'potentially overwhelm the Tribunal' so that 'the
Tribunal's time ... would be taken up in dealing with those matters rather
than the other sorts of matters which are envisaged to come before the
Tribunal’102.
Complaints involving medical issues - what are they about?
16.9 The types of complaints that are relevant to this debate are disability
claims.103 Within this genre of complaint three issues are normally
disputed or potentially open to dispute, namely:
• whether the trustees have followed the correct procedures in
reaching a decision, rather than, for example, having their
decision dictated by the insurer;
• the definition of 'disability' in the trust deed; and
• the medical evidence.104
16.10 The Committee did not receive any statistical evidence in relation to
the proportion of disputes in each category. However, Mr Davis advised that
'the majority of the disputes are over procedures and whether principles of
natural justice and so on are applied'. He further stated that disputes over
medical evidence form the minority of disputes.105
10~ Mr Lockery, ASF A, evidence p 89
103 ASF A, evidence pp 89-90
Mr Davis, evidence p 103ff
104 ibid
105 Davis, op cit, p 109


Correct Procedures
16.11 In discussing ’correct procedures', the Committee is referring to the
principles of procedural fairness which, as it was noted earlier, trustees are
required to observe. As noted above, the majority of disputes relate to
procedural fairness in trustee decision making.
16.12 In a submission from Ms Sonia Nolan, who has been involved in a
disablement dispute with a trustee, a number of the matters that can become
the subject of a such a dispute were identified. These included allegations
relating to procedural fairness, namely, the lack of consideration given by a
trustee to a member's treating doctors' reports and the disproportionate
reliance given to a trustee's doctors' reports; as well as inconsistencies in the
definitions of total and permanent disability in the trust deeds and the
'group life policy'; and the prohibitive expense involved with taking action
in a court.
16.13 In responding to the Committee’s inquiry as to the types of
procedures that might not be correctly followed, Mr Davis stated that
members could be denied the opportunity to respond to an adverse medical
report that trustees have obtained and based their decision upon. Evidence
was also received that it is not uncommon for trustees to rely upon the
decision of the insurer rather than making an independent decision. It was
brought to the Committee's attention that there is expert evidence to this
effect in a case that came before the New South Wales Industrial Court last
year, Femance v Wreckaii101.
16.14 It is the trustee who is required to make the decision as to whether
or not a member is disabled under the trust deed. To rely on the decision
of the insurer, the trustee as the decision-maker is allowing itself to be
dictated to, which in administrative law is a ground for review. It was
submitted that 'the Complaints Tribunal can have an important role to play
in ensuring that the trustees have followed the correct procedures and done
all that they should have done in deciding whether a member is permanently
and totally disabled'.108
106 SIS Sub No 13
107 Unreported, Industrial Court (NSW), 21 September 1992. Davis, evidence, p 104
ibid, Davis, p 105
108


Definition of 'disability' in the trust deed
16.15 The relevance of the meaning of the term 'disability' in the trust deed
is something that is rarely considered by a consumer until a claim is made.
It appears that the term is not used consistently in the industry, rather the
deed defines its meaning. Consequently, disputes as to the meaning assigned
to the term in any particular deed are a common form of dispute between
trustees and consumers. These disputes do not involve the issue of whether
a person is disabled, or to what degree they are disabled, but rather involve
the interpretation of the term used in the deed. This issue does not involve
medical evidence. The ISC believes that this problem is something that will
diminish significantly over time.109
16.16 Notwithstanding the ISC's hope that this problem will diminish over
time, the Committee has given consideration to whether this is the type of
matter that should come before the Tribunal. The arguments that have been
raised for the exclusion of certain matters from the Tribunal's jurisdiction do
not seem to apply to this category of complaint.
16.17 The ISC is also aware of the problem where the trust deed has one
definition of disability but the insurance contract has a different one. Mr
Duval, the Australian Government Actuary, stated that this is a 'process'
problem. He also stated that it is quite dangerous for the fund and that it
is an issue that the ISC is aware of in conducting audits.110
Medical Evidence
16.18 As noted above, no statistical data was provided to the Committee,
however, Mr Davis stated that disputes over medical evidence comprise a
minority of disputes.111
16.19 It is this category of 'medical dispute' that has attracted allegations
of potentially swamping and overworking the fledgling complaints resolution
system. In disputes of this nature each party would come armed with its
medical expert(s) who would give evidence in support of that party's case.
109
110
Evidence p 188
ibid
1 Evidence p 109
li


That evidence would then be able to be tested by questions from the
opposing party and from the Tribunal.
Options
Tribunal to examine procedural matters in medically related complaints
16.20 The Committee notes that the regulations may exclude all of a
complaint or only certain parts of a complaint involving 'excluded matters'.
In this way, the Tribunal could hear the part of a complaint relating to the
procedure of the decision (or the interpretation of ’disability,) but be
excluded from determining issues involving medical evidence. Therefore one
option is to permit the Tribunal to accept complaints involving medical
issues for the purpose of ensuring that the decision had been made in
accordance with the principles of procedural fairness. Where the Tribunal
finds that the principles of procedural fairness have not been applied, the
Tribunal could use its power pursuant to section 37 of the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act to remit the matter to the trustee for
reconsideration in accordance with the Tribunal's directions.
16.21 It was acknowledged by the ISC that it could examine the possibility
of whether the Tribunal could deal with those sorts of cases where the
mechanism has gone wrong, for example if the trustees had not actually
considered the case, where they had just taken out disability insurance,
passed the case on to the insurance company that rejected it, and not
looked at the case itself. The Committee endorses the Commission's
agreement to examine this possibility.
16.22 Mr Duval submitted to the Committee that due process issues should
be filtered out in the conciliation stage.112 This appears to the Committee
to be an excellent reason to allow complaints involving medical issues to
come within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, at least to the stage of
determining whether or not natural justice has been observed, with the
power to remit the matter to the trustee with directions.
112 Evidence p 186


16.23 The power to remit matters to the trustees with directions exists
under clause 37(l)(b) of the Bill. Mr Duval stated, 'that power is there for
due process issues, where the trustees have decided that something is
irrelevant which the Tribunal feels is very strongly relevant'113. It appears
to the Committee that in matters where procedure is being examined, it is
irrelevant as to whether the substantive nature of the claim is a 'medical
issue’ or otherwise.
Tribunal to examine all complaints involving medical issues
16.24 Where the Tribunal is satisfied that a decision has been made by a
trustee in accordance with the rules of natural justice, the issue arises as to
whether the Tribunal should review the substantive issues, that is, the
medical evidence.
16.25 It was submitted to the Committee that the Tribunal is an equally
good position as a court to be able to decide this sort of issue. It was further
submitted that the Tribunal would be in a particularly good position to
conciliate and decide these matters if the Tribunal was constituted to include
a member with medical training.114
16.26 It was submitted to the Committee that:
it is incongruous that a low cost tribunal that is being established to resolve disputes
should not be available to resolve disputes where a member is normally unemployed,
in a weak financial position and therefore ordinarily unable to take issue with an
adverse decision that in the end result has a dramatic effect on the lives of the people
involved115,
and further that disability disputes are 'the very sort of thing that this
Tribunal ought to exist for.116 117
113 Evidence p 186
114 Davis, evidence p 105
115 ibid, p 107
116 ibid, p 109
117 see also:
Consumer Credit Legal Service (Vic) and Consumer Credit Legal Centre
(NSW), SIS Sub No 53
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations, evidence p 204-205


16.27 The Australian Consumers' Association submitted that it could see
no reason why a superannuation complaints tribunal should not be able to
hear medical cases. It noted that the trustees are not medical experts and
this does not prevent trustees from making decisions. It submitted that the
Tribunal could call on medical experts in the way that a court can do.118
16.28 The concept of the Tribunal having access to a medical advice panel
was mooted by the Committee. This idea was put to Mr Davis as an
alternative to appointing medically qualified members to the Tribunal should
the Tribunal have the jurisdiction to hear 'medical complaints'. Mr Davis
regarded this as a good alternative.119
Complaints involving medical issues to be excluded from procedural and
substantive review
16.29 The Bill allows cases involving these types of complaints to be
excluded from the Tribunal's jurisdiction by way of prescribing 'excluded
complaints' and 'excluded matters' pursuant to the regulation making
provision. The Government has made statements indicating that 'disability
cases' will be excluded. In the course of the Committee's inquiry, the type of
cases that fall into the 'disability cases' category were more clearly defined.
These sub-categories of 'disability cases’ have been outlined above. It has
become clear to the Committee in the process of carefully examining the
sub-categories of 'disability cases' and eliciting evidence in relation to each
of these categories that the arguments for excluding 'disability cases' do not
apply to all of the sub-categories.
Alternative forums for these complainants
16.30 The Committee explored possible alternative forums for complainants
in 'disability cases'. When asked to address the issue of people who have
complaints about disability having 'nowhere left to go', the ISC
acknowledged that ’there are problems at the moment with the resolution
of medical disputes'120.
118 Mr R Drake, ACA, evidence p 161
119 Davis, op cit, p 109
Evidence p 187
120


16.31 The Committee asked other witnesses of possible alternative forums.
Mr Davis submitted that an alternative forum 'does not readily come to
mind'121 and Mr Robert Drake of the Australian Consumers' Association
gave evidence that the current alternative of going to court is really no
option at all.122
Floodgates?
16.32 Mr Davis submitted that in his experience it would not be the case
that a majority of disputes would be of the nature of disability disputes
although it is quite a common dispute.123 He further submitted that, in his
experience, by allowing disability claims before the Tribunal the floodgates
would not open.
16.33 In response to questioning by the Committee on the issue of the
floodgates problem, Mr Drake (ACA) submitted that the floodgates issue
manifests as a result of problems with how complaints are handled, rather
than as a result of delay.124
16.34 With respect to permanent disability cases, Mr Pooley, Commissioner,
ISC, was of the view that anybody who received an adverse decision from
a trustee would not be satisfied and would go to the Tribunal. He submitted
that if these cases were to be heard by the Tribunal it would be 'pretty
swamped by all of those people and that would give it an awful lot of extra
work'?25 No data was provided in support of these claims.
Recommendation 16.2:
I
■■ W , > * \
The Committee recommends that the Government not exclude from the
Tribunal's jurisdiction, the parts of a complaint involving issues of
procedural fairness and the legal interpretation of the term 'disability'
deed.
121
Davis, p 109
122 Evidence p 160
123 Evidence p 108
124 Evidence p 162
Evidence p 185
125


CHAPTER 17:
ISSUES: LEGAL REPRESENTATION
AND CONSUMER ASSISTANCE
Issues: Legal Representation and Consumer Assistance
Legal Representation
17.1 Mr Noel Davis submitted that a consumer need not necessarily be
represented before the Tribunal provided there is the capacity for
representation when necessary. He advised the Committee that part of the
function of the Tribunal will be to assist people to present their case.126
17.2 However, Mr Drake (ACA) stated that the legislation presents an
anomaly as consumers are not permitted to have representation as of right
whereas superannuation funds will, as incorporated bodies, necessarily
require natural persons to represent them. ACA submitted that this creates
a complete imbalance in representation.127 It noted that the Tribunal will
have a discretion to allow complainants to be represented where the
Tribunal considers it necessary, but submitted that the issue should be left
at the complainant's discretion128.
17.3 The ISC countered the views of ACA by stating that the widespread
use of legal representation, as distinct from direct communication between
the Tribunal and the parties to the complaint, could undermine the capacity
of the Tribunal to achieve the objectives of fair, economical, informal and
quick resolution of disputes. It emphasised the inquisitorial nature of the
Tribunal which permits the Tribunal to inform itself of all the information
that it requires to make the correct decision. The ISC submitted that with
126 Davis, op cit, p 107
127 Evidence p 162
ibid
128


this type of process, and with the Tribunal staff giving all the necessary
assistance to complainants, legal representation should rarely be needed and
that when legal representation is required the Tribunal has the discretion to
permit it.129
17.4 The Committee has given careful consideration to the concerns
raised by AC A. It also recognises the role of the Tribunal as an alternative
dispute resolution forum in which the Tribunal has the mandate and the
power to redress any imbalance of power or representation that may arise.
Consumer Advisory Service
An alternative to legal representation
17.5 As a result of the submissions concerning legal representation in
particular, the Committee was concerned to ensure that there was an
appropriate balance between the objectives of fair, economical, informal and
quick dispute resolution and the access to consumers of appropriate
assistance and advice in the preparation of their matters before the
Tribunal.
17.6 For this reason the Committee was particularly attracted to the
concept submitted by the Consumer Credit Legal Service (Vic) (CCLS) and
the Consumer Credit Legal Centre (NSW) (CCLC) of an independent
consumer advisory service, whether legal or multi-disciplinary. The
Committee therefore explored this option with a number of the witnesses in
order to test its potential.
17.7 CCLS and CCLC submitted that as Australian employees are now
compelled to become consumers of superannuation products, the
Government should take responsibility for providing information and
advisory services. They submitted that without such services many consumers
will be unable to take advantage of the significant reforms in the area.131
The Australian Pensioners' and Superannuants' Federation were similarly
concerned that 'the value of the recent improvements in this area will be
129
Pooley, p 176
SIS Sub No 53
ibid
130
131


diminished if consumers are unable to access independent specialist legal
and information services to enable them to take advantage of the new
supervisory and disclosure arrangements'.132
17.8 Mr David Niven of CCLS gave evidence that the role of a consumer
legal service reaches beyond the provision of advocacy services. He
submitted that it involves providing consumers with 'assistance in
understanding the nature of what their complaint is about' and 'assistance
in [determining] whether they have a complaint that is legitimate or not'.
The Committee was interested to learn that in the consumer credit sphere,
the majority of cases dealt with by the CCLS are resolved by negotiation,
with only two to three per cent of matters going to litigation.133
17.9 Mr Niven proposed that the roles of a specific superannuation
advisory service would include helping consumers to understand how to go
about making their complaints; how to determine whether they have a
legitimate complaint; and how to prepare the documents, the arguments and
the proofs relevant to their case. The service would also play a role in the
'macro' picture. By obtaining statistics and complaint data and by negotiating
complaints, the service would be in a position to negotiate with industry and
government in relation to changes in practice and policy. Mr Niven
submitted that neither the macro nor the micro functions discussed above
are the type of functions that should or could be dealt with by the Tribunal
secretariat.134
17.10 The Australian Consumers' Association commended the concept of
a consumer legal service. It noted that in the area of consumer credit, this
concept had worked very well and very cost-effectively.135 Similarly,
AFCO and Mr Davis supported the idea of such a service.1
17.11 It was noted by ASFA that the vast bulk of complaints will be dealt
with through documents rather than through hearings. ASFA therefore sees
it as important that a person preparing a document clearly understands what
132
SIS Sub No 73
133 Evidence, Niven, p 24
134 ibid, p 26-27
135 Evidence p 164
136 AFCO, evidence p 205
Davis, evidence p 108


it is that they need to establish, and the sorts of thresholds they have to
reach.137
17.12 The Committee foresees a community advisory service playing a vital
role in providing complainants with assistance in preparing their matters for
review.
Funding
17.13 In relation to funding, the CCLS and the CCLC submitted that part
of the superannuation levy be used for the purpose of funding a community
advisory service. Alternatively, they submitted that the Government would
need to make other funding arrangements. The CCLS is funded for its
consumer credit work approximately 50 per cent through the consumer
affairs budget, which is a State Government budget, and the other 50 per
cent through the legal aid budget, which is a State-Commonwealth mix
pursuant to the federal-state relations in that area.138
17.14 CCLS made submissions in respect to estimates of the funding that
would be required to get a national coverage via centres in Melbourne and
Sydney. It estimated that the costs would be approximately $200 000 per
annum for a centre in Melbourne and a further $200 000 per annum for a
centre in Sydney.139 In the Committee's view, this would be a cost
effective arrangement.
17.15 The Committee examined funding options, namely, a percentage of
the supervisory levy on funds; unclaimed monies; and the surplus of the
funding of the ISC. The Committee is aware that funding by way of these
options may result in a heavier burden on some funds and consumers than
on others. In addition, Mr Davis submitted that money should not be taken
from the people for whom guarantee charge contributions have been
made.140
137
138
139
140
Evidence, p 93
Niven, evidence p 23
ibid, p 27
Evidence, p 107


Tribunal Secretariat Assistance to Complainants
17.16 In the context of the issue of adequate advice being available to
consumers, the Committee heard submissions on clause 16 of the Bill which
requires the Tribunal to help complainants to make complaints.141
What type of assistance will be provided?
17.17 AFCO raised concerns that the role of the secretariat of the ISC was
unclear, particularly in relation to the means by which the obligation of the
Tribunal to assist complainants would be fulfilled. Mr Thomas of the ISC
provided information that the requirement for assistance relates to 'to
helping them [complainants] express their complaint and putting it in
writing'.142 This would accord with Mr Niven’s concerns that it would be
inappropriate for the Tribunal to assist complainants with the detailed
preparation of their cases as this could create an appearance of bias, that
is, the Tribunal could be seen to have a vested interest in the successful
outcome for an applicant whom the Tribunal had assisted.143
Funding
17.18 With respect to the these functions of the Tribunal secretariat and
the funding of the secretariat, the ISC recognises that 'it will be a very
important part of the process and that adequate resources will have to be
allocated to that function'144.
17.19 The Committee notes that the funding of an independent advisory
service has additional advantages. First, it would relieve the ISC secretariat
of some of the more demanding consumer inquiries; and second, it would
provide consumers with a service that is not only independent but also seen
to be independent from the ISC. Some consumers may feel reluctant to
show their hand to an advisory service operated by the watchdog body.
141
Clause 16 of the Bill
142 Evidence, Thomas, p 213
143 Evidence, Niven, p 29
Evidence, Mr Thomas, p 213
144


i fi* 1 ■ juifinUvc
estui . i ntTir ',)! in
hv Ol
Canjilrtmt:;
rrr^utemtjfit
III |‘ V'^II'
Keen.‘ndatiiin 1" J


CHAPTER 18:
OTHER CONSUMER ISSUES
Other Consumer Issues
Oral Submissions
18.1 Clause 34 provides that the Tribunal must conduct review meetings
without oral submissions from the parties. The Committee received
submissions from the Law Council and from William M Mercer raising the
concern that this provision offended or infringed the principles of natural
justice.
18.2 The Committee understands that the ISC has considered these views
and has received advice that the rules of natural justice will not be breached
as a party has a right to make written submissions and the Tribunal has a
discretion to allow oral representations to be made where the Tribunal
thinks it is necessary. The Committee received a submission145 drawing its
attention to the decisions of Heatley v Tasmanian Racing and Gaming
Commission146 and Daguio v Minister for Immigration and Ethnic
Affairs,147 It was held in these decisions that procedural fairness does not
necessarily require hearings to be oral.
Appeals to the Federal Court
Grounds of appeal
18.3 Parties to a dispute before the Tribunal have the right to appeal to
the Federal Court. Appeals will be on a on a question of law only.148
The Committee received submissions proposing the right to a de novo
145
Andrew Fairley and Associates, op cit, SIS Sub No 91
146 (1977) CLR 487
147 (1986) 71 ALR 173
148 Clause 46 of the Bill
Evidence, Pooley, p 176


review149 at the level of the Federal Court. The Bill as it stands accords
with the practice of the review of administrative decisions on the facts being
limited to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal with appeals on questions of
law only being heard by the Federal Court.
Actions in the Federal Court and representative actions
18.4 The Bill does not provide for de novo review at the level of the
Federal Court, however it may be possible to commence some actions
against trustees in the Federal Court under the SIS legislation. The SIS
legislation does not expressly confer jurisdiction on the Federal Court but
clause 10 of the Bill defines 'Court' to mean the Federal Court of Australia
or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory. In defining 'Court' in this
way, it could be said that the legislation impliedly confers jurisdiction on the
Federal Court.
18.5 The Bill only allows beneficiaries to bring certain actions against
trustees in the Federal Court. These are for matters of misleading conduct
(clause 142), unfair dealing on issue or redemption of a superannuation
interest (clause 150), misleading conduct in relation to a public offer entity
(clause 156) and contravention of provisions taken to be included in the
governing rules of a public offer entity (clause 166). In these specific cases,
the Committee notes that it is arguable that a representative proceeding
could be brought in the Federal Court pursuant to Part IV A of the
Federal Court of Australia Act 1976.
Costs of appeals
18.6 The Australian Consumers' Association raised the problem of how
a consumer could afford to pay for an appeal to the Federal Court. It was
submitted it should either be funded by the ISC, as it is the Tribunal's
decision that is the subject of the appeal, or that the ISC should act as a
respondent in the appeal. The Australian Consumers' Association would not
be in a position to fund test cases.150
149
A fresh hearing on the facts and law.
150 Evidence p 164


Standard of Proof
Clause 37(2) provides:
The Tribunal must affirm the decision if it is satisfied that the decision,
in its operation in relation to the complainant, was fair and reasonable
in all the circumstances.
18.7 The Committee is satisfied that this provision is adequately drafted
to take account of the concerns raised that in any given set of circumstances
there may be several reasonable but different decisions available to a
trustee, and that the necessary choice of one of these reasonable options by
a trustee should not be grounds for varying or setting aside that decision.
18.8 The Committee is concerned that the standard of satisfaction
required in clause 37(2) be explicitly stated in order to avoid unnecessary
litigation on the point. It has been agreed by all who have addressed the
issue before the Committee that they understand the standard of proof to
be on the balance of probabilities'.
Recommendation 18.1:
The Committee recommends the Bill be amended to specify that the degree
of satisfaction required for the Tribunal to affirm a decision pursuant to
clause 37(2) of the Bill is that of reasonable satisfaction, that is, satisfaction
on the balance of probabilities.
Appointment of Members
18.9 Submissions were received by the Committee proposing that one
Tribunal member be appointed by the Minister of Consumer Affairs,
however the Committee did not receive any representations from the
Minister in relation to this proposal.
151
AFCO, op cit,
CCLS, CCLC, op cit.


18.10 The Bill provides for the appointment of a Chairperson, by the
Governor General, and not fewer than five nor more than eight other
members by the Minister 152 administering the Act.153 Clause 8(4) of
the Bill provides that two of the Tribunal members are to be appointed after
the Minister administering the legisation has consulted with the Minister for
Consumer Affairs about their appointment.
life Insurance Complaints Board
18.11 The life insurance industry's revamped inquiries and complaints
service came into operation in May 1991, following extensive consultation
with industry, government and consumer groups. This body deals with
disputes between life offices and trustees where there is a contractual
arrangement between the two. Generally, it does not deal with disputes
between fund members and trustees because there is no contractual
arrangement between the fund member and the life office. However, it
resolves disputes, involving personal superannuation, between fund members
and life offices because there is a contractual relationship between the
policyholder and the life office.
18.12 The Life Insurance Federation of Australia has submitted that the
industry's system, that is, the Life Insurance Complaints Board, should
continue to deal with complaints about personal superannuation.154 As
stated in paragraph 16.7, the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal will also
deal with personal superannuation complaints.
Notification of a Right of Review
18.13 In the course of its inquiry, it appeared to the Committee that a
large number of consumers were unaware of the existence of the Life
Insurance Complaints Board and of their right to have adverse decisions
reviewed155.
152
Clause 7 of the Bill
153 Section 19A, Acts Interpretation Act 1901
SIS Sub No 56
Evidence, p 187
155


18.14 The Committee recognises that although clause 96 of the SIS Bill
does not prescribe a precise mechanism for trustee internal review, the issue
of a beneficiary being notified of the existence of the Tribunal, and their
right to have an adverse decision reviewed, will need to be addressed by the
ISC. It may be appropriate for the trustee to advise the beneficiary of the
right of review at the time of notification of any adverse decision.




MINORITY REPORT BY GOVERNMENT
MEMBERS
- Senators Childs, Evans and West - on Clause 64
Prohibition on Superannuation Funds Acquiring Assets
from Members or Relatives
Minority Report by Government Members
We strongly oppose the Committee's recommendation to provide exemptions
to clause 64 involving property used wholly and exclusively in the business
of a member together with certain strictly defined marketable securities and
associated changes to alter the sole purpose test provision (clause 60).
Clause 64 was introduced because the Government has been concerned for
some time about abuses of the purpose of superannuation tax concessions.
Such abuses include the selling of members private assets, for example cars,
jewellery and boats to their superannuation fund in order to obtain cash.
These transactions are clearly inconsistent with the purpose of providing
concessional tax treatment to superannuation funds to encourage members
to save for their retirement.
The need for clause 64 was also highlighted by evidence given to the
Committee by the Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner, Mr George
Pooley, who claimed that there are quite a number of organisations who are
giving advice on how funds can manipulate assets in a way that clause 64 is
designed to prevent.
Certain written submissions to the Committee also supported the
introduction of clause 64. The Australian Superannuation Funds
Association (ASFA) claimed that clause 64 should remain in its present
from. According to ASFA, to attempt to distinguish between what assets
are acceptable and what assets are not would be a very complicated task
and may open the way for further abuse.
Therefore, any relaxation to the blanket prohibition in its present form
would lead to both administrative complexity, enforcement difficulties and
even greater abuse of the tax concessions.


Providing exceptions to clause 64 will result in inequity under the
preservation rule, which for most Australians bars access to superannuation
benefits before age 55, as some people will be in a position to sell assets to
their superannuation fund whilst other people will not. This situation is
clearly inconsistent with the current aim of making superannuation available
to all on an equal basis.
The exemptions recommended in the majority report on clause 64 may also
lead to administrative complexity. The ASFA submission highlighted this
point by claiming that attempting to draw a fine line between what is and
what is not an unacceptable investment is a complicated task that will give
rise to considerable administrative difficulties.
The Committee has also recommended that the sole purpose test be
amended to create additional powers designed to complement the exemption
under clause 64, thereby giving the ISC greater scope to regulate against
avoidance activities. However, this represents a move away from the
traditional use of the sole purpose test, in that it will specifically relate to a
special provision concerning business viability rather than the core and
ancillary purposes of superannuation funds which focus on the generation
of income in retirement.
Further evidence on this point was provided by Mr Pooley who claimed that
the ISC had originally examined the possibility of combating the type of
abuse that clause 64 is designed to prevent by modifying the sole purpose
test but had found this approach to be unworkable.
Providing exemptions to clause 64 is also against the principle of
diversification in investing superannuation funds. Many of the purchases by
the smaller funds, which clause 64 addresses, involve assets which represent
a substantial proportion of the total assets of the fund. For example, if a
superannuation fund acquires a property from a member and the property
then falls substantially in value, the member will have received little or no
benefit from their superannuation fund, whereas investing in small parcels
of assets can minimise the risk exposure of a fund.
Recommendation: ——
We recommend that the recommendation proposed in the majority report
(Recommendation 4,1) relating to the amendment to clause 64 and the sole
purpose test not be agreed to.


APPENDIX A:
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
List of Committee Reports
Super System Survey- A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Byrnwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life
Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges
and Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super and the Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4
November 1992)


Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super - Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervisory Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
- Super Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Inquiry into the Queensland Professional Officers Association
Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervision Bills (October 1993)


APPENDIX B:
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
List of Written Submissions
No 1 Howard V Smith & Associates Pty Ltd
No 2 Mr Jack Morris
No 3 Dr T D O’Neill
No 4 Superannuation Trust of Australia (STA)
No 5 Federation of Industrial, Manufacturing and Engineering
Employees
No 6 Hunt & Hunt, Lawyers
No 7 Mr Alan W Mills
No 8 Sun Super
No 9 Self Managed Retirement Systems Pty Ltd
No 10 Permanent Trustee Company Ltd
No 11 Freedom of Choice Fund Management Ltd
No 12 Supermaster Investments Pty Ltd
No 13 Ms Sonia A Nolan
No 14 Mr Noel Davis (Clayton Utz, Solicitors)
No 15 Mr HE Ellis


No 16 Mr John D Lindsay
No 17 Mr H F Oostergo
No 18 Mr Peter J Griffiths
No 19 Phillips & Wilkins, Solicitors
No 20 Connelly Temple Ltd
No 21 Mackay and Allen
No 22 Geoff & Margaret Bolt
No 23 Chartered Pacific Superannuation Ltd
No 24 Mr Ray Kingston
No 25 Noble Lowndes Ltd
No 26 National Australia Bank (Melbourne)
No 27 Mr Andrew Skinner
No 28 Mallesons Stephen Jaques
No 29 Ian G Anderson & Associates
No 30 Mr Clive Butler
No 31 Ms Natalie Gallery
No 32 Mr John Justin Cleeland
No 33 Trustee Companies Association
No 34 Mr John Whittimore-Hull
No 35 Gells, Solicitors & Attorneys
No 36 Bankers Trust Australia


No 37
No 38
No 39
No 40
No 41
No 42
No 43
No 44
No 45
No 46
No 47
No 48
No 49
No 50
No 51
No 52
No 53
No 54
No 55
No 56
No 57
Investment Funds Association
Mr Howard Ellis
Priestley & Morris
John R Fraser Pty Ltd
Mr Barry McLean
Greenwood Challoner
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Mr Wayne Vogt
Australian Consumers' Association
Master Builders Australia
Compass Financial Services
Arthur Andersen
Council of Small Business Organisations of Australia (COSBOA)
Edwards Karwacki Smith Pty Ltd
Uni super
Irwin & Richards
Consumer Credit Legal Service
Mr Howard Ellis
TRANSFERRED TO SIS-5
Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA)
Jacques Martin Industry


No 58 Ms Edwina Blahout
No 59 Shepard Webster & O'Neill
No 60 Mr Graham & Mrs Patricia Strauss
No 61 Mr E H Shallcross
No 62 Gilshenan & Luton
No 63 Madison Securities
No 64 Dr G J Acton
No 65 County Natwest
No 66 Office of the Cabinet, Queensland
No 67 Supa-Funds Management Pty Ltd
No 68 Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
No 69 The Cabinet Office, New South Wales
No 70 August Financial Management Ltd
No 71 Mr A Palombi
No 72 William M Mercer
No 73 Australian Pensioners' and Superannuants' Federation
No 74 Allanfield Financial Services
No 75 Monitor Money
No 76 Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies (AAPBS)
No 77 IN CAMERA
No 78 ASCPA/ICAA Joint Superannuation Committee


No 79 Sly & Weigall
No 80 Mallesons Stephen Jaques
No 81 Blake Dawson Waldron
No 82 Australian Institute of Valuers and Land Economists
No 83 Freehill Hollingdale & Page
No 84 Quaife Holdings Pty Ltd
No 85 Macquarie Investment Management Ltd
No 86 MLC Investments
No 87 Mark Stoney
No 88 Windmill Educational Supplies
No 89 Potter Warburg Asset Management
No 90 Joint Submission from NSW, Qld, WA, Tas and NT Governments
No 91 Andrew Fairley & Associates
No 92 Advance Bank Australia Limited
No 93 Mr Leigh Fitton
No 94 Privacy Commissioner




APPENDIX C:
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC
HEARINGS
List of Witnesses at Public Hearings
MELBOURNE, 22 SEPTEMBER 1993
Mr Paul Bean, Manager, Life Insurance Complaints Board
Mr Don Blyth, National Director, Trustee Companies Association
of Australia
Mr Darren Davis, Assistant Manager, Operations, Life Insurance
Federation of Australia
Mr Peter Edmiston, State Director for Western Australia, Jacques
Martin Industry
Mr John Fraser, Director, John R Fraser Pty Ltd
Mr David Goodear, Fund Manager and Adviser, Jacques Martin
Industry
Mr David Gurney, Sales and Marketing Executive, Custodian
Services Division, National Australia Bank Ltd
Ms Anne Maree Howley, Legal Consultant, Noble Lowndes
Superannuation Consultants Ltd
Mr Torsten Krebs, Corporate Lawyer, National Australia Bank
Mr Ian Kincaid, Director, Supermaster Investments Pty Ltd


Mr John Maroney, Convenor Superannuation Committee, Life
Insurance Federation of Australia
Mr Denis Mead, Principal, William M Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Paul Murphy, Marketing Manager, County Natwest Australian
Management Ltd
Mr Roger Nairn, General Manager, Custodian Services Division,
National Australia Bank Ltd
Mr Mark Nipper, Boronia
Mr David Niven, Coordinator, Consumer Credit Legal Service
(Victoria)
Mrs Sonia Nolan, Warrnambool
Mr Raymond Stevens, Director, William M Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Kenneth Robinson, Superannuation Committee, Life Insurance
Federation of Australia
Mr Robert Rowett, Company Secretary, County Natwest Australia
Investment Management Ltd
Mr Kelvin Taylor, Director, Noble Lowndes Superannuation
Consultants Ltd
Mr John Treloar, Client Relationship Executive, Custodian
Services Division, National Australia Bank
Ms Marita Walls, Superannuation Committee Solicitor, Life
Insurance Federation of Australia
Mr Peter Weeks, Chirnside Park


SYDNEY, 23 SEPTEMBER 1993
Mr Ray Connelly, Joint Managing Director, Connelly Temple Ltd
Mr Robert Coombe, Senior Legal Manager, Bankers Trust
Mr David Davis, Managing Director, Permanent Trustee Co Ltd
Mr Robert Drake, Policy Officer, Australian Consumers
Association
Mr Graeme Fowler, Product Development Manager, Funds
Management, Bankers Trust
Mr Carlisle Gorsuch, Member, Joint Superannuation Committee,
Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants, Institute of
Chartered Accountants
Mr Peter Hutley, Executive Director, Investment Funds
Association of Australia
Mr Kenneth Lockery, Deputy Federal President, Technical and
Regulations, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Robert Mansfield, Chairman, Joint Superannuation
Committee, Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants,
Institute of Chartered Accountants
Mr Anthony Marks, Deputy Chairman, Retirement Income
Committee, Investment Funds Association of Australia
Mr David McMahon, Director Policy, New South Wales
Department of Industrial Relations, Employment, Training and
Further Education
Mr John Morgan, Member of Superannuation Committee, Law
Council of Australia


Mr Robert Richardson, Director, Greenwood Challoner Services
Pty Ltd
Mr Brian Scullin, Executive Director, Association oi
Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr David Shirlow, Director of Policy Research, Association ol
Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Andrew Skinner, Chartered Accountant, Erskine Park
Ms Elisabeth Slater, Deputy Chair of Superannuation Committee.
Superannuation Committee of the Law Council of Australia
CANBERRA, 24 SEPTEMBER 1993
Mr Robert Bastian, Chief Executive, Council of Small Business
Organisations of Australia
Mr Des Breen, Executive Manager, Council of Small Business
Organisations of Australia
Mr Donald Duval, Australian Government Actuary, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Ms Gail Freeman, President's Representative, Council of Small
Business Organisations of Australia
Ms Jennifer Mack, Director, Australian Federation of Consumer
Organisations
Mr Denis Nelthorpe, Executive Member, Australian Federation ol
Consumer Organisations


Mr Frederick Pooley, Commissioner, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Senator Nick Sherry, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for
Primary Industries and Energy
Mr Trevor Thomas, Director, SIS Implementation Team,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission




APPENDIX D:
DRAFT AMENDMENT TO CLAUSE 64 PREPARED
FOR SENATOR WATSON
Draft Amendment to Clause 64 Prepared for Senator Watson
1993
THE PARLIAMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
THE SENATE
SUPERANNUATION INDUSTRY (SUPERVISION) BILL 1993
(Amendments to be moved by Senator Watson)
This version is based on the clause numbers of the Bill that was introduced
into the House of Representatives in the Autumn Sittings. The clauses were
re-numbered in the third reading print
Clause 62, page 49, subclause (1), line 37, insert "(other than a listed security)" after "an
asset".
Clause 62, page 50, paragraph (2)(a), line 8, insert "(other than a listed security)" after
"an asset".
Clause 62, page 50, subclause (4), before the definition of "relative" insert the following
definition:
"‘listed security’ means:
(a) a share; or
(b) a unit; or
(c) a bond or debenture; or
(d) a right or option; or
(e) any other security;
listed for quotation in the official list of a stock exchange in Australia;".




APPENDIX E:
FREEHILL’S advice on public offer
transitional provisions
FUNDS
Freehiirs Advice on Public Offer Funds
Transitional Provisions
F R E E H I L L_
Hollingdale
&C P A G E
Our Ref: JHG:MV:39G
I October IV93
Mr Peter Hutlev,
Executive Director
love stmentr unds Association
Lnvcl J4 /
J41George Street
SYDNEY NSW 2000
/
Dear Peter
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993
We hive been * sited to consider proposals by which the Commonwealth Government might
legislate to prevent the commercially undesirable consequences of section 369 of the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993 (“SIS"). This section has the effect of
preventing a trust to which the section applies from issuing further superannuation interests
except In limited circumstance* on or after 1 July 1994, if neither the trustee or the
management company ha* resigned with effect on or before 30 June 1994.
The recommendation* of the Law Reform Commission on collective investment* have now
emerged and under these proposal*, it u suggested that if the manager and the trustee cannot
agree as to which of them is us become the scheme operator within 18 month*, the manager
may request to be appointed the scheme operator without the consent of the trustee.
In response ro the suggestion that the legislation should force the trustee or the manager to
retire, it has been suggested on behalf of the Commonwealth that the Commonwealth does
not have the requisite legislative power under section 31 (xx) of the Confttitution
(Corporation* Power) or under section 31(*xxi) (Acquisition of Property on Just Terms).
Ac bo section 5)(xxxi), we do nut believe that requiring a trustee to resign constitute* an
acquisition of property by the Commonwealth of a kind which requires "just terms" within
the meaning of section St(xxxi). We do not regard the argument that a Commonwealth law
which deprives a person of a nght which is not acquired by the Commonwealth as being
unconstitutional because of the operation of section 5!(xxxi) ax having any application to
the present circuowrances because of the solution suggested below.
A* far as section 51 (xx) of the Constitution Ls concerned, it It well settled that the words
"with respect to’ in section 51 of the Constitution are words of wide Import and should be
construed with all the generality whlc^thc admit.
MIC CtKTfttl MAftTIN fl At'.l
IVUNLT COUTH *AUU 10W
TSUfHOHS ((Hi Ji< fteiO IWT. (41 1] JJJ r«io I'AkSJUur mj| JU 44 la (01| J)i i ]74
ftux AAI11IIJ fix Ul lYDNIr
IMI» II.IIUI HKt.af lu.tu. n«A«>nir


Page 120
investment Fund* Association
1 October 1993
Page 2
_F * II L II I t I.
II O I. I I K (i l> * I. K
fc P * c t
Section K)ft9(l)(n) of tie Corporation* Law provide* that a deed (an approved deed
cMahlixhing prescribed interests) shall contain covenants tu the effect of the covenant*
prescribed by the regulation*. Regulation 7.l2.15(fi)fg) require* that a trust deed Include a
covenant chat the management company will retire from office at the request of the trustee
in any circumstance specified in sub-regulation (10). Sub-regulation (10)(f) provide* that
one of the prescribed circumstances is "if the trustee reasonably believes that it it in the best
interests of the holders of the prescribed interests for the management company to retire",
In the context of part 7.12 -division 3 of the Corporation* Law, we believe that the
mandatory inclusion in a crust deed of a provision such as that referred to above It within
the legi.dative competence of the Commonwealth under section 51(jck) of the Constitution,
ft is unlikely that the Commonwealth would assert otherwise.
On that basis, it seems to us not unreasonable, that further regulation* could be passed
incorporating additional covenant* Into trust deeds in order tn deal with the otherwise
unacceptable commercial impost that will arise under the Government's present proposal* if
neither the trustee nor the management company is prepared to stand down.
Qlven that moat investors in publicly offered trusts invest because of the perceived vlrills of
the management company and not because of the identity of the trustee, it seems not
unreasonable that the onus should be reversed so that covenants are included to the effect
that;
(a) if neither the management company nor the trustee ha* resigned to take effect on or
before 30 June 1994, the management company may request the trustee to retire
from office if the management company believes that it I* In the he*t interests of the
holders of interest* in (he (nut that further interests should be able to be issued after
30 June 1994;
(b) the trustee must resign if requested to do so by the management company purauam
to (a) above; and
(c) the tnistee cannot remove the management company for the same reason as that
referred to in (a) above.
f>IH3 YDC/V9 527 JOQI.l


APPENDIX F:
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT OPINION ON PUBLIC
OFFER FUNDS TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Attorney Generals Department Opinion on Public Offer Funds Transitional
Provisions „ _
Pago 121
Chief General Counsel
OGC93467892
21 October 1993
MrDB Duval
Australian Government Actuary
POBox 178
BELCONNEN ACT 2616
Dear Mr Duval
SUPERANNUATION INDUSTRY (SUPERVISION) BILL 1993 - TRANSITIONAL
PROVISIONS
I refer to your letter dated 18 October 1993 seeldM advice oa I proposal by solicitors
acting for fund management companies, Freehill Hofllngdale and Page, relating to the
transitional provisions of this Bill
Background
4. Management companies have obtained the FreehiHi advice which argues that
requiring a trustee to resign Is not an ‘acquisition of property' within the meaning of
section 51(xxxi). It suggests that the substance of the original approach could be validly
achieved by provisions inserting Into the relevant cnist deeds covenants that would allow
the management company to force the trustee to resign. The advice cites examples of
C*"t» O'r.f* C'tv'L act noo ■ e»> >50 W't • f,j (OH 5*2'
rtr s e*v9f(l>. 5>OsE>. wf'.iC-.'SsE S* SlASf ^*Th. a C f la Cl *01**’', DAXWiN, TOv.NSVl.lE


provisions of the existing Corporations Law and Regulations which have the effect of
deeming various covenants to be included in deeds.
5. It seems to me, with respect, that the FreehiJis advice does not provide a solution.
6. The Freehills advice outlines provisions for resignation by a fund trustee bat (rather
curiously) omits to provide expressly for the fund assets to vest in the management
company. Presumably Frethifis envisage that such a vesting will occur either (a) by direct
force of the Commonwealth law, or (b) pursuant to a transfer authorized or required by or
under the Commonwealth law, or (c) pursuant to action under the terms of the relevant
trust deed relating to a vacancy in the office of trustee (though I understand that such deeds
do not, at least usually, permit vesting in management companies), or (d) under the genera]
law concerning a vacancy in the office of trustee,
7. In each of these alternatives, the Commonwealth law providing for the resignation of
the trustee could be characterised as a law ‘with respect to‘ the ‘acquisition of property* -
ie the management company's acquisition, by force of Commonwealth law or otherwise,
of the legal title from the retiring fund trustee. (I mention that section 51(xxxi) applies
even where (he proprietary rights are obtained by some person other than the
Commonwealth: see Australian Tape Manufacturers Association Ltd v The
Commonwealth (1997) 112 ALR 53, at 66 • 67 and 78.)
8. If the law is characterised as one ‘with respect to' the ‘acquisition of property', then it
must provide ‘just terms’. There is some risk that this might be held to require
compensation to the former fund trustee in respect of its involuntary loss resulting directly
from the operation of the Commonwealth law • in particular, the loss of its income aa
trustee.
9. There is a contrary argument that the mere transfer of the legal title is not an
‘acquisition of property’ of a kind to which section 51(xxxi) applies, and that them Is also
no 'acquisition of property' involved in the deprivation of die fund trustee of its rights to
earn fees for performing trustee functions (eg. R v Ludeke; Expane Australian Building
Construction Employees and Builders Labourers' Federation (1985) 158 CLR 636 at 653).
This raises issues on which two relevant High Court decisions are still awaited. (One is an
appeal, argued on 9*10 March 1993, from the decision in PeverlU v Health Insurance
Commission (1991) 104 ALR 449. The other is Mutual Pools <4 Staff Pty Ltd v The
Commonwealth, argued on 10 February 1993.)
10. Pending those decisions it is difficult to advise with any assurance. However,
although my own inclination is to think that the Commonwealth law vesting the fund
assets in the management company would not require 'just terms’ for the retiring fund
trustee, the risk of invalidity if 'just tcnnj’ axe not provided cannot be safely disregarded.
Yours sincerely
Advice
Chief General Counsel
21 October 1992
Superannuation InduiQ-y (SupcniiJatO BUI 1992 • TrioUHoflaJ Prcvulom
2


APPENDIX G:
AIMGDRAFT PRACTICE NOTE ON SOFT DOLLAR DEALINGS
A1MG Draft Practice Note on Soft Dollar Dealings
AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT MANAGERS’ GROUP
PRACTICE NOTE
SOFT DOLLAR DEALING
INTRODUCTION
This paper seeks to expand on the subject of "soft dollar" commission which is mentioned
under Dealing Guidelines on page 4 of the AiMG Code of Conduct and should be read in
conjunction with the Commentary attached. This paper is not intended to be a set of rules,
but rather a statement of principles which should be adhered to by the members of AIMG.
These principles provide a self-regulatory framework to give a greater degree of industry
certainty with respect to soft dollar dealing and are consistent with the regulatory environment
in force in the US and UK.
PRINCIPLES
An Investment Manager may enter into a soft dollar arrangement on behalf of a client
providing:
1. The goods or services acquired are of demonstrable benefit to the client (see Appendix
attached).
2. The cost of dealing will not disadvantage the client compared with similar dealing
otherwise than under the soft dollar arrangement,
3. The broker acting under the soft dollar arrangement does not act as principal in the
transaction.
4. There are no cash or money rebates involved which could be constituted to be a secret
commission.
5. The total commitment made on behalf of all clients of the Investment Manager for
such arrangements does not jeopardise currently or prospectively the Manager's ability
to maintain adequate financial resources. This will reflect the nature of the Manager's
business and reasonable changes in market circumstances which could be expected.
6. There is adequate disclosure to all clients of the Manager's policy relating to soft
dollar arrangements.
Where an investment manager participates in soft dollar management, as well as complying
with the principles outlined above they should be in a position to furnish to any client, on
request, the approximate nature and extent of soft dollar transactions entered into on their
behalf.
DATA*SOFT DEA
JULY 1993


appendix
Typical Products and Services Purchased with Soft Dollars
* Performance Measurement
* Third Party Research
* Fundamental Data-Bases
* Technical Analysis Software
* Portfolio Modelling Software
* Stock Quotation Systems
* Political or Economic Analysis
DATA* SOFT DEA
JULY 1993


APPENDIX H:
ATTORNEY GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT ADVICE ON
APPLICATION OF CORPORATIONS POWER
Attorney Generals Department Advice on Application
of Corporations Powers
Chief General Couns
OGC93455418
5 May 1993
Mr D B Duval
Australian Government Actuary
PO Box 178
CANBERRA ACT 2601
Dear Mr Duval
CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED SUPERANNUATION FUNDS
I refer to your memorandum dated 22 April 1993 concerning the application of the
proposed new superannuation industry supervision legislation to funds which are prote:
by s.l 14 of the Constitution from taxation in relation to part of their income.
Background
2. The proposed new supervisory regime will grant ‘complying fund' status to a fund
for the purposes of tax laws if the fund satisfies one of the following conditions:
(a) its trustee is a trading or financial corporation within the meaning of s.51(x.\
the Constitution; or
(b) its rules provide that its sole or dominant purpose is the provision of old-age
pensions.
It is intended that funds which meet these conditions will be regulated by Commonweal
legislation under the corporations and pensions powers.
Advice
3. Your questions, and my answers to them, are set out below. For convenience, I ha
dealt with your third question first.
(i) Would a corporation whose sole function war to be trustee of one or more
superannuation funds be classified as a trading or financial corporation with
the meaning of s.51(xx) of the Constitution ?
4. Yes. In my view, the investment activities of superannuation funds, together with
their handling of contributions and payment of pensions, constitute ‘financial’ activities
RoDt'i Off>ee». Nihonai Circuit. aC7 2600 • Telephone 061 250 60'6 • 106) 250
OFFICES IN CANBERRA. SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, PERTH, ADELAIDE hCBaRT. DaRwin. TOWNS’


sufficient to enable a corporate trustee to be characterised as a ‘financial corporation' for
constitutional purposes (.see State Superannuation Board v Trade Practices Commission
(1982) 152 CLR 282).
(ii) If a fund trustee satisfies condition (a) above, is the trustee necessarily subject
to Commonwealth regulation under the corporations power7
5. Subject to the provisions of the Constituuon (eg. s.l 14 * see paragraph 7 below), thr
corporations power has been held by the High Court to support Commonwealth laws
regulating at least the ‘trading’ and ‘financial’ activities of the corporations described in
s.51(xx) and, in the case of trading corporations, activities undertaken by them for the
purposes of trade (Commonwealth v Tasmania (the Tasmanian Dam case) (1983) 15S CL
1 at 148-149, 179, 240-241, 269-271). Similarly, in the case of ‘financial’ corporation'
the power would extend to activities undertaken for the purposes of their ‘financial’
activities. Hence the performance by a corporation of the functions of a fund trustee mu;
be regulated (since they ore ‘financial’ activities), and activities associated with the
performance by a corporate trustee of its duties as trustee, even if they are not themseive
‘financial’ activities, are undertaken for the purposes of ‘financial' activities and may aL-
be regulated.
6. The drafting of provisions to bring fund trustees within the scope of the corporater
power is a matter for the Office of Parliamentary Counsel (OPC), which is currently
working on the proposed legislation.
(Hi) If a trustee satisfies condition (a) above, does it follow that the trustee cannot
an agent or instrumentality of a State and that it is therefore not protected fr
taxation by s.l 14?
7. No. If the trustee was a company incorporated under the Corporations Law, the
trustee would probably not be regarded as an agency or instrumentality of a State (cf.
para.S of the advice of 11 September 1992 to which you refer). However, a trustee
established by special State legislation could well be both a ‘financial’ corporation (this
would depend on its activities and the purposes for which it was established) and an
agency or instrumentality of the State (this would depend on its relationship with the
State). In order to induce State schemes to give up the protection of s. 114, it would
therefore be necessary to make it a condition of 'complying fund’ status that a fund’s
trustee was a trading or financial corporation within the meaning of s.51(xx) of the
Constitution and also a corporation formed under the Corporations Law. (I understand,
however, that OPC’s instructions are that s.271 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 193r
not to be repealed.)
8. I am sending a copy of this advice to Mr Keith Bytes of OPC.
Yours sincerelv
DENNIS ROSE QC
Chief General Counsel
Telephone: 2506016
Facsimile: 2505921
5 May
Constitutionally Protected Superannuation 1


APPENDIX I:
PRIME MINISTER'S LETTER TO STATE PREMIERS
Prime Minister's Letter to State Premiers
Prime Minister
Canberra
The Hon John Fahey, MP
Premier of New South Wales
Premia's Wing
Stale Office Block
Macquarie Street
SYDNEY NSW 2000
3 0 SEP 1993
SUPERANNUATION INDUSTRY (SUPERVISION) BILL [SIS BILL]
My dear Premier
1 am writing in response to communications from several States concerning coverage of State
superannuation scheme* by the SIS Bill, and have written in similar terms to all Premiers and
Chief Ministers.
The SIS Bill has three objectives: fair and equal treatment of contributors and beneficiaries;
ensuring that superannuation is used for retirement income; and ensuring the security of
retirement savings through appropriate prudential supervision.
While it is desirable that all superannuation funds comply with the legislation, there is a case
for exempting public sector schemes which are totally unfunded or backed by an explicit
government guarantee. In this regard, while the Commonwealth’s mam schemes will be
required to comply in full, only the main operative provisions, such as vesting, preservation
and disclosure, will apply to the Governor-General, Parliamentarians and Judges schemes.
In relation to Statc/Territory schemes, I propose that compliance with the SIS legislation be
automatically required unless an exemption has been granted. Exemptions for individual
schemes would be available, provided the relevant State/Terri lory government undertook to:
guarantee the liabilities of the scheme by ranking the accrued liabilities of the scheme
equally with Statc/Territory bonds; and
ensure compliance with the main operative provisions of the SIS legislation (vesting,
preservation, disclosure and, where applicable, prudent investment).
In order to ensure public confidence is maintained, these undertakings would need to be
included in the annual reports of schemes exempt from the SIS legislation. Appropriate
legislative arrangements would be put in place to ensure that exempt schemes can be used as
vehicles to satisfy the requirements of the Superannuation Guarantee legislation.
If you are in broad agreement with this approach, the details could be settled by relevant
Ministers - in the Commonwealth’s case, the Treasurer, Mr John Dawkins - and officials.
Yours sincerely
(Sgd) P J KEATING
PJ KEATING




APPENDIX J:
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Glossary of Terms
Allocated Pension A pension where the member has his own
account against which pension payments are
debited and to which any investment earnings
are credited. The pension will continue until
the death of the pensioner, or until the account
is exhausted. Upon death, any balance
remaining in the account is paid to a designated
beneficiary as a (taxable) lump sum payment, or
is applied to secure further pension payments to
a surviving spouse.
Annuity A regular periodic payment to a person
(cf pension). Where weekly, fortnightly or
monthly payments out of a superannuation fund
are involved, the expression 'pension' is more
commonly used.
Fund A fund which has the purpose of holding lump
sum superannuation benefits rolled over for the
purpose of maintaining the concessional taxation
treatment until the taxpayer attains preservation
age.
Arms' Length A term which refers to the relationship between
the employer company and the members of a
superannuation fund. If the members of the
fund are employees of the sponsoring company,
an arms' length fund is said to exist.
Approved Deposit
(ADF)


Capital Adequacy This is the requirement that custodians or fund
Requirement managers with custody of superannuation fund
assets have a certain prescribed level of net
tangible assets or be able to obtain an approved
guarantee for that amount.
Commutation Term used to describe the process whereby one
type of superannuation benefit is commuted
(changed) to another type, for example
conversion from a pension to a lump sum.
Defined Benefits Fund A superannuation fund that contracts to pay a
member a fixed or defined amount of money
that is linked to a member's salary level.
Deferred Annuity An annuity under which the payments are
delayed by a specified period or to the date of
occurrence of a specified event.
Eligible Termination Payments made to employees leaving
Payments (ETP) employment. They include payments from a
superannuation fund or other inducements to
retire but exclude accrued annual and long
service leave.
Life Office A firm which sells life insurance and other
insurance products, for example, life cover,
super bonds, annuities and superannuation.
Life Policy A contract of insurance agreed to when a
person purchases life insurance.
Lump Sum The amount which is paid to a retiree at the
time of retirement (as opposed to a pension for
life).
Master Trust A trust arrangement which allows a single
trustee appointed by the promoter of the fund
to administer and manage the superannuation
funds paid by a number of employers and
employees.


Maximum Deductible A rule which places a cap on the level of
Contribution Limit superannuation contributions which employers
(MDCL) or members can make for employees. When this
limit is exceeded, the fund is deemed to be non-
complying and loses concessional tax status.
Marketable Securities A marketable security is defined in section
1097(1) of the Corporations Law. It includes a
share in or debenture of an eligible body. An
eligible body is taken to include a company,
body corporate (other than a company) or an
unincorporated society association or body.
Pooled Superannuation A Pooled Superannuation Trust (PST) is a
Trust resident unit trust that is used for investing the
assets of various superannuation funds,
Approved Deposit Funds (ADFs), tax
advantaged insurance funds of life insurance
companies, tax advantaged business of
registered organisations and tax exempt entities.
Portability
Preservation
Prudential Controls
Public Offer Funds
Allowing a superannuation plan to be
transferred from one fund (or one employer) to
another.
Maintenance of a member's entitlements in a
superannuation fund until a specified minimum
age (usually at least 55 years).
The measures instituted to supervise and control
activities in the superannuation industry to
ensure the security of contributor's funds.
A Public Offer Fund (POF), as defined in the
SIS legislation, is a regulated superannuation
fund that is not a standard employer sponsored
fund, unless the ISC Commissioner has made a
declaration under clause 18 (6) stating
otherwise. In effect this means that a POF is
any fund that is offered to the public through a
registered prospectus.


Reasonable Benefits Limit The maximum limit on the amount a member
(RBL) can receive from superannuation, ADFs or
DAFs, with preferential taxation treatment. The
limit can be calculated from a member's highest
average salary.
Repatriation of Surplus The act of transferring surplus assets in a
superannuation fund to the sponsoring
employer.
The funds into which eligible termination
payments are deposited when a person leaves or
changes employment. These funds are
preserved until retirement age is reached.
Rollover funds receive concessional tax
treatment in that the tax liability is deferred
until retirement age.
Unit trusts that specialise in investments in
specific asset classes. For example, property
trusts, fixed interest trusts and cash trusts. These
trusts have their own trust deed, trustee,
custodian and manager.
Financial instruments which are evidence of
debt or of property. Bonds, certificates of stock
and shares are documents which indicate the
existence of a security.
Superannuation Fund A fund designed to produce retirement benefits
for members. To attract tax concessions, it must
have these characteristics: (a) be indefinitely
continuing, and (b) be maintained solely for
following purposes: provision of benefits for
fund members, or for dependants of each
member in the event of death, or any other
purpose allowed by the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission in writing.
Surplus A position reached in a superannuation fund
whereby the accrued earnings and contributions
exceed the funds accumulated liabilities.
Rollover Funds
Sector Trusts
Securities


Trust
Trust Deed
Trustee
Unfunded Scheme
A fiduciary relationship in which one person
(the trustee) holds the title to property for the
benefit of another (the beneficiary).
The legal document which appoints trustees and
defines their power.
A person, usually one of a body of persons,
appointed to administer the affairs of a
company, institution, etc, who holds the title to
property for the benefit of another.
A superannuation scheme where the employer
has not contributed to match liabilities, that is,
benefits payable to members as they accrue.
Instead, payments are made to members when
they are due.
Undeducted Purchase In relation to an annuity or superannuation
Price pension, that portion of monies used to
purchase the annuity or pension which has not
been claimed as a deduction.
Vesting Conferring on a superannuation fund member
the ownership of all or part of the accrued
benefit applicable to that member.


THEMMMMENTOFTHE
COMMONWEAUH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
Ho. 195 Of 1993
B8N0727-41S
