

27th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of
Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds)
Assessment and Collection Bill 1997
Superannuation Contributions Tax Imposition
Amendment Bill 1997
Superannuation Contributions Ta^ (Members of
Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds)
Imposition Bill 1997
Superannuation Contributions and Termination Pa} ments
Taxes Legislation Amendment Bill 1997
Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Superannuation
Contribution Tax) Bill 1997
Termination Payments Tax Imposition Amendment Bill 1997
Canberra
November 1997




27th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Superannuation Contributions Tax
(Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds)
Assessment and Collection Bill 1997
Superannuation Contributions Tax Imposition Amendment Bill 1997
Superannuation Contributions Tax
(Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds)
Imposition Bill 1997
Superannuation Contributions and Termination Payments Taxes
Legislation Amendment Bill 1997
Superannuation Legislation Amendment
(Superannuation Contribution Tax) Bill 1997
Termination Payments Tax Imposition Amendment Bill 1997
Canberra
November, 1997


© Commonwealth of Australia 1997
ISBN 0 642 25157 6
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Peter Hallahan
Mr Rod Adams
Ms Jade Ricza
Address:
Telephone:
Facsimile:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
(06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at:
http://www.aph.gov.au/senate/cominittee/cominfp.html




CONTENTS
CONTENTS.i
REPORT...1
The issues dealt with in the Bills. !
GOVERNMENT SENATORS' VIEWS.3
Limitations of the inquiry. 3
The evidence.3
Conclusions and recommendations. 5
LABOR SENATORS REPORT.7
General.
Workability.9
Volume and complexity. 9
Timing. 10
Inconsistent treatment of different superannuation funds.10
Allocated surplus amounts...11
Inconsistent treatment of "golden handshakes". 1 -
RECOMMENDATIONS. l-’
REPORT BY SENATOR LYN ALLISON
AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS —.-
APPENDIX A.
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS..
APPENDIX B.
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARING
CANBERRA, 28 OCTOBER, 1997.
APPENDIX C.
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS__
APPENDIX D.
SUMMARY OF POSSIBLE ANOMOLIES AND INCONSISTENCIES.
APPENDIX E...
SUBMISSION FROM COOPERS & LYBRAND
29


Contents
APPENDIX F.43
GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO POSSIBLE ANOMALIES AND INCONSISTENCIES...-.43


REPORT
These Bills form part of a package of legislation designed to give a legislative
framework for the introduction of a superannuation contributions surcharge
for high income earners.1
1. On 23 October 1997, the Senate referred the following six Bills to this Committee for
inquiry and report by 17 November 1997:
• the Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected
Superannuation Funds) Assessment and Collection Bill 1997;
. the Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected
Superannuation Funds) Imposition Bill 1997;
• the Superannuation Contributions and Termination Payments Taxes Legislation
Amendment Bill 1997;
• the Superannuation Contributions Tax Imposition Amendment Bill 1997;
• the Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Superannuation Contributions
Tax) Bill; and
• the Termination Payments Tax Imposition Amendment Bill 1997.
2. The reasons for referral and the principal issues for consideration were:
• the impact of the Bills on fund members to whom the contributions tax applies:
and
• to investigate the impact of the Bills on the superannuation industry and fund
members.
3. The Committee contacted a number of organisations seeking submissions and expressions
of interest, and conducted a public hearing in Canberra on 28 October 1997. Six submissions
were received and the names of those making submissions, together with a list of the
witnesses who gave evidence at the public hearing, are listed in Appendices A and B.
4. The Committee expresses its appreciation to those persons and organisations who made
submissions and gave oral evidence.
The issues dealt with in the Bills
5. Detailed explanations of each Bill are provided by the relevant Explanatory Memoranda
and second reading speeches. It is recognised that the terminology "surcharge is strictly no
longer applicable. However, the Government's background material continues to use the word
and for the sake of convenience the term "surcharge" will be used in this report to cover the
superannuation contributions tax.
Explanatory Memorandum for five of the Bills, p. 1.
1


Report
Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation
Fundsj Assessment and Collection Bill 1997
6. This bill provides for the assessment and collection of the surcharge from members of
constitutionally protected superannuation funds.
Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation
Funds) Imposition Bill 1997
7. This bill imposes the surcharge on members of constitutionally protected funds.
Superannuation Contributions and Termination Payments Taxes Legislation Amendment Bill
199 7
8. This Bill makes consequential amendments to a number of Acts as a result of the two Bills
above. It also makes technical amendments to 'clarify the operation of the surcharge'.
Superannuation Contributions Tax Imposition Amendment Bill 1997
9. Through the provisions of this Bill, the Superannuation Contributions Tax Imposition Act
199 ~ is amended to round the rate of surcharge imposed under the Act to five decimal places.
The Bill also makes technical amendments to that Act concerning the actions the
Commissioner must take where a member has not provided his or her tax file number.
Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Superannuation Contributions Tax) Bill 1997
10. This Bill amends nine Acts covering superannuation arrangements for:
• Federal Parliamentarians;
• the Governor-General;
• certain Judges and tribunal members;
• certain Defence Force personnel; and
• Commonwealth civilian employees.
11. The purpose of the amendments is to build on earlier legislation, ensuring that the
surcharge applies to high income-earning members of those schemes and providing for
reductions in the benefits payable to such members when a surcharge debt has been paid from
the relevant scheme.
Termination Payments Tax Imposition Amendment Bill 1997
12. This Bill amends the Termination Payments Tax Imposition Act rounds the rate of
termination payments surcharge imposed under that Act to five decimal places.
Explanatory Memorandum for five of the Bills, p. 1.


GOVERNMENT SENATORS’ VIEWS
Report
13. The following section represents the views of Senator John Watson (Chairman), Senator
Alan Ferguson and Senator Julian McGauran.
Limitations of the inquiry
14. In response to a firm request from the Government that the Committee report quickly,
the Committee agreed to report on Monday 10 November 1997. In order to meet this
deadline, a public hearing was held on Tuesday 28 October during the sitting of the Senate.
15. The tight timeframe was due to the Government's desire to bring on debate at the earliest
opportunity to give maximum time for funds to meet the reporting deadline of 15 December
1997. There had been delays in presenting the legislation to the Parliament due to the need to
cover a significant number of technical issues that arose during and subsequent to the
Committee's previous inquiry on this matter. The Institute of Actuaries has been heavily
involved in determining the standards surrounding the "notional contribution" rates. This has
been a time consuming exercise involving much negotiation and discussion.
16. On the passage of the legislation, important regulations can then be tabled and taxation
rulings issued.
17. WTiile the thrust of the intent of the legislation has been around for a considerable time,
taxpayers and others affected by the change are entitled to a reasonable timeframe between
the finalisation of the legislative prescriptive requirements and the 15 December 19b
deadline, when member contribution statements are due’ to be forwarded to the ATO.
However, the Committee has been informed that the ATO will consider each case on its
merits. The Institute of Actuaries, a major player in determining the liability who did not
appear before the Committee, took a considerable time in finalising their position.
18. The legislation also includes provisions for the Commissioner of Taxation to grant
extensions of time to funds in respect of the 15 December reporting date. On the basis of the
evidence, it is clear that many funds may need to use these provisions.
19. Many of the issues have been covered at length in the previous report and extensively
debated in the Parliament. The Government members have therefore decided not to address
each issue raised in evidence in detail.
The evidence
20. The evidence received by the Committee was in two key areas. These are:
• evidence specifically on the content of the bills; and
• evidence of a more general nature.


21. Witnesses who gave evidence on the provisions of the bills concentrated on several key
areas. These were as follows:
. the mounting volume of the legislation and difficulties of comprehension;
. industry's ability to meet the December 15 reporting deadline;
• delays in provision of final guidelines, making compliance difficult;
. expanded reporting requirements;
. practicality of applying the surcharge to defined benefits schemes;
. differences in the application of the 15 per cent cap on surcharge liabilities on
members of constitutionally protected schemes, commonwealth schemes and
private sector schemes;
. application of the surcharge to investment earnings within accumulation
schemes through taxation of surplus allocation amounts;
. possible retrospective application of the surcharge to taxation of surplus
allocation amounts;
• possible difficulties with the definition of "allocated surplus amounts" in the
bills; and
• effect of surcharging "notional contributions" where benefits are not fully
vested.
22. Private sector witnesses also gave evidence of a more general nature about the operation
of the surcharge. Points argued by witnesses included:
• complexity of the legislation;
• compliance and administration costs;
• incidental application of surcharge administration costs to moderate income
earners;
• low response rates to requests for tax file numbers and consequent application of
the surcharge to non-target groups;
• application of the surcharge to the full amount of rolled over termination
payments regardless of service period;
• the different treatment of ETPs taken as cash; and
• application of the surcharge to death and disablement superannuation policies.


23. As stated above, many of these issues have been raised and responded to in debate during
the passage of the original legislation. The Committee was advised of possible technical
anomalies in the legislation, many of which drew a response from departmental
representatives. The Committee has attached a tabulated list of the issues at Appendix D.
This table was based on detailed issues raised in a written submission by Coopers and
Lybrand. As the Assistant Treasurer has specifically addressed the issues raised by Coopers
and Lybrand, the Government Senators believe that it would be appropriate for the
submission to be reproduced in full in this report. The submission appears at Appendix E.
24. The Assistant Treasurer wrote to the Chairman of the Committee on 6 November and
provided a detailed response to matters raised in the Coopers and Lybrand submission
relating to alleged drafting and associated problems with the Bills. The text of that response is
provided in Appendix F.
25. Given the very technical nature of this legislation, Government Senators consider it
understandable that some confusions and misunderstandings arising from the detailed
drafting would occur. The Minister's response acknowledges that amendments to the Bills in
one area are being considered by the Government. Government Senators believe the response
addresses the issues raised.
26. By including the Minister's response as an appendix to this report, it is hoped the Senate
will be further assisted in its deliberations on these Bills.
Conclusions and recommendations
Senator John Watson
Chairman
AJvt*
Senator Alan Ferguson
-«
Senator Julian McGauran




LABOR SENATORS REPORT
1. The following paragraphs are the views of Senators Stephen Conroy. Chris Evans and
John Hogg.
General
2. Labor Senators thank those who made oral and written submissions to the Committee on
such short notice. The evidence was of an excellent standard and of great assistance to the
Committee.
3. Despite some fourteen months having passed since the Government announced the
surcharge tax measure, Labor Senators note that the evidence presented to the Committee
concerning the superannuation contributions tax amendment Bills was highly critical of the
surcharge tax collection method chosen by the Government. Evidence from Mr Noel Davis, a
partner and superannuation lawyer with Clayton Utz, was particularly scathing:
In my 20-odd years of practice in this area, this is by far the worst piece of
legislation that I have seen ...
It is bad legislation and it was enacted purely out of political expediency.1
4. Labor Senators note the Government's failure to adopt Recommendation 10.47 in this
Committee’s 23rd Report, Superannuation Surcharge Legislation tabled in March 1997. That
recommendation was 'that an alternative collection mechanism utilising group certificates be
adopted'.2
5. The Government's persistence with the complex collection method it has chosen continues
to be criticised by the industry and by those who the surcharge tax will affect most unfairly -
low and middle income earners. Such people will pay for the collection of the surcharge tax
in higher administration costs, and will pay the surcharge tax itself if they do not provide their
tax file numbers to their superannuation funds.
6. Labor Senators note the evidence presented by Jacques Martin of the poor success rate
that funds administered by that firm have had in obtaining tax file numbers from members:
From 17 February [1997] funds have had to seek tax file numbers from their
membership. In fact, some of our schemes have made three attempts to get these
tax file numbers out of their membership. They have sent very plainly written
letters to people saying things like, 'Do not pay more tax to the government than
you have to. To stop this you must give us your tax file number.' That is quite
clear, quite plain. There have been three attempts within the membership of
some 600,000 members of some of our larger funds to get this information from
people.
They have also asked employers to distribute those letters to all of their
employees as a second raft in trying the get tax file numbers. We have run
Evidence, p. 23.
23rd Report, p. 91.


Labor Senators Report
Individual dedicated phone numbers for people to respond and provide their tax
file numbers. So far we have a success rate of 23 per cent. There are going to be
hundreds of people out there who are required to pay this unfair tax unfairly.3
7 Clearly, in the Jacques Martin case, very few people are providing their tax file numbers
to their superannuation fund despite repeated attempts to obtain those numbers. Labor
Senators therefore fmd that low and middle income earners will pay the surcharge if they do
not provide their tax file numbers. The evidence suggests that low and middle income are not
providing their tax file numbers and will therefore be subject to a surcharge tax which is
supposed instead to target some 350 000 high income earners.
8. These amendment Bills will apply the surcharge tax to individuals in constitutionally
protected superannuation schemes. The application of the surcharge tax to individuals in
these schemes, rather than on the superannuation funds themselves which is the Government’s
general method of collection of this tax, undermines the Government's argument for using the
its complex surcharge tax collection method in the first place. As the Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) said:
Really chat is what the industry has asked for all along. The funds are being
asked to be the conduit, and are artificially trying to pay a tax, when some
members will get generous benefits and others not. Really, the government has
actually set in place the mechanism for the ATO to set up the infrastructure for
the members to pay the tax directly.4
9. The Government clearly expressed an urgency in seeing these amendment Bills passed by
the Parliament. This urgency was reinforced by evidence from Government representatives at
the public hearing. To assist the Government, Labor Senators agreed to allow these
amendment Bills to be introduced and debated in one sitting session, and also agreed to a
very tight time frame for the Committee to conduct hearings and report to the Senate.
10. However, Labor Senators believe that the Parliament should have a reasonable
opportunity to scrutinise the Bills and recommend appropriate amendments if necessary.
Labor Senators believe that the Government's objection to allowing a reasonable time for this
Committee to examine these complex Bills and report to the Senate undermines the role of
the Parliament.
11. Evidence presented to the Committee was critical of the Government for not addressing
more of the issues raised by the industry since the passage of the original surcharge
legislation. These issues are discussed below, but Labor Senators note the lack of a detailed
response by Government officials at the public hearing to questions raised in this area by
other witnesses. This is further evidence of the complex nature of the surcharge tax measure,
and of the difficulty even the best of industry experts have in understanding exactly how the
surcharge tax measure will apply in practice.
3 Evidence, Mr Peter Downes, p. 15.
Evidence. Mrs Rosemary Vilgan. p. 6.
4


Workability
12. Labor Senators note evidence that, despite these amendment Bills, the surcharge tax still
may not apply to some superannuation schemes because there is no actuarial practice that
would apply in Australia for calculating the notional surchargeable contributions.
13. The following evidence came from Mr Davis:
As a result of that provision in the original act, the government asked the
Institute of Actuaries to adopt an actuarial practice that would apply in Australia
in calculating the notional surchargeable contribution, which could then be
taxed for high-income earners or for low-income earners who do not provide
their tax file numbers.
The Institute of Actuaries, after looking at the issue, resolved that it could not
adopt an actuarial practice to apply to this, because it was too difficult to try to
do so...
We will have, therefore - if you do not make adverse comment on this and if the
Senate passes it - an act of parliament that will apply to funds that make up half
of the assets in superannuation, and which is unworkable because there will be
no actuarial practice. The government actuary's view of how the notional
contributions factor should be calculated is one actuary's view. It does not
constitute actuarial practice, and no other actuary will be required to take any
note of it in attempting to calculate it. An actuary, therefore, who seeks my
advice on this will be told, 'You can't calculate that. The act requires you to
calculate it in accordance with actuarial practice. You cannot do it. If you were
to attempt to do so and caused trustees to pay tax that they wouldn't otherwise
have to pay, that would be negligence.'
You in the Senate, therefore, are being asked to pass a bill to fix what is already
bad legislation by putting in place a regime that will be unworkable in relation
to defined benefit funds.5
Volume and complexity
14. Labor Senators believe that these amendment Bills add to the complexity' of the
surcharge tax measure and will lead to further confusion within the industry, and among those
who will pay the surcharge tax. ASFA expressed this view when they said:
We are very concerned about the volume of legislation. We have seven original
pieces of legislation on the surcharge and now five new or amending Bills. The
actual volume of legislation is becoming increasingly hard for the individuals in
the industry to comprehend.6
5 Evidence, pp. 24-25.
6 Evidence, Mrs Rosemary Vilgan. p. 3.


15. Mr Downes of Jacques Martin was also particularly critical of the complexity of the
legislation. He said:
It is the most complex and inefficient series of legislation that has been
introduced into the parliament in my time of examining Commonwealth
legislation since 1969.
16. Clearly, these amendment Bills do not assist in providing clarity to the surcharge tax
measure, not do they comply with the Government's stated policy of 'engendering simplicity
into the superannuation system'.8
Timing
17. Labor Senators are concerned that the complicated collection method and the timing of
the surcharge tax measure has created a convoluted paradox which will impact on
Government revenue. Representatives from ASFA and from Coopers and Lybrand indicated
that many superannuation funds will not be capable of reporting member contributions until
March 1998. some three to four months after the first reporting deadline. This is due to an
inability of superannuation funds to calculate a member's contribution level without the
appropriate actuarial guidance.
18. Labor Senators are aware that these amendment Bills, if passed, will allow the
Commissioner of Taxation to grant an extension of time beyond the 15 December 1997
deadline for funds to report member contribution levels to the Australian Taxation Office
(ATO). However, if the Commissioner grants a three month extension to superannuation
funds, this will have an impact on the Government’s revenue collection estimates.
19. The paradox arises because the ATO cannot collect the revenue from the surcharge tax
until the funds report contribution levels. The funds cannot report until the appropriate
actuarial calculations are completed. This creates a competing interest between revenue
collection and ensuring the appropriate calculations are accurately undertaken. Labor
Senators believe it is essential that superannuation funds should be given adequate time to
prepare the necessary surcharge calculations to ensure that no errors occur, and that those
who are targeted to pay the tax pay it, while low and middle income earners do not pay the
surcharge tax.
Inconsistent treatment of different superannuation funds
20. The Government has argued that, in order to be consistent, these amendment Bills will
apply the surcharge tax to all high income earners, regardless of the type of superannuation
scheme they may be in. The Bills are necessary because the original Bills excluded members
of certain funds from having to pay the surcharge tax. Labor Senators agree that all high
income earners should pay the surcharge tax, but do not support the reality that many low and
middle income earners will also incur the tax
7
Evidence, p. 12.
Policy statement made in November 1995 by the now Treasurer, the Hon. Peter Costello, MP.
Mr Costello said that he had three tenets for superannuation under a liberal Government These were:
there should be certainty; there should be confidence; and above all, there should be simplicity.


21. Labor Senators note the evidence concerning several inconsistencies in the application,
and the payment, of the surcharge tax liability. First, there is the inconsistent treatment of
superannuation funds as a result of the introduction of a fifteen per cent cap of the iota]
surcharge tax liability for Commonwealth and some State defined benefit funds. ASFA
pointed out that there are four different surcharge tax treatments depending on which scheme
the tax is applied:
There are actually four different treatments of tax here in terms of a cap on
benefits ... We have concerns that, as the industry has said all along, it is quite
possible for more than the maximum rate of tax to be taken out. There have
been four different treatments, really, set up here, and we have concern that
members of different schemes will be treated quite differently.9
22. Labor Senators believe that all superannuation schemes should be treated equally, and
that the surcharge tax should not apply retrospectively to benefits accrued before 20 August
1996. ASFA pointed to the inconsistent wording and treatment of the funds which the fifteen
per cent cap affects. ASFA believed:
The provision being inserted into the 1976 Superannuation Act... says that onl>
15 per cent of the employer financed benefit after 20 August [1996] should be
taxed. That is the maximum. That is really how it should be for every member
of every fund in Australia ... That is ... the straight down the line method of
application.10
23. Labor Senators note the evidence from Mr Ray Stevens of William Mercers, that a cap
on all schemes would be difficult to implement. However, Mr Stevens also said that it is
unfair that a cap exists for certain fund members, but not for others, 'particularly where that
group is the Government's own employees'.11
24. Further inconsistencies exist in relation to private arid public sector accumulation and
defined benefit schemes, in regard to how the tax is accrued and how it is paid. Accumulation
fund members who are assessed with a surcharge tax liability will have to pay the tax as it
accrues. However, members of some defined benefits schemes, including some public sector
schemes, can allow the surcharge tax liability to accrue, or have the option to pay it as it
accrues. Labor Senators believe that payment options for surcharge tax liability should be
consistent across all superannuation schemes.
25. Another inconsistency, that of surcharge tax liability being applied to individual
members of constitutionally protected superannuation schemes rather than to the s
themselves, has been discussed above (especially see paragraph 8).
Allocated surplus amounts
26. Labor Senators note with concern that the amendment Bills will apply the surcharge tax
to surplus amounts (investment fluctuation reserves). Such amounts are set aside y some
superannuation funds for drawing down in years when fund earnings are low, in or er to
9 Evidence, Mrs Rosemary Vilgan. p. 6.
10 Evidence, Mrs Rosemary Vilgan. p. 5.
11 Evidence, p. 68.


smooth out the longer term return. Mr Davis suggested that applying the surcharge tax in this
way was against the Government’s original intention:
The effect of that provision will be that the surcharge will now tax ... investment
earnings in accumulation superannuation funds. The intention of this legislation,
said the government, was to tax superannuation contributions in relation to high
income earners. It was never said that the intention was to tax investment
earnings in superannuation funds.12
27. Mr Davis was highly critical of the definition of 'allocated surplus amount', stating:
Some people are going to ask me for advice on what that means and I am going
to have to tell them that I have no idea. It may as well be written in Russian, It is
rubbish!13
28. Further evidence from Mr Davis suggested that accumulation-type superannuation funds
will now require the services of an actuary, where there had been no need before, to calculate
the taxable allocated surplus amount for their members.14
29. Labor Senators are concerned this measure could effectively be a double tax on fund
members. If a member’s contribution is surcharge taxed when paid into a fund, and some of
that contribution is set aside in an investment fluctuation reserve, it will be a double tax if it is
surcharge taxed again when that reserved contribution is returned to a member's account.
30. Labor Senators believe this measure will impact adversely on members of accumulation
funds, and is an unnecessary complication on top of what is an already complicated policy. In
addition, it will further increase the collection costs of the surcharge tax which will be passed
on to all fund members regardless of their income level.
Inconsistent treatment of "golden handshakes”
31. Labor Senators believe that the inconsistent treatment of golden handshakes for
surcharge tax purposes, depending on whether they are taken as cash or rolled over, is
inequitable. It also has the potential to severely damage the superannuation system and is
contrary to the Government's retirement incomes policy.
32. Labor and Australian Democrat Senators recommended in the Committee's 23rd Report
that:
Unusual payments (eg. golden handshakes) should be included in the definition
of assessable income where they have been received after August 20 1996.13
33. The surcharge tax legislation appears to apply this recommendation to those golden
handshakes which an employee takes as a cash payment, that is only the post 20 August 1996
component is surcharge taxed. However, where an employee rolls a golden handshake
12 Evidence, pp 25-26.
13 Evidence, p. 26.
14 Evidence, p. 26.
15 Recommendation 10.48, p. 91.


component is surcharge taxed. However, where an employee rolls a golden handshake
payment into a superannuation fund, the entire amount (pre and post 20 August 1996i is
surcharge taxed.
34. Labor Senators note that this is contrary to the Treasurer's 1996 Budget night press
release, and also his press release of 5 February 1997 which, while stating that a five year
transitional period would apply to golden handshakes, did not distinguish between those
taken in cash or rolled over. The effect of this policy is to make the taking of golden
handshakes in cash more tax effective than rolling them over into the superannuation system.
35. The Committee received evidence from Mr Bruce Harris who. acting on the advice
contained in the Treasurer's Budget night press release, rolled over his golden handshake
payment. Much to his dismay, the entire amount of the golden handshake was subsequently
subject to the surcharge tax. Mr Harris stated:
Had I cashed this same amount of money in, my tax incidence because of the
surcharge would have been almost nothing, because I would have had very little
service after 20 August and I happened to have quite a lot of service before
then, so the proportion would be very small.16
36. Labor Senators are concerned that this inequity has the potential to undermine
superannuation as a savings vehicle, and is contrary to the Government’s retirement income
objectives.
RECOMMENDATIONS
37. Labor Senators repeat their recommendation in the Committee's 23rd Report, that the
Government adopt an alternative surcharge tax collection mechanism which will ensure that
only those targeted to pay the tax actually pay it, and which is
• more efficient;
. simpler; and
. more cost effective
to administer. A collection method recommended in the Committee s 2ord Report an
supported by many employer, employee and superannuation industry experts, was the
utilisation of group certificates.
38. Labor Senators recommend that the Australian Taxation Commissioner grant an
adequate extension of time to superannuation funds that cannot meet the 15 December 1
deadline, to ensure that only those who are targeted by the surcharge tax actually pay it.
39. Labor Senators recommend that the surcharge tax be applied consistently across all
superannuation schemes. This recommendation has the following three limbs.
. the fifteen per cent cap on the surcharge tax liability for members of
Commonwealth superannuation schemes and constitutionally protected sc ernes
should apply to all superannuation schemes;
16 Evidence, pp 71 -72.


. the definition of the fifteen per cent cap which applies to Commonwealth public
sector schemes should be extended to all superannuation schemes: that is, the
cap should be limited to fifteen per cent of the benefit for the period after 20
August 1996; and
• the options for payment of the surcharge tax for members of some defined
benefit schemes (letting it accrue in an account on a yearly basis, or paying it as
it falls due) be consistently applied across all superannuation schemes.
40. Labor Senators recommend that surplus allocation amounts not be subject to the
surcharge tax. This avoids adding further complications to an already complicated policy.
Alternatively, where an allocated surplus amount is subject to the surcharge tax, the liability
be adjusted for any part of that amount which has already been surcharged taxed.
41. Labor Senators recommend that, in the interests of maintaining a robust superannuation
system, golden handshakes be treated consistently for surcharge tax purposes, regardless of
whether they are taken as cash or rolled over.
fill /
-- -
' Senator itepherrGomo^
Senator Chris Evans


REPORT BY SENATOR LYN ALLISON
AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS
1. The Committee's Inquiry into the Superannuation Contributions Tax Amendment Bills
has been an extremely difficult process. Because of the timeline imposed by the Government,
the Australian Democrats believe that the Committee has not been given sufficient time and
sufficient evidence to properly review the administrative problems of implementing the
Higher Income Earners Superannuation Tax Surcharge.
2. Evidence presented to the Committee by ASFA, Jacques Martin. Coopers & Lybrand and
others indicated that fund administrators and trustees are having some serious difficulties in
implementing the surcharge. Problems identified included:
• Difficulty of persuading members to provide tax file numbers, with just 23 per cent of
members providing tax file numbers despite three requests;1
• Costs of collecting information from the large number of people who have exited the super
system since August 19962;
• New requirements in the amending bills suddenly made retrospective to August 1996 '.
• The near impossibility of the maybe 200 available actuaries in Australia completing the
work needed on 1500 defined benefits funds before the December 15, 1997 deadline";
• Continuing confusion about the meaning of the requirements in the act itself.
3. It must be remembered that the collective mechanism used for the tax surcharge is not the
one recommended by this Committee in its 23rd report. The Committee, following the strong
submissions from the superannuation industry, employer groups, unions and ACOSS.
recommended that the best means of collecting the tax surcharge was direct from employees
through group certificates.5
4. The Government rejected that recommendation and insisted on a collection mechanism
through superannuation funds, despite concerns that this would greatly add to the
administrative costs of the funds and inadvertently leave many workers paying the surcharge
for failing to provide tax file numbers.
5. The Government however, did signal a willingness to remain open to proposals to modify
any administrative problems which emerged in implementation of the surcharge. The
Treasurer made this commitment quite clear to me in a meeting involving myself and the
1
Evidence, 28/10/97, SI5.
Evidence, 28/10/97, S29.
3 Evidence, 28/10/97, S74.
Evidence, 28/10/97, S54.
23 rd Report, p.91.
4
5


Report by Senator Lyn Allison
Leader of the Australian Democrats prior to the Senate voting on the legislation. The
legislation is now six months old and the Government has brought forward its first set of
amendments to fix teething problems with the implementation of its legislation.
6. However, it is clear from the evidence presented to the Committee that the amendments
presented by the Government in its bill fall far short of what is required to raise the legislation
to its highest level of workability.
7. The Australian Democrats are strong supporters of the intent of the Government in
making sure that the excessive tax concessions available to high income earners on
superannuation be wound back. We are strong supporters of the intent of the Tax Surcharge
and always have been. But, we want to see legislation which ensures that innocent workers
are not caught in its net, that the administration costs of the funds do not skyrocket as a result
and that the implementing legislation is sufficiently understandable and workable to ensure
that it engenders confidence in the underlying policy.
8. On the evidence submitted to the Committee, and based on the paucity of the responses
provided to the Committee by the Government, the Australian Democrats are not persuaded
that the Government has done all that it could have done to make this legislation workable
with this package of bills. In our view, more work is needed to properly respond to the
problems identified by industry and to ensure that compliance costs with what is a very
complex piece of tax legislation are minimised.
9. The following items in particular need to be addressed by Government. The list is not
exhaustive, but covers what we believe are the more significant problems identified by the
Committee in its evidence:
• The need for further education measures to minimise the prospect that low income workers
might be caught by the tax surcharge;
• The difficulty of requiring defined benefit funds to report by December 15 to the ATO
with completed actuarial reports;
• The inconsistent treatment of different superannuation funds in enforcing the Government
intent that benefits will not be reduced by more than 15 per cent;
• The difficulties associated with the application of the surcharge to allocated surplus funds,
in particular, in its possibly inadvertent extension to accumulation funds;
• The inconsistent treatment of eligible termination payments as to whether they are paid out
or rolled over in application of the surcharge;
• Complexity of reporting requirements to the Tax Office on trustees beyond what is
necessary for operation of the legislation;
• Clarifying who can make payments to offset surcharge debts;
• Unfair treatment where tax surcharge overpayments are made, in terms of characterisation
as an ETP and payment of interest;


• Possible overtaxation of partly vested benefits;
• Underestimation of the difficulties and time delays in obtaining the actuarial repons
necessary to implement the legislation, particularly in the absence of practice guidelines
from the Institute of Actuaries;
• Difficulties in obtaining the revenue from members who have left the funds; and
• Failure by the drafters of the legislation to minimise compliance costs for funds in the
collection of the revenue.
10. The Australian Democrats believe that the Government needs to address these issues and
the other issues raised by industry representatives. We believe industry is justified in many of
the complaints that they have made about the workability of the legislation as it stands, and
share industry's concern to see the legislation work better. We have been persuaded that
industry is simply trying to work with a piece of highly complex and complicated legislation
and to ensure that the costs to the members of their funds are minimised.
11. We are conscious of the desire of the Government to have this legislation in place prior
to the December 15 deadline. We wish to signal quite clearly that we are prepared to pass this
legislation when we are satisfied that the Government has properly dealt with the legitimate
concerns about the implementation of the Tax Surcharge raised with this Committee.
Australian Democrats recommendations:
That the reporting date for defined benefits funds for 1997 be deferred from
December 15,1997 to March 1,1998;
That the Senate defer consideration of these bills for three weeks and require thej
Government to hold a further round of genuine consultations with industry about the (
issues raised in this report with a clear commitment to reduce the funds costs of
complying with the legislation;
That the Government appoint an independent expert to review the legislation with a
view to further reducing the compliance costs for the superannuation industry ^
consistent with protecting the revenue, and that the expert report be tabled in both
Houses of Parliament no later than June 30,1998.




APPENDIX A
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
1 Mr Bruce Harris NSW
2 Mr Tony Powell NSVv
3 & 3 Supp Donald Steel and Associates Ptv Limited NSV^
4 Community and Public Sector Union (CPSU) ACT
5 & 5 Supp William M Mercer Pty Ltd ^ 1C
6 Government Employees Superannuation Board ^ A
7 Coopers and Lybrand NSVv
8 Judges of the Supreme Court of Queensland QLD




APPENDIX B
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARING
CANBERRA, 28 OCTOBER, 1997
Dr Michaela Anderson, Director, Policy and Research, Association of Superannuation Funds
of Australia
Mr Leo Bator, Assistant Commissioner (Superannuation), Australian Taxation Office
Mrs Sandra Birkensleigh, Partner, Superannuation Services, Coopers & Lybrand
Mr Robert Dal Santo, Director, Parliamentary and Other Superannuation Arrangements
Section, Department of Finance and Administration
Mr Noel Davis, Partner, Clayton Utz
Ms Gillian Dowling, Director, CSS/PSS Section, Commonwealth Superannuation Group,
Department of Finance and Administration
Mr Peter Downes, Manager Government Business, Jacques Martin
Ms Margaret Gillespie, National Industrial and Liaison ^Officer, Community' and Public
Sector Union (CPSU)
Mr Bruce Harris
Mr Martin Jilovsky, Principal Consultant, Jacques Martin
Senator The Hon Rod Kemp, Assistant Treasurer
Mrs Louise Matthews, National Superannuation Technical Consultant, Coopers and Lybrand
Mr Tony McDonald, Acting Director, Superannuation Section, Superannuation Policy-
Branch, Financial Institutions Division, Department of the Treasury
Mr Graham Millar, Branch Manager, Commonwealth Superannuation Group, Department of
Finance and Administration
Mr Paul Morrow, Business Manager (Superannuation), Australian Taxation Office
Mr Mark O'Connor, Tax Counsel, Australian Taxation Office


Appendix B
Mr Anthony Regan, Acting Assistant Commissioner, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Sandy Ross, Assistant Secretary, CSIRO Section, Community and Public Sector Union
(PSU Group)
Mr Raymond Stevens, Director, William M Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Kirk Sutton, Superannuation Manager, Coopers and Lybrand
Mrs Rosemary Vilgan, Deputy Federal President (Technical and Regulations), Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia


APPENDIX C
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees.
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation • Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)


Appendix C
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
-Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996
- Schedule I (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Schedules l,
9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)


Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges’ Pension Scheme
(September 1997)
Twenty-sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Restrictions on Early Access: Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 199"
and related terms of reference. (September 1997)
Twenty-seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Contributions Tax Amendment Bills. (November 1997)




APPENDIX D
SUMMARY OF POSSIBLE ANOMALIES AND INCONSISTENCIES
identified by Coopers and Lybrand
in their written submission to the inquiry


Appendix D


APPENDIX E
SUBMISSION FROM COOPERS & LYBRAND




chanerea accountants
ana business advisers
Coopers & Lycrana “owe'
580 George Street
Sydney NSW 2000
postal address
Box 2650 G*C
Sydney NSW 200'
28 October 1997
Mr Peter Hallahan
Secretary
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament House
Canberra ACT
Dear Peter,
Thank you for inviting us to give evidence before the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation on the package of surcharge amendment bills introduced into Parliament on
2nd October 1997. Please accept this document as our submission on the matters currently
referred to the Committee. In particular our comments will be focused on the amendments
affecting Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment & Collection) Act 1997, however
similar comments could also be made for the same amendments made to the Termination
Payments (Assessment & Collection) Act 1997.
Our comments are in three parts:
♦ identification of technical difficulties with and other issues relating to the proposed
amendments;
♦ general comments relating to the timing, cost and limited resources available to meet
the required deadlines; and
♦ matters which we identified as outstanding from our previous submission which
remain as anomalies in the legislation.
For ease of reference we have attached three appendices, a separate one dealing with each of
the matters set out above.
These amendments have produced even more anomalies to an already anomalous piece of
legislation and have done little to rectify many of the problems initially identified. We call
on this Committee to report on the shortcomings of this package of amendments in the hope
that sensible legislation is enacted to reduce the complex, and in some cases, the unworkable
nature of the surcharge legislation.
Yours sincerely
Sandra Birkensleigh
Superannuation Partner
Coooers & Lybrano is a member firm of Coopers & Lybrand International. an association incorporated with limited liability.


Coopers & Lybrand
.APPENDIX A
Issues relating to the proposed amendments.
The references to Item numbers below are references to Item numbers in Schedule 4 of the
amending Bill.
1.0 Item 4
The commentary includes in the two bullet points are inconsistent in our understanding of the
operation of the surcharge for both accumulation and defined benefit funds.
The description for accumulated benefits funds does not include reference to allocated surplus
amounts which is proposed by virtue of the amendment to the definition of contributed
amounts (see Item 43) to be included in the amounts which can be subject to the surcharge.
For defined benefit funds the surcharge will be determined by reference to the Notional
Surchargeable Contribution Factors. These factors are determined by reference to a
methodology known as the Projected Unit Credit (PUC) method. Under the PUC method a
value is placed on the amount of the benefit accruing in any year. These amounts
accumulated over time will only match the defined benefit if a member receives a defined
retirement benefit and the assumptions used by the actuary in applying the PUC method are
representative of actual experience over the intervening period.
2.0 Item 6
l nder this Item subsections 8(2)(c),(d) and (e) are omitted and replaced with subsections
8(2)(c)(i)(ii) and (iii) and 8(2)(d). This renumbering has resulted in inconsistencies with the
reporting requirements under subsection 13.7.
2.1 Subsection 8(2) sets out what are surchargeable contributions, whilst subsection 13(7)
sets out those amounts to be reported to the Commissioner. Under the current arrangements
contributions made by self employed persons, in respect of which a tax deduction was to be
claimed were not required to be reported by the trustee to the Commissioner. This was logical
as the trustee was not in a position to know what those amounts would be.
As a result of the renumbering the trustee will be required to report amounts allowed as
deductions to the member under section 82 AAT of the Income Tax Assessment Act.
However, the trustee is never in a position to know what will be allowed as a deduction in
relation to a member.
Trustees can only report those amounts which has been notified pursuant to a notice given
under 82 AAT (1A) by the member as being the amount that the member will claim as a tax
deduction. Accordingly, the reporting requirements must be amended to ensure that the
trustee is required to report information that could reasonably have available to them.
In considering this it is uncertain whether it was the intention of the Commissioner to require
these amounts to be reported by the Trustee at all or whether this is an unexpected outcome of
the recasting of subsection8(2). One point in favour of the capturing this information from


superannuation fund trustees is that the Commissioner is not able to tell from an individual’s
tax return which of the amounts claimed as a tax deduction were contributed pre or post 20
August 1996. Obviously this is only an issue for the 1996/97 reporting period.
2.2 Subsection 13(7) also requires Trustees to notify amounts referred to in paragraph
8(2)(e), a paragraph which has been deleted by item 6 of Schedule 4, being replaced in that
item by subparagraph 8(2)(c)(iii).
3.0 Item 16
The amendment at Item 16 appears to require a fund or a superannuation provider that has
received an amount (a contributed amount) from another superannuation provider to provide
the original fund a statement as specified in the regulations. Under this new reporting
requirement the information is required to be provided in the case of the 1996/97 year by the
notification date which is defined in the Act to be 15 December 1997.
However, under the current legislation for the 1996/97 and 97/98 financial years, trustees are
only required to report surcharge information in relation to a rollover or fund transfers to the
Tax Commissioner and not to the rollover fund. Should regulations, prescribed tor the
purposes of new subsection 13(4A), require information to be passed from the rollover fund
back to the original fund, information that was never provided to the rollover rund in the first
place, for example the amount of surchargeable contributions included in the rollover
amounts, - it is probable that in the 96/97 and 97/98 financial years that the rollover funds
will not hold any relevant information. Therefore we would suggest that this provision, if it
is to remain, has a commencement date of 1 July 1998 at the earliest. Certainly to require this
additional reporting at the 11th hour for the 1996/97 year is onerous.
Additionally we question the need for such a complex receipting method which will only add
to the administrative burden and cost of an already overburdened system. The Commissioner
is already obtaining reports on movements of members under other sections of the Act. If in
doubt the Commissioner could on a case by case basis check individual inconsistencies rather
than impose further reporting requirements across the board.
4.0 Item 17
Under this Item information regarding the surcharge that is reported to the Commissioner is
reported to the member. This requirement is a "must" requirement which makes no allowance
for the fact that some employers will be funding the cost of the surcharge which means that
the members will not be affected. Of what possible use is it to provide those members with a
statement setting out the matters reported to the tax office. This requirement simply increases
costs which in some way will filter through to members who should not be affected by the
surcharge in any event. It is confusing enough that these members will get a statement from
the ATO. There should be appropriate recognition of the fact that some employers will fund
the surcharge. This extends to the ATO reporting to members. Perhaps an additional field
could be included in the statement required under the Regulations allowing for the
identification of those persons who will not be directly effected by the surcharge, so that the
ATO statement simply requests that the member check their details and advise the Trustee if
they are incorrect thus facilitating correction where necessary.


5.0 Item 24
Unfortunately a discrepancy which exists in the current legislation is still not rectified with
the amendment to this section. This section enables a member of an unfunded defined benefit
scheme to make payments to the scheme to reduce their surcharge debt. However, in many of
these cases, the employer sponsor is willing to meet the cost of the surcharge. There is still no
mechanism to allow the employer to make payments to offset the debt, due to the restrictive
wording of this provision. Nor is there an ability for members who are making contributions
via salary sacrifice to offset the debt via like additional contributions.
The treatment of unfunded funds is completely inconsistent with all other types of funded
funds in this area.
6.0 Item 40A
This paragraph appears to provide the Commissioner with wide powers of recovery of
amounts owing. Virtually anybody that might owe money in relation to either the
superannuation provider or the member to which whom the surcharge debt accrues can be
directed by the Commissioner to pay the surcharge liability. The wording of the paragraph is
particularly unwieldy and will probably be a gold mine for lawyers.
However of greatest concern is that it is unclear whether a link exists in the proposed
amendments between the debt being recovered from a third party pursuant to item 40A and
the discharge of the liability in respect of the debt for the holder of the contributions.
If an amount is collected it must be clear that the debt is discharged.
7.0 Item 40
Item 40 introduces the definition of allocated surplus amount. We believe the definition is
inappropriate for its purpose. The definition should simply relate to the use of surplus to
offset contributions "otherwise payable" by the employer, that are allocated to member
accounts, i.e. where an employer is on a "contribution holiday".
The introduction of anti-avoidance provisions should be sufficient to ensure that amounts
applied to circumvent these provisions Eire captured. Where the Commissioner suspects such
action then they could seek the opinion of an actuary
^ e do not believe that there is any need for actuaries to be involved in the calculation of the
ocated surplus amount if the approach above were to be adopted. Accumulation funds do
not under normal circumstances have actuaries appointed for their funds and forcing these
s to seek an actuary to be involved in the determination of this amount would simply add
. et again to the costs of this legislation for what are meant to be simple funds.
Additionally, this is a new requirement to be dealt with prior to 15 December 1997.
ioo^'a n^S C0Uld be Said tG be aretrospective announcement, ie. it is backdated to 20 August
owance should be made for those trustees who had acted in good faith prior to the


release of these amendments. It is not sufficient in our view that this anomaly was known
about. The fact is that the legislation did not previously include these amounts and decisions
were made based on the legislation at the time.
7.0 Item 41 - Contributed amounts
The definition of contributed amounts is still a problem where the trustee is required to report
on terminations, rollovers or payments to members under amended sections 13(3) & 13(4).
Under 13(3), trustees must report if any contributed amounts in relation to the member were
or are paid by a superannuation provider to the member. The report must be made no later
than the notification date.
The definition of contributed amounts is limited to amounts paid for or by the member to a
superannuation fund for the financial year or any allocated surplus amount in relation to the
member.
Therefore under the reporting requirements of 13(3) if the benefit being paid is a benefit that
has arisen without the need for contributions to be made or with reference to allocated surplus
amounts ie the increase is as a result of an accrual in a defined benefit fund, then such
payments will still not be required to be reported. It is arguable that surcharge will be able to
be levied at all on such increments.
A similar problem arises on the rollover or transfer of benefits and the reporting requirements
under section 13(4).
It would be far simpler for trustees to report all movements rather than having to make
decisions between those that did and didn’t contain contributed amounts during the year.


APPENDIX B
8.0 General Matters
it should be noted that the proposed amendments significantly alter:
* those who need to report i.e. defined benefit funds
* what needs to be reported i.e. defined benefit funds, allocated surplus amounts,
information to originating funds and one assumes items specified in regulations for the
purposes of sections 13(3) and 13(4) consistent with the items specified in regulations issued
a couple of weeks ago for the purposes of section 13(2) (NB the Commissioner will only have
the power to make regulations for the purposes of 13(3) and 13(4) on the passing of these
amendments.)
* the amounts that need to calculated in order to satisfy the reporting requirements i.e.
allocated surplus amounts. Also defined benefit funds do not currently have to report
anything and therefore many have not undertaken the factor calculations required to facilitate
the reporting.
There are 35 business days remaining until 15 December 1997, the first reporting date. Even
assuming that both the legislation and the regulations are finalised by 7 November 1997, then
there are only 27 business days between then and 15 December 1997. During this time
systems will have to be further amended as result this bill, factors calculated and allocated
surplus amounts to be included in contributed amounts determined.
Reports have to be produced, checked, signed off and delivered to the ATO. Given that most
trustees rely on a service provider to do this the quantum of work is centralised across a
limited amount of resources.
It will have taken over 15 months to arrive at some form of workable legislation. It seems
incongruous that the industry should have to implement the arrangements within 27 days.
Accordingly we support the granting to the Commissioner of wide powers to grant extensions
of time to comply with the reporting requirements. We further believe that the first
notification date should be extended to 15 March 1998 to allow the orderly and cost effective
(if that is possible) implementation of these requirements.
Ot particular concern is the ability of the actuaries to undertake the volume of work required
in the time frame remaining. There are approximately 1,500 defined benefit funds and
approximately 150 actuaries (although this number may be as low as 100 accordingly to
market sources) specialising in superannuation. The factor calculations take approximately 5
days to complete for each fund. This means that actuaries will spend at least 50 business days
each working on the factors. Clearly, this is greater than the time remaining and clearly all
other work cannot cease whilst the factors are prepared.


Whilst it is correct to state that the factor determination was issued in mid August 1997, it
will not be until this legislation is passed that trustees of defined benefit funds have any
obligations to report. They should not be penalised for acting "prudently" i.e. not incurring
possibly unnecessary costs or preparing to disclose information that they have no requirement
to disclose.


Alternate collection mechanism
We reiterate our earlier views that this method of collecting what the Government has
admitted is a tax, is inordinately complex and costly.
Members who shouldn't be affected will be simply by virtue of the increased administration,
consulting and legal costs involved in implementing these requirements.
For members who should be affected the cost will exceed the surcharge rate due to the
additional costs of implementation.
It is also probable that members of defined benefit funds will be inequitably levied with a
surcharge amount where actuarial assumption deviate from actual experience i.e. they will
pay more than they should. Trustees are not in a position to protect individual members from
the incurrence of a higher than reasonable surcharge amount unless the trustee passes the cost
onto other members which of course is contrary to the principles of trust law.
We therefore strongly recommend that a cheaper, more equitable method of collecting the
surcharge be investigated and adopted. For example introduce a levy on high income earners
via the income tax system similar to that currently used in relation to private health insurance
and Medicare.


APPENDIX C
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge Imposition Act 1997
1.0 Rate of Surcharge
1.1 The effective tax rate differs depending on whether the surcharge is paid prior to. or after
payment of an Eligible Termination Payment (ETP). Individuals, left with the surcharge
liability after receipt of an ETP, will be effectively paying more tax than if the surcharge was
paid by the fund and then paid out as an ETP. [section 5] This is inequitable.
1.2 An illustration of this inequity is given below:
Two members, both aged 40, join a fund on 21 August 1996. Both members' adjusted
taxable income exceeds the upper surcharge threshold and hence the full 15% surcharge
applies for each. During the 96/97 financial year their employer contributes an amount of
$10,000 per member.
Both members resign on the same day. One member is paid a benefit from the fund before
the surcharge assessment is received. Ignoring investment earnings, and allowing for
contributions tax at 15% the account balance of the fund is upon termination $8,500.
PAYE tax calculated on the ETP is $1827.50. (ie 21.5% x $8,500).
The benefit received is therefore $6,672.50.
However, some time after receipt of the net benefit, a surcharge assessment is forwarded to
the individual. The amount of liability is $1500 (ie 15% x $10,000).
The net position of the individual's benefit having paid the surcharge after receiving the ETP
is now $5,172.00.
The second member is not paid from the fund immediately. A surcharge assessment is
received in the meantime. The account balance is reduced by contribution tax of $1500 and
surcharge liability of $1500 leaving an account balance of $7,000.
PAYE tax on the ETP eventually taken is $1505.00 (ie 15% x $7,000).
The second member's net benefit is therefore $5495.00. Some $300 odd more than the first
member, simply due to the timing of the assessment notice and taking of the benefit
payment.
1.3. Furthermore the first member will have $6672.50 counted towards his Reasonable
Benefit Limit, even though $1500 of this amount has been paid in tax to the Commissioner of
Taxation in reducing his surcharge liability. The second member has only $5, 495 counted
towards his RBL. We recommend that amendments are made post haste to the RBL
legislation to correct this anomaly i.e. the surcharge amount paid by a member after receivmg
his benefit should not be counted towards the member's RBL.


1.4 An offset against the surcharge for expenses is not allowed for, as it is for contributions
tax. (section 5]
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Consequential Amendments) Act 1997
2.0 SCT - third party involvement
2.1 The SCT can hear complaints regarding any amount contained in the Surcharge Statement
provided to the Commissioner of Taxation. Third parties can be joined as a party to respond
to the complaint. This opens up a proverbial can of worms for defined benefit funds.
Notional contributions will most probably always disadvantage some because the actuarial
assumptions made can vary from actual experience. Actuaries, in particular, will be made
accountable before the SCT for simply completing, on behalf of the trustees, an obligation of
the legislation. [Schedule 4, section 7 and Schedule 7 of the Superannuation
Contributions & Termination Payment Taxes Legislation Amendment Act 1997
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997
3.0 Taxable contributions that are exempted
3.1 What are "taxable contributions" under the definition of "surchargeable contributions" ?
It is not clear whether contributions that are exempted under s 274(7) from taxable
contributions for contributions tax purposes also exempted from the definition of
"surchargeable contributions"? [section 8J.
3.2 It is our belief, that as pension benefits paid from exempt contributions are taxed at the
marginal rate of the pension recipient and have received no concessional superannuation
taxation treatment - that there is no equity issues regarding the tax concessions between high
and low income earners and hence the surcharge should not apply. The same applies to lump
sum benefits.
4.0 Apportionment of surcharge - in the instance of splitting benefits
4.1 Members should be able to elect how much of the contributions taken in cash are subject
to the Surcharge (normally members would want to have all of the surcharge apply to the
rollover and none to the cash component, as this would eliminate paying an effectively higher
rate of surcharge out of post ETP taxed benefit - see point 1 above - and RBL implications),
[section 10]
5.0 Inconsistency in determining liability for the surcharge
5.1 If two members with identical surcharge liabilities should die on the same day, but one
death benefit is paid before an assessment is received - no surcharge liability is passed onto
the beneficiaries. If the second death benefit is paid after the assessment is received by the
superannuation provider, then the provider must deduct the amount of the liability from the


deceased's account before making the payment to the beneficiaries. This situation should be
rectified immediately.
6.0 Interest, late payment penalties, refunds and advance payments
6.1 Funds receiving assessments in May, will need to immediately pay 1.5 times the
surcharge amount (to include the advance instalment). Cash flow will require careful
monitoring. Furthermore if a fund has to borrow to pay this liability, who bears the interest
costs? [subsection 15(2) and 15(3)] This needs to be clarified by the legislation.
6.2. Should refunds due to overpayment of the surcharge that are paid to persons who have
left the superannuation system be treated as part of the original ETP° [subsection 19(5)]
This needs to be clarified by the legislation.
6.3 No interest is payable to members on refunds where the ATO issues an amended
assessment. Conversely, the ATO expects interest if amendment results in an increase in the
surcharge liability. This is inconsistent with existing tax laws whereby interest in payable
based on the 13 week Treasury Bond Rate, [section 18]
6.4 If interest is less than 50 cents, it is not necessary to pay this amount. However, there is
no de minimis rule for the surcharge, eg, $70 010 taxable income results in a surcharge
assessment being raised, having to be notified, debited to accounts, etc —perhaps for as little
as 1 cent - as there is no minimum surcharge threshold, [subsection 21(4)]
6.5 Who bears the cost of late payment penalties where the ATO is at fault for an incorrect
assessment ? Section 25(4) only provides that the Commissioner may remit the whole or part
amount of the late payment penalty - with an ability to appeal the Commissioner s refusal
through the AAT. In our opinion, the legislation should definitively waive such penalties in
these circumstances, [subsection 25(4)}
7.0 Tax File Numbers (TFN)
7.1 The Commissioner may use TFNs quoted for other reasons for surcharge purposes, but is
under no obligation to do so. If non-provision of TFNs is to an extent that the ATO cannot
cope with the matching required, members below the threshold will be levied a 15/o
surcharge rate as the default. No interest will be returned on the refund - even if the TFN is
obtained, [section 23} This is inequitable.
8.0 Appropriateness of Treasury Bond Rate
8.1 We question whether it is appropriate in all cases to index the surcharge liability offset
account for unfunded schemes by the Treasury Bond Rate. We note that the Actuarial
Advisory Committee could not reach agreement over one rate of indexation, [subsection
16(5)]


9.0 Payment of the surcharge for certain funds not possible
9.1 How do Death and Total and Permanent Disablement funds (TPD) only funds, which are
wholly used to fund insurance premiums and costs, pay the surcharge? Given that in these
funds there are no other assets how will the Trustee met the surcharge cost. If the trustee
borrows money how will it repay the money if no benefit arises from which it obtain
additional funds until a death or TPD arises. Who pays the interest costs of any borrowings
undertaken. What institution will lend money to an entity will no collateral or demonstratable
ability to pay? The legislation does not cater for this situation.
Termination Payments Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997
10.0 Termination payments made by an employer
10.1 The whole of an Employer Eligible Termination Payment (ETP) will be used to
calculate taxable income for purposes of determining whether someone's adjusted taxable
income falls into the surcharge threshold. However, only the post 20 August 1996 component
is actually surchargeable (up until 20 August 2001). [subsection 7(2)] This is inconsistent
and will result in inequities, particularly where "low income earners" receive a "once off'
payment such as an employer ETP which will result in "adjusted taxable income" exceeding
the surcharge threshold for that year of income.
10.2 There will be a significant disadvantage in rolling over employer ETPs prior to 20
August 2001, as the benefit of pro-rating the payment pre/post 20 August 1996 is lost when
the benefit is rolled over. The entire post June 1983 component (untaxed) falls into the
definition of surchargeable contributions. [Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (
Assessment and Collection) Act 1997, subsection 8(2)(e) and section 42, definition of
"specified roll-over amount*'] This is clearly wrong and will be an incentive for people to
cash out termination benefits rather than saving for retirement. The anomaly exists for
anyone with service prior to 20 August 1996 - regardless of the level and component structure
of their employer ETP benefit.
General Comments
11.0 Funds that are winding up
111 In the instance of defined benefit funds winding up after 20 August 1996, but prior to
commencement of the legislation or even the 15 December 1997, who calculates the NSCF?
WTo will engage the actuary for this work - when the trustee entity and fund no longer exists?
V* e have a number of funds in this situation. For accumulation funds that have also wound
up post 20 August 1996 - who is responsible for organising the reporting to the Tax office?


Legislation is needed to address these issues.
12.0 Vested benefits
12.1 Vested benefits are not taken into account for the purposes the surcharge. Take for
instance, an accumulation fund with 100% vested Superannuation Guarantee contributions,
plus additional employer contribution which vests at a rate of 20% per year of service. The
surcharge is payable on receipt of the total contributions into the fund, even if emplo>ee
leaves after one year and forfeits 80% of the unvested contributions. This has resulted in
surcharge being paid on the total contribution when the member has only been credited with
20% of that contribution. This is clearly inequitable.
13.0 Inconsistencies resulting from the definition of "adjusted taxable income" and the
surcharge thresholds
13.1 There has been no allowance made for adjusting out abnormal income, eg capital gains
(which are excluded for provisional tax calculation purposes).
13.2 Imputation credits have to be added back to an individual's assessable income, are then
taxed at the individual's marginal rate, and then rebated. For surcharge purposes, imputation
credits are included in taxable income and hence increase the "adjusted taxable income" such
that an individual may become surchargeable. We recommend that an allowance is made for
imputation credits.
13.3 No allowance is made for those with fluctuating incomes, ie averaging is permitted for
certain categories, such as authors, etc but no allowance for averaging contributions.
13.4 In 1988, pre July 88 funding credits were introduced to cater for contributions w’hich
should have been made but were not as at 1 July 1988. No such rules are available in the
package of surcharge legislation.
14.0 Reporting to members
14.1 The legislation gives no recognition of the fact the many members' surcharge liability
will be met by the employer sponsor due to their policy to not have to reduce promised
benefits. This lack of recognition is evident in the reporting requirements placed on Trustees
in having to report surchargeable contributions to members even where this information is
irrelevant to the member. To compound this ridiculous situation, the ATO is also required to
provide information of the surcharge assessment to members. It is an unnecessary reporting
responsibility and an impost on such funds and will cause an inestimable amount of
confusion to affected members.




APPENDIX F
GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO POSSIBLE ANOMALIES AND
INCONSISTENCIES




Senator John Watson
Chairman •
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
ASSISTANT TREASURER
PARLIAMENT HOL'St
CANBERRA ACT
- 6 NOV 1997
Dear Senator
I refer to the submission from Coopers & Lybrand of 28 October 1997 to the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation concerning the package of surcharge bills currently before the
Senate.
Comments on the specific issues raised by Coopers & Lybrand are in the Attachment. However,
I should point out that many of those issues are not matters covered by the package of Bills under
consideration. Rather, they question the fundamental approach to collecting the surcharge which
has already been accepted by Parliament.
Yours sincerely
ROD KEMP


ATTACHMENT
APPENDIX A: ISSUES RELATING TO THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
1.0 Item 4
Section 8 of the Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997 (the Act)
defines surchargeable contributions. Item 4 of Schedule 4 of the Superannuation Contributions and
Termination Payments Taxes Legislation Amendment Bill 1997 inserts a broad summary of what is
included in surchargeable contributions in subsection 8(1) of the Act.
• Allocated surplus amounts will arise as a result of excess or forfeited employer contributions and
therefore are amounts that have actually been paid to superannuation providers (even though that
payment may have been made in an earlier year).
• The summary in relation to defmed benefit schemes recognises that surchargeable contributions
are based on a notional factor. That factor is the notional surchargeable contributions factor.
2.0 Item 6
It is accepted that subsection 13(7) of the Act requires amendment so that it refers to
subparagraphs 8(2)(c)(i), 8(2)(c)(iii) and paragraph 8(2)(d) rather than paragraphs 8(2)(c) and
2 lie i. The Government is considering amendments to correct this issue.
3.0 Item 16
Item 16 proposes to insert new subsection 13(4A) into the Act to require a provider who has
received benefits transferred from another superannuation provider to give that other provider a
statement setting out any matters required by the regulations.
The provision, which was inserted at the request of industry representatives, allows regulations to be
prescribed to ensure that the transferring provider has the required information (eg, the
Superannuation File Number of the transferee provider) to report to the Commissioner.
4.0 Item 17
Item 17 inserts a new subsection 13(5) to ensure that a superannuation provider who gives a
statement to the Commissioner under section 13 is required to advise the member only of the details
of surchargeable contributions shown on the statement no later than 12 months after the statement is
given. This advice can be included on the annual statement required under the Superannuation
Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (the SIS Act) and may be given to the member prior to being sent to
the Commissioner. The Act currently requires the provider to give a copy of all the information in
relation to that member sent to the Commissioner for surcharge purposes.
The proposed amendment has been supported by the industry.
The Government considers that a member should be notified of the information that is given to the
Commissioner of Taxation by his or her superannuation fund because that information is used to
determine the surcharge liability in relation to a member. While a particular employer may choose to
increase contributions to meet the surcharge liability for an employee, the employee may be a


member of several funds and the amount of employer contribution will be relevant in u orking out h:>
or her surcharge liability in those other funds.
The provision of information to members is integral to the rights of members under the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993.
5.0 Item 24
Section 16 of the Act provides for the deferment of payment of a surcharge liability for a member v:
an unfunded defined benefits superannuation fund until the benefit is paid by the fund to the member
However, a member has the option of paying the liability directly once a surcharge liability anse.v
Item 24 amends subsection 16(7) to clarify that where a member makes a direct payment of
surcharge prior to the benefit becoming payable, that payment will be applied to reduce the whole
amount by which the surcharge debt account is in debit. Currently the payment could only be
applied to reduce the amount of deferred surcharge debt and not any accumulating interest.
If an employer sponsor is willing to meet the surcharge debt of a member, the employer can make
additional contributions/payments to the fund to allow the fund to pay the surcharge without
affecting the level of the member’s benefit. Alternatively, the employer could pay additional
remuneration to the employee and allow the employee to pay off the debt.
6.0 Item 37
Item 37 inserts new section 40A into the Act to enable the Commissioner to collect funds held for or
on behalf of a holder of surchargeable contributions to meet a surcharge liability.
The provision is similar to section 218 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (the Tax Act) and
identical to section 74 of the Sales Tax Assessment Act 1992. If the Commissioner collects money
from a third person it would clearly be used to offset a surcharge liability. This is the only sensible
interpretation that can be placed on this provision in the context of the Act. If the Commissioner
sought to use the money in some other way he would be open to action under the Administrative
Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977.
7.0 Item 40
Item 40 inserts a definition of 'allocated surplus amount' into the Act. An 'allocated surplus amount’
is any amount allocated by a superannuation (accumulated benefits) provider for the benefit of a
member of a superannuation fund for the financial year that exceeds an amount that, in the opinion of
an eligible actuary according to Australian actuarial practice, is reasonable having regard to:
• the amounts paid by or for the member to the provider; and
• the fund's investment earnings relating to the member's interest in the fund; and
• any other relevant matters.
The Commissioner of Taxation, in conjunction with the Australian Government Actuary, proposes to
issue a ruling outlining the circumstances in which an allocated surplus amount will arise. A fund
will only have to seek an opinion from an eligible actuary if they come within those circumstances.
The Ruling will also provide details about the calculation of the allocated surplus amounts.


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 301 of 1997
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
