

Seventeenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super
and
Broken Work
Patterns
November 1995
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia




Seventeenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super
and
Broken Work Patterns
Canberra
November 1995
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia


© Commonwealth of Australia 1995
ISBN 0 642 24413 8
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


Members
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Senator John Watson Chair Tasmania
Senator Chris Evans Deputy Chair Western Australia
Senator Bruce Childs New South Wales
Senator Alan Ferguson South Australia
Senator Sue West New South Wales
Senator John Woodley Queensland
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officers:
Executive Assistant:
Ms Krista Gerrard
Ms Sonja Weinberg
Ms Ann Settin
Mr David Risstrom
Mr Rod Adams
Ms Jade Ricza
Address:
Telephone:
Facsimile:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
(06)277 3439
(06) 277 5719




CONTENTS
Contents
CONTENTS
Page
Members of the Committee.i
Contents.iii
Recommendations.vii
Chapters:
1. Inquiry Background.1
. Background
. Terms of reference
. Conduct of the inquiry
2. Women in the workforce: how, when and why .5
. Background
. Participation rates
. Pattern of employment
. Pay inequity and occupation and industrial segregation
. Part-time and casual work
. Not in the labour force
. What the future holds
. At the end of the day
3. Income in retirement . 23
. Age pension
. Superannuation
. Integration of superannuation and social security benefits
. Change will benefit all
. Challenging the status quo
4. Occupational link.33
. The nexus
. The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations
. How well does the nexus work - an example
. Is the nexus necessary?
. Ability to make payments when outside the workforce
. Occupations outside the workforce
. What about those over 65
. Administrative complexity from severing the occupational
link


5.
6.
7.
8.
The economics of the link
Conclusions
Social justice and the last refuge
Tax and super.47
Super is concessionally taxed for some
Why taxation has been used as an incentive for
superannuation
Superannuation taxes and incentives
The taxation of superannuation lump sum benefits
The impact of taxation concessions
Incentive proposals for lower income earners
Choice of fund.57
The call for choice
Access to the Australian Taxation Office and other
national schemes
Conclusions
Discrimination, the Sex Discrimination Act and
Superannuation.65
The Sex Discrimination Act 1984 and superannuation
Why the Sex Discrimination Act exempts certain aspects
of superannuation
Does eliminating discrimination mean making retirement
incomes equal?
To what extent should the superannuation system be beholden
to the existing discrimination
Reversionary pensions
Are there other areas of discrimination inherent in
superannuation that need to be addressed?
Annuities for women.79
Annuities
Life expectancy and annuity rates
What are the going rates?
Is there discrimination?
A commercial decision
Costs of living
A unisex solution
Research on the use of actuarial data


Reversionary options
Conclusions
9. It’s time to get a super education!.87
. Why the fuss?
. General financial education
. Getting a super education
. The need for a strategy
10. Female trustees.99
• Why is equal participation important?
. Barriers to female representation as trustees
. Attitudinal barriers
. Strategies for action
. Other options for investigation
11. Spouse contributions - putting super eggs in two baskets... 115
. The extension of current arrangements
. Spouse contributions - a bandaid solution or a positive
step forward
. How spouse contributions could work
. Would it work?
12. Buying back superannuation entitlements: the marriage
bar and other discriminatory practices.125
. Discrimination principles
. The marriage bar
. The absence of flexible working arrangements
. Can buy backs be a solution to past discrimination
. Conclusion
13. Super and divorce.133
. Marriage breakdown
. The division of property
. The inclusion of superannuation assets in property settlements
. The treatment of superannuation entitlements on marriage
breakdown
. Solutions to the super and divorce question
. Spouse contributions
. Conclusion


14.
143
Marital status and other relationships.
. The environment
. The uncertainty problem
. The alleged discrimination
. The problems illustrated
. Can positive discrimination in favour of heterosexual
couples be justified?
. Dependants and beneficiaries
. Finally
. Reversionary pensions
15. Moving the goal posts - increasing the pension age for
women.155
. The new position
• Will the change increase equity between the sexes?
. Does the increase provide an opportunity for women
to accrue additional savings and superannuation benefits?
. Does greater female longevity justify an increase in
women’s pension age?
. Given the change, is the phase-in period appropriate?
. Conclusion
Appendices:
A. List of written submissions.171
B. List of witnesses at public hearings.177
C. List of committee reports.185


RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendations
CHAPTER 4
Recommendation 4.1:
The Committee notes the establishment of an Inter-Departmental Committee on
Carer’s Income, chaired by the Department of Social Security, and recommends
the Government undertake further initiatives to improve employment and
income opportunities for carers.
Recommendation 4.2:
The Committee recommends the SIS Regulations be amended to allow
regulated superannuation funds to accept contributions from and for persons
over 65.
CHAPTER 5
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends that measures be taken to redress the tax
imbalance experienced by low income earners.
CHAPTER 7
Recommendation 7.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government ensure that appropriate
transfer protocols are adopted by all accumulation funds accepting compulsory
contributions.


Recommendation 7.2:
The Committee recommends that the exemptions relating to vesting, portability
and preservation, together with all other exemptions relating to superannuation
in the Sex Discrimination Act 1984, be removed before the end of March 1997.
Recommendation 7.3:
The Committee recommends that the superannuation legislation be amended to
require immediate vesting of all employer contributions.
CHAPTERS
Recommendation 8.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government encourage and monitor
research on the use of gender and morbidity actuarial tables in respect of the
provision of annuities with a view to either:
• amending the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 to exclude the exemption for
actuarial or statistical data, or
. declaring the gender based actuarial tables to be not covered by the
exemption,
if it is discovered that reliance on these tables cannot reasonably justify the
resulting discrimination.
CHAPTER 9
Recommendation 9.1:
The Committee recommends that the Office of the Status of Women develop a
comprehensive educational strategy to raise understanding and awareness
amongst women of the components of, and the imperative to engage in,
financial planning.


Recommendation 9.2:
The Committee recommends that the government, in conjunction with the
superannuation industry, develop an education strategy to promote
understanding and awareness of superannuation which goes beyond the
provision of information only and which involves active participation of the
community. In particular, the strategy should address the needs of women, both
in terms of the type of information they receive and the mechanisms by which
this information is delivered.
Recommendation 9.3:
The Committee recommends that, simultaneously with the development of an
education strategy, the effectiveness of the ‘Super: It grows on you campaign’
be closely monitored, especially in relation to its impact on women
CHAPTER 10
Recommendation 10.1:
The Committee recommends that strategies be developed which provide
avenues through which women can gain the necessary confidence and expertise
to participate as trustees.
Recommendation 10.2:
The Committee recommends that the Affirmative Action Agency develop
reporting requirements for superannuation funds of programs that will enhance
equal opportunities for women to act as fund trustees. It is recommended that
these reporting requirements be ready for implementation by the 1996/97
financial year.


Recommendation 10.3:
The Committee recommends that regulated, non-excluded superannuation
funds be required to comply with affirmative action program development and
annual reporting in relation to developing equal opportunities for women to act
as fund trustees in order to maintain their complying status.
Recommen dation 10.4:
The Committee recommends that the appointment of female alternates be a
matter upon which superannuation funds must report to the Affirmative Action
Agency and the Insurance and Superannuation Commission.
CHAPTER 13
Recommendation 13.1:
The Committee is greatly concerned with the serious delay that has occurred in
the resolution of the treatment of superannuation assets in the event of marriage
breakdown and recommends that the rectification of this matter be given
priority.
CHAPTER 14
Recommen dation 14.1:
The Committee recommends that the superannuation regulations be amended
so that those in bona fide domestic relationships and single people are treated in
the same manner as married and de facto superannuants.


CHAPTER 15
Recommendation 15.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government undertake an information
program specifically targeted at those women who are likely to be affected by
the increase in the pension age which explains the change and outlines the
alternative maintenance benefits available. This should be supported by an
identified officer within the Department of Social Security to whom women
concerned about the change can seek advice.




CHAPTER 1:
INQUIRY BACKGROUND
Inquiry background
Background
1.1 With the increase in the number of workers receiving superannuation
since the introduction of the Superannuation Guarantee in 1992 has come the
debate of the level of cover for those who move in and out of the workforce. A
large number of this group are women. The debate has arisen because the
retirement income system now comprises an occupationally linked
superannuation component as well as the traditional form of retirement income
in this country, the old age pension.
1.2 Prior to the introduction of award superannuation in 1986 and the
Superannuation Guarantee in 1992, superannuation was generally reserved for
white collar workers. Despite the impressive increase in superannuation
coverage since 1992, there has been a growing concern that those members of
the community who do not have the ‘traditional male working pattern’ of a 30
to 40 year working life may be disadvantaged by the current superannuation
arrangements. Women comprise a major proportion of those whose working
life does not reflect a 30 to 40 year period of paid employment. The Committee
acknowledges that an increasing number of men are falling outside the
‘traditional male working pattern’ and, whilst this report has focused its
attention on the issue of women and superannuation, much of the material is
applicable to both men and women whose paid working lives are intermittent.
Terms of reference
1.3 In September 1994 the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation was
given the following terms of reference:
That the following matters be referred to the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation for inquiry and report on or before
the last sitting day in 1995:*
(1) The adequacy of current retirement incomes policy
arrangements in meeting the needs of those members of the
community, in particular women, whose participation in the
workforce falls outside the traditional 30 to 40 year working life
pattern.


(2) Steps which could be taken to address any deficiencies
identified in paragraph (1), including the advisability of
implementing the following policies:
(a) initiatives to address equity issues which arise during the
contributions and benefits phases of the retirement incomes cycle;
and
(b) providing superannuation support for those members of
the community who experience broken labour force participation
and/or are in receipt of social security payments.
(3) The implications of the Government’s decision to
progressively raise the pension age for women from 60 to 65.
(4) Any other relevant matters, including measures which, if
implemented, would enhance the capacity of Australians to save
for retirement.
* Original reporting date 28 February 1995; amended by the Senate on
8 February 1995 and 19 September 1995
Conduct of the inquiry
1.4 The Committee invited submissions to the inquiry from individuals and
organisations by placing advertisements in the print media, by writing to parties
who had previously expressed an interest in superannuation and by contacting a
large number of women’s organisations.
1.5 The Committee received 114 written submissions.
1.6 The Committee conducted nine public hearings which were held in
Melbourne on 15 March 1995; in Sydney on 27 and 28 April 1995; in Brisbane
on 2 May 1995; in Canberra on 31 May, 6 June, 20 June, 27 June, and 1 August
1995. The Committee heard evidence from 85 witnesses during these hearings.
1.7 In order to facilitate discussion of the issues raised in its inquiries, the
Committee agreed that unless otherwise ordered written submissions would be
published on receipt. For the same reason, the Committee decided that the
uncorrected Hansard transcripts would be circulated as soon as they became
available. Oral evidence is cited by reference to Hansard as ‘Evidence, p XX’.
References to written submissions are by their registration number: ‘SW Sub
No XX’.
1.8 The Committee records its appreciation of the written submissions and
oral evidence made to the inquiry. The Committee particularly notes the


contribution of Mr Frank Burke, of the Australian Society of Certified
Practising Accountants, who, sadly, has passed away since he appeared before
the Committee at its Melbourne hearing.




CHAPTER 2:
WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE: HOW, WHEN AND
WHY
Women in the workforce: how, when and why
Whilst their employment rates have changed, life patterns
for most women are not changing simultaneously. The
majority of women still expect to withdraw from the
labour force to care for families.1
Background
2.1 The labour force participation rate of women workers in Australia has
changed dramatically since the beginning of the century when there were few
women in the paid workforce. Some of this change can initially be attributed to
Australia’s move from an economy based on primary industry (agriculture and
mining) to a more industrialised/service-focused economy. Women have also
taken on a more active role in society generally.2
2.2 A number of events have been catalytic in increasing equality for women
workers. During World War II women began to enter the workforce in larger
numbers to take the place of men who had left their jobs to join the war effort
and to work in industries that had developed to support the war. A workforce
with larger numbers of women who were higher paid and often in non-
traditional jobs was necessitated by the war. However, many of the gains made
during the war were reversed at its conclusion, when the Australian
Government, like governments elsewhere, adopted policies to ensure men
returning from the war were given employment/
2.3 A strong demand for labour arose again in the late 1960s and early
1970s, when inflows of foreign capital and migrant labour saw a massive
growth in the Australian manufacturing and service sectors. The expansion of
manufacturing industries increased job opportunities for unskilled manual
1 NSW Women’s Advisory Council Report, Superannuation and Women: Issues of Access and Equity,
June 1993, p 5
Department of Industrial Relations, Labour Standards for Women in Australia, April 1991, p 47
ibid


workers. Clerical and service opportunities expanded more rapidly than the
traditionally male dominated industrial sectors.4
2.4 It was at this time that measures to remove both formal and informal
discriminatory practices against women were considered - the marriage bar in
the Commonwealth Public Service was removed in 1966; equal pay cases were
brought by the Australian Council of Trade Unions in 1969 and 1972; the Child
Care Act providing for publicly funded child care was passed in 1972; ILO
Convention No. 111 on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation was
ratified in 1973; and training programs to assist women were developed, such
as the Employment Training Scheme for Women.~ The marriage bar, and its
implications for the superannuation assets of those affected, are addressed in
detail in Chapter 12.
2.5 In the 1980s, international commitments were made and legislation was
enacted to ensure basic equity conditions of employment for women, including
the Convention on Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women
and the Sex Discrimination Act 1984, Public Service Reform Act 1984,
Affirmative Action (Equal Opportunity for Women) Act 1986, Human Rights
and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986, and the ratification of ILO
Convention No 156 (Workers with Family Responsibilities)6
2.6 Changes towards flatter organisation structures with more devolution and
integration of functions (including affirmative action) and requirements for
flexibility in employing and deploying labour, which have given rise to more
part-time work and other flexible employment practices, have improved
women’s access to and opportunities for employment. However, as Mitchell
and Dowick point out in their paper Women’s Increasing Participation in the
Labour force: Implications for Equity and Efficiency, some of these
opportunities have been in insecure jobs with low pay and poor prospects in
peripheral employment.7
2.7 The strong rise in the labour force participation of women over the past
few decades is also attributable in part to the rapidly improving access of
women to full secondary and tertiary education and recognition that
educational attainment raises the economic benefits of working outside the
home. Between the generation of women born in the 1930s and the generation
ibid
ibid
ibid, pp 47, 48
Affirmative Action Agency, Quality and Commitment: The Next Steps, Dec 1992, pp 46, 47


of the 1970s, rates of both secondary school completion and post school
qualifications have doubled.8 The Australian Institute of Family Studies report
Work and Family: Employers’ Views, published in 1991, identified that women
now held 27 per cent of degrees in administration, 24 per cent of law degrees
and 32 per cent of degrees in science, medicine and computing.9
2.8 Other factors affecting women’s participation in the paid workforce are
the long developing trend for women to have fewer children at a later age (with
a consequence that they are likely to have acquired greater skills and
experience prior to leaving the workforce to have children) and a significant
decrease in the expectation that a woman could only be fulfilled through
motherhood.10 An increasing range of job opportunities contributes to women’s
participation in the paid workforce.
2.9 The present workforce participation rates of women suggest that there are
relatively few women who will follow the once frequent pattern of stopping
paid work on marriage and not resuming in any significant way. However,
women continue to have different employment patterns to those of men, with a
lower overall rate of participation in the paid workforce due to a greater
proportion undertaking part-time or casual work and earning significantly less.
Participation rates
2.10 In 1947, female participation in the paid workforce was 24.9 per cent and
only a small percentage of these women were married. By 1961, female
participation had risen to only 28.9 per cent and the majority of these were still
unmarried. In 1976, the participation rate was beginning to change - total
female participation was 48.8 per cent with equal numbers of married and
unmarried women in the labour force.11
2.11 In August 1994, just over half (52 per cent) of women in Australia
participated in the labour force compared to almost three-quarters (73 per cent)
of men. Married women (including de facto) aged 35-44 years had a higher
participation rate than married women aged 20-24 years, reflecting the return of
women to work after child bearing. Single women aged 20-24 years had the
Mitchell D, and Dowick S, Women’s Increasing Participation in the Labour force: Implications for
Equity and Efficiency, Centre for Economic Policy Research Discussion Paper No 308, March 1994, p 1
Woolcott I, Work and Family: Employers ’ Views in Quality and Commitment: The Next Steps,
Affirmative Action Agency, Dec 1992, p 56
Affirmative Action Agency, Quality and Commitment: The Next Steps, Dec 1992, pp 48, 49
Department of Industrial Relations, Labour Standards for Women in Australia , April 1991, p 47


highest participation rate of all female groups. This compares to men who
maintained high levels of participation throughout the prime working years
(aged 20-54 years).1" These figures do not take into account the many women
who contribute to family businesses for which they receive no formal income.
Table 2.1:
Labour force participation, 1994
Source: Australian Women’s Year Book 1994, ABS Catalogue No 4124
Pattern of employment
2.12 Both married (including de facto) and single women have employment
patterns which, in aggregate, are significantly different from those of most men.
Most male workers enter the paid labour force full-time (or are available for
full-time work) at the end of their schooling or post-school further education or
training, and stay there until retirement. Most women, while following such a
pattern at least in their twenties, are likely to have a break from paid
employment at some stage to provide care for children or elderly relatives.1'
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Women's Year Book 1994, Catalogue No 4124.0, p 74
Clare R, Women and Superannuation in Women and Superannuation: Selected Seminar Papers,
EPAC/OSW, August 1994, pp 4-7


For example, 53 per cent of women with pre-school children age children are
not in the labour force.14
2.13 It has been contended by Ross Clare of the Economic Planning and
Advisory Council and others that, at the current time, women spend on average
17 years in the labour force, compared to 39 years for men.1'
2.14 In Balancing Families and Work: A Demographic Study of Women's
Labour force Participation, Christabel Young presents more detailed
information on labour force participation according to cohorts. According to
Young, between the 1899 birth year cohort and the 1959 birth year cohort,
gross person years in the labour force per woman are expected to increase from
12.5 to 28.4 years within the age range 15-64 years, or an increase of 14.6
years. Although women bom in 1899 on average spent only one-quarter of the
15-64 year age range in the labour force, those bom in 1959 are expected to
spend more than one-half of their time in economic activity. The number of
years in the labour force first exceeded the number of person-years not in the
labour force with the experience of women bom in 1949 (see Figure 2.1).16
Source: Balancing Families and Work: A Demographic Study of Women s Labour
Force Participation, 1990. p 103 (If = labour force)
2.15 Labour force participation rates for married women and all women show
an M-shaped pattern with the peaks occurring in the 20-24 and 35-44 years age
Australian Council of Social Service, SW Sub No 62
Clare R, Women and Superannuation in Women and Superannuation: Selected Seminar Papers
EPAC/OSW, August 1994, p 7; NSW Women’s Advisory Council Superannuation and Women: Issues
of Access and Equity> June 1993 piii; Olsberg D, SW Sub No 9
Young C, Balancing Families and Work: A Demographic Study of Women s Labour force Participation,
1990, p 38


groups. The trough in the 25-34 years age group largely reflects that this is the
prime child bearing age group.17
Source: Australian Women’s Year Book 1994, ABS Catalogue No 4124.0
2.16 A survey of work patterns of women was conducted in Victoria in
October 1991. The survey looked at over one million women employed
between 1975 and October 1991. Some of the results included:
. two-thirds of Victorian women who had been employed at some
time between 1975 and October 1991 had had at least one break of
three months or more from employment;
. women who have or who had children under 12 years of age were
more likely to have had a break than women without children;
. among women who took a break from employment and who have or
who had children under 12 years of age, 56 per cent had taken the
most recent break because of the birth of a child and 30 per cent
took the break to care for a child or other person; and
. 88 per cent of Victorian women who had been employed at some
time between 1975 and 1979 resigned because of the birth of their
17
Australian Bureau of Statistics Australian Women’s Year Book, Catalogue No. 4124.0, p 74


child. This figure fell to 39 per cent in 1990-91. During this time,
the proportion of women taking maternity leave rose from 11 per
cent to 44 per cent.18
2.17 Career breaks, which may last for a number of years, may result in loss
of career momentum and difficulties in updating skills when returning to work.
In their report, More Brilliant Careers: The effect of career breaks on women’s
employment, Rimmer and Rimmer identified that consequent to a woman’s
initial break from employment is a shifting downwards to jobs with lower skill
requirements. 19
2.18 According to the report, short breaks of a year or less were the most
common for the first break in employment (41.8 per cent of women) with over
half the women (56.4 per cent) giving pregnancy/child care as the reason for
taking the break.20
2.19 Only 47.4 per cent of women returned to the same kind of work in their
second working spell as they had done when they first worked. Half of the
women returning to work were again employed as clerks. For professionals and
para-professionals the proportions were nearly two-thirds and over three-
quarters. In the other occupations, women were less successful than the clerks
in regaining the occupations in which they had previously worked."1 The shift
downwards to positions which required a lower level of skill does not appear to
be the consequence of subsequent career breaks, perhaps because it has
occurred following the initial break.""
2.20 The Victorian report referred to above identified that balancing paid
work with family responsibilities was the most commonly reported difficulty
for women returning to work after a break, with the degree of difficulty
increasing for those whose break had been for a period greater than a year.
2.21 A 1988 study by Begg and Chapman, titled The Foregone Earnings from
Child-Rearing in Australia, clearly indicated that women’s overall shorter
period in the paid workforce substantially reduced their overall earnings:
Australian Bureau of Statistics Women in Australia, Catalogue No. 4113.0, pp 139, 140
Rimmer R J, and Rimmer S, More Brilliant Careers: The effect of career breaks on women’s
employment, 1994, p 52
ibid, pp 50, 51
ibid, p 50
ibid, p 52
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Women in Australia, Catalogue No. 4113.0, p 141


even controlling for a host of labour market factors, the presence of
children, particularly young children, has a considerable effect on
women's earnings, most importantly through the substantially
diminished probability of labour force participation. As well, hours
worked given participation are considerably reduced from child-
rearing, although hourly wage rates are virtually unaffected.24
2.22 The effect of the parenting role on women’s work patterns is reflected in
the following graphs prepared by Beggs and Chapman as part of their report.
Source: The foregone earnings from child-rearing in Australia
2.23 Women are also the primary carers of people other than children. About
seventy-two per cent of those who care for those over 75 years of age, and 75.9
per cent of those who care for people with mental illnesses, are women. In
Beggs and Chapman, The foregone earnings from child-rearing in Australia, Centre for Economic
Policy Research, Discussion Paper No 190. June 1988, pp ii, iii


Australia, 708 000 women are primary care givers for elderly relatives and
adult family members with disabilities. The foregone earnings of women who
work as unpaid carers have been estimated at $3.3 billion, not including the
monetary value of opportunities foregone by carers who do manage a paid as
well as unpaid job.2"
Pay inequity and occupational and industrial segmentation
2.24 While economic and cultural circumstances vary widely from country to
country, there are two issues which are common. These are the lack of pay
equity between men and women and the occupational and industrial
segmentation of workers. Australia offers no exception to this pattern.“6
Pay inequity
2.25 It is over twenty years since the policy of equal pay for equal work was
introduced in Australia. However, women still earn significantly less than men,
even in occupations considered to be traditionally female.“
Source
Australian Bureau of Statistics. Women in Australia. Catalogue No 4113.0.
p 181
Minister for Women's Affairs (Victoria), SW Sub No 66
Department of Industrial Relations, Labour Standards for Women in Australia, April 1991, p 2
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Women s Year Book 1994, Catalogue No. 4124.0, pp 98, 99


Table 2.3: Average weekly earnings and hours paid for full-time adult non-managerial
employees, 1993
Source: Australian Women's Year Book 1994, ABS Catalogue No 4124.0
2.26 In 1993, female and male full-time adult non-managerial employees both
worked, on average, 38 hours ordinary time per week, but women’s ordinary
time earnings were only 91 per cent of men’s. The difference is greater for
average weekly total earnings (that is, including overtime) with full-time adult
non-managerial female employees receiving only 84 per cent of men’s.
2.27 The difference in the amount of overtime worked is significant. In 1993,
men worked nearly four times more overtime than women and consequently
women’s overtime earnings were only 22 per cent of men’s. This reflects both
occupational segregation, with women less likely to work in occupations where
overtime is worked, and that women are more likely to have family


responsibilities which limit the time they have available to undertake
overtime.28
2.28 The difference in earnings is more marked for men and women in full-
time managerial positions. In 1993, women earned 75 per cent of the equivalent
r- 29
earnings or men.
Occupational and industrial segmentation
2.29 According to OECD figures from 1985, Australia had the highest
incidence of gender segmentation in the workforce among member countries.
This significant segmentation of the sexes persists despite the pursuit by the
Australian Government of an active policy of equality for women workers, and
despite increased participation of women in education, training and the labour
market. Indeed, studies have suggested that gender segmentation has actually
increased slightly over the last 20 years.30
2.30 In 1994, women remained concentrated in a relatively narrow range of
occupations. For example, for those in full-time employment:
• 52 per cent of women employees were concentrated in two occupational
groupings: clerks (34 per cent) and salespersons/personal service workers
(18 per cent) (compared to 7 per cent and 8 per cent respectively for
males); and
. 54 per cent of males were concentrated in the three leading occupational
groups: tradespeople (24 per cent), managers and administrators (16 per
cent) and professionals (14 per cent).31
2.31 Both women and men employed full-time increased their representation
among managers and administrators between 1989 and 1994, with an increase
from 7.2 per cent to 8.9 per cent for women and 14.5 per cent to 16.1 per cent
for males.32
2.32 When considered by industry the statistics show the three leading
industry groups employing women are:
ibid, p 99
ibid
Department of Industrial Relations, Labour Standards for Women in Australia , April 1991, p 2
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australia Women's Year Book 1994, Catalogue No 4124.0. pp 76, 77
ibid, p 76


Wholesale and retail trade
18.0%
. Health and community services 15.2%
. Education 11.1%
compared to the three leading industry groups for males being:
. Manufacturing 19.5%
. Wholesale and retail trade 18.6%
• Construction 11.4%JJ
2.33 Industrial and occupational segregation have occurred because of
continuing assumptions regarding what is appropriate work for men and
women, employment restrictions previously placed on women’s employment,
higher unionism and militancy among traditionally male occupations and
differences in training schemes and education which effectively cluster women
within certain occupations/4
2.34 The effects of occupational segregation have been seen in various ways
including:
• occupational crowding in female-dominated occupations holds down pay;
. career paths from female-dominated occupations to higher level positions
are less well articulated;
• narrow occupational choices increase prospects for unemployment
especially where regional economies are structurally dependent on male-
dominated industries; and
• access to satisfying work is constrained by barriers to occupational
choice.’5
ibid, pp 77, 78
Department of Industrial Relations, Labour Standards for Women in Australia ,April 1991, p 3
Quality and Commitment: The Next Steps, Affirmative Action Agency, Dec 1992, p 53


Table 2.4:
Occupation of full-time and part-time employed
Source: Australian Women's Year Book 1994, ABS Catalogue No 4124.0
2.35 Efforts to reduce the level of occupational segregation have tended to
date to focus on assisting women into male-dominated, often trades, areas.
However, it can be argued that this approach is not working and that raising the
status of female dominated areas and improving skills recognition,
remuneration, career paths and access to training for full and part-time workers


in female dominated occupations and industries is likely to prove more
effective.36
2.36 A second factor which has had the effect of reinforcing both
segmentation of the workforce and wage differentials has been the significant
increase in part-time and casual employment particularly for women workers. 7
Part-time and casual work
2.37 Women are considerably more likely to be in part-time employment
compared to men. In 1993-94, 42 per cent of women in paid employment were
employed part-time, compared to 10 per cent of males/8
2.38 This employment pattern reflects the recent pattern of job and industry
growth but also corresponds to the pattern of demands on women inside and
outside the paid work context. Explanations put forward for the predominance
of women in part-time work on one hand include the availability of child care,
commitment to study, family commitments (including aged and invalid care)
and personal choice. On the other hand, overseas evidence and recent
Australian studies conclude that a majority of women would prefer full-time
work (and return to it after maternity leave) if more full-time jobs, better
childcare and help with older persons cared for in the household and other
domestic responsibilities, were available. ’9
2.39 In August 1994, there were 308 000 women and 200 000 men employed
part-time who preferred to work more hours, 22 per cent and 40 per cent
respectively of part-time workers. The number of women in this category has
consistently exceeded the number of men over the last ten years, a result of the
greater number of women working part-time. The proportion of part-time
workers who prefer to work more hours also varies according to age. In August
1994, the highest incidence was among women in the 20-24 years age group, of
whom 39 per cent wanted to work more hours.40
2.40 Part-time work restricts earnings in a number of ways in addition to
simply reducing hours worked and hence wages earned. Surveys in Australia
Department of Industrial Relations, Labour Standards for Women in Australia,April 1991. p4
ibid, p 3
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Women’s Year Book 1994, Catalogue No 4124.0, p 75
Council for Equal Opportunity in Employment Women, Work and the Future, Book 10 in the series
Equal Opportunity at Work -112 Studies from Major Australian Companies, 1990, p 12
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Women’s Year Book 1994, Catalogue No 4124.0, pp 78, 79


have indicated that part-time jobs tend to be restricted to the lower grades
within occupations. Part-time employees have largely been cut off from career
paths, and it is estimated that around 60 per cent of those working between 10
and 29 hours per week are employed on a casual basis. Also, some of the
industries employing a high proportion of part-time employees in Australia
correspond to those with the lowest wages for full-time workers.41
2.41 Part-time workers also tend to have fewer opportunities for training, skill
development and promotion. Recent data from the Australian Bureau of
Statistics indicated that training is disproportionately provided to those with
greater seniority, those in managerial positions and those who are permanent or
full-time employees - all characteristics of men’s employment.42
2.42 In short, it is unusual for intermittent or part-time work to be consistent
with resumption of a career path or steady promotion.43
Not in the labour force
2.43 People who are classified as neither employed nor unemployed are
defined as being ‘not in the labour force’. Between 1984 and 1994, the
proportion of women not in the labour force decreased from 55 per cent to 48
per cent.
2.44 The main activities for people not in the labour force in 1993 differed
according to gender. Ninety-seven per cent of people who were mainly engaged
in home duties/child care were women while 69 per cent of those who were
retired/voluntarily inactive or suffering from an illness, injury, disability or
handicap were men. To some extent these figures reflect women’s traditional
caring role in the family.44
2.45 Between 1988 and 1993 there were noticeable increases in the proportion
of women attending educational institutions and the proportion who were
retired/voluntarily inactive. This was accompanied by a decrease in the
proportion whose main activity was home duties/child care. For men, except
41
Department of Industrial Relations, Labour Standards for Women in Australia, April 1991, p 3
ibid
Clare R, Women and Superannuation ,in Women and Superannuation: Selected Seminar Papers, EFAC
Background Paper No 41, August 1994, pp 4-7
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Women’s Year Book 1994, Catalogue No 4124.0, p 82
44


for the decrease in the proportion involved in home duties/child care, the
activity pattern changed little over time.4~
Table 2.5: Main activity of persons aged 15-69 years not in the labour
force
a) includes own disability and handicap
b) includes looking after ill/disabled person, travel/moving house, unpaid leave and
persons not asked.
Source: Australian Women's Year Book 1994, ABS Catalogue No 4124.0
What the future holds
2.46 It is expected that in the future women will make up an increasing
proportion of the workforce. The Australian Bureau of Statistics has estimated
that about 66 per cent of new entrants to the workforce in the next 20 years will
ibid, p 83


be women. The Federal Department of Employment, Education and Training
has projected that women’s employment will increase on average by 2 per cent
a year to the year 2001, while men’s employment will increase at 1.6 per cent
46
per year.
2.47 The report, Australia’s Workforce in the Year 2001, released in June
1991 by the Department of Employment, Education and Training, identified
that the proportion of jobs which are part-time was expected to continue to
increase by 2.1 per cent per annum to the year 2001 compared to a growth rate
of 1.3 per cent for the full-time labour force. This translates into the share of
jobs held by part-timers increasing from 21 per cent in 1989 to 23 per cent in
2001.47
2.48 However, even with the predicted increase in female labour force
participation, future projections estimate that women will spend, on average, no
more than 28 years in paid employment.48
Questioning the notion of the standard work pattern
2.49 As pointed out by the Australian Council of Social Service in its
submission the notion of a ‘standard’ work pattern, being 40 years of full-time
employment, is increasingly being brought into question. The majority of
people are now likely to leave the labour force temporarily, or become
unemployed, at some stage in their working life.49
2.50 That this move away from the 40 year full-time pattern will continue is
supported by the findings of the report Australia’s Workforce in the Year 2001,
released in June 1991 by the Department of Employment, Education and
Training. The following are some of the more significant changes to
participation rates projected in the report:
. further decreases in male full-time labour force participation rates,
especially at older ages;
46
Affirmative Action Agency, Quality and Commitment: The Next Steps, Dec 1992, p 48
Department of Employment, Education and Training, Australia’s Workforce in the Year 2001, 1991,
pp 42-44
49
SW Sub No 9
SW Sub No 62


• strong increases in part-time labour force participation rates for 15
to 24 year old males, reflecting increasing participation in full-time
education; and
. continued strong increases in female part-time participation rates for
11 50
all age groups.
2.51 The report also addressed the issue of unemployment, in particular long-
term unemployment. The report acknowledged that the outlook for the long
term unemployed in the year 2001 will largely depend upon the path of the
business. However, it presented the view that micro-economic reform could
lead to substantial retrenchments in electricity, water and gas, transportation,
communication and parts manufacturing and that retrenchees who are older, do
not have readily marketable skills and are in disadvantaged regions are
vulnerable to long term unemployment.51
2.52 It is important to recognise that long term unemployment is not
distributed equally across groups in society. The long term unemployed are
typically older than the average person in the workforce. In 1990, 32 per cent of
those unemployed for 1 year or more and 40 per cent of those unemployed for
2 years or more were over 45 years of age, while this group only represented 25
per cent of the labour force.52
At the end of the day
2.53 At the end of the day, there is an expectation that all Australians will
retire with sufficient resources to maintain a dignified standard of living.
Participation in the labour force provides an opportunity to accumulate
superannuation assets, which in turn, contributes to ensuring that standard is
achieved. However, what has become evident is that many women choose or
are required, for family or other reasons, to engage in activities more
traditionally associated with the home.
2.54 The following chapters look at the superannuation needs of those with
broken work patterns and those engaged in home duties, how they are currently
being met and how best they might be improved.
50
Department of Employment, Education and Training, Australia's Workforce in the Year 2001, 1991,
p 39
ibid, p 7
ibid, p 94
52


CHAPTER 3:
INCOME IN RETIREMENT
Income in retirement
It was drummed into me that you have to start thinking about
retirement at 40. [But] I think you probably need to start thinking
[about it before that]... but at 20 it is the last thing people think of1
3.1 Changes to superannuation legislation over recent years have increased
access to and membership of superannuation schemes by women. However,
superannuation represents only one aspect of retirement income. For many,
especially those on lower pay, the overall benefits may be minimal. The
recency of superannuation will also limit the benefits for those who are near to
retiring age. The full benefits of superannuation will accrue to those who are of
younger age and still have many years ahead of them in which they will be able
to accumulate superannuation assets.
3.2 Other choices of retirement income for women include the age pension,
based on the expectation that the government will provide an adequate
retirement income for the aged in the community, personal investment in
housing and other assets, and other financial arrangements to ensure their well-
beingf The concern that women have, in particular, to ensure housing needs
are met was consistently presented to the Committee during the course of this
inquiry, as well as during the Committee’s previous inquiry on the use of
accumulated superannuation for the purchase of housing.’ This issue is
discussed in more detail in Chapters 13 on Divorce and 9 on Education.
3.3 In October 1992, for women, the main source of income at the start of
their retirement was either government benefits or ‘someone else’s income’,
with slightly more than a third coming from each source. On the other hand, 50
per cent of men had retired with government benefits as their principal income
source. Twenty-two per cent of men compared to 14 per cent of women retired
with income mainly from their investments and savings. For superannuation,
the respective figures were 16 per cent and 4 per cent.4
3.4 The main source of income at retirement also differed depending on
whether people had retired early. ‘Someone else’s income’ was the main source
Alexander E, Evidence, p 144
Office of the Cabinet, Queensland, SW Sub No 48
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super and Housing, May 1994
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Catalogue No. 4124.0, Australian Women’s Year Book, 1994, p 105
27/11/95 9:58 AM


of income for 46 per cent of women who retired at age 45-59 years, compared
to 13 per cent of women who retired aged 60 years and over. Regardless of the
age at retirement, men were more likely to have retired with superannuation,
life assurance or another retirement scheme providing their main source of
income.’ •
Age pension
3.5 The unfunded age pension was introduced by the Federal Government in
1909 and has had, for most of its history, a primary objective linked to the
alleviation of poverty amongst the aged. The pension is paid from Consolidated
Government Revenue each year and, as such, it represents an unfunded
retirement income system. The pension is currently payable from age 65 for
males and 60.5 for females and the Government is currently increasing
entitlement age for females incrementally to 65.6 That policy is examined in
Chapter 15.
Table 3.1: Main source of income and age at retirement, 1992
Source: Australian Women's Year Book 1994, ABS Catalogue No. 4124.0
3.6 The maximum level of the pension that can be received by a person is
not linked to the individual’s lifetime earnings but is set by the Government
and is equal to approximately 25 per cent of the average wage for a single
ibid, pp 105, 106
Knox D, The Relationship Between the age pension and Superannuation Benefits, Particularly for
Women in Women and Superannuation: Selected Seminar Papers, EPAC Background Paper No 41,
August 1994, p 51


person and 40 per cent of the average wage for a married couple. The income
and assets tests reduce or negate age pension entitlement for those who have
significant superannuation or other income or assets.7
3.7 In summary, the means tested age pension provides a reasonable safety
net for Australians over the pension age and thereby limits the level of poverty
amongst the aged population.8
3.8 In June 1994, there were 1 034 127 female age pensioners compared to
544 571 male pensioners.9
3.9 Of the women that receive the age pension:
. just under two-thirds are paid at the single rate, reflecting the increasing
proportion of widows amongst the older aged. Whilst almost 70 per cent
of women aged 60-64 are married, virtually the same proportion of
women aged over 75 are widows;
. just over two-thirds of women are paid at the full rate, that is, they do not
have sufficient private income to reduce their age pension;
. around 10 per cent have no other income than the age pension; and
. the main source of private income for age pensioners is interest on bank
accounts, with the average received only around 16 per cent per week.10
Superannuation
3.10 The amount of superannuation an individual will accrue is largely
dependent on his or her employment history. Typically, an individual will
accrue, over his or her lifetime, a superannuation benefit the size of which is
largely dependent on both income and length of employment. Generally, the
largest benefits are accrued by those who have superannuation from the time
they first enter the workforce, achieve earnings equal to or above average
weekly earnings, and are continuously employed for 40 to 45 years. However,
superannuation will increase overall retirement income. The Retirement Income
ibid, pp 51, 52
ibid, p 52
Department of Social Security, DSS Quarterly Survey (yet to be published), in DSS Clients - A Statistical
Overview, 1995
Clare R, Women and Superannuation ,in Women and Superannuation: Selected Seminar Papers, EPAC
Background Paper No. 41. August 1994, p 14


Modelling Task Force estimates that two individuals, aged 25 and 60 in 1992,
who retire at the age of 65 and who receive employer Super Guarantee
contributions, would respectively receive a net retirement income, comprising a
superannuation and age pension component, of 168.8 per cent and 103.8 per
cent of the full age pension.11
3.11 Employees with non-traditional employment patterns, that is, those who
spend a number of years outside the paid labour force or in part-time
employment, will inevitably accrue far less superannuation than those
employees who follow a more traditional employment pattern. Generally
speaking, those members of the community most likely to have non-traditional
employment patterns are women who temporarily leave the labour force to
raise children, or who work part-time because of their family responsibilities.1*'
3.12 Between 1987 and 1992, the proportion of employees with
superannuation cover has doubled (from 39.9 per cent to 80.3 per cent), with a
near trebling in the coverage of women employees (23.9 per cent to 76.2 per
cent), a consequence of the spread of industrial award superannuation and the
introduction of the Superannuation Guarantee (SG).Ij
Source: Australian Women’s Year Book, 1994. p 96
3.13 However, as pointed out by Professor Linda Rosenman and Dr Sharon
Winocur in their paper Women’s Work Patterns and the Impact Upon Provision
SW Sub No 103
AMP Superannuation. SW Sub No 55
Brown C, The Distribution of Private Sector Superannuation Assets by Gender, Age and Salary’ of
Members. Conference Paper 94/2 Retirement Income Modelling Task Force. 1994, pp 3,6


for Retirement, at any time only about 52 per cent of women of working age are
in paid employment in comparison with 74 per cent of men. Therefore, the
actual rates of coverage of the total female population by superannuation are
obviously much lower. 14
3.14 In 1994, the Retirement Income Modelling Task Force studied the
distribution of private sector superannuation assets and contributions
categorised by gender, age, salary level of fund members. The preliminary
report of this study revealed that women had substantially lower average
superannuation asset accumulations than men:
. on average, male members of superannuation funds had superannuation
assets 2.7 times those of women. Before the age of 30, men had around
1.5 times the superannuation assets of women, mainly reflecting the
differences in their relative earnings. From age 30 until middle age, the
relative disparity in average superannuation assets widened as the
workforce participation patterns of men and women diverge; and
. on average, women superannuation fund members of retirement age
(over 55) had less than half the superannuation assets of their male
counterparts - in the range $21 000 to $31 000 compared to $50 000 to
$67 000.15
3.15 A 1991 ABS Survey indicated that 56 per cent of the lump sums received
by women were less than $5 000, with over 75 per cent less than $20 000.16
3.16 Factors contributing to the asset accumulations detailed above include:
. women’s lower average earnings (since SG contributions are based on a
percentage of employees’ salaries, the dollar amount of contributions for
women will be lower on average than those for males);
. women’s higher incidence of part-time work;
. past levels of superannuation coverage;
. lower total contribution rates of women employees (4.8 per cent of salary
for males compared to 3.5 per cent for females) (see Table 3.2); and
14
Rosenman L, and Winocur S, Women’s Work Patterns and the Impact Upon Provision for Retirement in
Women and Superannuation: Selected Seminar Papers, EPAC Background Paper No. 41, August 1994,
p 99
Brown, op cit, pp 4,5
Clare, op cit, p 14
16


. women’s broken workforce participation patterns mean that they have
fewer years of contributory service and are more likely to dissipate
benefits due to lack of vesting and preservation of benefits on changing
employment or workforce.17
3.17 Fewer women than men supplemented their employer’s mandated
superannuation contribution with contributions of their own. In November
1993, 44 per cent of women made personal contributions while 61 per cent of
men did so. The difference is due to employee contributions per week of $20 or
more, with only 27 per cent of women compared to 44 per cent of men making
this level of contribution. This may be partly explained by women’s lower
• 18
earnings.
Table 3.2: Contributions of people aged 15-74 years with
superannuation coverage, 1993
(a) Includes those who do not know what contributions were made
Source: Australian Women’s Year Book 1994, ABS Catalogue No. 4124.0
3.18 The Government has introduced measures over the past decade which
have significantly improved the position of women in the superannuation
system and overcome direct and indirect forms of discrimination. These
measures include:
• support for employer superannuation contributions (3 per cent of wages)
under industrial awards, introduced in 1986, which resulted in rapid
extension of superannuation coverage in the late 1980s;
Brown, op cit, 1994, pp 13,15
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Catalogue No. 4124.0, Australia Women’s Year Book 1994, p 107


. introduction of the SG arrangements in 1992 which require employers to
make superannuation contributions for their employees, to 9 per cent of
wages by the year 2002-03. These contributions are fully vested'°so that
women who resign from employment do not have lower entitlements to
these employer-funded benefits, as can occur with long vesting periods;
. provision in the Superannuation Industiy (Supervision) Act 1993 for
people to contribute to a superannuation fund for up to two years while
outside the paid workforce. In June 1994, the Government announced
that the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994 would
be amended to enable funds to accept contributions for up to seven years
from people who are on leave without pay for childrearing purposes
(where the person has the right to return to their previous employment);
. changes to the Reasonable Benefit Limits rules from limits based on the
‘highest average salary’ to flat dollar limits, which apply equally to fund
members irrespective of their salary level;
. changes to the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Commonwealth) to limit the
general exemption which previously applied to superannuation funds and
which allowed them to discriminate on the grounds of marital status and
gender in the provision of superannuation benefits;
. the development of measures to ensure that small amounts in
superannuation funds are not eroded by fees and charges; and
. the establishment of a Government Working Group to develop a
streamlined scheme for splitting the superannuation entitlements of a
contributing spouse on marriage breakdown.20
3.19 These measures are discussed in subsequent chapters.
3.20 There is cross-party support for the measure announced in the 1995-96
BudgeL1 supporting the inclusion of provisions for employee superannuation
contributions beginning at 1 per cent of earnings in July 1997 and rising to 3
per cent of earnings by July 1999 and government matching of dollar for dollar
contributions paid by most employees.
19
Full vesting is the inclusion in an employee’s superannuation benefit of the total amount of the
employer’s contribution: County NatWest Dictionary of Investment Terms, 1994, 3rd ed.
Insurance and Superannuation Commission , SW Sub No 37
Appropriation Bill (No.l) 1995-96, First Reading
21


3.21 It should be noted that the Committee has yet to complete its inquiry into
increasing SG from 9 to 12 per cent and the role of employee contributions in
this process.
3.22 In its report on asset distribution in private superannuation funds, the
Retirement Income Modelling Task Force pointed out that, even with the
improvements in superannuation coverage under the SGC, women might still
only accrue around half the superannuation benefits of men because of the
differences in average earning levels and workforce participation levels.
3.23 The presentation of the relative superannuation assets such as that
provided above by the Retirement Income Modelling Taskforce clearly
articulates the substance of the concern at the heart of the Committee’s inquiry
and provide benchmarks against which progress can be assessed.
Integration of superannuation and social security benefits
3.24 In the course of the inquiry, the issue of integration of superannuation
with social security benefits was raised. The Institute of Actuaries of Australia
argued that a means tested age pension discouraged voluntary savings for
retirement as the means tests rewarded those who disposed of their savings
before retirement and who did not receive income from other sources. The
Institute recommended that incentives be increased and barriers be removed to
encourage individuals to supplement their provisions to make up any
shortfalls."'1
3.25 Jacques Martin Hewitt supported the need to ‘fine tune’ the system so
that people with smaller lump sums received a fair level of overall income in
relation to their circumstances. Jacques Martin Hewitt argued for a progressive
cut-off of social security pension as other income and assets rise, structured in
such a manner that there was still incentive for even small balances to be
accumulated for retirement.24
3.26 Ms Helen Martin, a member of the Institute of Actuaries of Australia,
Superannuation Practice Committee, presented a paper to the ASFA 1995
National Conference in which she expanded on the argument presented in the
submission made by her organisation. She suggested a modification of the
means test to exclude superannuation income up to, say, 25 per cent of average
Brown, op cit, 1994, pp 3,6
SW Sub No 61
SW Sub No 17
24


weekly earnings, with the exclusion assessed on a ‘combined family income’.
The exclusion would only be available for benefits taken as non-commutable
pensions. She argued that this proposal would remove some of the disincentive
to contribute to superannuation, with the additional contributions more likely to
result in an improvement in total retirement provision rather than simply
reducing age pension entitlements.-5
3.27 Ms Martin acknowledged there would need to be adequate controls to
minimise manipulation and ensure that it was appropriately targeted to those on
lower income and superannuation levels. She also recognised that there may be
additional costs to Government and that, to be effective, such a proposal would
need to be considered as part of a broader package so that savings in some
areas can offset costs in other areas.26
3.28 The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring effective
integration of the social security system and superannuation so that any
barriers, perceived or real, inhibiting an individual’s incentive to contribute to
superannuation can be minimised.
Change will benefit all
3.29 The future of women’s retirement incomes generally, and superannuation
assets particularly, will depend on changes in the pattern of their workforce
participation and earnings, as well as changes to the retirement incomes support
system. These will, in turn, be influenced by changes in the economy and
community expectations.
3.30 Throughout the report there are indications that community expectations
about women’s lives have changed dramatically, and will continue to change. It
is difficult to even imagine, for example, what it was like for women when they
were unable to obtain a bank loan in their own right. Legislation, such as the
Sex Discrimination Act, and the establishment of such agencies as the
Affirmative Action Agency, provide a clear demonstration of the community’s
support for equal opportunity.
3.31 However, it must be acknowledged that some women’s working patterns
will never be such that occupationally linked superannuation will be sufficient
to provide for them in their retirement. Making changes which accommodate
Martin H, Superannuation and those who can’t find full life-time employment, presented at the ASF A '95
National Conference, Melbourne, 2 November 1995
26
ibid


this reality will also have benefits for the increasing number of males who also
do not have traditional work patterns.
Challenging the status quo
3.32 During the course of the inquiry it has become clear that the past and
present experience of women, and their capacity to provide for their retirement,
is such that it would be irresponsible for any government to ignore the
arguments for change and allow the status quo to continue.
3.33 It has also become clear that resolving the obstacles inherent in the
superannuation system which mitigate against many women achieving a
retirement income that will ensure a dignified standard of living will benefit all
members of society, both male and female and paid and non-paid workers
alike.
3.34 Despite the success of the SG in increasing superannuation coverage,
there are still some obstacles to be overcome. The Committee is aware that
many solutions will be found in areas outside the scope of this inquiry.
However, the challenge remains to ensure that the superannuation system that
Australia carries into the 21st century is the most equitable system possible so
that in future years it will be judged resoundingly as a significant contribution
towards ensuring equality and dignity for all members of the community.


CHAPTER 4:
OCCUPATIONAL LINK
Occupational link
Retirement income dependent upon occupational
income is a masculine economic concept that
has been given virility through legislation.1
The nexus
4.1 People in paid employment receive employer sponsored superannuation.
Generally, the amount of superannuation an employer must pay an employee is
determined by the earnings of the employee. This is related to the employee’s
rate of pay and the number of hours they spend in the workforce. Self-
employed people may contribute to their own superannuation, and attract
certain taxation concessions, provided 90 per cent or more of their assessable
income is derived from that self-employment.
4.2 Employees may make additional contributions to their superannuation,
however the employee must have some link with the workforce in order for the
concessional tax treatment to apply to any such contributions.
4.3 The essential link between workforce participation and superannuation
entitlements is generally referred to as the occupational nexus. The justification
for such a requirement has been questioned in this inquiry. The dilution of the
nexus, or its complete removal, was mooted.
4.4 This proposal, in part, stems from a concern that the occupational link is
a source of discrimination against women. The role, if any, of superannuation
to address the broader inequalities in society is addressed in Chapter 7 on
Discrimination.
The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations
4.5 The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) (SIS) Regulations outline
the circumstances in which a superannuation fund may accept contributions
from a person not in employment. People leaving the workforce may continue
to contribute to a superannuation fund for up to two years, regardless of why
they left their job and whether they intend to return.
Olsberg D, Evidence, p 218


4.6 In July 1994 the Hon Paul Elliott, MP, Parliamentary Secretary to the
Treasurer, responsible for superannuation, announced the Government’s
decision to extend the period during which parents out of the paid workforce
can contribute to superannuation. From 1 July 1994, a person leaving
employment for child rearing purposes is permitted to contribute to
superannuation for up to seven years, provided they retain the right to return to
their original job (for example, they are on leave without pay).
4.7 The Government considers this proposal will benefit women because
they:
. traditionally have less money in their superannuation funds on their
retirement than men, and
. typically have both lower salary levels and broken working patterns."
4.8 SIS Regulations 7.04 and 7.05 now provide:
... a regulated superannuation fund may accept contributions (and in the case of a
defined benefit fund grant a benefit accrual) in respect of a person who is under
65 years of age if:
• the contributions are “mandated contributions”; or
• the contributions are not mandated employer contributions and the member:
(i) has, at any time in the two-year period immediately preceding the
date of acceptance of the contributions (or grant of accrual of benefit),
engaged in full-time or part-time gainful employment; or
(ii) ceased full-time or part-time gainful employment because of ill-health
(whether physical or mental) that, at the date of acceptance of the
contributions (or of grant of accrual), prevents the member from
engaging in employment of the kind that the member engaged in at
the outset of the ill-health; or
(iii) is on authorised leave from his or her employer for the purpose of
raising children, where the leave is for less than seven years, the
member has a statutory or contractual right to resume employment at
the end of the leave, and either the member w'as a member of the fund
immediately before going on leave or the fund is a standard employer-
sponsored fund.
“Part-time” means gainfully employed for at least 10 hours, and less than 30
hours, each week. “Gainfully employed” means employed or self-employed for
Statement by Mr Paul Elliott, MP, Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer, 28 October 1994.


gain or reward in any business, trade, profession, vocation, calling, occupation or
employment.
4.9 As noted by the Committee in its Fifteenth Report, the ability of
individuals to take a period of leave for up to seven years, with a contractual
right to resume work, may be beyond the reach of many workers/’
How well does the nexus work - an example
4.10 Ms Kaye Jenner had three periods of employment in the Australian
Public Service beginning in 1961 and totalling some 22 years. She was
concerned with a loss of ability for women such as herself to provide for a
financially independent retirement. In Ms Jenner’s words:
Even after deciding to make the maximum contribution of 10 per
cent of salary to the superannuation scheme, I will still not be
financially independent on retirement and, under current
circumstances, I would be eligible for at least a part pension. In
fact, should I retire at age 55 I may well be entitled to a full age
pension by the time of eligibility at age 63 V2 years. This appears
paradoxical when all my years of full-time employment are
taken into account.4
Is the nexus necessary?
Treasury’s rationale
4.11 The basic rationale of the occupational link derives from the notion of
superannuation replacing wage and salary income:
Tax concessions for superannuation are intended to encourage and
increase savings which will replace wage and salary income in
retirement. Individuals who are not dependent on wages and salary
(for example, those living on investment earnings) do not need this
income replacement/
4.12 The argument that the occupational link disadvantages women was taken
up in the Treasury submission which listed the following reasons for breaking
the occupational nexus:
Super Guarantee - Its Track Record' Feb 1995, p 91
Evidence, p 432 (emphasis added)
SW Sub No 90


. the occupational link makes its difficult for women with broken
workforce patterns to participate in superannuation;
. women currently unable to meet the “gainfully employed” criteria due to
family commitments, would continue to contribute if they were permitted
to do so; and
. having superannuation of their own may provide women with greater
security in the event of marriage breakdown.
4.13 In favour of maintaining the nexus Treasury submitted that:
. removing the occupational link will be of greatest advantage to those
who can afford not to be in paid employment;
. the occupational link does not prevent people saving for retirement; and
. substantial costs to revenue.6
4.14 The enlightened approach taken by Treasury in acknowledging the
arguments for a weakening or dissolution of the nexus was welcomed by the
Committee.
Ability to make payments when outside the workforce
4.15 This is a very basic issue. There is little point in abandoning the
occupational link if there is no actual assistance to those allegedly
disadvantaged by it, even as it has been now modified. The Catholic Women’s
League (CWL) acknowledged the option for women to continue to make
personal superannuation contributions when they leave the workforce to have
children. However they say of such women:
[T]hey lose access to any employer contribution and. having left
the workforce and incurred the added costs of young children,
there would be very few women able to maintain personal
contributions even for the two year period.7
4.16 Accordingly, there is the risk that it will be only the high income group
in the community that will be able to take advantage of further loosening in the
occupational link. The current retirement income arrangements are adequate for
this group.
SW Sub No 90
SW Sub No 6


Occupations outside the paid workforce
4.17 A key requirement in the SIS Regulations governing the occupational
link is being “gainfully employed” (see paragraph 4.8). The Committee
considered whether the definition of this term should be widened to include
those presently outside its ambit.
Carers
4.18 Five categories of carers were identified by the Department of Human
Services and Health (DHSS).8 They are:
. carers of babies and young children;
• carers of severely disabled or injured relatives;
. carers of frail aged parents or parents in law;
. carers of frail aged spouses; and
. people providing short term care.
4.19 In the first category, carers of babies and young children, there was a
greater degree of control of their situation than in the other categories. The
period of greatest dependency was finite, and return to the workforce could be
planned.
4.20 Two types of payments are currently made to carers - income support
payments and cash payments in acknowledgment of the costs of caring. Since
eventual retirement incomes through superannuation are based on wage levels
and contributions made throughout employment, ‘carers with a broken work
history and those who move to less well paid jobs because of the demands of
caring will be disadvantaged’.9
4.21 The Older Women’s Network (OWN) argued that the government should
pay superannuation contributions on behalf of unpaid carers,10 while the
Queensland Council of Carers went much further in advocating that:
all people who are outside the paid workforce, either because of
care responsibilities or unemployment, should have superannuation
SW Sub No 16
9
to
Ibid
SW Sub No 32B


contributions maintained to a fund of choice, or as part of the
Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit (DNCB), Carer Pension or
Unemployment Benefit."
4.22 It is clear that the demands on carers greatly reduce their long term career
prospects,12 which correspondingly affects their superannuation contributions
and long term security. The Department of Social Security said:
we believe the age pension provides an adequate safety net for
people unable to save for their retirement because of their caring
responsibilities.13
4.23 The Committee recognises the difficulties associated with carers and
other people in the community, such as volunteer workers, who are providing
services which are valuable and otherwise would either not be done, or would
require the commitment of public moneys. However, the Committee believes
that the superannuation issue is secondary to the special income and
employment issues relating to these people.
Recommendation 4.1:
The Committee notes the establishment of an Inter-Departmental
Committee on Carer’s Income, chaired by the Department of Social
Security, and recommends the Government undertake further initiatives to
improve employment and income opportunities for carers._
What about those over 65
4.24 Currently employees are not able to contribute to superannuation beyond
the age of 65 and, apart from mandated contributions, employer contributions
must also cease at that age.14 Transitional arrangements provided by
subregulation 7.04(1) of the SIS Regulations allow a regulated superannuation
fund to accept contributions from a member after age 65, who:
. is gainfully employed at least 10 hours per week;
. was at least 60 years of age on 1 July 1990; and
SW Sub No 51
Higgins M. SW Sub No 52
SW Sub No 92
Jaques Martin, SW Sub No 17


. is under 70 years of age.b
4.25 This inability to contribute to superannuation beyond age 65 is seen to
disadvantage women who are particularly affected by broken work histories,
and accordingly have insufficient years of employment in which to build a
substantial superannuation benefit. Constructive Women Inc considered this
cut-off constituted age discrimination and said:
[Many women] don't start earning a reasonable income until they
are over 50. For the first time in their lives they are earning enough
to be able to contribute substantially to their super fund and many
will keep working well into their 70’s or possibly longer. They will
be severely disadvantages by this arbitrary cut-off point at age
65.16
4.26 Jacques Martin Industry considered ‘this restriction contradicts
community expectations, namely that people should not be forced to retire at
age 65’.17 Given the limits on Reasonable Benefit Limits (RBLs) there seemed
‘to be little valid reason for such a restriction’.18 They continued:
The trend has been to abolish compulsory retirement in Australia
and overseas and removal of this restriction would be consistent
with that trend. Importantly, it would enable women and others
who had accrued small superannuation benefits due to broken work
patterns to have a longer period in which to accumulate a
worthwhile retirement benefit.19
4.27 The Committee notes the current consideration by the Government of a
proposal to abolish compulsory age retirement for Commonwealth public
servants.
4.28 The New South Wales Government has taken legislative action to
eliminate compulsory retirement and the Cabinet Office of New South Wales
submitted:
The Commonwealth government should be urged to develop
policies and legislation to abolish compulsory retirement thereby
15
16
17
18
Davison R, SW Sub No 101
SW Sub No 98
SW Sub No 17
ibid
ibid
19


opening the door for employee superannuation contributions to
continue after the age of 65.20
4.29 Mr Robert Davison provided details of his situation, being 64 years old
and currently working on a three year contract which expires late in 1997. He is
not covered by subregulation 7.04(1) of the SIS Regulations as he was younger
than 60 at 1 July 1990. Mr Davison indicated that some of his older colleagues
can contribute until age 70 and perceptively said:
I believe that this anomaly constitutes discrimination on grounds of
youth.21
4.30 Accordingly, contributions cannot be accepted by a regulated fund on
Mr Davison’s behalf after he turns 65 on 14 December 1995, unless they are
mandated employer contributions (subregulation 7.04(1B) of the SIS
Regulations).
4.31 The Committee considered Mr Davison’s case was an excellent example
of the absurd inconsistency of removing fixed retirement ages while retaining
an age limit for superannuation contributions. The Committee supports the
move toward non-compulsory retirement. Encouraging people to work and pay
taxes beyond 65 will reduce the demand on the old age pension and result in
productivity gains as well. Constructive Women Inc said:
Why not allow everyone to contribute for as long as they work and
pay taxes? If you are too old to contribute to your super fund, why
aren't you too old to pay taxes?22
4.32 In light of the importance placed on the occupational link in current
superannuation policy, its dismissal at a given age is difficult to understand.
Age limits or RBLs
4.33 In correspondence from the Insurance and Superannuation Commission
(ISC) to Mr Davison, no explanation of the rationale for the over 65 rule was
given. In a supplementary submission to the Committee, the ISC provided three
reasons in support of the age 65 restrictions. They are:
to control the revenue costs of superannuation taxation concessions;
SW Sub No 4!
SW Sub No 101
SW Sub No 98


. to prevent the use of superannuation for estate planning purposes rather
than retirement income; and
. to help maintain simplicity in the superannuation system.
4.34 Both Mr Davison and Constructive Women Inc pointed to the tax
concessions that are lost once the age of 65 is attained. Constructive Women
Inc asked why age is used as a ‘cut-off point’, given the existence of the
RBLs,- and Mr Davison said:
In my opinion, arbitrary cut-off dates like that cited in Subreg 7.04
are unnecessary. Indeed, I can see no good reason why people
should not contribute to superannuation for as long as they choose,
because the amended RBL rules ensure that individuals will pay
heavy taxes if they exceed their reasonable limits.24
4.35 The RBL system operates to determine the maximum amount of
superannuation and similar benefits that an individual is entitled to receive on a
concessionally taxed basis. The principle behind providing tax concessions is
to encourage people to provide for their own retirement rather than rely on the
social security system. The system that has applied from 1 July 1994 is a fixed
dollar system indexed to the CPI. (Prior to that RBLs were determined on the
basis of highest average salaries.) Given the RBL rules, the Committee cannot
see any justification for preventing individuals, who continue in bona fide
employment beyond the age of 65 years from contributing to superannuation.
The Committee does not find the ISC’s rationale particularly compelling.
4.36 If there is concern with the cost of tax concessions, that matter should be
addressed by openly reviewing the RBLs, not by preventing certain groups
from achieving their RBL limit because of the pattern of their working life.
4.37 The Committee considers those over 65 should be able to continue to
contribute toward their superannuation where a bona fide link with the
workplace exists.
ibid
SW Sub No 101
24


Recommendation 4.2:
The Committee recommends the SIS Regulations be amended to allow
regulated superannuation funds to accept contributions from and for
persons over 65.
Administrative complexity from severing the occupational link
4.38 The Committee considered the administration implications for funds if
the occupational link were severed, the two and seven year rules abandoned
and contributions were allowed to be accepted from anyone if they had the
money. Ms Carol Pagnon, a Certified Practising Accountant and an auditor of
government superannuation funds, considered:
It might be a slight nightmare ... to administer that sort of
arrangement. They would have to determine whether they are
working and when the contributions will be coming into the fund
in a broken employment situation.2?
4.39 Given the whole thrust of the Government’s superannuation policy has
been geared to occupational superannuation, the administration and the
supervision of funds reflect the occupational link. While it should never be the
case that the administrative tail ends up wagging the policy dog, there is no
doubt that a substantial change in policy orientation toward non-occupational
superannuation would require substantial and complementary changes in the
administration and control of funds.
4.40 The Committee received evidence of the difficulties being now
experienced by members of superannuation funds relating to errors in
administration of their funds.“6 Accordingly, the Committee is not satisfied that
the superannuation industry is prepared for such a dramatic change in its
operation as would accompany open contributions if the occupational link was
abandoned.
Evidence, p 31
Hudson K, SW Sub No 102
26


The economics of the link
4.41 The Committee considers there is support for maintaining the
occupational link in making the connection of superannuation with productive
paid work. While income distribution in Australia is neither perfectly equitable
nor otherwise ideal, the productivity of the country is to a considerable extent
reflected in the level of wages and salaries, and accordingly in the level of
concessional superannuation benefits provided.
Conclusions
4.42 Although ‘the occupational link is rooted in the origins of superannuation
itself as an employer-sponsored savings scheme’,2' the changing demographics
of the Australian community require that the parameters of retirement incomes
policy be regularly reviewed. It can be seen from the previous chapters that
structure of the Australian society and workforce has changed dramatically
over the past few decades.
Social justice and the last refuge
4.43 Whilst the Committee found that there was insufficient evidence to
justify the wholesale abandonment of the occupational link, it felt strongly that,
now that the nexus between paid employment and superannuation has been
bedded down, it was appropriate that the broader philosophical debate about
access to superannuation be opened up for further discussion.
4.44 In considering the issue, the Committee was cognisant that over recent
decades there has been a significant shift along the retirement income
continuum, from a time when the age pension was universally available, free of
any means tests, to the current time when the age pension is means tested,
superannuation payments are compulsory for a significant proportion of the
paid workforce and encouraged with attractive taxation treatment, and the
government has announced it will provide matching payments for
superannuation.
4.45 Of particular concern to the Committee is that this shift along the
continuum towards self-funded retirement may result in a two-tier society in
which those who are unable to provide for their retirement (a significant
proportion of whom will be women) and therefore remain on the age pension
will become ‘second class citizens’, scorned by society.
Smith G, Evidence, p 593


4.46 Linda Rosenman, in her paper Superannuation and the Restructuring of
Women’s Work, Wages and Retirement presents the case clearly when she
argues that:
The introduction of the SGC changes the societal compact that has
been characteristic of the Australian age pension, a compact that
has guaranteed an income in old age based on perceived need, and
on a broadly defined societal contribution through paid
employment, unpaid caring work or simply citizenship.
A contributory [superannuation] scheme [defined only through
labour force status and earnings], managed privately for the
purpose of maximising the return to the individual member, cannot
reflect or reimburse the unpaid caring that has been the societal
contract underlying the lives of many Australian women.
In the longer term, as superannuation entitlements accumulate, the
beneficiaries of the age pension are likely to be fewer in number.
The age pension runs the risk of becoming a residual program, the
last refuge of those who are perceived to have been too lazy or too
profligate to accumulate superannuation.28
4.47 The Committee feels strongly that it is appropriate, therefore, to reopen
the debate on what alternatives might be available for individuals (such as
carers, unpaid partners of sole traders, social security recipients) who engage in
extended periods outside the paid workforce and are, therefore, unable to
accumulate sufficient superannuation assets in their own right to provide for
their retirement.
4.48 In particular, the Committee is concerned that there be further discussion
on the question of whether it is appropriate for:
. the Government to pay superannuation contributions for those in receipt
of social security payments; and
• sole traders and similar to provide superannuation coverage for those
who contribute significantly to their businesses but are not in receipt of
income.
4.49 In seeking further discussion on this issue, the Committee is aware of the
position put by the Department of Social Security, and others,^9 that social
security is provided in times of need and that it is inappropriate to add such
Rosenman L. Superannuation and the Restructuring of Women's Work, Wages and Retirement, in
Canberra Bulletin of Public Administration , No. 76, April 1994, p 167
For example, Timmins, SW Sub No 29
29


payments. The argument is that funds may be being provided to those who may
well be in a very good position at a future date to self-fund their retirement.
Given that the Government and the Opposition have announced that they will
provide matching contributions up front towards the superannuation of those in
paid employment, the Committee believes that there are equity issues that may
need to be considered.




CHAPTER 5:
TAX AND SUPER
Tax and super
With a high income comes a tax problem and the
Government reaches out to help. More thought needs to
be put into what is a good incentive for women who tend
not to have tax problems ... and what would help them
make retirement plans.1
Super is concessionally taxed for some
5.1 Super is a concessionally taxed savings vehicle.
5.2 Whilst the current superannuation system has greatly improved the
potential retirement incomes of women, it must be conceded that the historical
development of the system has meant that what currently exists is a
superannuation system based upon a regular, reasonably high income working
life. It is a system that has focused on male working patterns. Consideration has
only just begun on how to accommodate those who have intermittent workforce
participation and those on low incomes.
5.3 Given that superannuation is a concessionally taxed vehicle and that it
has grown out of a system based on full time paid employment, the tax
advantages fall disproportionately to higher income earners.2
5.4 Lower income workers pay a higher overall rate of tax than they would
have paid had they not received superannuation/ Whereas, the tax rate of
higher income earners is lowered by the superannuation tax structure.
5.5 Taxation incentives have played a central role in Government policies to
encourage saving for retirement through superannuation. Albeit there is now a
degree of compulsion in superannuation through the Superannuation Guarantee
Charge (SGC), taxation legislation continues to offer concessions for
superannuation funds, contributions and benefits.
Women’s Legal Resource Centre, SW Sub No 58
Office of the Status of Women, New Zealand, SW Sub No 7
Playgroup Council of Australia, SW Sub No 13


5.6 The Committee considered whether existing taxation incentives were
equitably and sufficiently targeted to provide assistance to women, and to
others whose working lives do not fit the traditional model.
Why taxation has been used as an incentive for superannuation
5.7 Because the Commonwealth has no express power under the Constitution
to make laws on superannuation, it has relied almost exclusively on its taxation
power, especially through provisions in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936,
to provide incentives for superannuation. The 1992 SGC legislation is an
example of use of the tax power. It imposes a tax on employers who fail to
make the minimum Superannuation Guarantee contributions, rather than
require compulsory contributions to be made.
5.8 With the advent of award superannuation and the SGC the government
needed to increase its level of supervision and regulation of superannuation
funds. Accordingly it used a combination of its powers in respect of both
corporations and old age pensions to enact the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS).
5.9 The Government continues to rely on its taxation powers for the purpose
of conferring tax advantages on those funds which comply with the
requirements of SIS.
Superannuation taxes and incentives
5.10 Superannuation is taxed at three points:
• on entry to the fund - a contributions tax of 15 per cent;
• whilst in the fund - an earnings tax of 15 per cent, which may be
reduced by dividend imputation credits, etc; and
• on receipt of benefits - a benefits tax at 0, 15 or 30 per cent,
depending upon the tax that has been previously paid and the
amount of the benefit. Benefits over the Reasonable Benefit Limit
are taxed at a member’s marginal rate.
5.11 Employer contributions are deductable for the employer (subject to upper
limits) and are taxed at 15 per cent upon receipt by the fund.


5.12 The end benefit, when paid on or after age 55, is subject to a further tax
on that benefit above $83,168 (indexed to average weekly earnings each
1 July).
5.13 Generally, member employee contributions are not taxed, and for persons
on assessable incomes of less than $31 000, a rebate of 10 cents in the dollar up
to $1 000 per year of contributions is payable, providing a maximum rebate of
$100 per year. The rebateable contribution is $1 000 for incomes of $27 000 or
less, declining to nil for incomes $31 000 and above.
5.14 Persons self-employed enjoy full deductibility on the first $3 000 of
contributions, plus 75 per cent of any excess over $3 000, at their marginal rate
of tax. Contributions for which a deduction is claimed are taxed at 15 per cent
on receipt by the fund.4
5.15 The taxation arrangements for superannuation disadvantage those on low
incomes who are most likely to be female, and either part-time or casual
employees. Persons on incomes in the range $5 401 to $20 700 per annum pay
personal income tax at 21.4 per cent while those below $5 401 pay no tax.
Therefore, taxing employer contributions at 15 per cent provides little or no
advantage from superannuation for this group.5 In fact, given the tax on
benefits above $83 168 should such people be able to achieve that amount,
there is a tax disincentive to participate in superannuation.6
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends that measures be taken to redress the tax
imbalance experienced by low income earners.
Capital Gains Tax
5.16 The Committee is aware of concern in some quarters that pressure for
increased efficiency may induce some funds to merge and to risk suffering a
capital gains tax impost. At the time of writing, the Senate was due to consider
a Bill passed by the House that will ameliorate some of these concerns for a
Jacques Martin Industry, SW Sub No 17
Delphin K, SW Sub No 76
SW Sub No 17


limited period. If enacted, the change to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936
will allow certain superannuation funds that merge before 1 July 1997 to
effectively roll-over any accrued capital gains or losses that would have been
realised by the merger.
The taxation of superannuation lump sum benefits
5.17 Prior to 1 July 1983, only five per cent of a superannuation lump sum
was taxed (at the taxpayer’s marginal rate). This contrasts to pensions and
annuities which were fully assessable, subject to a deduction for the
undeducted purchase price (if any) provided by the taxpayer. The very
generous tax treatment afforded to lump sums meant any taxpayer with a
choice of benefit would inevitably choose a lump sum.
5.18 From 1 July 1983, superannuation lump sums were taxed by considering
the benefit in two parts. The pre-July 1983 component continued to be taxed at
5 per cent, while the post-30 June 1983 component was fully assessable,
though subject to a rebate that effectively capped the percentage tax liability.
(In addition, the tax-free threshold of $83 168 is applied to the post-30 June
1983 component.)
5.19 The rebate was designed to encourage people to defer receiving a lump
sum benefit until they were at least age 55. Amounts received by a person on or
after their 55th birthday are subject to a maximum rate of tax of 15 per cent on
the first $50 000 (indexed annually), and a maximum of 30 per cent on the
balance. Benefits paid to individuals prior to their 55th birthday are taxed at a
uniform rate not exceeding 30 per cent.
Reasonable Benefit Limits (RBLs)
5.20 The purpose of the RBLs is to limit the amount of concessionally taxed
benefits which a taxpayer can receive. Funds are not permitted to accept tax
deductible contributions in excess of the maximum funding limits. However,
the amount by which a total benefit paid exceeds the RBL is taxed at the
highest marginal rate.
5.21 In a submission calling for the simplification of the tax of
superannuation, Mr Phillip Ho submitted that the RBL system should be
abolished on the basis that ‘95 per cent of Australian tax payers are funding the
RBL system to ensure the other five per cent would not be significantly better
off in their old age’. Mr Ho proposed that if the RBL remain, the following
fixed dollar RBL should apply:


. lump sum RBL: zero, or at most twice AWOTE
. pension RBL: unlimited.7
5.22 Currently, in accordance with the policy of encouraging retirement
income streams rather than the taking of lump sums, two different reasonable
benefit limits apply. The RBL set in July 1 1994 was $400 000 for beneficiaries
who elect to take their benefit as a lump sum, while an RBL of $800 000
applies to benefits taken as an income stream, even if up to half the total benefit
was taken in the form of a lump sum. These amounts are adjusted for inflation
each year and the current 1995-96 RBLs are $418 000 and $836 000
respectively. The Committee considered these levels and some members were
of the view that the removal of the indexation of the flat dollar amounts may go
some way to alleviating the inequitable distribution of tax concessions between
high and low income earners.
Comment
5.23 The Committee concurs with Mr Tony Cole of LIFA, that while there is
an obvious incentive for people with a total retirement benefit of more than
$400 000 to take at least some income stream, it really ‘does not impact on the
vast majority of the population’.8 The amounts are simply beyond the likely
benefits of most superannuants.
The impact of taxation concessions
5.24 One argument put to the Committee was that the current arrangements do
not make superannuation attractive for low income people. The Australian
Council of Social Services (ACOSS) considered:
the tax subsidies for superannuation should be restructured to
increase the effective subsidy for low income earners and reduce
that for high income earners.
ACOSS also considered that the ‘excessive’ tax concessions for high income
people were wasteful, as:
high income earners are likely to save in the absence of tax
concessions for superannuation.10
SW Sub No 45
Evidence, p 264
SW Sub No 62


5.25 This latter view accords with accepted economic theory which asserts
there is a greater ability to save among high income earners than low, and with
common sense which suggests if you haven’t got it you can’t save it. Another
aspect of the relative greater advantage afforded higher income earners is they
have a greater capacity to forgo current income in favour of superannuation.
5.26 Mr David Vernon of Jacques Martin Pty Ltd, discussed the rebate on
member contributions which cuts out at income level $31 000. He believed the
rebate ‘should be looked at to encourage people to make voluntary
contributions’.11 On the other hand, Mr Donald Blyth from the Trustee
Corporations Association of Australia, advocated tax deductibility. He believed
tax incentives were necessary as people would not voluntarily contribute.12
5.27 Perhaps the position of lower income people was made most clear in the
submission of the Victorian Minister for Women’s Affairs quoting ABS
Statistics:
For those on a high marginal tax rate, the key incentive to make
superannuation contributions is the 15 per cent tax rate applying to
scheme earnings in salary sacrifice arrangements. However. 52 per
cent of women earn less than $400 per week. At an income lower
than $400 per week the marginal tax rate is 20 per cent,
accordingly the overall rate is 15 per cent. Therefore, for many
women who forgo some part of a small income for membership in
a superannuation scheme, there is no tax advantage whatsoever.13
Other parts of retirement incomes policy
5.28 Taxation concessions are part of retirement incomes policy. It was
pointed out that the welfare and age pension system is ‘highly progressive in its
design and should be seen as offsetting, to some extent, the regressive feature
of the tax deduction arrangements’.14 The Committee considers this fair
comment.
10
11
13
ibid
Evidence, p 55
Evidence, p 100
SW Sub No 66
Smith G. Evidence, p 600
14


Incentive proposals for lower income earners
5.29 The proposed use of rebates was a common theme. For example, Mr
David Vernon of Jacques Martin Pty Ltd, advocated a tax rebate for the first
S500 a person contributes to a superannuation fund on their own behalf when
they commence employment.1'^ The Institute of Actuaries of Australia also
favoured the use of a rebate on contributions and indicated a complex of
features that such a rebate could have.16
5.30 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) listed a
number of options relating to tax incentives which have been ‘put forward by
various organisations and individuals in the community as a means of
increasing superannuation coverage of the population or of improving equity in
the tax system’.17 Among these options were:
. a universal rebate for everyone (employed or not) on all personal
contributions up to the RBL limit;
. removal of the 15 per cent tax on member balances up to $500; and
. the issue of tax credits to people out of work, who have a nil marginal tax
rate, which could be credited to their superannuation fund.
5.31 The Committee is aware that in many, and probably most, cases people
on low incomes would prefer cash in hand rather than see their superannuation
grow.18 Also, in relation to tax incentives, the Women’s Legal Resources
Centre said:
More thought needs to put into what is a good incentive for women
who tend not to have tax problems.19
5.32 ACOSS suggested reform of the tax concessions by:
. taxing both employer contributions and fund earnings at the individual
member’s marginal rate;
15
16
17
18
Evidence, p 55
SW Sub No 61
SW Sub No 43
Australian Women in Agriculture, SW Sub No 44
SW Sub No 58
19


. partly offsetting these taxes with a rebate to members, calculated on an
annual or lifetime basis and paid annually into the fund; and
. removing taxes on benefits, except for large lump sums and pre-
retirement payments.
Finally, as a package option, ACOSS proposed ‘at the least’:
replacing the 15 per cent tax on employer contributions and present
concessions for employee contributions by a flat tax rebate,
substantially reducing the present reasonable benefit limits, and
increasing the tax applied on large lump sums."0
5.33 The proposals for rebate arrangements were varied and sometimes
complicated in concept, quite apart from the administrative detail. ACOSS did
not accept it was reasonable to apply a rebate system that included individual
marginal tax rates. It was a matter which had been ‘looked at very thoroughly a
few years ago’ and ‘to run a system that requires taking into account individual
members’ marginal tax rates is generally regarded as not workable’.21 Also,
Treasury commented specifically on employer based schemes:
[w]e have noted that with an employer based scheme and with a
scheme that includes promised benefits in the design, it is
technically quite difficult, if not impossible, to design a rebate
structure that would be equitable, effective and administratively
workable.”
5.34 Ms Anna Adams, of Olsberg Adams and Associates, offered some
positive anecdotal support for current arrangements. Ms Adams advised she
was a registered nurse, working as a palliative care nurse in the community and
in contact with carers of the terminally ill. As a home educator too, she
encountered many women opting to take longer periods out of the workforce.
5.35 Ms Adams had conducted interviews in research with ‘women and focus
groups about their working patterns’. That was probably her ‘main area of
interest’."1 In response to questioning about positive incentives she said:
A lot of the women that I interviewed, even with their very small
incomes, are very appreciative of having superannuation. They say.
20
SW Sub No 62
Maroney T, Evidence, p 198
Smith G, Evidence, p 600
Evidence, p 217


and I have heard it repeatedly, that it is good that somebody
actually saves money for them ... When they have extra I think that
giving them an incentive means that they do put in money. That
would encourage them a lot to think that it was possible to make it.
Their own perception is that they waste money.24
Other forms of tax assisted savings
5.36 During the course of the Committee’s inquiry, and generally from time to
time, various alternatives to superannuation sponsorship have been proposed as
appropriate action for the Government.
5.37 A suggestion from Ms Eva Cox, Co-Convener of the Women’s
Economic Think Tank, was for a ‘drawing account’ which could be drawn
upon for certain costs such as those relating to disability or child rearing, with
what is left over going to superannuation. Ms Cox said such an arrangement:
would at least prove a reasonable savings option for a lot of people
because it had flexibility.25
5.38 Ms Cox did not think the current arrangements for taxation concessions
for superannuation helped women. She said:
Having something which is entirely based on retirement, given
actuarial details, given women’s work pattern problems and so on,
it is neither going to provide them with a decent retirement income
nor is it going to deal with a whole lot of other issues that need to
be dealt with - financial demand points - at other points in their
lives. Because we are the child bearers and withdraw from the
workforce to take care of ageing parents.26
5.39 An option considered by the Committee was a tax assisted, long-term,
savings vehicle as an alternative to superannuation. This would be available to
individuals only (not partnerships or trusts), with easy access along the lines of
the account proposed by Ms Cox. Such vehicles would be less concessionally
taxed than the current superannuation arrangements in recognition of the
preserved status of superannuation monies. There would be no tax payable for
low income earners. The Committee commends this concept for further
consideration.
Evidence, p 227
Evidence, p 305
ibid
26


Conclusion
5.40 The Committee is not persuaded that major reform of the system of
taxation incentives is warranted, but considers some form of additional taxation
incentive for those on low incomes to save is justified, both within and outside
the superannuation arena.


CHAPTER 6:
CHOICE OF FUND
Choice of fund
Freedom of choice in superannuation is very much a two-edged sword.
The call for choice
6.1 The question of choice of fund was raised by a number of individuals as
a solution to the difficulties they had experienced in maintaining the integrity
of their own superannuation. These individuals had a history of broken
workforce participation and small superannuation accounts.- Others had
significant personal superannuation and small amounts of employer sponsored
superannuation split between two accounts.3
6.2 Ms Andrea Malone submitted that her ability to accumulate
superannuation savings has been hindered by account keeping fees, cashing out
of small amounts, and intra and interstate moves. The result was that she had
membership of some four different superannuation schemes. As part of her
submission she proposed:
that any compulsory schemes should be established on a national
basis and the worker should have the choice of joining a scheme
and remaining with it as she moves from job to job. It is quite
inappropriate to place the onus on individual workers to keep track
of all the sundry schemes to which they are forced to belong.
6.3 The Committee accepts that the circumstances described by Ms Malone,
which have been called the ‘small amounts problem’, could have been
alleviated by her being able to choose one fund and have all contributions paid
to it.
6.4 The ‘small amounts problems’ of Ms Malone and others5 could also have
been alleviated if mechanisms were in place that would have prevented the
erosion of those amounts and enabled the accounts to be consolidated easily.
1
Stevens R, Evidence, p 168
For example, see S W Sub Nos 8, 12, 22, 51
For example, Hunter R, SW Sub No 34
SW Sub No 12
For example Shellham E, SW Sub No 84


This problem has been largely overcome by the approach that has been adopted
with the member protection rules for amounts under $1 000 and the transfer
protocol. The Committee has recommended in Chapter 7 that all accumulation
funds be required to participate in the transfer protocol it they accept
compulsory contributions.
6.5 Notwithstanding the mechanisms that have been put in place to address
the ‘small amounts problem’, choice of fund remains a highly sensitive issue
within the superannuation industry6 and between the major political parties.
6.6 The Committee looked briefly at the issue of member choice of fund in
Chapter 2 of its Fourteenth Report, Super Regs II.
6.7 The entitlement to choose a superannuation fund depends on the
individual’s circumstances of employment. For example, a self-employed
person may establish their own fund or choose from a variety of public offer
funds. They are free to change superannuation funds at will, subject of course
to entry and exit fees, which can be quite an inhibiting factor.
6.8 The Superannuation Guarantee scheme does not provide such
opportunities for employees. It requires the employer to make superannuation
contributions on behalf of employees to complying regulated superannuation
funds. It may be the employer who chooses the particular fund into which the
contributions are paid. Otherwise, limits on which fund can be selected are
often imposed by awards.
6.9 In Super Regs II the Committee reported that most States have enacted
legislation affecting State awards to allow employee choice of fund, provided
the employer agrees. The Committee did not receive evidence in this inquiry on
how such provisions have been utilised.
6.10 The question of fund choice elicited some vigorous responses in this
inquiry. A wide range of issues were identified as relevant to a proper
exposition of the question.
6.11 The issues identified in the inquiry as relevant in any consideration of the
choice of fund issue are:
. the ability of consumers to make a informed choice, particularly the
consequences of different vesting rules;
• the actual power of an employee to exercise choice;
Alexander Consulting, SW Sub No 69


. effective portability;
. effective protection of small balances;
. the impact on employers;
. a sense of ownership on the part of superannuation account holders;
. competition;
. the extent to which a fund meets the needs of the individual’s
circumstances; and
. the appropriateness of the investment strategy of the nominated fund to
the individual.
Informed choice
6.12 The Industry Funds Forum (IFF) and the Sex Discrimination
Commissioner both expressed concern that employees might make decisions
that adversely affect their retirement income. For example, Ms Walpole said of
women who have broken work histories and choose a defined benefit fund:
Unless women are aware of the impact of discriminatory vesting
rules, this could be a very costly “choice ’’for them.7
6.13 Ms Malone highlighted the problem when she advised the Committee:
I am neither uneducated, nor uninterested in my superannuation
but I am at a loss to know how to get the information I need to
make informed decisions, what to do about the small amounts of
money presently floating around in various unknown funds, how to
"roll over" the separate amounts (or even what "roll over" means!)
or how I should plan for, and incorporate, this compulsory system
into a future which will inevitably involve constantly changing
employment.8
6.14 The Committee concurs with the IFF submission that any moves toward
member choice of fund need to be on the basis that the choice is:
. informed - through consistent disclosure of all costs and features of funds
in accessible language, and
SW Sub No 89, Vesting provisions are examined in Chapter 7
SW Sub No 12


• universal - the choice option needs to be offered to all employees.
6.15 Some members of the Committee supported choice on the basis that it
would be collective so as to avoid the prospect of each employee in a
workplace having a different nominated fund. Some Senators also expressed
concern for those workers who cannot access membership to an industry fund
and the portability that accompanies that membership. This is particularly
important for casual and part-time workers. In that context, the Opposition
Senators would like to see a far greater degree of choice so as to accommodate
such workers.}
Appropriate investment strategies
6.16 The investment strategy of a particular industry fund may not be
appropriate for a particular employee and current legislation does not provide
for mandatory investment choice. The SIS legislation prescribes the
circumstances where a trustee may be given directions relating to investment
strategy, but such choices, known as member or beneficiary investment choice
(BIC), are only possible at the discretion of the trustee.10
6.17 At different stages in an individual employee’s life, different aspects of
superannuation will be more important. For example, benefit levels in relation
to family protection may be the highest priority in early years, while in the later
years there will be more interest in retirement planning. Mr Robert Musgrave of
LUPAC was concerned that not only was there no choice of fund, but there was
no freedom of choice in the structure of benefits. 11
6.18 It is therefore important that all funds ensure that their members have
access to an investment strategy that is appropriate for them. The Committee
recommended in a previous report that all standard employer-sponsored funds
with fifty or more members be required to offer member investment choice.12
The Committee is of the view that in an environment of limited choice of fund,
access to appropriate investment strategies is imperative.
SW Sub No lie
Super Regs II. p 8
Evidence, p 372
Super Regs //, 1994, p 3 1


Administrative complexity
6.19 The issue of administrative complexity was put to the Committee.1’ It
was argued that the cost of choice of fund could be ‘quite significant for a lot of
small businesses’14 and that it would increase the administration required by
employers to meet their superannuation requirements. However, evidence of
systems that would facilitate the payment of superannuation contributions
under a regime of employee choice for both small and large employers was
presented.15 These systems include:
For large employers:
• deskbank - a service through which a company electronically pays
contributions to multiple funds, and
. diskette - a computer disk and single cheque is provided to bank for
processing through banking system to superannuation accounts.
For small employers:
. list pay - list of employees, funds bank account and member account
numbers and single cheque provided to bank for processing through
banking system to superannuation accounts, and
. direct deposit - deposit book for each employee’s fund. Employer pays
by cheque to bank.16
6.20 The Committee also heard from Australia Post who submitted that they
are equipped with the necessary technology to process banking and other
financial transactions on-line. This technology could also provide for the
collection, processing and disbursement of payments to superannuation funds.
Such a service would be especially valuable to those small businesses without
computer technology. These businesses would be able to simply provide
Australia Post with one cheque and payment details.17
Women in Horticulture, SW Sub No 5
14 Evidence, p 583
15 Iemi L, SW Sub No 91
16 SW Sub No 77 (A number of AR1SA members withdrew from the ARISA submission: see SW Sub Nos
77A-77H)
17
SW Sub No 67


Access to the Australian Taxation Office and other national schemes
6.21 The concept of a government scheme into which any employee could
choose to have their superannuation contributions paid was suggested in a
number of submissions. 18
6.22 The Committee first considered the new ATO arrangements with regard
to small balances and whether some extension of this scheme was warranted. It
was submitted that ‘there should be a mechanism for automatic transfer of
small amounts and contributions to the Australian Taxation Office (ATO),
rather than leaving it to the discretion of employers’. It was further suggested
that the ATO should pay interest of at least four per cent on small balances.'9
6.23 Ms Allison McClelland, of the Australian Council of Social Service
(ACOSS), said her organisation believed employees should be able to transfer
their ‘small contributions’ to the ATO if they wished and not be dependent on
the employer deciding on their behalf. She believed this was a denial of
freedom of choice which would not be regarded as fair in other markets. A
minimal rate of return of four per cent was suggested, given the use of that
figure by the Department of Social Security as a ‘deeming rate’.20
6.24 In one of the proposals that employees should be able to choose a public
administered national superannuation fund (NSF), it was said of member
choice:
At present if any choice is available it is only among funds in the
private sector. We suggest that for superannuation members to
have real choice, that is, a choice that emphasises security, that
choice should be between a publicly or privately managed
superannuation fund.21
6.25 It was suggested that a NSF would have other advantages. Being broadly
based it would be a ‘repository and accumulation fund’ for those funds that
cannot be managed economically by the private sector. There would be no need
for involvement of the ATO in member protection and small amounts. Services
such as housing finance could be made available to a wider section of the
community through an NSF than would be the case in the private sector.
Investment strategies of an NSF could incorporate broader social objectives
Examples see SW Sub Nos 18, 24, 64
19 ACOSS, SW Sub No 62
‘° Evidence, p 81
Gallery N & G, SW Sub No 771


such as funding infrastructure and venture capital. An NSF could be a
benchmark for measuring the performance of private funds and provide model
operating and disclosure standards.22
6.26 The Cabinet Office of NSW identified the ‘development of a central
superannuation fund available to all, but targeting low income earners and
having a small administration fee’ as an initiative that would take account of
the differences between male and female earnings and savings patterns.23
6.27 It was argued by Natalie and Gerry Gallery that ‘by establishing an NSF,
the Government will demonstrate that it is effectively discharging its
responsibility to provide Australians with an efficient long-term retirement
income system that is secure, accessible and equitable’.24
SHAR and choice
6.28 The Committee notes that a person with amounts in the SHAR system
effectively has some choice. Such individuals may nominate where the money
in their SHAR account is to be paid.2^
6.29 The Committee supports the choice provided to these small account
holders. It considers that small account holders whose employers do not
facilitate this avenue of choice may feel disadvantaged.
Conclusions
6.30 The concepts of freedom and choice are important in a democratic
society. They attract costs as well as benefits however, and in order to strike the
proper balances a creative tension is often present from which solutions may
emerge. In markets such as superannuation which are always imperfect, it is
often necessary to offer protection to individuals, as well as maintaining their
freedom to choose within those same markets.
6.31 Members of the Committee hold strongly different views on the issue of
employee choice of fund. These reflect the different philosophies of the
political parties.
24
25
ibid
SW Sub No 41
SW Sub No 771
Australian Taxation Office, SW Sub No 65




CHAPTER 7:
DISCRIMINATION, THE SEX DISCRIMINATION ACT
AND SUPERANNUATION
Discrimination, the Sex Discrimination Act and superannuation
Even after July 1 1994, ... the requirement for superannuation to
he non-discriminatory will still he limited.... It is reminiscent of
St Augustine's plea to God to make him holy ... hut not yet.1
7.1 Currently, superannuation is explicitly excluded from anti-discrimination
laws across the country, for reasons discussed in paragraph 6.18.
7.2 The questions of if, and how, discrimination in the superannuation system
should be addressed go to the heart of many of the concerns associated with the
adequacy of the retirement incomes policy and its impact on those whose
retirement will not follow on from a traditional male employment pattern.
7.3 The idea of fair reward for effort is widely accepted in Australia and
unjustified and unreasonable deviations from that guiding principle often attract
community dissent.
7.4 The evidence presented to the Committee suggests that while
superannuation has improved significantly in the last decade, concern remains
about the equity and adequacy of occupational superannuation, particularly for
those people whose workforce participation falls outside the traditional 30 to 40
year working life pattern.
7.5 Prior to any discussion of discrimination in the superannuation system, it
is important to understand the context within which superannuation functions in
relation to this issue. However, it should be noted that superannuation is
explicitly excluded from anti-discrimination laws across the country.
The Sex Discrimination Act 1984 and superannuation
7.6 While sex discrimination laws have been enacted, or are in the process of
being enacted, in all States and Territories, the purview of this Committee has
dictated that attention be focussed on the operation, impact and, if appropriate,
remedy of sex discrimination at the Commonwealth level.
Sex Discrimination Commissioner, SW Sub No 89


7.7 The Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) (the Act) aims to provide redress
for injustices or disadvantages experienced by people because of their sex,
marital status or pregnancy and, in relation to dismissal, because of their family
responsibilities. It also aims to redress injustice and disadvantages (particularly
for women) in access to goods and services, such as superannuation.2
7.8 The operation of superannuation or provident fund schemes was initially
exempted from the Act for a two year period. This was extended until, in 1991, a
more limited exemption replaced it. After further administrative exemptions, the
new sections of the Act relating to superannuation - sections 41A and 41B -
came into effect on 1 July 1994. The following areas remain immune:
. reasonably based actuarial or statistical data;
• the provision of dependant superannuation where there is no spouse or
children;
. indirect discrimination in relation to vesting, preservation or portability of
benefits; and
• discrimination in the terms and conditions of superannuation funds which
were in existence prior to implementation of the amendments, provided they
have offered their members an option to obtain benefits which do not
discriminate in any other way than those granted under the other three
exemptions.J
7.9 Guidelines providing more detailed information for the superannuation
industry in relation to a number of complex and difficult areas in the provision of
superannuation benefits have been produced by the Human Rights and Equal
Opportunity Commission (HREOC) in conjunction with a Superannuation
Industry Taskforce. These complement earlier Guidelines, released in 1993,
which provided general guidance for industry in complying with the provisions
of the Act relating to superannuation.4
7.10 The Sex Discrimination Act 1984 defines discrimination as either direct or
indirect.
ibid
ibid
ibid


Direct discrimination
7.11 Direct discrimination occurs when a person receives less favourable
treatment than another person because of their sex or marital status. Ms Walpole,
the Sex Discrimination Commissioner, provided an example of direct
discrimination as a woman being refused superannuation because she is a
woman, or if a married woman was treated differently in the terms and benefits
of a superannuation scheme than was a married man.5
7.12 Other examples of direct discrimination in superannuation cited were:
• lower death and disability coverage for women;
• different retirement provisions for women;
• no payment of benefit to a woman’s surviving spouse, or on proving
dependency;
. marriage/dowry benefits; and
. differential provisions regarding desertion and imprisonment.6
Indirect discrimination
7.13 Indirect discrimination occurs when there is an unreasonable application
of a requirement or condition which has a disproportionate effect on people of a
particular sex or marital status. In ascertaining whether indirect discrimination
has occurred, the impact of a requirement or conditions is the important factor,
not the intention of the discriminator.'
7.14 According to the Sex Discrimination Commissioner, indirect
discrimination is more subtle, in that it recognises that whilst active prejudice
may not exist, the effect of a practice may unfairly exclude certain groups from
benefits available to other groups.8
7.15 The Sex Discrimination Commissioner cited the example of indirect
discrimination of a superannuation scheme that denied membership to part-time
ibid
Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, Superannuation and the Sex Discrimination Act 1984.
Current Status and Future Directions, 1994, pp 3-4
Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, Background paper: the Sex Discrimination Act and
superannuation, 1995, p 2
ibid, pp 1-2


workers. Those workers were mainly female, and this action was judged to be
unreasonable in the circumstances by the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity
Commission.9
7.16 Other examples of indirect discrimination cited include:
. no or little entitlement to benefits if employees leave before retirement;
. requirements for very long periods of employment for vesting;
. a reduced benefit to a surviving non-contributing spouse;
. the inability to continue superannuation contributions during maternity
leave and periods of workforce absence for child rearing;
• there being 8 per cent of workers earning below the Superannuation
Guarantee commencement level, of which most are women; and
. the regressive nature of the tax concessions in the superannuation system,
which are of little benefit to low income earners.10
7.17 The Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission also notes that
other factors indirectly discriminate against women in relation to the
accumulation of superannuation assets:
• women’s work patterns typically involve less time in the paid workforce
than men’s. Women are penalised for non-contributory periods and
sometimes are additionally disadvantaged by losing eligibility for
membership through breaks in paid employment or by having small
contributions from various jobs in various funds eroded by multiple
administrative charges. Greater incidence of early retirement (for family
reasons) also limits superannuation contributions;
• women’s lower earnings mean lower benefits in an occupationally based
scheme; and
• women are less likely to have their own superannuation, though they will
have contributed to a household’s capacity to pay for men’s contributions.11
SW Sub No 89
Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, Superannuation and the Sex Discrimination Act 1984:
Current Status and Future Directions, 1994. p 3
ibid, p 4


Why the Sex Discrimination Act exempts certain aspects of superannuation
7.18 According to the Sex Discrimination Commissioner, the exemption from
the Commonwealth Sex Discrimination Act was originally intended to apply for
two years only.1- The reasons given for the exemption generally, and its intended
removal, are found in the Second Reading Speech on the Sex Discrimination Bill
in October 1983:
the Government will not make any regulations until an inquiry into
the problems raised by the life insurance and superannuation
industry association has been held and the industry’s major concerns
have been examined and met where appropriate. At the same time,
the Government is signalling its intention in principle that the Sex
Discrimination Act should - and in due course, will - cover
superannuation schemes.13
7.19 Review of the operation of the Act is continuing. The Australian
Association of Superfunds (ASFA) is a working party participant in the current
review of the Act.14
7.20 Nevertheless, more than ten years after the enactment of the Act, the
Committee considers it a proper question to ask the following questions:
Does eliminating discrimination in superannuation mean making
retirement incomes equal?
To what extent should the superannuation system be beholden to the
existing discrimination?
Are there other areas of discrimination inherent in superannuation
that need to be addressed?
Does eliminating discrimination mean making retirement incomes equal?
7.21 Evidence provided to the Committee highlighted an ongoing conundrum
as to how discrimination should be assessed. Should it be on the basis of whether
formal equality or substantive equality is sought between those people whose
workforce participation falls outside the traditional 30 to 40 year pattern and
those who do not.
SW Sub No 89
Second reading speech Sex Discrimination Bill October 1983
SW Sub No 43


7.22 The Queensland Office of the Cabinet illustrated this distinction, saying:
While the Sex Discrimination Amendment Act prevents some forms
of discrimination it does not address issues such as the fact that
women retire earlier, sustain longer term disabilities and live longer,
and that these factors are the basis for calculating lump sums and
retirement benefits.1^
7.23 The elimination of discrimination for the purposes of achieving formal
equality would result in treating people equally without regard to the unequal
retirement income outcomes that might be produced.
7.24 In contrast, a goal of achieving substantive equality would probably focus
on the outcomes, that is, an individual’s actual ability to provide for retirement.
It would result in removing discrimination so that given people’s unequal
opportunities, talents and fortunes, the outcome would be substantively equal.
7.25 The evidence submitted to the Committee clearly indicated that neither of
these approaches was universally accepted, and that addressing discrimination as
a solution to the superannuation problems for people with broken work patterns
would require a path to be negotiated which lay somewhere between the two.
7.26 It is the Committee’s view that there should be no pretence that all
Australians will receive an identical amount of superannuation upon retirement.
As superannuation is occupationally based, and the amount of income earned
typically varies between individuals, the amount of superannuation one person
receives upon their retirement will invariably be different from the next person.
To what extent should the superannuation system be beholden to the
existing discrimination?
7.27 Evidence presented to the Committee reflected a broad range of opinions
as to the extent that the superannuation system could, and should, be beholden to
existing discrimination.
7.28 Dr Olsberg, from the University of New South Wales, argued that while
compulsory universal superannuation has appeared to eliminate direct
discriminatory practices, indirect discrimination remained.16 She argued that
‘making retirement income dependent upon occupational income ... is a
masculine concept that has been given virility through legislation’ and that
occupational superannuation would remain ‘gender biased so long as unpaid
SW Sub No 48
SW Sub No 9
16


caring roles, which are enormously valuable to society and absolutely necessary,
received no recognition whatsoever in terms of retirement income’.17
7.29 Dr Olsberg concluded that ‘any retirement income savings scheme that is
[dependent on paid employment] contains an inbuilt structural bias against
women’.18
7.30 The Queensland Office of Cabinet supported this view, submitting that
‘inherent discrimination is evident in the foundation blocks of superannuation in
Australia ... the original design of superannuation was that the end result of
participation was a comfortable lifestyle when the worker was of retirement age,
which is based on men’s continuous work patterns and men’s average
earnings’.19 Many others who appeared before the Committee or presented
submissions also supported this position.20
7.31 On the other hand, the majority of superannuation providers and
administrators saw the problems of discrimination largely attributable to factors
beyond the boundaries of superannuation administration. Some providers did
agree with the need and appropriateness of reform, particularly in areas
concerning the different rates of payment for male and female annuities. This is
discussed in Chapter 8.
7.32 The Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC) identified lower
gains from occupational superannuation for women as not stemming from
‘discriminatory superannuation rules as such, but from traditional patterns and
practices in the family, society and the workplace that result in lower lifetime
earnings for many women’ and argued that ‘major changes in patterns of work
and social life ... are likely to substantially reduce the differences between male
and female participation rates in the full-time workforce and between their
lifetime earnings’."1
7.33 In evidence before the Committee, the ISC argued that, because
‘discrimination emerging in superannuation is primarily a consequence of
differences elsewhere, ... a logical consequence of what is occurring elsewhere ...
addressing issues in the superannuation context is not addressing the root
cause’.22 The ISC was of the view that ‘the changes [to the superannuation
17
Evidence, pp 218- 219
SW Sub No 9
19 SW Sub No 48
SW Sub Nos 33, Alexander E; 47, BPW Australia; 57, Sinha T; 58, The Women’s Legal Resource Centre
21 SW Sub No 37
Evidence, pp 627-628


system to date] have minimised the discrimination that is involved in an
occupationally based superannuation system’.23
7.34 The Committee supports the position that the superannuation must not be
beholden to the indirect discrimination. It is strongly of the belief that where
discrimination is found to be unjustified, it should be remedied as soon as
practicable. It is on this basis that the Committee supports withdrawal of the
exclusion of the issues of vesting, portability and preservation from the Sex
Discrimination Act 1984.
Vesting, portability and preservation
7.35 Three areas of superannuation which remain immune from the Sex
Discrimination Act 1984 are those of vesting, preservation and portability.24
Ms Walpole recommended the removal of these exemptions.25
• Vesting
7.36 Many women have fragmented working lives, and vesting and portability
are considered ‘critical issues’ in addressing these problems. Ms Walpole
submitted:
Vesting is the key area in discriminating between the final benefits
received by men and women. While the SGC and industry funds
generally provide for immediate 100% vesting of employer
contributions, there remain large numbers of women with additional
super through their membership of employment sponsored funds in
the public and corporate sectors, where long vesting periods
persist.26
7.37 In the Commonwealth Public Service schemes, the vesting and
preservation of benefits are important features. The Commonwealth
Superannuation Scheme (CSS) provides for full vesting and preservation of the
employer financed portion of the benefit after 5 years on the election of the
exiting member. (Most CSS members will have fully vested benefits as from 1
July 1995.) The Public Sector Superannuation scheme (PSS) has provided full
vesting of all benefits since 1 July 1992. 27
24
Evidence, p 630
Sex Discrimination Ad 1984, Section 41A (1) (b) (iii)
SW Sub No 89
ibid
SW Sub No 40
27


7.38 In the industry overall, ASFA submitted that the move to vesting was
inhibited prior to 1983 by the lack of rollover facilities and preservation
requirements, but ‘since the introduction of rollover facilities the pace of
improvements to vesting has been faster’. It believed that ‘any mandatory
vesting requirements would be difficult to design’ and would encourage
employers to not make any contributions above the minimum required under the
SG.28 Rather it felt that ‘employers should be encouraged to continue to move to
a higher level of vesting for voluntary employer superannuation’, although
exactly how this encouragement could be given was not examined.
7.39 There was also the views from consumer groups. For example, the Shell
Superannuation Rights Committee recommended compulsory full vesting after a
qualification period of 4 to 5 years-9, while the Australian Education Union
advocated full vesting of employer contributions for every individual to apply on
resignation, invalidity, retrenchment, dismissal, death and retirement. ’0
7.40 Ms Walpole was strong in her attitude of vesting as a matter of
discrimination:
Vesting, it seems to me, is really quite crucial. All the ABS data
indicates to us that not only do women spend a shorter period of
time in the workforce but they spend shorter periods in time in each
particular job. The longer the vesting time, of course, the less likely
they are ever to receive the employer contributions. We have argued
in different contexts that this is clearly a situation where issues of
indirect discrimination became quite important.31
She was quite clear that there was indirect sex discrimination with regards to
32
vesting.
7.41 Ms Walpole discussed her proposal to have the superannuation
exemptions removed from the Act, with vesting and portability being the first
priority. She said she wished to ‘collect some more information, and have some
more discussions with industry’, and indicated that 12 months was an
appropriate time within which the remaining exemptions for superannuation
should be removed from the Act/”
SW Sub No 43
Collins C, SW Sub No 80
SW Sub No 93
Evidence, p 643
Evidence, p 653
Evidence, pp 652, 653


• What about portability
7.42 The significance of the link of portability with vesting in the priorities of
the Sex Discrimination Commissioner were expressed in Ms Walpole’s
submission:
While ever funds allow for no vesting of the employer's
contribution, until [al certain length of service...women with family
or carer responsibilities will pay a high price. Sex equality in
pensions becomes even less likely if such funds limit portability,
thus effectively hitting women with a double whammy. They can't
get up the years required for vesting and their employment
continuity is constantly underestimated because they can't take what
they have accumulated to their next employer. ’4
7.43 Other evidence was also strongly supportive of portability.35 Essentially,
portability is helpful with the small accounts problem and in assisting
contributors to ‘own’ their superannuation. Where contributors are able to roll
their benefits into a new employer’s scheme there is clearly an incentive for
women with intermittent work patterns to participate in superannuation, as well
as it being more appropriate to their needs.36
7.44 From the industry’s point of view, ASFA contended that portability is
sometimes misunderstood and confused with vesting.37 Examples of this may be
where the lower vesting of amounts above the SG are seen as a portability issue,
or where funds provide deferred retirement benefits as an alternative to paying
out the vested benefit when the member leaves (such as in many public sector
plans). ASFA considered that:
The problem of portability or ‘consolidation’ of superannuation
amounts in one fund is small compared to the likely gains from
deferring a benefit.lS
7.45 It was said there was good economic sense in encouraging deferred
benefits, in that portability of benefits ‘may create liquidity and short term
solvency constraints on funds investment policies’.19
SW Sub No 89
Examples see SW Sub Nos 12, Malone A, 24, Australian Education Union (Tasmanian Branch), and
30, Marcus J
SW Sub No 24
SW Sub No 43
ibid
39
ibid


7.46 The Committee considers that the issue of so-called deferred benefits is
distinct from portability. Whether vested contributions remain with the same
fund or are withdrawn and transferred to another fund, they are still required at
law to be preserved for retirement, unless under the $500 limit.
7.47 It is important in the context of portability that easy and inexpensive
transfer of accumulated contributions between funds be facilitated. The
Committee examined the question of transfer protocols in its Fifteenth Report
Super Guarantee - Its Track Record, and recommended the Government ensure
that appropriate transfer protocols are adopted by all participating funds, and
added:
Once the transfer protocol is implemented, fees should be set at a
level which reflect minimum cost to the member. The cost should
not be punitive and should not hinder portability.40
7.48 The evidence of this inquiry has confirmed the Committee’s view that all
superannuation members should have access to cost effective portability.
7.49 The Committee reiterates its recommendation on transfer protocols and
believes that accumulation schemes should move to full portability.
Recommendation 7.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government ensure that appropriate
transfer protocols are adopted by all accumulation funds accepting
compulsory contributions.
• And preservation
7.50 The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS) essentially
provides that members of a fund cannot access the money in their
superannuation account.
7.51 However, if a person has a benefit of less than $500 when they leave an
employer, access to that amount is permitted. This is a deficiency in current
policy which facilitates against those with broken work patterns being
encouraged to build up their superannuation entitlement on retirement.
40 Fifteenth Report, p 69


7.52 The Committee confirms its recommendation in its Fifteenth Report, that,
subject to the small accounts problem being properly rectified, access to
preserved amounts of less than $500 should be removed.41
Recommendation 7.2:
The Committee recommends that the exemptions relating to vesting,
portability and preservation, together with all other exemptions relating to
superannuation in the Sex Discrimination Act 1984, be removed before the
end of March 1997.
Recommendation 7.3:
The Committee recommends that the superannuation legislation be
amended to require immediate vesting of all employer contributions.
Reversionary Pensions
7.53 These are pensions which are provided by some funds to the surviving
spouses of those superannuants who die while in receipt of a pension. Normally
the reversionary amount is less than that of the original pension and it was
alleged during the inquiry that this is both inequitable and discriminatory
because it is usually a women who is the surviving spouse.42 It was pointed out
however, that such arrangements are not directly discriminatory since a surviving
male spouse would also receive the same reduced benefit.4'1
7.54 Mr Jack Bromley said this practice mitigated against the policy of
encouraging pension schemes rather than taking lump sum benefits, since a
surviving spouse would have access to the full lump sum. Mr Bromley
considered:
Fifteenth Report p 79
Bromley J, SW Sub No 78
ASFA. SW Sub No 78
43


[t]hat the lifetime of contributions to a fund is a joint effort by
husband and wife or partner and these contributions should be
applied equally on the death of either party.
7.55 It was said to be unfair that should the superannuant die the surviving
spouse received only a percentage of the pension, whereas should the other party
die the pension was not affected. One suggested solution was to pay separate
pensions to the superannuant and spouse.45 When one partner dies the other s
pension could continue. The Committee considers the structure of reversionary
pensions as a matter for individual funds.
Are there other areas of discrimination inherent in superannuation that
need to be addressed?
7.56 The Committee heard evidence that heterosexual married and de facto
couples are often treated more generously by superannuation funds when
compared to single people or same sex couples. It was put to the Committee that
this practice was particularly evident in the administration of death benefits.
Given the complexity of this issue, it has been dealt with in more detail
elsewhere in the report.
7.57 The Committee also heard evidence on the failure of employers of
outworkers in the clothing industry to pay superannuation. The Committee is
aware of the ongoing concern surrounding the employment conditions of some
outworkers and notes the 1995-96 Budget announcement of $33 million to
disseminate information on outworker entitlement in the textile, clothing and
footwear industries.47 The Senate Standing Committee on Economics is currently
conducting an inquiry into garment industry outworking.
44
SW Sub No 78
Eyles R, SW Sub No 71
Textile Clothing and Footwear Union of Australia, SW Sub No 95
Assistant Minister for Industrial Relations, SW Sub No 88
47




CHAPTER 8:
ANNUITIES FOR WOMEN
Annuities for women
Because women are expected to live longer than men they are
required to pay more for the same level of lifetime annuity.
Annuities
8.1 An annuity is a series or stream of payments made at regular intervals,
usually purchased by paying a lump sum in advance to an insurance company.
The most common use of annuities is to provide retirement income.1
8.2 Annuities provide a way of using current assets to buy a future income
stream. From July 1 1994, retirement income streams became a way of
increasing the amount of superannuation on which favourable taxation
treatment is available.- They can also be used in the arrangement of assets and
income to qualify for a part social security pension and be eligible for the
associated fringe benefits.
8.3 The cost of providing a particular annuity depends on the income
required and how long the person is expected to live. The annuity provides an
income while the annuitant lives, but is rather an inflexible investment and
cannot be left to anyone/’
Life expectancy and annuity rates
8.4 Annuities are generally calculated with regard to actuarial data and
selected characteristics of the individual purchasing the annuity. Currently,
different rates of income are provided by life insurers for males and females for
a given capital sum. The rationale for this difference is that females have a
longer life expectancy than males, and therefore a longer payment period to be
funded by the lump sum is anticipated. Jacques Martin indicated that this effect
impacted most severely on those with smaller capital amounts who, as a result
of their career patterns, are very often women.4
Quinlivan, B 1994, The Dictionary of Superannuation, p 8
Section 140ZD of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 provides for more generous Reasonable Benefit
Limits for pension benefits than for lump sum benefits.
3 SW Sub No 70
4 SW Sub No 17


8.5 In Table B of Appendix 4 of their submission, LIFA set out Annuities -
Expectations of Life in Years. The Table demonstrates the difference in life
expectancies between men and women. Women at all ages have a greater life
expectancy than men. The commentary by the Institute of Actuaries of
Australia (IAA) suggests that the price for annuities may be much closer for
males and females than the ratios between male and female life expectancies.
IAA explained that this is due to factors such as the length of any minimum
guarantee period, the provision of a return of premium on death and presence of
a second life.5
What are the going rates?
8.6 In a supplementary submission, Jacques Martin Hewitt provided an
example of present annuity rates for males and females aged 65, with a
purchase price of $ 100 000 and with the annuity indexed annually at 5 per cent.
. Male: $9 230 per annum;
. Female: $7 840 per annum.6
8.7 They also gave the example of a joint life and last survivor annuity, with
a purchase price of $100 000, indexed at 5 per cent and, on the death of the
annuitant, continuing at 2/3 of the annuity to the surviving spouse. Indicative
annuity amounts were very similar:
. Male age 65 with female age 63: $7 420 per annum;
. Female age 65 with male age 67: $7 310 per annum.7
8.8 LIFA also presented data that demonstrates the similar rate of instalments
for males and females for a joint life annuity.
Is there discrimination?
8.9 Clearly women and men are treated differently when purchasing
annuities.
8.10 Gender-based actuarial tables provide the statistical proof of the longer
life expectancy of females. Section 41 A( 1) of the Sex Discrimination Act 1984
SW Sub No 70
SW Sub No 17 (Supp)
ibid


specifically provides for exemptions ‘based on actuarial or statistical data from
a source on which it is reasonable for the discriminator to rely’. The Treasury
submitted that ‘in actuarial terms, there is no discrimination’.8
8.11 However, the Sex Discrimination Commissioner, Ms Sue Walpole, in a
1994 Seminar paper pointed out that ‘statistical generalisations do not predict
how long any individual man or woman might live’.9 She cited an industry
authority for the example of a female investing $50 000 and retiring at age 59,
getting $500 less in the first year than a man investing the same amount, $6 000
less over ten years, and $16 000 less over 20 years.10
8.12 It could be argued that, due to the longer average life expectancy for
women, a female with the same value annuity can expect to receive the same
return on her annuity investment as a male, but over a longer period. That is, a
female who invests the same amount as a male would receive a lesser amount
annually than a male, but for a greater number of years. However, there are
contrary arguments of opportunity costs foregone, and lack of option, which the
Committee believes outweigh the proposition of equal returns.
8.13 In relation to the use of actuarial data to justify lower annuity amounts
for women Ms Walpole stated:
The question ... should be why do we use sex-based actuarial data
at all? It has never been considered reasonable to use data based on
the links between race and longevity, or data based on the links
between economic class and longevity. If this were so, upper class
whites would have to pay more into annuity-based pensions, and
poor blacks would pay less. Yet it seems to [be] accepted as part of
the natural order of things that the links between sex and longevity
should provide a basis for actuarial data."
8.14 In her 1994 Paper, Ms Walpole said that American cases have held that
actuarial tables based on sex were not found to be valid for setting
contributions or payments for occupational pensions. A case she cites as the
Manhart case is quoted:
[W]hen insurance risks are grouped, the better risks always
subsidise the poorer risks. Healthy persons subsidise medical
benefits for the less healthy; unmarried workers subsidise the
SW Sub No 90
Women and Superannuation, EPAC Background Paper No 41, August 1994, pi 24
Legal and General, Annuity Presentation, 28 January 1994, cited in Women and Superannuation op cit
SW Sub No 89


pensions of married workers; persons who eat, drink or smoke to
excess may subsidise pension benefits for persons whose habits are
more temperate.
Treating different classes of risks as though they were the same for
purposes of group insurance is a common practice that has never
been considered inherently unfair. To insure the flabby and the fit
as though they were equivalent risks may be more common than
treating men and women alike; but nothing more than habit makes
one ‘subsidy’ seem less fair than the other.
The size of the subsidy involved in this case is open to doubt,
because the Department's plan provides for survivor’s benefits.
Since female spouses of male employees are likely to have greater
life expectancies than the male spouses of female employees,
whatever benefits men lose in the ‘primary’ coverage for
themselves, they may regain in ‘secondary’ coverage for their
12
wives.
8.15 The above commentary provides some support for the proposition that
the differential treatment that is afforded to women in annuity pricing should be
replaced by unisex schemes, possibly having the effect then of a subsidy paid
by men. Jacques Martin cited the analogy of a ‘discrimination’ or ‘subsidy’ in
life insurance premiums where females are often charged less than males for
the same level of cover.
A commercial decision
8.16 Mr Donald Duval, of the Insurance and Superannuation Commission
(ISC), said the Commission considered the price of annuities should be a
commercial decision by the providers. Imposition of unisex annuities would
impose a cross-subsidisation and would result in women purchasing more and
men less, so that over time the price of annuities would rise. He added:
Generally speaking, it is our view that underwriting decisions are
best left to the commercial judgment of the marketplace and
interfering with these decisions by introducing a measure such as
community rating can have quite profound consequences on the
operation of the market.14
Women and Superannuation, op cit
SW Sub No 17
Evidence, p 626
14


8.17 The Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA) in its submission
agreed, saying the insurer would be left with women clients whose ‘underlying
cost exceed the premiums charged’, and eventually the premiums would
increase.15 Treasury said the removal of the differential would be likely to
cause more men to opt out of annuities and so drive the price back to the level
presently paid by women.16
8.18 The Committee considers these comments reflect the narrow view of the
economics of the annuity problem since the annuity system is full of cross-
subsidies. It may be that the industry itself could and should do more to make
the purchase of annuities more attractive to men and women, and to remove the
imposition of gender differentials may well assist in that process.
Costs of Living
8.19 The Committee considered community expectations of retirement
incomes in providing recipients with the means to meet costs of living. In that
respect the costs for women are not less than for men and, as Mr David Vernon
of Jacques Martin pointed out, there is no differential in the age pension
amount paid between men and women.17
A unisex solution
8.20 Jacques Martin submitted that that it was appropriate that the distinction
between male and female annuity rates be removed, given the need to maximise
the benefits to those with interrupted career pattens. They argued that males,
with their generally higher levels of accrued benefits, were in a position to
afford the reduced benefits as a result of equalisation.18
8.21 Jacques Martin Hewitt in a later submission indicated that:
If ‘unisex’ rated were adopted, insurers could do one of three
things:
(a) adopt the male rates, thus making annuities cheaper for
females, which would be unlikely to be viable for insurers as
females live longer.
SW Sub No 70
16 SW Sub No 90
Evidence, p 61
18 SW Sub No 17


(b) adopt the female rates, thus making annuities more expensive
for males, which would disadvantage males who have a shorter life
expectancy.
(c) adopt something in between, which would be regarded as an
artificial solution, with some of the problems of both (a) and (b).1}
8.22 The Committee considers that insurers could do something rather
different. Instead of relying on gender-based actuarial or other discriminatory
data, insurers could establish annuities geared toward particular needs of
individuals in the same way as they market any other financial service. Mr Ray
Connolly gave his personal view that:
If one provider of annuities was, for their own marketing purposes,
to average out costs [of] providing annuities to males and females,
then that is their choice to offer that product and to see how the
market responds to that. I do not know what the argument could be
to force the industry to come up with an average.20
Research on the use of actuarial data
8.23 Ms Walpole pointed to the lack of research undertaken on the sex-based
nature of actuarial or morbidity tables. However, she noted that the Association
of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) and the Institute of Actuaries are
now ‘starting to take an active interest in this issue through their research
programs’ and she recommended that the Committee ‘support and encourage
such work'."1
8.24 ASFA told the Committee that they had been asked by the Human Rights
and Equal Opportunities Commission to sponsor research into the gender bias
in actuarial tables."" ASFA has funded a project titled ‘The use of gender-
related differences in mortality in Australian superannuation funds,’ to be
undertaken by Susan Clarke, Shauna Ferris and Leonie Tickle, lecturers in
actuarial studies in the School of Economic and Financial Studies at Macquarie
University."'
SW Sub No 17 (Supp)
Evidence, p 504
SW Sub No 89
Evidence p 204
Superfunds, October 1995, p 4
23


Reversionary Options
8.25 Ms Kerry Flanagan, of the Department of Social Security, advised that
the Department had canvassed the events following the death of a partner and
found that annuities which contain reversionary benefits are either ‘much more
expensive than single annuities or that they provide a lower income stream’.
The Department is involved in an interdepartmental committee on the
interaction of superannuation and the age pension. In looking at income
streams they will be:
perhaps trying to advantage income streams that have particular
features that we might want to foster...we think that this might
particularly advantage women...24
8.26 Ms Flanagan said one of the reasons the option of a reversionary pension
is not taken up is that it reduces the amount of the annuity, and that it may be
necessary to provide an incentive, through the tax or social security system, ‘if
that is the way we want people to go’.25
Conclusions
8.27 The Committee notes that despite a number of lifestyle factors such as
race, health, smoking, and socio-economic background having the potential to
impinge upon an individual’s life expectancy, gender appears to be given
greater prominence as a criterion for paying different annuities.
8.28 The Committee considers that there is gender based discrimination in the
annuities available to women and encourages the providers of annuities to look
beyond this discrimination in their marketing. The Committee remains
unconvinced that the gender and morbidity actuarial tables justify different
annuity rates.
8.29 The main justification for this discrimination is the gender and morbidity
actuarial tables used by life companies. Research into the value or otherwise,
and the structure, of these actuarial tables should be encouraged, and the
Committee supports the initiatives of ASFA and the Institute of Actuaries in
this area.
Evidence, p 613
Evidence, p 616


Recommendation 8.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government encourage and monitor
research on the use of gender and morbidity actuarial tables in respect of
the provision of annuities with a view to either:
. amending the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 to exclude the exemption
for actuarial or statistical data, or
. declaring the gender based actuarial tables to be not covered by the
exemption,
if it is discovered that reliance on these tables cannot reasonably justify the
resulting discrimination.


CHAPTER 9:
IT’S TIME TO GET A SUPER EDUCATION!
Il's lime to get a SUPER education!
Education about schemes is vitally important for families ... one
woman we have seen had access to State super and the minimum
employer contribution was made. Her husband had been
contributing longer to his super scheme and so they put as much of
his salary into his scheme as they could afford (thinking it would
yield the most) and lived on her salary. Subsequently she finds if
she could have contributed something like one per cent more her
super at State super would have been worth twice her husband's.
9.1 A consistent theme through many submissions presented to the
Committee was that women be educated and informed, not just on the issue of
superannuation but, on financial issues generally. Ms Keenan of the Australian
Federation of Business and Professional Women’s Association summed up the
position when she argued that ‘women have to start learning about
[superannuation] and trained to look after their own future’.2
9.2 There was also concern expressed that women should achieve at least a
minimum degree of financial independence.
Why the fuss?
9.3 Reasons underpinning the need for financial understanding and
independence include:
. female longevity compared to that of men, requiring women to plan for a
potentially longer period in retirement;
. possibility of marriage breakdown, and the subsequent need for many
women to seek alternative sources of support from that which was
previously provided by their spouse ;
. possibility of unequal participation in decision-making and the benefits
accrued from family income which may disadvantage women; and
. lack of knowledge about entitlements which may result in financial
disadvantage and potential hardship.
SW Sub No 58
Evidence, p 549


Female longevity
9.4 In 1993, Australian women had a life expectancy of 80.9 years compared
to 75.0 years for Australian men.3 Yet, because of societal expectations, women
tend to marry men who are older than themselves. Women are, therefore, likely
to have an extended period of widowhood during which they will have to
manage financially.
9.5 Currently nearly 70 per cent of women aged over 70 are single primarily
because of widowhood and 41 per cent of older women live alone. The figures
of age pension uptake by widowed women suggest that this is often without a
pension or annuity left by a spouse.4
Marriage breakdown
9.6 As has been outlined in Chapters 2 and 13, many women have
expectations that they will be supported in retirement by income accruing to
their spouse. However, the reality is that women can no longer assume that
their partners will provide for them.
9.7 Whilst property settlements resulting from the splitting of family assets
in the event of marriage breakdown may provide some support, they cannot
guarantee a level of income or support in retirement equivalent to that achieved
during the period of co-habitation.
Unequal participation in benefits accrued and decision-making
9.8 It is clear that single women, whether or not they may expect to retire as
a member of a couple, need some form of independent provision. However, it is
less obvious that women with partners have a similar need to make plans to
maintain and manage their finances to ensure a dignified standard of living.5
9.9 Research undertaken in Australia and overseas challenges assumptions
that resources are pooled and shared equitably, and indicates that there is
considerable variety in couples’ financial arrangements.6
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Women’s Year Book 1994, p49
Rosenman L, and Winocur S, The Issue of Equity in Superannuation in The Super Rich and the Super
Poor: New Directions in Retirement Incomes Policy, Evatt Foundation Nov 1991, p 12
SW Sub No 97
ibid


9.10 Even when both members of the partnership work, and receive income,
access is not always equitable. Ms Betty Johnson, Convenor of the Older
Women’s Network, related to the Committee the following:
One of my past workmates ... she had been working in a job - she
was superannuated, so was her husband - but, because of the way
in which their salaries are pooled, superannuation will be the first
time she has actually got ... an income that she will be able to
pinpoint as her own.7
9.11 As Rosenman and Winocur, of the University of Queensland, point out in
their paper The Issue of Equity in Superannuation, despite the convenient
assumption that family income and superannuation entitlements are shared
equally, there is no requirement upon a married couple to share superannuation
entitlements nor to make any provision for the surviving spouse.8
9.12 There are no indications whether the lack of equity in the financial
decision-making of a couple is directly attributed to lack of understanding
about the financial system. However, the Committee believes that knowledge
of financial matters will improve women’s confidence, as well as ability, to
participate actively in financial decision-making and planning where this does
not already occur.
Lack of knowledge resulting in disadvantage
9.13 It is also possible that a lack of awareness of the retirement income
support system generally, and financial entitlements specifically, can result in
substantial disadvantage and financial hardship.
9.14 The Committee’s attention was drawn to the circumstances of a group of
women whose existence was described as ‘genteel poverty’. They are asset rich
but living in poverty. As explained by Ms Johnson, Convenor of Older
Women’s Network:
They live in genteel poverty because their husbands who provided
for them have died and the women kept on drawing on what was
the income that the husband left. They do not know they can get a
supplement to the pension .... there are quite a lot of people living
like this. They have big homes quite often, but they are living very
poorly.9
Evidence, p 184
Rosenman L, and Winocur S, op cit,, p 9
Evidence, p 188


9.15 Alternatively, some women are unnecessarily losing access to a spouse’s
superannuation contribution as a result of marriage breakdown. Lack of
knowledge about the appropriate processes or their entitlements can lead to a
situation where an equitable share of assets are not realised.10
9.16 And yet another example drawn to the attention of the Committee was
that many carers are not aware of either the fact that the carer pension exists or
of any of the other benefits that are available to them.11 They may suffer
unnecessary financial hardship as a result.
General financial education
9.17 A number of contributors to the inquiry expressed concern about
women’s appreciation of matters financial and argued for efforts to be made to
remedy the situation.12
9.18 This concern is supported by figures compiled by MLC Investments from
two of their investment products - a diversified unit trust and a rollover fund.
The MLC advised in 1992 that, compared with their male counterparts, women
(even those earning substantial salaries) were lacking in awareness, confidence
and long-term vision in relation to arranging financial plans for themselves.
The findings indicated that women tended to place a high priority on securing a
debt-free home and meeting short-term expenses, particularly where children
were involved.13
9.19 In response to a request from the Committee, the MLC provided
additional and updated information. In 1992, women accounted for only 33 per
cent of the trust investors and 23 per cent of the approved deposit fund client
base. As at October 1995, these figures had increased respectively to 40 percent
and 36 percent. However, it was pointed out that, in 1992, the average dollar
amount of investments was likely to be significantly less for females compared
to their male counterparts. This was particularly so in the rollover funds.14 This
has remained the case in recent times.15
10
Brown K, Evidence, p 324
ibid, p 326
For example. Young Labor Women’s Committee, SW Sub No 46; CS Superannuation, SW Sub No 68
Lampe A, Changing the Way Women Save in Sydney Morning Herald, 9 December, 1992
14 SW Sub No 100
15
SW Sub No 100 (Supp)


9.20 Earlier, in 1989, Georgina Carnegie, General Manager, Development
Capita Financial Group, had argued at the Australian Association of
Gerontology Conference that the tendency for women to live for short-term
needs and leave their futures to chance, coupled with their poor knowledge of
investment and financial matters, needed to be addressed if society was to
avoid a major increase in the number of older women living in poverty.16
9.21 The issue still has great currency. Business and Professional Women’s
Association Australia argued in its submission that skills in financial
management were necessary for women who were getting ready to retire, and
for those who entered the workforce or re-entered it later, for example after
child raising activities or further education. Although there is a great deal of
information available there still seemed to be a need for specific training in this
17
area.
9.22 In response to the more specific concern that there were many women
who did not have an adequate understanding of the implications of reaching
retirement age and of not having a financial plan in place, the submission from
the Queensland Council of Carers argued for:
. education at an early stage (preferably high school followed up at tertiary
level) with on going media awareness raising;
. an education package to offer a framework of a plan with choices/options
as to how financial independence could be achieved at retirement; and
. the plan to address the issue of financial self sufficiency and how to
make the best of what is available.18
9.23 At the public hearing in Brisbane, Ms Brown of the Queensland Council
of Carers also stressed the importance of liaising with people in communities
and the use of word of mouth to spread information. She argued that people
were more inclined to use a service which they knew had actually been of
assistance to someone else.19
16
Carnegie G, Women, Money and Ageing: Strategies for a Secure Retirement in Rights, Respite and
Resources in the ‘90s: Proceedings of the 24th Annual Conference of the Australian Association of
Gerontology, 1989, pp 49-50
17 SW Sub No 47
18 SW Sub No 51
19
Evidence, p 326


9.24 The Committee notes that the Victorian Government, through the
Victoria Women’s Council, is proposing to develop an information package
which will provide information for women on economic security issues at
differing points in their lives.20 The Committee commends this action.
9.25 However, it is important to distinguish between the complementary
concepts of education and information. Information is a significant resource for
use in the education process; it provides content. An example of information is
the computerised Superannuation Ready Reckoner which enables Australian
Public Service staff to work out their own projected benefits.21 Education is a
targeted, interactive process which focuses on providing people with the skills
to assess the merits of the information provided and the ability to translate this
knowledge into action.
9.26 It may be that other programs specifically targeted at improving women’s
understanding of the importance of financial independence and security have
been developed elsewhere but these have not been drawn to the Committee’s
attention. None of the government departments that appeared before the
Committee, including the Office of the Status of Women, identified
government programs that address the issues of women’s financial education
and independence.
9.27 The Committee notes that this theme has been taken on board as part of
the current ‘Super: It grows on you’ campaign being run by the federal
government. However, given that many women do not contribute to
superannuation schemes or may not consider it of relevance to them, the
Committee believes that it is insufficient to rely on the ‘Super: It grows on you’
campaign to address this issue.
Recommendation 9.1:
The Committee recommends that the Office of the Status of Women
develop a comprehensive educational strategy to raise understanding and
awareness amongst women of the components of, and the imperative to
engage in, financial planning.
Reynolds J, Evidence, p 123
Department of Defence, SW Sub No 14
21


Getting a super education
9.28 An issue of concern during the inquiry was the need for women to
understand the importance of superannuation as a component of retirement
planning.
9.29 As the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
pointed out, until the introduction of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge
many workers were denied access to superannuation and therefore women did
not consider it an issue with which they should be concerned. However, as
access to superannuation has been significantly improved, it is appropriate to
ensure that women are aware of recent changes in access to superannuation and
to address any misconceptions that women may still hold that superannuation is
not important to them.""
9.30 Research undertaken by Professor Linda Rosenman and Dr Sharon
Winocur at the University of Queensland, and detailed in their paper The Issue
of Equity in Superannuation, indicated that the large number and complexity of
choices that have to be made in relation to superannuation were not well
understood, and were in fact resented by many workers. They suggested that
this was particularly likely for women whose discontinuous employment meant
that they were confronted with frequent decisions about joining, rolling over
and claiming or preserving entitlements."'1
9.31 Ms Johnson of the Older Women’s Network presented the view to the
Committee that argued that ‘so many people talk about superannuation in terms
of money and figures and so on that it basically means nothing’ and that the
messages had to be relayed in more user-friendly terms."4
9.32 The University of Queensland findings are supported by research being
undertaken by AMP in relation to superannuation and retirement income policy
issues. Whilst the research is only in its early stages, and hence the findings so
far cannot be taken as conclusive, the following are some of the points which
have emerged from focus groups:
. there was widespread ignorance amongst women workers in relation to
the operation of the superannuation system;
SW Sub No 43
Rosenman L, and Winocur S, op cit, p 7
Evidence, p 181
24


. many participants believed that superannuation was so heavily taxed that
it was not worth making additional contributions; and
. many participants believed that the system was unstable.-5
9.33 Just one example of an issue which might not be widely known, but
would be particularly significant for many women, is that SIS permits an
individual to remain a contributing member for up to two years after leaving
the workforce and for up to seven years if the leave is for parental duties and
there is a right to return to your job.
9.34 Ms Freeman of the Business and Professional Women’s Association also
pointed out that there are many misconceptions about superannuation that
might be resolved by improved education. One was that people were unaware
of the different types of superannuation in the market and perceived that the
returns were poor. Education was required to alter these perceptions.-
9.35 The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs submitted that it is
likely that the level of confusion and ignorance is even greater amongst those
who are not proficient in the English language. As a consequence, women of
non-English speaking background are likely to have significant deficits in their
knowledge of superannuation provisions.27
9.36 This view was supported by comments from the Muslim Women’s
National Network of Australia that some Muslim women were concerned that
superannuation might be haram, that is, religiously forbidden. In Islam,
gambling and investments of a speculative nature are forbidden and, if
superannuation is considered analogous to life insurance, it would be
forbidden. The Network submitted that, ‘while there does not seem to be any
basis for this belief, if it is widespread it may require some educational program
to dispel it’.28
9.37 The need to be very specific about target groups was highlighted by
Ms Pamela Brown of the Social Justice Co-ordination Section of the
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. She drew to the Committee’s
attention the difficulties of getting information to women of the non-English
speaking background community.
SW Sub No 55
Evidence, p 553
SW Sub No 54
28
SW Sub No 27


9.38 Ms Brown informed the Committee that the Department had been
"looking for creative ways’ to provide information because migrant women
‘will never come to a big government department or booth, but almost
everybody goes to baby health and health care centres. It is a matter of trying to
find out where they come into contact with other sectors of society for other
, 29
reasons .
9.39 The Committee is aware that the recently launched Superannuation
Community Education Campaign ‘Super: It grows on you’ has specifically
targeted groups including women and people from non-English speaking
backgrounds. The Committee commends these efforts.
9.40 A number of submissions suggested the need for education and
information programs with a specific focus. For example, the New South Wales
Cabinet Office submission supported the development of an information and
education strategy which included measures to promote understanding of the
purpose of superannuation, the available options and obligations.30 Mrs Keenan
of the Australian Federation of Business and Professional Women’s
Association submitted that financial management education should be provided
to women as part of the curriculum in the last years of schooling, years 10
through to 12/1 Mr Kevin Hudson argued that there should be easier access for
members to information which would disclose errors made by employer
32
sponsors.
9.41 ASFA argued for education and information packages which focused on
the partnership between superannuation savings and the age pension which
together should deliver a worthwhile retirement income.
9.42 The need for educational programs has also been raised in a number of
other fora. Rosenman and Winocur, in their paper to the 1989 Conference of
the Australian Association of Gerontology titled Financial Security and
Independence for Women, argued for a public education program which:
. encouraged women to exercise their option to participate in
superannuation;
Evidence, p 427
SW Sub No 41
Evidence, p 552
SW Sub No 102
SW Sub No 43


. encouraged women to preserve such benefits upon leaving an employer
or upon workforce withdrawal for family or other reasons; and
. highlighted the necessity of being aware of a husband’s entitlements, and
their rights to a share in the event of marriage dissolution/4
9.43 Based on research undertaken in 1993, which amongst other things
identified that lack of information was a major concern, the Australian
Consumers’ Council (ACC) recommended that the Federal Government
provide funding for a far reaching national superannuation education strategy
which aimed to help consumers:
. determine their retirement income needs;
. determine how those needs might best be met;
. calculate the value of their existing retirement benefits;
. assess the degree, if any, to which they will continue to rely on the age
pension; and
. assist consumers, and particularly those who have not been in full-time
work or who have limited savings capacity, to perceive superannuation
as involving a potential to improve the quality of later life rather than as
a mechanism to remove the safety net of the age pension/’5
9.44 The ACC also recommended that the education strategy needed to
specifically cater for the needs of women with a view to increasing their
opportunities for independent retirement planning. Issues covered should
include access to income, managing superannuation during periods of part-time
or intermittent labour force participation and the advantages of independent
rather than shared superannuation investments.
9.45 When discussing the role of women as trustees, the Sex Discrimination
Commissioner drew to the Committee’s attention the concern that most women
have other (more immediate) demands on their time. Encouraging women to be
active as trustees required information to be made available to them in a way
Rosenman L, and Winocur S. Financial Security’ and Independence for Women in Rights, Respite and
Resources in the '90s: Proceedings of the 24th Annual Conference of the Australian Association of
Gerontology, 1989, p 48
Australian Consumers’ Council Super Day, Super Say: The Results of the Consumer Superannuation
Phone-In 23 November 1993. AGPS 1994. p7


that is more acceptable.36 This is equally relevant to attempts to inform women
about superannuation generally.
The need for a strategy
9.46 The Committee has some concerns that efforts to date to inform the
community about superannuation have focussed only on the provision of
information, with little attention to the development of broader education
strategies.
9.47 The Committee believes that awareness of superannuation could be
enhanced through:
. working closely with community members to identify their
understanding and awareness of superannuation and their specific needs;
. the development of suitable programs and delivery mechanisms to meet
these identified needs (the ‘Super: It grows on you’ campaign would be
one such mechanism); and
. building on programs already provided in the formal education sector or
by community, business or industry groups.
9.48 The Committee believes that a diverse and comprehensive range of
educational approaches is required to achieve improved awareness and
understanding of superannuation and, in turn, increase willingness to
contribute. Without this increased willingness to contribute, the substantial
self-funding of retirement incomes will never be realised.
9.49 The Committee notes that the federal government has recently
commenced a two year mass media campaign titled ‘Super: It grows on you!’
The Committee understands that extensive consultation with industry groups,
government agencies and the community took place in the development of the
campaign and it commends the campaign organisers for this.
9.50 However, the Committee is concerned that this broad ‘scatter gun’
approach will continue to miss the many members of the community who either
have many years until they reach retirement (and therefore consider such
planning irrelevant and thus ignore it); do not understand financial planning
generally (and therefore have no context in which to assess the information); or
Evidence, p 651-652


are constrained by lack of time, skills or other difficulties which prevent them
fully considering the information presented.
Recommendation 9.2:
The Committee recommends that the government, in conjunction with the
superannuation industry, develop an education strategy to promote
understanding and awareness of superannuation which goes beyond the
provision of information only and which involves active participation of
the community. In particular, the strategy should address the needs of
women, both in terms of the type of information they receive and the
mechanisms by which this information is delivered.
Recommendation 9.3:
The Committee recommends that, simultaneously with the development of
an education strategy, the effectiveness of the ‘Super: It grows on you
campaign’ be closely monitored, especially in relation to its impact on
women.


CHAPTER 10:
FEMALE TRUSTEES
Female trustees
In an ideal fund, affirmative action and equal employment
opportunity principles would apply to the trustee board
membership, ensuring appropriate representation of women on
boards.1
10.1 It has been put to the Committee that the failure of superannuation to
adequately provide for the retirement needs of the majority of women
compared to the majority of men results from the concerns of women being
defined as outside the analysis of mainstream economics.2
10.2 Ms Rhonda Sharp, in her paper The Power of a Feminist Economics,
argued that women’s concerns are relegated to the arena of social
values/preference/tastes which are treated as ‘givens’ in economic analysis. She
argued that the neo-classical, also known as rational, economic view that
economics is conceptual, that the individual is gender-neutral and that decision
making is not influenced by gender, race or class results in issues of concern to
women being defined as outside the analysis of economics. If women’s
concerns are not the subject of economic policy, this effectively serves as a
statement that further improvements cannot be achieved by working within the
paradigm.'1
10.3 According to Ms Sharp, the introduction of an occupational
superannuation retirement income system in Australia provides a good case
study of how feminist economic perspectives, working within a given policy
framework, have successfully achieved policy changes and modifications to
better fit the needs of women. However, significant inequities remain.
10.4 It has been presented to the Committee that one of the ways of
overcoming some of the deficiencies in the superannuation system, as it relates
to women, would be to increase the currently very limited number of female
trustees.
NSW Women’s Advisory Council, Superannuation and Women: Issues of Access and Equity, June 1993,
p32
SW Sub No 4
ibid
ibid


10.5 Trustees are responsible for making decisions about a fund’s
management and investment. From 1 July 1995, all funds with more than 5
members had to have equal numbers of employer and employee trustees,
although funds with between 5 and 50 members can opt for an independent
trustee.
10.6 As Mr Peter Cox stated at the public hearing in Sydney ‘women
constitute half the population. They have to contain half the talent, so you
would expect that a reasonable number of women would be almost on boards
by default’.5
10.7 However, this is not the case. As commented by the Sex Discrimination
Commissioner at the Canberra public hearing:
It is pretty scandalous if you take something like the retail superannuation fund
where you have got such huge numbers of women working and there is not a
single woman sitting on the board of trustees.6
10.8 That women are under-represented as employer and employee trustees in
corporate, public sector and industry funds is clearly indicated by figures
presented in the March 1995 edition of Superfunds. In conducting the survey,
information was sought on the number of fund members, the female/male
percentage, the number of fund trustees and how many of these trustees were
women. Findings, outlined in Table 10.1, indicated that less than 15 per cent of
superannuation trustees were women.
10.9 In addition to the significant percentage of working women covered by
superannuation not being reflected in the composition of decision-making
bodies of the funds, Dr Olsberg, University of New South Wales, pointed out
that the small number of female trustees on boards of superannuation funds
resulted in their influence being limited.7 From her own experience, she had
found that ‘it is not easy being the first and only woman in a boardroom culture
which is not used to having women on the board’.8
Evidence, p 232
Evidence, p 651
SW Sub No 9
Evidence, pp 215-216


SUPERFUNDS SURVEY: WOMEN ON TRUSTEE BOARDS


SUPERFUNDS SURVEY: WOMEN ON TRUSTEE BOARDS (cont)
1 Information obtained from REST Annual Report, 1993
2 The Victorian Superannuation Board is comprised of 5 separate funds governed by one trustee board - Victorian Superannuation Fund, Transport Superannuation
Fund, State Superannuation Fund, State Employees Retirement Benefits Fund, State Casual Employees Superannuation Fund
3 Active members only
4 3,000 of the current members are pensioners
5 1,500 of these members are inactive
6 Active members only
7 The Lend Lease Superannuation Fund has a corporate trustee comprising of 14 directors
Source: Jennifer Fletcher, SUPERFUNDS, Who's that knocking at the boardroom door?, March 1995


10.10 She argued that given the growth of superannuation, with coverage at
more than 80 per cent, women must play a role in both the development of
government policy and in the superannuation funds. Increasing the number of
female trustees was seen as being crucial.9
10.11 However, before considering how to increase the representation of
women on superannuation boards, it is important to identify why such a move
is regarded as positive and what barriers currently exist.
Why is equal participation important?
10.12 The passing of anti-discrimination and affirmative action legislation and
the establishment of the Affirmative Action Agency and the Office of the
Status of Women are just some infrastructural changes which demonstrate the
community’s support for women participating on an equal footing in society
and its decision-making processes. That women should have equal input to the
management and direction of superannuation funds is entirely consistent with
this position.
10.13 The question to be asked, however, is what is it that women have to
contribute which is so substantially different from their male colleagues that
their concerns cannot be addressed by male trustees?
10.14 Clearly, men and women have different life experiences and
expectations. We have seen for example that women continue to have
employment patterns which, in aggregate, are significantly different from those
of most men, with a lower overall rate of participation in the workforce, with a
greater proportion undertaking part-time or casual work and earning
significantly less. Women undertake a significantly greater proportion of caring
duties in the community.
10.15 However, it should not simply be a woman’s ability to bring caring and
sharing attitudes that is the reason to give her a position on a board of trustees.
As the Sex Discrimination Commissioner argued:
what ... they would bring to any trustee board is a different life
experience and what that might mean in terms of a broader view
about possible courses of investment, or possible approaches to
policy issues.10
SW Sub No 9
Evidence, p 651
10


10.16 The validity of, and imperative for, this differing perspective has been
recognised in Australia with the establishment of women’s policy units within
the state itself which have engaged in a range of economic policy issues and
debates. Ms Sharp highlighted the influence that the feminist perspective has
had to date on such policy areas as wages and working conditions, social wage
expenditure on health, education, child care and welfare, retirement income
support, taxation, foreign aid programs, industry policy and so on.
10.17 The benefits of involving women was highlighted in the recently released
report Enterprising Nation: Renewing Australia’s managers to meet the
challenges of the Asia-Pacific Century (also known as the Karpin Report). The
Report argued that ‘greater numbers of women on boards of directors is a very
important objective. The appointment of women to boards will improve
management quality and breadth.’
10.18 The Karpin Report recommended that ‘private sector and government
give higher priority to strategies to improve utilisation and management of
Australia’s diverse population in Australian business and industry’ with women
being identified as a particular target group.13
10.19 How the differences in approach impact in the area of superannuation has
been the subject of research by Dr Olsberg. She drew the Committee’s attention
to research which revealed that significant gender-linked attitudinal differences
existed in superannuation board decision-making regarding investment and
management policies. She argued that these differences were positive
attributes and called for more ‘women’s skills’ in corporate governance of
superannuation funds.14
10.20 In general, according to Dr Olsberg, female trustees demonstrated a
greater awareness of social issues and the desirability of balancing economic
considerations with more normative social considerations than male trustees.
Her research indicated that:
• 70 per cent of female trustees took account of ecological and
environment considerations when making investments (compared to
42 per cent of male trustees);
SW Sub No 4
Industry Task Force on Leadership and Management Skills Enterprising Nation: Renewing Australia's
managers to meet the challenges of the Asia-Pacific Century April 1995 p.xxxiii
ibid, p.xxxiv
SW Sub No 9


. 85 per cent of female trustees wanted to improve benefits for casual and
part-time workers (compared with 70 per cent of male trustees);
• 90 per cent of female trustees saw socially responsible investment as
important (compared with 60 per cent of male trustees); and
• 75 per cent wanted a portion of fund assets invested in Australia
(compared to 57 per cent of male trustees).1?
10.21 Dr Olsberg recounted the comments of one female trustee who saw her
role as ‘trying to get more emphasis on human interests in the fund ... taking a
very much more long term view and thinking about what will happen for future
fund members’.16
10.22 Research by the NSW Women’s Advisory Council also found that
women trustees were more likely to be concerned with the needs and interests
of part-time and casual employees given that most of these employees are
17
women.
10.23 Ms Jennifer Giles, of the Women’s Legal Resources Centre, presented
the view that having female trustees was ‘a nice back door method of getting
around those things that are not being addressed now’ [because] ‘if you have ...
women trustees of superannuation funds, there are a whole lot of things that
you do not have to address because they are just there in women’s minds’.18
10.24 The imperative of ensuring the female perspective in the management of
superannuation funds becomes even greater when the increasing importance of
superannuation in the economy generally is considered. Ms Jennie George,
Assistant Secretary of the ACTU, presented the view at the Women Managing
Money Conference in Melbourne in July 1995 that it is inappropriate to
exclude women, and in turn women’s interests, from superannuation
management just as superannuation is becoming an important base for social
and economic progress in Australia.1;
16
ibid
ibid
NSW Women’s Advisory Council, Superannuation and Women: Issues of Access and Equity’, June 1993
p 16
18 Evidence, p 283
19 Hely S, Women Manageing Money Conference, in Superfunds Sept 1995, p 14


Barriers to female representation as trustees
10.25 The barriers that limit female participation as trustees in many cases are
the same as those which prevent women from moving to higher levels of
management generally. These can be divided into structural and attitudinal
barriers.
10.26 Ms Laura Wright described the main structural barriers as:
. women's work and life patterns (for many women being a trustee would
be a third job after paid work and family responsibilities);
. superannuation being made out to be more complicated than it is;
. ignorance of appointment and election procedures;
. inappropriate meeting times/frequency/location; and
. lack of suitable female role models.21
10.27 Dr Olsberg also identified that the tendency to recruit trustees from the
ranks of the board of directors or from senior management, which are
predominantly male, was yet another major hurdle.22
The women in management hurdle
10.28 According to Dr Burton and Ms Ryall, in their contribution to the Karpin
report. Australia had the lowest percentage of women managers in the
industrialised world and it had a relatively slow percentage increase compared
with these countries. In 1993 women constituted 42 per cent of the Australian
workforce but only 26 per cent of managers.2 ’
10.29 The paper argued that the direct barriers to the achievement of more
women in management ranks were:
• the lack of women in senior management was not universally seen as a
problem;
SW Sub No 99
ibid
SW Sub No 9
Burton C, Ryall C, Manageing for Diversity in Enterprising Nation: Renewing Australia's Managers to
Meet the Challenges of the Asia-Pacific Century, Industry Task Force on Leadership and Management
Skills, April 1995, p 773


. there was strong attachment to traditional ways therefore family friendly
policies, though increasing, were not strongly developed and their
implementation was resisted;
. prevailing cultural values governed the application of the merit principle
therefore the linear, continuous model of a career operated not only as
the norm but as a measuring device for assessing people’s work
commitment;
. men’s shared experiences led to levels of comfort among them that were
not easy to forge with women as professional colleagues. Social certainty
was preferred to the strains of dealing with people who are different; and
. existing culture and lack of commitment from Chief Executive Officers
(CEOs) to diversity in management generated conformity in younger
24
managers.
10.30 The paper argued that companies’ practices needed to change to increase
the number of women in management if they were to avoid the imposition of
quotas at a later date."5
10.31 In relation to the limited number of women’s presence on boards, Burton
and Ryall argued that, in addition to the culture/com fort factors that have
already been identified, the lack of recognition of women as a stakeholder
group with interests, needs and demands continued to go unrecognised.
Membership of boards, it was argued, in part reflected men’s networks and
status exchanges and that this process needed to be extended to include
26
women.
Attitudinal barriers
10.32 Attitudinal barriers to female participation as trustees are held by both
male and female members of the community.
10.33 The following attitudinal barriers have been identified:
. perceptions about women’s place and abilities:
ibid, pp 775-777
ibid, p 111
ibid, p 781
26


. superannuation as a man’s world in which women do not have a rightful
place;
. finance is not an area in which women are strong;
. women lack the confidence to make hard decisions;27 and
. the perception of women trustees as only being interested in women’s
28
issues.
Strategies for Action
10.34 Having identified the benefits of women acting as trustees and the
barriers which exist, it is important to identify strategies that can be developed
and implemented.
10.35 Dr Olsberg called on individual women to take an active interest in their
role as superannuation fund members and for women to seek out the
opportunity to become trustees of superannuation funds. She argued that, as
trustees, women will be given the opportunity ‘to play a leading role in this
country’s economic decision-making’.29
10.36 Information campaigns were seen as a key mechanism to encourage
women to participate as trustees. Mr Donald Duval, Acting Deputy
Commissioner of the Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC),
informed the Committee that ‘there has been significant encouragement to
women through public education campaigns and the like to become member
representative trustees of employer funds ... strongly promoted in the ISC’s
trustee guide book’/’0
10.37 The ISC Guidebook states:
The Government encourages, and expects trustee boards to
encourage, women to nominate as trustees and to participate in the
running of superannuation funds. Greater participation by women
in management and on Boards is part of wider moves to better
corporate governance and greater diversity in decision-making. As
women's superannuation coverage increases, it is only appropriate
27
28
29
30
SW Sub No 99
SW Sub No 9
ibid
Evidence, p 625


that women be represented on bodies that decide what happens to
their money. 1
10.38 Whilst the Committee commends the ISC for this inclusion, it believes
many of the attitudinal barriers in particular will limit the influence of such
statements.
10.39 The Sex Discrimination Commissioner drew the Committee’s attention
to the valuable work done by the Office of the Status of Women, ASFA and
various other industry bodies to encourage women to learn more about what it
means to be a trustee. But, as Ms Walpole points out, most women have other
demands on their time, particularly their unpaid work in the home, and that if
women are to be encouraged to be active as trustees, we not only need to make
additional training and information available to them, but it has got to be done
in a way that is acceptable and accessible to them.3-
10.40 Burton and Ryall argue, in relation to the appointment of women to
boards but equally applicable for trustees, for:
. training on board operations;
. provision of support for those appointed;
. industry to set targets for the percentage of women accompanied by
educative and public relations activities; and for
. nomination and selection criteria to be reviewed to tap more adequately
the range of qualities and experiences which contribute to better decision
making and problem solving."
10.41 Ms Laura Wright, in her paper Strategies to Increase Representation of
Women Trustees, outlined the following broader strategies to deal with
structural barriers:
. where women were predominantly part-time and casual, specific
encouragement needs to be given for these women to see themselves as
trustees;
. the superannuation industry needed to be demystified for all its
participants, including trustees;
Insurance and Superannuation Commission, The Trustee Guidebook to Superannuation, 1994, p 10
Evidence, pp 651-652
Burton C, and Ryall C, op cit, p 805


. funds needed to ensure that member election procedures are easy to
understand, well-publicised and organised with sufficient time;
. employers and unions needed to be more conscious of encouraging
women to put themselves forward for election or appointment; and
. funds needed to consider the structure, timing, location and frequency of
meetings to ensure that they do deter the participation of women/4
10.42 Strategies to deal with attitudinal barriers suggested by Ms Wright
included:
. industry groups should establish education support programs and a
mentoring scheme to support women;
. the profile of women at managerial level should be raised and they
should be well represented in public fora (that is, role models should be
encouraged);
. the current affirmative action reporting process be used to highlight the
position of women as trustees and as an awareness raising exercise;
. action should be taken to remove ‘fear’ through perceptions about the
decision-making process of funds;
. funds could use the position of alternate director to have women in
training for a trustee position;
. women who already hold positions of influence should speak to key
decision-makers on this matter; and
. women’s groups needed to continue to make representations to
appropriate employer bodies seeking support for women as trustees/1''
10.43 The Committee supports the general approach presented above as it is
convinced that educational campaigns alone are insufficient to achieved the
desired results.
34
SW Sub No 99
ibid


Recommendation 10.1:
The Committee recommends that strategies be developed which provide
avenues through which women can gain the necessary confidence and
expertise to participate as trustees.
Other options for investigation
10.44 A number of strategies presented during the course of the inquiry which
appeared particularly promising and which the Committee believes should be
developed. These are the proposals to use the Affirmative Action reporting
mechanism, the introduction of targets and the appointment of women as
alternate directors.
The Affirmative Action reporting mechanism
10.45 Affirmative action is an umbrella term for a wide range of programs
conducted by organisations to achieve equal employment opportunities for
women. Programs can range from reviewing all employment practices ensuring
they do not directly or indirectly discriminate against women, or to special
programs encouraging women to apply for a wider range of jobs within an
organisation.
10.46 Organisations covered by the Affirmative Action (Equal Employment
Opportunity for Women) Act 1986 (that is, all private sector employers,
community organisations, non-government schools, unions and group training
schemes with 100 or more employees and all institutions ot higher education)
are required to implement an affirmative action program and report to the
Director of Affirmative Action on the program’s development annually.
10.47 Organisations which fail to comply with the legislation, or which report
unsatisfactorily, are named in Parliament and are ineligible for government
contracts and other specified forms of government assistance.
10.48 The annual report must provide details of, amongst others, activities
undertaken in:
establishing an employment profile through the collection and analysis of
statistics and related information about the organisation’s workforce;


. analysing policies and practices in relation to employment matters;
. setting objectives and forward estimates which the organisation
reasonably expects can be met within a specified time; and
. monitoring and evaluating the program. ,6
10.49 The Committee is strongly of the view that superannuation funds be
required to undertake similar policy development and reporting activities in
relation to female trustees.
10.50 This concept was put to the Committee by a number of witnesses
including Dr Olsberg who submitted:
as a first step affirmative action programs could be instituted by
superannuation fund boards. In the same way that corporations report
annually on initiatives implemented to promote women’s participation and
to foster women's competence, the funds could also run campaigns to
encourage women to become more active participants in the funds. It is
about allowing women to become knowledgeable about issues which are
relevant to superannuation and to encourage them to participate in the
funds.37
10.51 A number of witnesses argued before the Committee that action was
being taken to encourage women to participate as fund trustees. These actions
are insufficient and not universally applied. Feedback on the effectiveness of
the measures was absent from these witnesses’ submissions as was any material
suggesting that the level of effectiveness of such measures had been considered
in their development. The Committee is concerned that a poorly formulated
‘token education campaign’ has been the spacefiller for this hole.
10.52 A determination on the part of the industry that would cause the
Committee to be satisfied that an entirely voluntary system would result in
equal opportunities for women to participate as trustees has not been
demonstrated. The Committee was told ‘the only progressive changes to date
have been those forced upon the industry by legislation’ and that ‘institutions
are highly unlikely to respond voluntarily to calls for affirmative action’.’8
AMP’s Ms Gallagher agreed with these comments as a reflection of the past,
adding that that institution is now addressing such issues. Whilst the mea culpa
approach has its appeal, the Committee remains firmly of the view that only a
Affirmative Action Agency information Kit
Evidence, p 221
SW Sub 9, Ms.ing Out, p 30
38


requirement to report would ensure equal opportunity practices become the
norm.
10.53 The Sex Discrimination Commissioner agreed that a requirement to
report ‘would be a good part of the reporting regime’.39
10.54 Using the Affirmative Action Agency as a vehicle to promote the number
of female trustees is consistent with its broader task of promoting the
proportion of women in management. Its importance in this area was
highlighted by the recommendation of the Karpin Report on Management
Skills that the Agency’s ‘education and support role should be upgraded,
appropriate resources put into disseminating information and tools to assist
enterprises, and monitoring of progress for women in management carried out
through adaptation of existing Agency statistical systems’.40
Recommendation 10.2:
The Committee recommends that the Affirmative Action Agency develop
reporting requirements for superannuation funds of programs that will
enhance equal opportunities for women to act as fund trustees. It is
recommended that these reporting requirements be ready for
implementation by the 1996/97 financial year.
Recommendation 10.3:
The Committee recommends that regulated, non-excluded superannuation
funds be required to comply with affirmative action program development
and annual reporting in relation to developing equal opportunities for
women to act as fund trustees in order to maintain their complying status.
Evidence, p 653
Industry Task Force on Leadership and Management Skills Enterprising Nation: Renewing Australia’s
managers to meet the challenges of the Asia-Pacific Century, April 1995, p xxxvii


Quotas for female trustees
10.55 The Committee has given consideration to mandating quotas of female
trustees for regulated, non-excluded superannuation funds. Whilst this might
improve the number of women who act as trustees, the Committee is of the
view that it is more appropriate to improve the environment from which
trustees are appointed and to encourage industry to set targets for the level of
female participation. The process would be staged over a number of years, with
targets set for say 5,10 and 20 years.
10.56 The targets can be most successfully achieved by, first, raising the
community’s awareness of the imbalance and then creating means by which the
environment allows females to participate at the same rate as males. The
Committee believes that the introduction of targets, coupled with affirmative
action reporting, would achieve these goals more constructively that mandatory
quotas. Women will then be in a better position to have the choice of
participating as trustees.
Appointment of alternate directors
10.57 The appointment of an alternate trustee is a mechanism used to enable
another person to act in an existing office of trustee while the incumbent trustee
is unavailable to do so.
10.58 Whilst this option was not covered in any detail during the public
hearings, it is a measure which the Committee believes would provide a useful
stepping-stone for women who are interested in undertaking the task of trustee,
but are reticent due to a lack of confidence or familiarity with the process.
Being an alternate trustee is considered to have significant potential to provide
an opportunity to learn first hand about the processes and operations of the
board, and to gain confidence about one’s ability to deal with the issues raised,
whilst still being able (and to some extent required) to seek direction and
support from a more experienced individual.
Recommendation 10.4:
The Committee recommends that the appointment of female alternates be
a matter upon which superannuation funds must report to the Affirmative
Action Agency and the Insurance and Superannuation Commission.


CHAPTER 11:
SPOUSE CONTRIBUTIONS - PUTTING SUPER EGGS
IN TWO BASKETS
Spouse contributions - putting super eggs in two baskets
It is very much recognising... that they are both contributing
in a marriage ... even though one may be in the unpaid
workforce. Now her contribution to that marriage is very
real.1
11.1 Throughout the inquiry, the proposition was put to the Committee that
spouse contributions would assist women in attaining an adequate level of
retirement income. It was argued that allowing a working spouse to split their
superannuation contributions with their non-working and/or intermittent
working spouse would be one way in which those who fall outside the 30-40
year worklife could have their retirement income needs more adequately met in
a superannuation system currently limited by an occupational nexus. Any such
proposal requires care to ensure that tax inequities between higher and lower
income earners are not exacerbated.
The extension of current arrangements
11.2 The Committee heard evidence on certain business arrangements of the
self-employed that allow provision of superannuation for a non-working
spouse, and of the proposed use of salary sacrifice arrangements for employee
spouse contributions.
Self-employed - business arrangements
11.3 It is possible for a self-employed person operating as a partnership to
make superannuation contributions on behalf of a dependant. Dependant
includes the spouse and any child of the person.
11.4 Under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 the following persons are
eligible for a deduction for contributions made by them to a superannuation
fund for the benefit of an employee:
. the employer;
. if the employer is a partnership - any partner in that partnership;
Adamson J, Evidence, p 41


if the employer is a company:
1. any person having a controlling interest in the employer;
2. any person owning shares in the employer, provided the
Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied that there is an arm’s length
business relationship between that person and the employee;
3. a company which owns a controlling interest in (or in which a
controlling interest is owned by) the employer, such as a parent
company contributing for the employee of a subsidiary, or vice
versa;
4. a company in which a controlling interest is owned by an individual
or company which also owns a controlling interest in the employer,
such as a subsidiary contributing for an employee of another
subsidiary in the same group.2
11.5 The Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants (ASCPA)
submitted that these provisions, which allow self-employed persons to include
their spouse in the superannuation arrangements of the business, are inequitable
because the same arrangements cannot be made by the spouse of an employee/
11.6 Chapter 3 presents an overview of the retirement income status of males
and females currently of age pension age. It is clear that women generally have
lower retirement incomes. The Committee recognised that the legal ownership
of retirement income by the male in a couple may misrepresent the retirement
income available to women in couples where income is pooled. However, the
Committee has received evidence from women submitting that the ownership
of the retirement income by one partner can create inequities during the
marriage4 and where a marriage is dissolved.5
11.7 Therefore, concepts of spouse contributions, broader than those currently
available, were put to the Committee as a means of improving access to
superannuation for women not engaged in the workforce.
Section 82AAA(1), (4)
Evidence, pp 16, 17
SW Sub No 71
See Chapter 13 on Divorce


Salary sacrifice
Salary sacrifice is a process whereby contributions to a employee’s
superannuation account are made by the employer on a pre-tax basis. This
reduces the gross salary subject to tax. For example, an employee receiving a
$60 000 salary package could request the employer to contribute $10 000 to a
superannuation fund by way of salary sacrifice. The employee would receive a
gross salary of $50 000 on which PAYE tax would be payable.
11.8 The ASCPA suggested that these arrangements should be extended to
non-working spouses, submitting that ‘the employee should be free to negotiate
with his or her spouse to breakdown [salary sacrifice for superannuation] into
two parts, one going for the benefit of the employed person and one for the
benefit of the non-employed person’.6 The Society envisaged that the
contributions would be vested in separate accounts for each spouse.7
11.9 The ASCPA disagreed with the suggestion that such arrangements are
only of assistance to high salary earners and submitted that these types of
arrangements become a possibility for couples at the stage in life when they no
longer have family commitments. The Society recognised however, that the
bottom one third of wage and salary earners would be unlikely to be able to
access these types of arrangements.8
11.10CBA Financial Services considered salary sacrifice as a means of
improving the retirement income savings potential of women with broken
workforce patterns, though a number of problems were identified. These
included that salary sacrifice:
. may not be attractive to lower income earners;
. may conflict with award provisions;
. may be attractive where the non-working spouse is older than the
working spouse and has exceeded the minimum preservation age; and
. attracts payroll tax in some States. This may impact on the costs to the
employer, as the contributions to the working spouse may not currently
Burke F, Evidence, p 18
Pagnon C, Evidence, p 30
Burke F, Evidence, pp 18, 19


be taxed, but the contributions to the non-working spouse may take th«
employer over the payroll tax threshold.9
11.11 A further concern on the use of salary sacrifice was identified by th<
Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC). The ISC suggested tha
salary sacrifice contributions by a working spouse on behalf of a non-working
spouse would constitute a form of income splitting. This would reduce the
working spouse’s taxable income by moving part of their pre-tax income into a
concessionally taxed environment. The ISC believes that while such an
arrangement might be attractive on retirement income grounds, the revenue and
equity implications need to be examined.10
Spouse contributions - a bandaid solution or a positive step forward
11.12 01sberg and Adams argue that ‘the superannuation system, the
government and society assume that [women engaged in the unpaid caring of
dependants] will be provided for by their spouses’ superannuation savings’. As
a consequence, ‘these women are the invisible members of Australia’s
superannuation funds’. Super-splitting is recommended to enable these
‘invisible and silent members to become active participants in the
superannuation system’.11
11.13 The benefits of such arrangements identified by Olsberg and Adams
include:
. an increased sense of ownership of superannuation savings for the
women;
. an increase in privately provided income for women in old age;
• the tangible recognition of the intrinsic economic value of women’s
caring roles;
» resolving the current problems with divorce and superannuation;
. an increase in women’s knowledge of superannuation;
► providing an incentive for the working spouse and the non-working
spouse to make voluntary contributions; and
SW Sub No 42
SW Sub No 37
SW Sub No 9


. the government would be demonstrating its commitment to greater
access and equity for women in superannuation.1-
11.14 The Women’s Action Alliance (WAA) also identified benefits for
women resulting from the implementation of spouse contributions. WAA
argued that women at home should not be denied access to vehicles such as
superannuation through which they can save for their retirement. Access to
superannuation via spouse contributions would reduce the dependence these
women have on their spouses and on the age pension.lj
11.15 The need for reduced dependence of women on their spouses and the age
pension was also recognised by the Australian Lifewriters Association. By
allowing a fund member to nominate joint accounts, contributions could be
split 50/50 with the non-working spouse. This would provide superannuation
savings for non-working spouses who otherwise do not gain recognition for
their role in the home.14
11.16 In exploring the concept of spouse contributions before the Committee,
the ASCPA presented a position that would require the occupational nexus to
be diluted. The Society submitted that not only should ‘a non-working party be
allowed to contribute, or continue to contribute, to a superannuation fund ‘ but
that ‘where a woman or one spouse is outside the workforce for a considerable
period the spouses should be allowed to share their contributions’.13 The
Society also argued that, as there was a need for all Australians to have some
superannuation savings upon retirement, ‘it may be beneficial to allow every
person who is not employed to contribute’, including those living off
investment income.16
11.17 In the longer term, the Society identified spouse contributions as
reducing the likelihood of lump sum payments being paid to the surviving
spouse in the event of the death of the working spouse. If additional
contributions were allowed to be paid to the non-working spouse’s account, the
accrued benefit may provide a pension on retirement that would alleviate the
SW Sub No 9
SW Sub No 15
SW Sub No 20
Burke F, Evidence, p 15
ibid, pp 16, 25
16


pressure on the government and social security, whereby ‘the amount of the
cake can be divided amongst the needy more easily’.17
11.18 However, spouse contributions are not seen by all as having significant
benefit for the majority of women. The Australian Council of Social Service
does not endorse spouse contributions as it believes the availability of tax
concessions for superannuation contributions on behalf of a lower or no-
income spouse (usually female) would only assist higher income families. It
would also constitute a substantial cost to revenue.18
11.19 This question of tax disadvantages for low income earners was also
identified by Ms Eva Cox. Ms Cox could not see sufficient justification on
equity grounds for implementing a spouse contributions proposal. In summary,
Ms Cox informed the Committee that she could ‘see no reason why further
regressive measures, such as tax splitting at that high income level, should be
allowed at the expense of public revenue’.19
How spouse contributions could work
11.20 The Committee received detailed submissions on spouse contributions
from CBA Financial Services and the Life Insurance Federation of Australia
(LIFA).20 The Sex Discrimination Commissioner also made some detailed
submissions in her oral evidence before the Committee.These are set out
below.
CBA Financial Services (CBA)
11.21 CBA propose that:
• contributions be made to either private or employer-sponsored
arrangements;
• such contributions would be tax deductible to the working spouse in the
same way they are deductible for a self-employed person. Currently that
those deductions amount to $3 000 plus 75 per cent of any amount in
excess of $3 000 but no more than the Maximum Deductible
18
Wyatt M, Evidence, p 21
SW Sub No 62
Evidence, p 302
SW Sub Nos 42, 70
Evidence, pp 639-643


Contributions (MDC). CBA stated that the MDC for this purpose could
be 67 per cent of maximum employer contributions. This figure was
arrived at using the ratio of 167 per cent of the standard married pension
to the single pension paid by DSS. The working spouse already has
access to 100 per cent of MDC through employer contributions. In
addition, the working spouse would now access a further 67 per cent of
MDC for the non-working spouse. The age of the non-working spouse at
the time the contributions were made would also influence the MDC;
. contributions will be taxable as income for the fund and investment
earnings will be taxed in accordance with current arrangements;
. any benefits accruing from these contributions to the non-working
spouse must be preserved until 55; and
. any benefits paid from these contributions to the non-working spouse
would be taxed in the same way as Eligible Termination Payments. This
gives the working and non-working spouse access to the tax-free
threshold.2"
11.22 Another question addressed by CBA was whether or not Reasonable
Benefit Limits (RBLs) should be adjusted for the non-working spouse taking
into account periods when they are in or out of the workforce. CBA thought
that the current RBL limits should remain the same, given that such
arrangements would be administratively complex and on the basis that the
MDC proposed would limit the amount of the benefit accruing during periods
of non-employment."1
11.23 CBA supported its proposal by comparing the net benefits between the
superannuation savings as outlined above with the alternative of saving via a
bank account. Three scenarios were used with relevant assumptions. The end
results showed that the net benefits of the spouse contributions proposal
exceeded the net benefits of using a savings bank."
Life Insurance Federation of Australia (L1FA)
11.24 While some commentators have been critical of the spouse contribution
proposal on the basis that it would only be of benefit to high income earners
22
SW Sub No 42
24
ibid
ibid


wanting to take advantage of the tax arrangements, LIFA argued that there were
two more important considerations that necessitated consideration. They were
the:
. significant increase to the total pool of superannuation contributions with
minimal costs to government revenue, and
. ability of women to achieve superannuation savings in their own name.25
11.25 LIFA commissioned National Mutual to calculate the degree of
superannuation savings as a result of spouse contributions. A number of
specifications were provided, including the deductibility and taxing of
contributions, as well as assumptions, including that such contributions are
only made by couples with income above Average Weekly Earnings (AWE)
and contributions are treated for deductibility purposes as being from the
employer.26
11.26 The results from the modelling indicate that around 60 000 couples
would make contributions. Such contributions would increase fund balances by
$323 million in 1995 and $12 631 million by 2020. Over the same period, it is
forecast that cost to Government revenue would decrease from $91 million to
$48 million.27
11.27 While this would boost national saving, it should be noted that
government age pension costs would be minimal as most of the selected
couples are not entitled to the age pension. Any tax concessions are offset by
tax receipts (although such receipts are delayed until the beneficiary retires or
resigns).28
11.28 In discussing their proposal with the Committee, Mr Cole stated that
‘most women will at some stage work and be members of a superannuation
scheme in their own right’. It was recommended that any pre-existing accounts
be utilised for spouse contributions on behalf of the now non-working spouse
before any new accounts were opened. A requirement for new accounts to be
opened would only exacerbate the already existing small amounts problem.29
25
26
27
28
SW Sub No 70
ibid
ibid
SW Sub No 70
Evidence, p 258
29


The Sex Discrimination Commissioner
11.29 The Commissioner recommended that when a person left the workforce
temporarily to have and/or to look after children or other dependants, any
existing superannuation savings could be rolled over into the working spouse’s
fund with the following stipulations:
. a separate account for the non-working spouse be maintained;
. fifty per cent of the working spouse’s contributions be paid to the
account; and
. insurance cover be maintained.30
11.30 The advantages of such an arrangement included:
. the continuation of insurance cover for both partners;
. a continued accumulation at an equal, if reduced, rate;
. no additional cost to the employer as only a single payment would be
remitted to the fund;
. no negative affect on the national savings strategy;
. a flow-on effect in terms of superannuation and divorce;
. the ability for the individual upon recommencing work to make full
payments to their account or rollover the savings to a new employment-
related fund.31
11.31 The Commissioner informed the Committee that this proposal should be
introduced in the year 2002. ‘I am not of the view that this would be a useful
thing to do until the level of contributions has reached an adequate level’/" By
the year 2002, Superannuation Guarantee contributions will be 15 per cent.
11.32 The Commissioner was also strongly of the view that the proposal be
limited strictly to the compulsory contributions. She explained that:
[her] reason for that view is that one of the great criticisms in relation to
superannuation is that there are too many additional benefits for people who
30
31
SW Sub No 89
ibid
Evidence, p 639
32


are on higher incomes in terms of tax breaks ... what I am proposing is a
mechanism that would avoid turning superannuation into an income splitting
mechanism for tax purposes/’3
11.33 This position was supported by Mr Vernon of Jacques Martin Pty Ltc
(JMI) who argued that ‘if you have open slather with that arrangement, you are
going to have a skewing of the tax concessions in the community to those whc
are higher paid’.’4 JMI said that restrictions may need to be imposed/5 and
suggested that the spouse contribution provision should be restricted as a way
of keeping tax concession costs under control, and that the Superannuation
Guarantee might be an appropriate mechanism/6
Would it work?
11.34 JMI informed the Committee the actual split of the contribution between
two accounts would be a simple process for the administrators. On receipt of a
cheque for payment, details of what amounts should be paid, and to whom,
needed to be attached. Mr Vernon told the Committee that administration costs
would not increase significantly as a result of running two separate accounts for
the working and non-working spouse. ‘Certainly the costs would be no higher
than if a credit union, bank or building society were running a similar account.
They would be at least as low, if not lower’.37
11.35 Mr Vernon indicated that if an individual account existed then other
superannuation related benefits, such as death insurance for the non-working
spouse, would apply. ‘It is important that these people have access to ... the
attached insurance if they want it. Without it, the death of the spouse will cause
enormous hardship, not only emotionally but also in raising a family’/’8
Evidence, pp 639, 640
Evidence, p 63
SW Sub No 17
ibid
Evidence, p 57
Evidence, pp 58, 59


CHAPTER 12:
BUYING BACK SUPERANNUATION
ENTITLEMENTS:
THE MARRIAGE BAR AND OTHER DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES
Buying back superannuation entitlements
What happened to their employer contributions?1
12.1 Past discriminatory employment practices have resulted in a
disentitlement to superannuation benefits that would have been available but
for those practices. Those whose superannuation has been affected by these
practices are now seeking to buy back the entitlements that were lost.
12.2 This chapter examines the steps that are being taken in a number of
jurisdictions to address the impact of past discriminatory practices. Two
particular examples of past employment practices that lead to superannuation
disentitlement brought to the Committee’s attention are:
(i) the marriage bar; and
(ii) the absence of working arrangements such as casual or part-
time employment which would accommodate women caring
for children.
12.3 The Committee concludes that where current public sector employees,
who lost employer contributions as a result of past discriminatory employment
practices, should be given the opportunity to buy back their superannuation
entitlements at a rate less than the total cost of employer and employee
contributions. That is, the rate should be somewhat concessional as well as
being actuarially sustainable for the fund.
Discrimination principles
12.4 An important principle of discrimination law is to compensate for
injustices or disadvantages experienced by particular groups in society. Anti-
discrimination laws are not retrospective, but where past discrimination
Tracey A, Evidence, p 402


continues to have ongoing effects then anti-discrimination laws may be used to
address those continuing effects.
12.5 Without prejudice to actions which individual women may take, the
Committee was concerned whether there was a need for Commonwealth
legislative or other action in relation to any perpetuating injustice in women’s
superannuation resulting from the former marriage bar. The Sex Discrimination
Commissioner said, ‘My view is that it would be an act of good faith for the
Federal Government to compensate these women in some form.’2
Indirect discrimination
12.6 Indirect sex discrimination occurs when apparently neutral policies and
practices adversely affect a higher proportion of people of one sex or marital
status. It is assessed on the basis of outcomes not intentions.3
12.7 For example, it was suggested that it may be possible for women who
suffered discrimination as the result of the marriage bar to successfully bring a
case of indirect discrimination on the grounds of sex or marital status:
The argument could he made that a woman forced out of her
superannuation scheme when she married and who then returned to
the same employer, faced the perpetuation of the previous
discrimination, because her years of service prior to her marriage
are not recognised for superannuation purposes, whereas men who
had served the same or less years of service, did have their period
of service prior to their marriage recognised.4
The marriage bar
A woman who was an employee of the Commonwealth Government between
1961 and 1965, was forced to leave when she married in 1965. She was
repaid her superannuation payments made over that period, but without
interest. She subsequently rejoined the Commonwealth Public Service after the
marriage bar had been removed, and wish to 'buy back’ her earlier years of
service.
SW Sub No 89
Sex Discrimination Commissioner, Further Guidance for Employers and Trustees with regard to the
1993 Superannuation Amendments, Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, 1995, p 10
ibid, p 37
Sex Discrimination Commissioner. Buyback and Retrospectixity Guidelines


Background
12.8 The ‘marriage bar’ describes the practice that prevented women in
certain sectors of the workforce from continuing in employment after they
married. The Committee heard evidence from people who had been either State
government or Commonwealth employees and who were affected by the
marriage bar as it operated in Queensland, Tasmania, and the Australian Capital
Territory.
12.9 While the specific impact of marriage bar varied between individual
witnesses according to their employment and residence, it was noted that one
form of its expression was under the Public Service Act 1992 (Commonwealth),
which prohibited married women from working as permanent employees in the
Commonwealth public service.
The number affected in the Commonwealth
12.10 According to the 1966-67 Annual Report of the Public Service Board,
just under 5 000 women left the Commonwealth public service in the three
years 1964 to 1966 under the separation category ‘marriage retirement’. In each
year this represented between one quarter and one third of all female permanent
staff leaving the service in those years. The majority of these women worked in
the ‘Fourth Division’, which included telephonists, typists, stenographers,
clerical assistants etc.6
12.11 At June 1967, 2 027 married women were employed as permanent
officers in the service, representing 7.5 per cent of female officers. This more
than doubled in the following year, with 4 832 married women (representing
15.4 per cent of female officers) being employed as permanent officers at June
1968.7
The impact on superannuation
12.12 Although such discriminatory provisions are no longer in effect under
State or Commonwealth law, it was argued that the deferred nature of
superannuation benefits meant that the consequences of past discrimination
affect the superannuation entitlements of a number of women.
Public Service Board Forty Third Annual Report 1966-67, p 93
Public Service Board Annual Report 1969, p 125


12.13 This form of discrimination has resulted in other disadvantages and loss
of entitlements, such as accrual of leave and long service leave. The
Commonwealth Government has since corrected for lost entitlements in certain
areas such as sick leave, which have been recredited.8 ‘There has also been
some recognition of prior service on retrenchment’.9
12.14 The marriage bar for Commonwealth employees was lifted in 1966.
(Some parts of the private sector did not eliminate the marriage bar until after
1971.)10 A number of women who were affected and who rejoined the public
service after a break of some years are naturally eager to maximise their
superannuation.
12.15 The Committee examined the case of Ms Kaye Jenner as an example of a
woman with a broken employment history with the Australian Public Service.
Ms Jenner’s first period of employment was terminated by the marriage bar;
and the second before the birth of a child, was prior to the introduction of
maternity leave provisions. She was now in her third period of employment. Ms
Jenner argued that:
the number of years that I am able to participate in the paid
workforce was restricted by the marriage bar ... and the lack of
maternity leave entitlements before 1971. By comparison, on these
points the male workforce was not affected.11
12.16 The general proposal put before the Committee was that such women be
given the opportunity to buy back their past superannuation entitlements.
12.17 It was put to the Committee that the matter of recognition of marriage bar
service is not as clear-cut as first appears. Mr Lindsay gave a hypothetical
situation of a person affected by the marriage bar who may be better off than a
person who actually stayed in the CSS for the whole period. This is because the
CSS system was front loaded, with earlier years attracting a much higher
benefit; the first 20 years at two per cent accrual of final salary (if retirement is
taken at 65), the next 10 years at one per cent, and the next 10 at one quarter
per cent. For people ‘who were members before 1 July 1976, 20 years counts as
30’.12
Jenner K, Evidence, p 434
Sex Discrimination Commissioner, SW Sub No 89
Lindsay D, Evidence, p 677
SW Sub No 72
Evidence, p 678


12.18 Providing the member rejoined before 1 July 1976 and could reach a 20
year threshold, they could still pick up a 50 per cent pension, and they would
have had access to the early contributions to pay off other commitments.
However, Mr Lindsay added:
That said. I can well imagine there would be others who are still
inside their 20-year period who would suffer very greatly by not
having the marriage bar recognised.13
12.19 If the marriage bar service was recognised for those now back in
Australian Public Service employment, the following points were raised in
regard to other relevant groups:
[W]hat about those who have rejoined and subsequently retired?
What about those people who actually joined Commonwealth
employment as temporaries, because married women were not
allowed to be permanents, but had the married bar not existed
would have been permanents and could have picked up perhaps
five or 10 years service? How do you restore the equity of those?14
12.20 The Committee recognised that there were problems of equity in buy
backs per se, as well as difficult actuarial questions relating to the level of
contribution required to finance any buy back arrangements. It is necessary to
draw a distinction between discrimination relating to employment and that
relating to superannuation.
(Note: There was substantial evidence relating to cases of people allegedly
misled or uninformed about their preservation options after 1971, and
subsequently wishing to buy back. The Committee did not regard this evidence
as relevant to this chapter.)
Experience from state schemes
12.21 The Queensland Teacher’s Union (QTU) estimated that nearly 1 000 of
their female members have been the ‘victims of past discrimination as a result
of the policies, practices and legislation of the 1960s and 1970s’. Ms Mertens
of QTU told the Committee that the former section 32 of the Public Sector
Superannuation Act stated:
Evidence, p 678
Lindsay D, Evidence, p 678


A married women who becomes an officer is not entitled to
contribute to the fund. A female officer who marries is deemed to
have resigned on the date of her marriage. ~
12.22 Discrimination experienced by teachers took the form of female teachers
being required to resign on marriage, married women teachers not being
granted permanency, and teachers being ‘required to resign to take time to raise
a family’.16 According to the QTU, until 1987 the Queensland public sector
superannuation scheme paid those teachers who resigned a refund of personal
contributions plus a very small amount of interest. The QTU submitted that no
vesting arrangements existed.17
12.23 The (QTU) supported buy back arrangements and:
has sought provisions to allow teachers who were forced to resign
on marriage ... to repay refunded contributions to the
superannuation office and have all previous crown service
recognised for superannuation purposes. These ‘buy-back
provisions have been refused.
12.24 One of the issues raised in the Queensland experience was the effect on
other members of a fund should buy back options be permitted. In a funded
scheme the employer contributions and accrued earnings of those who
resigned, and received only their own contributions with or without interest,
remain with the fund to help provide the benefits enjoyed by others. The fund
could argue that ‘it could not afford to pay out the benefits it had promised to
those with unbroken service’ if it was required to fund benefits for those who
bought back on the basis (say) of paying back the refunded employee
contributions. The QTU recognised that any actuarial surplus would be
insufficient to fund buy backs without substantial injection of money from the
19
State Government.
The absence of flexible working arrangements
12.25 Evidence was presented to the Committee relating to the experiences of
women forced to resign from permanent teaching positions to accommodate
their family responsibilities in the absence of provisions such as leave without
15
16
17
18
Evidence, p 396
SW Sub No 11
ibid
ibid
Evidence, p 398
19


pay. The ACT Branch of the Australian Education Union was supporting some
25 members, mainly female, in their proposals to buy back into the CSS:
via the late preservation benefits option that was available during
the late 1970s/early 1980s ... At this stage ComSuper has refused
late election of preservation to most applicants thus the activation
of AAT appeals mechanisms.20
These ACT cases relate to people in the late 1970s and early 1980s who left the
teaching service mainly for family reasons.-1
12.26 It was not until 1971 that people resigning from Commonwealth
employment had the option of preserving their benefits in the Commonwealth
Superannuation Scheme (CSS). Trior to 1971 that option was not available’.22
This creates real difficulties when buy back is being proposed, as it was not just
married women who have been penalised in the past. An example given by
Mr David Lindsay, of the Department of Finance, was that of public servants
(male and female) who enlisted in the armed services, who were not permitted
to contribute during their war service and were never offered a buy back
option.-3 Mr Lindsay said:
One issue is how far a government goes to redress employment or
other practices that were acceptable at the time - or tolerated ...
might be a better way of phrasing it - but are now considered to be
unacceptable.24
12.27 The Tasmanian experience was also examined by the Committee. The
Australian Education Union (AEU), Tasmanian Branch, advised of a campaign
to persuade the State Government to correct a perceived injustice prior to
1968, when ‘women teachers who became pregnant were forced to resign from
their employment’.25 This was because there was no maternity leave until late
1968 and no provision for leave without pay. When they resigned,
superannuation contributions were refunded without interest and with an
administration fee deducted.
20
SW Sub No 25
Haggar C, Evidence, p 515
Searson K, Evidence, p 676
Evidence, p 677
25
SW Sub No 24


12.28 The introduction of a new Tasmanian public sector superannuation
scheme in 1994 made it possible to purchase periods of pre-resignation service.
The objection raised by the AEU was that the full actuarial cost had to be paid
‘despite the fact that the employee was forced to resign’.26 Accordingly, the
AEU was asking the State Government, as the employer, to bear most of the
cost of allowing the pre-resignation benefit to be included for retirement benefit
purposes. A proposed alternative was for the Commonwealth Government to
bear the employer cost (15 per cent of current annual salary for each year of
service) in a one-off grant.27
Can buy backs be a solution to past discrimination
12.29 As described in the above paragraph, the new Tasmanian scheme allows
for the buy back of pre-resignation service at full actuarial cost. While an
obvious improvement on the pre-1994 scheme, the AEU argued that an
employee accepting such an arrangement should only be required to pay the
employee cost of the contributions that were made during the period of
service.28
12.30 The Committee agrees with the Federal Secretary of the AEU, Mr Robert
Durbridge, who considered that although direct discriminatory practices have
now been removed, there is still an impact on many women teachers in relation
to superannuation and retirement benefits. Mr Durbridge recommended that:
Where possible, all previously ineligible employees have the
option of purchasing foregone contribution entitlements."
Conclusion
12.31 The Committee considers that, where possible, those women who
were forced to resign from their public sector employment by the marriage
bar, and who have subsequently returned to the public sector, be given the
option of purchasing greater superannuation entitlements at an indexed
employee contribution cost which is actuarially sustainable to the fund.
26
ibid
29
ibid
ibid
SW Sub No 93


CHAPTER 13:
SUPER AND DIVORCE
Super and divorce
Superannuation is frequently the major asset or financial
resource of the parties to a marriage, and one party may
have forgone superannuation coverage for a number of
reasons, including what was considered to be adequate
coverage on the part of the other party to the marriage to
provide for both parties in the future.1
Marriage breakdown
13.1 The problems of low levels of superannuation for women are exacerbated
where marriage breakdown occurs and the female partner, who may have had a
lengthy absence from the workforce, finds herself with no superannuation in
her own right and limited employment prospects.2 Case Study 2 presented by
Boranup Community states:
By 31 she was divorced, a single parent and employed by the State
government. She did not contribute to the super scheme as her limited income
as a clerk was spent on day care and accommodation. The divorce settlement
did not entitle her to her spouse’s superannuation. ’
13.2 As has been outlined in Chapter 2, women’s earnings, and hence their
superannuation accumulations, are such that few retired women have
superannuation as their main source of income. For 36 per cent of women the
main source of income at the start of their retirement was ‘someone else’s
income’.4 For many women, it is their male partner’s superannuation scheme
which is the one on which their future income relies.5 They have foregone
superannuation coverage for a number of reasons, including assuming a carers
role in the family, typically based on the belief that their partner’s
superannuation provided adequate coverage for both parties in the future.6
The Hon Peter Duncan, MP, Parliamentary Secretary to the Attorney General, SW Sub No 79
AMP, SW Sub No 55
SW Sub No 26
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Woman’s Year Book 1994, Catalogue No. 41240, p 105
Minister for Women’s Affairs, Victoria, SW Sub No 66
Duncan, op cit


13.3 However, as pointed out by the Women’s Action Alliance, increasing
rates of divorce mean that women can no longer assume that they will be
supported by their husbands in retirement.7
13.4 In 1993, there were 48 324 divorces in Australia, accounting for between
11 and 12 per 1 000 married women.8 Financial dependency associated with
non-paid work during marriage generally means a decline in the standard of
living after divorce - two thirds of women have a decline in standard of living
after divorce.9
13.5 The ease with which each party can be given rights to superannuation
assets, and the time at which this should be done, are at the heart of whether the
entitlements ultimately awarded in the case of divorce are just and equitable.
The question of whether superannuation assets received from a divorce
settlement should be subject to the same preservation rules as all other
superannuation was raised.10
The division of property
13.6 Until the late 1970s the Family Court took the view that equality should
be the starting point in dividing property. However, in Mallet v Mallet] 1 the
High Court held that there was no legislative basis for presumption of equal
shares, and stressed the discretionary basis of the Family Law Act 1975 (the
Act).12
13.7 The Act requires the Court, in considering what order should be made
with respect to property, to have regard to the contributions made by each party
to the acquisition of property. The Act also recognises that a party may
contribute indirectly, or make a non-financial contribution, to the acquisition of
property. This may include the contribution made by a party as a home maker
or as a parent of children of the marriage.13
SW Sub No 15
Australian Bureau of Statistics A ustralian Women's Year Book 1994 plO
Weston R, quoted in Walpole S, Indirect Discrimination and Superannuation in Women and
Superannuation: Selected Seminar Papers, EPAC Background paper No 41, August 1994, p 121
10 Capstick D, SW Sub No 60
11 (1984) 156 CLR 605
12 Walpole, op cit, p 122
Duncan, op cit


13.8 The Sex Discrimination Commissioner submitted that women fare badly
in a discretionary system where judges undervalue work in the home compared
to earning a living, suggesting that the going rate in the Family Court for work
in the home has been 20-30 per cent of financial contribution.14
The inclusion of superannuation assets in property settlements
13.9 Although the Court usually regards accumulated superannuation funds as
joint assets, there is no requirement to take retirement benefits into account in
any property settlement.15 A review undertaken by the Australian Institute of
Family Studies found that, in the mid-1980s, superannuation was not taken into
account in the settlement in 60 per cent of divorce cases and in three quarters of
those cases, people were not advised about its relevance.16
13.10 Ms Jane Reynolds, Victorian Department of Justice, accepted that
superannuation was increasingly being acknowledged in the settlement of
assets on divorce in the Family Court, but put the view that it ought to always
be factored into the settlement of assets on the point of divorce, as it has been
found that women have been disadvantaged by that not happening.17
13.11 The AMP presented a strong argument in its submission to the
Committee in support of inclusion. The AMP argued that:
Currently, when marriage breakdown occurs, the court can choose
to take into consideration any accrued superannuation held by the
partners... Clearly, it is in both parties interests if there is an option
for the superannuation asset at the time of marriage breakdown [to
be] equitably divided between the parties.18
13.12 The Committee supports this position, but acknowledges that no one
formula will be appropriate for every instance.
13.13 The Committee understands that legislation to be introduced this year
will maintain the status quo, that is, it will continue not to include
superannuation as property of the marriage.
Walpole, op cit p 122
Women’s Action Alliance of Australia, SW Sub No 15
16 Walpole op cit
17 Evidence, pp 128. 129
SW Sub No 55
18


The treatment of superannuation entitlements on marriage breakdown
13.14 The difficulties for the courts in dealing with superannuation result from
the question of whether superannuation falls within the definition of ‘property’
under the Act and how superannuation assets are valued.19
13.15 The following issues are pertinent in any discussion on the treatment of
superannuation in family law:
. whether or not superannuation can be considered property under the Act;
. the characteristics of superannuation funds themselves and the
implications these may have for proceedings in the Family Court;
. the valuation of superannuation entitlements; and
. the method of affecting a final settlement which includes the
consideration of the superannuation.“°
13.16 The Court has indicated that, wherever possible, superannuation
entitlements will be treated as divisible property of the marriage. Decisions are
made in relation to superannuation in the context of individual cases before it
with the approach adopted depending upon the facts in each case.21
13.17 The following approaches have been used:
• hearings adjourned or orders deferred until superannuation becomes
payable; or
• consideration of superannuation as a financial resource.
13.18 Each approach has advantages and disadvantages.
Deferral of hearings or orders
13.19 Deferring orders until the superannuation becomes payable could create
problems if the contributing spouse dies or other significant changes occur in
the circumstances of the parties during the period of deferral of the operation of
the order. Such an approach does not accord with the ‘clean break’ principle by
19
Joint Committee on Certain Aspects of the Operation and Interpretation of the Family Law Act, The
Family Law Act 1975: Aspects of its Operation and Interpretation, Nov 1992, p 237
ibid
Duncan, op cit
21


which the Family Law Act operates to ensure an end to the financial
relationship of the parties.22
Considering superannuation as a financial resource
13.20 Superannuation is not considered as property until it is vested in the
individual member’s name. If superannuation entitlements are not characterised
as property, under the Family Court’s discretion they may be apportioned as a
financial resource.”'’
13.21 This may allow the Court to take into account those financial resources
to the extent that the other party may gain a greater percentage of the other
property available for distribution. This has meant that wives have often been
compensated for the loss of an interest in their husband’s funds by receiving
increased amounts of other assets.”4
13.22 Matrimonial Property, prepared for the Australian Law Reform
Commission in 1987 (also known as the Flambly Report), outlined three major
approaches judges may use to value superannuation if the benefits are treated as
a financial resource:
• the ‘notional realisable value’ which assesses the amount of benefit that
would be payable if the member resigned at the date of separation or at
the date of the hearing;
. the ‘discounted prospective benefit’, which apportions the amount of
benefit that would be payable on retirement in the same proportion that
the period of co-habitation during which the member was a member of
the scheme bears to the total period of membership of the scheme, and
then discounts the figure to give its present value; and
. the ‘take it into account’ method, where the prospective benefit may be
taken into account without detailed inquiry into its value.”
Office of the Cabinet, Queensland, SW Sub No 48
Noel v NoeI (1981) FLC 90-035 in Joint Committee on Certain Aspects of the Operation and
Interpretation of the Family Law Act The Family Law Act 1975: Aspects of its Operation and
Interpretation'Nov. 1992 p240
SW Sub No 48
Australia Law Reform Commission Matrimonial Property referred to in Joint Committee on Certain
Aspects of the Operation and Interpretation of the Family La,w, op cit, p 241


13.23 Consideration of superannuation in this way has not been universally
endorsed due to a number of considerations. There is a fair degree of
dissatisfaction with cash settlements as, in most instances, no real savings are
available to be retained for the future once expenditure to finalise the home
mortgage or extra living expenses are taken out. The other side of the coin is
that the partner who has to make the cash payment may not have the funds to
make such a payment and he or she may have to borrow at fairly substantial
rates.-6
Super or housing
13.24 Another option is trading off superannuation for housing. Housing and
poverty are closely related issues and property settlements that trade off
superannuation for housing may be desirable. Ms Roz Lambert argued that
there are many separated and divorced women who do not own housing and
who will therefore find themselves in poverty in retirement in 15 years time.-7
13.25 However, the Office of the Status of Women submitted that the fact that
women tend to have custody of children should not preclude them from either
adequate housing or retirement income.-8 However, the reality of marriage
breakdown is that the same resources are required to finance two households
and two separate retirement incomes.
Solutions to the super and divorce question
13.26 Dealing with superannuation assets in the event of divorce has been, and
continues to be, the focus of discussions in a number of official fora.
13.27 Past reports include:
• Family Law in Australia (the first report of Joint Select Committee on the
Family Law Act, 1980);
• Matrimonial Property (also known as the Hambly Report, for the
Australian Law Reform Commission, 1987);
• Superannuation and Family Law (Family Law Council, 1987);
Morgan R, Evidence, p 535
SW Sub No 56
SW Sub No 97
28


. Collective Investment Schemes - Superannuation ("Australian Law
Reform Commission, 1992); and
. The Treatment of Superannuation in Family Law (Attorney-General’s
Department, 1992)
13.28 The Joint Select Committee on Certain Aspects of the Operation and
Interpretation of the Family Law Act was established in response to community
dissatisfaction with matters ancillary to divorce and the cost of justice.
13.29 That Committee recommended that superannuation be considered as
property and that the Family Court be given a discretionary power to split a
superannuation entitlement between spouses in proportion equal to the length
of marriage or cohabitation by reference to the total period of contribution to
the fund.
13.30 The recommendation of the Joint Select Committee was not accepted by
the Government. Instead, a Governmental Working Group (Working Group to
Develop a Scheme for Splitting Entitlement to Superannuation Under the
Family Law Act) was formed to develop a scheme within the following
parameters:
(i) superannuation will be dealt with as a separate and discrete asset;
(ii) the asset will be distributed between the parties, upon breakdown of
marriage, equitably by operation of law;
(iii) apportionment of the entitlement will be effected by reference to the
period of cohabitation and the period of contribution to the fund; and
(iv) the proposal is to be consistent with the retirement incomes policy."}
13.31 The Working Group consists of representatives of the Attorney-General’s
Department, the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, including the
Office of the Status of Women, the Treasury, the Department of Finance, the
Australian Taxation Office, the Insurance and Superannuation Commission, the
Department of Social Security, and consultants from the Family Court of
Australia and the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia. The
Family Law Section of the Law Council of Australia has been added as a
consultant.
Government response to the report by the Joint Select Committee on Certain Aspects of the Operation
and Interpretation of the Family Law Act 1975. Family Law Act 1975 Directions for Amendment,
December 1993, p 42


13.32 Mr Morgan, Senior Government Counsel in the Family and
Administrative Law Branch of Attorney-General’s Department, informed the
Committee that under the proposal being developed by the Working Group:
... superannuation would not be treated as property but as an asset
or as a financial resource for the future. It would still retain its
identity as a retirement benefit and it would be a retirement benefit
for both parties...what we were seeking to do was to arrange for
[the contributor’s] entitlement to be split at the time of dissolution,
or at the timing of the hearing of the matter, into two separate
components - one in [one] name and one in [the] ex-spouse's
name. That would continue to run in [the spouse’s] case until such
time as the normal vesting time came, in which case [the spouse]
would then be entitled to pensions.30
13.33 The Committee is extremely concerned, however, that this Working
Group does not appear to have come any closer to a solution to the issue. It is
two years since the Government responded to the Joint Select Committee’s
Report and established the Working Party, yet options for reform have not been
published. Whilst this Committee fully appreciates the difficulty of the
problem, it was concerned to hear Ms Susan Ryan, Executive Director,
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia, comment that:
as yet. that aim [to develop an equitable formula for division of
the superannuation benefits on divorce] has not been achieved. It is
extremely complex and we have found the longer we are working
on it the harder it is to solve it in an equitable way.31
13.34 The Committee finds it unacceptable that the Attorney-General’s
Department does not see a solution being developed that can be submitted to
Government until at least 1996 and agrees with Mr Morgan that ‘that is a fairly
unsatisfactory state because it really leaves one major asset of the whole
relationship to the current rules’/2
Spouse contributions
13.35 During the course of the inquiry a number of witnesses argued that the
establishment of separate superannuation accounts during the marriage,
particularly during the time that the female partner is not engaged in the labour
force for childrearing or other caring responsibilities, would go some way to
30
Evidence, p 534
Evidence, pp 191, 192
Evidence, pp 534, 535
31
32


overcoming the difficulties posed by superannuation entitlements as a result of
divorce.11 This issue is dealt elsewhere in the report (See Chapter 10: Spouse
Contributions)
Conclusion
13.36 There is little doubt that the treatment of superannuation entitlements in
the event of marriage breakdown has the potential to impact significantly on
the financial security of divorced women, particularly those women who have
not accumulated benefits due to other demands being placed on them which
have limited their participation in the paid workforce.
13.37 There is also little doubt that it is a complex issue, the solution to which
will not be easy to find.
13.38 On the evidence presented, the Committee is convinced that failure to
include superannuation assets as part of the marriage property is likely to
significantly disadvantage a substantial proportion of women. Such assets
should be considered in the settlement of assets at the point of divorce.
13.39 The Committee has been presented with a number of options which
appear to have merit. However, given that other fora are addressing this issue,
the Committee does not believe it is appropriate to make recommendations at
this stage.
13.40 It does, however, call on the Government to allocate priority to the
resolution of this very difficult area of superannuation.
Recommendation 13.1:
The Committee is greatly concerned with the serious delay that has
occurred in the resolution of the treatment of superannuation assets in the
event of marriage breakdown and recommends that the rectification of this
matter be given priority.
13.41 The Committee strongly encourages the Attorney-General to have
appropriate legislation in place for consideration by the Parliament at the
earliest possible time.
33
Evidence, Smit P, p 41; Olsberg D, pp 222, 223; Evatt K, p 475




CHAPTER 14:
MARITAL STATUS AND OTHER RELATIONSHIPS
Marital status and other relationships
The environment
It is the differential treatment that is of concern
14.1 Persons in formal or de facto marriage relationships currently enjoy
benefits from superannuation funds often not available to single people.2 Early
in its inquiry, the Committee was made aware of allegations of discrimination
against people in a relationship with someone of the same sex, because of an
inability to benefit from their partners’ superannuation entitlements in the same
way as a heterosexual couple. Under current superannuation and tax law,
somebody in a same sex relationship is treated as a single person,3 which means
that when they die, lower benefits are paid to those left behind.4
14.2 A member of the Victorian State Government (Revised) Superannuation
Scheme appeared before the Committee. He had nominated his same sex
partner of 18 years as his dependant for superannuation purposes. However, the
fund ‘refused to acknowledge that nomination on the grounds that its definition
of “dependant” has to be of the opposite sex’.5 Two issues arise:
the nomination issue is one issue, the benefits payable to single people is
another issue. In a lot of superannuation funds there is a benefit payable,
whether or not there is any dependants or spouse. The benefit passes to the
estate. If, for example, a superannuation fund member dies and they belong to
an accumulation scheme, there is a refund of contributions and interest and
there is an insured death benefit that is payable. The trustees look for a spouse
and dependants and if they can find none, they pay them to the estate. Where
the estate misses out is that they are subject to the tax regime, whereas if there
is a spouse they are not.
The other way they do miss out is in a lot of defined benefit funds, government
schemes like the Commonwealth super scheme, where there is an additional
benefit payable only if there is a spouse or children. You are right. If that
discrimination was removed, then I do not think you would have much of an
Berrill J, Evidence, p 665
Noble Park Special Development School, SW Sub No 94
Scahill A, Evidence, p 661
Tasmanian Gay and Lesbian Rights Group, SW Sub No 96
Shaw D, Evidence, p 3, and see SW Sub No 2


argument from the gay and lesbian community about it. It is the differential
treatment that is of concern.
One other point there is that superannuation arose out of the charitable trusts
that occurred centuries ago and all the schemes were about providing for those
who were left behind. So you are overturning centuries of charitable trusts,
equity law. in doing that. I am not saying that that is impossible to do but it is a
problem.6
14.3 Therefore, despite making identical contributions to superannuation
during their working lives, the superannuation benefit of one member can be
different from another simply on the grounds of marital status. The payment of
disability and death payments may be of substantial value to a potential
beneficiary and was of obvious concern to Mr Davydd Shaw who made the
submission referred to above.
14.4 Mr Shaw agreed that the provision of death benefits can discriminate
against single people, as well as sex same couples. Mr Shaw pointed out that:
discrimination is faced not just by same sex couples but by single
people who have paid the same contribution rates all their working
lives. At present, if someone who is unmarried dies just prior to
retirement or within retirement ... their estate only gets back their
contributions plus a small amount of interest payable on it... but if
they are married the spouse gets their benefits as of right. There is
no qualification about being a dependant.7
14.5 Evidence received by the Committee covered the issue of whether
discrimination occurred, and where it had, whether it was justified.
The SIS Act
14.6 The payment of a pension or benefit by a superannuation fund to a
member’s spouse or dependant is determined according to the provisions of the
trust deed, or in the case of Commonwealth and State funds established for
public servants, and acts of the relevant Parliaments. However, trustees must
also comply with the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (the SIS
Act), and other law relating to taxation and trusts.
14.7 The SIS Act provides for supervision of those superannuation funds
which attract concessional taxation treatment as a result of compliance with its
Berrill J, Evidence, pp 664, 665
Evidence, p 4


provisions. Section 62 is significant in that it requires the trustees to maintain
the fund solely for one or more of a number of listed core or ancillary purposes.
14.8 These purposes include:
The provision of benefits in respect of each member of the fund on
or after the member's death, if: ...
(A) ...
(B) the benefits are provided to the member’s legal personal
representative, to any or all of the member’s dependants,
or to both.8
14.9 Dependant is defined in section 10 of the Act as:
“dependant”, in relation to a person, includes the spouse and child of
the person.
14.10 Spouse is defined in section 10 as:
“spouse”, in relation to a person, includes another person who,
although not legally married to the person, lives with the person on a
genuine domestic basis as the husband or wife of the person.
14.11 The Gay and Lesbian Rights Lobby (GLRL) said most fund trustees
interpret sections 10 and 62 to exclude the payment of death benefits to a same
sex partner, even if that partner had been named as the nominated beneficiary
by the deceased.9 The consequences of this with respect to same sex partners
and single people are discussed below.
14.12 From the evidence received, it appears that current regulations place
trustees of a superannuation fund in the invidious position of risking their
fund’s complying status should they pay a death benefit to a same sex partner.
Treasury agreed that there does seem to be a discrimination in the sense that the
fund itself loses complying status if it makes such a payment.10
14.13 This serious dilemma was well covered by the Sex Discrimination
Commissioner when she said:
Section 62(l)(a)(iv), Emphasis added
SW Sub No 85 (Supp)
Edsor L, Evidence, p 605


what a trustee is required to do under SIS may not necessarily fit
comfortably with some of the resolutions to discriminatory
problems in funds that we have been looking at.11
14.14 The GLRL stated what is the fundamental area of concern:
The partners of lesbian and gay men are commonly denied
payment of death and disability benefits upon the death or
disablement of their contributor partner by the trustees of their
superannuation fund. The consistent offenders in this respect are
the compulsory superannuation plans for Commonwealth and State
employees.12
14.15 This submission went on to point out the commitments and legislation
undertaken by the Commonwealth which ‘promise’ non-discriminatory
treatment for workers on grounds of sexual preference. It cited the Public
Service Act 1922 (Section 33); Human Rights and Equal Opportunity
Commission Act 1986 (Regulation 4(a)(ix); and Industrial Relations Reform
Act 1993 (Section 3(g)). The submission argued that ‘current superannuation
practice in relation to same sex couples, especially in the schemes for
Commonwealth employees, contradicts the spirit of this legislation’.13
The uncertainty problem
14.16 The availability of death benefits to same sex partners appears uncertain.
14.17 Within the bounds set by the trust deed administering a fund, section 62
of the SIS Act permits a fund trustee to pay death benefits to a deceased
member’s personal legal representative or to one or more of that member’s
dependants.
14.18 A death benefit is a payment accrued by one person in consequence of
the death of a superannuation fund member. Characterisation of the benefit as a
payment directly to a dependant can be critical, as it may determine whether
any benefit is paid at all, the amount paid by the fund, and whether the amount
is paid direct or received as part of the deceased’s estate.
Evidence, p 652
SW Sub No 85 (Supp)
ibid


14.19 Although section 10 of SIS defines a dependant as including any person
including a spouse, the current interpretation of spouse as considered in
Brown’s case14 appears to preclude a partner of the same sex.
14.20 The fact that the definition of dependant is taken to include a spouse
suggests that a person who is not a spouse, but is nevertheless is in a dependent
relationship at the time of the member’s death, may fall within the bounds
prescribed by section 62. As the 1995 NIB case 5 affirmed, the word
‘dependant’ need not be limited to financial dependence, and furthermore, in
determining whether a member falls within its ambit, trustees must be certain
that they do not breach discrimination laws in coming to their conclusion.
14.21 In light of the Brown and NIB cases, the question of whether a partner of
the same sex is considered a “dependant” appears to create a delicate boundary
within which trustees may lawfully exercise their discretion. There are
significant consequences in the way that discretion falls.
14.22 The Committee is of the opinion that this uncertainty places a difficult
burden on trustees and may place same sex partners in a situation of significant
uncertainty regards their respective entitlements. As such a situation is very
likely to place those members at a disadvantage with respect to their capacity to
make responsible financial plans for their future, failure to address this issue
appears counter to the aim of providing greater certainty of retirement
16
income.
The alleged discrimination
14.23 According to Mr John Berrill of Maurice, Blackburn & Co., the payment
of death benefits available under superannuation schemes to people in same sex
relationships are limited by discrimination in three ways:
. where death benefits are only payable to the spouse, de facto spouse or
children;
. where there are competing claims for death benefits from a heterosexual
spouse or family members; and
14
Brown v Commissioner of Superannuation, Administrative Appeals Tribunal, No V94/638, 15 May
1995
Hope & Anor v NIB Health Funds Ltd., Equal Opportunity Tribunal (NSW), 20 July 1995
HomoDefactos Assoc, SW Sub No 87
16


. in the tax treatment of death benefits paid to persons who do not qualify
as a spouse, children or dependants, and who get the death benefits via
the estate.17 (Note: Section 27AAA of the Income Tax Assessment Act
1936 provides concessional treatment for death benefits that are paid in
relation to dependants.)
14.24 Mr Berrill told the Committee that same sex partners may miss out in a
lot of defined benefit schemes such as the Commonwealth superannuation
schemes, where there is an additional benefit payable only if there is a spouse
or children.18 According to Ms Scahill of GLRL:
the gay and lesbian community are not enjoying the same benefits
from superannuation as are their heterosexual workmates ...
specifically because the death benefits that apply to the same
contributions are not paid, generally speaking, to the partner of a
gay man or lesbian.19
14.25 The Committee notes that single people similarly do not enjoy these
same benefits.
14.26 The best illustration of this interaction is the traditional payment of a
pension or lump sum to a surviving spouse, while denying an equivalent
payment to a nominated beneficiary of a single person or to a person in a same
sex relationship.
The problems illustrated
14.27 Two recent cases heard before tribunals were brought to the Committee’s
attention and were found to highlight some of the issues in this area.
Brown ’s Case
14.28 Mr Brown sought a review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal of a
decision by his superannuation fund to reject his claim for a spouse benefit
under section 81(1) of the Superannuation Act 1976 (the 1976 Act which
relates to Commonwealth superannuation schemes). Mr Brown had lived in a
permanent, homosexual, de facto relationship with Mr Corva from 1982 until
Mr Corva’s death in 1993.
17
Evidence, p 656
Evidence, p 665
Evidence, p 659
Brown v Commissioner of Superannuation, op cit
20


14.29 Mr Corva was a member of the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme,
which provided for a refund of contributions and interest and a separate death
benefit payable if there was a spouse or child of the deceased. Mr Corva had
made Mr Brown his nominee in the superannuation fund and had a will in
which his estate was to be given to Mr Brown.
14.30 Mr Brown, as nominee, made a successful claim for the accumulated
contributions and interest. However, his claim for the death benefit was
rejected by the trustees on the basis that he could not qualify as a de facto
spouse.21 It was this decision that was the subject of the appeal.
14.31 In order for Mr Brown to obtain a benefit as a spouse, the phrase ‘marital
relationship’ in the definition of spouse in section 8B of the 1976 Act, would
need to include a homosexual relationship. This meant the terms “husband” and
“wife” would have to include partners of the same sex.
14.32 Mr Brown was unsuccessful in his appeal. The Tribunal held that:
whatever other changes the words, ‘husband' and ‘wife’, may have
undergone over the years they retain ... their complementary
gender connotations. A ‘wife’ is the female partner of a marital
relationship and a ‘husband' the male partner.
In so finding, the Tribunal queried in relation to same sex partners ‘which, then
would be the “husband” and which the “wife”?’22
14.33 The Tribunal stated that it gave them no joy to deny Mr Brown the
spouse benefit entitlement:
...we must affirm the decision under review. It gives us no joy to
do so. There is no doubt that the applicant and Mr Corva had a
close marriage-like relationship...Yet the 1992 amendments, which
were designed to remove discrimination on the ground of marital
status, provide no redress in relation to the form of discrimination
which is illustrated by this case."'1
21
Berrill J, Evidence, p 664
Reported in Australian Super News, CCH Australia Limited, 8 September 1995, p 10
23 SW Sub No 85 (Supp)


The NIB Case24
14.34 In this case the Equal Opportunity Tribunal found that their had been
discrimination on the grounds of homosexuality within the meaning of the Anti-
Discrimination Act 1977 (NSW).
14.35 The appeal, by Mr Hope and Mr Brown, who had a homosexual
relationship that exhibited ‘the hallmarks of a permanent and bona fide
domestic relationship’, was against NIB’s refusal to grant a concessional family
membership rate to them.25
14.36 In reaching its decision the Tribunal considered that the ordinary
meaning of the word “dependant” included:
connotations of reliance and need, trust, confidence, favour and aid
in sickness and in health including social and financial support and
its normal meaning is not limited to financial dependence..."
Then, in considering financial dependency as only one aspect of the ordinary
meaning of dependency, the Tribunal stated:
with a joint tenancy, a joint mortgage, pooled resources and shared
debts, Mr Hope and Mr Brown were financial dependants to a
substantial degree, one on the other.-7
14.37 The Committee notes the following implications for superannuation
entities from these cases:
. Superannuation funds will need to consider the scope of benefits provided to
spouses and dependants under their deeds to ensure discrimination laws are not
breached.
. In exercising discretions, trustees will need to take care that decisions do not
breach discrimination laws - as the NIB case evidenced.
. The words “husband” and “wife”, on the basis of both Brown’s case and the NIB
case. refer to a relationship between people of the opposite sex.
. The ordinary meaning of the word “dependant” is not restricted to financial
dependency.28
24
Hope & A nor v NIB Health Funds Ltd, op cit
Reported in Australian Super News, op cit
ibid
ibid, p 1 1
27


Can positive discrimination in favour of heterosexual couples be justified?
14.38 Firstly, the Committee notes that the fact that Commonwealth schemes
do not recognise same sex partners appears to flow from:
a deliberate decision taken a couple of years ago, when the Sex
Discrimination Act was amended and there was a working party
chaired by Attorney-General’s ... At that stage and currently, the
government does not recognise same-sex partners.29
14.39 The Committee heard strong evidence that heterosexual married and de
facto couples are often treated more generously by superannuation funds when
compared to single people or same sex couples. This was particularly evident in
the administration of death benefits as was outlined earlier in this chapter. It is
clear to the Committee that, at least in part, the contributions of single people
and members of a same sex relationship to defined benefit schemes are
subsidising the benefits of other members of their superannuation funds purely
on the basis of their marital status.
14.40 The benefits of superannuation include death and disability provisions
applicable to individual funds and available to spouses and dependants of fund
members. However, the rules governing the payment of such benefits are
geared toward providing for traditional and de facto heterosexual family
structures.
14.41 People in non-traditional relationships (such as same sex) and single
people in no formal domestic relationship at all, are mostly excluded from
death and related benefits available to this other group.
14.42 The Committee has concluded that it is clear that less advantageous
treatment is applied to those who are classified as single. This can include those
in same sex relationships. It is preferable that all contributors be treated
equally.
Dependants and beneficiaries
14.43 From the evidence presented to the Committee, it is clear that much of
the differential treatment in the payment of death benefits stems from whether
the potential recipient can be defined as being a “dependant” of the deceased
member.
28
ibid
Lindsay E, Evidence, p 669


14.44 The Committee proposed the following solution to this problem. In order
to prevent discrimination between those members in a recognised relationship
and those not, fund members without a spouse or dependant as presently
defined should be able to nominate a beneficiary for their superannuation
entitlements to whom the fund would pay those benefits currently available
only to a spouse or dependant.
Finally
14.45 Mr Peter Cox, on the basis of his involvement for over 20 years in
superannuation policy and administration, noted that the recognition in New
South Wales of gay couples as families will impact on superannuation rules,
particularly with respect to many of the old closed schemes in which ‘there are
all sorts of discriminations that effectively hark back to the Dark Ages’.30
14.46 Mr Cox told the Committee that for the last ‘two or three years’ he has
been an adviser to the NSW State Superannuation Investment and Management
Corporation, which provides the investment and superannuation management
services to the State’s employees. While he could not comment on what the
New South Wales Government policy might be in relation to discrimination in
superannuation he did say:
The options, as I understand it, are for the schemes to change or for
the members to be offered an alternative, non-discriminatory
scheme.31
14.47 The Committee proposes that the Commonwealth take the lead by
removing the discrimination in Commonwealth superannuation law and
practice against single people, and against those in relationships unsupported
by current arrangements.
Recommendation 14.1:
The Committee recommends that the superannuation regulations be
amended so that those in bona fide domestic relationships and single
people are treated in the same manner as married and de facto
superannuants.
Evidence, p 236
Evidence, p 237


Reversionary pensions
14.48 Another area in which marital status, or the timing of a change in marital
status, impacts upon superannuation entitlements is that of reversionary
pensions. As noted in Chapter 7, reversionary pensions are provided by some
funds to the surviving spouses of those superannuants who die while in receipt
of a pension.
14.49 Perhaps the most significant difficulty with reversionary pensions
schemes relates to the effect on the reversion of divorce by the superannuant. In
the simplest case, should a superannuant divorce then die, the former spouse
would be denied a reversionary pension, whereas there would of course be no
change to the benefits of the superannuant on divorce, or on the death of the
32
spouse.
14.50 In a situation where a superannuant marries after retirement then dies, the
situation with the surviving spouse is difficult. Generally, the spouse would not
be entitled to a reversionary pension. Mr Bob Day, President of the Retired
Police Association of New South Wales, gave evidence relating to the situation
of his members’ experience with their State fund. He described special
circumstances in which a serving member may be retired and marry and be out
of the police force for 3 years before the member is 60. In those circumstances,
should the member die ‘the surviving spouse is then considered to be in the
same position as if he [the member] had a wife at the time he retired’/3
14.51 However, these are special circumstances and relate only to police
officers in this scheme. The general rule still applies that it is difficult for a
‘new’ spouse to claim reversionary pension rights.
52
SW Sub No 71
Evidence, p 509




CHAPTER 15:
MOVING THE GOAL POSTS - INCREASING THE
PENSION AGE FOR WOMEN
Moving the goal posts - increasing the pension age for women
Over half of all countries have the same pensionable age for
women as for men: the remainder usually retire women 5 years
earlier than men, despite women's longer life expectancy. In
Western countries this disparity relates to the traditional pattern of
men marrying women 3-5 years younger than themselves.
However, in Eastern countries, the practice of early retirement for
women is seen as a reward to women for carrying the double
burden of two full-time jobs, those of employee and home maker.1
The new position
15.1 As at June 1994, the number of aged people (over 65) in Australia was
2 109 109, comprised of 1 195 695 females and 913 414 males.2 The Economic
Planning Advisory Council report Australia's Ageing Society, predicts that the
number of aged people will rise to more than 5 million by the year 2051, when
more than one person in five will be over the age of 65.3
15.2 In Australia, age pensions have been paid to women from the age of 60
years and to men from the age of 65 years since 1909. It is a non-contributory
payment, subject to income and assets tests. As of June 1995, 1 578 698 people
were receiving the age pension. Of those, 1 034 127 were women and 544 571
4
were men.
15.3 However, a decision to raise the pension age for women to 65 years was
announced in the Government’s 1993-94 Budget Statement. The policy was
given effect by amendment of the Social Security Act 1991 by the Social
Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994, which received Royal
Assent on 12 July 1994.
Sheila Peace cited in Perry J, The Social Security Review: Income Support for Older Women. Discussion
Paper No 27, 1988, p 11
Australian Bureau of Statistics Catalogue No. 3103.00, Australian Demographic Statistics September
Quarter ‘94
Clare R, and Tulpule A, Australia’s Ageing Society. EPAC Background Paper No 37, Jan 1994, p 18
Department of Social Security, DSS Quarterly Survey yet to be published in DSS Clients - A Statistical
Overview 1995


15.4 According to the Commonwealth Department of Social Security, the
decision to raise the pension age for women was taken in the context of:
• significant increases in women’s labour force participation over recent
decades and changed community expectations about women’s
attachment to the labour market;
• women’s increased superannuation coverage; and
. demographic projections which point to a significant ageing of the
Australian population by the second decade of the next century, with
subsequent impact on age pension outlays.5
15.5 Over a 20 year phase-in period, from 1 July 1995 until 1 January 2014,
women’s pension age will increase by six months every two years. By 1
January 2014, men and women will both be eligible for the age pension at age
65 years. Table 15.1 details the phase-in timetable and the number of women
expected to be affected. Some examples of how the amended legislative
arrangements will impact on women are set out below. For example, a woman
born:
. between 1 July 1935 to 31 December 1936 will be eligible to apply for an
age pension once she has reached the age of 60 years and 6 months, that
is, a woman born on 3 August 1935 reaches pension age on 3 February
1996;
• between 1 January 1946 to 30 June 1947 will be eligible to apply for an
age pension once she has reached the age of 64 years, that is, a woman
born on 3 February 1946 reaches pension age on 3 February 2010;
• on or after 1 January 1949 will be entitled to apply for the age pension
once she has turned 65 years of age, which will be on or after 1 January
2014.
15.6 In 1995/96, around 12 000 women are expected to be affected in the first
two year period by the raising of the pension age for women from 60 years to
60 years and six months.6 Table 15.2 indicates the expected reduction in annual
average number of female age pensioners until 2014-15.
SW Sub No 92
Department of Social Security, SW Sub No 92


Table 15.1:
Pension age for women
Source: SW Sub No 92 - Department of Social Security
Table 15.2:
Expected reduction in annual average number of age pensioners (‘000)
7
Source: SW Sub No 92 Supp. - Department of Social Security
15.7 The transition to a common retirement age is expected to save the
Commonwealth $400 million.8
Figures conform with those supplied
Older Women’s Network of Australia, SW Sub No 32


15.8 Evidence presented to the Committee’s inquiry suggested a mixed
response to the increase in the female pension age. In light of the past
experiences of women in providing for their retirement, many viewed the
change as either undesirable or too rapid in its implementation whilst others
saw that it was in accordance with moves towards equality on other fronts.
15.9 The comments of Mrs Evatt, of the Foreign Service Families
Association, presented at the public hearing in Canberra, strongly suggested
that the position one took on this issue was influenced by one’s expectations
about his or her working life. She informed the Committee that she ‘did not
think it is at all realistic to expect that old age should be 65 for women ...
[women] have not had an equal pattern of employment’ and that she could not
envisage seeing women in the workforce until 65. However, she continued that:
if my daughters, who are 20 and 18, were sitting here, and you asked them this
question [about raising the pension age for women], I think they would
probably answer you differently ... the next generation - my daughters - may
well say "Well, why can't I work until I am 65?’ For me it does not seem a
realistic thing, but it will be different for them and for all of this next
generation.g
15.10 The arguments in support of the increase in the pension age for women
include:
. it increases equality between the sexes;
. it enhances the potential for women to accrue additional savings and
superannuation benefits from extended working lives; and that
. women’s greater longevity justifies an increase in women’s pension age.
Will the change increase equity between the sexes?
15.11 A number of witnesses, such as the AMP and LIFA, argued that raising
the pension age for women was appropriate on the grounds of achieving equity
between the sexes.10 This would be consistent with moves in other areas to
eliminate discrimination.
15.12 This view was supported in a qualified manner by the Minister for
Women’s Affairs in Victoria. It was argued that:
Evidence, pp 479,480
Evidence, pp 248, 246-7
10


a uniform pension for men and women is in line with equal
opportunity principles and therefore desirable. However, there are
certain cohorts of women who have either lacked the opportunity
to acquire work experience and marketable skills or have chosen
not to do so because they see their primary role as home makers
and care givers. ... A raised pension age for women needs to be
carefully phased in, and an acknowledgment made that some
groups of women, particularly those have for most of their lives
been working as unpaid carers, will continue to need a benefit of
some kind."
15.13 The Minister acknowledged that the prevention of discrimination on the
grounds of age was a necessary corollary to increasing the retirement age of
women.1" This position was strongly supported by the New South Wales
Cabinet Office which stated that any raising of the pension age for women
should be linked to improvements in work opportunities and outcomes for older
women. They also suggested that the New South Wales policy of promoting the
integration and protection of older workers should be recognised and applied
on a national basis.1 ’
15.14 The raising of the pension age for women on the grounds of equity was
strongly disputed by a number of others who argued that the inequalities that
women suffered in employment, savings and superannuation opportunities
prior to retirement meant that equalising the pension age was far from creating
a situation of equity.14 Instead, treating the different life experiences of men
and women in a like fashion, and hence increasing the pension age of women to
that of men, was to entrench the disadvantages women had faced during their
working lives.
15.15 Most forcefully, Ms Smit and Ms Adamson of the Women’s Action
Alliance submitted that to increase women’s pension age would ‘breed
inequality’, as the increased pension age does not acknowledge the role of many
women as carers.15 Mr Ottley of the Combined Pensioners Association argued
that it was these caring responsibilities that had been the justification for the
12
13
14
SW Sub No 66 (emphasis added)
SW Sub No 66
SW Sub No 41
For example, Hodgins R, SW Sub No 63
Evidence, p 49
15


difference in pension age between men and women since the introduction of a
Commonwealth age pension.16
15.16 Ms Margo Canavan presented herself as a case in point. While she
accepted that ‘the government has done a tremendous amount to remove
inequality and discrimination from many avenues of life’, she remained
disadvantaged. Most males of her generation had spent at least 20 years
continuously in the workforce and have advanced further in their careers and
earnings. Despite joining the workforce in 1965, breaks in her work pattern
caused by illness and the marriage bar meant that Ms Canavan would retire
with ‘super worth very little’.17
15.17 It was therefore argued that a lower retirement age for women
compensated them for very real disadvantages faced during their working life,
including the double burden of job and household tasks and generally lower
pay and qualifications. To increase it would not enhance equity between the
sexes.
15.18 The Catholic Women’s League Australia (CWL) noted that the unequal
accrual of superannuation between men and women meant many men were able
to retire at age 60 or even 55 without recourse to an age pension, while for the
majority of women, this option was not available. This therefore raised the
question of whether treating men and women equally resulted in actual equality
and challenged the role that equity played in the decision to phase-in a higher
• r* 18
pension age for women.
15.19 The Older Women’s Network, noting that the Government expects to
save $400 million through the change, questioned whether there is an economic
motive for the change. At the public hearing in Canberra, Senator Chamarette
argued that there is a pretence that equality of retirement age is for equity
reasons, when it is better characterised as an economic problem.19
15.20 The CWL was supported by Soroptimist International of the South West
Pacific in the view that, if the main reason for the change was to achieve equity,
then it might be more appropriate to decrease the retirement age for men. “0
Both the Women’s Action Alliance and the CWL argued that this was
16
Evidence, p 266
SW Sub No 3
18 SW Sub No 6
Evidence, p 460
SW Sub Nos 6, 23
20


particularly appropriate in light of high unemployment.21 The latter suggested
that the Commonwealth should lead the way.2"
Does the increase provide an opportunity for women to accrue additional
savings and superannuation benefits?
15.21 AMP presented the view that raising the pension qualifying age would
increase the workforce participation rates of females, because 60 years would
no longer be considered as the ‘normal’ retirement age.23 The Department of
Social Security supported this position, arguing that raising the pension age
sent a clear message to employers and the community at large that the
Government did not endorse early retirement for men or womens4
15.22 This change, Ms Sylva of LIFA argued, would provide women with the
opportunity to work longer if they so wished.2'^ This was supported by Mr Cole
of LIFA who stated that there had been a significant increase in the labour force
participation rate of women over 50 years of age26 and Ms Martin of the
Institute of Actuaries who cited anecdotal evidence that a higher pension age
removed an incentive for retiring earlier than an individual might otherwise
do.27
15.23 Ms Pagnon of the Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants
and Dr Tapen Sinha of the Bond University School of Finance argued, in turn,
that the additional time available to accrue occupational superannuation would
assist working women to achieve higher benefits."8
15.24 However, both the ability to obtain employment and/or to accrue
additional resources was disputed. Ms Johnson of the NSW Branch of the Older
Women’s Network pointed out that while the assumption is that working
between 60 and 65 allows increased savings, her personal experience did not
bear this out.29
SW Sub Nos 15,6
SW Sub No 6
SW Sub No 55
SW Sub No 92
Evidence, pp 246-7
Evidence, p 259
Evidence, p 161
SW Sub No 30, Evidence, p 344
Evidence, pp 179-80


15.25 The Older Women’s Network also questioned the capacity of women in
the 60-65 age range to remain in or obtain employment and argued that there
was an ‘obvious and continuing disadvantage older women face in the labour
market’.30
15.26 According to the Network, over a 27 year period there has been a 12 per
cent increase in labour force participation for women aged between 55 and 59
years and is projected to rise from 36.8 per cent in 1992 to 42.3 per cent in the
year 2005. It was noted that this was well below the current participation rate of
males aged 55 to 59 which is 74.7 per cent. Participation rates for women 60
and over had declined slightly.’1
15.27 The Network argued that the DSS projection that 78 per cent of those
women otherwise eligible for the age pension would continue working in either
a full-time or part-time capacity was an over-estimation and that, while labour
force participation was increasing, it was hardly at a rate that warranted a
staged adjustment to pension age eligibility.32
15.28 The submission of the Combined Pensioners and Superannuants
Association of NSW echoes similar concerns, claiming the increased pension
age totally ignores the realities of the labour market. The Association claims it
is extremely hard for women over 40 to obtain appropriate employment, let
alone when they are over 60 years of age.JJ Unqualified, separated and
divorced women and widowers were likely to be most disadvantaged by the
need to return to the workforce/4
15.29 This view was supported by the Country Women’s Association of
Australia and Ms Canavan, who asserted that older women pay the penalty of
being unfairly assessed as ‘past their prime’ and so are far less likely to obtain
employment than men.35 This may also be the case for older men.
15.30 The position of carers was particularly noted by Ms Kathryn Brown of
the Queensland Council of Carers who informed the Committee that ‘re-entry
into the labour market [for carers] is simply not a reality’.36
SW Sub No 32(b)
ibid
SW Sub No 32
SW Sub No 36
Cox E, Evidence, p 307
SW Sub Nos 49, 6
Evidence, p 315


15.31 Mrs Simpson of the Combined Pensioner Association also questioned
comments such as those presented by LIFA about the increase in the workforce
by women in the older age groups. She stated that the Australian Bureau of
Statistics labour market figures consider someone who has worked for more
than an hour or two each week as being employed.37
15.32 The Committee notes that there are trends within the community which
are inconsistent with official attempts to encourage women to remain in the
workforce. Economic restructuring and recession have led to increased levels
of unemployment amongst older workers, many who would be best described
as discouraged workers rather than as early retirees.38
15.33 In addition, as pointed out by Mr Blyth of the Trustee Corporations
Association of Australia, the trend in industry is to encourage employees to
retire younger:
the social environment seems to be saying to people ‘y°u have
worked 35 or 40 years. It is time for you to retire’ ... a lot of our
large institutions are not encouraging their people to work beyond
5 5.39
15.34 The conjunction of economic, social and retirement incomes
developments have resulted in a trend towards gradual decline in the labour
force participation by those aged between 55 and 64. This has been consistent
throughout developed countries and Australia offers no exception.40
15.35 Two submissions pointed out recent changes to policy which recognised
the difficulties for older members of the community to gain employment and
therefore supported an argument against the increase in the pension age for
women. The Women’s Economic Think Tank drew attention to the policy
outlined in Working Nation to exempt those over forty years of age with little
workforce experience from having to look for work.41
15.36 The other change, identified by the Victorian Minister for Women’s
Affairs, was the introduction of a special allowance for those unemployed who
are over 55, in recognition of the fact that there is very little likelihood of their
37
Evidence, p 275
8 Clare R, and Tulpule A, Australia's Ageing Society’, EPAC Background Paper No 37, Jan 1994, p 45
Evidence, pp 97, 99
Clare R, and Tulpule A, op cit
SW Sub No 73
41


finding employment. The Minister noted that amongst this group will be
women who will have little or no work experience.42
15.37 This is not to deny that there are those, both male and female, who may
wish to extend their working lives.
Robbing Peter to pay Paul - need for alternative financial support
15.38 The Committee received evidence that, in light of the difficulties many
older women are likely to experience in gaining/maintaining employment, the
increase in pension age would create a need for income assistance in those
years between the cessation of employment and pension eligibility if a
reasonable standard of living was to be maintained.4j
15.39 The Victorian Minister for Women’s Affairs drew particular attention to
those people who have spent much of their lives working as unpaid carers,
suggesting a special benefit be available at pension age to women working as
unpaid carers in recognition of their inability to provide for themselves.44
15.40 The Department of Social Security advised the Committee that a range of
alternative income support payments exist to assist women affected by the
increase in women’s qualifying age for the age pension. These include non-
activity tested payments such as Partner Allowance, Wife pension (for those
already in receipt of this payment), Widow Allowance, Widow B pension,
Mature Age Allowance, Carer pension, Disability Support pension and
Sickness Allowance, as well as activity tested Job Search or Newstart
Allowance. Those expected to look for work will have access to special
45
provisions.
15.41 The Department estimates that, in 1995-96, because many of the women
affected by the change belong to an age cohort whose labour force participation
rates and accumulated superannuation benefits are relatively low, the vast
majority (83 per cent) will be granted (or continue to receive) alternative forms
of income support. Around 17 per cent will be ineligible for income support
42
SW Sub No 66
SW Sub Nos 23, Soroptimist International of the South West Pacific; 28, Trustee Corporations
Association of Australia; 32, Older Women’s Network; Ryan S, Evidence, p 192
44 SW Sub No 66
45
SW Sub No 92


because either their own or their partner’s income is over the means test
thresholds.46
15.42 The tables below indicate the number of women expected to transfer
from the age pension to other payments and the percentage of affected women
that this represents.
Table 15.3: Expected transfers to other payments (‘000)47
Source: Submission No SW 92 Supp. - Department of Social Security
Table 15.4: Per cent expected to continue to receive Social Security
payments _
Source: Submission No SW-92 Supp. - Department of Social Security
ibid
Figures conform with those supplied
47


15.43 It could be argued then that this is an exercise of ‘robbing Peter to pay
Paul’ with little gain and which will result in a great deal of anxiety and worry
for those affected. The Committee sees the availability of alternative
maintenance benefits which protect those who are unable to obtain or maintain
employment as vital. It is perhaps lack of awareness by many of those who will
be affected of the availability of these payments, and their fears about whether
or not they will be eligible, that is the cause of the anxiety.
15.44 After considering the evidence, the Committee believes that there is a
major psychological change taking place among younger women. The change
is in the perception of a women’s right to maintain full employment if she
wishes to and she is capable.
15.45 The Committee notes the position put forward by the Department of
Social Security that age pension age is often used by employers as a proxy for
retirement age.48 If the pension age for women is less than that of men, and the
pension age is, in fact, considered the retirement age, then there may be
pressure for women to retire and ‘make way for younger blood’. There is
anecdotal evidence that many women, and men, feel that they are denied
promotional and other opportunities within organisations because they are near
pension/retirement age.
15.46 We must ask the question then, why women should be disadvantaged by
this view so many years earlier than their male colleagues, particularly when
increasing numbers of women do wish to continue in the workforce either
because they gain satisfaction from their work or because the remuneration is
greater than that which they would obtain through receipt of the age pension?
Recommendation 15.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government undertake an
information program specifically targeted at those women who are likely
to be affected by the increase in the pension age which explains the change
and outlines the alternative maintenance benefits available. This should be
supported by an identified officer within the Department of Social Security
to whom women concerned about the change can seek advice.
48 SW Sub No 92


15.47 The Committee notes the argument put forward by the Victorian Minister
for Women’s Affairs, the New South Wales Cabinet Office and others, that the
prevention of age discrimination in employment as a necessary corollary to
• 49
increasing the pension age.
Does greater female longevity justify an increase in women’s pension age?
15.48 It was suggested to the Committee that because women had a greater life
expectancy it was inappropriate that they should retire earlier than their male
counterparts. In support of this proposition, Dr Tapen Sinha of the Bond
University School of Finance, suggested the longer life expectancies of women
meant ‘it makes eminently more sense’ to have the same retirement age. As we
have noted above, Dr Sinha saw this as an opportunity which would allow
women to accumulate more superannuation.50 This position was supported by
the Institute of Actuaries of Australia.51
15.49 Ms Eva Cox also acknowledged that men may feel aggrieved by the
requirement to work longer without access to the pension, particularly in light
of women’s longer life expectancy.52
15.50 As a counterargument, Ms Rhonda Smith argued that as women tend to
work longer hours, have less recreation time and much more family and
emotional responsibility than men, they ‘need to rest a little by the time they
/a? 53
are 60 .
15.51 Given the arguments presented above, in particular, that there are many
alternative forms of support for those women who are unable to obtain or
maintain employment, the Committee supports the view that women who wish
to continue their working lives should be given every encouragement to do so,
particularly since many of them will, in fact, live for many years after their
male colleagues. This has been discussed in detail in Chapter 4.
49
SW Sub Nos 62, 43
50 Evidence, p 344
SW Sub No 61
Evidence, p 307
SW Sub No 19
53


Given the change, is the phase-in period appropriate?
15.52 Given the reality of the increase in the pension age for women, a number
of submissions and witnesses addressed the length of time for the phase-in of
the change and whether this was appropriate.
15.53 The Institute of Actuaries supported a more rapid phase-in of the pension
age increase.34 On the other hand, the Catholic Women’s League claimed that
achieving ‘any semblance of equality is going to take far longer than the 20
year phase in period.’55
15.54 Two particular groups were identified as being particularly affected by
the current schedule of the phase-in. Ms Bedding identified that the phase-in of
the higher pension age provides a particular burden for divorcees, as the laws
governing settlement prior to 1975 did not allow women to receive any part of
the superannuation.'6 Ms Morgan, of the Union of Australian Women, noted
that the phase-in period meant that some women having faced the marriage bar
will also be affected by the pension age increase.37
15.55 Ms Morgan argued that it was difficult to establish whether a delay or a
longer phase-in would improve the situation.58
15.56 For others, such as Ms Canavan, Ms Evatt of the Foreign Service
Families Association, and Ms Cox of the Women’s Economic Think Tank, the
increase in the pension age was considered an issue that would be regarded
differently by younger people, for example those born from say 1965 onwards
when opportunities for equality were greater and that therefore the phase-in
period should be deferred.59
15.57 Given the concerns relating to the impact of the phase-in, ASFA, the
Cabinet Office of New South Wales and the Older Women’s Network argued
for a process to be instigated to monitor the impact of the phase-in of the
60
pension age increase.
SW Sub No 61
SW Sub No 6
SW Sub No 1
Evidence, p 104
Evidence, p 105
Canavan M, Evidence, p 391; Cox E, Evidence, p 307; Evatt K, Evidence, p 480
SW Sub No 43, 41, 32
60


15.58 For example, the Older Women’s Network recommended that a
Reference Group be established, alongside an overall review of employment,
savings and superannuation opportunities for women over the age of 60. The
Network proposed that the Reference Group include representatives from
groups representing income-disadvantaged older women, such as the Older
Women’s Network and the Australian Pensioners and Superannuants
Federation.61
15.59 The majority of the Committee believes that the phase-in for the increase
in the pension age for women is appropriate, if the alternative benefits available
to women are maintained.
15.60 While the Committee agrees with the need to conduct ongoing
monitoring of the effect of the increase in pension age, it is also mindful of the
need to provide certainty to prospective retirees.62
Conclusion
15.61 The Committee notes that the two major parties have committed
themselves to the increase. The Democrats remain of the view that the pension
age for women should not be increased and that any inequality should be
addressed by lowering the pension age for men.
61
SW Sub No 28
Equal Opportunity Commission, Victoria, SW Sub No 21




APPENDIX A:
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
No 1 Ms Myma Bedding
No 2 Mr Davydd Shaw
No 3 Ms Margo J Canavan
No 4 Rhonda Sharp
No 5 Women in Horticulture
No 6 Catholic Women's League Australia Inc.
No 7 Office of the Status of Women, NZ
No 8 Chief Minister. A.C.T. Legislative Assembly
No 9 Dr Diana Olsberg
No 9A National Tertiary Education Industry Union
No 10 Retired Police Association of N.S.W. Inc.
No 11 Queensland Teacher's Union
No 12 Ms Andrea Malone
No 13 Playgroup Council of Australia
No 14 Ms Lesley Wynack (Department of Defence)
No 15 Women's Action Alliance of Australia
No 16 Department of Human Services and Health
No 17 Jacques Martin Industry
No 18 J and K Moore
No 19 Ms Rhonda Smith
No 20 Australian Lifewriters Association
No 21 Equal Opportunity Commission, Victoria
No 22 Ms Jackie Ohlin
No 23 Soroptimist International of the South West Pacific
No 24 Australian Education Union (Tasmanian Branch)
List of written submissions


No 25
No 26
No 27
No 28
No 29
No 30
No 31
No 32A
No 32B
No 33
No 34
No 35
No 36
No 36A
No 37
No 38
No 39
No 40
No 41
No 42
No 43
No 44
No 45
No 46
No 47
No 48
No 49
No 50
No 51
Australian Education Union (ACT Branch)
Boranup Community (Ms Valerie Marsh)
Muslim Womens National Network of Australia
Trustee Corporations Association of Australia
Mr A R Timmins
Professor Julie Marcus
Australian Federal Police
Older Women's Network, ACT
Older Women's Network of Australia
Ms Erika Alexander
Ms R J Hunter
Mr Peter Cox
Senator Christabel Chamarette
Senator Dee Margetts
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Australian Society of CPAs
Combined Pensioners & Superannuants Association of NSW
Department of Finance
The Cabinet Office. NSW
CBA Financial Services
Association of Superfunds of Australia
Australian Women in Agriculture
Mr Philip Ho
Young Labor Women's Committee
BPW Australia
Office of the Cabinet. Queensland
The Country Women's Association of Australia
Mr J B Nairn
Queensland Council of Carers Inc


No 52
No 53
No 54
No 55
No 56
No 57
No 58
No 59
No 60
No 61
No 62
No 63
No 64
No 65
No 66
No 67
No 68
No 69
No 70
No 71
No 72
No 73
No 74
No 75
No 76
No 77
No 77A
No 77B
Mr Michael Higgins
Foreign Service Families Association
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs
AMP Superannuation
Mrs Roz Lambert
Tapen Sinha
The Women's Legal Resource Centre
Union of Australian Women
Mr D Capstick
The Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS)
R Hodgins
Mr Gordon Ford
Australian Taxation Office
Victorian State Government
Australia Post
C.S. Superannuation Pty. Ltd.
The Alexander Consulting Group and the Accountants'
Superannuation Fund
Life Insurance Federation of Australia Incorporated
Rosemary Eyles
Kaye F Jenner
Women's Economic Think Tank
Anonymous
Ray Stevens
K Delphin
Australian Retirement Income Streams Association Limited
Bankers Trust Life Limited
AMP Society
II


No 11C
No 77D
No 77E
No 77F
No 77G
No 77H
No 771
No 78
No 79
No 80
No 81
No 82
No 83
No 84
No 85
No 86
No 87
No 88
No 89
No 90
No 91
No 92
No 93
No 94
No 95
No 96
No 97
Industry Funds Forum
Legal & General
GIO Australia
MLC
Rothschild Australia Asset Management Ltd
Prudential
Gerry and Natalie Gallery
Jack Bromley
The Hon. Peter Duncan MP, Parliamentary Secretary to the Attorney
General
Mr C R Collins
The Hon. Carmen Lawrence MP. Minister for Human Services and
Flea 1th
Unisuper
The Hon. Duncan Kerr MP, Minister for Justice
Mrs E Shellam
Gay and Lesbian Rights Lobby
John Berrill
HomoDefactos Assoc Inc
Assistant Minister for Industrial Relations
Sex Discrimination Commissioner
The Treasury
Luigi Iemi
Department of Social Security
Australian Education Union
Noble Park Special Development School
Textile Clothing and Footwear Union of Australia
Tasmanian Gay and Lesbian Rights Group
Office of the Status of Women


No 98
Constructive Women Inc
No 99
No 100
No 101
No 102
Laura Wright
Wandjina
Mr R B T Davison
Mr Kevin Hudson
Retirement Income Modelling Task Force
No 103




APPENDIX B:
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
List of witnesses at public hearings
MELBOURNE, 15 MARCH 1995
Mrs Joan Adamson, Member - Victorian Branch, Women’s Action
Alliance (Australia)
Mr Donald Blyth, National Director, Trustee Corporations Association of
Australia
Mr Frank Burke, Senior Research Consultant, Australian Society of
Certified Practising Accountants
Mr Graeme Glass, Director, Superannuation, Victorian State Government
Department of Finance
Mr David Goodear, Account Manager/Adviser, Jacques Martin Pty Ltd
Mr Flenry (Harry) Martin, Voluntary Adviser, Women’s Action Alliance
Ms Alison McClelland, Economics and Tax Coordinator (Hon), Australian
Council of Social Service
Ms Edith Morgan, Vice President, Member of Organising Committee,
Union of Australian Women
Ms Carol Pagnon, Certified Practising Accountant, Australian Society of
Certified Practising Accountants
Mr Ross Petersen, Assistant Secretary, Economic Policy and Reform
Branch, Department of Premier and Cabinet
Ms Jane Reynolds, Assistant Director, Office of Women’s Affairs,
Department of Justice


Mr Davydd Shaw
Ms Pauline Smit, National Secretary, Women’s Action Alliance
(Australia) Inc
Mr David Vernon, Manager, Market Development and International,
Jacques Martin Pty Ltd
Mr Murray Wyatt, Chairman, Centre of Excellence in Superannuation,
Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants.
SYDNEY, 27 APRIL 1995
Ms Anna Adams, Proprietor, Olsberg Adams and Associates
Ms Erika Alexander
Mr Peter Cox
Mr Colin Grenfell, Member, Retirement Incomes Policy Committee,
Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Ms Muriel Hortin, Secretary, Older Women’s Network (Australia)
Ms Betty Johnson, Convenor, Older Women’s Network (Australia)
Mr John Maroney, Federal Councillor, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia
Mrs Helen Martin, Member, Superannuation Practice Committee, Institute
of Actuaries of Australia
Dr Diana Olsberg, Proprietor, Olsberg Adams and Associates
Ms Susan Ryan, Executive Director, Association of Superannuation Funds
of Australia
Mr Raymond Stevens, Member, Retirement Incomes Policy Committee,
Institute of Actuaries of Australia


Mr Gerard Thomas, Policy Officer, Australian Pensioners and
Superannuants Federation
SYDNEY, 28 APRIL 1995
Mr Kevin Casey, Compliance and Legislation Manager, AMP Society
Mr Anthony Cole, Executive Director, LIFA
Ms Eva Cox, Co-Convenor, Women’s Economic Think Tank
Mr Darren Davis, Assistant Manager, Operations, LIFA
Mr Kristian Fok, Superannuation Consulting Actuary, National Mutual
Life
Ms Lynne Gallagher, Manager, Government Affairs, AMP Society
Ms Jennifer Giles, Solicitor, Women’s Legal Resources Centre
Mrs Roz Lambert
Mr Bill Ottley, President, Combined Pensioners and Superannuants
Association of New South Wales
Mrs Mardijah Simpson, Pensions Officer, Combined Pensioners and
Superannuants Association of New South Wales
Ms Louise Sylva, Member, LIFA
BRISBANE, 2 MAY 1995
Ms Kathryn Brown, Principal Community Development Officer,
Queensland Council of Carers Inc
Ms Margaret Canavan


Mrs Sylvia Laxton, National President, Country Women’s Association of
Australia
Ms Leah Mertens, Women’s Co-ordinator/Services-Welfare Officer,
Queensland Teachers Union
Mr Kenneth Moore
Mr Robert Musgrave, Chairman, LUPAC Committee
Mr Joe Nowak, Past National President, LUPAC Committee
Mr Robert Ross, Chairman, Superannuation Subcommittee, LUPAC
Committee
Dr Tapen Sinha, Associate Professor of Finance, School of Business,
Bond University
Ms Ann Tracey, Teacher/Union member, Queensland Teachers Union
CANBERRA, WEDNESDAY 31 MAY 1995
Ms Pamela Brown, Acting Director, Social Justice Coordination Section,
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs
Ms Kaye Jenner
Ms Jacqueline Ohlin
CANBERRA, 6 JUNE 1995
Senator Christabel Chamarette
Senator Dee Margetts
Mr Ray Connelly, Chairman, Australian Retirement Income Streams
Association Ltd
Mrs Katherine Evatt, President, Foreign Service Families Association


Mrs Jennifer Luck, Secretary, Foreign Service Families Association
Mr Deane Russell, Executive Director, Australian Retirement Income
Streams Association
CANBERRA, 20 JUNE 1995
Mr Ernest Day, President, Retired Police Association of New South Wales
Inc
Mr Clive Flaggar, Branch Secretary, Australian Education Union, ACT
Branch
Mr Warren Lee, Branch Liaison Officer, Australian Education Union,
ACT Branch
Mrs Fiona Langford, Administrator, Playgroup Council of Australia
CANBERRA, 27 JUNE 1995
Mr Peter Benson, Principal Counsel, Family Law Branch, Attorney-
General’s Department
Mr Warwick Bruen, Assistant Secretary, Community Care Branch,
Department of Human Services and Health
Ms Margaret Carmody, Acting Assistant Secretary, Policy Analysis and
Planning, Department of Human Services and Health
Mrs Ella Keenan, Australian Vice-President of External Affairs,
Australian Federation of Business and Professional Women’s Association
Mrs Sue Hamilton, Acting First Assistant Secretary, Corporate Services
Division, Department of Human Services and Health
Mr Richard Morgan, Senior Government Counsel, Family and
Administrative Law Branch, Civil Law Division, Attorney-General’s
Department


CANBERRA, 1 AUGUST 1995
Mr John Berril, Partner, Maurice Blackburn & Co
Ms Kaye Brown, Senior Officer, Retirement Incomes Section, Department
of Social Security
Mr Robert Dal Santo, Director, Special Superannuation Arrangements
Section, Department of Finance
Ms Shirley Douglas, Director, Retirement Incomes Section, Department of
Social Security
Mr Donald Duval, Acting Deputy Commissioner, Superannuation,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Ms Laurene Edsor, Acting Assistant Secretary, Financial Institutions
Division, Treasury
Ms Kerry Flanagan, Assistant Secretary, Retirement Programs Branch,
Department of Social Security
Ms Elizabeth Fletcher, Senior Policy Officer, Sex Discrimination Policy
Unit, Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission
Mr George Hayes, Assistant Commissioner, Business Operations Branch,
Comsuper
Mr Doug Kentwell, Director, Child Disability Allowance and Carer
Payments, Department of Social Security
Mr John Larkin, Director, Policy, Policy Legal and Actuarial Group,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Mr David Lindsay, Assistant Secretary, Commonwealth Employees
Superannuation Branch, Department of Finance
Mr Michael Monaghan, First Assistant Commissioner, Australian
Taxation Office


Dr Darryl Roberts, Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Ms Anne Scahill, Gay and Lesbian Rights Lobby NSW Inc
Mr Kenneth Searson, Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer,
Comsuper
Mr Ian Silk, Industry Funds Forum
Mr Greg Smith, First Assistant Secretary, Financial Institutions Division,
Treasury
Ms Susan Walpole, Sex Discrimination Commissioner, Human Rights and
Equal Opportunity Commission




APPENDIX C:
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
List of committee reports
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992) Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the
Life Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and
Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
and the Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992
(4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
- Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervisory Levy (May 1993)


Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Fees, Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry
into the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation
Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervision Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Privilege Matter Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill
(December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated
Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Super
for Housing (May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs I (August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs II (November 1994)


Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Guarantee - Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Allocated Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super and Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No 478 Of 1995
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
