

Sixth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super -Fees, Charges
and Commissions
June 1993
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia




Sixth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super — Fees, Charges
and Commissions
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
June 1993


© Commonwealth of Australia 1993
ISBN 0 642 19278 2
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members
Address:
Telephone:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
(06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




CONTENTS
Contents
Page iii
Members of the Committee. i
Contents. iii
List of Recommendations.v
Chapter 1 Introduction. 1
Chapter 2 Consumer Case Studies. 7
Chapter 3 A Case for Disclosure. 19
Minority Report Senator Cheryl Kernot . 55
Appendices
A. Terms of Reference . .. 57
B. Table of Complaints. 59
C. List of Submissions re On-going Inquiry
- in Numerical Order. 67
D. List of Submissions re On-going Inquiry
— in Alphabetical Order . 75
E. List of Witnesses re On-going Inquiry.83
F. LIFA Statement on Reforms. 89
G. Glossary. 99




LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS:
List of Recommendations
Page v
(Chapters 1 and 2 do not contain any recommendations)
Recommendation 3.1:
The Committee recommends that information provided to potential policy
holders be presented in a brief and standardised format which will allow
consumers to compare different products. (This information would be in
addition to the more detailed contractual information.)
The Committee further recommends that the brief and standardised
information include:
• a written description of each investment option facing the consumer
and an outline of the general policy and strategy of the fund;
• a written description of all fees and charges, (including any initial,
ongoing and/or termination fees/charges) and, where these are
variable, the minimum and maximum charges;
• details of any penalties which may be imposed on early termination
of the policy and the method of calculating these charges; and
• details of the dispute resolution process which can be accessed if the
consumer believes the advice or information provided may be
inaccurate.
Recommendation 3.2:
The Committee recommends that, in conjunction with investment
information, a 'needs analysis' based on the consumer’s individual
circumstances and preferences should be carried out and retained by both
the life office and the consumer as verification of advice to the consumer.


Recommendation 3.3:
The Committee recommends that the ISC encourage the adoption by the
industry of standard clauses within promotional material and contract
documentation and the adoption of plain English documentation.
In implementing this policy, appropriate material for consumers from a
non-English speaking background should also be developed.
Recommendation 3.4:
The Committee recommends that life insurance agents disclose both
orally and in writing the amounts of commission, as well as other benefits
that accrue to them, as a consequence of the sale of personal and group
superannuation products.
Recommendation 3.5:
The Committee recommends that any new commission disclosure scheme
applying to life insurance agents be reviewed by an appropriate Senate
Committee within three years.
Recommendation 3.6:
The Committee recommends that, to distinguish the role of the different
types of agents and life brokers, agents should be required to disclose:
• the organisations with which the agent holds agency agreements;
• whether the agent is acting for the life office(s) with which the agent
holds agency agreements and the nature of the fiduciary relationship
with the life office;
• whether the agent is remunerated in whole or in part by commission
on behalf of the life offices for selling the companies' life products;
• whether the commission will be paid from charges imposed by the
policy; and
• the manner in which early surrender charges will be calculated.


Recommendation 3.7:
The Committee recommends that the Prices Surveillance Authority
closely monitor the level of fees, charges and commissions applying to
superannuation products and report on its activities in this area in its
Annual Report to Parliament.
Recommendation 3.8:
The Committee recommends that the Insurance Contracts Act be
amended such that the term 'free look period' is replaced by 'cooling off
period1 and made to apply to all personal superannuation plans.
Recommendation 3.9:
The Committee reiterates its recommendation in Safeguarding Super that
an external review body be established to adjudicate on superannuation
disputes.
The Committee further recommends that Governments proposed dispute
resolution tribunal adjudicate on consumer complaints arising out of
personal superannuation contracts entered into after 1 July 1992 where
these have not been satisfactorily resolved at the company or industry
level.
Recommendation 3.10:
The Committee recommends that the ISC and key superannuation
industry groups representing the interests of consumers and providers,
combine to develop and implement a five year superannuation consumer
education strategy for implementation in early 1994.
Recommendation 3.11:
The Committee recommends that consumer counselling services be
provided by the ISC in each of the capital cities and major regional
centres.


Recommendation 3.12:
The Committee recommends that the industry establish and maintain an
agent registration system, together with a code of conduct to be approved
by the ISC.
Recommendation 3.13:
The Committee recommends that the ISC report annually on
developments in the area of agent registration and that in three years an
appropriate Senate committee inquire into and report on this matter.


CHAPTER 1 : INTRODUCTION
Introduction
All the major players, including the agents, life offices, the
Government and the consumers have committed themselves
to reform- Each shareholder must be prepared to be flexible
about the detail of change and its implementation.1
1.1 This report completes the Committee's deliberations on the original 17
terms of reference embodied in the resolution of the Senate on 5 June
19912 which established the Committee (see Appendix A). It deals
principally with Term of Reference (g):
the level and structure of fees and commissions charged in relation to
superannuation fund membership and asset management.
1.2 It also covers some matters under Term of Reference (h): 'the
information available to members of superannuation funds', other aspects of
which were dealt with in the Committee's first report, Safeguarding Super.
1.3 Since its appointment, the Committee has reported on its 17 terms of
reference according to five themes:
• the regulation of superannuation, which was addressed in the
Committee's first report, Safeguarding Super;
• the depth and breadth of superannuation coverage, which was covered
in the second report, Super Guarantee Bills, and a background paper
entitled Super System Survey;
Justice Paul Stein, Chair National Consumer Affairs Advisory Council.
SSCS Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992,
pl43.
In reappointing the Committee on 13 May 1993 the Senate resolved that
the Committee should complete this term of reference.


• the impact of superannuation on the financial sector, which was
covered in the Committee's third report, Super and the Financial
System, which also addressed the problem of unfunded liabilities in
public sector superannuation;
• the inter-relationship between superannuation and the fiscal and social
security systems, which was covered in the fourth report, Super —
Fiscal and Social Links-, and
• fees, charges and commissions relating to the provision of
superannuation. This matter has been addressed in a number of
reports and issues papers.
1.4 Table 1.1 lists the Committee's reports and papers against the relevant
terms of reference.
Table 1.1 List of Committee Reports and Papers presented to the Senate


Conduct of the Inquiry
1.5 The inquiry into fees, charges and commissions has been a protracted
process which began in March 1992 when the Committee first took oral
evidence from representatives of the life insurance industry in Melbourne.
The evidence which followed reflected that there is a high degree of polarity
amongst the various interest groups regarding the solutions which could be
implemented to bring about more competitive and thereby more efficient
structures of fees and charges in the sale of personal superannuation
products. The material which the Committee gathered and presented in its
interim report to the Senate on 3 June 1992 indicated that the level of initial
commissions on many products appeared to be excessive with average initial
commissions on some products as high as 60 per cent. Subsequent evidence
showing high cancellation rates and low surrender values as a consequence
of these seemingly high initial commissions focussed the Committee on
developing solutions to make personal superannuation more equitable and
portable. In Chapter 3 of this report these solutions are examined in detail
and recommendations for reform have been formulated.
1.6 The Committee was greatly assisted by the work of the Trade Practices
Commission in conducting research and preparing a report on the sale of
personal superannuation products. This report, and the seminar which the
Committee convened in conjunction with the National Consumer Affairs
Advisory Council and the Trade Practices Commission which was attended
by more than 100 participants from industry, consumer and government
agencies, also assisted in focussing the Committee on key issues and
desirable outcomes in this critical aspect of superannuation.
1.7 The Committee generally welcomes the response of the industry to the
recommendations proposed by the Trade Practices Commission and the nine
options which the Committee proposed in its Super Charges issues paper.
It would appear that the drawn out process, in which a high level of


community debate has occurred, has resulted in the formulation of policy
which will assist in the achievement of sound long term retirement incomes
goals.
The Place of Personal Superannuation in Retirement Incomes Policy
Changes in Policy
1.8 Traditionally, retirement incomes policy in Australia has had two
components: the provision by government of an age pension funded from
consolidated revenue and private superannuation plans supported by tax
concessions. However, for most of the period since 1908 the emphasis has
been on the age pension.
1.9 On several occasions unsuccessful attempts have been made to replace
the non-contributory pension with a national superannuation scheme funded
by earnings-based contributions from all employees. The first of these
initiatives occurred in the 1930-39 period and was embraced by both Labor
and non-Labor governments. The second, which was introduced in 1945, was
funded by an additional personal income tax by employees and a payroll tax
paid by employers which were credited to the National Welfare Fund and
called a 'social services contribution'. In 1950 this contribution was merged
with the income tax system and from 1952 payments from the National
Welfare Fund were financed by appropriations from consolidated revenue.
Thereafter, the fund was merely an accounting device until its abolition in
1985.
1.10 Historically, private pensions have largely been the preserve of
members of the white collar and the professional workforce. Broadly-based
occupational superannuation did not achieve any real prominence until 1986
when the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, at the request of the
Government and the trade unions, decided that it would formally approve
agreements between employees and employers relating to contributions to
approved superannuation funds in lieu of wage increases, up to a maximum
of three per cent. The next major development in the extension of
occupational superannuation occurred when the Parliament passed the
Superannuation Guarantee legislation which provided that all employees
receive a minimum coverage of nine per cent contributions by 2002. A large
proportion of the moneys arising from award and SGC superannuation has
been deposited in the rapidly expanding industry funds. Notwithstanding the


thrust towards universal work-based superannuation coverage, many
members of the workforce still need to make their own superannuation
provisions.
1.11 The self-employed and those employees who wish to 'top up' SGC or
award superannuation, continue to purchase personal superannuation plans,
although a small percentage contribute additional funds to an industry
scheme.
Personal Superannuation Plans
1.12 Personal superannuation plans, which are sold by life offices and other
financial intermediaries such as banks, have grown out of traditional life
insurance products. These products constitute about 12.5% of funds held by
financial intermediaries and premium income from them in 1991-92 was
reported as being $14 bn. According to the 1991-92 ISC Annual Report, at
the end of 1991 there were 2.87 million superannuation policies in force with
an asset backing of $66 billion.
1.13 Life insurance offices have also played a key role in providing
administration, funds management advisory services, and death and disability
cover to the emerging industry superannuation schemes.
1.14 The Trade Practices Commission (TPC) in its report on Life Insurance
and Superannuation identified the following categories of individual life
office products which are sold by approximately 50 life insurance companies
registered under the provisions of the Life Insurance Act 1945:
• risk products,
• savings products,
• conventional products,
• single premium products, and
• annuities.3
1.15 It is the savings product that has been the focus of consumer
complaints to the Committee. Under this product arrangement consumers
contribute for an extended period, usually between ten to 35 years. Early
3
Trade Practices Commission, Life Insurance and Superannuation 1992, p 92.


surrender or cancellation of the product often attracts a penalty charge and,
as a consequence, the value of the payout is lower than accumulated
premiums and interest. In defending this outcome, life offices claim that the
lower than expected amount reflects the fact that it is in the early years of
a policy's life when agents are remunerated. Selling these products through
an agency system on a commission basis is a longstanding arrangement in
the life insurance industry.
1.16 Consumer groups have questioned whether, in the context of large
scale compulsory superannuation, these methods of remuneration and
product design are appropriate to the needs of those who purchase
superannuation plans. This report examines the place of personal
superannuation in current retirement incomes policy and recommends
changes to increase the quality and quantity of information available to
consumers with the objectives of promoting greater industry efficiency and
increased consumer equity.


CHAPTER 2
CONSUMER CASE STUDIES
Consumer Case Studies
In practice, unrestrained competition will not always produce the best
possible economic and social outcomes. Some markets have impediments
which tend to distance the competitive process and these investment,
consumption and production choices. In those cases, market failure is said
to occur.4
2.1 The following material was received as evidence by the Committee
from consumers who had experienced difficulties in transacting business with
providers of superannuation plans. The case studies are a representative
cross-section of a large number of consumer complaints received by the
Committee which were a high proportion of total submissions (see
Appendix B).
2.2 These case studies illustrate the unequal bargaining power which exists
between consumers and providers in the personal superannuation industry
and demonstrate that reliable and accurate information on all material
aspects of each product has often been sadly lacking. These are themes
which frequently arise in this report and underpin a number of the
recommendations of the Committee.
Mr N Renton and Westpac
Submission No 8
2.3 Mr Renton claimed that Westpac breached a contract by imposing a
new fee midstream during a policy, despite promoting the fund on the basis
that members would not be subject to charges bar the ones stated in its
prospectus. While conceding that the money involved was 'minuscule', Mr
Renton took umbrage at the principle involved in so far as this unilateral
4
Op cit, Trade Practices Commission, p 77.


action could open the way for Westpac to impose any level of new fee at
whim: 'Why stop at $10 per half-year? What is to stop the Bank of its own
volition charging $100 or $1 000'. Mr Renton believed that the Bank's failure
to consult policy holders prior to the charge and its about face on the
prospectus statement, were both illegal acts.
2.4 Furthermore, Mr Renton's protest was met with a response from the
bank that dissatisfied customers could take their business elsewhere. Mr
Renton asserted that this left him short-changed because of the impact of
the new fee on his contributions.
2.5 Westpac responded in the following way:
Following a further review of your file, we have re-instated your benefit to
96.461 units. Future management fees of $10.00 per half year will also be
waived.
We have reached this decision because of the unique nature of the timing,
and your method of entry, into this Fund via Employees Provident Fund.
Would you please acknowledge your satisfaction with this arrangement, on
the duplicate of this letter.5
Mr D Schwarz and Capita/MLC
Submission No 17
2.6 Mr Schwarz claimed that Capita (which was subsequently taken over
by MLC) provided misleading information with respect to the surrender
value of his policy. On taking out the policy, Mr Schwarz submitted he was
advised that when members elect to leave a fund you [members] may have
91 per cent of the value of the funds held immediately, or you may have 100
per cent of your funds paid back over two years in monthly instalments —
during this two year period, you receive a fund earning rate three per cent
less than [what] continuing members receive'. This discounted rate of return
is in addition to normal fees and expenses deducted from members' funds
over the two year period.
5 Letter to Mr Renton of 22 July 1992


2.7 Mr Schwarz's specific complaint was not so much over the penalty
surrender rate for early withdrawal, but relate to the advice he received
from MLC when joining the fund. He claimed to have been advised that
only in exceptional circumstances is the penalty surrender rate imposed.
However, Mr Schwarz was subject to this penalty surrender rate when he
withdrew his investment. He claimed also to have met a *bureaucratic brick
wall' when he attempted to obtain an explanation from MLC as to the
circumstances resulting in the penalty rate.
2.8 It should be noted that the Capita/MLC promotional information
submitted by Mr Schwarz was explicit regarding early surrender values but
was vague regarding the 'exceptional circumstances' mitigating the surrender
rate. Capita/MLC stated that surrender values 'may be less than the total of
premiums paid'. It also stated that 'Capita would only implement these
conditions [that is, the penalty surrender rate] when it considers such action
necessary or desirable in respect to the interests of all policy holders in
No. 1 Fund generally'. Under ISC Circulars 276 and 290 [clause 4.2(d)], it
is necessary for the circumstances giving rise to the imposition of the
surrender rate to be spelt out with clarity.
2.9 MLC's reply stated that the marketing material said nothing about
'exceptional circumstances' and that 'Capita would only implement these
conditions when it considers such action necessary or desirable in respect to
the interests of all policy holders in the No. 1 Fund generally.'
2.10 MLC further stated that the settlement conditions referred to by Mr
Schwarz had nothing to do with agent commission and were closely designed
'to reflect the underlying assets during the period of the investment.*6
Mr G Hearn and MLC life
Submission No 24
2.11 Mr Hearn was forced into early retirement due to invalidity. Since he
was ineligible at his age for the retirement pension, he and his wife were
dependent on the returns of his superannuation investments and his wife's
income. Mr Hearn's early retirement meant he had to transfer his
6
MLC letter to the Committee dated 22 July 1992.


superannuation policy into a rollover fund. In addition to taxes, Mr Hearn
incurred a five per cent commission charge of $10 000. As he will be obliged
to transfer this superannuation investment at age 65, he feared he will be
faced with similar charges again.
2.12 Because Mr Hearn's invalidity required his wife to nurse him, Mrs
Hearn has been forced to work only part-time. This has resulted in her
inability to pay the premium on her own personal superannuation policy.
The arrears on her premium payments have incurred 14 per cent penalty
charges, the cumulative effect of which will whittle away all her contributions
within ten years. While the Hearns conceded Mrs Hearn's policy statement
made reference to this penalty charge, they have expressed grievance with
the agent who sold the policy for not alerting them to it. Compounding the
Hearns' grievance was the life insurance company's response to their
inquiries being relayed via the agent who sold the policy, despite the agent's
conduct being a subject of their complaint.
2.13 Mr Hearn also alleged that one of his sons was sold a life insurance
policy by an agent on the basis of misleading information. The sales agent
was said to have exaggerated the benefits generated by the policy by
extrapolating the fund's gross annual performance rate over the policy
lifespan without taking account of charges, tax and likely inflation. Coupled
with this 'sales hype' was the obscure and complex language and jargon used
by the agent and the company's promotional material.
2.14 Subsequent to the Committee secretariat conveying Mr Hearn's
allegations to the company now administering the above mentioned policies,
the Committee was advised that:
... the policy of Mr Hearn's wife has now been 'paid-up'. No further
premiums are required. Arrears of premiums and interest have been
written off ... The policy on the life of Mr Hearn's son is not a
superannuation policy. It has recently been surrendered and paid out.
2.15 The company concerned also noted that it both publishes investment
returns net of tax and charges, and endorses the disclosure requirements
contained in ISC Circulars 290 and 291.
2.16 Notwithstanding the apparently satisfactory outcome in the case of
Mrs Hearn's superannuation policy, the Committee notes that the company's
response failed to account for both the agent’s conduct and the companys


continued reliance — until the Committee's intervention — on the agent as
its medium for addressing the Hearn's complaints. This study underscores
the importance of the general requirements in ISC Circular 276 and 290
[clause 4.2(d)] that life companies and sales agents disclose explicitly all
charges in general and penalty fees in particular.
Mr Foley and National Mutual
Submission No 99(a)
2.17 As in the case of Mr Renton, Mr Foley claimed that National Mutual
(NML) imposed unilaterally a charge on withdrawals, despite promoting its
Superguard Plus vehicle as having no entry or exit fee provisions. Unlike the
Renton case however, National Mutual's contract stated that the company
reserved the right to impose this sort of additional charge (which it called
a buy-sell ratio'). Against this point, Mr Foley claimed that the information
provided in promotional brochures was too difficult for the 'average client'
to understand, thus nullifying the benefit to the consumer of the 14 day free
look period. Mr Foley also noted that in response to client protest over the
buy/sell ratio, NML withdrew the fee.
2.18 National Mutual's response to these claims stated that since the
buy/sell ratio is a term of the policy, 'clients have a 14 day free-look period
[which] means that they have an opportunity, even after purchasing the
policy, to fully digest its terms, including those terms which allow National
Mutual to impose certain conditions at a later date'; ipso facto, 'the 14 day
free-look period ... enable[s] the client to rescind the contract'.
2.19 National Mutual also stated that the wording of its policies is neither
misleading nor unnecessarily complicated. The Committee observes,
however, that a number of case studies magnify the importance of both up-
front disclosure of the possible likelihood of new charges being imposed
during the life of a policy, and the need for this eventuality and the likely
circumstances leading to it to be expressed clearly, and referred directly to
the consumer.


Mr Foley and National Mutual
Submission No 99(b)
2.20 Mr Foley claimed that a major cause of dissatisfaction with certain
superannuation plans is the failure to communicate, on an on-going basis,
the various fees and charges. He submitted that in some employer sponsored
superannuation schemes, which are promoted by life offices, employers and
employee members understand clearly the amount contributed to the plan
each month. However, many perhaps most members are unaware, if ever
told, of the details of fees and charges for administration, insurance, life and
disability cover, contributions tax, statements, cheques drawn, transfer to
another fund and transfer of portfolio, within the fund. He further claimed
that the conditions relating to the transfer of funds from National Mutual
Tailored Super to another life office or other approved provider were
expressed in such a way that their real impact was not appreciated. It was
submitted that members in this plan were required to pay 2.5 per cent of
their accrued benefit to transfer from managed funds to capital guaranteed
portfolios and that apparently they had not been informed of this prior to
making an election on joining the fund.
2.21 National Mutual contested these claims by stating that their technical
documents and annexures which were provided in contractual
documentation, and annexures to members applications, did itemise the
charges associated with a transfer of funds. National Mutual further
submitted that Mr Foley had raised issues covered in the trust deed and that
the setting of certain charges was the responsibility of the trustees, not
National Mutual.
2.22 This case highlighted the need for a clearer delineation of powers and
duties between the promoter/life office, the employer/client and the
employee as regards the setting of fees and charges. It was yet another
instance of the need to give careful consideration to the idea of having all
fees and charges relevant to membership of a superannuation plan itemised
in a simply expressed one page schedule at the front of any proposal or
contractual documentation.


Mr Toohey and the AMP
Submission No 220
2.23 Mr Toohey, on retiring at 55 years of age in 1989, transferred his
superannuation investment into a rollover fund. He was advised by the
superannuation and financial adviser, who was also an agent for the
company, that the following charges would apply to the rollover fund:
2.24 On this basis, Mr Toohey invested $340 000, the entry fee on which
amounted to just over $10 000 or approximately three per cent of the
investment.
2.25 As Mr Toohey proposed to use this fund as the source of his yearly
livelihood, he withdrew $27 000 in January 1991 and $30 000 in November
1991, the latter sum being intended to cover his living expenses for 1992.
Following the latter withdrawal, Mr Toohey received an account statement
from his company setting out the charges related to his two withdrawals.
Included in the charges was a hitherto unmentioned charge called an 'Effect
of Adjustment Index on Debit Transaction' fee of $3 027.88. Mr Toohey
claims that, when combined with the stated withdrawal fee, this adjustment
fee in effect obliterates the interest-bearing return of his investment and will
force him to draw down on his capital more quickly than he had allowed for.
2.26 Reinforcing Mr Toohey's claim that neither the company's promotional
material nor the agent had referred to this 'midstream' fee prior to the sale,
Mr Toohey's inquiries with the adviser who had sold him the policy about
the adjustment index fee were in vain — the adviser stated he was unaware
of this charge.7
2.27 AMP submitted that Mr Toohey had incorrectly ascribed the word
'fee' to the Adjustment Factor Index and submitted that the index had been
explained in the original sales brochure as a mechanism to reflect changing
unrealised asset values.
7 Mr G. Condon, Sub No 270.


Retired Police Association — NSW (RPA) and AMP8
2.28 The RPA claimed that the rollover fund to which its members belong,
AMP Capital Secure Deferred Annuity, had imposed a new fee on
withdrawals from this fund. Calling the fee an 'adjustment factor', it applies
retrospectively to members who joined the fund after March 1990.
Withdrawals from the fund will be subject to both withdrawal fees and the
adjustment factor fee (as well as tax).
2.29 In response to complaints from members, AMP agreed to waive the
new charge if no withdrawals were made before members reach age 65
years. However, as the RPA argues, this concession is meaningless for those
who had based their retirement income streams on regular withdrawals from
this fund.
Mr L Sadowsky and National Mutual
Submission No 238
2.30 Mr Sadowsky purchased a long term personal superannuation plan
from National Mutual. He deposited a small single premium into the plan
and undertook to pay $130 per month thereafter. After three years
contributions he decided to transfer his accumulated benefit to an employer
sponsored fund.
2.31 Mr Sadowsky informed the Committee that an administrative charge
of approximately 23% might be made if the funds were transferred.
2.32 He claimed that when he purchased the policy at no time was it
emphasised that, after the qualifying period (said to be two years), would he
receive less than the full amount of contributions should he roll the money
into another fund.
2.33 National Mutual responded that the administration charge was based
on terms and conditions in the original policy document, but conceded that
it would appear that the termination charges may not have been clearly
8 RPA Newsletter, June 1992, p 1.


explained to Mr Sadowsky at the point of sale. National Mutual undertook
to arrange an interview with Mr Sadowsky to ascertain what charges were
explained to them when he purchased the policy as well as other
information pertinent to the complaint.
2.34 This case highlighted the need for an optimal flow of quality
information between the agent and the consumer when private
superannuation plans are purchased. It also demonstrates the need for
simply presented and standardised information itemising all fees and charges.
Mrs K Trotter on behalf of the Gap P & C Association
Submission No 269
2.35 Mrs Trotter informed the Committee that her school employed a
tuckshop convenor two days a week for approximately 39 weeks each year.
She estimated that there would be six months when the tuckshop convenor
would earn more than $450 per month and therefore be entitled to SGC
superannuation coverage.
2.36 She contended that the shop would be obliged to put $91 into a
superannuation fund which over the full year would charge $69 (or
approximately 75% of charges) in insurance and administration fees.
2.37 This case, and a number of others considered by the Committee,
highlights the need for a low cost mechanism to cover employees who
experience discontinuous workforce participation. In its first report,
Safeguarding Super, the Committee recommended that a central fund for
lost members be established and that persons in irregular or changing
employment have the option of rolling over contributions to this low cost
fund.
2.38 In its response of 17 December 1992, the Government acknowledged
the need to maximise the prospects of these employees receiving their
entitlements and, subsequently in their package of prudential control bills,
proposed to establish a register of 'lost members' to address this problem.
The May 1993 package of Superannuation Industry Supervision Bills further
proposes that tax file numbers be used to allow unclaimed benefits to be
paid. As well, the legislation provides for the establishment of 'eligible
rollover funds' into which unclaimed benefits or lost member funds can be


deposited. The Committee believes that administration charges still have the
potential to eat away superannuation benefits for those in irregular
employment and/or with more than one employer. Accordingly, the
Committee anticipates further reviewing this problem.
Ms H New and Scottish Australia
Submission No 274
2.39 On entering employment in the clerical industry Ms New was advised
that her three per cent SGC contributions would be handled through an
insurance policy negotiated with Scottish Australia. Evidently the employer
did not wish to contribute to an industry scheme. Having been informed that
the company would not receive less than $100 in premium, Ms New agreed
to 'top up' the policy by making a personal contribution of $70 per month.
2.40 After 12 months contributions Ms New joined the Tasmanian Public
Service and believed that she could roll over her full contributions to that
employer's fund. Scottish Australia informed her that she was entitled to
only five per cent of her contributions and advised that she maintain her
policy, contribute $1200 per year and pay $36 per year administration
charges.
2.41 Following the receipt of a letter advising them of adverse evidence,
Scottish Australia investigated Ms New's complaint and advised that it
acknowledged that the policy had not been to Ms New's advantage and that
it had agreed to cancel it from inception. The company further advised that
it had not hidden any fees or charges from Ms New who, it claimed, also
had a responsibility to read the written material provided.
2.42 This case demonstrated that those in an employment situation where
there exists no award provision for SGC contributions to be deposited in a
low cost employer-sponsored or industry fund, there is a strong likelihood
that the Governments retirement incomes objective of self provision will be
frustrated. The possible disharmony between SGC and award arrangements
is a matter which the Committee could examine at some future juncture.


Mr M Collins and Mercantile Mutual life
Submission No 275
2.43 Mr Collins informed the Committee that when he redeemed his
insurance bonds he specifically asked the companies concerned not to notify
the selling agents of his decision. On being subsequently contacted by an
agent representing Mercantile Mutual, Mr Collins wrote to that company
and LIFA registering his complaint.
2.44 Mercantile Mutual responded apologising for any inconvenience
caused by the error. It submitted that copies of termination certificates
prepared for clients are automatically generated and sent to their agents. In
their haste to finalise the redemption, Mercantile Mutual had omitted to
suspend the automatically generated letter.
Ms R Clarke and Mr R Webb and Friends Provident
Submission No 293
2.45 Ms Webb and Mr Clarke purchased personal superannuation policies
from Friends Provident Assurance Company Limited. They contributed to
the policies for a period of four years. In February 1992, they inquired about
rolling over the policies to another financial institution. Having been
informed that the surrender values of the policies would be substantially less
than total contributions and interest they claimed that they were not advised
of on-going or early termination charges at point of sale.
2.46 Friends Provident contended that the agent had given an illustration
showing the effect of costs and charges on the values of the policy and that
the LIFA Complaints Review Committee could not decide in the favour of
Ms Webb and Mr Clarke.
Conclusion
2.47 These case studies, whilst being only a small fraction of total consumer
complaints and disputes which arose during the inquiry, demonstrate the
breadth and depth of consumer problems in the personal superannuation
area. Recent ISC annual reports to the Parliament also manifested these


problems. For example, in its 1988-89 report, the ISC reported that it had
received 232 written and 680 telephone complaints and enquiries, adding
that a large proportion concerned individual superannuation plans. The
report also noted that low surrender values in the early years were mainly
due to the initial marketing expenses, that is, agent commission.
2.48 The 1989-90 report showed a deepening problem with 300 written
complaints and enquiries and 800 by telephone. The ISC again reported low
surrender values combined to make up a large proportion of complaints.
The ISC noted that unless a breach of its Act had occurred, little could be
done to assist complainants, however, the report went on to outline progress
in the development of a three-tiered dispute resolution mechanism which
would be run by the industry.
2.49 The 1991-92 report, whilst not identifying actual numbers of consumer
complaints, further describes the industry complaints review mechanism and
developments within the TPC and the industry to improve the quality of
advice given by life agents.
2.50 The Committee notes with interest that the ISC took a 'symptomatic'
as opposed to a 'causal' approach to consumer problems, preferring to
rectify problems when they occurred as opposed to implementing forward-
thinking structural reform. To this end, in the next chapter the Committee
expounds on its view that the way to solve these consumer problems is to
attack the cause of the problem not merely treat the symptoms.


CHAPTER 3
A CASE FOR DISCLOSURE
A Case for Disclosure
The 1990s, I think, will have to involve restructuring from
the demand side. In fact we can say that one of the effects
of deregulation and restructuring the supply side is to
provide more choice. But, if consumers are not in a position
to have sufficient information to exercise that choice, then
9
clearly efficiency in the workplace is not going to occur.
The Issues
Superannuation Policy
3.1 If superannuation is to play its full part in the provision of retirement
income, it is essential that contributions, premiums and fund earnings be
conserved to the greatest practicable extent. Any avoidable outgoings place
a brake on the accumulation of benefits. For this reason alone, the level of
fees, charges and commissions paid by funds and/or contributors needs to
be monitored to ensure that benefits are optimised.
3.2 Moreover, from the large number of complaints received by the
Committee10, both directly and through consumer bodies, as well as press
reports and anecdotal evidence, it is clear that there is a public perception
that fees and, in particular, commissions, are excessive and hidden in many
cases. Whether this perception is justified or not is open to argument, but
its existence is not. The Committee believes that excessive fees and
commissions were the norm in some sections of the industry and although
the problem still exists, in recent times competitive pressures have reduced
these charges significantly.
9 Professor Bill Melody, op cit, Proceedings: Super Consumer Seminar, pllO.
10 Appendix 1 contains a table which summarises the nature of each consumer
complaint received by the Committee.


3.3 Now that superannuation is virtually compulsory, the integrity of its
providers is clearly a matter of public concern, as are any adverse
perceptions which have the capacity to undermine that integrity.
3.4 As would be expected, the complaints covered a wide range of
problems, but one theme predominated - the high level of up-front
commissions paid on regular premium savings or superannuation products
sold by life companies and the consequent high cancellation, exit or transfer
fees. Other aspects of essentially the same problem were the failure at the
time of purchase to disclose, or explain adequately, the impact of the
commissions and fees, difficulties in understanding the 'fine print' in policy
documents and the inadequacy, or sometimes complete absence, of
responses to complaints and requests for explanations on termination.
Consumer Complaints
3.5 The ISC, the industry's regulator, does not have a specific brief to
investigate and resolve individual consumer disputes. Moreover, the sudden
growth brought about by the introduction of award superannuation and the
complexities brought about by frequent changes in taxation and other
operating requirements so stretched the Commission's limited resources that
effective action in this area was out of the question. Now that the ISC has
the resources and the Government proposes to legislate for a statutory
review/dispute resolution mechanism, consumers of superannuation will be
in an enhanced position.
3.6 The general area of consumer complaints was a difficult one for the
Committee. Although its terms of reference were broad enough to permit
it to examine individual complaints and make recommendations as to the
general rules that should operate, it did not have the time, the resources, the
expertise or the authority to undertake the quasi-judicial role expected of
it by many of the complainants.
3.7 It did, however, develop a routine which enabled it to gain an
appreciation of the issues involved. Submissions which reflected adversely on
individuals or organisations were withheld from publication, and forwarded
to those named for comment. Some were later published but many were
dealt with in camera. In a few cases, the Committee's inquiries led to a
satisfactory resolution of the complaints. Overall, the procedure has enabled
the Committee to come to an understanding of both sides of the problems -


and to make recommendations which should both minimise their occurrence
in the future and facilitate the resolution of those that do occur.
Fees, Charges and Commissions
3.8 In the specific area of fees, charges and commissions, the industry
exhibited some reluctance to provide the required information and it was
only after a strongly worded rebuke in the Senate that the required
information was forthcoming11. On 22 July 1992, following the receipt of
this information, the Committee convened a private hearing to discuss
further the life office view regarding the disclosure of fees, charges and
commissions. To assist the Committee's understanding of the issue, LIFA
arranged a simulation of the sale of a typical personal superannuation plan
which included a client needs analysis and discussion leading to the entering
into a contract to purchase. The Committee found this hearing to be most
informative and of considerable assistance in preparing this report.
3.9 In August 1992, the Committee published Super Charges - An Issues
Paper on Fees, Commissions and Charges in the Superannuation Industry
(the Issues Paper), which outlined some of the problems raised in a number
of case studies, gave examples of a wide spectrum of commissions and other
charges and identified the main issues for decision. The Committee used as
its point of reference the standard competitive model, which assumes perfect
information in a competitive market, and concluded that product knowledge
is the key to the effectiveness of competition. The extent of disclosure of
information is therefore a key element in market efficiency.
3.10 In March 1992, the Minister of Justice and Consumer Affairs referred
the general subject of the role life insurance agents, including consumer
complaints, problems of disclosure of information and the early termination
of agreements, to the Trace Practices Commission (TPC) and directed it to
consult with this Committee and other bodies carrying out relevant
investigations. On 4 November 1992, the Committee joined with the TPC
and the National Consumer Affairs Advisory Council in sponsoring a one-
day seminar on consumer issues affecting the insurance and superannuation
industries. This seminar, which was attended by more than 100 participants
from a wide cross-section of the industry, was a most useful exercise in
11 Senate Hansard, 3 June 1992, p 3351, Interim Report on Fees, Charges and
Commissions, June 1992,


information sharing and analysis. The Committee, in reporting to the Senate
on 12 November 1992,12 tabled the proceedings of the Seminar.13
3.11 The TPC published its report Superannuation and Life Insurance in
December 1992. The Committee believes that the TPC report provides an
excellent survey of the issues and endorses the general thrust of its
recommendations.
3.12 The Committee has had the benefit of all of these studies and
activities as well as a most useful set of commentaries from the major
providers and consumer bodies.
3.13 There is general agreement among consumer groups, life office agents
and the personal superannuation industry that super products should
become 'more competitive', that is, that more diversified products should be
offered to meet individual circumstances and also that the costs and other
relevant features of these products should be disclosed to allow a greater
and more flexible consumer choice. It is also generally acknowledged that
the provision of more information will lead to increased competition and
industry efficiency.
Life Insurance Industry
3.14 The period under review has not been an easy one for the life
insurance industry. The industry, along with other financial intermediaries,
has encountered considerable difficulties generating high rates of return on
investments, especially those with a high property weighting. A number of
witnesses expressed their concerns on this matter and informed the
Committee of their decision to cancel policies and receive a lower than
expected benefit. Compounding this problem, and also causing an outflow
of funds from life offices, were the financial difficulties being experienced
by a large number of policy holders which had resulted in the cancellation
of many regular premium superannuation plans. The problem of policy
discontinuance has been compounded by the removal of certain tax
concessions from employee SGC 'top up' superannuation. Table 3.1, which
shows data on policy discontinuance rates in personal superannuation
12 Super Consumer Seminar, Senate Hansard, 12 November 1992, p 2927.
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, November 1992.
13


collected in 1992 by the TPC, illustrates the extent of policy surrenders. For
example, if the data is representative of the industry as a whole, after four
years 21 per cent of policies would have been discontinued.14 Table 3.2
shows the overall impact of these discontinuances in dollar terms.15 Table
3.3 shows the long term trends in policy discontinuances for the period
1982-91.
14 Op cit, Trade Practices Commission, p 72.
15 Insurance and Superannuation Commission, Annual Report, 1991-92, AGPS,
Canberra, p 16.


Table 3.1
Cumulative Policy Discontinuance Rates
Table 3.2
Superannuation Business - Annual Premiums


Table 3.3
Discontinuances - Forfeiture and Surrender Rates
Source: Insurance & Superannuation Commission Annual Reports
Notes
Forfeiture rates (ordinary & superannuation) are defined as the annual premiums forfeited in a year expressed as a percentage of the
mean of new annual premiums written over a two year period ending six months earlier.
Surrender rates (ordinary) are calculated as the ratio of the total annual premiums discontinued by surrender in the year shown to the
mean of the annual premiums in force at the beginning of the two previous years.
Surrender rates (superannuation) are calculated as the ratio of total annual premiums discontinued by surrender in the year shown to
the total premiums in force at the beginning of the year.


3.15 The life insurance industry has undergone considerable staff and
organisational restructure. During the inquiry a number of offices
announced plans to rationalise staff and make substantial changes in market
strategy. The industry, in keeping with trends in the other financial
institutions, manufacturing and service industries has experienced its own
brand of microeconomic reform.
3.16 Whilst it could be said that much of the restructuring has occurred in
the context of a general economy-wide trend, the need for the restructuring
is also a consequence of poor strategic planning and ineffective management
by the industry. In respect of the latter point the Committee records its
concern that some sections of the life insurance industry adopted investment
practices contrary to sound diversification. In the strategic planning domain,
attempts by some offices to engage in overly-aggressive marketing practices
whereby some consumers were sold products which neither suited their
needs nor matched their premium paying capacity, have also contributed to
current problems. Under these conditions it was inevitable that, as soon as
low returns or financial hardship prevailed, significant rates of policy
surrenders would be experienced.
3.17 The industry watchdog, the ISC, reported to the Parliament on the
trends in policy cancellation. However, whilst no doubt it was aware of the
seriousness of some of the marketing practices (and the consequent results
by way of policy discontinuance), nowhere in its annual reports to the
Parliament is this concern expressly mentioned. The Committee believes it
is necessary that the ISC under its strengthened and enhanced charter adopt
a more critical, independent and forward-looking position in overseeing the
life insurance industry, advising both Government and the Parliament of any
undesirable trends or practices and recommending legislative intervention
should this be required.
3.18 The advent of compulsory superannuation has resulted in a lower
demand for the traditional personal superannuation products. The removal
of some tax concessions, which greatly assisted the sale of life products, has
placed further pressure on life offices.
3.19 In the interests of stability, it is of critical importance that the industry
and the Government agree on a package of reforms which will both restore
consumer confidence and engender greater efficiency. If this reform is not
achieved it is likely that the Government's overall retirement income policy
objectives will be thwarted.


3.20 The Committee is pleased that the industry has acknowledged that
reform is both necessary and desirable and it commends LIFA on its May
1993 package of reforms (see Appendix F) which should result in more
efficient market practices and enhanced returns for superannuation savers.
However, the matter of disclosure of agent commission has not as yet been
resolved and the Committee believes that the Government should implement
change in accordance with Recommendation 3.4 of this report.
Current Disclosure Practice
3.21 Disclosure of information is currently provided for under regulation
and in ISC guidelines.16 Under the new disclosure guidelines which have
applied since 1 July 1992, a fund must provide its members with information
concerning:
• its investment strategy and earnings;
• details of any investments which account for more than 5 per cent of
its assets;
• the names of trustees, investment managers or other financial advisers
or consultants;
• the fund's crediting rate and reserving policy; and
• fees, charges and other expenses.
3.22 In his October 1992 statement on prudential supervision of the
superannuation industry, the Treasurer indicated that disclosure guidelines
will be further examined in the context of the review of three current
inquiries:
Through these measures, members will be better informed about the
operation of their fund and will be able to evaluate its performance.
Currently there are inquiries being conducted by the Trade Practices
Commission and the Senate Select Committee, which are examining issues
related to the marketing of life insurance and superannuation products. In
addition, the ISC is reviewing the Life Insurance Act. The appropriateness
16 OSS Reg 17 and ISC Circulars 276, 290, 291.


of the disclosure regime at the point of sale will be reconsidered by the
Government upon the completion of these inquiries'.17
3.23 While the information required to be disclosed to consumers has
increased, concerns remain about the timing of product information, the
clarification of industry terminology and the disclosure of fees and
commissions. In the Committee's view these are areas for enhanced
requirements for the disclosure of information, which will result in increased
competition and greater consumer protection.
3.24 According to the Roy Morgan Research Centre (RMRC) survey
commissioned by the TPC, the most important source of information and
advice for consumers is oral advice and information from life agents and
intermediaries. Of the 517 recent purchasers of life insurance and
superannuation products who were surveyed, two thirds (68 per cent) used
this source and almost half (42 per cent) considered this as the most useful
source.18
3.25 The research also found that consumers were inadequately informed
about most of the seventeen categories of relevant information. The survey
asked respondents what issues they discussed with the agent or adviser,
which issues they would discuss today, whether the agent had told them
about the issue and whether the issue had either not been mentioned or
they could not recall. The results, which were classified by five possible
responses from consumers, are shown in Table 3.4.
3.26 Consumers indicated on average they had asked about two of the 17
relevant categories of information as listed in Table 3.4, while nine had been
told to them by the agent and five were not discussed. For example, the
least mentioned information included commission arrangements between
agent and the company (65 per cent did not mention), who they should
complain to about problems with the policy (53 per cent), product
performance comparisons between funds (41 per cent) and exit fees
(36 per cent).
3.27 The survey conducted by Consensus Research for LIFA sheds further
light on the key role that agents play in advising in the sale of
17
18
John Dawkins, Strengthening Super Security, AGPS, Canberra, p 13.
RMRC, Report for the TPC on Consumers' Experience with Life Insurance
Offices, November 1992, p 3.


superannuation plans. In that survey of over 2000 consumers: 92 per cent of
respondents said that their agent was honest, four per cent disagreed; 85 per
cent expressed satisfaction with the advice, nine per cent expressed
dissatisfaction; and 80 per cent said that appropriate policies had been
marketed, 14 per cent disagreed.19 In this context, it is worth noting that
in the U.K. one of the 'observable trends' in the life insurance market is that
'reputation' is a key determinant of consumer choice of agent and product
provider.20
19 Op cit, Proceedings of Super Consumer Seminar, p 37.
20 London Economics, Independent Financial Advisors and the Impact of
Commission Disclosure, October 1992, p 5.


Source: Roy Morgan Research Centre (RMRC), Unpublished material prepared for the TPC.21
21 Roy Morgan Research Centre (RMRC), Unpublished material prepared for the
TPC.


3.28 In light of these findings and recommendations made to it, the
Committee believes that additional information should be given at the point
of sale.
Recommendation 3.1;
The Committee recommends that information provided to potential policy
holders be presented in a brief and standardised format which will allow
consumers to compare different products. (This information would be in
addition to the more detailed contractual information.)
The Committee further recommends that the brief and standardised
information include:
• a written description of each investment option facing the consumer
and an outline of the general policy and strategy of the fund;
• a written description of all fees and charges* (including any initial, on-
going and/or termination fees/charges) and, where these are variable,
the minimum and maximum charges;
• details of any penalties which may be imposed on early termination
of the policy and the method of calculating these charges; and
• details of the dispute resolution process which can be accessed if the
consumer believes the advice or information provided may be
inaccurate.
3.29 The ACA believes that any adviser should be required to keep a
written record of the consumer's financial situation and needs (as required
in the UK).22 This requirement would not involve the creation of a large
bureaucratic support network, but firms selling superannuation products
would need to maintain a file of such advice according to a standard format
as prescribed by the ISC. According to the RMRC survey, in 18 per cent of
recent life office purchases the quality of the investment decision was found
to be poor and this was associated with the source of information and
22 Sub no 227, para 7.8.


advice.23 Such a 'needs analysis' would indicate the appropriateness or
otherwise of the superannuation product sold to the consumer.
Recommendation 3.2: ' ;
The Committee recommends that, in conjunction with investment
information, a 'needs analysis' based on the consumer's individual
circumstances and preferences should be carried out and retained by both
the life office and the consumer as verification of advice to the consumer.!
Clarification of Industry Terminology
3.30 The Committee's Issues Paper suggested that the introduction of
standard terminology would assist consumers in making meaningful product
comparisons as well as their understanding of the market. In the United
Kingdom, the Securities Industries Board requires that certain standardised
phrases be used in promotional documents. A similar approach to common
terms used in the industry would benefit consumers.
3.31 Commenting on the standardisation of terminology, the ISC stated
that it:
... acknowledges that while standardised nomenclature would be useful, it
may be difficult to enforce on a legislative basis. In most areas of
commerce the legislative requirements or titles are not often used by
industry participants in their dealings with the public. Any introduction of
standardised terminology might well lead to standardisation in
communication between certain parties but not in the final interface
between the company/intermediary and the consumer.24
3.32 The Committee notes that LIFA is currently developing proposals to
simplify policy documentation and related material. These proposals should
be evaluated by the ISC with a view to their introduction, where
appropriate, throughout the industry.
RMRC, op cit, p 4.
ISC, Response to the Issues Paper; p 13.
24


Recommendation 3.3: ..
The Committee recommends that the ISC encourage the adoption by the
industry of standard clauses within promotional material and contract
documentation and the adoption of plain English documentation.
In implementing this policy, appropriate material for consumers from a
non-English speaking background should also be developed,_
Disclosure of Fees and Commissions
3.33 The range of fees payable by members of occupational and industry
superannuation funds depends on the extent to which services such as
record keeping and administration, investment management and custodial
services are contracted out or performed in-house. The market is highly
competitive for the provision of these services and costs are thereby kept to
a minimum. In addition disclosure of such fees is mandatory.
3.34 With regard to personal superannuation, that is contracts between
individuals and providers (usually life insurance offices), a range of fees is
imposed to recoup the commissions paid to agents and costs to the life
office. These may take the form of establishment fees, annual fees, exit fees
or a combination of these.
3.35 The question as to whether agents should disclose to potential
customers the amounts and bases of commissions they receive has aroused
sharp differences of opinion. The general rationale for disclosure is that it
is necessary in order to ensure that the market is fully informed, a
prerequisite for being fully competitive. There are, however, a number of
more specific reasons for disclosure.
3.36 The traditional life insurance industry was dependent on a marketing
system based on commission payments to agents, or 'consultants', who
operated as independent businesses, some tied to one company, others
independent. While there is only limited objective evidence available, the
system lent itself to inefficiencies in establishment and operating costs. The
most telling evidence is that which points to high rates of policy surrenders
and low policy surrender values indicating substantial leakages from the


retirement income flow. Certainly, the time spent on unsuccessful one-to-one
canvassing had to be paid for out of commissions on successful sales. As
companies tried to build market share, they tended to increase benefits to
agents, either through higher commissions or through other devices such as
very low interest loans. One submitter informed the Committee that, in
addition to renewal and asset based commissions, some agents received
'overwrite' commissions based on aggregate production which can be as high
as 70% of the initial commission.
3.37 The question the Committee asks is, where there is a standardised
product type, why, in the context of a compulsory superannuation
environment, which may be extended at some future juncture to include the
entire workforce, including the self-employed, is it necessary for anyone to
pay hundreds or even thousands of dollars for the privilege of taking out a
superannuation policy? However, the Committee affirms that, consistent
with any award or employment contracts, those members of the workforce
who wish to purchase superannuation plans should still be free to choose a
product of their choice, regardless of its front end commissions or other
charges.
3.38 Commissions on regular premium superannuation products are
sufficiently large as to be the dominant factor in the setting of exit fees or
surrender values on discontinued contracts, particularly in the early years.
As noted previously, this was the principal area of complaints to the
Committee and, in some cases, over 90 per cent of the first two years'
premiums were absorbed in this way. As more than half of all super policies
are discontinued within six years, the scope for misunderstanding at best and
deception at worst, is obvious. Increased levels of disclosure at the outset
would, by allowing for comparison of advisory service costs, assist in
minimising these problems.
3.39 Information presented to the TPC shows that more than two-thirds of
purchases of superannuation products relied on oral information presented
by the agents and about the same proportion knew the agents prior to the
commencement of the discussions.26 It is quite apparent, therefore, that
personal factors, such as trust, friendship, integrity and the like, play a major
25
The joint submission of 5 March 1993 from the Australian Society of CPAs and
the Institute of Chartered Accountants (Joint CPA submission), p 5.
RMRC, op cit. pp 3-5.
26


part in clients' attitudes to agents. This being so, a reminder that the agent
is the representative of, and is legally accountable to, the company rather
than the client would be appropriate. Recommendation 3.6 addresses this
matter.
3.40 Both the companies and the agents have supported the existing system
on the grounds that the agent performs a valuable task in the provision of
financial advice, geared to long-term planning. It was submitted that this is
a highly skilled function and one worthy of adequate reward.27 If this is the
case, then the adviser has a duty to inform the client of the 'fee' payable for
the advice, just as the client has a right to know the charges. The client
would then be in a position to compare the advice, and its cost, with that
available from professional investment advisers operating on a fee-for-
service, rather than a commission, basis. In any event, the argument falls
down completely since the commission is paid on the sale value, rather than
the time spent.
3.41 Finally, full disclosure of commissions would inhibit, if not completely
eliminate, the practice of 'twisting', that is advising the client to surrender a
policy in order to take up a new one, thereby earning the agent a new
commission. It would also assist customers to make a rational choice when
a number of different products are offered by the same company. At
present, there is a strong temptation for agents to promote those products
which earn the largest commissions. This practice is referred to in industry
jargon as 'commission bias'.
The TPC Inquiry
3.42 The TPC inquiry recommended that all insurance intermediaries
should be required to disclose the amounts of commission and other benefits
payable by the supplier as a result of the sale of superannuation products.
In arguing this case the TPC also pointed to 'commission bias', whereby the
level of commission influences the type of product recommended by the
agent. The Committee agrees that the level of commission has the potential
to influence the marketing strategy employed by some agents and that a
greater openness by agents, and an expectation on the part of consumers to
be made aware of all relevant costs associated with the sale of
superannuation plans, would virtually eliminate this bias.
27
LIFA, sub no 114, p 27; Australian Lifewriters Association, sub no 49, p 2 and
submission to TPC, pp 3-4.


3.43 In conducting its inquiry, the TPC commissioned a number of
consumer surveys and a series of analytical studies, one of which was
conducted by the investment adviser, Mr Daryl Dixon. Mr Dixon's research
made conclusions about the quality of decisions for a sample of recent
purchasers. He found that on a five point ranking scale ranging from
'excellent' to 'very poor' that 81 per cent of recent purchasers made average
or better decisions while 18 per cent made poor or very poor decisions.
3.44 The TPC compared Mr Dixon's ratings with the information provided
to customer data (see table 3.4) and concluded that:
there appeared to be a strong relationship between the quality of the
purchase decision and being 'told' about commission arrangements. Those
who were told about commission arrangements made an 'excellent' decision
three times more often than those who recorded 'didn't mention'28
Australian Law Reform Commission Report No 59
3.45 The Australian Law Reform Commission (ALRC) report No. 59 on
Collective Investments: Superannuation concluded that disclosure of
commissions 'will assist people to be aware when buying a policy of any sort,
what the benefit is to the seller'. The ALRC therefore recommended that
life agents selling superannuation should be subject to the same disclosure
requirements as the Corporations Law which provides for disclosure to the
client by the adviser of any interest which may be capable of influencing a
recommendation, and of any benefit which may flow to the adviser from the
recommendation.29
Definitions of ’Commission' and 'Disclosure'
3.46 The view that commissions should be disclosed was generally
supported by consumer groups. It was suggested that the disclosure of
commissions would help consumers make rational and informed choices as
to the appropriate product for their individual circumstances. For example,
the ACA recommended disclosure of commissions at both pre-contractual
28 Op cit, Trade Practices Commission, p 98.
ALRC, Collective Investments: Superannuation, 1992, p 8.
29


and contractual stages.30 It was also suggested that disclosure would allow
comparisons between different products and with other products of a similar
type.
3.47 LIFA stated that greater disclosure of fees and charges 'would assist
potential superannuation fund members make as informed decision as
possible'.31 During the inquiry LIFA further contended that it:
does not believe that a potential policy holder or superannuation fund
member needs to know what the agent or sales person receives by way of
remuneration in order to make an informed decision.32
3.48 A difficulty with commission disclosure is in its definition as
commissions paid to agents can take many forms. For example, LIFA stated:
does it [commission disclosure], for instance, include non-cash
remuneration, which is not uncommon in many industries including the life
insurance industry. If, for disclosure purposes, commission was defined in
purely cash terms, the potential for avoiding disclosure by remunerating
agents with non-cash benefits is patently obvious. Even where an agent's
remuneration is in cash, this often takes many different forms such as
retainer plus commission, office allowance etc.'33
A further difficulty is the complexity in calculating commissions for products
other than single premium policies.
3.49 These problems can be directly addressed by the inclusion in
legislation of a definition of 'commission' sufficiently broad so as to
encompass these variations and establish the relationship between companies
and agents. For this initiative to be successful, it is essential that the ISC and
the industry liaise and strike an appropriate outcome.
3.50 The Issues Paper noted that current guidelines require disclosure of
fees and charges for some life products. The requirements provide that
regular premium products must state the effect of all charges, including
30 ACA, sub no 227, para 4.1.
31 Sub no 114, p 31.
32 ibid, p 32.
ibid
33


commissions, on policy benefits34. However the ISC guidelines do not
require commissions to be identified separately.35 In responding to the
Issues Paper, the ISC reaffirmed its policy that regular premium products
must state the effect of all charges including commission. The ISC further
submitted that it was examining the issue of commission disclosure and that
it was participating in the TPC inquiry.36
3.51 The position of LIFA, whilst it is under review, is that 'all fees and
charges will be disclosed, as well as the effect thereof on benefits'.37The
Committee believes that, whilst this regime is a sound one in respect of
giving consumers information about the products being sold, it falls short of
allowing them to make independent and informed judgements about the
motives of the agent selling the product and the cost of the financial advice
prior to sale. The latter point is one which the Office of Fair Trading (UK)
also holds. It believes that commission disclosure, or 'price transparency', will
enhance competition on price and quality amongst financial advisers.38
3.52 In view of the unequal bargaining regime between life offices and
consumers as illustrated in the case studies in Chapter 2 and analysed in
paragraphs 3.33 to 3.51 the Committee believes that additional disclosure is
necessary.
Recommendation 3.4:
The Committee recommends that life insurance agents disclose both orally
and in writing the amounts of commission, as well as other benefits that
accrue to them, as a consequence of the sale of personal and group
superannuation products.
34
ISC Circular 276
35 Sub no 151, p 35.
36 Submission No 151, Additional material of 17 November 1992, p 17.
37 See Appendix F, p 84.
38 Op cit, London Economics, p 1.


3.53 But any moves towards increased disclosure should only be made after
appropriate consultation between the industry and the regulator, the ISC.
The regime which is promulgated should not place insurance agents in a
position whereby they are the only party in the superannuation industry with
a duty to disclose the cost of their services. In this regard all providers of
superannuation products will also need to disclose costs which materially
affect the price and returns of the product and/or the way in which it is
marketed.
3.54 The Committee believes that the fluidity of the superannuation
industry is such that new product types will be developed with a view to
avoiding this new commission disclosure regime. The role of the industry
watchdog, the ISC, will be critical in ensuring that new growth products
reflect both the spirit and the letter of the new requirements thereby
ensuring that high standards of consumer welfare are upheld.
3.55 Any new and more detailed disclosure regime should be regularly
reviewed by the ISC and reported to the Parliament for examination by an
appropriate parliamentary committee.
Recommendation 3.5;
The Committee recommends that any new commission disclosure scheme
applying to life insurance agents be reviewed by an appropriate Senate
Committee within three years.
3.56 The Committee stresses that, whilst, commission disclosure by agents
and other parties is an important issue, it is not the only issue and it has at
times distracted attention from more fundamental considerations of critical
long term importance.
Disclosure Standards Consistent With Agency Relationship
and Statement of Relationship
3.57 In its submission to the Committee, the Attorney General's
Department stated that:


Consumers often complain that subsequently they discover that they have
been sold products which are inappropriate to their circumstances because
the sales person was either swayed by influences such as commissions
rather than their needs or lacked the professional skills to provide
adequate advice'.39
3.58 Similarly the ACA stated that it was very hard for consumers to assess
the independence and appropriateness of the 'advice' they receive which
meant that they 'are very susceptible to exploitation and that the role of the
intermediary is critical'.40 Because existing guidelines do not require
disclosure of the nature of the agency relationship, consumers can be
confused as to the status of agents when they are described as 'independent'
advisers.
3.59 In the Australian market place, there are four types of agency
relationships: sole agent, first option, multi-agent and life broker. It should
be noted that current guidelines do not require the agent to provide
information regarding the type of agency relationship he or she has with the
life office. However, as was pointed out by the Attorney General's
Department41 and Mr Michael Fetch42 the non disclosure of a
commission by an agent selling superannuation products to a principal
(client) would be an offence under the secrets commission provisions of the
criminal codes in the States and Territories.
3.60 The Attorney General's Department submission took care to point out
that these provisions do not apply to situations where the person receiving
a commission is the agent only of the provider of the superannuation
package. These provisions do not, therefore, comprehensively cover the
disclosure of fees, charges and commissions, as the greater majority of
personal superannuation sales involve agents who have life office
principals.43
39
Sub no 107, p 32.
40 Sub no 227, Attachment, p 5.
41 Submission no 107, Supplementary material of 19 August 1992.
42 Submission no 228.
43 Op cit, Attorney General's submission, p2.


Sole Agents
3.61 Typically a sole agent represents only one life office. Although the sole
agency agreement requires the agent not to hold an agency with any other
life office, the agent may offer products sourced from the parent company
or its subsidiaries or other approved companies. The Trade Practices
Commission estimates that 50% to 60% of regular premium insurance is
distributed through the agency system.
First Option Agents
3.62 First option agencies allow the agent to offer products from other
companies at the agent's discretion but there is usually a requirement that
they not offer other products which compete with those of their principal
life office.
Multi-Agents
3.63 Multi-agents have agency agreements with several life offices. The
advantage of the multi-agent arrangement for the agent is that it allows the
agent to select from products offered by a wider range of companies. The
number of multi-agents grew rapidly in the 1980's mainly as a result of
decisions of some of the smaller life offices to move away from the sole
agency approach to marketing.
Life Brokers
3.64 The majority of life brokers operate in the corporate market where
they arrange group life and managed funds for corporate superannuation
schemes. They play only a small role in the regular premium superannuation
market. Life brokers charge a fee for advice provided.
Towards Increased Disclosure of Agent-Principal Relationships
3.65 The Committee agrees with the ACA that agents should disclose their
agency relationship at the outset 'as either a sales representative or an
independent adviser and which company [or companies] they represent as
required in the UK.'44
44
Sub no 227, para 7.7.


3.66 These disclosure requirements will ensure that consumers are aware
of the agents' status and relationship with life offices. The statement of
agency relationship should be included at the beginning of the 'needs
analysis' to verify that the consumer was informed as to the particular
agency arrangement.
3.67 This approach flows from the concept of 'polarisation' of the type of
agent providing the advice. The Issues Paper suggested that to ensure that
agents or advisers provide impartial, objective financial advice it would be
necessary for agents to identify clearly whether they are 'tied' to a life
insurance company/office or are independent agents. The concept of the
polarisation of agents already operates in the United Kingdom.45
Recommendation 3.6:
The Committee recommends that, to distinguish the role of the different
types of agents and life brokers, agents should be required to disclose:
• the organisations with which the agent holds agency agreements;
• whether the agent is acting for the life office(s) with which the agent
holds agency agreements and the nature of the fiduciary relationship
with the life office;
• whether the agent is remunerated in whole or in part by commission
on behalf of the life offices for selling the companies' life products;
• whether the commission will be paid from charges imposed by the
policy; and
• the manner in which early surrender charges will be calculated.
45
G. Moon, sub no 123, p 21.


Amortising Commissions
3.68 In the Issues Paper, the Committee stated that:
To overcome the problem of high up-front commissions dissolving
contributions in instances of early termination, and to ensure that agents
provide on-going service to clients, it could be prescribed that commissions
should be amortised or spread across the life of products, or a set period,
say, ten years.46
Indirectly, the proposal would also mean that life companies would take
greater responsibility for the activities of their agents.
3.69 While this proposal would be effective in restricting the expense
'penalties' a life office can charge on early termination, these charges or
expenses would fall unevenly as between discontinuing and continuing
policyholders. As the ISC stated:
... there would be a fundamental trade off in amortising commissions in
that continuing policyholders would pay for terminating policyholders. This
is particularly relevant in mutual insurance companies (which dominate the
industry) where any cost imposed on the company falls on the
policyholders. It may be seen as unfair to consumers to impose on long-
term policyholders costs which have arisen from the decision of other
policyholders to terminate a contract early.47
3.70 The ISC also indicated that there is a trend to flatter commission
payments as life offices reduce the emphasis on initial commissions as a form
of agent remuneration.48 The Committee notes that the ISC opposed
compulsory changes to the pattern and timing of commission payments. The
Committee believes that greater disclosure, including level of commissions
and the nature of the agency relationship, will be the key determinant in
driving a competitive trend towards the spreading of commissions.
46 pp 63-64. The joint submission of 5 March 1993 from the Australian Society of
CPAs and the Institute of Chartered Accountants, whilst not arguing for
prescription, also supported this objective.
47 Sub no 151, Supplementary material, p 17.
ibid, p 18.
48


Capping Fee Levels
3.71 In response to the evidence of alleged excesses in fee levels, the Issues
Paper discussed whether it would be appropriate to impose a ceiling on the
fees and charges set by life companies. The paper concluded that this and
other proposals to restrict the level of fees:
were not supported by any detailed analysis of how restricted fee levels
would be determined, who would determine them, how they would
monitored ... and, more importantly, how this sort of direct regulation
would impact on the industry'.49
3.72 Addressing the specific proposal to set fee levels, the ISC highlighted
its potential to distort market forces and reduce competition:
There are a number of problems with attempting to impose a cap on fee
levels in industries as diverse and competitive as the life insurance and
superannuation industries. A major problem with capping fee levels, as
with most forms of artificial price fixing, is that it will reduce competition
and distort market forces. In the long run, this is likely to lead to higher
charges as companies will tend to charge the fee scale approved by the
Government. In capping fee levels, the Government will be relying on
signals from companies, who will pressure the Government to increase fee
levels in times of rising costs but not to decrease in times of decreasing
costs. Another problem with capping fees is that consumers will not be
able to use the price of a product when attempting to make a judgment on
its value relative to other comparable products.50
3.73 In a competitive market such fees and charges - the costs of managing
an investment — reflect the type, quality and extent of the services provided.
While placing a ceiling on fees would have the initial effect of stimulating
demand for life products if fees were set at an artificially low level, restricted
fee levels may lead to cross-subsidisation between product types and
consumers which would, in the longer term, outweigh any of the immediate
benefits.
3.74 The Committee accepts that life offices and superannuation funds
should be free to set appropriate fees and charges but that such fees need
49 Issues Paper, op cit, p 61.
Sub no 151 (Supp), p 11.
50


to be monitored independently to ensure that the fees and associated
charges are in relation to the services provided to consumers.
Recommendation 3.7:
The Committee recommends that the Prices Surveillance Authority closely
monitor the level of fees, charges and commissions applying to
superannuation products and report on its activities in this area in its
Annual Report to Parliament_'_, _
14-Day Cooling-Off Period
3.75 Current ISC guidelines provide for a minimum 14-day cooling-off
period51. This is designed to allow consumers the opportunity to cancel a
new policy within the 14-day period without any financial penalty. In its
supplementary submission the ISC commented that:
The introduction of the 14-day 'free look' period into the Insurance
Contracts Act arose out of a key recommendation in the Law Reform
Commission report (No.20) on Insurance Contracts' and that it is intended
to strike a balance in meeting the interests of insurers in that they need to
finalise their administrative arrangements quickly, and the interests of
policyholders in that they have 14 days in which to consider the policy.52
3.76 While the Issues Paper highlighted the high rate of discontinuance
[30 per cent according to the Rice-Kachor Research, Investment Account
Analysis] and early terminations, the industry did not believe that a higher
proportion of consumers would rescind a contract if the 14-day period were
extended to 28 days. LIFA noted that:
at least one life office offers a 21 day free-look period and there is no
evidence to suggest that a vastly greater number of consumers take
advantage of the extended 'cooling off period.53
51
ISC Circular 276 para 4.5 (a)
52 Sub no 151 (Supp), p 14.
LIFA, Comments on Issues Paper, p 7.
53


3.77 In practice, the 14-day cooling-off period commences once the
consumer receives the policy document and, in most cases, he or she will
have had time to consider whether or not to proceed with the policy before
receipt of the contract. As the ISC stated, 'this amounts to more than 14
days after a decision to purchase a contract at which time the policy holder
receives a disclosure statement'.54
3.78 The Committee believes that the placement of the 14-day cooling off
notice should take prominence on the disclosure document and be clearly
and simply expressed. In addition, in the interest of having greater
standardisation of consumer terminology the term 'free-look' period which
is found in the Insurance Contracts Act should be termed more
appropriately the 'cooling-off period.
Recommendation 3.8:
The Committee recommends that the Insurance Contracts Actbe amended
such that the term Tree look period' is replaced by 'cooling off period' and
made to apply to all personal superannuation products. _
Dispute Resolution
3.79 In its first report Safeguarding Super: The Regulation of
Superannuation, the Committee recommended the development and
publication of internal dispute resolution procedures and the establishment
of an external review body comprising an authority chaired by an
ombudsman to examine disputes where these could not be resolved
satisfactorily through internal mechanisms.55 The rationale for an external
disputes body to examine consumer complaints was to ensure transparency
and independence in the handling of complaints. A further advantage of an
independent body was that it would provide strong consumer involvement
in the management of the dispute process.
54 Sub no 151 (Supp), p 14.
Supplementary Submission, op cit, p 143.
55


3.80 New dispute resolution arrangements were announced by the
Treasurer in October 1992. These arrangements will apply to occupational
and personal superannuation products as follows:
75. Each fund will, as a condition of compliance, develop appropriate
internal arrangements for the handling and consideration of queries and
complaints in a timely manner (that is, within 90 days). The fund will also
be required to notify these procedures to members on entry and annually.
76. It will also be a condition of compliance that a fund be a party to
the external dispute resolution arrangements. Under these arrangements,
decisions will be made by a Tribunal chaired by a statutory office holder.
In addition to the statutory office holder, the Tribunal will comprise two
other persons, drawn by the Chair from a panel of fund trustees, consumer
representatives and other people with appropriate experience. These
arrangements will apply to all types of superannuation products, including
those offered by life offices.56
3.81 The need for government intervention in the dispute resolution
process is even more important now that superannuation is compulsory in
the workplace. It follows, therefore, that the proposed dispute resolution
tribunal should be given the responsibility of adjudicating on disputes arising
out of contracts entered into after 1 July 1992, the date of commencement
of the superannuation guarantee legislation.
3.82 The majority of complaints will still be resolved through internal
dispute resolution arrangements. In this regard, LIFA has instituted a
centralised, three-tiered complaints system. The procedure involves
policyholders taking their complaints initially to the company's complaints
officer. If a satisfactory outcome cannot be achieved the complaint is then
considered at a more senior level within the company. Finally, the complaint
can be referred to LIFA's Complaints Review Committee. The Review
Committee's decision is binding on the company but not on the policyholder.
3.83 According to LIFA the most common complaints relate to alleged
misrepresentation by agents followed by alleged administrative errors. These
two categories account for around 83 per cent of all complaints. This would
56
John Dawkins, op cit, p 51. Legislation giving effect to these proposals was
introduced into Parliament in December 1992 and withdrawn but was
reintroduced on 27 May 1993 in the form of the Superannuation (Resolution of
Complaints) Bill 1993.


confirm that a major difficulty in resolving complaints is verifying the
information and advice given by agents, especially if the agent gave advice
which was contrary to any promotional and written material provided by the
company. The potential for confusion by consumers about policy information
was raised by the ACA when it submitted that:
when a consumer is approached by an insurance intermediary it will often
be the first contact he or she has ever had with investment products, life
insurance or superannuation'.57
3.84 While the enhanced disclosure of information will reduce the reliance
on oral advice in the selling process, agents should also promote consumer
awareness of dispute resolution procedures (see recommendation 3.1).
3.85 The Committee considers a small minority of consumer complaints are
so serious that they constitute serious and wilful malpractice on the part of
a very small number of participants in the industry. Accordingly, in dealing
with disputes retrospective legislation is justified.
Recommendation 3 S:
The Committee reiterates its recommendation in Safeguarding Super that
an external review body be established to adjudicate on superannuation
disputes.
The Committee further recommends that Government's proposed dispute
resolution tribunal adjudicate on consumer complaints arising out . of
personal superannuation contracts entered into after 1 July 1992 where
these have not been satisfactorily resolved at the company or industry level.
Consumer Protection Initiatives
3.86 Product knowledge and competition among life offices and funds is
the most effective way of ensuring that fees and charges are not excessive.
57
Sub no 227, Attachment, p 5.


The disclosure of fees, charges and commissions and other relevant product
features will ensure that consumers are fully aware of these in making
comparisons between different products offered by life offices. Working in
tandem with this initiative there needs to be an ongoing campaign by key
participants in the superannuation industry to ensure that consumers know
the basics' of retirement incomes arrangements. This campaign (as one
submitter correctly points out) should be the responsibility of both the
government and the private sector and, ultimately, has the potential to
achieve more desirable outcomes than legislation alone.58
3.87 The Committee notes that under its previous charter the ISC was
'industry-oriented' and did not discharge any substantial consumer
responsibilities. Under its enhanced budget and statutory responsibilities in
the superannuation education area, the ISC will be in a position to make
considerable advances to benefit consumers.
Recommendation 310:
The Committee recommends that the ISC and key superannuation industry
groups representing the interests of consumers and providers, combine to
develop and implement a five year superannuation consumer education
strategy for implementation in early 1994._________
3.88 The provision of consumer counselling services for personal
superannuation products would further ensure that consumers purchasing
superannuation products will have added protection against the information
provided verbally during the selling process.
Recommendation 3.11;
The Committee recommends that consumer counselling services be
provided by the ISC in each of the capital cities and major regional centres.
58 Joint CPAs submission, op cit, p 15.


Licensing of Agents
3.89 The Committee received a range of views concerning the licensing of
agents. For example, the ACA wanted all life insurance agents to be
registered with the ISC, but it did not support licensing on the grounds that
this would give life agents a status which they do not deserve, and would
thereby entrench consumers' problems'. However ACA supported the need
for agents and advisers to be adequately trained.59 On the other hand,
LIFA favoured a system of agent identification and registration and greater
regulatory powers for the ISC, although the costs and benefits of such
regulation would need to be carefully evaluated. LIFA stated that it is:
anxious to minimise unscrupulous selling practices by agents as much as
possible. Accordingly, the industry has announced the development of a
self-regulatory mechanism for life office agents which will involve the
establishment of an agent registration system. This will comprise an agent
register, a code of practice for agents and the establishment of minimum
training and education standards for agents. Improvements will also be
made to agent recruiting and supervisory practices. These measures are
aimed at maintaining adequate supervision of agents by life offices as well
as appropriate levels of competence and professionalism on the part of
intermediaries'.60
3.90 The development of these proposals was outlined by Mr I Chalmers
of the Australian Lifewriters Association (ALA) during the Super Consumer
Seminar:
Since May 1992, LIFA has joined ALA in working towards an effective co-
regulatory scheme ... This co-regulatory scheme is intended to apply to all
intermediaries, not just life insurance agents, who are involved in the sale
and servicing of life insurance products. The proposed licensing scheme is
expected to be based on the achievement of a mandatory minimum
training qualification, annual professional development requirements and
adherence to a prescriptive code of conduct... It is anticipated that there
will be an independent board comprising representatives of insurers,
intermediaries, government and consumers. The scheme is intended to be
self-funded.61
59 Submission No 227, Additional Material, (Recommendation 7.3).
60 Comments on the Issues Paper, p 10.
61 Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992, pp 95-6.


3.91 In reaching a conclusion about the need for agent licensing the
Committee has had to consider a number of finely balanced arguments. On
the one hand the Committee believes that, under a compulsory
superannuation regime, governments have a responsibility to ensure that
those selling superannuation products should be 'fit and proper' persons
demonstrating the highest ethical standards. On the other hand, a licensing
system controlled by government has the potential to create a barrier to
entry for new agents which could result in excessive fees and charges and
entail the creation of another small, yet costly, bureaucracy.
3.92 The Committee believes that the appropriate balance could be struck
using a mix of ISC supervision and industry self regulation and registration
whereby the industry, in close consultation with the ISC, could set minimum
education and qualification standards, establish an agent code of practice
and maintain a register of agents.
Recommendation 3.12:
The Committee recommends that the industry establish and maintain an
agent registration system, together with a code of conduct to be approved
byiillillllBM
3.93 The matter of agent registration is of central importance to improving
the quality of advice given to consumers. Accordingly, the Parliament should
maintain a close interest in developments in this area.
Recommendation 3.13:
The Committee recommends that the ISC report annually on developments
in the area of agent registration and that in three years an appropriate
Senate committee inquire into and report on this niauer.


Towards a Balance in Decision-Making — Will Disclosure
Improve the Quality of Consumers’ Decisions?
3.94 The question that has been raised repeatedly in this report is what
impact will disclosure have on the nature of the investment decisions, that
is, how important is disclosure to the quality of consumers' decisions. The
research commissioned by the TPC found that a high proportion of
consumers who had recently purchased a life product — 18 per cent
according to the Roy Morgan Research Centre survey — had made poor
decisions. Further, the survey found that 37 per cent of respondents who
had discontinued their policies had made a loss on their investment as a
result of early termination. Professor Fels, Chairman of the TPC, referred
to this problem in his pre-conference address to the Super Consumer
Seminar opining:
I believe as a result of our research on the written documentation provided
to consumers that inadequate written disclosure is one part of the cause for
these poor decisions. I am pleased to note that the industry also accepts
this view ... and has made a number of constructive proposals to address
it.62
3.95 The Committee believes that enhanced disclosure standards will
directly address these problems at the stage before an investment decision
is made. It is critical to recognise the need for an appropriate balance in
decision-making, that is, the balancing of risks between the risk the
consumer wishes to bear, as his or her personal circumstances change over
time, and the risks inherent in portfolio investment. From a consumer's
perspective the risks he or she is assuming are not the same as those of an
investment portfolio. The purchase of a superannuation product is not a
one-off decision but is a dynamic and ongoing occurrence and in most cases
consumers are not told of the risks they are assuming when they make the
investment. Informed choices by consumers will redress this imbalance.
62
ibid, p xix.


Conclusion — Disclosure As A Means of Promoting
Competition
3.96 During the period of the inquiry the Committee has observed
considerable overall progress towards making personal superannuation more
competitive and open. However, whilst in some areas there has been
substantial improvement, other areas still require fundamental reform. If this
reform does not occur, it is likely that consumers will continue to have
unequal bargaining power.
3.97 The Committee believes that the consumers of personal
superannuation products must be empowered through knowledge. That
knowledge should include comprehensive information about the costs of
both advisory services and superannuation products per se, as well as
knowledge about the precise contractual obligations that the agent has in
relation to the life office promoting each product.
3.98 The Committee has constructed a detailed and integrated package of
empowerment for the consumer which will go a long way towards redressing
the gross imbalances which currently exist in the personal superannuation
industry.
3.99 This report recommends that consumers be provided with simply-
worded policy literature which will allow product-by-product comparison. It
supports the conclusions of the TPC and ALRC reports which call for
disclosure of agent commissions and relationships. It agrees with the
Government's decision to set up an external low cost dispute resolution
mechanism to hear consumer complaints, and it makes a number of other
recommendations which strengthen and enhance the package of reforms.
3.100 When fully implemented these reforms will promote greater
competition and efficiency and will ensure that all members of the workforce
will be able to participate effectively in the new superannuation
arrangements in Australia which aim to increase significantly the level of self
provision for retirement.63
63 TPC, Life Insurance and Superannuation 1992, TPC, p 92.




MINORITY REPORT - Senator Cheryl Kemot
Minority Report - Senator Cheryl Kernot
In my view there is one area of the report which needs further expansion.
This is the section concerning Capping Fee Levels (paras 3.71 - 3.74).
I do not dissent with recommendation 3.7, although this is, of itself, not an
adequate response to the problem of customers being subject to large and
unreasonable charges under whatever guise.
I accept that many of the excesses of the past have been discontinued, and
that the industry is adopting fairer practices. However, this encouraging
trend does not remove the need for a 'safety net'.
My aim in calling for limitations on fees, charges and commissions is simply
to ensure that ordinary people are not 'ripped off. The promotion of
competition is supported and the enhancement of the competition by
adequate disclosure is strongly supported - but we must also ensure that
unreasonable charges are illegal.
There are three areas which need to be separately regulated - the fees and
commissions charged by agents, the on-going administrative charges of the
funds themselves and the fees levied by investment managers. Merely forcing
the disclosure of these imposts will not guarantee that consumers are
adequately protected.
The monitoring of the Prices Surveillance Authority (PSA) will assist
competition. I am of the view that this body will be most likely to uncover
unfair and/or excessive fees. Consequently, the PSA should also be given a
power to recommend to the Treasurer that a particular fee cap be imposed
on any of the three areas mentioned above.
I do not propose this additional recommendation in order to attack the
industry. I am concerned that consumers are not disadvantaged by an
unscrupulous minority. This is particularly the case where contracts contain
provisions allowing fees or charges to be introduced without notice during
the term of the contract.


In addition to the case studies detailed in Chapter 2 of the report, the
Committee has received much evidence from casual and itinerant workers
that, in some cases, the total amount of superannuation in a fund is being
absorbed by administration charges. This inequity has a big effect on the
opinions of the affected people as to whether superannuation is worthwhile.
Consequently, it can be argued that allowing 'ripoffs', even if they only occur
in a minority of cases, undermines the Government's push to increase
national superannuation savings.


APPENDIX A: TERMS OF REFERENCE
Appendix A — Terms of Reference
On 5 June 1991 the Senate established a Select Committee on
Superannuation to inquire into, and report on, the following matters:
(a) the constitutional arrangements governing superannuation;
(b) the taxation arrangements which apply to superannuation;
(c) the adequacy of prudential control arrangements applying to
superannuation funds;
(d) the implications for the financial system of the expected growth
in superannuation fund assets;
(e) the investment of moneys by superannuation funds;
(f) the ownership of surpluses in defined benefit superannuation
funds;
(g) the level and structure of fees and commissions charged in
relation to superannuation fund membership and asset
management;
(h) the information available to members of superannuation funds;
(i) the representation of fund members in trustee structures of
superannuation funds;
(j) the dispute resolution mechanisms available to members of
superannuation funds;
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting and
preservation of benefits;
(l) the appropriate means of providing adequate superannuation
for part time and casual employees and the feasibility of
providing superannuation for people outside the workforce;


(m) the rate of employer non-compliance with superannuation
awards;
(n) the possibilities for simplifying superannuation;
(o) the feasibility of providing improved benefits to superannuation
arrangements in lieu of increased contributions under
superannuation awards in appropriate circumstances;
(p) the need for an appropriate target and timetable for the
achievement of adequate levels of superannuation; and
(q) any other relevant matters, including superannuation
arrangements existing in other countries.


APPENDIX B
TABLE OF COMPLAINTS
NUMBER
NAME
PROVIDER
8
_9
13
15
17
22
N E Renton
Kingsley Siebel
David McJannet
Phillip R Garrett
David Schwarz
COMPLAINT ALLEGES
Westpac
Not Given
National Mutual
Guardian Royal Exchange
Insurance
MLC
Fee increased arbitrarily - no mention in contract (in
evidence, not submission).
$3 000 exit fee on premiums of $19 000 over 8 years
High management charge,
4% penalty on switch.
Excessive fees in early years.
Exit fees.
Obscure language.
Fees excessive.
Julian Lucas
General Comment
















APPENDIX C : LIST OF SUBMISSIONS RE ON-GOING
INQUIRY
Appendix C: List of Submissions re On-going Inquiry (Numerical)
- IN NUMERICAL ORDER
Sub
No Name
No 1 Gynn, W J
No 2 Fisher F
No 3 Newman, C A
No 4 Liquor Trades Union, The
No 5 Perry, K F
No 6 Walsh, A
No 7 Buildings Union Superannuation
No 8 N E Renton & Associates
No 9 Serendip Publications
No 10 InterData Pty Ltd
No 11 Correspondence only
No 12 Trau, Dr J
No 13 McJannet, D
No 14 Davies, D
No 15 Garrett, P R
No 16 Samson, S W
No 17 Schwarz, D
No 18 Restuccia, V
No 19 Downs, B
No 20 Clayton Utz
No 21 Adams, G
No 22 Lucas, J M
No 23 Cartledge, O
No 24 Hearn, G
No 25 Foley, E
No 26 Civil Service Association of WA
No 27 Owens, E S & Co
No 28 Independent Schools Superannuation Trust
No 29 Burns, W G
No 30 In camera


No 31 ACT Council of Social Service Inc
No 32 Hughes, D
No 33 Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
No 34 Australian Salaried Medical Officer Association
No 35 Australian Council of Social Service
No 36 Belshaw, W J
No 37 Smith, B
No 38 Boffa, G
No 39 Arthur Andersen & Co
No 40 Williams, T
No 41 Prudential Life Underwriters Association (NSW)
No 42 Nipper, M R G and Weeks, P L
No 43 Prudential Assurance Company Ltd
No 44 Retired Associate Members' Branch Public Service Association of
NSW
No 45 Myuna Pty Ltd
No 46 du Cros, N
No 47 Fisk, B
No 48 Trustee Companies Association
No 49 Australian Lifewriters Association
No 50 Australian Small Business Association
No 51 Long, P D
No 52 Knox, Professor D
No 53 Tribunal on Homosexuals and Discrimination
No 54 Chamen, P
No 55 Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia
No 56 National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
No 57 Duesburys
No 58 Morgan Stockbroking Ltd
No 59 IOOF Australia
No 60 Non-Government Schools Superannuation Fund
No 61 Alexander Consulting Group, The
No 62 Metal Manufacturers Limited
No 63 National Australia Bank
No 64 Women's Action Alliance (Australia)
No 65 Chamber of Commerce & Industry of WA
No 66 Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works (MMBW) Employees'
Superannuation Fund
No 67 Yann, R N
No 68 Secondary Colleges Staff Association
No 69 Ulverstone Chamber of Commerce


No 70 Belshaw, M
No 71 Wilson, The Hon Ian, MP
No 72 Crouch, W G
No 73 ANZ Bank
No 74 Independent Insurance & Superannuation Agencies
No 75 Cooley, L M
No 76 Australian Finance Conference
No 77 Northern Territory Superannuation Office
No 78 Lee, W A
No 79 Mercer Campbell Cook & Knight Inc
No 80 Noble Lowndes
No 81 Commonwealth Department of Industrial Relations
No 82 Klumpes, Dr P J M
No 83 National Farmers Federation
No 84 WA Government Employees Superannuation Board
No 85 Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
No 86 Smith, A W J
No 87 Turner, M
No 88 White, B
No 89 Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd, The
No 90 Jacques Martin
No 91 CSA Consulting Group
No 92 Mansfield, G
No 93 Civic Securities Pty Ltd
No 94 Australian Retirement Fund
No 95 Australian Chamber of Manufactures
No 96 AM Corporation Ltd
No 97 Taxpayers' Association of Tasmania, The
No 98 County NatWest
No 99 In camera
No 100 National Mutual
No 101 Chifley Superannuation Services
No 102 Commonwealth Funds Management Ltd
No 103 Coles Myer Ltd
No 104 National Association of Personnel Consultants Ltd
No 105 Bankers Trust Australia Limited
No 106 Australian Council of Trade Unions
No 107 Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department
No 108 Institute of Actuaries of Australia, The
No 109 Retirement Benefits Office
No 110 Motor Inn & Motel Association of Australia, The


No 111
No 112
No 113
No 114
No 115
No 117
No 118
No 119
No 120
No 121
No 122
No 123
No 124
No 125
No 126
No 127
No 128
No 129
No 130
No 131
No 132
No 133
No 134
No 135
No 136
No 137
No 138
No 139
No 140
No 141
No 142
No 143
No 144
No 145
No 146
No 147
No 148
No 149
No 150
Langley-Bates, D
NSW Farmers' Association
Motor Trades Association of Australia (MTAA) Superannuation Fund
Life Insurance Federation of Australia Inc
WA Minister for Productivity and Labour Relations
Metway Corporation
NSW Minister for Industrial Relations
Australian Society of Certified Practicing Accountants and
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (joint submission)
AMP
Hanson, Mr J H
SA Minister of Finance
Moon, G
Taxation Institute of Australia, The
Australian Pensioners & Superannuants Federation and Combined
Pensioners & Superannuants Association of NSW
Women's Economic Think Tank
Commonwealth Department of Social Security
Qld Director-General, Office of the Cabinet
Davey & Associates
Women's Electoral Lobby Australia Inc
de Visser, L
Westpac Banking Corporation
Griffin, P
Australian International Pilots Association
State Insurance Office of Victoria (SIO) Consumer Appeals Centre
Australian Friendly Societies Association
Whittimore-Hull, J
Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Rothschild Australia Asset Management Limited
Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia
Jacques Martin - Reply to Tasmanian Taxpayers
National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
Trade Practices Commission
Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
Smith, Dr G F
Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
Docker, A R
University of NSW Superannuation Economics Research Group


No 151
No 152
No 153
No 154
No 155
No 156
No 157
No 158
No 159
No 160
No 161
No 162
No 163
No 164
No 165
No 166
No 167
No 168
No 169
No 170
No 171
No 172
No 173
No 174
No 175
No 176
No 177
No 178
No 179
No 180
No 181
No 182
No 183
No 184
No 185
No 186
No 187
No 188
No 189
No 190
No 191
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Commonwealth Department of Community Services & Health
Crawford, G J
Investment Funds Association of Australia Limited
Australian Taxation Office, Commissioner of Taxation
Langfield-Smith, I
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia
National Mutual - Nexis Proprietary Limited
Weijers, A J
Foster, W
Gierczycki, L M
Ramakrishnan, H
Permanent Trustee Company Limited
Industry Research and Development Board
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia Ltd (HESTA)
Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
Unity Action Group for Retired Persons
Crome, I
Campbell, B G
Knight, Dr J
Australian Council on Smoking and Health
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Clothier, D P
Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
In camera
Selstay Pty Ltd
Mulhallen, J G & Sons (Vic) Pty Ltd
Armstrong, W J
Rutter, A
Australian Workers' Union
Sly and Weigall
In camera
Taylor, M
SA Employers' Federation
Australian Securities Commission
Grey, P
Pacific Industrial Investments
CIG Employees' Superannuation Fund
Reserve Bank of Australia
Aitkin, J


No 192 Harrower E
No 193 Grace E
No 194 University of Melbourne, Dr Graham Smith
No 195 Commonwealth Treasury
No 196 SBC Dominguez Barry Ltd
No 197 Financial Planning Association of Australia
No 198 Commercial and International Finance Consultants Pty Ltd
No 199 Australian Eagle Superannuation
No 200 Ellis, M
No 201 Moore, E J
No 202 Morley, B
No 203 Tindal, B
No 204 Shell Australia Limited
No 205 Tasmania Treasury
No 206 Mathews, S R
No 207 Humann, D
No 208 Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission
No 209 In camera
No 210 Colonial Mutual Investment Management
No 211 Pollard, D
No 212 Advance Bank
No 213 Blanchard, W
No 214 Moore, A
No 215 Wilson, R
No 216 Banner, C
No 217 Cogger, R
No 218 Poole, R
No 219 Kelberg, J
No 220 Toohey, J P
No 221 Tickner, B C
No 222 Ushay, F
No 223 C S Superannuation Pty Ltd
No 224 Craig, W
No 225 Voeth, K
No 226 Kenos, Dr
No 227 Australian Consumers Association
No 228 Petch, M
No 229 Norrish, Rex M & Associates
No 230 Kain, M
No 231 Richardson, G D & H D
No 232 Browne, T J


No 233 Australia Post Superannuation Scheme
No 234 Sayers, K
No 235 CBA Financial Services
No 236 Shilton, N
No 237 Gorringe, K
No 238 Sadowsky, L
No 239 Peppin Financial Centre
No 240 Skinner, A
No 241 Vere, P
No 242 ABCI
No 243 Abrahams, B
No 244 Intech Management Pty Limited, Mr Schaffer
No 245 Correspondence only
No 246 Mediterranean Shipping Company
No 247 Bailey, R
No 248 Dewar, L
No 249 Greco, L
No 250 Mulray, K
No 251 Stevens, H
No 252 Negus, K
No 253 Brown, I
No 254 Ashfield, R
No 255 Greco, A
No 256 Allcock, L
No 257 Dukas, E
No 258 Jones, G
No 259 Emmenick, C
No 260 Friar, A
No 261 Pittaway, M
No 262 Housing Industry Association Limited
No 263 Allen Consulting Group
No 264 Cartledge, D
No 265 Davidson, N M
No 266 Nolan, S
No 267 Matusek, P
No 268 Morris, J
No 269 Trotter, Mrs K; The Gap P&C Association
No 270 Condon's Business Centre
No 271 Financial Counselling Services (QLD) Inc
No 272 Kaye, Captain C
No 273 Woodley, G L & G L


No 274 New, H A
No 275 In camera
No 276 Equity Life Limited
No 277 AM Corporation Ltd
No 278 Queensland Arts Council
No 279 In camera
No 280 Department of Social Security
No 281 Wilson, B
No 282 Jasprizza & Co, E A
No 283 Williams, V D (not available)
No 284 Watterson, D K and B I
No 285 Tones, D
No 286 Richards, H.J.
No 287 Moss, G.L. (The Enterprise Council Inc.)
No 288 Dixon, Mr Daryl
No 289 Dearson, Mr C J T
No 290 Hanson, Mr Chris
No 291 In camera
No 292 Nicol & Nicol
No 293 In camera
No 294 Institute of Chartered Accountants
No 295 McGuire, Ms Beverly
No 296 Simsoms, Mr Gundars
No 297 Hollowell, Mr M K
No 298 In camera
No 299 In camera
No 300 Bennett, Mr Ron
No 301 Barton, Mr I W
No 302 Jarvis, Ms Dorothy


APPENDIX D : LIST OF SUBMISSIONS RE ON-GOING
INQUIRY
Appendix D: List of Submissions re On-going Inquiry (Alphabetical)
IN ALPHABETICAL ORDER
Sub
No
No 242
No 243
No 31
No 21
No 212
No 191
No 61
No 256
No 263
No 96
No 277
No 120
No 73
No 179
No 39
No 254
No 89
No 233
No 148
No 95
No 227
No 172
No 35
No 106
No 199
No 139
No 76
No 136
No 85
No 175
Name
ABCI
Abrahams, B
ACT Council of Social Service Inc
Adams, G
Advance Bank
Aitkin, J
Alexander Consulting Group, The
Allcock, L
Allen Consulting Group
AM Corporation Ltd
AM Corporation Ltd
AMP
ANZ Bank
Armstrong, W J
Arthur Andersen & Co
Ashfield, R
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd, The
Australia Post Superannuation Scheme
Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
Australian Chamber of Manufactures
Australian Consumers Association
Australian Council on Smoking and Health
Australian Council of Social Service
Australian Council of Trade Unions
Australian Eagle Superannuation
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Australian Finance Conference
Australian Friendly Societies Association
Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust


No 134 Australian International Pilots Association
No 49 Australian Lifewriters Association
No 125 Australian Pensioners & Superannuants Federation and Combined
Pensioners & Superannuants Association of NSW
No 94 Australian Retirement Fund
No 34 Australian Salaried Medical Officer Association
No 186 Australian Securities Commission
No 50 Australian Small Business Association
No 119 Australian Society of Certified Practicing Accountants and
No 155 Australian Taxation Office, Commissioner of Taxation
No 181 Australian Workers' Union
No 247 Bailey, R
No 105 Bankers Trust Australia Limited
No 216 Banner, C
No 301 Barton, Mr I W
No 70 Belshaw, M
No 36 Belshaw, W J
No 300 Bennett, Mr Ron
No 213 Blanchard, W
No 38 Boffa, G
No 253 Brown, I
No 232 Browne, T J
No 7 Buildings Union Superannuation
No 29 Burns, W G
No 223 C S Superannuation Pty Ltd
No 170 Campbell, B G
No 264 Cartledge, D
No 23 Cartledge, O
No 235 CBA Financial Services
No 65 Chamber of Commerce & Industry of WA
No 54 Chamen, P
No 101 Chifley Superannuation Services
No 189 CIG Employees' Superannuation Fund
No 93 Civic Securities Pty Ltd
No 26 Civil Service Association of WA
No 20 Clayton Utz
No 174 Clothier, D P
No 217 Cogger, R
No 103 Coles Myer Ltd
No 210 Colonial Mutual Investment Management
No 198 Commercial and International Finance Consultants Pty Ltd


No 107 Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department
No 173 Commonwealth Bank of Australia
No 152 Commonwealth Department of Community Services & Health
No 81 Commonwealth Department of Industrial Relations
No 127 Commonwealth Department of Social Security
No 102 Commonwealth Funds Management Ltd
No 195 Commonwealth Treasury
No 75 Cooley, L M
No 245 Correspondence only
No 11 Correspondence only
No 98 County NatWest
No 224 Craig, W
No 153 Crawford, G J
No 169 Crome, I
No 72 Crouch, W G
No 91 CSA Consulting Group
No 129 Davey & Associates
No 14 Davies, D
No 131 de Visser, L
No 289 Dearson, Mr C J T
No 280 Department of Social Security
No 248 Dewar, L
No 288 Dixon, Mr Daryl
No 149 Docker, A R
No 19 Downs, B
No 46 du Cros, N
No 57 Duesburys
No 257 Dukas, E
No 200 Ellis, M
No 259 Emmenick, C
No 276 Equity Life Limited
No 142 Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia
No 271 Financial Counselling Services (QLD) Inc
No 197 Financial Planning Association of Australia
No 2 Fisher F
No 47 Fisk, B
No 25 Foley, E
No 160 Foster, W
No 260 Friar, A
No 15 Garrett, P R
No 161 Gierczycki, L M


No 237 Gorringe, K
No 193 Grace E
No 255 Greco, A
No 249 Greco, L
No 187 Grey, P
No 133 Griffin, P
No 1 Gynn, W J
No 290 Hanson, Mr Chris
No 121 Hanson, Mr J H
No 192 Harrower E
No 157 Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia
No 165 Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia Ltd (HESTA)
No 24 Hearn, G
No 297 Hollowell, Mr M K
No 262 Housing Industry Association Limited
No 32 Hughes, D
No 208 Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission
No 207 Humann, D
No 273 Woodley, G L & G L
No 275 In camera
No 274 New, H A
No 184 Taylor, M
No 238 Sadowsky, L
No 279 In camera
No 246 Mediterranean Shipping Company
No 209 In camera
No 183 In camera
No 99 In camera
No 30 In camera
No 268 Morris, J
No 270 Condon's Business Centre
No 266 Nolan, S
No 265 Davidson, N M
No 228 Petch, M
No 176 In camera
No 230 Kain, R
No 291 In camera
No 292 Nicol & Nicol
No 298 In camera
No 293 In camera
No 299 In camera


No 74 Independent Insurance & Superannuation Agencies
No 28 Independent Schools Superannuation Trust
No 164 Industry Research and Development Board
No 108 Institute of Actuaries of Australia, The
No 294 Institute of Chartered Accountants
No 151 Insurance and Superannuation Commission
No 244 Intech Management Pty Limited, Mr Schaffer
No 10 InterData Pty Ltd
No 154 Investment Funds Association of Australia Limited
No 59 IOOF Australia
No 90 Jacques Martin
No 143 Jacques Martin - Reply to Tasmanian Taxpayers
No 302 Jarvis, Ms Dorothy
No 282 Jasprizza & Co, E A
No 258 Jones, G
No 272 Kaye, Captain C
No 219 Kelberg, J
No 82 Klumpes, Dr P J M
No 171 Knight, Dr J
No 52 Knox, Professor D
No 226 Kenos, Dr
No 156 Langfield-Smith, I
No 111 Langley-Bates, D
No 78 Lee, W A
No 114 Life Insurance Federation of Australia Inc
No 4 Liquor Trades Union, The
No 51 Long, P D
No 22 Lucas, J M
No 92 Mansfield, G
No 206 Mathews, S R
No 267 Matusek, P
No 295 McGuire, Ms Beverly
No 13 McJannet, D
No 66 Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works (MMBW) Employees'
Superannuation Fund
No 79 Mercer Campbell Cook & Knight Inc
No 62 Metal Manufacturers Limited
No 55 Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia
No 117 Metway Corporation
No 123 Moon, G
No 214 Moore, A


No 201
No 58
No 202
No 287
No 110
No 113
No 178
No 250
No 45
No 8
No 56
No 144
No 104
No 63
No 83
No 100
No 158
No 252
No 3
No 42
No 80
No 60
No 229
No 77
No 112
No 118
No 27
No 188
No 239
No 163
No 5
No 261
No 211
No 218
No 43
No 41
No 128
No 278
No 162
No 190
Moore, E J
Morgan Stockbroking Ltd
Morley, B
Moss, G.L. (The Enterprise Council Inc.)
Motor Inn & Motel Association of Australia, The
Motor Trades Association of Australia (MTAA) Superannuation
Fund
Mulhallen, J G & Sons (Vic) Pty Ltd
Mulray, K
Myuna Pty Ltd
N E Renton & Associates
National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
National Association of Personnel Consultants Ltd
National Australia Bank
National Farmers Federation
National Mutual
National Mutual - Nexis Proprietary Limited
Negus, K
Newman, C A
Nipper, M R G and Weeks, P L
Noble Lowndes
Non-Government Schools Superannuation Fund
Norrish, Rex M & Associates
Northern Territory Superannuation Office
NSW Farmers' Association
NSW Minister for Industrial Relations
Owens, E S & Co
Pacific Industrial Investments
Peppin Financial Centre
Permanent Trustee Company Limited
Perry, K F
Pittaway, M
Pollard, D
Poole, R
Prudential Assurance Company Ltd
Prudential Life Underwriters Association (NSW)
Qld Director-General, Office of the Cabinet
Queensland Arts Council
Ramakrishnan, H
Reserve Bank of Australia


No 18 Restuccia, V
No 44 Retired Associate Members' Branch Public Service Association of
NSW
No 109 Retirement Benefits Office
No 286 Richards, H.J.
No 231 Richardson, G D & H D
No 141 Rothschild Australia Asset Management Limited
No 180 Rutter, A
No 185 SA Employers' Federation
No 122 SA Minister of Finance
No 16 Samson, S W
No 234 Sayers, K
No 196 SBC Dominguez Barry Ltd
No 17 Schwarz, D
No 68 Secondary Colleges Staff Association
No 177 Selstay Pty Ltd
No 9 Serendip Publications
No 167 Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
No 146 Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
No 204 Shell Australia Limited
No 33 Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
No 166 Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
No 236 Shilton, N
No 296 Simsoms, Mr Gundars
No 240 Skinner, A
No 182 Sly and Weigall
No 86 Smith, A W J
No 37 Smith, B
No 147 Smith, Dr G F
No 135 State Insurance Office of Victoria (SIO) Consumer Appeals Centre
No 251 Stevens, H
No 205 Tasmania Treasury
No 124 Taxation Institute of Australia, The
No 97 Taxpayers' Association of Tasmania, The
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (joint
submission)
No 221 Tickner, B C
No 203 Tindal, B
No 285 Tones, D
No 220 Toohey, J P
No 145 Trade Practices Commission


No 138 Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia
No 12 Trau, Dr J
No 53 Tribunal on Homosexuals and Discrimination
No 269 Trotter, Mrs K; The Gap P&C Association
No 48 Trustee Companies Association
No 87 Turner, M
No 69 Ulverstone Chamber of Commerce
No 168 Unity Action Group for Retired Persons
No 194 University of Melbourne, Dr Graham Smith
No 150 University of NSW Superannuation Economics Research Group
No 222 Ushay, F
No 241 Vere, P
No 140 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce
No 225 Voeth, K
No 84 WA Government Employees Superannuation Board
No 115 WA Minister for Productivity and Labour Relations
No 6 Walsh, A
No 284 Watterson, D K and B I
No 159 Weijers, A J
No 132 Westpac Banking Corporation
No 88 White, B
No 137 Whittimore-Hull, J
No 40 Williams, T
No 283 Williams, V D (not available)
No 281 Wilson, B
No 215 Wilson, R
No 71 Wilson, The Hon Ian, MP
No 64 Women's Action Alliance (Australia)
No 126 Women's Economic Think Tank
No 130 Women's Electoral Lobby Australia Inc
No 67 Yann, R N


APPENDIX E: LIST OF WITNESSES RE ON-GOING
INQUIRY
Appendix E : List of Witnesses re On-going Inquiry












APPENDIX F: UFA STATEMENT ON REFORMS
ADDRESS BY THE UFA CHAIRMAN
TO THE UFA ANNUAL DINNER
THURSDAY, 13 MAY 1993
HYATT HOTEL CANBERRA
Appendix F: LIFA Statement on Reforms
Introduction
Ladies and gentlemen.
The life insurance industry has long formed part of the financial fabric of
this country. Providing both insurance cover and investment opportunities
for millions of Australians.
During this time, the industry has adjusted to a great variety of social,
political and economic change.
The industry is very competitive and prides itself on its responsiveness to the
market in general and to its consumers in particular.
It was in the interests of these consumers and to be responsive to their
changing needs and expectations that, twelve months ago at our last annual
dinner, we announced our "Position Statement on Consumer Issues".
This policy statement represented a genuine attempt by the industry to
address the major criticisms and concerns being expressed by government,
the ISC and consumers.
I want to emphasise that the LIFA position statement was not a "knee jerk
reaction to the demands of the consumer lobby groups and it substantially
predated the reports of the Trade Practices Commission. The report was the
outcome of our own detailed investigations.
The statement committed the industry to initiate a number of reforms:


• a greater level of disclosure,
• development of a licensing system for agents,
• simplification of life office documentation, and
• greater independence and more resources for the industry's inquiries
and complaints system.
It gives me pleasure this evening, to report that considerable progress has
been made in developing these important initiatives.
It seemed fitting that I should report progress to you at this annual dinner.
In developing our proposals, we have kept in mind the various consumer
observations and, more recently, the recommendations of the TPC report,
many of which have been adopted. We have also had on-going discussions
with the Insurance and Superannuation Commission, the Australian
Lifewriters Association, consumers and other interested groups.
But, essentially, what I will outline this evening represents what the industry
considers appropriate to ensure consumers are provided with sufficient
information to make informed choices and to ensure their interests are
properly protected.
Initially, we believed that our proposals should be implemented in a self-
regulatory way. However, we have come to recognise that this may not be
possible given the nature of the reforms and the desirability of having them
apply across the board. Accordingly we were pleased when the ISC indicated
that it would deal with some of the issues through regulation.
With those introductory remarks, let me now report progress.
Disclosure
First, disclosure.
Consumers are already provided with an explanatory document at point of
sale, a policy information statement at point of policy issue and an annual
statement.


We have consolidated and enhanced these and have added many of the
TPC'S recommendations on disclosure and more of our own disclosure
initiatives.
The result is as follows:
• The reworked existing disclosure requirements will make it easier for
consumers to compare products.
• All fees and charges will be disclosed, as well as the effect thereof on
benefits. This will be done in a generalised way at point of sale and in
a contract specific way at point of policy issue.
We have not changed our views about the usefulness to the consumer
of commission disclosure for its own sake. However, in recent
discussions, representatives of the consumers and the TPC expressed
the view that disclosure was primarily needed to expose any bias in
advice provided. Concern about commission quantum has largely been
addressed by our willingness to fully disclose all fees and charges. In
the light of this, and in the spirit of resolving the issue, we are actively
seeking to find a satisfactory approach and have arranged to have
discussions with the ISC about this matter shortly.
• A "client needs analysis" will be undertaken by agents and written
recommendations will have to be made and filed with the application
for insurance for future reference. The agents written recommendation
will be set down in a document to be known as a "Fact Finder".
In this way, a paper trail will be created, which will be of assistance in
resolving consumer complaint which may arise subsequently.
Not only will the agents recommendations have to be disclosed in
writing, but they will have to be conveyed to the consumer verbally as
well.
Life offices will be required to randomly monitor compliance and an
agent found lacking in this regard, will have all his recommendations
for the past twelve months audited.
• All agents will be required to identify the capacity in which they are
acting. Steps will be taken to prevent agents claiming to be providers
of independent advice where this does not apply.


While agents cannot, strictly speaking, provide independent advice,
because they act for the life office they represent they must and do
provide quality advice. Our reforms are designed to facilitate the
provision of such quality advice.
• Standard "health warnings" will be included in life office disclosure
documents, such as alerting consumers to the disadvantages of
surrendering their policies early and entering into long-term contracts
if they have short-term needs or horizons.
Agent Regulation
The second area of major reform is in the area of agent regulation.
The need for life offices to assume greater responsibility for the regulation
of their agents is clearly the rationale behind the LIFA proposal for an
agent licensing system.
We initially considered the possibility of having agents individually licensed
by a separately constituted agent licensing board.
However, the model that has since proven more acceptable and which has
now been endorsed by LIFA is what might term a "proper authority" system.
This "proper authority" system, under which life offices will formally
authorise agents to sell particular products, certainly places more
responsibility for agent regulation at the door of the life office.
While the Agents and Brokers' Act already does much of this, our proposal
introduces more stringent requirements:
• For instance, our "proper authority" proposal will be underpinned by
a comprehensive code of conduct requiring agents to act responsibly
and ethically.
• Minimum competency standards on an industry wide basis, will also be
prescribed for agents.
• We believe a register of agents should be established and maintained
by the ISC, which life offices would have to consult prior to engaging
an agent who had previously worked in the industry.


Essentially, the proposals we have developed will result in agents being
better trained and equipped to sell life insurance and superannuation and
better regulated by life offices.
For their part, life offices will become even more accountable and
responsible for the actions of their agents.
Greater professionalism and transparency, all round will be the result.
Documentation
The third area of reform is in the area of documentation.
I would have to say that life insurance documents are often complex and
sometimes difficult to understand. It is incumbent on the industry to address
this issue and to present information to consumers in a form they can more
readily understand.
While some life offices have already taken steps to simplify their
documentation, LIFA believes that the issue should also be tackled on an
industry-wide basis.
To assist us in this area, we have established a special documentation task
force and retained the services of an "expert" on plain English, Professor
David Kelly, a former Chairman of the Victorian Law Reform Commission.
Professor Kelly has already provided LIFA with one report, which is a
general examination of the need for the industry to simplify substantially its
documents.
At its April meeting, the LIFA Board approved significant funding for
Professor Kelly to prepare a second report, in which he will examine four
products, namely:
• regular premium superannuation,
• insurance bonds,
• disability incomes, and
• allocated pensions.


Plain English model documents will be produced, the intention being that
these will be put forward as guides or models for the industry to follow.
While clearer and better information is required, it must be information
which is:
• meaningful to the average person;
• focussed on salient features;
• fair, that is, capable of assisting comparisons with competing products
without distortion; and
• economic, in meeting consumer needs at reasonable cost.
It is also very important, to balance the needs of the consumer for
information against the costs and benefits of its provision.
This is a complex issue and it will take some time to effect widespread
change but a good start has been made.
Inquiries and Complaints System
While the industry's policyholder complaints resolution system does not
enjoy the full support of some consumer groups, I believe I can say quite
legitimately that it is functioning effectively.
That is not to say change or refinement is unnecessary and an early
response is to promote the system more widely so that it is as accessible to
policyholders as it should be.
The response time in resolving policyholders complaints are not satisfactory
and consumers probably need more assistance in formulating and pursuing
their complaints.
Last year, we appointed an independent executive officer for the system and
that appointment has enabled us to provide a better service.
More resources and further refinements are required. However, we have
been awaiting the outcome of a major review of our system before
committing additional resources and making further changes to our system.


That review, undertaken by an independent consultant, Issues Australia, has
now been completed and many recommendations for change have been put
forward.
LIFA is presently working through these recommendations and those which
will make our complaints resolution system better will be adopted.
We will be having discussions with the Insurance Industry Complaints
Council, which is responsible for overseeing our system, and with the ISC in
the next few weeks.
I am sure the outcome will be that the industry will:
• promote the service more widely,
• commit more resources to the system,
• provide greater assistance to complainants to pursue their complaint,
• work strenuously to reduce the time taken to deal with complaints, and
• make the system more transparent by making more information
available to interested groups.
The industry wants and needs a credible complaint resolution system, but
one which involves both conciliation and, if that fails, arbitration.
I am confident we will achieve this objective by the end of the year,
following implementation of many of the recommendations contained in
Issues Australia's report.
Conclusion
Ladies and gentlemen, these are major reforms on which we have been
working for twelve months.
In developing them we consulted widely and, I believe they will be generally
acceptable.
As I said earlier, they represent what the industry considers appropriate to
ensure consumers are provided with adequate information and to ensure
their interests are properly protected.


We now have a consultative document which we can formally discuss with
our regulator, the ISC.
And, further consultation with other interested groups will be undertaken
as soon as possible.
It would be remiss of me if I did not take this opportunity to thank the
Australian Lifewriters Association for its support and assistance.
LIFA and the ALA are increasingly working together and co-operating for
the good of the whole industry and there is every reason to be confident
that this partnership will continue.
It is now imperative, for the changes to be implemented as quickly as
possible. There is a great deal of uncertainty in the market place, which will
only be dispelled when the change and reforms are put into place and
people know exactly what the rules are and where they stand.
It remains to be seen whether our proposals are accepted by the ISC and
the extent to which they will be implemented in a regulatory or self-
regulatory way is not clear at this stage.
What is clear, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that the reforms we have
crafted to meet the needs and expectations of consumers will undoubtedly
provide them with a greater degree of protection and assistance than has
hitherto been the case.
Much is made today of the need to avoid discriminatory practices and to
achieve level playing fields.
While the spotlight has, of late, been on the life insurance industry, it should
not remain there. It needs also to be directed to other sectors of the
financial industry, otherwise there will be an unlevel playing field.
I said at the Annual General Meeting this afternoon, the Chinese curse,
"may you live in interesting times", is our lot today.
Ours is a dynamic industry and over the last few years, the life insurance
industry has been subjected to continuous change.


The ability to adapt, change and to meet the ever-changing needs and
expectations of consumers have been traditional hallmarks of the life
insurance industry.
We believe we have met, or gone a very long way to meeting, the consumer
challenge and we now look forward over the next few months to working
with the ISC and others to implement the reforms I have outlined this
evening.
Thank you.




APPENDIX G: GLOSSARY
Appendix G: Glossary






THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 76 of 1993
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
_ISSN 0727-118 _
