

Super
Complaints
Tribunal
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Tenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
December 1993




Super
Complaints
Tribunal
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Tenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Canberra
December 1993


© Commonwealth of Australia 1993
ISBN 0 642 20030 0
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Richard Gilbert
Ms Krista Gerrard
Mr Glenn Hunter
Ms Cath Drinkwater
Address:
Telephone:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
(06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




CONTENTS
Contents
Page
Members of the Committee. i
Contents. iii
Chapters:
1. Introduction . 1
2. 'Part 4 - Complaints, Procedural Matters
Relating to Complaints and Complaints the
Tribunal Cannot Deal With’. 7
3. The Interested Groups. 15
4. Conclusion:. 19
Appendices:
A. List of Committee Reports. 23
B. List of Written Submissions. 25




CHAPTER 1:
INTRODUCTION
Introduction
The Committee's reference from the Senate
1.1 On 16 November 1993, an amendment to the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993 (hereafter 'the Bill') was moved by
Senator Watson. This amendment was intended to limit the power of the
proposed Superannuation Complaints Tribunal to adjudicate on certain
disputes about entitlements to superannuation benefits paid before the
commencement of the legislation. The amendment read:
Clause 14, page 6, after subclause (4) insert the following subclause:
"(4A) The Tribunal cannot deal with a complaint about a trustee's
decision if:
(a) the complaint is about a benefit that was paid before the commencement of
this Act; and
(b) the benefit was paid, in whole or in part to a person other than the
complainant.”
1.2 The amendment was subsequently withdrawn upon the undertaking
that the matter would be referred to the Select Committee on
Superannuation for further examination. A motion was put and passed that:
the implications of the amendment moved and withdrawn by Senator
Watson to insert subclause (4A) in clause 14 of the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Bill 1993 be referred to the Select
Committee on Superannuation for inquiry and report on or before 16
December 1993.
1.3 Consideration of the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Bill
in the Senate was finalised on 22 November 1993. The Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (hereafter 'the Act’) received Royal
Assent on 30 November 1993.


The Ninth Report
1.4 Chapter 16 of the Ninth Report of the Committee, Super Supervision
Bills\ examined the issues surrounding the types of complaint that the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal will have the power to examine.
1.5 It was noted in the Ninth Report that concerns had been raised by
industry organisations that clause 14 of the Bill could, in some
circumstances, create a double liability for a trustee. It was submitted that
this could occur in circumstances, for example, where a death payment is
paid to a named beneficiary, A, and another party, B, seeks to challenge the
payment in the Tribunal. If the Tribunal makes a determination that party
B is entitled to all or part of the benefit, the trustee would be required to
make a payment to party B. The trustee would then seek to recover from
party A, the payment that was made incorrectly. It may not be possible for
the trustee to recover the money paid to A if the money had been
dissipated.
1.6 The Committee recommended in the Ninth Report (page 81) that
the Tribunal's jurisdiction be limited, by way of regulation, to exclude those
matters involving trustee decisions made prior to the commencement of the
Act, as to who is entitled to a benefit which has already been paid.
The scope of the inquiry and report
1.7 The issue raised by the amendment relates to decisions regarding the
payment of benefits in the 12 month period prior to the commencement of
the Act. A broader issue is implicitly raised in relation to the ongoing
question of how trustees will behave, following the commencement of the
Act, in the 12 month period after a decision is made in respect to a
payment.
Conduct of the inquiry
1.8 The Committee called for written submissions on the reference from
witnesses who had previously submitted on the operation of the Tribunal.
1
Presented to the Senate on 28 October 1993.


1.9 The Committee received eleven written submissions from industry,
consumer groups, practitioners in the superannuation field, and an individual
who is involved in a conflict concerning the payment of a death benefit of
an intestate to a de facto spouse. Although the submission from the latter
did not fall precisely within the Committee's terms of reference, the
Committee was interested to receive it as it considered no other evidence
of this type of dispute.
Appreciation
1.10 The Committee records its appreciation of the effort of those
witnesses who, at short notice, made detailed and helpful written
submissions. These are listed in Appendix B.
The issue: where will the risk/loss fall
1.11 The conflicting interests that need to be addressed are those of:
(a) the superannuation funds, their members and the trustees who may
be required to pay a benefit twice and then attempt to recover the money
paid incorrectly or, in the case of the trustees, become personally liable;
(b) those of persons who believe they are entitled to a benefit but who
will, under the proposed amendment, be unable to lodge a complaint with
the Tribunal because a trustee has already made a payment to another
person in respect to that particular benefit; and
(c) those of persons who are awaiting decisions and the implementation
of the decisions of the trustees in respect of a benefit, but who will not get
an answer from the trustees because of the trustees' concern that, under the
legislation as it stands, decisions and payments made prior to the
commencement of the Act might become the subject of an appeal to the
Tribunal without having the protection of the section 15 procedure.


What is the scope of the possible losses involved?
The amounts involved in the payment of death benefits
1.12 The Committee received little evidence in relation to the amounts
involved in the payment of certain death benefits. A limited amount of
evidence was available from a mini-survey conducted by the Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) in 1991-92. The Committee
notes that two million members were covered by the survey and in the
period 1991-92, 2064 death benefits were paid. This is approximately one
death benefits claim per thousand members.
1.13 ASFA gave evidence that the total amount of death benefits paid out
by ASFA member funds for the 1991-92 period was $199 million, making the
mean death benefit payment $96 000. The modal payment was not available.
The total assets of the ASFA member funds in the survey period were $40
billion. Therefore, total death benefit claims were 0.5 per cent of total
assets.2 Evidence relating to the percentage of death benefits claims that
are disputed was not tendered to the Committee. The Insurance and
Superannuation Commission (ISC) submitted that, although it is difficult to
establish the potential number of cases, it is their understanding that it could
be in the order of a 'few hundred’. It is the ISC's view that this number of
cases would place a significant burden on the Tribunal in its start-up
phase.3
Elect I”
The Committee recommends that from Its inception the Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal establish procedures and structures to collect
appropriate statistical data on claims submitted to it by superannuation
fund members.
2
death benefits = $199 million = 0.5%
total assets $40 billion
The size of the assets of the superannuation industry is now in the order of $170
billion.
Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC), SCT Sub No 7.


Other areas of possible liabilities
1.14 It was submitted that the predominant type of benefit where the
possibility of double payments may arise is the death benefit.4 The
Committee did not receive evidence identifying any benefits other than
death benefits that could give rise to the problem of double payments.
Difficulties of recovery by trustees
1.15 The Committee received evidence that, where a trustee had made a
payment to a beneficiary, and the Tribunal determined that another person
was entitled to all or part of that benefit, a trustee might not be able to
recover the money paid where the payment could be construed as a proper
exercise of the trustee's discretion. A trustee could be found to be negligent
in the exercise of its duty and become personally liable.5 Further, the
Committee understands that it may be beyond a trustee's power to pay a
benefit twice, particularly where the fund involved is an accumulation fund.
The cost to claimants of commencing court proceedings against a trustee
1.16 The Committee understands that the cost of commencing and
conducting proceedings in the Supreme Court to challenge a trustee decision
would be upwards of $20 000.
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA), SCT Sub No 2
Andrew Fairley & Associates, SCT Sub No 3
William M Mercer, SCT Sub No 4
Law Council of Australia, SCT Sub 5
ISC, op cit
5 William M Mercer, op cit




CHAPTER 2:
'COMPLAINTS, PROCEDURAL MATTERS
RELATING TO COMPLAINTS AND COMPLAINTS
THE TRIBUNAL CANNOT DEAL WITH’6
Complaints, Procedural Matters Relating to Complaints
and Complaints the Tribunal Cannot Deal With
2.1 Section 14 of the Act states the types of decisions that the Tribunal
can review. Section 14(1) provides that decisions of trustees ’whether made
before or after the commencement of this Act’ may be the subject of a
complaint to the Tribunal.
2.2 Section 15 provides that in order to lodge a complaint with the
Tribunal, a person must have an interest in a benefit In practical terms,
section 15(2) requires that a trustee gives written notice to persons who
should be notified of the proposed payment, and notify such persons of their
right to object within a given period. If such notified persons do not object
within the given period, they do not have an interest and cannot bring a
complaint before the Tribunal. If the trustee does not notify a person who
it would be reasonable to notify, that person does have an interest in the
benefit and can therefore bring a complaint before the Tribunal.
2.3 Section 14 of the Act allows the Tribunal to review decisions of
trustees prior to the commencement of the Act. Generally, the Tribunal will
only review decisions in the period 12 months prior to the commencement
of the Act.7 It is not the intention of the legislation that the Tribunal will
review decisions made by trustees years before the commencement of the
legislation.8
6
Part 4 of the Act
7 Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees Inc, SCT Sub No 9
8 Section 22(3) provides that the Tribunal may treat a complaint as withdrawn if
more than 12 months have elapsed since the decision was made by the trustee.


2.4 The Act provides that the Tribunal may treat a complaint as
withdrawn if the complaint has been made more than 12 months after the
decision of the trustee to which the complaint relates.9 In effect, this will
generally mean that a complainant has 12 months from the date of the
decision of the trustee to lodge their complaint. During this period, the
complainant must first utilise the trustee's arrangements for dealing with a
dispute.10 Only then can a complaint be dealt with by the Tribunal.11
2.5 It is apparent that not only decisions made in the period between
July 1993 and 1 July 1994, but all decisions of trustees, have the potential
to be delayed whilst the trustee awaits the 12 month period in which a
complaint may be made. However, submissions from the industry indicate
that the section 15 procedure has been identified as one that will provide
sufficient protection for trustees from the liability of double payments.12
The procedure was referred to as the 'claim-staking procedure' and as
'procedural protection'.
Senator Watson's/the Coalition's amendment
2.6 The Coalition amendment to clause 14 of the Bill (see paragraph
1.1), moved in the Senate by Senator Watson, sought to prevent a trustee
from being liable to pay a benefit twice. Senator Watson submitted to the
Senate that the amendment that he moved was far more restrictive than the
recommendation of the Committee, as it restricted those complaints which
he sought to have excluded from the Tribunal's jurisdiction to those where
the trustee's decision was made prior to the commencement of the Act and
where a payment was made to a person other than the complainant.13
9 Clause 22(3)(a)
10 These arrangements required by section 99 of the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993.
11 Section 19 of the Act.
Noble Lowndes, SCT Sub No 1
William M Mercer, op cit
Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees Inc., op cit
Senate Hansard, 17 November 1993, page 2993
13


Section 15 protection
2.7 The Committee received evidence in several submissions that the
procedure outlined in section 15 of the Act provides protection for trustees
as well as for potential beneficiaries. It requires the trustees to notify
persons likely to make a claim on a benefit or to face a Tribunal complaint,
and it requires potential beneficiaries to 'stake their claim' within a given
period of time (the 'prescribed period’- see paragraph 2.17) or be faced with
exclusion from the Tribunal's jurisdiction. It was submitted by the Law
Council that generally it could be expected that trustees will not give the
written notices referred to in section 15 until they become regulated
superannuation funds under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act
and that this will not be until 1 July 1994 in many instances. 4
2.8 A number of submissions suggested that an appropriate resolution
of the issue would be to amend the legislation so that trustees could take
steps to protect themselves, the funds and potential beneficiaries, by
implementing the section 15 procedure as soon as possible. It was also
submitted that section 15 could take effect retrospectively when the Act is
commenced. An alternative amendment that would have a similar effect to
commencing section 15(2) as soon as possible was submitted by the
Investment Funds Association of Australia (IFA). The proposed amendment
reads:
The Tribunal cannot deal with a complaint about a trustee decision if:
(a) the complaint is about a benefit that was paid before the commencement
of this Act; and
(b) the benefit was paid to a person other than the complainant; and
(c) the Tribunal is satisfied that the trustee had made reasonable inquiries
prior to the benefit being paid as to whom the benefit should be paid.1
2.9 Theoretically, the Committee considers that both the proposal to
commence section 15 as soon as possible and the IFA amendment proposal
have some merit. Section 2 of the Act, the commencement provision,
14
Law Council of Australia, op cit
Investment Funds Association of Australia (IFA), SCT Sub No 6
15


provides for the commencement of 'the Act' either by proclamation or on
1 July 1994. Section 2 does not provide for the commencement of part of
the Act in isolation from the whole of the Act. Clearly, the entire Act could
not be commenced as early as section 15 could be commenced, because the
commencement of the Act establishes the Tribunal and the related
procedures. The Tribunal and its procedures will take a significant period
of time to develop. To commence section 15 prior to the remainder of the
Act would require an amendment.
2.10 In order to clarify the Parliament's intention in respect to the
commencement of section 15(2), an amendment could be made. If it is
intended that the section operate prior to the commencement of the Act,
an amendment could be made to insert words to the effect 'whether before
or after the commencement of this Act' after the word 'trustee' in section
15(2)(a)(i). Alternatively, if the intention is that the section is only to apply
after the commencement of the Act, notwithstanding trustees' notices, an
amendment to that effect could be inserted. Similarly, it would be possible
to incorporate the IFA amendment, however, as Parliament is rising for its
summer recess shortly after the tabling of this report, in practical terms, the
amendment process could not begin until the autumn sittings 1994. It may
be that any amendment that could sustain support in both Houses would
only be passed two or three months, at best, before the Act is due to
commence. This would only amend the Tribunal's jurisdiction for that short
period.
2.11 The Committee does not support the 'retrospective commencement'
of the section. If 'retrospective commencement' is the intention, every effort
should be made to commence the provisions from the intended date of
operation.
2.12 Notwithstanding the above discussion of amending for an earlier
commencement date for section 15(2), it was submitted that, where a trustee
had implemented the procedure set out in section 15, prior to the
commencement of the Act, the trustee would have an argument that the
protection under section 15 was available to the trustee, although the notice
was given to the potential beneficiary prior to the commencement of the
Act. Similarly, it would be open to the potential beneficiary to argue that,
where they had not been notified of the proposed payment of a benefit, and
the failure to notify was unreasonable, they had an interest in the benefit,


and therefore could lodge a complaint with the Tribunal.16 However, as
there is no obligation on a trustee to notify pursuant to section 15(2) prior
to the commencement of the Act, it might be difficult to establish that a
person has an interest because it was unreasonable of the trustee not to
notify.17
2.13 Conversely, it could be argued that an interest in a benefit for the
purposes of lodging a complaint with the Tribunal could not be created or
taken away before the Tribunal comes into existence.
2.14 The Committee prefers the first argument as set out in paragraph
2.12 because it gives effect to the preferable policy position. To this end, it
encourages trustees to begin giving notices to potential beneficiaries of a
proposed payment, and of their right to object, by providing protection to
these trustees.
2.15 If trustees assume the interpretation that section 15(2) applies
whether notice is given before or after the commencement of the Act, and
this interpretation is adopted by the Tribunal when it comes into existence,
trustees will have the protection they seek from the time that they have
given notices in accordance with section 15(2). If a similar interpretation of
section 15(2) is adopted in relation to beneficiaries, and section 14 remains
unchanged, potential beneficiaries will be able to complain to the Tribunal
if trustees have failed to give notice where it would have been reasonable
to give notice. Although such an interpretation may appear to create a
'retrospective obligation' for trustees, it is only for the purpose of giving the
Tribunal jurisdiction to hear complaints that, if the legislation is not
amended, the Tribunal would be able to hear in any case. Therefore,
trustees who adopt section 15(2)-type procedures, prior to the
commencement of the Act, might limit any potential double payment
liability, depending on the interpretation given to section 15(2) by the
Tribunal and/or the courts.
2.16 The Committee acknowledges the uncertainty surrounding the
operation of section 1518 as well as the potential for section 15 to
16
17
Law Council of Australia, op cit
ibid
Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA), SCT Sub No 10
18


encourage "best practices' by trustees, and to provide protection for trustees
and beneficiaries alike. The Committee has given this issue considerable
thought and believes that, given the need for certainty, it needs to be
clarified.
The Committee recommends that the Senate endorse the view that section
15(2) provides protection to trustees who have complied with the procedure
set out in that section, as that which reflects the intention of the Senate in
passing the legislation.
In effect, section 15(2) provides protection to trustees and potential
beneficiaries in that it establishes a procedure for trustees to give notice to
potential beneficiaries of proposed payments of benefits. The Committee is
eager to encourage trustees to adopt the section 15(2) notice procedure
which the Committee views as a positive practice.
Recommendation 2.2 \ I '
The Committee recommends that the Government consider introducing an
amendment to section 15(2)(a)(i) to clarify whether or not the section 15
procedure protection applies where it has been utilised before the
commencement of the Act, or that the Government make a statement to
clarify its legislative Intention.
The prescribed period
2.17 Section 15(2) refers to a period within which a potential beneficiary
who wishes to object to a proposed payment has to make that objection. As
has been stated in the evidence received by the Committee, the uncertainty
surrounding the operation of section 15 is compounded by the necessity to
wait for the 'prescribed period' to be regulated. In order to comply with
section 15(2), a trustee must know how the 'prescribed period' has been
defined in the regulations. The argument outlined in paragraph 2.7 (above)


would not be available unless the prescribed period requirement is satisfied.
2.18 In an effort to reduce the uncertainty, the Committee has given
consideration to the length of the 'prescribed period' in section 15(2)(a)(ii).
After consulting with the ISC, the Committee considers that a period of 28
days would be appropriate.
,1 ... ... . , . . • i
;Commht^'j^[Timends :ih0t:ibC: pre^cribe^pericid;>^ilthin which a
beneficiary must lodge any objection to a prdposed payment in
ion 15(2)(a)(ii) be 28 days,




CHAPTER 3:
THE INTERESTED GROUPS
The Interested Groups
3.1 Paragraph 1.11 sets out the three groups that have an interest in the
outcome of the issue before the Committee. This chapter will examine the
interests and concerns of each of these groups.
The superannuation fund members and trustees
3.2 Under the Act, where a payment has been made to A and a person,
B, seeks review of the trustee’s decision, the fund may be liable to pay the
benefit twice if the fund is unable to recover the first payment. This could
expose the fund to a further payment of which the trustee was unaware
when making a decision on the claim.19 If a trustee of a fund is ordered
by the Tribunal to make a second payment, that payment will not include
insurance monies, and payment may be imposed unfairly upon the
members.20
3.3 It has been submitted that where a fund is required by the Tribunal
to make a second payment of a benefit, the trustee might not have the
power to pay the second benefit under trust law, and the trustee may
become personally liable for the second payment. 1 This could occur in
circumstances where the trustee has acted in good faith as well as in
circumstances where the trustee has failed to properly execute its duties. It
was also contended that the decision of the trustees should be reviewed in
relation to the law as it relates to trustee duties and obligations, procedures
and evidence at the time the decision was made.22
19
Andrew Fairley, op cit
20
Noble Lowndes, op cit
21 William M Mercer, op cit
22
Noble Lowndes, op cit


Benefit already paid-a relevant consideration?
3.4 The question as to whether the payment of the benefit, which is the
subject of a claim, to another person is a relevant consideration for the
Tribunal was raised in a number of submissions.23 Section 36 of the Act
requires the Tribunal to have 'regard to ... the interests of all the members
of the fund to which the complaint relates [and] inform itself of any matter
relevant to a review of a decision in any way it thinks appropriate'.
Furthermore, section 37 provides that the Tribunal must affirm the decision
of a trustee if it is satisfied that the decision was fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances.
3.5 The Law Council acknowledged that it would only be in the most
extreme cases that the Tribunal would decide that a benefit payment should
be made to a complainant, when the trustee had already paid the full benefit
to another, prior to the commencement of the Act. 4 Similarly, the ISC
raised the issue of whether the Tribunal would in fact award a double
payment. The ISC noted the requirement that the Tribunal have regard to
the interests of all the members of the fund. The ISC submitted that it could
be argued that this requirement compels the Tribunal not to award double
payments where it would place a strain on the resources of the fund.25 The
IFA also submitted that, as the Tribunal is bound to consider all the
circumstances of a fund in making a determination, small funds could be
protected from multiple payments if the result would be inequitable for
other members.26 This requirement would allow the Tribunal to give
consideration to the position of accumulation funds.
3.6 Alternatively, it was submitted that the making of an earlier payment
is not a fact which the Tribunal would be required to take into account in
assessing the entitlement of a further complainant.27
23
Andrew Fairley, op cit
ISC, op cit
IF A, op cit
Australian Consumers' Association (ACA), SCT Sub No 11
24 Law Council of Australia, op cit
see also ACA, op cit
25 IFA, op cit
26
ibid
27
ibid


3.7 The Committee notes sections 36 and 37 and supports the argument
that if an earlier payment had been made, it would be a relevant
consideration for the Tribunal.
Persons claiming to be entitled to a benefit already paid to another
3.8 The Committee has not received any evidence from persons who fall
into this category. However, it did receive evidence from an individual
which, whilst falling outside the Committee's terms of reference, illustrated
the type of disputes that can arise. The person concerned was in a de facto
relationship for 28 years. When her partner died intestate, she was not
entitled to receive a benefit under his superannuation, as he had not
completed the relevant part of the form.28 Although the Committee is not
required to report on the issue involved, it notes that it would be desirable
for funds to ensure that their clients are aware of the importance of
nominating beneficiaries, as adherence to this principle could assist in
minimising the number of disputes.
Persons awaiting the payment of a benefit
3.9 Overwhelmingly, the superannuation lawyers who submitted to the
inquiry acknowledged that failure to adopt Senator Watson's amendment
might result in trustees delaying the making of decisions and that this may
have harsh results for those awaiting decisions who may be in necessitous
circumstances.29 Furthermore, it was stated that 'advisers providing
recommendations for trustees as to the payment of death benefits will have
no option prior to the commencement of operation of the legislation but to
advise trustees not to make any distribution until after the commencement
of operation of the legislation'.30 In addition, it was submitted that the
absence of the risk of a double payment will encourage trustees to promptly
28
29
Ms Edwina Blahout, SCT Sub No 8
Noble Lowndes, op cit
Andrew Fairley, op cit
William M Mercer, op cit
Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees, op cit
ACA, op cit
William M Mercer, op cit
30


and speedily deal with a claim to benefits.31
The effect on the operation of the Tribunal: a backlog or a pre-Tribunal
rush
3.10 A number of submissions expressed concern that if decisions prior
to the commencement of the Tribunal were reviewable by the Tribunal, a
serious backlog would exist from the date of the Tribunal's establishment.32
While the ISC submitted that there 'could' be a backlog, the Committee did
not receive any evidence as to the number of disputed claims, and therefore
can neither conclude that a backlog will or will not be likely when the
Tribunal commences its work.
3.11 It was also suggested that the Government is concerned that the
proposed amendment could encourage trustees to accelerate their decisions
to avoid the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.33
An ongoing problem?
3.12 The Committee turned its mind to whether the problem of delay,
that could exist in relation to the decisions prior to the commencement of
the Tribunal, would continue after its establishment. The Committee
received evidence that, although the problem of 'double jeopardy' will always
exist, section 15 provides a procedure to enable trustees to reduce the
problem of double payments. Where there is little real risk of a double
liability, the trustees can safely pay out a benefit but, where there is a
reasonable doubt, the trustees will justifiably be cautious in their payments.
31
32
33
34
Andrew Fairley, op cit
ASFA, op cit
ibid
LIFA, op cit
ACA, op cit


CHAPTER 4:
CONCLUSION
Conclusion
Affected funds
4.1 The Committee notes that the percentage of superannuation fund
assets affected by death claims is in the order of half of one per cent. The
proportion of these claims that are disputed is unknown. Notwithstanding
the fact that the percentage of the funds affected might be insignificant,
where the fund concerned in a dispute about a benefit already paid is an
accumulation fund, the trustee might not have the power to make a second
payment even in circumstances where this was the best solution for all
involved. In relation to this matter, the Committee was unable to conclude
that there is a significant threat to the integrity and certainty of
superannuation funds because of the lack of evidence as to the magnitude
of potential losses involved in double payments.
4.2 The Committee's attention has been drawn to the lack of data that
is available about superannuation claims and disputes. In accordance with
its reference from the Senate on 22 November 1993 to review of the
operation of the Tribunal in the first 12 months of its work, the Committee
intends generally to monitor the 'double jeopardy' situation and the
treatment of those and other cases in the Tribunal. Therefore, it expects
that the Tribunal, from the date of its establishment, will implement the
necessary procedures and structures to collect this and other relevant data.
Section 15(2)
4.3 It is arguable that where a trustee has implemented a procedure that
accords with the section 15(2) requirements, that is, to give notice to
potential beneficiaries of proposed payments of benefits, prior to the
commencement of the Act, the trustee can take the benefit of the protection
afforded by that section.


Relevant considerations
4.4 In light of sections 36 and 37, it would be difficult for the Tribunal
to find that the fact that a payment had already been made was not a
relevant consideration in the Tribunal's review. There is also an argument
that the power of a trustee to make a second payment is a relevant
consideration. The Committee endorses these views.
The ongoing problem
4.5 The Committee concludes that the potential for 'double jeopardy' will
always exist. This situation will be somewhat alleviated after the
commencement of the procedures in section 15. As rights to commence
proceedings in the Supreme Court will continue, the potential for 'double
jeopardy' situations to arise will also remain. Although the potential for
'double jeopardy' will always exist, the Committee stresses that this problem
can be limited by a number of actions. Of paramount importance is that
trustees give notice to persons who may want to object to a payment. The
Committee suggests that trustees commence this procedure as soon as
possible. Trustees should also ensure that their clients complete all the forms
required to clearly nominate beneficiaries. Fund members also have an
important role. They should ensure that they notify their superannuation
fund if their family circumstances change.
Conclusion
4.6 In making its recommendations, the Committee has considered a
number of options. It considered the effect of the operation of the Act as
it was passed, the effect of the Coalition amendment, the effect of
commencing either the whole or part of the Act as soon as possible, and it
considered several possible amendments. Notwithstanding the desirability of
some of these avenues, the Committee's recommendations have been
strongly influenced by the reality of the constraints of time that apply.
4.7 Therefore, the Committee has made recommendations which will
provide some guidance to trustee fund members and officers attached to the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal. Hopefully, the measures which have
been recommended will assist the Tribunal in achieving its objective of


providing a review mechanism that is 'fair, economical, informal and
quick'.35
35 Section 11 of the Act




APPENDIX A:
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
List of Committee Reports
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Byrnwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life
Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges
and Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super and the Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4
November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super - Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)


Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervisory Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
- Super Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Inquiry into the Queensland Professional Officers Association
Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervision Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)


APPENDIX B:
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
List of Written Submissions
No 1
No 2
No 3
No 4
No 5
No 6
No 7
No 8
No 9
No 10
No 11
Noble Lowndes
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
Andrew Fairley and Associates
William M Mercer
Law Council of Australia
Investment Funds Association of Australia (IFA)
Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC)
Ms Edwina Blahout
Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST)
Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA)
Australian Consumers' Association (ACA)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 388 of 1993
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-418
