

29th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Superannuation Legislation
(Commonwealth Employment)
Repeal and Amendment Bill 1997
Commonwealth Superannuation Board
Bill 1997
Superannuation Legislation
(Commonwealth Employment -
Saving and Transitional Provisions) Bill
1997
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
April 1998




29th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Superannuation Legislation
(Commonwealth Employment)
Repeal and Amendment Bill 1997
Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill
1997
Superannuation Legislation
(Commonwealth Employment -
Saving and Transitional Provisions) Bill 1997
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
April 1998


© Commonwealth of Australia 1998
Print ISBN 0 642 25173 8
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Priming Unit,
Parliament House. Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator Lyn Allison
Senator Stephen Conroy
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran
Senator the Hon Nick Sherry
Tasmania
Victoria
Victoria
Western Australia
South Australia
Victoria
Tasmania
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Address:
Telephone:
Facsimile:
Mr Peter Hallahan
Ms Celia Tancred
Mr Graeme Fawns
Ms Jade Ricza
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
(02) 6277 3439
(02) 6277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at:
http://www.aph.gov.au/senate




CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1
1
Background....1
Origin of the reference.1
Conduct of the inquiry.1
CHAPTER 2.3
The Bills.3
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and Amendment Bill 1997.3
Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997.5
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment - Saving and Transitional Provisions)
Bill 1997.6
CHAPTER 3.7
Issues raised in evidence.7
Government commitment.7
Consultation.7
Closure of the PSS.8
Lump sum superannuation payments on redundancy.8
Late preservation of benefits.9
Timetable.9
Differential outcomes for APS employees.10
Accumulation funds.10
Fund selection process.11
Nature of default fund.12
Effect on mobility' within the APS.13
Implications for national savings policy.13
Merger of CSS and PSS Boards.14
Supplementation.14
CHAPTER 4.15
Labor and Australian Democrat Senators’ Majority Report.15
Recommendation.12
CHAPTER 5.19
Government Senators' report.19
Recommendation.21
APPENDIX A.23
List of Written Submissions...
APPENDIX B.
List of Witnesses at Public Hearing
25


APPENDIX C
27
List of Committee Reports
27


CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND
Origin of the reference
1.1 On 3 March 1998, the Selection of Bills Standing Committee resolved that
the following Bills be referred to the Select Committee on Superannuation for inquiry
and report by 26 March 1998:
Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and
Amendment Bill 1997
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment - Saving and
Transitional Provisions) Bill 1997
1.2 The Committee subsequently sought and was granted an extension of time
till 1 April 1998.
1.3 The Selection of Bills Committee provided the following reasons for the
conduct of the inquiry:
The bills appear to implement a policy that is inconsistent with the
approach in the Superannuation Freedom of Choice Bills. The Committee
needs to consider whether these bills will leave workers worse off or not,
and whether they will involve additional costs for public sector workers.
Conduct of the inquiry
1.4 The Committee sought submissions from a number of organisations
nominated by the Committee members and conducted a public hearing in Canberra on
Tuesday 24 March 1998.
1.5 Four submissions were received (see Appendix A) and the names of those
who gave evidence at the public hearing are listed in Appendix B.
1.6 The Committee expresses its appreciation to those who made submissions
and gave oral evidence.




CHAPTER 2
THE BILLS
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and
Amendment Bill 1997
2.1 The Government has stated that the main purpose of the Bill is to allow
Commonwealth employees to participate in the Government’s choice of funds
arrangements that are proposed in the Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No.7) 1997 as
announced in the 1997 Budget. According to the government this will provide
Commonwealth employees with greater choice, flexibility and control over their
superannuation arrangements.1
2.2 The PSS will be closed to new members from 1 July 1998 although active
PSS membership may still be available for new employees who left the PSS before
that date and have a PSS preserved benefit (similar arrangements may apply for new
employees who have CSS preserved benefits).
2.3 Consequent to the closure of the PSS, Commonwealth departments and
agencies will be required to offer new employees a choice of fund in accordance with
the Government’s Choice of Fund legislation.
2.4 From 1 July 2000, departments and agencies will be required to also offer
choice to continuing CSS and PSS members. CSS and PSS members will have the
choice of remaining in their scheme, with no change to existing arrangements, or
ceasing membership with future employer superannuation paid to a superannuation
fund or RSA offered to them by their employer. The entitlements for members who
exercise choice have been designed to ensure no increase in unfunded liabilities.
2.5 Each Commonwealth Department and agency will be responsible for
selecting complying superannuation funds and Retirement Saving Accounts (RSAs)
(including the default fund) to be offered to their employees.
2.6 Departments or agencies must provide for a default fund regardless of which
choice arrangement they provide to their employees. If employees do not make a
choice within 28 days of commencing duty they are automatically placed in the
default fund.
2.7 Department and agencies must provide at least minimum superannuation
guarantee contributions for future employees. In respect of existing employees, saving
provisions will require that the employer continue the higher rate for the duration of
that employment to ensure employees are not disadvantaged by the new
arrangements.
1 Explanatory Memorandum. Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal
and Amendment Bill 1997.


2.8 Consistent with the Government’s choice of fund legislation, Commonwealth
employers and employees will also have the option of using workplace agreements to
specify superannuation arrangements. Workplace agreements cannot be used to
require a member to cease CSS or PSS membership or to tie them to the CSS/PSS
after 30 June 2000.
2.9 From 1 July 1998, the Superannuation (Productivity Benefit) Act 1988 (PB
Act) will be repealed. As a result the Australian Government Employees
Superannuation Trust (AGEST) will continue to remain open to existing and new
members, but will cease to be the legislated default fund for new employees.
2.10 The Bill also includes a number of other changes. These are:
• Allow CSS members to transfer amounts held in AGEST or other funds to
the CSS Fund;
• Lift restriction so that reversionary benefits may be paid to a CSS
pensioner’s spouse or child from a post-retirement relationship;
• Modify the superannuation redundancy entitlement arrangements for
employees who cease to be CSS members as result of a sale or
outsourcing;
• Define the circumstances in which the CS Board may accept late elections
for preservation from former CSS members; and
• Simplify some of the provisions in the CSS and PSS to reduce complexity
both in administration and maintenance of the rules.
2.11 The Bill also proposes a number of minor amendments to the Parliamentary
Contributory Superannuation Act. These are:
i) Changes to access to spouse benefits where a retiring
member, entitled to a pension, commenced a post-retirement martial
relationship after age 60;
ii) The payment of transfer values by new members of
Parliament; and
iii) Other minor technical matters, including the payment of
orphan benefits.
Financial Implications
2.12 There are three elements in the Bill that have financial implications. These
relate to post retirement reversionary benefits, the full funding of future benefit
accruals for new employees and those CSS and PSS members who exercise choice
and CSS late elections for preservation.
2.13 The changes to post retirement reversionary benefit arrangements are
estimated to increase outlays by $2.2 million per year. The increased outlays arise
from the expected increase in the number of reversionary benefits that will be paid
under the changed arrangements.


2.14 The Bill will result in the funding of future superannuation accruals for new
employees and for existing CSS and PSS members who elect to join another
complying superannuation fund or Retirement Savings Account. The estimated
additional outlays over the next three years are S12 million in 1998-99, $40 million in
1999-00 and $290 million in 2000-01. However, these increased cash flows do not
represent any additional expense; they in effect bring forward future cash flows in lieu
of an increase in unfunded liabilities.
2.15 Both the CSS and PSS are defined benefit schemes, which means they are
partly unfunded. The employee benefits are funded when they become payable rather
when the benefits accrue to them, resulting in the accumulation of unfunded
liabilities. As at 30 June 1997 the unfunded liability of the CSS and PSS was $42.5
billion, with $15 billion of this amount relating to current CSS and PSS members.
2.16 The government estimates that the closure of the PSS will result, over the
long term, in a decrease in the Commonwealth’s level of unfunded liabilities.
2.17 The amendments to restore the intention of the Superannuation Act 1976 in
relation to late elections for preservation are expected to avoid a potential increase on
outlays of around $10 million per year.
2.18 Departments and budget funded agencies are currently funded at the existing
rates for the CSS (21.9% of salaries) and the PSS (13.1% of salaries). Funding for
superannuation is a component of running costs or budget appropriation and will be
updated by the same indexation process as for other labour costs.
2.19 According to the Department of Finance and Administration (DoFA) there
will be no change in funding levels for departments and agencies for employer
superannuation payments. However employees will be free to negotiate with their
employers whether all of this funding is paid in the form of superannuation
contributions or a proportion is paid as enhancements to other employment
conditions. The employer is required to have superannuation provided at the
Superannuation Guarantee safety net rate for all employees as a minimum. From
1998/99 the rate is 7% increasing to 9% from 2002/03.
Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997
2.20 This Bill will establish a new Commonwealth Superannuation Board to
administer the closed Commonwealth superannuation schemes for current and former
employees. It will take over the responsibility of the CSS Board and PSS Board and
the Commissioner for Superannuation.
2.21 The board will comprise an independent Chair appointed by the Minister for
Finance and Administration after consultation with other Board members, and an
equal number of member and employer representatives. Scheme members will elect
member representatives.
2
Submission, Department of Finance and Administration Submission, p. 11.


Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment - Saving and
Transitional Provisions) Bill 1997
2.22 This Bill will put in place saving and transitional provisions as a
consequence of certain amendments to the Superannuation Act 1976 and the
subsequent repeal of the Superannuation Act 1976, Superannuation Act 1990,
Superannuation Act 1922, and Superannuation (Productivity Benefit) Act 1988.
2.23 However, in most circumstances, the repeal legislation will continue to
operate through the application of this Bill, thus preserving the benefits currently
available to members of the various Commonwealth superannuation schemes. The
Minister for Finance and Administration or the new CS Board will be able to amend
the repealed legislation by disallowable instrument.


CHAPTER 3
ISSUES RAISED IN EVIDENCE
3.1 Witnesses who gave evidence on the provisions of the bills concentrated on
several key issues. These were as follows:
• Government commitment;
• consultation;
• closure of the PSS;
• lump sum superannuation payments on redundancy;
• late preservation of benefits;
• timetable;
• differential outcomes for APS employees;
• accumulation funds;
• fund selection process;
• nature of default fund;
• effect on mobility within the APS;
• implications for national savings policy;
• merger of the CSS and PSS Boards; and
• supplementation.
Government commitment
3.2 Witnesses drew the Committee's attention to commitments concerning future
superannuation entitlements of current and future public sector employees made by
the Prime Minister, the Hon. John Howard MP, prior to the Coalition's election to
office.
Consultation
3.3 Witnesses complained of the lack of discussion or negotiation with members
or their representatives prior to the announcement of proposed changes to the existing
superannuation arrangements. Representatives of the CPSU, APESMA and the
ACTU all noted that this was a departure from the previous practice of governments
to consult with organisations of employees prior to making decisions on important
matters such as employee superannuation entitlements.


3.4 In reply to questions from the Committee concerning consultation,
Mr Stephen Bartos, General Manager, Resource Management Framework,
Department of Finance and Administration, confirmed that consultation with
employee representatives began after the Minister for Finance and Administration
announced the proposed changes to the superannuation schemes in September 1997.1
Closure of the PSS
3.5 The PSS will be closed to new members from 1 July 1998 and existing PSS
fund members will have no rights on resignation after 30 June 1998 to preserve their
benefits and rejoin the scheme during a subsequent period of employment. Under the
proposed choice of funds legislation, departments and agencies will have to choose
one of two arrangements for providing at least the minimum superannuation
contributions for each employee: either (a) offer limited choice (ie. four or more
specified funds or RSAs) or (b) offer unlimited choice. This will take effect for new
members from 1 July 1998 and for existine members of both the CSS and PSS from
1 July 2000.
3.6 While existing PSS and CSS members will be able to retain their fund
membership as a third option, witnesses noted that closure of the PSS meant that the
Commonwealth would effectively be offering its employees less choice than will be
available generally since, unlike other employers, it will not be required to provide an
industry scheme as a fourth option under the limited choice model.
Lump sum superannuation payments on redundancy
3.7 The Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and
.Amendment Bill 1997 (the Bill) provides that, from 1 July 1999, no part of the
employer funded superannuation benefit will be payable on redundancy and all
employer contributions, from whatever date they commenced, must be preserved until
age 55.
3.8 Ms Linda Rubinstein, ACTU pointed out that when the Government
announced in the last budget that all superannuation contributions under SIS would be
preserved from 1 July 1999, this measure was to be applied prospectively, ie existing
preservation rules will apply to superannuation accrued at that date. The proposed
amendments will retrospectively freeze all of an APS employee's employer funded
benefits from 1 July 1999, not simply the benefits attached to future contributions.2
3.9 The ACTU noted that the current level of redundancy benefits would need to
be significantly improved should employees be unable to access employer funded
superannuation benefits which presently make up a significant proportion of the total
redundancy ‘package’ for APS employees.
1
Evidence, p. 52.
Evidence, p. 3.


Late preservation of benefits
3.10 In recent years a number of CSS contributors did not elect to preserve their
superannuation contributions on resignation, with the consequent loss of access to the
employer benefit. They have since sought to achieve a late election to preserve
former contributions on the grounds, among others, of insufficient or incorrect advice
having been provided by the employer at the time of resignation. Through appeals to
the AAT and the Federal Court from decisions by the Commissioner of
Superannuation, a proportion of those applications have been successful.
3.11 The Bill contains provisions which will reduce the grounds on which a claim
can be made and curtail the time allowed for an individual to make such a claim. The
CPSU considers that the Bill ‘closes almost all capacitv for former CSS members to
achieve a late election to preserve former contributions’3 which will only be permitted
where the person was unable to make an election ‘because of exceptional
circumstances or physical or mental incapacity’.
3.12 Ms Rubinstein told the Committee that former employees should retain the
opportunity to have their claims tested in the AAT or the Federal Court. To do
otherwise would mean ‘that an existing right will be seriously weakened. Individuals
who have suffered financial loss as a result of incorrect advice or lack of reasonable
information will have no redress.’4
Timetable
3.13 New APS employees must be provided with a choice of superannuation
funds in accordance with the choice of funds policy from 1 July 1998. Witnesses
noted that, with regulations governing a disclosure regime for those funds not yet in
place, the time available for employer departments and agencies to select a range of
funds and educate new members to make an informed choice of fund is limited.
3.14 Mr Richard Butler, APESMA, noted that the ACT government had not yet
received a report which it commissioned into the superannuation arrangements for its
employees following the closure of the PSS. In addition, none of the agreements put
in place following recent enterprise bargaining negotiations in various
Commonwealth departments and agencies have specified the superannuation
arrangements for new employees. He was doubtful that arrangements could be
concluded by the 1 July deadline:
What you are doing is asking agencies which, in the past, like a lot of
people in the Commonwealth sector, have not had a great interest in
superannuation, because superannuation was something that was
administered and run by the Department of Finance and Comsuper.... It
was something that the agencies very rarely had to look after in both the
administration and operation of it.
3 Submission, p. 70.
4 Submission, p. 5.


Certainly, in terms of the capacity to explain it to their employees, they
will now be responsible for doing all those things. We are expecting them,
if the legislation goes through, to be in a position to do that come 1 July
this year. Quite candidly, I doubt that it is possible.3
Differential outcomes for APS employees
3.15 Issues raised by witnesses as being areas where outcomes will be different
for those APS employees in the existing CSS and PSS funds and new APS employees
commencing after 1 July 1998 include death and disability insurance covering
administration and fund management costs.
3.16 Ms Sally O’Loughlin, Assistant National Secretary, CPSU noted that current
employees enjoy excellent insurance options for death and disability cover, whereas
people employed after 1 July 1998 will be in a public offer, an RSA or another type of
fund where:
...they will probably have to pay quite a significant amount themselves in
order to achieve anything like the same level of insurance cover as they
enjoy at the moment through the PSS. Again, this is just a simple issue of
equity...6
3.17 She also raised the issue of fund administration and management costs.
Currently funds are appropriated to ComSuper for the provision of administrative
services for the PSS and CSS. From 1 July the trustee responsibilities of the two
funds will pass to the newly established Commonwealth Superannuation Board (CS
Board) and the Budget appropriation that ComSuper currently receives will be
devolved to individual Budget funded departments and agencies. The CS Board will
pay the administration costs for both schemes out of monies the Board collects from
those departments and agencies.7
3.18 The CPSU contends, therefore, that while administrative costs for PSS and
CSS members will continue to be funded from Budget appropriations, those people
who are employed after 1 July 1998 under the choice of fund principle will have a
portion of their superannuation contributions deducted to pay the administration costs
of that fund.8
Accumulation funds
3.19 The CPSU also drew the Committee’s attention to the consequences arising
from an assumption that most new employees will join accumulation funds while
existing employees remain in the PSS and CSS, which are ‘defined benefit' funds. In
5
6
7
8
Evidence, p. 19.
Evidence, p. 6.
Submission, Department of Finance and Administration, p. 15-16.
Evidence, p. 6.


the latter case, the employer has the liability for provision of a final benefit until that
benefit is paid, while an accumulation fund member picks up total liability for
provision of final benefit once he or she has made a payment to the fund.
3.20 The Committee questioned Mr Craig Thorbum, Acting Deputy
Commissioner, Life Insurance, Insurance and Superannuation Commission, as to
whether a defined benefit fund is more secure than an accumulation fund:
No, I would say they are under the same prudential regime. The one
difference I think with defined benefit funds and accumulation schemes is
that defmed benefit schemes effectively have the future economic
conditions underwritten by the employer. Therefore, the security of the
defmed benefit scheme is tied to a greater extent to the security of the
employer....
With an accumulation fund, the future investment returns are the main
driver, but variable future investment returns are not underwritten by the
employer.9
3.21 In answer to a question from the Committee, Mr Thorbum agreed that a
member of an accumulation fund carries a greaier level of uncertainty.10
3.22 The CPSU also noted that the quantum of benefit will differ substantially for
APS employees depending on which type of fund they are in:
...the final benefit that a person can achieve through using an accumulation
scheme, such as will be the norm for people who will not be allowed to
choose to be in the PSS, will be a much lesser benefit than if they were in
the PSS, particularly if you do the comparison for someone who wants to
achieve a fully indexed pension as their final benefit.
...The loss of the ability to take an indexed pension, which is available to
people through the PSS, compared to w-hat people would be able to achieve
through an accumulation scheme is in the order of SI00,000 or more. That
is a very significant loss of benefit.11
Fund selection process
3.23 Having heard evidence concerning the introduction of the choice of funds
policy and of the likelihood of a large number of employees opting for a default fund,
the Committee sought clarification from officials of the Department of Finance and
Administration on the selection process and criteria to be adopted for selecting four
funds, where employers are offering limited choice, and a default fund, for
Commonwealth departments and agencies. Mr Bartos indicated that no guidelines
would be issued to employers on the selection process, but they were free to adopt his
department’s practice. He added:
9 Evidence, p. 30.
10 Evidence, p. 30.
11 Evidence, p. 7.


In respect of choosing a default fund, my preferred approach is to do that
by way of a competitive selection on a tender basis, but I believe that the
choice of a default fund will, for almost all employers, be a fairly
conservative one.12
3.24 On the selection of funds generally, the Committee sought to establish how
the process would be handled within each department, and the level of expertise of
those officials responsible for decisions on superannuation matters.
3.25 Mr Bartos indicated that neither his department nor any other agency had yet
made a final decision on the procedure - whether by tender or selection on the basis of
information from superannuation providers - to be adopted for fund selection, pending
passage of the legislation through parliament.
3.26 Questioned as to the form any tender process might take, Mr Bartos indicated
that it need not necessarily be a public tender process such as might be used in the
provision of goods and services but should include ‘a very rigorous comparison’ of
the information submitted by superannuation funds putting themselves forward for
selection.13
3.27 Concerning the expertise of departmental officers who will make the final
selection, he said:
...In relation to what expertise employers have, every department or
agency has the same sorts of obligations as other employers in the
community to exercise good judgement in relation to all of the conditions
of employment offered to staff - superannuation being one of them. There
is a range of other issues in terms of all of the terms and conditions of
employment on which we do take professional advice. Certainly on
superannuation we will be taking professional advice and at the end of the
day making a good management judgment.14
Nature of default fund
3.28 Committee members questioned whether employees might not be some
hundreds of thousands of dollars worse off by the time of their retirement if they
entered a conservative default fund at an early age. They also sought confirmation as
to whether a default fund would be obliged to provide death and disability cover for
members. Ms Wilson advised that there is no requirement in the legislation for the
default fund to provide such cover but that DOFA would advise employing agencies
to seriously consider including it in any specifications for a default fund.
12 Evidence, p. 44.
13 Evidence, p. 48.
14 Evidence, p. 47.


Effect on mobility within the APS
3.29 In its submission to the Committee, the CPSU indicated its concern that the
introduction of scheme choice at a departmental rather than an APS-wide level ‘will
radically reduce portability for employees moving within the APS.’15
3.30 Information supplied to the Committee by Ms Christine Goode, the
Commissioner for Superannuation, indicates that mobility of APS staff in 1996-97
was 14.3 per cent.16 Based on the number of permanent staff employed in the APS at
June 1997 - 118 5681 - up to 16 955 movements could take place annually.
3.31 The Committee queried the effect on mobility within the Commonwealth
Public service under the new arrangements, with each department or agency
potentially having to offer the transferring officer the choice of retaining his or her
existing fund even if that fund was not on the receiving department’s menu of choice.
Mr Bartos did not see this issue as an impediment to mobility:
I think it would only cause problems if an agency were to take the position
that it was offering four and only four funds to its employees and was not
prepared to be flexible enough to make payments to another fund for a new
employee who might happen to come in from another agency. My
expectation is that that will not happen. 1 do not see employers being that
inflexible.18
3.32 Asked about possible increased administration costs of a proliferation of
superannuation accounts for each department or agency, Mr Bartos indicated that
making payments into different funds is not administratively costly - departments
currently make a large number of payments on behalf of their employees to different
payees. He added:
The point of this legislation is based around choice rather than necessarily
around administrative costs.
Implications for national savings policy
3.33 Ms O' Loughlin of the CPSU pointed out that a shift towards accumulation
schemes meant that the benefits taken bv future employees would be in the form of
lump sums instead of pensions. She argued that this was contrary to the general
directions of national savings policy:
It is our understanding and our own view that governments of all
persuasions have moved over time to a position that pension outcomes
15 Submission, p. 3.
16 Mobility in the Australian Public Service, PSMPC. December 1997, p. 37.
17 Ibid, p. 5.
18 Evidence, p. 40.
19 Evidence, p. 41.


generally speaking are better outcomes as far as the national
superannuation and pension system is concerned.20
Merger of CSS and PSS Boards
3.34 The Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997 establishes a new
Commonwealth Superannuation Board to take over the responsibility of the CSS and
PSS Boards and the Commissioner for Superannuation.
3.35 The CPSU representative advised the Committee that while the CPSU was
not necessarily opposed to this change, the Government had not consulted with the
staff of the Public Service, nor their representative organisations about the matter.
3.36 Ms O'Loughlin argued that merging the two boards was 'a significant thing to
do', and she thought that the Government should have consulted 'the people whose
money is invested by those two boards'.21
Supplementation
3.37 Witnesses raised the issue of the level of Commonwealth funding for the cost
of employee superannuation under the new arrangements. Currently, the rate of
supplementation to departmental running costs is based on the relative proportions of
PSS (supplemented at 13.1 per cent) and CSS ( at 21.9 per cent) members on their
staffs. Mr Bartos confirmed that there would be no reduction in agencies’ running
costs, however:
After implementation of choice, it will become, in practical terms, very
difficult to work out an exact supplementation figure for agencies for their
superannuation costs. So the government has decided that, with the
introduction of choice, the existing amounts of money that agencies have
will no longer be readjusted every year; what they currently have in their
running costs bucket will be maintained. What that means in effect is that,
if superannuation costs continue to reduce over time, agencies will have a
greater level of supplementation than they might otherwise have had under
current arrangements..."
3.38 The Committee sought clarification from Mr Banos as to whether the amount
included in departmental running costs for superannuation funding would continue at
current levels. Mr Banos indicated that it was ‘just pan of agencies’ running costs
base' legislated each year by parliament as pan of the appropriations and, as such,
subject to change each year/"'
20 Evidence. p. 5.
21 Evidence, p. 13.
22 Evidence, p. 36.
23 Evidence, p. 36.


CHAPTER 4
LABOR AND AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRAT SENATORS’
MAJORITY REPORT
4.1 Labor and Australian Democrat Senators believe that the Government’s choice of
superannuation model will severely disadvantage many existing Commonwealth
Public Servants and all prospective Commonwealth Public Servants.
4.2 What the Government has labelled as an attempt to introduce choice of
superannuation fund into the Australian Public Service is actually nothing more than
another broken promise by the Prime Minister, Mr Howard.
4.3 Many provisions of this legislation breach the personal undertaking given in
writing to all public servants by the Prime Minister before the 1996 election:
I give you my rock solid guarantee that the Coalition will not cut and
destroy public sector superannuation schemes or the entitlements of
existing and prospective Commonwealth Government employees.1
Attached to this letter was the statement:
A Coalition Government will:
• guarantee all accrued superannuation entitlements and retain separate agreements
for public sector superannuation;
• review vesting and portability issues which inhibit movement between Federal
and State public services and the private sector.2
4.4 If the Government was seriously interested in introducing choice of fund, it
would not close the Public Sector Superannuation Scheme to new Commonwealth
public servants and would not be trying to force workers to choose a fund offered by
their employer.
4.5 The Government seems intent on driving choice into the public sector to suit
ideological reasons rather than reflecting genuine demand from employees.
4.6 In addition, the Government has shown little commitment to a public education
campaign which would allow workers to make an informed choice of fund, after
weighing up all of the facts which could affect their decision.
4.7 Under the Government's bills, employees who either cannot join the PSS or opt
out of either the CSS or PSS should be completely aw'are that they would or will be
disadvantaged in the following ways:
1 Letter dated 28 February 1996, by the then Leader of the Opposition, the Hon. John Howard
MP.
2 Extract from Coalition superannuation and public administration policy released February 1996.


• Potentially lower levels of contributions from the employer, as
departments and agencies are only obliged to contribute the statutory
superannuation guarantee (SG) minimum. This will impact on final
retirement incomes, which will be correspondingly lower.
• The shifting of a considerable investment risk from the employer, who
currently bears the investment risk inherently in the defined benefit
scheme - to the employee who, through joining an accumulation fund will
directly bear the investment risk;
• Lower death and disability insurance cover at greater cost; and
• The shifting of administration costs from the employer, via Comsuper, to
the employee’s via their chosen fund.
There are other relevant concerns also raised in Chapter 3 of the report.
4.8 There is currently significant mobility within the Public Service, but given that
different departments will offer different superannuation options, those employees
who transfer will either have to:
• open a new fund and maintain their existing fund at greater administration
cost; or
• transfer their monies from their existing fund to one of the new options
prescribed by the employer. The transfer of monies (consolidation) may
not be possible without significant financial penalty due to exit fees.


Recommendation
Labor and Australian Democrat Senators recommend that, consistent with
recommendations made in the Senate Select Committee’s Twenty Eighth Report on
Choice of Fund:
• employees should not be adversely disadvantaged by the move to choice
of fund;
• if any proposed model of choice of four funds is proceeded with, genuine
agreement should be reached with employees;
• the PSS should not be closed but instead should continue to be offered as
a fund choice to new members of the Australian Public Service;
• the start date for choice of superannuation fund should be delayed until
1 July 2000 for both new and existing employees;
• any default fund arrangements should be based on the fund to which the
majority of employees at a worksite belong, provided they are eligible to
join;
• the default fund must meet minimum standards in the areas of insurance
and investment choice.
Labor Senators recommend that the bills not be passed unless substantially amended
to address the concerns outlined above.
Senator the Hon. Nick Sherry
Deputy Chairman
senator bieptten-Ljjnr^
Senator Chris Evans
V
Senator Lyn Allison




CHAPTER 5
GOVERNMENT SENATORS' REPORT
5.1 As noted in the second chapter of this report, the main purpose of this legislation
is to allow the Commonwealth's employees to participate in the Government's choice
of fund arrangements, described at length in the Committee's previous report, Choice
of Fund.
5.2 The Australian Government Actuary, Mr Craig Thorbum, advised the Committee
that it is difficult to operate an open defined benefit scheme in the context of choice of
fund:
I think the provision of choice is a difficult thing to do in that context of
open defined benefit schemes, and the provision of choice is seen as a
substantially important option for employees to have.1
5.3 Accordingly, a precondition for the extension of choice of fund to
Commonwealth employees is closure of the remaining Government employees
defined benefit fund, the PSS, to new entrants.
5.4 Government Senators are satisfied that the Prime Minister's undertaking to
Commonwealth public servants prior to the last election has been honoured in the
Bill. All existing public sector employees can choose to retain all existing
superannuation entitlements. All future public sector employees, after 1 July 1998
will choose their complying superannuation scheme and their employer agency will
be budget funded, to enable their employer to contribute no less than current
contributions to existing employees.
5.5 Government Senators note that closure of the PSS will also, over the longer term,
reduce the Commonwealth's unfunded superannuation liabilities in respect of its
employees. The Australian Government Actuary has reported that as at 30 June 1996,
these liabilities amounted to $42 billion, or approximately 0.5% of gross domestic
product."
5.6 In its third report, entitled Super and the Financial System, the Committee noted
that if these unfunded liabilities are allowed to grow at a rate commensurate with the
national stock of superannuation assets, it is likely that governments will experience
difficulty, especially in those years when demographic characteristics dictate that a
high number of payouts occur and/or a large number of former public servants are in
receipt of a pension, in meeting these obligations in the context of tight budgetary
conditions. The Committee considered that it was therefore in the interests of the
Federal and State governments to act to curtain this burgeoning debt. Should they be
1 Evidence, p. 33.
2 Public Sector Superannuation Scheme and Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme fPSS and
CSS), A review of long term costs carried out by the Australian Government Actuary using data
as at 30 June 1996, p. 4.


unsuccessful, it is likely that public sector borrowing will need to be expanded.
Under this scenario, a link between pressure on interest rates and the growth of public
sector superannuation debt could be established.
5.7 The Committee further noted that pressure on interest rates could be further
intensified if ratings agencies take superannuation debt into account in assessing
credit rating for public sector borrowing activities.3
5.8 The Department of Finance and Administration advised the Committee that as a
result of closing the PSS to newr entrants, the Commonwealth's unfunded liabilities
would decrease one third by 2025.4 Government Senators consider that closing the
PSS to new entrants is a responsible initiative.
5.9 Following the passage of this legislation, the Government will fully fund its
superannuation liabilities in respect of new employees and those who elect to leave
the PSS or CSS after 1 July 2000. Employer contributions will be directed to
accumulation schemes chosen by the employees. Superannuation arrangements for
new Commonwealth employees will then be similar to those that cover the vast
majority of private sector employees. Consequently, benefits will generally be paid as
lump sums.
5.10 Government Senators note comments made by this Committee in earlier reports
that 'Australia has to go through the process of being "weaned off' lump sums'.5
Shifting retiring government employees from pensions to lump sums will not advance
this process. Methods of encouraging government employees to return to taking their
retirement benefits in an income stream should be encouraged.
5.11 Government Senators consider that a reasonable time should be allowed for
former employees to lodge appeals concerning late election to preserve contributions
where insufficient or incorrect advice may have been provided by the employer.
5.12 As noted in the previous report. Government Senators recognise that the
Government's timeframe for introducing choice of fund for its own employees, as
well as employees generally, is tight in terms of delivering a comprehensive education
program about choice.
3 Super and the Financial System, third report of the Select Committee on Superannuation,
October 1992, p. 25-26.
4 Submission, p. 14.
5 See, for example, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System, a
preliminary paper prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for the Minister
for Social Security, March 1994, para. 1.2.


•• — - • * ‘ i Vfv. -** f*:r .*
Recommendation ■ ' > ■
Government Senators recommend that the bills be passed without.delay.
... ..... ;\V .. . ■ '
. vi.- • -
1
'~j#L—'
Senator John Watson
Chairman
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran




APPENDIX A
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
No.
1 Community and Public Sector Union NSW
2 Australian Council of Trade Unions VIC
3 The Association of Professional Engineers, Scientists
and Managers, Australia (APESMA) ACT
4 Department of Finance and Administration C'wealth




APPENDIX B
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARING
CANBERRA, 24 MARCH 1998
Mr Stephen Bartos, General Manager, Resource Management Framework.
Department of Finance and Administration
Mr Gerard Butler, Director, Australian Capital Territory, Association of
Professional Engineers, Scientists and Managers Australia
Mr Kevin Deeves, Acting Australian Government Actuary, Australian
Government Actuary, Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Ms Gillian Dowling, Director CSS/PSS Section, Commonwealth
Superannuation Group, Department of Finance and Administration
Ms Christine Goode, Commissioner and CEO, ComSuper (Commonwealth
Superannuation Administration)
Ms Sally O'Loughlin. Assistant National Secretary, Community and Public
Sector Union - PSU Group
Ms Linda Rubinstein. Senior Industrial Officer, Australian Council of Trade
Unions
Mr Craig Thorbum, Acting Deputy Commissioner - Life Insurance, Australian
Government Actuary
Ms Sandra Wilson, Branch Manager, Commonwealth Superannuation Group,
Department of Finance and Administration.




APPENDIX C
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992) Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life
Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding
Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and
Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November
1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervisory Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into
the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund
(August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervision Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege
Matter Involving Mr Kevin Linde berg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 199 j)


A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated
Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for
Housing (May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Regs I (August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Regs II (November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Guarantee - Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
and Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation * Review
of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve
Bank Officers' Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Provisions of the Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and
Other Measures) Bill 1996 - Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Investment of Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Retirement Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Schedules 1, 9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)
Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges' Pension
Scheme (September 1997)
Twenty-sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
- Restrictions on Early Access: Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment
Bill 1997 and related terms of reference. (September 1997)


Twenty-seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Contributions Tax Amendment Bills. (November 1997)
Super Taxing - An information paper on the Taxation of Superannuation and
related matters. (February 1998)
Twenty-eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Choice of Fund. (March 1998)
Twenty-ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and
Amendment Bill 1997, Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997,
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment - Saving and
Transitional Provisions) Bill 1997. (April 1998)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 93 of 1998
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
