

Super Guarantee
Its Track Record
Fifteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
February 1995




Super Guarantee
Its Track Record
Fifteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
February 1995


© Commonwealth of Australia 1995
ISBN 0 642 22515 X
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Ms Krista Gerrard
Mr Andrew Cunich
Mr James Satrapa (to 23 December 1994)
Ms Ann Settin
Ms Janice Scarabottolo
Address:
Telephone:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
(06) 277 3439
Facsimile:
(06) 277 5719




CONTENTS
Page
Members of the Committee.i
Contents. iii
Recommendations.v
Chapters:
PART 1: BACKGROUND.1
1. Introduction.3
2. Retirement Income Policy.7
3. Some General Observations.13
PART 2: TINY SUMS, BIG PROBLEM:
THE SMALL AMOUNTS PROBLEM.33
4. The Origin of Small Amounts.35
5. Small Amounts, Fees and Charges...37
6. Multiple Small Accounts.59
7. Threshold, Preservation and Contributions Tax.71
8. Other Initiatives.85
9. Super Savings Accounts.93
10. Interaction between SG and Award Superannuation.105
11. Coverage and Compliance.119
12. An Alternative, an Addition and Education.139


Super Guarantee - Its Track Record
Appendices:
A. List of Written Submissions.153
B. List of Witnesses at Public Hearings.159
C. Terms of Reference.167
D. List of Rulings and Determinations issued
by the Australian Taxation Office.169
E. List of Committee Reports.171


RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendations
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends theATO scheme be limited to those employers
unable to find appropriate funds offering member protection or unable to utilise
existing employee accounts. Current PAYE forms should be utilised to simplify
employer administration of their SG obligations.
Recommendation 6.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government ensure that appropriate
transfer protocols are adopted by all participating funds.
Recommendation 7.1:
The Committee recommends as the first element in its proposal to alleviate the
small amounts problem that consideration be given to changing the SG
threshold from $450 per month to a quarterly amount of less than $1350.
Recommendation 7.2:
The Committee recommends the removal of access to preserved amounts of less
than $500 as the second element in its proposal to alleviate the small amounts
problem.
Recommendation 7.3:
The Committee recommends the removal of contributions tax for the first $500
as the third element in its proposal to alleviate the small amounts problem.
The Committee is unaware of any investigation by the Government on the
implementation and associated revenue implication of such a measure. The
Committee further recommends that an assessment be made of the most
effective and efficient means of implementing a tax free threshold.


Recommendation 8.1:
The Committee reaffirms its recommendation as set out in its report, Super
Supervision Bills, that extended usage ofTFNs for superannuation purposes be
allowed, subject to member consent.
Recommendation 10.1:
The Committee recommends the Government submit to the section 150A A1RC
review of awards. This submission should outline the means by which SG and
award superannuation inconsistencies can be removed.
Recommendation 11.1
The Committee recommends that the Government extend exemptions from the
requirements of SG to all non-resident workers where there is sufficient
evidence that superannuation is being paid in the country of residence.
Recommendation 12.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government ensure that appropriately
targeted education programs be maintained to dispel the confusion and
uncertainty about superannuation.
Recommendation 12.2:
The Committee recommends that some relevant information concerning SG be
included in the BizHelp software package, including the number of the SG
hotline.


PARTI
BACKGROUND
Background
A democracy endeavours to provide economic, social and political stability for
its citizens. Economic stability takes on a particular significance in many people's
retirement years. It is during this period that they are less able to generate new
income.
The Superannuation Guarantee has been added to the structure of this country's
retirement income system. It has been in operation for 32 months. An
understanding of the impetus for its establishment, the policy framework and the
industrial context is a vital prerequisite tp assessing the relevance, operation and
adequacy of the SG.
The first part of this report sets out to provide such a background to the
Superannuation Guarantee in the context of the review that is undertaken in the
second part.
Part 1 also reports on some overall observations that were received in the course
of the inquiry. Assertions were made that the Superannuation Guarantee has
impacted upon employment levels, casualisation of the workforce and has
contributed to the fear of losing the pension. The level of acceptance of the
system was also debated. Each of these issues forms part of the mosaic against
which the retirement incomes policy has and will continue to develop.
It is within the frame of reference drawn in Part 1 of the report that the Select
Committee on Superannuation has reviewed the system and recommended
measures to alleviate aberrations from the relevant principles of retirement
incomes.




CHAPTER 1:
INTRODUCTION
Introduction
1.1 Against the backdrop of an ageing population profile and declining
national savings, the Government mandated superannuation for employees in
1992.
1.2 With the introduction of the Superannuation Guarantee (SG) came two
enormous challenges. First, there was the obvious need for a suitable and
enduring administrative system. The second, not so obvious, challenge was to
earn the 'seal of approval' from everyday Australians who have been asked to
embrace a compulsory superannuation system involving far reaching economic
and sociological implications. The Government has not taken this second
challenge lightly as the success of SG depends largely on the confidence and
participation of workers and employers alike.
1.3 As with any other project of the magnitude of SG, one would expect a
few 'teething pains'. For this reason, the purpose of this report is to review the
operation of the SG during its formative year.
Background
1.4 On 2 April 1992, the then Treasurer, the Hon John Dawkins, MP,
outlined the following reasons for the Superannuation Guarantee in the Second
Reading Speech on the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1992:
. to provide a genuine retirement savings vehicle for most Australians;
. to increase the level of superannuation savings per individual, in order to
maintain a satisfactory living standard in retirement;
. to provide a major extension of overall superannuation coverage in the
workforce;
. to provide an efficient means of encouraging employers to comply with
award superannuation obligations;


. to provide an orderly way to increase the level of superannuation support
over time, consistent with the economy's capacity to pay; and
. to increase the overall national savings so as to reduce Australian reliance
on the savings of foreigners to fund development.
1.5 The legislative authority for the SG is provided by the Superannuation
Guarantee Charge Act 1992 and the associated administrative detail is contained
in the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.
1.6 The Commissioner of Taxation was given the responsibility for the
implementation and administration of SG.
1.7 In the course of their passage through Parliament the Superannuation
Guarantee (Administration) Bill and the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Bill
were referred to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for inquiry and
report. The Committee scrutinised the legislation in its second report, Super
Guarantee Bills. Recommendations made in that report resulted in significant
amendments to the legislation before it was passed.
1.8 In view of the involvement of this Committee in both the passage of the
SG legislation and the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) (hereafter, SIS)
legislation, it was suggested that the Committee was in a good position to review
the operation of the SG scheme.
1.9 On 15 December 1993, the Committee was given the following terms of
reference for inquiry and report:
The operation of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge (SG) during its
first 12 month period, with particular reference to:
(a) the impact of the SG on women, and on casual and part-time
employees;
(b) any technical deficiencies in the Superannuation Guarantee Charge
Act 1992 and the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration)
Act 1992;
(c) the administration, application and coverage of the SG scheme;
(d) compliance with the SG scheme; and
(e) any other matters related to the operation of the scheme.


Conduct of the Inquiry
1.10 The Committee called for submissions on the reference by placing
advertisements in a number of newspapers and journals. It also contacted persons
and organisations who had expressed interest in superannuation matters and were
on the Committee's mailing list. The Committee received 116 written
submissions.1 Ninety witnesses2 appeared before the Committee to give oral
evidence in hearings conducted in:
1.11 In this inquiry, the Committee has sought to obtain the broadest views on
the operation of the SG scheme. In doing so it has sought the general impressions
of the scheme from a range of participants as well as specific analysis and
proposals.
1.12 To facilitate discussion of the issues raised in the terms of reference, and
in accordance with the Committee's previous resolutions, unless otherwise
ordered, written submissions were published on receipt and uncorrected Hansard
transcripts were circulated as soon as they became available.
1.13 Oral evidence is cited by reference to Hansard as follows: 'Evidence,
p XX'. Written submissions are referred to by their registration number:
'SGCREV Sub No XX'.
1 See Appendix A
2 See Appendix B


1.14 The Committee also heard evidence during the course of the above
hearings on the increase of SG contribution levels, the Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal, the SIS regulations and the Super for Women reference.
1.15 There is significant overlap between this reference and the Committee's
reference on the adequacy of current retirement incomes policy in meeting the
needs of intermittent workers, particularly women. This report examines some of
the issues raised by these references. It also makes some recommendations in
respect of those issues. However, the Committee intends to undertake a much
broader inquiry and analysis of these matters in the 'Super-Women' inquiry. The
terms of reference for that inquiry appear at Appendix C.
1.16 The Committee records its appreciation to those who made written
submissions and gave oral evidence in the inquiry.


CHAPTER 2:
RETIREMENT INCOME POLICY
Retirement income policy
'Something has to be done now to
meet our future retirement needs'1
Introduction
2.1 Superannuation Guarantee is a key component of the superannuation
component of the Government's Retirement Income Policy.
The Government's Retirement Income Policy
Background
2.2 The Government's retirement income policy (RIP) was developed to
address problems stemming from an ageing population caused by the large post
war "baby boom" generation moving toward age pension age within the next
couple of decades. Other major factors which were taken into consideration were
the disadvantages faced by women in saving for their later years and the trend
towards older people leaving the workforce at earlier ages.2
2.3 The policy framework for a comprehensive retirement income policy was
established in an August 1989 Statement by the Minister for Social Security,
Mr Brian Howe. It detailed the policy progress made since 1983 in relation to:
. superannuation;
. social security;
. taxation;
1 The Hon John Dawkins, MP, Treasurer, Security in Retirement, Planning for Tomorrow
Today, 30 June 1992, p 2
2 Statement by the Honourable Brian Howe, MP, Minister for Social Security, Better
Incomes: Retirement Income Policy into the Next Century, August 1989, p 1


. community services;
. health care; and
. housing.
2.4 Recognising that 'the key to providing better income support for the
growing number of older people is increased saving', the Government was
instrumental in making profound changes to the superannuation system which it
considers to be the 'most direct form of saving for retirement'.3 As the age
pension was retained as the centrepiece of its RIP, better integration with
superannuation was seen as conducive to a more effective national retirement
income policy.
2.5 The Committee notes that Ageing Agendas was commissioned to engage
in a strategic review of the Income and Assets Tests. Ageing Agendas produced
a discussion paper in July 1994 which, amongst other tasks, looked at the
objectives of the income and assets tests within the framework of the
Government's RIP and other relevant policies and proposed a set of benchmarks
to guide decision making about the options.4 The final report of that review,
Targeting for Equity, was presented to the Minister for Social Security on
27 November 1994.
2.6 As the major objective of the RIP 'is to ensure an adequate income for
retired Australians, both now and in the future',5 SG was designed to ensure that
those still in the workforce have opportunities to save more, either through
superannuation or otherwise, for their retirement years.
2.7 The Government considered that improving superannuation benefits for
both employees and the self-employed was the major way in which total
retirement income adequacy could be increased, and that this could be achieved
by:
extending superannuation coverage across the labour force;
increasing the levels of contributions;
3 Statement by the Honourable Brian Howe, MP, Minister for Social Security, Better
Incomes: Retirement Income Policy into the Next Century, August 1989, p 2
4 Questions of Balance, a Discussion Paper, by John Barber, Gillian Moon and Sharon
Doolan, 'Aging Agendas', July 1994
5 Statement by the Honourable Brian Howe, MP, Minister for Social Security, Better
Incomes: Retirement Income Policy into the Next Century, August 1989, p 28


. ensuring that superannuation benefits are not lost when an employee
changes jobs;
. making superannuation more responsive to women's pattern of working;
and
. ensuring that superannuation is not wasted before or at retirement.6
2.8 Until the advent of award superannuation in the mid-1980s, Australia's
retirement incomes system comprised an aged pension and voluntary
superannuation. The tax incentives offered in relation to superannuation were
ineffective in extending coverage of superannuation. By 1983, only a minority of
the workforce had any superannuation coverage, with most being highly paid
white collar workers or public sector employees.
2.9 Between 1983 and 1986, a number of policy initiatives were introduced
progressively to address what were perceived as major problems with
superannuation. These initiatives were:
. to change the taxation treatment of the post June 1983 component of
lump sums;
. to create rollover vehicles to encourage preservation of benefits;
. to encourage the spread of superannuation throughout the workforce,
beginning with award superannuation in 1985/86;
. the introduction of vesting and portability to make superannuation a more
effective vehicle of providing retirement income.
2.10 The Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC) was established in
1987 to administer guidelines by which superannuation schemes have to operate
in order to be eligible for tax concessions. The Occupational Superannuation
Standards Act 1987 (OSSA) and its associated regulations codified these
guidelines, or standards.
6 Statement by the Honourable Brian Howe, MP, Minister for Social Security, Better
Incomes: Retirement Income Policy into the Next Century, August 1989, pp 35-36


Superannuation Guarantee
2.11 In August 1991 the Government announced its intention to extend
superamiuation coverage throughout the workforce at large by introducing
widespread compulsory superannuation.
2.12 In his statement of 30 June 1992, the then Treasurer, the
Hon John Dawkins, MP, stated that:
Australia - unlike most other developed countries - meets its age pension
from current revenues. Taxation paid by today's workers is thus not
contributing to workers' future retirement security; the revenue is fully used
to meet the annual costs borne by governments.
And, like most other people, Australians generally undervalue savings for
their own future retirement. Private voluntary savings cannot be relied upon
to provide an adequate retirement security for most Australians. This is so
even with the very generous taxation concessions which are available for
private superannuation savings.
Our existing arrangements are no longer sustainable in the face of the
community's growing retirement aspirations, as well as demographic and
other changes.
These changes include the ageing of Australia's population, the significant
trend to earlier retirement and changing community views about what level
of retirement income is adequate. None of these changes can be readily
reversed by government policies. The ageing of our population can only be
postponed, by ever increasing the number of young immigrants; increasing
aspirations for retirement are necessarily linked to increased living standards
and improved health care.
In the face of these factors, changes are required to the current reliance on
the pay-as-you-go approach to funding widely available retirement incomes.
This means that we need now to start saving more for our future retirement.
It also means that saving for retirement will have to be compulsory. It means
that these savings will increasingly have to be 'preserved' for retirement
purposes. Lastly, the rate of saving will have to ensure retirement incomes
which are higher than that provided today through the age pension system.
There seems to be a general awareness in the community that something has
to be done now to meet our future retirement needs.7
The Hon John Dawkins, MP, Treasurer, Security in Retirement, Planning for Tomorrow
Today, 30 June 1992, pp 1-2


2.13 The Superannuation Guarantee Charge Act 1992 (SGC Act) and the
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (SGAA) took effect from
1 July 1992.
2.14 Australia's retirement income policy now has three key components:
. compulsory superannuation;
. voluntary superannuation arrangements; and
. age pension and other social security arrangements.
2.15 Australia now has a superannuation system similar to those in other
developed countries.8 The system could be considered unique, however, given
that the payment of compulsory superannuation is operated through private sector
organisations rather than operating through a central fund or on a pay-as-you-go
basis.
2.16 The introduction of Superannuation Guarantee increased community
concerns about the prudential management of superannuation benefits. The
supervisory regime instigated under OSSA was seen as ineffective because its
sanctions were derived chiefly from the Commonwealth's taxation head of power
under the Constitution. Any breach of standards by trustees could only be
punished by withdrawing a fund's complying status and its associated eligibility
for tax concessions. Such a sanction was seen to be both draconian and
ineffective as it generally penalised the members a second time without affecting
the trustees.
2.17 As this was seen to be inadequate for the purposes of protecting the
superannuation assets of the Australian workforce, new legislation was enacted
which gave the ISC enhanced supervisory powers flowing from the corporations
and pensions heads of power under the Constitution. The advantage of this was
that trustees could be made directly responsible for the management and
operation of funds. Breaches of the standards are punishable with civil and
criminal sanctions without endangering a fund's compliance status.
2.18 The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and a raft of
associated legislation came into effect generally from the commencement of a
fund's 1994/95 year of income for funds whose trustees elected that the Act apply
in relation to the fund. That election is irrevocable.
8 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super System Survey - A background
paper on retirement income arrangements in twenty-one countries, December 1991


2.19 Funds cannot be complying funds for the 1994/95 or subsequent years of
income until such an election is made.


CHAPTER 3:
SOME GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
Some general observations
Introduction
3.1 The SG scheme was introduced in the context of both retirement incomes
policy and national savings policy. However, the scheme has ramifications in a
range of areas.
3.2 This chapter reports on some of the general observations made to the
Committee on the acceptance of SG and its impact on national saving,
employment levels, casualisation of the workforce and perceptions of the
abolition of the aged pension.
Acceptance of the SG system
3.3 The Committee received conflicting evidence on the acceptance by the
community of the SG system. The dominant view, however, that was expressed
to the Committee was that the system has been accepted. Acceptance appears to
have firmed over time.
3.4 The NSW Nurses' Association stated that '[employers] all accept that
they have to pay' and that the gradual increase to 9% is inevitable.1 Mayne
Nickless declared that it 'is a supporter of superannuation for employees, and has
been for a long time, well before it was required to do so'.2 The Australian
Medical Association (AMA) 'has accepted the superannuation guarantee charge
scheme as a feature of contemporary medical practice'.3
3.5 Sedgwick Noble Lowndes strongly supports the concept of SG but
suggested that the scheme is 'more complex than what it needs to be'.4
1 Evidence, pp 42-43
2 Evidence, p 149
3 Evidence, p 457
4 Evidence, p 184, p 186


3.6 Mr John McCormack of Melbourne submitted that SG coverage should
be extended to unemployed people and some people on pensions, for example
those on disability or carers' pensions. He suggested that the Government, as 'de
facto employer' contribute SG on behalf of these persons.5 The Committee has
received submissions to its next inquiry on this issue and it will be canvassed in
that report.
3.7 In contrast to evidence supporting SG, the Committee heard from a
number of witnesses who stated explicitly that they were discontented with the
application of SG to those who provide services to them. Many of these
witnesses represented small businesses.
3.8 Given the initial concerns expressed by small businesses at the
commencement of the SG scheme, the Committee noted that no criticisms of the
SG scheme were submitted by the Council of Small Business Organisations of
Australia. However, a number of chambers of commerce made submissions on
technical and employment issues.
3.9 Mr Myers, of the WA Small Business and Enterprise Association, stated
in evidence: 'in my opinion, superannuation is the worst possible form of
investment you can get involved in'.6 Mr Myers argued that superannuation has
changed drastically and is no longer 'a three way common law deal between an
employer, key personnel and its insurance company',7 but rather a system 'subject
to the whim of political change'.8
3.10 The Australian Liquor Hospitality and Miscellaneous Workers' Union
essentially shared the view that 'a lot of employers... are not keen to pay
superamiuation'.9 The Australian Road Transport Industry Organisation submitted
that truck drivers should be responsible for their own superannuation.10
3.11 Severe reservations were expressed by the Maitland Chamber of
Commerce and Industry (MCCI) about all aspects of the SG.11 The MCCI
submitted that jobs would be lost because of the extra costs to employers, and
5 SGCREV Sub No 32
6 Evidence, p 386
7 Evidence, p 386
8 Evidence, p 386
9 Evidence, p 255
10 Evidence, pi72
11 SGCREV Sub No 81


that the employees most affected in this regard would be those the SG was
designed to benefit. In addition, the Chamber advocated that superannuation be
provided as part of each individual's tax arrangements, possibly through a direct
debit transaction by the ATO to a superannuation fund nominated by the
individual. The MCCI was dubious of the complexity of the rules governing
superannuation, which confused 'the majority of Small Business and employees',
and ccnsidered that changes in the tax treatment of superannuation over the years
progressively reduced its attractiveness as an investment.
3.12 The National Racehorse Owners' Association stated that 'it would be
inequitable, burdensome and wrong for the superannuation of jockeys to be paid
out of the hard earned money of our members'.12 Superannuation 'should be
directed at the jockeys themselves and not directed at the owners', the
Association contended.13
3.13 Although a supporter of SG, Jacques Martin indicated the lack of
conformity may result from SG still being in its embryonic stage.
The key thing is, as with any new regime, that people try to test its limits;
and you will have employers who will try that out until the tax office
demonstrates... that it is really serious where it does uncover cases of
evasion.14
3.14 In upgrading the administration of the SG requirements for the WA public
sector, the Government Employees Superannuation Board of Western Australia
(GES) encountered 'considerable difficulties... in establishing the arrangements
necessary to cater for a diverse and dispersed workforce, with retrospective
application'. Nevertheless, the GES Board concluded that the 'administrative
requirements appear manageable', commenting that much of the administrative
complexity was due to the inclusion of casual and part-time employees.15
3.15 The GES Board postulated that the additional cost of SG to the WA
Government in its first 10 years of operation would be about $700 million dollars
in 1992/93 values, and asserted that there was a 'strong case for compensation
[from the Commonwealth Government] by an increase in financial grants to the
States'. The GES Board argued that it was:
12 Evidence, p 211
13 Evidence, p 214
14 Evidence, p 137
15 SGCREV Sub No 73


standard practice for the Commonwealth to reduce States' financial
assistance grants which adversely affect the Commonwealth... [and] the
Commonwealth has often provided compensation to the States for policy
changes which adversely impact on the States.
The Board concluded that 'Western Australia could have been better resourced
by the Commonwealth to administer the SGC requirements'.16
3.16 Mr J Kelberg, of Ocean Grove in Victoria, also expressed some mild
reservations, submitting that SG contributions made on behalf of each employee
to defined benefit funds should be placed into accumulation accounts, separate
from their defined benefits. This would alleviate complications generated by the
build up of surpluses and the associated remedy 'contributions holidays' for
employers.17
3.17 Mr O.A. Malikoff, of Cleveland in Queensland, considered that single
income families and retired people would be adversely affected by SG, the latter
because SG costs would be passed onto consumers in the form of higher prices
for goods and services.18
Deferred wages or a tax
3.18 There was also a range of evidence on superannuation being wages
foregone and deferred wages. The Australian Liquor Hospitality and
Miscellaneous Workers' Union considered that from its perspective:
award superannuation was initially in substitute for a pay increase. It was a
conscious decision made at a national level within the union movement,
through the ACTU, that it would be pursued as superannuation.19
3.19 The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of WA (WACCI) was also of
the view that superannuation is deferred wages.20
3.20 The Australian Council of Social Services (ACOSS) strongly supported
this view in both its submission and in providing oral evidence before the
Committee. The concerns expressed by ACOSS were based on the fact that 'most
low income earners cannot afford to forego current income in order to save for
16 SGCREV Sub No 73
17 SGCREV Sub No 21
18 SGCREV Sub No 66
19 Evidence, p 257
20 Evidence, p 305


retirement'.21 In addition to more urgent current needs of these low income
earners, there is the question of the inadequacy of the final retirement benefit
such workers will receive. ACOSS proposed that employees below a set
threshold, not necessarily the current $450 per month which in itself
discriminates against those low income employees, be given the option of having
the contribution paid to a superannuation fund or of saying 'I would rather this in
cash'.2
3.21 Ms Jennifer Willmott, of Nedlands, WA, also questioned the
effectiveness of the SG given that many low income earners have more
immediate needs. In her business, Ms Willmott, has employed people such as
single parents who need money now to pay the rent and feed their children. Other
employees have been saving for a house deposit. Ms Willmott stated:
What I have learned about the sorts of people who take on part-time jobs
like these suggests to me that they would be far better off earning an extra
5% NOW and putting it back into the economy.23
3.22 Evidence was put to the Committee on the perception of SG as a tax.
WACCI identified SG as:
a tax. It should not be, but it is. The superannuation guarantee charge does
not say that you must pay superannuation; it says that, if you do not, you
will pay a tax instead.24
3.23 The South Australian Employers' Chamber of Commerce & Industry does
not support 'the use of a penal taxation Act which does not have as its purpose
the collection of revenue for the Government'.25 The Chamber submitted that the
use of the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) to supervise expenditure on SG
created a perception in business that superannuation is a tax matter. Therefore,
compliance would be met only to the minimum standard.26
21 SGCREV Sub No 86
22 Evidence, p 239
23 SGCREV Sub No 13
24 Evidence, p 307
25 SGCREV Sub No 42
26
SGCREV Sub No 42


3.24 Jacques Martin also questions the involvement of the ATO in the
superannuation system. While 'the superannuation guarantee certainly has its
basis in tax... the actual operation of the superannuation system should not be
seen at the tax office first and at the industry second'.27
3.25 While questioning the constitutional authority of the Commonwealth
Government to impose superannuation policies on the community, WACCI does
see a need for superannuation policy to be coordinated at a national level. A
possible solution 'may be for the State Governments (which do have
constitutional powers over superannuation) to cooperate with the Commonwealth
in designing a national and properly legislated scheme'.28
National saving
Treasury estimates
3.26 The Committee outlined the effects of national saving and
Superannuation Guarantee in its third report, Super and the Financial System,
which was published in October 1992. That report focuses on a submission
received from Treasury which notes:
... the impact of the SGC on national saving has the following components:
an increase in net private saving due to
• an increase in net private superannuation saving (measured as
contributions plus earnings less fund payouts),
• a reduction in other forms of private saving;
plus an increase in public saving due to
• reduction in age pension outlays, partly (and in early years more than
fully) offset by
• an increase in the cost of the superannuation tax concessions.29
3.27 Treasury's submission continues by explaining that its projections of the
impact of the implementation of SG on national saving, which are broken down
into the components listed above, were derived from the results of simulations
27 Evidence, p 137
28 SGCREV Sub No 24
29 Treasury, SG Sub No 47, 11 May 1992


conducted on the National Mutual Retirement Incomes Policy (RIP) Model. The
projections estimate that SG will increase private superannuation savings by
about 2 per cent of GDP within fifteen years, increasing to more than 2.5 per cent
of GDP by the year 2020, before levelling off. The cost of tax concessions as a
result of SG implementation over fifteen years is estimated to be 0.55 per cent of
GDP, dropping very slightly to 0.53 per cent of GDP by 2020.30
Estimates by the Retirement Income Modelling Task Force
3.28 A recent paper prepared by Rothman and Bacon, of the Retirement
Income Modelling Task Force (RIM), discusses how major demographic trends
(particularly changes in fertility and mortality) and alternative scenarios impact
on important Australian aggregates, such as the asset holdings of superannuation
funds, and on age and service pension costs.31
3.29 Included in the modelling were some 1994 projections based upon labour
force participation, adjusted for assumptions about entry age to the workforce.
Projections indicate that 'following parameter adjustments, the current base RIP
runs indicate a somewhat higher impact of the Superannuation Guarantee on
national savings'.32
3.30 The adjustments referred to a labour force entry at age 20 as compared to
previous projections which assumed labour force entry at age 25. Figure 3.1
shows the resulting impact on net private savings, age pension outlays, net tax
concession costs, and national savings.
3.31 Additional net private savings over the next fifteen years resulting from
lowering the assumed age of labour force entry age from 25 to 20 years are
projected to amount to over 0.2 per cent of GDP, peaking at about 0.45 per cent
of GDP by about the year 2030, before tailing off to about 0.35% in the
following decades. Additional savings in aged pension outlays would be
comparable with the additional net private savings, overtaking the latter in the
very long term.
30 Treasury, SG Sub No 47, 11 May 1992
31 Rothman, G.P., & Bacon, B.R., Retirement Income Modelling Task Force, The Impact
of Population and Labour Force Scenarios on Superannuation, Tax Expenditures and
Pension Costs, July 1994
32 Rothman, GP, & Bacon, BR, Retirement Income Modelling Task Force, The Impact of
Population and Labour Force Scenarios on Superannuation, Tax Expenditures and
Pension Costs, July 1994


Source: Rothman, G.P., & Bacon, B.R., Retirement Income Modelling Task Force, The Impact of Population
and Labour Force Scenarios on Superannuation, Tax Expenditures and Pension Costs, July 1994
Other comments
3.32 WACCI cites the FitzGerald Report in questioning the effectiveness of
SG in terms of national savings. FitzGerald states:
the Superannuation Guarantee Charge cannot effectively serve its retirement
income objectives in the face of rapid aging of the population unless it raises
national saving, so as to finance ahead of time a build-up of the capital stock
per employee in the economy.33
3.33 Projections indicating an increase of GDP by around 1.5 per cent, with a
possible two-thirds leakage through lower savings, is not seen by WACCI as
making a significant contribution to national savings. WACCI concludes that 'in
the context of aggregate national savings, the Charge in isolation is not
efficient'.34
33 SGCREV Sub No 24
34 SGCREV Sub No 24


3.34 Professor David Allen, from Curtin University of Technology, WA,
suggested a need for a 'level playing field as far as possible' to encourage all
forms of savings.35 This need could be enhanced by encouraging savings across
the board, with various tax incentives to save. 'I think you should push saving as
a whole and not just in particular forms.'36
Employment
3.35 In the July 1994 issue of ACCI Review, the Australian Chamber of
Commerce and Industry (ACCI) looked at the employment effects of the SG.
ACCI identified unemployment as Australia's number one priority, but opined
that the effect of SG on unemployment has remained entirely unnoticed. The
article stated:
It is important to recognise that the Superannuation Guarantee has cost the
Australian economy jobs and will continue to cost jobs as the levy is raised
on an almost annual basis until the year 2002. The next round occurs from
July 1 when the minimum Superannuation Guarantee payment rises from
three per cent to four per cent. Whatever this may do for retirement incomes
out beyond the year 2020, the immediate impact must be to slow the
recovery in the number of jobs created.37
3.36 Despite using recent ABS employment statistics to support this claim on
the effect of SG on unemployment, ACCI indicates that the ABS data should be
treated with some caution because the series is based on the company register
where new firms are not represented to the same degree as existing firms.
Notwithstanding this comment, ACCI draws the reader's attention to the ABS
table of the trends of wage and salary earners (see Figure 3.2) and concludes that
the growth in the number of employees reduced as soon as SG was introduced
and has continued to fall:
The introduction and continual increases in the Superannuation Guarantee
are inconsistent with current efforts to reduce unemployment... . The July
increase in the Superannuation Guarantee by raising the cost of employment
will undermine efforts to lower unemployment.38
35 Evidence, p 364
36 Evidence, p 365
37 Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ACCI Review, Employment Effects of
Superannuation Guarantee, July 1994, p 6
38 Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ACCI Review, Employment Effects of
Superannuation Guarantee, July 1994, p 7


ANNUALISED GROWTH IN NUMBER OF
WAGE AND SALARY EARNERS
Source: Australian Chamber ot Commerce and Industry, ACC1 Review, employment ejjects oj
Superannuation Guarantee, July 1994
3.37 In a later article, ACCI estimated the number of jobs lost based on the
Yellow Pages Small Business Index. Questionnaires, put to very small firms (1-
20 employees), asked respondents to name anything which they felt was reducing
the number of jobs offered. Results showed 12% of respondents identified the
cost of superannuation as causing job restrictions. On this basis, ACCI has
calculated that 'there might have been around 100,000 additional people working
today than are in fact working had the Superannuation Guarantee not been
introduced'.39
3.38 Similarly, the Victorian Farmers Federation believes that the 'SGC is a
cost of employment which acts as a further disincentive for creating
employment'.40
3.39 A survey conducted by Professor Tapen Sinha and Ms Rebecca Benedict,
of Bond University School of Business, found 23.6 per cent of respondents
reduced their number of employees or did not replace employees who quit in
order to meet SG costs. Assuming that there are at least 800,000 small
businesses in Australia, Sinha and Benedict estimated, on the basis of the sample
percentage, that up to 192,000 jobs may have been lost.41
39 Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ACCI Review, The Super Guarantee -
Fewer Jobs, Slower Growth, October 1994, p 20
40 Evidence, p 224
41 SGCREV Sub No 3


3.40 In a separate submission, Professor Sinha measured, what he labelled, the
'opportunity cost' of SG. Expressed in terms of lost income tax revenue and
increased unemployment benefits, he calculated that the opportunity cost will
account for between 36 per cent and 72 per cent of age pension cost when SG is
fully functional. Professor Sinha questions whether the purported savings to age
pension outlays due to SG will eventuate.42
3.41 In discussing the effects of employment and SG, the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry of WA identified small business as being most affected
by SG. Even with transitional provisions, an increase in labour costs impacts
heavily. These additional costs are borne by Australian industries forced to
compete with overseas markets. However, WACCI did, in discussing
employment and SG, acknowledge that:
All of the job creation in Australia over the past two years has occurred in
the small business sector, with most employment projections pointing to new
small businesses as a key source of employment growth.43
3.42 The Adult and Community Education Council submitted that:
if the current chronic underfunding of the NSW ACE sector continues, the
sector will be unable to sustain its present staff when superannuation
contributions rise to even 6%.44
3.43 One employer who was not aware of the impact of SG on employment or
unemployment was Mayne Nickless who informed the Committee that the SG is
not an issue in determining its rate of employment and reiterated that it believed
in superannuation and is 'happy to meet an obligation'.45
3.44 The Committee compared the evidence associating SG and
uneineployment with figures in the Australian Market Review - November 1994.
The Australian Bureau of Statistics data indicate that, notwithstanding the
introduction of the SG, employment has grown since 1992.
42 SGCREV Sub No 7
43 SGCREV Sub No 24
44 SGCREV Sub No 64
45 Evidence, p 154


Women's work patterns
3.45 Retirement benefits for women under the current occupational
superannuation system are comparatively lower than for their male counterparts
because of the intermittent work patterns of most women. This intermittency
reflects the parenting role played by women during their working lives. A
woman's work pattern is greatly affected by child bearing and child raising.46 A
pattern emerges indicating high participation in early working life, an interruption
to the pattern resulting from time taken to start and raise a family, and then a
surge in the pattern indicating a return to regular paid work in the latter part of
life.
3.46 The evidence of the NSW Nurses' Association confirmed the problems
experienced by women because of intermittent work patterns and submitted that
allowances have not been made for the breaks in employment taken by women
for the following reasons:
• maternity leave or other family reasons;
• changing employment;
• early retirement;
• substitution of full-time employment by part-time or casual
employment; and
• late re-entry to the workforce when their families eventually become
relatively independent.47
3.47 The Association asserts that because of these interruptions, 'the average
working life for women is significantly shorter than that of men'.48 The Women's
Economic Think Tank referred the Committee to ABS data which indicates that
nearly a quarter of the women in the workforce had between 4 weeks and
39 weeks away from work in 1993. The reasons for taking these breaks differ
greatly from the reasons men take career breaks. The differences are interesting:
62,000 men took career breaks; 40% took paid leave only, 32% unpaid leave
only, the balance a mixture. Nearly 2/3 took time off for personal reasons
including education, a quarter for work related reasons and there was barely a
per cent for family reasons.
46 Office of Cabinet, Queensland, SGCREV Sub 4
47 SGCREV Sub No 26
48 SGCREV Sub No 26


In contrast the 139,000 women who took career breaks were much more likely
to fund their own time out: only 14% had their full leave paid, 52% took their
whole leave unpaid, and the balance mixed pay and no pay. Their reasons were
also different: two thirds took their breaks for family reasons, 6% for work
reasons and a quarter for personal reasons.49
3.48 The Queensland Cabinet submission categorised women's work patterns
and ou .lined the superannuation implications for each category:
. Women who are self-employed are limited to participating in private
superannuation schemes and depending on the success or failure of the
enterprise, may or may not accumulate sufficient contributions to provide a
reasonable standard of living in retirement.
. Women who are unpaid workers are not eligible for membership of a
superannuation scheme in their own right. They may rely on their spouse's
benefit at retirement, death, disability. In the case of a breakdown in the
relationship, there is little, if any, guarantee of a percentage of that benefit.
. Women whose work patterns are intermittent often have a number of
accounts and are charged administrative fees on each one. The end result is
usually a negative return on contributions invested. Final benefits for these
workers are significantly low and dependency on the aged pension is more
than likely.
• Women in low income situations include workers in part-time casual and
full-time positions who, until the introduction of SG, would not have been in
receipt of superannuation. Although these women will accumulate some
benefits, it will not suffice in retirement. A dependency on the aged pension
would be expected.
. Women in above average wage positions for continuous periods would
be eligible for superannuation contributions by their employers. Ample
benefits would be received at retirement, and combined with any assets
accumulated, these workers may not be eligible for the aged pension.
3.49 In summary, the Queensland Cabinet submission states that in order for
women to receive adequate retirement income from superannuation, they would
be required to contribute a 'continual and significant percentage of average
weekly earnings to a superannuation fund for thirty to forty years'.50
49 SGCREV Sub No 27
50 SGCREV Sub No 4


3.50 This suggests that the part-time workforce is not catered for by the SG
system. The Australian Federation of Consumer Organizations provided data on
the size of this sector of the labour force:
Approximately 1.8 million, or about 22% of all workers are employed part-
time in a labour force of around eight million people. This means that a
sizeable part of the population receives little benefit from superannuation
and are likely to be dependent on the age pension in their retirement.51
3.51 Ms Hazel Bateman, of the School of Economics, University of NSW,
appeared before the Committee discussing the differences between male and
female access to SG. Ms Bateman put these differences down to work force
participation and social differences. It was then stated that:
We would like to emphasise that these differences cannot be resolved easily
by tinkering with the superannuation guarantee... we point out that one
should look at the entire retirement income system, not just the
superannuation guarantee or the age pension... So while women may fare
poorly under the superannuation guarantee alone, their circumstances are
somewhat improved if one considers the age pension as well.52
3.52 Margaret Patrickson, Linley Hartmann and Leonnie McCarron of the
University of South Australia submitted an analysis of the problems encountered
by older women, mainly teaching staff, in the South Australian education
system.53 A legacy of the indirect discrimination that operated prior to the 1980s
is the reduced access to superannuation to women because of broken work
patterns, marriage, child rearing and lack of seniority. Although these grounds of
discrimination have now been overcome, the earlier lack of access to
superannuation has left most older women less financially secure than their male
counterparts and in a less viable position to finance any early retirement options.
3.53 The Government Employees Superannuation Board of Western Australia
(GES) commented that women and part-time employees (a large percentage of
whom are women) are heavily represented in the Fund's non-contributory
superannuation:
51 SGCREV Sub No 20
52 Evidence, pp 119-120
53 SGCREV Sub No 16


The experience of the GES Fund is that many people do not join
contributory superannuation because of other financial commitments, such
as mortgage payments.54
Casualisation
3.54 It is a universally acknowledged phenomenon that individuals no longer
spend their working life with a single employer as was once the case. This
increase in mobility has been accompanied by another more recent trend, that of
casualisation of the workforce.55
3.55 It was submitted by Mr Davies of Mayne Nickless that:
increasingly census data will reveal that there are increasing numbers of
people who are working on a casual basis or a part-time basis and sometimes
holding down two jobs on that basis.56
3.56 Another facet of casualisation is an increase in 'contract work'.57 For
example, the Australian Road Transport Industrial Organisation submitted that
truckdrivers are subcontractors because the industry contracts 'to hire a truck,
and the fact is that you need a driver to drive the truck. [The industry does] not
contract for the labour of the driver'.58 These drivers are considered 'independent
businessmen in their own right and there is a view that the SGC should not even
apply to subcontract truck drivers'.59
3.57 The casualisation of the workforce seems to be moving many employees
out of the SG net. The issues of 'contract work' and casualisation are connected
to that of the SG coverage of contractors and the self-employed. This is
discussed at Chapter 11.
3.58 Evidence received by the Committee indicates that small businesses have
been most affected by the introduction of SG. Additional costs for small
businesses have contributed to the further casualisation of a workforce in
industries where the work was by its nature already structured in terms of casual,
temporary and part-time work.
54 SGCREV Sub No 73
55 Maratheftis, Evidence, p 43
56 Evidence, p 158
57 Evidence, p 73
58 Evidence, p 169
59 Evidence, p 169


3.59 Prior to the introduction of SG, small businesses were likely to be paying
minimal, if any, superannuation for their employees. And while the timetable for
SG allows for a gradual rise in levels of superannuation support, small businesses
have the largest proportional increase in superannuation costs over the period.60
3.60 The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Western Australia identified
that small businesses are:
likely to be more seriously affected by the Charge because they tend to be
more labour-intensive than large firms. If labour is a larger proportion of a
business's input costs, then an increase in labour costs will have a
disproportionate effect.61
3.61 This view was supported by representatives of the Riverland Horticultural
Council.62
Employment and Casualisation: Conclusion
Apart from the projected impact of SG on national savings, little analysis has
been made about the impact of SG in other areas. Given the evidence received
on employment and casualisation, the Committee believes the Government,
through its Retirement Income Modelling Task Force, should undertake, on a
continuing basis, further analysis and modelling on the effectiveness of SG as
part of Australia's retirement income policy. The completion of such an analysis
would provide a foundation where actual assessment would be made of how SG
has affected or will affect job numbers and casualisation of the workforce, or
any other matters that may arise in relation to Australia's workforce. The
Government will then be able to modify SG as necessary to ensure an effective
form of compulsory superannuation in Australia.
Fear of losing the age pension
3.62 A consistent public perception of the future of the age pension was
presented to the Committee: 'there is a real fear that the age pension will go'.63
This concern is prevalent despite statements by both the major political parties
60 SGCREV Sub No 24
61 SGCREV Sub No 24
62 SGCREV Sub No 47
63 Eva Cox, Evidence, p 57


that an age pension safety net will remain. Ms Eva Cox of the Women's
Economic Think Tank submitted that 'the fear is widespread' although 'the
present government keeps saying that it is going to maintain [the pension]'.64
3.63 This was reinforced by Ms Susan Ryan, of ASFA, who identified the
fear:
as an understandable fear when generations of Australians, who have been
brought up in the expectation that when they retire they will get the old age
pension, suddenly hear and read all of this information that retirement is now
something that they have to save up for themselves. It is a huge change. I
have been publicly critical of the government, not for making the change but
for not giving adequate attention to the need to explain those changes and to
reassure people by in-principle commitments in relation to access to the old
age pension for people whose self-funded retirement is not adequate.65
3.64 The Trades and Labour Council of WA indicated that while the fear has
decreased somewhat there is still a notion, especially with low paid workers, that
access to the aged pension will be restricted. A contributing factor to this fear is a
combination of media presentation of the SG philosophy and a lack of
understanding by the workers.66
3.65 The key role of the age pension in the Government's overall retirement
income policy was outlined in Security in Retirement:
There is also concern that those who are unable to provide for their
retirement - because, for example, of their inability to work - have access to
adequate, publicly provided, retirement security. The framework for
superannuation announced in this statement fully protects that access. By
requiring those who can do so to save for their retirement, better retirement
incomes can be provided for those who cannot save.
... This Government sees the age pension not just as a security net for
future retirees but as the key-stone of its superannuation policies. It
expects that most future retirees will continue to be eligible for the age
pension [for example, through a part pension] which, with self-provided and
tax-assisted superannuation, will allow a higher retirement income than is
now generally available.67 [Emphasis added]
64 Evidence, p 57
65 Evidence, p 91
66 Evidence, p 292
67 The Hon John Dawkins, MP, Treasurer, Security in Retirement, Planning for Tomorrow
Today, 30 June 1992, p 2


3.66 This position of the age pension in the Government's retirement incomes
policy was reiterated by the Treasurer on 28 June 1994 when he stated:
The age pension and associated social security arrangements will always
remain central elements of that policy, providing for everyone the essential
safety net standard of retirement living.
However, superannuation, with both compulsory and voluntary components,
has been developed as the principal means of providing for a higher standard
of retirement living.68
3.67 Similarly, the Coalition has identified the key role of the age pension in
its retirement incomes policy. Mr David Connolly, MP, Shadow Minister for
Superannuation and Retirement Incomes, told attendees at the recent ASFA
conference:
The Coalition accepts that even with the most optimistic predictions, a
superannuation strategy will not replace the need for a social security
safety net as part of our welfare system.69 [Emphasis added]
3.68 Professor Allen acknowledged the 'strong role for the age pension'. He
stated that the age pension will have to be a 'safety net and, clearly, in terms of
the less advantaged members of society, they will still rely to a great extent on
it'.70
3.69 The Catholic Women's League of Tasmania identified some of these less
advantaged members as:
Women who are full-time homemakers and so are not in paid employment,
often because of a caring role for the disabled, chronically/terminally ill, the
young or elderly, and
Women who are in low paid, low status work and are therefore unable to
accumulate Superannuation retirement income.71
3.70 Whilst acknowledging that the political parties have stated that there will
not be an abolition of the old age pension, the Committee is concerned that this
message has not been effectively conveyed.
68 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Statement on Superannuation Policy,
28 June 1994
69 Superannuation: The way ahead, 11 November 1994
70 Evidence, p 368
71 SGCREV Sub No 8


Defined Benefit Funds
3.71 The Institute of Actuaries of Australia (IAA) gave evidence that
government legislation has progressively created a difficult climate for defined
benefit funds. The introduction of the SG arrangements:
aas generally been more difficult for defined benefit funds to adapt to than
for accumulation funds... because the legislation, as with most
superannuation legislation, tends to be framed with accumulation funds in
mind, and then defined benefit funds have been allowed for generally as
something of an afterthought. As a result, defined benefit funds face a more
complex set of rules and relations in relation to SG than do accumulation
funds. Much of the complexity was unnecessary...
Trying to change it now to remove [the complexity] would probably create
even more complexity. However, we would urge the government to develop
future policy in a way which is even handed between different types of
funds.72
3.72 The Committee did not receive any other evidence on this issue. It is
therefore unable to make specific recommendations but draws to the
Government's attention the need for consideration to be given to the structure and
operation of defined benefit funds in the development of superannuation policy
and regulation.
3.73 An observation relating to public sector superannuation was made by the
Australian Education Union (AEU). It submitted that 'the introduction of the SG
must be characterised as a responsible step'. The AEU went on, however, to note
that some state government schemes had reduced the superannuation
arrangements for public sector employees to the minimum SG requirement.73
72 Stephen Partridge, Evidence p 475
73 SGCREV Sub No 116




PART 2
TINY SUMS, BIG PROBLEM:
THE SMALL AMOUNTS PROBLEM
Tiny sums, big problem: the small amounts problem
A major impact of the SG scheme has been the creation of a huge number of
small balance accounts. This phenomenon, which has accompanied an increase in
superannuation coverage, has become known as 'the small amounts problem'.
This part of the report examines the issue of the small amounts problem and the
impact of SG on women, part-time and casual workers. It looks at where small
amounts come from and what it is that keeps them small. The Committee
recommends a package of measures that together will alleviate the diminution of
small balance accounts.
All superannuation accounts start at a low level. For those with a regular, average
wage, the balance increases over time. Some accounts, however, do not increase
and, in fact, decrease over time. Part-time and casual workers, predominantly
women, receive relatively low wages and therefore receive low SG contributions.
It is this group of superannuation account holders that causes the Committee
concern.
The Committee was consistently told, by employees and employers, that member
accounts with small balances are eroded by administrative fees and charges.
These fees are generally in excess of investment income earned. And once
contributions cease to be made, the account can eventually dwindle away to a
zero balance. The Committee also received evidence on the effect on retirement
income of multiple accounts; the SG $450 per month threshold; preservation
rules, in particular, access to amounts less than $500; and contributions tax. The
potential for any retirement benefit can be minimal or non-existent where these
factors act singularly or in concert to erode the account.


The Treasurer has acknowledged this problem and stated 'the Government is
determined to achieve a comprehensive solution which will offer full protection
for all members with small amounts'.1 The solutions outlined by the Treasurer
include the establishment of an ATO collection mechanism and a number of other
measures which are scrutinised in this Part.
A large number of submissions dealing with the impact of SG on casual and part-
time workers focused specifically on women. However, the Committee is aware
of an increasing trend for male members of the population to take up casual and
part-time work. The Office of the Status of Women provided figures indicating
that between 1966 and 1992, part-time employment almost quadrupled for both
women and men. From the early 1970s to 1990, part-time employment for
women and men rose at nearly the same rate, but after 1990 increased more
rapidly for men than for women.2
The Committee will be conducting a further and broader inquiry into the
adequacy of current retirement incomes policy in meeting the needs of those
with intermittent work patterns. The terms of reference for that inquiry
appear at Appendix C.
The Committee anticipates that the present report will provide a starting point for
contributors to its future inquiry and stimulate debate on the mechanisms that
could be implemented to enhance the effectiveness of retirement incomes policy
for those whose work participation falls outside the traditional 30 to 40 year
working pattern.
The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Statement on Superannuation Policy,
28 June 1994
2 SGCREV Sub No 68


CHAPTER 4:
THE ORIGIN OF SMALL AMOUNTS
Small amounts: where do they come from?
4.1 The introduction of the compulsory superannuation scheme has increased
the superannuation coverage of the working population.
4.2 Figures provided by the Office of the Status of Women indicate that part-
time employees with superannuation coverage has increased from 19% in 1988
to 54% in 1992. Female employees with superannuation coverage is estimated to
have increased from 37% to 76% over the same period.1
4.3 Despite this increased coverage which has been attributed to the SG
scheme, the adequacy of the superannuation support these workers now receive
has been subject to some debate. Ms Eva Cox, of Women's Economic Think
Tank, describes SG as 'a scheme somebody should have brought in about 1910
when people had lifetime jobs, because that is really what the scheme works best
for’.2
4.4 The key to coverage is occupation and the Australian Federation of
Consumer Organisations (AFCO) described this current policy arrangement as
'income derived'. The more a person earns, the more contributions are paid to a
fund, and ultimately a larger benefit in retirement. For these reasons AFCO sees
SG as benefiting middle to high income earners with stable employment histories
and salary increases.3
4.5 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
submission also pinned the reason for the small amounts down to the fact that SG
contributions are proportional to wages. Part-time and casual workers' wages are
small because of:
1 SGCREV Sub No 68
2 Evidence, p 73
3 SGCREV Sub No 20


. the short duration of employment;
. the small number of hours worked in a given period; or
. a combination of both.4
4.6 Casual and part-time workers on low or intermittent incomes receive
small and irregular contributions, often across a number of funds which results in
small capital accumulation and relative low returns. Erosion of the benefit by fees
and charges exacerbates the problem.
4 SGCREV Sub No 5


CHAPTER 5:
SMALL AMOUNTS, FEES AND CHARGES
Small amounts, fees and charges
Introduction
5.1 The Committee received considerable evidence on the erosion of
accounts with small balances by the fees and charges made on these accounts.
5.2 Mr Peter Woodcock, Supercard Australia Pty Ltd, provided the example
of a member who received $574.81 in employer contributions, after federal taxes.
The annual administration was $242.83, or 42.2% of the contribution. He also
compared the interest of $5.29 that was paid on the employer’s contribution with
the $242.83 taken by the fund manager and administrator in fees.1
5.3 Ms Judy Collman, of Nimmitabel, NSW, outlined her experience with the
erosion of superannuation balances by fees and charges. 'I earned $1.40 on my
superannuation in the last financial year and my fund was one of the better
performing ones. The interest was eaten away by taxes and charges.'2
5.4 An angry reaction about the disappearance of contributions because of
administrative fees was expressed by Mr Chris Minifie, of Trentham, Victoria.
While not objecting to making contributions for employees, he was concerned
that Tnlone of the money paid by us into superamiuation will ever benefit any of
our employees'.3 Given that fund managers charge $1 per week for administration
on a $60 balance, 'after a year or so the money has all gone into the pockets of
the fund management company'.4
5.5 Ms Heather Howes,3 of Ivanhoe in Victoria, and Niki Aravanis,6 of Kew
in Victoria, submitted details details of their superannuation accounts established
by their respective employers to demonstrate the impact of tax and charges on
their entitlements:
1 SGCREV Sub No 2
2 SGCREV Sub No 6
3 SGCREV Sub No 36
4 SGCREV Sub No 36
5 SGCREV Sub No 74
6 SGCREV Sub No 78


Surely the intention of this legislation was not that employers be required by
law to contribute to a retirement fund for their employees where the fund
reduces by approximately 22% in 66 weeks.7
5.6 A similar story was related by Mr Michael O'Donoghue, of Clarence Park
in South Australia, who had $14.93 paid by the Electoral Commission for work
performed during the last federal election on 13 March 1993. When he applied
for the money, he was informed by the administrator of the fund that his claim
could not be processed because the account keeping fee had absorbed his total
account.8
5.7 Mrs Debbie Seay, of Mackay in Queensland, worked part-time as a child
minder for three months, at which time her employer paid $59.40 into her
superannuation account. By the time she was able to claim her money after the
mandatory 39 weeks which applied in this instance, her balance had been
reduced to $12.12 because of administrative charges.9
5.8 Mr K. F. Parr of Lismore, NSW, helps a banana grower on a part-time
basis, and also found that administrative fees substantially eroded his
superannuation accruals arising from SG obligations.10 His daughter experienced
similar problems as a person employed on a casual basis as a registered nurse, as
did an acquantance who worked casually for a security firm.11
5.9 Mr Paul Crowley of Brisbane complained about the impact of
contributions tax upon his accrued entitlements.12
5.10 Asa frequent employer of university students during their holiday breaks,
Mr Garry Hamblin, Scott Crisp & Hamblin Pty Limited, submitted an alarming
example of the small payments problem:
We had one 'casual' employee under the situation as described above and
total contributions of $55.20 were paid in early 1993. The employee has not
worked with us since as he is a full-time University Student and we have
therefore not made any further contributions. We recently received a
7 Heather Howes, SGCREV Sub No 74
8 SGCREV Sub No 85
9 SGCREV Sub No 87
10 SGCREV Sub No 98
11 SGCREV Sub No 98 Supplementary
12 SGCREV Sub No 101


summary of member's benefits etc and were dismayed to find that due to
overhead costs the subject 'casual' employee is now $72.70 in ARREARS to
the Fund.13
5.11 A concern of Women in Horticulture was that, given the small balances in
some employees' accounts:
th^ administration fees of anything from 50 cents to 85 cents per week over the
52 week period before the money can be claimed, plus the termination fee of
from $20 to $75, leave little if anything to be withdrawn.14
5.12 Mr Donald Jasprizza, of Young, NSW, in relating his dealings with
administrative fees, provided to the Committee some examples of superannuation
contributions made for cherrypickers. During the 1993-94 financial year,
Mr Jasprizza informed the Committee that the average amount of SG
contributions made per employee was $2,312.91. Of this $1,624.82 was taken
out as management fees.15
5.13 The Australian Dried Fruit Association, as part of its submission,
provided a breakdown of the cost structure of a superannuation fund to illustrate
the break-even point where contributions made equal the costs charged.16 Based
on working 8 weeks of the year, in order to break-even an employee would need
to earn $3,216 annually. A 3% contribution on this amount equals $96.47 which
is totally negated by the administrative fees, death and disability insurance and
15% contributions tax.
5.14 Similar concerns were expressed by the Flower Industry Association -
Australia Inc. located in Launceston, Tasmania.17 There are about 2,500 flower
growers in Australia employing up to 10,000 workers in growing, harvesting and
packing flowers. The flower industry depends upon the availability of casual and
part-time labour, many of whom are transient workers who 'may travel from
place to place and work for a range of horticultural and other crop producers, in
various States'. Consequently, the very small amounts contributed on their behalf
are often consumed by administrative charges. In addition, the collection by these
13 SGCREV Sub No 115
14 SGCREV Sub No 104
15 Evidence, p 556
16 SGCREV Sub No 45
17 SGCREV Sub No 79


growers of the details required by SG can be 'difficult and onerous', particularly
as many employees are 'more than a little reluctant to provide tax file numbers
and other details'.
5.15 Asserting that this situation was being repeated 'right across Australia',
the Flower Industry Association maintained that:
Small hard working growers are required to keep detailed records for the
collection and payment of money, to large organisations, only to be eaten up
by these organisations under the guise of 'administration charges'. Surely
there must be a simpler method of collecting the levy and then directing it
into a fund without the penalties, for subsequent payment to the worker in
later life.18
5.16 Table 5.1 summarises the submissions received on the effect that tax and
charges have on small SG balances.
5.17 In its submission to the Committee, the Women's Economic Think Tank
(WETTANK) questioned the current fee structure. WETTANK submitted that
the fee and charges structure causes further problems for low income earners and
intermittent earnings (both female and male) because of varying rates imposed
and the structure of the fund.19
5.18 WETTANK considers it inequitable that funds use the 'community rating
principle' (or averaging) for spreading the total cost of administration of the fund
to all members. Individuals should be charged for what they themselves accrue.
WETTANK believes this scaling of fees would prevent low income earners from
shouldering the costs that may result from the more affluent accounts. Given that
the SG contributions are compulsorily imposed by the Government, WETTANK
considers 'that it could be argued that there is a responsibility on Government to
preserve these small amounts by subsidising administrative costs'.
5.19 Faced with the high costs of complying with the SG requirements
associated with a small family business, Mr John Winslow, of Normanhurst,
NSW, suggested that a protocol be established under the SGAA preventing small
contributions being eroded by fees and charges. Mr Winslow submitted that in an
environment of compulsory superannuation, fees should be regulated, as he
considered some to be 'outrageous'.20
18 SGCREV Sub No 79
19 SGCREV Sub No 27
20 SGCREV Sub No 14


Table 5.1: The Effect of Tax and Charges on SG Small Amounts


5.20 The Heywood Branch of the Victorian Farmers' Federation advocated
that exit fees be regulated by government and that administrative costs be clearly
disclosed.21
5.21 The Australian Chamber of Manufactures (ACM) supported the concept
of the establishment of a low cost central superannuation fund to receive small
amounts and to reduce erosion by administrative charges. The ACM also
supported the idea of facilitating transfers of these small amounts into the central
fund.22
5.22 Mr Alex Risk, of Geelong West in Victoria, submitted that management
fees, and entry and exit costs should be controlled, and workers' superannuation
entitlements guaranteed a return through the Government taking control of
superannuation.23
The Treasurer’s Statement of 28 June 1994
Introduction
5.23 In his announcement of 28 June 1994, the Treasurer, the
Hon Ralph Willis, MP, outlined a number of new initiatives to substantially
improve the effectiveness of the Government's superannuation policies.
5.24 The main measure announced in the statement was the proposed
establishment of member protection rules to prevent the erosion of small
account balances in superannuation funds.
5.25 The member collection rules are to be complemented by an ATO
collection mechanism to which employers, who are unable to find a suitable
member-protected fund, may contribute for their employees.
5.26 Unless otherwise footnoted, direct quotations throughout this chapter
are drawn from the Treasurer's Statement of 28 June 1994.
21 SGCREV Sub No 31
22 SGCREV Sub No 61
23 SGCREV Sub No 109


Member protection
Background
5.27 Member protection was one of a number of measures announced by the
Treasurer to alleviate the small amounts problems currently being experienced.
5.28 Member protection will prevent the erosion of small amounts that occur
where there is an imbalance between interest earned on the account and
associated administration charges.
What is member protection?
5.29 Basically, complying superannuation funds will be required to prevent
erosion by administrative charges on accounts with balances of less than $1,000.
Where funds do not implement such provisions for new members, contributions
cannot be accepted. The employer has the option, on behalf of the employee, of
making superannuation contributions to the ATO scheme.
5.30 The Treasurer's Statement identified 'administration charges' currently
imposed by superannuation funds as being one or more of the following:
• a fee imposed on entry to the fund;
. a fee imposed on exit from the fund;
. a periodic administration charge (say weekly);
. an asset management fee.
5.31 Charges for taxation, insurance or for investment losses are not included
in the definition of'administrative charges'.
5.32 In respect of existing member accounts with balances of less than $ 1,000,
new contributions cannot be accepted if member protection rules have not been
implemented. Such accounts must be closed and transferred to an Eligible
Rollover Fund (ERF) free of charge or to another complying superannuation fund
if a member elects to do so. Notification of any such transfers must be sent to
members.
5.33 No limits will be placed on actual administrative charges. Elowever:
the protection of members' balances requires that the charges to the account
in a year will be limited, in the first instance, to the interest credited to the
account in that year.


5.34 The Treasurer stipulated that unpaid charges cannot be accumulated with
the intention of deducting such amounts from the future account balance.
However, where insufficient interest is earned by small accounts they may still
have the administrative charges imposed and 'suffer erosion if the superannuation
fund does not have total investment earnings to meet the otherwise unpaid
charge'.
Which accounts will be member protected?
5.35 Member protection rules will only apply to:
. accounts with a balance of less than $1000;
. funds not excluded under SIS;
. accumulation funds; and
. an account which is used to avoid or reduce the SG charge.
Methods of providing member protection
5.36 Fimds are to decide on the most equitable method of administering
member protection. Examples provided by the Treasurer suggest that funds may
continue charging accounts as they presently do, and may opt to apply credits at
the end of the year where fees have exceeded interest credited during that year.
An alternative to such a crediting system, would be the imposition of
administrative charges based on interest credited to the account.
Timing of implementation
5.37 Generally, the member protection rules will apply from 1 July 1995. This
timetable will give funds adequate time to alter trust deeds and make any other
changes necessary to introduce the rules. The ATO scheme will also be in place
by this time and will provide an alternative route for those employers whose
funds may not offer member protection.
5.38 However, in order to prevent funds taking action before 1 July 1995
which may prove detrimental to members, the Treasurer stipulated relevant
legislation would be changed from 28 June 1994 to:
provide that... funds may not charge an exit fee to accounts transferred to
another fund, ERF or other entity except where the transfer occurs with the
consent of the member. Funds also may not introduce new fees in this period
designed to circumvent this traditional role.


ATO Scheme
Background
5.39 In introducing the SG, the Government, for equity and social justice
reasons, ’placed particular emphasis on the need to achieve the widest possible
spread of superannuation'. Application has been successful, as evidenced by ABS
statistics which show an increase in superannuation coverage for full-time
permanent employees from 88 per cent in November 1991 to 96 per cent in 1993.
5.40 This increased coverage has, however, had its shortcomings.
Administrative difficulties and practical issues have arisen since the
implementation of SG and the Government and the superannuation industry have
acknowledged this. A large proportion of these difficulties centre around what
has been identified in Chapter 4 as 'small amounts'.
5.41 A joint submission to the Committee from the Australian Council of
Trade Unions (ACTU), the Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA) and the
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) succinctly captured
the essence of the problems of small amounts:
where the account balance is less than about $750, the net (after tax) annual
earnings are likely to be less than the administration fees and charges, as well
as any death and disability insurance premiums applied against the account.24
5.42 ACTU, LIFA, and ASFA put their proposal to the Treasurer on
22 April 1994 'as the preferred solution to these problems'.25 Their proposal
outlined a number of measures that would reduce current problems with SG as
well as methods to eliminate future problems. In short, the tools to assist the SG
in maturing were:
. a collection mechanism to be administered by the ATO. Such a mechanism
would take advantage of the existing SG system;
. the aggregation of small multiple accounts through introduction of a transfer
protocol;
. a limit on charges applied to members will small balances;
. the implementation of ERFs;
24 SGCREV Sub No 76
25 SGCREV Sub No 76


. the removal of ability to withdraw preserved balances below $500;
. the use of TFNs; and
. and a range of associated measures.
5.43 The Treasurer has acknowledged the involvement of the life insurance
and superannuation industries and other interested parties, in formulating a
comprehensive solution which will offer full protection for all members with
small amounts.
Why have an ATO scheme?
5.44 The implementation of the ATO collection mechanism is seen as
providing a low cost vehicle for accumulating small SG contributions. The costs
of the ATO scheme will be relatively low compared with other superannuation
funds as the ATO will not be required to comply with supervision and taxation
regulations.
5.45 The ATO scheme will allow the aggregation of small contributions by
employers until a request to transfer the monies to a superannuation fund is
received from the employee.
Who will use the ATO scheme?
5.46 Use of the ATO scheme will be at the discretion of employers, who must
continue to take into consideration any over-riding award obligations. Payments
made to the ATO will be considered equivalent to making SG contributions to a
complying superannuation fund. The SG legislation will be amended to recognise
this.
5.47 The scheme is limited to those employees receiving less than $1,200 in
respect of each term of employment within the SG period. For the 1994/95
financial year, the SG period has been deemed to be the frill year, ending
30 June 1995. Contributions for this period may be made:
• on or after the last day of the SG period (30 June 1995); but
• no later than the last due date for payment for that SG period
(28 July 1995).
5.48 For contributions made in subsequent financial years, the employer can
make payment to the ATO any time prior to the last due date for payment for that
SG period.


Frequency of payments
5.49 The frequency of payments to the ATO scheme will be aligned to the
requirements under the SG legislation. The current $1,200 limit was established
on the basis that an annual contribution period will be maintained under SG. The
Treasurer stipulated that SG legislation 'will be amended to maintain the present
annual basis for contributions until such time as the superannuation guarantee
system becomes more settled'.
5.50 In accepting the contributions from employers, the ATO will not question
whether that employer should be making such payments elsewhere, for example
to an industry fund as stipulated under an award. The contribution will also be
accepted regardless of the accumulated (or prospective) balance of the
employee's account.
Relationship to awards
5.51 The ATO will not scrutinise employer contributions. Instead, in educating
employers of the new scheme, attention will be drawn to the fact that employers
must comply with award requirements. However, for those industry funds that do
not abide by the member protection provisions, the Government will support
amending awards to allow contributions made to the ATO scheme to be
recognised as satisfying award requirements.
Information requirements
5.52 The payment of contributions to the ATO must be accompanied by:
. the employer's Tax File Number (TFN);
. the employee's TFN, where provided to the employer;
. the employee's name and address; and
. details of the payments in relation to each employee.
5.53 Notification to employees of contributions to the ATO scheme will be
required. The actual format of such notification will be decided after further
consultation with interested parties, but the possible solution may involve:


. notification on pay slips;
. inclusion on employee's group certificate; and/or
. upon final payment for services to employees.
Treatment of monies received
5.54 Contributions received by the ATO will:
. be tax deductible for employers, as would any SG contributions made to a
complying fund;
• be untaxed, until such time as monies are transferred to a complying
superannuation fund when contributions tax will be paid on the whole
amount;
. not be reduced by administrative charges;
• receive interest from any surplus resulting from the deduction of operating
costs of the scheme from income earned by the scheme. Such interest would
only be paid for amounts up to $1,200 held for a full quarterly batching
period. This provision will contribute to simplifying administration of the
scheme, and will promote the transfer of accounts to complying
superannuation funds once the balance reaches $1,200.
Will the ATO scheme be a superannuation fund?
5.55 Any contributions received by the ATO as a result of this scheme will be
paid into a trust fund. This fund will be administered by the Commissioner of
Taxation. The trust fund will not be a complying superannuation fund as
stipulated in SIS, but rather will operate under separate legislation. The Treasurer
indicated that 'it is expected that the ATO mechanism will be established in time
to receive Superannuation Guarantee contributions in respect of the 1994-95
financial year'.
5.56 The trust fund can invest only in 'Commonwealth Government securities
or otherwise be invested with the Commonwealth in return for an earnings rate
linked to the rate of interest paid on Commonwealth securities'. Any earnings of
the trust fund will have the fund's administrative costs deducted, before any
surplus is credited to employee accounts.


5.57 Employees' accounts may be paid out:
. to a complying superannuation fund upon receipt of instructions from the
employee owning the account or from a fund acting on behalf of that
employee.
. at the discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation:
(i) to a deceased employee's estate; and
(ii) to an employee where he or she could otherwise qualify for such
payment (for example, financial hardship as determined by the ISC, on
permanent departure from Australia).
Payment of monies as a result of the Commissioner's discretion would be
taxed as per any payments made from an untaxed source/untaxed
superannuation fund.
. on termination of employment subject to the balance being less than $500.
Such a payment would be subject to the same taxation provisions as would
be the case if the payment were withdrawn from an ordinary superannuation
fund.
Administration
5.58 Requests to transfer accounts to a complying superannuation fund,
whether received directly from the employee or from the interested fund, will be
processed or 'batched' on a quarterly basis.
5.59 On attaining the $1,200 limit, the ATO will notify the employee of the
balance and ask that such monies be transferred to a complying superamiuation
fund. If no response is received from the employee, 'the ATO would make
reasonable efforts to locate the employee but would be under no obligation to do
so'. The monies would remain with the ATO until such time as they are claimed
by the employee. The Commissioner of Taxation may determine, upon criteria
yet to be developed, that such monies are not likely to be claimed and should be
paid to the Consolidated Revenue Fund where future recovery is available.
5.60 Provisions will be made for the redeeming of contributions from the ATO
scheme where such contributions have been wrongly paid to the ATO. These
provisions will not extend to those employers seeking recovery of contributions
only to redirect them to a superannuation fund.


How much will it cost to administer?
5.61 Preliminary costing estimates were set out in the Treasurer's Statement
(see Table 5.2). These estimates were based on the assumption that the scheme
will be operational in July 1995 to accept SG contributions for the 1994/95
financial year.
Table 5.2: Costing estimates of ATO collection mechanism
Response to ATO scheme proposal
5.62 ASFA, one of the contributors in the joint proposal put to the Treasurer
earlier in the year, indicated in a submission to the Committee that the
announcements made on the ATO scheme by the Treasurer in his statement were
'broadly in line with the joint industry submission and it is accordingly
welcomed'.26 However, ASFA drew the Committee's attention to the following:
. The setting of a $1,200 contribution limit makes it difficult for an employer
to determine in advance whether this limit will be exceeded. This
uncertainty may encourage a deferral of payment of contributions until such
time as this can be determined. ASFA believes it may be better to have an
eligibility test that employers could use on a monthly basis (just as the SG
legislation applies on the basis of monthly income).
• The removal of amounts less than $500 by employees on termination of
their employment means that some people will never build up their
superannuation to a sustainable amount. ASFA suggests such access be
removed and believes there is broad industry support for such action.
26 SGCREV Sub No 5 Supplementary


. The need for employers to check award requirements before making SG
contributions to the ATO may lead to non-compliance with awards.
5.63 The Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations Inc (AFCO)
believes the establishment of the ATO will contribute to greater retirement
savings. AFCO opined that 'the proposed ATO option has the potential to
provide a simple and cost effective mechanism'.27
5.64 However, AFCO identified three limitations of the ATO scheme:
. First, the lack of employee choice, as contributions made to the ATO
scheme are done so at the discretion of the employer. AFCO believes that
while the ATO should be considered the default collector of small
contributions, an employee should have a right not to choose the ATO
scheme.
. Second, AFCO is concerned with the upper limit for contributions to the
ATO scheme. Given that AFCO's submission was received prior to the
Treasurer's Statement of 28 June 1994, this concern might have been
addressed by the fact that a limit of $1,200 is currently proposed.
. Third, AFCO questions the uncertainty of interest to be received on
accounts. For equity reasons, AFCO believes that contributions should earn
interest equivalent to long term bond returns.
5.65 AFCO also voiced agreement with a previous comment by the Treasurer
that it is simply untenable that people can be forced into a situation of loss on
what is effectively a part of their wages or salaries. AFCO applauded moves by
industry funds who, at the time of their 3 June 1994 submission, had already
made moves to scrap administrative charges.
5.66 The Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS) also questioned the
issue of the lack of guarantee that holders of such accounts have of receiving
interest on their account balance. ACOSS recommended:
The ATO should pay interest on small accounts, preferably at the long term
bond rate, but at least at the social security "deeming rate" for bank interest
(currently around 4 per cent)28
27 SGCREV Sub No 20 Supplementary
28 SGCREV Sub No 86


5.67 Whilst acknowledging that the ATO scheme will have to recover
administrative costs, the Committee endorses the view that all efforts should be
made to ensure maximum interest returns on ATO small accounts.
5.68 AMP identified the advantages of using the ATO system in receiving SG
contributions on behalf of employees as including the use of the existing ATO
infrastructure and an existing contact with employees via their tax file numbers.29
5.69 AMP identified the main obstacle to using the ATO for such a collection
mechanism as the possible confusion employers and employees might experience
by the addition of a new layer to the existing superannuation system. It also
submitted that the following controls would be necessary:
. placing a limit on the employees (and their employers) who would be
eligible to use the system;
. ensuring that superannuation funds remain more attractive;
. ensuring that employees have strong incentives to transfer their benefits
away from the ATO (as soon as it is viable for them to do so);
• including a sunset clause since this is an interim solution to a short-
term problem/0
5.70 The Australian Bankers' Association (ABA) believes that the introduction
of the ATO scheme will add 'another layer to the existing voucher system which
is already complex'.31 ABA also questions whether a collection mechanism
administered by ATO will actually solve the small amounts problem.
5.71 The need for improved service and products is identified by the Credit
Union Services Corporation (Australia) Limited (CUSCAL) as being a solution
to the small amounts problem as opposed to a part solution in introducing the
ATO scheme.
The very fact that the Government has thought it necessary to propose the
ATO collection mechanism confirms the view that left to their own devices,
the industry funds are simply not capable of providing an adequate service to
members with small balances.32
29 SGCREV Sub No 75
30 SGCREV Sub No 75
31 SGCREV Sub No 80
32 SGCREV Sub No 89


5.72 CUSCAL also questions the non-application of the SIS regime upon the
ATO scheme despite the need for SG contributions to be made to a complying
fund. The submission also expresses concern at the Treasurer's Statement that the
ATO would make some effort to locate members about their balances, but 'would
be under no obligation to do so'.33 The views of the ABA and CUSCAL on the
small amounts problems are discussed in detail in Chapter 9.
5.73 The introduction of the ATO scheme has been received favourably by
small businesses. The Riverland Horticultural Council was receptive to such a
scheme which would solve the current problems experienced with small amounts.
A further simplification of providing superannuation support for employees was
also suggested by the Council: 'We should add the superannuation payment to the
flat tax payment and let the Australian Taxation Office do the paper work'.34
How effective will the ATO collection mechanism be?
5.74 Ms Eva Cox, Women's Economic Think Tank, levelled some criticism at
the ATO scheme, saying:
the idea of the central fund... was for somebody who could opt to put their
money in there and stay there in the knowledge that they were likely to be
moving to various jobs, that they would have multiple jobs, or purely and
simply because it made it simpler for them if they had a fund which they
could put everything into.35
5.75 The Committee's attention was also drawn by ACOSS to the fact that the
ATO scheme will only accept new contributions. ACOSS identified this as a
major shortcoming.
5.76 While playing a major part in the formulation of the ATO scheme, the
ACTU sees the scheme as being necessary only in exceptional circumstances.36
5.77 This belief stems from the fact that the Treasurer's Statement in effect
issued a challenge to superannuation funds to implement the member protection
provisions. ACTU indicated that virtually all of the major funds have announced
the introduction of member protection:
33 SGCREV Sub No 89
34 Evidence, p 630
35 Evidence, p 67
36 SGCREV Sub 107


it is therefore now true to say that every employee and employer in this
country has access to a member protected fund if not immediately certainly
from 1 July 1995.37
5.78 The ACTU submitted that it has called on ASFA to conduct a survey of
its members to enforce this claim.
5.79 To ensure that the ATO collection mechanism is only used in exceptional
circumstances, the ACTU submitted to the Committee that employers seeking to
use it should be required to certify that:
. there is no access to a member protected fund; and
. the employee is not an existing member of another fund.
5.80 The ACTU suggests that use of the ATO would be minimised by the
availability to employers of a list of funds offering member protection.
5.81 In appearing before the Committee, Mr Ian Court, ACTU, said that the
ACTU believes 'that the Tax Office mechanism can be put in its proper
perspective in terms of dealing with emergencies or exceptional circumstances'.38
5.82 To facilitate this, Mr Court said the ACTU believes 'there will need to be
some fund rationalisation’. Mr Court elaborated:
we think some of the smaller funds will have difficulty protecting member
benefits, but we think that [rationalisation] is appropriate not only for that
reason, but for other reasons. A lot of the smaller funds are pretty
inefficient.39
5.83 The Construction + Building Unions Superannuation (C+BUS) informed
the Committee in its submission that action has already been taken 'protect all
balances (not just small balances) from erosion from administration fees'.40
5.84 Measures introduced from 1 July 1994 include the removal administration
fees on balances of $500 or less, accompanied by a substantial reduction of fees
on all other balances. No entry fees apply and an exit fee of $30 is limited to
payments made on members leaving the industry or where employers change
funds.
37 SGCREV Sub No 107
38 Evidence, p 691
39 Evidence, p 692
40 SGCREV Sub No 95


5.85 As from 1 January 1995, C+BUS will also 'protect the value of all
account balances against a negative return caused by the imposition of
administrative charges'.41
5.86 The implementation of such measures by C+BUS are aimed at solving the
small amounts problems currently experienced by members 'and will relieve the
Australian Taxation Office of becoming a major collection agency for small
superannuation contributions made by employers in this industry'.
5.87 C+BUS appears in agreement with the ACTU proposal, indicating that
employers should make SG contributions to funds providing member protection
before making payments to the ATO; employers should utilise existing employee
accounts if necessary; and information should be made available to the employer
on which funds provide member protection.
5.88 Mr Court gave the Committee some insight into the viability of member
protection when he said:
In terms of practicality, member protection will certainly be more difficult in
industries where there is a high level of casuals - as a proportion of the
casuals and part-timers. It will also be more difficult where the fund is
smaller in size and where reserves are not significant.42
5.89 In relation to the cost of protecting small balances, Mr Court advised the
Committee that the C+BUS fund has estimated that only accounts with balances
of less than $430 will need support, that is cross-subsidisation. He went on to
explain that 'we looked at the cost of supporting balances under $430 and found
that it is 0.003 per cent of the fund, or about $33,000'.43
5.90 In response to a question from the Committee on the need for the ATO
system, Mr Court replied:
it is important for the Tax Office to have that facility available because it
closes the loop and it gives absolute confidence that, whatever the situation,
your balance will be protected.44
41 SGCREV Sub No 95
42 Evidence, p 707
43 Evidence, p 707
44 Evidence, p 708


5.91 In considering the effectiveness of the ATO scheme, the Committee has
considered a number of issues and believes that, in principle, the ATO scheme
will offer a satisfactory solution to the small amounts problem.
5.92 However, evidence before the Committee indicates it is likely that there
will be little demand for the ATO scheme as most, if not all, superannuation
funds will offer member protection.
5.93 Mr Court summarised his views on member protection and cross-
subsidisation by saying:
the fact of the matter is that you have got to provide the greatest good for
the greatest number and you need to do it within an administrative cost that
is reasonable... what we are talking about here is a drop in the bucket
compared to the overall inequity in the system.45
5.94 With regards to the cross-subsidisation issue associated with member
protection, Mr Court put to the Committee that:
there is the old argument, is there not, that everybody had a small balance
once. And during that early period everybody eventually will have some
benefit from the system. As they become larger balances, that will reverse.
5.95 But Mr Court suggested that 'we have to be very careful about the issue
of cross-subsidy, because in every fund, within every collective financial
arrangement, there are cross-subsidies of one sort or another'. Mr Court
supported this claim with the following example:
Take the costs associated with managing and investing the funds; virtually all
fund managers charge a fee based on assets. In other words, if you want to
get BT to invest a portfolio of $100 million in equities, they will charge you
about 0.6 of one per cent. That obviously falls on the higher balances much
more severely than it does on the lower balances.46
5.96 The evidence before the Committee suggests that the scheme should be
promoted as a last resort for those employers unable to locate a superannuation
fund offering member protection. Promotion of such funds should be an integral
part of the ATO's education campaign. Consideration should also be given to
utilising existing employee accounts.
45 Evidence, p 713
46 Evidence, p 712


5.97 The need for a simpler administrative system was also brought to the
attention of the Committee. In utilising the ATO mechanism such simplification
could result from the ability of the employer to make SG contributions to the
ATO via the current PAYE forms. These forms could be amended to include an
area for contributions to be indicated. On receipt of these forms, the ATO could
disseminate the information accordingly.
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends the ATO scheme be limited to those employers
unable to find appropriate funds offering member protection or unable to
utilise existing employee accounts. Current PAYE forms should be utilised
to simplify employer administration of their SG obligations.




CHAPTER 6:
MULTIPLE SMALL ACCOUNTS
Multiple small accounts
The problem
6.1 Employers usually choose the superannuation funds into which they pay
superannuation contributions on behalf of their employees. They will generally
attempt to pay all contributions that are payable in respect of their employees into
one fund. The consequence for part-time and casual workers is that they will
frequently have several superannuation accounts, each resulting from different
employment. Furthermore, fees and charges are incurred on each account.
6.2 Mr Peter Woodcock, of Supercard Australia Pty Ltd, advised the
Committee that approximately 700,000 rollovers are recorded annually and that
this is expected to increase given the extension of coverage by SG. Exit or
'benefit calculation' fees charged by the majority of institutions and funds reduce
retirement benefits.1
6.3 Mr Woodcock submitted that not only do small sums from many
employers exacerbate the administrative charges problem but that many
employees may be unaware of the number of funds into which contributions are
being made and may fail to notify funds of a change of address. This contributes
the funds' difficulties in keeping track of members.
6.4 In his submission to the Committee, Mr David Bourke, of Bungendore,
NSW, outlined his personal experiences of having multiple superannuation
accounts. Mr Bourke did not believe that the trend towards casual and part-time
employment during the last two decades was taken into consideration in
implementing SG.
6.5 A frequent occurrence is that an individual accumulates multiple accounts
and pays multiple administrative fees, resulting in an unproductive form of
retirement savings. Attempts to combine these accounts into one fund can be
unsuccessful for a number of reasons, including employer refusal to make
contributions into the employee nominated fund, as well as the daunting rollover
fees imposed by the individual funds.2
1 SGCREV Sub No 2
2 SGCREV Sub No 54


6.6 Mr Gregory Fogarty, of Kedron in Queensland, is a computer analyst. He
works as a contractor from an agency, which is considered to be his employer
and is therefore obligated to pay SG contributions on his behalf. The agency
apparently does so by deducting the contribution from his gross salary. Although
he had his own fund prior to the introduction of the SG, he encounters difficulties
in persuading some agencies to place the contributions into his account. At the
present time, he has three superannuation accounts and anticipates that before his
professional career ceases he is likely to have a dozen or more accounts, each of
which will be eroded by administrative charges. The foregone wages also makes
it harder for him to service his own account.3
Amalgamating superannuation accounts
6.7 The submission by the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
(AFCO) identifies the primary purpose of superannuation as providing retirement
income. Under the current system, multiple accounts are promoted, especially for
casual and part-time workers. AFCO believes the best method of achieving an
effective retirement income:
is for superannuation contributions to be consolidated into a single account.
This will allow capital accumulation and compound interest to build a
sizeable retirement investment.4
6.8 Such an amalgamation would result in only one set of administrative fees
and charges being imposed, as against the current situation where some
employees are subject to a number of imposts.
6.9 The NSW Cabinet Office supported the need for employees to
amalgamate multiple accounts. An option already available in NSW was cited,
where, with employer agreement, employees receiving superannuation through
awards or agreements could nominate a single fund into which their contributions
should be paid.5
3 SGCREV Sub No 106
4 SGCREV Sub No 20
5 SGCREV Sub No 19


6.10 The Heywood Branch of the Victorian Fanners' Federation encouraged
the establishment of full portability of superannuation to enable people to reduce
the erosion [caused by multiple administrative costs] on superannuation accruals
of people who have more than one superannuation account.6
6.11 Mr Charles Copeman, of Roseville, NSW, submitted that measures were
needed for the part-time earnings of older people who already have adequate
superannuation coverage. The 'disproportionate' amount of fees and charges
levied on superannuation accounts to which he had commenced contributions as
a non-executive director of several companies would not eventually be offset by
the final benefit as retirement was imminent.7
Choice of fund
6.12 Employers choose the fund into which SG contributions are made. A
casual or part-time employee who is a member of a superannuation fund can have
additional superannuation accounts opened on her/his behalf by employers who
do not wish to make contributions to the fund to which the employee already
belongs as a result of previous employment. The reason given by employers for
this inflexibility is because of the extra costs involved in administering
superannuation payments to numerous funds. The result is that the employee
becomes a member of a number of funds, each of which charges fees. This
reasoning has been met with varying responses.
6.13 AFCO believes that 'consumer choice should be at the heart of the
Government's superannuation policy'.8 Lack of choice is identified as a
contributing factor to the small amounts problem. Being able to choose a fund
that best suits an employee's needs and the option for amalgamating multiple
accounts would result in a single account 'they could carry with them throughout
their working career'.9
6.14 The NSW Nurses' Association stated that NSW legislation 'permits the
employee to have [the] right of nomination'.10 Flowever, in combination with the
SG provision that employers choose the fund into which SG is paid, a situation
has arisen where some nurses have award superannuation contributions paid into
6 SGCREV Sub No 31
7 SGCREV Sub No 34
8 SGCREV Sub No 20
9 SGCREV Sub No 20
10 SGCREV Sub No 26


the award fund of their choice, and the balance up to the appropriate SG level of
contribution, paid into the employer-established account. The existence of
multiple accounts results in multiple administrative fees which 'inexorably
diminish the amount intended for the superannuation payout on retirement'.11
6.15 This lack of choice 'appears to be the outcome of assumptions that both
continuous work and continuous employment in a certain industry'.12
Ms Eva Cox, Women's Economic Think Tank, believes that occupational or
employer based schemes present numerous problems for women because
women's employment is less occupationally based and open to intermittency.
6.16 Mr Craig Tehan, of Hillarys, WA, has experienced the shortcomings of
lack of choice. In evidence put to the Committee, Mr Tehan related his personal
experiences resulting from casual employment.13 Because of intermittent work
patterns, Mr Tehan has a number of accounts being eroded by administrative fees
and is unable to rollover his entitlements from a superannuation account
administered by the WA Government Employees Superannuation Board until he
has been out of State public sector employment for 12 months. Mr Tehan advised
the Committee that employers do not approach the employee about choice of
fund.
6.17 In Mr Tehan's situation, a choice of fund would allow multiple employer
contributions to be paid into one fund and a sense of ownership of the account by
having a say in 'what interest could be earned and what fees could be charged. At
the moment employers are just getting the best deal for themselves'.14
6.18 Mr Mark Smith, of Practising Accountants Centre for Education (PACE),
informed the Committee that a questionnaire had been sent to practicing
accountants in the PACE organisation on superannuation and how it related to
them. Responses were received from 119 practitioners which 'represented a
minimum of 1000 funds':
11 SGCREV Sub No 26
12 SGCREV Sub No 27
13 SGCREV Sub No 60
14 Evidence, p 269


An interesting finding was that people wanted control over their investments
and their destiny, and they wanted their investments to be cost effective.
They did not like paying fees and superannuation contributions to large
institutions only to see those funds consumed by large administration
expenses...1
6.19 Professor David Allen argued that 'it would be far better for individuals to
make meir own choice of pension schemes... I think that individuals are in a
situation to judge their own circumstances'.16 Individual requirements of wealth,
age and position in the life cycle would be considered by individuals in making
decisions about superannuation provisions. Professor Allen believes 'it is better to
make decisions at the micro level rather than have decisions done by proxy':
I think it is a reasonably accepted observation in financial economics that if
you have decisions made by proxy, by third parties, then you get what are
termed agency costs and you do not get a reconciliation of interests or
objectives.17
6.20 The WA Farmers FederationAVA Shearing Contractors Association was
represented by Mr Neville Munns who appeared before the Committee.
Mr Munns told of the inability for employees to choose a fund outside the ones
nominated in the award. An election of fund beyond those stipulated, while of
advantage to the employee, may be detrimental to the employer. An example was
given of:
a shearing contractor with, say, 60 employees, who has 75,000 funds to
choose from, could have 60 funds into which he would be paying cheques.
He would spend a week drawing the cheques.18
6.21 AFCO believes the administrative burden of employee choice would be
minimised by increasing technology in the workplace.
Many of these employers... are now direct crediting wages into certain
accounts. So it would not be that much more difficult to have a computer
mechanism to pay in into a fund.19
15 Evidence, p 333
16 Evidence, p 360
17 Evidence, p 361
18 Evidence, p 354
19 Evidence, p 574


6.22 The Committee noted that the Treasurer's Statement of 28 June 1994,
foreshadowing the introduction of 'member protection' rules,20 would ameliorate
one of the main problems experienced by holders of multiple superannuation
accounts, that is, the erosion of small accounts through administrative charges.
However, once the balance in each account reached the proposed protected
threshold of $1,000, charges would again be applied, and account holders would
again become subject to multiple charges which could only serve to substantially
reduce their final retirement benefits. This is especially apposite given that the
majority of multiple superannuation account holders are part-time or casual
workers in respect of whom superannuation entitlements are likely to accumulate
at a comparatively slow rate because of the lower level of contributions that are
generally paid on their behalf.
Supercard
6.23 The Committee received evidence from a number of witnesses
concerning possible solutions to the small amounts problems. One which targeted
persons with the prospect of multiple accounts was Supercard.
6.24 Supercard is a superamiuation product which was introduced in Sydney
by Supercard Australia Pty Ltd on 1 July 1994, after almost five years of
research, testing and development. The aim of Supercard is to provide consumers
with a low cost superannuation product which has complete portability across all
jobs and industries.21
6.25 Each member is issued a unique identification number on a plastic card.
Contributions can be made by quoting their Supercard number. Contributions can
be made simultaneously by more than one employer and members can make own
contributions if they choose to. By verifying identification over the phone, a
balance of the account is easily accessible. A benefit may be transferred via a
rollover form or by Electronic Funds Transfer.
6.26 The Supercard is capable of accepting small sums from casual and part-
time employees and is structured to incorporate an initial step into a savings
account followed by a further step into a managed account, as follows:
• For account balances up to $100, a savings account is established with a
once only $50 registration fee. There are no additional account keeping fees
on this holding account;
20 See Chapter 5
21 SGCREV Sub. No 2


. Account balances over $100 are moved into a managed account where:
(i) an active account fee exists of 82.5c per week, payable in those
months where contributions are received; or
(ii) a dormant account fee exists of 38.0c per week when a member is not
working. (These fees are fixed until July 1997).
6.27 Supercard has no annual policy fees, no monthly contribution fees, no
exit or benefit calculation fees, no fees when transferring from another fund and
no special fees for lump sum payments.
6.28 The submission stated that 'the greatest advantage of Supercard is
possibly its portability'. The employee simply quotes their identification to their
new employer(s) and SG contributions can continue. No payment is required for
enrolling a new employer onto the Supercard system. Supercard can
accommodate fluctuating contributions and additional amounts can be paid at any
time.
6.29 At the end of the financial year, employees receive an annual statement
and report. Employers receive a statement showing contributions made to
Supercard members.
6.30 When appearing before the Committee, Mr Peter Woodcock stated that
since making his written submission in January 1994, Supercard had introduced
provisions to protect members with balances of less than $1,000. A holding
account linked to a cash management account has been established for people
with small amounts. Except for an establishment fee of $20, members will not
have to pay any charges until the balance reaches $1,000 when the money will be
transferred to a managed account, where dormant/non-dormant charges apply
(see paragraph 6.26 above).
6.31 In summary, Mr Woodcock stated:
The whole concept of Supercard is based on one very, very simply premise:
if you keep the fees low and the performance slightly above average, the
person in the end that benefits is the card member or the member of the
scheme, certainly not the entities that actually form part of the management
or the administration of the fund... I can see that in this particular industry, in
this particular sphere, the consumer was really not getting a very good deal.
So we deliberately set out to create a scheme where the consumer really had
a great deal of choice and a great deal of control over what was going on."*"
22 Evidence, p 13


6.32 The Committee acknowledges the role that products such as Supercard
play in handling small amounts and would like to thank Supercard Pty Ltd for
their submission and evidence.
Transfer protocol
Background
6.33 As part of the announcement on new initiatives to help improve the
effectiveness of the current superannuation system, the Treasurer indicated that
the Government will be encouraging and supporting initiatives already
commenced by the industry. These initiatives are 'aimed at producing more cost
effective procedures for transferring accounts between superannuation funds,
through the development of a transfer protocol'.23
6.34 The initiatives referred to by the Treasurer as having already commenced
involve a transfer protocol being developed by Australian Administration
Services, Nexis and Jacques Martin.24
Outline of proposal
6.35 This transfer protocol is 'designed to facilitate a more cost effective
electronic means of amalgamating the multiple accounts of mobile workers in the
system'.25 In essence, the protocol would allow trustees, upon request of
members, to authorise fund administrators to exchange information periodically
and transfer former accounts held by members to their current fund.
6.36 Employees joining a new fund will be asked whether they have benefits
in other funds and whether they wish to transfer these benefits to the new fund.
Such requests for transfer will be processed on a quarterly basis and at a standard
industry wide charge.
23 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Statement on superannuation policy,
28 June 1994
24 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation policy - statement of measures,
28 June 1994
25 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation policy - statement of measures,
28 June 1994


6.37 The fundamental principles of transfer protocol have been agreed upon by
fund administrators. Further deliberation was curtailed pending the Government's
policy response to the small amounts problem.26
6.38 The Treasurer indicated that the Government:
will encourage the adoption of a transfer protocol and will facilitate the
protocol, and account transfers between funds more generally, by relaxing
where possible the taxation reporting and other regulatory burdens in respect
of accounts transferred within the superannuation industry.27
Responses to the initiative
6.39 Mr John Northcott, of Merino, Victoria, believes that 'you need to be able
to amalgamate all polices - with no fuss'.28 Mr Northcott was referring to people
in one or more part-time jobs, with one or more superannuation accounts.
6.40 The Trades and Labor Council of WA (WATLC), in its submission,
attests a range of administrative issues involving inactive and lost members, and
unclaimed benefits.
6.41 In addition to utilising the TFN as a means of improving the location of
lost and inactive members, the WATLC also recommends that superannuation
funds be able to offer the option of:
(a) Roll over to another fund nominated by the member;
(b) The money to be held by the existing fund;
(c) Or roll over to a central fund;
(d) In the event of no response from the member the default should be for
rollover to a central fund; and,
(e) To accept rollovers from other funds.29
26 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation policy - statement of measures,
28 June 1994
27 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation policy - statement of measures,
28 June 1994
28 SGCREV Sub No 23
29 SGCREV Sub No 59


6.42 The Office of the Status of Women (OSW) also indicated support for the
establishment of a transfer protocol to allow the amalgamation of multiple
accounts held by casual employees. OSW believes that 'even when SG
contributions rise, there will still be some workers whose multiple employers and
mix of time in and out of the workforce will continue to disadvantage them'.30
6.43 In situations where members are dissatisfied with their current fund(s),
attempts to transfer to a new fund can result in penalties imposed in the form of
fees. Toowong Mitsubishi submitted that the transfer of a member's balance to
another fund should be allowed without the imposition of fees. The submission
concludes that 'compulsory superannuation is good and necessary, but to prevent
the movement of deposits between funds and allow them to charge any "fees"
they like is legislation for theft'.31
6.44 The ACTU takes the transfer protocol one step further and recommends
allowing:
access being made available for funds to transfer small inactive accounts to a
nominated ERF. It would then be possible for the ERF to transfer the funds
back once the account becomes active again.32
6.45 In evidence put to the Committee, AFCO indicated that 'coverage of the
transfer of protocol is by no means certain’.33 There is still uncertainty as to
whether all funds will participate. AFCO believes the protocol is reasonably
complex and this will only contribute further to the multiple accounts problem.
Summary
6.46 The Committee believes that, in principle, the implementation of the
transfer protocol will reduce problems currently experienced by workers,
particularly part-timers and casuals, in relation to a multiplicity of superannuation
fund accoimts. Such amalgamations will be beneficial because they will prevent
the erosion of benefits by multiple administrative charges, even after the
implementation of the member protection rules, and may result in a more
substantial benefit upon which future contributions may continue to grow.
30 SGCREV Sub No 68
31 SGCREV Sub No 91
32 SGCREV Sub No 107
33 Evidence, p 568


Recommendation 6.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government ensure that appropriate
transfer protocols are adopted by all participating funds.
6.47 The effectiveness of the protocol will be largely dependent upon the cost
to the member.
6.48 The Committee believes that this protocol should pave the way for a
rationalisation of transfer and exit fees. Once the transfer protocol is
implemented, fees should be set at a level which reflects minimum cost to the
member. The cost should not be punitive and should not hinder portability.




CHAPTER 7:
THRESHOLD, PRESERVATION AND
CONTRIBUTIONS TAX
Threshold, preservation and contributions tax
Introduction
7.1 This chapter examines three regulatory provisions that can contribute to
the small amounts problem. These provisions are:
. the $450 threshold;
. access to amounts less than $500;
. contributions tax.
The $450 SG threshold
7.2 This threshold is the point at which a liability arises for an employer to
make a superannuation contribution on behalf an employee. The threshold for the
SG legislation is $450 per month, that is, once an employee earns $450 in any
given month an SG liability is incurred by the employer.
7.3 There was considerable debate on whether the SG threshold should be
increased or decreased. There was also debate on whether the timing of the
threshold calculations should be on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. This
debate arose not only in the context of the small amounts problem but also in
relation to the inconsistency between the SG threshold and award thresholds.
7.4 Those in favour of raising the threshold argued that a higher threshold
would reduce the small amounts problem and the administrative burden of
deducting contributions for lower paid workers, especially itinerant workers.
7.5 The evidence against lowering the SG threshold, included:
. Mr Stevens, of William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, said that small payments could
be reduced by raising the threshold and moving to amiual payments.
However, Mr Stevens went on to say that moving to an annual payment
would allow a lower threshold. Mr Stevens also said that the requirement by


some awards to make superannuation payments from the first dollar earned
was an impediment to reducing the small payments problem by raising the
$450 per month SG threshold.1
. The Government Employees Superannuation Board of WA (GES)
recommended raising the limit to a level where employer contributions
provide a 'meaningful benefit in terms of retirement income', suggesting
$10,000 per annum. GES also suggested that other forms of non-
superannuation reward or savings should be considered to provide equity to
employees earning below that limit.2
. Mr Donald Jasprizza, from Young, NSW, spoke of the administrative
difficulties of applying SG to itinerant workers in the cherry industry.
Mr Jasprizza supported either a move to a three month calculation period
with a threshold of $1,350.3
. The Australian Dried Fruits Association recommended that a move to a
$1,350 quarterly threshold would simplify the administrative work for
employers because other government retums/assessments are completed on
a quarterly basis.4
. The Northern Victoria Fruitgrowers' Association5 and Riverland
Horticultural Council6 submitted in favour of a move to a $1,350 quarterly
threshold. The Riverland Horticultural Council added that a $1,350
quarterly threshold would exempt about 70% of casuals employed in the
horticultural industry. Mr Harley Swanbury, in representing the Riverland
Horticultural Inc Industrial Relations Committee, echoed concerns about the
administrative difficulties involved with applying the SG to itinerant fruit
pickers. He, too, suggested the threshold be changed to $1,350 per quarter.7
1 Evidence, pp 202-205
2 SGCREV Sub No 73
3 Evidence, p 563
4 SGCREV Sub No 45
5 SGCREV Sub No 58
6 SGCREV Sub No 47
7 Evidence, p 630


. Further still, Mrs Beryl George, Women in Agriculture, told the Committee:
it seems to me that the sensible solution would be to alter the threshold
requirement from monthly to quarterly, which... would drastically reduce the
administrative work for the employer who has to use itinerant labour and go
some way to ensuring that those who qualify for super contributions will not
lose all their entitlements to insurance companies.8
. Mr Kelvin Taylor, Sedgwick Noble Lowndes, spoke in support of a $5,000
annual threshold.9 With reference to low income earners, Mr Fitzpatrick,
Sedgwick Noble Lowndes, expressed to the Committee the view that
'clearly the individual gets no benefit from the superannuation guarantee
payment. By giving them cash in hand, though, at least they get something
out of it'.10 In tandem with this view, Mr Fitzpatrick suggested that the $450
threshold be trebled.11
. Ms Eva Cox, Women's Economic Think Tank, told the Committee that:
if you drop the threshold, they [employers] will drop all workers who earn
less than the tax threshold... if you are earning $80 a week at the moment, it
is $80 a week, flat, out, paid, finished. If you are going to have to sit down
then and calculate the superannuation entitlement on the $80 a week and
make those payments on all of those sums, you will just decrease the number
of people you have earning small amounts.12
. Mr Richard Calver, of the Victorian Farmers Federation, advocated moving
to a quarterly calculation with a corresponding threshold of $1,350, or
more.13
. Mr James Ferguson, of the National Farmers Federation, also favoured the
move to a quarterly calculation because of the effect that administration
costs have on small amounts.14
8 Evidence, p 670
9 Evidence, p 192
10 Evidence, p 190
11 Evidence, p 192
12 Evidence, p 74
13 Evidence, p 227
14 Evidence, p 406


. Mr Greg Hale, director of Osgate Pty Ltd, a farming company operating
from Moree in NSW, suggested increasing the monthly threshold to $900,
or alternatively, increasing the calculation period to three months.15
7.6 On the other hand, those in favour of maintaining or lowering the current
threshold essentially claim that, upon retirement, any superannuation benefit is
better than none and that the measures proposed by the Treasurer allay concerns
about additional small payments. Evidence supporting these claims included:
. Mr Jeffrey Carr, Australian Liquor Hospitality and Miscellaneous Workers
Union, told the Committee that the $250 a month threshold in the
Hospitality Award must be sustained to ensure that workers of the
Hospitality are not disadvantaged as they often work more than one job.16
. Whilst in favour of lowering the threshold, Mr Anthony Cooke, Trades and
Labour Council of WA, acknowledged that the level of the threshold must
be balanced with the economies that funds can achieve in dealing with small
amounts. Mr Cooke articulated this to the Committee when he said:
obviously, $450 is based on the economies as they exist at the moment in
terms of charges and everything else; but we would like to see the day when
the economies are achieved and that $450 threshold can be lowered.17
• Mr David Vernon, Jacques Martin Industry, supports:
abolishing it [the threshold] altogether because the fact is there is a principle
there,... it may only amount to several thousand dollars when they retire but
the several thousand dollars may well buy them a fridge for their retirement
and a few other things which will help their lifestyle... given the Treasurer's
new framework for protection of small balances, your concerns about
erosion of accounts are going to be taken care of.18
• Speaking of the need to provide support for casual employees,
Mr John Davies, Mayne Nickless, told the Committee that:
it becomes too easy to avoid a superannuation obligation for those people.
We are short-changing an increasingly large sector of the community. In
15 SGCREV Sub No 22
16 Evidence, p 250
17 Evidence, p 295
18 Evidence, p 146


principle, superannuation should be supported, providing it can be delivered
administratively easily... I must confess I am speaking personally. I would be
in favour of maintaining the current threshold.19
. The Government Superannuation Office (Queensland) believes there is no
need for thresholds if the small amounts payments problems were solved.
Moreover, a $450 threshold creates inequity for those earning less than that
amount20
. The Australian Federation of Consumer Organizations (AFCO) submitted in
favour of maintaining the threshold at its present level as:
low income groups, including casual and part-time employees, receive little
or no benefit from superannuation... low income earners have a greater need
up front to meet the day-to-day needs for food, clothing and housing.21
Representing AFCO, Ms Jemii Mack, expressed concern to the Committee
that any raising of the threshold might actually result in the lowering of
wages 22
. The ACTU has recommended the Government:
reduce the monthly minimum pay threshold from $450 to $200. The
arguments from employers that it is too onerous to contribute these small
amounts have been presented to the Industrial Relations Commission and
rejected. Many awards apply $200 as the threshold in respect of the 3%
award super requirement.
When appearing before the Committee, Mr Ian Court, ACTU, said that the
level of the threshold should be considered in the light of the advent of
member protection. Mr Court stated that 'while we think that eventually it
could be removed altogether, the logical next step would be to bring it to
$200'”
19 Evidence, pp 157-158
20 SGCREV Sub No 65
21 SGCREV Sub No 20
22 Evidence, p 571
23 Evidence, p 693


The ACTU also submitted that reducing the threshold will remove the
temptation for employers to dismiss casuals prior to them reaching $450 in
a month.24
. Treasury submitted that raising the threshold would clearly deny access to
superannuation benefits to a significantly larger proportion of employees,
but also opposed the reduction of the threshold because of the associated
administration costs.25
. Ms Winsome Hall, Office of the Status of Women (OSW), told the
Committee OSW was against lowering the threshold but said that they did
not have a position on whether it should be raised.26
7.7 The Committee recognises that the lowering of the threshold would
increase SG contributions and this should, in the long term, result in improved
retirement income. The Committee does however recognise the argument that in
the current superannuation environment the lowering of the threshold could
exacerbate the small amounts problem and lead to further administrative
demands.
7.8 Notwithstanding the evidence being weighted towards moving the
threshold to a quarterly payment, the Committee was mindful of the effects such
a move could have on compliance by small businesses. Small businesses would
be required to anticipate the SG liabilities that would arise over the quarter rather
than just over the month.
7.9 Although the Treasurer's Statement goes some way towards alleviating
the small amounts problems to which the $450 threshold has been said to
contribute, it is not exhaustive. It is for this reason that the Committee is
recommending that the threshold be essentially lowered but that the threshold
calculation become a quarterly one.
7.10 This measure will enhance consistency between SG and award
superannuation and will offset any additional administrative burden that may
otherwise have been associated with lowering the SG threshold.
24 SGCREV Sub No 107
25 SGCREV Sub No 96
26 Evidence, p 520


7.11 The Committee has concluded that by lowering the SG threshold along
with changing the timing of the threshold calculation to a quarterly basis:
. the administration burden of threshold calculations will be lessened;
. the confusion of employers will be lessened; and
. small income earners will receive more significant SG contributions.
7.12 This, linked with the Committee's recommendation that the first $500 of
contributions be exempt from contributions tax, discussed later in this chapter,
will improve the retirement outcomes of small income earners.
Recommendation 7.1
The Committee recommends as the first element in its proposal to alleviate
the small amounts problem that consideration be given to changing the SG
threshold from $450 per month to a quarterly amount of less than $1350.
Preservation
7.13 Under SIS, preservation rules essentially mean that members of a
superannuation fund cannot access the money in their superannuation account. It
is generally 'preserved' until they reach retirement. However if a person has a
benefit of less than $500 and leaves the service of an employer they may access
that amount.
7.14 Submissions were made to the Committee on the consequences of
allowing access to balances less than $500. The superannuation industry and
service providers advocate the removal of access to such balances.
Representatives of welfare organisations opposed that proposal on the basis that
low income earners have immediate financial needs.
7.15 Australian Council of Social Services (ACOSS) called for a continuation
of access to preserved balances below $500. ACOSS believes there is a 'need for
low income earners to obtain earlier access to their superannuation savings'.27
Mr David Vernon, Jacques Martin Industry, who strongly recommended the
removal of access to amounts less than $500, stated that 'there are still some
27 SGCREV Sub No 86


other avenues where people can take out even their preserved money'.28 These
other avenues include hardship applications which may be made to the Insurance
and Superannuation Commission.
7.16 The Life Insurance Federation of Australia29 and the Construction+
Building Unions Superannuation (C+BUS)30 submitted that the removal of the
facility for members to withdraw preserved balances below $500 would alleviate
the small amounts problem. It would 'ultimately result in larger benefits for
members', AMP submitted.31 But both AMP and Mr Rosario, Westscheme, were
of the view that the access could only be removed once mechanisms, such as the
member protection rules announced in the Treasurer's statement, had been
implemented to stop the erosion of small amounts.32
7.17 Mr Woodcock, Supercard Australia Pty Ltd, expressed concern that
access to amounts less than $500 should not be permitted 'simply because it
leaves itself open to abuse',33 for example where people have deliberately moved
from job to job so they can receive payment before the $500 limit is reached.
7.18 Mr Greg Smith, Treasury, informed the Committee that the Government
has considered the issue of removing the threshold but has decided to leave the
policy as it exists. Mr Smith stated that there were 'pluses and minuses'34 to the
argument, including equity and administration, and that all facets had been
investigated. The only consideration that Treasury outlined to the Committee,
however, was that the removal of the $500 threshold would increase recourse to
the hardship provisions, that enable access to preserved superannuation, which
are expensive to administer.
7.19 Treasury's comments indicate a concern for those lower income workers
who have immediate financial needs. In recommending the removal of access to
the $500 amount, the Committee acknowledges that the interests of the low
income group must be addressed. It is for this reason that the Committee has
28 Evidence, p 146
29 SGCREV Sub No 67
30 SGCREV Sub No 95
31 SGCREV Sub No 75
32 Evidence, p 329
33 Evidence, p 20
34 Evidence, p 606


developed three interdependent recommendations including changes to the $450
threshold that will increase the size of contributions and the removal of
contributions tax on the first $500.
7.20 Furthermore, the Committee recognises that low income earners have
other life cycle savings needs. In Chapter 12, the Committee suggests a broader
appror eh to savings to accommodate a life cycle savings vehicle for medium-
term non-superannuation savings.
7.21 While taking into accomit the short term financial needs of low income
earners and the small amounts problem the Committee believes that access to
benefits is 'at odds' with the retirement income system operating in Australia as
the early release of benefits may result in increased leakage from the system.
Given the proposed introduction of measures outlined in the Treasurer's
Statement, for example, the ATO collection mechanism and the member
protection rules, the removal of access to $500 amounts should, in fact, result in
members being able to accumulate a more solid base on which to build retirement
income.
Recommendation 7.2:
The Committee recommends the removal of access to preserved amounts of
less than $500 as the second element in its proposal to alleviate the small
amounts problem.
Contributions tax
7.22 The current taxation system tolls superannuation at three points:
. on entry to the fund, a contributions tax of 15% is applied;
. whilst in the fund, an earnings tax of 15% is applied; and
. upon receipt of benefits, the benefits tax levels are 0%, 15% and 30%
depending upon the tax that has been previously paid and the amount of the
benefit.
7.23 Mr Greg Smith, of Treasury, outlined the history of the 15% contributions
tax as resulting from the removal of the previous tax on final benefits. In addition,
he stated:


The flat tax approach of 15 per cent in some measure is dictated by the
administrative necessity of having a single tax rate imposed on the fund
which has no knowledge whatsoever of the tax affairs of its members.35
7.24 Ms Eva Cox, Women's Economic Think Tank, believes the impact of the
present tax on superannuation contributions for low income earners can be an
effective increase in their overall tax rate as well as being another element that is
deducted from an already small balance. Ms Cox stated that not only is
superannuation not a good investment for many people, it is actually a
disadvantage for them. 'The tax rate for people who earn below $20,000 a year
makes it no advantage at all.'36 She submitted that the current system is beneficial
to those individuals with high marginal tax rates, but is of no advantage to those
whose marginal tax rate is nil.
7.25 In addressing the issue of an effective increased tax rate for low income
earners, Ms Cox recommended that tax on contributions and earnings should be
equal to an individual's marginal tax rate. In response to such an adjustment to
the taxation of superamiuation, Ms Hazel Bateman, University of NSW, School
of Economics, suggested that 'trying to adjust the taxation of superannuation to
take account of proportion taxation, as we do with wages, would even
complicate matters further'.37 Ms Bateman reminded the Committee that in
questioning the equity of the current tax on superannuation system, consideration
needs to be given to the fact that people on low incomes will gain more benefit
from the aged pension than high income earners and that 'total retirement income'
must be assessed.38
7.26 Mr Keith Wynn, of Cronulla, NSW, was of a similar view to Ms Cox. In
recognising the effective increased tax rate for those earning under the income
tax threshold, and the effect this has on small balances, he submitted that there
should be a contributions tax free threshold for superannuation which is
proportional to the income tax free threshold of $5,400.39
7.27 The calculation of this contribution tax free threshold for the 1993/94
financial year would be: 0.04 x $5,400 = $216. This proposal would be based on
annual income rather than a once only flat dollar rate.
35 Evidence, p 605
36 Evidence, p 55
37 Evidence, p 125
38 Evidence, p 125
39 SGCREV Sub No 33


7.28 While acknowledging that this proposal may 'dilute tax revenue to the
government',40 Mr Wynn believes this would be adequately compensated by a
balanced flow of long term investment funds into the economy; a future increase
in tax from larger balances in funds; and a reduced demand for the aged pension.
7.29 The ACTU made a similar proposal to that of Mr Wynn. It advocated
that the e should be a contributions tax free threshold. The ACTU's proposal is
that the first $500 of superannuation contributions be exempt for contributions
tax. The Committee supports this as a once only exemption that is linked with the
removal of access to the preserved amounts of less than $500. The exemption
could be administered as a rebate.41
7.30 ACOSS also supported a rebate for low income earners. It believes the
current 'superannuation tax concessions give far too much assistance to high
income earners and too little to low income earners'42
7.31 The system proposed by ACOSS involves the:
. abolition of the current special tax concessions for contributions and
fund earnings;
• assessment of contributions and fund earnings as part of the individual
member's taxable income, with tax on the superannuation component
paid by the fund;
• provision of a uniform tax rebate, which could be offset against taxes
paid by the fund in respect of contributions and fund earnings for each
member; and
• abolition or substantial reduction of taxes on benefits, except for lump
sums above $78,000 (indexed annually) and benefits withdrawn before
age 60 (except in cases of hardship involving persons over 50 years
old).43
7.32 ACOSS believes the rebate could be calculated on either an annual or
lifetime base, as either a flat amount or a percentage of taxable contributions and
earnings up to a maximum level.
40 SGCREV Sub No 33
41 SGCREV Sub No 107
42 SGCREV Sub No 86
43 SGCREV Sub No 86


7.33 In summary, ACOSS opined that 'reform of the tax concessions along the
lines recommended above would eliminate any discrimination in the tax treatment
of personal rather than employer contributions'.44
7.34 In relation to tax inequities, Treasury submitted that the only group to be
disadvantaged by the current tax structure are those with incomes below the
$5,400 tax threshold. Mr Smith was of the opinion that designing a system which
could recognise the income of workers in order to allocate rebates would be
difficult because 'the tax is imposed on a fund, it is not imposed on the
individuals'.45
7.35 Ms Nicola Cusworth, of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of WA,
expressed some concern about the introduction of any tax rebate on
superannuation contributions. Ms Cusworth believes 'you would have a very
intrusive administrative bureaucracy... That would be a lot more work for
superannuation funds and a lot more intrusive work for superannuation funds'.46
7.36 The Committee acknowledges Ms Cusworth's remarks that the removal
of contributions tax on the first $500 may result in additional administrative
workload for the superannuation funds. However, the Committee throughout the
course of this review received no evidence from superannuation funds on this.
The Committee is also unaware of any investigation the Government has
undertaken on how a rebate could be implemented. It is therefore recommended
that an assessment be made in order to identify the most effective and efficient
means of implementing a tax free threshold.
7.37 As with Mr Wynn, the ACTU recognised that there would be a cost for
this tax exemption. The ACTU estimated that the cost would be in the order of
$70 million 47 This cost needs to be balanced against the facts that:
. as the measure is a tax exemption, the amount that would have been
otherwise payable as tax remains in the member's account;
• the size of small accounts will not be diminished;
44 SGCREV Sub No 86
45 Evidence, p 604
46 Evidence, p 311
47 SGCREV Sub No 107


. in concert with the other measures, namely the removal of the $500
preservation accessibility and the decreased threshold, small balances will
aggregate into balances that will provide a more substantial retirement
benefit;
. the Government is requiring funds to protect member balances and it may
t1 erefore be appropriate for it to also contribute in this manner; and
. the alleviation of the small amounts problem will provide an overall
improvement in national savings.
7.38 The Committee considers these proposals to have great merit. Whilst
acknowledging that there is little evidence of how such proposals to provide tax
relief on small amounts could be implemented, the ACTU proposal would appear
to be the least administratively complex. However, this needs to be assessed by
the Government.
Recommendation 7.3:
The Committee recommends the removal of contributions tax for the first
S500 as the third element in its proposal to alleviate the small amounts |
problem.
The Committee is unaware of any investigation by the Government on the I
implementation and associated revenue implications of such a measure. The
Committee further recommends that an assessment be made of the most|
effective and efficient means of implementing a tax free threshold.




CHAPTER 8:
OTHER INITIATIVES
Other initiatives
Tax File Numbers
Background
8.1 The Treasurer's Statement, in announcing other measures to assist the
small amounts problem, indicated that legislation would be introduced 'to allow
the extended usage of Tax File Numbers (TFNs) in identifying and amalgamating
superannuation accounts'.1 Such use would only be made with employee
authorisation.
Current usage
8.2 The present use of TFNs in the superannuation industry is strictly limited
as they may only be obtained and/or quoted in the following circumstances:
. on payment of the SG Charge to the ATO, an employer must quote the
employee's TFN if it is known;
. on transferring monies to an ERF, a trustee may quote a member's TFN with
the member's authority; and
. on receipt of benefits such as an eligible termination payment, pension or
annuity, members must quote their TFN in order to prevent tax at the
highest marginal rate.
Proposed usage
8.3 The Treasurer's Statement stipulates:
• SIS will be amended to:
(a) allow superannuation funds to collect TFNs from new and
existing members (and from other funds as in (b) below) for
account identification purposes;
1 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Statement on superannuation policy,
28 June 1994


(b) allow a superannuation fund to provide a member's TFN to
another superannuation fund when transferring the member's
benefits to that superannuation fund;
(c) allow employees to authorise the use of TFNs provided to their
employers for superannuation purposes and, subject to their
being so authorised, require employers to quote the employee's
TFN to a superannuation fund when making contributions on
behalf of the employee to that fund.
. In order to facilitate the ATO collection mechanism the
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 will be amended
to require employers to quote an employee's TFN to the ATO when
making contributions under the mechanism.2
8.4 The Treasurer's Statement also provides that the extension of the use of
TFNs will help to streamline superannuation administration and reduce costs. For
example:
it would facilitate the tracking of lost members, assist in specifically
identifying members when transferring amounts between funds as envisaged,
for example, under the transfer protocol, and enable funds to internally
identify and amalgamate multiple contributions on behalf of the same
individual.3
Privacy
8.5 The Treasurer has recognised the importance of privacy considerations in
extending the use of TFNs: 'As always, there is a need to balance proposals to
extend the use of the TFN with the legitimate privacy concerns of individuals'.4
8.6 In the Committee's inquiry on the SIS Bills, the Privacy Commissioner
submitted on the extended use of TFNs outlined in that legislation. In that
submission the Commissioner stated that 'the ultimate responsibility for
determining the public interest issues involved in any major extension of use of
the tax file number in the community must lie with Parliament'.5
The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation policy - statement of measures,
28 June 1994
3 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation policy - statement of measures,
28 June 1994
4 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation policy - statement of measures,
28 June 1994
5 SIS Sub No 94


8.7 The Privacy Commissioner gave qualified support to the SIS proposal
that once collected by the funds, the TFN could be used for other authorised
purposes which did not involve any new users, uses or storage of the TFN. The
Commissioner noted that 'individuals should be able to choose whether or not
they quote their tax file number'. The Commissioner stated that the proviso for
his support of the extension was that:
individuals are given notice of the practice at the point of first collection of
the tax file number including: the purpose of collection; any later proposed
uses; notice that quoting a tax file number is voluntary for the purpose of
identifying members who may later need to claim benefits from an eligible
rollover fund or the ISC; and giving member the opportunity to opt for a
specific collection for each authorised purpose.6
8.8 The Committee did not receive a submission for the Privacy
Commissioner in relation to the proposed changes outlined in the Treasurer's
Statement of 28 June 1994, but has taken account of the concerns raised in the
Privacy Commissioner's earlier submission.
8.9 The Committee did not receive any negative responses to the proposed
extended uses of TFNs. The overwhelming support from all sectors in the
superannuation arena has indicated to the Committee the need for the extension
to be implemented promptly.
Responses to the extended use of TFNs
8.10 The Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations (AFCO) strongly
supported the extension of the use of TFNs. It submitted that the use of TFNs
would assist in the consolidation of superannuation accounts and the tracing of
lost members. AFCO believes extended usage 'underpins the ability of consumers
to easily keep track of their superannuation investment'.7
8.11 Westscheme submitted that extended TFN use would 'make the
identifying numbers of members and participating employers for SGC purposes a
composite of the relevant scheme tax file number and their individual tax file
number'. Westscheme claim this would reduce the administrative problems that
were created by the implementation of the SG.8
6 SIS Sub No 94
7 SGCREV Sub No 20 Supplementary
8 SGCREV Sub No 28


8.12 Westscheme also believes that extending the use of TFNs would assist
the enforcement of SG compliance. The consequence would be a reduction in the
cost of compliance which is currently being borne by scheme members as
opposed to SG defaulters.
8.13 General support for the extended use of TFNs was also received from
AMP who indicated it would assist in the location of lost members.9 ASFA
believes that the use of TFNs 'is a welcome rationalisation of the current complex
requirements'.10
8.14 Mrs Val Pate, Riverland Horticultural Council, outlined a number of
difficulties experienced in administering small amounts for part-time and casual
workers. Mrs Pate believes that the incidence of monies belonging to lost
members ending up in Consolidated Revenue could be reduced by using TFNs
for membership numbers. This would minimise many of the difficulties now
being experienced with lost members.11
8.15 Jacques Martin Industry submitted that current employee infonnation
received from employers when SG contributions are made is inadequate and
results in casual employees being unaware of the existence of such accounts.
Knowledge of these accounts would allow the aggregation of benefits upon
changes in employment.12
8.16 Jacques Martin suggested that 'with regard to the TFN it is our view that
the Privacy Commissioner needs to take a more pragmatic approach and pennit
its use in the situation just described'. Jacques Martin highlighted the point that:
It is, after all, in the interests of the employee and consistent with the
objectives of the recent Treasurer's Statement, ie to prevent the erosion of
small balances and encourage their aggregation as much as possible.
8.17 In the light of the evidence regarding the extended usage of TFNs for
superannuation purposes, the Committee reaffirms Recommendation 9.1 in the
ninth report, Super Supervision Bills which reads:
9 SGCREV Sub No 75
10 SGCREV Sub No 5 Supplementary
11 SGCREV Sub No 105
12 SGCREV Sub No 92


Amendment to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Bill 1993
Collection and Use of Tax File Numbers (TFNs)
The Committee recommends that the SIS legislation be amended to allow
superannuation funds to collect member TFNs, subject to member consent,
from the date the Bill receives Royal Assent. In addition, the Committee
recommends that the SIS legislation be amended to allow superannuation
funds, to use TFNs for taxation and transfer of benefits purposes.13
The Committee reaffirms its rec
-Supervision Bills> that extended i
be allowed, subject to member c<
2 to 7 year contribution period
Outline
8.18 Under SIS, a regulated superannuation fund can only accept contributions
that are made in respect of a member who is under age 65 if:
. the contributions are mandated employer contributions; or
. the contributions are not mandated employer contributions and the member:
* has, at any time in the preceding 2 years, engaged in full-time or
part-time gainful employment; or
* ceased full-time or part time gainful employment because of ill-
health (whether physical or mental) that, at the date of acceptance,
prevents the member from engaging in employment of the kind that
the member engaged in at the onset of the ill-health.
13 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super Supervision Bills, October 1993


8.19 Mandated employer contributions include contributions made by or on
behalf of an employer:
. that reduce the employer's potential liability for the superannuation
guarantee charge or payments of shortfall components;
. that are made to meet an obligation under an agreement certified, or an
award made, on or after 1 July 1986 by an industrial authority.
Extension of contribution period
8.20 In a press release dated 18 July 1994, Mr Paul Elliott, MP, Parliamentary
Secretary to the Treasurer, announced that amendments would be made to the
SIS Act to allow non-working parents (male and female) to continue to make
superannuation contributions for up to seven years where they are temporarily
out of the workforce for child rearing purposes.
8.21 In his press release Mr Elliott stated:
The proposal will particularly benefit women, who traditionally have less
money in their superannuation funds on retirement than men do.
This is because women typically have both lower salary levels and broken
working patterns, due mostly to the commitments of raising children.
This initiative is another example of the Government's commitment to
increasing the standard of living for women in retirement.14
8.22 Mr Elliott's announcement appeared to have resulted from the difficulties
currently experienced by workers, particularly women, whose broken work
patterns prevent a growth in superannuation savings. Current provisions limit
contributions to a two year period. However, the Office of the Status of Women
(OSW) believes that 'given that most breaks in employment are likely to be
unpaid it is unlikely women could afford to continue superannuation
contributions during this 2 year period'.15
14 Mr Paul Elliott, MP, Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer, Women benefit from
superannuation changes, (press release), 18 July 1994
15 SGCREV Sub No 68


8.23 In a follow-up statement on 28 October 1994, Mr Elliott stated that:
From 1 July 1994, a person leaving employment for child rearing purposes
will also be permitted to contribute to superannuation for up to seven years -
provided they retain the right to return to their original job, (for
example, leave without pay).16
8.24 OSW indicated that the reasons behind Mr Elliott's announcement were
differences between the SIS legislation and awards. Ms Hall, in appearing before
the Committee, stated:
Various awards allowed for people to be away from the workplace for
greater lengths of time than for two years and obviously still demonstrated
that occupational link to that workplace and to a particular job.17
8.25 The NSW Cabinet Office believes the current two year limit indirectly
discriminates against women whose work patterns may see them out of the
workforce for more than two years. The NSW Cabinet Office argues that:
since the two year limit may not be long enough to reflect women's typical
work patterns, it may create barriers to women's ability to save for their
retirement, should they wish to do so.111
8.26 An increase in the time limit is seen by the NSW Cabinet Office as
encouraging people to continue to save for retirement despite extended periods
out of the workforce. An extension of the time limit too far, from the point of
view of the superannuation funds, may create administrative problems in keeping
track of inactive accounts. For this reason, the NSW Cabinet Office also
submitted that 'if the prescribed time limit were to be increased, it may be
appropriate to restrict it to a maximum of, say, five years'.19
8.27 The Committee believes the question which begs to be asked is: who can
leave their employment for seven years and reasonably expect their job to be
there when they return?
16 Mr Paul Elliott, MP, Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer, Government decision on
women and superannuation, (press release), 28 October 1994
17 Evidence, p 511
18 SGCREV Sub No 19
19 SGCREV Sub No 19


8.28 An associated issue was raised by Dr Alan Grant, of Gosford in NSW,
who suggested that there be no age limit on making contributions while a person
is working.20
20 SGCREV Sub No 72


CHAPTER 9:
SUPER SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
Super savings accounts
Background
9.1 Whilst a number of banking groups presently offer superannuation
savings accounts, these products are provided through an interposed trust
structure, usually via the bank's life company subsidiary. Advocates of
superannuation savings accounts (SSAs) seek the removal of the requirement for
an interposed trust structure and the introduction of a separate regulatory regime
with lower obligations for supervision and disclosure.
9.2 Whilst differing somewhat from the banks' proposal, the following script
from a submission by the Credit Union Corporation (Australia) Limited
(CUSCAL) provides an overview of the nature of SSAs:
. SSAs would operate using portable savings accounts for balances
below say $5,000;
• balances in SSAs would be capital guaranteed and there would be no
administration fees and no entry or exit fees;
. once an account reached the $5,000 threshold, the account balance
would be transferred to the award superannuation fund, or if there is
no nominated fund, to a fund nominated by the member;
• contributions to SSAs could be made by employers, employees or by
people up to 2 years after leaving the workforce;
. interest would be credited periodically to the accounts, and would be
concessionally taxed, in line with existing superannuation fund
earnings;
. contributions to SSAs would attract existing tax benefits where they
satisfy existing requirements for tax benefits;
• a reduced disclosure regime would apply, involving quarterly
statements to members, indicating contributions, interest and the
preserved and vested account balance; and
. credit unions would conduct regular, member authorised sweeps to
consolidate SSAs.1
1 SGCREV Sub No 89


Existing Government policy
9.3 In his Statement of 28 June 1994 the Treasurer announced that the
Government has decided against the introduction of a special tax and regulatory
regime for SSAs. In justifying the Government's position, the Treasurer
maintained that:
the present arrangements ensure that superannuation products offered by
banks are subject to the same rules and conditions as for other providers of
superannuation... this prevents any one sector gaining an unfair advantage
over competitors in the superannuation market, and ensures that members of
all funds enjoy similar regulatory protection.2
9.4 In response to claims from banks and credit unions that a major benefit of
introducing SSAs would be their contribution to resolving the small amounts
problem, the Treasurer provided that 'the package of measures we are
announcing today [which did not include SSAs] provides a comprehensive
solution for small amounts'.
The Case For SSAs
9.5 The two major proponents of SSAs are the Australian Bankers
Association (ABA) and the Credit Union Corporation (Australia) Limited
(CUSCAL), both of whom submitted to, and appeared before, the Committee.
9.6 hi response to the Treasurer's Statement, Mr Alan Cullen, ABA,
advocated SSAs to the Committee as a solution to the small payments problem,
saying that:
Our view is that that [the Treasurers' Statement] has solved nothing but has
merely disguised the way in which the costs and the benefits will operate, by
enforcing cross-subsidies in the industry and really providing no choice to
superannuants... when we talk about the group to which you are directing
attention, would it not be easy for someone to have a simple superannuation
savings account that they take from employer to employer?
The employer, by paying into that account, would discharge his obligations.
The person concerned would know precisely the amount they have in that
account at any given time, whereas they would not normally know the value
of the various superannuate amounts they have. They would at least have all
2 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Statement on superannuation policy,
28 June 1994


their accounts consolidated at that time and, indeed, if they hold more than
one superannuation savings account with banks, the building societies or
credit unions, we would have the tax file numbers.3
9.7 When asked by the Committee why he thought the Treasurer had
disregarded the ABA's proposals, Mr Cullen replied that:
one of the reasons the Treasurer advanced for not proceeding with the bank
proposals was that the unions would never agree that superannuation
savings accounts would be complying funds for the purposes of the awards.
Therefore, given that the award was quite extensive, it would not solve this
problem [the small payments problems].4
9.8 In regard to the 'level-playing-field' argument, Mr Cullen was critical of
the way in which banks are presently required to offer superannuation products,
claiming that:
it is true that banks offer superannuation savings accounts or simple
products through their life subsidiaries but the banks are putting it [SSAs]
forward because they see that they carry a cost burden which need not be
carried in terms of the needs of particular superannuants. Therefore, they
would offer both. The level playing field is an argument that has no merit
whatsoever.5
9.9 In support of this argument, Mr Cullen claimed that the use of a trust
structure amounted to 'a cost burden which need not be carried in terms of the
needs of particular superannuants’. Mr Cullen elaborated to the Committee by
saying:
The point is whether or not one is interested in the benefit to the
superannuant or one is interested in the benefits to the providers. We have
said that there is no need for a trustee, no need for a prospectus, no need for
the type of reporting requirements you have if you are investing in a bank
deposit which is prudently supervised by the Reserve Bank...
We have no problem with the superannuation savings account being offered
by life offices and superannuation funds if they can meet the requirements [of
the Reserve Bank of Australia].6
3 Evidence, p 160
4 Evidence, p 161
5 Evidence, pi62
6 Evidence, pp 161-162


9.10 Of particular interest to the Committee was the claim by the ABA in their
submission that SSAs offer a means of consolidating multiple accounts.7
Mr Cullen explained that this could be simply achieved by utilising the bank
clearing system, providing the banks were given legislative authority to use Tax
File Numbers for this purpose.8
9.11 Having had time to further analyse the ATO collection system, the ABA
forwarded a supplementary submission to the Committee on 28 November 1994
outlining their views on that system, which can be summarised as:
. the costs of the ATO system are likely to well above the estimated
$7 million per annum estimated by the Treasurer;
. the member protection rules are likely to significantly increase the cross
subsidies inherent in the system; and
. the Treasurer's Statement does not attack the cause of the small amounts
problems, being the $450 SG threshold.9
9.12 Also in favour of SSAs was Mr Chris Gration, of CUSCAL, who
reiterated to the Committee that the credit union movement wishes to offer a
product for amounts up to $1,200 in any year, and not exceeding a threshold of
$5,000. Once the account balance reaches the $5,000 threshold it would be
transferred into the appropriate award fund or, in the absence of an award fund, a
fund nominated by a member. The SSA product would offer a capital guarantee
with a guarantee of growth at rates similar to those of term deposits and,
importantly, with no fees or charges.10
9.13 When questioned by the Committee as to why CUSCAL chose $5,000
for the threshold, Mr Gration replied that 'there was no particular science
involved... we would be quite happy to consider a similar administrative
framework with a $2,000 or $3,000 limit'.11
7 SGCREV Sub No 80
8 Evidence, pi63
9 SGCREV Sub No 80 Supplementary
10 Evidence, p 442
11 Evidence, p 450


9.14 Mr Gration did not present SSAs as the be-all-to-end-all for solving the
small amounts problem, but rather suggested:
You are not going to have one single solution to this small amounts
problem. It is a big problem, it is an ongoing problem and what we are
saying is, we think superannuation savings accounts of the sort we are
offering could be part of that solution.12
9.15 In support of this claim, Mr Gration expressed doubts to the Committee
that the measures outlined by the Treasurer would provide the total solution to
the small amounts problem because:
the member protection rules will protect a balance from erosion but it will
not provide for growth... and... the Government cannot guarantee to pay
interest for balances below $1,200 and has explicitly stated that balances that
reach $1,200 and remain with the tax office will not be paid interest at all.13
9.16 Mr Gration also highlighted concern that:
the tax commissioner will, under the government's proposals, write to the
worker to tell him that the balance has reached $1,200 and will suggest that
he nominates a fund to which that amount is to be transferred. If the worker
does not do that, the amount just sits there. That person can keep
contributing and will earn no more interest. The amount could sit there for
15 years and earn absolutely nothing at all.14
9.17 Mr Dave Taylor, of CUSCAL, claimed that credit imions proposal to
establish SSAs should be considered on its own merit as there are distinct and
vital differences between credit unions and banks. Mr Taylor claimed:
in the Treasurer's Statement, only two reasons were put why SSA[s] should
not be permitted. One was that industry funds pay for their own supervision
and banks do not. The second was that industry life and super funds are
there to protect their members' interests and banks are not necessarily there
to do that; they are there to derive income for their shareholders. On both
points credit unions, of course, are somewhat different from banks. Credit
unions do pay to for their own supervision and credit unions are there for
one reason only, and that is to provide services for their members.15
12 Evidence, p 452
13 Evidence, p 445
14 Evidence, p 450
15 Evidence, p 440


9.18 When asked by the Committee to comment on the comparative long term
yields of SSAs, Mr Taylor emphasised that they are not intended to be long term
investments and that credit unions would be happy to have SSAs transfer to a
traditional trustee based superannuation fund once the balance reaches a certain
amount. Significantly, Mr Taylor said 'I think it is the fear of other institutions
and banks wanting to compete directly that has caused such a strong reaction
(against SSAs) from life and superannuation funds'.16
9.19 As with the ABA, CUSCAL forwarded a supplementary submission after
further analysis of the ATO collection system.17 In their supplementary
submission CUSCAL maintained:
. there is good reason to believe that a large number of Australians will
continue to generate small superannuation balances as small contributors are
often part-time workers with broken work patterns, low pay and high
mobility;
. part-time workers represent a growth sector of the economy;
. the Government appears to have chosen to force an inferior product [the
ATO collection system] on low income earners;
. unlike SSAs, the proposed member protection rules do not guarantee capital
growth;
. it will be difficult for funds like REST that have large numbers of small
contributors to implement member protection;
. SSAs are a better safety net than the ATO because:
(a) they pay interest where the ATO will not,
(b) workers can save using their SSA even when they are out of work, and
(c) SSAs are highly portable and easily accessible;
• existing trust structures are simply too cumbersome for small irregular
amounts;
• to work properly, SSAs would need the same light disclosure regime that
will be extended to funds implementing member protection;
16 Evidence, p 449
17 SGCREV Sub No 89 Supplementary


. the 'competitive neutrality' or level playing field argument against SSAs
does not serve low income earners well;
. C+BUS pays a maximum of $14,000 per annum for supervision by the
Insurance and Superannuation Commission, whereas, a credit union with
comparable assets would pay $400,000 for supervision by the AFIC;
. SSAs would be subject to the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal; and
. Credit Unions have a widespread distribution network.
9.20 In its submission to the Committee, the Australian Federation of
Consumer Organizations Inc (AFCO) was generally supportive of SSAs but
stipulated that 'bank operated superannuation funds should have the same
prudential and consumer protection rights as other superannuation products. This
must include appropriate information, monitoring and redress for complaints'.18
9.21 In giving evidence to the Committee, Ms Jenni Mack of AFCO reiterated
their support of SSAs, saying:
we think that, in many instances, a SSA would be a lot more user friendly to
some groups of consumers... at least they will get interest paid if they are in
a bank.19
9.22 However, Ms Mack went on to express some reservations about
complaints arising from the SSAs being dealt with by the Bank Ombudsman vis a
vis the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, an issue which CUSCAL addressed
satisfactorily in their supplementary submission.
Arguments against SSAs
9.23 The Committee was given a detailed account from Mr Greg Smith, of
Treasury, of the Government's justification for its policy regarding SSAs.
Mr Smith said:
It was proposed that that instrument [SSA] be an account which can be the
subject of a withholding tax - not the tax that we now have on
superannuation funds - on credits to that account and that those accounts
not be part of a trustee structure.
18 SGCREV Sub No 20
19 Evidence, p 572


They wanted to get away from being required to establish a trustee with a
fund and rather simply offer an account, just like an ordinary bank deposit
account. The government would then have to pass special taxation laws to
impose taxes on those accounts of a withholding kind. So that was what was
being proposed. It was a completely different regime both as regards the
administration of the system and the taxation of the system.
An attempt, of course, would have been made to make it as close as possible
to the existing taxation and administration of superannuation funds which
are separate entities. But in fact it would have been a separate system.
The reason the government did not agree to that was that it felt that it could
not get sufficiently identical and therefore equal treatment of those accounts
with the current system and that there would therefore be a competitive
issue, noting that all institutions are free now to establish those types of
accounts through the existing arrangements, which some banks have already
done.20
9.24 In a joint appearance before the Committee, Ms Susan Ryan, of the
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA), and
Mr John Maroney, of the Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA), were
generally supportive of the measures proposed by the Treasurer for dealing with
the small amounts problem, including the policy of not allowing the introduction
of SSAs. Their position was summarised by Ms Ryan in saying:
despite those differences [from their proposal], we strongly support the
Government's package... it will make millions of members better off and it
will begin the process of improving confidence. Many media reports on the
statement have commented that banks have been frozen out of the
superannuation system. Nothing could be further from the truth. All major
banks currently offer superannuation products under the same rules as every
other commercial superannuation provider.21
9.25 Of interest to the Committee was that ASFA and LIFA do not
differentiate between the claims made by the banks for SSAs and those made by
credit unions. In addressing a question from the Committee about the relative
claims for SSAs by credit unions and banks, Ms Ryan simply advocated the
importance of the role of trustees and the need for maintaining a competitive
level playing field for all participants in the superannuation industry.22
20 Evidence, p 601
21 Evidence, p 78
22 Evidence, p 78


9.26 Similarly, Mr Ray Stevens, of William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, argued that
banks and credit unions have to cover their administration costs just the same as
anybody else and said he was certainly against allowing anyone to offer
superannuation outside of the trust regime.23
9.27 Also opposed to the introduction of SSAs was the ACTU, with
Mr Ian Court taking issue with the claim that credit unions would not 'make any
charges' for SSAs. Mr Court put to the Committee that:
they cannot really have a margin between deposits and earnings that is less
than the banks... The cost is not actually going to be deducted from
balances: it is going to be deducted off earnings. The credit unions simply
cannot compete either with their technology in their systems to deal with
these sort of accounts [SSAs], or with cost.
If you compare a credit union with its three or four per cent margin as
against a member protected superannuation fund which is effectively
charging - in the case of C+BUS - nothing up to $500 and about 0.6 of one
per cent for up to $1,000, they simply cannot compete. They simply are not
a competitive product.24
9.28 Mr Court objected to SSAs being permitted to operate outside the
existing superannuation prudential framework. He believes member
representation and trustees of superannuation funds are beneficial 'both in
scrutiny and in ordinary people getting involved in managing their money'.25
9.29 Mr Court also questioned the appropriateness of CUSCAL's proposed
$5,000 threshold saying that 'it is not a small balance. The average balance in
C+BUS is $3,000 after ten years'.26 In response to a statement by the Committee
that CUSCAL would be flexible with regards to the $5,000 threshold, Mr Court
replied:
I will put it to you, Senator, that they have not done their numbers and there
will be an amount below which they will not go, because of the cost
associated with it.27
23 Evidence, p 202
24 Evidence, p 709
25 Evidence, p 709
26 Evidence, p 709
27 Evidence, p 726


9.30 In response to Mr Court's evidence, CUSCAL reaffirmed in a
supplementary submission that credit unions would provide a 'fee free retirement
savings account, yet at the same time offer a "market rate" of interest'. They
maintain they will do so by utilising an existing 'sophisticated computer systems
network'.28
9.31 Having considered the preceding evidence, the Committee is confident
that the member protection rules, in combination with the ATO scheme and
transfer protocol, will assist with the problems associated with small
superannuation balances.
9.32 The Government members of the Committee are of the view that all
participants in the superannuation arena should come under the same prudential
supervisory regime and the introduction of SSAs is an unwarranted complication
to the superannuation scheme.
9.33 The Coalition and Democrat members of the Committee are of the view
that there is a role for other financial intermediaries in alleviating the small
amounts problem.The development of SSAs should be allowed providing:
• they come under the jurisdication of the Superannuation Complaints
Tribunal;
• consumer protection is further enhanced by additional funding for
Consumer Credit Legal Services to provide representation and advice in
the absence of trustees. This is consistent with the Committee's
recommendation in its Ninth Report that the Government consider
supporting the establishment of an independent superannuation advisory
service;
• accounts are not subject to entry or exit fees;
• the rate of return is comparable to that of long-term deposits; and
• there is a maximum amount for such accounts of $3,000 beyond which
balances are transferred to a managed fund (although the account can
then be re-opened with a balance of zero).
Supplementary Sub No 89


9.34 The Government and Democrat members question banks' capacity to
provide SSAs, given their apparent inability to handle the issue of small bank
accounts.




CHAPTER 10:
INTERACTION BETWEEN SG AND AWARD
SUPERANNUATION
Interaction between SG and award superannuation
Background
10.1 This Chapter examines the interaction between SG and award
superannuation.
10.2 Award superannuation emerged from an industrial relations framework. It
evolved from the National Wage Case of September 1983. The effect of that
decision culminated in an agreement in September 1985 between the Australian
Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and the Federal Government to apply to the
Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for a 3% productivity
increase to be taken as superannuation contributions with an intended
commencement date of 1 July 1986.
10.3 The High Court subsequently held that the ACTU superannuation claim
was an industrial matter and the then Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904
(now the Industrial Relations Act 1988) was amended to require the Industrial
Relations Commission to take into account, in arriving at national wage case
decisions, increased superannuation contributions made by employers.
10.4 As outlined in Chapter 2, the Government decided to introduce a
mandatory superannuation scheme, which commenced on 1 July 1992. However,
the award superannuation system was not dismantled when SG was implemented
which has resulted in these two superannuation systems operating concurrently.
The result is that employers may be required to comply with both superannuation
systems simultaneously.
10.5 The evidence to the Committee in the course of this inquiry has been that
the liability of the employer under each system can be markedly different. This
position is further exacerbated by variations in the requirements of individual
superannuation award provisions.
10.6 Consequently, the inconsistencies arising from the joint operation of the
two arrangements has led to significant administrative difficulties. Indeed,
evidence received by the Committee indicates that the relationship between SG
and award superannuation has been quite fragile.


10.7 Of particular relevance to the issues discussed in this Chapter is the
decision handed down on 7 September 1994, by the Full Bench of the Australian
Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC) on a Superannuation Test Case dealing
with the question of what provisions, if any, awards of the Commission should
contain with respect to employee superannuation. The Test Case established
standards which the Commission can incorporate in awards on application. This
case is discussed in detail at the end of this Chapter.
10.8 In short, evidence has been provided to the Committee concerning the
conflict in differing thresholds, contribution rates, earnings bases and frequency
of payments.
Differing Thresholds
10.9 The threshold for SG legislation is $450 per month. However, award
thresholds can vary from one award to another and may be defined in tenns of
salary dollars earned or the length of service, or both.
10.10 Several submissions identified the confusion surrounding these different
thresholds as contributing greatly to the administrative burden of meeting
superannuation obligations.
10.11 The extent of this problem is perhaps best illustrated by the evidence
given by Mr Richard Calver, Victorian Fanners Federation, on how differing
thresholds affect primary producers:
Under [the Pastoral Industry Superannuation Award] there are no qualifying
number of hours. The three per cent employer contribution required to be
paid under that award must be paid for all employees covered by the award
from the first dollar earned, yet under a sister award, the Wool Classers and
Shearing Staff Employees Award, there is a minimum qualifying period of 80
hours worked in a financial year. Once the 80 hours are worked, again the
three per cent contribution under the award becomes payable from the first
hour, not the 81st hour.
Then the farmer also needs to record whether or not the workers reached
the monetary threshold now of $450 per month under the SG legislation.
That might affect the payment of the one per cent additional to those awards
or it might affect the entire SG requirement. So, for a very small
superannuation contribution, the farmer has got to cope with the provisions
of no minimum payment [threshold] at all under the Pastoral Industry
Superannuation Award, he has got to cope with logging the number of hours
under the Wool Classers Award and then he has got to keep a monetary
record. It could be that the same casual employee did different work for the


same farmer that would require that person to be paid under those three
different awards. I do not think it an exaggeration to say that the SG process
is held up to ridicule.1
10.12 The Committee heard similar evidence from Mr David Goodear, Jacques
Martin Industry, that anomalies exist in the liquor industry where employers are
confused as to whether the lower limit is the SG specification of $450 a month or
$290 a month, because the award in some states specifies $290.2
10.13 Ms J. Willmott, of Nedlands, Western Australia, succinctly outlined the
problems arising from conflicting thresholds as being:
Our award stipulated that if a person worked 10 hours per week after a
qualifying period of three months we must contribute 3%. We must
therefore test each person's total income each month to see if they qualify for
the Superannuation Guarantee and if they do not then we must look to see
whether they qualify for the lesser amount of 3%.3
10.14 An example of the implications this confusion was articulated by the
Australian Liquor, Hospitality & Miscellaneous Workers Union (ALHMWU). It
submitted that:
many employers now feel justified in taking the stance that even though the
award provides a minimum level of $250 per month, the SGC gives them a
higher minimum of $450 per month and accordingly they are advising
employees that no superannuation benefit is payable unless they earn in
excess of that figure.4
10.15 The threshold differences were further exemplified to the Committee in a
submission from the New South Wales Nurses' Association which provided that
although the State-based award in New South Wales prescribes a threshold of
$1,744 per annum, the newly established public sector First State Superannuation
Scheme has a once-only threshold of $4507
1 Evidence, p 225
2 Evidence, p 134
3 SGCREV Sub No 13
4 SGCREV Sub No 40
5 SGCREV Sub No 26


10.16 An insight into why award thresholds vary was given to the Committee
by Ms Ann Drohan, ALHMWU. Ms Drohan explained that:
in our sector... the award has been designed around the type of work that
our members do... the reason that the $250 minimum was struck was partly
because they worked for more that one employer.6
10.17 Chapter 7 reports the considerable debate on whether the SG threshold
should be increased or decreased. In this Chapter the Committee has explored
the threshold in the context of the coexistence of the SG and award
superannuation systems.
10.18 This evidence suggests that many awards have a different and mostly
lower threshold, and the lowering of the $450 per month SG threshold, as
recommended by the Committee in Chapter 7, will ensure a greater degree of
uniformity between the award and SG systems exists and a greater coverage of
low income earners is achieved.
10.19 However, inconsistency, albeit to a lesser extent, will remain between the
$200 per month thresholds for most awards and the lower quarterly SG threshold
recommended by the Committee.
10.20 The Committee notes that the decision arising from the AIRC
Superannuation Test Case has provided a means by which the AIRC may further
address this inconsistency. This is dealt with in the Committee's recommendation
at the conclusion of this Chapter.
Contribution Levels
10.21 The level of SG contributions is being increased, at a predetermined rate,
to 9 per cent for the 2002/03 and subsequent financial years. The phase-in scale
for small employers, with a payroll of less than $1 million, is lower in the earlier
years than the scale for large employers. Apart from this slightly different phase-
in scale until 1996/97, SG contributions are uniform for all employers and across
all industries. By contrast, award contributions vary from award to award.
6 Evidence, p 252


10.22 Mr Rosario, of Westscheme, gave ail account to the Committee of how
confusion surrounding award requirements has led to non-compliance with SG.
Mr Rosario told the Committee he had encountered much difficulty during
May 1994 in communicating the impending increase in the SG contribution rate.7
10.23 The Committee also heard evidence from Mr Troy, Australian Road
Trans’ ort Industrial Organisation (ARTIO), that the use of flat dollar
contributions mider some awards exasperates the complexities associated with
contribution levels. Mr Troy explained that for a given, flat dollar contribution
some employers could be paying less than is required under SG whilst, at the
same time, other employers contributing under the same award could be paying
more than is required.8
10.24 The interaction between the contribution levels for SG and award
superannuation manifests the problem that employees can end up with two
superannuation funds for the one employment relationship.
10.25 This anomaly affects the New South Wales Nurses Association
(NSWNA), which submitted that disparity exists between the Commonwealth
SG threshold and aggregation provisions and those applying under the State-
based occupational superannuation award, the latter providing for the first 3%
component of the overall current 5%.9 Mr Maratheftis, NSWNA, highlighted this
problem when he told the Committee that approximately 5% of employers have
created their own complying superannuation funds to which they contribute SG
amounts over and above the awards requirements. The result is that employees
have one employer, but two active superannuation accounts.10
10.26 To alleviate this situation, Mr Maratheftis suggested that the Treasurer's
comments about SG complementing rather than replacing awards warrants an
amendment to SG legislation to make employers contribute to superannuation
funds nominated under the principal the industrial award prior to the
commencement of SG.
7 Evidence, p 319
8 Evidence, p 167
9 SGCREV Sub No 26
10 Evidence, p 31


10.27 Although the continued phasing-in of SG is likely to mean some
inconsistencies in this area will remain, the Superannuation Test case has given
the AIRC the jurisdiction to hear applications to vary the superannuation
provisions of awards.
Earnings base definition
10.28 The SG legislation sets out definitions for earnings bases which are used
for calculating superannuation contributions. Award superannuation definitions of
earnings bases can vary from award to award and from those of SG legislation.
10.29 Various submissions to the Committee addressed the administrative
problems that have occurred because of inconsistency between the definition
provided by SG and those provided by some awards for the earnings base. Some
awards use a flat dollar amount which eliminates the need for an earnings base
for award superannuation purposes. Other awards have varying earnings bases.
This situation has been compoimded by the SG requirement that shortfall
components must be calculated using ordinary times earnings, regardless of
whether an award specifies a flat dollar contribution.
10.30 In giving evidence before the Committee, Mr Michael Monaghan, of the
Australian Taxation Office, acknowledged the concerns associated with the use
of flat dollar earnings bases because the Superannuation Guarantee
(Administration) Act 1992 was really designed around employers contributing on
the basis of the earnings of an individual employee. Mr Monaghan explained that
historically, the standard employee and flat dollar earnings bases were not in the
original legislation, but they were introduced as a result of negotiations at the
time of the passage of the bill.11
10.31 Mr Davies, of Mayne Nickless, gave the Committee an account of this
from an employer's perspective:
When the superannuation act was enacted it did not recognise flat rate
contributions but rather required all SGC support to be measured as a
percentage of notional earnings. The majority of our employees are covered
by the Transport Workers (Superannuation) Consolidated Award 1987
which requires the company to make a contribution to the TWU fund of $17
per week in respect of the employee basic wage. Following a series of
11 Evidence, p 609


meetings, the government agreed to amend the act so that the TWU fund
would have to recognise a notional earnings base. The new section 25A
which came into force in December 1992 was a result of this agreement.12
10.32 Mr Davies also gave evidence to the Committee that inconsistent
definitions of earnings bases in SG and the Transport Workers (Superannuation)
Consolidated Award 1987 created considerable a administrative burden.
Mr Davies articulated:
When Superannuation Guarantee Ruling No. 93/DI was issued by the
Australian Taxation Office on 27 May 1993, it was clear that the Australian
Taxation Office had interpreted section 25A to mean that we would need to
use two earnings bases to measure our SGA contributions in respect of each
transport award employee. Taking figures for the past year to illustrate this,
we see that the $17 contribution is 4.45% of the base wage, so we must
make a top-up contribution to meet our 5% of SGA obligation in respect of
each TWU employee. But the remaining 0.55% contribution must be based
on the employee's ordinary times earnings... We estimate that approximately
7,000 additional SGA calculations were made in 1992-93 and 1993-94
financial years, owing to the use of two earnings bases.13
10.33 Mr Davies acknowledged that the Treasurer's Statement of 28 June 1994
foreshadowed legislation to rectify the problem with section 25A. From
1 July 1994, SG legislation would provide that the amount of flat rate
contribution would be measured against a standard employee earnings base.
Mr Davies assumes that this amendment will apply to both full-time and casual
employees and asked that the Committee endorse the amendment proposed by
the Treasurer.14
10.34 Whilst endorsing the Treasurer’s proposed measures to rectify this
problem with section 25A, Mr Davies highlighted another problem. He explained
that, among other things, section 25A requires an award to be operative prior to
21 August 1991 before a flat rate contribution notional earnings base can be
recognised.15
10.35 In discussing this situation, Mr Davies submitted to the Committee:
The relevant unions are agreeable to varying the award so that a
classification of employees is named and a recognised notional earnings base
12 Evidence, p 149
13 Evidence, p 149
14 Evidence, p 149
15 Evidence, p 149


be created. We believe that if an employer reaches agreement with a union to
amend an award that does not presently contain all the elements of
section 25A, but after the amendment would meet the requirements, then
there is no reason why section 25A should not apply to effect a notional
earnings base for that award.16
10.36 The Australian Chamber of Manufactures (ACM) also had serious
concerns with the ramifications for employers under awards making the flat rate
contributions.17 The ACM did not consider that the insertion of section 25A fully
addressed the problem. Its concern is about a ruling by the Tax Office that the
award rate for the "standard" employee becomes the notional earnings base only
for determining what percentage the flat rate represents:
If the flat dollar, when expressed as a percentage for the employee, is less
than the employer's SGC percentage for the employee, the excess percentage
must be measured against another earnings base... The problem is
compounded in the case of part time and casual employees, and juniors and
apprentices, because the relevant awards contain lower flat rate amounts for
other than full-time adult employees... there is no provision for any
apportionment of the contribution for a person paid at a lower rate than full-
time adults. Accordingly, the notional earnings base is the same as for full-
time adult employees.18
10.37 Although the Taxation Law Amendment Act (No 4) 1994 remedied the
anomaly in relation to part-time employees, the ACM submitted (in relation to
what was then the Taxation Laws Amendment (No 4) Bill) that the situation
concerning part-time employees working more than 30 hours per week, casuals,
juniors and apprentices has not been addressed. The ACM regards this as 'highly
unsatisfactory', considers section 25A as 'extremely complex' and one which 'has
created an administrative nightmare for employers and will almost certainly result
in widespread confusion and involuntary non-compliance'.19
10.38 Mr Brian Troy, ARTIO, gave the Committee an account of how the road
transport industry had dealt with the problems associated with flat dollar
contributions.20 The union rejected a proposal from the ARTIO in early 1994 for
an increase in the flat dollar award contribution from $17 to $21 on the basis that
it would be best for majority of their members to remain with the SG percentage.
16 Evidence, p 148
17 SGCREV Sub No 61
18 SGCREV Sub No 61
19 SGCREV Sub No 61
20 Evidence, p 168


For example, a flat $21 would disadvantage the higher paid worker who, in some
cases would receive $26 to $28 under the SG percentage. To facilitate this
approach, a small amendment was made to the trust deed of the TWU
superannuation fund to ensure that section 25A would not apply. SG now
applies, with the minimum flat dollar, which exists under the award, now acting
as a minimum, rather than a standard rate of contribution.
10.39 Mr Troy also recommended that the Treasurer's proposal to amend SG
legislation from 1 July 1994, to provide that there is only one earnings base for
flat dollars, be backdated to cover the first two years of the operation of SG.21
10.40 The Committee heard a view from Mr Richard Calver, Victorian Fanners
Federation (VFF), that recognition of a flat dollar earnings basis would not be a
'sufficient solution'. Mr Calver suggested the best approach would be for SG to
eliminate award superannuation where the entitlements were coexistent, but did,
however, recognise that such an approach would almost certainly give rise to
industrial disputes. Mr Calver told the Committee that the VFF supported the
National Farmers' Federation approach that SG legislation should be amended to
ensure that its coverage and application are established as statutory terms which
override awards.22
10.41 A contrary view was expressed by the ARTIO who recommended in their
submission to the Committee that SG legislation be amended to provide that,
where a federal award provides for a system of superannuation contributions that
are reasonably comparable to SG requirements, then the awards will operate to
the exclusion of SG.23
10.42 The Institute of Actuaries of Australia (IAA) submitted that there are 'a
number of significant problems with the use of Ordinary Time Earnings as the
earnings base... particularly... in the case of defined benefit funds'.24
10.43 The Committee notes that, subsequent to the submission being
forwarded, this issue was addressed by the Treasurer in his Statement of
28 June 1994.25 Nevertheless, the IAA gave evidence that the changes
21 Evidence, p 167
22 Evidence, pp 226-232
23 SGCREV Sub No 50
24 SGCREV Sub No 53
25 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation Policy - Statement of Measures,
28 June 1994


announced in the Treasurer's Statement do not go far enough as they cover only a
small proportion of the problem issues.26 The IAA suggested that the SGAA be
amended so that 'the existing earnings base provision is independent of
employers, so that it just depends on the funds having been there at
August 1991'27 and for Tax Office approval of'successor funds set up as genuine
replacements to earlier funds'.28
10.44 A further issue in the award superannuation arena was raised by
Mr G.M. Strickland, of Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. Mr Stickland
submitted that under an enterprise agreement with his employer, the notional
earnings base for employer contributions is a 'base rate' of earnings which is less
than gross yearly earnings. Mr Strickland's concern is that because of this method
of calculating contributions, his retirement benefit will not be in accordance with
his earning capacity.29 The employer and employee agree that the contributions
are in accordance with the enterprise agreement. Although this matter is one of
industrial relations, it illustrates another area of superannuation in which
confusion and grievance can arise.
10.45 The Committee acknowledges the confusion surrounding varying
definitions for earnings bases and notes that the AIRC now has authority to
ensure that awards specify an employee's earnings which, for the purposes of SG
legislation, will operate to provide a 'notional earnings base'. The Committee
therefore concludes that inconsistencies with earnings bases are now a matter for
parties to raise before the AIRC.
Frequency of Payments
10.46 The SG provisions on frequency of payments are as follows:
• during its first year of operation (1992/93) employers could make payment
on an annual basis.
• during subsequent years, employers could make payments on a quarterly
basis.
26 Stephen Partridge, Evidence, p 476
27 SGCREV Sub No 53
28 SGCREV Sub No 53
29 SGCREV Sub No 108, Supplementary SGCREV Sub No 108


10.47 However, quarterly payments were postponed for the 1993/94 year. The
Treasurer's Statement of 28 June 1994 further provided that:
The present annual contribution requirement for the SG will be maintained in
1994-95 and subsequently until the SG regime is more settled and
established. The requirement for quarterly contributions under the SG will
then be introduced with 12 months notice to employers.30
10.48 Despite these changes to the frequency of SG contributions, many award
contributions remain payable on a monthly basis. Mr Jeffrey Carr, of ALHMWU,
raised the point that monthly payments ensure workers are provided immediate
access to death and disability insurance and start accruing interest on their
contributions immediately. Mr Carr also suggested that six-monthly statements
enabled the employee to check that payments are being made correctly.31
10.49 The Maranoa Graziers' Association questions the frequency of payments
under the awards and recommends a quarterly payment system. They submitted
that the main benefit of a quarterly payment system would be to streamline the
procedure, in line with the already established tax system. They added that this
would require an alteration to the industrial awards which pertain to the rural
industry.32
10.50 The introduction of a quarterly payment system was also supported by
the Australian Council of Trade Unions which suggested that it would resolve a
number of problems currently faced by funds, including:
. monitoring compliance is difficult with an annual payment;
. death and disability cover in most cases cannot be maintained where
an annual payment is made; and
• annual statements to members show nil because the payment is
received after the end of the financial year.33
10.51 The Committee is pleased to note that the AIRC also has the authority
now to facilitate the process of making contribution rates of awards more
consistent with those provided by the SG legislation.
30 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation Policy - Statement of Measures,
28 June 1994
31 Evidence, p 249
32 SGCREV Sub No 1
33 SGCREV Sub No 107


Recent Developments
Superannuation Test Case
10.52 In its submission to the Committee, the Commonwealth Treasury stated
that the Government's position on the interaction between SG and award
superannuation is that most of the difficulties could be addressed through a
process of harmonisation. In particular, the Government recommended to the
AIRC that the superannuation provisions of awards should be reviewed with a
view to amending or removing those that provide for a lower standard of practice
than the SG.34
10.53 On 7 September 1994, the full bench of the AIRC handed down a
Superannuation Test Case decision dealing with the question of what provisions,
if any, awards of the Commission should contain with respect to employee
superannuation.
10.54 A useful summary of the outcome of the Superannuation Test Case was
provided in a submission from the Department of Industrial Relations (DIR).35
DIR stated that the main outcome of the test case was the AIRC had a continuing
role to play in the application of superannuation. Moreover, DIR's submission
explained that where application to vary award provisions as far as they relate to
quantum of employer contributions and employees covered, the AIRC
determined that it would:
. vary the award by inserting a clause stating: 'Superannuation legislation -
The subject of superannuation is dealt with extensively by legislation
including the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993. This legislation, as
varied from time to time, governs the superannuation rights and obligations
of the parties';
• if appropriate, ensure that the award contains a specification of an
employee's earnings (for example, 'ordinary time earnings') which, for the
purposes of the SG Act will operate to provide a 'notional earnings base';
and
34 SGCREV Sub No 96
35 SGCREV Sub No 94


. if the award is to prescribe a 'flat dollar' amount of employer contributions,
ensure that appropriate amounts are inserted so as to give effect to the levels
of contribution required from time to time under the SG Act.
10.55 The AIRC also determined that it would continue to deal with
applications in respect of choice of fund matters and such matters would be
regarded as part of the safety net award wages and conditions. Any specification
of a fund will carry with it the obligation on an employer to pay contributions at
such intervals (for example, monthly) as required by the fund.
Section 150A Review
10.56 The insertion of section 150A of the Industrial Relations Act 1988 in
March 1994 was the result of the Industrial Relations Reform Act 1993 which
requires that the award system operate effectively at enterprise level.
10.57 The AIRC has an obligation under section 150A to review each of its
awards every three years to consider if they are deficient, in respect of the
provisions of paragraph 150A(2), and take action to remedy any such
deficiencies.
10.58 The AIRC provided in its decision in the 'Safety Net Adjustment and
Review Case', of 21 September 1994, that a set of detailed principles by which
awards can be reviewed will best be developed by conducting a pilot award
review programme.
10.59 The pilot award review program involving 14 awards, currently
underway, is to be completed by August 1995. The AIRC will then reconvene to
determine, among other things, the principle on which the continuing review of
awards should progress.
Conclusion
10.60 The Committee recognises the extent of the administrative burden
generated by the inconsistent interaction of the requirements for SG and award
superannuation and notes that the outcome of the AIRC Superannuation Test
Case has provided a means by which many of these inconsistencies may be
resolved.
10.61 However, the Committee is concerned at the time involved in such a
process as each award, or group of awards, has to be individually brought before
the AIRC. The Committee believes the removal of inconsistencies would be


expediated if the Government investigated and made submissions to the
section 150A review on the most appropriate means by which SG and award
superannuation inconsistencies can be removed. That submission should be
based upon the principle that award and SG superannuation converge at the
earliest possible time.
Recommendation 10,1:
The Committee recommends the Government submit to the section 150A
A1RC review of awards. This submission should outline the means by which
SG and award superannuation inconsistencies can be removed.


CHAPTER 11:
COVERAGE AND COMPLIANCE
Coverage and compliance
Introduction
11.1 This chapter examines the scope of coverage required under the SG
legislation, and the problems associated with superannuation for the self-
employed. The extent of compliance with SG is also examined.
Coverage
Requirements
11.2 The Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (the SGAA)
requires all employers to make contributions in relation to their employees. Some
exemptions apply, including foreign executives with Class 2 temporary entry
permits (Code 413) Schedule 3 Migration Regulations.1
11.3 Under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations (the SIS
regulations), superannuation accounts can only commence if a person is
employed. This occupational nexus is retained until a person retires, although the
SIS regulations allow contributions to be accepted by a superannuation fund in
relation to a person for limited periods of unemployment. This occupational link
has particular impact upon women and others with patterns of broken
participation in the workforce and is explored in more detail in Chapter 3.
Statistics1
11.4 The most recent data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, as at
November 1993, reveals that there were 7.638 million persons aged 15 to 74 in
employment, of whom 6.145 million (over 80%) had superannuation coverage.
1 Australian Taxation Office, The Superannuation Guarantee, An Employer's Guide
2 Australian Bureau of Statistics, Superannuation Australia November 1993, Catalogue
No. 6319.0


Table 11.1:
Superannuation coverage of employed persons
Source: Australian Bureau of Statistics, Superannuation Australia November 1993, Catalogue No. 6319.0
11.5 Nearly half of all employed persons with superannuation coverage
(2.903 million) had their employer paying all their superannuation contributions.
The self-employed
11.6 Taxation legislation has historically allowed self-employed persons to
claim tax deductions for personal superannuation contributions. Prior to
1 July 1991, if a self-employed person received any employer-financed
superannuation support, they lost their eligibility for these tax deductions. From
1 July 1991, a person who received contributions pursuant to award
superannuation ('superannuation agreement contributions') could retain this tax
deduction if the income from which those contributions related accounted for less
than 10 per cent of the person's assessable income ('the 10 per cent rule').3
11.7 The taxation treatment of personal contributions was again changed on
1 July 1992 to allow for the introduction of the SG arrangements.4 From
1 July 1992, the reference in the 10 per cent rule to industrial agreement
contributions was broadened to refer to any employer-financed superannuation,
which includes award superannuation, SG or any other employer-financed
superannuation.
11.8 The 10 per cent rule had been designed to allow persons who were
substantially self-employed with minimal employer superannuation support to
receive the same levels of tax deductions for personal contributions as self-
3 Definition of "unsupported eligible person" in subsection 82AAS(1) of the Income Tax
Assessment Act 1936 , inserted by section 17 of SR No 80 of 1992
4 Subsection 82AAS(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936


employed people and employees without employer support.5 Examples include
some professionals such as doctors or lawyers receiving fees from lecturing, and
primary producers who supplement their incomes during drought years.
11.9 A number of Visiting Medical Officers, truck drivers, building designers,
and jockeys submitted that as self-employed persons they are adversely affected.
The co isequences of the self-employed receiving more than 10 per cent of their
income in respect of which employer-financed superannuation is provided, is the
loss of tax concessions for personal superannuation contributions.
11.10 It was put to the Committee by the Australian Medical Association that
loss of tax deductions in such circumstances could undermine these persons'
security in retirement by serving as a disincentive to provide for their own
retirement.6 This view needs to be balanced against other factors, such as
anomalies that may have arisen if the tax arrangements had remained unchanged.
11.11 Mr Glen Jolly and Mrs Christine Jolly, of Brookfield in Queensland, were
unhappy with the tax incentives for the self-employed and for employees. They
also considered that the current rules discriminated against employees who were
unable to persuade their employers to deduct contributions from their pay in the
form of a salary sacrifice. Furthermore, Mrs Jolly had ceased work some years
ago and her husband was unable to split his retirement benefits with her to reduce
the tax burden on their single income situation. They advocated tax deductibility
for all contributions to a maximum amount, removing tax payable on excess
benefits, and a greater tax free component where there is a single accumulation to
fund a family's retirement.7
Local government councillors
11.12 Subsection 12(10) of the SGAA defines a person who holds office as a
member of a local government council as an employee of the council. Under the
SGAA, the council is therefore obliged to make contributions on that person's
behalf. The Committee received 19 submissions, 18 of which were from local
government councils, opposing this provision.8
5 Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No 2) 1992, 2nd Reading Speech, 2 April 1992,
Weekly House Hansard p 1767
6 SGCREV Sub No 48
7 SGCREV Sub No 110
8 SGCREV Subs No 9,10,11,12,15,17,18,25,30,35,37,38,39,43,46,49,51,62 and 69


11.13 The remaining submission in relation to local government councillors was
from Coopers and Lybrand on behalf of the Municipal Association of Victoria
and the Australian Local Government Association. It questioned the application
of the:
. the 'control test', which asks whether the employer has the right to control
how, when and where the work is done (even if control is not actually
exercised);9 and
. the 'integration test', which examines whether the individual's services are an
integral part of the employer's business or merely ancillary to it;10
in determining employer/employee relationships. Their submission cited the
Local Government Act 1989 which 'expressly excludes employees of councils
from standing for election to the council by which they are employed'.11
11.14 The Treasurer subsequently announced that the requirement for local
government councils to make 'relatively minor superannuation contributions in
respect of the meeting and travelling allowances that they pay to councillors'
would deny:
many self-employed councillors the tax concessions they could otherwise
claim in contributing to their own personal superannuation schemes... this
effect is particularly harsh on local councillors who for all intents and
purposes effectively volunteer their services to the community.12
11.15 The Treasurer consequently announced that:
The Government has therefore decided to amend the SGAA with effect from
1 July 1993 to exempt from its ambit income which elected local
Government Councillors derive in performing their duties as Councillors.
However, this measure will not preclude Councils from continuing to
provide superannuation support on behalf of Councillors in circumstances,
for example, where Councillors are effectively full-time employees.13
9 Australian Taxation Office Superannuation Guarantee Ruling 93/1
10 Australian Taxation Office Superannuation Guarantee Ruling 93/1
11 SGCREV Sub No 49
12 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation Policy - Statement of Measures,
28 June 1994, p22
13 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation Policy - Statement of Measures,
28 June 1994, p22


11.16 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
considered the exclusion of local government councillors' allowances to be a
'sensible protection of the tax concessions for self-employed people who act in
this largely honorary capacity'.14 ASFA pointed out that:
there are a large range of similar positions in many statutory authorities and
the office-holders in such cases are equally deserving of this concession.
While this adds a further complexity, we strongly believe this exemption
should be extended to the full range of similar, largely honorary, positions.15
11.17 While the Committee supports this position in principle, it does not
favour initiatives which look to extend SG exemptions, unless there are
compelling reasons to do so. It would seem likely that the exemption
foreshadowed by the Treasurer in respect of local government councillors could
conceivably be extended to other affected groups, should that be appropriate.
Jockeys
11.18 The National Racehorse Owners' Association (NROA) and the Victorian
Jockeys' Association (VJA) forwarded submissions, the former giving evidence
to the Committee expressing concern that jockeys' remuneration would be
subject to SG contributions.16 This was detennined in SG Determination 93/13.
Jockeys' remuneration is calculated in relation to:
. $60-$65 riding fee; and
. a percentage of the stakemoney.
11.19 The NROA, however, asserts that:
Except for subsection 12(8) of the superannuation guarantee legislation of
1992, everyone regarded the jockey as the paradigm of a self-employed
person, unless he happened to be associated with a stable17
and that is 'wrong for the superannuation of jockeys to be paid out of the hard
earned money of our members'.18
14 SGCREV Sub No 5
15 SGCREV Sub No 5
16 SGCREV Subs No 56 & 88 respectively, Evidence pp 209-223
17 Kurt Esser, Evidence, p 219
18 Kurt Esser, Evidence, p 211


11.20 In their submission to the Committee, the VJA described jockeys as:
self-employed individuals who offer their experience and skill to the
owner of the racehorse to ensure that the horse participates in a
race to the best of the horse's ability.19
11.21 The Treasurer's Statement of 28 June 1994 announced that prize money
won by sportspersons and others would be exempted from the SG requirements
from 1 July 1993, but that the definition of prize money:
will not be extended to appearance fees, commissions, incentive payments
and regular payments in the nature of salaries. Remuneration of this kind will
continue to be subject to the requirements of the SG legislation.20
11.22 Although the Treasurer's Statement foreshadowed an exemption from SG
of winners of prize money, it seems that jockeys do not fall into this category as
prize money is paid to the horse's owner. It has been submitted that confusion
over this issue has led to high levels of non-compliance:
owners are not paying into any fund at all... they are not complying at the
moment pending further inquiries made by this committee and further
advices they receive from time to time. At the moment, it is fair to say that
everything is on hold, partly for the reason that the arrangements are so
burdensome and difficult.21
11.23 Superannuation Guarantee Determination 93/13, which was released by
the Commissioner for Taxation on 11 November 1993, makes it clear that a
jockey's employer is the person who is liable to make the payment to the jockey.
In most cases this would be the owner or the trainer. Both the race fee and the
share of the prize money earned by a jockey are paid by the racing club as agent
for the owner or trainer. Payments made by an employer are subject to SG.
19 SGCREV Sub No 88
20 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Superannuation Policy - Statement of Measures,
28 June 1994
21 Kurt Esser, Evidence, p 215


Visiting Medical Officers
11.24 Submissions and evidence from the Australian Medical Association
(AMA), the Port Macquarie Division of General Practice Ltd, and the NSW
Rural Divisions Co-ordinating Unit Ltd raised similar concerns to those of the
jockeys.22
11.25 The AMA advised that state public hospitals engage specialists and
general practitioners (Visiting Medical Officers or VMOs) who are also in
private practice (and hence self-employed) to provide medical services to public
hospital Medicare patients. The AMA submitted that income received by VMOs
from their work in public hospitals generally constitutes a small proportion of
their total income. Many of these VMOs make personal contributions to private
superannuation schemes.
11.26 If, however, income from hospitals exceeds 10% of their gross income,
the tax deductions from superannuation contributions, which are available to
them as self-employed persons, are no longer available because of
subsections 82AAS(2)&(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
11.27 The AMA submitted that this can put VMOs at a significant disadvantage
in relation to other practitioners who gain tax concessions for superannuation
contributions, and act as a disincentive for practitioners to enter into, or remain
in, public hospital appointments.23
11.28 The NSW Rural Divisions Co-ordinating Unit Ltd submitted that the tax
'repercussions' of the 10 per cent rule could lead to 'general practitioners leaving
country areas where already there is a major problem in recruitment and retention
of doctors'.24
Building Design Professions
11.29 The Australian Council of Building Design Professions Ltd (BDP)
expressed similar reservations to those expressed by the AMA about the
operation of the 10 per cent rule and its impact on the tax concessions available
22 SGCREV Sub No 48, Evidence pp 457-470; SGCREV No 111 and
SGCREV Sub No 113 respectively
23 SGCREV Sub No 48
24 SGCREV Sub No 113


to self-employed persons making personal superannuation contributions.25 The
Council submitted that 'BDP is concerned that this situation would also apply to
independent contractors in other industries such as the building design
profession'.
11.30 BDP recommended that the Government establish 'an equitable system
where everyone is entitled to the same tax deductibility of contributions up to a
certain limit regardless of the source of income'.26
Transport Workers
11.31 Mayne Nickless Limited and the Australian Road Transport Industrial
Organisation (ARTIO) expressed concerns about the impact of SG upon the use
of the sub-contractors they employed in road transport operations.27 Mayne
Nickless supported SG coverage for this class of worker but raised
administrative concerns, whereas ARTIO expressed opposition to an SG liability
for these workers.
11.32 Mr John Davies, of Mayne Nickless, advised the Committee that the
company had problems with the administrative complexity of the SG rather than
with the obligation.28
11.33 The company submitted that it had agreements with independent
contractors who, for the main part, perform tasks identical to those performed by
employees.29 Prior to the advent of the SG, superannuation arrangements had
been the same for both independent contractors and for employees, where
superannuation support by the employer had been a flat rate based upon the Base
Wage. However, the introduction of SG requires employer contributions for
independent contractors to be based upon ordinary time earnings. Accordingly,
the company now:
25 SGCREV Sub No 63
26 SGCREV Sub No 63
27 SGCREV Subs No 44&50 respectively; Evidence pp 148-158 & pp 166-183
respectively
28 Evidence, p 149
29 SGCREV Sub No 44


finds it has two classes of worker, who perform the same job but whose
superannuation support is different. The situation creates unrest for us and
has the potential for damaging industrial action.30
11.34 Mayne Nickless recommended that if an award employee and an
independent contractor are performing the same job, the SG earnings base
applicable to the employee should also be applicable to the independent
contractor.31
11.35 Mayne Nickless also expressed problems with the Tax Office
Determination 93/6, which attempted to explain when a courier driver was to be
considered an employee under subsection 12(3) of the SGAA. It submitted that
courier drivers are paid at a parcel rate and that it was impossible to distinguish
how much of that rate is for the labour and how much for the vehicle.32 Mayne
Nickless recommended that a courier receive the same amount of superannuation
support that an employee would receive in the circumstance that the employee
were supplied with a vehicle.
11.36 Although the Committee accepts Mayne Nickless' assertion that some
standardisation was necessary, it is considered to be a matter to be settled in the
industrial relations arena.
11.37 ARTIO submitted that the road transport industry makes extensive use of
sub-contract drivers to provide transport services.33 Sub-contractors may be sole
or corporate traders. The corporate structure of the latter 'can be many and
varied’, operating as incorporated companies, trusts or partnerships'.34 As
Superannuation Guarantee Determination 93/6 exempts a prime contractor from
SG obligations when dealing with sub-contractors who operate through a family
company, trust or partnership, ARTIO argues that there is an incentive for prime
contractors to deal only with incorporated sub-contractors, as it is
administratively easier and cheaper. Consequently this has the effect of
'discriminating against sole traders, as prime contractors refuse to engage sub-
contractors unless they are incorporated'.35
30 Evidence, p 152
31 Evidence, pp 152-3
32 Evidence, p 153
33 SGCREV Sub No 50
34 SGCREV Sub No 50
35 SGCREV Sub No 50


11.38 The administrative difficulties of dealing with sole traders stems from the
difficulties a prime contractor encounters in determining whether or not a sole
trader should be treated as an employee, firstly by applying the 'control test',
secondly by applying the 'integration test', and finally by determining under
subsection 12(3) of the SGAA whether a person 'is working wholly or principally
for the labour of the person'.36
11.39 ARTIO maintains that it is sometimes extremely difficult for a prime
contractor to determine the labour content of a contract, as operating and capital
costs, which would be deducted from the contract value to determine labour
costs, 'are known only to the sub-contractor'.37 A further uncertainty would be
that 'there is no way of telling whether the value determined by the prime
contractor will be the same as that calculated by the Taxation Office08
11.40 ARTIO proposes that administrative costs could be reduced and
consistency and fairness in sub-contract rates be achieved through establishing a
scheme parallel with the Prescribed Payments Scheme whereby a sub-contractor
would need to obtain an SGC Exemption Certificate from the Tax Office to
exempt a prime contractor from being required to make SG contributions.39
11.41 The Committee agreed that there was some problems involved with the
different categories of contractors within the industry, but did not consider that
SGC Exemption Certificates were an appropriate solution to the problem.
Mr Noel Kimberley, of the Victorian Road Transport Association, commented in
evidence that subcontractors:
are a broad group of people. There is, on the one hand, a group of highly
organised independent contractors who are engaged by a number of larger
companies who are called tied, committed, dedicated or whatever. They
have an industrial perspective that they want their prime contractors to pay
it. On the other hand there are thousands of these other people operating out
there who work itinerantly... to have their own arrangements in place...
[over which they wanted to retain control]. That is the way it should be, that
these people take a choice.40
36 SGCREV Sub No
37 SGCREV Sub No
38 SGCREV Sub No
39 SGCREV Sub No
40 Evidence, p 181
50
50
50
50


11.42 The Committee considers that this issue is essentially also one to be
resolved in the industrial relations arena.
Non-resident workers
11.43 A number of submissions were received concerning the efficacy of
applyi ig the SG requirements to overseas residents working temporarily in
Australia.
11.44 Arthur Anderson & Co submitted that application of the SG scheme
produced results which were impractical when applied to non-residents working
temporarily in Australia41 An example that was given was where a non-resident
company employed non-residents to work in Australia on a cyclical basis.
Because the non-resident employees did not have the necessary visas (executive
overseas visa code 413) to qualify for exemption from the requirements of the SG
scheme, the company was required to make contributions on behalf of those
employees.
11.45 Arthur Anderson & Co also submitted that:
. it was not cost effective to enrol the employees in the company's
superannuation fund;
. the administration is onerous to both employers and employees;
. the employees will only derive a minimal benefit as they will not remain in
Australia; and
. if the company does not make contributions and becomes liable for the
shortfall levied by the ATO, then:
(i) the ATO forwards SG vouchers to the employees who are required to
nominate a superannuation fund in Australia into which the SG amount
can be paid;
(ii) the money held by the ATO is then paid into the superannuation fund;
and
(iii) the employees then withdraw the money, incurring all associated fees,
when they leave Australia.
41 SGCREV Sub No 55


11.46 Mr Richard Friend, of Arthur Anderson & Co, considered that:
it does not really achieve any of the SGC objectives from my understanding
because it is not money going to fund anybody's retirement because they are
not retiring in Australia.42
11.47 Arthur Anderson & Co recommend that an exemption be inserted in
section 27 of the SGAA to apply to all salary and wages paid to non-residents, at
least for those working in Australia for less than two years.
11.48 Sedgwick Noble Lowndes made a similar submission.43 They argue that:
the basic purpose of the Superannuation Guarantee is to ensure a systematic
build up of funds for working Australians so that ultimately the bulk of the
workforce is not reliant (at least not totally) on the public purse for income
in retirement. To that extent the Australian Government does not need to be
concerned with overseas residents who may be working in Australia for
short period, either as employees or contractors...
The inclusion of overseas employees on (generally short term) secondment
to Australia almost always involves the continuation of pension fund
provisions by the overseas company. The provision of additional
superannuation benefits through the superannuation fund conducted by the
Australian subsidiary is therefore inappropriate and unnecessary. From our
experience such employees will not generally receive Superannuation
Guarantee related benefits as these benefits will be integrated with their
overseas benefits or offset against remuneration earned in Australia.
The net outcome is additional non productive administration and is not
consistent with the purpose for which the Superannuation Guarantee
arrangements were established.44
11.49 Sedgwick Noble Lowndes recommended that the application of the SG
exemption to overseas residents should be extended to include arrangements
under Entry Permit Classes 411, 414, 417, 420 and 421.
42 Evidence, p 426
43 SGCREV Sub No 52
44 SGCREV Sub No 52


11.50 William M. Mercer Pty Ltd considered that as most overseas executives
working in Australia retire overseas, it seems pointless to have to provide them
with compulsory superannuation which can in any event be cashed when they
leave Australia permanently. Most would have adequate superannuation schemes
in their own country.45
11.51 Mrs Finch, of Cronulla in NSW, submitted that SG for non-residents was
a loophole hurting employers, maintaining that although such employees are 'not
entitled to receive the tax free threshold... to claim any dependents' allowance...
to claim for supportive benefits... [or] to have a Medicare card', their employer
must pay SG on their behalf.46 Furthermore, when the worker's work permit
expires and they leave the country, they take the benefits arising from those
contributions with them. Mrs Finch remarked that 'we may as well give them a
few hundred dollars on the day they leave our employment with our best wishes'.
She questioned the rationale for contributing to workers' retirement, only to have
the benefits taken out of Australia by non-residents.
11.52 Finikiotis & Father, public accountants of Bondi Junction in NSW,
queried the inclusion of non-resident entertainers within the SG requirements.47
Included with their submission were copies of numerous complaints by industry
employers, including the Australian Opera, Conrad Jupiters, the Entertainment
Industry Employers Association, the Gordon Frost Organisation, Musica Viva
and others. These grievances suggested that the SG requirements for non-resident
entertainers are administratively cumbersome, expensive, inappropriate, and lead
to negotiation difficulties between promoters and overseas artists which in turn
generates 'a poor reflection on the Australian income tax system at an
international level'.48
11.53 The Committee basically endorsed the concerns raised in relation to
overseas workers. As the SG arrangements were designed to provide for or to
supplement the retirement benefits of Australians, there seemed to be little
rationale for legislating for overseas workers temporarily employed in Australia
to be subject to SG obligations.
45 SGCREV Sub No 57
46 SGCREV Sub No 90
47 SGCREV Sub No 93
48 SGCREV Sub No 93


11.54 The essential point seems that in these circumstances, it is extremely
unlikely that benefits arising out of SG would ever be used for their intended
purpose - that of providing benefits in retirement, as overseas workers with
accrued SG entitlements would cash these in as benefits when leaving Australia
permanently. If anything, early cashing in of SG benefits seems to defeat the
purpose for which SG was implemented.
Recommendation 11.1
The Committee recommends that the Government extend exemptions from
the requirements of SG to ail non-resident workers where there is sufficient
evidence that superannuation is being paid in the country of residence.
Conclusion
11.55 The evidence and submissions to the Committee highlights a number of
difficulties inherent in the SG as it applies to persons whose self-employment
status is indeterminate or ambiguous:
. self-employed persons with personal superannuation arrangements have a
stake in maintaining their status as self-employed persons because they
maintain tax concessions on personal contributions;
• potential employers have a stake in maintaining contractors' status as self-
employed because it exempts them from SG liabilities and administration;
• self-employed persons without personal superannuation are not covered
under SG; and
. under the 10 per cent rule, a person would be able to attract tax deductions
on personal contributions, even though most of their income is derived from
employers, as long as the income received from employers within any given
month is below the $450 threshold.


11.56 The issues which arise out of these problems are as follows:
. should the 10 per cent rule be changed?
. should the self-employed be subject to SG obligations? and, if so,
. what level of contributions should they be required to make, and by when?
The 10 per cent rule
11.57 The Committee notes the problems encountered by the groups discussed
above as a result of the 10 per cent rule, but considers it inappropriate to
recommend alteration of that provision. Ten per cent appears to represent an
arbitrary negotiated solution to the problem of small employer contributions
without it representing or referring to any particular yardstick or benchmark. It
appears to the Committee to represent a compromise which enables self-
employed people a margin of error to plan their financial affairs without being
disrupted by the threat to the tax concessions to which they would be otherwise
entitled posed by any small, and perhaps unexpected employer contributions.
11.58 The Committee notes that in some cases, 10 per cent of income amounts
to a substantial amount of money, and a concomitantly substantial amount of
employer-provided superannuation. At the very least, the ten per cent rule
eliminates the 'sudden tax death' syndrome to which the self-employed were
vulnerable prior to 1991.
Superannuation Guarantee for the self-employed
11.59 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
commented in evidence that:
It is doubtful that the current voluntary incentive approach which applies for
self-employed people will ever achieve a satisfactory coverage...
Arguably attainment of adequate and sustainable retirement income levels
across the board requires comprehensive superannuation coverage of the
workforce. From a broad retirement incomes policy perspective, therefore it
seems appropriate to extend compulsory SG coverage to self-employed
persons.
However, there are a range of practical issues... which make mandating of
self-employed persons' contributions highly problematic.


One of the most critical of these is the issue of determining an appropriate
earnings base... there is obviously no concept of salary or wages or ordinary
time earnings which can be used.
Thus the concept of "net business income" may be a possible earnings base.49
11.60 ASFA accepts that the policy arguments for mandating superannuation
extends to some degree to the self employed, but considered that there are Very
significant practical issues which would need to be addressed in detail before the
Government took any firm steps to introduce such a measure'.50
11.61 The Committee recognises that the issues to be resolved before a
mandatory SG regime for the self-employed can be introduced are of immense
complexity. It considers that, in principle, the problem is not insurmountable and
that an innovative approach needs to be employed to resolve what could become
an intractable issue which threatens the integrity of the SG regime.
11.62 The Committee proposes that as a self-employed person is not located
within an employer/employee relationship, it should be possible to provide
additional incentives which are linked to the occupational nexus itself.
11.63 A recent survey commissioned by the Australian Consumers Council
revealed that most Australians consider superannuation to be a poor investment.51
In addition, the Committee is mindful of the burdens imposed upon the self-
employed, and small businesses generally. In this context, the Committee
considers that the incentives for the self-employed to invest more in their
superannuation should be structured to make superannuation a highly competitive
investment.
Compliance
11.64 In its report to the Committee, the Australian Tax Office (ATO) advised
that awareness and compliance with the Superannuation Guarantee 'is at a high
level'.52 The ATO also advised that over 90% of employers claimed to have
superannuation arrangements for all their employees in August 1993 compared to
64% in March 1992:
49 SGCREV Sub No 5
50 SGCREV Sub No 5
51 Australian Consumer Council, Super Day Super Sa, - The Results of the Consumer
Superannuation Phone-In , 23 November 1993; published 1994
52 SGCREV Sub No 84


Audits confirm this position, with over 90% of employers paying
superannuation for their employees, although [only] about 80% are actually
making enough superannuation contributions.
Employers who erred in the Superannuation Guarantee obligations are doing
so by an average of less than $250 per employee. The most frequently
occurring shortfall amount reflected in audit activities is about $30.53
11.65 The ATO also advised that 95% of employers were providing
superannuation for 'some' of their employees. This level of success in achieving
compliance by employers reportedly prompted a market researcher for the ATO
to comment that compliance was at 'saturation level'.54 The Committee
understands that this level of compliance compares extremely favourably with
compliance with other tax legislation, particularly the Income Tax Assessment
Act 1936 and the Child Support legislation.
11.66 The ATO also reported that there are three levels of employer compliance
with the SGAA:
. employers who complied;
. employers who tried to meet their obligations but failed; and
. employers who, either because of lack of awareness or will, made no effort
to comply.55
11.67 The problems with compliance often seemed to centre upon confusion
about employees' earnings bases as well as employers overlooking casual and
temporary workers.
11.68 One submission which represents organisations/employers who try to
meet their obligations but may fail, was forwarded by the Adult and Community
Education (ACE) Council. It submitted that many organisations within the ACE
sector have great difficulty in complying with the SG requirements because of the
associated costs, and administrative and accounting difficulties, which an under-
resourced sector encounters in attempting to maintain accurate records for
remittance of small amounts of money to funds.56 The lack of resources also
made it difficult for these organisations to find complying superannuation funds.
53 SGCREV Sub No 84 Supplementary
54 SGCREV Sub No 84 Supplementary
55 SGCREV Sub No 84 Supplementary
56 SGCREV Sub No 64


Even where an employee has a superannuation account 'ACE organisations with
insufficient administrative infrastructure have mostly not been able to
accommodate payments to an employee's individual existing scheme'.
11.69 The ACE Council expressed reservations about the operation of the
current legislation, particularly in relation to 'the not-for-profit, government
supported NSW ACE sector'.57
11.70 Both the ACE Council and the Australian Chamber of Manufactures
expressed concerns about employees who were unwilling to participate in
superannuation funds established for the purposes of SG.58
11.71 Notwithstanding the favourable SG compliance figures, the Committee
heard evidence of non-compliance. Mr Harry Sugars, AWU (SA), reported
superannuation non-compliance associated with under award payments by some
fruitgrowers. In the school holiday season when apricots are picked, Mr Sugars
stated that he would deal with 'anything up to 15 or 20 cases' of under award
payment and associated superannuation non-compliance in the South Australian
Riverland District.59
11.72 The Committee agreed that the ATO's Superannuation Guarantee Project
had been extremely successful in commimicating the requirements of SG to the
community, particularly employers, and noted that the ATO would be preparing
further strategies for the 1994-95 year of income.
11.73 The Committee notes that 'compliance activities are now being targeted
toward risk areas. These include employers of contractors or casual and part time
employees'.60
Dumping SG contributions
11.74 Jacques Martin Industry submitted that a problem encountered by that
organisation, as the largest industry fund administrator, is that:
many employers often simply "dump" money in the funds to meet
Superannuation Guarantee requirements and provide a minimal amount of
information regarding the relevant employees [to the funds]... many casual
57 SGCREV Sub No 64
58 SGCREV Subs No 61 & 64
59 Evidence, p 665
60 Commissioner for Taxation, Annual Report 1993/94, p 75


members are accumulating small benefits of which they are unaware, and
therefore aggregation of benefits as they change employers and industries is
prevented.
This practice also adds significantly to fund administration costs through
efforts necessary to try and obtain sufficient details from employers.61
11.75 Jacques Martin suggested that the remedy would be:
having a statutory requirement for employers making SG contributions to be
required to provide an appropriate amount of information, ie. the employer's
name, date of birth, last known address and TFN. This would permit easy
identification and aggregation of employees' multiple accounts.62
11.76 It was not clear to the Committee why such an obligation upon employers
should be explicitly statutory. A fund, complying or otherwise, is not obliged to
open new superannuation accounts at an employer's request. If the information
that an employer supplies is inadequate for the purposes of proper fund
administration, then the fund is clearly free to refuse to accept those contributions
until the necessary information has been made available. The onus to upgrade
inadequate information then rests with the employer who remains under
obligation to meet the requirements of the SGAA within the statutory time frame.
61 SGCREV Sub No 92
62 SGCREV Sub No 92




CHAPTER 12:
AN ALTERNATIVE, AN ADDITION, AND
EDUCATION
An alternative, an addition, and education
Introduction
12.1 This chapter looks at the evidence received by the Committee concerning
two unrelated proposals:
. the Institute of Actuaries of Australia (IAA) proposal for a Universal
Pension; and
. the need for a 'lifecycle savings vehicle'.
12.2 This chapter also assesses the extent of community education needed in
superannuation.
Universal pension
12.3 The following extract from the submission of the Institute of Actuaries of
Australia (IAA) to the Committee captures much of the rationale behind their
proposal to replace the current retirement income policy with a universal age
pension:
Retirement Incomes are essentially a compromise:
• Ideal levels of benefit are too expensive;
• The most equitable system is too complicated;
• Individual preferences conflict with broad requirements;
• Targeted social security benefits conflict with incentives to save; and
. Budgetary requirements limit desirable tax treatments.
Combined with these conflicts are different political views, differing funding
approaches and differing attitudes to government/private responsibilities. It
is no wonder that our retirement incomes system has been subject to dispute
and change... our present system is unsatisfactory.1
1 SGCREV Sub No 29


12.4 The IAA submitted that their objective for the universal pension is 'to
enable all Australians to retire at a suitable time and to spend their whole
retirement lifetime with a secure and adequate level of income'.2
Outline of universal pension proposal
12.5 To achieve their objective, the IAA propose a structure comprising of:
. a universal age pension entitlement for each Australian; male or female,
earner or non-earner, not subject to any means test, but subject to income
tax and a residency test; and
. superannuation plans which are tax-encouraged up to a certain level and
with benefits primarily in income form, including:
(a) compulsory occupation-linked superannuation benefits based on the
present SG arrangements;
(b) voluntary employer sponsored superannuation;
(c) voluntary personal superannuation; and
(d) other forms of savings.
12.6 The IAA submitted that their proposal is a flexible integrated structure
with built in control mechanisms enabling adjustments to be made in relation to
government revenue outlays on the basis of assessments of future costs and
benefits which will be made to take into account changing demographic,
economic and political situations.
12.7 An integral element of the proposal is the abolition of the age pension
income and assets tests. Social Security administration would be simplified and
the intrusiveness into pensioners' private affairs, which is a necessary part of
means testing, would be alleviated.
12.8 The SG would be frozen at 6%, which would be popular with employers
(especially small business), some of whom view the SG as an additional impost,
and popular with lower income earners who view the SG as foregone wages.
12.9 The focus of the proposed system is on end benefits and security in
retirement rather than on contributions and arbitrary benefit outcomes. This
would better enable long term financial planning for retirement.
2 SGCREV Sub No 29


Cost Estimates
12.10 The IAA used the National Mutual Retirement Income Policy (RIP)
Model, as modified by the Government's Retirement Income Modelling
Taskforce, to assess the cost of their proposal. The IAA maintain that the cost to
government revenue is very similar to the current system for the next three
decades or longer.
12.11 The Committee is conscious of the public debate occurring among expert
commentators about the cost of the IAA's proposal. For instance, when asked by
the Committee to comment on the actuaries' proposal, Mr Greg Smith,
Department of Treasury, commented that a paper prepared by the Retirement
Income Modelling Taskforce, for submission to the Government's strategic
review of the pension income and assets tests 'does, in fact, challenge pretty
strongly the results that were claimed in the submission from the Institute of
Actuaries'.3
12.12 Mr Smith's claim was supported by Mr Phil Gallagher, a Director with
the Retirement Income Modelling Taskforce, who doubts the accuracy of the
IAA's modelling and has stated, among other things, that:
although hypothetical analysis cannot make definite conclusions about whole
populations, the current analysis suggests the implementation of the IAA's
proposals as submitted to the Senate might well substantially increase costs
to government and also increase inequity among the aged.4
12.13 On a similar note, Mr Anthony Cole, LIFA, questioned the impact of the
cost of the IAA's proposal when he told the Committee:
I think that [the] actuaries' presentation talks about a maximum difference in
cost of one per cent of GDP. That is very big as a proportion of the sorts of
levels of change that we need in total saving in the Australian economy.5
12.14 Mr Martin Ferguson, ACTU, has been attributed with saying that the
universal pension would cost the Government $5 billion annually. Mr Ferguson
told the ABC radio program, P.M., that:
3 Evidence, p 611
4 Superfunds, November 1994, pi04
5 Evidence, p 588


6 Transcript for ABC radio, P.M., Thursday 22 September 1994
7 Evidence, pp 305-306
8 SGCREV Sub No 29 Supplementary
so far as I am concerned, the union movement will go out of its way to
ensure that the universal pension is not established in Australia at this point
in time.6
12.15 In answering questions from the Committee, Ms Nicola Cusworth, of the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Western Australia, observed that such a
universal pension option is usually 'phenomenally expensive' and could tend to be
somewhat regressive in that those who retire with a substantial nest-egg are still
subsidised by the taxpayer. Interestingly, Ms Cusworth said that the United
Kingdom and other countries in Europe which have had that kind of proposal are
tending to move away from universal pensions, the main reason being that they
are extremely expensive.7
12.16 The Committee has received a supplementary submission from the IAA
which rebuts, in some detail, the criticisms levelled at their proposal, including
regressiveness, the inadequacy of the financial model, the assumptions used and
the resultant costing estimates. Among other things, the submission states that it
must be acknowledged that many contributors to this debate have argued from
relatively pre-determined positions, with their sentiment being either:
. the introduction that the universal pension cannot be afforded; or
. the introduction of a universal pension would be inequitable.8
12.17 The Committee does not wish to be drawn on the technical merit of the
financial model as it is conscious of the complex and subjective nature of
financial modelling, especially when dealing with long time horizons and
numerous interrelated variables. Rather, the Committee prefers to focus on the
general merit of the proposal and the feasibility of implementing such a
comprehensive change in retirement income policy.
General Discussion
12.18 In evaluating the IAA's proposal, the Committee was particularly
interested in the benefits provided by the present retirement income policy to
marginal income earners, who are unlikely to ever self-fund their retirement.


12.19 In this regard, Ms Eva Cox, Women's Economic Think Tank, touched
favourably on the concept of a universal pension by suggesting:
that it would actually cost less and be more effective to offer a universal age
pension at 25% of average weekly earnings and allow no tax concessions...
if you simplified the whole damned thing and had a universal pension with a
single supplement available to those people who failed to save, you would
probably find that people would be prepared to save because there would be
no disincentive to having additional income... at the moment you have a
system where people go to enormous lengths to be able to retain bits of the
age pension.9
12.20 The IAA's call for simplification of the retirement savings system was
echoed by Mr Frank Muggeridge, of Sunnybank, Qld, who submitted, among
other things, that the Government should:
make the age pension available to all Australians from age 65 for an amount
equivalent to say 40% of their earnings over the ten years prior to retirement
with a minimum of $150 weekly and a maximum of $250 weekly.10
12.21 Mr Muggeridge also said that all Australians need an incentive to save for
their own retirement and 'should be encouraged [with tax deductions] to save as
much as they want to top up this amount [the age pension] to their own standard'.
12.22 Also in favour of a universal pension was Mr Kenneth Wynn, from
Cronulla, NSW, who told the Committee:
so, overall, a universal pension system would not only provide a better
outcome but it would relieve a lot of the angst in society about people who
are getting pensions and boasting about them when they are not entitled to
them, and people who are on the margin, barely above the pension rate, and
have paid into superannuation all their lives, are self-supporting and are
worse off. These alternatives are very serious considerations.11
12.23 With regards to the feasibility of making the transition to a universal
pension, Ms Alison McClelland, Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS),
provided:
if you were starting from scratch and designing an ideal income system, you
might have a universal age pension, which is essentially reducing any
disincentives to save that might operate as a result of the income test. So it is
9 Evidence, pp 62-63
10 SGCREV Sub No 114
11 Evidence, pp 116-117


having savings, compared with what we have now. It is giving the same
amount to everyone, which is not what we have now... if you combine age
pension assistance and superannuation tax concessions, a high earner still
gets at least three times more assistance over a lifetime than a low income
earner.
A universal pension would be more efficient and more equitable than the
current system... However, it is a matter of whether we could ever get there
from where we are now.12
12.24 In addressing criticisms concerning the difficulty implementing a
universal pension, Professor David Knox, Retirement Incomes Committee, IAA,
told the Committee 'It is a bit like asking the fanner near Dublin how to get to
Dublin: he [the farmer] said, 'I wouldn't start from here'.13
12.25 Professor Knox went on to explain to the Committee that the IAA 'took
the view that there is no point putting up a proposal to which it would not be
practical to move from where we are right now'.14
12.26 The Committee believes the present retirement incomes framework is
well established. The task now is to build community confidence in the system
and the Committee feels that wholesale change at this stage would undermine
this objective.
Life Cycle savings
Background
12.27 In his June 1993 report to the Treasurer entitled 'National Saving',
Dr Vince FitzGerald, Allen Consulting Group, highlighted the economic
imperative for Australia to increase national saving.15 It was from this report that
the concept of a 'life cycle savings product' propagated.
12.28 Dr FitzGerald raised the issue that a non-superannuation savings vehicle
may have a role to play in increasing private household saving; especially as
superannuation investments are generally locked away until retirement.
Dr FitzGerald concluded in his report that:
12 Evidence, p 241
13 Evidence, p 538
14 Evidence, p 538
15 Dr Vince FitzGerald, Report to the Treasurer on National Saving, June 1993


such a 'life cycle' savings vehicle should be seen as desirable, but is perhaps
affordable only quite some years ahead when there has been a substantial
structural strengthening of government finances.16
12.29 The Treasurer addressed the Government's policy intentions with respect
to a life cycle savings vehicle his Statement of 28 June 1994 when he said:
Dr FitzGerald proposed that once fiscal circumstances allow, consideration
should be given to introducing a new type of tax advantaged saving vehicle.
As the previous Treasurer stated last August, the Government agrees with
Dr FitzGerald that priority should be given at this stage to increasing public
sector saving.
It will be important that any initiative in this area provide a boost to total
national saving, and not merely increase private saving at the expense of
public saving.
The Government is continuing to examine various possible approaches to
such a vehicle with the view to the introduction of the most cost-effective
arrangement.17
12.30 In the context of reviewing the first twelve months operation of the SG,
the Committee heard evidence from several sources in support of a life cycle
savings vehicle.
12.31 The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Western Australia (WACCI)
submitted to the Committee that there exists an important need to increase
substantially total savings, not just superannuation savings.18 WACCI was
critical of the regressive nature of the taxation of interest bearing deposits, which
it claims, outside the family home, are the largest form of household saving.
12.32 The Committee was receptive to the point raised by WACCI that:
the most heavily taxed form of savings is also the one most readily accessible
to lower income groups. Equities, investment (or even owner occupied)
housing, personal superannuation etc tend to be more accessible to the more
affluent.19
16 Dr Vince FitzGerald, Report to the Treasurer on National Saving, June 1993
17 The Hon Ralph Willis, MP, Treasurer, Statement on superannuation policy,
28 June 1994
18 SGCREV Sub No 24
19 SGCREV Sub No 24


12.33 WACCI also submitted that:
to raise national savings incentives must have a significant impact on the
marginal saver's decision to save... it may difficult to justify the relatively
generous taxation treatment currently given to superannuation.20
12.34 These views were endorsed by Ms Nicola Cusworth, WACCI, when she
told the Committee 'we would like to see a the Government undertake a broader
range review of the whole savings issue implementing perhaps more of the
FitzGerald report'.21
12.35 WETTANK submitted to the Committee that the taxation benefits of
superannuation do not benefit low income earners and these people are more
likely to need access to their savings for both normal life cycle needs and crisis.22
12.36 Ms Alison McClelland, of the Australian Council of Social Service
(ACOSS), is another who does not believe superannuation is an attractive
investment for low income earners. Ms McClelland told the Committee:
we think there is excessive emphasis on superannuation in relation to
compulsory savings when households have other important life cycle savings
needs... we should be allowing some of that compulsory savings to be
available to households.23
12.37 ACOSS submitted to the Committee that the SG should be capped at
around five per cent and a separate medium-term compulsory savings vehicle
introduced to cater for other life cycle needs such as having a family or
education. With respect to this proposal, Ms McClelland said 'all we are saying
is that we think there should be more flexibility so that it can meet more diverse
life cycle needs'24
12.38 Similarly, Professor David Allen, from Duncraig, Western Australia, told
the Committee that there is a need for a broader approach to national savings.
Professor Allen articulated:
20 SGCREV Sub No 24
21 Evidence, p 302
22 SGCREV Sub No 27 Supplementary
23 Evidence, p 245
24 Evidence, p 246


You have just mentioned FitzGerald; I think his arguments are quite
convincing. I think there should be the encouragement of savings across the
board and that there should be various other tax incentives to save in
appropriate form.25
12.39 The Committee believes that a broader approach to savings is desirable
and endorses the Treasurer's stated intention to continue examining various
possible approaches for a life cycle savings vehicle for medium-term non-
superannuation savings.
Education
12.40 This section assesses the extent of education in superannuation that is
required to assist with the effective implementation of the Government's
retirement income policy and to maximise the retirement benefits of the
Australian community.
Background
12.41 In its sixth report published in June 1993, the Committee recommended
that the Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC) and key
superannuation industry groups representing the interests of consumers and
providers combine to develop and implement a five year superannuation
consumer education strategy for implementation in early 1994.26 The
Government accepted this recommendation, although carriage of that education
campaign has subsequently been taken by the Australian Tax Office (ATO),
working with the ISC and other key entities.
12.42 In the 1994/95 budget, the Government allocated $3.1 million to the ISC
over three years from 1994/95 to undertake a community education campaign on
the protection of superannuation savings.27
12.43 In a speech at the ASFA 1994 National Superannuation Conference in
Perth on 9 November 1994, the Treasurer expressed his belief that the
superannuation industry is now moving into a consolidation phase, within which
25 Evidence, p 364
26 Recommendation 3.10 of the Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation, Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions
27 Budget Paper No. 1, 1994-95, pp 3.234- 3.235


more focus will be given to the efficiency with which the industry will handle the
large amounts of money entrusted to it and on the effectiveness of the industry's
communication with its members.
12.44 The Treasurer stated that the Government had commissioned a team of
private consultants to undertake a program of market research into community
attitudes and perceptions towards superannuation which would help in the
development of the broadly based community education program which would be
run by the ATO and the ISC. Seven million dollars has already been allocated for
this purpose.
The need for community education
12.45 Notwithstanding the extent of the ATO's efforts to notify employers of
their obligations under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1993
(the SGAA), there is evidence to suggest that many small businesses are ignorant
of key features of the scheme. A survey of several hundred small businesses in
the Gold Coast area in late 1993 indicated that nearly half of the respondents
were unaware that the contribution rate for SG would increase to 9% by 2002.28
12.46 Another finding by this survey was that although employers of small
businesses did, in fact, receive material from the ATO and/or the ISC about SG,
they did not remember anything about it. Researchers found that although the
information within the various communication vehicles was capable of getting the
facts across to small businesses, they attracted insufficient interest from the small
business sector to pay attention to the information presented. However, most
small employers recalled receiving information from insurance companies about
superannuation.
12.47 In spite of these survey results, the ATO's education campaign, which
had been conducted to ensure that employers were aware of their obligations,
appears to have been very effective:
following the first year of operation, research confirmed that employers'
awareness and acceptance of their obligations was substantially higher than
had been demonstrated by earlier surveys. 90% of employers had
superannuation arrangements in place for all staff, as compared with 64% in
March 1992.29
28 Tapen Sinha and Rebecca Benedict, How Small Business Perceives the New
Superannuation Guarantee Charge, December 1993, p 18
29 Commissioner for Taxation, Annual Report 1993/94


12.48 The conflict between the findings of the two surveys seemed to be more
apparent than real. The installation of superannuation arrangements does not in
itself guarantee that the employers will comply with future requirements,
particularly if they are unaware of future increases in the rate of SG
contributions. However, the ATO appears to be methodically formulating
strategies for targeting the causes of non-compliance.
12.49 Westscheme, an industry fund with 60,000 employees and
3,500 participating employers, submitted to the committee that the introduction
of SG has produced problems which are basically the same as those commonly
encountered in the administration of award superannuation schemes/0
Presumably because of the extensive coverage that is an integral feature of SG,
those problems have greatly increased in volume, as well as introducing new
problems involving the timing of payment obligations, the earnings base issue,
and the uncoordinated interaction between award superannuation and SG,
particularly given that awards are both State and Federal.
12.50 Westscheme make the point that changes to the superannuation
legislation have confused both employers and employees:
A period of stability and consolidation would serve to focus attention on the
benefits of the retirement savings plan. During such a period an important
part of the education task would be to enhance the competence of
individuals to make informed choices about their superannuation
arrangements.31
12.51 The Australian Liquor, Hospitality and Miscellaneous Workers Union
(ALHMWU) suggested that an education campaign needed to be run by the
Government in conjunction with industrial parties to ensure that employees are
aware of their entitlements under both SG and the award system.32 Although the
campaign which had been conducted by the ATO via television advertisements
had generated a large number of inquiries from both employers and employees,
ALHMWU considered that the campaign had been too short and had not been
followed up.
12.52 The Committee noted the difficulties encountered in administering
superannuation in the hospitality industry due to confusion arising from the
interaction between award superannuation and SG, and to the youth and the
30 SGCREV Sub No 28; Evidence, p 317
31 SGCREV Sub No 28
32 SGCREV Sub No 40


temporary nature of much employment in that workforce - evidence suggests that
90% of that workforce is employed on a casual basis.33 In addition, the industry
also exhibits a very large turnover of employers.34
12.53 While the recent Test Case by the Industrial Relations Commission has
helped to clarify its jurisdiction in this regard, and sought to clarify the interaction
between award superannuation and SG, clearly much needs to be done to
educate, on an ongoing basis, all the players in industries such as the hospitality
industry which are characterised by high levels of casual employment and
employer turnover.
12.54 The education campaigns which have been conducted by the ATO in
relation to the implementation of SG have clearly been extremely successful and
should form the platform for ongoing community education. Nevertheless, the
majority of the consumers are still confused by superannuation. Although recent
surveys indicate a gradual rise in public confidence, much more work is needed
to be done before the community as a whole is confident enough about
superannuation for high levels of active member participation to occur,
particularly by those whose stake in superannuation at the present time consists
of SG or award contributions only.
12.55 The ACTU gave the Committee an example of the level of confusion
which occurred in the early days of award superannuation, and which hopefully
no longer occurs:
There have been cases in the early days where people have got a statement
and thought it was a bill and sent us a cheque.35
Recommendation 12.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government ensure that
appropriately targeted education programs be maintained to dispel the
confusion and uncertainty about superannuation.
33 Evidence, p256
34 Evidence, p 253
35 Ian Court, Evidence, p 714


BizHelp
12.56 The Committee noted that the Minister for Industry, Science and
Technology had recently launched BizHelp, which is a computer-based and
updateable directory of business assisted programs and services designed to
assist small and medium enterprises. It provides 'accurate and comprehensive
information on Commonwealth, State and Territory business assistance
programs, as well as selected private sector programs... from a single source'.36
12.57 It appeared to the Committee that this package could usefully signal the
superannuation requirements under awards and SG to small and medium
businesses, particularly those which were in the process of being established. The
BizHelp package could usefully include instructions about where to seek further
information in relation to the superannuation arrangements which are relevant to
that business.
Recommendation 12,2:
The Committee recommends that some relevant information concerning
SG be included in the BizHelp software package, including the number of
the SG hotline.
36 Statement by the Minister for Industry, Science and Technology, Senator Peter Cook,
18 November 1994, at the launch of BizLink




APPENDIX A:
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
List of written submissions
No 1 Maranoa Graziers' Association
No 2 Supercard Australia Pty Ltd
No 3 Bond University, School of Business
No 4 Office of the Cabinet, Queensland
No 5 Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
No 6 Ms Judy Collman
No 7 Professor Tapen Sinha (Bond University)
No 8 Catholic Women's League, Tasmania
No 9 Shire of Swan Hill
No 10 City of Horsham
No 11 Shire of Creswick
No 12 City of Berwick
No 13 Ms Jennifer Willmott
No 14 Mr John Winslow
No 15 Borough of Sebastopol
No 16 Professor Margaret Patrickson (University of SA)
No 17 City of Ararat
No 18 City of Hawthorn


No 19 The Cabinet Office, NSW
No 20 Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations (AFCO)
No 21 MrJKelberg
No 22 Osgate Pty Ltd
No 23 Mr John Northcott
No 24 Chamber of Commerce and Industry of WA
No 25 City of Baimsdale
No 26 New South Wales Nurses' Association
No 27 Women's Economic Think Tank
No 28 West Scheme
No 29 The Institute of Actuaries of Australia
No 30 Arapiles Shire Council
No 31 Victorian Farmers' Federation - Heywood Branch
No 32 Dr John McCormack
No 33 Mr K L Wynn
No 34 Mr Charles Copeman
No 35 Shire of Bacchus Marsh
No 36 Mr Chris Minifie
No 37 Shire of Kowree
No 38 Shire of Mansfield
No 39 Shire of Mortlake


No 40 Australian Liquor, Hospitality and Miscellaneous Workers Union
No 41 Professor D E Allen
No 42 South Australian Employers' Chamber of Commerce and Industry
No 43 Shire of Tambo
No 44 Mayne Nickless Limited
No 45 Mr V Byrnes and Mr L Kadziela (Australian Dried Fruits
Association)
No 46 City of Maryborough
No 47 Riverland Horticultural Council Inc
No 48 Australian Medical Association
No 49 Coopers and Lybrand
No 50 Australian Road Transport Industrial Organisation (ARTIO)
No 51 Shire of Bannockburn
No 52 Sedgwick Noble Lowndes
No 53 Institute of Actuaries of Australia
No 54 Mr David Bourke
No 55 Arthur Andersen & Co
No 56 National Racehorse Owners' Association
No 57 William M Mercer
No 58 Northern Victoria Fruitgrowers' Association
No 59 Trades and Labor Council of WA


No 60 Mr Craig Tehan
No 61 Australian Chamber of Manufactures
No 62 Shire of Bulla
No 63 Australian Council of Building Design Professions Ltd
No 64 ACE Council
No 65 Government Superannuation Office, Qld
No 66 Mr O A Malikoff
No 67 Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA)
No 68 Office of the Status of Women
No 69 Shire of Warracknabeal
No 70 National Fanners' Federation
No 71 Victorian Farmers Federation
No 72 Dr Alan Grant, Gosford, NSW
No 73 Government Employees Superannuation Board, WA
No 74 Ms Heather Howes
No 75 Australian Mutual Provident Society
No 76 Life Insurance Federation of Australia Incorporated (LIFA);
Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU);
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
No 77 Practising Accountants Centre for Education Inc.
No 78 Niki Aravanis
No 79 Flower Industry Association-Australia Inc.


No 80
No 81
No 82
No 83
No 84
No 85
No 86
No 87
No 88
No 89
No 90
No 91
No 92
No 93
No 94
No 95
No 96
No 97
No 98
No 99
No 100
Australian Bankers' Association
Maitland Chamber of Commerce and Industry
The Western Australian Farmers Federation (Inc.)
WA Small Business and Enterprise Association Inc.
Australian Taxation Office (ATO)
Mr Michael O'Donoghue
Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS)
Mrs Debbie Seay
Victorian Jockeys Association
Credit Union Services Corporation (Australia) Limited (CUSCAL)
Mrs Finch
Toowong Mitsubishi
Jacques Martin Industry
Finikiotis and Father
Department of Industrial Relations
(C + BUS)
The Treasury
Mr D and Ms L Jasprizza
Mr K F Pan-
Australian Workers of Australia (SA Branch)
District of Waikerie


No 101
No 102
No 103
No 104
No 105
No 106
No 107
No 108
No 109
No 110
No 111
No 112
No 113
No 114
No 115
No 116
Mr Paul Crowley
Retired Police Association of NSW Inc
Riverland Horticultural Council Inc Industrial Committee
Women in Horticulture
Mrs Val Pate
Mr Gregory Fogarty
Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
Mr G M Strickland
Mr Alex Risk
Mr Glen and Mrs Christine Jolley
Port Macquarie Division of General Practice Ltd.
In camera
NSW Rural Divisions Co-ordinating Unit Ltd
Mr Frank Muggeridge
Scott Crisp & Hamblin Pty Limited
Australian Education Union


APPENDIX B:
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
List of witnesses at public hearings
SYDNEY, 12 JULY 1994
Dr Nazife Bashar, Acting Director Policy, New South Wales
Superannuation Office, New South Wales Department of Industrial
Relations, Employment, Training and Further Education
Ms Hazel Bateman, Research Associate, Superannuation Economics
Research Group, School of Economics, University of New South Wales
Ms Eva Cox, Co-convenor, Women's Economic Think Tank and Women's
Electoral Lobby
Mr Harry Maratheftis, Industrial Relations Officer, New South Wales
Nurses' Association
Mr John Maroney, Convenor, Superannuation Committee, LIFA
Ms Susan Ryan, Executive Director, ASFA
Mr Peter Woodcock, Managing Director, Supercard, Australia Pty Ltd
Mr Kenneth Wynn
MELBOURNE, 13 JULY 1994
Mr John Alducci, Secretary, National Racehorse Owners' Association
Mr Leigh Bernhardt, Group General Manager, Industrial Relations,
Transport Services Australia, Mayne Nickless Ltd
Mr Richard Calver, Director, Industrial and Legal, Victorian Farmers'
Federation
Mr Jeffrey Carr, Secretary, Australian Liquor Hospitality and Miscellaneous
Workers' Union


Mr Allen Cullen, Executive Director, Australian Bankers' Association
Mr Peter Davidson, Senior Policy Officer, Australian Council of Social
Service
Mr John Hugh Davies, Director, Personnel and Corporate Affairs, Mayne
Nickless Ltd
Ms Ann Drohan, Industrial Officer, Australian Liquor Hospitality and
Miscellaneous Workers' Union
Mr Donald Elmer, Councillor, Australian Road Transport Industrial
Organisation
Mr Kurt Esser, Delegate, National Racehorse Owners' Association
Mr James Fitzpatrick, Consulting Actuary, Sedgwick Noble Lowndes Ltd
Mr Roger Foenander, Group Taxation Manager, Mayne Nickless Ltd
Mr David Goodear, Manager, Jacques Martin Industry
Mrs Peggy Haines, Solicitor for Mayne Nickless Ltd
Mr Gary Healey, Director, Research, Australian Bankers' Association
Mr Noel Kimberley, Member, Victorian Road Transport Association
Mr Philip Lovel, Executive Director, Victorian Road Transport Association
Ms Alison McClelland, Principal Policy Coordinator, Economics and Tax,
Australian Council of Social Service
Mr Leslie Moth, Executive Adviser to the Chairman, Australian Bankers'
Association
Mr Michael Read, Member, Australian Road Transport Industrial
Organisation
Mr Raymond Stevens, Director, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Kelvin Taylor, Director, Sedgwick Noble Lowndes Ltd


Mr Brian Troy, National Director, Australian Road Transport Industrial
Organisation
Mr David Vernon, Jacques Martin Industry, Manager, Client Services and
International
PERTH, 14 JULY 1994
Mr Philip Achurch, Executive Director, WA Small Business and Enterprise
Association
Professor David Allen
Mr Anthony Cooke, Assistant Secretary, Trades and Labour Council of WA
Ms Nicola Cusworth, Chief Economist, Chamber of Commerce and
Industry of Western Australia
Mr Noel Harding, President, Practising Accountants Centre for
Education Inc
Ms Stephanie Mayman, Executive Member, Trades and Labour Council
of WA
Mr Neville Oliver Munns, Executive Officer, Western Australian Farmers'
Federation (Inc.) and Secretary, Western Australian Shearing Contractors'
Association
Mr Denis Myers, Member, WA Small Business and Enterprise Association
Mr Charles O'Leary, Sales Manager, Davey Real Estate
Mr Howard Rosario, General Manager, Westscheme
Mr Robert Shadbolt, Member, WA Small Business and Enterprise
Association
Mr Mark Smith, Committee Member, Practising Accoimtants Centre for
Education Inc


Mr John Stopher, Member, Practising Accountants Centre for Education Inc
Mr Craig Tehan
CANBERRA, 29 AUGUST 1994
Mr James Ferguson, Industrial Director, National Farmers' Federation
Mr Richard Friend, Tax Partner, Arthur Andersen
Mr Glen Simpson, National Director, Industrial Relations, Master Builders
Australia
CANBERRA, 19 SEPTEMBER 1994
Mr Chris Gration, Policy and Government Relations, Credit Union Services
of Australia Ltd
Mr Colin Grenfell, Member, Superannuation Practice Committee, Institute
of Actuaries of Australia
Mr Stephen Flanrison, National Secretary, AWU/FIMEE
Mr Erich Janssen, Director, Industrial Relations and Remuneration,
Australian Medical Association Limited
Mr Stephen Partridge, Convenor, Superannuation Practice Committee,
Institute of Actuaries of Australia
Mr Graham Poole, Director, PSI Superannuation Management Pty Ltd
Mr Dave Taylor, Executive Manager, Government Relations, Credit Union
Services Corporation
Mr Michael Tyler, Chairman of Board, PSI Superannuation Management
Pty Ltd


CANBERRA, 20 SEPTEMBER 1994
Ms Karen Barfoot, Assistant Secretary, Office of the Status of
Women
Mr Colin Grenfell, Member, Retirement Incomes Policy
Committee, Institute of Actuaries
Ms Winsome Hall, Adviser, Task Force Section, Office of the
Status of Women
Ms Patricia Kelly, Acting First Secretary, Office of the Status of
Women
Professor David Knox, Retirement Income Policy Committee,
University of Melbourne
Mr Raymond Stevens, Member, Retirement Income Policy
Committee, Institute of Actuaries of Australia
CANBERRA, 23 SEPTEMBER 1994
Mr Leo Bator, Acting Assistant Commissioner, Superannuation, Australian
Taxation Office
Mr Garry Carrigan, Acting Assistant Manager, Awards Management
Branch (New South Wales) Department of Industrial Relations
Mr Anthony Cole, Executive Director, Life Insurance Federation of
Australia
Mr Tony Coles, Researcher, Australian Federation of Consumer
Organisations
Mr Grant Doxey, Director, Employment Conditions Policy Section,
Department of Industrial Relations
Mr Philip Drever, Assistant Secretary, Labour Relations Policy Branch,
Department of Industrial Relations


Mr Murray Edwards, Assistant Secretary, Business Finance and
Superannuation Branch, Financial Institutions Division, Department of the
Treasury
Mr Donald Jasprizza
Ms Leigh Ann Jasprizza
Ms Jenni Mack, Director, Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Mr Michael Monaghan, Assistant Commissioner, Superannuation,
Australian Taxation Office
Dr Darryl Roberts, Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Mr Greg Smith, First Assistant Secretary, Financial Institutions Division,
Department of the Treasury
Ms Louise Sylva, Policy Analyst, Life Insurance Federation of Australia
Mr Trevor Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Review Branch, Insurance
and Superannuation Commission
BERRI, SA , 4 NOVEMBER 1994
Mr Harley Swanbury, Chairman, Riverland Horticultural Council Inc
Mr Colin Roy, Riverland Horticultural Council Inc
Mr Dean Slade, Riverland Horticultural Council Inc
Mr John Moss, Riverland Horticultural Council Inc
Mr Duncan Wood, SA Employers' Chamber of Commerce and Industry Inc
Mr Harry Sugars, AWU
Mrs Jan Centofanti, Mayor, DC of Waikerie


Mrs Beryl George, Women in Horticulture
Mrs Greer Wilkinson, Riverland Development Corporation
Mrs Valerie Pate
Mrs Joy Mules
CANBERRA, 28 NOVEMBER 1994
Mr Ian Court, Senior Industrial Officer, Australian Council of Trade Unions




APPENDIX C:
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Terms of reference
1 September 1994
That the following matters be referred to the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for inquiry and report on or before 28 February 1995:
(1) The adequacy of current retirement incomes policy arrangements in meeting
the needs of those members of the community, in particular women, whose
participation in the workforce falls outside the traditional 30 to 40 year
working life pattern.
(2) Steps which could be taken to address any deficiencies identified in
paragraph (1), including the advisability of implementing the following
policies:
(a) initiatives to address equity issues which arise during the contributions
and benefits phases of the retirement incomes cycle; and
(b) providing superannuation support for those members of the community
who experience broken labour force participation and/or are in receipt
of social security payments.
(3) The implications of the Government's decision to progressively raise the
pension age for women from 60 to 65.
(4) Any other relevant matters, including measures which, if implemented,
would enhance the capacity of Australians to save for retirement.




APPENDIX D:
RULINGS AND DETERMINATIONS
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN TAXATION OFFICE
(as at 6 February 1995)
Rulings and determinations issued by the ATO




APPENDIX E:
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
List of committee reports
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992) Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life
Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and
Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
and the Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992
(4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervisory Levy (May 1993)


Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Fees, Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry
into the Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation
Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Supervision Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super
Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Privilege Matter Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill
(December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated
Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Super
for Housing (May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs I (August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs II (November 1994)


Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Guarantee - Its Track Record (February 1995)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 7 .of 1995
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-418
