

Thirteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super Regs I
Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Regulations
Statutory Rules 1994 No. 56
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
□
August 1994




Thirteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super Regs I
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
August 1994


© Commonwealth of Australia 1994
ISBN 0 642 21310 0
This document was produced from camera-ready copy and prepared
by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and
printed by the Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


Members
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator Sue West Deputy Chair
Senator Bruce Childs
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator John Woodley
Tasmania
New South Wales
New South Wales
Western Australia
South Australia
Queensland
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Richard Gilbert
Ms Krista Gerrard
Ms Janice Scarabottolo
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




Preface
PREFACE
The Senate Select Committee on Superannuation received a
reference to examine the Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Regulations and the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints)
Regulations.
This is the first of two reports on these Regulations.




CONTENTS
Contents
Page
Members of the Committee. i
Preface. iii
Contents.v
Chapters:
1. Introduction . 1
2. Medical Complaints: Not Yet?. 7
3. Medical Complaints: Now? . 17
4. Compromise Positions. 25
5. Regulating for Jurisdiction:
An Inappropriate Delegation?. 27
6. Conclusions and Recommendations. 29
Appendices:
A. Terms of Reference . 31
B. List of Committee Reports and Papers. 33
C List of Written Submissions. 35
D. List of Witnesses at Public Hearings. 37




CHAPTER 1:
INTRODUCTION
Introduction
The object of this report is to examine the exclusion of
medical complaints from the jurisdiction of. the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.
Background
1.1 In its First Report, entitled Safeguarding Super; the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation recommended ‘ the establishment by
legislation of an external disputes resolution mechanism, at the earliest
practicable date *}
1.2 Included in the package of legislation, that has become known as the
SIS package of legislation,2 is the Superannuation (Resolution of
Complaints) Act 1993. This Act establishes the Superannuation Complaints
Tribunal (the Tribunal). The Tribunal was established on 1 July 1994.
1 Recommendation 11.4, Safeguarding Super, Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation, June 1992
2 Superannuation Industry (Supervision) legislation which comprises the following
Acts:
Occupational Superannuation Standards Amendments Act 1993
Superannuation (Financial Assistance Funding) Levy Act 1993
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential Amendments Act 1993
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993
Superannuation (Rolled-Over Benefits) Levy Act 1993
Superannuation Supervisory Levy Amendment Act 1993


Super Regs I
1.3 The objective of the Tribunal is:
to provide mechanisms for:
(a) the conciliation of complaints; and
(b) if complaints cannot be resolved by conciliation - the review of
the decisions of the trustees to which the complaints relate;
that are informal, economical and quick.3
1.4 Pursuant to the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993
(the Act), are the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Regulations,
Statutory Rules No. 56 (the Regulations). These regulations were made on
4 March 1994, gazetted 11 March 1994, and tabled in the Senate and House
of Representatives on 17 and 22 March, respectively. The Regulations were
referred to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation on
16 March 1994. The terms of reference for this inquiry appear at
Appendix A
1.5 Two substantive issues are dealt with by the Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Regulations. Regulation 4 defines ‘excluded
subject matter ’ and is the subject of this report. Regulation 5 defines the
prescribed period for the purposes of paragraph 14(3)(b) and sub-
paragraph 15(2)(a)(ii) of the Act. The definition in regulation 5 of the
abovementioned prescribed period is in accordance with Recommendation
2.3 of the Tenth Report of the committee and requires no further
examination by this committee.
The issues
1.6 The issues that have emerged from the examination of the regulations,
and in particular regulation 4, are:
(i) the appropriate jurisdiction of the Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal; and
3
Section 11, Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993


Introduction
(ii) the appropriate legislative instrument in which to
define the Tribunal's jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal
1.7 The jurisdiction of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal is outlined
in Part 4 of the Act The jurisdiction is legislated in terms of:
(i) the complaints that may be brought;4
(ii) the persons who may bring a complaint;5
(iii) the processes that must be undertaken between an applicant
and a trustee prior to the Tribunal hearing a complaint,
(iv) the time frames within which a complaint must be made;7 and
(v) the exclusions made by way of regulation.8
1.8 The Tribunal's jurisdiction is also examined in the Ninth and Tenth
Reports of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation.
The legislative structure of the exclusions
1.9 Subsection 14(5) of the Act provides:
The Tribunal cannot deal with a complaint to the extent that it relates to
excluded subject matter.
4 Section 14, Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993
Regulation 4, Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Regulations
5 Section 15, Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993
6 Section 19, Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993
Section 101, Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
7 Subsections 14(4), 15(2),22(3),Superannuation (Resolution ofComplaints)Act 1993
8 Subsections 14(2) and 14(5), Superannuation
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993


Super Regs I
1.10 Section 3 of the Act is an interpretation section that defines ‘ excluded
subject matter’ as:
subject matter that is declared by the regulations to be excluded subject
matter for the purposes of this Act [emphasis added}.
1.11 Regulation 4 provides:
4. For the purposes of the definition of "excluded subject matter" in
section 3 of the Act, excluded subject matter is matter in relation to which
the Tribunal, in dealing with the matter:
(a) would have to undertake the assessment or evaluation of medical evidence,
opinion or reports; or
(b) would have to consider, having regard to medical evidence, opinion or
reports, the question of a person's incapacity; or
(c) would be likely to have to perform a function mentioned in paragraph (a)
or (b).
Throughout this report, complaints involving this excluded subject matter are
referred to as ‘ medical complaints ’.
1.12 The jurisdiction of the Tribunal can also be limited under the
‘excluded complaint’ provision. Section 14 provides:
(2) ... a person may make a complaint (other than an excluded complaint) to
the Tribunal, that the decision...[emphasis added]
1.13 ‘ Excluded complaint ’ is defined in section 3 to be a complaint about
a decision of a trustee of a fund or a matter declared by the regulations to
be a fund or a matter about which complaints may not be made under the
Act. There are currently no regulations declaring ‘ excluded complaints ’.
Conduct of the inquiry
1.14 On 24 March 1994, the committee wrote to approximately 400
previous submitters, interest groups, state and federal politicians and others
on its mailing list. Twenty four written submissions were received. The list
of written submissions appears at Appendix C.


Introduction
1.15 The committee conducted public hearings on 20 and 23 June 1994 in
Canberra. A list of witnesses who gave evidence at these hearings appears
at Appendix D. In addition to the oral evidence taken on these dates, the
Trades and Labour Council of Western Australia gave evidence in relation
to this inquiry to the committee in Perth on 14 July 1994.
Acknowledgments
1.16 The committee records its appreciation of the written submissions and
oral evidence to this inquiry.




CHAPTER 2:
MEDICAL COMPLAINTS: NOT YET?
Medical Complaints: Not Yet?
Introduction
2.1 This chapter examines the arguments that were put to the committee
in support of the contention that medical complaints should be excluded
from the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Chapter 3 examines the arguments for
the inclusion of medical matters in the Tribunal's jurisdiction.
2.2. The Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC) contended that:
(i) the assessment of medical evidence is a highly complex
function and does not rest easily with the tribunal process,
which is informal, economical and quick. It rests better in
a court process where dealing with that type of
disagreement is well established;9
(ii) the cost of disability benefits falls on other members of
the fund. These high costs could make small or medium
funds insolvent unless the fund was able to recover the
provision through insurance;10 and
(iii) if a disability benefit is an extra $100 000, a large number
of disability claimants would choose to go to the
Tribunal,11 a ‘floodgate’ could open.
2.3 These contentions raise two general categories of argument against the
inclusion of medical complaints in the Tribunal's jurisdiction:
9
Duval, Evidence, p 111
10 Duval, Evidence, p 112
Duval, Evidence, pp 113-114
it


Super Regs I
(i) that a floodgate of complaints could open; and
(ii) that the Tribunal does not have the relevant expertise to hear
matters involving medical evidence.
Opening a ‘ floodgate ’ ?
2.4 The ISC posed the rhetorical question: ‘What is the point of
accepting an adverse decision of the trustee? ’ ,12 The Commission went on
to postulate that disability claimants, the majority of whom the Commission
has ‘no doubt’ are sick, would go to the Tribunal in large numbers ‘given
the amount of money they might get if they did get a claim up’.13 These
contentions were made by way of speculation, although the committee did
seek to elicit more substantial material on the issue, but with little or no
success.
2.5 The evidence of Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia in
the ninth inquiry of the committee was that disability claims would
potentially overwhelm the Tribunal so that the Tribunal's time would be
taken up in dealing with those matters rather than the other sorts of matters
which would come before the Tribunal.14 The committee has received no
evidence in support of this contention in the course of this inquiry. The
committee has been provided with evidence that refutes the floodgate
argument. After examining all of the evidence, the committee does not
accept that a caseload of unmanageable proportions will be created as a
result of the inclusion of medical complaints in the Tribunal's jurisdiction.
Or a pinhole?
2.6 In response to the floodgate argument put to the committee, a number
of witnesses raised compelling counter-arguments.
12 Duval, Evidence, p 113
13 Duval, Evidence, p 114
14 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation,
Super Supervision Bills, October 1993, p 82


Medical Complaints: Not Yet?
2.7 In the committee's Ninth Report, evidence that disputes over medical
evidence comprise a minority of disputes was provided. 5 This contention
has been supported by the evidence received in this inquiry. The committee
has received evidence on the types of disputes that arise with disability
claims. Generally, they do not involve the assessment, evaluation or
consideration of medical evidence, opinion or reports, but are disputes
involving procedural fairness. These are discussed further at paragraph 3.9
below.
2.8 In the course of this inquiry, the committee has received substantial
evidence on the pressure that matters involving medical evidence place on
the workloads of other tribunals that deal with these sorts of matters. In
particular, the committee received evidence on the Life Insurance
Complaints Board (LICB), the Social Security Appeals Tribunal (SSAT), the
Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT), the Defence Force Retirement and
Death Benefits Authority (DFRDBA) and the Veterans' Review Board
(VRB).
2.9 In the period 1 July 1992 to 31 December 1993, the proportion of
disability complaints made to the LICB represented 11 per cent of total
complaints in that period. The most recent LICB data indicates a slight
reduction in complaints re disability policies. 16 Although some predict that
the number of complaints will increase, there has not been any evidence
submitted that the proportion of medical complaints will increase.
2.10 SSAT data demonstrates a similar trend, showing 9.5 per cent of
persons denied the disability pension have appealed to the SSAT.17
15 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation,
Super Supervision Bills, October 1993, p 84
16 Attorney General's Department, SISREG Sub No 14
17 ACA, SISREG, Sub No 1 (Supplementary)
AFCO, SISREG Sub No 18
Drake, Evidence, p 24


Super Regs I
Half of these appeals
Figure 1 below. 8
have been successful. The statistics are set out at
Figure 1:
Statistics on the Social Security Appeals Tribunal
Statistics for 1992/93 (rounded)
Source: DSS Statistics office; Geoff Hall, Operations Manager of the
SSAT and former SSATmember
2.11 Ms Prudence Ford of the Attorney-General's Department submitted
that at the time of the establishment of the SSAT, there had been a great
deal of concern about vexatious complaints and difficult medical cases. In
relation to the problems of backlogs, the SSAT has managed by changing
procedures and appointments.19
2.12 The potential for a relatively large number of persons to seek a merits
review of decisions under a specific decision-making power does not justify
18 SISREG Sub No 1 (Supplementary)
Evidence, p 79
19


Medical Complaints: Not Yet?
excluding those decisions from merits review.20 This has been the
consistent argument of the Administrative Review Council (ARC),
established under the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 to advise
the government as to the classes of administrative decisions that should be
the subject of review by a court, tribunal or other body and the appropriate
court, tribunal or other body to make that review. The ARC'S view on
the relevance of potential numbers using a jurisdiction was endorsed by the
Australian Consumers Association (ACA) which submitted that options for
review of medical complaints are needed regardless of the number of cases
involved.22
2.13 As a precaution against any opening of a floodgate, it was put to the
committee that the position of the Tribunal could be reviewed in 12 months
so as to assess the impact of medical complaints. This would allow hard
evidence to be available in relation to the volume and complexity of medical
complaints.23
Tribunal expertise and resources
2.14 The submission that the assessment, evaluation or consideration of
medical evidence would be too difficult for the Tribunal, was made by the
ISC as set out at paragraph 2.2 above.
Response to the ‘ too hard ’ argument
2.15 The committee questioned the argument that trustees are better
qualified than the Tribunal to make the decision on disability,24 as did
other witnesses before the committee.
20
ARC, SISREG Sub No 22
21 Section 51, Adminstrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975
22 Drake, Evidence, p 30, p 34
23 Drake, Evidence, p 33
24 Evidence, p 117 •


Super Regs I
2.16 ACA submitted that trustees are unlikely to have expertise in medical
matters. Similarly, courts that rely on medical evidence to make
determinations do not have medical expertise. Furthermore, primary
decision-makers, such as the Commonwealth Superannuation Board of
Trustees and the trustees of private superannuation funds are often involved
in the assessment of medical evidence.25
2.17 The ARC also expressed concern that the basis for the exclusion of
medical complaints, as identified in the committee's Ninth Report, is that
conflicts in medical opinion could only be adequately determined by a court
and that there could be a flood of work in the area of medical complaints.
The ARC has argued that the Tribunal would be as well placed as a court
to determine complaints involving medical evidence.
2.18 There is strong evidence that other tribunals handle cases involving
medical evidence in a ‘ reasonably efficient way ’ P6 The AAT, the SSAT
and the VRB are examples of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms that
resolve disability cases involving medical evidence.27
2.19 In response to ‘the inference that tribunals really do not have the
competence to deal with the assessment of medical evidence ’, committee
member, Senator Woodley, informed other members of the committee, and
put on public record, that he had been a member of the SSAT in Brisbane.
Senator Woodley stated that it was not his experience that tribunals were
incompetent in making a judgement in disputes involving medical
evidence.28 Mr White, of Disabled Peoples International, gave evidence
that he had been a member of the Defence Force Retirement and Death
Benefits Authority and that all the matters before that body involved the
25
ACA, SISREG Sub No 1 (Supplementary)
26 Evidence, p 78
27 ACA, SISREG Sub No 1 (Supplementary)
AFCO, SISREG Sub No 8
ARC, SISREG Sub No 22
28
Evidence, p 31


Medical Complaints: Not Yet?
assessment of medical evidence. Mr White agreed with Senator Woodley
that, in his experience, tribunals are competent to deal with medical
evidence.29
The role of the insurance company in the payment of death and disability
benefit
2.20 It was put to the committee that the ability of a fund to recover a
disability payment from its insurer is a paramount factor in the
determination of disability claims. Maurice Blackburn & Co., a law firm with
a superannuation disability claim practice of approximately 500 active cases,
submitted that in its experience 80-90 per cent of claims are initially
rejected, particularly in non-government superannuation funds. It stated that
‘the claims process is substantially influenced by the role played by
underwriting insurers’, some of whom adopt an adversarial attitude to
claims.
2.21 LIFA outlined to the committee the role of insurance in the
superannuation industry. LIFA stated that there are two players: the trustee,
that determines the benefits payable to an individual; and the insurance
company, that provides cover on the policy.31 However, the committee also
received evidence that, in a number of cases, trustees use the same assessors
as the insurance companies, to the extent that trustees have in the past
undertaken no assessment at all other than consulting the insurance
company's assessors.32 Funds take out insurance with a life insurance
company that covers both the eventuality of death and total and permanent
disability.33 Throughout the inquiry the committee was told that there is
a significant problem with inconsistencies between the definitions of
disability in the insurance policy and the trust deed. This evidence is
canvassed at paragraph 3.9.
29 Evidence, p 31
30 SISREG Sub No 24
31 Robinson, Evidence, p 101
32 Duval, Evidence, p 121
33 Drake, Evidence, p 35


Super Regs I
2.22 The committee acknowledges that these discrepancies create
difficulties for superannuation funds where an underwriting insurer refuses
to accept a claim. However, it has been submitted that such problems can
be overcome by superannuation funds renegotiating the decision-making
process in group insurance policies and, in particular, binding the insurers
to determinations made by the Tribunal. The argument is that, given the
competitive insurance market, such modifications could be negotiated.34
2.23 The ISC submitted that the inclusion of medical complaints in the
jurisdiction of the Tribunal is likely to cause funds ‘ to tighten the definition
so that it is abundantly clear what is covered and what is not ’ .35 In view
of the plethora of evidence that the committee received on the discrepancies
and uncertainties surrounding these definitions, the committee agrees with
the ISC that such a move ‘ is quite significant ’
2.24 A number of funds have now given members the right to choose
whether they want this sort of cover and if so, at what level. It was put to
the committee that it is very important that this choice be mandatory as
there are people who have this type of cover elsewhere or for whom such
cover is a waste of money.37
Prudential impact
2.25 The Attorney-General's Department has noted that the review of
decisions involving medical evidence could possibly have a prudential impact
on funds, that is, funds that have to make payments outside their insured
cover will be at risk. The Department further noted that there appears to
be no information available to gauge the possible prudential impact.38
34
Maurice Blackburn & Co., SISREG Sub No. 26, see also Duval, Evidence, p 123
35 Duval, Evidence, pp 115-116
36 Duval, Evidence, p 115
37 Drake, Evidence, p 35
SISREG Sub No 14
38


Medical Complaints: Not Yet?
2.26 The distinction between the prudential impact of a court's judgement
and a tribunal's decision has not been demonstrated to the committee.
Medical cases decided by a court also have a prudential impact.39 If
‘ prudential impact ’ is the reason for limiting the Tribunal's jurisdiction,
there needs to be some very significant data collection, research and
actuarial analysis to demonstrate and assess those impacts. Prudential
reasons should be tested very rigorously so it can be determined whether
they are an overriding consideration.40
2.27 In commenting upon the LICB's decision to allow the panel to deal
with medical complaints up to the investigation and conciliation phases,
Ms Ford stated that the Board, in coming to this decision, took account of
some of the prudential implications. The committee understands that the
Board will review this position in two years. In view of the life industry's
initiative in this regard, the committee is very concerned that a federal
tribunal is lagging behind industry-based justice initiatives. It is particularly
concerned that the needs of consumers, as identified by industry, for an
alternative disputes resolution system in the area of medical complaints has
not been addressed in the current environment of improving access to
justice.
2.28 The committee received a further submission from LIFA dated
24 August 1994 expressing a concern that ‘ if the assumptions underlying
premiums rates can be over-ridden by other non-judicial decisions, then the
integrity of insurance products will be in jeopardy. In this situation, the
solvency of some life companies could, ultimately, be at risk.’ The
committee did not receive any supporting data and did not have the
opportunity to test such statements with other witnesses.
Government employees
2.29 It was argued that, as the right to merits review at the AAT was
withdrawn from public servants in the transition from the Commonwealth
Superannuation Scheme to the Public Sector Superannuation Scheme, it
would be inequitable to provide for merits review of disability decisions for
members of non-public sector schemes. The committee understands that
39
Ford, Evidence, p 85
Ford, Evidence, pp 84-85
40


Super Regs I
both public sector scheme members and non public sector scheme members
will have the same rights of review under SIS if they are members of a
regulated fund. Both groups will have access to the Superannuation
Complaints Tribunal. Indeed, following amendments debated in the Senate
on 25 August 1994, it is likely that some state public sector superannuation
funds, who have not elected to come under the SIS legislation, will be able
to use the services of the Tribunal.
2.30 This argument is no longer relevant to the debate.


CHAPTER 3:
MEDICAL COMPLAINTS: NOW?
Medical Complaints: Now?
Introduction
3.1 In support of allowing the Tribunal to hear medical complaints, the
committee received submissions on:
• the effect that the exclusion could have on overall confidence in the
superannuation system;
• the drafting of regulation 4 and the width of the exclusion;
• the accessibility of justice, in terms of the comparative costs to parties
of conducting a matter in the courts, the cost to the community and
the intimidation of procedural formalities;
• the jurisdiction of other alternative dispute resolution fora and the
mechanisms utilised by these bodies; and
• the implications under disability discrimination legislation.
3.2 A number of commentators in the area have also called on the
government to review the situation and establish an all-encompassing body
to deal with all manner of complaints and disputes if it is truly serious in the
proper regulation of the burgeoning superannuation industry.41
41 Abramovich M, The Superannuation Complaints Tribunal-a toothless tiger?,
Superfunds, July 1994, p 9
Wasiliev J, ‘ Tribunal to rule on fair treatment ’, Super Review, May 1994, p 47


Super Regs I
Confidence in the superannuation system
3.3 A number of submissions addressed the broad and important issue of
confidence in the superannuation system and the effect that the exclusion
will have on this confidence. In a period when there is a decline in the
number of people citing distrust of legislative changes, the committee
believes that consumer confidence is a vital consideration.42
3.4 ACA submitted that the consequences of excluding medical matters
from, the Tribunal include damage to the public trust in the Tribunal. It
asserts that ‘ the community's trust in superannuation will be maintained if
disputes can be resolved in the Tribunal rather than being aired in a less
balanced way in the press and on television’.43 AFCO also believes that
the reputation of the Tribunal could be irreparably damaged if the
government decides to exclude medical complaints.44
Drafting of the regulation: how wide?
3.5 In its Ninth Report, the committee recommended that the government
not exclude from the Tribunal's jurisdiction the parts of a complaint
involving issues of procedural fairness.45 The ISC advised the committee
that the government had accepted that recommendation. The ISC submitted
that the Regulations give effect to this acceptance.46 The Federal Bureau
of Consumer Affairs also submitted that complaints involving procedural
fairness have not been excluded.47
42 MLC Superannuation Index #8, published 4 August 1994
43 SISREG Sub No. 1 (Supplementary)
44 SISREG Sub No 8
45 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super Supervision Bills,
October 1993, Recommendation 16.2, p 88
46 Duval, Evidence, pill
47 SISREG Sub No 14


Medical Complaints: Now?
3.6 Notwithstanding the government's assertion that the Regulations do
not traverse procedural matters, ACA gave evidence that regulation 4
provides a seemingly ‘very wide exclusion’ and suggested that if the
Tribunal stepped into the area ‘ it would be in the Federal Court before it
could blink ’.
3.7 Although procedural matters in disability cases have not been
expressly excluded, it may be that the drafting of regulation 4 is such that
all cases that have medical evidence on file could be excluded by
regulation 4. ACA have submitted that trustees could use the regulation as
it is currently drafted to ensure that their decisions are not within the
Tribunal's jurisdiction. ACA suggested that by referring to medical evidence
a trustee will be able to exclude any decision from review.49
3.8 The committee has concluded that there is a lack of clarity in the
drafting of regulation 4 as to the scope of the exclusion.
3.9 It was noted in paragraph 2.7 above that the procedural aspects of
disability claims form the basis of the vast majority of complaints about
disability claims. The disputes do not involve medical evidence, opinion or
reports. They involve the question of disability, which ‘is certainly not
understood ’ .
The criteria are certainly extremely strict and the notion of ability to work
is misunderstood not only by the person who is insured, that is the member
of the fund, but it is also very strictly applied in terms of the insurance
company. My experience is that it is very difficult to get explanations out
of the insurance company as to why it has made the decision it has. It
involves three, four and five letters going back to the insurance company
to provide an explanation regarding an individual.51
48 Drake, Evidence, p 27
49 SISREG Sub No 1 (Supplementary)
50 Mayman, Evidence, 14 July 1994, p 285
Mayman, Evidence, 14 July 1994, p 285
51


Super Regs I
3.10 It is these types of complaints, that involve the procedural aspects of
disability disputes, that the government has stated ‘should be within the
Tribunal's jurisdiction ’ ,52
Access to justice
3.11 The Attorney-General's Department has submitted that ‘convincing
reasons need to be provided either way, in light of the high cost of access
to justice for the majority of Australians ’ .53
Position of disability claimants
3.12 The committee received evidence from the Attorney-General's
Department that ‘ for the majority of Australians, that is neither the very
rich nor the very poor, the Australian legal system is not within their reach ’
and that ‘ Australians are effectively being denied access to justice ’. The
Department contended that the availability of independent, low cost
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms is an important step in the
provision of justice.54
3.13 The effect of the exclusion in regulation 4 falls entirely on people with
some degree of disability.55 ACA stated that the regulation excludes a
group whose need for access to such a tribunal would seem to be the
highest - the people most in need.56 Those who are likely to bring
complaints involving medical evidence are:
normally unemployed, in a weak financial position and therefore ordinarily
unable to take issue with an adverse decision that in the end result has a
dramatic effect on the lives of those involved.57
52 Duval, Evidence, p 111
53 SISREG Sub No 14
54 SISREG Sub No 14
55 Drake, Evidence, p 25
56 Drake, Evidence, p 26
57 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super Supervision Bills,
October 1993, p 86


Medical Complaints: Now?
3.14 In the SIS inquiry, the ISC acknowledged that ‘ there are problems at
the moment with the resolution of medical disputes ’ .58
Costs
3.15 On 22 August 1994, the Prime Minister, the Hon P.J. Keating, MP,
stated in the opening of the Justice Forum, that ‘ the Attorney-General and
the Minister for Justice are identifying the barriers to accessible justice ’. He
said, £A major barrier to justice is cost’.59 A number of submissions
identified the Tribunal as a forum where ‘complaints will be dealt with
more quickly and cost-effectively than civil actions which can be both
lengthy and involve substantial costs ’
3.16 ACA submitted that regulation 4 effectively denies disabled persons
any form of redress as ‘few disabled people could afford the money or
stress or delay involved in litigation ’ 61 The ARC concurred with this view,
noting that such complainants may be left without any accessible forum for
the resolution of their complaint. To conduct a matter to judgment in the
court system costs in the order of $10 000 per party, that is, a total of
approximately $20 000 for a party against whom costs are ordered.63
3.17 AFCO has submitted that the inclusion of medical complaints ‘ would
result in considerable savings to the community .... by reducing long and
costly legal battles in an already overloaded court system ’
58 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super Supervision Bills,
October 1993, p 87
59 Speech by the Prime Minister, the Hon. P.J. Keating, MP,
opening the Justice Forum, Parliament House, Canberra, 22 August 1994
60 Maurice Blackburn & Co., SISREG No. 26
61 SISREG Sub No 1 (Supplementary)
62 ARC, SISREG Sub No 22
63 ACA, SISREG Sub No 1 (Supplementary) Burrill
64 AFCO, SISREG Sub No 8


Super Regs I
Procedure
3.18 The complexity of superannuation adds to the problems that
consumers have in understanding their entitlements and rights. Additional
complexities, by way of strict procedural and evidentiary requirements,
alienate those attempting to ascertain and/or enforce their rights. Contrary
to the view of the ISC that strict rules of evidence enhance the settlement
of disputes,65 it is the committee's view that the resolution by informal
means of complaints arising out of misunderstandings will be an important
role of the Tribunal as it provides a grievance process with the emphasis on
conciliation. Maurice Blackburn has submitted that the current emphasis on
conciliation should be strengthened with the provision of formal conciliation
conferences rather than conciliation by way of written correspondence. This
law firm's experience is that face-to-face conferences with an independent
conciliator have a high rate of settlement.66 It is for this reason that the
committee considers that any limitation on the jurisdiction of the Tribunal
needs to be thoroughly canvassed and evaluated. This can be done if
exclusions can be made by way of regulations.
3.19 Tribunals such as the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal work well
and are of extreme benefit to consumers. It is much simpler and easier for
consumers to have concerns addressed at a tribunal than it is for them to go
to court.67
Other tribunals and mechanisms available to resolve medical complaints
3.20 Chapter 2 traverses the evidence received in relation to other tribunals
that hear and determine medical cases.
Mechanisms to deal with medical complaints
3.21 A range of mechanisms by which the Tribunal could deal with medical
complaints were mooted before the Tribunal:
65 Duval, Evidence p 124
66 Maurice Blackburn & Co., SISREG No 26
Ford, Evidence, p 77
67


Medical Complaints: Now?
(i) the appointment of a Tribunal member with medical
expertise;
(ii) the establishment by the Tribunal of a specialist panel;
(iii) the discretion of the Tribunal not to hear medical
complaints that it viewed as beyond its expertise;
(iv) the provision of independent medical evidence from a
doctor chosen by the Tribunal, and not by the
complainant or the insurance company;
(v) the use by the Tribunal of a list of specialists in the same
manner as is proposed by the LICB, along with other
appropriate guidelines such as the requirement that advice
must be taken from two medical specialists in every case;
and
(vi) members of the Tribunal, whether medically qualified or
not, to judge the evidence by an inquisitorial method. This
mechanism could be implemented under the current
Tribunal membership provisions in Part 2 of the Act.
Disability discrimination legislation
3.22 The Attorney-General's Department submitted that the exclusion of
medical complaints is an act carried out in direct compliance with a law
other than the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (DDA), and that it is
thereby exempt under the DDA for a period of three years. After the three
year period that expires on 1 March 1996, the issue of inconsistency will be
determined on the basis of existing evidence as to the reasons for the
continued need for the medical exclusion.
3.23 ACA has submitted that the exclusion of the disabled from the
Tribunal is contrary to the spirit of the Act.68
68
Drake, Evidence, p 25


Super Regs I
Trustees could avoid scrutiny
3.24 It has been submitted that the effect of the present exclusion would
be that trustees could protect themselves from having any decision they
made about disability from being reviewed by stating that in view of the
medical evidence, the claim ought not be paid.69
69
ACA, Sub No 1 (Supplementary), Drake, Evidence, p 24


CHAPTER 4:
COMPROMISE POSITIONS
Compromise Positions
Introduction
4.1 Two similar, middle ground positions were put to the committee. The
implementation of any such solutions will be subsequent to the Senate's
consideration of the disallowance motion.
Discretion not to hear certain complaints
4.2 ACA submitted that ‘the regulation could give the Tribunal a
discretion to not hear a case involving medical evidence if the Tribunal
believes the case could not be properly dealt with. This would allow the
Tribunal to conciliate disability complaints and resolve the ones within its
ability.’70
Power to deal with complaints to the investigation and conciliation stage
4.3 The other compromise position was put by the Attorney-General's
Department. The mechanism of dispute resolution by the Tribunal involves
three phases: investigation, conciliation and determination.71 The proposal
is that the Tribunal have a role in the investigation and conciliation of
matters involving medical evidence. However, it was also submitted by the
Attorney General's Department that it is unclear as to whether regulation 4
excludes the Tribunal from investigating and attempting to conciliate
complaints involving medical evidence.72
70
SISREG Sub No 1 (Supplementary)
71 Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993
SISREG Sub No 14
72


Super Regs I
4.4 Ms Ford submitted that experience with other dispute resolution
mechanisms has demonstrated that quite a high proportion of complaints
can be dealt with by way of conciliation which involves the disputing parties
getting together to resolve a problem. She stated that the middle ground
approach could allow for a significant number of medical complaints to be
dealt with.73 This would be at least consistent with the LICB decision to
extend the industry complaints mechanism to enable its panel to look at
medical disputes up to the investigation and conciliation phase.74
4.5 The response of ACA to this compromise proposal was that it would
help in the resolution of some complaints, but that the Tribunal could do
much better and should attempt to resolve all complaints that it decided it
had the competence to deal with.75
73
SISREG Sub No 14, Ford, Evidence, pp 78-79
74 Ford, Evidence, p 81
75 Evidence, p 32


CHAPTER 5:
REGULATING FOR JURISDICTION:
AN INAPPROPRIATE DELEGATION?
Inappropriate Delegations of Power
Introduction
5.1 The Administrative Review Council (ARC) raised the issue of the
appropriate legislative instrument in which the jurisdiction of a tribunal
should be defined.
5.2 As noted in Chapter 1, there are two provisions in the
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 where, in order to
ascertain the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, the regulations need to be
consulted. These are subsections 14(2) and 14(5). The majority of this report
deals with the regulations that prescribe ‘ excluded subject matter ’ referred
to in subsection 14(5). The issue of the appropriate legislative instrument for
the definition of jurisdiction is also relevant to regulations that may in the
future prescribe an ‘ excluded complaint ’.
5.3 The ARC has as part of its function, the mandate to inquire into the
adequacy of the law and practice relating to the review by the courts of
administrative decisions, and to make recommendations to the Minister as
to any improvements that might be made in that law or practice.75
5.4 The ARC has submitted to the committee that because the complete
ambit of the Tribunal's jurisdiction is not complete on the face of the Act,
it is necessary for users of the Tribunal to have access to delegated
legislation. The ARC contends that this may cause unnecessary uncertainty
for users of the Act.
5.5 The ARC, therefore, has submitted that all exemptions from the
jurisdiction of the Tribunal should be specified in the Act, possibly by way
75
Section 51, Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act, 1975


Super Regs I
of a schedule. If it is necessary to use regulations as a convenient short term
mechanism, ‘ excluded subject matter ’ and ‘ excluded complaints ’ should
be identified in the Act in due course.76
5.6 In evaluating the evidence in relation to the appropriate legislative
instrument for exclusions, the committee has examined the legislation that
prescribes the jurisdiction of the Social Security Appeals Tribunal (SSAT).
Section 1250 of the Social Security Act 1991 sets out the non-reviewable
decisions. There is no delegation of authority to prescribe by regulation
decisions that cannot be reviewed by the SSAT. Any decisions that are not
to be reviewed by the SSAT must be set out in the primary legislation and
pass through Parliament.
76
SISREG Sub No 22


CHAPTER 6:
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions and Recommendations
6.1 The committee is not convinced that there is not a role for the
Tribunal to play in dealing with medical complaints.
6.2 The committee recommends that, notwithstanding the outcome of the
disallowance motion, the government re-examine the issue in the light of:
(i) the evidence presented to the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation;
(ii) the experience of the Tribunal over its first six months of
operation; and
(iii) a review of the range of mechanisms available to the Tribunal
to deal with medical complaints.
6.3 The committee further recommends that the Government:
(iv) amend the legislation to remove any doubt that may exist in
relation to the handling of procedural complaints by the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal; and
(v) seek advice from the Regulations and Ordinances Committee on
the appropriate legislative instrument for defining the
jurisdiction of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.




APPENDIX A
TERMS OF REFERENCE
19 May 1993
Terms of Reference
(1) That the following matters be referred to the Select Committee on
Superannuation for inquiry and report:
(a) increasing Superannuation Guarantee coverage from 9 to 12 per
cent and the role of employee contributions in this process;
(b) the use of superannuation funds to finance the purchase of
housing by members;
(c) legislation to implement the recommendations of the
committee's first report, Safeguarding Super, and related
matters; and
(d) the likely effect of the changes in the treatment of allocated
pensions and annuities for social security purposes contained in
Division 19 of the Social Security Legislation Amendment Act
(No. 3) 1992, with particular reference to:
(i) the application of the proposed income test for allocated
pensions,
(ii) the likely impact of the changes on allocated pension
holders,
(iii) the implications of the changes for the integration of the
taxation and social security systems,
(iv) the implications of the changes for Australian retirement
incomes policy,
(v) the desirability, or otherwise, of equitable treatment
between allocated pensions and annuities,


Super Regs I
(vi) the processes employed by the Department of Social
Security and the Government in reviewing the treatment
of allocated pensions for social security purposes, and
(vii) any other matters related to the treatment of income
stream retirement products for taxation and social security
purposes.
(2) That the committee report to the Senate not later than the last sitting
day of each June and December until the end of Parliament or until
the committee presents its final report, whichever first occurs.
16 March 1994
That, without prejudice to any inquiry or report that may be made by the
Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, the following
regulations be referred to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
for inquiry and report on or before the last sitting day in November 1994:
(a) Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations (Statutory
Rules 1994 No. 57); and
(b) Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Regulations
(Statutory Rules 1994 No. 56).


APPENDIX B:
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS AND PAPERS
List of Committee Reports
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Byrnwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life
Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and
Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super and the Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992
(4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super - Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)


Super Regs I
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervisory Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Inquiry into the Queensland Professional Officers Association
Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervision Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Privilege Matter Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill
(December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for the Minister for Social Security, Options for
Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System
(March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super for Housing (May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs I (August 1994)


APPENDIX C
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
List of Written Submissions
No 1 Australian Consumers' Association (ACA)
No 2 Bus and Coach Association
No 3 Tidswell Benefit Consultants and Fund Administrators
No 4 Freedom of Choice Fund Management Ltd
No 5 National Australia Bank
No 6 Trustee Corporations Association of Australia
No 7 ANZ Funds Management
No 8 Australian Federation of Consumer Organizations Inc. (AFCO)
No 9 Chris Hanson
No 10 Office of the Cabinet, Queensland
No 11 Financial Planning Association of Australia (FPA)
No 12 Howard V Smith & Associates Pty. Ltd.
No 13 Sly & Weigall
No 14 Attorney-General's Department
No 15 August Financial Management Limited
No 16 Self Management Retirement Systems Pty Ltd
No 17 Life Insurance Federation of Australia Incorporated (LEFA)
No 18 G. & E. Foti Enterprises Pty. Ltd.
No IS- Arthur Robinson & Hedderwicks


Super Regs I
No 20
No 21
No 22
No 23
No 24
No 25
No 26
Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC)
Mr J. M. Kelberg
Administrative Review Council (ARC)
Superannuation Trust of Australia
Permanent Trustee Company Limited
Mr Bryce Jarrett
Maurice Blackburn and Co., Barristers and Solicitors


APPENDIX D:
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
List of Witnesses at Public Hearings
CANBERRA, 20 JUNE 1994
Ms Caroline Le Couteur, Director, August Financial Management
Ltd
Mr Robert Drake, Senior Policy Officer, Australian Consumers
Association
Mr Robert Gunning, Adviser, Bus and Coach Association
Mr Roger Naim, General Manager, Custodian Services Division,
National Australia Bank Ltd
Mr Howard Pender, Director, Management Co., Australian Ethical
Investment Trust
Mr Ronald J Rankin, Chief Executive Officer, Financial Planning
Association of Australia
Mr Trevor J Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Review Branch,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Ms Judith N Towler, Member, Legislative and Regulatory
Committee, Financial Planning Association of Australia
Mr Michael B White, Executive Director, Disabled Peoples
International (Australia) Ltd


Super Regs I
CANBERRA, 23 JUNE 1994
Mr Darren Davis, Assistant Manager, Operations, Life Insurance
Federation of Australia
Mr Donald B Duval, Australian Government Actuary and First
Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Legal and Actuarial, Insurance
and Superannuation Commission
Ms Prudence Ford, Director, Federal Bureau of Consumer Affairs,
Attorney-General's Department
Mrs Wendy Robinson, Director, Review and Legislation Section,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Mr Kenneth Robinson, Member, Superannuation Committee, Life
Insurance Federation of Australia
Ms Dusanka Sabic, Acting Assistant Secretary, Consumer Policy
Branch, Federal Bureau of Consumer Affairs
Mr Trevor John Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Review Branch,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Mr Tim Williams, Member, Superannuation Committee, Life
Insurance Federation of Australia




THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 170 of 1994
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-418
