

Super Regs II
Fourteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Regulations
Statutory Rules 1994 No. 57
November 1994




Super Regs II
Fourteenth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
November 1994


© Commonwealth of Australia 1994
ISBN 0 642 22131 6
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


Members
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator Sue West Deputy Chair
Senator Bruce Childs
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator John Woodley
Tasmania
New South Wales
New South Wales
Western Australia
South Australia
Queensland
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Richard Gilbert (to 14.10.94)
Ms Krista Gerrard (from 17.10.94)
Ms Krista Gerrard (to 14.10.94)
Mr James Satrapa
Ms Ann Settin
Ms Janice Scarabottolo
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




CONTENTS
Contents
Page
Members of the Committee. i
Contents. iii
Chapters:
1. Introduction . 1
2. Member Choice. 5
3. The Sole Purpose Test and Charges over Assets. 33
4. The Remaining Regulations. 45
5. AWU-FIME. 61
Appendices:
A- Terms of Reference . 65
B. List of Committee Reports and Papers. 67
C. List of Written Submissions. 69
D. List of Witnesses at Public Hearings. 71
E. ASSET Portfolios for BIC. 73
F. Selected Results of Survey on Beneficiary
Investment Choice. 75
G. Article in The Australian of 13 July 1994 . 77
H. Letter from Hon. Paul Elliott, MP. 79




CHAPTER 1:
INTRODUCTION
Introduction
The object of this report is to examine concerns raised about the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations.
Background
1.1 Pursuant to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (the
'SIS Act') are the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations,
Statutory Rules No. 57 of 1994 (the 'SIS regulations'). These regulations
were made on 4 March 1994, gazetted on 11 March 1994, and tabled in the
Senate and the House of Representatives on 17 and 22 March 1994,
respectively. The SIS regulations were referred to the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation on 16 March 1994. The terms of reference
of this inquiry appear at Appendix A.
1.2 The SIS regulations prescribe the standards to apply in relation to an
extensive array of issues, including the provision of information for members
and other persons, matters associated with public offer entities, the
management and trusteeship of superannuation entities, minimum benefits,
payment standards (formerly known as preservation standards), contributions
and benefit accruals, the financial management of funds, eligible rollover
benefits, information to be given to the Insurance and Superannuation
Commissioner, pre-1 July 1988 funding credits, and a number of
miscellaneous and transitional provisions.
The issues
1.3 Beneficiary investment choice (otherwise known as 'member choice
or 'member investment choice'), the standards for which are prescribed


under SIS regulation 4.02, was the issue which drew the largest response in
terms of submissions and evidence given at the hearings. A number of other
equally important issues that were raised included the possible impact that
the prohibition of charges over assets under SIS regulation 13.14 would have
on funds' custodial services; whether partial disability benefits would conflict
with the sole purpose test; whether the new preservation requirements
should be implemented earlier; whether the age at which a person is
deemed to have retired should be lowered; and the controversy surrounding
the arrangement between the AWU-FIME and the administrator of the
Nationwide Superannuation Fund, the Professional Services Investment Pty
Ltd (PSI).
Conduct of the inquiry
1.4 On 24 March 1994, the committee wrote to about 400 persons and
organisations on its mailing list. Thirty six written submissions were received.
The list of written submissions appears at Appendix C.
1.5 The committee conducted public hearings on 20 and 23 June 1994
in Canberra and heard evidence from AWU-FIME and PSI on
19 September 1994. A list of witnesses who gave evidence at these hearings
appears at Appendix D.
Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Regulations: Update
1.6 On 29 August 1994, the committee tabled its thirteenth report,
Super Regs /, on the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints)
Regulations. On the same day, the Senate resolved to disallow these
regulations. On 17 October 1994, the Senate rescinded that resolution.
1.7 The Government has stated that a new regulation is to be made
which will exempt medical evidence for six months. However, during this
period, the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal is 'to evaluate ways of
dealing with complaints involving medical evidence'.1
1
Press Release No. pstl9, by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer,
13 October 1994


1.8 Also on 17 October 1994, Senator Sherry, at Senator Watson's
request, said that the Government now favours giving the Tribunal resources
and powers to deal with the consideration of medical evidence, and will take
steps to ensure that this occurs from the date of expiry of the proposed new
exemption regulation.2
1.9 On 1 November 1994 the Superannuation (Resolution of
Complaints) Regulations (Amendment), Statutory Rules 1994 No. 374, were
notified in the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette.
1.10 The new Regulation 4 commences on gazettal, 1 November 1994,
and ceases six months thereafter. Regulation 4 reads:
(1) For the purposes of the definition of 'excluded subject matter' in section
3 of the Act, excluded subject matter is matter in relation to which the Tribunal,
in dealing with the matter:
(a) would have to undertake the assessment or evaluation of medical
evidence, opinion or reports; or
(b) would have to consider, having regard to medical evidence, opinion
or reports, the question of a person's incapacity; or
(c) would be likely to have to perform a function mentioned in
paragraph (a) or (b).
(2) This regulation ceases to have effect at the end of 6 months after it
commences.
1.11 As at 15 November 1994, Statutory Rules 1994 No. 374 had not been
tabled.
Acknowledgments
1.12 The committee records its appreciation of the written submissions
and oral evidence to this inquiry. In particular, the committee acknowledges
the diligence and cooperation of the Insurance and Superannuation
Commission (ISC) in resolving a number of issues which were raised in
submissions before the hearings were conducted. The committee also
expresses its appreciation for the cooperation extended by Brian Scott of
2
Senate Hansard, 17 October 1994, p 1811


Towers Perrin in enabling the committee to use the survey information
referred to in this report.


CHAPTER 2:
MEMBER CHOICE
Member Choice
Beneficiary investment choice must be within the investment strategy laid
down by the trustee for the fund as a whole.
Introduction
2.1 This chapter examines the issue of members' right to choose funds
and the effect of SIS legislation upon funds which offer their beneficiaries
choice in how their superannuation money is invested. It also examines the
feasibility of mandating the right of beneficiaries to choose investments.
Member choice
2.2 Member choice has two key strands:
• choice of fund membership; and
• members and beneficiaries of funds choosing investment strategies
offered by trustees.
Choice of funds
2.3 If a voluntary member of a public offer fund is dissatisfied with the
performance of the fund, regardless of the investment strategies on offer,
that member is free to move his/her money to another fund, which would
necessarily be another public offer fund.
2.4 That freedom of fund choice is not fully available to all members of
standard employer-sponsored funds, usually industry funds, frequently
because of the conditions imposed by a governing award.
State awards - choice of funds
2.5 However, the committee notes that most states (New South Wales,
Victoria, Tasmania and Western Australia) have enacted legislation affecting
state awards which allows superannuation payments to be paid into a fund


of the employee's choice, provided the employer agrees. South Australia
does not have such legislation but was apparently discussing changes similar
to those enacted in New South Wales.3 The extent to which fund members
have taken advantage of these opportunities is unknown to the committee.
Federal awards - choice of funds
2.6 The Department of Industrial Relations (DIR) has previously
provided the committee with the results of a survey of major state and
federal awards (those covering over 10,000 employees).4 At the time of the
DIR survey, ten major federal awards had been identified in the Australian
Bureau of Statistics Award Coverage Survey. Only two of these ten awards
did not provide any choice of fund. Of the rest, two allowed the individual
employee the choice of funds nominated under the award. Membership of
funds in the remaining six awards were generally decided by agreement of
the union members or following discussions between employers and unions.
(See Table 1.)
2.7 The test case decision handed down on 7 September 1994 by the
Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC) about what provision,
if any, awards of the AIRC should contain with respect to employee
contributions, left the choice of fund provisions intact.5
2.8 The recent introduction of enterprise bargaining may have been
expected to introduce an extra element of choice for a substantial number
of workers. However, the DIR recently advised the committee that as at
13 September 1994, superannuation provisions have been a feature in only
428 of the 2,461 enterprise agreements made, with 332 of those agreements
dealing with the issue of choice of fund.6 Of those 332 agreements, 235
(71%) provided no choice of fund:
• 205 provisions specify one fund only;
Superfunds, The brave new world of industry super', by Beth Quinlivan,
April 1994, p 18
4 Submission No 81 to the committee's original inquiry, sent 1 May 1992
5 Australian Industrial Relations Commission Superannuation Test Case,
Melbourne, 7 September 1994, Print No L5100
6
SGCREV Sub No 94


Table 1
Source: Adapted from 'Survey of Major Awards - Superannuation Provisions' prepared and
supplied by Mr Grant Doxey, Director, Employment Conditions Section, Department of Industrial
Relations


84 agreements provide a choice of two or more funds for
superannuation contributions;
• 30 agreements specified the fund in relation to Superannuation
Guarantee (SG) contributions; and
• 13 superannuation provisions did not limit payments to any specific
fund.
It is possible that the reduced number of employees in any given enterprise
agreement, vis-a-vis an award agreement, resulted in restricted choice to
facilitate employers' administration of their superannuation obligations.
High Court judgment
2.9 On 1 July 1993, the High Court held that, special circumstances
aside, an award cannot require employer superannuation contributions
which are made in respect of employees who are not members of a union
to be paid into a specified fund. This judgment of the High Court may
facilitate some members having a greater choice in nominating their
superannuation fund.
Beneficiary investment choice (BIC)
The legislation
2.10 The SIS legislation prescribes the circumstances in which a trustee
may be given directions, thereby allowing the beneficiaries of a fund to
choose an investment strategy or a combination of strategies offered by the
trustee. However, such choices, known as beneficiary investment choices
(BIC), are only possible at the discretion of the trustee.
2.11 Subsection 52(4) of the SIS Act states that:
An investment strategy is taken to be in accordance with paragraph (2)(f)
[concerning the covenant requiring trustees to formulate and give effect
to an investment strategy] even if it provides for a specified beneficiary
or a specified class of beneficiaries to give directions to the trustee,
where:
7
Re Financial Sector Union of Australia; Ex Parte Financial Clinic (Vic) Pty Ltd
and Others, 178 CLR 352


(a) the directions relate to the strategy to be followed by the trustee in
relation to the investment of a particular asset or assets of the
entity; and
(b) the directions are given in circumstances covered by regulations
made for the purposes of this paragraph.
2.12 The regulation made for the purposes of paragraph 52(4)(b) of the
Act is SIS regulation 4.02:
REGULATION 4.02 COVENANTS IN GOVERNING RULES OF A
SUPERANNUATION ENTITY - BENEFICIARY INVESTMENT
CHOICE
4.02(1) [Circumstances in which directions may be given] For the
purposes of paragraph 52(4)(b) of the Act, the circumstances in which a
direction of the kind referred in that paragraph (other than a subsequent
direction of that kind) may be given are:
(a) in the case of a direction by a specified beneficiary who is, or a
class of specified beneficiaries each of whom is, a standard
employer-sponsored member - the circumstances stated in
subregulations (2) and (3); and
(b) in any other case - the circumstances stated in subregulation (2).
4.02(2) [Choice of investment strategies] For the purposes of
paragraphs (l)(a) and (b), the following circumstances are stated, namely
that:
(a) the trustee gives to the beneficiary, or to each member of the class
of beneficiaries, a choice of 2 or more investment strategies from
which the beneficiary, may choose a strategy, or combination of
strategies; and
(b) the beneficiary, or each member of the class of beneficiaries, is
given:
(i) the investment objectives of each of the strategies mentioned
in paragraph (a); and
(ii) all information the trustee reasonably believes a person
would reasonably need for the purpose of understanding the
effect of, and any risk involved in, each of those strategies;
and


(c) the beneficiary, or each member of the class of beneficiaries, is fully
informed of the range of directions that can be given and the
circumstances in which they can be changed; and
(d) the direction is given after compliance with the above paragraphs,
and the direction specifies:
(i) which of the strategies or which combination of strategies
referred to in paragraph (a) is to be followed in relation to
investments of the beneficiary's or class of beneficiaries'
interest in the fund; and
(ii) where applicable, matters related to the choice referred to
in that paragraph.
2.13 This type of choice which is allowed by the legislation can and
should be distinguished from the kind of member-directed investment
choice where the trustee is required to implement any investment or
investment strategy for a member at the direction of that member.
The legislation is concerned with existing investment strategy options
which a trustee can offer fund members.
The main concerns about BIC
2.14 The evidence taken by the committee indicated that there is broad
support for BIC. However, a number of concerns were expressed about the
manner in which BIC would operate under the SIS regime. These concerns
merit serious consideration by trustees and the regulator, the ISC.
2.15 Some evidence suggested that BIC be a requirement rather than an
option for some or all superannuation funds, either on moral/ethical
grounds, or as a means of ensuring that members achieve optimal returns on
their superannuation savings investments (under BIC, investment decisions
could take into account such factors as the member's age, marital status,
gender and financial commitments), or to discourage the establishment of
excluded funds which would not be bound by the constraints on BIC in the


legislation.8 Others expressed concern that SIS regulation 4.02 undermined
the basis upon which a number of master funds operate, namely: the right
of investors to select and formulate investments that are appropriate to their
own preferences and circumstances.9
Beneficiaries with limited choice
2.16 The committee considers that the lack of choice available to standard
employer-sponsored (compulsory) members of some funds warrants closer
examination than has occurred in its previous inquiries into the regulation
of superannuation. In contrast, the committee has fewer concerns in this
regard about voluntary members of public offer funds (including master
trusts) who could become members as an act of personal choice and who,
in many cases, are offered the opportunity to select a preferred investment
strategy.
2.17 As noted previously, the voluntary members of public offer funds
retain the option of transferring their accrued entitlements to other funds
if they are dissatisfied with a fund's performance, even though exit fees may
be substantial. Such an option may not be available to members of some
funds where their membership of a fund is compulsory as a consequence of:
(i) conditions of an award negotiated with the Industrial Relations
Commission; or
(ii) the employer's choice of fund into which compulsory superannuation
contributions will be paid under the Superannuation Guarantee
(Administration) Act 1992, or
(iii) agreed conditions of employment.
8 Howard Pender, Australian Ethical Investment Trust, and Caroline Le Couteur,
August Financial Management Limited; Evidence, pp 11-22 and
SISREG Sub No 15
Jock Rankin and Judith Towler, Financial Planning Association,
Evidence, pp 37-59 and SISREG Sub No 11
Sly & Weigall, Lawyers, SISREG Sub No 13
9 J K Tidswell, SISREG Sub No 3; R E Nixon, Freedom of Choice, SISREG Sub
No 4; Don Blyth, Trustee Corporations Association, SISREG Sub No 6


2.18 However, as noted in paragraph 2.5, recently enacted state legislation
enables limited mobility for some fund members.
Fund members at risk
2.19 Several factors, especially when taken together, appear to prejudice
beneficiaries whose membership of funds is compulsory (standard employer-
sponsored members). These factors are:
(i) the general shift from defined benefit funds to accumulation funds,
following the introduction of award superannuation and the SG
legislation, moved the investment risk in the pre-retirement stage of
a beneficiary's career from the employer to the beneficiary;10
(ii) employers choose the fund to which the compulsory SG
contributions are paid; and
(iii) trustees are protected from liability for poor investment performance
where investments have been made in accordance with an investment
strategy formulated under the relevant covenant in the SIS Act.11
It can be argued that the outcome of these factors operating together is that
most standard employer-sponsored members are required to bear the
investment risk without having the power to effect the investment outcome.
But countering this line of reasoning is the view that the majority of
beneficiaries are not in a position to make prudent judgments on
superannuation investments. These two arguments need to be carefully
assessed.
10 (i) Financial Planning Association, SISREG Sub No 11
(ii) From an edited transcript of a presentation by Robert Birnbaum, of
J.P. Morgan, on 19 July 1994 at the J.P. Morgan Industry Funds
Symposium in Sydney, provided by the Australian Institute of
Superannuation Trustees Inc
(iii) David M. Knox, A Critique of the Direction of Current Superannuation
Developments Using a Simulation Approach'; Colloquium of
Superannuation Researchers, University of Melbourne, 8-9 July 1993
11 (i) Financial Planning Association, SISREG Sub No 11
(ii) Subsection 55(5) of the SIS Act 1993


Defined benefit funds
2.20 The Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA) submitted that
BIC was inappropriate in the case of defined benefit funds because benefits
are not directly related to investment earnings.12 While this argument has
some merit, it could not be extended to all defined benefit funds, as some
of these funds have benefits which are supplemented by member generated
accumulation components. In respect of this component of a member's
superannuation plan, there is a role for an element of member choice.
Advantages of BIC
2.21 The advantages of BIC were perceived to be that:
(i) it allows members to personalise their superannuation investments;
(ii) it allows members to complement their existing superannuation and
non-superannuation investments;
(iii) it gives members what they want;
(iv) it would alter the current level of fiduciary responsibilities and
obligations of trustees; and
(v) it avoids possible inequities in accumulation schemes by not having
to use smoothing and reserving.13
Drawbacks of BIC
2.22 However, BIC has some possible drawbacks, namely, the perception
that:
(i) overly conservative choices would be made by beneficiaries;
(ii) member benefits would no longer be protected by informed
investment decisions made by investment professionals;
12
13
Supplement to SISREG Sub No 17
Towers Perrin, Topics, 'Results of survey on member investment choice,
May 1994


(iii) generally members are not sufficiently sophisticated to make
informed long term investment decisions;
(iv) BIC would interfere with trustees responsibility to protect their
members superannuation savings;
(v) increased difficulty of administration would result; and
(vi) the added cost of introducing BIC could not be justified.14
Costs
2.23 LIFA estimated that the cost to a fund of introducing BIC into an
existing accumulation scheme could be about 10 cents per member per
month, plus a $20 charge for switching between options. This estimate took
into account costs involving:
• trust deed amendments, processing of BIC requests, and various
disclosure requirements;
• the development and implementation of the investment strategies;
and
• advice to members.15
The estimate assumed that:
(i) the charge would be applied to all members of a fund rather than
those who use the service;
(ii) there was no computer enhancement;
(iii) there was no personalised advice;
(iv) the choice was only available on joining and then annually; and
14 Towers Perrin, Topics, 'Results of survey on member investment choice',
May 1994
SISREG Sub No 17, supplementary
15


(v) there would be a choice of four investment options for existing
balances and/or future contributions.
LIFA estimates did not take into account certain investment costs such as
buy/sell expenses.16
2.24 Where a 'user pays' principle is introduced, the cost per user would
be higher. One estimate is that the cost of installing member choice was
about $70 to $80 per head, but with little extra cost thereafter.17
Jacques Martin estimated that based on the US experience (see below),
administration costs, if spread across all members, will rise by between 25 to
50 per cent for simple investment choice arrangements.18 For more
complex arrangements, the costs could double.
2.25 While these estimates are approximate, the committee considers that
the introduction of BIC into a fund need not be accompanied by substantial
costs, particularly if, in the case of industry funds, simple choices are made
available.
2.26 The following case study indicates to the committee that if BIC were
to be integrated into a new fund's administrative systems from the outset,
albeit in its simplest form, it may not add appreciably to the financial burden
imposed on a fund and its members.19
2.27 Queensland Coal and Oil Shale Mining Industry Superannuation
Fund (QCOS) (see paragraph 2.33 below), an industry fund which
introduced BIC after the fund was established, found that BIC generated
extra costs associated with providing information to members as part of a
communication program designed to both inform and educate members of
16
SISREG Sub No 17, supplementary
17 Estimate attributed to Robert Birnbaum of J P Morgan in Barrie Dunstans
column in the Financial Review on 27 July 1994; article titled 'Super tund
investment choice still a long way off
18 SISREG Sub No 32
19 Information supplied by State Street - SISREG Sub No 35


Case Study:
The Australian Superannuation Savings Employment Trust (ASSET),
is an industry fund which has been offering simple BIC since it was
established (see Appendix E). The trustees charge members of the fund
about 85 cents per person per week in administrative fees, which
appears to be in a competitive price range for industry funds. As BIC
was an integral part of the services administered for the fund, it is not
possible to clearly quantify the cost of providing that option. However,
it seems that the administrative costs charged to the members of that
fund would not be appreciably less if members did not have the option.
the fund into investment choice.20 Despite this, the fund was proceeding
with the program, which was comprehensive in its scope (detailed further at
paragraph 2.66 below).
Choosing choice
2.28 The committee considers that in principle it is appropriate for both
choice of fund and BIC to be available to all members of superannuation
funds as it believes this would:
(i) promote competition between funds;
(ii) enhance consumer understanding of superannuation; and
(iii) empower individual members of funds to influence their
superannuation arrangements and provide them with an increased
sense of ownership of their superannuation balances, thereby
assisting them in achieving the objectives of self provision in the
Government's retirement incomes policy.
2.29 The committee considers that the advantages to beneficiaries would
easily outweigh the disadvantages provided that beneficiaries were more fully
20 Greg Bright, Case Study Two: 'Costs rise with choice of investment' in article
titled 'It's a whole new ball game', Super Review; August 1994


informed and educated to the range and nature of investment opportunities
available. These advantages could be enhanced if members were also given
some practical information as to how the various investment options could
be used to optimise their superannuation entitlements given their individual
circumstances and preferences.
2.30 The obvious advantages of BIC increasingly will be embraced by the
community and be reflected in market forces which will further its cause.
As homogenous investment strategies will be perceived by many members
to be inadequate for their individual needs, it is expected that members, and
possibly their representatives, who in some funds, act on their behalf, will
demand greater choice in the manner in which their money is invested.
Similarly, trustees and investment managers of funds would be expected to
perceive that they should offer their members choices which would more
closely suit their needs.
The current market
2.31 The committee is encouraged to learn that some industry funds are
already offering BIC. As noted in the case study, one such fund, ASSET,
offers BIC in a simple form, by way of a choice of two portfolios (see
Appendix E).21 One portfolio is market linked, with its attendant risks and
designed as a long term investment because of the likely fluctuations in the
year to year returns, while the other, designed for older members closer to
retirement, consists mainly of capital guaranteed funds or capital stable
investment arrangements.
2.32 The committee's attention was drawn to certain terminology used by
the industry to describe different types of investment, for example: capital
stable, capital guaranteed, and capital secure. Although these terms have
very specific meanings within the industry, the distinctions between them are
often lost on consumers. The current market can be bewildering for
superannuants. The committee therefore calls on industry to ensure that
their clients are clearly apprised of these distinctions before they enter
investment arrangements. The committee also calls on the regulator, the
ISC, to monitor compliance with the requirement that the trustee provide
21
ASSET employer kit


all the information that a person requires to understand their choice of
investment strategy.
2.33 As noted at paragraph 2.27, QCOS also provides BIC.22 In
October 1993, QCOS introduced BIC to members who make voluntary
contributions. Of the 10,400 members of the fund, 5,406 are voluntary
contributors, of whom 1,113 (21%) elected to make a choice:
Of those who participated, just over a third chose a mix of investments
recommended by trustees according to the age of the member and two-thirds
decided to mix and match their own choices from pools of capital guaranteed,
balanced and 100 per cent equities. Those who did nothing had their voluntary
contributions placed in the capital guaranteed pool, while the mandatory funds
which made up the majority were managed in accordance with a member-age
schedule.23
2.34 One of the largest industry fund administrators is also in the process
of promoting BIC for the funds it administers.24 The committee
commends those funds which have taken, and are taking, this very important
initiative.
2.35 The simple alternatives offered by ASSET are one end of the
spectrum of possibilities which BIC opens to members. At the other end of
the spectrum, a sophisticated range of BIC offerings is in the process of
being formulated by AMP for public offer employer-sponsored funds - these
are the traditional funds where employer contributions are supplemented by
employee co-contributions.25 The AMP plan includes an array of
investment options ranging from very conservative capital guaranteed
investments, such as short term Australian fixed interest securities, to
investments with high levels of exposure to Australian and international
Greg Bright, Case Study Two: 'Costs rise with choice of investment' in article
titled 'It's a whole new ball game', Super Review,; August 1994
23 Greg Bright, Case Study Two: 'Costs rise with choice of investment' in article
titled 'It's a whole new ball game', Super Review, August 1994
Barrie Dunstan, 'AMP prepares for super push', Australian Financial Review,
25 August 1994
25 Information supplied by AMP on 19 August 1994


shares, in which the investor accepts a high level of volatility in return for
the prospect of a high level of real returns associated with long term share
investment.
Attitudes to superannuation which inhibit BIC
2.36 A combination of market forces and changing community
expectations may not, on their own, be sufficient to entrench BIC
throughout the superannuation industry. BIC, in the absence of steps to
educate the community about its benefits, could prove to be:
a way of guaranteeing members the total right to be wrongs6
2.37 Another factor suggested as inhibiting the introduction of BIC' is
that:
there was no demonstrated demand for it, except for the top few per cent of
people in superannuation.27
2.38 The BIC dilemma could well be explained by the widespread
confusion which still surrounds the whole issue of superannuation. The
Sweeney Report, which was commissioned by the Department of Social
Security, published survey data indicating that about 50 per cent of
Australians were confused about superannuation and that most did not
know how much superannuation they needed to provide for a comfortable
retirement.28 An important message emerging from this report was that
a very significant number of people would consider contributing more if they
26 Comment by Garry Weaven, executive chairman of Industry Funds Services Pty
Ltd, reported by Barrie Dunstan, in 'Member choice a super danger', Financial
Review, 21 July 1994
27 Comment by Garry Weaven, executive chairman of Industry Funds Services Pty
Ltd, reported by Barrie Dunstan, in 'Member choice a super danger' Financial
Review
28 Kalisch and Patterson of the Department of Social Security, 'Australia s
Retirement Incomes System: Interactions and Attitudes' presented at the hirst
Annual Colloquium of Superannuation Researchers at the University of
Melbourne on 8-9 July 1993


understood more about superannuation. Higher levels of contributions
would undoubtedly encourage a higher level of participation in choosing
investments most appropriate to individual needs.
The pace of change
2.39 The pace of change in this area of superannuation activity will be
influenced by the extent of trustee and beneficiary education. In its sixth
report, the committee recommended that the ISC and key superannuation
industry groups representing the interests of consumers and providers,
combine to develop and implement a five year superannuation consumer
education strategy for implementation in early 1994.29
2.40 The committee understands that following the Treasurer's Statement
of 28 June 1994, a consumer education campaign is to be managed by the
Australian Taxation Office, working closely with the ISC, various other
government agencies and through a Public Education Focus Group which
includes these and a number of other interest groups, including some private
sector industry groups/'0 Although BIC was only a very small part of this
education strategy, the ISC has recently produced a Superannuation Circular
stating its position on this issue.31 But it is important to note in this regard
that ISC Superannuation Circulars are more for consumption by trustees
than for fund members.
2.41 It is the committee's expectation, therefore, that BIC should be an
integral component of the superannuation education plan of both the ISC
and the superannuation industry.
29 Recommendation 3.10 of the Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation titled Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions
30 Michael Monaghan, ATO, Evidence, 23 September 1994, pp 611-612
31 Superannuation Group, Superannuation Circular No II.D.l, 'Investment
Strategies and Beneficiary Investment Choice', September 1994


Recommendation 2.1
The committee recommends that in developing its comprehensive public-
education campaign on the consumer elements of superannuation, the
Government make BIC a component of the forthcoming ATO/ISC
campaign.
Beneficiaries who already have the right to choose
2.42 Although BIC has long been a feature of personal superannuation
policies and has recently become a major selling point with a number of
master funds, several submissions were received expressing concern that SIS
regulations 4.02 and 4.09 would restrict the ability of such funds to enable
their members to selectively tailor their investment strategies.32 Included
in these concerns was that these regulations will not allow investment
strategies to be implemented unless they are formulated before being
offered to all members through a prospectus.33
2.43 Freedom of Choice Funds Management Limited submitted that
subregulation 4.09(2), which requires the trustee of a superannuation entity
to formulate and give effect to an investment strategy that has regard to all
the circumstances of the entity, is the reverse of their current practice which
is to accept the strategy and place the investments as selected.34 Freedom
of Choice maintains that it is not possible for it to formulate and promulgate
through its prospectus a range of strategies to suit every new applicant.
32
J.K. Tidswell, SISREG Sub No 3
R.E. Nixon, Freedom of Choice Fund Management Limited,SISREG Sub No 4
Don Blyth, Trustee Corporations Association, SISREG Sub No 6
33 R.E. Nixon, Freedom of Choice Fund Management Limited, SISREG Sub No 4
J.K. Tidswell, SISREG Sub No 3
34
SISREG Sub No 4


2.44 Another problem raised by Freedom of Choice was an extension of
this perceived constraint, that is: a member who decides to replace one
investment with another investment is prevented from doing so because
under the SIS regulations the participant cannot direct the trustee to replace
investments unless it is an investment strategy which has already been
formulated by the trustee.35
2.45 Tidswell Benefit Consultants and Fund Administrators and the
Trustee Corporations Association of Australia raised similar concerns.36
Freedom of Choice and Tidswell both submitted that many of their subplans
would be likely to leave the master trust and establish their own excluded
superannuation funds, which are not bound by SIS regulation 4.09, and
which would therefore regain direct control over their investment options.
2.46 The Australian Government Actuary commented on this issue:
...our experience is that the members of [master trusts with subplans of less than
five members] definitely do need prudential protection from the ISC. It has been
suggested that the effect of the legislation may be a swing from these master
trusts to excluded funds...Some of these very free choice master trusts may break
up into their constituent subfunds...In a prudential sense, this is probably a
positive move because the separate subfunds will then be separately audited and
have separately identified assets, which will deal with one of the major
prudential problems that we have detected so far...37
2.47 Notwithstanding this line of reasoning, the committee is not troubled
by the mode of operation of master trusts which actively formulate
individual investment strategies in consultation with members of their
subplans, as long as these are consistent with all the circumstances of the
fund, particularly with the overall investment strategy formulated for the
fund as a whole. The essential ingredient in this process is that the trustee
accepts responsibility for the final design and selection of investments. The
committee does, however, have concerns that the software used by some
35 SISREG Sub No 4
36 SISREG Sub Nos 3 and 4
Evidence, p 105
37


master trusts has been inadequate for the task, generating unacceptable
delays in administrative processing.
2.48 Although the members of funds most likely to participate in
designing and implementing investment strategies would be generally those
with substantial investments in superannuation, the committee does not
consider that this option should be denied to less affluent fund members.
This will become increasingly important as the accrued entitlements of
members of funds grow under the SG regime.
Recommendation 2.2
The committee recommends that the ISC review the SIS regulations to
ensure that the formulation of an individual investment strategy by a
trustee in consultation with a fund beneficiary will not be a breach of
operating standards, provided this strategy is consistent with the overall
investment strategy that the trustee has formulated for the fund as a
whole.


Should a beneficiary be given the right to choose investment strategies?
2.49 Mr Howard Pender, of the Australian Ethical Investment Trust, and
Ms Caroline Le Couteur of August Financial Management Limited,
submitted, in effect, that standard employer-sponsored members of a fund,
who are compelled to join their industry fund or corporate sub-plan, and
who have moral or ethical objections to the manner in which a trustee of a
fund invested a member's contributions, should be able to exercise some
right of choice as to where their money is directed.38 Such a direction
would, amongst other things, be subject to the trustee being satisfied that
the proposed investment strategy was suitable for superannuation purposes.
2.50 Ms Judith Towler and Mr Jock Rankin of the Financial Planning
Association (FPA) were also in favour of members having the choice of
fund and the choice of an investment strategy within funds.39 The FPA's
submission was that individuals would be better off if allowed to make a
choice based on their needs, personal circumstances and risk tolerance, with
that choice being made within the context of competent and unbiased
financial advice.
2.51 In examining the issue of whether or not BIC should be mandated,
the committee considered that such a course of action would be premature,
if done immediately, for the following reasons:
(i) a concern that one of the cornerstones of SIS, namely, the concept
of a single entity, the trustee, taking full responsibility for running the
fund, may be undermined;
(ii) at this stage, there appears to be only a small demand for BIC by
members of superannuation funds; and
(iii) enhanced community education about superannuation is needed
before a mandatory BIC regime is implemented.
38 Evidence, p 21
39 Evidence, p 45
SISREG Sub No 11


These concerns are discussed in further detail below.
2.52 The committee gained the impression that BIC, while frequently
discussed, was not a matter upon which some key superannuation groups
have formulated firm policy positions.40 The absence of publicly stated
positions by some of these industry players underscores the impression that
although BIC has been allowed under trust law for some considerable time,
it is in conceptual and practical terms, in its embryonic stages of
development.
The trustee as the sole entity responsible for running a superannuation fund
2.53 This key element to the SIS legislation and its attendant prudential
safeguards was recommended by the committee in its first report,
Safeguarding Super. The committee maintains that trustees should not be
forced to, or be able to, avoid responsibility of designing an investment
strategy and, ultimately, selecting particular investments. Should this occur,
there would be a severe risk of undermining the whole purpose of the SIS
legislation, namely, to attain prudential control and security of
superannuation assets. This risk would be heightened if individual BIC were
to be mandated, and a trustee required to accept an investment strategy or
a particular investment preference of any individual member or group of
members, regardless of whether or not that investment or investment
strategy was certified by an accredited financial adviser as being suitable for
superannuation. The basic role of a trustee includes the right to make, and
to take full responsibility for, the fundamental evaluation of whether an
investment or an investment strategy is suitable for superannuation.
2.54 Nevertheless, the danger to a trustee's responsibility and
independence would clearly stem not from BIC per se, regardless of whether
40 For example, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees; Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia; and the Australian Consumers Association
did not give oral evidence on this issue. Of these three organisations, only ASI-A
forwarded a submission which took a position on this issue, maintaining that it
should be '...up to funds as to whether to offer investment choice to members...
Member choice should not be compulsory in the current environment.
SISREG Sub No 28


or not it is mandatory, but from investments and investment strategies being
forced upon a trustee.
Demand for BIC
2.55 The results of the symposium held by J.P. Morgan with industry
representatives on 19 July 1994 seemed to indicate that BIC would inevitably
become a more entrenched feature of the industry.41 In addition, a survey
conducted by Towers Perrin of 139 superannuation funds, revealed that
15 per cent of the funds surveyed already offered BIC, and that a further
50 per cent of the funds surveyed are planning to, or will consider, offering
members a choice of investment.42 Of the remaining 35 per cent of funds
that did not intend to offer BIC to their members, over two thirds indicated
that pressure from members would make them reconsider their decision not
to offer BIC. A smaller but significant proportion indicated that market
pressure and a decrease in costs associated with establishing BIC would
make them reconsider. Appendix F includes some of the results of the
Towers Perrin survey.
2.56 These findings were also reflected at the J.P. Morgan symposium
where, although less than one third of the industry representatives at the
symposium stated that their funds currently offered BIC, and only about half
stated that their funds intended to offer BIC within two years, over
two thirds agreed that fund members should have a say in what choices the
fund should offer. In addition, nearly three quarters of these representatives
agreed that BIC would increase voluntary contributions to the fund while
nearly half considered that BIC would increase participation in the fund.
Furthermore, nearly two thirds agreed that members of funds are interested
in how investment alternatives affect their retirement income.
41 J.P. Morgan Industry Funds Symposium, Interactive Session Results - Sydney,
19 July 1994
4" Towers Perrin, Topics, 'Results of survey on member investment choice',
May 1994


The US experience
2.57 In evaluating what appears to be a lack of demand for BIC on the
part of members of funds at large, the committee examined the origin of
BIC in the USA, where it has become a popular feature of retirement
savings plans. Mr Robert Birnbaum, of J.P. Morgan, maintained that the
first factor that arose in the US was the shift from defined benefit funds to
defined contribution funds (accumulation funds) which were less expensive
to fund and operate than traditional pension plans.43 In addition,
employers wished to avoid liability for poor performance. Finally, as their
accounts grew, employees, who bore the investment risk in defined
contribution plans, demanded control over investments involving their funds.
2.58 The extent of member choice in the US is immense. According to
statistics quoted by Mr Birnbaum, by 1993 there were nearly US$1.2 trillion
invested in defined contribution plans which incorporate member choice,
drawing level with the amount invested in defined benefit plans.
Mr Birnbaum stated that:
The growth in the US pension industry over primary savings has really been in
the member choice area. It's anticipated by the turn of the century that member
choice will be the dominant form of retirement savings in the US...[member
choice] plans are enormously popular and enormously visible. People receive
statements, they think of it as their money, they see money flowing in both from
their own salaries and the company contribution. They see investment growth.
They know if they leave their company these things are portable: they can take
their money with them. They are very popular benefits. If you look in classified
advertisements in newspapers for jobs in the United States, you will very
frequently see these plans as the key benefits for attracting employees.
43
44
From an edited transcript of a presentation by Robert Birnbaum, of
J.P. Morgan, on 19 July 1994 at the J.P. Morgan Industry Funds Symposium in
Sydney, provided by the Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees Inc
From an edited transcript of a presentation by Robert Birnbaum, of
J.P. Morgan, on 19 July 1994 at the J.P. Morgan Industry Funds Symposium in
Sydney, provided by the Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees Inc


In Australia
2.59 A salient feature of superannuation plans in the US is that, in the
main, membership is voluntary. This, of course, contrasts with the
compulsory nature of much fund membership in Australia, generated as it
has been by award superannuation and SG contributions, and employment
contract arrangements.
2.60 Within Australia, a substantial portion of fund membership is within
the large industry funds which are a product of the award superannuation
developments of the 1980s. By and large, these funds are defined
contribution plans, the members of which, as noted previously, bear the
investment risk in relation to the contributions made on their behalf by their
employers.
2.61 About a third of the almost 4 million members of 80 or so industry
funds which responded to a recent survey are classified as 'inactive'
members.45 This description generally refers to members in relation to
whom no contributions have been received for 12 months or more.46 This
is an inhibiting factor which clearly militates against BIC at this stage. Until
an effective mechanism is implemented to address the small amounts/inactive
members problem, industry funds will find it difficult to have high levels of
member participation or choice.
Educating members of superannuation funds
2.62 The low level of participation in industry funds, the ongoing
confusion in the minds of the community concerning superannuation, and
the complexity of investment decisions in exercising BIC, leads the
committee to reiterate that extensive and effective community education
needs to be given priority and fully implemented, regardless of whether or
not BIC becomes mandated. The committee again notes in this context that
greater knowledge of superannuation is likely to lead to significantly higher
levels of voluntary contributions by fund members, and that a greater stake
45 Beth Quinlivan, 'The brave new world of industry super', Superfunds,
April 1994
Ibid
46


in a fund, particularly a voluntary stake, often leads to greater
participation.4
2.63 An interesting corollary of an education process leading to greater
participation and therefore greater use of BIC opportunities, is that B1C
plans themselves may provide educational opportunities because:
they are visible, people care about them, they watch what happens to them and
perhaps this is a chance to educate the...public around financial and economic
48
issues.
2.64 The committee is encouraged to learn that the process of trustee and
beneficiary education seems to be gaining substantial momentum in a
number of quarters.
2.65 In addition to the recent seminars conducted by J.P. Morgan on the
subject of BIC for the benefit of the industry, ASFA intends conducting
seminars, surveys and study groups on the issue of BIC.4;
2.66 The QCOS experience in developing a communication program on
BIC is a noteworthy example at the individual fund level. The QCOS
program addresses the characteristics of each investment option available to
members, the administration requirements for investment choice, and how
their investment choice fits in with the fund's investment strategy in the
context of superannuation.50 The fund also distributes a booklet
describing its investment strategy, holds meetings of members and their
spouses, uses company and union representatives to provide information and
issues a quarterly newsletter to all work sites for dissemination to members.
In the future, the fund intends providing members with additional
investment performance information and more detailed annual reports.
47 The Sweeney Report, mentioned in paragraph 2.38, refers
48 Robert Birnbaum, from edited transcript of presentation at the J.P. Morgan
Industry Funds Symposium in Sydney on 19 July 1994
49 SISREG Sub No 27
Greg Bright, Super Review, August 1994, 'It's a whole new ball game
50


2.67 Another insight into BIC at the fund level was provided by
Mr Bob Putnam at the J.P. Morgan Industry Funds Symposium. The CSR
Staff Superannuation Fund under Mr Putnam's leadership has been
administering BIC since 1983.51
2.68 The committee considers that standard employer-sponsoredmembers
of funds should ultimately have the right to choose between investment
strategies. It is acknowledged that the introduction of BIC would add to
operating costs of existing funds. It is essential that these operating costs
should be explicitly identified.
2.69 As evidence to the committee (outlined at paragraphs 2.23 to 2.27)
suggests that those costs can be reasonably contained, and as market
pressure will push administrators into implementing BIC, existing standard
employer-sponsored funds with fifty or more members should not be
exempted from being required to provide BIC.
2.70 The committee considers that smaller funds should be exempted from
the administrative burden of mandatory BIC unless a future review
determines that such an exemption is not an appropriate course of action.
2.71 The committee wishes to encourage a regime which will make BIC
mandatory and anticipates that such a requirement could be phased in over,
say, five years. This would allow the superannuation industry, with
Government assistance, the opportunity to implement appropriate education
strategies and sufficient lead time for trustees to reorganise the
administrative/technological capacities of their funds.
2.72 The committee notes LIFA's evidence that, if the trustee of any
industry fund wanted to offer a particular service involving BIC, then one
or more of its (LIFA's) members would be able to accommodate that
need.52
51
'Should your fund offer member investment choice?', presented by Bob Putnam,
Manager Superannuation, CSR Limited, at the J.P. Morgan Industry Funds
Symposium on 19 July 1994 in Melbourne
Evidence, p 91
52


Recommendation 2.3
The committee recommends that the trustees of all standard employer-
sponsored funds with fifty or more members (except those defined
benefit funds which have no member generated accumulation
component) be required to offer beneficiary investment choice to their
members in accordance with the provisions of SIS regulation 4.02.
The committee also recommends that this not be introduced before the
community education campaign, being conducted by the superannuation
industry in conjunction with the ISC and ATO, nor before fund trustees
are able to reorganise, as necessary, the administrative/ technological
capacities of their funds to ensure the smooth introduction of BIC.




CHAPTER 3:
THE SOLE PURPOSE TEST
AND CHARGES OVER ASSETS
The Sole Purpose Test and Charges over Assets
Introduction
3.1 This chapter deals with issues arising from the submissions and
evidence concerning the sole purpose test (section 62 of the SIS Act) and
SIS regulation 13.14 which prevents charges over the assets of funds.
3.2 These issues are:
(i) that SIS regulation 13.14, preventing charges on superannuation
assets, be relaxed;53 and
(ii) the possible conflict between garnishee orders issued under section
1233 of the Social Security Act 1991 and the sole purpose test.54
Charges over the assets of funds
Legislation
3.3 SIS regulation 13.14 states:
For the purposes of subsections 31(1) and 32(1) of the Act, it is a standard
applicable to the operation of regulated superannuation funds and approved
deposit funds that, subject to regulation 13.15, the trustee of a fund must not
give a charge over, or in relation to, an asset of the fund.
53
National Australia Bank, SISREG Sub No 5
54
Arthur Robinson and Hedderwicks, SISREG Sub No 19
LIFA, SISREG Sub No 17


3.4 SIS regulation 13.15 states:
The standards stated in regulations 13.12, 13.13 and 13.14 do not apply to an
assignment or charge that is permitted, expressly or by implication, by the Act
or these Regulations.
The provision of security against various transactions
I - Derivatives
3.5 Arthur Robinson & Hedderwicks (ARH) submitted that the
prohibition against charges over assets, as currently worded, could operate
to prevent trustees from entering into agreements with brokers which would
enable them to undertake transactions in respect of futures, options and
other derivative instruments, both in Australia and overseas.55 These
transactions could be prevented because the 'standard form' agreements
upon which these transactions are based require the fund trustees to lodge
with brokers an amount of money or securities in a 'collateral account'.
These accounts are charged in favour of the broker as security against
unfavourable margin calls and can be viewed as a charge over the assets of
the fund. ARH stated in their submission that the ISC had advised that the
legislation had not been intended to prevent trustees from entering into
derivative transactions.
3.6 Notwithstanding that derivatives transactions can be a valuable
instrument for managing financial risk, for example, by hedging funds'
exposure to currency and other risks, the committee considered that a
cautionary note needed to be sounded in the use of these financial products.
Although the use of such derivatives to manage financial risk would appear
to be perfectly legitimate in the financial management of superannuation
funds, overseas experience, particularly in the United States of America, has
demonstrated that some derivative transactions have been devised which
move beyond this relatively simple function. One example is the volatile,
illiquid derivative based on the price of mortgages.56 Such transactions
appear to be approaching the realm of speculative investments for their own
55
SISREG Sub No 19
56
'Mutual funds' derivatives dilemma', The Economist, 3 September 1994,p73


sake, rather than serving any hedging function. They do not appear to be
investments appropriate to superannuation, other than within the normal
construction of diversified portfolios, with their attendant spectrum of risk
profiles.
3.7 The Committee considers that it would be appropriate for this issue
to be examined in greater detail, as excessive use of these transactions may
well expose superannuation funds, and hence their members' accrued
entitlements, to unnecessary risk.
Recommendation 3.1
The committee recommends that the Government review, and if
necessary move to limit, the exposure of superannuation entities to
certain derivatives transactions.
II - Custodians
3.8 In a supplementary submission, ARH stressed the importance of
custodians, particularly master custodians, within the superannuation
industry:
...many large superannuation funds engage a master custodian to take
responsibility for all of the fund's investment asset administration needs, and to
provide clearing and settlement functions, consolidating reporting, "paperwork
control" and information regarding rights issues, takeovers and other corporate
actions relevant to shares held in the portfolio. Most master custodians also
provide valuations, asset performance measurement, accounting, taxation and
other related services and some also provide securities lending programs, foreign
exchange services, proxy voting, and compliance services.
Where a superannuation fund engages more than one investment manager,
difficulties can arise in reconciling differences in reporting methods, keeping
track of asset allocations, effecting securities settlement and safekeeping,
collecting and reconciling income and other receipts, analysing asset
performance and other areas.
...around 80 Australian superannuation funds have engaged a master custodian.
Most of these are superannuation funds with more than $100 million in assets
and who use four or more investment managers...


We further understand from Towers Perrin that capacity among the suppliers
of custodian services for the Australian market is not sufficient to meet the
present demand. As a result, Towers Perrin has found that client superannuation
funds are sometimes unable to enter into custody arrangements with a preferred
custodian which has had insufficient capacity to take on a new portfolio within
a required time frame.57
The place of the master custodian and the sub-custodians in the
superannuation fund structure is set out in a diagram provided by ARH and
appears at Figure 1.
TRUSTEE OF SUPERANNUATION FUND
ASSETS
Mata C*mo4y A*rocroa>i*
MASTER CUSTODIAN
FUND ADMINISTRATOR
Sub-
INVESTMENT MANAGERS
SUB CUSTODIANS
57 SISREG Sub No 19, supplementary


3.9 ARH submitted that master custody agreements put to trustees
invariably contain provisions that a charge be granted to the custodian to
cover claims for payment of fees and expenses, and that these charges are
required for two reasons:
(i) such a charge is customary within the custodianship industry to
protect custodians from occasional substantial exposures resulting
from their payment of registration fees, transaction charges,
production fees, script exchange fees and the like which enable them
to discharge their obligations to effect settlements; and
(ii) sub-custodians engaged by master custodians (to deal with local
settlements and transactions et cetera especially in other countries)
generally request charges to cover their own exposure.
3.10 The National Australia Bank's Custodian Services (NAB) expressed
very similar concerns over regulation 13.14, asserting that:
The undoubted interests of fund members in unencumbered, ungeared portfolios
must be balanced against the bona fide interest of service providers to the fund
or trustees in being remunerated for their services and reimbursed for expenses
incurred in good faith. Protection of such interests is specifically provided in
comparable regulations in other jurisdictions.58
The other jurisdictions referred to by the NAB include the USA, Canada,
the UK and Hong Kong. The NAB submits that:
the prudential standard applicable to Australian superannuation entities should
equate to that applying in comparable jurisdictions, ie fees, costs and expenses
attributable to the safe keeping or administration of fund assets should be
exempted from any prohibition against encumbering fund assets.
3.11 Roger Nairn of NAB reiterated that there were a number of
transactions which are normal administrative management matters for which
a supplier would expect to be covered, for example, on short term
borrowings where fees in advance are required. Other examples given
58
SISREG Sub No 5
59
SISREG Sub No 5


included within-the-day facilities to support trading activities, and forward
foreign exchange dealing facilities which create obligations and which are
provided against the general financial strength of the fund.60
3.12 The fundamental point made by NAB was that a range of
transactions, which are normal to the operation of a fund, including bona
fide investment activities by funds, may be severely impeded with little
consequential benefit to members and trustees if regulation 13.14 prohibition
was applied literally. This would also be the case if regulation 13.14 applied
to fees which are payable for the safe custody and administration of fund
assets. In some major jurisdictions, such fees appear to be exempt from
prohibitions upon rights, charges, liens, pledges, security interest or any
other encumbrances.
Possible Consequences
3.13 A possible scenario postulated by Mr Nairn was that if service
providers were denied exemptions from the prohibition they would:
...almost certainly seek to minimise their exposures by not permitting borrowing,
requiring fees in advance, the establishment of slush funds for the payment of
incidental costs and expenses and/or refuse to meet such expenses until finances
to cover are provided by the fund.61
3.14 ARH similarly submitted that it would be reasonable to expect that
custodians who are asked to provide the usual range of services without the
usual security will consider:
• whether fees charged to Australian superannuation fund clients need to be
increased to take account of the higher level of risk (we understand that
some custodians have already increased fees);
• whether trustees should be required to permit the custodian to keep liquid
funds available to the extent required to enable a custodian and sub-
custodians to meet transaction and other costs "up front" (with
corresponding effects on the fund's rate of return);
60
Evidence, pp 60-65
SISREG Sub No 5
61


• whether their own insurance arrangements are affected by the absence of
security in respect of Australian superannuation fund portfolios, with
consequential pressures on costs;
• whether, in the absence of security, custody agreements need to include
stronger indemnities and other provisions aimed at strengthening the
custodian's position;
• whether other jurisdictions offer business opportunities which should be
pursued ahead of those available in the Australian market.62
Other Matters
3.15 In its supplementary submission, NAB sought to address concerns
raised by the committee that the prohibition of charges over assets in
relation to custodians serves as a means of enforcing rigorous control of
expenditure by the custodian, thereby preventing abuse of power or the
claiming of unauthorised expenditure.63
3.16 NAB submitted that the exemption sought in relation to custody of
a fund's assets would not of itself create charges over assets, but simply
provides a fund with more room to manoeuvre in negotiating investment
activities.64 NAB also maintained that allowing such exemptions would
benefit members as well as custodians because many types of investments,
risk management techniques, facilities and services which may well have
been closed to an investor if security of the obligations involved cannot be
given, would remain available. In addition, NAB submitted that custodians
have no power to encourage prudence in investment as, by its nature,
custody of assets occurs after the investment has been made.
3.17 The committee acknowledged the difficulties in evaluating an area
of considerable financial and legal complexity. The committee understands
that the prohibition in the SIS Act upon borrowings by superannuation
entities did not extend to many debts and other liabilities incurred by funds
62 SISREG Sub No 19, supplementary
63 Evidence, p 62
SISREG Sub No 5, supplementary
64


in the normal conduct of their business, for example: reimbursement of fees
and advances, within-the-day settlement of transactions, and 'standard form'
agreements with brokers and daily running expenses. The committee also
understands that the ISC intends, in due course, to issue a Superannuation
Circular to clarify this issue.
3.18 It seemed inconsistent that a range of routine transactions which
incur debts and other liabilities and which are not prohibited under the anti-
borrowing rules should be prevented by the operation of regulation 13.14.
Given that debts and other liabilities would often only be able to be
incurred upon provision of a security, in this case, the assets of a fund, the
committee believes that it would be appropriate for the ISC to re-examine
regulation 13.14. But the committee wishes to reiterate its statements in
previous reports on the need for a prudential regime which provides the
utmost protection for superannuation funds. In particular, the committee
considers that custodians should not be given the status of a preferred
creditor, nor should any charge over assets exercised by a custodian
significantly exceed the amount required to cover expenses outlaid by the
custodian or apply at all in respect of custodian's fees.65
3.19 NAB also submitted that similar problems may be associated with
some conditions being drafted by the ISC for the purposes of
subsection 26(3) of the SIS Act. These conditions will include the provisions
which must be included in any agreement between the trustee and a
custodian of assets of superannuation entities. The committee considers that
the importance of proper custodial and other financial services for
superannuation entities, and their possible impact on members' benefits,
should not be underestimated.
65
Arthur Robinson & Hedderwick, SISREG Sub No 19, supplementary


Recommendation 3.2
The committee recommends:
(i) that, within the context of a clear need for a strong prudential
supervision regime for superannuation funds, the Government
review the operation of SIS regulation 13.14 to establish whether
it unnecessarily constrains legitimate investment activities of
superannuation entities;
(ii) that if any such unnecessary constraints are identified, they be
remedied, after consultation with the major providers of
financial services to superannuation entities, through appropriate
amendments to the legislation; and
(iii) that the ISC publish an explanation of this review in a
Superannuation Circular.
The sole purpose test and garnishee orders under the Social Security
Act 1991
3.20 LIFA submitted that section 1233 of the Social Security Act 1991,
which enables the Department of Social Security to serve garnishee notices
on debtors, has been used by that Department to gain access to accrued
entitlements of members of superannuation funds. LIFA submitted that
a trustee who obeyed such a notice would be in breach of:
• section 62 of the SIS Act, the 'sole purpose test', which prescribes
the timing of benefit delivery and the persons to whom benefits
become payable;
• SIS regulation 6.22, which limits the cashing of benefits in regulated
superannuation funds in favour of persons other than members; and
66
SISREG Sub No 17


• SIS regulations 13.12, 13.13, and 13.14, which prevent a trustee from
recognising an assignment of a superannuation interest of a member
or beneficiary, or from giving a charge over minimum benefits,
preserved benefits, non-commutable income streams, or an asset of
a fund.
3.21 A breach of these provisions can subject a trustee to monetary
penalties or imprisonment. 67
3.22 The committee notes that this issue has also arisen in considerations
involving the recovery of outstanding money following bankruptcy
proceedings, as well as recovery of unpaid tax. The committee understands
that measures are being implemented to make the necessary changes to the
SIS Act and the Bankruptcy Act which will allow the assignment of
superannuation entitlements which exceed a member's RBL. In a
supplementary submission, the ISC has advised that it has taken the view
that superannuation assets should not be accessible by garnishee orders and
other claims for indebtedness, particularly for preserved benefits.68
3.23 The issues involving conflicts between the SIS sole purpose test and
associated SIS legislation on the one hand, and the service of garnishee
orders from the Department of Social Security as well as recovery of unpaid
tax by the Australian Tax Office on the other hand, appear to fall within a
common category. The committee expects that these issues will be resolved
through consultation with the appropriate organisations.
67 (i) Part 21 of the Act provides for certain criminal consequences of
contravening or of being involved in a contravention of subsection 62 (1)
of the Act.
(ii) SIS Regulations 6.22, 13.12, 13.13 and 13.14 prescribe standards under one
or more of Sections 31, 32 and 33 of the Act, intentional or reckless
contravention of which is punishable on conviction by a fine
SISREG Sub No 20, supplementary
68


Recommendation 3.3
The committee recommends that, consistent with the policy of limiting
recovery of Commonwealth debts from the members' superannuation
accounts to those amounts which exceed RBL levels, the Government
review and reconcile any conflict arising between:
(i) the SIS legislation; and
(ii) the tax and social security legislation which enables recovery of
money.




CHAPTER 4:
THE REMAINING REGULATIONS
The Remaining Regulations
Introduction
4.1 This chapter addresses the following submissions and evidence
brought to the committee's attention during the inquiry:
(i) that the definitions of 'member' and 'beneficiary' in the SIS Act and
SIS regulations be clarified;69
(ii) that various disclosure requirements be changed;70
(iii) that the number of members of 'excluded funds' (currently less than
5) be enlarged or that funds with non-arms length members receive
different treatment under SIS;71
(iv) that old life policies be convertible into superannuation policies;72
(v) that the age at which retirement can be presumed when a person has
ceased gainful employment be reduced from 60 to 55;73
69 LIFA, SISREG Sub No 17; Evidence, p 86
70 ANZ Funds Management, SISREG Sub No 7
Office of the Cabinet, Queensland, SISREG Sub No 10
Financial Planning Association of Australia, SISREG Sub No 11
LIFA, SISREG Sub No 17
Permanent Trustee Company, SISREG Sub No 24
71 Howard V Smith and Associates Pty Ltd, SISREG Sub No 12
G&E Foti Enterprises Pty Ltd, SISREG Sub No 18
72 Chris Hanson, SISREG Sub No 9
73 LIFA, SISREG Sub No 17


(vi) that the preservation of benefits arising out of SG contributions and
the changes to the preservation rules take effect from
1 July 1995;74
(vii) problems with the pension and annuity standards;75
(viii) various technical amendments;76 and
(ix)
concerns about the possibility of retirement being inappropriately
enforced on a member of a fund on medical grounds.7
4.2 The committee also acknowledges the receipt of submissions from
the following persons. Mr J. M. Kelberg expressed concern with the manner
in which the Shell Superannuation Fund repatriated surplus to the Shell
Company.78 Mr Bryce Jarrett submitted that a system be introduced
enabling lump sum superannuation payments to be directly invested as
venture capital.79
4.3 Prior to the hearings, the ISC resolved issues relating to a submission
from the Bus and Coach Association that the 'approved trustee'
requirements for industry funds with self employed members should be
relaxed.80 Also resolved was the problem of whether 'excluded funds'
74 UFA, SISREG Sub No 17
75 UFA, SISREG Sub No 17
76 ANZ Funds Management, SISREG Sub No 7
Office of the Cabinet, Queensland, SISREG Sub No 10
77 SISREG Sub No 27
78 SISREG Sub No 21
79 SISREG Sub No 25
80 Issue raised in SISREG Sub No 2 from the Bus and Coach Association; its
resolution foreshadowed by ISC Information Statement No 4 of 20 June 1994
in which the ISC announced that certain public offer funds will be temporarily
exempted from the requirement to have an 'approved trustee' under SIS


should be exempted from the requirements imposed on public offer funds,
raised in a submission by Self Management Retirement Systems Pty Ltd.M
Definition of 'member' and 'beneficiary'
Definition of'member1
4.4 SIS regulation 1.03 defines a 'member' to mean:
(a) ...
(b) in relation to a regulated superannuation fund - a member of the fund;
The definition of 'member' in Part 2 of the SIS regulations, which prescribes
the standards applying to the provision of information to members and
others, includes pensioners and deferred beneficiaries.
4.5 LIFA submitted that the definition of 'member' in
SIS regulation 1.03:
does not actually provide any meaning of who constitutes a member of a
superannuation fund;82
and that it was:
imperative that a substantive definition of member is given in relation to a
superannuation fund which overrides any trust deed requirements in relation to
the fund in this regard.83
4.6 LIFA did not support their submission on this matter except to
suggest that the definition be redrafted along the following lines:
81
82
Issue raised in SISREG Sub No 16 by Self Management Retirement Systems Pty
Ltd; its resolution was also foreshadowed in ISC Information Statement No. 4
of 20 June 1994 in which the ISC announced that 'excluded funds' which met
certain requirements will not be considered to be public offer funds
SISREG Sub No 17
83
SISREG Sub No 17


a person who has been accepted by the trustees as a member of the fund and
in respect of whom the trustees have not fully discharged their liability to pay
the person a benefit or benefits84
The committee notes that such an amendment would more or less bring the
definition in line with the expanded definition in Part 2 of the SIS
regulations.
4.7 The committee considers that small funds could be disadvantaged if
the current definition was amended in this way, as the inclusion of
pensioners and/or deferred beneficiaries into the main definition could in
many cases inflate the numbers of members in such a fund beyond two key
thresholds.
4.8 The first was the threshold of 4 members which constitutes an
excluded superannuation fund, and which is not subject to some of the more
onerous provisions of the SIS legislation.
4.9 The second was the threshold of 49 members, which is the maximum
number of members which may be in a non-public offer fund after
1 July 1995 to which the alternative agreed representation rules can apply
(that is: as an alternative to basic equal representation rule which requires
equal numbers of employer representatives and member representatives
amongst the trustees, a corporate trustee can be appointed following
nomination by agreement between the majority of the members of the fund
and the employer(s) of the members).
4.10 These thresholds do not affect funds with 50 or more members. It
would appear that as the requirements under the regulations for trustees of
funds to disclose information to members already included pensioners and
deferred beneficiaries, the principal impact of the inclusion of these
beneficiaries within the definition of 'member' would be in the areas of
notifying members in case of a repatriation of surplus to employers, and
equal representation of employers and members on trust boards.
84
SISREG Sub No 17


4.11 The committee sees no reason why pensioners and beneficiaries of
superannuation funds should not be members, with the attendant rights of
member representation. It seems anomalous that:
(i) funds are required to provide the same information to pensioners
and deferred beneficiaries that they are required to offer 'active'
members;
(ii) funds are empowered to offer beneficiaries (including pensioners and
deferred beneficiaries) choice in the manner in which their money is
invested; and
(iii) funds have an obligation to pay certain pensioners and deferred
beneficiaries;
but under the current SIS regime, these pensioners and deferred
beneficiaries are not considered to be members.
4.12 The thresholds issue referred to in paragraphs 4.8 and 4.9 could
perhaps be addressed by allowing excluded funds and funds with less than
50 'members', as currently defined, to continue to be considered to come
under the thresholds for the purposes associated with those thresholds.
Recommendation 4.1
The committee recommends that the Government review the definition
of a 'member' of a regulated superannuation fund under SIS with a view
to including those persons who are pensioners or deferred beneficiaries
of such a fund.


Definition of 'beneficiary
4.13 The definition of 'beneficiary' in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act
states that:
"beneficiary", in relation to a fund, scheme or trust, means a person (whether
described in the governing rules as a member, a depositor or otherwise) who has
a beneficial interest in the fund, scheme or trust and includes, in relation to a
superannuation fund, a member of the fund despite the express references in
this Act to members of such funds.
4.14 LIFA submitted that the definition of 'beneficiary' was inadequate,
as it was insufficiently broad to include a number of categories of persons
who would have a legitimate interest in decisions made by trustees.85 Of
the examples provided by LIFA, one was a dependant of a member in
respect of whom the trustees have not or will not exercise their discretion
as to the distribution of a death benefit (and hence is not a beneficiary as
defined in the Act for the purposes of being able to lodge a complaint with
a fund, and hence the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, because s/he
does not have a beneficial interest in the fund until the trustee has exercised
its discretion in that person's favour).
4.15 The committee considers that the SIS legislation should be applied
fairly and, to this extent, considers it appropriate to ensure that the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal be empowered to hear the legitimate
complaints of persons affected by trustees' decisions.
Recommendation 4.2
The committee recommends that the Government amends any
inconsistencies in the definition of 'beneficiary' in the SIS legislation to
allow full access to:
(i) the internal complaints mechanisms within superannuation
funds; and
(ii) the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.
85
SISREG Sub No 17


Disclosure requirements for superannuation entities
4.16 A number of submissions were received raising concerns about the
various requirements to disclose and forward information:
(i) Permanent Trustee Company Limited submitted that the requirement
for audit certificates in relation to employer-sponsored public offer
funds to be given to trustees within four months is unnecessarily
burdensome. A six month requirement was suggested.86
(ii) LIFA expressed concerns about the benefit illustration requirements
in a forthcoming ISC Determination which is being drafted by the
ISC pursuant to section 159 of the SIS Act in relation to prospective
beneficiaries other than standard employer-sponsored members.87
LIFA submitted that the requirement in the SIS regulations to report
contributions arrears to members, as well as the action that the
trustees had taken or were proposing to undertake to have the
contributions paid, should be amended in the light of industry fund
experience which makes accurate information in this context difficult
to report.
(iii) The Financial Planning Association suggested that the SIS
regulations be amended to compel employer-sponsored
superannuation funds to meet the same disclosure requirements as
applying to public offer funds, and for employer-sponsored members
to receive information that was sufficient for them to make informed
decisions.88
(iv) The Queensland Office of the Cabinet expressed concerns at the
difficulty some funds will encounter in complying with some of the
disclosure requirements in the SIS regulations. For example, the
requirement for a fund to provide certain information to a member
86
SISREG Sub No 24
87
SISREG Sub No 17
88
SISREG Sub No 11


who is exiting a fund within one month of ceasing membership may
be difficult to comply with if the fund does not have all available
information to process benefit details. Another concern was that
eligible rollover funds may not be able to supply the Insurance and
Superannuation Commissioner with all the information required
under the SIS regulations as some information may not be held by
the fund transferring the information.89
(v) ANZ Funds Management requested that the SIS regulations which
require a trustee to quantify in a report to a member the amount of
benefits which must be preserved, be amended to make it clear that
the amount referred to in the report should be the amount
preservable under the governing rules of the fund, if that amount is
higher than the amount preservable under the regulations.90
4.17 In addition, the committee noted that Noel Davis had recently
commented in the print media that there was an anomaly in the SIS
legislation relating to disclosure.91 He commented that trustees are not
required to provide a prospectus to standard employer-sponsored members
of a fund that is not a public offer fund, but are required to provide a
prospectus to standard employer-sponsored members of a fund that is a
public offer fund. The committee notes that under the SIS legislation, the
requirement for prospectuses has been replaced by the requirement to
provide certain information to prospective members.
4.18 While the majority of these concerns amount to possible
'housekeeping' amendments, the level of information to be provided to
standard employer-sponsored members will need to be upgraded once BIC
has become an entrenched feature of standard employer-sponsored funds,
and members of these funds take a more active interest in their participation
in superannuation.
89 SISREG Sub No 10
90 SISREG Sub No 7
91
Australian Superannuation Law Bulletin Editorial, (1994) 6 SLB 29


Recommendation 4.3
The committee recommends that:
(i) the Government examine the concerns expressed to the
committee about the various disclosure requirements and take
appropriate action; and
(ii) consistent with any policy to implement BIC initiatives, the
Government review and upgrade the provisions in the SIS
legislation, prescribing the amount of information to be provided
to standard employer-sponsored members.
Small and excluded superannuation funds
4.19 The SIS Act defines an excluded superannuation fund as a
superannuation fund:
of which there are fewer than five members.92
4.20 Howard Smith & Associates submitted that the definition of
'excluded superannuation fund' should be amended to allow funds with up
to 9 members or to allow family members to join without depriving a fund
of its 'excluded' status. This reflects their concern that:
Over the years we have seen an increase of family members being introduced
into the fund and when children marry, it is increasingly becoming a problem for
in-laws to be admitted to these funds. The cost of establishing a second fund is
in many instances prohibitive.93
4.21 Mr Cosimo Foti of G. & E. Foti Enterprises expressed similar
concerns, namely that:
92 Subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act 1993
SISREG Sub No 12
93


because my parents had three children instead of only two, ...our superannuation
fund must adhere to the same reporting requirements as AMP and National
Mutual.94
4.22 The committee noted that the SIS legislation exempted excluded
superannuation funds from some of the more onerous requirements of the
SIS Act and SIS regulations. In addition, the committee noted that the ISC
had released an Information Bulletin on 20 June 1994 announcing that
excluded funds which met certain requirements will not be considered to be
public offer funds and will not therefore be required to have an 'approved
trustee' under SIS or to meet public offer disclosure rules.
4.23 Moreover, subsection 18(7) of the SIS Act enables the Insurance and
Superannuation Commissioner to declare a fund not to be a public offer
fund, which enables family funds such as the ones described above to be
exempted from many public offer obligations.
4.24 However, there appear to be a substantial array of rules under SIS
which exempt excluded funds, but do not exempt small funds, for example:
• the requirement that a trustee give each new member of a fund an
extensive inventory of information, including statements of how fees,
charges and administrative or other operational costs are attributed,
either directly or indirectly, to members;95
• an operating standard which requires the trustee of a fund to
formulate and give effect to an investment strategy;96
• the prohibition of trustees acquiring the assets of members or their
relatives;
94 SISREG Sub No 18
95 SIS regulation 2.16
96 SIS regulation 4.09
97 Section 66 of the SIS Act


• equal representation and alternative agreed representation
requirements;98
• the restrictions on the appointment of investment managers and
custodians;99
• payment of surplus amounts to employer-sponsors;100
• various duties of trustees and investment managers of
superannuation entities, including the need to establish internal
complaints mechanisms;101
• various requirements in relation to auditing of fund accounts and the
lodgment of annual returns;102
• trustees not being subject to direction, and exercises of discretion by
persons other than trustees;103 and
• amendments of governing rules;104
4.25 The committee did not see that an exemption from many or all of
these requirements for a fund such as the kind described in paragraphs 4.19
and 4.20 would prejudice the SIS legislation.
98
Part 9 and section 107 of the SIS Act
99 Part 15 of the SIS Act
100 Section 117 of the SIS Act
101 Part 12 of the SIS Act
102 For example: SIS regulations, 1.04(2), 8.03 and 11.02
103 Sections 58 and 59 of the SIS Act
104
Section 60 of the SIS Act


Recommendation 4.4
The committee recommends that the Government examine the rules
imposed under the SIS legislation upon small non-excluded
superannuation funds consisting of non-arms length membership, with
the aim of introducing flexibility into the requirements.
Presumed age of retirement
4.26 The SIS regulations enable a person aged 60 or more to gain access
to that person's preserved benefits once s/he has ceased an employment
arrangement (for example, through resignation, retirement, retrenchment,
redundancy or on medical grounds).10^ The SIS regulations also enable
a person aged 55 or over to gain access to the preserved benefits if s/he has
similarly ceased employment and the trustee is reasonably satisfied that the
person has, in effect, retired.
4.27 LIFA submitted that the age where retirement is presumed in such
circumstances should be lowered to age 55 because for trustees:
to continue to need to satisfy themselves that a person who resigns from
employment from age 55 to 59 is retiring, unnecessarily adds another layer of
complexity to the process of paying benefits.106
4.28 The committee accepted LIFA's assertion that the current
requirement adds an unnecessary layer of complexity to the process of
paying benefits. The committee also considered that lowering the age of
presumed retirement should also eliminate any administrative costs
associated with the need for trustees to investigate a person's employment
circumstances and to attempt to verify what are often subjective motivations
on the part of fund members. The requirement for trustees to evaluate the
employment circumstances of beneficiaries in the age 55 to 59 bracket
105 SIS regulation 6.01 (7)
SISREG Sub No 17
106


would, in any case, disappear once preservation to age 60 became universal
by the year 2025.
Recommendation 4.5
The committee recommends that the Government review SIS
subregulation 6.01(7), which relates to the presumed age of retirement,
to ensure that it is consistent with its overall policy on preservation.
Preservation rules
4.29 LIFA also submitted that, in the interests of simplicity, benefits
arising out of SG contributions and the new preservation rules which have
been included in Part 6 of the SIS regulations should commence from a
common date.107 LIFA suggested delaying the preservation of SG
contributions until the 1996 calender year (in line with the Part 6
requirements for preservation generally), or to bring the date of effect of
Part 6 forward to 1 July 1995 and to also commence preservation of SG
benefits from that date.
4.30 The committee is unable to endorse these suggestions because the
preservation date for SG contributions has already been deferred twice,
from 1 July 1992 and 1 July 1993 to 1 July 1994. Further deferrals would
significantly reduce the amounts of benefits preservable until members'
retirements, an important plank in retirement income policy. Although this
may be offset under the second option by bringing forward the preservation
requirements from 1996 to 1995, the committee does not consider that any
further changes to the preservation rules can be justified.
Pension and annuity standards
4.31 The committee agrees with LIFA's submission that the pension and
annuity standards which were recently copied into the SIS regulations from
107
SISREG Sub No 17


the Occupational Superannuation Standards (OSS) regulations are
incomplete, in particular in relation to the tax treatment of commutations
of allocated pensions and annuities.108 Currently, the regulations prescribe
upper and lower limits on the amounts of benefits that can be paid in
relation to allocated income streams in any given year of income. Although
commutations above the upper limit are specifically allowed under the
standards, the Government has not as yet finalised the rules governing the
tax treatment of such commutations.
4.32 It is a matter of some considerable concern to the committee that
important rules concerning allocated pensions and annuities have not yet
been completed, particularly in light of the popularity of such products. The
committee is concerned that this delay will generate a policy, virtually by
default, that may result in unduly generous tax treatment of commutations
on allocated income streams.
4.33 The committee understands that the ISC is conducting a review of
the pension and annuity standards. Nevertheless, the issue involving the tax
treatment of commutation of allocated pensions and annuities has been
outstanding since the standards were promulgated in the OSS regulations in
late 1992.
Recommendation 4.6
The committee recommends that the Government remove uncertainty
surrounding the tax treatment of commutations of allocated pensions
and annuities by expeditiously finalising the rules governing the tax
treatment of commutations of these benefits.
108
LIFA SISREG Sub No 17


Inappropriate retirement on medical grounds
4.34 Dr G.J. Acton, of Seaview Downs in South Australia, expressed
concerned about the accountability of trustees who inappropriately retired
members on medical grounds as totally and permanently incapacitated
(T&PI), reviewed those members a short time later and reduced their
benefits following a determination that the person concerned was no longer
T&PI.109 Dr Acton expressed a concern that he had not been able to
have his case determined by an independent tribunal such as the recently
established Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (the Tribunal).
Other matters
4.35 ANZ Funds Management and the Queensland Office of the Cabinet
raised a number of issues of a technical nature, the latter expressing
concerns about whether partial disability pensions were allowed under SIS,
and whether the prohibition of liens over benefits was wider than
intended.110 Mr Chris Hanson, of Hawthorn in Victoria, was concerned
that a whole-of-life insurance plan which he had taken out in 1972 could not
now be converted into a superannuation policy because of the changes in
the rules concerning superannuation since that time.111
4.36 The committee considers that it would be appropriate to refer these
matters to the ISC for review, and if possible, resolution.
109
SISREG Sub No 27
no
SISREG Subs Nos 7 and 10, respectively
in
SISREG Sub No 9




CHAPTER 5:
AWU-FIME
AWU-FIME
Background
5.1 On 13 July 1994, The Australian published an article titled 'Union
gets 20pc of super fund as management fee'. The following day, the same
newspaper followed this up with another article: 'ABA denounces union-
super pact'.112
5.2 This issue provoked some discussion in the committee during its
hearing on 13 July 1994. It also provided an opportunity for the committee
to seek the views of other industry players on the arrangement that had
been entered into by the AWU/FIME Amalgamated Union and the
administrators of the Nationwide Superannuation Fund (NSF), Professional
Services Investment Pty Ltd (PSI). 13 That arrangement involves twenty
per cent of the 73 cent administration fee levied by the NSF and received
by PSI being paid to the AWU-FIME by the PSI as a contractual obligation
to cover some of the costs incurred by the union in marketing the fund.114
The sole purpose test
5.3 One of the committee's concerns about the arrangement between the
AWU-FIME and the PSI was the question of whether there had been a
breach of the sole purpose test under either the Occupational
Superannuation Standards Act 1987 or the SIS Act, given that part of the
112
See Appendix G
113 Namely, David Goodear and David Vernon of Jacques Martin Industry, who
expressed opposition to the arrangement - Evidence, pp 139-141, 13 July 1994
114 AWU/FIME, SISREG Sub No 29
Steve Harrison, Evidence, p 486, 19 September 1994


administration fees reimbursed to the union had been used in providing
scholarships to members of the union.115
5.4 Evidence given by Steve Harrison of the AWU/FIME and
Michael Tyler, Chairman of PSI, to the committee on 19 September 1994
denied any breach of the sole purpose test.116 A letter from Paul Elliott,
the Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer, published by the committee
on 23 September 1994, supports this assertion. The ISC had provided
Mr Elliott with information following a meeting between the ISC, the AWU-
FIME, the trustees of NSF, and PSI. Mr Elliott's letter stated:
* The agreement is between PSI and FIMEE, rather than between NSF and
FIMEE, and it relates to the subcontracting of administration and
promotional services to FIMEE. Although the trustees of NSF were aware
of the agreement, they were not a party to it and were not concerned by
it.
The administration fee earned by FIMEE is a commercial arrangement
made on an arm's length basis...
* The link between union scholarships and the fee derived by FIMEE ...has
nothing to do with arrangements between NSF and PSI and is not a
concern to either NSF or the ISC because the arrangement with FIMEE
is on commercial terms.
On the basis of the information and documentary evidence provided by NSF and
FIMEE, the fees earned by FIMEE, and the linking of union scholarships and
other benefits for union members, in return for services provided by FIMEE is
not seen as inappropriate or a threat to the retirement incomes of NSF
members.117(original emphasis)
115
116
Information concerning use of reimbursement provided by AWU-FIME,
SISREG Sub No 29
Evidence, p 497, 19 September 1994
SISREG Sub No 31
117


Conclusion
5.5 Mr Elliott's letter referred to 'many factual inaccuracies' in the article
by The Australian. The committee expresses the hope that such inaccuracies
would in future be kept to a minimum to enable a climate of reasoned
debate and discussion. The whole field of superannuation and retirement
income policy is fraught with enough complications without the issue being
further complicated by such misreporting.
5.6 In any event, the committee notes that this matter has raised some
consternation in the superannuation industry, and understands that it is
currently under examination by the ISC.




APPENDIX A:
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Terms of Reference
16 March 1994
That, without prejudice to any inquiry or report that may be made by the
Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, the following
regulations be referred to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
for inquiry and report on or before the last sitting day in November 1994:
(a) Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations (Statutory
Rules 1994 No. 57); and
(b) Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Regulations
(Statutory Rules 1994 No. 56).




APPENDIX B:
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS AND PAPERS
List of Committee Reports
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income
Arrangements in Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Byrnwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme
(March 1992) Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in
the Life Insurance Industry (June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Safeguarding Super - the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Guarantee Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges
and Disclosure in the Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super and the Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 -
(4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super - Fiscal and Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervisory Levy (May 1993)


Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super - Fees, Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Super Inquiry Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Inquiry into the Queensland Professional Officers Associate
Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Supervision Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Complaints Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Privilege Matter Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Nd
(December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee or
Superannuation for the Minister for Social Security, Options for
Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement Incomes System (March 1994]
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super for Housing (May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation •
Super Regs I (August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Super Regs II (November 1994)


APPENDIX C:
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
List of Written Submissions
No 1 Australian Consumers' Association (ACA)
No 2 Bus and Coach Association
No 3 Tidswell Benefit Consultants and Fund Administrators
No 4 Freedom of Choice Fund Management Ltd
No 5 National Australia Bank
No 6 Trustee Corporations Association of Australia
No 7 ANZ Funds Management
No 8 Australian Federation of Consumer Organizations Inc. (AFCO)
No 9 Chris Hanson
No 10 Office of the Cabinet, Queensland
No 11 Financial Planning Association of Australia (FPA)
No 12 Howard V Smith & Associates Pty. Ltd.
No 13 Sly & Weigall
No 14 Attorney-General's Department
No 15 August Financial Management Limited
No 16 Self Management Retirement Systems Pty Ltd


No 17 Life Insurance Federation of Australia Incorporated (LIFA)
No 18 G. & E. Foti Enterprises Pty. Ltd.
No 19 Arthur Robinson & Hedderwicks
No 20 Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC)
No 21 Mr J. M. Kelberg
No 22 Administrative Review Council (ARC)
No 23 Superannuation Trust of Australia (STA)
No 24 Permanent Trustee Company Limited
No 25 Mr Bryce Jarrett
No 26 Maurice Blackburn and Co., Barristers and Solicitors
No 27 Dr J.G. Acton
No 28 Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Limited (ASFA)
No 29 The AWU-FIME Amalgamated Union
No 30 In camera
No 31 Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer
No 32 Jacques Martin Industry
No 33 COMSUPER
No 34 Construction + Building Unions Superannuation (C + BUS)
No 35 State Street Australia Limited
No 36 Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances


APPENDIX D:
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
List of Witnesses
CANBERRA, 20 JUNE 1994
Ms Caroline Le Couteur, Director, August Financial
Management Ltd
Mr Robert Drake, Senior Policy Officer, Australian Consumers
Association
Mr Robert Gunning, Adviser, Bus and Coach Association
Mr Roger Nairn, General Manager, Custodian Services Division,
National Australia Bank Ltd
Mr Howard Pender, Director, Management Co., Australian Ethical
Investment Trust
Mr Ronald J Rankin, Chief Executive Officer, Financial Planning
Association of Australia
Mr Trevor J Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Review Branch,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Ms Judith N Towler, Member, Legislative and Regulatory
Committee, Financial Planning Association of Australia
Mr Michael B White, Executive Director, Disabled Peoples
International (Australia) Ltd


CANBERRA, 23 JUNE 1994
Mr Darren Davis, Assistant Manager, Operations, Life Insurance
Federation of Australia
Mr Donald B Duval, Australian Government Actuary and First
Assistant Commissioner, Policy, Legal and Actuarial, Insurance
and Superannuation Commission
Ms Prudence Ford, Director, Federal Bureau of Consumer Affairs,
Attorney-General's Department
Mrs Wendy Robinson, Director, Review and Legislation Section,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Mr Kenneth Robinson, Member, Superannuation Committee, Life
Insurance Federation of Australia
Ms Dusanka Sabic, Acting Assistant Secretary, Consumer Policy
Branch, Federal Bureau of Consumer Affairs
Mr Trevor John Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Review Branch,
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Mr Tim Williams, Member, Superannuation Committee, Life
Insurance Federation of Australia
CANBERRA, 19 SEPTEMBER 1994
Mr Stephen Harrison, National Secretary, AWU-FIME
Mr Graham Poole, Director, PSI Superannuation
Management Pty Ltd
Mr Michael Tyler, Chairman of Board, PSI Superannuation
Management Pty Ltd


APPENDIX E:
ASSET PORTFOLIOS FOR BIC
Asset Portfolios for BIC
INVESTMENTS
118
How are the contributions invested?
You have the choice as to how your money is
invested as follows:
Portfolio 1 - is a market-linked investment
arrangement where the investments are spread over
a wide spectrum of investment products.
These would include Australian and overseas
shares, property, Government bonds and liquid
investments such as cash. The rates of return may
vary substantially from year to year depending on
the performance of the various investment sectors.
This portfolio should be viewed as a long-term
investment.
Portfolio 2 - investments are mainly in life office
capital-guaranteed funds or capital stable
investment arrangements. This portfolio is designed
for high security and stable returns. Members who
are close to retirement may be more comfortable
with Portfolio 2.
You may vary your investment twice at any time
during the year ending 30 June without an
additional charge. You will be fully informed on a
regular basis of the status of your investments.
118
Source: Australian Superannuation Savings Employment Trust (ASSET):
Employer Kit - ASSET Member Booklet Working Hard for your Retirement
(extract)




APPENDIX F:
SELECTED RESULTS OF SURVEY ON
BENEFICIARY INVESTMENT CHOICE 119
Selected Results of Survey
I - Number of superannuation funds surveyed: 139
ILA. - Size of funds surveyed (number of members)
IIB - Size of funds surveyed (size of assets)
TABLE 1: Funds and BIC
119
Source: Selected from Towers Perrin's 'Results of survey on member
investment choice', May 1994 - courtesy of Brian Scott, Towers Perrin


APPENDIX F (Continued)
TABLE 2:
Which Issues are Important in Determining Availability of BIC?
* The number shown in brackets is the percentage of the first number who
thought that the issue was very important
TABLE 3: Who Should Choose?*
* Of the two industry funds known by the committee to offer BIC, both
feature default options for members not exercising investment choice


APPENDIX G:
ARTICLE IN ’THE AUSTRALIAN’
OF 13 JULY 1994
Article in 'The Australian'




APPENDIX H:
LETTER FROM HON. PAUL ELLIOTT, MP
Letter from Hon. Paul Elliot, MP
Thank you for your letters of 19 July 1994 to the Treasurer and to the Insurance and
Superannuation Commissioner in which you expressed concern over an arrangement (reported
in The A usIraJian, 13 July 1994) involving the Australian Workers Union-Federation of
Industrial, Manufacturing, and Engineering Employees (AWU-FIMEE), the Nationwide
Superannuation Fund (NSF) and NSF's administrator, PSI Superannuation Management (PSI)
The article reported that AWU-FIMEE received 20% of the administrative charges paid by
the NSF to PSI as a commission
In order to fully address your concerns, and in order to clarify conflicting statements within
the article, ISC officers met with the trustees of NSF, along with officials from the
administrator and FIMEE.
The ISC has provided me with the information that follows In the course of those
discussions, it was ascertained that the article contained many factual inaccuracies
A brief summary of the arrangement is as follows
• The agreement is between PSI and FIMEE, rather than between the NSF and FIMEE,
and it relates to subcontracting of administration and promotional services to FIMEE
Although the trustees of NSF were aware of the agreement, they were not a party to it
and were not concerned by it.
• The administration fee earned by FIMEE is a commercial arrangement made on an
arm's length basis The existence of a financial benefit for FIMEE was disclosed to
NSF members in material accompanying the application form to join NSF This
material also contained a declaration of interest by one of the member representative
trustees, an employee of FIMEE on the basis that FIMEE receives a financial benefit
for the promotion of NSF


• The link between union scholarships and the fee derived by FIMEE was made to
assuage possible fears of union members that union officials would personally derive a
benefit from the services provided by the union This link has nothing to do with
arrangements between NSF and PSI and is not a concern to either NSF or the ISC
because the arrangement with FIMEE is on commercial terms
• The Industrial Relations Commission (IRC) did not "approve" the arrangement as was
alleged in The Australian article The arrangement was in fact raised in argument by
unions in competition with FIMEE, in the process of the IRC hearing an application
for an amendment to certain awards so that members could have some freedom of
choice in relation to the superannuation fund that their award contributions would be
directed to
On the basis of the information and documentary evidence provided by NSF and FIMEE, the
fees earned by FIMEE, and the linking of union scholarships and other benefits for union
members, in return for services provided by FIMEE is not seen as inappropriate or a threat to
the retirement incomes of NSF members.
As a final point, the article also gave the impression that the arrangement with FIMEE was
"unique". While such an arrangement with a union may well be unusual, there is nothing
unusual about administrators entering into agreements with third parties for promotion of a
particular superannuation fund. Such agreements are acceptable provided they are conducted
on a commercial basis and provided there is adequate disclosure to superannuation fund
members where such disclosure is appropriate (for example, as in this case, where there is a
connection between a third party and the superannuation fund).
The SIS legislation requires that all transactions entered into by a trustee or an investment
manager of a superannuation fund be on an arm's length basis (commercial terms) and
disclosure of commissions is required in certain circumstances In light of this case, ISC staff
are currently investigating whether an amendment to the disclosure requirements would be
appropriate
If you or other members of the Select Committee on Superannuation have any further
concerns on this, or related matters, please do not hesitate to contact me
Yours sincerely
Paul Elliott




THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 225 of 1994
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-418
