

Super-Fiscal and
Social Links
Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation)
Bill 1992
Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill
(No. 3) 1992
Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
and related terms of reference
Fourth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
December 1992
The Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Australian Government Publishing Service
^anoerra




Super — Fiscal and
Social Links
Fourth Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992
Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992
Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
and related terms of reference
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
December 1992


© Commonwealth of Australia 1992
ISBN 0 642 18612 X
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.
Printed in Australia by A. J. Law, Commonwealth Government Printer, Canberra


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Members
Senator Nick Sherry Chair
Senator Richard Alston Deputy Chair
Senator Bruce Childs
Senator Cheryl Kernot
Senator John Watson
Senator Sue West
Tasmania
Victoria
New South Wales
Queensland
Tasmania
New South Wales
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr Richard Gilbert
Mr Michael Game
Mr Gary Bauer
Miss Heather Hibbitt
Address:
Telephone:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
(06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
Facsimile:




Contents
Contents
Page
Members of the Committee i
Contents iii
Chapter 1 Introduction 1
Chapter 2 Description of Bills and
Related Terms of Reference 5
Chapter 3 Vesting and Preservation of Benefits 11
Chapter 4 Superannuation and the Age Pension 31
Chapter 5 Taxation - Introduction 51
Chapter 6 Tax Treatment of Contributions 57
Chapter 7 Taxation of Fund Income 75
Chapter 8 Taxation of Benefits 91
Chapter 9 Amendments put to the Committee by
Organisations and Individuals 117
Chapter 10 Recommendations 129
Minority Report Senators Alston and Watson 135
Minority Report Senator Kernot 143


Appendices:
A. Terms of Reference for on-going inquiry 153
B. List of witnesses re Taxation Laws Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill 1992 155
C. List of witnesses re Social Security Legislation
Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992 Divisions 16-19 (inclusive) 157
D. List of submissions re Taxation Laws Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill 1992 and Social Security
Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992
Divisions 16-19 (inclusive) 159
E. List of submissions re on-going inquiry 161
- numerical order
— alphabetical order
F. Government Amendments as Circulated in the Senate 175
G. List of Witnesses who Appeared Before the Committee
During the On-going Inquiry 177
H. Glossary 183
I. Question by Senator Watson of the Australian
Taxation Office re PAYE Variations 187


CHAPTER 1 : INTRODUCTION
Introduction
1.1 On 5 June 1991, the Senate established a Select Committee on
Superannuation to inquire into, and report on, a set of terms of reference (See
Appendix A) which was one of the most detailed and comprehensive ever given
to a Senate Committee.
1.2 Since its appointment, the Committee has reported on its 17 terms of
reference according to four themes:
♦ the regulation of superannuation which was addressed in the Committee's
first report, Safeguarding Super;
♦ the depth and breadth of superannuation coverage which was covered in
the second report, Super Guarantee Bills, and a background paper titled
Super System Survey;
♦ the impact of superannuation on the financial sector was covered in the
Committee's third report, Super and the Financial System, which also
addressed the problem of unfunded liabilities in public sector
superannuation; and
♦ fees, charges and commissions relating to the provision of superannuation.
This matter has been addressed in a number of reports and issues papers
and is expected to be reported on in early 1993.
1.3 Table 1.1 lists the Committee's reports and papers against the relevant
terms of reference.


Table 1.1
List of Committee Reports and Papers
The Committee has presented the following papers and reports to the Senate:
1.4 This report, Super - Fiscal and Social Links, the fourth report of the
Committee, addresses the taxation of superannuation, its interaction with the
social security system, simplification, vesting and preservation in the context of
two pieces of legislation referred by the Senate to the Committee on
12 November 1992.
1.5 The Bills, Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992 and
Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992 Divisions 16-19
(inclusive), were introduced in the Parliament by the Government following the
Security in Retirement statement of 30 June 1992. They contain a number of
changes which are intended to both simplify superannuation arrangements and
to encourage Australians to make greater self provision for their retirement.


Conduct of the Inquiry
1.6 Having taken over 4 000 pages of evidence during more than 25 days of
public hearings on these and other matters, the Committee is well placed to
comment on the provisions of the two Bills. In view of the fact that the Bills did
not exist when the Committee held its initial round of public hearings and, having
regard to the complexity of superannuation tax law, the Committee agreed to
convene an additional public hearing on Thursday, 26 November 1992 before
finalising this report.
1.7 A list of witnesses appearing before the Committee is at Appendices B, C
and G and a list of submissions (and other relevant evidence) is at Appendices
D and E.
1.8 This report is more detailed than the standard report of a Committee on
the referral of a Bill because it addresses three of the 17 terms of reference on
the Committee's on-going inquiry. The terms of reference addressed by this report
are:
... to inquire into and report upon the following matters:
(b) the taxation arrangements which apply to superannuation;
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting and
preservation of benefits; and
(n) the possibilities for simplifying superannuation.
1.9 In order to facilitate community discussion, the Committee agreed that,
unless otherwise ordered, written submissions would be published on receipt.
Likewise, the Committee circulated uncorrected Hansard transcripts as soon as
they became available. References in the Report to oral testimony are to page
numbers in these uncorrected Hansard transcripts.
1.10 In order to clarify whether a particular reference is to the Committee's on-
going inquiry into superannuation or to the specific inquiry into these Bills
(Taxation and Social Security), the following practice has been adopted:
♦ written submissions to the on-going inquiry are referred to as 'Sub no xx'
(the list of submissions to the on-going inquiry is at Appendix E);
♦ written submissions to the Bills inquiry are referred to as 'Sub no ST xx';
♦ oral evidence to the general inquiry as recorded in the uncorrected
Hansard proof appears as 'Evidence, p xx.'; and


oral evidence to the inquiry into the Bills as recorded in the uncorrected
Hansard proof appears as 'ST Bills evidence, p xx.'
♦
Amendments Received by the Committee
1.11 During the course of the inquiry the Committee received a number of
amendments or suggestions for amendments. Details of these are at Chapter 9.
Appreciation
1.12 The Committee records its appreciation of the written submissions and oral
evidence tendered to both its inquiries. The Committee also acknowledges the
cooperation of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer, Senator the Hon
Bob McMullan, departmental officers and other witnesses for attending and
answering questions during the public hearings. The Committee also records its
appreciation of the advice given by Treasury and Australian Taxation Office
officials relating to the sections of this report which outline current
superannuation taxation arrangements.
1.13 The Committee wishes to express its appreciation of the work performed
in the secretariat by seconded officers from The Treasury, Ms Lynne Curran, and
the Australian Taxation Office, Mr Gary Bauer.
Minority Reports
1.14 This report contains two minority reports. The first is by Senators Alston
and Watson, and the second is by Senator Kernot.


CHAPTER 2 : DESCRIPTION OF THE
BILLS AND RELATED TERMS OF
REFERENCE
2.1 Superannuation, as it operates in Australia, is highly complex. It involves
a labyrinth of government regulations designed to establish fund compliance and
security, a plethora of taxation rules to give this form of saving a boost over other
forms to encourage self provision within the bounds of prudent fiscal
management, and many other provisions to allow it to mesh with age pension
arrangements and other principles of social security policy.
2.2 Its complexity has been exacerbated by attempts to fine tune retirement
incomes policy via the taxation system. In order that existing entitlements are
preserved and equity prevails, these fine tunings have taken effect under phase-in,
or 'grandfathering', arrangements which have invariably made superannuation in
Australia even more complex. Notwithstanding these changes, it was widely
recognised during the inquiry that substantial change needs to be made to the
fiscal and social security aspects of retirement incomes policy to achieve the
desirable objective of providing all Australians with a secure retirement.
2.3 The Committee also notes that the taxation of superannuation provides
substantial government revenue.
2.4 During the inquiry, the Committee was often made aware of the need for
the equitable treatment of the different types of retirees, for example, those on
Commonwealth age pension benefits, private sector occupational superannuation
pensions and self-funded retirement incomes. This report therefore endeavours
to address the development of policies which are both equitable and symmetrical
in their impact on all retirees.
2.5 One of the aspects of policy symmetry which needs the attention of both
Commonwealth and State Governments is that of unfunded public sector
superannuation debt. The Committee believes that it is logically inconsistent to
pursue a policy of full funding of superannuation in the private sector and at the
same time allow unfunded public sector debt to rise. This is a matter which the
Committee addressed in its third report, Super and the Financial System, which
contains a recommendation calling on the Commonwealth and the States to
develop a consistent and coherent policy. The Committee believes that, at the
very least, a start must be made on the phasing-in of full funding of public sector
superannuation.
Description of the Bills and Related Terms of Reference


Previous Conclusions of the Committee
2.6 The Committee, in its first and second reports, made a number of prima
facie observations about deficiencies in the current policy which have been
followed up in this report. The following points were made in this regard:
Superannuation and the Age Pension
♦ The Committee stresses that, in the long run, the greater the numbers
who are independent of the age pension, the greater will be the scope for
real increases in the age pension for those who must rely on it/
♦ The Committee acknowledges that the SGL upholds the 55 year
preservation rule. Further, the Committee is well aware of the sound
reasons for the rule in so far as it applies to employees who work in
occupations which necessitate early retirement, but urges that the
Government consider measures to better integrate this aspect of the social
security and occupational superannuation systems/
♦ Unlike most other OECD countries, Australia does not require that
retirees take retirement benefits in pension form. In recent years the
Government has sought to encourage benefits in this form by having a
higher Reasonable Benefit Limit (RBL) for people who take their
superannuation benefit as a lifetime ... pension or annuity/
Taxation
♦ The Committee notes however, that, under current taxation arrangements,
there is every incentive for better paid workers to contribute to
superannuation and few tax incentives for low income earners. The
Committee acknowledges that the current arrangements include some
inequity and need to be addressed/
Simplicity
♦ Superannuation in Australia is a most complex matter. It is provided in
and outside the workplace and by a range of financial institutions/
Double Dipping
♦ One of the problems of this policy which has been the subject of
considerable attention during the Committee's hearings is the practice of
Super Guarantee Bills, p 30
ibid, p 65
Safeguarding Super, p 9
ibid, p 31
ibid, p 16


'double dipping'. Double dipping involves taking a superannuation lump
sum which has received significant tax concessions, consuming it rapidly
and then receiving an age pension. Whilst the evidence given to the
Committee was largely anecdotal and not based on any systematic
longitudinal data, 'double dipping' is common in Australia. It was
submitted, however, that there are legitimate uses for lump sums other
than purchasing an income stream, for example, paying out mortgages and
other debts. Double dipping is facilitated by the preservation age for
superannuation benefits being set at a lower age than the age pension age
for men (65 years) and women (60 years). It is this policy scenario which
allows some retirees who retire before the pensionable age to spend their
lump sums and at a later stage become eligible for the full pension or a
greater pension benefit than would have been available had the lump sum
not been dissipated.6
Hardship Provisions
♦ Retirees who take superannuation benefits not subject to compulsory
preservation before age 55 have them taxed at significantly higher rates.
Award superannuation contributions and contributions for which tax
deductions are allowed are subject to preservation. However, compulsorily
preserved benefits can be accessed under the hardship provisions of the
Occupational Superannuation Standards Act (OSSA), taxed at a pre
55 years rate and used for purposes other than retirement. These issues
will be examined in detail in the Committee's third report.7
Level of Pensions
♦ At no stage of the Committee's inquiry was a demand made for the
Government to reduce the present level of pension benefit expressed as
a percentage of AWE, that is, 25 per cent. Those witnesses representing
the interests of welfare groups submitted that the current age pension is
too low and needs to be increased.8
Changes Proposed in the Social Security Legislation
Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992 Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
2.7 The Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992 Divisions 16-
19 (inclusive) amends the following Acts:
♦ Social Security Act 1991; (the principal Act);
♦ Social Security (Family Payment) Amendment Act 1992;
6 ibid
7 Safeguarding Super, p 9
Super Guarantee Bills, p 18
8


♦ Health Insurance Act 1930; and
♦ National Health Act 1952.
2.8 Divisions 16-19 (inclusive) of the bill, the only provisions of the Bill referred
to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, will effect significant changes
to retirement incomes policy.
2.9 Division 16 will amend the principal Act to simplify the treatment of
managed investments, in respect of the incomes means test for pension eligibility,
by assessing income from them on an on-going basis according to actual
performance of the previous 12 months.
2.10 Division 17 is designed to exempt from the income and assets tests any
money in a superannuation or rollover fund until pension age or until an annuity
or pension commences to be payable from the fund.
2.11 Division 18 will extend to listed shares and other listed securities the
provisions which apply to managed investments, that is, their growth in value will
be taken into account under the means test on social security pensions and other
benefits.
2.12 Division 19 is the change under this Bill which has attracted most attention
from submitters to the inquiry. It provides that the value of allocated pensions
and allocated annuities will be taken into account for the purpose of the assets
test, and further provides that they will be income tested according to the fund
earning rate.
Changes Proposed in the Taxation Laws Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill 1992
2.13 This Bill has five parts which amend the following Acts:
Part 1. Preliminary
Part 2. Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;
Part 3. Occupational Superannuation Standards Act 1986;
Part 4. Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992; and
Part 5. Taxation Administration Act 1953.


2.14 As foreshadowed in the Treasurer's Security in Retirement statement, the
legislation:
♦ sets new limits for the amount of deductions available to an employer or
self employed person for contributions to a superannuation fund;
♦ replaces the existing deduction and rebate arrangements for personal
superannuation;
♦ changes the taxation of pension and rollover products;
♦ alters a number of entitlements in relation to the rolling over of eligible
termination payments, and limits the tax concessions on redundancy, early
retirement and invalidity payments; and
♦ introduces flat dollar RBLs (Reasonable Benefit Limits) as a replacement
for salary linked limits.
2.15 The Bill also amends the Occupational Superannuation Standards Act
(OSSA) by, inter alia, allowing superannuation funds to hold a member's benefit
for up to 90 days while the member decides whether to rollover the benefits, and
permits retirees to transfer their benefits into superannuation funds.
2.16 Finally, the Bill amends the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration)
Act 1992 to bring into force a number of changes foreshadowed when it was
debated in the Senate in June 1992 including:
♦ provision for flat rate contributions under the SGC; and
♦ extension of the measure to apply before 21 August 1991.
The Scope of the Recommendations made in Addition to
Matters Contained in the Bills
2.17 As stated in Chapter 1, and earlier in this Chapter, this report goes further
than commenting on the two Bills. To this end it considers the evidence the
Committee has received on the related terms of reference and makes
recommendations on matters in addition to those contained in the Bills.
Furthermore, it covers the preservation age issue, which is expected to be the
subject of future legislation/regulation, and recommends that the Government
change its policy on early access to superannuation benefits in cases of hardship.




CHAPTER 3 — VESTING AND PRESERVATION OF
BENEFITS
Vesting and Preservation of Benefits
Introduction
3.1 The Government's retirement incomes policy has two objectives:
increasing the incomes of retirees and reducing the burden of aged care on the
national budget. Superannuation, properly designed and administered, can assist
in achieving both objectives. The optimum operating conditions to achieve this
are:
♦ Breadth of cover. As large a proportion of the population as practicable
should be covered. This was the rationale of the taxation concessions
which have always applied to both occupational and personal
superannuation and was the prime purpose behind the introduction of
award superannuation. The latter was only partially successful however,
owing to significant levels of both non-compliance and non-award
employment. The introduction of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge
as from 1 July 1992 has the effect of making superannuation compulsory
for all employees, including casual, part-time and intermittent employees.
♦ Depth of cover. The greater the contributions in respect of each
employee, the greater is the foundation for the ultimate accumulation of
benefits. Award superannuation provided for employer contributions
equal to three per cent of earnings. Under the SGC legislation, employer
contributions are set to rise progressively to nine per cent by 2002. A
further three per cent may come from employee contributions. The
Government has announced a decision to support the inclusion in existing
superannuation award provisions of the rates of contribution to
superannuation funds required by the Superannuation Guarantee Scheme
as they become operative.1 Contributions of 12 per cent over a working
life of 40 years should be sufficient to provide a retirement income of at
least 40 per cent of earnings.2 The age pension is currently about
26 per cent (single), or 43 per cent (married), of AWE.3
1 House of Representatives Hansard, 2 April 1992, p 1767
2 John Dawkins, Security in Retirement, AGPS Canberra June 1992, p 19
3 Treasury sub no 195, p 5


♦ Optimum net returns. Given the level of employer and employee
contributions, the benefits payable by superannuation funds (other than
defined benefit funds) are governed by the extent to which trustees are
successful in optimising the net returns of the funds and by the level of
taxation on contributions and earnings. The maximisation of investment
returns must be tempered by considerations of liquidity and safety and
prudential controls are imposed to minimise losses due to faulty
investment decisions and fraud. Outgoings on administration, fees and
commissions need to be contained. These aspects of fund operation have
been dealt with either in earlier reports of the Committee or elsewhere
in this report. The Government, through the OSS Regulations, exercises
a supervisory role and has foreshadowed a tightening of its prudential
controls.
♦ Minimum leakage. Ideally, all net accumulations of funds, whether from
contributions or fund earnings, should be retained until needed to
produce retirement income and not dissipated on changing jobs or
becoming unemployed, as frequently occurs. The vesting of employer
contributions and the preservation of benefits, so that they may not be
drawn until retirement from the workforce, are important in this context.
The Government's policy regarding the early release of funds on hardship
grounds is also critical in the context of containing leakages.
♦ Provision of retirement income. The final link in the chain is closed when
the benefits are taken in the form of, or are used to generate, retirement
income. The use of benefits for any other purpose, however necessary or
worthy, detracts from the central purpose of superannuation, that is, the
provision of retirement income. Furthermore, anything which tends to
weaken the incentive to use benefits to produce retirement income
operates to frustrate the implementation of government policy.
3.2 To date, policies have been, or are being, developed to strengthen the
first three of these elements. With regard to the fourth, minimum leakage, a
start has been made by the Government to improve vesting and preservation
rules and proposals for a further strengthening are set out in this chapter.
3.3 In order to secure the final link - the provision of a retirement income
stream — two problems need attention: the continuing preference to take
benefits as lump sums rather than income streams, and the disincentive to invest
for retirement income inherent in the interaction of the means test and income
tax with the age pension. These two related issues are dealt with in the
following chapter.


Concepts
3.4 In the context of superannuation, vesting is the conferring on a fund
member the ownership of all or part of the accrued benefit applicable to that
member. As virtually all funds have for many years recognised the members'
ownership of their own contributions and as OSS Regulations 6 and 7 now
require the vesting of members' contributions and accrued earnings, the aspects
of vesting that remain to be addressed relate to the ownership by members of
benefits arising from employers' contributions.
3.5 Preservation is the withholding of access to the whole or part of fund
benefits by members until they have attained a specified age, or until the
occurrence of a specified event, such as retirement, death or permanent
incapacity.
3.6 Portability enables members leaving one fund to transfer the whole of
their vested benefits to a new fund on change of employment.
Application
3.7 Under both award and SGC superannuation arrangements, all benefits are
immediately vested in the members and preserved to retirement after reaching
age 55.
3.8 The position with employer-sponsored occupational schemes is more
complex and is governed by the individual trust deeds as well as by the OSS
Regulations. Some trust deeds have no provision for the vesting of employer
contributions, but most provide for a phasing in of vesting with length of service.
In accumulation schemes, the vesting is based on the actual employer
contributions in respect of each employee. Defined benefit schemes usually base
pre-retirement vesting on a multiple of the employee-financed benefits.
3.9 Current government policy, as announced in the 1989/90 Budget, provided
for the vesting of all employer-financed benefits accruing after 1 July 1995 at
a rate of 10 per cent for each subsequent year of service, so that after 10 years
of service from that date, full vesting would apply to all benefits accruing from
that date. However, it has since been announced that:
... in light of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge and given the importance
of vesting for labour mobility, the Government will review the previously
announced 1995 vesting proposals.4
4 John Dawkins, op cit, p 56


3.10 Compulsory preservation of benefits is a relatively new concept in
Australia. It currently applies to benefits arising from private superannuation
arrangements, tax-assisted member contributions, employer contributions under
award superannuation and any new or increased employer financed and vested
benefits brought in after 21 December 1986.5
3.11 It should be recognised that the earnings component of final benefits
usually exceeds the contributions component by a substantial amount. The
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) estimates that two-
thirds of typical final benefits comes from fund earnings and only one-third from
contributions.6 The vesting of these earnings is thus an issue of major concern.
Significance of Vesting
3.12 The significance of vesting, or the lack of it, lies in its impact on the
withdrawal benefits payable to members, especially those in employer-sponsored
schemes, who resign or whose employment is otherwise terminated prior to
retirement.
3.13 In the absence of vesting, resigning members are entitled only to the
benefits attributable to their own contributions. The benefits attributable to the
employers' contributions — typically at least equal to, but often significantly
larger than, the employees' contributions — remain in the funds. The
consequences of this may be one or more of the following:
♦ reserves, including excess reserves, may be higher than otherwise;
♦ employer contributions may be reduced or deferred;
♦ employee contributions may be lower than otherwise; or
♦ the level of residual benefits may be greater than otherwise.
3.14 All of these outcomes result in the transfer of tax-assisted benefits from
resigning members to employers and/or to employees other than those in
respect of whom the contributions were initially made. A further consequence
is the discouragement of employment mobility through the limitation on
portability of superannuation benefits.
5 OSS Regulations 9—11
Evidence, p 2127
6


3.15 Resigning members are clearly the losers under these conditions: they are
deprived of benefits which have been set aside on their behalf and which they
could claim to have earned. More importantly, their retirement benefits are
greatly diminished, thereby reducing their capacity to finance their own
retirement. Among those most adversely affected will be those who, whether by
choice or by the nature of their occupations, change jobs frequently and women,
particularly those whose careers are interrupted by family commitments.
3.16 The government is also a clear loser, as the lower level of self-financed
retirement incomes necessarily increases the call on age pensions.
3.17 Sponsoring employers and fund members continuing to retirement are the
winners, sharing the benefits outlined above. As the AMP points out, the
vesting of employer contributions is designed to encourage longer service.
Employers wishing to do this could gradually increase contributions, thereby
achieving similar results.7
3.18 The increases in fund surpluses resulting from the retention of unvested
contributions in respect of withdrawing members, and from the failure to fully
vest earnings on members' contributions prior to 1987, was illustrated in
evidence by Mr David Hughes, a trustee of the Shell Australia Contributory
Pension Fund, and Mr Bernard Maloney, of Chifley Superannuation Services.8
Mr Maloney also claimed that some employers deliberately brought about
redundancies with the objective of augmenting fund surpluses prior to
repatriation.9
3.19 It has been estimated that half of the Australian workforce changes jobs
every five years.10 If this estimate is anywhere near the mark, the potential loss
of benefits attributable to the lack of full vesting must be extremely large.
Significance of Preservation
3.20 If the level of vesting were to be increased, a further problem would
remain: resigning employees would receive considerably larger withdrawal
benefits from their superannuation funds than they now do; but there would be
no assurance that these additional sums would be held and reinvested for
retirement — the temptation to dissipate all or part of the benefits may be
7
Sub no 120, p 39
8 Evidence, pp 637,696
9 Evidence, pp 697-699
10 Beth Quinliven, Picking the Right Superannuation Scheme, p 53, cited by Attorney-
General's Department, sub no 107, p 25


difficult to resist. Any additional benefits resulting from improved vesting
provisions would therefore need to be preserved if they are to be fully effective,
that is, if they are to make a full contribution to retirement incomes.
3.21 But preservation itself is not a sufficient guarantee of an improvement in
self-financed retirement. Where preservation is compulsory under the OSS
Regulations, the age specified is 55, that is, benefits may not be withdrawn
before then without incurring tax penalties. A further limitation is that the
benefit may be paid only on retirement from the workforce, a proviso which,
however, does not readily lend itself to definition, monitoring or enforcement.
3.22 As age pensions are payable at age 60 for women and 65 for men, there
is a gap during which it is possible for retirees to draw their superannuation
benefits and then rearrange their affairs so as to meet the requirements of the
means tests for the age pension, a practice known as 'double dipping'. Among
the options for the achievement of a reduction in assets are repayment of
mortgages and other debts, upgrading of homes, overseas travel, purchase of
motor vehicles and other major items and more sophisticated schemes involving
the placement of funds with family members or trusts.
3.23 Under current legislation, the Department of Social Security (DSS)
requires all pension applicants to provide information on financial transactions
during the five years prior to application date in order to ensure that any assets
disposed of without adequate consideration are taken into account in the assets
test. Thus, a male applicant at age 65 may have up to five years to rearrange his
affairs without fear of scrutiny.1
3.24 There are, regrettably, few statistics available which would provide a
reliable indication of the magnitude of the double-dipping problem. Some light
is thrown on the problem by ABS figures on intended and actual disposal of
lump-sum superannuation payments, quoted by the Treasurer and reproduced
in the Tables 3.1 and 3.2.
3.25 The figures in the following tables indicate that around 80 per cent of
persons aged over 45 intend to use their lump sums primarily to produce
retirement income or to pay off mortgages or on improved housing, with the
housing component accounting for about 12-15 per cent of the total. Other
figures quoted by the Treasurer dealt with the actual, rather than the intended,
use of lump sums. They indicated that, while almost 80 per cent of the people
actually used most of their lump sums for those purposes, the housing
component accounted for about one-quarter of the total.
11 Evidence, p 127
John Dawkins, op cit, p 351
12


3.26 Weaknesses in these figures are, firstly, that the classification of each lump
sum is determined by its principal use and no apportionment to other uses is
made. Secondly, they relate to persons, not to dollars, so that lump sums of
$10 000 and $1 000 000 are given equal weight. Thirdly, the inclusion of housing
leads to a number of uncertainties of interpretation. While the repayment of a
long-established mortgage or other indebtedness is consistent with the
optimisation of retirement income, this is not so obviously the case where a
mortgage is entered into late in a working life, or even after retirement, to
expand or otherwise upgrade housing, on the assumption that a superannuation
lump sum will be available to pay it off.
Table 3.1 Persons aged 45 to 74 covered by a superannuation scheme: Intended
disbursement of lump sum payments from superannuation schemes
(a) Represents the primary purpose of the disbursement
(b) Disaggregated data by age is not available
Source: ABS Superannuation Australia, November 1991 (Cat no 6319.0)
Unpublished ABS data for 1988.


Table 3.2 Persons who retired from full-time work early and who belonged to a
retirement scheme: actual disbursement of lump sum payments from
superannuation schemes
(a) Represents the primary purpose of the disbursement
(b) This includes annuity, deferred annuity and approved deposit fund investments
Source: ABS, Retirement and Retirement Intentions, Australia, November 1986 (Cat
no 6238.0)
ABS, Retirement and Retirement Intentions, Australia, November 1989 (Cat
no 6238.0), unpublished data
3.27 The Treasury, in its modelling of future superannuation savings, adopts
an 'unfavourable' assumption that 'every lump sum up to $30 000 is dissipated'
for the entire population of retirees.13 Dr Vince Fitzgerald estimates that the
annual leakage due to non-preservation is currently in the order of $2.5 billion,
but will gradually decline, as shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3 Transfer Leakage
3.28 Notwithstanding these uncertainties, there can be little doubt that, to a
significant but unknown extent, one of the key objectives of the Government's
retirement incomes policy is being frustrated.
13
SGC evidence, p 16
14 Sub no 263, p 2


3.29 The preservation age is not the only factor contributing to the
encouragement of double dipping. The now almost standard practice of taking
benefits in the form of lump sums rather than as pensions is also a major
contributor - without this practice, the problem could not arise. And even with
compulsory preservation up to the pension age, dissipation would still be
possible, even though much more difficult to conceal. The worst, if unlikely,
case for the applicant would be a five-year wait under the retrospective
examination provisions.
Significance of Portability
3.30 If all funds provided for full portability, both inward and outward, and if
all contributions were fully vested and preserved, it would be possible for the
lifetime contributions in respect of every employee to be transferred with each
job change and to be accumulated in a single fund on retirement.
3.31 However, relatively few funds permit such transferability so that, even
with full vesting and preservation, an employee would retire with benefits spread
over a number of funds - one for each employer. Portability therefore assists
both labour mobility and administrative efficiency.
3.32 While a degree of portability exists between some funds in the public
sector, full portability is still some distance away. The New South Wales
Government recently told the Commonwealth Joint Parliamentary Committee
on Public Accounts that:
One of the most significant barriers to mobility between public sectors has
been the lack of portability of superannuation between the Commonwealth and
the States ... Currently, [transfer] arrangements require detailed negotiation
between the two funds in each case and are complicated by the operation of
different systems for the provision of death and disability insurance.15
3.33 Notwithstanding this firmly expressed view, the Department of Finance
told a Senate Estimates Committee only a few weeks later that:
... despite many conversations and approaches to various State Governments,
the Queensland Government was the only government that was prepared to
adopt a reciprocal arrangement with the Commonwealth Government under
the [pre-1991] arrangement — much to our disappointment, I might add.16
15 JCPA inquiry into The Management of Human Resources in the Australian Public
Service; submission by NSW Government, p 403
Evidence, Senate Estimates Committee B, 22 September 1992, p 177
16


3.34 The Committee believes that portability among funds in the private sector
will not become general until its beneficial effects and practicability have been
demonstrated in the public sector. Further, it believes that the Commonwealth
should take the lead in bringing this about.
Recommendation 3-1
The Committee recommends that, as a matter of urgency, the
Commonwealth should initiate discussions with the States with a view to
facilitating portability between them and that these objectives be achieved
by the end of 1993.
Further Vesting
3.35 In view of the key role played by vesting and preservation in the building
up of the capacity to earn income in retirement and of the large, unvested
benefits accrued in occupational funds, the Committee expected to have placed
before it well argued and well documented evidence on these topics. However,
no estimates of the amount of accrued, but unvested, benefits were placed
before it and there was little analysis of arguments for and against the vesting
of these benefits, other than unsupported assertions. No consideration was given
to partial vesting.
3.36 Many of those associated with the establishment and management of
superannuation funds were opposed to any further vesting of employer-financed
benefits.17 The general view was that this would raise costs to employers by
eliminating the subsidies inherent in the foregoing of unvested benefits through
early termination. According to this view, the probable outcome would be a
discouragement of voluntary benefits, leading to major restructuring, or even
closure, of sponsored funds. Some believed that the exposure to higher
resignation withdrawals would require the maintenance of higher levels of
liquidity, at the expense of higher yielding but less liquid investments such as
equities.
3.37 A few even felt that the very existence of defined benefit funds would be
threatened. Others considered that the voluntary nature of the contributions
should render them inviolate to any outside direction, particularly if any
retrospectivity was involved.
17
ASFA, sub no 89; Institute of Actuaries, sub no 108; Noble Lowndes, sub no 80;
LIFA, sub no 114; the Accounting bodies, sub no 119; National Mutual,
sub no 100; and AM Corporation, sub no 96.


3.38 On the other hand, supporters of increased vesting as one way of
increasing retirement incomes included AMP, (who also stressed the need for
defined benefit funds to develop appropriate vesting formulas or, failing that,
OSS Regulations), the Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department, the
South Australian Employers' Federation, ACOSS and Mr Cliff Newman, a
member of the Superannuation Committee of the Institute of Actuaries.18
Clayton Utz pointed out that full vesting would virtually eliminate the
accumulation of 'unplanned' surpluses in defined benefit funds and the resulting
disputation over their ownership.19
3.39 Treasury, which has the principal role in the development of
superannuation policy, acknowledged the vital importance of vesting and
preservation and identified the inadequacies of the existing arrangements.20
However, it made no comments on the desirability or feasibility of increasing
the vesting of pre-1995 accrued benefits.
3.40 On 30 June 1992, the Government announced a series of proposed
changes to the superannuation rules. As noted above in paragraph 3.9, the
proposed changes to the vesting rules, scheduled to operate from 1995, are
under review.
3.41 The Committee believes that it is important to eliminate, or at least
reduce, the leakage of funds set aside for retirement income but dissipated on
early termination of employment through inadequate vesting and preservation
arrangements. In particular, it does not believe that it is legitimate to use these
sums to subsidise either employers or other fund members. Accordingly, it
believes that serious consideration should be given to seeking a mechanism
whereby a greater proportion of existing employer-financed benefits in
occupational funds could be vested without serious harmful effects on the funds.
3.42 It is probable that an increase in vesting requirements would have some
adverse impact on business costs. Mr Michael Devlin, of AM Corporation,
pointed out to the Committee that:
... the withdrawal surplus is a major part of the funding formula. Most defined
benefit funds would have funding rates approximately double what they
currently are if there was full vesting.21
18
Sub nos 120, 107, 185, 35 and 3
19 Evidence, p 622
20 Sub no 195, pp 31-34
21 Evidence, p 746


3.43 Consideration of increased vesting therefore raises the question of equity:
to what extent, if any, should funds set aside for the retirement of one employee
be used to subsidise the retirement of others or the labour costs of employers?
The Committee notes the growing acceptance of universal superannuation as
an integral component of the retirement income mix, a necessary element of
which is provision for retirement throughout the working life. The lack of
universal vesting of employer contributions cuts across this principle. If an
increase in vesting results in increased business costs, then that must be
recognised as an inevitable consequence of the removal of any subsidy.
3.44 Greater vesting need not affect liquidity requirements and long-term
investment goals if proper action is taken with regard to preservation, as there
would not be any immediate call to pay withdrawal benefits. It need not
adversely affect defined benefit funds if, for this purpose, they are treated in a
similar manner to accumulation funds. As to the voluntary nature of the
contributions and the retrospectivity involved, it should be remembered that
employer contributions are generally made under contract as part of the
conditions of employment and are tax deductible; vesting would merely ensure
that they were used for the purpose for which they were made. Retrospectivity
would both remedy an injustice and serve the national interest.
3.45 The Committee believes that the present situation is highly unsatisfactory,
but accepts that an attempt to solve it with a sweeping recommendation for full
and immediate vesting could be counter productive. Nevertheless, it believes
that some action is necessary.
3.46 A recent survey indicates that employer contributions to sponsored funds
are, on average, almost double those of employees.22 It follows that the vesting
of employer contributions in these funds up to the level of already-vested
employee-financed benefits should pose few difficulties and would still leave
substantial sums unvested. The impact could be further softened by phasing in
the change over a period of years.
22
Noble Lowndes, Australian Benefits Survey, 1992/93


Recommendation 3.2
The Committee recommends that the Government take steps to provide
for the mandatory vesting, as from a date to be determined, of a
significant part of the employer-financed benefits in occupational
superannuation funds accrued to that date but not otherwise vested. An
example of a possible scheme is:
(i) The amount to be vested shall be not less than each member's
contributions, plus fund earnings, to that date.
(ii) The amount should be vested over a ten year period
(iii) Where existing rules would, if applied, result in a greater sum being
vested in any member, those rules should apply.
Recommendation 3.3:
The Committee recommends that, in relation to Recommendation 3.2
regarding increased vesting requirements, the base date should be the date
on which the Government announces the adoption of the policy in order
to protect the interests of then-existing members. Employees retrenched
or dismissed after the announcement, but before the base date, should be
entitled to whatever vesting they would have been entitled to if the base
date had been the date of their termination.
—
Recommendation 3.4;
The Committee recommends that immediate vesting of all employer
contributions subsequent to the vesting base date be compulsory.


Preservation Measures
3.47 In order to be fully effective, measures to improve vesting need to be
accompanied by measures requiring the preservation of the vested benefits. The
ideal arrangement from the standpoint of both maximising retirement benefits
and simplifying of implementation would be a requirement that all benefits
should be preserved.
3.48 Such a requirement would raise issues of equity, for example, in relation
to the treatment of those member contributions subsequent to 1 July 1983
which receive no tax assistance. This was recognised in the new preservation
arrangements announced on 30 June 1992 which will come into force on
1 July 1996. Under these proposals, all benefits will have to be preserved, except
for the greater of:
♦ a member's undeducted contributions after 1 July 1983; and
♦ a member's cash vested resignation (or retrenchment) benefit as at 1 July
1996 (or other specified annual review date), indexed to average weekly
ordinary time earnings.23
3.49 These provisions will both simplify the rules and significantly increase the
amounts subject to preservation. However, the Committee notes that there
would be a four-year gap between the announcement and the implementation
of the proposal, prolonging the scope for preservation leakage to no good
purpose. The need for such a delay in the implementation of a proposal, which
is essentially a simplification measure and which has no immediate financial
consequences, was not made clear in Security in Retirement and the Committee
believes that the timing should be reconsidered.
Recommendation 3.5
The Committee recommends that the commencement date of the new
rules to substantially increase the amount of benefits to be compulsorily
preserved, as announced in Security in Retirement, should be
reconsidered by the Government with a view to earlier commencement.
3.50 With regard to the preservation age, the Committee takes the view that
all reasonable steps should be taken to make double dipping as difficult and as
transparent as can be achieved with reasonable equity. Accordingly, it takes the
23
John Dawkins, op cit, pp 70-71


view that the closer the preservation age is to the pension qualifying age, the
more likely is this objective to be achieved. It firmly believes that the onus lies
squarely on those favouring an earlier preservation age to justify their position,
rather than on those who favour lifting the age.
3.51 In this respect, it takes issue with the ACTU, which expressed the view
that the onus lay on those wishing to raise the age to quantify the level of
double dipping and to prove that a material contribution to its reduction would
thereby be made.24 Very few of the other witnesses defended the existing
preservation age of 55.
3.52 The Australian Retirement Fund (ARF) stressed that employees did not
like preservation and that 55 was 'probably the right age' at present; but had no
views on its long-term suitability.25 Mr Dale Hennessy, Director of the
Queensland Government Superannuation Office, while conceding that some
preservation was acceptable, seemed to be advocating double dipping when he
told the Committee that:
Most people would see superannuation as legitimately providing a bridge
between retirement from the work force and the age of entitlement to the
social security pension ... It is hardly rational to restrict a person's access to a
sizeable superannuation asset until the age at which access to social security is
permitted and in the process deprive the person of a reasonable standard of
living in the meantime.26
3.53 The Treasury conceded that 'the current age discrepancy undoubtedly
presents the potential for such practices' and pointed out that 'raising the
preservation age would ensure that superannuation benefits are withdrawn
closer to age pension age.'27 Yet it stopped short of making a firm
recommendation to that effect and went on to outline three indirect measures
designed to discourage double dipping, namely:
♦ tax penalties on benefits taken before pension age;
♦ the inclusion of deemed rates of return on early benefits as income for
means test purposes; and
♦ requiring all early benefits to be taken as pensions 28
24
SG evidence, pp 51,19
25 Evidence, p 330
26 Evidence, p 1177
27 ibid, p 33
ibid, p 34
28


3.54 Furthermore, in its oral evidence, the Treasury would not concede that
there were economic or financial reasons for raising the preservation age to 60,
claiming that it was 'not a straightforward question'.29
3.55 DSS recognised that 'the issues of vesting and preservation are central to
superannuation' and favoured a faster phasing-in period for the proposed 1995
vesting changes. However, while conceding that raising the preservation age to
60 was 'an option that merited some consideration', it was more concerned at
the large volume of benefits paid out before age 55.30 Such payments,
excluding those attributable to redundancy and invalidity, amounted to
37 per cent of all eligible termination payments (ETPs) in 1989-90.31
3.56 The majority of the Committee welcomes the Government's decision to
raise the preservation age to 60 years but notes that some witnesses, notably
ACOSS, The Institute of Actuaries and LIFA, favoured an earlier phase-in
timetable.32
Recommendation 3.6:
The Committee by majority recommends that the preservation age be
raised to 60 years in accordance with the phasing in proposals outlined in
Security in Retirement.
Recommendation 3.7
The Committee further recommends that the Government should, as a
matter of urgency, initiate research into all aspects of appropriate
retirement ages and the extent of double dipping in Australia.
29 Evidence, p 2109
30 ibid, p 1277/8
31 Australian Taxation Office, cited by The Treasury, sub no 195, p 32
32 Evidence, pp 2158, 2117, 2116


Special Provisions
3.57 The Committee notes that certain occupations have long-established
retirement ages below the general level of 65 years, for example, the armed
services, police, airline pilots and coal miners. It sees no reason why those
special cases should not be provided for in the Regulations, but would urge
caution in expanding their number, particularly where retirement ages below 60
are specified.
3.58 Unemployment, for those over the age of about 45 years, is a particularly
intractable problem and many of those affected seek early payment of their
superannuation benefits.33 There is provision under the OSS Regulations for
special treatment in cases of hardship and the ISC informed the Committee that
such requests were running at an annual rate of 30 000 per year in March 1992.
The rate for the whole of 1991 had been 9 000.34 Such requests are processed
in the first instance by fund trustees and LIFA reported a doubling of
applications in each of the years 1991 and 1992. About 85 per cent of
applications were recommended by fund trustees for approval, but the ISC was
somewhat more strict and withheld approval in many cases. LIFA noted that the
processing of these requests was a substantial administrative burden and sought
promulgation by the ISC of more specific, written guidelines.35
3.59 The Committee acknowledges the work of the Australian Financial and
Credit Reform Association in providing counselling services to those in financial
difficulty. The Association's policy is that superannuation benefits be accessed
only under the following circumstances:
♦ All options to resolve the financial hardship of the consumer have been
canvassed in an informed manner;
♦ The benefit of the access will make a substantial difference to the
financial situation of the consumer;
♦ The current benefit of access to the consumer outweighs the long term
benefit [of preservation to retirement age];
♦ The accessed funds are to be used to protect an existing home or
existing income protecting asset or for necessary emergency medical
treatment;
33
The average duration of unemployment for those aged 45 and over is 82 weeks,
compared with 44 weeks for those under 45 — ABS Labour Survey, Cat 6203
34 Evidence, p 1853
35 LIFA, paper presented to ASFA Seminar on Financial Hardship, Canberra
July 1992


♦ The accessed funds are not to be used to supplement income;
♦ Access is at the initiative of the consumer; and
♦ Access should be determined by an authority independent of industry
operating on the following guidelines:
— The procedure be efficient and with definite expeditious
guidelines, and
— The procedure be at no cost to the consumer.36
3.60 The Committee notes that the principal purpose of superannuation is to
provide for retirement and thereby alleviate possible future hardship. It should
not be regarded as a fund available for stand-by relief during the period of a
normal working life. In those circumstances, the Committee believes that social
security is the proper channel through which emergency relief is available,
rather than through a loss of future superannuation benefits.
3.61 Overseas countries, most of which operate defined benefit schemes, do
not allow early release of benefits in either the pension or a lump sum form.
The Committee notes that ready availability of lump sums has contributed to
the increase in applications for early release of benefits.
3.62 The Committee believes the Government should address the following
questions:
♦ Is «arly access to benefits severely undermining the objectives of
retirement incomes policy?
♦ Can early access to a lump sum benefit make a significant difference to
the long term well being of the recipient?
♦ Is there a consistency of treatment of applications for hardship assistance?
3.63 The Committee notes that there is a cyclical trend for persons to seek
early access to retirement benefits. Also, there appears to be a tendency for
some applicants seeking this form of assistance to see their lump sum as being
a remedy for immediate problems which could be solved under some other
arrangement, for example, social security assistance or re-negotiations and/or
rearrangement of personal finances.
36
Sub no 271


3.64 If this trend is allowed to continue, early access to benefits on the scale
currently being experienced will result in a significant leakage of superannuation
funds.
3.65 The Committee believes that the abolition of early access to benefits in
cases of hardship should be one of Australia's long term retirement incomes
goals. However, the Committee was unable to reach a unanimous agreement on
a short or medium term implementation timetable for this policy.
Recommendation 3.8:
The Committee recommends that the ISC, the organisation which it
believes is best placed to administer this policy, work towards the
achievement of the Committee's long term goal to eliminate early access
to retirement benefits. The Committee also recommends that the ISC
promulgate a policy to ensure consistency of treatment of applications and
further recommends that the ISC develop a more limited set of rules
setting out clearly the circumstances for hardship assistance*




CHAPTER 4 : SUPERANNUATION AND
THE AGE PENSION
Superannuation and the Age Pension
Lump Sums or Pensions
4.1 Superannuation benefits may take the form of lump sums, life pensions
(usually with a reversionary benefit to a surviving spouse), or a combination of
the two. Lump sums, in turn, may be used to purchase annuities, or other
income streams such as allocated pensions, invested to provide income, applied
to the reduction of debt or spent.
4.2 In its background report, summarising retirement income policies in 21
overseas countries, the Committee noted that 'lump sum retirement benefits
generally represent a small part of total retirement income'.1 It went on to
point out that, in contrast, Australia exhibited a strong preference to take
superannuation benefits in the form of lump sums. It attributed this to:
taxation arrangements which historically have favoured lump sum
payments over annuities and pensions. The 1988 taxation changes, which
included amendments to the RBL, remedied this situation to some
extent but anomalies remain;
the small size of benefits, particularly for older workers who have only
recently received award superannuation. Such benefits would be
insufficient to purchase an annuity;
the lack of facilities to preserve superannuation entitlements until 1983
when Approved Deposit Funds and Deferred Annuity Funds were
created;
a perception that lump sum benefits could be used to pay off the
mortgage or finance consumer expenditure on change of employment;
and
a desire to bequeath capital assets.2
4.3 Other attractions of lump sums, depending on individual circumstances,
include:
1 Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super System Survey,
Canberra, 1991, p 1
ibid, p 2
2


♦ Flexibility. The retiree has control over the amount and direction of
investments and of the amount drawn down each year.
♦ Inflation-proofing. The retiree may be able to invest the lump sum in such
a way as to avoid, or minimise, the erosion of purchasing power through
inflation.
♦ Certainty. The receipt of a lump sum avoids the risk - however slight it
may be - of failure to maintain pension payments owing to fraud or fund
insolvency.
♦ Double-dipping. It is often possible for retirees to arrange their affairs so
that they can receive a lump sum and retain their eligibility for the age
pension.
4.4 From the standpoint of the funds, the payment of lump sums offers a
simple and economical means of discharging liabilities, whereas pensions involve
regular payments, with associated maintenance of financial and tax records, for
many years. Lump sums have the further advantage for fund managers of
passing the inflation risk on to the retiree.
4.5 On the other hand, there are distinct disadvantages and risks associated
with a reliance on lump sums:
♦ Investment Skills. Retirees may lack the investment skills necessary to
balance income maximisation against risk aversion, to hedge against
inflation and to make the sum last the required life span. Some who
commence their retirement with those skills may lose them as they grow
older. Others may be the victims of incompetent or unscrupulous
investment advisers or managers.
♦ Dissipation. Some retirees will be unable to resist the temptation to spend
excessively on such items as holidays and consumer goods. Others may do
so as part of a deliberate plan to engage in double-dipping.
4.6 Governments are well aware of the disadvantages of lump sums: if they
fail to yield adequate retirement income, whether through a lack of investment
skills or through dissipation, the retirees will fall back on the age pension and
the relevant superannuation taxation concessions will have been wasted.
4.7 By contrast, benefits taken in the form of pensions or annuities are
backed by substantial investments, professionally managed, a regular lifetime
income is assured and indexation for inflation can be obtained. Dissipation is
impossible and the whole of the benefit is therefore applied to the provision of
retirement income.


Proposals for Encouraging the Use of Pensions
4.8 Most of the major participants in the industry, together with the principal
departments concerned with superannuation, favoured a strengthening of
measures for the encouragement of pensions and annuities in their evidence to
the Committee.
4.9 The Alexander Consulting Group proposed that the maximum lump sum
should be 20 per cent of the total benefit, subject to a proviso that, where the
total value of all benefits was $50 000 or less, the whole could be taken as a
lump sum.3
4.10 Mercer Campbell Cook and Knight expressed the view that further
encouragement of pensions and annuities through the taxation system was
needed, as well as a widening of the eligibility criteria to enable funds to
provide annuities directly to retirees.4
4.11 Noble Lowndes proposed that there be no distinction in the tax treatment
of the pre- and post-1 July 1983 components of lump sums and that they be
taxed as follows:
♦ Benefits received prior to age 60, less undeducted contributions, be taxed
at 25 per cent.
♦ Benefits received after age 60, less undeducted contributions and amounts
below the threshold, be taxed at 20 per cent.
♦ The threshold for post-60 payments to remain at $73 776, indexed to
AWOTE (Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings).
♦ Concessional components in respect of permanent and total disablement
to be eliminated and the beneficiaries encouraged to take an income
stream, subject to the ordinary 15 per cent rebate.5
4.12 The Institute of Actuaries was another organisation favouring the use of
the tax system to 'give positive encouragement to provision of pensions as
opposed to lump sums.16
3
Sub no 61, p 7
4 Sub no 79, p 8
5 Sub no 80, p 5
Sub no 108, p 35
6


4.13 The Accounting bodies, while regarding it as 'logical' that an increased
proportion of benefits should be taken in the form of pensions, felt that
50 per cent should remain available in lump sum form.7
4.14 AMP favoured a limit on lump sums, determined by way of either a
percentage of total benefit or a fixed dollar amount.8 The Department of
Social Security (DSS) adopted a similar approach, proposing either a 50/50 lump
sum/pension split or adopting the current ETP tax threshold ($73 776) as a
lump-sum maximum.9
4.15 The Superannuation Economics Research Group of the University of New
South Wales did not believe that preferential tax treatment would be successful
in achieving a substantial switch to annuities and, in consequence, advocated a
regulation requiring all benefits to be taken as annuities, at least to the point
at which age pension eligibility ceases.10 The group also pointed out that,
while indexation was necessary in order to counteract the erosion of the
purchasing power of annuities through inflation, this requirement substantially
increased the price of annuities and therefore reduced their immediate rates of
return.11
4.16 In order to overcome this problem, the Group proposed a major change
in the structure of government debt. It advocated a substantial increase in the
proportion of the debt in the form of inflation-indexed bonds (currently
1.2 per cent of the total) and long-term debt - that is, 15 years or more to
maturity (currently less than two per cent). Such a combination would enable
annuity providers to 'lock up' their annuity obligations and their supporting
government securities and 'throw away the key'.12 The Committee believes that
this proposal has considerable merit and warrants investigation by the
Government.
Recommendation 4J:
The Committee recommends that the Government investigate the possible
expansion of long term debt instruments with a view to affording annuity
providers greater opportunities to provide lower-cost indexed products.
7
Sub no 119, p 20
8 Sub no 120, p 13
9 Sub no 127, p 12
10 Sub no 150, pp 19, 20
11 ibid, p 20
ibid, p 21
12


4.17 The Treasury, while recognising the 'clear advantages of pensions and
annuities from a retirement incomes policy perspective' also recognised a
'legitimate' role for lump sum benefits. It therefore opposed a prohibition on
lump sums but supported either a direct limitation on lump sums or an increase
in the attractiveness of benefits taken as income streams.13
Government Policies
4.18 Governments have so far been reluctant to impose any compulsion to take
pensions or annuities instead of lump sums but have relied on taxation measures
to achieve this objective.14 The main provisions, current or proposed, are:
♦ Higher RBLs where benefits are taken in the form of pensions or
annuities. This increases the level of taxpayer support for the relevant
contributions.
♦ Exemption from tax of the income of funds generated to provide pensions
or annuities.
♦ A 15 per cent rebate on the amount of pensions and annuities from
taxable funds included in assessable income, that is, the gross amount less
the allowable UPP deductions. This will effectively exempt from tax
rebatable pensions and annuities up to about $17 000 per year.
♦ Previous inconsistencies between the tax treatment of pensions and
annuities will be removed.
4.19 The alternative route using compulsion is attractive in its apparent
simplicity but would lead to some complications nevertheless. A 100 per cent
pension requirement would not yield worthwhile income supplements if the
capital sums were small. An arbitrary figure of, say $20 000, under which lump
sums could be drawn, would be required. One could then expect the
development of schemes to prevent marginal entitlements from exceeding the
cut-off figure. Beneficiaries with entitlements just above the minimum would
receive no lump sum at all and would no doubt feel aggrieved.
4.20 A 100 per cent requirement would also rule out the use of
superannuation benefits to pay out housing loans and other debts. If exceptions
were to be made, questions would arise as to what, if any, upper limit would be
13
Sub 195, p 37
14 The Government's latest proposals are set out in Security in Retirement,
John Dawkins, Canberra, June 1992


appropriate and how should debts incurred in anticipation of a lump sum
benefit should be dealt with.
4.21 Partial requirements, for example 50 per cent in pension and 50 per cent
in a lump sum, would offer more flexibility but would still create problems at the
margin. If $20 000 is regarded as minimum worthwhile investment, then the
lump sum restriction would cut in at $40 000, whereas a retiree with a $39 000
benefit could take the whole as a lump sum. No doubt phasing-in arrangements
could be devised to lessen problems of this nature but the result could well be
the introduction of a new wave of complexity in an already over-complex area.
4.22 On balance, the Committee endorses the policy of encouraging pensions
and annuities through the tax system and welcomes the simplification measures
announced in Security in Retirement. However, it believes that, in conjunction
with the research into retirement ages and double dipping recommended in
Chapter 3, the extent and application of lump sum benefit payments should be
monitored with a view to the imposition of specific regulation if the taxation
measures should prove to be ineffective.
Allocated Pensions
4.23 According to the DSS, fewer than one per cent of retirees use their lump
sum benefits to purchase lifetime annuities, notwithstanding their official
encouragement.15 The low figure is no doubt a reflection of the perceived
disadvantages of annuities, notably their relatively low return and consequent
high cost, and the lack of residual value, even in the case of early death. In
response to these perceptions, a market has developed over the last six years
for a less rigid form of annuity known as an allocated pension or cash-back
pension.
4.24 These pensions may be purchased from ETPs or rollover funds and take
the form of individually managed investments which may be drawn down at
rates determined annually by the beneficiaries, but within stipulated minima and
maxima, determined as follows:
AB
Minimum drawing — PVF
AB
Maximum drawing - PVF/80
15 Sub no 127, p 16


where:
- AB is the individual's fund balance as at 1 July each year;
- PVF is the Pension Valuation Factor published by the ISC for the age of
the person each 1 July, that is , the annuity factor for a CPI-indexed,
85 per cent reversionary annuity payable for life; and
- PVF/80 is the annuity factor for a non-indexed, non-reversionary annuity
payable to age 80.
4.25 If the pensions meet these standards, they are treated as superannuation
funds, in that the investment income is not taxed as such, but is treated in the
same way as annuity income when drawn.
4.26 Allocated pensions thus have the taxation and professional management
advantages of annuities and any undrawn balances on death can be disposed of
by will. There is no provision for a guaranteed rate of return and no indexation
to compensate for inflation, consequently returns tend to be higher than for
annuities. They are thus a half-way house between privately managed
investments and purchased lifetime annuities and have been growing in
popularity. According to AM Corporation, one of the main providers of
allocated pensions, allocated pensions have now captured more than half of the
total annuity market, as shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1 RETIREMENT INCOME STREAMS - NEW BUSINESS AND TYPE16
16 Sub no ST 17, attachment


4.27 As allocated pensions further the Government's objective of using
superannuation benefits for the provision of regular income streams, the
taxation advantages attaching to pensions and annuities have been extended to
them.17
4.28 The rationale behind the Government's thinking was amplified by an ISC
Assistant Commissioner at a recent superannuation conference. Among his
observations, the following are significant:
The marketing of allocated pensions coincided with policy decisions by
Government in 1989 and 1990 to send clear signals to the industry that
it preferred benefits to be taken more in income stream form.
The dimension that allocated pension brought to the policy problem was
to force policy advisers to address the question as to what is acceptable
as an income stream for retirement income purposes.
To confine the meaning of income streams to a traditional pension or
annuity would be to unnecessarily narrow it to the detriment of policy
[emphasis added].
The definition [of a retirement income stream] ... should be general in
its application.
The key characteristics [of a retirement income stream] are that the
payments must be made at least annually ... must be greater than a
prescribed minimum ... and ... less than a prescribed maximum [see
paragraph 4.24].
Providing the payments satisfy these requirements, they would be
considered a superannuation pension or rollover annuity and,
accordingly, a retirement income stream.
This approach ... encompasses both traditional pensions and annuities
as well as income streams where the future pension or annuity payments
are not defined at the time the pensions commence to be paid.18
4.29 The Government has thus taken a positive decision to define annuities in
a manner which embraces allocated pensions in furtherance of its policy of
encouraging income streams in preference to lump sums. The definition would
be brought into effect through the tax system.
17 Security in Retirement, op cit, p 10
18 Mike O'Neill, Allocated Pensions: Are they Set to Boom? address to ASFA
National Superannuation Conference, October 1992, pp 1-2


Allocated Pensions and Social Security Legislation
Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992 Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
4.30 Under the proposed amendments to the Social Security Act the
Government will treat both unrealised capital gains and income applying to the
assets underlying allocated pensions as earned income for the age pension
means test, notwithstanding their exemption from income tax in the same way
as the supporting assets for annuity incomes. Furthermore, the capital value of
allocated pensions will be included in the assets test, whereas that of annuities
is disregarded.
4.31 The Department of Social Security (DSS) rationale for the revised
treatment is:
♦ it brings the treatment of allocated pensions into line with other types of
similar investments;
♦ it is consistent with the principle that the decision to defer receipt of
income until a later date is a personal one, rather than one which should
be supported with a higher , rate of pension; and
♦ continuing to assess allocated pensions on a receipts basis when the
investor can vary the payments and determine when income is received
could encourage investors to defer receipt of income.19
4.32 DSS further contended that the main impact of the legislation would be
that, for those with investments below the assets test thresholds, it would bring
forward the assessment of income to when it is earned, rather than when it is
received.20
4.33 In clarifying its position regarding the treatment of term annuities
compared to the proposed changes in treatment of allocated pensions, DSS
stated that it would be reviewing the treatment of the former by the end of
January 1993.21 The Committee will maintain an interest in this review
process.
4.34 Under the operation of the income test, each $200 per year of assessed
income above the threshold has the effect of reducing the age pension by $100
and, under the assets test, each $1 000 of assets above the threshold brings a
19
Sub no ST 17, p 2
20 ibid
ibid, p 39
21


pension reduction of $104 per year. DSS estimated that the change in the
treatment of allocated pensions would save about $2 million in a full year.22
4.35 DSS also told the Committee that it was 'not necessarily the case' that
the tax and social security treatments of particular investments needed to be
identical. Although allocated pensions had many features in common with
complying superannuation pensions, they should, on balance, be subject to the
standard social security procedure of treating income on an accrual basis.23
'What we are attempting to do is provide neutral treatment vis-a-vis other
similar sorts of investments.'24 The justification for the change given in the
Explanatory Memorandum accompanying the Bill was that, as drawings were
variable, allocated pensions operated 'in a similar way to a bank account ... at
the recipient's discretion'.25
4.36 AM Corporation submitted to the Committee a schedule showing how
each retirement income vehicle would be affected by the new rules (See
Table 4.2). According to AM, the Bill would reduce the pension entitlement of
certain persons by over $2 600 per year.26
4.37 AM Corporation proposed an amendment for the legislation which,
amongst other things, excluded allocated pensions and annuities from the new
definition of 'managed investment' as proposed in the Bill, that is, allowing these
products to be treated in the same way as all other superannuation products
and annuities in respect of both taxation and social security treatment.27
4.38 In a supplementary submission, DSS estimated that the cost of AM's
proposal, relative to the provisions of the Bill, would be between $13 million
and $20 million by 1996-97, giving a cost over the next five years of between
$50 million and $77 million.
22
ST evidence, p 34
23 ibid, p 38
24 ibid p 41
25 Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992, Explanatory
Memorandum, p 76
26 Supplementary evidence, sub no ST 17
27 ST evidence, pp 30-34
28 Sub no ST 18, supplementary submission of 3 December 1992. DSS used rates of
return of seven and ten per cent in making these estimates and assumed that the
allocated pension market would continue to grow at current rates.


Table 4.2
RETIREMENT INCOME STREAMS
DSS TREATMENT
An Example
An individual commences an annuity or allocated pension using the following
superannuation benefit:
$
Pre Component 50 000
Post Component 50 000
Total Rollover 100 000
Life expectancy is say 15 years and the allocated pension earns 10% investment income.
A pension or annuity or drawn-down payment of $8 000 is made in the first year.
Unrealised Gains and the Income Test in Relation to the
Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992
Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
4.39 The Government proposes to amend the Social Security Act to provide
that net unrealised capital gains on listed securities, other than bonds and
debentures, should be brought to account in the income test in the same way
as now applies to managed investments. Losses on similar investments accruing
during the same period will be allowable as an offset against these profits.


4.40 In foreshadowing this change to the 1992-93 Budget papers stated that:
The assessment of income for income testing purposes will be expanded to
include accruing capital gains and losses made during the previous twelve
months on listed shares and other securities (hitherto only dividends have been
assessed)... [emphasis added]29
4.41 A concurrent statement by the Department of Social Security stated that:
'Capital growth on shares will be included under the income test ... any losses
... will be allowed to be offset against any gains on shares.'30 A subsequent
press statement by the Minister, Dr Blewett, stated that the proposed change
'treats the capital growth of shares as income and enables shareholders 'to offset
capital losses against gains’.31
4.42 The Committee believes that a reasonable interpretation of these
statements is that:
♦ the dollar amount of capital gain over the twelve months prior to
assessment date is to be treated as income, together with any ordinary
distributions, which are already assessable;
♦ where two or more different investments are held, the net capital gain
from the portfolio as a whole, together with total distributions, is
assessable;
♦ capital losses may be offset against dividend income;
♦ if, over a period, there is no net capital gain, there should be no
assessment of income; and
♦ changes in values prior to acquisition, or prior to the holder becoming a
pensioner, whichever occurs later, are disregarded.
4.43 The Committee believes that this interpretation is fair, logical, simple and
equitable, given the acceptance in principle of the assessment of unrealised
gains. It requires no calculation beyond simple addition and subtraction and
implies no assumptions about the future.
4.44 The decision is being put into effect by amendments to the Social Security
Act 1991, contained in Division 18 of the Social Security Legislation
29 Budget Statements 1992-93: Budget Paper No 1, p 3.97
30 DSS 1992-93 Budget Information, p 57
31 Minister for Social Security Media Release No 46/92


Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992. Clause 116 of the Bill sets out the formula to be
used in assessing the gains and losses for the purposes of the means test.
4.45 The Council on the Ageing (COTA) raised several objections to the
proposal:32
♦ Fixed interest investment provides pensioners with the bulk of their
private income and, as no capital growth accrues to such investments, they
cannot be compared with shares.
♦ Pensioners should have the right to invest in shares as a hedge against
inflation.
♦ While unrealised gains result in pension loss, there is no penalty if the
shares are sold and the growth realised.
♦ If unrealised growth exceeds dividends, a pensioner will have a negative
cash flow.
♦ It is unfair to assess a benefit which may never eventuate.
♦ Applying an income test to what is obviously an increase in capital is
unacceptable.
♦ It is inequitable not to include an inflation adjustment.
♦ Unrealised losses can be set off only against gains in the same period but,
as share prices usually move up and down together, there will be very
limited opportunity for offsets.
♦ The formula exaggerates gains and understates losses, so that, even if
these cancel out over an investment period, assessable income is deemed
to have occurred.
4.46 The Australian Stock Exchange and the Institute of Actuaries tendered
similar criticisms.33
4.47 The DSS responded to the effect that:
... shares are just being brought into line with other forms of investments which
are assessed on an accruing basis;
32
Sub no ST 22
Sub no ST 23 and ST 25
33


Real estate is far more difficult ... unlisted securities are an administrative
problem ... shares are much easier to address; and
[If there is a general rise in share prices but no change in dividends] the person
is then in a situation of needing to make a choice ... whether just to let things
go or whether he needs to recoup that in some other way, perhaps by utilising
other assets or selling some proportion of his shares.34
4.48 In relation to the timing of valuations of securities held by part
pensioners, DSS advised that the Department would be 'doing reassessments
every quarter. That will be done automatically...' on the basis of data purchased
indicating movements in share prices.35
Income Test and Income Taxes
4.49 Eligibility for the age pension is subject to meeting means tests on both
income and assets. The tests are applied independently and the amount of
pension is governed by whichever test produces the lower pension.
4.50 The income test, as applying at 30 June 1992, provided that each dollar
of weekly income in excess of $42 (single) or $74 (couple) resulted in a
reduction of 50 cents in the pension. The effect of this test on pensions is
shown in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3 - Effect of Income Test on Age Pensions36
4.51 Thus, increases in non-pension income, for example from annuities or
investments, within the allowable limits, are fully reflected in the disposable
income of pensioners. Using multipliers derived from current annuity rates (see
Table 4.4 below), it can be shown that means-test free incomes may be derived
34
35
ST Bills evidence, pp 34, 35
ST Bills evidence, p 35
Source: Department of Social Security
36


from investments of up to about $26 000 (single male), $33 000 (single female)
and $60 000 (married couple).
Table 4.4 : Immediate Annuities per $100 00037
T
T
4.52 Using the same multipliers, it will be seen that the pension cut-off points
will be reached with investments of about $220 000 (single male), $270 000
(single female) and $480 000 (married couple).
4.53 It is therefore clear that, for the foreseeable future, the great majority of
retirees will continue to be eligible for, and can be expected to apply for, age
pensions, whether full or part. They will be affected by, and sensitive to, the
income means test, which reduces any increase in non-pension income above
the threshold by 50 per cent through pension reductions.
4.54 The Government announced in 1989 that, by 1995, all age pensioners,
both full and part, will be exempt from income tax. Until then, the following
provisions38 will continue to apply:
♦ Age pensions, along with other incomes, are subject to tax.
♦ Full pensioners receive a tax rebate equal to the tax otherwise payable on
incomes up to the means test threshold, effectively making such incomes
tax free.
♦ Income in excess of the thresholds is subject, firstly, to a pension
reduction equal to 50 cents for each dollar. The remaining 50 cents is
subject to income tax at 20 per cent, or ten cents.
37 Source: Personal Investment December 1992, p 68
38 Rates used for illustration are those applicable to the 1991/92 financial year


♦ The pensioner tax rebate is reduced by 12.5 per cent of the additional net
income, or 6.25 cents of each 50 cents increase net of means test.
♦ Initial income in excess of the thresholds is therefore subject to a
combined pension withdrawal and tax rate of 50c + 10c + 6.25c per
dollar, or 66.25 per cent.
♦ When non-pension income reaches $5 561 (single) or $7 691 (couple),
Medicare levy becomes payable at a phase-in rate of 20 per cent, or
ten cents of each 50 cents remaining after the means-test pension
reduction.
♦ This phasing-in of the Medicare levy raises the withdrawal and tax rate
to 76.25 per cent.
♦ At non-pension incomes of $7 127 (single) and $10 229 (couple), the
Medicare levy reverts to the standard rate of 1.25 per cent, or .625
cents out of 50 cents, bringing the withdrawal and tax rate down to
66.875 per cent.
♦ The pensioner rebate cuts out at $17 102 (single) and $23 624 (couple),
reducing the withdrawal and tax rate to 60.625 per cent, a rate which is
maintained until the pension cuts out at $18 096 (single) and $30 368
(couple).
4.55 The foregoing summary illustrates firstly, the great complexity of the
taxation of part pensions, secondly, the abrupt changes in impact and, thirdly,
the high combined impact of pension withdrawal and taxation. These range
from 60.625 per cent to 76.25 per cent on non-pension incomes above the
means-test threshold and average 67.3 per cent over the whole range of part
pensions. This contrasts with the marginal tax rates, including Medicare levy,
payable by general taxpayers of 21.25 per cent for incomes up to $20 700, and
39.25 per cent on additional income up to $36 000. The maximum marginal rate
for general taxpayers is 48.25 per cent for that part of income which exceeds
$50 000.
4.56 Many pensioners, faced with the loss of two-thirds of any investment
income through the combined effects of the means test and income tax, are
likely to be deterred from making investments to supplement their pensions.
There will be a strong temptation to organise their affairs in a manner which
maximises their pension incomes.
38
The Medicare levy was raised to 1.4 per cent in the 1992/93 Budget


4.57 In announcing the proposed tax exemption for part pensioners, the
Government stated that its purpose was 'to remove disincentives to individuals
undertaking retirement savings and thereby to encourage greater self-provision
in retirement'40 and commented that the combined effects of pension
withdrawal and income tax:
... not only distort savings and investment behaviour of pensioners and those
saving for retirement, but also cause resentment, confusion and compliance
difficulties for pensioners facing two separate systems of administration.41
4.58 The Committee endorses this view and welcomes the decision to exempt
all age pensioners, both full and part, from income tax. However, it should be
noted that, even then, those pensioners will still be confronted with the pension
withdrawal rate of 50 per cent, a rate which could discourage self-provision for
retirement.
4.59 Incomes of those of pensionable age immediately above the pension cut-
off point of around $18 000 would, in the absence of special provisions, be
subject to tax of about $2 500. In order to smooth out the taxation rates on
incomes above the pension limit, it will be necessary to phase out the rebate
until it reaches zero and the ordinary tax scale is reached. This need was
acknowledged by the Treasurer in a written reply to a question in the
Senate.42
4.60 If the rebate is phased out at a rate which maintains the marginal tax rate
at the pension withdrawal rate of 50 per cent, the ordinary tax scale would not
be reached until a taxable income of about $47 000, an unacceptably high
figure. As ordinary tax rates (including Medicare levy) rise from 21.25 per cent
to 39.25 per cent at $20 700, it might be appropriate to increase the marginal
tax rate to 60 per cent at that point. In this event, the rebate would cease at
around $30 000, or roughly AWE.
4.61 The position with regard to married couples is a little more complex, but
clearer if attention is directed towards the desired outcome rather than the
process of reaching it. Each partner receives a pension somewhat lower than
single pension and each is taxed separately. Pensions cease to be payable when
combined income is a little over $30 000, or $15 000 each. Assuming non-
pension income is equally spread, the application of the formula suggested
above would commence at about $15 200 and the rebate phase out at $23 500.
Complexities arise when non-pension income is unequal, where the income of
40
41
Budget Paper No 1, 1989-90, p 4.9
ibid, p 4.10
Senate Hansard, 12 October 1992, p 1619
42


one partner may exceed the top of the second taxation bracket and where
spouse rebates may be involved. However, it should be possible to ensure an
outcome for married couples consistent with the formula.
Recommendation 4.2
The Committee recommends that the Government proceed with its
announced intention to rebate all income tax otherwise payable by age
pensioners.
4.62 Whilst implementation of the Government's proposal supported by these
measures would certainly result in an immediate loss of revenue, to the extent
that they encourage the generation of additional non-pension income, revenue
would benefit by 50 per cent of that additional amount through savings in
pension payments.
Means Test — Assets
4.63 A means test is also applied to assets, other than the principal residence,
of pension applicants and recipients. Assets in excess of $110 750 (single) and
$157 500 (married) have the effect of reducing the pension at the rate of $104
per year for each $1 000 of assets. Higher limits are set for non-homeowners:
$190 250 (single) and $237 000 (married).
4.64 The same pension reduction — $104 per year — results from an increase
in income of $208 per year as results from an increase in assets of $1 000. The
implicit earning rate on assets is therefore 20.8 per cent. This rate is unrealistic
when government bond rates are around eight to nine per cent, cash
management funds around five per cent and bank term deposits around
six to seven per cent. The deeming rate on bank balances for age pension
purposes is currently five per cent.
4.65 The holding of assets is thus heavily penalised in contrast with their
income equivalent. As the test least favourable to the pensioner is applied, once
assets exceed the means test threshold, the assets test will be the determinant
of pension eligibility. Is this designed to encourage annuities as against
bequests?
4.66 So severe is the test that investments over the threshold amount of
$110 750 will actually cost more in reduced pension than the income earned,
except in the unlikely event that returns exceed 10.4 per cent.


4.67 Some commentators have argued that the means-test threshold is very
generous and that, in consequence, the pension attrition rate must of necessity
be steep to prevent access to pensions by the wealthy. But if that is the case,
the proper course of action would be to reduce the threshold to a level
comparable to the income threshold, with an additional allowance for household
and personal possessions which cannot be expected to earn income.
4.68 If that could be achieved, it would then be both possible and desirable to
link the income and assets tests via a realistic interest rate - for example, the
deeming rate on bank balances. Where assets included bona fide investments
in income-earning ventures, such as farms, small businesses or equities which
were actually yielding less than the deeming rate, such lower earning could be
the amount subject to the test.
Recommendation 43
The Committee recommends the assets test be aligned with the income
test via the application of realistic, market-related interest equivalents,
subject to:
(a) a reasonable allowance, for example $50 000, for personal and
household possessions; and
(b) inclusion of actual income on bona fide income-earning assets.
Tax Inconsistencies
4.69 To the recipient of a part pension, reductions in net income, whether by
way of pension attrition through the means test or by way of income tax,
attrition of pensioner rebate or Medicare levy are identical in impact - all
transfer income from the pensioner to the Government. It follows therefore that
a smooth transition from dependence on the age pension to fully self-funded
retirement will be facilitated where definitions, concepts and practices are
consistent as between the taxation and social security legislation.
4.70 For example, tax law treats each individual separately: the incomes of
husband and wife are taxed independently, although a rebate is allowed for
dependent spouses and any unused pension rebate is transferable. By contrast,
for age pension means test purposes, all income and assets are allocated equally
to husband and wife, irrespective of the actual income earner or asset owner.
This difference makes financial planning more complex and can lead to
inequities where, for example, a married superannuation pensioner may be fully


inequities where, for example, a married superannuation pensioner may be fully
taxed on a single income, whereas an age pensioner couple on the same income
might pay lower, or even no, tax.
Recommendation 4.4
The Committee recommends that the Treasurer and the Minister for
Social Security form a working party to examine income tax and social
security legislation with a view to maximising the consistency of definitions
and treatment of matters of common concern to the two systems and that
the report be tabled in Parliament by the end of 1993.


CHAPTER 5 :
TAXATION — INTRODUCTION
Taxation — Introduction
Overview
5.1 Taxation has a range of purposes with respect to superannuation. First,
it is a means of raising revenue. Second, in the absence of a more appropriate
head of power under the Commonwealth Constitution, it is the Federal
Government's primary means of regulating the industry.1 Third, it is a means
of encouraging outcomes consistent with the Government's retirement incomes
policy.2 Fourth, the granting of tax concessions increases the attractiveness of
saving through superannuation.3 Finally, tax concessions are a means of
concentrating savings and retirement income provision into a medium over
which the Government can exercise some control.4
5.2 The easiest way to consider the taxation of superannuation is by reference
to the clearly identifiable stages that wealth passes through in the
superannuation process. There are essentially three phases through which this
wealth passes and at which taxes may be levied and tax expenditures provided,
namely:
♦ prior to entry to the superannuation fund;
♦ in the fund — as it generates investment income; and
♦ after it leaves the fund.
5.3 In general, the approach adopted in Australia compared to overseas is
unique. Australia's approach:
♦ provides tax incentives (through a mix of deductions and rebates) for
member and employer contributions to superannuation funds and taxes
deductible (but not rebatable) contributions upon entry to funds;
1
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Safeguarding
Super 1992, Chapter 3
2 ibid, see Chapter 2 for a review of Government Retirement Incomes Policy.
3 ASFA sub no 89, p 12
ibid
4


♦ taxes the investment income (including capital gains) of the fund at
concessional rates (and allows offsetting credits); and
♦ taxes end benefits at concessional rates.
5.4 Professor Knox provided a useful illustration of the tax treatment of
superannuation in other countries at Table 5.1.5 It can be seen from this that
the usual approach is to levy taxes on end benefits.
Table 5.1 A Summary of the Taxation of Occupational Pensions in some Developed
Countries.1'
Notes:
Almost all countries have upper limits on the contributions or benefits permitted. These have not
been shown as they normally affect only a small proportion of the workforce. Further, they do not
alter the taxation approach adopted.
The term 'deductible' under contributions means that the employer, and in some cases the
employee, can claim tax deductions or rebates for their contributions. That is, the contributions are
paid from pre-tax income and the tax is deferred.
Abbreviations used: LS - lump sum payments; P - pension payments.
The French pension system is funded on a pay-as-you-go basis which means that a fund of
significant size is not established.
5
Knox D Options for Taxing Super sub no 52, p 13


5.5 It should be noted that almost all tax concessions are granted for
complying superannuation funds. A complying superannuation fund is generally
a fund that has met the Occupational Superannuation Standards Regulations
(OSS Regulations). Where a fund has satisfied the Insurance and
Superannuation Commissioner that it should be granted complying status, the
Commissioner will issue a certificate to this effect.6 There is also provision for
the Commissioner to grant complying status at his discretion where special
circumstances exist.7 The taxation treatment of a non-complying
superannuation fund is generally not concessional but similar to a normal
investment vehicle. As such, most of the discussion in this report will focus on
the taxation of complying superannuation funds. The Committee observed in its
first report, Safeguarding Super, that the penalty for failure by trustees to
comply with OSSA (i.e. loss of complying status and therefore loss of
concessional tax treatment) is unsatisfactory.8 Furthermore, the Committee
approves of the move towards sanctions and penalties being applied to trustees
and managers rather than fund members.
5.6 The extent of government support for superannuation should be made
clear from the outset. The Treasury maintained that:
The superannuation tax concessions have a substantial impact on the Budget.
In 1990-91 the superannuation tax concessions amounted to $3.6 billion in
revenue foregone, which was the Government's largest tax concession.9
The Committee’s Approach
5.7 This chapter outlines and defines the elements of an effective system for
taxing superannuation while the following three chapters analyse each phase of
the superannuation flow, namely, contributions, fund earnings and end benefits.
The approach adopted in each of the next three chapters is to provide a brief
overview of the current taxation regime, the reforms proposed in Taxation Laws
Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992, a synthesis of the evidence received
by the Committee and recommendations.
6 Occupational Superannuation Standards Act 1987 Section 12
7 Occupational Superannuation Standards Act 1987 Section 13
8 Safeguarding Super, First Report of the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation, page 24, para 3.14
Sub no 195, p 4
9


Criteria for the Taxation of Superannuation
5.8 The Committee sees the essential elements for the system of taxing the
superannuation flow as equity, simplicity and efficiency. These terms require
definition.
5.9 By equity the Committee means both 'horizontal' and 'vertical' equity.
Horizontal equity is seen here to mean fairness, or equality of overall treatment,
amongst taxpayers in similar financial circumstances. The Committee sees
vertical equity as requiring the better off to bear a greater proportional share
of the tax burden. A further element is added to this definition of equity to
acknowledge the retroactive effect of prospective amendments to the law in this
area. That is, where possible, the arrangements affecting certain groups of
taxpayers should not be altered in a way that drastically reduces their
anticipated benefits.
5.10 By simplicity the Committee desires a system which is easily understood
and has acceptable 'compliance' costs. In referring to compliance costs, the
Committee is concerned with the total cost in money and effort expended by
taxpayers (and their agents) and tax administrators. For example, a 'simple'
system may allow taxpayers to determine the tax payable on their annuity
payments without the assistance of tax agents. Furthermore, a simpler system
may involve a different paper trail between members and fund trustees with
respect to the 'contributions’ tax or between a member, the Australian Taxation
Office and the Insurance and Superannuation Commission with respect to
Reasonable Benefit Limits.
5.11 The Committee acknowledges the relationship between equity and
simplicity. It is fairly common to hear that equity concerns have led to the array
of grandfathering provisions which abound in the Income Tax Assessment Act
(ITAA) and have made the taxation of superannuation extremely difficult to
understand. But equally, and more importantly for the future, an overly complex
system will cause unnecessarily large administrative costs for funds which will
reduce the level of benefits to members, particularly low income earners. It can
be seen by the foregoing that the Committee is concerned not only with
'substantive' aspects of tax law, but also 'procedural' requirements.
5.12 By efficiency, or economy and efficiency, the Committee is concerned that
the present concessions allowed for superannuation achieve the ends
encompassed in the Government's retirement incomes policy. Efficiency
demands that 'deadweight' expenses incurred in administering and complying
with the law are kept to a minimum. 'Neutrality' is also an important part of
efficiency. Put simply, neutrality requires that two transactions of equal
economic substance should have equal taxation consequences. An example of


a lack of neutrality in the current regime has been the differing tax treatments
of superannuation pensions and annuities.
Administration
5.13 The Committee observes that superannuation is subject to some of the
most complex taxation laws in Australia and that there is a large amount of
revenue involved. It also observes that the Australian Taxation Office has
established a number of specialist technical units known as 'cells' dealing with
complex subjects as capital gains tax, insurance, property development and
banking & finance among others.
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends that a specialist unit, known in the Australian
Taxation Office as a 'cell', be established within the ATO to clarify taxation
law and practice for the superannuation industry*




CHAPTER 6 :
TAX TREATMENT OF
CONTRIBUTIONS
Tax Treatment of Contributions
6.1 This chapter covers the current arrangements for encouraging
superannuation contributions, the Committee's evidence on those arrangements
and recommendations for reform. In addition, the Government's reforms in the
Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992, and evidence received
thereon, will be examined.
Current arrangements
Employer Contributions
6.2 The rules governing these deductions are found in Subdivision AA,
Division 3 of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA).
Employers receive an income tax deduction for making contributions for the
benefit of their employees or their employees' dependants.1 The deduction is
allowed where the contribution is made to an 'eligible' superannuation fund2
which is defined to include either a complying or a non-complying
superannuation fund.3
6.3 Two important constraints on this deduction are the two-fund rule and
the Maximum Deductible Contribution Limit (MDCL). The 'two-fund rule'
states that a deduction is not allowable where the employer contributes to more
than two funds in respect of an employee.4 It has applied since 1 July 1990 and
was introduced in order to make the RBL contribution limits simpler and more
effective. The 'two-fund rule' provides a de facto control over the amount of
deductible employer contributions that can be made on a person's behalf.
However, in very limited cases, an employer may contribute to three funds.
6.4 Under the MDCL rules, employers should take care not to make
excessive contributions for their employees. Where an employer makes
contributions in excess of an employee's MDCL, the fund becomes prima facie
non-complying by breaching Regulation 18B of the OSS Regulations. The
1 Section 82AAC(1)
2 Section 82AAC(1)
3 Section 267
4 Section 82AAC(3)


MDCL of an employee is calculated with reference to a complex formula
designed to cap the level of employer contributions. Where the cap is exceeded,
and the fund becomes non-complying, the excess (when a benefit is finally paid
out of the fund) is taxed at the member's marginal rate. Where an employer
makes contributions in excess of the MDCL, the contributions are still allowable
as a deduction to the employer. Furthermore, an employer may choose to make
contributions in excess of the MDCL and not claim a deduction - thus not
jeopardising the complying status of the fund.
Member Contributions
6.5 In addition to employer contributions, some members receive tax
incentives for superannuation contributions. Certain types of members may be
eligible to claim a deduction for contributions to complying superannuation
funds. Where members cannot claim such a deduction, they may be able to
claim a rebate but it should be noted that many employees cannot claim either.
In particular, many public servants are not eligible for either.
6.6 Before looking at the tax incentives for member contributions, it is useful
to look at the difference between a deduction and a rebate, shown in Example
6.1. A deduction is subtracted from a taxpayer's assessable income to arrive at
taxable income. Tax rates are then applied to the taxable income to determine
tax payable. A rebate is subtracted from tax otherwise payable.
Example 6.1 : Rebates and Deductions at Work
- Pre Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bil 1992
Peter Brown receives award only superannuation. He contributes $1 000 to a personal
superannuation fund for which he is entitled to a deduction. His assessable income is $33 000.
Therefore:
Taxable income = $33 000, less $1 000 = $32 000
Tax Payable (at 1992/93 rates) = $7 354 (plus medicare levy)
Mary Monaghan is entitled to a rebate for personal superannuation contributions. Assume she
is entitled to a rebate of 25 per cent of her contributions, which are $900. Her assessable
income is $28 000 and she has no allowable deductions. Therefore:
Taxable income = $28 000
Tax (at 1992/93 rates) = $ 5 834 (plus medicare levy)
less $ 225 (rebate : 25% of $900)
Tax Payable $ 5 609 (plus medicare levy)


Member Contributions — Deductions
6.7 The rules governing the deductibility of member contributions are found
in Subdivision AB, Division 3 of Part III of the ITAA.
6.8 From 1 July 1990 the deductibility of member contributions hinged on
whether a member fell into one of the following categories:
♦ unsupported persons (including self-employed and substantially self-
employed);
♦ award-only persons; or
♦ other than award-only persons.
6.9 Unsupported persons are referred to in the ITAA as 'unsupported eligible
persons' and are entitled to a deduction for contributions made to complying
superannuation funds.5 The deductible amount is the lesser of:
♦ $3 000 plus 75 per cent of contributions in excess of $3 000; or
♦ the amount required to fund a benefit equal to the member's reasonable
benefit limit (RBL). RBLs are examined in Chapter 8 of this report.
6.10 Recipients of award-only support are members whose only employer
support consists of contributions made pursuant to an award . These are
referred to in the ITAA as 'superannuation agreement contributions’ and
members are entitled to a deduction of up to $3 000 for personal
superannuation contributions.6
6.11 Members who receive employer support may be entitled to a rebate from
1 July 1990. 'Employer support' in this instance does not include contributions
made pursuant to an award.
Limit on contributions : Maximum Deductible Contribution Limit (MDCL)
6.12 Members may not receive a deduction for contributions made in excess
of their MDCL. The formula for determining a member's MDCL is complex and
depends on the accumulated market value of investments in the fund, the
number of years to retirement and the member's maximum funding limit. The
member's maximum funding limit is, in turn, dependent on the member's
5 Section 82AAT(2)
Section 82AAS(1)
6


pension RBL (which is dependent on their highest average salary), age, and age
at which they joined the fund.
Member Contributions — Rebates
6.13 Members who do not qualify for a deduction may be eligible for a rebate.
Thus members of funds who receive no employer support or receive award only
support are ineligible. The rebate provisions are contained in Subdivision AAC,
Division 17 of Part III of the ITAA.
6.14 To be entitled to a rebate a member must belong to an 'eligible' scheme.
An eligible scheme will be defined by the trustees of the fund to be either the
whole of the membership of the fund, a subset of fund membership or even one
member of the fund. The crucial characteristic of the group is that the average
level of employer contributions does not exceed $1 600 per person.7 The
determination of the level of employer support depends upon the nature of the
scheme. There are different rules for accumulation funds, funded defined
benefit schemes and unfunded defined benefit schemes.8 In order for a group
of members to qualify as an eligible scheme, the trustee must notify all such
members that the scheme is an eligible scheme in the particular year of income.
Such notices must generally be supplied within 90 days of the end of the fund's
previous year of income. It is important to note that an eligible scheme can only
be associated with a complying superannuation fund.
6.15 Interestingly, membership of an eligible scheme does not oblige the
member to make all of their superannuation contributions to that scheme. Once
in an eligible scheme, the member can claim a rebate in respect of personal
contributions to any complying superannuation fund.
6.16 A taxpayer who is eligible is entitled to a rebate of 25 per cent of all
personal superannuation contributions of up to $3 000 per year (that is, a rebate
of up to $750). Example 6.2 illustrates how this rebate works. The maximum
level of rebatable contributions ($3 000) is reduced by 50 cents for each $1 the
taxpayer earns over $25 000. Thus the rebate cuts out completely where the
taxpayer earns $31 000. As such, the rebate is the lesser of:
♦ 25 per cent of ($3 000 minus one half of assessable income over $25 000);
or
♦
25 per cent of rebatable contributions.
7 Note: employer support does not include contributions made under an award or an
industrial agreement
Sections 159TE to 159TJ
8


Example 6.2 : Rebates at Work
- Pre Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992
Hugo has an assessable income of $28 000 and contributes $800 to an eligible
scheme. He is entitled to a rebate of:
(a) 25% of [$3 000 - {0.5 x (28 000 - 25 000)}]
= 25% x [$3 000 - $1 500]
= 25% x $1 500
= $375
(b) 25% of $800
= $200
The rebate is $200, it being the lesser of (a) and (b)
The Committee’s Evidence
6.17 The evidence presented to the Committee suggested overwhelming
dissatisfaction with the current deductibility/rebatabiiity arrangements. This
dissatisfaction can be grouped under three broad headings, namely; inequity,
insufficient incentive and complexity.
Inequity
6.18 There are essentially two strands to this argument:
♦ by allowing deductions (as opposed to rebates) an unfair advantage is
provided to wealthier contributors; and
♦ it is inequitable to treat the various classes of contributors differently.
The Committee notes that it is suggested that there is inequity in the treatment
between low and high income earners and among the various classes of
contributors.
6.19 In particular, the Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS)
submission noted that, in addition to a deduction being prima facie unfair, the
insufficient tax concession granted to low income earners must be reduced by
50 per cent 'to reflect the impact on their age pension entitlements'.9 Noble
Lowndes also noted that by offering a rebate (instead of a deduction) much of
9 Sub no 31, p i


the bias created by the progressive tax system in giving a greater tax break to
higher paid employees would be broken.10 It was also suggested by Mr Barry
Thompson, the Northern Territory Commissioner of Superannuation, that a
rebate system would provide greater tax relief to low income earners.11 LIFA
suggested that rebates are easier to understand.12 Another approach
recommended that all employer and member contributions should attract a tax
deduction, but that additional rebates could be paid to identified low income
earners who contribute to superannuation funds.13 National Mutual
recommended that all personal contributions be rebatable up to the RBL
limit.14
6.20 Ms Barbara Smith, a Lecturer in Accounting at the Phillip Institute of
Technology, suggested that the current system 'seemingly defies logic'.15 In her
opinion:
Current tax benefits ... favour the high income earner who is either self-
employed or who can negotiate a flexible salary package to take advantage of
the current legislation.16
6.21 The problem that Ms Smith alluded to occurs under what is called a
'salary sacrifice' arrangement whereby an employee whose superannuation is
provided as a flexible element in an overall remuneration package can choose
to trade salary for employer superannuation contributions. For example, instead
of the employee making contributions out of salary (and maybe not being
entitled to a rebate or a deduction), the employee may elect to receive less
salary and make no contributions, but have the employer contribute. The effect
of this is that the employee can effectively achieve full deductibility for what are
member financed superannuation contributions. The Committee is concerned
at the spread of salary sacrifice arrangements as the benefits appear to be
enjoyed only by high-income earners. Further, it notes that such arrangements
have the potential to offend the principles of vertical equity.
10
Sub no 80, p 4
11 Sub no 77, p 7
12 Sub no 114, p 11
13 Alexander Consulting Group sub no 61, p 10
14 Sub no 100, p 14
15 Sub no 37, p 2
16 Sub no 37, p 8


Recommendation 6.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government monitor and examine
the use of salary sacrifice arrangements with a view to ensuring that their
use does not undermine the equity aims of the Government's retirement
incomes policy.
6.22 It was also suggested in evidence that the current system is inequitable
and anomalous in that it discriminates between classes of contributors.17 The
Alexander Consulting Group submitted that the current four classes of
contributors be replaced by a universal scheme of rebates.18 National Mutual
pursued a similar line on simplification grounds.19
6.23 The Investment Funds Association of Australia (IFAA) claimed there
would be merit in making concessions more consistent across different
categories of members.20 The Institute of Actuaries recommended that, subject
to revenue constraints, the Government should aim for greater consistency
between types of member and employer contributions and that there should be
deductions or rebates for all contributions.21
6.24 The Government Employees Superannuation Board (GESB) indicated
that 'as a general principle, all member and employer contributions should be
treated the same for taxation purposes' and 'that there is no apparent rationale
for different treatment'.22 ASFA noted that, under the SGC, the level of
employer support enjoyed by a member will no longer be an appropriate
criterion for determining whether members can obtain tax concessions for their
contributions.23
6.25 There appeared to be some support for treating not only all member
contributions identically but all member and employer contributions the same
way. This was particularly evident in the recent report of the Committee for
Economic Development of Australia (CEDA), Superannuation and Retirement
Incomes, which concluded that member and employer contributions should both
17
ASFA sub no 89, p 18
18 Sub no 61, p 10
19 Sub no 100, p 14
20 Sub no 154, p 10
21 Sub no 108, p 3
22 Sub no 84, p 4
23 Sub no 89, p 18


be deductible up to aggregate limits.24 It supported the aggregate limits
suggested in Security in Retirement (see paragraph 6.39) acknowledging that
this would expand the Government's superannuation tax expenditure and
suggested that:
To contain the impact on the revenue, the deductibility of employee
contributions should be phased in over the period to 2000.25
6.26 Similarly, Noble Lowndes suggested a rebate of 39 cents in the dollar for
member contributions to bring them into line with the company tax rate.26
6.27 It was noted that the introduction from 1990 of the rebate for some
limited contributions is a significant improvement for low income earners.27
However, a move towards across-the-board rebatability has two undesirable
effects. ASFA notes that for contributing employer-supported members (eg
public servants in compulsory contributory schemes) the extension of
concessions would effect no behavioural change but would constitute a windfall
gain for those members. This would lead to a drop in public savings with no
increase in private saving.28 Finally, and by no means unimportantly, ASFA
suggests that full deductibility has been costed at over $1 billion per annum.29
6.28 The Commonwealth Bank called for a system whereby concessions could
be received for contributions up to Average Weekly Earnings per annum made
by employers and employees as per their own agreement.3
6.29 As indicated in the Committee's Second Report, Super Guarantee Bills,
the question of allowing tax relief for contributions for those outside the
workforce was not extensively canvassed by witnesses. Most of those who did
comment pointed out that the main beneficiaries of such a rule would be the
relatively wealthy who, in addition to financing ample, tax-subsidised
superannuation for themselves, would be able to do the same for their spouses
and even other relatives.31
24 Committee for Economic Development of Australia (Strategic Issues Forum)
Superannuation and Retirement Incomes, October 1992, p 17
25 ibid, p 21
26 Sub no 80, p 4
27 ASFA sub no 89, p 16
28 ibid
29 ibid (The Treasury estimate suggested)
30 Sub no 173, pp 6-7; sub no 235, pp 3-4
31 Super Guarantee Bills second report of the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation, paragraph 5.59, p 36


Why is a rebate fairer than a deduction?
Deductions are a regressive way of distributing superannuation tax
concessions. This is because the concession provided by a deduction is
dependent on the person's marginal tax rate. A rebate such as provided to
members of eligible schemes is more equitable because it provides the
same taxation concession to everyone who is eligible, irrespective of their
marginal rate. A $1 deduction is worth 47 cents (plus medicare levy) to a
taxpayer on the top marginal rate. However, the same $1 deduction is only
worth 20 cents (plus medicare levy) for a taxpayer on the lowest marginal
rate. It also offers a substantial simplification in that it can be set on a net
of the contributions tax basis, relieving funds of the responsibility of taxing
contributions. (See Chapter 7.)
Insufficient incentive
6.30 The second concern is that there is insufficient incentive via the taxation
system to contribute to superannuation. This manifested itself in calls for more
generous concessions for those contributing larger sums as they near retirement.
6.31 The joint submission of the Australian Society of Certified Practising
Accountants (ASCPA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
(ICAA) suggested that where minor provision had only been made to date
greater tax concessions should be given for members nearing retirement.32
This point is supported by Mr Peter Griffin of Rothschild Australia Asset
Management Ltd, who suggested that the level of allowable contributions should
be determined by the age of the beneficiary at the time of contribution. (Mr
Griffin advised that this could facilitate the removal of the entire RBL
system.33)
6.32 There was a clear call for the concessions to be sufficient to attract
employee contributions.34 LIFA suggested that, as a minimum, all employees
should be eligible for a tax deduction for up to $3 000 on contributions, whereas
self-employed people should be entitled to deductions for all contributions.35
32
Sub no 119, p 9
33 Sub no 133, p 6
34 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce sub no 140, p 11;
Australian Chamber of Manufactures sub no 95, p 8;
National Farmers Federation sub no 83, p 7
Sub no 114, p 10
35


6.33 The AM Corporation proposed an overall limit on tax deductible
contributions for members on the following basis:36
Simplicity
6.34 It was a common theme in evidence that the complexity of current
arrangements deters members from contributing. The ACTU noted that in the
voluntary contributory schemes with which they are involved, complexity is one
of the principal reasons why fund members do not take the opportunity to
contribute.37
6.35 The Australian Taxation Office (ATO) noted some of the areas where the
application of the tax law is uncertain and difficult to administer:
(a) the provisions explaining the circumstances in which a person is deemed
to receive employer support for deduction purposes are difficult to
understand, and can require close scrutiny of an employee's individual
circumstances and intentions with regard to his or her employment. In
some cases the value of the tax deduction foregone far exceeds the level
of superannuation support. Therefore, situations can arise where a person
would be financially better off by not having employer superannuation
support;
(b) eligibility for a rebate for personal superannuation contributions depends
on the satisfying by the member's superannuation fund of certain
notification requirements to members, which funds find difficult to satisfy.
A fund's failure to fulfil the requirements prevents its members from
receiving the rebate; and
(c) due to confusion about their entitlements, many taxpayers are either
incorrectly claiming both a deduction and a rebate for their
superannuation contributions, or they may not be claiming their full
entitlement.38
36
37
Sub no 96, p 2
Sub no 106, p 17
Sub no 155, pp 6-7
38


The Committee notes that the rebate arrangements introduced by the Bill
overcome this deduction/rebate confusion.39
6.36 The general thrust of the ATO submission on taxation was also supported
by National Mutual (NML). In particular, NML submitted that the 1990 tax
concessions were implemented via some of the most complex legislation yet
enacted, covering:
♦ five conditions for member's eligibility for a rebate;
♦ four conditions for 'eligible scheme' status; and
♦ nine alternative methods of determining employer support.40
6.37 Noble Lowndes suggested that members have difficulty deciding which
category they fall into, if indeed they fall into any, and that the concepts of
'unsupported persons' (for member deductions) and 'eligible schemes' (for
member rebates) are also too complex. They proposed that a rebate replace the
current deduction and rebate arrangements.41 This was supported by LIFA
who indicated that rebates are easier to understand and often easier to
administer.42
Summary
6.38 Some broad themes can be discerned from the above survey. First, there
was a call for concessions to be sufficient to attract member contributions. This
also included a call for age-based scales. Second, there was a desire a more
equitable apportionment of the government's tax expenditure amongst all
contributors. It was widely suggested that a rebate should replace the current
deductions available for member contributions. However, there also appeared
to be a desire to retain deductibility. Third, greater consistency of concessions
was requested. Suggestions ranged from parity in the treatment of all employers
and members to parity between all members. Some evidence pointed to the
need for a different concession for self-employed, employee and employer
contributions. Finally, there was a unanimous call for a simpler regime.
39 see paragraph 6.39.
40 Sub no 100, p 14
41 Sub no 80, p 4
Sub no 100, p 11
42


Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992
6.39 The changes announced in the Treasurer's Security in Retirement
Statement are reflected in Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill
1992. In particular, Divisions 2 and 3 of Part II of the Bill deal with employer
and member contributions respectively. These changes go some way to
addressing community concerns about the need to implement a more simple,
equitable and efficient system of concessions for superannuation contributions
and include:
♦ Employer and self-employed member contributions will be limited by an
age-based scale. This allows for the removal of the two-fund rule and the
MDCL. The limits on concessionally taxed contributions will be:
The deduction limit for a self-employed person from the 1994-95 year of
income will be the lesser of:
♦ $3 000 plus 75 per cent of the amount of the contributions exceeding
$3 000; or
♦ the person's age-based limit on deductible superannuation
contributions.
Employers with more than ten full-time employees may elect to use the
'standard employee contribution limit'. Where employers so elect, the limit
on deductions contributions, for the 1994-95 income year, will be based
on the following formula:
(Number of full year employee positions) multiplied by $25 000
♦ For 'award-only members' and those employees entitled to the rebate, a
new rebate will be introduced. This rebate will be ten per cent for up to
$1 000 of personal contributions to any complying superannuation fund.
The maximum level of contributions will be reduced by 25 cents for each
dollar of assessable income in excess of $27 000 and fully phased out at
$31 000.


Evidence on the Bill
6.40 Senator the Hon. Bob McMullan stated that the Bill introduces measures
which:
respond to longstanding calls from the superannuation industry and the
community to make superannuation simpler, and that the announced measures
have been widely endorsed by the superannuation industry as achieving that
goal.43
However, he stressed that the Bill must be taken as a whole and that 'it is
simply not possible to mix and match individual measures and still achieve a
coherent policy package'.44
6.41 Senator McMullan anticipated attack on some measures in the Bill,
namely, the reduction in levels of concessions for member contributions and the
lack of notice regarding those changes. He stated that the new rebate
arrangement is:
♦ simpler — because it replaces the mixed system of deductions and rebates;
♦ more equitable — employees in similar circumstances will be entitled to
the same treatment;
♦ better targeted - it is designed to give assistance to low and middle
income earners; and
♦ fiscally responsible — in combination with the RBL changes the
Government expects to save $230 million in 1993/94 which will help offset
the anticipated $400 million cost associated with the introduction of the
Superannuation Guarantee Charge (SGC).45
6.42 The Committee received several responses to the Bill and took evidence
at a public hearing. Most written submissions expressed dissatisfaction with the
rebate proposals and recommended alternative approaches.
43 ST Bills evidence, p 3
44 ST Bills evidence, p 1
45 ST Bills evidence, p 1


The ASFA Approach
6.43 ASFA first intimated its disfavour with the new rebate proposal contained
in the Security in Retirement Statement stating that 'the Government could
have been more generous in relation to the tax treatment of member
contributions'.46 ASFA clarified its submission by calling for 'an extension of
the proposed new concessions for member contributions' advocating that the
Government should, in order of priority:
(a) lift the rebate to, say, 20 per cent;
(b) lift the maximum qualifying contribution to, say 5 per cent of Average
Weekly Earnings (approximately $1500); and
(c) lift the income cut-off point to, say, 150 per cent of Average Weekly
Earnings (approximatley $45000).47
6.44 The thrust of ASFA's submission is that while 'very supportive of the
package overall and of the rebate system for member contributions' they were
'disappointed at the limits that were imposed'48 and hence they sought ’more
generous concessions for the targeted group before seeking any extension to the
group itself.49
The LIFA Approach
6.45 LIFA believed that the level and scope of the new rebate arrangements
'can and should be improved'.50 They were surprised at the low level of
incentive and stated that
Reducing or eliminating this tax incentive appears to be quite contrary to the
message that individuals need to save for their own retirement.51
LIFA contended that the lack of incentive provided by the new arrangements
will immediately make 1.2 million member contributors worse off and affect up
to 2 million contributors.52 LIFA proposed the following, in order of priority:
46
ST Bills evidence, p 2115
47 ASFA supplementary sub no 89, 21 September 1992
48 ST Bills evidence, p 15
49 ibid
50 Supplementary sub no 114, p 5
51 ST Bills evidence, p 17
52 ibid, p 2


(a) increase the $1 000 limit to $2 000;
(b) increase the 10 per cent rebate to 20 per cent; and
(c) increase the $27 000 salary threshold to $35 000.53
6.46 In support of their submission, LIFA asserted that the $2 000 limit on
contributions 'would encompass the majority of employee contributions and
encourage those who can afford to save more for their retirement to do so'.54
Furthermore, they suggested that a 20 per cent rebate is crucial to stimulating
voluntary employee contributions and is 'closer to the effective existing
incentive'.55 They recommended $35 000 as an appropriate salary threshold as
that is 'the level where salary packaging arrangements become more
common'.56
6.47 Alternatively, LIFA argued that the reduced personal incentives could be
phased in according to the following timetable:57
6.48 Senator McMullan opposed the call for the new rebate to be phased in,
stating that there would be a cost to revenue and that it would lead to 'an
extremely complex and confusing situation'.58 He added that a phasing scale
would merely 'create an illusion of comfort'.59
6.49 As indicated earlier in this chapter, CEDA supported the aggregate limits
on deductible employer contributions set out in the Security in Retirement
Statement but suggested that members should be entitled to make deductible
contributions to these limits.60
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
ibid, p 5
ibid
ibid
ibid, p 6
ibid, p 4
ST Bills evidence, p 9
ibid
CEDA op cit, p 21


6.50 The question of how many people would be affected by the new rebate
provisions was also canvassed by Treasury officials. The Treasury provided
evidence that of the 1.3 million members claiming a deduction for contributions,
one million would lose their entitlement. Furthermore, 1.2 million people will
be eligible to claim the new rebate of which 300 000 claimed the old rebate
(and were better off under that arrangement). Overall, Treasury reported that
the Australian Tax Office had established that 'one million people would be
worse off.61
6.51 Evidence was also provided to the Committee that the saving to revenue
from abolishing the deduction would be $325 million and the cost to revenue
of the rebate reform would be $95 million in 1992/93. Thus, the overall savings
of these measures would be $230 million. This is intended to offset the expected
$400 million cost to revenue of the Superannuation Guarantee package in its
first year of operation.62
6.52 The Treasury were asked to demonstrate that the current generation of
low income earners would be better off than if they had simply received the age
pension. The Treasury responded immediately with material it had previously
presented to the Committee which showed that low income earners can be
expected to have a higher retirement income under the SGC regime than if they
relied solely on the age pension.63
The Institute of Actuaries Approach
6.53 Mr Colin Grenfell representing the Institute stated that it still had three
main concerns, namely: the tax incentives are not universal, are too low and are
not preserved.64 With respect to universality, the Institute reiterated its call for
equality in treatment of member and employer contributions.65
Conclusions
6.54 The Committee considers that reform of this area of taxation is overdue.
The changes envisaged in the Bill go a considerable way to addressing calls for
a more simple, equitable and efficient system of tax concessions for
contributions.
61
ST Bills evidence, p 4
ibid
63 ST Bills sub no 31, p 1
64 ST Bills evidence, p 16
ibid
65


Employer Contributions
6.55 The rules applying to employer contributions are simpler than those
applying to member contributions. Replacement of the two-fund rule and
Maximum Deductible Contribution Limit with simple age-based scales enhances
the simplicity of the arrangements.
Member Contributions
6.56 The Bill simplifies arrangements providing member contribution incentives.
Despite the strong criticism of the lack of incentive provided for with the new
rebate, the Committee considers that in light of the Superannuation Guarantee
Charge and the new RBL arrangements, anything higher would be unnecessary
and fiscally irresponsible.
6.57 In terms of equity, the Bill forms an integral part of an equitable policy
which has as its foundation the Superannuation Guarantee Charge. Finally, in
terms of efficiency, the Bill restores neutrality between taxpayers in similar
circumstances.
Future Considerations
6.58 With respect to areas for future reform, the Government still has a
number of areas to consider. With regard to the self-employed, the Government
will need to reconsider its position when it decides to bring them within the
ambit of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge. Equally, the Government may
need to revisit the question of member tax incentives when it tackles the
question of how to raise total employee superannuation support from nine to
twelve per cent of earnings.




CHAPTER 7 :
TAXATION OF FUND INCOME
Taxation of Fund Income
7.1 This chapter examines the taxation of contributions from their entry to a
fund to their exit. This includes an overview of the current arrangements for
taxing complying and non-complying superannuation funds, complying and non-
complying Approved Deposit Funds (ADFs) and Pooled Superannuation Trusts
(PSTs). Evidence presented to the Committee is examined and suggestions for
possible reform canvassed. The Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation)
Bill 1992 does not directly impact on this phase of superannuation.
Current Arrangements
Contributions Tax
7.2 The 15 per cent contributions tax was introduced in the May 1988
Economic Statement. Until then, superannuation had been taxed at only one
stage — a 30 per cent tax on end benefits. The then Treasurer explained the tax
as being a temporal adjustment — bringing forward tax revenue that would have
been collected some years later:
... it will allow the Government to bring forward nearly $1 billion of its own tax
money — now lying in superannuation funds — without diminishing end benefits
by one cent.1
7.3 It is not strictly correct to differentiate between a fund earnings tax and
a contributions tax. The reforms in 1988 merely brought 'deductible
contributions' into the assessable income of a fund. There is no requirement for
a fund to immediately deduct 15 per cent tax from contributions upon receipt.
A fund has the option of waiting until the end of the income year and then
paying 15 per cent tax on the contributions plus investment earnings less
deductions, rebates and credits. The Committee notes that the timing of
notional tax adjustments to member accounts may affect the earnings on
contributions. The system which would best meet the criteria of equity and
simplicity would involve all fund members having the contributions tax deducted
at a uniform juncture.
1
Paul Keating Economic Statement, May 1988, AGPS Canberra, p 14


7.4 The amounts that are taxable contributions are essentially those for
which the contributor (whether member or employer) has received an income
tax deduction. It is important to note that contributions for which a member
received a rebate are not subject to the 15 per cent contributions tax. Also, all
member contributions must be treated as taxable unless various notices are
given to the fund in respect of the member.
7.5 Members who are not entitled to, or choose not to, claim a deduction for
their contributions should give a section 82AAT(1A) notice to the trustee of the
fund so indicating. In the case of an employer sponsored fund, the employer
may give a section 274(4) notice to indicate that fund members are not entitled
to an income tax deduction for their contributions.2 Where such notices are
given, the relevant contributions are not subject to the 15 per cent contributions
tax.3
7.6 Where a complying superannuation fund or complying ADF has
investments in a life insurance company, a registered organisation or a PST, the
fund may transfer the tax liability on its taxable contributions to the other
body.4 This provision is largely for the benefit of smaller funds who are wholly
managed by a life assurance company or PST. It is administratively easier for
the fund to be able to transfer its liability to the other body.
7.7 Where a complying superannuation fund was 'underfunded' at 30 June
1988, contributions paid to it to cover that 'shortfall' can be excluded from
assessable income by the application of pre-1 July 1988 Funding Credits. A
complex formula is laid own in the ITAA indicating the extent of these Funding
Credits.5
7.8 Chart 7.1 shows the relationship between the 'contributions' tax and the
tax incentives outlined in Chapter 6 of this report.
2
PAYE deductions can also be varied to reflect tax concessions, (see Appendix I)
3 Section 274(2)
4 Section 275
Sections 275A, 275B
5


Notes
1. Employee contributions of $500, for which the employee is entitled to a rebate of 25 per cent
2. Section 82AAT(1 A) Notice from employee to fund trustee;
3. Employer contribution of $1,000, which is to be included in the assessable income of the fund;
4. Contributions tax of $150 to Government in respect of $1000 employer contribution;
5. Rebate to employee of $125 for their $500 contribution
6. Reduction in company tax payable by employer of $390 for their $1000 contribution on behalf of
employee.
Taxation of Earnings
7.9 The 15 per cent tax on fund earnings was introduced in the May 1988
Economic Statement. The then Treasurer announced that the intent was to
bring superannuation funds within the full ambit of the imputation system,
giving them access to dividend tax credits.6 Prior to the introduction of this
measure, superannuation funds could not fully share in the profits of Australia's
major corporations and, as such, Australia's public companies were being denied
the full investment support of the nation's superannuation funds.7
7.10 As far as the earning of income and incurring of expenses goes, the law
governing superannuation funds is similar to that which applies to normal
businesses. There are specific exemptions for complying superannuation funds
for income accruing prior to 1 July 1988s, income from non-reversionary bonus
on life assurance policies9 and bonuses received on the payout of life policies.
6 May Economic Statement, op cit, p 14.
7 ibid
8 Section 282
9 Section 282A. A non reversionary bonus is generally an amount received annually
by way of bonus representing the growth in value of a life assurance policy
investment provided that the bonus is not actually paid over to the policy holder


7.11 An important exemption is that applying to income derived from a fund's
current pension assets. There is an exemption in the Act for income derived
from segregated current pension assets and an exemption of a proportion of
income attributable to non-segregated current pension liabilities.
7.12 Where a fund sets aside a pool of assets for the sole purpose of enabling
a fund to discharge in whole or in part its current pension liabilities, the income
from those assets, including capital gains on disposal of those assets, is exempt
from tax.10 Current pension liabilities are defined as those liabilities the fund
has in respect of pensions currently payable. For the exemption to apply, an
actuary's certificate must be obtained indicating the value of the current pension
liabilities every three years. Certain arrangements apply where trustees transfer
assets in and out of the segregated current pension assets portfolio.
7.13 Where a fund does not set aside segregated current pension assets, an
exemption may still be available.11
7.14 The exemption is broadly calculated as a proportion of the fund's normal
assessable income, this proportion being:
Unsegregated Current Pension Liabilities
Unsegregated Superannuation Benefit Liabilities
7.15 An actuary's certificate must be obtained certifying the above amounts.
There is provision for an interim calculation to be made where a full actuarial
investigation has not been performed in a particular year.
Capital Gains Tax (CGT)12
7.16 Whilst the general CGT provisions only apply to assets acquired after 19
September 1985, CGT applies to assets of complying superannuation funds,
complying ADFs and PSTs, irrespective of when they were acquired.
7.17 CGT is in essence, a tax on the disposal of an asset. The definition of
asset is quite wide but there are two important exemptions for certain funds,
namely: policies of life assurance; and units in a PST.
7.18 The cost base rules for assets owned by complying superannuation funds,
complying ADFs and PSTs are different to those applying to other taxpayers.
Where a fund disposes of an asset that it owned at 30 June 1988, regardless of
10 Section 282B
11 Section 283
12 Division 10, Part IX, ITAA


Page 79
when it was acquired, the cost base of the asset is either the cost of the asset
or the market value of the asset at 30 June 1988 whichever yields the lowest
gain or loss. Furthermore, there are complex indexation provisions for assets
owned for more than one year.
7.19 Where a State government is the trustee of a superannuation fund, it is
not liable for capital gains tax on the disposal of assets held by the fund. Such
trustees are, however, liable for tax on interest income earned on the property
of a trust.13
Special and Standard Components of Taxable Income
7.20 Superannuation funds are subject to tax at the highest personal marginal
rate on 'special income', essentially that income derived from non-arm's length
transactions. All other fund income is known as 'standard income' and is taxed
at the rate of 15 per cent.
Deductions
7.21 The ITAA provides for certain deductions which are applicable to all
taxpayers. The Act also contains specific provisions in relation to
superannuation funds, dealing with deductions for:
♦ Death and disability benefits. Where a complying fund offers death or
disdability benefits, it is entitled to a deduction for insurance policy
premiums. Where such a fund self-insures it is entitled to a deduction for
the arm's length cost of such a premium.
♦ Benefits paid to a member's dependants. A fund is allowed a deduction
for the amount of past taxable contributions that form part of the death
benefit, provided the whole benefit is passed on to the beneficiary.
♦ Repatriation of surplus to employer sponsors. Where a fund makes a
payment to an employer sponsor who has been allowed a deduction for
contributions to the fund, the amount paid is assessable to the
employer14 and deductible to the fund15. The Government has
foreshadowed its intention to remove this deduction from 1 July 1995.
13
14
Section 114 of the Commonwealth Constitution; see the recent High Court decision
of The State of South Australia & Amor v The Commonwealth of Australia &
Anor (1992) 105 CLR 171
Section 82AAQ
Section 279C
15


Rebates
7.22 As part of the reforms announced in the May 1988 Economic Statement,
complying superannuation funds, complying ADFs and PSTs are able to take
advantage of franking rebates under the imputation system. In essence, the
imputation system eliminates the effective double taxation of income earned by
a company. An important point to remember is that because superannuation
funds pay a lower rate of tax than companies, franking rebates are
proportionately of more value to superannuation funds. A fund is entitled to a
franking rebate equal to the lesser of the total imputation credits relating to
franked dividends received by the fund, or the total tax payable by the fund.
Example 7.1 illustrates the operation of dividend imputation.
Example 7.1 : Dividend Rebate in Practice
The Ace Superannuation Fund is a complying superannuation fund which receives $122 in
fully-franked dividends in the income year. It had other assessable income of $150. Its tax
payable is as follows:
Note: Dividend rebates cannot be carried forward or backward through income years.
Taxation of Pooled Superannuation Trusts (PSTsf1
7.23 A PST is a unit trust that invests the assets of complying superannuation
funds and complying ADFs. The PST is essentially an investment vehicle for
these funds and is formed to enable such funds to pool their assets for
investment purposes, and hence maintain a diversity of investment. To qualify
as a PST, an entity must be a unit trust and meet the criteria for a PST laid
down in the OSS Regulations.18 A PST must only be used for investing the
assets of: a complying superannuation fund, a complying ADF, the assets of the
superannuation business of a life insurance company, other PSTs and certain
tax exempt entities.
16
The dividend income of $122 must be 'grossed-up' to its before-tax value. This is
done by multiplying it by 39/61 (that is, 39 represents the percentage rate of
company tax, and 61 is equal to 100 less 39)
17 Division 7 part IX, ITAA
See generally Part IIIA, OSS Regulations
18


7.24 PSTs are generally subject to tax at the same concessional rates as
superannuation funds and approved deposit funds. Generally, the income of a
PST is not distributed to unitholders, but is reflected in an increase in the value
of units. The sale of units in a PST by a unitholder is specifically exempt from
capital gains tax.
7.25 Where a complying fund invests in a PST, the PST is entitled to an
exemption from tax on a portion of its income, based on the average proportion
of units held in the fund during the year that represent current pension assets
of complying superannuation funds which are unitholders in the PST. The value
of the tax exemption will generally be passed on to the relevant superannuation
fund in the form of extra units of equivalent value.
Taxation of Approved Deposit Funds (ADFsf9
7.26 An ADF is a fund created to receive eligible termination payments
(ETPs) where retirees wish to defer their benefit to a future time. This is
achieved by the taxpayer rolling over an ETP into an ADF. No tax is paid on
the ETP at the time of rollover.20 ETPs rolled over into a complying ADF
generate income which is taxed at the concessional rate of 15 per cent per
annum. Income earned by a non-complying ADF is taxed at the highest
personal marginal rate (currently 47 per cent). An ADF is assessed on income
in much the same way as other taxpayers, but is subject to a number of specific
provisions, for example, golden handshakes and unfunded retirement payments
are included in their assessable income where the 15 per cent tax on
contributions and earnings has not been paid.
Fixed Interest ADFs
7.27 An ADF is entitled to an exemption in respect of income relating to
certain deposits which it held at 25 May 1988. Where the ADF derives at least
90 per cent of its income in the form of interest, and has been a continuing
complying ADF since the beginning of 1 July 1988, the income which is earned
on deposits which were held by the ADF at 25 May 1988 that were made by
'relevant depositors' is exempt from tax. A relevant depositor must have been
either aged 55 or over at 25 May 1988 or aged 50 or over at 25 May 1988 and
have previously rolled over into the ADF all or part of an ETP containing a
concessional component.
19 For complying ADFs see Division 5, Part IX, ITAA and for non-complying ADFs
see Division 6, Part IX, ITAA
See Chapter 8, Taxation of Benefits
20


Committee’s Evidence
7.28 The Committee received evidence that the method of taxing contributions
and fund earnings was inequitable by virtue of its regressivity.21
7.29 ACOSS suggested a system which would involve:
Assessment of contributions and fund earnings as part of individuals members'
taxable income; (and) provision of 'tax rebates' up to a standard limit, which
could be offset against taxes paid by members on contributions and fund
earnings.22
7.30 This evidence accorded with that of the Women's Economic Think Tank
who suggested that, for example, one third of women workers earn less than $15
000 (which is where they suggest total tax payable is equal to 15 per cent of
earnings).23 Further support is evidenced by the submission of the
Superannuation Economics Research Group of the University of New South
Wales which suggested that:
Ideally, superannuation flows should be taxed once only at the contributor's
marginal rate of income tax. This would eliminate perverse tax-induced impacts
on retirement consumption, to the extent that it is financed by superannuation
benefits. It would also be equitable, in the sense that the progressive marginal
income tax schedule is applied to all superannuation contributions.24
7.31 However, the idea of levying a contributions tax at the members marginal
rate, and then applying a rebate to it, was largely rejected by industry
representatives.25 Such a proposal is usually raised in conjunction with a
proposal for a universal rebate. As Mr Brian Scullin of ASFA noted:
It is not a matter of it being difficult or costly, but just straight out impossible.
Even if we then go round and round and try to find some obtuse way, we
cannot see that you are going to have anything but a marginal gain in equity
at a massive loss of efficiency.26
21
AFCO sub no 139
22 Sub no 35, p iii
23 Sub no 126, p 8
24 Sub no 150, p 9
25 It should be noted that such proposals normally involve a 'notional' rebate in the
sense that it does not flow back to the member but merely reduces the tax payable
on contributions.
Evidence, 22 July 92, p 2127
26


7.32 This stance was also supported by Mr Ken Robinson of LIFA,27 Mr Iain
Ross of the ACTU,28 and Mr Colin Grenfell of the Institute of Actuaries.29
7.33 Most comment on this section can be divided into two areas, namely, the
15 per cent 'contributions tax' and the 15 per cent 'fund earnings tax'.
Contributions Tax
7.34 The Committee notes a divergence of opinion as to whether the
contributions tax should be retained. It was submitted that Australia is virtually
alone in the western world in taxing superannuation contributions and
investment earnings.30 However, it was also conceded that to abolish the tax
would have serious budgetary consequences.31 Those parties who advocated
the removal of the fund income tax generally preferred to see taxes levied on
benefits.32 Another comment in this vein was that there is considerable
consumer resentment to this tax.33 In addition, it was noted that the tax on
contributions is an 'undesirable complication' and that it 'hides the true level
of taxation'.34
7.35 Alternatively, there were those who advocated maintaining the
contributions tax as part of a package centred on abolishing or reducing the end
benefit tax35 or as part of a package containing greater incentives for
contributions.36 Alternatively, there were those who advocated reducing
incentives for contributions but abolishing the contributions tax.37
27 Evidence, p 2126
28 Evidence, p 2123
29 ST Bills evidence, p 19
30 AM Corporation sub no 96, p 6
31 ibid
32 Dr John Knight sub no 171, p 1; Rothschild Australia Asset Management Ltd sub
no 141, p 2; Australian Friendly Societies Association sub no 136 pp 5-6; Mr Peter
Griffin sub no 133, p 4; ASCPA/ICAA sub no 119, p 8
33 Westpac Banking Corporation sub no 132, p 7; Australian Friendly Societies
Association sub no 136, p 5
34 Government Employees Superannuation Board (WA) sub no 84, p 4
35 Alexander Consulting Group sub no 61, p 4; Noble Lowndes sub no 80, p 11
36 Commonwealth Banking of Australia sub no 173, p 11; Peter J Vere Pty Ltd
sub no 241, p 1
37 Metway Corporation sub no 117, p 1; Australian Friendly Societies Association
sub no 136, p 4


7.36 It was also noted that the differing categories of member contributor, the
notice requirements and the contributions tax all combine to create an unfair,
complicated and expensive regime. As a result, it was suggested that the current
deductions be replaced by rebates which reflect the current contributions tax.
This would allow the contributions tax to be dropped and would have the
advantage of removing the obligation of trustees to remit the tax to the
Government.38
7.37 The problem was also brought to the attention of the Committee by the
Australian Taxation Office. In short, the requirement for funds to ascertain
which members will claim a tax deduction for their contributions — and the
requirement for contributions to be deductible in the event of uncertainty —
produces a situation where more contributions tax is paid than should be.
7.38 There was a call for the rate of 15 per cent to be changed to reflect
reductions in personal income tax rates, and for this to be a continuing
process.40
Recommendation 7*1:
The Committee by majority believes that the contributions tax should be
retained for 'deductible' contributions and the exemption for Vebatable’
contributions should also be maintained.
Recommendation 7*2:
The Committee believes that the contributions tax, with respect to
employer contributions, should be withheld by the employer instead of the
fund trustee* This would substantially reduce the administrative
complexity of the current arrangements and lead to less loss of benefits
through inadvertence. In other words, employer and self-employed
contributions (which have been subject to the 15 per cent tax) should be
excluded from the assessable income of the fund
38
39
Prudential sub no 43, p 3. It should be noted that the rebate reform contained in
the Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992 largely overcomes the
confusion faced by trustees as to the nature of member contributions.
ATO sub no 155, p 7
LIFA sub no 114, p 41; Institute of Actuaries sub no 108, p 6; ASCPA/ICAA
sub no 119, p 7
40


Fund Earnings Tax
7.39 Many submitters acknowledged the purpose behind taxing fund income.
However, the Superannuation Economics Research Group (UNSW) focussed
the Committee's attention on the deleterious impact of the taxation of fund
earnings:
The impact on the accumulation at retirement can be very great, because the
longer the time horizon of the investment, the more important is the power of
compound interest to the accumulation. Earnings taxes can seriously threaten
the goal of adequate replacement in retirement.41
7.40 LIFA, AM Corporation Ltd and the Taxation Institute of Australia
expressed the view that imputation credits were insufficient to offset the full tax
on income. In particular the AM Corporation noted that:
... a superannuation fund must invest up to nearly half the fund's investments
in shares in order to eliminate fully the income tax. This level would generally
be considered to be an unwise level of equity investment in a long term
investment portfolio for an accumulation style of fund.42
7.41 The ASCPA/ICAA noted that investment managers do not determine
exposure to shares in their portfolios by tax breaks but by prudential
considerations.43 The Taxation Institute noted that this measure discourages
investment by superannuation funds in new industry (as new industry is unlikely
to pay franked dividends in the short term).44 Westpac and the IFAA Ltd
noted that the tax on investment income is variable due to the variable
performance of markets and investment vehicles 45 Westpac also warned that
if the rate were to increase, market biases between different investments could
be created.46 The Committee notes that there is a possible conflict between
this and the ASCPA/ICAA submission and is inclined to consider the merits of
the latter.
7.42 A novel suggestion was profferred by Dr John Knight who suggested that
investment earnings should be tax free to a certain level (he nominated
41
Sub no 150, p 10
42 AM Corporation sub no 96, p 6
43 Sub no 119, p 8
44 Sub no 124, p 6
45 Westpac sub no 132, p 7; IFAA Ltd sub no 154, p 11
Sub no 132, p 7
46


4 per cent) with the balance being split between the fund and the member for
the purposes of tax incidence.47
7.43 Another common theme in submissions was the lack of clarity in the
deductibility or otherwise of scheme expenses.48 The problem alleged is that
section 51(1) of the ITAA (the general deductibility provision) does not extend
to superannuation funds as they are not engaged in profit-making.49 The
ASCPA/ICAA submission indicated that the Commissioner of Taxation should
release guidelines on the subject.50 Noble Lowndes agreed that 'this is a very
grey area for superannuation fund trustees and administrators' and preferred
the insertion of a specific provision into the ITAA to extend the general
deductibility provision to superannuation funds.51 There was a suggestion by
LIFA that all expenses whether of a private or capital nature should be tax
deductible and that complying funds should not be treated in the same manner
as other taxpayers.52 ASFA tendered correspondence between themselves and
the ATO indicating that there is some confusion as to the deductibility of
certain expenses for fund trustees.53 ASFA suggested that, for example,
expenses incurred in amending trust deeds are not deductible but are often due
to changes in legislation. The Committee notes that the Commissioner of
Taxation has recently issued Taxation Ruling IT 2672 which indicates that
deductions will be allowed for some deed amendments. ASFA calls for the
availability of tax deductions for all operating expenses arising from the
operation of the fund.54
Recommendation 73:
The Committee by majority recommends that the fund earning tax should
be maintained at its current concessional rate and that it should retain its
concessional character by being reduced in line with other reductions in
personal income tax rates.
47
Sub no 171, p 1
48 Noble Lowndes sub no 80, p 7; ASCPA/ICAA sub no 119, p 8; ASFA sub no 89,
p 18; LIFA sub no 115, p 11
49 Which would put them in breach of the sole purpose test.
50 Sub no 119, p 8
51 Sub no 80, p 7
52 Sub no 115, p 11
53 Sub no 89, p 18
54 Sub no 89, p 24


Recommendation 7.4:
The Committee recommends that the Commissioner of Taxation should
clarify, by way of Taxation Rulings and Determinations, the allowable
deductions available to superannuation fund trustees. Further, where
appropriate, the position of superannuation funds should be aligned with
normal businesses.
Recommendation 7.5:
The Committee recommends that any expenses incurred by trustees in
complying with legislative and regulatory ehanges, some of which will flow
from its series of reports, be completely tax deductible for fund trustees.
Capital Gains Tax (CGT)
7.44 The Committee notes the concern of some submitters regarding the prima
facie inequity of the CGT treatment of assets held by superannuation funds.
Mr Bannon of Duesburys Chartered Accountants referred to the arrangements
as a '"cash and grab" situation by the Government'.55 Mr Bannon, referred to
the injustice of this arrangement due to superannuation funds not being
permitted to index the original cost of assets for the years those assets were
held prior to 30 June 1988; and that fund trustees must incur costs of market
valuing all assets held before that time. The Taxation Institute noted that
superannuation funds may be subject to CGT in respect of the disposal of some
assets for which other taxpayers would not.56
7.45 LIFA suggested that CGT should not apply where there is a deemed
disposal due to a change of trustees arising from fund amalgamation or
restructuring.57 ASFA alerted the Committee to the fact that fund mergers
may be an increasing trend.58
7.46 In a similar vein, Commonwealth Funds Management (CFM) raised an
anomaly in the current CGT treatment of assets held by unit trusts. CFM noted
that it is common for superannuation funds, ADFs and PSTs to invest in unit
55
Sub no 57, p 2
56 Sub no 124, p 5
57 Sub no 114, p 11
58 Supplementary sub no 89


trusts to diversify and obtain investment economies of scale. While indexation
of the cost base of an asset is available for superannuation funds, ADFs and
PSTs, 'it is open to the Commissioner of Taxation to treat gains or losses on the
realisation of assets by the unit trusts on revenue account and thereby deny
indexation benefits'.59 They suggested the indexation allowed for complying
superannuation funds, ADFs and PSTs be extended to include unit trusts where
'100 per cent or the vast majority (say, 90 per cent) of the units in that unit trust
are held by a complying superannuation fund, complying ADF or PST'.60
Recommendation 7.6:
The Committee recommends that the Treasury consider whether there is
scope to correct any anomalies that may exist in the application of Capital
Gains Tax (CGT) to fund trustees. The Treasury should specifically
consider the application of CGT to units in unit trusts, the application of
CGT to pre-September 1985 assets and the application of CGT in fund
amalgamations.
Current Pension Liabilities
1A1 The complexity of the exemption for current pension liabilities
(paragraphs 7.11 to 7.15 above) was brought to the attention of the Committee.
The ATO suggested that the application of this formula 'is unclear and subject
to dispute'.61 Equally, National Mutual indicated that this is one of the areas
of taxation that 'requires complex actuarial calculations which place significant
cost burdens on fund trustees'.62 The joint submission of the ASCPA and the
ICAA agreed that these provisions 'are very complicated, and expensive to
administer'63 and suggested that they be abandoned and replaced with an
increase in the pension rebate from 15 per cent to 30 per cent to compensate
for the 15 per cent tax on earnings of the pension assets.64
59
Sub no 102, p 2
ibid
61 Sub no 155, p 7
62 Sub no 100, p 13
63 Sub no 119, p 9
ibid, p 11
64


Recommendation 7.7:
The Committee recommends that the Treasury examine the arrangements
applying to current pension liabilities to find a less complex regime.
Regard should also be had to the complexity of the taxpayer rebates.
Transfer of tax liability
7.48 ASFA raised a concern about the transfer of tax liability on contributions.
Under current arrangements, a fund trustee may send to a life office a notice
to the effect that the life office must pay the contributions tax rather than the
fund trustee. ASFA noted that these notices may often arrive after a life office
has already paid an instalment of its own tax liability, 'thus payment is required
before the institution is in a position to accurately calculate the appropriate
amount to be paid'.65 The Committee observes that the ability to transfer tax
liability eases the administrative burden on small funds.
Recommendation 7.8:
The Committee recommends that the Treasury examine whether there is
scope to overcome the confusion surrounding the transfer of tax liability
provisions.
Section 290A
7.49 The Committee also received evidence from a fund member concerning
an apparent unintended consequence of the operation of the exemption granted
under section 290A.66 The legislation limits eligibility of the concession by
making the ADF elect to obtain the exemption. This need to elect has
apparently meant that at least one ADF has decided to not claim the
exemption, and hence deny the benefit to the relevant members, because of the
administrative effort required. This has meant that members who should have
benefited from the exemption were forced to pay increased tax.
65
Sub no 89, p 19
Mr V.D. Williams, sub no 283
66


Recommendation 7.9:
The Committee recommends that the Government review section 290A to
determine whether there are impediments to ADFs claiming the
exemption, and, if $o, to remove such impediments to ensure that the
exemption is enjoyed by those who are entitled to it.
Conclusion
7.50 The Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992 makes no
amendment to the taxation of fund income. This accords with the generality of
the Committee's evidence, which was more concerned with the level of tax
concessions for contributions and the taxation of benefits. There are, however,
a number of matters that the Government should address. Foremost of these
is the requirement that fund trustees withhold the contributions tax. The
Committee believes that the tax would be more efficiently withheld by
employers.
7.51 The Government should clarify the deductions available to
superannuation funds, aligning them with the treatment of normal businesses.
Furthermore, the apparent anomalies listed above relating to capital gains tax
and transfers of tax liability should be examined.
7.52 In addition, the Committee considers that any expenses incurred by
trustees in complying with changes flowing from its series of reports should be
completely tax deductible for fund trustees.


CHAPTER 8 :
TAXATION OF BENEFITS
8.1 This phase of the superannuation cycle is probably the most complex and
confusing. A large number of witnesses put it to the Committee in the plainest
of terms that the complexity of the regime was undermining the Government's
retirement incomes policy. In particular, the push for greater use of income-
stream products rather than lump sums was being stymied.
8.2 The Committee received evidence that one of the greatest causes of
complexity here is the array of grandfathering provisions that abound in the
ITAA. The use of grandfathering provisions is essentially designed to overcome
the otherwise retroactive effect of changes to tax law. This is one example of
the conflict between equity and simplicity.
8.3 The changes introduced since 1983 have brought with them a raft of
convoluted phraseology. Particular care has been taken to explain this area in
a clear and simple manner — but reference to the glossary which is appended
to the report should still be made.
8.4 This chapter begins by looking at the current arrangements applying to
superannuation benefits. This includes the notions of 'Eligible Termination
Payments' and 'Reasonable Benefit Limits'. The tax consequences of
superannuation pensions, annuities and allocated pensions are then examined
as are the tax consequences of rolling-over a benefit.
8.5 The Committee's detailed and instructive evidence is then outlined.
Despite the confusion in this area, the Committee received some novel and
thoughtful suggestions for future arrangements.
8.6 The quality evidence that has been received by the Committee during its
on-going inquiry, and the public debate this has generated have in part
prompted Government action with respect to simplification. Taxation Laws
Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992 seeks to remedy many of the concerns
raised by a number of witnesses. The key objectives of the Bill include:
♦ simplification of some of the more complex areas (for example RBL);
♦ removal of some of the unintended distortions caused by the tax law (for
example pension v annuities);
♦ strengthening the integrity of the system by closing off some areas of
abuse (for example redundancy payments, roll-over arrangements).
Taxation of Benefits


However, the Committee considers that notwithstanding the significant reforms
contained in the Bill, more could have been achieved. In particular, the pre-
July 1983 and post-June 1983 issue could have been tackled.
8.7 Also, this chapter reviews the submissions and evidence given during the
public hearing on the taxation Bill held on Thursday, 26 November 1992. The
evidence received was both informative and generally supportive of the
proposed changes.
8.8 Finally, some conclusions are made about the Bills and about reform of
this aspect of superannuation.
Current Arrangements
8.9 This section starts with an outline of the elements of an 'Eligible
Termination Payment'(ETP) — essentially a payment on departure from an
employer. Upon receipt of an ETP, a member may either take the lump sum,
park it in a roll-over vehicle (and defer the payment of tax on it), or purchase
an immediate annuity. In addition, members can often change from one option
to another. All options have various taxation consequences.
Eligible Termination Payments and their Taxation
8.10 The 1983 changes to superannuation introduced the concept of an
Eligible Termination Payment' (ETP). An ETP may include:
♦ a lump sum payment from a superannuation plan including commutation
of a pension and refund of member contributions;
♦ a payment for redundancy or unused sick leave made on retirement or
retrenchment;
♦ an ex-gratia payment or golden handshake; or
♦ a payment from an Approved Deposit Fund or Deferred Annuity.
8.11 These are the only sums that can be rolled over. Sums which are not
ETPs (and hence cannot be rolled over) include payments for annual leave or
long service leave and payments made to the dependants of deceased former
employees/members (that is, death benefits).
8.12 For taxation purposes, an ETP may be broken down into the following
components:


♦ Undeducted contributions are those contributions that were made by a
member from 1 July 1983 but for which no tax deduction was allowed.
Contributions for which a member received a rebate are also included in
undeducted contributions. No tax is payable on this component. Where
this component is rolled over it still retains its tax-free status.
♦ The non-qualifying component may arise where an immediate annuity is
commuted into a lump sum. Where the annuity was purchased partly with
an ETP and partly with other savings, the income portion of the
commutation relating to the non-ETP proceeds is referred to as the 'non-
qualifying component'. The non-qualifying component is fully assessable
as income in the year of receipt. Taxpayers simply include this component
in their income tax return and pay tax on it at their marginal rate. The
non-qualifying component cannot be rolled over.
♦ The concessional component enjoys favourable tax treatment. It includes
bona fide redundancy payments, payments from 'approved early
retirement schemes' and invalidity payments. Taxpayers must include
five per cent of the concessional component in their assessable income in
the year in which it is received and pay tax on it at their marginal rate.
♦ The excessive component is essentially the amount of the ETP which is
in excess of the member's Reasonable Benefit Limit (RBL).1 The full
excessive component is included in the taxpayer's assessable income in the
year in which the ETP is received.
♦ The pre-1 July 1983 component of a benefit is that part of the benefit
related proportionately to any part of the 'eligible service period' which
predates 1 July 1983. Any concessional, non-qualifying and excessive
components are excluded for the purposes of calculating the pre-July 1983
component. Hence the pre-July 1983 component is normally calculated
using the following formula:
(ETP - CC - NQC - EC)
multiplied by
Pre-1 July 1983 Period
Total Eligible Service Period
Taxpayers include five per cent of the pre-July 1983 component in their
assessable income in the year in which the ETP is received.
1
RBLs are covered at paragraph 8.13


Example 8.1
Richard Hunter started with XYZ Pty Ltd on 1 January 1979 and became a non-contributory member
of the employer's superannuation scheme. He resigned on 30 June 1988 and received $8 000 from
the superannuation scheme. What is the pre-July 1983 component?
Pre-1 July 1983 component =
(ETP - CC - NQC - EC) multiplied by Pre-July 1983 Period
Total period
= ($8 000 - 0 - 0 - 0) multiplied by 1 642
3 469
= $8 000 multiplied by 0.4733
= $3 786.40
where:
ETP = Eligible Termination Payment
CC = Concessional Component
NQC = Non-Qualifying Component
EC = Excessive Component
♦ The post-30 June 1983 component is the residual of the ETP after the
other components have been subtracted from it. The post-June 1983
component is further divided into taxed and untaxed elements which are
subject to different rates of tax.
♦ Post-30 June 1983 (Taxed element). Where the ETP is paid from a taxed
source, the post-June 1983 component is a taxed element. A ’taxed source’
is one which consists of a funded benefit which has been subject to the
15 per cent tax on its earnings and contributions. The maximum rate of
tax payable on the taxed element depends on the age of the recipient, the
year in which the payment is received and the period of fund
membership. These tax rates are set out in Table 8.1.
♦ Post-30 June 1983 (Untaxed element). Where the ETP is not paid from
a taxed source, the post-June 1983 component will be an untaxed
element. 'Untaxed' sources refer to items such as 'golden handshakes' and
also payments from most government superannuation funds. For taxpayers
under the age of 55, this amount is included in their assessable income
and taxed at a maximum rate of 30 per cent. Where recipients are 55
years of age and over, the full amount is included in assessable income,
with the amount up to the low-rate threshold ($76 949 for 1992/93) taxed
at a maximum rate of 15 per cent and the amount over that taxed at a
maximum rate of 30 per cent.


Table 8.1. Taxation of Taxed Element of Post-30 June 1983 Component
* For 1988/89 the threshold was $60 000. For later years it is indexed to Average Weekly
Ordinary Time Earnings. The indexed threshold is $64 500 for 1989/90, $68 628 for
1990/91 and $73 776 for 1991/92. If the payment is made to the estate of a deceased
taxpayer, the relevant age is the age of the deceased at the time of death.
8.13 The threshold applies once for each taxpayer. If a taxpayer is aged 55 or
over he receives a payment with a post-June 1983 component of less than the
threshold, then the balance may be applied to the post-June 1983 component
of any subsequent payment. In any event, where the threshold is increased by
indexation after one payment has been made, the amount of the increase is
available for a later payment either in addition to any unused balance or, if
there is no unused balance, on its own.2
2
CCH, Master Tax Guide February, 1992


Reasonable Benefit Limits
8.14 An RBL is a limit on the amount of concessionally taxed superannuation
a member may receive. Prior to the May 1988 tax reforms, the limit restricted
the lump sum benefits that a fund could pay a member to seven times average
salary in the final three years of employment and annual pension benefits to
75 per cent of average salary for the same period. Where funds paid a benefit
in excess of these amounts, they jeopardised their complying status.
8.15 The May 1988 reforms revamped the RBL. A progressive RBL scale,
effective from 1 July 1988 (see Table 8.2) was introduced and a person's
undeducted post-30 June 1983 contributions were excluded from the RBL base.
Transitional arrangements were introduced to ensure that any accrued
entitlements were protected.
8.16 From 1 July 1990 a lower threshold of $175 000 was established for the
lump sum RBL and $282 500 for the pension RBL; so that where a member's
RBL is calculated as a lower figure the threshold applies. The RBLs were
indexed to AWOTE and are now $196 360 and $315 560 respectively.
Table a2
Reasonable Benefit Limit Scales3
(a) Indexed annually to movements in AWOTE.
(b) Marginal RBL scales. For example, the lump sum RBL for a person with salary of $100 000 is:
($44 850 X 7) + ($38 430 X 5) + ($16 720 X 3) = $556 260
or 5.56 times salary.
8.17 Currently, responsibility for administering RBLs lies with the ISC. In fact,
the rules pertaining to the RBL regime are found in Part IA of the OSS
Regulations. Briefly, a retiring fund member requires an RBL determination
before lodging a tax return. These determinations (both interim and final) are
made by the ISC and the member sends them to the Australian Tax Office with
their return.
3
Source: Australian Taxation Office


Pensions and Annuities
8.18 An annuity is an income stream which has been purchased with a lump
sum amount (for instance by rolling over an ETP). A pension is generally
purchased from a superannuation fund by contributions over a period of time.
8.19 The amount of a pension or annuity is included in a taxpayer's assessable
income, excluding an annual 'deductible amount' which represents the purchase
price of the pension or annuity for which no previous tax concession has been
granted (the undeducted purchase price), allocated over the remaining expected
life of the recipient. Accordingly, rebatable amounts are taken into account for
the purposes of calculating the undeducted purchase price.
8.20 For purchased roll-over annuities, in addition to undeducted contributions
and any concessional component, any pre-July 1983 component of an ETP
counts towards the undeducted purchase price (UPP).
8.21 In contrast, for pensions the UPP will generally include only a person's
contributions post-June 1983 to the extent that no deduction has applied (plus
a person's contributions pre-July 1983 for which no deduction or rebate has
applied).
8.22 A tax rebate is currently available for certain roll-over annuities and
pensions (but not tax paid annuities). Generally, a recipient is entitled to a
15 per cent rebate (from the 1992/93 year) on the assessable component
attributable to fund membership after 30 June 1983. The rebate was introduced
in the 1988/89 year at three per cent to compensate recipients for the taxation
of contributions from 1 July 1988 and was phased in at three per cent per year.
8.23 The rebate does not apply to a pension where the payments are funded
by continuing employer contributions and the fund trustee elects to exclude
those contributions as taxable contributions and gives written notice to the
recipient that the pension is non-rebatable. For example, this may occur with
unfunded government schemes.
Roll-overs
8.24 Upon receipt of an ETP, a departing member under the age of 65 has the
following alternatives: first, take the lump sum and pay tax on it in the year of
receipt; and second, roll-over all or part of the lump sum and defer the payment
of tax.
8.25 There are basically four roll-over options available for a recipient of an
ETP, namely:


♦ purchasing an immediate annuity;
♦ rolling over benefit into a new plan;
♦ rolling over benefit into an Approved Deposit Fund; and
♦ rolling over benefit into a Deferred Annuity.
8.26 An ETP will not be included in assessable income where it is rolled over.
Roll-overs must be made within 90 days of payment of the ETP and can
proceed by way of either direct payment from the payer or by deposit by the
payee within the required time.
8.27 A rolled over payment will be subject to tax in the hands of the roll-over
institution to the extent that the ETP came from an untaxed source (for
example a golden handshake).
8.28 The concessional components and undeducted contributions of an ETP
are preserved on roll-over with the same tax consequences arising on ultimate
withdrawal. On withdrawal, the retiree can elect to receive the concessional and
or undeducted contribution amounts separate from the pre-July and post-
June 1983 components. On withdrawal of the pre and post components, the
amounts are apportioned over the time of service including the time of deposit
in the roll-over fund. Accordingly, the pre-July 1983 period will remain fixed
while the post-June 1983 proportion will grow with the passing of time.
However, it should be noted that any undeducted contributions will reduce the
post-June 1983 component after the appropriate apportioning has been
completed.
Committee’s Evidence
8.29 The Committee noted considerable sentiment that the end benefit stage
should be the sole or predominant stage of taxation of superannuation.4 The
IFAA Ltd recommended that:
4
Westpac Banking Corporation, sub no 132, p 9; IFAA Ltd, sub no 154, p 7; Dr
John Knight, sub no 171, p 1; Rothschild Australia Asset Management Ltd, sub no
141, p 2; Australian Friendly Societies Association, sub no 136; Mr Peter Griffin
(Managing Director, Rothschild Australia Asset Management Ltd), sub no 133, p
3,4; County Natwest, sub no 98, p 26; ASFA, sub no 89, p 23; Government
Employees Superannuation Board (WA), sub no 84, p 4


Taxing superannuation on exit can act as a self-balancing mechanism. Distinct
age group bubbles (such as baby boomers) will all retire together. Tax on exit
will help pay the social security expenses of those without sufficient means.5
8.30 Other advantages of taxing end benefits solely include the increased
attractiveness of the initial investment,6 increased ability to accrue investment
earnings7 and reducing the complexity of administration.8
Eligible Termination Payments
8.31 It was overwhelmingly acknowledged that the system of taxing end
benefits is extremely complex9 and some witnesses even advanced this as a
reason for abolishing the tax on end benefits altogether.10 It was also
suggested that the concessional nature of income tax imposed at this juncture
has gradually waned due to the reductions in personal and corporate income tax
since 1983.1
8.32 However, it was also indicated that many of these complications have
arisen from the equitable policy of preserving rights accrued at the dates of
various changes12 and that to remove them would be a breach of faith.13
8.33 The Australian Taxation Office provided an excellent summary of why
taxpayers experience difficulty in complying with the taxation of ETPs. They
indicated that the following factors create problems:
(a) the tax rates applicable to an ETP are dependent on a number of
variables including:
the source of the payment;
5
Sub no 154, p 11
6 IFAA Ltd, sub no 154, p 12; Westpac Banking Corporation, sub no 132, p 9
7 IFAA Ltd, sub no 154, p 12; Westpac Banking Corporation, sub no 132, p 9
8 IFAA Ltd, sub no 154, p 12; Westpac Banking Corporation, sub no 132, p 9
9 ASCPA/ICAA, Sub no 119, p 8; Bankers Trust, sub no 105, p 5; LIFA, sub no 115,
p 6-12; Metway Corporation, sub no 117, p 1; South Australian Employers
Federation, sub no 185, p 14; CEDA, op tit, p 17; Mr Barry Thompson (Northern
Territory Superannuation Commissioner), sub no 77, p 2; Taxation Institute of
Australia, sub no 124, p 2
10 ASCPA/ICAA, Sub no 119, p 8; CEDA, op cit, p 17
11 ASCPA/ICAA, Sub no 119, p 8
12 GESB, sub no 84, p 4
13 Australian International Pilots Association, sub no 134, p 4-7


♦ the components (up to seven different components) of which it
is comprised;
♦ the year in which it is received;
♦ the receipt of an ISC determination;
♦ the year in which employment or fund membership commenced;
♦ the age of the recipient; and
♦ the recipient's income level.
(b) the receipt of ETPs having a partly taxed and partly untaxed source
(such as payments from government superannuation funds);
(c) the determination of an eligible service period which is used as the basis
for dividing the ETP into its pre-July 1983 and post-June 1983
components;
(d) difficulties in identifying payments which qualify for concessional
treatment as bona fide redundancy payments or approved early
retirement scheme payments;
(e) the number of forms that have to be completed by payers and recipients
for the ATO and the ISC, some of which involve a duplication of
information.14
8.34 In addition, an earlier submission from the ATO suggested that:
♦ The concessional tax treatment extended to redundancy payments is
open to abuse. Instances have occurred where termination payments of
millions of dollars have received highly concessional tax treatment.
♦ There is scope under the current provisions of the income tax law to
change the incidence of tax on an ETP by the use of tax effective
investment decisions.
♦ Compliance costs are unduly high because of the difficulty in
understanding the legislative requirements.15
8.35 National Mutual contended that the ETP system is too complex and
offered the following as evidence:
♦ The source of payments affects the tax treatment (there are 16 types of
ETPs);
14 Sub no 155, p 4
ibid, p 2
15


♦ An ETP may consist of up to six separate components, depending upon
the type of payment, with different taxation treatment applying to each
component;
♦ The post-June 1983 component may consist of a taxed and an untaxed
element, which are taxed differently;
♦ The rebatable amount is determined by sixteen separate items;
♦ A single ETP can include more than one taxed element, depending on
the source and start date of previous benefits rolled over into the fund;
♦ Calculations of a concessional component for an approved early
retirement scheme and bona fide redundancy payments have become
increasingly complex as a result of Income Tax Rulings, so much so that
the topic is a minefield; and
♦ Problems are encountered in determining a member's 'eligible service
period' for differentiating between pre-July 1983 and post-June 1983
purposes.16
8.36 Most of the above points were also suggested by LIFA.17
8.37 Mr Barry Thompson, the Northern Territory Superannuation
Commissioner, suggested that the components of a lump sum should be reduced
from the current number to three, namely; undeducted contributions, benefits
from a taxed source and benefits from an untaxed source. Tax would only be
levied on the final component (taxes having been paid on the other two). He
further advised that this would involve eliminating the pre-July 1983 and post-
June 1983 components.18 Mr Thompson also recommended that ETPs be
restricted to superannuation benefits while other benefits (such as redundancy
and unused sick leave) could be dealt with elsewhere in the ITAA.19 Similarly,
he advocated amendments to the concessional component of the ETP. Noble
Lowndes suggested that the concessional components also be removed as 'there
is no logical reason why such members should be actively encouraged by the
taxation system to take a lump sum benefit'.20
16
Sub no 100, p 15
17 Sub no 114, pp 11 and 12
18 Sub no 77, p 2-7
19 Sub no 77, p 5
Sub no 80, p 7
20


Eliminating the pre-July 1983 and post-June 1983 components of benefits.
8.38 A cause of great complexity with respect to ETPs is the partitioning of
pre-July 83 and post-June 83 benefits. The division applies to many taxpayers
and due to the stark advantage of having a benefit characterised as mainly pre-
July 83, it invites taxpayer manipulation. However, due to the perceived
retroactive impact of any attempts to assimilate the treatment of pre-July and
post-June 83 benefits, simplification in this area has stalled.
8.39 The Committee received a number of novel suggestions for removing this
distinction which attempted to retain the overall position of a taxpayer with pre-
July 83 benefits. Mr Thompson advised that this could be done quite simply
suggesting that if the Government wished to tax end benefits (from taxed
sources) at fifteen per cent, then this could be phased in by starting at a rate
of ten per cent and increasing it by 0.5 per cent every year. He said 'this would
militate against the retrospective impact while at the same time allowing a
uniform tax rate to be applied to all benefit payments in a particular year'.21
A similar approach was recommended by the AM Corporation who indicated
that a flat rate of ten per cent could be applied to the entire lump sum benefit
up to the maximum RBL, increasing by five per cent over the next five to ten
years.22 Although existing members (with large pre-July 1983 components)
would be taxed more heavily, a higher RBL (of $750 000) should minimise any
disadvantage 'and this, in turn, will provide further incentives to take a pension
or annuity. 3
8.40 Noble Lowndes suggested a unique method of overcoming any possible
community resentment to abolishing the pre-July 1983 component over a longer
time frame. They submitted that at a particular point in time, fund trustees
should determine the pre-July 1983 component of a member's entitlement and
this amount would be frozen. These pre-July 1983 credits could be paid to
members free of tax. They acknowledged, however, that there may be a small
cost to revenue.
8.41 A similar proposition was advanced by the Government Employees
Superannuation Board (WA) who suggested that end benefits be subject to
concessional but progressive tax rates, for example the first $100 000 would be
exempt, the next $100 000 taxed at ten per cent, and the third $100 000 at
20 per cent. They went on to suggest:
21
Sub no 77, p 3
22 Sub no 96, p 9
Sub no 96, p 10
23


As a way of phasing out the pre-July 1983 component it may be possible to
have a substantial part of a lump sum benefit tax exempt for a given period of
time and then introduce a rate of taxation on the first component at some
future date.24
8.42 The application of progressive tax rates to end benefits was also
recommended by the Hon Frank Blevins MLA, South Australian Minister for
Finance.25
8.43 The Metway Corporation also supported phasing out the distinction
between pre-July 1983 and post-June 1983 components, possibly over five
years.26 Similarly, the Taxation Institute supported phasing out the division of
such benefits.27 Alternatively, Mr David Rolleston, suggested converting all
accrued pre-July 1983 service benefits into undeducted contributions with an
appropriate tax payment being made by the fund at the time of adjustment.28
Reasonable Benefit Limits
8.44 The RBL system came under strong and widespread attack being
described as 'cumbersome and confusing'29 and 'complicated and confusing'.3
The Treasury conceded that:
Notwithstanding the reforms over recent years, the current RBL arrangements
have attracted some criticism. Linking RBLs to salary and measuring an
individual's RBL over their full working life imposes a very substantial record-
keeping and administrative task. In addition, the open-ended nature of the
RBLs (ie the absence of a maximum dollar limit) has been questioned on
equity grounds by some sections of the community.31
8.45 The Treasury also intimated that 'the determination of a person's
entitlement to concessionally taxed benefits under the RBLs is an area of
considerable complexity'.32 The Insurance and Superannuation Commission
24
Sub no 84, p 5
25 Sub no 122, attachment
26 Sub no 117, p 1
27 Sub no 124, p 6
28 Sub no 129, p 4
29 AM Corporation, sub no 96, p 7
30 LIFA, sub no 114, p 12
31 Sub no 195, p 10
32 Sub no 195, p 18


submitted that the complexity of the RBL rules is mainly due to 'reliance upon
the historical practice of expressing benefits as multiples of salary'.33
8.46 The salary-based nature of RBLs came under attack from ACOSS who
suggested that a uniform RBL rather than a sliding scale should be adopted.34
Alternatively, if that policy was unsuitable, they suggested that a mix of
requirements curtailing the benefits for high income earners may be
appropriate.35 Similarly, the ACTU supported a review of the RBL system
particular in relation to an upper ceiling of maximum tax-assisted benefits.36
8.47 Jacques Martin advised that where tax concessions are limited at the
contributions phase (through an age-based scale for tax-assisted contributions),
the need for an RBL on end benefits would 'disappear'.37 This approach was
also preferred by the AM Corporation.38 Similarly, Mr David Rolleston
suggested, as part of a package of measures, the abolition of the RBL39 as did
the Government Employees Superannuation Board (WA).40
8.48 There was strong support for the imposition of a flat-dollar RBL.41 The
main advantages of such a limit were seen as the removal of the whole RBL
determination system,42 the Highest Average Salary (HAS) figure from the
calculation,43 and its ease of understanding by the general public.44 The AM
Corporation suggested a limit of $750 000 plus non-deductible contributions
(without earnings).45
8.49 However, there was concern expressed that the introduction of a flat-
dollar RBL would:
33
Sub no 151, p 23
34 Sub no 35, p iv
35 ibid
36 Sub no 106, p 17-18
37 Sub no 90, p 5
38 Sub no 96, p 7
39 Sub no 129, p 4
40 Sub no 84, p 4
41 For example Metway Corporation, sub no 117, p 2; Mr Barry Thompson, sub no
77, p 4; University of NSW Superannuation Economics Research Group, sub no
150, p 13
42 AM Corporation, sub no 96, p 8
43 AM Corporation sub no 96, p 8
44 AM Corporation, sub no 96, p 8
45 Sub no 96, p 7


achieve nothing other than an increase in tax revenue and would be inequitable
to those whose retirement planning and contributions were based on the
present, or earlier, provisions.46
8.50 In light of this sentiment, the obvious challenge for the Government
would be to select a flat-dollar limit which would take account of expectations
based on past arrangements.
8.51 Suggestions for the dollar level of the RBL ranged widely. The AM
Corporation suggested $750 000,47 the Taxation Institute $750 000 to
$1 million,48 and CEDA $800 000.49 As Mr Barry Thompson indicated,
however, 'the level at which such a maximum benefit should be set (and
indexed) is a matter of judgement'.50 He went on to suggest a limit based on
the lump sum value at age 60 of a CPI indexed and reversionary pension equal
to 200 per cent of Average Weekly Earnings — approximately 30 times the
annual value of the AWE. 1
8.52 Peter J. Vere suggested that the current lump sum and pension RBLs be
replaced with a flat dollar limit of $750 000, with a maximum of $187 500 being
taken as a lump sum.52
8.53 With respect to indexation, the AM Corporation submitted that the RBL
should be adjusted with changes in AWOTE 'but only when the application of
this rate exceeds a $25 000 multiple [thus avoiding] the rather cumbersome
approach of using the precise AWOTE figure which leads to unusual and
unnecessary precision'.53
RBLs — Administrative issues.
8.54 OSSA provides for ten different notices which may be required for
administration of RBLs:
* Notice to ISC from payer re 15 February 1990 roll-over balances;
♦ Notice to ISC from payer re payments made;
46 Australian International Pilots Association, sub no 134, p 5
47 Sub no 96, p 8
48 Sub no 124, p 6
49 CEDA, op cit, p 21
50 Sub no 77, p 5
51 ibid
52 Sub no 241, p 1
53 Sub no 96, p 8


♦ Notice to recipient from payer re payments made;
♦ Notice to ISC from payer re payments made between 15 February 1990
and 30 June 1990;
♦ Notice to ISC from recipient re roll-over;
♦ Notice to ISC from payer re commutation of pension or annuity;
♦ RBL interim determination to recipient from ISC;
♦ RBL final determination to recipient from ISC;
♦ Amended determination to recipient from ISC; and
♦ Notice to life office or registered organisation from ISC re deemed
commutation of pension or annuity.54
8.55 The Australian Taxation Office submitted that compliance concerns in
relation to RBLs are:
(a) the calculation of the RBL is salary based and therefore very difficult
to determine because no other party, other than the individual, has
ready access to all the information;
(b) the determination process to advise people about their RBL entitlement and
the tax consequences of their ETP can be onerous; and
(c) the RBL administrative arrangements require payers and recipients of ETPs
to have dealings with both the ISC and the ATO.55
8.56 The Insurance and Superannuation Commission provided an explanation
for the delays in processing RBL determinations received by people in the
1990/91 year stating that such delays were due to resource and software
problems coupled with problems in data received from funds and employers.56
The ISC also provided the following five options by which the RBL system
could be simplified. In summary these were:
♦ revert to the pre-July 1990 arrangements under which funds were
required to determine a member's RBL and were not allowed to pay
out any amounts in excess of that;
♦
maintain current arrangements;
54
55
National Mutual sub no 100, p 21
Sub no 155, p 4
Sub no 151, p 24
56


♦ maintain current arrangements but only send annual determinations to
member's whose benefits exceed their RBL.
♦ replace the tapering scale based on HAS with a maximum money
figure; and
♦ alter the composition of the ETP for RBL purposes.57
8.57 National Mutual (NML) lucidly detailed the complexity of the RBL
system. They indicated that:
RBLs are benefit specific. Therefore a person can have a different RBL for
each benefit received. A consequence of this is that the order in which benefits
are taken will affect the tax paid. This introduces unnecessary complications
and further, members with the resources available to undertake effective
financial planning can manipulate the system to their financial advantage -
which of course disadvantages members who do not have those resources.58
8.58 In addition, with respect to benefit determination, NML noted that OSSA
prescribes:59
♦ five situations in which the Commissioner must not make a
determination;
♦ four situations in which a determination is to be revoked; and
♦ seven situations in which a determination is to be revised.
8.59 National Mutual further noted considerable delay in the issuing of interim
and final determinations. They contended that 'this delay has created
considerable confusion amongst taxpayers and unnecessarily delayed the
lodgement of personal Income Tax Returns'.60
8.60 The ASCPA/ICAA submitted that the ATO should administer the RBL
system and the payments of superannuation benefits, as:
... it has the administrative framework and resources; the computer
infrastructure; and people with appropriate skills and experience necessary to
manage such a task.61
57
Sub no 151, pp 9 & 10
58 Sub no 100, p 20
59 Sub no 100, p 21
60 Sub no 100, p 21
Sub no 119, p 9
61


RBLs — Highest Average Salary
8.61 NML noted that there are five situations (and methods) in which the
HAS is indexed and three exceptions to these rules. They also noted that there
is a glaring need for clear guidelines to be issued by the ISC on what it includes
in HAS. The AM Corporation described the HAS figure as 'hard to
establish' and requiring 'maintenance of considerable records'.63 The Taxation
Institute submitted to the Committee a number of technical anomalies with the
RBL rules. These generally involved the explanation of the term 'salary' in the
OSS Regulations.
Death Benefits
8.62 NML noted that the assessment of death benefits against RBLs is
confusing, saying that whether benefits are counted against an RBL depends on
to whom the benefit is paid and the timing of the payment. Similarly, they
contended that complex actuarial calculations are necessary where part of a
death or disability payment is 'self-funded' by the trustees of a scheme.65
ASFA advised that there appeared to be some confusion within the ATO about
the assessability of lump sum death benefits paid to child beneficiaries on trust
and recommended that such benefits be exempt from tax.66 The Treasurer in
his Security in Retirement Statement has foreshadowed changes in the tax
treatment of death benefits 67
Pensions and Annuities
8.63 The Australian Taxation Office provided an excellent exposition of some
of the complexities in the area of pensions and roll-over annuities. These
included:
(a) the difference in the undeducted purchase price calculation for pensions
from a superannuation fund to which the taxpayer has contributed over
a number of years and pensions or annuities purchased with the roll-
over of an ETP;
62
Sub no 100, p 20
63 Sub no 96, p 7
64 It should be noted that the current RBL rules are overhauled by the amendments
contained in the Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992. See
paragraph 8.76.*
65 Sub no 100, p 13
66 Sub no 89, pp 19 & 24
67 John Dawkins Security in Retirement AGPS Canberra June 1992 p 13


(b) the different treatment of unused undeducted purchase price received
on commutation of a pension entitlement and undeducted contributions
received on the payment of a lump sum entitlement; and
(c) the difficulty in determining the entitlement to a pension and annuity
rebate and the level of that entitlement.68
8.64 Noble Lowndes suggested that taxation of these two items has possibly
become the most complicated area stating that anomalies in the treatment of
the two have caused superannuants to prefer receiving a lump sum and then
purchasing an annuity rather than taking a pension from their superannuation
fund.69 Support for more consistent treatment of pensions and annuity income
also came from LIFA,70 the AM Corporation,71 Metway Corporation 72 and
CEDA.73
8.65 This incentive to purchase an annuity reflects the point made by the ATO
at point (a) in paragraph 8.71, namely that the UPP of the two instruments
differ. ASFA provided data (see Table 8.3) which succinctly illustrates this
difference:74
Table 8.3 : Items included in Undeducted Purchase Price
* Also eligible for a rebate. The rebate is higher for an annuity than a pension if any purchase price is paid
before 1 July 1983.
68
Sub no 155, p 6
ibid
70 Sub no 114, p 12
71 Sub no 96, p 10
72 Sub no 117, p 2
73 CEDA, op cit, p 22
74 Sub no 89, p 20


8.66 The import of Table 8.3 is that the UPP of an annuity is greater than for
a superannuation pension. As the UPP is deducted from the annuity or pension
before it is included in assessable income, the tax on the superannuation
pension will generally be higher.
8.67 The point was also made by National Mutual who suggested that this 'long
standing' anomaly 'continues to accentuate the uneven playing field that exists
in the area of purchasing a retirement income stream'. Furthermore, they
suggested that the pension and annuity rebate provisions are 'exceedingly
complex' and involve complicated calculations.75
Lump sums v. Income streams’6
8.68 The use of the taxation system to encourage the taking of benefits as
income streams was widely supported.77 Equally, there was support for a cap
on lump sum benefits with the balance being taken in income form,78 or even
that lump sum payments be banned altogether79 or annuity purchase be
mandated.80
8.69 Noble Lowndes proposed that all pension and annuity income be
assessable, but that a 15 per cent rebate apply to the entire payment, regardless
of its purchase source. They justified this extension of the rebate on the grounds
that it would encourage the use of pensions and noted that there is currently
no reason for a person to take a pre-July 1983 benefit in pension form.81
8.70 Noble Lowndes intimated that there are still substantial tax concessions
for taking a benefit as a lump sum. The high tax-free threshold applying to the
post-June 1983 component is the most visible attraction.82 In discouraging
lump sums, Noble Lowndes suggested a revolutionary approach. They
recommend that lump sums (including the pre-July 1983 amount but less
75
ibid, p 16. It should be noted that the Taxation Laws Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill 1992 remedies the divergent treatment of pensions and
annuities.
76 Chapter 4 of this report examines the basic policy considerations of this issue.
77 Hon. Frank Blevins MP, South Australian Minister for Finance sub no 122,
attachment; Institute of Actuaries, sub no 108, p 2-3; Department of Social
Security, sub no 127, p 12-13
78 AMP, sub no 120, p 66; Department of Social Security, sub no 127, p 12-13
79 Mr Peter Griffin (Managing Director, Rothschild Australia Asset Management
Ltd), sub no 133, p 4
80 CEDA, op cit, p 17
81 Sub no 80, p 5
82 Sub no 80, p 5


undeducted contributions) received prior to age 60 be taxed at 25 per cent.
Lump sums taken after that date could be taxed at 20 per cent above a
threshold (they nominated $73 776 indexed).83 They further advised that this
would also solve the vexed pre-July/post-June 1983 issue. As part of the
overhaul of lump sums, Noble Lowndes suggested that the 'concessional
component' also be dropped. Upon disability, recipients of an ETP should take
their benefits in pension form and be allowed the 15 per cent rebate.84 Due
to the revolutionary nature of these proposals, they suggested a three to five
year transitional period.
8.71 CEDA's approach is that rather than providing incentives for income
stream rather than lump sum benefits, 'it is more straightforward to mandate
annuity purchase'.85 This would facilitate the removal of the tax on end
benefits from funded schemes (up to an RBL), and hence substantially assist
simplification.86
8.72 Taking an alternative approach, the Westpac Banking Corporation
suggested that non-compulsory means of encouraging income streams over lump
sums should be used. This, they stated, could involve increasing the lump sum
tax and reducing pension tax.87 In addition, incentives including access to
pensioner benefits could be spread to some superannuants.88
TAXATION LAWS AMENDMENT (SUPERANNUATION) BILL 1992
8.73 Most of the tax reforms announced by the Treasurer in his Security in
Retirement Statement of 30 June 1992 are contained in the Taxation Laws
Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992. The Bill contains five Parts of which
only Part Two relates to amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Part Two, in turn, contains twelve divisions of which only Divisions 4 to 11 are
germane to this chapter 89
83
Sub no 80, p 6
84 ibid, p 7
85 CEDA, op cit, p 17
86 ibid
87 Sub no 132, p 7
88 ibid
89 Divisions 2 and 3 were dealt with in chapter 5 of this Report. Division 1 simply
notes that the 'principal Act' amended is the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Division 12 deals with amendment of assessments and is not discussed in the
Report


8.74 Division 4 makes various amendments with respect to rebates for certain
superannuation pensions and qualifying annuities. Division 5 makes amendments
relating to the undeducted purchase price of annuities and superannuation
pensions. In particular, it replaces the current definition of 'undeducted
purchase price' with a new definition of UPP so that, for rebatable
superannuation pensions and rebatable ETP annuities, the UPP consists only
of undeducted contributions. Division 6 includes 'unused undeducted purchase
price' within the definition of 'undeducted contributions' (and as such, within the
definition of ETP). Division 7 inserts the definitions of 'pension' and annuity' in
various parts of the Act. It also contains amendments to extend the meaning of
pensions and annuities and to provide for minimum standards for certain
annuities.
8.75 Division 8 relates to the practice of rolling-over and abolishes a taxpayer's
ability to choose which parts of an ETP (other than undeducted contributions
and concessional components) are rolled-over. It deals with the distinction
between the pre-July 83 and post-June 83 components with respect to rolled-
over benefits. The clauses add integrity to the roll-over system by assimilating
the identity of benefits before and after roll-over. These clauses have the effect
of smothering the ability of taxpayers to substantially reduce the tax payable on
their ETP. In addition, Division 9 makes a slight change to the roll-over rules.
The effect of Division 9 is that from 1 July 1994 benefits must be rolled-over
directly from the source to the destination fund. Amendments to the OSSA will
allow benefits to be retained by superannuation funds for 90 days during which
taxpayers must decide what to do with their ETP.
8.76 Division 10 makes amendments relating to the components of ETPs
known as bona fide redundancy payments (BFRPs), approved early retirement
scheme payments (AERSPs) and invalidity payments. Broadly, the Division
provides a limit on the concessionally taxed amount of bona fide redundancy
payments and approved early retirement scheme payments and exempts
amounts within that limit from tax. The tax-free amount will be excluded from
the ETP definition, will not be able to be rolled over and will not count against
the recipient's RBL. The excess over the tax-free limit will be treated as an
ordinary ETP.
8.77 Perhaps the most significant reforms in the Bill are those relating to
RBLs. The amendments made to the RBL regime are contained in Division 10
and may be summarised as follows:
♦ transfer administration of the RBLs from the ISC to the ATO;
♦ make the RBL a set dollar amount rather than a multiple of a recipient's
highest average salary; and


♦ make other minor changes to simplify the treatment of the excessive
amount of pensions and annuities for RBL purposes.90
Evidence on the Bill
8.78 The Committee heard evidence and received a number of written
submissions on the Bill. Comment on the new benefit taxation arrangements was
mostly favourable — particularly with respect to the RBL amendments.
8.79 In his introductory remarks to the Committee, Senator McMullan stated
that:
The new flat RBLs are simpler than the current salary linked limits. In
addition, the new arrangements are far more equitable. The RBLs will no
longer be open ended and will afford equal access to the superannuation tax
concessions for everyone.91
8.80 Mr Ian Robinson of the Treasury submitted that approximately
95 per cent of employees would fall below the $400 000 lump sum RBL figure.
In describing how the $400 000 limit was arrived at, Mr Robinson commented
that 'it was a matter of judgement' and that no precise formula was used.92
8.81 Support for the new RBL arrangements came from Mr Scullin of
ASFA,93 Mr Ken Robinson of LIFA94 and Mr Iain Ross of the ACTU.95
Mr Scullin, noting that an RBL limit of $400 000 equates to a salary of
approximately $60 000 per annum under the current arrangements, stated that
We strongly believe that we did need to move away from the salary related
RBLs to a dollar RBL so that then it became a matter of choosing the level.
Our view is that the $400 000 limit is a reasonable trade-off in the situation.96
90 See Explanatory Memorandum, p 97
91 ST Bills Evidence, p 4
92 ibid, p 7
93 ibid, p 20
94 ibid, p 20
95 Evidence, p 2141
96 ST Bills evidence, p 20


8.82 ACOSS, however, argued that the $400 000 lump sum limit was too
generous and suggested $200 000 being an amount 'sufficient to fund an annuity
for life at about half average weekly earnings'.97 In addition, they noted that
'an RBL of $800 000 for annuities' allows a superannuant to purchase an
annuity of $60 000 per annum — approximately twice average weekly earnings.
8.83 The Taxation Institute of Australia made four points in relation to this
part of the Bill, namely:
♦ the RBL should be indexed from 1 July 1992 rather than 1 July 1994.
♦ the RBL calculations required by Subdivision A of Division 14 are too
complex;
♦ the amendments relating to taxpayer choice in rolling over an ETP should
be take effect upon passing of the Bill rather than retrospective to
1 July 1992; and
♦ the upper dollar limit placed on bona fide redundancy payments and
approved early retirement schemes should be linked to the earnings of the
employee in receipt of the amount.98
Conclusion
8.84 The amendments proposed by the Bill with respect to this phase seem to
have struck an appropriate balance between equity, simplicity and efficiency.
8.85 The amendments relating to pensions and annuities remedy an
unsatisfactory situation on which the Committee had earlier received evidence.
It is hoped that the removal of the previous anomalous situation will facilitate
Government encouragement for income-streams over lump sums by increasing
the demand for superannuation pensions
8.86 The reforms proposed for the concessional component are also welcomed
as they will hopefully diminish the incidence of abuse and hence strengthen the
integrity of the system.
8.87 Similarly, it has been overwhelmingly acknowledged that the current salary
linked RBL must be changed to a flat dollar limit. Possibly the single greatest
achievement of this Bill is that it makes considerable inroads into improving the
97 ibid, p 25
Sub no ST 30, p 2
98


administration of RBLs. Importantly, the Government has retained a high figure
for its pension RBL. As mentioned earlier, the challenge then becomes to select
an appropriate level; satisfying everyone is impossible. The Committee received
a number of submissions on this limit, ranging from $200 000 to $1 million. The
$400 000 limit provided for in the Bill equates to an RBL pertaining to a salary
of $60 000 under the current arrangements — or approximately twice average
weekly earnings. However, it is to be remembered that the Bill must be looked
at as a coherent package — not as a concoction of unintegrated proposals.
8.88 However, there are still some areas that the Bill leaves unaffected. In
particular, amendments to the taxation of death benefits, announced in the
Treasurer's Security in Retirement Statement, are noticeably absent. The
Committee expects that these important reforms will follow shortly. Similarly,
the Government has yet to tackle the pre-July 1983 and post-June 1983
problem. The Committee expects that progress will be made on this matter in
1993.




CHAPTER 9 : AMENDMENTS PUT TO THE
COMMITTEE BY ORGANISATIONS AND
INDIVIDUALS
Amendments Put to the Committee by Organisations and Individuals
Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992
Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
9.1 AM Corporation, on behalf of five providers of allocated pensions, made
the following recommendations:
♦ that the current rules of allowing flexible commutation be
continued. As long as the minimum pension is paid each year,
individuals should have the right to elect to receive lump sum
commutation. For administrative simplicity, such commutation
should be limited to a minimum of, say, ten per cent of the
remaining account balance (with corresponding adjustment to
the Deductible Amount) and, say, one commutation per year;
and
♦ that the proposed new treatment of allocated pensions should
be held over until a full review of annuities and pensions be
undertaken for consistent treatment1
The following proposed Social Security amendments were presented by
AM Corporation to the Committee:
"INCOME" TEST
1 ST sub nos 15 and 17.


DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE SOCIAL SECURITY LEGISLATION
AMENDMENT (NO 3) BILL 1992
Brief Explanation of the Amendments
1. The amendments introduce a revised definition of what is an allocated
pension or an allocated annuity. See amendment numbered (2).
2. The amendments exclude allocated pensions and allocated annuities that
comply with the new definition from the definition of "managed
investments" to be introduced from 25 March 1993 (and from the
transitional rules to apply for the period to 25 March 1993). This will have
the result that the income actually received under the allocated pensions
or annuities will be treated as income for the income test, rather than the
"deemed" earnings under the special rules for managed investments.
Allocated pensions and annuities that do not comply with the new
definition will be included as managed investments from 25 March 1993
and will be subject to the transitional rules. See amendments numbered (1)
and (3).


3. The amendments modify the definitions relevant to the exclusion of the
"deductible amount" for income test purposes to extend the treatment for
roll-over annuities to "roll-over allocated pensions". A roll-over allocated
pension is defined as a superannuation pension that is an allocated pension
(as defined) purchased with roll-over amounts. See amendment numbered
(2).
4. In relation to the inclusion of the value of allocated pensions and annuities
for the purposes of the assets test, allocated superannuation pensions and
allocated annuities are to be valued in accordance with the "Annuity Value
Calculator" set out at the end of section 1119 for consistency with the
treatment of other annuities, see amendment numbered (4).
Text of the Amendments
Clause 113
(1) Clause 113, paragraph (b):
(a) delete paragraph (g) from subsection (IB) and substitute the
following paragraph (g):
"(g) a pension or annuity which does not meet the requirements
set out in either of paragraphs (a) or (b) of the definition of
an allocated pension or annuity st out in section 9(8), but
which would otherwise be an allocated pension or an
allocated annuity."
(b) delete the words "that is not an allocated annuity" from paragraph
(f) of subsection (IC) and substitute the words "other than an
annuity of the kind described in section 9(lB)(g)";
(c) delete the words "that is not an allocated pension" from paragraph
(g) of subsection (IC) and substitute the words "other than a
pension of the kind described in section 9(lB)(g)"; and
Clause 137
(2) Clause 137, omit paragraph (b), insert the following new paragraphs (b) —
(g) (inclusive);
"(b) by inserting immediately after the words "an annuity" in the
definitions of "purchase price", "relevant number" and "residual
capital value" in subsection (1) the words "or a superannuation
pension that is an allocated pension";
(c) by adding at the end the following subsection:
"(8) A pension or annuity is an allocated one if the provider of
the pension maintains an account in respect of the pensioner
or annuitant to which is credited earnings that relate to the


amount in the account and to which is debited annuity
instalments or pension instalments that are paid to the
pensioner or annuitant PROVIDED THAT:
(a) the rate of payment may only be varied once in any
period of 12 consecutive months; and
(b) in the case of an allocated pension payable from a
superannuation fund, the superannuation fund must
have been a "complying superannuation fund" for the
purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936
when the pension commenced to be paid."
(d) in the definition of "non-assessable purchase price" in subsection (1),
by inserting the words "or a roll-over allocated pension" immediately
after the words "roll-over immediate annuity" in paragraph (b) and
by inserting the words "other than a roll-over allocated pension"
immediately after the words "a superannuation pension" in
paragraph (c);
(e) in the definition of "purchase price" in subsection (1), by inserting
the words "or a superannuation pension" immediately after the
words "an annuity";
(f) by inserting the following definition in subsection (1):
"roll-over allocated pension" means a superannuation pension that
is an allocated pension, the purchase price of which consists wholly
of a rolled-over amount or rolled-over amounts;"
(g) by deleting the definition of "roll-over purchase price" from
subsection (1) and substituting the following definition of "roll-over
purchase price":
"roll-over purchase price" in relation to a roll-over
immediate annuity or a roll-over allocated pension
means:
(a) except where paragraph (b) applies - either the sum of the
following amounts:
(i) the amount that would, under Subdivision AA of
Division 2 of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment
Act, be the undeducted purchase price of the annuity
or superannuation pension;
(ii) the amount that is the upper limit
under section 159SG of the Income Tax
Assessment Act for the year of income
in which the annuity or superannuation
pension was purchased;


or the purchase price of the annuity or superannuation
pension, whichever is less; or
(b) where:
(i) more than one roll-over immediate annuity or roll-
over allocated pension have been purchased using the
same rolled-over amount or rolled-over amounts in
the name of the same person or where both a roll-
over immediate annuity and a roll-over allocated
pension (or more than one of either or both) have
been purchased using the same rolled-over amount or
rolled-over amounts in the name of the same person;
and
(ii) the roll-over purchase price of any other roll-over
immediate annuity or roll-over allocated pension has
previously been worked out under paragraph (a) for
the purposes of this Act;
the amount that would, under Subdivision AA of Division 2
of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act, be the
undeducted purchase price of the annuity or superannuation
pension;
Clause 138
(3) Delete the words "allocated annuity or allocated pension" from section
1099A(l) and substitute the words "an annuity or a pension which does not
meet the requirements set out in either of paragraphs (a) or (b) of the
definition of an allocated annuity or pension set out in section 9(8), but
which would otherwise be an allocated annuity or an allocated pension."
Clause 140
(4) Omit the clause, insert the following new clause:
140. Sections 1119 and 1120 are repealed and the following sections are
substituted:
"Value of annuities and allocated pensions
1119. (1) Subject to subsection (2), in calculating the value of a person's
assets for the purposes of this Act (other than subparagraph
263(l)(c)(iv) and sections 1125 and 1126), disregard the value of
any annuity of the person.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to:
(a) a disposable or deferrable annuity; or


(b) an immediate annuity purchased on or after 15 August 1989;
or
(c) an annuity that became presently payable on or after
15 August 1989.
Disposable or deferrable annuity
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), an annuity is a disposable or
deferrable annuity if:
(a) either:
(i) the annuity is able to be disposed of; or
(ii) a substantial part of the income under the annuity is
deferred; or
(iii) a substantial part of the income under the annuity
may be deferred; and
(b) the Secretary is satisfied that the annuity should not be
disregarded under paragraph 1118(l)(e).
Value of allocated pensions and certain post-15 August 1989 annuities
(4) The value of:
(a) an immediate annuity (including an immediate annuity that
is an allocated annuity) purchased on or after
15 August 1989; or
(b) an annuity (including an annuity that is an allocated annuity),
that became presently payable on or after 15 August 1989;
or
(c) a superannuation pension that is an allocated pension;
is worked out using the Annuity Value Calculator at the end of this
section.
ANNUITY VALUE CALCULATOR
Overall value calculation
1119-1. This is how to work out the value of the annuity or pension:


Method statement
Step 1. Work out the residual capital value of the annuity or pension;
Step 2. Work out the balance of the purchase price of the annuity or pension
using pint 1119-2.
Step 3. Work out the adjustment factor using point 1119-3.
Step 4. Multiply the balance obtained under Step 2 by the adjustment factor
obtained in Step 3: the result is called the adjusted balance.
Step 5. Add the adjusted balance to the residual capital value: the result is called
the adjusted value of the annuity or pension;
Step 6. the value of the annuity or pension is the higher of the adjusted value
and the residual capital value.
Note: for "residual capital value" see subsection 9(1).
Balance of purchase price
1119-2 The balance of the purchase price of the annuity or pension is:
purchase price — residual capital value
Note: for "purchase price" and "residual capital value" see subsection 9(1).
Adjustment factor
1119-3. The adjustment factor is:
relevant number — (years elapsed + 11
relevant number
where:
relevant number is the relevant number for the annuity or pension;
years elapsed is the number of full years that have elapsed since the
annuity or pension became presently payable.
Note: for "relevant number" see subsection 9(1).
Value of annuity or allocated pension — change of relevant number
1120. (1) If:
(a) a determination of entitlement is made in relation to a
person; and


(b) the determination is made having regard to a relevant
number for an annuity or a superannuation pension that is
an allocated pension; and
(c) the number was determined as mentioned in paragraph (c)
of the definition of "relevant number" in section 27H of the
Incomes Tax Assessment Act; and
(d) the person appeals against the determination of the relevant
number; and
(e) on appeal, a lower number is substituted for the original
relevant number;
the Secretary must make a new determination of entitlement in
relation to the person.
(2) In making a new determination under subsection (1), the Secretary
must have regard to the lower relevant number for the annuity or
allocated pension concerned.
(3) If the Secretary makes a new determination of entitlement in
relation to a person under subsection (1), there is payable to the
person the amount worked out using the formula:
new amount - actual amount
where:
new amount is the amount of pension, benefit or allowance that
would have been payable to the person for the underpayment
period at the new rate determined under subsection (1);
actual amount is the amount of pension, benefit or allowance that
is paid to the person for the underpayment period;
underpayment period is the period that:
(a) starts either:
(i) if the appeal concerned is instituted within three
months after the person is notified of the original
determination of the relevant number — when that
determination is made; or
(ii) in any other case - when the appeal is instituted; and
(b) ends when the new determination of entitlement takes effect.


9.2 Equity Life Limited recommended that 'with profit' annuities be treated
in the same manner as allocated pensions and that a review of the proposed
changes be undertaken.
Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992
9.3 Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia limited (ASFA)
ASF A submitted details of its Council resolution regarding the need
for greater equity in taxation arrangements. Its goal, in order of
priority, should be to:
(i) lift the rebate to, say, 20 per cent;
(ii) lift the maximum qualifying contribution to, say, five per cent
of AWE (approximately $1 500); and
(iii) lift the income cut-off point to, say, 150 per cent of AWE
(approximately $45 000)2
9.4 Life Insurance Federation of Australia (UFA)
♦ LIFA recommended that the taxation rebates on superannuation be
changed as follows in order of priority:
(i) increase the $1 000 limit to $2 000;
(ii) increase the ten per cent rebate to 20 per cent; and
(iii) increase the $27 000 salary threshold to $35 000.
♦ In the event of rebates not being improved for all, a phased reduction
for those who made deductible or rebatable contributions in 1991-92
should be allowed.3
9.5 Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS)
♦ ACOSS submitted that changes be made to bring about the:
abolition of the current special tax concessions for contributions
and fund earnings;
2 ST sub no 21.
ST sub no 16.
3


— assessment of taxable contributions and fund earnings as part of
the individual members' taxable income, with tax on
superannuation component paid by the fund;
— provision of a uniform tax rebate, which could be. offset against
taxes paid by the fund in respect of contributions and fund
earnings for each member; and
— abolition or substantial reduction of taxes on benefits, except for
lump sums above $75 000 (indexed annually) and benefits
withdrawn before age 60 (except in cases of hardship involving
persons over 50 years of age)
The rebate could be calculated either on an annual or a life-time basis. An
annual rebate could allow for a higher level of contributions for older workers
with limited superannuation.
The rebate could be calculated either as a flat amount or as a percentage of
taxable contributions and earnings up to a maximum level. This percentage
should be no less than the lowest marginal rate of personal income tax.
9.6 ACOSS further submits that if the above proposal is not adopted, another
option would involve:
- abolition of the current concessions for contributions;
- taxation of employer contributions at marginal rates and providing a
uniform rebate to offset employer and personal contributions in full or
in part; and
- fixing the RBLs at much lower levels than proposed.
9.7 Captain C J Kaye submitted the following amendments:
1. Any taxpayer who has a lump sum in excess of $400 000 RBL, or the
$800 000 pension RBL on 30 June 1994, be permitted to have that sum
transferred to a capital account under separate ADF or superannuation rules.
2. Any earnings, be it interest, dividends or rental, together with any future
employer award payments, be paid into a separate and new fund from which,
on retirement, only a pension can be paid.
3. That the value of the capital account be allowed to increase (or
decrease) by the change in asset value of the account without attracting a
penalty rate of the top marginal rate on withdrawal on retirement.
4. That mix of assets within the account be allowed to be varied as the
fund managers see fit.


5. That these arrangements be permitted to continue after retirement,
provided that both the capital account and the account for receiving earnings
and paying a pension are BOTH transferred to an ADF under rules similar to
pre-February 1990.4
9.8 The Institute of Actuaries submitted that the following amendments be
made:
♦ in relation to the 1.7.94 simpler age-related maximum contribution rates,
the Institute recommends that some discretion be allowed for defined
benefits funds, for example, after a significant reduction in membership,
a fund may need extra contributions to secure remaining benefits; and
♦ more significant tax offsets for member contributions are needed.
4
Sub no ST 20, p 3




CHAPTER 10. : RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommenda tions
A. Social Security Matters
Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992
Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
The Committee by majority recommends that the Social Security Legislation
Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992 Divisions 16-19 (inclusive) be agreed to without
amendment.
The Committee's On-going Inquiry
The Committee recommends the following in relation to its on-going inquiry
into superannuation:
Recommendation 3.1
The Committee recommends that, as a matter of urgency, the Commonwealth
should initiate discussions with the States with a view to facilitating portability
between them and that these objectives be achieved by the end of 1993.
Recommendation 3.2
The Committee recommends that the Government take steps to provide for the
mandatory vesting, as from a date to be determined, of a significant part of the
employer-financed benefits in occupational superannuation funds accrued to
that date but not otherwise vested. An example of a possible scheme is:
(i) The amount to be vested shall be not less than each member's
contributions, plus fund earnings, to that date.
(ii) The amount should be vested over a ten year period.
(iii) Where existing rules would, if applied, result in a greater sum being
vested in any member, those rules should apply.
Recommendation 3.3:
The Committee recommends that, in relation to Recommendation 3.2 regarding
increased vesting requirements, the base date should be the date on which the
Government announces the adoption of the policy in order to protect the


interests of then-existing members. Employees retrenched or dismissed after the
announcement, but before the base date, should be entitled to whatever vesting
they would have been entitled to if the base date had been the date of their
termination.
Recommendation 3.4:
The Committee recommends that immediate vesting of all employer
contributions subsequent to the vesting base date be compulsory.
Recommendation 3.5
The Committee recommends that the commencement date of the new rules to
substantially increase the amount of benefits to be compulsorily preserved, as
announced in Security in Retirement, should be reconsidered by the
Government with a view to earlier commencement.
Recommendation 3.6:
The Committee recommends by majority that the preservation age be raised to
60 years in accordance with the phasing in proposals outlined in Security in
Retirement.
Recommendation 3.7
The Committee further recommends that the Government should, as a matter
of urgency, initiate research into all aspects of appropriate retirement ages and
the extent of double dipping in Australia.
Recommendation 3.8:
The Committee recommends that the ISC, the organisation which it believes is
best placed to administer this policy, work towards the achievement of the
Committee's long term goal to eliminate early access to retirement benefits. The
Committee also recommends that the ISC promulgate a policy to ensure
consistency of treatment of applications and further recommends that the ISC
develop a more limited set of rules setting out clearly the circumstances for
hardship assistance.
Recommendation 4.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government investigate the possible
expansion of long term debt instruments with a view to affording annuity
providers greater opportunities to provide lower-cost indexed products.


Recommendation 4.2
The Committee recommends that the Government proceed with its announced
intention to rebate all income tax otherwise payable by age pensioners.
Recommendation 4.3
The Committee recommends the assets test be aligned with the income test via
the application of realistic, market-related interest equivalents, subject to:
(a) a reasonable allowance, for example $50 000, for personal and household
possessions; and
(b) inclusion of actual income on bona fide income-earning assets.
Recommendation 4.4
The Committee recommends that the Treasurer and the Minister for Social
Security form a working party to examine income tax and social security
legislation with a view to maximising the consistency of definitions and
treatment of matters of common concern to the two systems and that the report
be tabled in Parliament by the end of 1993.
B. Taxation Matters
Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992
(i) The Committee by majority recommends that the Taxation Laws
Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992 and the amendments moved by
the Government in relation to it be agreed to without amendment.
The Committee's On-going Inquiry
(ii) The Committee recommends the following in relation to its on-going
inquiry into superannuation:
Recommendation 5.1:
The Committee recommends that a specialist unit, known in the Australian
Taxation Office as a 'cell', be established within the ATO to clarify taxation law
and practice for the superannuation industry.


Recommendation 6.1:
The Committee recommends that the Government monitor and examine the use
of salary sacrifice arrangements with a view to ensuring that their use does not
undermine the equity aims of the Government's retirement incomes policy.
Recommendation 7.1:
The Committee by majority believes that the contributions tax should be
retained for 'deductible' contributions and the exemption for 'rebatable'
contributions should also be maintained.
Recommendation 7.2:
The Committee believes that the contributions tax, with respect to employer
contributions, should be withheld by the employer instead of the fund trustee.
This would substantially reduce the administrative complexity of the current
arrangements and lead to less loss of benefits through inadvertence. In other
words, employer and self-employed contributions (which have been subject to
the 15 per cent tax) should be excluded from the assessable income of the fund.
Recommendation 7.3:
The Committee by majority recommends that the fund earning tax should be
maintained at its current concessional rate and that it should retain its
concessional character by being reduced in line with other reductions in
personal income tax rates.
Recommendation 7.4:
The Committee recommends that the Commissioner of Taxation should clarify,
by way of Taxation Rulings and Determinations, the allowable deductions
available to superannuation fund trustees. Further, where appropriate, the
position of superannuation funds should be aligned with normal businesses.
Recommendation 7.5:
The Committee recommends that any expenses incurred by trustees in
complying with legislative and regulatory changes, some of which will flow from
its series of reports, be completely tax deductible for fund trustees.
Recommendation 7.6:
The Committee recommends that the Treasury consider whether there is scope
to correct any anomalies that may exist in the application of Capital Gains Tax
(CGT) to fund trustees. The Treasury should specifically consider the
application of CGT to units in unit trusts, the application of CGT to pre-
September 1985 assets and the application of CGT in fund amalgamations.


Recommendation 7.7:
The Committee recommends that the Treasury examine the arrangements
applying to current pension liabilities to find a less complex regime. Regard
should also be had to the complexity of the taxpayer rebates.
Recommendation 7.8:
The Committee recommends that the Treasury examine whether there is scope
to overcome the confusion surrounding the transfer of tax liability provisions.
Recommendation 7.9:
The Committee recommends that the Government review section 290A to
determine whether there are impediments to ADFs claiming the exemption,
and, if so, to remove such impediments to ensure that the exemption is enjoyed
by those who are entitled to it.




MINORITY REPORT -
SENATORS ALSTON AND WATSON
Minority Report — Senators Alston and Watson
1. The Committee's report brings together a number of important issues
upon which we are broad agreement with the Government. However, the
differences in basic philosophy of the Government and Opposition are well
illustrated in the proposed amendments to the taxation and social security
legislation. The Government believes that the answer to all problems of human
behaviour lies in compulsion and if the problem is a financial one, this
Government's answer will include higher taxes.
2. It is common ground that the aging of our population will place some
strain on our resources from about 2010 onwards unless effective and timely
counter-measures are taken. There is also general agreement that
superannuation should play a much greater role in the provision of retirement
income than it does now. The Government's response to this challenge is the
blunt instrument of compulsion: firstly through its encouragement of award
superannuation and, more recently, through the punitive Superannuation
Guarantee Charge.
3. Australia has an appalling savings record, so bad indeed that the nation
is totally dependent on foreigners for the maintenance of its living standards.
If Australia cannot sell its few remaining prosperous companies for foreign
currency, it goes cap in hand to the market and borrows what is needed. The
reason why Australians are poor savers is that there is no incentive to save -
the deadly scissor blades of taxation and years of endemic inflation have
convinced a whole generation that it is not worth while to put money aside for
the future.
4. The Government's reaction has been to abolish virtually all the remaining
tax incentives to saving through superannuation, the very antithesis of what is
required.
5. We set out below our points of dissent from the report.
Level of Pensions
6. In Chapter 2, the report notes without comment that 'welfare groups
submitted that the current age pension is too low and needs to be increased.'
It is now apparent that the Government is reluctant to countenance, let alone
facilitate, any increase in the age pension.


7. In Security in Retirement (released by the Treasurer on 30 June) the
Government said on page 23:
To increase base pension levels significantly and to have the pension paid also
increase with income ... would weaken further all the incentives that otherwise
exist ... for private self provision. Given Australia's inadequate savings
performance, that would be a perverse policy outcome and is one that has
therefore been rejected by this Government.
8. Further, Labor Senator Nick Sherry, the Superannuation Committee's
chairman, told the Townsville Bulletin on 5 August 1992 that:
... if we don't improve superannuation, we would not be able to pay the same
amount (of the pension) we do now, simply because of the number of people
over 65.
Taxation Treatment of Member Contributions
9. We do not consider that the changes to the tax treatment of
superannuation contributions envisaged in the Bill will provide a more equitable
system, as claimed in the Conclusion to Chapter 6. Currently there is a range
of different taxation concessions for different categories of employees. For wage
and salary earners the position is as follows:
♦ those with no superannuation cover can claim tax deductions on the same
basis as the self-employed, namely $3 000 a year plus 75 per cent of
excess contributions up to their RBLs;
♦ those with award superannuation only are entitled to a deduction of
$3 000 a year; and
♦ those with incomes of less than $25 000 per year (tapering off to $31 000)
and with modest levels of employer support (less than $1 600 per year)
are entitled to a rebate of up to 25 per cent — a maximum rebate of $750.
10. The Bill will abolish the first two concessions and severely limit the third
by replacing it with a uniform rebate of 10 per cent. The highest rebate under
these proposals will be a token $100 to those on the bottom of the income
ladder, provided they can scrape up a superannuation contribution of $1 000.
11. All other changes announced by the Treasurer on 30 June last had two
years' lead time, but for the removal of tax deductions on personal
contributions, the Government gave less than 24 hours' notice.


12. Apart from saving the Government an estimated $230 million in 1993-94,
these proposed changes will dramatically and adversely affect an estimated
1.3 million individuals who are currently contributing to superannuation plans,
particularly personal plans. These involve a contractual arrangement, usually for
a set period of at least five years, and many such persons have already been
confronted with the dilemma of effectively contributing a higher net amount or
breaching their contracts.
13. There has been widespread speculation as to the Government's motives
but it would seem quite consistent with its view that, unlike virtually every other
industrialised country in the world, employers should bear the full responsibility
for superannuation contributions and that employees should be effectively
discouraged from helping themselves by making supplementary arrangements on
their own account.
14. At a recent seminar in Perth, the Federal Labor's representative, the
Member for Canning and Government Whip, George Gear, let the cat out of
the bag when he told the audience 'with a compulsory superannuation system
fully in place you don't need tax concessions'. It can only be a matter of time
before the Government succumbs to irresistible temptation and abolishes the
$3.5 million a year tax deductions on employer contributions.
15. This is totally unacceptable situation as the current generation of
employees will receive nothing like an adequate level of retirement income
under SGC timetable. On the Government's own calculations, for an individual
on average weekly earnings to receive 40 per cent of AWE, there would need
to be twelve per cent contributions made over a forty-year period. Most workers
will not be in the workforce for anything like forty years, even if they are
fortunate enough to be employed at the present time. The majority of the
workforce are aged over thirty years and are still effectively encouraged to
retire at age 55. Women also tend to work ten years less on a full-time basis
than men.
16. The overwhelming majority of the current generation of the workforce will
also not have the benefits of anything like 12 per cent of contributions whatever
length of time they are in the workforce. Some 850 000 employees are not
covered by awards and have therefore not been receiving the first 3 per cent
award superannuation. A further 600 000 award employees have not received
their entitlements as a result of employer non-compliance and a further 100 000
public sector employees have not been receiving award superannuation. As the
SGC is to be phased in over a ten-year period, it follows that even those already
receiving the first round 3 per cent will not reach 9 per cent until the year 2002,
let alone the 12 per cent advocated by the Government. In these circumstances
the immediate removal of any incentives to top up is not only callous and
unnecessary but also extremely unfair.


Taxation of Employer and Self-Employed Contributions
17. We dissent from Recommendation 7.1, which supports the retention of
the current contributions tax regime, which is unfair in the extreme. Being at a
flat rate, it is highly regressive. As many welfare groups have urged on the
Committee, it would be much fairer to bring in a variable tax on contributions,
based on the member's marginal tax rate, less a 25 per cent rebate.
Taxation of Fund Earnings
18. We dissent from Recommendation 7.3, which supports the current rates
of taxation on fund earnings. In fact a modest increase in the fund earnings tax,
after allowing for dividend imputation, would enable a significant decrease in
contributions taxes and the abolition of lump sum taxes - a much better and
fairer mix than the current regime.
Pre- and Post-1983 Problem
19. The Bill does not address the significant and unnecessary complexities of
the pre- and post-1983 problem. This probably has much to do with a lack of
political will on the part of the Government. The Coalition will abolish this
complex regime by abolishing taxes on the lump sums taken after preservation
age.
Vesting of Employee Contributions
20. The Government has now been dithering for more than three years over
its policy on the vesting of employer contributions. Meanwhile, many employees
continue to walk away from even long standing employment with a single
employer with little more than employee contributions plus interest.
21. This is a quite unsatisfactory and unfair outcome, especially as many
employees in these circumstances, often women, end up with quite inadequate
retirement income arrangements.
22. We do not believe the recommendations in Chapter 3 go far enough and
urge the Government to adopt the Coalition's policy of immediate vesting for
accumulation funds and a progressive five-year vesting regime for defined
benefit funds.


Preservation Age for Superannuation Benefits
23. We dissent from Recommendation 3.6. While we welcome the
Government's belated decision to raise the preservation age to 60, despite the
continued intransigence of the ACTU, we cannot understand why such a simple
and urgently needed change should take 24 years to commence and 32 years to
complete. The Treasurer's announcement of the Government's decision on 30
June 1992 gave no reasons for the delay, other than to observe that the change
would not upset existing plans for retirement. This decision is an extreme
example of fiscal irresponsibility. We believe that the program can be brought
forward by 20 years without depriving anyone of any reasonably held right or
expectation, and urge adoption of the Coalition's Fightback proposals, which are
set out below:
24. The Government's continued refusal to commission detailed statistics on
the nature and extent of double dipping is to be deplored. Its preservation
proposals are an open invitation to double-dipping and demonstrate its total
subservience to the union movement, which regards superannuation as a
mixture of deferred holiday pay and an employer-financed housing subsidy.


Social Security Legislation — Allocated Pensions
25. We dissent from the support, expressed in Chapter 4 of the report, for the
proposed treatment of allocated pensions in Division 19 of the Bill. However
we strongly support the need for a more flexible pension and annuities regime
In this context, allocated pensions have a vital role to play and we therefore
believe that the current provisions are likely to diminish the attraction ol
allocated pensions and hence undermine an effective retirement incomes policy
26. For some time now, the Government has been giving lip service to the
need for retirees to use their superannuation benefits to produce a stead)
retirement income stream instead of dissipating lump sums as so many now do.
27. There are aspects of conventional lifetime annuities which make them
unattractive to some potential purchasers - they are inflexible, relatively low-
yielding, and do not have a residual value to be passed on.
28. Allocated pensions were developed to fill a market gap and, eventually,
received the Treasurer's commendation in Security in Retirement last June. The
ISC has developed rules which expand the definition of annuities in such a way
as to include allocated pensions.
29. The proposed amendments to the Social Security legislation, by denying
allocated pensions the same treatment already given to annuities in the income
and assets tests, are likely to undo all that good work and fly in the face of the
stated policy of encouraging allocated pensions.
30. The only reason given by the Government is the rather pathetic assertion
that allocated pensions are more like bank accounts than annuities, despite the
change in definitions with the specific objective of encouraging their use by
treating them as annuities for tax purposes.
31. We deplore the obvious failure of the two departments involved to get
their act together and co-operate in the development of a sensible retirement
incomes policy.
32. In the absence of retailed information as to the current usage of allocated
pensions, it is difficult to understand the Government's haste to kneecap this
form of retirement income stream.
33. As there is only about $2 million of revenue involved, we propose that the
provisions should not take effect until the completion of a further inquiry by an
appropriate Senate Committee, or 1 October 1993, whichever is the later.


34. There are many problems associated with the proposal to include
unrealised capital gains in the Social Security income means test and we are
disturbed that this was not the subject of a coordinated review to ensure equity
of treatment.




MINORITY REPORT —
SENATOR KERNOT
Minority Report — Senator Kcrnot
Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992
1. Whilst the package of measures in the Taxation Laws Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill 1992 is generally supported by the Australian Democrats,
there are two areas which should be modified.
Elimination of tax deductions for personal superannuation contributions
2. The Committee has received many submissions on the Government's
proposal to eliminate, from 1 July 1992, the tax deduction for employee
contributions. Universally the evidence has been that the proposal will
detrimentally affect many existing members of superannuation schemes, in
excess of one million people, and that this is unfair in most circumstances.
3. There is no dispute that the Government must take budgetary
considerations into account in determining superannuation policy, and that the
Government has a right to make prospective decisions concerning access to tax
concessions. However, the proposal in the legislation to terminate all
concessions for those earning in excess of $31 000 per year (that is average
weekly earnings), with no prior warning, is unfair and discriminates against those
already locked into binding contractual obligations. It is almost unbelievable that
a Government could publicly advocate, and increase the tax concessions for,
employees 'topping up' their employer's contributions with personal
contributions and then capriciously terminate these tax concessions. This
decision contradicts a statement by the then Treasurer, The Hon P J Keating,
MP, in the May 1988 Statement at page 12:
As a further encouragement to people to provide for their retirement, the limit
on tax deductions for contributions to small business and related
superannuation funds will be doubled to $3 000 a year.
4. The inability of current compulsory arrangements to provide adequate
retirement incomes is the reason why 'topping up', especially for those over 50,
is important.
5. The Government has claimed that it has targeted the employee
contribution concessions very equitably by limiting the maximum concession —
$100 per annum — to those earning less than $27 000.


6. Whilst this is superficially accurate, the reality is that those in a position
to do so will simply cease making employee contributions and will enter into a
salary sacrifice arrangement to ensure that the contributions formerly made by
the employee will be made by the employer, and hence continue to qualify as
a tax deduction. That is, many — generally those in higher income and
managerial positions - will simply be able to avoid the change in tax concessions
by rearranging remuneration packages.
7. As a consequence, the Government's assertion of greater targeting of the
concession is clearly ludicrous and the new proposals may indeed operate in a
regressive manner for some income groups.
8. The second issue raised by the Government is that the introduction of the
SGC means that it is now unnecessary to encourage people to 'top-up' their
employer contributions. For people now entering the workforce, the SGC will
provide a reasonable retirement income — however people in the latter half of
their working lives, who only receive the minimum SGC amount, will not
accumulate anything approaching an adequate amount to sustain retirement.
9. Indeed the Government actually recognises this issue in the Bill, by
moving to a system of age-based employer contribution limits. This allows very
large employer contributions for those employees aged over 50, up to $62 000
per year, to qualify as a tax deduction.
10. The fact remains that there are many hundreds of thousands of people
who have entered into long term personal superannuation contracts mainly on
the basis of being eligible for taxation relief for their contributions. They did so
on the basis of the urging of Treasurer Keating and they are now looking at
having to continue their contributions without taxation relief or ceasing to
contribute and incurring substantial penalties. There should be a phase out of
the deduction for those people who have entered into a contract before
1 July 1992 as the SGC contribution rate increases.
11. The behaviour of the Opposition in this matter has been extremely
disappointing and irresponsible. The initial response of the Coalition was to
oppose the cessation of the deduction outright. However, because of the recent
announcement of the Prime Minister concerning the GST, the Opposition has
decided to acquiesce and support the elimination of the concession so as to
present a stark policy contrast to the electors in the forthcoming election.
12. To treat over one million Australians as political pawns is an act worthy
of condemnation, and it makes a mockery of the role of the Senate as a house
of review. I urge the Coalition to reconsider their decision, so as to protect the
superannuation fund members who will now unnecessarily incur costs and
charges if they discontinue their personal superannuation policies.


Recommendation 1 - Senator Kernot:
It is therefore recommended that the provisions removing deductibility be
amended to allow a phase out of the concessions to complement the
increase of SGC minimum contribution lor those people who have entered
into a binding superannuation contract prior to 1 July 1992.
The revised Reasonable Benefit Limits arrangements
13. The legislation proposes to introduce, from 1 July 1994, a flat rate RBL
which will apply to all superannuation fund members irrespective of their level
of remuneration. The Australian Democrats support the move to a common
RBL as it provides an absolute, and equal, limit on the amount of tax
concession which each person can obtain through superannuation.
14. Hence a reasonable flat rate RBL will increase the equity of the
distribution of the $4 billion tax expenditure — that is the foregoing of collection
of revenue — which the Commonwealth provides to superannuation fund
members every year.
15. Unfortunately, the legislation before the Committee does not propose to
set an appropriate RBL. The RBL is proposed to be set at $400 000 (indexed)
for lump sums and to be double that amount (that is initially $800 000) where
at least 50 per cent of the benefit is taken as a pension.
16. Evidence given to the Committee by Treasury officials indicates that about
95 per cent of people retire on benefits below $400 000. That is, the proposed
new lump sum RBL will encompass 95 per cent of all retirees in the future. This
means that 95 per cent of persons will not be influenced by the RBL in their
choice of either a lump sum or some form of income stream.
17. This can be contrasted with the current system of differing salary based
RBLs of seven times highest average salary for lump sums and 11.25 where at
least half is taken as a pension or annuity. Taking a person on $30 000 annual
income (for example approximately average weekly earnings) as a typical
example, the effect of this change will be to increase the lump sum threshold
from $210 000 to $400 000.
18. Clearly this will eliminate any incentive provided by the RBLs for retirees
on average weekly earnings to opt for an income stream. This situation can only
lead to the increase in 'double dipping', that is the use of superannuation
moneys for purposes other than providing retirement income. The obvious
implication of such a scenario is a reduction in the level of future budgetary


savings (due to clawbacks from social security) which the Government estimated
would flow from the introduction of the SGC. The cost of this is potentially
enormous and must be considered in any rational analysis of this legislation.
19. That this provision regarding reasonable benefit limits is contained in the
same Bill as the flawed proposal to remove tax deductibility for contributions
from ordinary battlers, on the basis of budgetary constraints, would be hilarious
if it were not so serious.
20. The worst aspect of the RBL proposal is that the Government has
allowed political motives to interfere with the proper setting of policy in this
area. The Opposition, in its Fightback! superannuation package proposes that -
♦ any amount up to twice average earnings (about $60 000) will be able to
be taken in lump sum form; and
♦ where the entitlement exceeds twice average annual earnings, the lump
sum will be limited to $60 000 plus one half of the remaining benefit
subject to a total maximum lump sum benefit of $300 000 indexed.
21. Clearly the Government's choice of the $400 000 limit is to enable it to
go to the election promising a higher RBL than the Coalition. That the Labor
Party would choose to deliberately make the taxation system less equitable for
political purposes is regrettable, but unfortunately more commonplace - with
the regressive One Nation income tax cut proposals being the most recent
example of this disturbing trend.
Recommendation 2 — Senator Kernot:
It is recommended that the Bill be amended to reduce the lump sum RBL
from $400 000 to $300 000, The \pension1 RBL of $800 000should also be
amended down to $600 000.
Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill (No 3) 1992
22. There are two areas in the Bill which should be modified.
A. Unrealised capital gains on listed shares
23. The Government is proposing to change the way in which pensioner
investments in shares will be treated. At present, only the dividends paid to


shareholders are taken into account for the purposes of the income test for
social security payments, while the actual capital value of the shares is included
in the assets test. Until now, the capital growth on listed shares has been
disregarded. Amendments to the Social Security Act 1990 contained in the Bill
provide for net unrealised capital gains on listed securities (other than bonds
and debentures) to be taken into account under the income test. Losses accrued
on listed shares (or similar investments) can be offset against the capital gain
over the same assessment period, but cannot be carried forward. The
Government says this brings listed shares into line with managed investments
where capital growth on the investment is treated as income.
24. Several aspects of this proposed change are highly unsatisfactory.
♦ It continues the questionable practice in the social security area (which
is at odds with taxation practice) of treating an unrealised accretion to
capital as income, rather than assessing it under the assets test.
♦ It discriminates against shares as an investment, as similar treatment is not
meted out to other investments (such as antiques, art work, collectibles
and other less liquid investments upon which there could also be an
unrealised capital gain which is not to be treated as income).
♦ Shareholder pensioners in similar assets and income positions will be
treated differently because of the type of share asset owned. In a
submission made to all Senators, the Chairman of the Australian Stock
Exchange, Mr Laurence Cox, has argued that, under this proposal,
shareholders in a publicly non-listed company (such as Linfox) will not be
affected by the change, but investors in a listed company (such as TNT)
will be.
♦ It is possible that investors will be encouraged to invest overseas and not
in Australia, as those investments are unaffected by the proposed change.
For example, Mr Cox has suggested investors may elect to invest in IBM
shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange purchased through an
Australian broker, rather than invest in BHP. Accordingly, this move may
well discourage small scale investment in Australian companies at a time
when such investment is desperately needed.
25. The likely outcome of the Government's move is that many, if not all, of
the 85 000 pensioners presently holding share portfolios will sell their shares. I
note that Mr Michael Heffernan, the Stock Exchange's chief economist, believes
a 'significant number' of pensioners will sell, adding that he doubts the
Government's ability to reach its projected savings of more than $85 million a
year 'because no-one will have the shares.' (The Age, 5 December 1992).


26. Once again, it makes little sense to be discouraging investment in
Australian companies at the present time.
♦ The flawed nature of the formula to be used in assessing gains and losses
(set out in Clause 116 of the Bill) combined with the volatility of the
share market will result in inequities, as illustrated by the following
examples.
- A share portfolio increases in value from $10 000 to $12 000 over
the 12 month period prior to the day of assessment and pays a
dividend of $500. The return (for social security purposes) is $2 500:
the increase in capital value ($2 000) plus the distribution ($500).
The return expressed as a percentage of the value of the asset at
the start of the review year is 25 per cent. Under the formula, the
past rate of return is applied to the current asset's value. So the
past percentage value is applied to the asset value on the day of
assessment - that is, 25 per cent of $12 000, or $3 000. So we end
up with the situation where the DSS calculated income figure of
$3 000 is $500 more than the actual return.
- Where share prices fall, the dollar amount of the loss relates to the
value of the assets at the start of the review year and the resulting
percentage is applied to the lower closing price. For example, in the
situation in 5.1 (above), if — in the subsequent year - the asset
value reverts to $10 000, the $2 000 capital loss is related to the
$12 000 opening value and the result is a negative rate of return of
16.67 per cent. That percentage is applied to the closing value of
$10 000 and a negative return is calculated ($1 667) which may be
offset against gains on other securities, but not other source of
income.
— These examples demonstrate that the formula magnifies gains and
minimises losses. In the example above, a $2 000 gain was assessed
as $2 500; however, a $2 000 loss attracted a credit of only $1 667.
This becomes a problem where a shareholder has two parcels of
shares, one of which rises in value and the other falls in value. If
the shareholder's two parcels are each valued at $10 000 and one
goes up by $2 000 and the other falls by $2 000 (assuming no
dividends are paid), the shareholder's DSS calculated income will
be $800 ($2 400 income offset by a $1 600 loss), despite the fact
there was no capital gain across the entire portfolio. The greater
the variation in the price, the greater the calculated income
(irrespective of whether or not any actual gain has accrued).


In other words, pension losses caused by share price increases
cannot be fully offset by the same drop in share prices.
— This particular problem in the formula also demonstrates the
inequity in the treatment between a person with an 'individual'
share portfolio and a person who has invested in a managed
investment with an identical shareholding. Each gain and loss on
the individual's shareholdings are going to be separately assessed
and (as pointed out in 5.3) will result in assessable income even if
there is no overall net change in the asset value. But the managed
investment will have no assessable income where there is no net
capital gain.
27. It is also quite clear that, unless DSS reviews are all carried out on the
same day (and there has been no suggestion this will occur), pensioners with
identical share holdings and the same dividend income could have markedly
different pension outcomes.
28. The ability to offset losses is not as positive as it initially appears. This is
partly because of the magnification of profits and minimisation of losses already
mentioned and partly because of the requirement that losses can only be offset
within the same time period against income from other shares or managed funds
(not against income from other sources).
29. This makes a mockery of statements by the Government that the move
is 'fair' because reductions in share values will be able to be offset against gains.
30. The measure has the potential to result in significant administrative costs
for the Department of Social Security as it will be extremely difficult to keep
track of market fluctuations.
Recommendation 3 ~~ Senator Kernot
It is recommended that the proposed amendments in the Bill relating to
unrealised capital gains on shares, as set out in Division 18be rejected
and the Department of Social Security be advised to re-examine the
proposed formula.
B. Allocated Pensions
31. The Bill also changes the manner in which allocated pensions and
annuities are assessed for the purposes of the income and assets tests. Under


the proposed amendments, both unrealised capital gains and income applying
to allocated pensions will be treated as earned income for the purposes of the
age pension assets and income tests. At present, allocated pensions are assessed
under the income test only (using a different assessment method to that
proposed by the amendments).
32. There is no problem with the move to have the pensions assessed under
both tests. The problem in the application of the new income test being
proposed by DSS.
33. At present, allocated pensions and annuities are assessed in the same way
for the purposes of the income test, that is, DSS assesses the actual amount of
income paid on these investments (less the tax concessions). Under the
proposed amendments, DSS will assess the earnings of the allocated pension's
underlying capital rather than the actual income drawn down.
34. DSS estimates this change will save about $2 million a year.
35. This measure is also highly unsatisfactory for several reasons.
♦ The vast majority of allocated pension holders will be assessed by DSS to
be earning more income than they actually receive. They will have their
pensions reduced even though their allocated pension income has not
changed.
♦ It is inconsistent with moves in the taxation area where allocated
pensions, annuities and other superannuation products are treated in an
equal manner. Because of the withdrawal rates applied by DSS, the loss
of $1 in income through the application of the income test is equal to a
$1 increase in taxation. This cannot be seen as enhancing the integration
of the taxation and social security systems.
♦ The Explanatory Memorandum states that, as the drawings from an
allocated pension are variable, it would operate 'in a similar way to a bank
account ... at the recipient's discretion.' This would seem to represent a
fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of allocated pensions.
Allocated pensions can only be opened while applicants are in
employment and then only with rollover funds or ETPs, deposits are not
permitted, drawings are restricted to government prescribed maximum and
minimum limits and can only be made monthly, and most (if not all)
allocated pensions only allow the pensioner to vary the amount to be
drawn on an annual basis. Therefore, the pensioner's discretion in relation
to the allocated pension is severely curtailed.


36. In evidence to the Committee, DSS said they were attempting to 'provide
neutral treatment vis-a-vis other similar sorts of investments.’ But an
examination of the structure and purpose of the product suggests it is stretching
both logic and equity to propose they be treated as ordinary investments.
♦ In fact, it makes considerably more sense to treat allocated pensions in
the same way as annuities. This is particularly so in light of the
Government's clear statements to the personal investment industry that
it prefers retirement benefits to be taken more in income stream form.
37. In evidence to the Committee, DSS advised it accepted a 'similarity'
between term annuities and allocated pensions. DSS went on to say: 'For that
reason, we will be doing a review of the treatment of term annuities ... [to be]
submitted to the Government by the end of January.' It makes little sense to
proceed with these changes to the treatment of allocated pensions when a
review of annuities is underway in the Department.
♦ Because an allocated pension is structured in order to build up an
investor's capital in the initial stages of the life of the product, the income
received during this period is less than what the underlying capital is
earning. The likely outcome of the new rules is that people will increase
the size of their allocated pension drawings, defeating the purpose of the
product and possibly making allocated pensioners onto the age pension
at an earlier stage.
♦ DSS made it quite clear to the Committee that it had no consultation
with the providers of these products prior to introducing the changes to
allocated pensions. The Insurance and Superannuation Commission has
had extensive consultation with the industry on allocated pensions. Mr
Michael O'Neill, Assistant Commissioner of the ISC, told the Committee
the ISC had received submissions on allocated pensions as long as 12 or
18 months ago. He said 'There were some components of those
submissions concerning DSS matters, but that was not our concern.'
Recommendation 4 - Senator Kernot:
It is recommended that the proposed amendments in the Bill relating to
allocated pensions, as set out in Division 19, be rejected and DSS be
advised to include an exploration of more equitable treatment between
allocated pensions and annuities within its current review of term
annuities.


Preservation Age
38. As part of the package of changes negotiated prior to the introduction of
the SGC, the Democrats insisted that the Government address the question of
an increase in the preservation age. We proposed that an appropriate phase-in
period for this necessary change was 10-15 years.
39. This was not accepted by the Government because of external pressures,
although the Government did agree to a much slower implementation timetable.
This at least shows that the Government does acknowledge that a potentially
large problem exists in this area — especially as Australia now has a uniform
national superannuation system.
40. The relevant industry and professional bodies, namely ASFA, LIFA and
the Institute of Actuaries, all welcome the Government's decision in this area.
However, they are unsure as to why such a simple and overdue change should
take place over a timeframe of over 30 years. I share these sentiments.
41. It is an absurd situation where the Government refuses to address an
acknowledged flaw in its policy, which has serious long-term consequences,
because of external pressures. The irony is that there is no political resistance
to speeding up the changes; the resistance is industrial in nature.


APPENDIX A: TERMS OF REFERENCE
Appendix A — Terms of Reference
On 5 June 1991 the Senate established a Select Committee on Superannuation
to inquire into, and report on, the following matters:
(a) the constitutional arrangements governing superannuation;
(b) the taxation arrangements which apply to superannuation;
(c) the adequacy of prudential control arrangements applying to
superannuation funds;
(d) the implications for the financial system of the expected
growth in superannuation fund assets;
(e) the investment of moneys by superannuation funds;
(f) the ownership of surpluses in defined benefit superannuation
funds;
(g) the level and structure of fees and commissions charged in
relation to superannuation fund membership and asset
management;
(h) the information available to members of superannuation
funds;
(i) the representation of fund members in trustee structures of
superannuation funds;
(j) the dispute resolution mechanisms available to members of
superannuation funds;
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting and
preservation of benefits;
(l) the appropriate means of providing adequate superannuation
for part time and casual employees and the feasibility of
providing superannuation for people outside the workforce;


(m) the rate of employer non-compliance with superannuation
awards;
(n) the possibilities for simplifying superannuation;
(o) the feasibility of providing improved benefits to
superannuation arrangements in lieu of increased
contributions under superannuation awards in appropriate
circumstances;
(p) the need for an appropriate target and timetable for the
achievement of adequate levels of superannuation; and
(q) any other relevant matters, including superannuation
arrangements existing in other countries.


APPENDIX B: LIST OF WITNESSES RE TAXATION
LAWS AMENDMENT (SUPERANNUATION) BILL
1992
Appendix B — List of Witnesses re Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1992
Brown, Mr Roger, Director, Retirement Incomes Policy, Department of Social
Security, Tuggeranong Office Park, Tuggeranong, Australian Capital Territory,
Gallagher, Mr Philip Francis, Acting Assistant Secretary, Retirement Incomes
Policy and Economic Analysis, Department of Social Security, Tuggeranong
Office Park, Tuggeranong, Australian Capital Territory,
Gerathy, Mrs Deidre Fay, Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury,
Treasury Building, Parkes Place, Parkes, Australian Capital Territory,
O'Neill, Mr Michael David, Assistant Commissioner, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission, 212 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra, Australian
Capital Territory,
Peacock, Ms Sandra, Executive Officer, Legislative Services Group, Australian
Taxation Office, 2 Constitution Avenue, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory,
Regan, Mr Anthony, Executive Officer, Legislative Services Group, Australian
Taxation Office, 2 Constitution Avenue, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory,
and
Robinson, Mr James, Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury, Treasury
Building, Parkes Place, Parkes, Australian Capital Territory,
Kirk, Mr Andrew, Legislation Committee, Association of Superannuation Funds
of Australia, Level 8, MLC Centre, Sydney, New South Wales,
Scullin, Mr Brian, Executive Director, Association of Superannuation Funds of
Australia, Level 8, 37 York Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Shirlow, Mr David Stewart, Director of Policy Research, Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia, Level 8,37 York Street, Sydney, New South
Wales,


Maroney, Mr John, Superannuation Committee Convenor, Life Insurance
Federation of Australia, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Robinson, Mr Kenneth Norman, Deputy Convenor, Superannuation Committee,
Life Insurance Federation of Australia, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
and
Grenfell, Mr Colin Royce, Member, Retirement Incomes Policy Committee,
Institute of Actuaries of Australia, 49 Market Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
Davidson, Mr Peter Andrew Geoffrey, Senior Policy Officer, Australian Council
of Social Service, 24 Kippax Street, Surry Hills, New South Wales, and
McClelland, Ms Alison, Principal Economics and Tax Policy Coordinator,
Australian Council of Social Service, 24 Kippax Street, Surry Hills, New South
Wales.


APPENDIX C: SOCIAL SECURITY LEGISLATION
AMENDMENT BILL (NO 3) 1992
DIVISIONS 16-19 (INCLUSIVE)
Appendix B — List of Witnesses re Social Security Legislation Amendment Bill
(No 3) 1992 Divisions 16-19 (inclusive)
Page 157
Donnellan, Mr Raymond Joseph, Canberra Liaison Officer, Council on the
Ageing (Australia), 464 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, Victoria,
Nolan, Mr Lawrence Edward, Honorary Spokesperson on Retirement Incomes,
Council on the Ageing (Australia), 464 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, Victoria,
Smith, Mr David Richard, Executive Chairman, AM Corporation Ltd, 70 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Tune, Mr David, Assistant Secretary, Retirement Programs Branch, Department
of Social Security, Box 7788, Canberra Mail Centre, Canberra, Australian
Capital Territory, and
Whitecross, Mr Andrew William, Director, Income and Assets Policy,
Department of Social Security, Box 7788, Canberra Mail Centre, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory.




APPENDIX D: LIST OF SUBMISSION RE BILLS
Appendix D — List of Submission re Bills




APPENDIX E : LIST OF SUBMISSIONS RE ON-
GOING INQUIRY
Appendix E: List Witnesses re On-going Inquiry
- IN NUMERICAL ORDER














APPENDIX E : LIST OF SUBMISSIONS RE ON-
GOING INQUIRY
Super — Fiscal and Social Links
- IN ALPHABETICAL ORDER














APPENDIX F: GOVERNMENT AMENDMENTS AS
CIRCULATED IN THE SENATE
Appendix F - Government Amendments as Circulated in the Senate
1990-91-92
THE PARLIAMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
THE SENATE
TAXATION LAWS AMENDMENT (SUPERANNUATION) BILL 1992
(Amendment to be moved on behalf of the Government)
Clause 73, page 70, omit the clause, substitute the following clause:
Application
"73. The amendments made by this Division apply in relation to the provision of
pensions after the commencement of this section, regardless of whether the members
concerned retired before or after the commencement of this section.".
1990-91-92
THE PARLIAMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
THE SENATE
TAXATION LAWS AMENDMENT (SUPERANNUATION) BILL 1992
(Amendments to be moved on behalf of the Government)
(1) Clause 79, page 72, paragraph (b), line 29, omit "(2A),", substitute "(2A),(2B),".
(2) Clause 79, page 72, paragraph (c), omit the paragraph, substitute the following
paragraph:
"(c) by inserting after subsection (2) the following subsections:
'(2A) If:


(a) the employer is contributing for the benefit of the employee t<
the fund in accordance with an industrial award, or a law of ;
kind referred to in paragraph (l)(ab), that was operativi
immediately before 21 August 1991; and
(b) section 13 would operate to determine a notional earnings base
in relation to the employee if the employer had been sc
contributing immediately before 21 August 1991;
the notional earnings base in relation to the employee is the notional earning:
base referred to in paragraph (b).
(2B) If:
(a) the employer is contributing for the benefit of the employee tc
the fund in accordance with the agreement referred to in Order
No. 292 of 1992 of the Coal Industry Tribunal of New South
Wales and known as the New South Wales Coal Mining Industry
Statutory Superannuation Fund (Salary Sacrifice) Agreement;
and
(b) section 13 would operate to determine a notional earnings base
in relation to the employee if the employer had been so
contributing immediately before 21 August 1991;
the notional earnings base in relation to the employee is the notional earnings
base referred to in paragraph (b).';
(3) Clause 87, page 76, paragraph (c), subparagraphs (a)(i) and (ii) of the definition of
"starting day" in proposed subsection (5), lines 36 to 39, omit he proposed
subparagraphs, substitute the following subparagraphs:
"(i) the day on which the contribution period commenced; or
(ii) if the contribution period commenced on 1 July 1992-the day on which the
Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act 1992 received the Royal
Assent; and".
(4) Clause 87, page 77, paragraph (c), subparagraphs (b)(i) and (ii) of the definition of
"starting day" in proposed subsection (5), lines 1 to 6, omit the proposed
subparagraphs, substitute the following subparagraphs:
'(i) the day on which the part of the contribution period commenced; or
(ii) if the contribution period commenced on 1 July 1992-the day on which the
part of the contribution period commenced or the day on which the Taxation
Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act 1992 received the Royal Assent,
whichever is the later.'


APPENDIX G: LIST OF WITNESSES RE ON-GOING
INQUIRY
Appendix G — List of Witnesses re On-going Inquiry












APPENDIX H: GLOSSARY
Appendix H: Glossary
Allocated Pension
Annuity
Approved Deposit fund
(ADF)
Arms' Length
Commutation
Defined Benefits Fund
A pension where the member has his own
account against which pension payments are
debited and to which any investment earnings
are credited. The pension will continue until
the death of the pensioner, or until the
account is exhausted. Upon death, any
balance remaining in the account is paid to a
designated beneficiary as a (taxable) lump sum
payment, or is applied to secure further
pension payments to a surviving spouse.
A regular periodic payment to a person
(cf pension). Where weekly, fortnightly or
monthly payments out of a superannuation
fund are involved, the expression 'pension' is
more commonly used.
A fund which has the purpose of holding lump
sum superannuation benefits rolled over for
the purpose of maintaining the concessional
taxation treatment until the taxpayer attains
preservation age.
A term which refers to the relationship
between the employer company and the
members of a superannuation fund. If the
members of the fund are employees of the
sponsoring company, an arms' length fund is
said to exist.
Term used to describe the process whereby
one type of superannuation benefit is
commuted (changed) to another type, for
example conversion from a pension to a lump
sum.
A superannuation fund that contracts to pay a
member a fixed or defined amount of money
that is linked to the salary level.
Deferred Annuity
An annuity under which the payments are


delayed by a specified period or to the date of
occurrence of a specified event.
Eligible Termination
Payments (ETP)
Life Office
Life Policy
Lump Sum
Master Trust
Maximum Deductible
Contribution Limit
(MDCL)
Portability
Preservation
Prudential Controls
Payments made to employees leaving
employment. They include payments from a
superannuation fund or other inducements to
retire but exclude accrued annual and long
service leave.
A firm which sells life insurance and other
insurance products, for example, life cover,
super bonds, annuities and superannuation.
A contract of insurance agreed to when a
person purchases life insurance.
The amount which is paid to a retiree at the
time of retirement (as opposed to a pension
for life).
A trust arrangement which allows a single
trustee appointed by the promoter of the fund
to administer and manage the superannuation
funds paid by a number of employers and
employees.
A rule which places a cap on the level of
superannuation contributions which employers
or members can make for employees. When
this limit is exceeded, the fund is deemed to
be non-complying and loses concessional tax
status.
Allowing a superannuation plan to be
transferred from one fund (or one employer)
to another.
Maintenance of a member's entitlements in a
superannuation until a specified minimum age
(usually at least 55 years).
The measures instituted to supervise and
control activities in the superannuation
industry to ensure the security of contributor's
funds.


Reasonable Benefits
Limit (RBL)
Repatriation of Surplus
Rollover Funds
Securities
Superannuation Fund
Surplus
Trust
The maximum limit on the amount a member
can receive from superannuation, ADFs or
DAFs, with preferential taxation treatment.
The limit can be calculated from a member's
highest average salary.
The act of transferring surplus assets in a
superannuation fund to the sponsoring
employer.
The funds in which eligible termination
payments are deposited when a person leaves
or changes employment. These funds are
preserved until retirement age is reached.
Rollover funds receive concessional tax
treatment in that the tax liability is deferred
until retirement age.
Financial instruments which are evidence of
debt or of property. Bonds, certificates of
stock and shares are documents which indicate
the existence of a security.
A fund designed to produce retirement
benefits for members. To attract tax
concessions, it must have these characteristics:
(a) be indefinitely continuing, and (b) be
maintained solely for following purposes:
provision of benefits for fund members, or for
dependants of each member in the event of
death, or any other purpose allowed by the
Insurance and Superannuation Commission in
writing.
A position reached in a superannuation fund
whereby the accrued earnings and
contributions exceed the funds accumulated
liabilities.
A fiduciary relationship in which one person
(the trustee) holds the title to property for the
benefit of another (the beneficiary).
Trust Deed
The legal document which appoints trustees
and defines their power.


Trustee
Unfunded Scheme
Undeducted Purchase
Price
Vesting
A person, usually one of a body of persons,
appointed to administer the affairs of a
company, institution, etc, who holds the title
to property for the benefit of another.
A superannuation scheme where the employer
has not contributed to match liabilities, that is,
benefits payable to members as they accrue.
Instead, payments are made to members when
they are due.
In relation to an annuity or superannuation
pension, that portion of monies used to
purchase the annuity or pension which has not
been claimed as a deduction.
Conferring on a superannuation fund member
the ownership of all or part of the accrued
benefit applicable to that member.


APPENDIX I: QUESTION BY SENATOR WATSON OF
THE AUSTRALIAN TAXATION OFFICE
RE : PAYE VARIATIONS
Question by Senator Watson of the Australian Taxation Office
re PAYE Variations
Estimates Committee B
20 October 1992
Senator WATSON - Section 221D of the Act enables employees to have their
rate of tax varied where they can demonstrate that their tax liability over a
12 month period would not be affected by lower PAYE deductions. One group
in society has latched onto this, namely, life insurance and superannuation
agents, and they have been advising their clients that, in order to obtain
additional cash to put towards increased superannuation, they can apply for a
variation authority.
I put it to you that this is causing a severe administrative burden on employers,
particularly those who have computer payroll packages, because they are forced
into a situation of having to manually calculate the tax deductions on behalf of
those employees or their clients. We understand that these employers have been
directed by the Tax Office to make deductions at the behest of the insurance
agents et cetera at the lower rate on behalf of employees, which they are
obliged to do, having received that notification. My understanding is that the
Tax Office is aware of the administrative burdens that are being caused and is
taking steps to reduce the burden. My question is: what steps have been taken?
You can see the difficulty?
Department of Treasury
Agency : Australian Taxation Office
Senator Watson asked (Hansard page B 613):
(1) What the ATO was doing about the severe administrative burden on
employers of employees who could obtain a section 221D notification
allowing a reduction in tax instalment deductions for life insurance and
superannuation.
(2) What was the ATO doing about life underwriters using section 22ID to
obtain additional superannuation business


Answer:
(1) The PAYE Business Team is currently mid-way through reviewing th<
whole section 221D process with the aim of simplification for the ATO
employees and their employers. The Team is producing and distributing
a standard section 221D application form common to all ATO offices, anc
for use by tax agents and individuals. The Team is introducing the use o
'Reduce by $ .' amount for variations instead of 'Reduce to .' 01
percentage variation. However, the ability to use whichever variatior
method is most effective in the given circumstances will be retained.
The effect of this will be that the variation will be by a set amount and.
as a consequence, assist in simplifying payroll calculations. The ATO has
been mindful of the need to avoid adding to the collection burden already
carried by employers and is seeking to reduce this burden wherever
possible. Generally, variations will only be granted in those cases where
there is a reasonable likelihood of a significant over-deduction of tax
instalment deductions ie: where they would be likely to exceed the end of
year liability by 10 per cent or $500, whichever is the lesser.
(2) Life insurance and superannuation agents have been advising clients that
they could apply for a variation of tax instalment deductions under
section 221D to obtain additional cash to put towards increased
superannuation. Many of those applying for variations were just barely
meeting the criteria for approval — that is, 10 per cent or more than $500
difference in tax liability. Approximately 50 per cent of the section 221D
applications in the last year were reliant on superannuation contributions
as deductible expense. Since the legislative changes this year to
deductibility of superannuation contributions, the number of section 221D
applications has dropped markedly.




Divisions 16-19 (inclusive); and related terms of reference (Fourth Report)-December 1992
_flJll iWjuamenT 6f the
OOMMQNMBVm OP MSIRAUA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 5 35 to 1882
OWENS) TO BE PRINTS)
____B8N 0727418 _____
B92/0000 Cat. No. 92 0000 0
