

Super
Inquiry Overview
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Seventh Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
June 1993


© Commonwealth of Australia 1993
ISBN 0 642 19295 2
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the
Senate Printing Unit, Parliament House, Canberra.


Super Inquiry Overview
From left to right:
Senators Richard Alston, Nick Sherry (Chair), Sue West
Rear left to right:
Senators John Watson (Deputy Chair), Cheryl Kemot and Bruce Childs




Members
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Senator the Hon. Chair
Nick Sherry
Senator John Watson Deputy Chair
Senator Richard Alston
Senator Bruce Childs
Senator Cheryl Kernot
Senator Sue West
Tasmania
Tasmania
Victoria
New South Wales
Queensland
New South Wales
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary: Mr Richard Gilbert
Executive Assistant: Ms Cath Drinkwater
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
Facsimile: (06) 277 5719




Contents
Contents
Contents Page
Members of the Committee. iii
Contents.v
Chapter 1 Inquiry Strategy. 1
Chapter 2 Inquiry Themes. 17
Chapter 3 Procedures . 25
Chapter 4 Adverse Evidence. 31
Appendices:
A. Terms of Reference . 39
B. Composition and Powers. 41
C. Distillation of Terms of Reference into Themes/Areas of
Inquiry . 43
D. Schedule of Activities . 49
E. Work Plan: September 1992-February 1993 . 51
F. The Committee's Procedural Resolutions May 1993 ... 53
G. Parliamentary Privilege Resolutions of 25 February 1988 55
H. Estimate Committee D - Answers to Questions on Notice
from Senator Watson .59




CHAPTER 1
INQUIRY STRATEGY
Inquiry Strategy
Introduction
1.1 For a period of almost two years the Senate has had a Select
Committee inquiring into superannuation arrangements in Australia. The
formation of the Committee took place in the midst of rapid and far-
reaching change in retirement incomes policy both in Australia and overseas.
The extent of change, the uncertainty that it has engendered, and the
political concern to manage and resolve community apprehension was
reflected in the breadth, depth and unusual specificity of the terms of
reference for the Select Committee on Superannuation agreed by the Senate
on 4 June 1991. The Committee was given the responsibility for inquiring
into no fewer than 17 separate matters - one of the most detailed briefs ever
given to a Senate committee.1
1.2 Senator Spindler, the then Democrat spokesperson on Treasury
matters, and mover of the motion to establish the Committee, gave a clear
indication of the Committee's future role when he stated in a media release:
We were concerned that there was no formal vehicle for independent
input to the Government's decision-making in this increasingly crucial
area of economic and social policy.2
1.3 On 13 May 1993 the Senate resolved that the Committee be
reappointed to allow it to complete three matters which had not been
finalised when the 1993 federal election was called.
1.4 These included the reference on fees, charges and commissions, the
operation of the Queensland Professional Officers Association
Superannuation Fund and the Superannuation Supervisory Levy.
Subsequently, on 19 May 1993, four additional matters were referred to the
Committee, namely: the use of superannuation funds to finance the
1 Appendix A includes the Terms of Reference.
Media release of 6 June 1991
2


Super Inquiry Overview
purchase of housing by fund members; increasing contributions from nine
to twelve per cent and the role of employee contributions in that process;
legislation to implement the recommendations in the Committee's first
report, Safeguarding Super, and the interaction between allocated pensions
and the social security system.
1.5 The referral of these matters underscores the fact that
superannuation is still a critical national issue which warrants the further
attention of the Parliament.
Treatment of the Major Issues
1.6 This report, the seventh report of the Committee, describes and
analyses in detail the strategies and procedures3 which were employed
during the inquiry in addressing the original terms of reference. The
Committee believes that the inquiry has given rise to a number of unusual
and significant occurrences which are worthy of reflection and self
evaluation. In conducting the inquiry in a way which provided a 'formal
vehicle' to influence the development of policy in a key area of government
activity, the Committee followed and set a number of precedents which may
benefit the work of future committees. The work of two previous Senate
committees, the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange and the
Standing Committee on Social Welfare, come to mind in any consideration
of model precedents or practices.
1.7 Whilst the circumstances surrounding the establishment of the Select
Committee on Superannuation were entirely different from those of the
Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange4, a number of
similarities are noteworthy. First, both inquiries addressed the operations of
key areas of the financial sector involving large amounts of funds. Second,
as the operations of both securities and the superannuation industries
ultimately impact on individual wealth and self interest, there existed a
potential in both inquiries that allegations of fraud and malpractice would
be made. In addition, the two inquiries were given the task of making
recommendations on the appropriate regulation of their respective inquiry
3
Appendix B includes the resolution of the Senate of 20 June 1991 which
established the Committee's composition, powers and procedures.
4 Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, Final Report, 20 August
1974.


Inquiry Strategy
subjects. Consistent with the standard set by the committee examining the
securities industry some 20 years earlier, the Select Committee on
Superannuation believed that its duty involved ascertaining the facts,
recording them to promote an understanding of the superannuation industry
and assessing the sufficiency of current regulations designed to ensure that
public policy objectives were achievable. Using this approach the Committee
was then in a position to make recommendations for reform.
1.8 The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare in its report
entitled Through a Glass Darkly also provided the Committee with some
model practices. Its stimulation of debate in a key area of social policy by
way of the publication of issues papers and its final chapter describing in
some detail the background and conduct of the inquiry are but two
examples of best practice which the Select Committee on Superannuation
used as a model during its inquiry.5
Superannuation and Pensions - Why the Interest?
The Interested Parties
1.9 During the past decade in most developed countries, retirement
incomes policies have been the subject of unparalleled examination and
discussion by a broad cross-section of community interests. Parliamentarians
and public servants have concentrated on the fiscal and social equity
ramifications of current and future policy options. Employers have been
primarily concerned with the industrial relations and profitability implications
of retirement incomes policy. Increasingly, trade unions have expressed a
view that all of their members should have access to superannuation
employment benefits which have been a feature of the professional and
white collar work force. The superannuation industry comprising trustees,
members, fund administrators, fund managers, actuaries, accountants and
lawyers has played an integral role in the development of policy to effect
change in superannuation. There has developed a realisation by many
individuals that in an era of increasing longevity, retirement income
dependency and rising standards of living, a publicly funded age pension
system, on its own, may not be able to deliver a secure and prosperous
retirement.
5 Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, Through a Glass Darkly -
Evaluation in the Australian Health and Welfare Services, AGPS, 1979.


Super Inquiry Overview
1.10 Superannuation in Australia covers a broad spectrum of the
Australian population. There are approximately five million members of the
paid workforce who are members of a staggering 65 000 superannuation and
approved deposit funds whose assets exceed $155 billion which some
commentators claim is the largest single pool of investment in Australia, if
not the fastest growing. For many employees, superannuation is their only
significant savings activity. From a public pension perspective, the 1.4 million
recipients of age and service pensions, full or part, amounting to more than
$13 billion of government outlays, also have an interest in retirement
incomes issues.
Key Developments
1.11 During the inquiry, participants in retirement incomes policy
formulation often expressed competing needs and interests. Their interaction
drew the Committee into a challenging and at times unpredictable
environment. During the effective life of the committee of around 22
months, the following developments have unfolded:
• Superannuation continued to be a key component in the
determination of employee remuneration. During the inquiry full time
employee coverage reached 84% and part time coverage 57% (see
Chart 1).
• Following protracted negotiations, the Government legislated for all
Australian workers to receive superannuation contributions beginning
with a minimum of three per cent with increments to nine per cent
for all employees by 2003. The Government proposes that a 12 per
cent level of superannuation coverage will be reached by way of
employee contributions of three per cent.
• In response to the Committee's first report on the regulation of
superannuation, legislation to bring about greater prudential control
and supervision in the superannuation industry has been proposed
6
The original proposal set 2001 as the year for the implementation of the 12 per
cent contributions. In addition, the minimum monthly threshold for the receipt
of benefits was raised from $250 to $450, the small/large firm payroll threshold
was raised from $500 000 to $lm, and an amendment to industrial relations
legislation was made to allow industrial tribunals to take superannuation
contributions into account in making wage determinations.


Inquiry Strategy
and is expected to be passed during 1993 and come into effect on
1 July 1994.
There has been a rationalisation of superannuation funds resulting in
their number declining from 115 000 in December 1988 to 65 000 in
December 1992.
Industry funds, set up under the award system and administered
jointly by employers and unions, have grown rapidly during the
inquiry and now have a total membership approaching three million
employees.
During a two year period, the superannuation funds in Australia have
grown 16% from $134 billion to approximately $155 billion and as
this growth continues the financial system will undergo changes as a
consequence (see Chart 2).
In the midst of growth in superannuation savings, traditional savings
have declined causing the Government to commission Dr Vince
Fitzgerald to head a National Savings Strategy Task Force to prepare
a paper on policy options for increasing national savings.
Major changes to the taxation of superannuation were implemented
to achieve greater simplicity and equity. The implementing legislation
was also designed to reduce the leakages from the retirement income
cycle thereby ensuring that money set aside for retirement is actually
used for that purpose.
Significant changes have occurred in the marketing of superannuation
and the expectations that consumers have about the sale and
distribution of personal superannuation products. In this regard, there
have been strident calls from consumer groups for greater disclosure
of product information and charges. The Committee played a
prominent role in allowing consumer grievances to be aired and
reforms to be agreed. Generally, the industry response to the calls for
changes in marketing strategies has been positive. Flowever, the
Committee believes that a number of matters, especially disclosure of
all relevant charges on personal superannuation policies, still need to
be resolved.


Super Inquiry Overview


Inquiry Strategy


Super Inquiry Overview
1.12 The Committee received over 400 written submissions and took oral
evidence from more than 200 witnesses interested in influencing retirement
incomes policy formulation. It conducted 28 public hearings, 50 private
hearings, 2 in camera hearings, one seminar, 3 briefings and one inspection
(see Table 1.1).


Inquiry Strategy
Committee Membership and Staffing of the Secretariat
1.13 During the first two years of the inquiry the membership remained
unchanged. Following the 1993 federal election, certain members were
appointed to positions of increased responsibility in their party or, in the
case of the Chair, as a Parliamentary Secretary.
1.14 The Resolution of the Senate of 19 May 1993, reappointing the
Committee, provided that Senator Sherry retire as chair on 30 June 1993
and that the Chair and Deputy Chair of the Committee be allocated among
those members nominated to the Committee by the Leaders of the
Government in the Senate, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and
the Leader of the largest non-government party in the Senate by agreement.
1.15 There being no agreement reached by the last sitting week of the
Autumn sittings, the Senate resolved that Senator Watson be appointed
chair and that the Committee elect a deputy chair from the Government
senators on the Committee.
1.16 The Committee records its appreciation of the eleven secretariat staff
who so ably assisted it throughout the inquiry. The members of staff, their
positions and periods of attachment to the Committee are as follows:


Super Inquiry Overview
TABLE 1.1
MEETINGS/ACTIVITTES IN 36TH PARLIAMENT
COMMITTEE FORMED JUNE 1991


Inquiry Strategy
Reporting Strategy - A Single Report?
1.17 As the Committee was established towards the end of the Autumn
1991 sittings, its membership was not finalised until the August 1991 Budget
sittings. Consequently, the first private meeting did not take place until 14
August 1991, more than two months after the Committee's appointment.
1.18 At an early stage, the submissions and expressions of interest in the
inquiry clearly indicated that the Committee faced a complex and demanding
task which, it was soon realised, could not be completed within the time
frame established by the original Senate resolution. However, in taking a
longer time than anticipated to complete the inquiry, the Committee
assumed a risk that its final report might well be presented after government
changes had already been made. This was at the forefront of Committee
discussions on its reporting strategy and underpinned subsequent decisions
to present a series of reports and papers as opposed to a single final report
(see Table 1.2).
Table 12. List of Committee Reports and Papers presented to the Senate


Super Inquiry Overview
Competing Inquiries
1.19 Another complicating factor that the Committee encountered was the
decision of the Government to institute separate reviews of certain aspects
of the superannuation industry. These reviews had the potential of
competing for evidence and policy development influence. Their target
audience for submissions and witnesses was largely the same as the
Committee. However, these government inquiries had the advantage of
working on single superannuation issue whereas the Committee's brief was
to cover the field.
1.20 For example, on 4 September 1991, four months after the
establishment of the select committee, the Attorney-General wrote to the
Australian Law Reform Commission and the Companies and Securities
Advisory Committee, who were conducting a joint review of collective
investments in general, requesting a specific report on the prudential
supervision of superannuation and the rights and interests of members of
superannuation schemes. On 2 March 1992, the Minister for Justice and
Consumer Affairs directed the Trade Practices Commission to conduct a
program of research into consumer's experiences with life insurance and
superannuation agents.
1.21 The Committee acknowledges that it experienced a high level of
cooperation from these two reviewing bodies and that, within the limits of
its procedural obligations to the Senate, it was able to maintain an effective
exchange of ideas and information.
1.22 It was the combination of the foregoing circumstances, coupled with
the referral of superannuation legislation, that resulted in the Committee
adopting a strategy to report first on those matters which it deemed to be
of immediate and paramount importance; hence the presentation of a series
of interlocking reports rather than the delayed presentation of a final and
massive document.


Inquiry Strategy
1.23 Before establishing its priorities in this regard, the Committee had to
clarify the scope of the inquiry, the inter-relationship of its extensive terms
of reference and the optimal means of gathering, analysing and synthesising
evidence.
The Scope of the Inquiry - Formulating a Strategy
1.24 In the first instance it did this by considering a number of position
papers prepared by the committee secretariat. The initial paper presented
at the Committee's first meeting covered the fundamentals of
superannuation and focussed on some of the political aspects of current
practices. Subsequently, the Committee discussed papers addressing overseas
arrangements, changes to superannuation in the 1991/92 Budget and the
matter of prudential supervision and investment controls. (At a later stage,
the paper on overseas practices, entitled Super Systems Survey, was
presented to the Senate as the first of a series of issues papers.)
1.25 There followed a number of private briefing sessions to which experts
on a range of superannuation issues from government, industry and
professional organisations were invited. At the first briefing session, officers
from the departments of Treasury, the Attorney General, Prime Minister
and Cabinet, Industrial Relations and Social Security briefed the Committee
on the role that their departments would play in superannuation policy
development.
1.26 Subsequent background briefings were provided by the Australian
Institute of Actuaries and the Australian Society of Certified Practising
Accountants. The Committee found these briefings to be of immense benefit
in helping it understand the complex and technical evidence which it would
later encounter in the public hearings.
1.27 Having gained an overview of the thrust of the inquiry and been
alerted to some of the key issues which needed attention, the Committee
embarked upon a strategic orientation exercise designed to clarify its role,
focus and time frame. It did this by determining its preferred approach and
objectives to develop an appropriate strategy based on four options as
outlined in Table 1.3. Having made a decision on its preferred option,
number four, the Committee agreed that the inquiry should have four
objectives which also appear in Table 1.3. It was then agreed, for the
purposes of simplicity and expedience, to group those of the terms of
reference which had definite policy linkages. To this end, the Committee


Super Inquiry Overview
grouped the terms of reference into five broad themes; namely, macro-
economic issues, constitutional arrangements, taxation arrangements,
supervision and management of superannuation funds, and superannuation
coverage. Appendix C details the Committee's grouping.
1.28 It should be noted that many committees do not engage in the kind
of strategic planning practised by this select committee, yet without it the
committee would not have been able 'to keep up with the pace' of industry
and legislative change. Indeed, to a large extent, this exercise in planning
influenced the Committee's method of reporting, that is, the reports focussed
on one or a number of the issues outlined in the preceding paragraph. The
only significant departures from the strategy concerned consumer issues
relating to superannuation which increasingly became the vexed issue of the
inquiry and warranted greater attention and time than was originally
envisaged. The consideration of legislation referred to the committee,
incorporating provisions directly related to the original terms of reference,
was also an additional complicating factor.
Schedule of Activities
1.29 Having decided on the inquiry strategy, the Committee was able to
agree on a schedule of activities. The Committee's initial plan (see
Appendix D) proved to be ambitious for a number of reasons including the
overwhelming response it received to its calls for written submissions. The
depth, breadth and overall quality of written material was such that the
Committee considered it should call for substantially more oral evidence
than it first anticipated. Accordingly, the schedule was adjusted (see
Appendix E) and later, as a result of the referral of the superannuation
guarantee, superannuation taxation and social security legislation, further
adjustments were made. On four occasions, therefore, the Committee
successfully sought the Senate's agreement for extensions of time to present
its final report.


Inquiry Strategy
TABLE 1.3
OBJECTIVES
(ASSUMING STRATEGY 4 IS THE PREFERRED COURSE OF ACTION)
1. To identify and analyse the purpose of superannuation.
2. To describe and analyse its position in a broad retirement incomes policy.
3. To describe and analyse the interaction between superannuation and the
social security system under current arrangements as announced by the
Government.
4. To make findings about whether these arrangements (in 3 above) will
achieve the goals of the Government's Retirement Incomes Policy (RIP).




CHAPTER 2
INQUIRY THEMES
Themes and Procedures
Theoretical Basis for Retirement Incomes Policy
2.1 Before embarking on a presentation of the underlying themes which
prevailed throughout the inquiry it is instructive to place the policy changes
in a theoretical context. An OECD paper on public pensions identifies a
number of models for understanding retirement incomes policy.7
2.2 Under the first of these OECD models, the Tax/Transfer, or welfare,
model, revenue is raised under usual taxation policy and redistributed in the
current period to contribute to the welfare of those in need, including
members of the aged community. To some extent it is this approach to
pensions which drives government policy to set age pensions at a proportion
of Average Weekly Earnings. 'Social adequacy' comes to mind in setting
pensions under this approach.8 This approach may mean that the current
generation of employees funds the retirement of the current group of
retirees.
2.3 Under the second model, the insurance, or annuity, model,
contributions and benefits are set to ensure that individuals enjoy a
retirement consistent with the standard of living experienced during their
working lives. To a large extent the very generous tax incentives associated
with private superannuation provisions which existed under the previous
RBL policy were a product of this approach to retirement incomes. In its
reports the Committee has continually questioned the extent to which
private superannuation arrangements should be subsidised to achieve the
objectives of this model, although a number of submitters argued that an
optimum policy would allow retirees to have a retirement income between
70 to 80 per cent of pre-retirement income. Under this model, self provision
by a generation of employees is usually the basis for funding their
retirement.
7 OECD, Reforming Public Pensions, OECD, Paris, 1988.
8 B. Cass, Ageing and Income Support: Superannuation, Public Pension and the
Distribution of Economic Welfare, 1992, p 13.


Super Inquiry Overview
2.4 It is the third model, the annuity-welfare model which some
commentators say best fits retirement incomes policy in Australia. One of
these commentators, Professor Bettina Cass, suggests that the Australian
model combines both individual equity and social adequacy by allowing
co-existence of public pensions and private superannuation.
2.5 By adopting this model of government intervention the Government
subsidises superannuation by allowing $5 billion of tax concessions and pays
age and service pensions of approximately $13 billion annually, a level of
funding which is approximately 18 per cent of the Budget.
Inquiry Themes
2.6 The segmented nature of the Committee's terms of reference, whilst
giving the Committee a number of discrete tasks to attack in a step by step
manner, did not in any overt way bring together the central themes and
objectives of a sound retirement incomes system and thereby automatically
focus the Committee's attention on this key, yet unstated, facet of an inquiry
into superannuation.
2.7 Consciousness of these central issues gave rise to questions such as:
• What should be the goals of a sound retirement incomes policy?
• To what extent should voluntarism and compulsion, or a combination of
both, underpin retirement incomes policy?
• What is an appropriate level of government intervention to ensure that
Australians are able to enjoy a secure retirement?
• What are the economic implications of superannuation-related policy
directions?
2.8 The committee's mandate for addressing these questions in addition to
its stated terms of reference can be found in term of reference (q) - any
other relevant matters. These themes were continually referred to by the
Committee in its series of reports and underpinned the gathering of
evidence.
9 ibid


Themes and Procedures
2.9 It is useful to traverse some of the committee's findings and
recommendations which relate to some of these themes.
Long Term Retirement Incomes Goals
2.10 In its first, second and fourth reports the committee agreed that it is
desirable that long term retirement incomes policy have the objectives of
increasing the incomes of retirees and reducing the burden of aged care on
the budget. In the fourth report, Super - Fiscal and Social Links, the
Committee made observations and recommendations on the role that
breadth and depth of cover, optimal net returns on funds, minimum leakage
and the optimal use of benefits would have in achieving the twin objectives.
2.11 The breadth and depth of cover was examined intensively during the
consideration of the Superannuation Guarantee Bills which introduced
compulsory superannuation coverage, whereby employer contributions will
gradually increase over a ten year period from a level of three per cent to
nine percent. The Government proposes that employee contributions of
three per cent will bring the minimum level of contributions to 12 per cent
by 2002. Table 2.1 is a schedule of these contributions for small and large
firms.
Table 2.1
Superannuation Guarantee Schedule of Contributions -
Employers with a National Payroll Less than $500 000 pa


Super Inquiry Overview
Employers with National Payrolls Exceeding $1 Million pa
2.12 In making judgements on the level of contributions, the Committee was
guided by its own research on overseas superannuation arrangements, which
it presented to the Senate in a background paper entitled Super Systems
Survey, and actuarial data submitted by a number of expert witnesses and
key government agencies.
2.13 Having been made aware of the underlying taxation, fund earnings, age
pension and years of contributions assumptions, the Committee sought
additional advice from the Treasury on the retirement incomes which would
be generated under the Superannuation Guarantee Bills reforms package.
2.14 The Committee further examined the matter of fund earnings in its
third report, Super and the Financial System, noting that in the Treasury the
Government had established a Retirement Incomes Modelling Task Force
to build a demographic, superannuation and accounting model. This model
will keep track of the projected superannuation contributions and benefits
for individual groups, and assess the impact of retirement incomes policy for
the next 50 years. The Committee recommended that the ISC monitor,
report and regularly publish comprehensive aggregate statistics on
superannuation, including details of fund earnings.


Themes and Procedures
2.15 During the 1993 Additional Estimates process, Senator Watson placed
on notice a number of questions to monitor progress of the Task Force. The
Treasury's answer revealed that the Task Force's activities included: the
development of a projection model, called INDMOD, to replace the original
model; the development of a new model (RIMGROUP) which will enable
aggregate analysis for age, gender and income cohorts and movement
between income groups and employment status.10
2.16 The Treasury informed the Estimates Committee that the INDMOD
model would have an enhanced set of assumptions but that its base default
assumptions would remain unchanged, namely:
• projected annual growth in average weekly earnings of 51/2%;
• annual CPI growth of 4%;
• a gross fund earning rate of 8%; and
• an effective tax rate on fund earnings of 7%.n
The Role of Voluntarism and Compulsion
2.17 Description and analysis of the merits of a compulsory approach to
superannuation, as opposed to having a tax-driven voluntary system occurred
in a number of the Committee's reports. Here the Committee was unable
to reach unanimous agreement, with the majority agreeing that the
Superannuation Guarantee concept was the appropriate policy. Consistent
with this approach, the majority in a later report also agreed to limit the
applicability of tax concessions which were part of the Government's
previous policy of encouraging superannuation through the taxation system.
2.18 The Committee detected that the removal of these concessions for
certain income groups in the short term may have ramifications for personal
contributions above the current three and five per cent minimum SGC
levels. This observation gives rise to a further observation about current
arrangements, namely, the fact that there are different classes of
superannuation coverage for members of the workforce, depending on
whether they are self employed or employed with incomes above or below
a threshold which attracts a tax concession.
10 Treasury Response to Question on Notice in Estimate Committee D, 11 May
1993, p 2. Appendix H includes the full Treasury response.
ii
ibid


Super Inquiry Overview
Level of Government Intervention
2.19 As outlined in the preceding paragraph, the Committee was unable to
reach unanimity on the need for government intervention to mandate
superannuation for all employees. However, in relation to greater
intervention by way of increased regulation of superannuation funds, a high
degree of consensus was reached within the Committee. Broadly, the
Committee agreed that the Insurance and Superannuation Commission
(ISC) should be a prime regulator of superannuation, but that it needed a
substantial increase in resources to facilitate that regulation.
2.20 Consequently, the Government has given the ISC an increased budget
allocation and is preparing legislation to allow it to be a more effective
regulator of superannuation. Noteworthy in this regard is the Government's
response to the Committee's report, Safeguarding Super, which accepted 18
recommendations, partially accepted 16, deferred four and rejected only
seven.
2.21 At a later stage in the inquiry the Committee examined the Supervisory
Levy which is a tax on the activities of funds designed to recoup the cost of
regulation. The Committee broadly agreed with the user-pays approach to
regulation and the formula used to set the levy for each fund, but made a
number of recommendations to ensure a more equitable calculation of the
levy occurs.
2.22 The role that government should play in upholding the rights of those
who purchase superannuation products was a contentious issue which
attracted polarised evidence from consumer and industry groups. Especially
was this the case when the Committee considered the degree and type of
disclosure required in the marketing of personal superannuation products.
2.23 The Committee encouraged community discussion of this issue by
arranging additional hearings and calling for supplementary evidence.
2.24 In an unprecedented move designed to subject the issue to even
greater scrutiny, the Committee participated in a tripartite seminar in
conjunction with the Trade Practices Commission and the National
Consumer Affairs Advisory Council which was attended by 100
representatives of government, industry and consumers. The proceedings of
the seminar were incorporated in a document entitled Super Consumer


Themes and Procedures
Seminar which was debated in the Senate on 12 November 1992. In its sixth
report the Committee affirmed its belief in the principle of disclosure of all
relevant information in the sale of superannuation. To this end the
Committee recommended the individual and separate disclosure of all
charges associated with all superannuation products, and a number of other
reforms which the Committee believes will give the consumer greater access
to product information and more equal bargaining power.
The Economic Implications of Superannuation Policy
2.25 Throughout the inquiry it was apparent that superannuation has
become a major ingredient of economic policy in Australia. The capacity of
superannuation to contribute to increases in national savings, the impact of
compulsory superannuation on levels of employment and inflation and the
investment of superannuation funds were issues which were frequently raised
in evidence.
2.26 The costs and benefits to government of increasing the level of
superannuation savings was also an issue which the committee vigorously
pursued. Initially, the committee encountered evidence which was largely
anecdotal. However, during the Superannuation Guarantee hearings the
Committee successfully sought evidence from Treasury which projected the
costs and benefits of the proposed policy change 40 years hence. This data,
the validity of which was contested in a minority report, showed that tax
concessions which are front loaded in their impact, and reductions in age
pension outlays which are back loaded in their impact, would not produce
favourable Budget outcomes for about 30 years.
2.27 The Committee maintained a keen interest in leakages from the
superannuation system which was heightened by the receipt of conflicting
evidence. 'Double dipping', an example of these leakages in operation, was
raised by the Department of Social Security who described it as the practice
of taking a superannuation lump sum which has received significant tax
concessions, consuming it rapidly then receiving an age pension. DSS added
that its evidence on this matter was 'largely anecdotal' but suggested that
'double dipping' was common in Australia. 2 DSS explained that, in spite
of there being incentives for retirees to take pensions over lump sums, there
existed a preference for the lump sum option. During the public hearings,
12
Sub No 120, pp 14-15.


Super Inquiry Overview
Dr V. Fitzgerald, a former secretary of the Department of Finance, advised
the committee that:
One of the things that our Finance Department here has always said when
the issue of double dipping has come up is that in practice there does not
seem to be a great deal of really wanton dissipation.13
2.28 The Treasury also took an arguably less critical view of the extent of
'double dipping', incorporating in its retirement incomes modelling data an
'unfavourable assumption' that in every lump sum $30 000 is dissipated.
2.29 Dr Fitzgerald's subsequent evidence estimated that annual leakages due
to non-preservation is currently in the order of $2.5 billion, but will gradually
decline to $1.04 bn in 2010.15
2.30 The Committee repeatedly acknowledged that there was a lack of
reliable data on 'double dipping' and that the leakages associated with it
needed to be kept to minimum. In its fourth report, Super - Fiscal and
Social Links, the Committee by majority recommended changes to the
preservation age, new provisions for the release of benefits in cases of
hardship and that, as a matter of urgency, the Government should initiate
research into the extent of 'double dipping' in Australia.
2.31 In minority reports, the Opposition and Australian Democrat members
of the Committee, whilst agreeing that the preservation age should be raised
to 60 years, recommended that the change be introduced almost immediately
and phased in over the next 14 years.
13 Evidence, p 1792.
14 SGC evidence, p 16.
Sub No 263, p 2.
15


CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURES
Procedures
3.1 The procedures followed by the Committee contributed in a significant
way to the quality of evidence and analysis. The procedures which the
Committee used were based on Senate Standing Orders, the Parliamentary
Privilege Resolution, the Committee's own procedures (for example, in
relation to the publication of evidence), the Parliamentary Privileges Act
1987, the resolution establishing the committee's powers and composition
and the terms of reference.
3.2 These procedures facilitated links between the Committee and
members of the community interested in retirement incomes issues, and
ensured that the Committee maintained contact with the Senate chamber.
links with the Senate Chamber
3.3 In accordance with the resolution of the Senate of 20 June 1991 which
set out its composition and powers, on a number of occasions the
Committee was granted leave to report its progress, including evidence taken
and interim fundings. Table 3.1 summarises Select Committee on
Superannuation business in the Senate chamber as recorded in the Journals
of the Senate 1990-92.
3.4 Generally, Committee members spoke briefly to the presentation of
reports and procedural motions, for example, those seeking an extension of
time, and this assisted in informing the Senate and other interested
participants about the progress of the inquiry.


Super Inquiry Overview
Table 3.1
Publication of Evidence
3.5 At its first private meeting the Committee agreed to operate as openly
as possible resolving to publish submissions on receipt unless otherwise
ordered (following advice from the Chair in consultation with the
secretariat). The Committee further agreed to authorise the recording,
broadcasting and re-broadcasting of its public proceedings in accordance
with the resolution of the Senate of 23 August 1990. In keeping with this
open stance, the Committee agreed to make publicly available the
uncorrected Hansard proofs as soon as they were ready following public
hearings. In addition, the chairman was authorised to make statements to
the media on behalf of the Committee concerning its activities. The
Committee's procedural resolutions are included in Appendix F of this
report.


Procedures
3.6 In terms of impact, the most critical of these procedural decisions was
that involving the publication of submissions on receipt as discussed in the
preceding paragraph. Having regard to the topical nature of the evidence,
it was not surprising that the activities of the Committee generated
considerable coverage in both the print and electronic media, and that the
publication of submissions was followed by numerous requests for copies.
3.7 Public interest in the inquiry occurred on a number of levels. An
example of the first level of interest and public debate occurred following
the publication of written submissions from key agencies and prominent
individuals in the superannuation industry. One of the issues before the
committee was whether, in the interests of promoting security,
superannuation funds should be compelled to invest in certain asset classes
according to predetermined proportions. A major submission on this issue
was made by the Attorney General's Department. Its publication was
prominently covered in the national press and gave rise to expressions of
both contrary and supporting views about the need to mandate investment
by superannuation funds. Further, during its public hearings, a canvassing of
the pertinent arguments from a range of key witnesses for and against
mandating investment was guaranteed. Had the Committee not released this
submission, it is probable that the full extent of industry and community
concern would not have been evident and incorrect or inappropriate
recommendations may have been made as a consequence.
3.8 However, the Committee made other recommendations about the
need for investment controls which warrant acknowledgement. In this regard
the Committee concluded that the in-house asset rule be changed to limit
lending by a superannuation fund to the sponsoring employer to 5% (it was
previously set at 10%). In addition, the Committee recommended that the
issue of directing investment of superannuation moneys be re-examined by
an appropriate Senate Committee within three years.
3.9 Another level of interest in the work of the Committee was generated
by the decision to continue receiving submissions throughout the inquiry.
This created an on-going critical analysis of issues. On numerous occasions
the publication of a submission was followed by the receipt of further
submissions commenting on the merits of arguments already placed before
the Committee. This greatly assisted the Committee's understanding of highly
complex financial and actuarial matters and was one of the reasons for the
Committee not obtaining the services of specialist legal, actuarial or
superannuation consultants. The Committee found that it was able to use


Super Inquiry Overview
the public hearings to access the quality specialist advice which it required.
Often specialist witnesses took questions on notice from the committee and
provided detailed and quality answers on hitherto unresolved matters.
Media Interest
3.10 The interest in the inquiry by the print media is illustrated in Table 3.2
which shows the number of press clippings relating to the work of the
Committee during 1991 and 1992 incorporated in the Parliamentary Library
press files. Table 3.3 is a breakdown of the press clippings by issue. The
Superannuation Guarantee Levy (38 articles) was the issue before the
Committee which received the most frequent press coverage, followed by
fees, charges and commissions (26) and prudential controls (23).
Conferences and Seminars
3.11 Throughout the period of the inquiry members of the Committee
participated in a range of seminars and conferences which were convened
by the superannuation interest groups. The Chair, Senator Sherry, addressed
over 80 seminars and conferences,the Deputy Chair, Senator Alston, who
was also Opposition spokesperson on superannuation, and Senator Kernot,
the Australian Democrat spokesperson on treasury matters, also addressed
a large number of these gatherings.
3.12 Contributions of Committee members to these seminars were widely
reported in the national media and in some cases attracted additional
submissions commenting on the ideas which had been expressed.


Page 29
TABLE 3.2
NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS IN MICAH FILES
IN PARLIAMENTARY LIBRARY


Super Inquiry Overview
TABLE 3.3
NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS BY SUBJECT IN MICAH FILES
IN PARLIAMENTARY LIBRARY


CHAPTER 4
ADVERSE EVIDENCE
Adverse Evidence
Dealing with Adverse Evidence
4.1 The Committee encountered a considerable number of submissions
containing information or allegations which required it to follow the adverse
evidence procedures set out in Parliamentary Privilege Resolution No. 1
(paras 11-13) of 25 February 1988. These procedures provide:
(11) Where a committee has reason to believe that evidence about to be given
may reflect adversely on a person, the committee shall give consideration
to hearing that evidence in private session.
(12) Where a witness gives evidence reflecting adversely on a person and the
committee is not satisfied that that evidence is relevant to the committee's
inquiry, the committee shall give consideration to expunging that evidence
from the transcript of evidence, and to forbidding the publication of that
evidence.
(13) Where evidence is given which reflects adversely on a person and action
of the kind referred to in paragraph (12) is not taken in respect of the
evidence, the committee shall provide reasonable opportunity for that
person to have access to that evidence and to respond to that evidence by
written submission and appearance before the committee.
Incidence
4.2 Under these procedures, the Committee initially determined that
approximately 80 out of a total of 300 submissions contained possibly
adverse reflections on persons or organisations. In making these decisions
the Committee broadly interpreted the meaning of 'adverse evidence' taking
into account any statement that was antagonistic or detrimental to another
party's interests or welfare. In ordinary circumstances some of the evidence
16 The part of Parliamentary Privilege Resolution No. 1 of 25 February 1988 is
included in Appendix G.


Super Inquiry Overview
may have been pursued through an action in defamation, in that it either
stated or inferred negligence, incompetence, corruption, deception or
prejudicial conduct. The complex nature of the superannuation industry, and
the various entrenched financial interests which it involves, no doubt
contributed to the level of disputation manifested during the inquiry.
4.3 The incidence of adverse evidence in some cases demonstrates that
certain aspects of superannuation policy were, and still are, in need of
structural reform.
4.4 The vast majority of adverse reflections were made by consumers
against firms engaged in providing superannuation products. Typically,
allegations centred on high up-front commissions on regular premium
superannuation products which in the opinion of the submitter were not
properly disclosed at the time of sale. The more serious adverse reflections
involved allegations about theft and fraud in superannuation funds and
improper conduct by trustees.
4.5 The Committee also received a number of submissions alleging
improper conduct on the part of the courts or individuals involved in the
apportionment of superannuation rights under the Family Law Act In these
cases the Committee followed the adverse evidence procedures taking care
to advise witnesses of their rights and obligations under the witness
protection procedures. It was later resolved that the Joint Select Committee
reviewing the operation and interpretation of the Family Law Act 1975 was
the appropriate body to address the superannuation and family law issue,
and the Committee referred those submissions which it had published to
that committee.17
4.6 Some of the submissions, whilst presenting arguments which were
relevant to the inquiry, contained statements which could have been
designed to exact public retribution using the protection of parliamentary
privilege. In these instances having first determined the relevance,
significance and bona fides of the evidence, the Committee forwarded a
confidential copy of the adverse material to the person named for comment.
Having considered the response, the Committee, where appropriate, agreed
17 Joint Select Committee on Certain Aspects of the Operation and Interpretation
of the Family Law Act, Family Law Act 1975 - Aspects of its Operation and
Interpretation, November 1992, p 2.


Adverse Evidence
to publish the submission expunging the name of the person adversely
reflected upon.
Publication of Adverse Evidence
4.7 One of the most difficult instances of adverse evidence occurred when
a submission was received which involved over 200 pages of material
detailing allegations of maladministration by a major national insurance
company in its superannuation operations. Initially the Committee resolved
to treat the material as evidence taken in private session, and forwarded it
to the firm adversely reflected upon, inviting its response. Following the
receipt of the response, the Committee agreed to conduct a public hearing
at which both the submitter and the firm could give further evidence. In the
interests of having the issues discussed in an open forum, the Committee
agreed to convene a special public hearing. However, to protect the names
of persons named in the submission in contexts not relevant to the inquiry,
and in order avoid inflicting unreasonable and unjustified commercial harm
on the organisation adversely reflected upon, the Chair read an edited
summary of the facts relating to each of the case histories in the submission
before oral evidence was taken.
4.8 In spite of the considerable administrative and procedural difficulties
which arose during adverse evidence procedures, a number of positive
outcomes were observed. In the overwhelming number of cases witnesses
who received copies of adverse evidence, and who then responded,
expressed an appreciation of being able to give 'their side of the story' and
thus be part of a process of natural justice.
4.9 The Committee found this balancing process to be an important aspect
of both its evidence gathering and its role as an honest broker. Moreover,
it allowed the Committee to gain an insight into the competing interests
which permeate the delivery of retirement incomes policy in Australia and
to arrive at just solutions to a number of problems which the Senate
resolved that it should inquire into and report.
4.10 The Committee was not the only parliamentary inquiry experiencing
a significant number of submissions containing adverse evidence. Hie Senate
Standing Committee on Finance and Public Administration in its inquiry into
the operation of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade received a
number of submissions containing a large number of specific allegations of
malpractice and maladministration. It noted that a number of these


Super Inquiry Overview
allegations had already been investigated by appropriate bodies and that it
was conscious that its inquiry could be used as a device for harassing
individuals. That Committee was concerned that it was not an appropriate
body to investigate criminal or improper behaviour. Consequently, it
exercised caution in publishing submissions containing allegations about
identifiable persons.18 Appendix 1 to that Committee's report reveals that
over 30 documents were not published. In comparison, the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation resolved to not publish, in full or part, 11 out
of more than 400 submissions.19
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund
4.11 The Committee became involved in a complex chain of events
following the receipt of submission no 276 which included allegations about
possible impropriety in the operations of the Queensland Professional
Officers Association Superannuation Fund (QPOASF). In that submission
a number of allegations were made about the possible breach of fiduciary
duty by the then trustees of the superannuation fund. In addition,
allegations were made about actions of individuals associated with the fund
and the sponsoring employers which were clearly outside the Committee's
terms of reference. The Committee agreed that the relevant terms of
reference were:
• the prudential control of superannuation funds;
• member representation on trustee structures;
• dispute resolution mechanisms;
• information available to members; and
• vesting of employer contributions.20
4.12 On 13 May 1993, when the Senate reappointed the committee, a
specific term of reference to inquire into and report on the operations of
the QPOASF was agreed.
18 Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Public Administration. Report on
Management and Operations of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade,
December 1992, pp 39-40.
19 The Committee received 300 submissions on its original terms of reference and
a further 120 in relation to the consideration of bills.
20 QPOASF evidence, p 2.


Adverse Evidence
4.13 In accordance with the Parliamentary Privilege Resolutions, the
Committee resolved that only the relevant adverse evidence be forwarded
to those persons named inviting their response, and to this end certain
evidence was expunged. Counsel for two of the named persons wrote to the
Committee submitting that, as the Committee had not clearly spelt out the
precise nature of the allegations in relation to his clients, and as the material
forwarded did not include all of the evidence received, natural justice had
been denied.
4.14 The Committee believes that it followed the spirit and the letter of the
Parliamentary Privilege Resolutions in respect of adverse evidence and that,
had it not forwarded the evidence, in all probability natural justice would
have been denied.
4.15 Having considered the evidence from those witnesses who responded
to evidence forwarded to them, the Committee wrote to one of the current
trustees of the fund requesting that certain documents relevant to the
inquiry be forwarded for examination. This request was promptly complied
with.
4.16 Subsequently, the Committee agreed to convene a hearing on 29 April
1993 in Brisbane and take evidence from those persons it believed could
assist the inquiry.
4.17 It was resolved that the taking of evidence would be in public session
and that certain witnesses be invited to attend. Following the expiry of the
date for acceptance of the invitation, but some days before the hearing, the
committee received advice from two witnesses declining the invitation to
attend. However, these witnesses did provide brief written statements which
the Committee incorporated in the transcript of evidence. Following the
public hearing, the Committee agreed that the evidence of these persons was
critical to the inquiry and, in an unusual procedure, it issued another
invitation but advised that if it were declined an order, or summons, to
attend would be issued. The two witnesses agreed to attend the second
hearing which was convened on 31 May 1993.
4.18 It is noteworthy that, in spite of the reluctance on the part of some
witnesses to give either oral or written evidence to the inquiry, no
applications were made for oral evidence to be taken in camera. The right
of witnesses to give in camera evidence was conveyed in writing prior to the


Super Inquiry Overview
hearings, and in the Chair's opening remarks before the appearance of each
witness.
4.19 The written advice to witnesses and the Chair's opening statement also
included a reference to the section 16 of the Parliamentary Privileges Act
1987. This section gives witnesses an absolute protection in respect of
evidence given to a parliamentary committee against that evidence being
used in the proceedings of any court or tribunal.
Counsel Accompanying Witnesses
4.20 The committee also expressly extended to witnesses in the QPOASF
inquiry the right to have counsel accompany them during the hearings. This
procedure is provided for in paragraph 1(14) of the Parliamentary Privilege
Resolution No. 1 of 25 February 1988.
4.21 Consequently, at the first hearing one witnesses was accompanied by
a barrister and instructing solicitor and another by a solicitor only. At the
second hearing, two witnesses who gave evidence concurrently were
accompanied by a Queen's Counsel and an instructing solicitor.
4.22 The Committee expresses some concern about the propensity of these
and other witnesses to seek legal counsel to assist in the preparation of
written evidence and/or to be in attendance during the hearing. The
Committee believes that the procedures applicable to the conduct of Senate
hearings provide witnesses with a relatively simple guide to the taking of
evidence, and give them ample opportunity to object to questions
detrimental to their interests. Moreover, it appeared that this legal
representation did not enhance the quality of evidence.
4.23 The use of legal assistance may indicate that there is a lack of
appreciation and understanding of the work of parliamentary committees,
and possibly a confusion between the role of these committees and other
quasi-judicial bodies such as royal commissions and commissions of inquiry.
4.24 The Committee believes that the adoption of over legalistic procedures
in the taking of evidence could hamper the activities of future parliamentary
committees in searching for the truth and making findings in the public
interest. Furthermore, as it is not practice for Senate inquiries to grant legal
aid to witnesses, the Committee is concerned that witnesses in future


Adverse Evidence
enquiries, having observed the practice of witnesses seeking legal advice,
may not be prepared to give evidence unless they can afford to engage
counsel or are granted legal aid.
4.25 The Committee affirms that one of the reasons for the success of
parliamentary enquiries is that they allow persons to express views neither
restricted by the complexities of the law of evidence nor constrained by the
fear of incurring excessive legal costs. Whilst a small number of witnesses
sought legal advice in preparing written submissions, fortunately the hearing
on the QPOASF was the only instance of witnesses seeking the Committee's
agreement for counsel to accompany them during a hearing.
Dispute Resolution
4.26 In the area of fees, charges and commissions the adverse evidence
rule, whilst designed to assist witnesses and potential witnesses, also assisted
the Committee. Particularly was this so when the Committee was considering
consumer complaints. The responses of some providers of superannuation
products to complaints by some consumers indicated that consumers should
compare and contrast different products and read carefully all contractual
documentation. These responses indicated that, contrary to the claims of
some consumers, written information setting out the terms of contracts was
available at the time of purchase.
4.27 One of the unintended yet beneficial consequences of this procedure
was that, in a small number of cases, the life offices adversely reflected upon
reviewed their earlier decisions and granted some form of consumer redress
to individuals concerned.
4.28 The Committee acknowledges that the existence of a low cost,
accessible and equitable dispute resolution mechanism is the appropriate
means of settling such disputes, but until such a tribunal or agency is
established, consumers of superannuation products, will have no alternative
other than to seek the assistance of parliamentary committees to achieve a
just settlement of a dispute.
4.29 It is acknowledged that for a number of reasons it is inappropriate for
parliamentary committees to assume this role. First, they run the risk of
being overwhelmed by complaints or allegations and thereby distracted from
finalising other equally important business. Second, they are not well placed


Super Inquiry Overview
to adjudicate on the merits of individual cases or to inquire into alleged
wrongful conduct, however, they may recommend that other agencies
reconsider or investigate decisions. Nevertheless, committees can be a useful
'release valve' to allow individuals who have exhausted other opportunities
to express their concerns and bring to the attention of legislators ideas for
reform.


APPENDIX A
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Appendix A: Terms of Reference
On 5 June 1991 the Senate established a Select Committee on
Superannuation to inquire into, and report on, the following matters:
(a) the constitutional arrangements governing superannuation;
(b) the taxation arrangements which apply to superannuation;
(c) the adequacy of prudential control arrangements applying to
superannuation funds;
(d) the implications for the financial system of the expected growth in
superannuation fund assets;
(e) the investment of moneys by superannuation funds;
(f) the ownership of surpluses in defined benefit superannuation funds;
(g) the level and structure of fees and commissions charged in relation to
superannuation fund membership and asset management;
(h) the information available to members of superannuation funds;
(i) the representation of fund members in trustee structures of
superannuation funds;
(j) the dispute resolution mechanisms available to members of
superannuation funds;
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting and preservation
of benefits;


Super Inquiry Overview
(l) the appropriate means of providing adequate superannuation for part
time and casual employees and the feasibility of providing
superannuation for people outside the workforce;
(m) the rate of employer non-compliance with superannuation awards;
(n) the possibilities for simplifying superannuation;
(o) the feasibility of providing improved benefits to superannuation
arrangements in lieu of increased contributions under superannuation
awards in appropriate circumstances;
(p) the need for an appropriate target and timetable for the achievement
of adequate levels of superannuation; and
(q) any other relevant matters, including superannuation arrangements
existing in other countries.


APPENDIX B
COMPOSITION AND POWERS
Appendix B: Composition and Powers
(1) That the committee consist of six Senators as follows:
(a) three nominated by the Leader of the Government in the
Senate;
(b) two nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate;
and
(c) one nominated by the Leader of the Australian Democrats.
(2) That the committee may proceed to the dispatch of business
notwithstanding that all members have not been duly nominated and
appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy.
(3) That the chairman of the committee be appointed by and from the
members of the committee.
(4) That the chairman of the committee may, from time to time, appoint
another member of the committee, who is a non-Government Senator,
to be the deputy chairman of the committee, and that the member so
appointed act as chairman of the committee at any time when there
is no chairman or the chairman is not present at a meeting of the
committee.
(5) That, in the event of the votes on any question before the committee
being equally divided, the chairman, or the deputy chairman when
acting as chairman, have a casting vote.
(6) That the quorum of the committee be three members.


Super Inquiry Overview
(7) That the committee and any subcommittee have power to send for
and examine persons and documents, to move from place to place, to
sit in public or in private, notwithstanding any prorogation of the
Parliament or dissolution of the House of Representatives, and have
leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence
taken and such interim recommendations it may deem fit.
(8) That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting
of three or more of its members, and to refer to any such
subcommittee any of the matters which the committee is empowered
to consider, and that the quorum of a subcommittee be a majority of
the Senators appointed to the subcommittee.
(9) That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and
resources and be empowered to appoint persons with specialist
knowledge for the purposes of the committee with the approval of the
President.
(10) That the committee be empowered to print from day to day such
documents and evidence as may be ordered by it, and a daily Hansard
be published of such proceedings as take place in public.
(11) That the committee report to the Senate on or before the last day of
sitting in May 1992.


APPENDIX C
DISTILLATION OF TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTO THEMES/AREAS OF INQUIRY








*(x) Denotes coverage of relevant terms of reference.




APPENDIX D
SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES
Milestones:
1) Formation of Committee.
2) Conference on Superannuation.
3) Decision on submissions warranting further examination during public hearings.
4) Possible use of expert assistance in actuarial, legal and tax matters.
5) Tabling Report.




APPENDIX E
WORK PLAN
September 1992-February 1993




APPENDIX F
The Committee’s Procedural Resolutions
May 1993
Appendix F: The Committee's Procedural Resolutions
The Committee resolved to adopt previously agreed procedures in relation
to evidence gathering, broadcasting of proceedings and publication of
written and oral evidence and media contact. These included:
Submissions and Calling of Witnesses
• That as a general principle, evidence be invited in the first instance in
the form of written submissions and that, following examination of
submissions, the Committee decide which witnesses are to be called for
examination.
• That subject to any contrary order in relation to a particular submission,
the submission to the Committee by a person of a statement relating to
the inquiry by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation be
deemed to be the giving of evidence before the Committee by that
person in accordance with that statement.
Evidence
• That evidence be heard in public except in instances where the
committee or sub-committee may resolve to hear the evidence in camera.
Statements to the Media
• That the Chairperson be authorised to make statements to the media on
behalf of the Committee concerning its activities.
Broadcast of Re-broadcasts of Public Proceedings
• That the Committee authorises the recording, broadcasting and re-
broadcasting of public proceedings in accordance with the rules
contained in the order of the Senate of 23 August 1990 concerning the
broadcasting of committee proceedings.


Super Inquiry Overview
Release of Evidence and Documents
• That the secretary be authorised to supply for correction, copies of proof
reports of both public and in camera proceedings to the witnesses whose
evidence appears in those reports.
• That subject to any contrary order in relation to a particular submission,
each document submitted to the Committee relating to consideration by
the Select Committee on Superannuation be published.
Adverse Evidence
• That subject to any contrary order in relation to evidence which
adversely reflects on certain persons, that evidence be forwarded to
those persons inviting their response.


APPENDIX G
Parliamentary Privilege Resolutions of
25 February 1988
Appendix G: Parliamentary Privilege Resolution
Procedures to be observed by Senate committees for the protection of
witnesses.
That, in their dealings with witnesses, all committees of the Senate shall
observe the following procedures:
(1) A witness shall be invited to attend a committee meeting to give
evidence. A witness shall be summoned to appear (whether or not the
witness was previously invited to appear) only where the committee has
made a decision that the circumstances warrant the issue of a
summons.
(2) Where a committee desires that a witness produce documents relevant
to the committee's inquiry, the witness shall be invited to do so, and an
order that documents be produced shall be made (whether or not an
invitation to produce documents has previously been made) only where
the committee has made a decision that the circumstances warrant such
an order.
(3) A witness shall be given reasonable notice of a meeting at which the
witness is to appear, and shall be supplied with a copy of the
committee's terms of reference, a statement of the matters expected to
be dealt with during the witness's appearance, and a copy of these
procedures. Where appropriate a witness shall be supplied with a
transcript of relevant evidence already taken.
(4) A witness shall be given opportunity to make a submission in writing
before appearing to give oral evidence.
(5) Where appropriate, reasonable opportunity shall be given for a witness
to raise any matters of concern to the witness relating to the witness's
submission or the evidence the witness is to give before the witness
appears at a meeting.


Super Inquiry Overview
(6) A witness shall be given reasonable access to any documents that the
witness has produced to a committee.
(7) A witness shall be offered, before giving evidence, the opportunity to
make application, before or during the hearing of the witness's
evidence, for any or all of the witness's evidence to be heard in private
session, and shall be invited to give reasons for any such application.
If the application is not granted, the witness shall be notified of reasons
for that decision.
(8) Before giving any evidence in private session a witness shall be
informed whether it is the intention of the committee to publish or
present to the Senate all or part of that evidence, that it is within the
power of the committee to do so, and that the Senate has the authority
to order the production and publication of undisclosed evidence.
(9) A chairman of a committee shall take care to ensure that all questions
put to witnesses are relevant to the committee's inquiry and that the
information sought by those questions is necessary for the purpose of
that inquiry. Where a member of a committee requests discussion of a
ruling of the chairman on this matter, the committee shall deliberate in
private session and determine whether any question which is the
subject of the ruling is to be permitted.
(10) Where a witness objects to answering any question put to the witness
on any ground, including the ground that the question is not relevant
or that the answer may incriminate the witness, the witness shall be
invited to state the ground upon which objection to answering the
question is taken. Unless the committee determines immediately that
the question should not be pressed, the committee shall then consider
in private session whether it will insist upon an answer to the question,
having regard to the relevance of the question to the committee’s
inquiry and the importance to the inquiry of the information sought by
the question. If the committee determines that it requires an answer to
the question, the witness shall be informed of that determination and
the reasons for the determination, and shall be required to answer the
question only in private session unless the committee determines that
is essential to the committee's inquiry that the question be answered in
public session. Where a witness declines to answer a question to which
a committee has required an answer, the committee shall report the
facts to the Senate.


Appendix G: Parliamentary Privilege Resolution
(11) Where a committee has reason to believe that evidence about to be
given may reflect adversely on a person, the committee shall give
consideration to hearing that evidence in private session.
(12) Where a witness gives evidence reflecting adversely on a person and
the committee is not satisfied that that evidence is relevant to the
committee's inquiry, the committee shall give consideration to
expunging that evidence from the transcript of evidence, and to
forbidding the publication of that evidence.
(13) Where evidence is given which reflects adversely on a person and
action of the kind referred to in paragraph (12) is not taken in respect
of the evidence, the committee shall provide reasonable opportunity for
that person to have access to that evidence and to respond to that
evidence by written submission and appearance before the committee.
(14) A witness may make application to be accompanied by counsel and to
consult counsel in the course of a meeting at which the witness
appears. In considering such an application, a committee shall have
regard to the need for the witness to be accompanied by counsel to
ensure the proper protection of the witness. If an application is not
granted, the witness shall be notified of reasons for that decision.
(15) A witness accompanied by counsel shall be given reasonable
opportunity to consult counsel during a meeting at which the witness
appears.
(16) An officer of a department of the Commonwealth or of a State shall
not be asked to give opinions on matters of policy, and shall be given
reasonable opportunity to refer questions asked of the officer to
superior officers or to a Minister.
(17) Reasonable opportunity shall be afforded to witnesses to make
corrections of errors of transcription in the transcript of their evidence
and to put before a committee additional material supplementary to
their evidence.
(18) Where a committee has any reason to believe that any person has been
improperly influenced in respect of evidence which may be given before
the committee, or has been subjected to or threatened with any penalty
or injury in respect of any evidence given, the committee shall take all


Super Inquiry Overview
reasonable steps to ascertain the facts of the matter. Where the
committee considers that the facts disclose that a person may have
been improperly influenced or subjected to or threatened with penalty
or injury in respect of evidence which may be or has been given before
the committee, the committee shall report the facts and its conclusions
to the Senate.


APPENDIX H
Estimate Committee D
Answers to Questions on Notice
from Senator Watson
Appendix H: Answers to Questions on Notice from Senator Watson
DEPA0'T-MRNT of THE TREASURY:
Senator Watson asked the following Question Without Notice in the Estimates
Committee Meetings on 11 May 1993.
I have read with interest the various press releases and advertisements regarding the
formation of the Retirement Incomes Modelling Task Force. This initiative, especially
in the light of the rather incomplete statistical and actuarial data from Treasury during
the SSC on Superannuation hearings over a year ago, was a warranted move.
What is the cost of the task force? Please include all salary, consumable costs and
consultancy fees etc. As this was a new policy initiative, how did you report the
additional costs in your previous Program Performance Statement which was pan of
the 1992 Budget Papers. Do the additional estimates include items relating to the
establishment of the task force.
What is the program of activities of the task force?
Has the task force been able to improve on the elementary models which were placed
before the select committee?
Have there been any additional or revised assumptions incorporated in the models?
What is the assumed rate of fund earnings?
Could the Committee have the latest data based on the revised assumptions according
to the format of the modelling contained in Tables 1-7 inclusive and Charts 1-4
inclusive as contained in the Treasury submission to the SSCS of 6 May 1992.
Has the task force done any modelling on the suggestion of the chair of the select
committee that there should be a sooner rather than later introduction of the employee
contributions of three percent?
How could these additional contributions be phased in? Could you use medicare type
arrangements, have employers contribute on an SGC basis? What other policy
instruments could be used? Could you outline the costs and benefits of each?
(Answer)
The Retirement Income Modelling Task Force commenced operation in August 1992
and is scheduled to run until September 1994. Its budget runs over three financial
years - 1992-95. The Task Force is financed by reallocation of existing resources
equally from Treasury, the Department of Finance and the Department of Social
Security. The Task Force has a maximum budget of $ 1.5m for all salary,
administrative and capital items for its entire life. The currently agreed maximum
budget by financial year is shown overleaf. At this stage the Task Force appears likely
to spend less than this maximum budget because of lower than expected staffing in
1992-93 and lower than expected recurrent administration costs.


Super Inquiry Overview
Maximum Budget of the RIM Task Force with Currently Planned Distribution
by Financial Year and Broad Class of Expenditure
The Task Force cannot be classified as a new policy initiative because it has not
attracted additional appropriations to any of the three Departments financing it. The
Task Force is mentioned on page 14 of the Treasury’s Explanation of Additional
Estimates as an increase in Treasury Corporate Services Section 35 receipts because
Treasury will be paid more by the Departments of Finance and Social Security under
the cost sharing agreement than originally envisaged.
The program of activities of the Task Force can be summarised as.
1.
2.
3.
The development and use of a retirement incomes projection model for
hypothetical individuals and couples called INDMOD.
The refinement, documentation and use of the National Mutual Retirement
Income Policy Model (RIP) for aggregate analysis of each age*gender cohort
and the population as a whole.
The development and use of a model to replace RIP which will enable aggregate
analysis for each age*gender*income cohort and movements between income
groups and employment statuses. This new model (RIMGROUP) will provide
aggregate analysis which is more accurate because of its sensitivity to
distributional differences.
4 Collaborative development of a dynamic microsimulation model of retirement
incomes which will simulate the lifecycle of a representative sample of the
Australian population.
The Task Force currently use improved versions of both INDMOD and RIP which
were used in the May Submission to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
and the June 1992 'Security in Retirement Statement'. The individual hypothetical
model (INDMOD) has been enhanced to:
• cover a wider range of household types;
. take account of different lifetime earning patterns;


Appendix H: Answers to Questions on Notice from Senator Watson
• take account of benefits received in different forms;
• take account of fees charged by funds;
• better calculate pension and annuity benefits based on internal model
assumptions
• build in a more 'user friendly' interface;
• incorporate non-concessional savings benchmarks taking account of assumptions
concerning alternative saving behaviour,
• calculate the cost to Government of retirement income policies, including
substantial revision of the tax expenditure concepts to base them on accruals
concepts;
• take account of the impact of non-superannuation savings at retirement on
retirement incomes; and
• allow easier modelling of changes in taxation policy parameters.
INDMOD is able to model a wide range of retirement income parameters. However,
the base default assumptions used in INDMOD projections remain the same as used in
the Government's 'Security in Retirement' statement, including;
• annual growth in average weekly earnings in the projections of
• annual CPI growth of 4%;
• a gross fund earning rate of 8%; and
• an effective tax rate on fund earnings of 7%.
A comprehensive review is being undertaken of the structure, assumptions and
parameters of the aggregate model developed by National Mutual. Improvements
incorporated to date include:
• an improved treatment of the accumulation of non-superannuation savings
which significantly improves the validity of the calculation of tax expenditures
and costs to government in the model;
• revised population data and extension of the time horizon of the modelling to
2056;
• updated parameters such as tax rates and annuity factors in line with current
rates and legislated changes; and
• some technical improvements and better documentation.


Super Inquiry Overview
With the National Mutual RIP model operational in the Task Force it is possible to run
alternative assumptions and parameters and check the sensitivity of the results.
Normally the model is run with an assumed earning rate of 4 per cent real relative to
CPI or 2Vi per cent real relative to growth of AWE.
The provision to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation of updates to the
tables and graphs in the Treasury submission of May 1992 is a matter for the Treasurer
to consider on receipt of a formal request from that Committee.
The Retirement Incomes Modelling Task Force is not responsible for the development
of policy - its main role is to provide analysis of the long term impact of different
policy options so that the Government can make more informed decisions in choosing
between them.
Results of modelling policy options form part of the deliberative processes of
Government and, where relevant, are incorporated in public announcements of
Government policy.




THE PARLIAMENT OF THE t
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 80 of 1993
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
I88N 0727-418
