

23rd Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
SUPERANNUATION
SURCHARGE
LEGISLATION
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
March 1997




Twenty-third Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
SUPERANNUATION SURCHARGE
LEGISLATION
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
March 1997


© Commonwealth of Australia 1997
ISBN 0 642 25127 4
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


Members of the Committee
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Secretariat Staff:
Address:
Telephone:
Facsimile:
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
(06) 277 3439
(06) 277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at: http://senate.aph.gov.au




CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1 OVERVIEW
Introduction.1
Conduct of the Inquiry.2
Summary of views.3
Structure of this report.>
CHAPTER 2 THE SURCHARGE LEGISLATION.
Introduction.
How are surcharge payments calculated?.
How will the surcharge be collected?.
Other major features of this legislation.
How does the surcharge alter the taxation of superannuation?.
Combined effect of tax plus surcharge.
Taxation of Eligible Termination Payments (ETPs).
The Bills.
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill.
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Consequential Amendments) Bill.
Schedule 1 - Amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act.
Schedule 2 - Amendments to the Retirement Savings Accounts Act.
Schedule 3 - Amendments to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act.
Schedule 4 - Amendments to the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act
Schedule 5 - Amendments to the Taxation (Interest on Overpayments and Early
Payments) Act.
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge Imposition Bill.
Termination Payments Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill.
Part 1 - Preliminary details.
Part 2 - Liability to surcharge.
Part 3 - Assessment and collection of surcharge.
Part 4 - Recovery of unpaid surcharge and advance instalments.
Part 5 - Administration.
Part 6 - Miscellaneous.
Termination Payments Surcharge Imposition Bill.
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the Commonwealth) Bill..
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the Commonwealth -
Reduction of Benefits) Bill.
.7
.7
.7
. 8
. 9
10
10
10
13
13
13
13
14
14
14
15
16
16
16
17
17
17
17
18
18
CHAPTER 3 CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
Possible Invalidity.
Taxation on the Property of a State.
Discrimination between the States.
Remuneration of Federal Justices.
Other Issues Relating to the Judiciary.
Constitutional Authority.
Acquisition of Property.
19
19
21
22
23
24
25
26


CHAPTER 4 THE PROPOSED COLLECTION MECHANISM.29
Issues in relation to the proposed collection mechanism.29
Complexity.29
Efficiency.31
Compliance costs of superannuation providers.33
Employers' costs.35
Superannuation providers' compliance costs - equity implications.36
Superannuation providers' compliance costs - liquidity implications.37
ATO's collection costs.39
The advance instalments system.39
Government position.40
CHAPTER 5 TARGETING AND EQUITY.43
Introduction.43
Tax File Number collection.44
Government and ATO initiatives to facilitate use of TFNs.47
Definition of assessable income.49
Government position on assessable income.50
Uneven income patterns.52
Other issues.53
Costs to non-target members.53
Effective tax rates.54
Alternative methods of addressing equity issues.55
CHAPTER 6 ALTERNATIVES TO THE PROPOSED COLLECTION MECHANISM. 57
Alternative collection mechanisms.57
Government position.61
CHAPTER 7 REVENUE.63
Financial implications.63
Members who have retired since the surcharge announcement.63
Avoidance.64
Repackaging.64
Other issues.66
CHAPTER 8 PRIVACY.67
Overview.67
Another extension to the use of TFNs.67
Voluntary quotation principle.68
Opting in or out?.69
TFNs held by superannuation funds/employers.70
TFNs held by the ATO.70
Personal information not covered by privacy laws.70
Safeguards.72
Monitoring privacy compliance by the superannuation industry.72
CHAPTER 9 DEFINED BENEFITS SCHEMES AND ACTUARIAL STANDARDS.... 75
Introduction.75


Notional Employer Contributions.76
Commutation Rules.70
Particular Schemes.XO
Military.XO
Possible Alternatives.X1
Govermnent position.XI
CHAPTER 10 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.X3
Government Senators' conclusions and recommendation.X3
Non-Government Senators' conclusions and recommendations.X-4
That the surcharge is a tax.X7
Eligible Termination Payments (ETPs).SS
Defined Benefits Schemes.SO
Guidelines.SO
The proposed collection mechanism and alternatives.SO
Recommendations.01
Conclusion.02
Australian Democrat Senators' supplementary conclusions and recommendationsOf
Appendix 1 - List of Written Submissions
Appendix 2 - List of Witnesses at Public Hearings
Appendix 3 - List of Committee Reports




CHAPTER 1
OVERVIEW
Introduction
1.1 On Budget night, 20 August 1996, the Treasurer, the Hon. Peter Costello
MP, announced that the Government would introduce a surcharge of up to 15
per cent on all future tax deductible contributions made to superannuation
funds or Retirement Savings Accounts providers by or for high income earners,
including those who salary sacrifice.1 This surcharge is to be phased in
commencing at the $70 000 assessable income level, reaching a maximum of
15 percent at $85 000.
1.2 Giving effect to this decision, on 13 February 1997, the Government
introduced the following Bills into the House of Representatives:
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and
Collection) Bill 1997;
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Consequential
Amendments) Bill 1997;
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge Imposition Bill 1997;
. Termination Payments Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill
1997;and
. Termination Payments Surcharge Imposition Bill 1997.
1.3 On 6 March 1997, the Government introduced a further two Bills:
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the
Commonwealth) Bill 1997; and
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the
Commonwealth - Reduction of Benefits) Bill 1997
1.4 In the second reading speech for the Superannuation Contributions
Surcharge (Assessment and Collection Bill) 1997, the Parliamentary Secretary
(Cabinet) to the Prime Minister, the Hon. Chris Miles MP, advised the House
of Representatives that the surcharge legislation is:
1
Press release by the Treasurer, the Hon. Peter Costello, MP, 20 August 1996.


CHAPTER 1
...this government's response to ensure that the superannuation
system is more equitable for all Australians, while also ensuring
that superannuation remains an attractive savings option.2
1.5 Mr Miles told the House that the Government considered that the
superannuation system was inequitably biased in favour of high income
earners. He said that high income earners have been benefiting from the
concessional taxation treatment of superannuation to a much greater extent than
low income earners.
1.6 The surcharge is also a significant revenue item in the Budget. The
Government estimates that the revenue impact of the package of surcharge
legislation will be $434 million in 1997-98, $500 million in 1998-99 and $526
million in 1999-2000.’
Conduct of the Inquiry
1.7 On 26 February 1997, the Senate referred the provisions of the first five
Bills to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for examination and
report by 18 March 1997.
1.8 The Committee advertised the reference on Monday 3 March, setting a
closing date for submissions of 7 March.
1.9 On 6 March, the Senate referred the provisions of the latter two Bills to
the Committee and extended the reporting date by two days, to Thursday 20
March 1997.
1.10 The Committee received in excess of 70 submissions and other responses
to the inquiry. A list of submissions made to the inquiry appears at Appendix 1.
1.11 Two public hearings were held, in Sydney on 10 March and Canberra on
11 March. A list of witnesses who appeared at those hearings is at Appendix 2.
1.12 The Committee records its thanks to those persons and organisations who
made submissions within the very tight time constraints imposed and gave
evidence at the hearings at short notice.
House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 625
House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 625.


Summary of views
1.13 Submissions and evidence received by the Committee were
overwhelmingly critical of the surcharge legislation. Not unexpectedly, the
legislation was criticised by representatives of the superannuation industry and
high income earners. However, representatives of several State Governments,
industry representatives including the Business Council of Australia, the Metal
Trades Industry Association of Australia, the accounting professions, the
Judiciary and representatives of the Defence forces and other public sector
employees also commented adversely on the surcharge proposal.
1.14 There were many calls for the surcharge legislation to be rejected
outright.
1.15 Several witnesses and submittors contended that the legislation would
lead to a severe further loss in confidence in superannuation, already damaged
by a lack of stability in this area for several years.
1.16 Comments made by Mr Grahame Willis of the Metal Trades Industry
Association summarised many of the views that were put to the Committee:
Mr Willis: From the contact that we have had with our members, and I have
no reason to believe other than that they are representative of employers
generally, I believe there is widespread concern, frustration and, in some cases,
even anger with both the direction of this measure and the context in which it
arose. That was an expectation of no change from the taxation arrangements on
superannuation and a belief that the time must come when we create stability-
in policy settings for superannuation. Clearly, if this process of incessant
change is to continue, there will be no community confidence in
superannuation at all. We believe that has enormous long-term ramifications
for this country.4
1.17 It was argued that superannuation could no longer be regarded as an
attractive investment vehicle for retirement saving and that those who could
repackage their remuneration would do so, minimising their participation in
superannuation to that required by law. Persons who held this view contended
that for this reason, the Government's revenue targets for this measure may not
be achievable. Others however argued that repackaging may not necessarily be
attractive or feasible in the larger corporations.
4
Evidence, p. 160,


1.18 The State Governments of New South Wales and South Australia and
Mr Dennis Rose AM, QC, appearing on behalf of the Business Council of
Australia, raised constitutional issues.
1.19 Evidence was received that many lower and middle income earners
would also be required to pay surcharge because they failed to understand the
necessity of providing tax file numbers (TFNs) to their superannuation funds
and because of the way assessable income is to be calculated.
1.20 Similarly, several contributors to the inquiry contended that including
termination payments would require many lower income people to pay the
surcharge.
1.21 Many contributors to the inquiry singled out the surcharge collection
mechanism for critical comment. This was held to be excessively complex,
cumbersome and costly.
1.22 Members leaving superannuation funds prior to receipt of an assessment
was identified as creating administrative difficulties for funds. It was argued
that the additional requirements to pay an advance surcharge compounded
these problems.
1.23 It was pointed out that all superannuation and RSA holders will bear a
portion of the considerable costs associated with collecting the surcharge,
although only a small proportion of those who hold superannuation, estimated
to be approximately 355 000, will be directly affected by the surcharge. The
Australian Taxation Office will also have to cross match several million tax file
numbers to determine liability, at considerable administrative cost.
1.24 Several submissions contended that the surcharge proposal effectively
results in tax rates on deductible employer superannuation contributions that
are significantly greater than the highest personal tax rates.
1.25 It was argued that the surcharge would be difficult to administer fairly in
respect of defined benefit schemes, particularly unfunded schemes. It is
impossible to determine the extent to which the surcharge will affect benefits
associated with such schemes until an "actuarial standard" is released, and the
Committee received a number of expressions of anxiety about this.
1.26 The system under which the ATO notifies funds of surcharge liabilities
of individual members means that trustees can infer information about
members' incomes. It was suggested that this has privacy implications.


1.27 The Committee received a number of suggestions about how the
Government could more effectively achieve its objectives to improve equit\
through other means.
1.28 While expressing reservations about the concept of the surcharge, several
submittors accepted the Government's right to pursue policy objectives in this
area, including improving equity and collecting revenue. However, they argued
that there are a number of alternative approaches to achieving these objectives.
They contended that these would be simpler and more efficient to administer
and decrease the likelihood of lower income earners outside the intended
surcharge target group having to pay surcharge.
Structure of this report
1.29 The next chapter of this report, Chapter 2, describes the surcharge in
detail, explains how the surcharge will be calculated, who will pay it and how it
will be collected. It also briefly places the surcharge in the context of the
evolving taxation treatment of superannuation. The Chapter then explains the
structure and objectives of each of the Bills before the Committee.
1.30 Chapters 3 to 9 set out the major issues identified by the Committee in its
examination of the legislation, and report on the nature of the arguments raised
in submissions and evidence. The issues examined by the Committee in these
chapters include:
. Constitutional issues;
. Collection method and administration;
. Targeting and equity;
. Alternative collection proposals;
. Revenue;
. Privacy; and
. Defined benefit schemes and the actuarial standard.
1.31 Chapter 10 consists of the separate conclusions and recommendations of
the Government and non-government Committee members.




CHAPTER 2
THE SURCHARGE LEGISLATION
Introduction
2.1 The package of legislation introduced by the Government imposes a
surcharge of up to 15 per cent on all employer and deductible personal
superannuation contributions made by, or for, high income earners with
assessable incomes over $70 000. The legislation also imposes a similar surcharge
payment on "golden handshakes".
2.2 The thresholds at which liability for surcharge commences and reaches its
maximum will be indexed from 1997-98 to the increase in full-time adult
average weekly ordinary times earnings.
2.3 The surcharge is to have effect from budget night 1996 and applies to
contributions made after the budget announcement. Accordingly, the surcharge
does not affect any superannuation contributions or termination payments made
prior to that night, regardless of the income of the recipient.
2.4 About 355 000 taxpayers are expected to be affected by the surcharge.1
2.5 An important feature of the legislation is that the superannuation provider,
not the employee, is liable to pay the surcharge.
How are surcharge payments calculated?
2.6 Liability for surcharge in respect of superannuation contributions and
termination payments commences at an "assessable income" of $70 000.
Effectively, it increases by 1 per cent for each additional $1 000 of assessable
income above the $70 000 threshold, reaching a maximum of 15 per cent at
$85 000. For example, a person with an assessable income level of $75 500 will
be liable for a surcharge of 5.5 percent on their employer and/or deductible
superannuation contributions.
2.7 "Assessable income" for the purposes of the surcharge is defined in the
legislation to mean taxable income plus all employer and tax deductible
personal superannuation contributions. The definition of assessable income also
House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 625


CHAPTER 2
includes termination payments, with some exceptions as described later in the
chapter.
2.8 Defined benefits schemes require a different approach to assessing
surcharge liabilities. If the contributions are held under a defined benefits
scheme, the surcharge is payable on an amount calculated by reference to a
notional surchargeable contributions factor determined for the member and the
member's annual salary for the purposes of the scheme."
2.9 Unfunded defined benefits schemes, such as those that apply to
parliamentarians, the judiciary and many State and Commonwealth public
sector employees, are not funded until the benefit is paid. Accordingly, the
surcharge cannot be collected from these schemes each year.
2.10 To address this issue, the Government has decided that the surcharge
liability in respect of individuals in these schemes is to be accumulated and will
be payable by the superannuation provider at the time the affected member's
benefit commences to be paid. ’ Interest will be payable on the accumulated
debt, and will be charged at the 10 year bond rate, currently 7.94 per cent.4
How will the surcharge be collected?
2.11 Each year, superannuation providers will be required to send to the
Australian Taxation Office (ATO) details of contributions received in relation to
each member. The reporting date will be 31 October each year.
2.12 The legislation enables the providers to seek tax file numbers from
members for this purpose. While there is no obligation on members to provide
their TFNs, contributions made on their behalf and termination payments will be
surcharged at the full rate of 15 per cent if the TFN is not supplied to the
provider.
2.13 The legislation also contains a number of provisions to facilitate the
provision of TFNs. (See paras 2.37 - 2.41 below)
2.14 Having received the TFNs, the ATO will then cross match the
information supplied by superannuation providers with tax returns lodged by
taxpayers. When the ATO determines that a member's assessable income is over
the surcharge threshold and there is a surcharge liability, the ATO will assess
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997, Part 1
House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 625.
Financial Review, 18 March 1997.
4


the amount of surcharge and will periodically send assessments to the provider
who holds the member's contributions.
2.15 The superannuation provider must then debit the member's
superannuation account with the surcharge liability and send the amount owing
to the ATO within one month of the assessment.
2.16 The legislation also provides for payment of an advance instalment of
surcharge liability from 1998, payable on 15 June of each year. The advance
instalment will be 50 per cent of the surcharge assessed in the previous year.
2.17 In the second reading speech, Mr Miles advised the House that the
Government had considered several alternative measures of collecting the
surcharge that have been suggested. He said that the alternatives suggested all
involve an unacceptable increase in compliance costs for employers, small
business and all Australians. He explained the Government's position in the
following terms:
A number of these alternatives involve transferring the reporting obligation
from superannuation funds to the significantly larger number of employers. I he
government believes this would represent a substantial increase in the
compliance burden of small business.
Significantly, the administrative requirements on superannuation funds under
the government's approach are essentially similar to the processes that
superannuation funds already undertake as part of their normal business
operations. Against this background the government has decided not to depart
from the broad approach to collection of the surcharge outlined on budget
night.?
Other major features of this legislation
2.18 Other significant features of this legislation include:
. a provision that allows trustees to reduce member's benefits in order
to allow for payment of surcharge or advance payment. I his
provision overrides any rules in trust instruments that may have
otherwise prevented trustees from reducing benefits;
5 House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 625


. provisions that permit borrowings where surcharge assessments or
instalment payments cannot be readily met from fund assets;
. the SIS Act is amended to allow the quotation, provision and use of
TFNs. This amendment is intended to maximise the use of TFNs
quoted to trustees in order to minimise the number of surcharge
assessments raised purely due to the non-quotation of TFNs.
How does the surcharge alter the taxation of superannuation?
Combined effect of tax plus surcharge
2.19 Deductible contributions made by employers and self employed persons
to superannuation funds are currently taxed at a rate of 15 per cent. This tax was
introduced in May 1988. The surcharge will raise the effective rate of taxation
on contributions for persons with an assessable income in excess of $70 000 to
30 per cent.
Taxation of Eligible Termination Payments fETPs)
2.20 The taxation treatment of ETPs is highly complex and the following is a
brief summary of the current taxation regime.
2.21 ETPs include amounts payable on retirement, such as superannuation
payments, other than pensions or annuities, and also other amounts paid to a
person on ceasing employment, such as 'golden handshakes' and payment for
unused sick leave.
2.22 The taxation treatment of ETPs changed considerably in 1983. Prior to
that date, ETPs were generally taxed at the rate of 5 per cent. For ETPs that
relate to service after 1 July 1983, there are a number of components of the
payment which are taxed at different rates. Without addressing each component,
the effective result is that ETPs qualify for concessional tax treatment and are
taxed at between 20 per cent and 30 per cent depending on the mix of
components in the ETP.
2.23 There is further concessional tax treatment for those who receive an ETP
at age 55 or later. Such people will be taxed at either a zero rate or 15 per cent,
depending on the component of the ETP. This concession only applies to a
certain threshold, currently approximately $86 500.


The Bills
2.24 The surcharge legislation consists of the following Bills:
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and
Collection) Bill 1997;
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Consequential
Amendments) Bill 1997;
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge Imposition Bill 1997;
. Termination Payments Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill
1997;
. Termination Payments Surcharge Imposition Bill 1997;
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the
Commonwealth) Bill 1997; and
. Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the
Commonwealth - Reduction of Benefits) Bill 1997
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill
2.25 This Bill provides for the assessment and collection of the surcharge on
superannuation contributions paid to superannuation providers in respect ot
"high income" individuals. The Bill has seven parts, the features of which are
described in the following paragraphs.
2.26 Part 1 of the Bill includes a simplified outline of the Bill.
2.27 Part 2 sets out the liability to surcharge and the advance payment system.
This section:
. sets 1 July 1996 as the date at which liability for the surcharge
commences;
. establishes $70 000, indexed to average weekly earnings, as the
"adjusted taxable income" level at which surcharge commences;
. defines who is liable to pay the surcharge;
. defines surchargeable contributions;
. establishes an advance instalment system for surcharge liability tor
the following year; and
. establishes who is liable to pay the advance instalment.


2.28 Part 3 of the Bill:
. sets out the superannuation provider's obligations to provide
statements to the Commissioner for Taxation (who is to assess the
level of surcharge), other providers and members;
. establishes a provision for surcharge payable by members of defined
benefits funds to be deferred until benefits are paid. The amount
owing is to be indexed to the Treasury bond rate;
. sets out the ATO's powers to amend assessments, including the
power to require interest to be paid to the Commonwealth in the
event that insufficient surcharge is paid.
2.29 Part 3 also gives the Commissioner for Taxation power to use tax file
numbers for the purposes of the legislation and describes how objections against
assessments are to be resolved.
2.30 Part 4 of the Bill deals with the recovery of unpaid surcharge, advance
instalments, interest or late payment penalties.
2.31 Part 5 of the Bill deals with administration including secrecy provisions
and the divulgence of information.
2.32 Part 6 of the Bill contains miscellaneous provisions. Key provisions
include:
. details of information a superannuation provider must provide to the
Commissioner of Taxation;
. a provision that allows superannuation providers to reduce members'
benefits on account of payment of surcharge or advance payment,
overriding any provisions in trust instruments that may have
prevented any such reduction of benefits;
• establishment of standards of evidence, rights of access to premises
and the powers of the Commissioner to obtain information and
documents;
• standards of records to be kept and retained by the superannuation
provider.
2.33 Part 7 of the Bill contains the definitions used for the purposes of the Act.


Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Consequential
Amendments) Bill
2.34 This Bill makes consequential amendments to five Acts as a result of the
decision to introduce the surcharge. It consists of five schedules, each dealing
with amendments to a particular Act. The Acts amended are as follows:
. Income Tax Assessment Act 1936
• Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997
. Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
• Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993
. Taxation (Interest on Overpayments and Early Payments) Act 1993
2.35 Key features of this Bill are as follows:
Schedule 1 - amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act
2.36 Amendments in Schedule 1 extend the use of the Tax File Number (TIN)
system to allow TFNs quoted for superannuation or taxation purposes to be used
for surcharge purposes. Where a TFN is quoted to a superannuation fund for the
purpose of calculating tax to be deducted from an early termination payment
(ETP), that quotation will be taken as having been quoted for the purposes of
the surcharge legislation.
Schedule 2 - amendments to the Retirement Savings Accounts Act
2.37 Schedule 2 amends Part 11 of the RSA Act to provide for the quotation,
provision and use of the TFNs of RSA holders and applicants for the purposes
of the legislation. These amendments are designed to avoid individuals being
subject to the surcharge simply because they have not provided their TFN to the
RSA provider.
Schedule 3 - amendments to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act
2.38 Schedule 3 deals with the use of TFNs for surcharge purposes. It permits
super fund members to quote TFNs directly to the fund or scheme trustees lor
the purposes of the surcharge. Trustees are enabled to request members' TFNs.
2.39 The schedule includes provisions that permit borrowings where surcharge
assessments or instalment payments cannot be readily met from fund assets.


2.40 Part 25A of the SIS Act is amended to allow the quotation, provision and
use of TFNs to maximise the use of TFNs quoted to trustees in order to
minimise the number of surcharge assessments raised purely due to the non-
quotation of TFNs.
2.41 Effectively, this means that where an employee has already quoted a TFN
to an employer fund for the purposes of the SIS legislation, the employer may
pass the TFN on to the trustee, provided the employee has the option of
objecting. The employer must give the employee 30 days notice of intention to
pass on the TFN and if the employee does not respond, consent will be taken as
having been granted. Similarly, the trustee is permitted to pass the TFN on to
another trustee, RSA provider or the ATO, subject to the permission of the
beneficiary.
Schedule 4 - amendments to the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints ) Act
2.42 Amendments in this schedule enable the Superannuation Complaints
t ribunal to deal with complaints about the calculation of superannuation
contributions subject to the surcharge.
Schedule 5 - Amendments to the Taxation (Interest on Overpayments and Early
Payments) Act
2.43 Amendments in this schedule provide that where a person has paid the
assessed amount of surcharge and as a result of an amendment, the surcharge
liability is reduced, then the Commissioner for Taxation pays interest on the
amount of the reduction.
2.44 The rate of interest payable is 4 per cent less than would have been
payable than the rate of interest provided for in Section 214 of the Income Tax
Assessment Act.
2.45 It is important to note that no interest is payable in respect of amendments
made as a result of the late provision of TFNs. For example, if an individual
does not supply a TFN and consequently is required to pay the surcharge, no
interest is payable on any amendment made if and when the TFN is eventually
provided. In such a situation, the Commissioner will simply refund the
surcharge payment.
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge Imposition Bill
2.46 This Bill imposes the surcharge and declares the rate at which it is to be
collected.


2.47 Under the provisions of this Bill, liability for surcharge commences when
a member's adjusted taxable income exceeds $70 000. The rate at which the
surcharge is imposed rises by 1 percentage point per $1 000. For example, an
individual with an adjusted taxable income of $82 500 is liable for a surcharge
of 12.5 percent.
2.48 If the members' adjusted taxable income is $85 000 or more, the rate of
surcharge is 15 per cent of his or her surchargeable contributions. This amount
is indexed by movements in average weekly earnings.
2.49 Section 5(3) provides that if a member has not provided a TFN and the
Commissioner for Taxation has not found it out by other means (for example,
through the provisions described in paragraphs 2.37 to 2.41 above), the rate of
surcharge is set at the maximum of 15 per cent, regardless of income level.
Termination Payments Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill
2.50 This Bill provides for the assessment and collection of surcharge on
'golden handshakes'. These are described as
...termination payments that are funded by an employer rather than through the
superannuation system.
2.51 The Bill includes provisions that are intended to avoid any retrospective
application of the surcharge to golden handshakes. A transitional measure will
apply to golden handshakes received within five years of the 1996-97 budget
announcement. The surchargeable portion is only that part ot the golden
handshake which relates to the employee's post 20 August 1996 service with the
particular employer.7
2.52 The Bill is divided into six parts:
. Part 1 - Preliminary details;
. Part 2 - Liability to surcharge;
. Part 3 - Assessment and collection of surcharge;
. Part 4 - Recovery of unpaid surcharge and advance instalments;
. Part 5 - Administration; and
. Part 6 - Miscellaneous.
6 House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 627.
House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 627.
7


Part 1 - Preliminary details
2.53 This part that provides an outline of the objects and purpose of the Bill.
Part 2 - Liability to surcharge
2.54 This part has the following functions:
. identifies the amounts that will be subject to surcharge;
. explains when surcharge is payable;
. identifies who will be liable to pay the surcharge; and
. outlines transitional arrangements that affect the amount subject to
the surcharge.
2.55 Key features include:
. the Bill relies on S27A(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act for the
definition of eligible termination payments (ETPs) subject to
surcharge;
. the tax free amount of bona fide redundancy payments and approved
early retirement scheme payments are not considered to be ETPs and
are not surchargeable;
• Adjusted taxable income is defined as the sum of:
the taxable income for that financial year and
surchargeable contributions, unless already included in
taxable income because they have been paid out as an ETP;
• Accordingly, receipt of an ETP can place a taxpayer in the
surchargeable adjusted taxable income bracket;
• Surcharge on termination payments is only payable for that portion
of employment after budget night 1996. However, this provision
only applies to payments up to 20 August 2001. Payments after that
date will be fully surchargeable unless the taxpayer had entered into
a written agreement before 7.30pm, 20 August 1996, specifically
recognising the employee's entitlement to be paid an ETP on
termination of employment.
Part 3 - Assessment and collection of surcharge
2.56 The provisions of this section:
• establish how and when assessments of the surcharge are to be made
by the Commissioner for Taxation;


. outline the conditions under which amended assessments of the
surcharge may be made and when interest will be payable;
. allow for objections against assessments of surcharge; and
. provide for TFNs to facilitate the effective administration of the
Act.8
Part 4 - Recovery of unpaid surcharge and advance instalments
2.57 The purpose of the provisions of this part of the Bill is to provide for;
. late payment penalties;
. recovery of unpaid amounts of surcharge, interest and late payment
penalties;
. application of payment to debts; and
. review of decisions not to remit late payment penalties and interest.
Part 5 - Administration
2.58 This part of the Bill provides for:
. the general administration of the Act;
. an annual report to be given to Parliament on the operation of the
Act; and
. the protection of information obtained under the Act.
Part 6 - Miscellaneous.
2.59 The provisions in this part set out a number of standard requirements tor:
. evidence;
. access to premises;
. obtaining information and evidence;
. record keeping requirements;
. application of the criminal code; and
. regulations.
Termination Payments Surcharge Imposition Bill
2.60 This is a short Bill that imposes the surcharge on termination payments. It
provides for a method of determining the rate at which termination payments
8 Explanatory Memorandum


surcharge must be paid that is similar to that in the Superannuation
Contributions Surcharge Imposition Bill.
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the
Commonwealth) Bill
2.61 This Bill is intended to ensure that the superannuation contributions
surcharge applies to all non-contributory superannuation schemes operated by
the Commonwealth. In particular, the Bill is intended to address the
circumstances of judges appointed by the Commonwealth. The Bill provides
that the trustee of such a scheme is not to be taken to be an officer, authority or
agent of the Commonwealth.
2.62 This Bill also provides that the Minister for Finance may give directions
in relation to the discharge of superannuation contributions surcharge liability of
the trustee of certain Commonwealth unfunded defined benefit superannuation
schemes. Compliance with a direction by the Minister for Finance in relation to
the discharge of surcharge liability is taken to be a payment of surcharge by the
trustee.9
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the
Commonwealth - Reduction of Benefits) Bill
2.63 The Bill provides that the trustee of a Commonwealth non-contributory
unfunded defined benefits superannuation scheme may reduce a member's
benefits to pay a superannuation contributions surcharge liability.
2.64 The provisions of this Bill are particularly intended to address provisions
of the Constitution that protect the remuneration of a current judge from
reduction during his or her continuation in office. This Bill ensures that new
appointees are subject to the surcharge and is intended to ensure that the
application of the surcharge does not result in a contravention of the
Constitution.10
9 House of Representatives, Hansard, 6 March 1997, p. 1818.
10 House of Representatives, Hansard, 6 March 1997, p. 1819.


CHAPTER 3
CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
Possible Invalidity
3.1 In a document supplied to the Committee, Mr Dennis Rose AM, QC, of
Blake Dawson Waldron, Solicitors, and making a submission on behalf of the
Business Council of Australia, submitted that the Superannuation Contributions
Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997, if enacted, would breach the
Constitution. As the proposed Act is a central part of the surcharge scheme, if it
was found to be invalid the current legislative scheme would be inoperable.
3.2 Mr Rose's argument is based on the premise that the proposed legislation
relies either on the taxation power contained in paragraph 51 (ii) of the
Constitution or on the power to legislate on matters incidental to the exercise of
a power vested in the Commonwealth to legislate for a matter (paragraph
51(xxxix) of the Constitution). If the surcharge is based on the taxation power,
Mr Rose argued that clause 34 of the Superannuation Contributions Surcharge
(Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997 is probably invalid and that this would
result in the remainder of the Bill being invalid as it:
...would clearly be inseverable from the provisions of the proposed
Act imposing liabilities on the [superannuation] providers to pay
surcharge and advanced instalments.1
3.3 Clause 34 provides:
If a superannuation provider makes a payment under this Act in discharge of a
liability of the provider for surcharge or advance payment on a member’s
surchargeable contributions, then, dispite anything in any trust instrument,
contract or other document or in any legislation, the provider may reduce any
benefits accruing to or for the member after 20 August 1996 by the amount
paid.
3.4 Mr Rose argues that this will breach certain decisions of the High Court,
the most recent being that in MacCormick v Federal Commissioner oj Taxation
(1984) 158 CLR 622. An essential point to Mr Rose's argument is the
difference between a liability to pay taxation and an obligation to collect
Document presented to the Committee on 11 March 1997.


taxation that is payable by another person. In a submission to the Committee
Mr Rose argues:
Clause 34 is probably not within the taxation or related "incidental" powers.
Given the imposition of a tax on person A, it is not within those powers for the
Commonwealth to require another person B to pay the amount of the tax to the
Commonwealth...2
3.5 In relation to the surcharge, this would mean that although the surcharge
is levied on members with assessable income and superannuation contributions
above the threshold (currently $70 000), clause 34 will provide that the
superannuation provider is liable to pay the surcharge on behalf of the
members, rather than only be responsible for collecting the surcharge from the
members.
3.6 In oral evidence given to the Committee, Mr Rose made the distinction
between the surcharge, where the superannuation provider can be liable to pay
the surcharge, and the PAYE taxation system where the employer is obliged to
collect taxation from their employees.3
3.7 Representatives of the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) agreed in oral
evidence given to the Committee that the proposed surcharge was based on
paragraph 51 (ii) of the Constitution and that they were not aware of a similar
tax collection method.4 When asked to give a view on the submission by Mr
Rose, the Australian Tax Office representatives expressed the view that such a
question should be put to the Attorney-General's Department.5
3.8 The Chairman of the Committee wrote to the Attorney-General, the
Hon. Daryl Williams AM, QC, MP, offering him the opportunity to comment
on Mr Rose's opinion. The Committee understands that Mr Williams intends to
respond. However, this response was not received prior to this report being sent
for printing.
Ibid.
Evidence, p. S214.
Evidence, p. S289.
Evidence, p. S288.


Taxation on the Property of a State
3.9 Section 114 of the Constitution provides, in part, that the Commonwealth
is not to:
...impose any tax on property of any kind belonging to a State.
3.10 Submissions made by both the State of New South Wales (N.S.W.) and
South Australia (S.A.) argued that the proposed surcharge could be in breach of
section 114 as it applied to certain State superannuation schemes.
3.11 The Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS Act) contains
the concept that certain superannuation funds are 'Constitutionally protected'
funds. According to the explanatory memorandum to the Bill which introduced
the concept, a Constitutionally protected fund will be one where the assets of
the fund belong to a State government. The SIS ACT contains provisions for
the Income Tax Regulations to prescribe that a fund is a Constitutionally
protected fund, but to date no such regulations have been made.
3.12 In oral evidence given to the Committee by a representative of the
N.S.W2 Government, the representative stated:
Under section 114 of the Commonwealth Constitution the property of a State
may not be taxed. Some superannuation funds are actually styled as
superannuation funds but do not consist of a separate fund. Instead they consist
of an account within a consolidated fund of a state. It is our understanding that
these funds were constitutionally protected and therefore not subject to tax.1
3.13 According to the N.S.W. Government written submission to the
Committee:
There appears to be no constitutional or legal basis upon which the levy of the
surcharge can be made in the way proposed on the 'constitutionally protected'
funds. The Commonwealth attempt to sweep aside the protection of State
property in this way has very wide ramifications beyond superannuation, and
is viewed with great concern by the States.7
3.14 In response to questions that the surcharge may be imposed on the
individual rather than the fund, (where it can be argued that for defined benefits
schemes which apply to most State government employees that the surcharge is
Evidence, p. SI3.
Submission No. 22, p. 5.


payable by the individual at the time they retire and so cease to be an employee
of the State), the N.S.W. Government representatives replied:
That is certainly a question that would have to be considered. Yes, it is
certainly a way of saying that this is not a tax on the State.8
3.15 The South Australian Government oral submission noted that the
Commonwealth Treasurer had written to the States requesting that they
cooperate with the implementation of the surcharge in relation to
Constitutionally protected funds.9 The issue of State involvement has raised the
question of whether the State Parliaments will be able to pass complementary
legislation, particularly where the State government does not have a majority in
both Houses of the Parliament in the majority of States where there are two
Houses of Parliament.
Discrimination between the States
3.16 Paragraph 51 (ii) of the Constitution (the taxation power) provides that
the Commonwealth may legislate in regard of 'taxation, but so as to not
discriminate between the States or parts of States'. The N.S.W. Government
submission notes:
The experience of public sector superannuation funds, Australia wide, is that
States:
(a) fully fund or fully unfund their superannuation funds; or
(b) fully fund some funds but not others; or
(c) partially fund.10
3.17 The N.S.W. Government submission then argues that the different
treatment of accumulation and unfunded schemes will result in the surcharge
being levied unevenly amongst the various State schemes. Within a State,
superannuation providers will also be treated differently resulting in
discrimination between parts of a State. This raises the question of whether
section 114 of the Constitution has been breached."
Evidence, p. 8, 9.
Evidence, p. 13.
10 Submission No. 22, p. 4
11 Ibid


3.18 The issue of whether the proposed surcharge will offend section 1 14 of
the Constitution was also raised in a submission made by the Judicial
Remuneration Coordinating Committee. That Committee stated in its
submission in relation to the payment of judicial pensions, which are paid from
the State revenue:
In South Australia (and, so far as I am aware, some other States as
well), judicial pensions are payable by the Treasurer, direct from
the consolidated revenue which, by virtue of the relevant statute, is
appropriated for that purpose. There is no separate pension fund.
The effect of the proposed legislation is to attempt to attach the
proposed surcharge to the consolidated revenue of the State in a
manner which appears to offend section 114 of the Constitution.12
Remuneration of Federal Justices
3.19 Paragraph 72(iii) of the Constitution provides that for Justices of the
High Court and other courts created by the Commonwealth Parliament they:
...shall receive such remuneration as the Parliament may fix; but the
remuneration shall not be diminished during their continuance in office.
3.20 The Parliament has established a number of courts, including the Federal
Court and the Family Court. Following the argument being put that the
surcharge would have the effect of reducing the remuneration of current
Federal justices, the Government introduced the Superannuation Contribution
Surcharge (Application to the Commonwealth) Bill 1997 and the
Superannuation Contribution Surcharge (Application to the Commonwealth -
Reduction of Benefits) Bill 1997.
3.21 The effect of the two Bills is that the surcharge will not be payable in
respect of currently serving Federal justices but will apply to new
appointments. The President of the Association of Australian Magistrates, Mr
Somes, made the point in oral evidence given to the Committee that the
application of the surcharge to only newly appointed justices and to currently
serving and newly appointed classes of other judicial officers, would result in
the situation of people doing the same work, ie. presiding over a court and
making judicial decisions, but receiving less final remuneration. In his evidence
Mr Somes stated:
If it is true that Federal judges currently serving are to be exempted - and one
would have to assume that it is because of the Constitutional concerns - then it
12 Submission No. 64, p. 2.


is difficult to see how people who do precisely the same work, but perhaps at a
slightly different level, can be treated in any different way.13
3.22 The Association further argued that to be equitable, if the exemption is to
apply to Federal justices, magistrates should also be exempted from the
surcharge.14
Other Issues Relating to the Judiciary
3.23 It has been submitted to the Committee that the same principle that
applies to the protection of the remuneration of Federal justices equally applies
to members of the State judiciary. The Judicial Remuneration Coordinating
Committee stated in its submission:
However, precisely the same constitutional principle applies to judges of the
States. This is a principle that has been respected by Parliaments in the
common law world for many years. It may be, as a result of the decision of the
High Court in Kable v DPP that the same principle applies to the State
judiciary by virtue of the Australian Constitution.15
3.24 The argument that the proposed surcharge should not apply to members
of the State judiciary was also raised in a submission by the Bar Association of
Queensland. In its submission the Association stated:
If serving Federal judges are constitutionally protected from the imposition of
the surcharge it would be highly discriminatory and inequitable if the
surcharge were to apply to equivalent State judges. but it is a clear and
indefensible discrimination.16
3.25 The Judicial Remuneration Coordinating Committee also raised the
possibility that the proposed surcharge could effect the willingness of members
of the legal profession to accept judicial appointments. They argue that
members of the judiciary are appointed from the best of the practicing
profession and that appointment results in a significant loss of earnings. This,
however, is compensated to a degree by the judicial pension schemes. They
further argue that if the value of the pension is reduced, there may be difficulty
in attracting the best members of the profession to the judiciary.17 The same
13 Evidence, p. 166.
14 Ibid.
15 Submission No. 64, p. 2.
16 Submission No. 71, p. 1.
17 Ibid., p. 3


point is made in a submission by the Stipendiary Magistrates Association of
South Australia.18
3.26 Submissions from judicial representatives also raise the issue of members
of the judiciary being appointed on an expected remuneration package, a
substantial proportion of which relates to their pension entitlements. The value
of this package will be affected by the surcharge. Various submissions on this
matter have stated:
Presently judicial officers have accepted appointment on the express basis of a
remuneration package which included the present pension entitlements.|l)
We, as no doubt most members of unfunded defined benefits schemes,
commenced our employment and membership of the relevant superannuation
scheme , with the expectation .... that our fixed compulsory contributions to
the scheme would be available to us on retirement, subject to the imposition of
the reasonable and universal rates of tax on the ultimate lump sum."
3.27 The possibility of the surcharge interfering with judicial independence
under the separation of powers doctrine was raised in the submission made by
the Magistrates Association of the ACT. The Association argued that they
exercise Federal jurisdiction at times and that:
It follows that the proposed diminution in our remuneration by the
Commonwealth Parliament during our continuance in office will, when we are
exercising federal jurisdiction, operate as an interference with our
independence by the executive and legislative arms ot the Federal
Government.21
3.28 Following this argument, it may also be argued that any increase in
taxation or the Medicare levy will also serve to reduce the net remuneration of
judicial officers and so interfere with judicial independence.
Constitutional Authority
3.29 Members of the Committee sought information on the Constitutional
basis for the proposed surcharge from representatives of the A10. I he
representatives made the initial point that the Constitutional basis for proposed
18 Submission No. 5, p.2.
19 Submission No. 64, p. 3
20 Submission No. 36.
21 Ibid.


legislation is a matter for the Attorney-General's Department and the Office of
Parliamentary Counsel.
3.30 The ATO representatives also noted that they had not received advice
regarding the Constitutional authority of the proposed surcharge prior to the
submission by Mr Rose (see above), other than advice relating to the
application of the surcharge to Federal judges and the States. The
representatives also noted that they would need to check files to determine the
exact position regarding advice they had received.22
3.31 However, when questioned as to which Constitutional power would be
relied upon to support the proposed surcharge, a representative put forward the
view that:
The bill as a whole, I understand, is based on section 51, part II.23
3.32 Paragraph 51 (ii) [the power referred to above] of the Constitution allows
the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to taxation. The advice sought
by the ATO relating to the Constitutional authority of the proposed surcharge
was sought in relation to the imposition of the surcharge on members of the
Federal judiciary, rather than on the basis of the Constitutional authority
relating to the Bill implementing the surcharge. An ATO representative
informed the Committee that:
The question on which we sought advice concerned whether the imposition of
the surcharge was in breach of section 72 of the constitution, which relates to
the appointment and remuneration of judges.24
Acquisition of Property
3.33 The representative of Bramex Super Pty Ltd, Mr Ross Ramsay, raised the
issue of whether the proposed surcharge would amount to an acquisition of
property on other than just terms, which is prohibited by paragraph 51(xxxi) of
the Constitution. Mr Ramsay appeared as a representative of one of over
120 000 excluded superannuation funds (ie. funds with fewer than 5 members
and which make up the majority of superannuation funds in Australia). Mr
Ramsay argued that:
If it is not a tax, it is surely unconstitutional anyway because it is an
expropriation of assets without any other compensation.25
22 Evidence, p. S285-288
23 Ibid., p. S304
24 Ibid., p. S306


3.34 The result of Mr Ramsay's argument would be that the proposed
surcharge is either Constitutionally valid under paragraph 51 (ii) (the taxation
power) or otherwise would be invalid.
25 Ibid., p. S242




CHAPTER 4
THE PROPOSED COLLECTION MECHANISM
Issues in relation to the proposed collection mechanism
4.1 Many of the submissions to the Committee, and witnesses before it.
addressed the surcharge's proposed collection mechanism. There was criticism
of the proposed collection mechanism focussing on the issues of complexity,
efficiency, and cost (encompassing the compliance costs to superannuation
providers, and employers' costs, and also the collection costs to the Australian
Taxation Office (ATO)). The Committee also received opinions in relation to
the advance instalments system.
4.2 Criticism of the proposed collection mechanism was frequently made in
the context of supporting an alternative collection mechanism. Alternatives to
the proposed collection mechanism are considered in Chapter 6. This chapter
firstly considers comment on the proposed collection mechanism in relation to
complexity, efficiency and cost. The chapter then turns to the specific issue of
the advance instalments system.
4.3 This chapter does not consider the proposed collection mechanism for
unfunded defined benefits schemes, which differs from that for other schemes.
In respect of unfunded defined benefits schemes it is proposed that the
surcharge liability will be accumulated, and will be payable when the affected
member's benefit commences to be paid.1 Surcharge cannot be collected from
unfunded defined benefits schemes each year as liability is assessed, as such
schemes are not funded until the benefit is paidf The Committee examines
defined benefits schemes in Chapter 9.
Complexity
4.4 It was expressed to the Committee that simplicity should be a
fundamental objective of superannuation policy. Mrs Glenese Keavney of the
Financial Planning Association of Australia stated to the Committee that it:
1 Hansard, House of Representatives, 13 February 1997, p. 626.
Hansard, House of Representatives, 13 February 1997, p. 626.


CHAPTER 4
... is important in broad policy that there should be simplicity where possible
or certainly the removal of undue complexity. We believe that the complexity
of the [surcharge] legislation means that few are going to understand the
operation of the surcharge, again damaging people's confidence in the super
system as they feel that they have no control over their benefits.3
4.5 Mr Peter Downes of Jacques Martin drew attention to a speech by the
current Treasurer, the Hon. Peter Costello, MP, given in November 1995:
At that time, Mr Costello said he had three tenets for a superannuation system
under a Liberal government. They were: there should be certainty; there
should be confidence; and, above all, there should be simplicity.
1 think they were admirable qualities in a superannuation system. But if I was
going to do anything at all to depart from those principles, what I would do
would be introduce a concept like this surcharge.4
4.6 The issue of complexity was seen as being relevant not only for large
superannuation providers, large employers or industry representatives.
Mr Ross Ramsay is a director of the trustee company of the superannuation
fund Bramex Super Pty Ltd, which is an excluded fund. Mr Ramsay told the
Committee that although the collection mechanism was a far more important
issue for large companies than for excluded funds:
1 would qualify that remark to some degree, that is, operating an excluded fund
is no picnic, it requires a lot of attention to meet all the regulatory
requirements of the ISC and the tax office and to do the fundamental thing of
making sure the investment performs. All those are difficult tasks, without
having any additional regulatory requirements on top.5
4.7 Mr Grahame Willis of the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia
(MTIA) told the Committee that:
If as a community we are genuine in our pursuit of industrial competitiveness
in Australian industry, it is essential that we urgently reduce the level and
complexity of regulation presently imposed by government. This is
particularly true in relation to the small business sector....
Yet, rather than providing relief, this measure will add further complexity and
cost for employers and trustees. As an example of that problem, in one area
alone, the collection of tax file numbers, the initial government guidelines run
3 Evidence, p. 114.
4 Evidence, p. 28.
Evidence, p. 246.
5


to almost 40 pages and they raise five separate legal responsibilities for
employers and trustees.6
Efficiency
4.8 A number of submissions and witnesses drew attention to the amount of
information required to flow between superannuation providers, members and
the ATO, as a result of the assessment of surcharge being carried out by the
ATO, rather than by self-assessment. Mr Philip Ho, a certified practising
accountant, submitted to the Committee that:
Our 'self assessment' system of income tax collection is recognised as a cost
effective and innovative system of revenue collection by foreign governments.
7
We should leam from what we have done right.
4.9 The Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST) submitted to
the Committee that:
Huge amounts of data will be unnecessarily collected and passed backwards
and forwards between the funds and the Australian Tax Office (ATO) for fund
members who will never legitimately have to pay the surcharge.
4.10 Ms Robyn Quinn of the New South Wales Premier's Department told the
Committee that:
Every superannuation fund member will pay a charge for the purpose of
sending the information about them to Canberra in order that someone can
assess that there is no surcharge payable".
4.11 The Committee was provided with varying figures on the size of the
superannuation industry. These figures were nevertheless of the same order of
magnitude. The AMP Society submitted that the superannuation industry
administers 15-16 million superannuation accounts for over 7 million
Australians in approximately 140 000 superannuation funds.10 I he Insurance
and Superannuation Commission (ISC) has stated that at the end of September
6 Evidence, p. 155.
7 Submission 13, Mr Ho, p. 3.
8 Submission 6, AIST. p. 1.
9 Evidence, p. 24.
10 Submission 27, AMP Society, p. 1


1996 there were 16.2 million superannuation accounts.11 According to the ISC
there were 138 849 superannuation funds as at June 1996.12
4.12 Mr Deane Prior of the Treasurer's Office, South Australian Government,
told the Committee that:
Proposed surcharge administrative arrangements will not work because of the
huge amount of unnecessary information to be given to the tax office. Under
the proposal, it is proposed that the superannuation funds provide detail to the
tax office in respect of absolutely every member of a superannuation fund. It is
proposed that there be some matching up, through the tax file system, of a
person's accrual with the income which is recorded in the tax office. The tax
office then will report back to the superannuation fund on who has a
superannuation liability. Quite frankly, we cannot see how this can work.13
4.13 Mr John Ward of William M. Mercer Pty Ltd., told the Committee of one
instance that made him question the matching exercise required by the
proposed collection mechanism:
I personally have already experienced the matching capability of the tax office.
A year or so ago 1 was advised by the child support arm of the tax office that
they had matched me with my supposed ex-wife and supposed former children
and that I had to pay them so many thousand dollars a year for child support.
They had matched me because I had the same name as the delinquent husband
and my birth date was reasonably close to his. The fact that I had lived in
Melbourne for many years and my supposed wife and children were based in
Queensland did not seem to ring any warning bells. That particular case was
almost a laughing matter, although it could have been quite serious when my
real wife opened the mail.14
4.14 Mr Michael Forsdick of Coopers and Lybrand stated to the Committee
that:
... we believe that this system as currently proposed is inefficient because of
the requirement to match the data from nine million taxpayers received
separately via their tax returns to the ... records of those 140,000 funds in order
11 Insurance and Superannuation Commission, Insurance and Superannuation Commission Bulletin,
September 1996, p. 22. This figure was referred to by Jacques Martin and the Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA): Submission 10, Jacques Martin, p. 3; Submission 23,
ASFA, p. 10.
12 Insurance and Superannuation Commission, Insurance and Superannuation Commission Bulletin,
September 1996, p. 29.
13 Evidence, p. 15.
14 Evidence, p. 181.


only to determine a surcharge for some 350,000 people. It seems to be a
sledgehammer cracking a nut, and it will have major cost implications.1'
4.15 Mr Peter Downes of Jacques Martin suggested to the Committee that the
proposed collection mechanism could be amended to make it more efficient as
follows:
We think it would be far more sensible if the tax office looked at people who
had, say, $45,000 of income in the previous financial year and sought
information from funds on just those people. They are the people, almost
exclusively, who are going to be caught by the surcharge.16
Compliance costs of superannuation providers
4.16 The issue of the costs of compliance with the surcharge legislation
(compliance costs) for superannuation providers and employers' costs has
several facets. The Committee was provided with estimates of compliance
costs to superannuation providers. Employer organisations informed the
Committee of costs for employers, both because of the proposed collection
mechanism, and other potential additional costs. The Committee was made
aware of potential equity implications for members resulting from
superannuation providers' compliance costs. Concern was also expressed about
the implications of compliance costs for the liquidity of superannuation
providers.
4.17 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) disputed
the statement in the Second Reading Speech to the Superannuation
Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997 that "the
administrative requirements on superannuation funds under the Government's
approach are essentially similar to the processes that superannuation funds
already undertake as part of their normal business operations". ASf A claimed
that the "administrative processes which will need to be put into place are
essentially new".17
4.18 Several witnesses told the Committee that superannuation providers
would face significant administration costs in complying with the surcharge.
Mr Prior of the Treasurer's Office, South Australian Government, told the
Committee that in respect of S.A. Government superannuation funds:
15 Evidence, p. 79.
16 Evidence, p. 32.
17 Submission 23, ASFA, p. 10.


We have not |>ut a figure on it, but we know very clearly that it would be a
huge burden.
4.19 Ms Quinn of the New South Wales Premier's Department told the
Committee that the estimated cost for N.S.W. Government employee schemes
(not judges' and parliamentarians' schemes) would be a million dollars in the
first year and approximately $200,000 per annum thereafter.19
4.20 Mr Richard Gilbert of the Investment Funds Association of Australia
(IFA) told the Committee that IFA estimated that the set-up costs for its
member companies would be $26 million.20
4.21 Mr Downes of Jacques Martin told the Committee that the proposed
collection mechanism:
...is an extremely expensive way of collecting government revenue. We
estimate that it would probably add something like 15 per cent of the current
cost of administration to lump sum schemes. For defined benefit schemes, it
may be more expensive again.
4.22 Mr Ian Court of Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST)
explained the information technology related costs which superannuation
providers would incur in complying with the surcharge:
...there will be significant systems modifications to deal with it. The first thing
is the receipt of the tax file numbers. The second thing is the searching of
member accounts to deduct the surcharge and sending all of the information to
the tax office, with the details of each member. Where the surcharge is paid
incorrectly and is subsequently returned, it then has to incur further transaction
costs to be placed back into the member's account.
There is a range of these administrative systems issues which are going to have
a significant cost to them. To give you some order of scale, and I am just
thinking of some examples off the top of my head, to terminate a member's
18 Evidence, p. 26.
19 Evidence, p. 26.
20 Evidence, p. 120.
21 Evidence, p. 29.


account costs the fund about $28; to carry out a transaction is somewhere
between $5 and $10. These numbers can add up very significantly."
4.23 The AMP Society estimated that;
the implementation costs across the total membership of superannuation funds
is likely to exceed $100 million with an on-going cost of at least $20-30
million".23
4.24 ASFA submitted that "current estimates for the cost of establishing and
administering the surcharge have ranged between $30 and over $100 million a
year to the superannuation industry.24
Employers' costs
4.25 Costs to superannuation providers would flow on to some employers,
according to the Business Council of Australia (BCA). Mr Vernon Winley of
the BCA told the Committee:
... where funds are company sponsored, the employer generally bears the
administrative costs to the fund, so that the highly expensive implementation
approach proposed will increase the cost for employers, directly counter to the
government's stated intention of not increasing costs for employers. ^
4.26 ASFA claimed that the Government was trying to draw "a somewhat
artificial distinction ... between funds and employers" and submitted that it "is
common practice in many areas of corporate funds for employers to assist in
covering administrative costs associated with superannuation".
4.27 The BCA also noted that compliance costs would not be borne by
employers paying contributions to industry funds, creating "a signi(icant
horizontal inequity among employers, based on the type of funds they pay
contributions to".27
4.28 Employer representatives stated that another potential cost could arise
from employees demanding that employers meet the surcharge. I his cost
22 Evidence, p. 228.
23 Submission 27, AMP Society, p. 1
24 Submission 23, ASFA, p. 10.
25 Evidence, p. 210.
26 Submission 23, ASFA, p. 12.
27 Submission 32, BCA, p. 3


would not be specifically a compliance cost, but rather be a potential additional
cost due to the surcharge itself. Mr Willis of the MTIA told the Committee
that:
I would not want to foreshadow, on the available evidence, that there is any
possibility of substantial disputation on this issue, but I certainly do not
discount the strong possibility that in an enterprise bargaining framework these
issues will be discussed".
4.29 Mr Willis added that this issue had already arisen in enterprise
bargaining involving MTIA members, but that, given that there was still
uncertainty as to the final form of the surcharge legislation, there was no
discernible pattern of outcomes so far.29
4.30 Mr Winley of the BCA also noted that there may be industrial
disputation to persuade employers to pay the surcharge for employees/0
Furthermore, Mr Winley stated that in respect of defined benefit funds
employers may (depending on the provisions of industrial instruments, trust
deeds or contracts of employment) be contractually or industrially committed
to making such payment.''1
Superannuation providers' compliance costs - equity implications
4.31 The Committee was made aware of potential equity implications for
members resulting from superannuation providers' compliance costs. This
point was made by AIST as follows:
The costs of administering the surcharge will fall on all fund members, not just
those who have a responsibility to pay the surcharge. Costs will be shared
among all fund members, poor as well as rich. This is an inequitable cross-
subsidy which will be very much resented by millions of fund members.32
4.32 The HOST-PLUS Superannuation Fund stated in its submission that:
HOST-PLUS draws its members from the hospitality industry. The majority
of members are employed on a part-time or causal basis. Full time members
would rarely receive in excess of $30,000 per annum - we would anticipate no
28 Evidence, p. 157.
29 Evidence, p. 157.
30 Evidence, pp. 218-219.
31 Evidence, p. 218.
32 Submission 6, A1ST, p. 1


more of [sic] a handful of members who would attract a liability for the
surcharge.
In spite of this, HOST-PLUS will be forced to meet the costs involved in
obtaining Tax File Numbers, reporting to the ATO and to members,
calculating surcharge liability, debiting accounts and dealing with
requirements in relation to over and under-payment.33
4.33 In relation to the compliance costs for superannuation funds, Mr Court of
A1ST told the Committee that:
One thing we emphasise very strongly is that, with superannuation funds, all of
the assets belong to the members and therefore any costs to the fund must be
deducted from members' accounts. So we want to make it clear that it is not as
if large superannuation funds have resources to bear these sorts of costs
independent of their members.34
4.34 The Committee received information on the issue of whether all
members would pay for the compliance costs of superannuation providers.
ASFA submitted that administration costs "will likely be borne by all members
of funds, not just by those for whom the surcharge will be payable".0 A
number of other witnesses expressed the same concern to the Committee.
4.35 Mr Court of AIST questioned whether it was fair to spread the cost over
all members:
It just does not seem to me, as a trustee, to be fair or reasonable to expect my
lower income earning members to pay collection costs for the higher income
earners. So that will be the second major problem for me as a superannuation
trustee.36
Superannuation providers' compliance costs - liquidity implications
4.36 Concern was also expressed about the implications of compliance costs
for the liquidity of superannuation providers. ASFA submitted that
"superannuation funds will have less 'patient capital' for investment purposes as
they need to remain liquid to pay potential surcharge liabilities".37
33 Submission 59, HOST-PLUS Superannuation Fund, p. 1
34 Evidence, p. 224.
35 Submission 23, ASFA, p. 10.
36 Evidence, p. 229.
37 Submission 23, ASFA, p. 7.


4.37 Mr Court of AIST told the Committee that requiring superannuation
funds to keep assets in cash would disrupt their investment strategies; by
diverting assets away from long term investments this would impose an
additional cost on all members.38
4.38 The Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Consequential
Amendments) Bill 1997 would, as set out in Schedule 3 to the Bill, amend the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993. These amendments permit
the trustee of a regulated superannuation fund to borrow money in order to
make a required payment of surcharge or advance instalment which the trustee
would otherwise have not been able to make. Such borrowing must not be for a
period exceeding 90 days and the total amount borrowed must not exceed 10
per cent of the value of the assets of the fund.
4.39 The Committee was informed that liquidity problems associated with the
surcharge were accentuated by the application of the surcharge in cases of non-
availability of the Tax File Number (TFN, considered in Chapter 5), and by the
surcharge's advance instalments system (discussed further below).
4.40 The issue of liquidity appeared to be of significant concern to public
offer funds. Ms Melinda Howes of the IFA explained to the Committee the
effect of non-availability of TFNs in the first year of operation of the surcharge
(which would apply to all superannuation providers):
... if we get a 40 per cent response rate [to requests for TFNs] in the first year,
which is probably optimistic, then 60 per cent of the fund will not have given
us their TFN and 60 per cent of people will have a surcharge liability of 15 per
cent, plus another 7l/z per cent advance surcharge. That is 221/2 per cent of each
person's contributions for 60 per cent of the fund. So that could quite
potentially be more than 10 per cent of the fund that the borrowing
requirement allows.i9
4.41 Given the ATO's statements to the Committee in relation to the collection
of TFNs (which were made after Ms Howes' appearance), it may be that
Ms Howes' expectation of a superannuation fund paying surcharge liability in
respect 60 per cent of fund members in the first year should be revised.40 This
issue is discussed in Chapter 5. Nevertheless, Ms Howes' evidence does draw
attention to concern as to how the TFN provisions will affect superannuation
38 Evidence, p. 221.
39 Evidence, pp. 126-127.
40 See Evidence, pp. 292-294.


providers' liquidity, and also how public offer funds in particular may be
affected.
4.42 Dr Michaela Anderson of ASFA told the Committee that the advance
instalments system could affect liquidity as follows:
The surcharge is likely ... to lead to a liquidity problem for funds because of
the need to hold reserves to cover an advance instalment. This would occur
particularly at one point in the year where there is the second group assessment
and the advance instalment coming at the same time. Around 15 June seems to
be what we have called the 'double whammy' time where many funds could
have liquidity problems 41
ATO's collection costs
4.43 The ATO informed the Committee that its projected collection costs for
the surcharge are $3 million in the first year, $6 million in the second year and
$3 million the year after. Mr Michael Monaghan, First Assistant Commissioner
(Superannuation) advised that he expects these resources to be sufficient for the
present legislation. However, he indicated that the ATO would have to re-
evaluate the situation if any changes were made.
The advance instalments system
4.44 The Committee received expressions of view in relation to the advance
instalments system. The issue of the advance instalments system's potential
effects on liquidity is discussed above. Mr Downes of Jacques Martin told the
Committee that:
I do not know how funds are going to do their accounting, set allocation rates
and the like when we constantly have money coming and going through the
requirement to make provisional payments when people, let us face it, could
have left the scheme in the meantime.43
4.45 AIST submitted to the Committee that the advance instalments system:
41 Evidence, p. 63.
42 Evidence, p. 298
43 Evidence, p. 32.


...will impose financial disadvantage upon many men and women who because
of variable income patterns may have been liable to pay the surcharge in one
44
year, but do not have to pay the surcharge in the following year.
4.46 AIST recommended that the advance instalments system be deleted from
the Surcharge Bills, or if this was not adopted, that "a simple variation be
introduced to allow the advance payment to be varied in the same way that
Provisional Tax payments may be varied".45
4.47 Mr Murray Wyatt, representing the Australian Society of Certified
Practicing Accountants, considered that the multiple assessments associated
with the advance instalments system would impose a considerable
administrative burden on the funds. He explained:
In relation to the assessments, it is going to be really a matter of endless ones.
The surcharge assessments will be sent three times a year. Depending on the
size of your fund, if you have got a medium fund you will get four tax
assessments and three surcharge assessments so you will have seven
assessments to the fund in any given year.
...if the fund has to have a poor income year, the surcharge amount is going to
go out of cash flow. So, in general, the impost on small business and the
paperwork created will push people 46
Government position
4.48 The Government view is that the administrative requirements for the
surcharge are essentially similar to processes which are already part of
superannuation funds' normal business operations.
4.49 The Hon. Chris Miles, MP, Parliamentary Secretary (Cabinet) to the
Prime Minister, stated in the Second Reading Speech to the Superannuation
Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997 that:
The administrative requirements on superannuation funds under the
government's approach are essentially similar to the processes that
superannuation funds already undertake as part of their normal business
operations.47
44 Submission 6, AI ST, p. 3.
45 Submission 6, A 1ST, p. 4.
46 Evidence, p. 93.
47 House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 February 1997, p. 625


4.50 The Government considers that reductions in compliance costs can be
achieved by aligning surcharge requirements with the normal operations of
superannuation funds, for example including seeking tax file numbers (TFNs)
for surcharge purposes in annual member statements.48 "Recent changes in
superannuation administration (for example, extending the use of TFNs for
superannuation purposes, and electronic reporting of member details to
establish and operate the register of lost members) will also reduce compliance
* .. 49
costs .
4.51 The Hon. Chris Miles, MP, stated in the Second Reading Speech to the
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill
1997 that alternative measures of collecting the surcharge have been put to the
Government, which has given careful consideration to those suggestions.
4.52 The Government view is that the alternatives suggested all involve an
unacceptable increase in compliance costs for employers, small business and all
Australians. Mr Miles said that a number of these alternatives involve
transferring the reporting obligation from superannuation funds to the
significantly larger number of employers. The Government believes this would
represent a substantial increase in the compliance burden of small business.
4.53 The Government has stated that it:
...remains committed to ongoing consultation with the superannuation industry
to further reduce compliance costs associated with the surcharge and other
aspects of superannuation.51
48 Explanatory Memorandum to the Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection)
Bill 1997, p. I.
49 Explanatory Memorandum to the Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection)
Bill 1997, p. 2.
50 Hansard, House of Representatives, 13 February 1997, p. 626.
51 Explanatory Memorandum to the Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection)
Bill 1997, p. 2.




CHAPTER 5
TARGETING AND EQUITY
Introduction
5.1 As noted in Chapter 1 of this report, the Government regards the
introduction of the surcharge as a significant means of addressing current
inequities that exist in superannuation, in particular, the greater level of
advantage derived from the system by higher income earners.
5.2 Accordingly, the Government has set the threshold at which liability for
the surcharge commences at a relatively high level, $70 000.
5.3 However, the Committee received a considerable volume of opinion
during the inquiry, that argued that many people who are not in the target group
would be required to pay the surcharge. Submissions and evidence identified
two aspects that they considered would cause the surcharge to catch people it
was not intended to affect. These were:
. the requirement to provide tax file numbers; and
. the definition of assessable income.
5.4 Several witnesses and submissions also questioned whether the surcharge
legislation adequately addressed the Government's equity objectives, arguing
that the surcharge proposal itself created new potential inequities. It was also
suggested that there are a number of better methods of addressing equity issues
in the superannuation system, particularly in regard to the taxation ol benefits.
5.5 Areas of potential inequity identified in evidence included the following:
. non-target fund members would be required to meet compliance
costs, not just those targeted;
. persons with uneven income patterns, such as farmers, women who
have taken breaks in their careers to have children, and owners ol
many small businesses, may be subject to the surcharge, although, it
averaged over several years, their incomes would be less than the
surcharge target group;


CHAPTERS
. the surcharge may produce high effective tax rates in some
circumstances; and
. persons in unfunded defined benefits schemes would have a
surcharge levied against their retirement benefits with interest,
although their employers will have never paid contributions towards
their benefits. Conversely, some considered that the system placed
defined benefit scheme members at an advantage over members of
accumulation funds. (The Committee examines defined benefit
funds in Chapter 9)
Tax File Number collection
5.6 The proposed collection method for the surcharge requires the ATO to
carry out a cross matching exercise between taxation returns and tax file
numbers (TFNs) provided to the ATO by superannuation providers. Under the
provisions of the legislation, the providers are authorised to collect members'
TFNs and send them to the ATO. If a member does not provide a TFN,
surcharge is levied at the full rate of 15 per cent, regardless of the income of the
member.
5.7 The Committee was told that this provision would lead to very large
numbers of non-target taxpayers being charged the highest rate of surcharge.
The Committee was advised that there are likely to be very substantial
difficulties associated with collecting TFNs, for reasons that included the
following:
. employees will not understand the requirement to supply TFNs;
. previous low levels of response to written requests to supply TFNs;
. some employees will refuse to supply TFNs; and
. funds do not have current addresses for large proportions of their
members.
5.8 Ms Louise Sylva, representing AMP Financial Services, was one of
several witnesses who explained that many low income people would be caught
by the surcharge because they thought it did not apply to them and did not
comprehend the need to supply TFNs:
When I say there are difficulties in getting tax file numbers from a lot of low
income members I mean that they believe that the surcharge is just for high
income earners. When you ask them for their tax file number they do not
realise that there is any need for them to pass it on because they believe the


surcharge is designed for high income earners and they are not affected. Most
of them would not realise that they will be if they do not supply it.'
5.9 Several witnesses emphasised that the funds faced considerable
difficulties in communicating the need to supply TFNs. A lack of English skills
on the part of some fund members, particularly in some industry funds, was
identified as a contributor to this problem.
5.10 Another major difficulty is that funds have no means of tracing some of
their members because the funds do not have current address details. Mr Peter
Downes of Jacques Martin explained:
...in some of our funds we do not know where 10 or 20 per cent of the
membership are, in funds of a million people. We do not know how we contact
them to collect their tax file numbers. That is just the beginning. Sometimes 20
per cent of our membership we cannot contact to ask and, at least initially, we
2
expect very high non-reporting from those that we can ask.
5.11 Trustees of a number of funds told the Committee that they had
encountered great difficulty in gathering TFNs in the past, despite repeated
attempts to do so. All witnesses who gave evidence on this issue expected that
initial compliance rates would be low and accordingly, many people outside the
target group would be liable for the surcharge. The following selection ot
quotes illustrate the concerns expressed.
5.12 Mr Grahame Willis of the Metal Trades Industry Association, speaking
about the Superannuation Trust of Australia, of which he is a director,
commented:
In that fund, which has 300,000 members, we have been seeking now for
almost two years to collect the tax file numbers of the fund members. Our
success rate to date is approximately 11.000 out of 300,000.
5.13 Mr Ian Silk, Australian Retirement Fund, who indicated that less than
two per cent of members had adjustable taxable incomes of $70 000 or more
commented:
1 Evidence, p. 48-9,
2 Evidence, p. 36.
3 Evidence, p. 158.


...it would be staggering to our fund if we received a 20 per cent response
4
rate.
5.14 Mr Brett Westbrook, Fund Secretary, Transport Workers Union
Superannuation Fund commented:
Our estimates, as I indicated before, are that we are likely to receive only a 30
per cent response rate in the next 12 months. In our quick calculations, that
indicates that from our fund up to $7 million will be collected and paid to the
tax office that is not necessarily surchargeable.
5.15 For many people in accumulation funds, receipt of a statement at the end
of the year showing that they had been surcharged may operate as a prompt to
comply with the legislation. However, Ms Robin Quinn, representing the NSW
Government, advised the Committee that members of defined benefit schemes
may not receive such a prompt and therefore will be unaware of the surcharge
debt that will accumulate if they do not supply TFNs. She noted:
We have large numbers of people who will not understand the
need to provide a tax file number. In a defined benefit
arrangement, which is unfunded, they will not even be aware that
this debt account is accruing away in the background. Until some
big event like seeing the tax bill happens, it will not really mean
anything to them. That would be our assessment of the behavioural
nature of people.6
5.16 Mr Westbrook summarised the concerns of many who gave evidence
about the possiblity that low income earners may be liable for the surcharge
because they had not supplied TFNs. He told the Committee that such persons
could ill-afford the surcharge:
From a trustee's point of view, we do not want to see our members
paying a 15 per cent surcharge amount when the majority of them
are on low incomes and cannot afford to pay that sort of amount.
Given that in a lot of cases their only retirement savings are in the
4 Evidence, p. 262.
5 Evidence, p. 309.
Evidence, p. 12.
6


TWU fund, or similar funds of that nature, we want to try to
maximise their end benefit, not reduce it.7
5.17 Mr Richard Gilbert of the Investment Funds of Association of Australia,
acknowledged that members could avoid paying surcharge relatively simply, if
they complied with the provisions of the legislation that require TFNs to be
provided. However, in the following exchange with Senator Alan Ferguson, he
indicated that the complexity of today's superannuation system is a barrier:
Senator FERGUSON: There is nothing stopping them giving their tax file
number, is there?
Mr Gilbert: Provided the communication system is optimal, that
is right. However, as I said in the submission, superannuation is a
very complex system and we are adding another layer to it. We
anticipate that, in this first instance, what is the percentage?
Ms Howes: Around 40 per cent would be a good response rate for
TFNs.8
5.18 As indicated in the preceding paragraphs, most witnesses who gave
evidence on this matter indicated that they expected a low response rate to
written requests for members to provide TFNs. The Committee also received
evidence that funds considered that there were difficulties associated with
collecting TFNs by phone, because of the requirement to advise members ot
their rights to refuse information. Ms Noelle Kelleher, appearing before the
Committee representing the Australian Society of Certified Practicing
Accountants, told the Committee:
Could I add a comment on the collection of TFNs over the phone. A lot of
funds are not prepared to use that method because they have no proof that they
have actually read the statement to the member, which is a concern because it
means that that method is just not a method that is being used.
Government and ATO initiatives to facilitate use of TFNs
5.19 The legislation contains a number of measures to facilitate the wider use
of TFNs to avoid persons who are not in the surcharge target group from
paying the surcharge. These provisions are described in Chapter 2 ot this
report.
7 Evidence, p. 312
8 Evidence, p. 125
Evidence, p. 96.
9


5.20 Officers of the Australian Taxation Office also provided the Committee
with information about measures to minimise lower income earners being
inadvertently caught.
5.21 Mr Chris Casey, Assistant Commissioner, Superannuation Systems,
described a number of the strategies that the ATO will adopt to maximise the
provision of TFNs:
Firstly, we will be including a special insert into Taxpack which will advise
people of their ability to quote their tax file numbers, and the implications
from a surcharge point of view of them not quoting their tax file numbers. We
will also be including with income tax assessment notices a further note,
saying the same thing. After funds have reported to us on 15 December, with
their details of member contributions, we will be allowing funds to continue to
report to us up until probably May, at this stage, for any additional tax file
numbers that they have collected.10
5.22 Another strategy is the use of employment declaration forms to make a
match between a person and their employers' name and address, in order to
address the issue of non-current address details of fund members. Mr Casey
cautioned, however, that while the legislation allowed such a use of
information, the ATO had not yet discussed with industry the possibility of
including employer details on the reports due on 15 December.11
5.23 Mr Michael Monaghan emphasised that the ATO was very conscious of
the TFN issue and is working actively to overcome the problems that have been
identified:
...we are looking, virtually every day, at the changing situation in relation to
the tax file number issue and the communication of it. We see it as being very
important and we are building strategies as to how we will get that message
out. ...We have been canvassing dealing with tax agents to get to excluded
funds, we are canvassing the extent to which we can use administrators'
dealings with employers and employees; and, to the extent that we believe we
need other means such as press or radio, we will certainly be looking at all
those things.
5.24 Mr Monaghan told the Committee that the ATO did not underestimate
the difficulties associated with TFN collection, including problems associated
with obtaining TFNs from persons who had communication difficulties:
10 Evidence, p. 292.
!l Evidence, p. 3 13.
12 Evidence, p. 294.


We are not understating the difficulty of getting to some of the sectors in the
community to explain the message to them, but I am saying we are taking the
responsibility on to do that.
We will do everything we can to ensure that people are aware that that is an
implication of choosing not to quote your tax file number or of us being unable
to match you otherwise.
Definition of assessable income
5.25 For the purposes of administering the surcharge, the definition of
assessable income includes certain termination payments or 'golden
handshakes'. The Committee received evidence that the inclusion of
termination payments and a number of other items in the definition of
assessable income would result in lower income persons being incorrectly
targeted for surcharge payments.
5.26 Mr Kevin Casey, representing the AMP Society, was amongst those who
argued that the inclusion of termination payments in assessable income would
make many people who were not high income earners liable for the surcharge.
He commented that persons who had just lost their jobs and received a
redundancy payment could find themselves in this category:
It means that there are going to be a number of people who will be tipped over
the $70,000 and will get a surprise in respect of this. People who would
otherwise not regard themselves as high income earners will get included
because a number of these other payments— redundancy payments, lor
instance— are included in the adjusted taxable income. There is an allowance
for the tax free component, but there will certainly be circumstances where, in
respect of the surcharge, somebody who has lost their job becomes a high
income earner because of the payment that is made in respect of that and will
be subject to additional liability.14
5.27 Similarly, ASFA and others contended that the inclusion of ETPs in
assessable income meant that many people in their year of retirement will
suddenly find themselves classified as high income earners. ASP A
acknowledged that the tax free portion of an employer redundancy payment is
excluded, but offered the opinion that public sector employees who took a
redundancy package would be particularly hard hit:
13 Evidence, p. 296.
14 Evidence, p. 56.


...public sector employees on a salary of $40 000 who receive a redundancy
payment from a superannuation fund of over $30 000 will be treated as high
income earners, even though they may take years to get another job.
5.28 ASFA concluded that the inclusion of ETPs and other "lumpy income"
has the potential to apply the surcharge on low and middle income Australians,
despite the express objects of the main Bill for the surcharge to be assessed and
collected on 'high income individuals'.16
5.29 Mr Raymond Stephens, representing William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, was
also among those who contended that the inclusion of eligible termination
payments (ETPs) gave rise to a number of anomalies. He advised the
Committee that the treatment of ETPs under this legislation differed from how
other tax legislation treated these payments. He noted that:
... eligible termination payments and unused leave payments are excluded from
the income used in other tax legislation where income is intended to reflect the
normal level of income rather than the effect of one-off lump sum payments.17
5.30 Mr Stephens suggested that removing these one-off lump sums would
eliminate a number of anomalies and simplify a number of provisions in the
Bills.
Government position on assessable income
5.31 The Committee sought information from officers of the ATO on this
issue. Mr Mark O'Connor, Executive Officer, Legislative Services, explained
the Government's policy decision in the following terms:
The policy that was announced on budget night is that the adjusted taxable
income measure, as is detailed in the definition of that term in the Bills, is
normal taxable income plus surchargeable contributions....Eligible termination
payments, the specific components of that amount, are included in the
assessable income and become taxable income. With taxable income, I have
just explained that it is assessable income less all allowable deductions. So, as
the formula for adjusted taxable income includes assessable income plus
surcharge or contributions, then those ETPs, to the extent they are paid in the
year, would add to adjusted taxable income.
15 ASFA submission, p. 15.
16 ASFA submission, p. 15
17 Evidence, p. 180.
18 Evidence, p. 298.


5.32 The ATO advised that bona fide redundancy payments were not included
in the assessment, Mr Anthony Regan, Acting Tax Counsel, Legislative
Services, stating that:
If the payment is a bona fide redundancy payment then that is not
included in assessable income up to tax-free limits. If you are
talking about a redundancy situation, then it would not necessarily
be the case.19
5.33 In his press release on the Budget, the Treasurer explained the
Government's position with regard to golden handshakes. He said that the
definition of'golden handshakes' for the purposes of the surcharge:
... this definition would not include bona fide redunduncy and approved early
retirement payments to the extent to which they are within the income tax
exemption levels.20
5.34 The Treasurer noted that from 1 July 1994 bona fide redunduncy and
approved early retirement payments have been exempt from income tax tip to a
limit which is indexed annually to average weekly ordinary time earnings, l or
the 1996-97 year the income tax exemption limits are $4348 plus $2174 per
year of completed service with the employer.
5.35 The Treasurer advised that he considered these limits to be generous
enough to ensure that the majority of such payments would be outside the
scope of the golden handshake definition entirely. However, he emphasised that
it w'as necessary to include the excess of payments over these limits in the
definition to prevent such payments being used as a method of avoiding the
surcharge.
5.36 There are also transitional measures in the Bill to ensure there is no
retrospective application of the surcharge to golden handshakes received within
five years of the budget announcement.
5.37 The Government is of the view that this is a balanced approach which
should:
ensure the surcharge will not apply retrospectively; and
19 Evidence, p. 299.
20 The Hon. Peter Costello, MP, Treasurer, Press release no.5, 5 Feb 1997,p. 3


. reduce the potential for golden handshakes to be exploited as a
means of surcharge avoidance.
Uneven income patterns
5.38 In its submission to the Committee, ASFA noted that ATO statistics
show that over 100 000 individuals a year average their income for income tax
purposes. ASFA told the Committee that the legislation apparently contains no
provision for averaging of income or contributions for surcharge purposes.
5.39 ASFA and a number of other witnesses told the Committee that there are
a number of professions where income levels varied greatly from year to year,
and a single year's assessable income did not give an accurate indication of
their true situation. Examples of persons who fall into this category include
primary producers, sports people, artists, musicians, consultants and other self-
employed people. Ms Rosemary Vilgan of ASFA told the Committee that:
They are not really high income earners if one averages their income, but the
averaging provisions are not to be made available in this legislation."1
5.40 Representatives of the Institute of Chartered Accountants made a similar
point in respect of operators of small businesses. Mr Robert Brown, National
Councillor, told the Committee that due to variations in the profitability of
many small businesses, small business operators generally have a very small
window of opportunity to contribute to superannuation. He argued that
imposing the surcharge on these individuals severely limits their ability to
provide for their retirement needs.22
5.41 Ms Glenese Keavney of the Financial Planning Association (FPA) was
among those who shared Mr Brown's concerns about small businesses:
1 believe that small businesses are not always in a position to be able to make
contributions. It is not just that they are looking for a window of opportunity.
It is really that they are constrained to a large extent by the cash flows of their
business.23
5.42 Several witnesses argued that women were particularly penalised. For
example, ASFA told the Committee that many women with career gaps and
perhaps a late start in the higher paid part of the labour force will find it
21 Evidence, p. 64.
22 Evidence, pp. 88-89.
23 Evidence, p. 117.


difficult to catch up, particularly with age based limits on contributions. ASFA
argued that these groups need to be encouraged to use their 'good years' to save
for retirement. ~4
5.43 Evidence given by Ms Keavney succinctly summarises the position of
many who expressed concerns about the impact of the surcharge on people with
uneven income patterns:
People have uneven patterns of contributions because quite often they do not
have the capacity in some years...
Cases of that are women, who tend to have a shorter working life and.
therefore, do not have the capacity for regular disciplined contribution over a
long working time. If they are going to try to make larger contributions in later
years, they are going to be penalised for attempting to catch up and make
themselves more in a position to provide for themselves.
...A similar pattern emerges with consultants and self-employed people who
can have fluid employment circumstances. Farmers can have lumpy income
patterns and professionals, such as sport people, may have a limited working
life where they have to attempt to accelerate their savings for retirement.
Potentially, all of those people are penalised by the impact of the surcharge. If
they attempt to avoid the surcharge, they are going to end up with inadequate
superannuation to fund their retirement. I do not believe a broad policy-
objective would be to have more people unable to fund their own retirement.*^
Other issues
Costs to non-target members
5.44 As described in Chapter 4, the Committee received a considerable
volume of evidence concerning the allocation of compliance costs across
superannuation fund memberships. Witnesses and submittors pointed out that a
substantial proportion of the compliance costs would be borne by persons who
were outside the surcharge target group.
5.45 Submittors questioned the equity of such an arrangement, as increases in
fund operating costs would reduce the benefit paid to all members of the fund,
not just those in the higher assessable income brackets.
24 ASFA submission, p. 14
25 Evidence, p. 117.


Effective tax rates
5.46 The Committee received several submissions that argued that the
imposition of the surcharge imposed excessively high overall rates of tax on
some individuals.
5.47 There were several different aspects to this concern. Mr Deane Prior,
appearing on behalf of the South Australian Government, illustrated his point
with the example of a judge on the South Australian judges' pension scheme:
...we assume that the judge serves 15 years. Because of their salary they would
be over the surcharge threshold. As soon as they become a judge that person
would have a liability of $384,500 after serving 15 years. Once again, that
person would be paying the top marginal tax rates on their pension when they
commence a pension. What this amounts to, as I said before, is an 85 per cent
marginal tax rate on that amount of additional superannuation benefit over
$70,000. We do not believe this is an equitable tax."
5.48 Mr Raymond Stevens, a Director and Principal of William M. Mercer
Pty. Ltd., was among a number of others who argued that the surcharge in some
circumstances led to unacceptably high rates of tax. Mr Stevens told the
Committee that:
For example, where a benefit exceeds the reasonable benefit limit, the overall
tax on contributions can be 64 per cent. With a pension benefit, the overall tax
can be 54 per cent even where the benefit is below the reasonable benefit limit.
All of those rates are far higher than the maximum personal tax rate..."7
5.49 William M. Mercer developed their example in detail in their submission
to the Committee as follows:
• Super contributions are already subject to 15% tax;
• If a benefit exceeds the RBL and the excess is taken as a lump sum,
the excess amount is subject to a further tax of 48.7%. Where the
full 15% surcharge also applies, the overall tax on the contribution
is 64% - far higher than the highest marginal rate of 48.7%;
. In the case of a benefit taken as a pension, the overall tax on a
contribution where the full 15% surcharge applies can be as high as
26 Evidence, p. 16.
27 Evidence, p. 183


53.5% even where the benefit does not exceed the RBL. Where the
benefit exceeds the RBL the overall tax can be as high as 64%.“x
Alternative methods of addressing equity issues
5.50 The Committee received a large number of suggestions for alternative
approaches to addressing equity issues within the superannuation system
which, it was argued, would be more effective than the approach in the
surcharge legislation. Briefly, these suggestions can be categorised as follows:
. a tax on the benefits rather than a tax on the contributions;
. a progressive scale of contribution surcharge which would apply
across all income ranges;
. to apply the surcharge only to deductible contributions, as was
originally announced, and to achieve this by limiting actual notional
contributions subject to the surcharge to age based limits applicable
on an individual member basis within accumulation funds,or on a
global basis for defined benefit funds; and
. to use the 1-a-w law tax cuts to leave the 15 per cent in place for
high income earners and to lower the income tax rates on
superannuation for low income earners to 10 per cent.
5.51 Time constraints on the inquiry and preparation of this report prevent the
Committee from explaining these suggestions in any detail.
:8 Submission, William. M Mercer Pty Ltd, p. 13




CHAPTER 6
ALTERNATIVES TO THE
PROPOSED COLLECTION MECHANISM
Alternative collection mechanisms
6.1 The Committee received many submissions in favour of alternatives to
the proposed collection mechanism (considered in Chapter 4). In particular, the
Committee received many submissions centred on the use of individuals' group
certificates as the surcharge collection mechanism. This was described to the
Committee as the 'oft-repeated alternative collection mechanism'.1
6.2 The Business Council of Australia (BCA) recommended the following
alternative collection mechanism:
. the employer would provide superannuation contribution details via
group certificates;
• the employee would lodge his or her annual income tax return
including the contribution details indicated on the group certificate
(lodged with the return);
. the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) would levy surcharge, where
applicable, as part of the annual assessment; and
. the employee would meet the surcharge by the following
alternatives:
-offsetting the surcharge against any tax refund due; or
-paying the surcharge directly; or
-passing the liability to the superannuation fund to make the
payment by debiting his or her account."
6.3 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) also
proposed an alternative collection mechanism in essentially the same terms as
those of the BCA.3
1 Submission 21, Australian Society of Certified Practising Accountants (CPAs), p. 1
2 Submission 32, BCA, p. 3.
Submission 23, ASFA, p. 11.
3


CHAPTER 6
6.4 Coopers and Lybrand made a similar suggestion to that described above,
but instead of allowing the individual to choose how the surcharge is paid,
Coopers and Lybrand suggested that the ATO issue the surcharge assessment to
the individual's current superannuation fund, which would remit the surcharge
liability to the ATO.4
6.5 William M. Mercer Pty Ltd (Mercer) also supported employers advising
employees of the superannuation contributions paid on their behalf, but stated,
however:
This would not necessarily be on the employee's group certificate but could be
provided in some other form. The member would then submit these details
with his or her tax return.5
6.6 Mercer supported giving individuals the choice to pay surcharge liability
directly, or to pass it on to their current superannuation fund.
6.7 Mercer also suggested that:
...the employer only report contribution details for members earning more than
a specified level, say $40,000 pa, meaning that well over half the workforce
would not be involved in the information collection mechanism.7
6.8 The Committee notes that a number of other bodies also supported the
utilisation of group certificates for the surcharge collection mechanism,
including:
the AMP Society;
the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU);
the Australian Society of CPAs;10
the Institute of Actuaries of Australia;11
Jacques Martin;12
4 Submission 30, Coopers and Lybrand, p. 5.
5 Submission 9, Mercer, p. 6.
6 Submission 9, Mercer, p. 5.
7 Submission 9, Mercer, p. 6.
8 Submission 27, AMP Society, pp. 4-5.
9 Submission 52, ACTU, pp. 2, 5.
10 Submission 21, Australian Society of CPAs, p. 1.
11 Submission 39, Institute of Actuaries of Australia, Attachment, pp. 7-8.
12 Submission 10, Jacques Martin, p. 3.


. the Life Insurance and Superannuation Association of Australia Inc
(LISA);13 and
• the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia (MTIA).13
6.9 The Committee was informed by proponents of group certificate
collection mechanism alternatives that such a mechanism would have a number
of advantages over the proposed collection mechanism, including:
• being more efficient;
• providing the Government with payments earlier; and
• being less intrusive to privacy.
6.10 It was also contended that the compliance costs for employers would not
be inappropriate.
6.11 Mrs Louise Matthews of Coopers and Lybrand argued the issue of
efficiency to the Committee as follows. She said that by collecting the
surcharge through the group certificate system would eliminate the need for the
ATO to match data:
The 15 million records that would need to be flowing from 140,000 funds on
those six million taxpayers would not need to be collected, collated and
matched with tax file numbers to the nine million tax returns. That is
eliminating what we think is a very cumbersome approach to the surcharge
legislation, especially from the point of view of administration for the tax
office."
6.12 Mr Peter Foxton of ASFA compared the timing of payments under the
proposed collection mechanism with timing of payments utilising the group
certificate system, telling the Committee that:
The surcharge payments will not be made by a taxpayer's super fund until a
long time after a taxpayer's income tax assessment has issued. For 1996-97 for
instance, you have surcharge payment dates of mid-April and mid-June in the
following year. For future years, it is going to be mid-September, mid-March
the following year and then mid-June. The majority of revenue collections will
be at the later of these dates and I suggest that the mid-June payment is where
the bulk of the surcharge is going to be collected.
If you compare that with the alternative process that is being put up by the
superannuation industry, under that system the surcharge could be collected
13 Evidence, pp. 148-149.
14 Evidence, p. 159; Submission 20, MTIA, Annexure A, p. 1.
15 Evidence, p. 80.


around the same time as the tax assessment is issued or soon thereafter. The
normal requirements for payment of the tax that comes out of a tax assessment
could apply to the payment of a surcharge, either from a superannuation fund
or from the individual, and that would mean that the surcharge would be
collected by the government months earlier.16
6.13 Submissions to the Committee stated that an alternative collection
mechanism utilising group certificates would be less intrusive to privacy than
the proposed collection mechanism.
6.14 ASFA submitted that the alternative approach "avoids privacy issues
since the surcharge is worked out between the ATO and the taxpayer".17
6.15 The Australian Society of CPAs submitted that an alternative collection
mechanism utilising group certificates would "encourage greater protection of
individual privacy".18
6.16 The Privacy Commissioner, Ms Moira Scollay, told the Committee that
options had been explored to reduce the surcharge's intrusion on privacy:
The range of options, I believe, has been considered, to try and reduce the
impact of the matching of 12 million cases for a return of 350,000 people
actively involved in paying the surcharge. We would have preferred a system
that was less privacy intrusive, but my understanding is that both the industry
and the ATO have been agonising through options for months and months and
have been involving my office in those consultations, and that no other
feasible option has been able to be produced...19
6.17 It was contended that the compliance costs which an alternative
collection mechanism utilising group certificates would place on employers
would not be inappropriate. ASFA noted that:
Under new age based limits ... applying from 20 August 1996, currently
outlined in Tax Law Amendment Bill No 2 1997, employers using
accumulation funds are required to calculate superannuation contributions for
each employee in order to receive a tax deduction. Therefore, employers
already have superannuation details available for most of their employees
which could be easily transmitted on to the group certificate.'0
16 Evidence, p. 62.
17 Submission 23, ASFA, p. 11.
18 Submission 21, Australian Society of CPAs, p. 1.
19 Evidence, p. 130.
20 Submission 23, ASFA, p. 12 (emphasis in original).


6.18 The AMP Society submitted to the Committee that, given the amendment
described above:
...the employer must record and retain this [contribution] information and the
only additional cost required for the alternative proposal is the cost associated
with including the amount paid on the group certificate.21
6.19 The AMP Society submitted that "this additional (and marginalised) cost
is more than outweighed by the cost savings achieved by not requiring the
superannuation funds to report".22
6.20 The Committee understands that if an alternative collection mechanism
utilising group certificates were to be used instead of the proposed collection
mechanism, then there would have to be careful consideration of the varying
ways of implementing such a general approach. Given the time constraints of
this report, the Committee considers it sufficient to note here that a number of
bodies stated that the surcharge could be collected by an alternative collection
mechanism utilising group certificates.
Government position
6.21 The question of alternative collection mechanisms was addressed by the
Hon. Chris Miles, MP, Parliamentary Secretary (Cabinet) to the Prime Minister,
in the Second Reading Speech to the Superannuation Contributions Surcharge
(Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997, as follows:
Alternative measures of collecting the surcharge have been put to the
government. The government has given careful consideration to those
suggestions. The alternatives suggested all involve an unacceptable increase in
compliance costs for employers, small business and all Australians. A number
of these alternatives involve transferring the reporting obligation from
superannuation funds to the significantly larger number ot employers. I he
government believes this would represent a substantial increase in the
compliance burden of small business.
Significantly, the administrative requirements on superannuation funds under
the government's approach are essentially similar to the processes that
superannuation funds already undertake as part of their normal business
operations. Against this background the government has decided not to depart
21 Submission 27, AMP Society, p. 5
22 Submission 27, AMP Society, p. 5


from the broad approach to collection of the surcharge outlined on budget
night.2’
6.22 In evidence to the Committee, the ATO was asked questions in relation
to the Government's position on alternative collection mechanisms. In the
context of discussing the difficulties in collecting Tax File Numbers (TFNs)
from people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds, and from
people living in remote areas, the Committee asked the ATO if such problems
could have been overcome by an alternative collection mechanism. Mr Michael
Monaghan of the ATO replied as follows:
I think our position there is that the government has announced the way in
which it wishes this policy to be implemented, and we are proceeding to do
that.24
6.23 Mr Monaghan was asked if alternative collection methods had been
examined, and if so, what difference in costs would apply if an alternative
collection method was used. He stated that other collection methods had been
examined, but that the role of the ATO was to implement government policy
and that the Government had confirmed the way in which it wished the
surcharge to be implemented.2^
6.24 The Committee asked the ATO if it was prepared to make its assessment
of alternative collection mechanisms available to the Committee. Mr Monaghan
replied that the assessment is "subject of advice to the government", but that the
Committee's request could be passed on.26 At the time of writing this report the
Committee had not received a response to this matter from the ATO.
23 Hansard, House of Representatives, 13 February 1997, p. 626.
24 Evidence, p. 296.
25 Evidence, p. 297.
26 Evidence, p. 298.


CHAPTER 7
REVENUE
Financial implications
7.1 The explanatory memorandum to the Superannuation Contributions
(Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997 states that the proposed surcharge will
raise $434 million in 1997-98, $500 million in 1998-99 and $526 million in
1999-2000. The measure is therefore significant in its effect on the
Government's revenue and the Budget outcome.
Members who have retired since the surcharge announcement
7.2 The Government proposes that the surcharge apply from the date it was
announced, that is, 20 August 1996. Since that time a number of people will
have either changed their superannuation fund or left the workforce. The
position regarding the surcharge for members who have changed their
superannuation fund is relatively straightforward as the preservation rules
relating to superannuation require the amount to be given to another
superannuation provider until the person leaves the workforce. The surcharge
can then be collected from the new superannuation provider.
7.3 For those who have left the workforce, the superannuation provider will
not have the member's funds from which to deduct the surcharge if it becomes
payable after the legislation has passed and the member has left the workforce
and withdrawn their funds from the superannuation provider.
7.4 In such cases, it is proposed that the surcharge liability for the period
between commencement of the surcharge and the person ceasing to have an
adjusted taxable income (ie. their assessable income and superannuation
contributions) above the threshold amount (currently $70 000) will be collected
from the person involved. In oral evidence given to the Committee, a
representative of the Australian Taxation Office stated:
In the case of those people who have left the system, yes, we will be looking to
those people for payment. In the case of people who have moved from fund to
fund, there would be a fund with their contributions and contributions
information. I do not know the exact break up of the number of retirees who
have gone straight out of the system, but there would be a workload and we are


CHAPTER 7
aware of that. The termination payments have been reported to us through the
systems already in place.1
7.5 On the issue of the effect the proposed surcharge would have on those
who have retired and arranged their financial affairs in the time between the
announcement of the proposed surcharge and the enactment of the legislation,
the same representative replied:
The ATO is quite used to dealing with the collection of moneys, and I guess
we will take a sensible and pragmatic approach. There will be time for
payment and other arrangements-not forgetting, of course, that a lot of these
people we are talking about are high income earners....2
Avoidance
7.6 The issue was raised before the Committee of measures that could be
used to prevent avoidance of the proposed surcharge. While the Income Tax
Assessment Act 1936 contains substantial anti-avoidance provisions in Part IVA
of that Act, these provisions only apply to taxes imposed under that Act and the
proposed surcharge is to be imposed under the legislation referred to the
Committee, rather than the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936. A representative
of the Australian Taxation Office stated:
To be precise, I think the commissioner, Mr Carmody, indicated that it would
be naive of people to assume that we would not be keeping an eye on the
situation and we would not be advising government. I do not recall him talking
about anti-avoidance measures as such because people are obviously entitled
to arrange their remuneration within the law. It is not a case of an avoidance
exercise; it is more a case of them arranging their packages as they see fit.3
Repackaging
7.7 In evidence, several witnesses and submittors told the Committee that the
proposed surcharge may lead to some people, whose income makes them
subject to the surcharge, seeking to alter their remuneration package in such a
way so that their adjusted taxable income is less than the surcharge liability
threshold.
1 Hansard, Superannuation Select Committee 11 March 1997, S281
2 Ibid.
3 Ibid., S302


7.8 As noted above in the evidence given by the Australian Taxation Office,
changes to the remuneration package may be made within the current laws and
would not amount to avoidance. There have been a number of suggested
methods by which salary could be repackaged to reduce the adjusted taxable
income below the threshold.
7.9 The most likely means of achieving the reduction in adjusted taxable
income is to reduce the assessable income of the person. This can be achieved
through making greater deductions to negative gearing of both property and
shares, or by reducing the contributions to superannuation that exceed the rate
required under the Superannuation Guarantee legislation.
7.10 There is also the possibility of part of a remuneration package being
taken as fringe benefits provided by the employer, which would be taxed at the
employers tax rate, which is lower than the potential marginal tax rates that
apply to certain people liable to the surcharge (see below).
7.11 In a submission to the Committee, the Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia (ASFA) stated:
The revenue figures seem to assume that these high income earners will not
change their savings patterns and will continue to contribute to superannuation
at the same rate.
Recent evidence shows that people do change their behaviour and that this can
compromise the integrity of the budget figures as evidenced in the shortfall in
company tax.
A recent survey by the Institute of Company Directors found that over 40% of
company directors stated that they would not make voluntary contributions to
superannuation after the introduction of the surcharge.4
7.12 However, some oral evidence given to the Committee suggested that
repackaging salary may not be attractive. A representative of William M.
Mercer Pty Ltd stated:
Part of the problem one has to think about is that it is one thing for someone
whose normal taxable income, if I could put it that way, if they took no action,
was, say, $90 000, to take some action to get it down below $70 000. If you
are talking about someone whose taxable income plus contributions is $200
000, the action that person has to take is much more extreme. Some people
have suggested that people could use negative gearing, for example, to reduce
it. If you work out how much interest you have to be paying on a negative
4
Submission No. 23, p. 8


gearing proposal to get your income down from $ 200 000 to $70 000, it needs
to be enormously large and probably very risky
7.13 Similar doubts were expressed by Mr Ross Ramsay. In oral evidence to
the Committee, Mr Ramsay stated:
I have my doubts about negative gearing. That has been much touted. Negative
gearing is an inherently risky procedure. People are saving for their retirement
where I think the risk needs to be limited. I would say that such switching
would be more into the area of fringe benefits and retention within company
structures where the tax payable is 36% up front....
Other issues
7.14 A number of witnesses and submitters argued that the proposed
surcharge will reduce the incentive for people to contribute to superannuation
above the level required by the Superannuation Guarantee legislation. They
argued that superannuation will be seen as a less attractive savings vehicle than
before the proposed surcharge was announced. With fewer voluntary
superannuation contributions from people above the adjusted tax threshold,
there may be an impact on the Government's revenue. The Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia stated in their submission to the Committee:
The surcharge on contributions will reduce incentives to contribute to
superannuation....7
7.15 ASFA cast doubt on whether the Government's revenue goals will be
achieved from the stated target group, arguing that the estimates do not appear
to take into account behavioural changes by high income earners.8
5 Hansard, Superannuation Select Committee 11 March 1997, S19I
6 Ibid., p. S246.
Submission No. 23, p. 3.
Submission No. 23, p. 3.
7


CHAPTER 8
PRIVACY
Overview
8.1 The issue of privacy arises in relation to the surcharge legislation because
of the method by which an individual's surcharge liability is assessed. In order
to determine whether an individual's adjusted taxable income exceeds the
$70 000 surcharge liability threshold, details of an individual's superannuation
contributions need to be matched with the individual's income by using his or
her tax file number (TFN).
8.2 While originally TFNs were used only for income tax purposes, over
recent years the use of TFNs has been extended to other areas such as child
support, higher education contributions and taxation on superannuation
payouts.1 The use of TFNs for the administration of the superannuation
surcharge represents a further significant extension of the allowable uses of
TFNs," the privacy implications of which were raised by the Privacy
Commissioner in her submission to the Committee. Her concerns included:
. a general concern about the further extension of the use of the TFN;
. the impact of the extension on the 'voluntary quotation' principle;
. the transfer of personal information to organisations not covered by
privacy laws; and
. the possibility that superannuation providers will be able to deduce
the total income of their members from the surcharge assessments
provided by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO).
8.3 Each of these concerns is discussed below.
Another extension to the use of TFNs
8.4 Members of the Committee questioned the Privacy Commissioner about
her views on the latest extension to the allowable uses of TFNs, in particular.
Submission 29, p. 2.
Submission 29, p. 3
2


CHAPTER 8
her apparent acquiescence in the face of the Government's decision to go ahead
with the legislation despite privacy concerns.
8.5 The Privacy Commissioner, Ms Scollay, indicated that under the Privacy
Act:
... there is both the requirement for me to highlight issues around privacy,
which we have been doing actively all the way through this process, plus
balancing that with the administrative need for efficient and effective
3
processes.
8.6 Ms Scollay stressed that her acquiescence with regards to the use of
TFNs for the administration of the superannuation surcharge should not be seen
as support for the extension:
On every occasion on which the tax file number has been looked at being
extended, you can expect to see concern from me. I would never want you to
assume that you could say that I am quite happy about it.4
8.7 Mr Nigel Waters from the Privacy Commissioner's Office added that,
while the Office had communicated their concerns about the legislation to the
Government, once the decision had been taken to continue, the Commissioner's
role became one of minimising the privacy intrusiveness of the legislation.5 Mr
Waters emphasised that the balance between privacy and administrative
efficiency was set by Parliament.
8.8 Ms Scollay indicated that:
...when it seems that the parliament is making a decision that it is
going down an administrative efficiency route, then my job is to
make sure that, given that it is then as little privacy intrusive as
possible and the safeguards are there, the way it is administered
will give as much credence to privacy principles as we possibly
can.6
Voluntary quotation principle
8.9 Concerns about the possible misuse of tax file numbers prompted the
introduction of specific guidelines on the collection, storage, use and disclosure
of TFNs. One of the principles embodied in these guidelines is that an
3
Evidence, p. 131.
4 Evidence, p. 134.
5 Evidence, p. 132.
Evidence, p. 134.
6


individual should have the right to choose whether or not to quote his or her
TFN. This principle is referred to as the 'voluntary quotation' principle.7
8.10 The Privacy Commissioner expressed concern that the legislation
requires all superannuation fund members to quote their TFNs, regardless of
whether their income falls below the surcharge liability threshold, or be liable
to pay the surcharge.8 This situation brings into question the principle of
'voluntary quotation' because individuals who choose not to quote their TFN
are subject to a penalty.
8.11 To ensure that the 'voluntary quotation' principle is adhered to, an
individual must be given the opportunity to object to his or her TFN being used
for a purpose other than the one for which it was provided. There are two ways
in which this can be achieved: the 'opt in' approach or the 'opt out' approach.
Opting in or out?
8.12 An 'opt in' approach requires the active consent of an individual tor a
proposed course of action. That is, where an individual is notified ot a
particular course of action, the individual must formally respond and indicate
his or her agreement. An 'opt out' approach refers to a situation where no
formal response is made to a notification of a particular course ol action, and
that failure to respond is taken to imply agreement with the proposed action.
8.13 The Privacy Commissioner indicated that her preference was tor the 'opt
in' approach. The 'opt out' approach, in her opinion:
...represents a number of risks to privacy, including the possibility
that individuals will fail to exercise their choice because of lack ot
information, inadequate understanding, or inertia.
8.14 The Privacy Commissioner stressed the importance of providing
individuals with sufficient information on why the TFN is needed, what it will
be used for and the consequences of not providing the TFN, to enable them to
make an informed choice about whether or not to quote their tax file numbers.
This information should be reinforced by means of a public education
n
campaign.
7 Submission 29, p. 2.
8 Submission 29, p. 3
9 Submission 29, p. 4.
10 Submission 29, p. 4
11 Submission 29, p. 4; Evidence, p. 137.


TFNs held by superannuation funds/employers
8.15 Where an individual has already provided his or her TFN to a
superannuation fund for other superannuation purposes, the fund is required to
notify the individual of its intention to forward the individual's TFN to the ATO
for the purpose of administering the surcharge. The individual has 30 days in
which to respond, after which time, if no objection has been raised, the TFN is
forwarded to the ATO. Where an employer has an individual's TFN for
superannuation purposes, the same procedure must be followed.
8.16 When questioned at a public hearing of the Committee about the use of
the 'opt out' approach in these circumstances, Mr Waters indicated that:
where the [tax file number] is already held for superannuation
purposes, opt out is considered an adequate basis for using it for
the surcharge.12
8.17 However, in cases where an individual has provided his or her TFN to an
employer for taxation purposes, Mr Waters added that:
the tax office's view to date has been that an opt in would be
required, and that is the subject of current discussions about
whether that is necessary’ or not.13
TFNs held by the A TO
8.18 Where the Tax Office has an individual's TFN, the Tax Office requires
the individual's consent to pass on the TFN to the superannuation provider in
order to streamline future matching. The Privacy Commissioner indicated that
this 'opt in' approach is her preferred approach. She added, however, that:
...if that is going to be administratively disadvantageous to the
people—where they end up with a surcharge when they should
not—then we are again prepared to talk to the tax office about
whether opt out is not going to disadvantage people.14
Personal information not covered by privacy laws
8.19 In her submission to the Committee, the Privacy Commissioner
expressed concern that personal information, particularly information relating
12 Evidence, p. 139
13 Evidence, p. 139.
14 Evidence, p. 140.


to income, will be provided to organisations not covered by privacy laws.
Currently, superannuation providers do not fall within the jurisdiction of the
Privacy Act.15
8.20 A related concern arises where the trustee of a superannuation fund is an
employee of the same company as the individual who has been assessed for his
or her surcharge liability. The trustee may in fact sit in the desk next to that
individual. The information provided to the trustee would enable the trustee to
determine with a fair degree of accuracy the taxable income of his or her fellow
employee.16
8.21 A submission by William M. Mercer Pty Ltd summarised this issue
succinctly:
The proposed system will give the trustees of superannuation funds
considerable information about each member's taxable income. The
information will enable trustees (who will include employer and member
elected representatives) to determine:
• whether the member's taxable income exceeds $85,000;
. the exact taxable income if it is between $70,000 and $85,000;
• whether the member's taxable income is less than $70,00
8.22 Mercer argued that there is no way under the proposed system that this
can be avoided unless the member declines to provide a TFN. However,
non provision of a TFN will result in the fund incurring a surcharge each year.
Further, there is no interest payable by the ATO in respect of surcharge
assessments subsequently reduced because of the later provision of a I f N.
8.23 Mercer concluded that: "This makes the maintenance of privacy a very
costly exercise for superannuation fund members."
8.24 When questioned about the possibility of superannuation funds deducing
their members' level of income from the surcharge assessments provided by the
ATO, Ms Scollay replied that:
Level of income is about the most privacy sensitive piece of data, from our
research, that exists in the community. The community is very concerned
about income and there is always a concern when income information moves
15 Submission 29, p. 5.
16 Evidence, eg pp. 188, 228; Submission 9, pp. 5-6
17 Submission 9. pp. 5-6.
18 Submission 9, p. 6.


into another sphere. So I thought it was necessary to register that concern in
my submission and in my oral evidence today, that whenever there is a broader
use of income than has been used in the past it is a privacy concern.19
Safeguards
8.25 The Privacy Commissioner was questioned about whether there were
sufficient safeguards under current superannuation legislation to protect against
the misuse of TFNs and unauthorised disclosure of personal information, and
whether any such safeguards were as strict as those contained in the income tax
law.
8.26 Ms Scollay indicated that she had been assured that the Superannuation
Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (the SIS Act) provided sufficient safeguards
and penalties for unauthorised disclosure. However, in a supplementary
submission, the Commissioner advised that while there were safeguards to
protect personal information held by superannuation providers:
...these protections are not of the same level as those found in either the
Privacy Act or the secrecy provisions in the Income Tax Assessment Act.20
8.27 The Commissioner advised that this situation could be overcome by
applying all privacy principles in the Privacy Act to superannuation providers
with respect to the administration of the surcharge,21 or by including in the
surcharge legislation provisions for a Minister to make principles (disallowable
instruments) on matters including the acquisition, storage, use and disclosure of
personal information held by superannuation funds. Penalties for failure to
comply with any such principles should also be included in the legislation.22
Monitoring privacy compliance by the superannuation industry
8.28 Under the superannuation surcharge legislation, there is no role for the
Privacy Commissioner to monitor the privacy compliance of superannuation
providers. When questioned on this issue, Ms Scollay commented that if the
19 Evidence, p. 142.
20 Supplementary Submission. 14 March 1997, p. 2.
21 Supplementary Submission, 14 March 1997, p. 2.
22 Supplementary Submission, 14 March 1997, p. 2.


Privacy Commissioner had that role it would provide an extra safeguard and
easier access to a complaints mechanism.23
8.29 In her supplementary submission, the Privacy Commissioner indicated
that if required to monitor privacy compliance, her office would need either a
modest increase in resources or would have to divert some existing resources
away from other tasks.-4
23 Evidence, p. 143.
24 Supplementary Submission, 14 March 1997, p. 3




CHAPTER 9
DEFINED BENEFITS SCHEMES AND ACTUARIAL
STANDARDS
Introduction
9.1 A defined benefits fund is one in which the final benefit payable to a
member does not wholly depend on the earnings of the fund, as is the case with
accumulation funds where benefits are based on employer and employee
contributions and the fund's earnings. There are a variety of defined benefits
funds.
9.2 Generally, the final benefit depends on the final wage or salary of the
member and the number of years that the member has been in the fund. A
number of defined benefits funds are 'unfunded', as the employer does not make
regular contributions to the fund, although the member does, and the final
benefit, other than the member's contributions and interest, is paid by the
employer.
9.3 Common examples of such funds are those relating to the public sector,
(ie. most public servants) and Members of Parliament. In such funds there is no
calculation of the value of the employer contribution and the interest earned on
the employer's contributions had they been made.
9.4 Another variety of defined benefit fund is that where both the employer
and the employee contribute to the fund but the final benefit payable is not
based on the earnings of the fund. Rather, a certain level of benefits is payable
regardless of the earnings of the fund. Such funds are known as funded defined
benefits funds.
9.5 While there are no difficulties with calculating the value of the
employer's contributions and the total earnings of the fund in funded schemes,
the employer's ultimate contribution is unknown as the defined benefit payable
may be significantly above the amount of the fund's earnings. The most
common example of such schemes are public sector funds that are not exempt
funds for the purpose of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.
9.6 A final variety of defined benefits funds are funds in which the employer
is responsible for all contributions to the fund, such as Superannuation
Guarantee contributions, and the employer pays a benefit that is defined, again
usually by the final salary and years of service. Such funds are, again, unfunded


CHAPTER 9
schemes. An example of such funds are those applicable to members of the
judiciary in certain States.
9.7 The proposed surcharge threshold, currently $70 000, is based on the
assessable income of the person plus superannuation contributions made in
respect of the member. This presents problems in unfunded defined benefits
schemes where the actual value of the employer's contributions to the final
benefit is not known.
9.8 In relation to unfunded schemes, the Superannuation Contributions
Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997 defines an unfunded defined
benefits scheme to be a scheme where some or all of the funds necessary to pay
the defined benefit will need to be contributed to the fund by the employer
when the benefit becomes payable.
9.9 For such schemes, an amount, known as the notional surcharge amount,
is to be added to a debit account of the member and this amount, plus interest
calculated at the 10 year Treasury bond rate, is to be deducted from the
member's account when benefits become payable. The amount that is to be
deducted could be very substantial and will increase with income.
9.10 The submission by the Judicial Remuneration Coordinating Committee
suggested that for a Supreme Court judge with a 15 year surcharge liability the
amount could be as high as $270 000.1 Such an amount would be deducted
from the benefits payable to the person when they left the fund. Evidence
presented to the Committee raised a number of points in relation to the
proposed surcharge as it relates to defined benefits schemes.
9.11 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia stated in its
submission to the Committee:
There may be potential to recognise vesting at the level of the individual in
defined benefits schemes but the treatment of contributions for surcharge
purposes for defined benefit funds remains unclear."
Notional Employer Contributions
9.12 The notional employer contribution (NEC) is to be used to assist in the
calculation of the amount that is to be debited to a member's account. Under the
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill
1 Submission No. 64, p. 4.
Submission No. 23, ASFA, p. 15
2


1997, the NEC for a year will be as certified by an eligible actuary according to
Australian actuarial practice.
9.13 The Institute of Actuaries of Australia and the Deputy Australian
Government Actuary advised the Committee that the Government has
requested the Actuarial Advisory Committee, to prepare guidelines for the
calculation of the NEC. The Actuarial Advisory Committee comprises
representatives of the Institute of Actuaries of Australia, the Australian
Taxation Office and the Australian Government Actuary.3
9.14 It is not clear what the guidelines will contain and whether there will be
one guideline for an entire fund or different sub-sets of guidelines for different
classes of members within the fund. On this issue, Mr Ward, representing
William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, indicated that:
Actuaries will find it very difficult to come up with a fair and equitable
approach in defined benefits funds. Yet the problems do not only rest with
4
defined benefits funds; they also cross the bounds into accumulation funds.
9.15 In regard to the general principles to be used in regard to determining the
NEC, Mr Francis of the Institute of Actuaries of Australia stated that:
I believe the principles for determining a notional surchargeable contribution
for an unfunded defined benefits scheme are virtually the same as those
relating to a funded defined benefits scheme: it is still necessary to make your
best estimate assumptions about what is going to happen in the future.
9.16 Evidence given to the Committee indicated a number of possible
approaches to calculating the NEC in respect of a member of a fund, being
either individual calculation, which would be very costly; creating separate
rules for various classes of members; or, the simplest method, introducing a
single rule that would apply to all members of funds. In relation to the last
method, Mr Ward stated:
If, on the other hand, the institute and the government agree there will be a
standard formula that applies, using some form of actuarial mumbo jumbo
behind it, it may be somewhat cheaper, but then it will be far more difficult to
3 Evidence, p. SI94.
4 Ibid., p. 185.
Ibid., p. 258.
5


say that that was the most equitable approach for a particular fund benefit
design and a particular fund membership.
9.17 The question of equity should a standard formula be used was also raised
by members of the Committee with the probability of there being those who
would be advantaged by the application of a standard rule and those who would
be disadvantaged.
9.18 The issue of the timing for the issue of the guidelines relating to the
calculation of the NEC was also raised. Mr Francis of the Institute of Actuaries
of Australia, when questioned as to when the guidelines were likely to be
available, stated:
But I certainly do understand your point that the legislation is silent on the
issue, and that the timing is such that, if the intentions are met, the act will be
7
passed before these guidelines are finalised and known to you.
9.19 Another issue raised is whether the notional debit calculated under the
NEC can be adjusted when the defined benefit actually becomes payable and
what will happen in the situation where the notional debit exceeds the actual
amount of surcharge payable. When the proposition was put to the Deputy
Australian Government Actuary that there will be no adjustment between the
notional debit and the actual surcharge payable, he replied that "I expect that to
be the case."8
9.20 The proposed role of the actuaries in determining the rate at which the
NEC is to be calculated was also raised before the Committee. The argument
has been put that the substantial role to be performed by the actuaries is, in
effect, a delegation of the Commonwealth's power and that the amount of
surcharge payable may ultimately be determined by actuaries. The Bar
Association of Queensland submitted that:
Any surcharge or tax which depends for its computation on matters to be
determined by persons other than the Parliament is seriously able to be argued
as an impermissible delegation of the taxing powers of the Commonwealth
Parliament.
6 Evidence, p. 185.
7 Evidence, p. 254.
8 Evidence, p. 202.
Submission No. 71, p.2,
9


9.21 The submission made to the Committee by the Association of
Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) also supported this view,
commenting that:
...the scheme as currently proposed will have a private, professional body, the
Institute of Actuaries, and individual actuaries effectively setting tax rates for
individuals.
Commutation Rules
9.22 The deeds of superannuation funds generally provide for benefits to be
payable as either a lump sum or a pension and provide for a pension to be
commuted to a lump sum or a lump sum to be commuted to a pension. The
rates at which the commutation occur are defined in the trust deed of the fund.
9.23 There are some funds that do not allow the commutation of a pension to a
lump sum, principally where there are no employee contributions (some funds
mainly relating to members of the judiciary). The issue has been raised of the
effect of the surcharge on the rate of commutation that will apply to defined
benefits schemes where the amount of surcharge payable exceeds any lump
sum entitlement of the member. In such a case part or all of the member's
pension entitlement would need to be commuted to enable the surcharge to be
paid when the surcharge liability arises, which will be at the time the member
leaves the fund.
9.24 The issue is whether the commutation rate in the fund's deed, if such a
rate exists, would be the same as that determined under the proposed surcharge
scheme or whether the proposed surcharge commutation rate would override
that in the fund's deed.
9.25 The Deputy Australian Government Actuary submitted that the
commutation rate for the surcharge would be determined by actuaries. He
expressed the opinion that for defined benefits funds there could be a difference
between the commutation factor contained in the deed and the one required for
payment of the surcharge. The Deputy Australian Government Actuary stated:
Certainly, it is common in the unfunded public sector for those factors not to
be true commutation factors. In the private sector, most commutation factors
are closer to the truth. 11
10 Submission No. 23, p. 15
11 Ibid., p. S199.


When you get to retirement, it would require a change to the legislation under
which the super funds are set up. You would have to be able to commute on
that basis; it would not be part of this legislation.
9.26 The possibility of legislation altering the commutation factor of a public
sector defined benefits scheme to allow a sufficient proportion of a pension to
enable the deferred surcharge to be paid was the issue raised by the Deputy
Australian Government Actuary.
Particular Schemes
9.27 Concerns have also been raised about the effect of the surcharge on
certain superannuation schemes.
Military
9.28 A submission to the Committee by the Armed Forces Federation of
Australia raises a number of issues regarding the potential impact of the
proposed surcharge on members of the armed forces. One issue relates to the
position of members who voluntarily discharge themselves from the services
prior to completing 20 years service. The submission states:
These members do not qualify for retirement pay. They receive a refund of
their own contributions and their entitlement to the 3% productivity benefit
and the Superannuation Guarantee Charge top-up is rolled over until the
member reaches 55. Under this scheme the member would be liable for a
surcharge on benefits he/she will never receive. The Federation strongly
asserts it is unjust to include the DFRDB [this is one of the superannuation
schemes applicable to military personal which was superseded for new
members by a new scheme] in notional employer benefit in calculating the
13
superannuation surcharge for these members.
9.29 The submission also argues that when the new scheme was introduced in
1991, the Government gave an "Iron Clad Guarantee" that members of the
Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme (DFRDB) 'would not be
touched'.
9.30 The final point made in the submission is that:
12 Ibid
Submission No. 51


Although allowances are not to be included to increase superannuation
benefits, the very same allowances will be used to assess the members' liability
for a superannuation surcharge.14
9.31 The arguments relating to DFRDB and the allowances were also
supported in a submission made by the Returned and Services League of
Australia Limited.15
Possible Alternatives
9.32 In its submission to the Committee, the Institute of Actuaries of Australia
suggested that for defined benefits funds it should be possible for a member to
pay their notional surcharge each year and therefore avoid the consequences of
compounding interest on their notional debit (ie. where interest is payable on
the interest accumulated in the debt). While the amount of the notional
surcharge may be difficult to calculate, this could be addressed in the actuarial
guidelines. In its submission, the Institute of Actuaries of Australia stated:
Employers could be given an option of paying a 'surcharge contribution' to the
fund each year to allow progressive payment, rather than an accumulation of a
debt. We note that this may involve a deferral of revenue.
9.33 The same argument could also be made in respect of a member ol a
superannuation provider who wished to pay an annual amount ot surcharge
rather than see a debt accumulate.
Government position
9.34 The Government's position in regard to defined benefits funds was
outlined by the Treasurer in a Press Release dated 5 February 1997. The Press
Release stated, in part:
The same broad administrative arrangements for the annual surcharge
assessment will apply to both funded and unfunded defined benefits funds. I he
principal issue in relation to defined benefits funds is the method tor
determining the annual employer contribution in respect of each employee.
14 Ibid.
15 Submission No. 55.
16 Submission No. 39, pp. 6-7.


9.35 The Press Release then explained the role of the NEC and continued:
The Government believes this is the most practicable approach to adopt. This
method will be flexible enough to apply to a diversity of funds regardless of
the degree of funding or the form in which benefits are provided. It is capable
of providing a smooth progression of contribution rates, avoiding the volatility
of actual contributions and the discontinuities possible in vested benefit
approaches. Submissions to the Actuarial Advisory Committee indicated that
there is a significant support for an actuarially determined contribution rate in
the superannuation industry.
9.36 Regarding the role of actuaries, the Press Release noted that a certificate
relating to the amount of the NEC was to be prepared in relation to members of
defined benefits funds and continued:
The certificate would be prepared by a qualified actuary acting under
professional standards. In this regard, the government has requested the
Institute of Actuaries of Australia to prepare in consultation with the
Australian Government Actuary and the ATO, an actuarial standard on this
issue.
9.37 The Explanatory Memorandum to the Superannuation Contributions
Surcharge (Assessment and Collection) Bill 1997, in a section dealing with the
application of the surcharge to defined benefits funds, states:
Unfunded defined benefits schemes will receive assessments each year. They
will not be required to pay the surcharge at this time.
Instead unfunded defined benefits schemes will be required to maintain a
surcharge debt account for each member of the scheme. Each year the provider
will be required to debit the account of each member who is affected by the
surcharge. The amount debited to the account will be the amount of surcharge
assessed for that year17.
9.38 The Explanatory Memorandum then addressed the issue of the interest
payable on such debits and stated:
This is to be achieved by debiting the account with an amount using the 10
year Treasury bond rate.18
17 Explanatory Memorandum to the Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Assessment and Collection)
Bill 1997, p. 25.
18 Ibid.


CHAPTER 10
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Government Senators’ conclusions and recommendation
10.1 The following paragraphs are the views of Senator John Watson
(Chairman) and Senators Alan Ferguson and Julian McGauran.
10.2 The Government Senators acknowledge all those persons who wrote
letters, prepared submissions and gave oral evidence at the public hearings.
10.3 The views have been fully considered by the Government. The
Government Senators believe no better alternative collection mechanism to the
proposed arrangements has been identified from the extensive consultations.
10.4 The Government Senators note the Treasurer's comments that the
Government will review the constitutional opinion offered by Mr Dennis Rose
AM, QC.
10.5 The current concessional treatment of superannuation tends to favour
higher income earners at the expense of lower income earners.
10.6 The Government Senators believe it is a proper and legitimate objective
to reduce inequity in Australia's superannuation system, and this will be
achieved through the surcharge legislation.
Recommendation
Government Senators therefore recommend that the Bills be passed, subject to
the technical amendments to be put forward by the Government.
Senator John Watson Senator Alan Ferguson
Chairman
Senator Julian McGauran


CHAPTER 10
Non-Government Senators’ Conclusions and Recommendations
10.7 The following paragraphs are the views of Senators Lyn Allison, Stephen
Conroy, Chris Evans and the Hon. Nick Sherry (Deputy Chairman).
10.8 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators note a previous
policy statement made by the current Treasurer, the Hon. Peter Costello, MP, in
November 1995. Mr Peter Downes of Jacques Martin drew this to the attention
of the Committee:
At that time, Mr Costello said he had three tenets for a superannuation system
under a Liberal government. They were: there should be certainty; there
should be confidence; and, above all, there should be simplicity.
I think they were admirable qualities in a superannuation system. But if I was
going to do anything at all to depart from those principles, what I would do
would be introduce a concept like this surcharge.1
10.9 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators note that on the
John Laws program on 25 February 1997 Mr Costello, the Treasurer called the
surcharge a tax.
10.10 This was later repeated by Senator Kemp who called the surcharge a tax
on the PM program on 12 March 1997.
10.11 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators believe that it is
critical for the 15 per cent superannuation tax to be treated as a tax, in order for
the Parliament to be assured that the legislation is in fact within the
Constitutional powers of the Parliament.
10.12 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators note the
Prime Minister's pre-election commitment to "not increase or introduce any
new taxes."
10.13 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators are firmly of the
view that it is entirely inappropriate for the Government to require the
Parliament to pass legislation which may in fact be unconstitutional, in order
for the Government to maintain their election commitment.
I
Evidence, p. 28.


10.14 The Coalition's election policy on superannuation, released in February
1996, echoed these intentions, with the clear commitment that there would be
no change to the 15 per cent tax on employer contributions, and that:
....a Coalition Government will retain the current taxation treatment of
superannuation, including the 15% rebate incentive for income taken in
pension form2.
10.15 Commitments to provide certainty in retirement incomes policy were
provided in the social security policy,3 the older Australians policy,4 and also in
the Prime Minister's undertaking in his Campaign Launch speech not to
introduce new taxes or increase existing ones. The superannuation tax
surcharge breaches each of these four policy commitments.
10.16 The Treasurer defended the introduction of the measure, the largest
single taxation revenue measure introduced in the 1996 Budget, in his Budget
speech as a measure "designed to make superannuation fairer." He said:
A major deficiency of the current system is that tax benefits for superannuation
are overwhelmingly biased in favour of high income earners. For a person on
the top tax rate, superannuation is a 33 percentage point tax concession while
a person earning $20 000 receives a 5 percentage point tax concession. High
income earners can take added advantage through salary sacrifice
arrangements that are not available to lower income earners. The Government
is remedying this situation.5
10.17 The unfair nature of superannuation tax concessions has been the subject
of considerable comment by many industry bodies and commentators,
including ACOSS6 and EPAC7.
10.18 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators support the stated
intention of the Government to move to correct the inequities in the taxation ot
superannuation, although note that the surcharge would, even il fully
implemented, only partially achieve this purpose, while opening up new
inequities.
2 "Super for Ail - Security and Flexibility in Retirement" Coalition Superannuation Policy Statement, p. 16
3 "A Social Security Safety Net" Coalition Social Security Policy, p. 12.
4 "Security for Older Australians" Coalition Policy, p. 3.
5 Costello, P. "Budget Speech", August 20 1996, p.10
6 Submission 58, pp.12-5.
7 Pender H and Ross S "Taxation, Regulation and Private Savings in Australia" EPAC Jan 1994;
"Economic Effects of an Ageing Population" EPAC Council Paper No 29 1988.


10.19 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators believe that the
surcharge's proposed collection mechanism is inefficient. Labor Opposition and
Australian Democrat Senators note the statement to the Committee by Mr
Vernon Winley of the Business Council of Australia (BCA) that:
... from the initial announcement of the surcharge, the council has
been extremely concerned about the workability, the administrative
costs and the fairness of the proposed implementation
arrangements. In principle, a tax that has either disproportionately
high compliance costs or disproportionately high collection costs is
a bad tax on the economy. The implementation approach proposed
for this surcharge fails both of those criteria, making it doubly a
bad tax. Likewise, an implementation approach that is inequitable,
as we believe this one is, creates a bad tax.8
10.20 The New South Wales Government made an extremely interesting
observation regarding the intention of the Bills and their interaction with
privacy laws.
10.21 The New South Wales Government expressed concern that the Bills may
be beyond the Parliament's constitutional taxation power and incidental power.
10.22 As currently drafted, the Bills may be construed as having as their
primary intention the collecting and collating of information. The surcharge
acts in this analysis as the penalty for failing to provide such information. By
tailing to provide information the individual is subjected to a tax of 15 per cent.
10.23 If this is indeed the intention of the Bills, it would seem that the
Parliament is beyond the scope of its constitutional power in relation to the
incidental power. Indeed Bills intending to effect this outcome would possibly
constitute the most substantial legislative invasion of privacy laws ever enacted
in Australia.
10.24 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators are concerned that
the superannuation tax seeks to overturn the voluntary quotation principle in
respect to TFN's.
10.25 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators believe that it is a
fundamental principle of Australian society that individuals are able to choose
whether they quote their tax file number to non-government organisations who
are not subject to privacy laws, without fear of being subjected to a punitive
penalty tax.
Evidence, p. 210.


10.26 If the collection mechanism of the tax were to be amended to the
alternative collection mechanism then there would be no requirement for
individuals to disclose their tax file number to the superannuation funds.
10.27 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators are concerned that
the failure of the Government to adopt this position of amending the collection
mechanism will result in a number of implications for privacy laws which may
not be appropriate or supported by the Australian community.
That the surcharge is a tax
10.28 The superannuation surcharge was the largest single revenue measure in
the 1996/7 Budget. The Budget Papers clearly categorise the revenue to be
raised on superannuation contributions as being part of Income Tax
collections9, citing a key factor underlying growth in the 1997 forward
estimates as:
....the increase in superannuation contributions tax for higher income earners111.
10.29 Evidence given to the Committee by the ATO stated that the power to be
relied upon for the imposition of the Bill is paragraph 51 (ii) of the Constitution,
which is the taxation power.11
10.30 Mr Dennis Rose AM, QC, on behalf of the BCA, also supported this
argument on the basis that the surcharge is a tax. In his advice, he indicated
that, in his opinion, there were no other Constitutional powers which could
support the Constitutional authority of the surcharge, including the corporations
power.
10.31 Mr Ross Ramsay, a trustee of the Superannuation Fund Bramex Super
Pty Ltd, made the point that if the taxation power is not relied upon, the
surcharge would amount to the acquisition of property on other than just terms
and so breach paragraph 5 l(xxxi) of the Constitution.
10.32 The surcharge has all the attributes of a tax. These include:
. compulsory payment, including for those who do not provide their
TFN; and
9 Budget Paper 1996/7 No 1, pp.4-28
10 ibid pp. 4-45.
11 Evidence, p. 304.


. no service provided in return for the payment.
10.33 It cannot therefore be called a fee for service. It doesn't matter whether a
measure is described as a tax: whether it is a tax depends on the nature of the
impost. For example, the training guarantee levy and the superannuation
guarantee levy are both based on the tax power even though called levies. If the
Government is relying on paragraph 51 (ii) of the Constitution, then the
surcharge is clearly a tax.
10.34 None of the witnesses who appeared before the Committee justified the
Constitutional basis of the surcharge other than on the grounds that it was a tax.
Notwithstanding the constitutional basis of the measure and the categorisation
by both Treasury and the Tax Office, the Government continues to deny that
the measure is indeed a tax increase. For example, the Assistant Treasurer told
the Senate on March 18 1997 that:
A tax is a tax and a surcharge is a surcharge.A tax is defined as a
compulsory unrequited payment demanded by government for its support. A
surcharge is defined as an additional charge.12
10.35 This continuing denial of the true nature of the increase in
superannuation contributions tax contained in this legislation and attempts to
cloak its true taxing effect are contributing to the administrative problems
caused by the legislation.
Eligible Termination Payments (ETPs)
10.36 The application of the surcharge to ETPs will result in great injustice and
will not only affect the Government's proposed target group of high income
earners. If a person on a low or middle income accumulates long service leave
over a number of years, they will receive a payment on leaving the workforce
that is likely to put them into the income group liable for the surcharge. They
will then face losing 15% of their entire ETP even though it has been
accumulated for a large number of years. Where is the equity argument?
10.37 However, Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators recognise
that there are situations where large ETPs are paid to some people, such as
company directors, and that even with the proposed surcharge in place, such
measures as 'golden handshakes' could be used to result in a tax rate lower than
12 Senator Rod Kemp, in response to a Question from Senator Sherry, Senate Hansard March 18 1997,
p.1601.


would otherwise apply if the payment is disguised as an ETP rather than
normal income.
10.38 There is therefore a need for anti-avoidance measures to be contained in
the surcharge. As the surcharge is not imposed under the Income Tea-
Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA), the anti-avoidance rules in Part IVA of that Act
will not apply. This view was supported by the ATO.13 The Bills should be
amended to include anti-avoidance provisions or be called a tax and imposed
under the ITAA so that Part IVA applies.
10.39 The Bills will increase the tax paid on ETPs which are currently
concessionally taxed under the ITAA, and if the Government want to increase
the rate of tax on ETPs, why doesn't it increase the rates contained in the
ITAA?
Defined Benefits Schemes
10.40 The impact on members of defined benefits schemes will be severe. They
will not only have to pay the surcharge, if liable, but will also be paying interest
on this amount. As there is no ability for an employer or employee to pay off
the surcharge as it accrues, they will also have to pay compound interest, even
if willing to pay off the amount on a yearly basis as the tax liability accrues.
Where is the choice for members and isn't the Government supposedly about
providing choice for members of the community?
Guidelines
10.41 The actuarial guidelines have not been released and evidence to the
Committee is that they will not be finalised before the proposed passage of the
Bills.14 The guidelines are crucial to the operation and impact of the Bills yet
the Parliament is expected to pass the legislation without having seen the
guidelines.
The proposed collection mechanism and alternatives
10.42 Many witnesses and submissions drew attention to the cost of the
proposed collection mechanism. Comments included the following:
13 Evidence p. 302.
14 Evidence, p. 254


Huge amounts of data will be unnecessarily collected and passed backwards
and forwards between the funds and the Australian Tax Office (ATO) for fund
members who will never legitimately have to pay the surcharge.1'
Every superannuation fund member will pay a charge for the purpose of
sending the information about them to Canberra in order that someone can
assess that there is no surcharge payable.16
10.43 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators note the submission
of the Investment Funds Association (IFA) that:
... if the Government treated this initiative as a tax on each individual and not
as a surcharge on superannuation fund members, the overly elaborate yet
17
unsophisticated procedures would not have been necessary.
10.44 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators note the widespread
support for an alternative collection mechanism utilising group certificates.
Many bodies supported the use of group certificates for the surcharge collection
mechanism, including:
• the AMP Society;18
. the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA);19
• the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU);20
• the Australian Society of CPAs;21
BCA;22
• Coopers and Lybrand;23
• the Institute of Actuaries of Australia;24
• Jacques Martin;25
• the Life Insurance and Superannuation Association of Australia Inc
(LISA);26 and
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
Submission 6, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST), p. I.
Ms Robyn Quinn of the New South Wales Premier's Department, Evidence, p. 24.
Submission 26, IFA, p. 7.
Submission 27, AMP Society, pp. 4-5.
Submission 23, ASFA. p. 1 I.
Submission 52, ACTU, pp. 2, 5.
Submission 21, Australian Society of CPAs, p. 1.
Submission 32, BCA, p. 3.
Submission 30, Coopers and Lybrand, p. 5.
Submission 39, Institute of Actuaries of Australia, Attachment, pp. 7-8.
Submission 10, Jacques Martin, p. 3.


. the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia (MTIA).27
10.45 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators believe that the
advance instalments system adds another layer of complexity to an already
unnecessarily complex collection mechanism. The advance instalments system
will be highly disruptive to the investment practices of superannuation
providers. Dr Michaela Anderson of ASFA told the Committee that:
The surcharge is likely ... to lead to a liquidity problem for funds because of
the need to hold reserves to cover an advance instalment. This would occur
particularly at one point in the year where there is the second group assessment
and the advance instalment coming at the same time. Around 15 June seems to
be what we have called the 'double whammy' time where many funds could
have liquidity problems.28
Recommendations
10.46 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators recommend that the
equitable principle of the 15 per cent tax surcharge be supported.
10.47 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators recommend that an
alternative collection mechanism utilising group certificates be adopted, and
that the advance instalments system not be adopted. As the surcharge Bills are
currently framed every single superannuation member will pay - through high
administration costs and lost opportunities to funds for long-term investment -
for the inefficiencies of a collection mechanism that is targeted at only
approximately 350,000 people.
10.48 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators recommend that
unpaid leave and termination payments contained in prescribed industrial
instruments be excluded from the definition of assessable income. Unusual
payments (eg. golden handshakes) should be included in the definition of
assessable income where they have been received after August 20 1996.
10.49 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators support the
recommendation, made as part of an alternative collection mechanism utilising
group certificates, that individuals be allowed to nominate how they pay their
surcharge liability, for example: by offsetting the surcharge against any tax
refund due; or paying the surcharge directly; or passing the liability to the
26 Evidence, pp. 148-149.
27 Evidence, p. 159; Submission 20, MTIA, Annexure A, p. 1.
28 Evidence, p. 63.


superannuation fund to make the payment by debiting his or her account. Labor
Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators note that an approach along
these lines has been suggested by both the BCA and ASFA.29
10.50 Labor Opposition and Australian Democrat Senators are concerned that
the Australian Tax Office's proposed approach of collecting surcharge on a
proportional basis from superannuation funds in cases where an individual
holds accounts with more than one fund will lead to additional administrative
work which could have been avoided by allowing individuals to nominate how
they would wish to pay their surcharge liability.30 This will be a particular
issue in relation to small accounts.
Conclusion
10.51 The problems with the collection mechanism proposed by the
Government appear to stem from a determination to muddy the true nature of
the surcharge by requiring a second party (ie. the funds) to pay a tax imposted
on the first party (ie. the high income earner). The convoluted nature of the
resultant legislation flows from the reluctance of the Government to concede
that the largest revenue measure in the 1996 Budget, categorised by Treasury in
the Budget Papers as part of Income Tax collections^ is in fact, a tax.
10.52 The problems identified by the Committee could be solved by admitting
that the surcharge is a tax and implementing it as a tax under the ITAA. This
would allow the implementation of the Government's objective of reducing
inequities in superannuation taxation concessions to be achieved, while
reducing the massive compliance costs associated with the legislation.
Senator Lyn Allison
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Stephen Conroy
Senator the Hon. Nick Sherry
Deputy Chairman
29 Submission 32, BCA, p. 3; Submission 23, ASFA, p. I 1.
30 On the proposed ATO approach see Evidence, pp. 301 -302.
31 Budget Paper 1996-7 No. 1. pp. 4-28.


AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRAT SENATORS' SUPPLEMENTARY
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.53 The following paragraphs are the views of Senator Lyn Allison on behalf
of the Australian Democrats and are in addition to the conclusions and
recommendations above.
10.54 The Australian Democrats strongly support a fairer taxation system for
superannuation. Indeed, we have been calling for an increase in tax paid by
high income earners for several years because the current concessional
treatment of superannuation contributions provides a disproportionate benefit
for high income earners. The following table illustrates:
(* Assumes 6 per cent employer contribution)
(a) On current tax rules (b) With proposed 15% Surcharge
10.55 Under the flat rate contributions tax, the more a person earns, the bigger
the benefit. Given that superannuation tax concessions are now worth more
than $6.4 billion a year, this means a very large chunk of tax revenue is being
diverted to high income earners. This defeats one of the arguments in favour ot
concessional tax treatment of superannuation ie. that encouraging employees to
save for retirement through tax concessions will ultimately reduce reliance on
the pension.
10.56 This is because the tax benefits under the current scheme are biggest lor
those least likely to be on the pension. The current unfair nature ot the
superannuation contributions tax has been extensively canvassed by a wide
range of organisations such as EPAC reports32, the Committee for Economic
32 Pender H and Ross S "Taxation, Regulation and Private Savings in Australia" EPAC Jan 1994,
"Economic Effects of an Ageing Population" EPAC Council Paper No 29 1988.


Development^3, ACOSSj4 and Access Economics, and by a wide range of
commentators including economist Professor John Head, commentators Brian
Toohey and Eva Cox and former Treasury Deputy Secretary and member of the
National Commission of Audit, John Fraser. ACOSS estimates that someone
earning a salary of $90,000 will receive tax concessions worth three times as
much as the eventual pension drawn by someone earning average weekly
earnings.
10.57 Research by the Australian Democrats have shown the tax system is also
tilted against women because men tend to enjoy much higher incomes. About
74 per cent of super tax concessions flow to men and just 26 per cent to
women. This is despite the fact that women constitute 55 per cent of the post-
age 60 population0.
10.58 The research also showed that the 6.9 per cent of the population with an
income above $50,000 received 33.2 per cent of the $6 billion of tax
concessions. By contrast, the 22 per cent of people earning less than $21,000
earned just 3.2 per cent.
10.59 It is clear that the reform proposed by the Government still fall well short
of delivering a fair superannuation contributions tax. The tax system will still
be unfairly skewed toward high income earners while low income earners will
receive little benefit from concessional tax treatment.
10.60 Not just is the Government's proposed surcharge administratively
cumbersome and constitutionally questionable, it also fails the primary
objective set by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech of delivering a fair
superannuation taxation regime.
10.61 A much fairer process would be to tax all employer superannuation
contributions through the PAYE tax system with a flat rebate (eg. 15-20 per
cent) available to all contributors off their marginal tax rates. This would have
the added bonus of appearing clearly as a tax rebate for super implying
concessional treatment rather than as a contributions tax implying punitive
treatment.
10.62 The evidence presented to this inquiry confirms that it would be possible
to develop an administratively simple system for identification and payment of
33 Argy F "An Australia that Works: A Vision for the Future" CEDA August 1993.
34 Submission 58, pp. 12-15.
35 Kemot C "Briefing Paper on Women, Superannuation, Tax Concessions and the Pension" Sep 1994. p.2


superannuation contribution taxes through the group certificate system, a
conclusion already reached by this Committee in 1992.36
10.63 It is also noted that the Coalition proposed a similar charge to
superannuation taxation prior in their 1993 Election Policy, although the 1996
Election Policy proposed retention of the current 15 per cent contributions tax.
10.64 The Australian Democrats recommend that the Government give
consideration to further reform of superannuation taxation concessions to
provide full equality of treatment across all income groups.
SENATOR LYN ALLISON
36 Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Dec 1992, pp.82-4,




APPENDIX 1
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS


LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS






APPENDIX 2
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
SYDNEY, 10 MARCH 1997
Dr Michaela Anderson, Director, Policy and Research, Association of Superannuation
Funds of Australia
Dr Mark Blair, Consultant, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Robert Brown, National Councillor, Institute of Chartered Accountants
Mr Kevin Casey, National Manager Client Services, AMP Society
Mr Stephen Child, Member, Retirement Savings Committee, Life Investment and
Superannuation Association of Australia
Mr John Ciacciarelli, Technical Services Manager, Retail Financial Services, AMP
Society
Mr Ross Clare, Principal Researcher, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Peter Downes, Manager, Government Business Development, Jacques Martin
Mr Bruce Finlay, Senior Legal Officer (Superannuation), Premier's Department, New
South Wales State Government
Mr Michael Forsdick, Partner. Coopers and Lybrand
Mr Peter Foxton, Federal President, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Richard Gilbert, Executive Director, Investment Funds Association
Ms Melinda Howes, IFA representative from ATO Regulatory Working Group.
Investment Funds Association
Mr Martin Jilovsky, Principal Consultant, Jacques Martin
Mrs Glenese Keavney, FPA Legislation and Regulations Committee, Financial
Planning Association of Australia Ltd
Ms Noelle Kelleher, Member of the Superannuation Centre of Excellence. Australian
Society of Certified Practising Accountants
Mrs Annabelle Kline, Executive Officer, Investment Funds Association


LIST OF WITNESSES A T PUBLIC HEARINGS
Mrs Judy Lind, Executive Officer, Superannuation Research and Development,
Australian Taxation Office
Mr John Maroney, Executive Director, Life Investment and Superannuation
Association of Australia
Mrs Louise Matthews, National Superannuation Technical Consultant, Coopers and
Lybrand
Miss Alison Miller, FPA Legislation and Regulations Committee, Financial Planning
Association of Australia Ltd
Mr Deane Prior, Director, Superannuation (Policy and Legislation), Treasurer's Office,
South Australian Government
Ms Robyn Quinn, Manager Super Policy, New South Wales Premier's Department
Ms Susan Ryan, Executive Director, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Ms Moira Scollay, Privacy Commissioner
Ms Louise Sylva, Manager, Public Affairs, AMP Financial Services
Mr William Tuck, Director Public Profile, Institute of Chartered Accountants
Mrs Rosemary Vilgan, Deputy Federal President (Technical and Regulations),
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Nigel Waters. Head, Privacy Branch, Privacy Commissioner's Office
Mr Grahame Willis, Director - Finance and Administration, Metal Trades Industry
Association of Australia
Mr Murray Wyatt, Chairman of the Superannuation Centre of Excellence, Australian
Society of Certified Practising Accountants
CANBERRA, 11 MARCH 1997
Mr Leo Bator. Assistant Commissioner. Australian Taxation Office
Mr Chris Casey, Assistant Commissioner, Superannuation Systems, Australian
Taxation Office
Mr Ronald Cahill, Chief Magistrate of the ACT, President, ACT Magistrates'
Association
Mr Ian Court, President, Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees


Mr Kevin Deeves, Deputy Australian Government Actuary, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Mr Paul Francis, Convenor, Superannuation Practice Committee, Institute of Actuaries
of Australia
Ms Erica Lejins, Director (Policy), Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Ms Judy Lind, Executive Officer, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Michael Monaghan, First Assistant Commissioner (Superannuation), Australian
Taxation Office
Mr Mark O'Connor, Executive Officer, Legislative Services, Australian Taxation Office
Mr Ross Ramsay, Director of the Trustee of the Superannuation Fund, Bramex Super
Pty Ltd
Mr Anthony Regan, Acting Tax Counsel, Legislative Services, Australian I axation
Office
Mr Dennis Rose, QC, Legal Adviser, Business Council of Australia
Mr John Rowe, Consultant on Superannuation. Business Council of Australia
Mr Kevin Scott, Joint National Secretary, Finance Sector Union
Mr Ian Silk, Chief Executive, Australian Retirement Fund
Mr Michael Somes, President, Association of Australian Magistrates
Mr Raymond Stevens, Director and Principal, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Trevor Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Industry Projects Branch, Insurance and
Superannuation Commission
Mr John Ward, Principal, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Brett Westbrook, Fund Secretary, TWU Superannuation Fund
Mr Vernon Winley, Assistant Director, Business Council of Australia




APPENDIX 3
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Byrnwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar. 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)


LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Eight Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
- Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)


Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996
- Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No 60 of 1997
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
