

Super Guarantee Bills
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Second Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
June 1992




Super Guarantee Bills
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Second Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1992
Superannuation Guarantee Charge Bill 1992
Superannuation Legislation (Consequential Amendments and
Transitional Provisions) Bill 1992
Superannuation Guarantee (Consequential Amendments) Bill 1992
June 1992
Australian Government Publishing Service
Canberra


© Commonwealth of Australia 1992
ISBN 0 644 25236 7
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared
by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation Secretariat
Printed for AGPS by Better Printing Service, 1 Foster Street, Queanbeyan NSW 2620


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE:
Committee Members
Senator N Sherry Chair
Senator R Alston Deputy Chair
Senator B Childs
Senator C Kemot
Senator J Watson
Senator S West
Former Members of the Committee:
13.08.92 - 17.10.91
21.06.91 - 13.08.91
Senator M Lees
Senator S Spindler
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officers:
Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Mr R Gilbert
Ms L Curran
Mr M Game
Mr R Power
Miss H Hibbitt
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT
Tasmania
Victoria
New South Wales
Queensland
Tasmania
New South Wales
South Australia
Victoria
Telephone: (06) 277 3439




CONTENTS
Contents
Members of the Committee in
1. INTRODUCTION 1
2. DESCRIPTION OF THE SGL 5
3. RATIONALE FOR THE SGL 9
4. TARGETS, TIMETABLE AND LEVELS OF CONTRIBUTION 13
5. COMPLIANCE AND COVERAGE 27
6. ECONOMIC IMPACT 37
7. INTERACTION OF SGL WITH SOCIAL SECURITY 63
8. STATE GOVERNMENTS 67
9. AMENDMENTS PUT TO THE COMMITTEE BY ORGANISATIONS
AND INDIVIDUALS 73
10. RECOMMENDATIONS 81
Minority Report by Senators Alston and Watson 87
Minority Report by Senator Kemot 105
Appendices:
A Terms of reference of on-going inquiry 115
B. List of witnesses re SGL inquiry 117
C. List of submissions re SGL inquiry 121
— by number
— by alphabetical order
D. List of submissions re on-going inquiry 125
— by number
— by alphabetical order
E. Government amendments as moved in the House of Representatives
F. Government response to the issues raised by the Australian Democrats 137
G. Glossary ^




CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION
Introduction
1.1 On 4 May 1992 the Senate resolved:
• That the provisions of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1992,
the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Bill 1992 and the Superannuation
Legislation (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Bill 1992
be referred to the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for inquiry and
report by 17 June 1992.
• That when these Bills are introduced into the Senate, they stand referred to the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for inquiry and report by 17 June
1992.
1.2 On 6 May 1992 the Senate further resolved:
• That the provisions of the Superannuation Guarantee (Consequential
Amendments) Bill 1992 be referred to the Select Committee on Superannuation
for inquiry and report by 17 June 1992.
• That when the Bill is introduced to the Senate, it stands referred, after the
moving of the motion for the second reading, to the Select Committee on
Superannuation for inquiry and report by 17 June 1992.
1.3 The Superannuation Guarantee Bills are commonly referred to as the SGL Bills.
The term 'SGL' stands for 'superannuation guarantee levy', which was the expression
originally used by the Government to refer to its forthcoming legislation. As that
legislation now stands, however, the term levy' has been replaced by the term 'charge'.
Since the term 'SGL' still seems to be commonly used to describe the legislation, the
Committee has chosen to use it in this report as a convenient short-hand reference to the
Superannuation Guarantee Bills.
1.4 At the first public hearing on the Bills (6 May 1992) the Parliamentary Secretary
to the Treasurer and Manager of Government Business in the Senate, Senator the Hon
Bob McMullan, tabled Government amendments to the legislation as agreed in the
House of Representatives. The Committee received the amendments (applying to the
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1992 and determined that they be
incorporated in Hansard.
1.5 The referral of the Superannuation Guarantee Bills to the Select Committee was
unusual in several respects. First, the Bills were referred to a select committee already
in existence rather than to a standing committee. Second, the Bills were referred on the
motion of the Australian Democrats - and at the initiative of the Committee rather than
through the Selection of Bills Committee. Third, the Bills were not before the Senate at
the time the above resolutions were passed; hence use of the expression 'that the
provisions' of the Bills be referred to the Select Committee (pending the actual
introduction of the Bills into the Senate).


Conduct of the Inquiry
1.6 At a private meeting of the Committee on 4 May 1992 members discussed the list
of witnesses to be called to give evidence on the Superannuation Guarantee Bills. In
considering which witnesses to hear, members took into account the fact that the
Committee had already heard over 200 witnesses in the course of its inquiry into
superannuation issues as set out in the Senate's resolution of 5 June 1991. That resolution
established the Select Committee on Superannuation; a copy of its terms of reference
and procedures is at Appendix A.
1.7 Members acknowledged the great value of the evidence already taken by the
Committee in passing the following motion (moved by Senator Kemot) at the first SGL
public hearing:
The Committee wishes to record in the Hansard of this evening's proceedings the fact
that it has heard evidence in previous hearings on a number of matters which are relevant
to the growth of superannuation and its impact on macro and micro-economic
performance in the economy.
In particular, in this regard, the Committee acknowledges the evidence given by
representatives of the Industry Research and Development Board on matters relating to
the use of superannuation funds to further the development of Australian industry.
1.8 The Committee conducted public hearings on 6 May, 8 May, 11 May and
3 June 1992. A list of witnesses appearing before the Committee is at Appendix B and
a list of submissions (and other relevant written evidence) is at Appendix C.
1.9 This Report is more detailed than the standard report of a committee on the
referral of a bill because it addresses four of the seventeen terms of reference of this
Committee's on-going inquiry into superannuation. The four terms of reference are:
... to inquire into and report upon the following matters:
(l) the appropriate means of providing adequate superannuation for part-time and
casual employees and the feasibility of providing superannuation for people
outside the workforce;
(m) the rate of employer non-compliance with superannuation awards;
(o) the feasibility of providing improved benefits to superannuation arrangements in
lieu of increased contributions under superannuation awards in appropriate
circumstances; and
(p) the need for an appropriate target and timetable for the achievement of adequate
levels of superannuation.
1.10 A significant number of the remaining terms of reference have already been
addressed in the Committee's First Report entitled Safeguarding Super: the Regulation
of Superannuation. This report was tabled in the Senate on 4 June 1992 and covers
regulatory issues affecting superannuation. Those terms of reference not addressed in the
First Report or in this report on the SGL will be covered in the Committee's third, and
final, report due to be presented to the Senate by 10 September 1992.


Treatment of Evidence
1.11 Appendix C lists all the written material which the Committee authorised to be
published in a supplementary volume of evidence to be tabled at the end of the
Committee's general inquiry. The supplementary volume includes both formal submissions
and other material relevant to the inquiry, such as a description of the Superannuation
Guarantee Bills prepared by the Bills Digest Service of the Department of the
Parliamentary Library. Also relevant are the responses of certain Government agencies
to the Committee's request for supplementary information; the agencies are Treasury
(material dated 1 May, 5 May, 6 May, 11 May and 29 May 1992), the Australian Taxation
Office (ATO, material dated 4 May and 11 May 1992) and the Department of Industrial
Relations (DIR, dated 1 May 1992).
1.12 In order to facilitate community discussion, the Committee adopted the stance of
publishing all submissions on receipt. Likewise, the Committee circulated uncorrected
Hansard transcripts as soon as they became available. References in the Report to oral
testimony are to page numbers in these uncorrected Hansard transcripts.
1.13 In order to clarify whether a particular reference is to the Committee's on-going
inquiry into superannuation or to the specific inquiry into the SGL, the following practice
has been adopted:
• written submissions to the on-going inquiry are referred to as 'Sub no. xx' (a list
of written submissions to the Committee's on-going inquiry into superannuation
is at Appendix D);
• written submissions to the SGL inquiry are referred to as 'SG sub no. xx';
• oral evidence to the general inquiry (recorded in the uncorrected proof copy of
Hansard) appears as 'Evidence, p xx'; and
• oral evidence to the inquiry into the SGL (recorded in the uncorrected proof copy
of Hansard) appears as 'SG evidence, p xx'.
Appreciative Comments
1.14 The value of the Committee's work in both its general inquiry and its specific
inquiry into the Superannuation Guarantee Bills was noted by several witnesses as shown
by the following quotations:
We congratulate the Senate on undertaking this inquiry because it is a very important,
critically important, issue to the business community...1
I really think your Committee has contributed so much to the debate in this country...2
Mr Ian Spicer, Chief Executive of the Confederation of Australian Industry, SG evidence,
p 63.
Mr Daryl Dixon, SG evidence, p 89.
2


I would like to congratulate this Committee for the work it has done in airing issues that
have been deliberately buried by organisations...3, [and]
There has not been wide ranging and extensive consultation on these proposals and this
Senate inquiry, to its credit, is the only public forum where we have had the ability to
actually express our views4
I think this Committee's report will be an important contributor to getting together a
comprehensive retirement incomes policy for Australians.5
1.15 The Committee records its appreciation of the submissions and oral evidence
tendered to both of its inquiries. The Committee also acknowledges the cooperation of
the Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer, Senator the Hon Bob McMullan, in
attending and answering questions during the Committee's examination of matters
relating to the Treasury, the Australian Taxation Office and the Insurance and
Superannuation Commission.
Minority Reports
1.16 This report contains two minority reports. The first minority report is by Senators
Alston and Watson, and the second is by Senator Kemot.
ibid, p 78.
Ms Jane Elix, Director, Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations, ibid, p 95.
Mr Laurie Eakin, Executive Director, Retailers Council of Australia, ibid, p 158.
5


CHAPTER 2: DESCRIPTION OF THE SGL
Description of the SGL
The package of bills dealing with superannuation comprises four separate Bills:
• the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1991
• the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Bill 1992
• the Superannuation Legislation (Consequential Amendments and Transitional
Provisions) Bill 1992
• the Superannuation Guarantee (Consequential Amendments) Bill 1992
2.1 The third of these Bills is not related to the other Bills. The Consequential
Amendments and Transitional Provisions Bill amends 28 Acts to update provisions in
them relating to superannuation; but the amendments have no bearing on the
superannuation guarantee initiative that is the subject of this Report. In the words of the
Minister for Finance, the Hon Ralph Willis MP, the Bill 'makes only consequential
amendments that reflect changes that have previously been put in place1.1 For this
reason, the Committee did not further consider this Bill and recommends to the Senate
that the Bill be agreed to without amendment
2.2 The constitutional basis of the three Superannuation Guarantee Bills is:
... the taxation power contained in sub-section 51(ii) of the Constitution. The use of this
power to impose the training guarantee levy is currently subject to a challenge in the
High Court and if that challenge is successful the implication is that the taxation power
cannot be used to support the SGL. However, if this is the case, the Commonwealth will
be able to rely on other powers, such as the corporations and trade and commerce
powers, to ensure a wide application of the levies. If these powers were relied on, the
levies would not have the universal application they have relying on the taxation power.
2.3 The Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1991 (as amended by the
House of Representatives) establishes the Superannuation Guarantee Scheme and
provides for its administration. The Scheme is to commence on 1 July 1992. The Scheme
will require a levy to be paid where employers fail to contribute a percentage of
employee's earnings to a fully vesting superannuation fund.
2.4 The Administration Bill has nine parts. Part 1 states that the legislation applies
to the Commonwealth and all States and Territories, but it goes on to exclude
Commonwealth and tax-exempt Commonwealth authorities from liability to pay the
superannuation guarantee charge. Part 2 defines terms used in the Bill including
'complying superannuation fund', 'defined benefit superannuation scheme', 'employee' and
Second reading speech, House of Representatives, 2 April 1992.
Parliamentary Research Services, Bills Digest, SG sub no. 1, p 3.
2


'employer', 'maximum contribution base', 'notional earnings base', 'ordinary time earnings',
'salary or wages' and 'superannuation scheme'. Part 2 also stipulates that the maximum
contribution base is $80 000.
2.5 Part 3 of the Bill provides that the superannuation guarantee charge imposed on
an employer's superannuation guarantee shortfall for a year is payable by the employer.
The shortfall is made up of the total of individual shortfalls for the year plus the nominal
interest component and the administration component. The shortfall is to be calculated
on an annual basis in 1992-3 but on a monthly basis for later years. The shortfall is
calculated by multiplying wages or salary by a 'charge percentage' which varies as to
whether an employer has a notional payroll for the base year of over or under $500 000.
However, in both cases the charge percentage is to be nine per cent by the year 2000.
2.6 Part 3 also provides for reductions in the charge percentage in certain
circumstances:
Where the contributions are to a defined benefits scheme and a benefit certificate has
been issued that specifies the contribution rate for a class of employees, the required
contribution is reduced by the contribution rate multiplied by the percentage of time in
a contribution period for which the contribution was made... For contributions made in
accordance with industrial awards, or under a superannuation agreement, which are based
on the employees notional earnings base, the required contribution rate is to be reduced
in the same manner as described above. Where the employees notional earnings base is
not specified, the contribution rate is to calculated as a percentage of the employees
ordinary time earnings.3
2.7 Further, Part 3 outlines certain exclusions from the Superannuation Guarantee
Charge; these include salary or wages paid to an employee aged 65 (or over) and to a
part-time employee who is under 18. Also exempt are employees who receive less than
$250 per month.
2.8 The Bill was amended in the House of Representatives, principally:
to allow for the situation where an employer makes superannuation contributions up to
12 months in advance of a monthly contribution period...[and] to provide that salary or
wages paid to 'prescribed employees' are to be excluded from the shortfall calculation. It
is proposed that a prescribed employee (to be set out in regulations) would include
certain foreign executives working in Australia for short periods of time.4
2.9 The nominal interest rate component of the shortfall charge is set at 14.026% per
annum and is subject to regulatory change. The administration component is $50 plus $30
for each employee in respect of whom the employer has a superannuation guarantee
shortfall. Both the $50 and the $30 are subject to regulatory amendment.
2.10 Part 4 of the Administration Bill deals with superannuation guarantee statements
and assessments, which involve the employer and the Commissioner of Taxation who is
responsible for the general administration of the legislation (Part 5).
ibid, p 4.
Australian Taxation Office, SG sub no. 35, p 2.
4


2.11 Part 6 of the Bill deals with the collection and recovery of the charge, and Part
7 describes the penalty charge. Part 8 outlines the way in which the Commissioner of
Taxation is to deal with the shortfall component of a payment of superannuation
guarantee charge in relation to a particular employee. The final Part of the Bill contains
miscellaneous provisions.
2.12 The Superannuation Guarantee Charge Bill 1992 imposes a charge based on any
shortfall in superannuation contributions for employees. The superannuation guarantee
shortfall is calculated by reference to the relevant provisions of the Administration Bill.
2.13 The Superannuation Guarantee (Consequential Amendments) Bill 1992 similarly
provides for the amendment of certain Acts to take account of the proposed changes to
superannuation provisions.




CHAPTER 3: RATIONALE FOR THE SGL
Rationale for the SGL
3.1 Occupational superannuation in the form of a federal award entitlement dates
from the decision in the 1986 National Wage Case to include a superannuation
component in federal awards, the component to be three per cent of salary. In the 1990-
91 National Wage Case the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) argued for a
further three per cent round of award contributions. The Government supported the
ACTU's claim, noting that:
occupational superannuation is a key element in the Government's retirement income
policy of encouraging retirement provision by employees during their working lives to
achieve adequate living standards... [And] the key to providing better income for the
growing number of old people in the future is to increase savings now. Improved access
to superannuation is the best way of achieving this.1
3.2 In April 1991 the Australian Industrial Relations Commission adjourned the
superannuation claim and requested the Government convene a national conference on
superannuation involving all relevant parties. The business community requested the
Government convene a national conference on superannuation, but instead, the
Government announced that it would pursue compulsory superannuation coverage by
passing legislation.
3.3 The Superannuation Guarantee Bills give legislative backing to the Government's
policy. The rationale for the Bills is outlined in the Second Reading Speech on the
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1992, during which the Treasurer, the
Hon John Dawkins MP, stated:
... there is an on-going need to ensure that as many Australians as possible have access
to superannuation. There is also a need to increase the average level of superannuation
savings for each individual, if these savings are to provide an adequate level of retirement
income. Consistent with these goals, the Superannuation Guarantee Levy was announced
in last year's budget...
The levy... will provide a coherent and equitable framework in which retirement incomes
objectives can be progressed. It will ensure that, by the beginning of the next century,
virtually all employees will be accumulating substantial superannuation savings to help
fund their retirement income.
The increased self-provision for retirement will permit a higher standard of living in
retirement than if we continued to rely on the age pension alone. The increased self-
provision will also enable future Commonwealth governments to improve the retirement
'’onditions for those Australians who were unable to fund adequately their own retirement
incomes.
Lastly, self-provision will increase the flexibility in the Commonwealth's Budget in future
years, especially as our population ages, and will increase our national savings overall,
thus reducing our reliance on the savings of foreigners to fund our development
1
Quoted in the attachment to SG sub no. 4.


3.4 In evidence to the Committee, the Treasury expanded on the rationale for the
Bills. Treasury Secretary, Mr A Cole, stated that the SGL contribution standard of
12 per cent of earnings over 40 years was 'a sensible and appropriate objective for
various reasons':2
First, the current levels of self-provision in retirement are far too low...
Secondly, the present low average levels of superannuation support in the work force,
particularly in the private sector, hold out little promise of significant improvements for
future retirees...
Thirdly, the long period that it typically takes to accrue retirement benefits necessarily
means a correspondingly greater urgency for action now...
Fourthly, the demographic structure of the Australian population is going to age
markedly... [and] delays in increasing the present inadequate levels of superannuation
support will exacerbate the difficulties in meeting the retirement income needs of an
ageing population.
Finally... it is also my judgement that the pace of adjustment towards the SGL's interim
target is calibrated pretty well, having regard to the current economic position and
prospective developments.3
3.5 Mr Cole added that:
... the SGL will be of greatest benefit to those principally low paid workers who currently
have no superannuation support, or whose only superannuation is provided under an
industrial award...
... the impact of the SGL on retirement income is very progressive, with the greatest proportion
of increases going to low income earners with the lowest levels of existing superannuation support,
and absolutely nothing going to those who are already adequately covered by existing
superannuation arrangements.4
3.6 Treasury, in additional evidence, provided the Committee with details of its
modelling which assumed shorter periods of employment than 40 years and the
retirement income benefits which might accrue. These issues are canvassed in Chapter 4.
3.7 A large number of submissions to the Committee's on-going inquiry supported the
principle of compulsion to achieve long-term retirement income objectives.
3.8 The Life Insurance Federation of Australia (LIFA) supported the Treasury
arguments, noting in particular that 'the superannuation guarantee will provide the
savings discipline which is presently lacking'.5
2
SG evidence, p 5.
ibid, pp 5-6.
ibid, p 6.
ibid, p 134.
5


3.9 Similarly, the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) endorsed
the Treasury comments, and added that 'the broad approach embodied in the super
guarantee legislation is the most practical way forward'.
3.10 Mr Block, who is a member of a superannuation working party of the Committee
for the Economic Development of Australia, supported the SGL because of 'the need to
build national savings and, in the process, build retirement income'.7 This support 'is
essentially based on the view that it [the legislation] will assist marginally in increasing
national saving*8 which is a pre-requisite for faster economic development.9
3.11 Two prominent academics who appeared before the Committee supported the
Superannuation Guarantee Bills. The academics were Associate Professor Knox and
Professor Piggott. The latter commented in relation to savings:
... it is reasonable to expea in the longer term that the fiscal implications of an ageing
population will be much less severe with the SGL than without it. It is in this important
sense that the SGL can be seen to help our national saving performance.10
3.12 The ACTU strongly supports the SGL. In relation to compulsion, the ACTU
noted award superannuation has meant that 79 per cent of the work force are covered'
by superannuation, including 72 per cent of all women workers'.11 This led the ACTU
to conclude that:
For those workers, the women and the lower paid, compulsion has worked and delivered
benefits where a system based on incentives has failed.
3.13 The extent of the additional coverage due to the SGL and the size of the
superannuation savings is substantial: virtually all employees are to be covered under the
SGL, and the additional superannuation contributions are estimated to rise from $328
million in 1992-93 to $4795 million in 2000-01 (present value dollars).13
3.14 The following chapters examine these and other aspects of the Superannuation
Guarantee Bills in more detail. Chapter 4 considers the Bills in relation to appropriate
superannuation targets and Chapter 5 sets out additional information on compliance and
coverage. Chapter 6 provides greater detail on the economic impact of the
Superannuation Guarantee Bills and Chapter 7 considers their interaction with the social
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
ibid, p 135.
ibid, p 78.
ibid
ibid, p 80.
ibid, p 167.
ibid, p 44.
ibid.
SG sub no. 32, p 6.


security system. Chapter 8 deals with the effect of the Bills on State and Territory
governments.
3.15 The considerable number of amendments put to the Committee are listed in
chapter 9. The Committee's recommendations are in Chapter 10. A special section titled
Minority Reports follows Chapter 10. The first minority report is by Senators Alston and
Watson and the second minority report is by Senator Kemot.


CHAPTER 4 : TARGETS, TIMETABLE AND LEVELS OF CONTRIBUTION
Targets, Timetable and Levels of Contribution
The SGL Target
4.1 Under the SGL, the Government's retirement income target for a person on
average weekly earnings (AWE) is 40 per cent of that level of income. To reach this
target, the Government intends phasing in employer contributions which will total nine
per cent by 2000. The final 12 per cent outcome will be achieved by an arrangement
being reached with employees at a stage, yet to be determined, whereby employees will
contribute the other three per cent. The schedule for the phasing-in of the employer
contributions is in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1
4.2 Treasury justified these targets in supplementary material made available
specifically at the Committee's request. Table 4.2 shows increases in retirement benefits
potentially available to hypothetical individuals whose present income is a specified
multiple of AWE. The shaded rows in the table show the SGL outcomes compared to
existing outcomes under existing policy.


Table 4.2
Source: Submission no. 195, supplementary submission of 6 May 1992, p 8.
*Assumptions:
(i) Post-retirement benefits for single retiree assuming 40 year accumulation with
retirement at age 65 and private retirement income in the form of a 5 per cent-indexed
annuity, taking account of the pension income and assets tests.
00 Proportion of member earnings. SGL rates assume that the measure is fully phased
in.
(iii) Per cent of pre-retirement income. This is the net present value (NPV) of annual net
income in retirement expressed as a percentage of gross final salary.
(iv) Inflation rate of 4 per cent p.a
(v) Fund earnings rate of 8 per cent p.a
4.3 Treasury's explanation of the model in Table 4.2 was:
... [it] illustrates the progressive impact of the SGL on the pattern of retirement benefits.
For somebody on three-quarters of AWE, for example, the SGL increases projected post-
tax retirement income by 17 per cent of pre-retirement income. By comparison, somebody
on twice AWE experiences no increase in retirement income; the assumed present
superannuation contributions made in respect of this individual already exceed the
minimums proposed under the SGL legislation.1
1
Sub No. 195, Additional sub of 6 May 1992, p.8.


The Use of Other Assumptions
4.4 At the specific request of the Committee, Treasury provided further justification
for the Government's targets. The Treasury modelled the following additional
assumptions:
Impact of Death/Disability Cover and Administration Charges
4.5 Treasury used a total fee level of $1.70 ($1 insurance, 70 cents administration
charges) which it submitted was 'close to an average level of combined administration fee
and death and disability premium for award superannuation funds ...'2
4.6 Treasury concluded that:
... while fees have negligible impact on a person's average level of net retirement income,
a higher level of fees does result in a small increase in age pension eligibility for lower
income earners. This is because:
• for higher income earners, with high levels of superannuation support, the fee
is insignificant relative to the assumed level of contributions and so has a
negligible impact on benefits; and
• for lower income levels, where the level of superannuation support is assumed
lower, the reduction in superannuation benefits arising from fees is offset by the
combined effect of an increase in age pension eligibility and reduced taxation.3
Higher Real Earning Rates
4.7 In additional material, Treasury incorporated a higher real earning rate for a ten
year period during the accumulation period for a benefit. Treasury assumed that the
higher rates of return would begin in 2002, once the SGL had been fully implemented.
Having presented the data in table form, Treasury commented:
The impact of a period of higher real earning rates on a person's net retirement income
depends upon when during the accumulation phase of the superannuation benefit that
period of higher earnings falls. The closer the period of higher earnings is to the person's
retirement date, the greater the impact on final benefits because of the impact of the
higher earnings rate upon already accumulated benefits.
It should be noted that sustained real earning rates as high as ten per cent are extremely
unlikely, particularly over periods as long as 10 years. In this regard the 1980s cannot be
regarded as typical and followed a long period of low and often negative real earning
rates. A December 1991 paper - The Role of Superannuation in the Financial Sector and
in Aggregate Saving: A Review of Recent Trendsby Messrs Edey, Foster and Macfarlane
of the RBA - reports nominal average earning rates of six, seven and 15 per cent per
annum for the past three decades successively. Adjusted for average inflation of around
eight per cent per annum, on this basis the real earning rate for the 1980-90 decade
SG sub no. 48, p 2.
ibid.
3


would have been around seven per cent - well under the ten per cent assumption of this
question.4
Shorter Working Life
4.8 A number of witnesses questioned the fundamental assumption of a 40 year
contribution period, suggesting that for many employees this was an unrealistic figure.
Mr Daryl Dixon submitted that a working life of 37 years was more realistic.5
4.9 The witnesses representing welfare groups also questioned the 40 year assumption
saying that it was 'quite misguided6 and that for women it would be well less than 30
[and] closer to about 20.17
4.10 Accordingly, the Committee sought Treasury advice on the outcomes that would
be obtained for periods less than the 40 years in the original model using contributions
of 12 per cent (that is, nine per cent employer contributions and three per cent member
contributions) throughout the accrual period. Table 4.3 shows the benefits which would
accrue to employees, assuming 40, 31, 20 and ten year working lives respectively.
4.11 A person on AWE, assuming a 40 year accumulation period, would receive 55 per
cent of AWE on retirement. Should a 31 year period be relevant, 48 per cent would
result. For 20 and ten year periods, the outcomes would be 42 per cent and 34 per cent
respectively.
Table 43
Source: SG submission number 48, Tables 8, 9, 11 and 13.
* Assumptions:
(i) Assumes:
Marital status:
Commencement in fund:
Retirement age
Single
1992
65 years
4
ibid.
5
6
7
SG evidence, p 84.
Professor J Disney, SG evidence, p 100.
Ms E Cox, SG evidence, p 108.


Fund earning rate in projections 8.0%
Effective tax rate on funds 7.0%
AWE growth 5.5%
Retirement benefit is 5% indexed lifetime annuity
(ii) For SGL cases, contribution rates assume the SGL is implemented without any phasing
in period.
(iii) Average value of annual net income in retirement as a percentage of gross final salary
(measured as the NPV of expected net retirement income as a percentage of the net
present value of pre-retirement earnings projected over the same period).
(iv) Average pension entitlement as a percentage of the full age pension over the period a
person is eligible for an age pension.
Women — Broken Labour Force Participation
4.12 In addition, the Committee requested that Treasury model the particular problems
that women experience in participating in occupational superannuation. The material
provided assumes that the age pension is payable from age 60 or the preservation age,
whichever is later, and the person in the case study is assumed to either live on the
proceeds of other, non-superannuation savings or be supported by another person's
income. The case involves a person who works full-time for seven years at 90 per cent
of Australian Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings (AWOTE), leaves the workforce for
ten years, returns part-time for five years at 40 per cent of AWOTE before returning to
work full-time for ten years at 90 per cent of AWOTE before retiring at age 50. During
the accrual period of the benefit, fees are assumed to continue to apply annually at the
same level as in contributory periods in years where no contributions are made. The
outcomes for such a person are set out in Table 4.48 which shows that at 55 retirement,
a retiree would receive marginally more than the single age pension benefit (25 per cent
of AWE). Retirement at 60 or 65 would result in an income stream significantly greater
than the age pension.
Table 4.4
SG sub no. 48.


Retirement Income Targets
Assumptions, Contributions and Outcomes
4.13 The adequacy of Treasury's targets can be gauged by considering them in the
context of factors identified by witnesses as being relevant in setting an appropriate
retirement income target. These included:
(i) that community expectations about the desirability of rising standards of
living need to be considered in setting future retirement income targets;
(ii) that a minimum standard can be inferred by referring to the level of age
pension, in that it reflects an adequate level of income;
(iii) that the income cut-off point for part pensions under the means test for
the single age pension gives some guide as to what is a more reasonable
standard of living. Under the means test the cut-off point for a part-
pension is $17 800 or 58 per cent of AWE.9
(iv) that overseas comparative data can be a useful guide in setting targets but
that any comparisons need to take account of the extent to which tax-
driven incentives operate, and that some overseas retirement income
policies also may include health, medical and unemployment and maternity
benefits;
(v) that established contributory superannuation schemes in the public sector
provide an indication of contributions and benefits. A typical public sector
scheme provides for a retirement income of around 50 per cent of final
salary which is generated by five per cent member and 13-15 per cent
employer contributions over approximately 40 years; and
(vi) that in private sector contributory superannuation schemes a five per cent
employee and an eight-ten per cent employer contribution would be
'average' for that sector.10
4.14 At no stage of the Committee's inquiry was a demand made for the Government
to reduce the present level of pension benefit expressed as a percentage of AWE, that
is, 25 per cent. Those witnesses representing the interests of welfare groups submitted
that the current age pension is too low and needs to be increased.
4.15 In this regard, AFCO submitted that the aged pension should remain at least
indexed to increases in inflation but that it should be elevated to 35 per cent of male
average weekly earnings.11 ACOSS contended that if the Treasury model had
SG evidence, p 5.
Mr Rob Paton, Australian Institute of Actuaries, Evidence, pp 8-9.
Sub No. 139 p 4.
it


incorporated a pension set at 30 or 35 per cent of AWE, other than 40 per cent, it would
have been a fairer analysis of the claimed benefits of the SGL.12
4.16 Referring to the criteria in points (i) — (iv) in paragraph 4.13, Treasury pointed
'to community standards regarding a reasonable retirement income which is suggested to
be at around half pre-retirement income'.13 This position is consistent with an earlier
submission to the inquiry by the same department which observed that a person on AWE
making a contribution of 12 per cent for 40 years would receive a retirement income of
40 per cent of AWE, compared with 26 per cent of AWE under the pension system.14
4.17 The Institute of Actuaries provided the Committee with information on retirement
benefits that assumed a contribution rate of 15 per cent of salary.
4.18 This reflects the Institute's beliefs that contribution targets higher than 12 per cent
are desirable. The Institute submitted that a ten per cent employer and five per cent
employee contribution would produce an adequate income given current tax
arrangements.15 Table 4.5 shows lump sum benefits from this level of contributions.
Table 4.5
Assume:
real rates of return of two per cent and current tax arrangements.
Source: Submission no. 108.
4.19 Should the member purchase an annuity with the above mentioned lump sums,
Table 4.6 shows the following net income streams, based on a retirement salary of
$35 000, would be generated.
4.20 The Institute's data is useful because it demonstrates the relationship between
lump sum benefits and subsequent income streams following the purchase of an annuity.
Also, it takes into account the fact that many employees do not experience a 40 year
period in the workforce, for example, a person who spends 25 years only in the workforce
12
SG evidence, p 111
ibid, p 92.
Sub No. 195, p 15.
SG evidence, p 7.
15


would receive an income stream of 31 per cent of final salary as opposed to 56 per cent
should the 40 year assumption be appropriate.
Table 4.6 _
Source: Sub No. 108.
* Assumptions
(i) life-time annuity indexed to the CPI;
(ii) male age 65 with a spouse age 62 (this is not substantially different to a female age
65 with a spouse age 68);
(iii) 50 per cent reversion of annuity to spouse;
(iv) no guaranteed minimum payment period; and
(v) purchase price of $13,200 per $1,000 per annum of annuity (expenses have been
ignored).
4.21 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia used the Government's
projected increase in compulsory superannuation contributions as per the SGL (final
projection 9 per cent employer and 3 per cent employee contribution in lieu of a wage
increase) and submitted that the benefits shown in Table 4.7 would accrue to members.
4.22 ASFA considered that whilst a target of 12 per cent should be pursued via
compulsory funding, additional contributions are 'desirable' and should be encouraged
with tax concessions.16
4.23 This was a theme taken up by a number of witnesses who argued that a
retirement income which approximates 70-80 per cent of pre-retirement earnings would
be sufficient to maintain a standard of living consistent with that experienced when a
retiree was a member of the workforce. The AMP17 and Mercer Campbell Cook &
Knight (Mercers)18 and a number of other witnesses submitted that this level of
retirement income would be a suitable target.19
16
Sub no. 89, p 130.
Sub no. 120, p 54.
SG sub no. 9.
Evidence, p 43.
19


Table 4.7
Source: Submission no. 89, p 28.
* Assumptions
(i) Employer contributions
(ii) Member contributions
(iii) Tax on employer contributions
(iv) Expenses and insurances
(v) Pension annually CPI indexed
9% of salary;
3% of salary;
15%;
10% of contributions;
85% pension reversion to spouse upon
retiree's death
lump sum benefit were convertible to a
(vi) Commutation factor is 15 - i.e. if a
pension/annuity, the first annual payment would be equal to one fifteenth of that lump
sum.
Overseas Practices
4.24 A number of witnesses referred to overseas practices in setting compulsory levels
of contributions for both employees and employers. The Committee, in its research prior
to the public hearings, compiled a survey on Retirement Incomes Arrangements in
Twenty-One Countries - Super System Survey which showed that in 20 of those countries
compulsion for either the employer or employee was a feature in providing retirement
benefits. In only three of the countries was it not compulsory for the employer to
contribute. There were only two countries which did not compel an employee
contribution. Table 4.8 shows the levels of compulsory contributions and the retirement
income benefits which are generated through a combination of social security and private
provisions.
4.25 It should be noted that this information is summary data only and that the
particular provisions of each system should be examined before making comparisons. For
example, one of the prime considerations is the extent to which tax concessions are used
to drive any system which compels or encourages superannuation and what is the
opportunity cost of providing such incentives vis a vis the long term savings that are made


against pension outlays. Also, a number of the countries in the survey operate an
integrated social insurance system which includes retirement income, health, aged care
and maternity provisions.
Table 4.8


Compulsory or Voluntary Superannuation
4.26 In discussing retirement income targets and time tables with a range of witnesses
representing the various superannuation interest groups, the Committee endeavoured to
gain an enhanced understanding of the principles which underpin both voluntary and
compulsory retirement incomes policies. A number of witnesses signalled their support
for the general principle of a compulsory national pensions scheme but were not
prepared to support the SGL because they disagreed with its particular provisions. Two
of the supporters of compulsion, Professors Knox and Piggott, outlined in greater detail
the reasons for compulsion. Professor Piggott cited overseas experience and reservations
about the effectiveness of using tax concessions to promote voluntary savings as his
reasons for compulsion. He went on to say:
The biggest lesson to be drawn from international experience is that unfunded schemes
- such as those operating in the US or the UK - can have alarming implications for
fiscal burden and therefore national saving, in the face of an ageing population.20
4.27 On being asked whether he saw any potential problems arising from paying
pensions in the future if compulsory funding were not pursued, Professor Knox remarked:
I think, given the ageing population, the demographic situation if you like, then my
answer is yes. We could argue that we do not need to do anything because we are going
to have enormous increases in productivity and we are going to be able to fund the age
20
SG evidence, p 167.


pension in the year 2020.1 do not buy that argument. I think if you do have significant
productivity and it all goes to the age pension, then the workers are going to get a bit
uptight about it. So I believe we do need to do something compulsory.21
4.28 He went on to add that:
we need a compulsory core and an optional extra ... we need individuals to have the
option, with some tax support.22
4.29 He suggested that a core contribution for employers should be between seven and
12 per cent but added that employee contributions would need to be encouraged by tax
concessions.23
4.30 The BCA informed the Committee that'... there is an emerging sort of consensus
across the industry and employer groups that some form of compulsory payment is
,24
necessary.
4.31 The MTIA in its original submission also supported the general principle of
compulsion submitting that: government, employers, employees and self employed
would all contribute to the retirement income package'.25 However, it stressed that such
a policy including the planned contribution levels would need to be:
... compatible with economic capacity, form part of approved aggregate labour cost
increases and not detract from industry competitiveness. This would include the need to
ensure that resultant savings in government outlays were reflected in reduced taxes and
charges to Australian industry.26
4.32 The Woman's Action Alliance (Australia) upheld the general principles of the
existing tax-driven occupational superannuation retirement incomes system and argued
that tax incentives should be more finely tuned to encourage spouses who are not in the
paid workforce to receive superannuation coverage through payments made by the
spouse in paid employment.27
4.33 The Hon I B Wilson, MP also supported a voluntary approach to superannuation
coverage in recommending a choice between either retirement savings tax rebates or a
pension at age 65 or a combination of these rebates and pension.28
21
ibid.
22 ibid.
23 ibid
24 SG evidence, p 183.
25 Sub no. 55, p 6.
26 ibid
27 Sub no. 64, p 6.
Sub no. 71, p 1.
28


4.34 Another facet of the compulsory/voluntary debate is the matter of the incidence
of contributions. Most witnesses discussed compulsion from a holistic viewpoint and did
not venture into the matter of apportioning employee/employer contributions. The
following witnesses who advocated compulsion submitted that there be an apportioning
of employee/employer contributions:
Mr O'Sullivan, Noble Lowndes Minimum of ten per cent including member
contributions29
Mercer Campbell Cook & Knight
Mr Davis, Australian Small Business
Association (NSW Branch)
Mr Mansfield
Maximum employer and employee
compulsory contribution of five per cent30
Mandatory employer and employee
contributions totalling at least ten percent.
Compulsory employer contribution of
five per cent and employee contribution of
between five and ten per cent31
4.35 The Committee observes that most of the witnesses advocating a compulsory
system of retirement incomes suggested contributions of nine to 12 per cent of income
which for persons on AWE would mean a retirement income of between 40 and
50 per cent of final salary. The Committee further observed strong support for a
compulsory system of contribution for retirement incomes but notes that a significant
number of witnesses, whilst supporting compulsion, did not believe that the SGL was the
appropriate means of achieving this objective at this particular point in time.
29 Evidence, p 209-10.
30 ibid, pp 39-41.
ibid p 1327.
31




CHAPTER 5 : COMPLIANCE AND COVERAGE
Compliance and Coverage
Award Superannuation Compliance
5.1 In June 1986, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided that it would
be prepared to 'certify agreements or make consent awards covering superannuation'.1
It fixed 1 January 1987 as the starting date but, following representations from the
Commonwealth, agreed to arbitrate where agreement could not be reached and extended
the operative date to 1 January 1988, subsequently further extending it to
1 September 1988. State industrial tribunals have generally followed the Commission's
decisions.2
5.2 The coverage of award superannuation has increased rapidly since its introduction
and the Department of Industrial Relations (DIR) was able to inform the Committee
that, by October 1991, over 90 per cent of employees under federal awards were entitled
to award superannuation, with a 'broadly similar' coverage in State jurisdictions.3 Since
about 80 per cent of wage and salary earners are covered by awards, around 72 per cent
of all employees were eligible for superannuation cover.4 The Department estimates that
about one-fifth of these were not covered, i.e. around 14 per cent of all employees.5
5.3 The main reasons given by employers for their failure to comply with award
provisions were ignorance and uncertainty relating to both the existence of the provisions
and the precise nature of the action required of them.6
5.4 The DIR responded to this situation by stepping up its compliance activities,
moving to strengthen the legislation and implementing a publicity campaign to overcome
the prevailing ignorance, uncertainty and, probably evasion. Particular attention was paid
to accountants as advisers to small business, where compliance was lowest.7
5.5 Mr Peter Boyle, of the Australian Small Business Association, said that many small
businesses were not complying because they could not afford to pay and that the move
to compulsion would 'further exacerbate the high rate of small business failure and/or will
lead to a substantial reduction in employment'.8
1
DIR, Sub No. 81, p 8.
ibid, pp 8-9.
ibid, p 10.
ibid, p 6.
Evidence, p 1837.
ibid, pp 1831-32.
DIR Sub No. 81, pp 11-12.
SG evidence, p 176.


5.6 In addition to award non-compliance, a further gap in the superannuation
coverage of wage and salary employees occurs in the estimated 20 per cent who are not
covered by awards. A significant number of these, for example, managerial and
professional employees, estimated by the Department at about one-third, would be
covered by traditional occupational superannuation schemes. Many, perhaps more than
half, have no superannuation.
5.7 Thus, it appears that around 25-30 per cent of eligible wage and salary earners
have no superannuation cover. The SGL is designed to extend cover to this group, as well
as to increase, over time, the depth of cover to all employees. A further group,
numbering perhaps eight per cent, although covered by awards, are outside
superannuation schemes by reason of the casual nature of their employment, very low
earnings or failure to meet service qualifying periods.
5.8 The proposed charge aims to extend superannuation coverage to employees not
already covered by levying a charge on employers, at least equal to current award
superannuation requirements plus interest and administration components. The amounts
collected, less the administration component, will be paid into complying superannuation
funds nominated by the affected employees. As the impost will not be tax deductible,
there will be a strong financial incentive for employers to arrange superannuation cover
for the employees concerned, thereby avoiding the charge altogether.
5.9 Among the few exemptions are employees over 65 years of age, part time
employees under 18 and those earning less than $250 per month.
5.10 From a breadth of cover viewpoint, the essence of the legislation is therefore to
make superannuation compulsory for all but the youngest, oldest and most transitory of
all employees.
Coverage for Disadvantaged Groups
5.11 As both contributions and benefits are linked to income, it follows that those who
benefit most are those whose incomes are highest and those with the longest periods of
continuous service. At the opposite end of the spectrum, those with relatively low lifetime
earnings necessarily attract lower employer contributions, pay proportionately higher
administrative charges, are less able to finance private superannuation and benefit less
from the taxation concessions.
5.12 For this reason, some organisations representing disadvantaged groups saw little
or no benefit in superannuation in general, or the SGL in particular. For example,
Ms Jane Elix of Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations (AFCO) told the
Committee that:
The two million part-time and casual employees will be losing ... The one million
unemployed will be losing, as they are not actually going to be part of this process ...
Almost all female workers will be losing as it is rare for them to be in a position to put
away enough money to ensure that they have an adequate retirement income.9
9
ibid, p 95.


5.13 The Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS) was concerned that the
programmed increases in superannuation contributions would be at the expense of wage
increases. The lower paid workers would therefore be deprived of much-needed wage
increases without any compensating benefit.10 Ms Eva Cox, of the Women's Economic
Think Tank (WET Tank), noted that, since fund earnings were taxed, those temporarily
out of the work-force, eg for maternity reasons, would have their superannuation savings
taxed at up to 15 percent, whereas the same amount in conventional savings would be
tax free.11 The WET Tank proposed a threshold of $6 000 per year.12
5.14 The ACTU believes that low-paid workers, mainly women, are already
disadvantaged and that equity requires that they should benefit fully from
superannuation. It denies that a wage increase is a possible alternative. It proposes the
establishment by the SGL legislation of a 'floor' contribution of a flat amount equal to
around five per cent of AWE. This would enable low-income earners to receive a higher
level of superannuation cover than their incomes would otherwise determine.13
5.15 AFCO was concerned that the total cost of superannuation tax concessions was
greater than the additional cost of establishing a universal age pension.14 Indeed,
according to ACOSS:
... it would be more appropriate to rely predominantly on a retirement income system
which, by one means or another,raises the revenue progressively...and then pays it out at
a flat rate universally.15
5.16 ACOSS further pointed out that the value of tax concessions on both contributions
and fund earnings was likely to be four or five times greater for high income earners than
for low income earners.16
5.17 Welfare and women's groups reflected a community concern that the growth of
superannuation might lead to the attrition of the age pension. The Committee
acknowledges there is concern that future governments might reduce the pension in
economically difficult times.
5.18 This concern would be allayed if the Government, preferably with all party
support, reiterated its determination to maintain the present relative value of the age
pension.
10
Sub No 35, Appendix, pii.
SG evidence, p 101.
Sub No 126, p 14.
SG sub no. 29, p 17.
Evidence p 1938.
ibid, p 1369.
SG sub no. 23, p 2.


5.19 The Committee stresses that, in the long run, the greater the numbers who are
independent of the age pension, the greater will be the scope for real increases in the age
pension for those who must rely on it.
Casual, Part-Time, Temporary and Intermittent Employment
5.20 About 23 per cent of all employees work part-time only and, of these, three
quarters are females.17
5.21 The retail, hospitality, entertainment and rural industries are, by their nature,
served by disproportionately high numbers of casual and part-time employees. Coles-
Myer, for example, stated that 32 per cent of its workforce were junior casuals and that,
for the retail industry as a whole, 55 per cent were juniors, three-quarters of whom were
casuals.18 A similar emphasis was reported by the Motor Inn and Motel Association.19
5.22 Figures supplied by the National Association of Personnel Consultants indicate
that about 230 000 people work an average of six to seven weeks per year as temporary
workers in clerical and technical support jobs, aggregating nearly 60 million hours of
work. Their yearly earnings average about $3 000.
5.23 Many workers do not stay in the work-force continuously throughout their working
lives. A typical example would be women interrupting their labour force participation for
child rearing for periods of varying length. Many would return to the workforce by way
of part-time or temporary work before resuming full-time employment. Others may never
rejoin the workforce.
5.24 The implications for superannuation of arrangements of this kind were brought
home to the Committee by the experiences of three Tasmanian schoolteachers.21 Under
the applicable legislation, each had to resign and rejoin both the service and the
superannuation scheme as there were no provisions for maternity leave. Qualifying
service under their superannuation scheme dates only from the latest commencement.
5.25 Mrs Cooley had, over 40 years, worked for 36 years, with maternity breaks
totalling four years. Her superannuation entitlement is determined by service
commencing after her second rejoining 24 years ago. Mrs Turner had service
commencing in 1953 but, with periods of absence due to maternity, study and part-time
employment, had only 22 years of qualifying service for superannuation. Mrs White, with
28 years of service and a 10 year break over 38 years, had only 23 years of qualifying
service. The Committee notes that the Tasmanian Government is reviewing its
superannuation schemes.
17
ABS Cat. No. 6203.0.
Sub No. 103, p 10.
Sub No. 110, p 1.
Sub No. 104, pp 2-3.
Sub Nos 75, 87 and 88.
21


5.26 These cases raise other issues, such as vesting and preservation, with which the
Committee will deal in its third and final report. They also illustrate, however, a major
departure from the tacitly assumed norm of 40 or so years of continuous, full-time
employment.
5.27 The Committee points out that not all casual, part-time and temporary workers
are financially disadvantaged. The exceptions include secondary and tertiary students,
many of whom will earn above-average incomes in full-time employment, as well as
spouses whose partners are on high incomes with adequate superannuation and who may
not wish to be fully employed. Others will hold casual or part-time employment as second
or even third jobs, with their main full-time jobs covered by superannuation. Many who
rely solely on casual work are able to earn incomes comparable with those in single, full-
time employment.
Specific Disabilities
5.28 Another group of low-income earners of indeterminate size, comprising those with
mental or physical disabilities, language problems, lack of training or other problems, will
always have difficulty in holding down reasonably paid full-time jobs.
5.29 Mr Frank Fisher, of Monash University, gave the Committee a detailed account
of the difficulties confronting the chronically ill, firstly in obtaining reasonable
employment, and secondly in obtaining superannuation, especially when it is associated
with life insurance cover.22 Whilst the SGL may go some way towards assisting such
people, problems could arise if there is no way of breaking the insurance nexus.
5.30 To those with disabilities must be added those who are unemployed, for whatever
reason, for part of their working lives.
5.31 The existence of these disadvantaged groups reinforces the case for the
maintenance of an adequate level of social welfare, notwithstanding the expansion of
superannuation coverage.
Comments
5.32 While those who earn low incomes over their working lives will be unable to
receive superannuation benefits large enough to provide an adequate retirement income
and would probably prefer to have the equivalent as a wage increase, it does not follow
that they cannot accumulate benefits which will provide a useful supplement to the age
pension. Under the income means test, a single pensioner may earn income of $42 per
week and receive a full pension. The corresponding figure for a married couple is $74
per week. The Committee notes however, that, under current tax arrangements, there
is every incentive for better paid workers to contribute to superannuation and few tax
incentives for low income earners. The Committee acknowledges that the current
arrangements include some inequity and need to be addressed.
22
Sub no. 2.


5.33 The means-test free incomes referred to in the previous paragraph correspond
roughly with lump sum benefits of $30 to 35 000 and $60 to 65 000 respectively.
Superannuation within those ranges can therefore be an efficient means of supplementing
the retirement incomes of disadvantaged individuals, provided that it is financed in a cost-
effective manner.
Impact of Administration Charges on Small Contributions
5.34 From information obtained from a survey conducted by the Committee,
administration charges in a typical industry fund are around $35 per year for active
accounts and $20 for inactive accounts. In some schemes, life insurance, at about $50 per
year, is obligatory, in others optional. Tax at 15 per cent is payable on all contributions
and also on fund income. Depending on the investment pattern, funds may reduce the
incidence of income tax through dividend imputation on equities.
5.35 Table 5.1 illustrates the impact of these imposts, other than insurance, on
contributions based on annual incomes of $3 000 (the SGL threshold), $5 400 (the tax
threshold) and $10 000.
Table 5.1
Note: (a)
Attracts 15 per contribution tax on first nine per cent oniy.


5.36 At the initial rate of contribution of three per cent for award and SGL
superannuation, tax and charges range from 27 per cent to 55 per cent of contributions;
at five per cent from 22 per cent to 39 per cent; at seven per cent from 20 per cent to
32 per cent; and at nine per cent from 19 per cent to 28.5 per cent. If, in addition,
insurance premiums are deducted, the net sums invested are negligible.
5.37 Mr S R Mathews, who has a small business but supplements his income by taking
regular casual work, told the Committee that he had a long-standing arrangement for
private superannuation. Following the introduction of award superannuation, he now
finds himself a member of four industry funds, in each of which his account is charged
with monthly charges for tax and administration, even though in some of them there are
contributions for only one month per year. Life and disability cover are charged against
each of the four accounts, reducing the superannuation coverage to negligible
proportions. There is provision for consolidation in such cases, but there is a clear need
for better education and communication.23
5.38 Mrs M Belshaw, a part-time clerical worker, forwarded documentation showing
that, at current levels, deductions against her account could actually exceed her
contributions. After 18 months, her vested contributions amounted to a mere $11. Her
daughter's account was reduced to nil by charges on $91 of contributions.24
Employer Costs
5.39 As was to be expected, employer organisations were critical of the additional
labour and administrative costs imposed on them, particularly during the current
recession. Employers were also critical of the 'double jeopardy' consequent upon the
differing requirements of award and guarantee superannuation. Whereas awards had
varying thresholds for admission to superannuation, such as a qualifying periods of
employment and/or minimum hours or earnings, the SGL legislation sets its own standard
of $250 earned in any month. It is therefore possible to comply with an award while
being in breach of the Act, or to comply with the Act while being in breach of an award.
5.40 Mercers suggested that a solution to this problem could be found by abolishing
all award superannuation and relying totally on the SGL.25 Such an arrangement would
avoid the possibility of awards failing to keep pace with the progressive increases in
contributions set out in the SGL legislation.
5.41 The Queensland Minister for Health drew the Committee's attention^to what will,
in his view, be an unwarranted cost increase with unintended side-effects. Most public
hospitals employ visiting medical officers for a few hours per week. The doctors are in
private practice for the bulk of their time and, as they are self-employed, make their own
superannuation arrangements. The State Government will now have to provide additional
23
SG Sub No. 10.
24
25
26
Sub no. 36, pp 1-5.
SG Sub. No. 9, p 2.
SG sub no. 49.


superannuation cover of five per cent for them, irrespective of the extent of their private
cover. Moreover, the provision of such cover by their employer will negate the doctors'
rights to claim deductions for their self-financed cover.
5.42 The Institution of Engineers pointed out that its members made extensive use of
casual and contracted professionals and expressed concern at the resulting 'complexities
and anomalies' which would become a 'nightmare to administer'.27
Contribution Threshold
5.43 Under the SGL, employers are obliged to meet superannuation for virtually all
employees in receipt of wages greater than $250 per month. A number of witnesses drew
the Committee's attention to this threshold.
5.44 The State Governments submitted that in the three per cent only award schemes
there exists a high turnover of members employed as casuals on low rates of pay and that
this was placing a heavy tax burden on these workers without furthering any retirement
incomes objective. For example, in South Australia, where there are 130 000 members
in the productivity scheme, 1 000 employees are paid out amounts less than $620
monthly. In Queensland, where the minimum preservation level is $500, more than half
of workers leaving employment take their accumulations in cash.28
5.45 When money is taken from a superannuation fund under these circumstances it
attracts taxes and charges which approximate 53 per cent of contributions, whereas if it
were paid as part of salary, for most low income earners, it would be taxed at
21.25 per cent.
5.46 The following example of a worker who earns $300 a month for three months
illustrates this point:
Total of 5% contributions
15% contribution tax is deducted
Admin charges of 50C per week (12 weeks)
$45.00
$6.75
$6.00
Total deductions
$12.75
Balance after charges
Plus interest @ 10% pa
$26.25
$ 0.33
Balance
$26.58
27
SG sub no. 13.
SG evidence, pp 126-127.
SG Sub No. 17, Attachment A, p 2.


5.47 If the member claims the amount in cash, he or she could receive $20.93, after
tax on Eligible Termination Payment (ETP).30
5.48 On the face of it, a substantial raising of the threshold would considerably reduce
both the wage and the administrative costs of employers — substantially in small
businesses heavily reliant or casual and part-timers — without any significant impact on
retirement incomes. The ACTU rejected this view and asserts that coverage should be
universal.31 It proposed an earnings threshold of $1 000 per year ($83 per monthly) but,
to reduce the extent of erosion by monthly charges, suggested that contributions in
respect of earnings between the threshold and $2 400 per year ($200 per month) be paid
annually to coincide with group certificate preparation.32
5.49 The Committee notes that lower thresholds have the advantages of widening
superannuation coverage while discouraging distortions in the labour market, such as a
pronounced shift towards casualisation, against the disadvantage of higher costs to both
the employer and the fund member. Higher thresholds are less costly to administer but
may encourage job splitting by employers to avoid contributions, as well as reducing the
spread of cover.
5.50 One way of maximising coverage while containing administrative costs would be
to leave the threshold in the Bill unchanged but to allow contributions in respect of
incomes up to, say $12 000 per year ($1 000 per month) to be paid quarterly. This has
the potential to reduce administrative costs by two-thirds. The loss of interest income
would be negligible.
5.51 Another possibility would be to raise the threshold while contributions rates are
low and expenses proportionately high, and progressively lower it as contribution rates
increase.
5.52 There may also be a case to be made for awards to be amended to provide for
the exemption of junior, casual and part-time employees from compulsory death and
disability insurance.
5.53 Another option which was canvassed by ASFA was that of issuing non-negotiable
contribution credits. Under this proposal, members would aggregate credits from different
employers and periodically deposit them in a fund of their choice.
$500 000 Payroll Threshold
5.54 The other threshold under SGL which impacts on the depth of cover for many
part-time workers is the $500 000 large/small payroll threshold. The ACTU opposes
having any threshold at all and further opposes it being raised to $1 million. It believes
30
ibid, p 1.
Sub No 106, pp 26-28,
32 ibid, p 31.
SG evidence, p 145.
33


that if it were raised to this level, it would generally exclude firms employing less than
40 people. The ACTU argues that generally, employees in these small firms:
• are predominantly female;
• are low income earners; and
• have little access to over-award conditions.
5.55 The ACTU believes that to exclude employers with less than 40 workers would
severely disadvantage employees in the weakest sectors of the economy.34
5.56 The ACTU also drew the Committee's attention to a practice in the clothing
industry which has been the subject of proceedings in the AIRC of altering company
structures by acquiring shelf-companies and reducing each company's employment to a
level below award obligations and thereby avoiding redundancy costs. The ACTU is
concerned that this practice might be adopted to avoid SGL obligations.35
5.57 Chapter 6 includes details of employers' attitudes to the $500 000 payroll
threshold issue.
Inactive Accounts
5.58 One of the inevitable legacies of casual and part-time employment is a mounting
number of inactive accounts against which administration fees are debited, albeit at a
lower rate than for active accounts. As noted in its first report,36 the Committee
recommended that a satisfactory way to overcome the problems of casuals who frequently
change jobs and of inactive accounts, would be the establishment by the Government of
a central fund into which the balances could be pooled and invested at minimum cost.
Identification of beneficiaries could be facilitated by recording of a tax file or
superannuation number against each account.
Ex-Workforce Coverage
5.59 The question of allowing taxation relief for superannuation contributions for
those outside the work force was not extensively canvassed by witnesses. Most of those
who did comment pointed out that the main beneficiaries would be the very rich who,
in addition to financing ample, tax-subsidised superannuation for themselves, would be
able to do the same for their spouses and even other relatives.
SG sub no. 29, pp 12-13.
ibid, attachment 5.
Safeguarding Super; Canberra, June 1992, pp 81-83.
36


CHAPTER 6 : ECONOMIC IMPACT
Economic Impact
The present government has a policy of substantially lifting retirement incomes over the
next forty years or so. It has deliberately chosen to 'front load' the costs (and 'back load'
the benefits) to the Budget of meeting this target: Tax concessions are paid now to
achieve lower aggregate Budget support for retirement incomes in thirty years' time. In
considering the merit of the Government's approach it is important to resist the
temptation to focus only on the front loaded budgetary costs. Succumbing to this
temptation runs the risk of losing sight of the substantial retirement income funding
problem emerging over the next three or four decades (due in large part to the ageing of
the population, but also to the legitimate objective of increasing over time the retirement
benefit of all retirees). For these reasons the counterfactual cost to the Budget against
which the SGL should be assessed is not a 'no policy change' scenario, but rather an
alternative policy which returns the same increases in retirement incomes.1
6.1 This chapter discusses the possible macro-economic effects of the SGL. The
chapter is divided into six parts:
• increase in superannuation contributions due to the SGL and the effect of the
SGL on national savings;
• increase in retirement benefits due to the SGL;
• increase in superannuation tax concessions due to the SGL;
• the effect of the SGL on Budget pension outlays;
• the effect of the SGL on Budget outcomes; and
• the effect of the SGL on employment and inflation.
6.2 The discussion is constrained because only two studies have been completed on
the projected economic effects of the SGL. The first by Dr Vince FitzGerald and
Professor Ian Harper examined the effects of the SGL and the 'Fightback!' proposals.
The second, by the Treasury, was in response to a number of questions put by the
Committee. Both studies have used the National Mutual Retirement Incomes Policy
Model which:
... generates, given a set of economic and other parameters, the flows between individuals
and their employers on the one hand and superannuation funds on the other, including
inflows of contributions and fund earnings and outflows of benefits on retirement, death,
disability or termination of employment. The model also covers all the main interactions
between the government budget and the superannuation system, including tax deductions
Treasury, SG sub no. 32.


and taxes on contributions, fund income and benefits. It also measures impacts on outlays
for age pensions as determined by the income and assets test.2
6.3 However, the specifications used by Treasury differed from those used in the
earlier study by FitzGerald and Harper so that the results given in the simulations are
different. In particular, Treasury assumed employee contributions of three per cent and
a real earnings rate of 2Vi per cent, whereas FitzGerald and Harper undertook their
modelling on the basis of the SGL timetable announced in the 1991-1992 Budget and
factored in variable real earning rates. This serves to illustrate that modelling exercises
cannot be regarded as forecasts and that projections over forty year periods are highly
speculative because of changes in key economic variables.
6.4 The Committee notes the need for detailed data on the economic effects of the
SGL and other retirement income issues, and to this end, it further notes that the
Government has recently announced the formation of a Retirement Incomes Modelling
Unit. The Unit will be used to evaluate different policy options for the Government but
the Committee has been required to report on the SGL Bills and the effect of SGL on
national savings before the Unit's work is available.
Increases in superannuation contributions due to the SGL
6.5 The Treasury advised the Committee that the SGL would produce a substantial
increase in projected superannuation contributions. The results of the Treasury modelling
are reproduced in Table 6.1.3
Table 6.1
(a) Nominal discount rate equal to the assumed fund earnings rate of eight per cent per annum.
6.6 The impact of the SGL on national saving can be calculated by:
• the increase in net private superannuation saving (measured as contributions plus
earnings, less fund payouts);
FitzGerald and Harper, Super Preferred or Level Playing Field?, pp 21-22.
SG sub no. 32.
3


• contribution in other forms of private savings;
• plus the reduction in age pension outlays; and
• less the increase in the cost of the superannuation tax concessions.
6.7 Treasury also estimated that the SGL will increase saving in the form of private
superannuation by about two per cent of GDP within 15 years, increasing to more than
2.5 per cent of GDP by 2020, before levelling off.4 Treasury assumed that half of this
increase in superannuation saving would remain in private sector saving.5 The net
increase in private sector saving due to the SGL is estimated to reach about l1/* per cent
of GDP in about 25 years from now.6 Assuming that, in the absence of the SGL, the
social security pension would increase to a level to provide the same level of benefits
provided by the SGL, it is estimated that the SGL will increase national saving by
three per cent of GDP by 2020.7
6.8 FitzGerald and Harper estimated that gross saving through superannuation would
rise from about six per cent of GDP in 1991 to about nine per cent in the year 2000 and
would peak at over 11 per cent fifteen years later. On a net basis, saving through
superannuation rises from three per cent of GDP in 1991 to six per cent in the year 2000,
peaking ten years later at about seven per cent of GDP.8
6.9 FitzGerald and Harper estimated that under the 'benchmark' scenario (in which
award superannuation coverage and contribution rates continued as just prior to the 1991
Budget) gross saving through superannuation would rise from six per cent of GDP to
almost seven per cent by the year 2000 and peak at about 7.5 per cent nine years later.
On a net basis, the rise is projected to be from three per cent in 1991 to just over
four per cent in the year 2000, peaking at most 4.5 per cent of GDP around the year
2005 and moving back to present levels around 2030.9 Figures 6.1 and 6.2 show the
projected patterns of private saving through superannuation.
6.10 FitzGerald and Harper concluded that:
Assessing how much of the increased superannuation saving under the SGL would remain
in total private saving is difficult, although there are grounds .... to believe, given how
much of it is forced saving from low to middle income households, that much of it would.
We judge that perhaps half and possibly more would remain in aggregate private saving
well into the future. Even allowing for the offsetting rise of around 0.5 per cent of GDP
in reduced public sector saving through the increased budget cost of the tax concessions,
4
SG sub no. SG.34, p 3.
ibid.
ibid.
ibid.
op. cit, p 27.
ibid, p 28.
9


it is then reasonable to expect that there will be left a gain of something like one per cent
of GDP, possibly more, in national saving.10
6.11 The Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI) argued in its submission to the
Committee that if total savings are to increase then total consumption must fall.11 The
CAI stated that the SGL is regressive in the sense that the heaviest burden will fall on
those for whom employer contributions rise to the greatest extent, ie the lower paid.
10
ibid, p 28.
SG sub no. 15, p 11.
li


Table 6.2 shows the distribution of household wealth in 1986 by form and superannuation
cover.12
Table 62
6.12 The CAI argued that there is a possibility that the total level of saving may
actually fall as a result of the introduction of superannuation because financial
intermediation involves transaction costs. The CAI argued that:
The immediate transfer is from business retained earnings to superannuation funds. Thus,
the transfer is from one form of saving into another. There is no increase in the total
level of saving as a result. Indeed, the possibility is that the total level of saving may
actually fall as a result of the introduction of superannuation ... The administrative
charges of superannuation funds will eat into the capital transferred, lowering the
aggregate level of investable savings.13
6.13 The joint submission from the Women's Economic Think Tank (WET Tank) and
the Women's Electoral Lobby (WEL) noted that 62 per cent of women in full-time wage
and salary positions earn below AWE.14 The submission argued that:
... this whole [SGL] exercise can be seen as being targeted at the pockets of those earning
between $25 000 and $30 000. On Treasury's own estimates these are the only group
whose change in savings behaviour might substantially decrease their dependency on
government expenditure. Those on incomes below this bracket cannot save enough to
make major difference and those above are in the 30 per cent or so who currently do not
draw pensions.15
6.14 Commenting on Treasury figures relating to the increases in retirement benefits
due to the SGL, the submission went on to argue that:
12
Cited in FitzGerald & Harper. Dilnot (1990), highest decile aggregated.
op cit.
SG sub no. 24, p 1.
13
14
15
ibid.


... the lower the income of the contributor, the greater justification for compulsory flat
rate contributions must be given.16
6.15 With respect to the effect on national savings, Wet Tank and WEL noted that:
... in effect, ... the Commonwealth is tying up substantial tax concessions for the next
three decades, in the hope that savings will come. Apart from the vagaries of markets and
the possibility of wage and inflation outcomes affecting the earnings, the fact that this
period covers a possible dozen elections makes this plan nonsensical.17
6.16 The submission argued that if the current superannuation tax expenditure was
added together with the increased tax expenditures due to the SGL, the value of the tax
concession would be over $5 billion, or around 50 per cent of current pension
expenditure. The submission maintained that:
... it would seem preferable to allocate this sum over the next few decades to an
accumulation fund, together with the tax concessions, and use this for paying a universal
pension.18
6.17 ACOSS considered the impact of superannuation on savings is often over stated
because government support is required to counter the inflexibility of superannuation as
a savings vehicle.19
6.18 ACOSS told the Committee that the current tax concessions substantially reduce
public saving and that compulsion will improve national savings to the extent that it
forces people to save who would not otherwise save.20 The group most likely to be
affected was low-income earners and families who have reached a stage in their life-cycle
where their income needs are greatest.
6.19 ACOSS argued that:
... a fairer approach would be to encourage long-term saving generally, or at least to
remove some of the disincentives to save in the taxation system ... Another option is to
raise our comparatively low level of taxation in order to improve the social security
system.21
Increase in Retirement Benefits due to the SGL
6.20 The interim retirement income target implied by the SGL is 40 per cent of pre-
retirement income compared to the current age pension target which is 25 per cent of
16
ibid.
u ibid, p 3.
18 ibid
SG sub no. 23, p 5.
ibid, p 5.
ibid.
21


AWE. The Treasury advised the Committee that the increase in annual post-tax private
retirement benefits due to the SGL would be in the order of 26 per cent after 40 years
(see Table 6.3 below). The increased benefits generated by the SGL are 'back loaded'
(i.e. they increase over time) due to the effects of compounding contributions and
earnings and the phasing in of the SGL minimum.22
Table 63
(a) Projected lump sum retirement benefits paid from superannuation funds, including benefits used to purchase annuities.
(b) Nominal discount rate equal to the assumed fund earnings rate of eight per cent per annum.
(c) Per cent of benefits received in the absence of the SQL
6.21 Table 6A23 illustrates Treasury's claims about the progressive impact of the SGL
on the pattern of retirement benefits. For somebody on three-quarters of AWE, for
example, the SGL increases projected post-tax retirement income by 17 per cent of pre-
retirement income. By comparison, somebody on twice AWE experiences no increase in
retirement income.
6.22 The Committee asked the Treasury to undertake further analysis of the retirement
income benefits flowing to individuals with broken labour force participation. These
figures are reproduced in Chapter 4 and show that, even allowing for the effects of fees
and charges, there is an increase in post-tax private retirement benefits.
6.23 However, WET Tank, ACOSS and Coles Myer disputed the progressive nature
of the SGL for part-time and casual employees.24
Increase in Superannuation Tax Concessions due to the SGL
6.24 The estimated tax expenditures through retirement and other employment
termination tax concessions was $3.59 billion in 1990-91.25 In calculating the estimated
22
SG sub no. 32.
23
24
25
ibid.
SG sub nos 24, 23 and 4.
Tax Expenditures Statement, The Treasury, 1991, p 52.


tax expenditure Treasury uses the savings benchmark. Treasury describes this benchmark
as having the following features:
• remuneration in respect of employment is deductible to taxable employers and
fully taxed to the employee;
• savings are normally financed out of after-tax income;
• investment income on savings is normally taxed in the income year it is derived;
and
• dissaving of amounts (including interest) accumulated and already taxed is not
taxed again.26
Table 6.4
(a) Post-retirement benefits for single retiree assuming 40 year accumulation with retirement age 65 and private retirement
income in the form of a five per cent-indexed annuity, taking account of the pension income and assets tests.
(b) Proportion of member earnings. SGL rates assume that the measure is fully phased in. No SGL assumes three per cent
award superannuation and additional employer support for higher income earners.
(c) Per cent of pre-retirement income. This is the average value (NPV) of annual net income in retirement expressed as
a percentage of gross final salary.
6.25 Professor Knox considered that an alternative to the single year approach used
by Treasury was the establishment of a discounted cash flow model which projects cash
flows over several years and thereby provides an estimate of the long term cost to
26
Tax Expenditures Statement, December 1991, p. 51.


Government revenue.27 Professor Knox also argued that the Treasury analysis
overstated the value of the tax concessions.28
6.26 Treasury provided the Committee with an estimate of the increase in the net value
of the superannuation tax concessions due to the growth of superannuation under the
SGL which are detailed in Table 6.S.29
Table 6^
6.27 The Treasury noted that while the implementation of the SGL will invariably
mean a higher aggregate value of superannuation tax concessions, it should also mean
a more equitable distribution of those concessions.30 Table 6.631 shows for individuals
at different multiples of AWE, likely tax concessions included in retirement benefits, both
before and after the full phasing in of the SGL. The table shows that the increase in tax
concessions for lower income individuals generally exceeds that available at higher
incomes. The Treasury claimed that the progressivity of the SGL is enhanced by the fact
that the proportion of the workforce with award only superannuation is higher at income
levels below AWE.
6.28 FitzGerald and Harper estimated that the net cash flow budget cost of the
superannuation tax concessions following implementation of the SGL rises from under
0.5 per cent of GDP in 1991 to around one per cent in the year 2000, then peaking at
1.1 per cent of GDP before slowly declining.32 The benchmark case is that in which the
coverage and contributions rates applying just prior to the 1991 Budget continue
indefinitely. The outlook is for a net budget cost of superannuation going no higher than
27
Attachment to sub no. 52, Tax, Super and The Age Pension : The Issues of Equity and
Incentives.
28 ibid.
29 SG sub no. 32.
™ op cit, p 11.
SG sub no. 32.
FitzGerald and Harper, op cit, p 23.
32


the present level of just under 0.5 per cent of GDP, falling slightly below it in some years
in the 1990s and beginning a steady but slow decline in the mid 2000s.33
Table 6.6
(a)
Tax concessions embedded in retirement benefits for single retiree assuming 40 year accumulation with retirement at
age 65.
(b) Proportion of member earnings. SGL rates assume that the measure is fully phased in.
(c) Per cent of pre-retirement income. This is the average value (NPV) of the superannuation tax concessions expressed
as a percentage of gross final salary.
6.29 ACOSS believes that the present superannuation system is unfair, wasteful and
economically inefficient.
It is unfair because high income-earners receive greater government support though tax
concessions than low income-earners, and substantially higher superannuation benefits
on retirement ... The system is wasteful because government subsidies are directed
towards replacing a proportion of each retiree's previous income. As other nations have
found, this is a very expensive approach, and the support provided bears no relationship
to the need of the recipient ... It is economically inefficient because the generous tax
concessions for high income earners reduce public savings without necessarily increasing
private savings.34
6.30 ACOSS argued that the SGL will require low income earners to forego wage
increases, and to make contributions directly for their retirement but with little or non-
existent increases in their retirement benefits. ACOSS went on to note that:
... it cannot seriously be disputed that such a requirement would have an adverse impact
on wage outcomes, whether it be immediate or somewhat delayed ... Many low-income
33
ibid.
34
SG sub no. 23, p 1.


people simply cannot afford to be deprived of wages which they badly need for day-to-day
living, especially when the longer-term tax benefit of doing so is insubstantial.35
6.31 In this context, ACOSS, Mr Daryl Dixon and others argued that the current
taxation arrangements, particularly as they affected low income earners, required changes
to ensure that the superannuation taxation regime was more progressive.
Impact on Budget Pension Outlays
6.32 The Treasury argued that the additional superannuation benefits generated by the
SGL will reduce age pension outlays because of the interaction of the SGL with the age
pension income and assets tests. Figure 6.337 shows Treasury’s estimate of the amount
by which pension outlays (net of any tax claw back) under the SGL are lower than they
would otherwise have to be in order to achieve the Government's interim retirement
benefits target of 40 per cent of pre-retirement income.
6.33 Treasury noted that its figures probably overstate the budgetary costs of the
SGL.38 Professor Knox disputed this claim in his evidence to the Committee on three
accounts. Firstly, Treasury assumed that all individuals would accrue benefits over a 40
year period. Professor Knox observed that this assumption ignored employees with
broken labour force participation, particularly women. Secondly, Treasury assumed that
only $30 000 of the lump sum benefit would be dissipated at retirement. Professor Knox
argued that more than $30 000 would be dissipated unless people were forced into
pensions and annuities. Thirdly, the original Treasury calculations made no allowance for
35
ibid, p 3.
SG sub nos 23 and 18.
ibid, p 15.
SG sub no. 32.
38


administrative expenses and Professor Knox argued that net retirement benefits would
be lower than those portrayed by Treasury.39
6.34 The Committee asked Treasury to model the effects of administration changes and
the cost of death and disability insurance. On the specified assumptions of administration
fees of 70 cents per week and $1 per week and assuming an insurance premium of $1
per week, the modelling showed that, whilst fees have a negligible impact on a person's
average level of net retirement income, a higher level of fees does result in a small
increase in age pension eligibility for lower income earners.40
6.35 FitzGerald and Harper argued that the SGL would reduce the costs of aged
pension outlays as a percentage of GDP (presently just over four per cent) until
approximately 2014 then the costs would rise to a peak at about 4.3 per cent in the mid
2020s and then begin to ease.41 These results reflect a number of different assumptions
from the Treasury model, principally that the age pension will remain at the current level
of 25 per cent of AWE. FitzGerald and Harper also constructed a model estimating the
impact of three policies which they claim would be more effective if the major goal of
superannuation policy were to reduce the future public budget costs of retirement. These
were:
• full alignment at 65 of the pensionable ages for men and women, phased in at one
year of age per two years from 1995;
• setting the effective tax rebate on all contributions (employer or individual) to
15 per cent (net of the contributions tax) at all income levels and making all tax-
supported contributions subject to preservation, the tax on fund income remaining
at the present 15 per cent; and
• increasing the proportion of benefits taken as annuities to 50 per cent by the mid
1990s.
6.36 The impact of these measures on the public budget costs of retirement are
illustrated in Figure 6.4.42 Because the modelling does not capture any major difference
in dissipation of lump sum before pensionable age, the annuities case has a modest and
slow to build up effect. The FitzGerald and Harper model shows that the pension
measure, on the outlays side, and the set of tax measures, on the revenue side, are each
capable of reducing the total budget costs of retirement by over 0.5 per cent of GDP.43
39
SG evidence, p 166.
SG sub no. 47, p 2.
Fitzgerald & Harper, op tit, p 24.
ibid, p 24.
ibid, p 24.
43


6.37 ACOSS argued that the cost of funding the age pension for a growing proportion
of aged people next century is frequently over-stated. It pointed to work undertaken
in 1988 by the Economic Planning and Advisory Council (EPAC) which suggested that
under the policy settings at that time, social expenditure devoted to aged persons would
rise by around 2.5 per cent of GDP from 1988 to 2025.45
Impact of the SGL on Budget Outcomes
6.38 The impact of the SGL on the Budget is estimated by comparing the projected
increase in superannuation tax concessions — which are front loaded in their impact —
with the projected reduction in age pension outlays — which are back loaded in impact.
Treasury estimates show that the SGL does not produce favourable Budget outcomes for
about 30 years. The estimates are shown in Table 6 J.46
Table 6.7
(a) Against the courrterfactual of increased pensions matching improved benefits provided under the SGL
(b) A negative indicates a deterioration.
44
45
SG sub no. 23, p 3.
ibid.
SG sub no. 32.
46


6.39 The Treasury also provided the Committee with the chart (Figure 6.5)47 which
compares two alternative means of increasing the total value of retirement incomes to
the Government's interim retirement income target: use of the SGL (and associated
superannuation tax concessions) versus increases in the age pension. It reveals that in
years three to 29 of the projection the cost of the SGL exceeds the latter, but that the
picture is reversed in subsequent years.
6.40 Treasury pointed out that the chart illustrated some important issues concerning
inter-generational equity and affordability.48 In essence, the alternative policy of
providing the interim retirement benefits target of 40 per cent of pre-retirement income
through the age pension rather than the SGL means that Budget outlays are back loaded.
Hence, there is reason for concern that future generations of working people may have
some difficulty supporting a rapidly increasing aged population which raises the prospect
of a future Government having to reduce the real value of the age pension.49
6.41 The Treasury concluded by noting that:
... the SGL proposal should not be judged on its own merits alone. Its true worth can
only be revealed by comparing its impact with the consequences of an alternative policy
which might be available in the absence of the SGL. In making such a comparison it
would be particularly important to assess the projected retirement benefits available
47
ibid.
48
ibid.
49
ibid.


under the alternative, and their net budgetary costs and profile, against those implicit in
the SGL proposal.
The Effect of the SGL on Employment and Inflation
6.42 A range of views was received on the effect of the SGL on employment. The
Committee also notes that all employer groups, as well as the superannuation industry
itself, were concerned about the complexity of the administrative arrangements envisaged
in the Bills and potential 'double jeopardy' faced by employers because the SGL would
operate independently of the award system.
Treasury
6.43 Treasury estimated that the impact of the SGL would be equivalent to an
aggregate three to four per cent of average earnings on a national accounts basis by the
end of the period of its introduction in 2000-01.50
6.44 Treasury noted that about half of the impact occurs in the first year of
introduction, reflecting:
• the substantial lift in superannuation coverage for those not receiving superannuation; and
• the increase to five per cent superannuation for those currently receiving three per cent award
based superannuation.51
6.45 Treasury also advised the Committee that using an assumption of 1.5 per cent per
annum productivity growth over the period the SGL is introduced, would be equivalent
to a total increase in productivity of 14 per cent. On this basis, the SGL cost would
account for less than one-third of productivity increases over the period of its
introduction.52
6.46 Treasury was asked to model the effect of the SGL on employment using the
assumption that the SGL would be fully reflected in increased real unit labour costs.
Under this assumption, the Treasury estimated that employment losses resulting from the
first year implementation of the SGL would be up to 45 000 in the first two years. This
would rise to about 100 000 after five years.53 The Treasury further advised that:
... the effect on unemployment would be considerably less. Unemployment rises by about
half of any fall in employment with the remaining fall in employment being offset by a
fall in the participation rate. On this basis,... unemployment would rise by up to about
20 000 in the first two years and by up to 50,000 in the first five years.54
50
Treasury sub no. SG.31, p 1.
ibid, p 1.
52 ibid.
ibid, p 2.
ibid, pp 2-3.
54


6.47 Treasury further advised that to assume the SGL would be fully absorbed in
increased real unit labour costs was unreasonable and that it expected the 'cost of the
SGL will be largely, if not fully, offset by lower growth in other forms of remuneration,
especially wages'.55
6.48 Treasury was also asked to model the employment effects for 1992-93 if the
contribution rate for business with a payroll of $500 000 came in at four per cent instead
of five per cent. Treasury estimated that decreasing the rate from five to four per cent
for the employers in question would, in isolation, lower the wage equivalent impact of the
SGL by about one third to one half percentage point in 1992-93. Treasury advised the
Committee that:
... any estimates of the employment effects of such a change depend crucially on the
assumption as to the offset in other wage costs flowing from the SGL As the Committee
has been previously advised, estimates of effects can only be properly identified when a
full range of assumptions is provided. An assumption of providing no offset could be
viewed as extreme and, as Treasury has previously indicated, it considers it is reasonable
to expect that the cost of the SGL will be largely, if not fully, offset by lower growth in
other forms of remuneration.
On the assumption of a full offset in wages to the SGL there would be negligible
employment losses under either case.56
6.49 Treasury was also asked to model the employment effects of SGL if the threshold
were raised to $1 million or $1.5 million. Treasury advised the Committee that:
The wage equivalent impact of increasing the thresholds would only be small. Treasury
estimates that increasing the employer threshold from $0.5 million to $1 million would
result in about 250 000 employees being entitled to receive only the lower, rather than
higher, minimum rate of employer superannuation support in 1992-93 (ie three rather
than five per cent). It is estimated that this would result in a decrease of around 0.05
percentage point in 1992-93 in the wage equivalent impact of the SGL A further increase
in the threshold from $1 million to $1.5 million is estimated to have a similar effect.57
6.50 Treasury noted that modelling of the employment effects of different thresholds
is dependent on the assumptions specified.
Retailers Council
6.51 The Retailers Council submitted that the differential treatment between larger and
small businesses in the phasing in of the nine per cent is discriminatory because it
differentiates between the labour costs of large and small business.58 The Council
believes that 'because of the larger number of employees which will be caught in large
55
ibid, p 3.
SG sub no. 60, p 1.
57 ibid.
SG sub no. 16, p 3.
58


businesses, the financial and therefore the potential employment impact on large
businesses will be greater.'59
6.52 The Council advised that the additional costs imposed on retailers include:
• the increase in the minimum level of superannuation support to be provided by
employers;
• the additional costs associated with extending coverage to those staff currently
exempt under award arrangements;
• the costs of changing the vesting scale in company funds to provide for full vesting
of five per cent;
• the costs of actuarial assessments which will be necessary in respect of defined
benefit funds; and
• the additional administrative costs.60
6.53 The Council concluded that:
Whilst it may be argued that the amount per employee is not large, the aggregate cost
to employers is significant without any demonstration that this additional tax on
employment in this period of unacceptably high levels of unemployment is justified.61
6.54 The Retailers Council surveyed its membership regarding the SGL. A total of
nineteen organisations responded, representing large retail companies carrying on
business in two or more states, having 20 or more outlets, and with an annual turnover
exceeding $50 million each.62 The survey showed that:
• moving to a five per cent superannuation contribution from 1 July 1992 will cost
those retailers almost $41 million per annum over and above their existing
obligations;
• a further cost of $15 million will be incurred by adding-in award staff not currently
covered by award superannuation provisions; and
• another $1 million will be added to cover the additional 20 000 seasonal staff who
work between four and six weeks a year and earn at least $250 a month.
59
ibid.
60 ibid.
61 ibid, p 4.
62 ibid.
63
ibid.


6.55 In response to these costs, five companies in the survey said they would increase
prices, nine respondents said they would decrease hours available to staff and thirteen
respondents said that they would decrease the number of employees.64
Coles Myer
6.56 Coles Myer noted in its submission to the Committee that the proposed
legislation:
• imposes new and additional requirements in relation to award staff;
• discriminates between large and small businesses when no such differentiation
exists by award prescription;
• will impose additional costs, including:
— increasing the minimum employer liability to five per cent;
— including staff currently exempt from award superannuation;
— the inclusion of managerial staff who have elected not to join company
funds
— the costs of changing the vesting scale in company funds for full vesting;
— costs of additional actuarial assessments for defined benefit funds; and
— additional administration costs.65
6.57 Coles Myer further noted that the award provisions in relation to occupational
superannuation, including such matters as eligibility criteria, vaiy significantly between
awards in recognition of the employment patterns and circumstances of the various
industries. For example:
• retail industry awards generally include a probationary period before an employee
becomes eligible to be enrolled in a superannuation fund. If the SGL legislation
continues to calculate employer liability on a monthly basis, seasonal casual
workers who may work for six to eight weeks will be entitled to occupational
superannuation payments and will then, because they have not accumulated $500
be entitled to withdraw that money on leaving their employment or alternatively
can leave the accrued benefit with the industry scheme and have administration
charges deducted.
64
ibid.
65
SG sub 4, p 3-4.


• retail awards include provisions that establish a minimum standard based on the
number of hours worked in a particular time period (generally an average of 12
hours a week over a 4 week period.)66
6.58 Coles Myer advised the Committee that one of its subsidiary companies had
calculated that an increase in costs of $1 million translated to an equivalence of 50
jobs.67
Metal Trades Industry Association (MTLA)
6.59 The MTLA. told the Committee that:
... the Federal Government is seeking to impose a substantial increase in minimum
superannuation contribution standards during the most severe and protracted recession
we have experienced for some 60 years. The additional cost pressures this will create must
result in further business closures, continuing workforce retrenchments and a stifling of
investment in industry. Necessarily this will jeopardise many existing programs designed
to improve our efficiency and competitiveness to the long term detriment of the
nation.68
6.60 MTLA was concerned that these problems would be exacerbated in some areas
of the traded goods sector as the higher minimum support level for large employers will
discriminate against labour intensive companies involved in import competing and
exporting. It advised the Committee that in the two years to 31 March 1992, employment
levels in the 7 000 member companies of the MTLA had fallen by approximately
15 per cent69 Also, MTLA was concerned about the effect of the proposed fixed
timetable of the SGL for international competitiveness.70 MTLA observed that:
Subsequent planned increases in minimum contribution levels throughout the balance of
the 1990s on a fixed arbitrary timetable ... run the risk of producing additional negative
effects on investment, employment and economic growth. In the dynamic, global
environment in which Australian industry must compete it is inconceivable that we can
even contemplate further cost increases without any meaningful consideration of
prevailing economic and political conditions, let alone commit to them in the way the
Superannuation Guarantee Charge proposes.71
Business Council of Australia (BCA)
6.61 The BCA was also concerned about the economic consequences of the Bill. The
Council noted that:
66
ibid, pp 4-5.
ibid, p 5.
SG sub no. 11, p 2.
69 ibid.
70 ibid.
71
ibid, pp 2-3.


... there is an underlying assumption that there will be capacity in the economy to meet
the prescribed level of support to the year 2000. There is nothing in current economic
forecasts to support that assumption. At a time when unemployment is at unacceptably
high levels and predicted to continue for some time, this Bill can only exacerbate that
situation.72
Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI)
6.62 The CAI noted that AWE have risen at more than twice the rate of inflation over
the last year and this is one of the factors which has depressed the level of economic
activity.72 The CAI also noted that SGL will increase the on-cost component of labour.
Whilst there are variations between businesses and industries, on-costs represent
approximately 30 per cent of the total cost of labour. The CAI argued that the SGL
would mean an increase in the cost of labour equivalent to 2.1 per cent or 3.5 per cent
in 1992/93 depending on whether the firm was below or above the $500 000 threshold.74
Table 6.8 shows CATs estimates of the effective annual increase in labour costs.75
Table 6.8
6.63 CAI advised the Committee that the direct effects of the increase in labour costs
will affect employment and job creation, private sector investment, the level of economic
activity, inflation and international competitiveness.
6.64 The CAI argued that significant increases in labour costs associated with the SGL
will 'unquestionably reduce the number of persons employed'.76 It further argued that:
72
73
74
75
SG sub no. 21, p 2.
SG sub no. 15.
ibid, p 5.
ibid, p 6.
ibid, p 7.
76


... the less direct, but more important effect of the higher cost of labour on employment
will occur through either a slow-down of recovery or an actual return to recessionary
conditions.77
6.65 The CAI believes that it is 'a highly unrealistic assumption' that there will be a
trade-off of lower wages to finance the higher costs of superannuation. Whilst the CAI
agrees that over the long run the level of wages will adjust to compensate for the
increased cost of superannuation, it suggests in the short run, the adjustment 'will not
occur to a sufficient extent.' The CAI argued that:
No one has suggested that when superannuation costs increase nominal wages should fall.
What has been indicated is that over time, money wages will not rise to the extent they
would have had superannuation not been introduced. The adjustment process thus
requires a wage increase against which superannuation can be off-set. But if employers
are already unable to afford higher wages as many of them will be over the foreseeable
future, the opportunities for adjustment are extremely limited.78
6.66 The CAI went on to argue that:
... attempts to limit wage increases due to legislated contributions to superannuation
funds will meet with stiff workplace resistance.79
6.67 CAI advised the Committee that it had undertaken a survey of the effects on the
Australian economy of the SGL. The CAI acknowledged that the precise estimates of the
effect of the SGL on employment were a matter for conjecture; if the SGL is introduced,
'job losses' will be certain and they will be heavy.80 It expects that between 45 000 and
60 000 jobs could be put at risk.81 The results of the survey are shown at Table 6.9 and
indicate that employers intend to finance the SGL through increased prices or
unemployment.
Table 6.9
77
ibid.
ibid, p 9.
ibid, p 10.
CAI Industrial Review, p 4.
SG sub no. 51, p 20.
81


Australian Small Business Association Ltd (ASBA)
6.68 ASBA was also concerned about the possible impact on employment if the SGL
were to proceed. It advised the Committee that:
The introduction of a compulsory three per cent levy payment by those small businesses
currently not meeting their award obligations in regard to superannuation payments will
further exacerbate the high rate of small business failures and/or will lead to a substantial
reduction in employment throughout the entire small business sector. As this sector is
responsible for in excess of 60 per cent of the total private sector work force,
unemployment numbers will undoubtedly increase dramatically, causing welfare benefit
expenditure increase accordingly, thereby putting more pressure on government revenue,
which ultimately will, undoubtedly, result in taxation increases.82
6.69 As with other business groups, ASBA was concerned about the implications for
inflation and international competitiveness and suggested that, given the current fragility
of the economy, the introduction of the levy at this time was 'irresponsible and
ludicrous'.83
ACROD
6.70 ACROD is the national peak council of organisations and associations in the
disability field. ACROD advised the Committee that it will be particularly affected by the
SGL because most employees are involved in direct support services for people with
disabilities where it is not possible to achieve productivity gains through reducing the
amount of support without adverse consequences for disabled persons.
6.71 ACROD has asked that the Commonwealth Government top-up subsidies
provided under the Disability Services Act to allow payment of the SGL but it has not
been able to get a definitive response from the Department of Health, Housing and
Community Services. If subsidies are not forthcoming, ACROD believes that the levy on
voluntary organisations classified as 'public benevolent institutions' should be deferred.85
National Association of Personnel Consultants (NAPC)
6.72 NAPC considers that the SGL *will act as a real disincentive to growth in
employment generally, and especially in the temporary, non-permanent sector'.86 Its
research indicated that, in any 12 months' period:
• one third of temporary employees work on average for two days per employer,
and on average will have three employers or assignments during the period;
82
SG evidence, p 176.
83 ibid.
SG sub no. 12, pp 1-2.
ibid, p 2.
SG sub no. 8, p 1.
86


• another third will on average work for eight days per employer, averaging 3
employers or assignments; and
• the final third will work for an average seven weeks per employer, for an average
2 employers or assignments annually.87
6.73 On the assumption that these assignments were all worked during a one month
period, the NAPC estimated that the level of superannuation support generated in one
year would be as shown in Table 6.10.88
Table 6.10
6.74 Regarding the specific structure of the personnel industry, the NAPC advised the
Committee that a requirement for employer support to be measured on a monthly basis
will increase the strain on members' cash-flow positions.89 This was because temporary
employees are paid by the majority of members on the Tuesday following the week that
they worked and the consultancy carries the financing of the temporary's wage until
payment is received from the client. The Committee was advised that around 100 000
people are currently provided with employment through temporary arrangements each
week.90 It argued that any disincentive to temporary employment would see a dramatic
increase in unemployment levels.
States and Territories
6.75 The State and Territory Governments gave evidence that increases in 'on-costs'
for employment due to the SGL came during an unfavourable economic climate, and at
a time when Government budgets were already stretched to the limit. It was noted
that some States:
... may well need to consider a reduction in services and public sector employment in
order to offset the increase in budgetary expenses.92
87 ibid.
88 SG sub no. 8.
89 ibid,
ibid, p 2.
SG sub no. 17, p 2.
ibid.
92


6.76 These issues are further canvassed in Chapter 8.
6.77 The States and Territories regarded the Commonwealth's view that increases in
remuneration under the SGL legislation would not be a net 'add on' as inadequate for
three reasons:
• given current unemployment levels there can be no case for a general rise in
employee remuneration as early as July 1992;
• the argument ignores the fact that many employees (including those in voluntary
State schemes) already have superannuation benefits in excess of the minimum
required by the proposal; and
• by 'guaranteeing' increased benefits in advance, the legislation weakens the ability
of employers to negotiate productivity improvements in return for remuneration
increases.93
6.78 The States and Territories also noted that unlike private sector employers, they
cannot claim the costs as a tax deduction and the Commonwealth should therefore
provide some additional funding as compensation.
Aged Care Australia
6.79 Aged Care Australia is an umbrella council of State Associations and represents
approximately 900 charitable and benevolent service provider members which provide
nursing home and hostel care to almost 90 000 aged and disabled Australians. Members
of the Council employ some 57 000 staff and the majority are classified as 'small
businesses, although having payrolls in excess of $500 000 per annum. The Council
estimates that the SGL will cause one in every 70-80 employees to lose his/her job or
have his/her hours reduced.94
ACTU
6.80 The ACTU believes that the Treasury assumption of productivity growth of
1.5 per cent per annum is conservative.95 The ACTU believes that productivity growth
will be higher than this, particularly over the next two years because:
• historical precedents such as the fact that productivity growth coming out of the
1982 recession was of the order of 4.5 per cent per annum for each of the years
1983-84 and 1984-85; and
• there is clear evidence that some of the largest Australian companies achieved
significant productivity gains in 1990 and 1991. The ACTU believes that these
ibid, p 3.
SG sub no. 5, p 1.
SG sub no. 29, p 20.
95


gains are permanent but will not be fully realised until sales return to their past
peak.96
6.81 The ACTU advised the Committee that it was committed to policies ensuring low
inflation in Australia and that it accepts that 'costs must rise slowly if at all'.97 Real unit
labour costs include national wage cases, enterprise bargaining outcomes, superannuation
costs, and productivity offsets. The ACTU argued that the key issue was the growth in
the package relative to productivity.98
6.82 The ACTU told the Committee that the ACTU and Government have reached
agreement on aggregate wage outcome targets since 1986/87 and that the targets were
always achieved99. Such targets not only include wages and salaries, but also
supplements and superannuation.100
6.83 The ACTU considers that enterprise bargaining brings greater uncertainty to
aggregate wages growth but not greater uncertainty to unit costs because it is associated
with productivity and efficiency in the enterprise.101
6.84 The ACT U noted that real unit labour costs are presently at levels which
supported strong employment growth throughout the 1980s. It observed that:
• real unit labour costs have increased in the last two years due to the recession, but
will fall with recovery and increased capacity utilisation;
• industry is restructuring and has spare capacity so that as output increases during
the recovery, productivity will rise and unit costs will fall; and
• profits will rise.102
6.85 Further, the ACTU argued that: '... the key requirement for employers and
investors is certainty and predicability at moderate levels where labour cost growth is
concerned.'103 In its view, the Accord has delivered certainty and predicability in the
past and will continue to do so during the implementation of the phased SGL program.
6.86 The ACTU also advised the Committee that executive remuneration has the
potential to impact adversely on employment and pointed to the example of Coles Myer,
96
SG sub no. 51, p 4.
SG sub no. 29, p 22.
98 ibid.
99 ibid
100 ibid
101 ibid
ibid p 22.
ibid, p 23.
103


where total wage costs fell by 2.7 per cent in nominal terms in 1990-91 whereas
directors/executive remuneration increased by 10.5 per cent over the same period.104
6.87 Commenting on the CAI survey referred to above, the ACTU observed that the
results were from only 360 employers and that it 'represents a skewed, biased sample'
because there are 350 500 employers in Australia.105
P C Turner
6.88 The Committee's attention was drawn to the practices of one employer in the
service industry who is seeking to reduce the labour cost implications of the SGL. In this
particular case employees are not covered by any award, and remuneration is in the form
of a structured Target Employment Cost (TEC) package. The employer has written to
all staff advising them where superannuation contributions of at least five per cent of
taxable income are not part of the TEC package, staff will be required to either:
— vary their total remuneration package so that at least five per cent of taxable
income is received in the form of superannuation in order to satisfy the SGL
requirements; or
- vary their total remuneration package to reflect the costs of the employer paying
the superannuation quarantee charge.106
104
ibid, p 20.
SG sub no. 51, pp 5-6.
SG sub no. 61, pp 2-3.
105
106


CHAPTER 7 : INTERACTION OF SGL WITH SOCIAL SECURITY
Interaction of SGL With Social Security
7.1 The Government views the SGL as a key element in the provision of ’a coherent
and equitable framework in which retirement incomes objectives can be progressed'
[Second Reading Speech on the SGL legislation: see Chapter 3], The SGL is intended
to address two of the 'three fundamental sets of policy issues ... [associated with a]
retirement incomes policy', namely:
What is the target replacement standard of living at which retirement income
arrangements should be directed? [And] what contributions arrangements and associated
institutional support, such as tax concessions and prudential regulation, are necessary over
our working lives to support that target?1
7.2 The earlier Chapters of this Report have commented on some of these matters
and the issue of prudential regulation is covered in the Committee's First Report
Safeguarding Super: the Regulation of Superannuation, which was tabled in the Senate
on 4 June 1992.
7.3 The Treasury identifies the third fundamental set of policy issues as being: 'Given
the potential standard of living able to be funded by a retirement benefit, how should
policy impact on the conversion of such benefits into actual retirement income?'2
7.4 The Secretary to the Treasury emphasised that 'the SGL measures should not be
construed as having any intention of addressing policy concerns bearing on the conversion
of actual retirement benefits into adequate rest of life retirement income'3 Among the
concerns listed by the Secretary as not having a bearing on the specific SGL proposal
are:
... concerns about dissipation, the net impact on national savings via the composition and
level of private savings, the interaction of the superannuation tax expenditures and age
pension outlays... the dissipation problem has been cited by some as an apparently major
flaw in the SGL proposal — it is not. It is a separate problem having to do with the
conversion of actual retirement savings into maximum or at least adequate retirement
income flows ...
It makes no sense to damn the SGL measure for a problem it is not intended to address
and cannot address. The SGL proposal is all about maximising the pool of private savings
potentially available to fund retirement, without support form the public purse during
retirement. We need to do that urgently ... If we do not, the dissipation problem will, at
best, be of second order concern. Total retirement savings would then be totally
inadequate or to put it differently, what will not have been saved cannot be dissipated.
SG evidence, p 4.
ibid.
SG evidence, p 9.
3


While further steps are necessary to ensure superannuation savings are used for
retirement income purposes, it is surely misguided to criticise the SGL simply because
it does not of itself add to the substantial measures the Government has already taken,
which reduce, though by no means eliminate, the dissipation problem. These measures
include, for example, the replacement of the derisory five per cent lump sum tax
arrangements, improved preservation arrangements, the introduction of roll-over vehicles,
more attractive pension benefit features, deeming arrangements and lower personal tax
rates.4
7.5 The Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer, Senator the Hon Bob McMullan,
also stressed that:
the capacity of people to dissipate their savings is affected by [the SGL] levy only in so
far as, under the levy, more people will have some. The mechanisms of Government
policy to deal with double dipping, dissipation, et cetera, are quite separate from the levy
legislation. It may be a very important question for [the] Committee to look at it in its
broader term of reference, but it is not a matter that the SGL is designed to deal with
... It is other mechanisms of Government policy that will go to what, if any controls we
put on the way people spend their savings.5
7.6 The Committee was told that the Government is monitoring 'the efficiency with
which superannuation arrangements are meeting its retirement incomes policy objectives
and that, 'following introduction of the SGL, there may be a need to consider whether
the preservation age of 55 is appropriate'.6
7.7 The practice of double dipping or dissipation has been the subject of considerable
controversy during the Committee's hearings. Double dipping involves taking a
superannuation lump sum which has received significant tax concessions, consuming it
rapidly and then receiving an age pension. Whilst the evidence given to the Committee
was largely anecdotal and not based on any systematic longitudinal data, some witnesses
alleged that 'double dipping' is common in Australia.7 It was submitted, however, that
there are legitimate uses for lump sums other than purchasing an income stream, for
example, paying out mortgages and other debts.
7.8 Double dipping is facilitated by the preservation age for superannuation benefits
being set at a lower age than the age pension age for men (65 years) and women
(60 years). It is this policy scenario which allows some retirees who retire before the
pensionable age to spend their lump sums and at a later stage to become eligible for the
full pension or a greater pension benefit than would have been available had the lump
sum not been dissipated.
4
SG evidence, pp 8-9.
SG evidence, p 18.
ibid, p 9.
Sub no. 127, pp 14-15.
ibid.
8


7.9 The Committee acknowledges that the SGL upholds the 55 year preservation rule.
Further, the Committee is well aware of the sound reasons for the rule in so far as it
applies to employees who work in occupations which necessitate early retirement, but
urges the Government to consider measures to better integrate this aspect of the social
security and occupational superannuation systems. The third and final report of the
Committee will address this issue in detail.
7.10 The other particular criticism of the SGL was that it would maintain a tax
concessional system which is fundamentally unfair.9 ACOSS submitted that:
Government support should mainly be directed towards raising minimum retirement
income levels, based on need. If people wish to save in order to maintain an above-
average lifestyle retirement, it is not the Government's responsibility to subsidise this. The
age pension should therefore be the main vehicle for Government support of retirement
income, as it achieves this goal more equitably and efficiently than superannuation.
Government subsidies for superannuation should also be targeted as far as possible
towards those who would otherwise be unable to save for retirement.10
7.11 ACOSS claimed that under the current unfair superannuaton tax concessions, high
income earners received disproportionately greater tax benefits than lower income
earners.11
Table 7.1
7.12 The ACTLJ contested this view stating that the RBL system limited excessive tax
concessions and that the $3 000 tax deduction concession was only available to a limited
number of employees, that is, the self-employed and those in receipt of three per cent
only award superannuation,12 However, the ACTU acknowledged that 'all inequities in
the tax system should be addressed some time'.13
7.13 To ameliorate the inequities of the SGL on lower paid workers, the Women's
Economic Think Tank (WET Tank) recommended that:
9
ACOSS, SG sub no. 23, p 2.
ibid, p 2.
ibid.
SG sub no. 29, append 8, p 14.
SG sub no. 51, p 19.
13


The Government should establish a Government Superannuation Fund, similar to
Medibank, which would offer intermittent workers and others who expected to have
multiple employers, to select this fund. This could offer an administrative subsidy for
contributions, where these would exceed one per cent of the contribution; and
Employees should have the right to opt to contribute, even where their income is below
the threshold. This is particularly necessary where some people may have multiple short
term jobs, or periods of low activity, but want to continue paying in.
7.14 The ACTU responded that:
A 'super-Medibank' was [its] preference but it proved impossible to obtain at [the] time.
Fully vested and portable industry superannuation goes a long way towards the goal, the
SGL takes it further and there is no risk that a future government would change the rules
as a conservative government did in the 50s with the then infant scheme (for retirement)
based on a levy on wages.14
7.15 The Committee did not receive other comments regarding the establishment of
a national superannuation fund similar to the WET Tank proposal.
7.16 Whilst supporting a national income retirement policy, the Business Council of
Australia (BCA) criticised the broad approach taken by the Government. The BCA
claimed that:
... the development of award superannuation and this [SGL] Bill has focused exclusively
on contribution levels at the cost of developing a viable and comprehensive retirement
income framework for Australians ... [For] if a national retirement income framework is
to be based on both funded superannuation and the pension, there has to be a question
of how far it is sensible to force workforce coverage. Forcing coverage in the small
business sector and among some casuals and contractors may impose higher economic and
administrative costs than are justified15 [In short, the BCA does] not believe that the
levy approach lays the foundation for a comprehensive retirement incomes policy.16
14 ibid.
15
16
SG sub no. 21, pp 1-3.
ibid, p 7.


CHAPTER 8 : STATE GOVERNMENTS
State Governments
8.1 Public sector superannuation schemes conducted by the Commonwealth and State
and Territory governments provide superannuation benefits to approximately 20 per cent
of the Australian workforce, or nearly 2 million employees. It has been estimated that
investments in public sector superannuation funds total $32 billion.1
8.2 The State and Territory governments have been longstanding providers of
superannuation benefits to employees, especially those involved in white collar work.
Currently, State and Territory public sector superannuation coverage has been extended
to over 1.5 million employees on a two-tiered basis.2
8.3 The first tier of coverage which usually applies to higher paid salaried employees
involves contributory superannuation schemes whereby the employer contribution is
roughly 2-21/2 times the employee contribution. For example, in Queensland the employer
contribution to the defined benefit scheme is 14.55 per cent of a salary for a member
who contributes five per cent of salary.3
8.4 In New South Wales where over a 30 year period employee contributions average
6 per cent of salary, the employer contribution is basically twice that amount.4
8.5 The second and less generous tier of superannuation coverage was introduced as
part of the award three per cent award wage outcome. Members in these schemes have
elected not to contribute or have not been eligible to join the more generous voluntary
contribution schemes.
8.6 During the hearings on the Bills, the Committee heard that in some states more
than half of the public sector workforce receives the three per cent award superannuation
contribution only. The evidence on this matter for those states that provided the
Committee is included in Table 8.1.
8.7 The Committee was led to understand that, in spite of repeated attempts by a
number of States to have a greater number of employees voluntarily join the more
generous schemes, progress towards universal coverage was proceeding slowly. It would
appear that cost and the industrial relations constraints have militated against
encouraging all public sector employees to join the more generous schemes.
1
Superfunds November 1991, ASFA Sydney 36.
SG evidence, p 113.
Evidence, p 1170.
Evidence, p 923.
4


Table 8.1
8.8 For some schemes, however, compulsion has been a key feature. Queensland has
compulsory superannuation for its 80 000 salaried employees and New South Wales had
compulsory schemes until 1985.10
Financial Impact of the SGL
8.9 The lack of substantial progress towards broader coverage for State government
employees beyond the three per cent award provision has meant that the introduction
of the SGL will impose significant cost burdens on State and Territory budgets. For most
State and Territory governments, the additional costs under SGL will be a consequence
of increasing superannuation coverage from three to five per cent. However, in the case
of Western Australia, where some employees are not in receipt of any superannuation,
SGL will mean cost increase of five per cent.
8.10 The State and Territory government estimates of the cost of SGL are shown in
Table 8.2.11
8.11 The States contend that the cost increases associated with the SGL have come at
a most unreasonable time in that their budgets are stretched and that it is unlikely that
they will receive additional compensatory funding. Further, they see no general wage rise
5
SG evidence, p 117.
ibid, p 118.
Evidence, p 1559.
Annual Report (WA) Government Employees Superannuation Board 1990-91, p 20.
SG evidence, p 118.
SG evidence, p 118.
SG sub no. 17, p 2.
11


in prospect on 1 July 1992 and therefore little opportunity exists for the SGL cost
increases to be absorbed in wage rises.12
Table &2
8.12 The States see the following outcomes accruing as a result of the legislation:
(i) additional taxation collected by the Commonwealth from taxes on fund
incomes;
(ii) if SGL is provided as a substitute for wages, there will be an adverse
impact on State revenue from a loss of payroll tax; and
(iii) the increase in wage costs will cause some States to reconsider the level of
services and public sector employment, and/or to offset the increase in
budgetary expenses.13
Unfunded Liabilities
8.13 The Committee was advised of the level of accumulated unfunded liabilities which
have been incurred by the public sector in conducting employee superannuation.
Table 8.3 shows the level of unfunded liabilities for public sector superannuation
schemes.
12
SG evidence, p 115.
SG Sub No. 17, pp 2-4.
13


Table 83
Source: Superfunds, November 1989, p 18.
8.14 It was suggested that the introduction of new obligations under the legislation will
add $1.5 billion to the level of unfunded liabilities in NSW by 2000, and approximately
$5 billion nationally.14 Queensland, the only State which has fully funded
superannuation schemes, plans to maintain this policy in meeting SGL obligation. The
Committee notes the SGL does not require schemes established by statutes to be funded
but that it will increase unfunded liabilities.
8.15 Unfunded superannuation schemes are seen by some commentators as unsound
because their growth disguises the true cost of labour in the public sector. Also, overseas
rating agencies include superannuation liabilities in formulating credit ratings for the
State and Territory governments.15
Constitutional and Legislative Difficulties
8.16 The States contended that they have not had sufficient time to address the
constitutional and legal difficulties which the legislation poses. They asked whether it is
appropriate, efficient or necessary for State superannuation schemes to be subject to two
sets of legislation and claimed that there is no evidence to indicate they have been unable
to cope with the requirements of employee superannuation.16 They believe that then-
superannuation schemes already have extensive operational and reporting standards, are
fully accountable to State parliaments, are subject to the scrutiny of Auditors-General,
Ombudsmen (where applicable) and Ministers.17
8.17 A further issue raised by the States was that, as a number of their Parliaments are
in recess and will not resume until August 1992, they would need to pass retrospective
14
SG evidence, p 119.
SG evidence, p 120.
SG Sub No. 17, p 5.
Sub No. 84, p 2
17


legislation to implement the provisions of the SGL should it come into force on
1 July 1992.
Technical Concerns
Treatment of Defined Benefit Scheme
8.18 The States and Territories suggested that as the SGL legislation is framed with
defined contributions or accumulation schemes only in mind, detailed and comprehensive
guidelines will need to be issued to define the way defined benefit schemes should be
treated in assessing compliance with the SGL contribution requirements. As the final
guidelines have not been issued, the States submit they are unable at this stage to frame
legislation to implement the SGL. Also, under defined benefit schemes the level of cover
can vary from year to year but over the lifetime average out well in excess of SGL
requirements. The treatment of yearly contributions less than the required SGL level is
therefore of critical interest to the States and Territories.
Compliance
8.19 It was argued that the SGL Bills ignore the different funding arrangements of
most government schemes which involve meeting obligations when they arise rather than
fully funding liabilities as they accrue. Under the legislation, it would appear State
unfunded superannuation schemes would not be deemed as 'complying funds', as no fund
exists, nor could the Insurance and Superannuation Commission deem a State's
Consolidated Revenue Account, where that is used to pay superannuation benefits, to be
a 'complying fund'.




CHAPTER 9: AMENDMENTS PUT TO THE COMMITTEE BY
ORGANISATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS
Amendments Put to the Committee by Organisations and Individuals
9.1 A considerable number of amendments were put to the Committee in the course
of its examination of the Superannuation Guarantee Bills. The amendments include:
• ACTU amendments:
— the $500 000 payroll threshold be eliminated1
— the legislation to prescribe a lower threshold than $250 per month2. ($200
is suggested)3
— in addition to the percentage calculation, the legislation should prescribe
'a flat dollar amount rather than a percentage calculation alone... [and] a
flat dollar floor'4
— the legislation should stipulate that the employer's contribution is to be 'net
of any fees and charges'5
— the minimum level of superannuation support should be paid monthly in
arrears6
— the age 65 threshold should be removed7
— the current definition of 'employees' should be tightened 'to guard against
contrived quasi-employee arrangements'8
• Life Insurance Federation of Australia amendments:
— to permit any complying superannuation fund to be used by employers to
meet the legislated minimum requirement9 and if this is not adopted then
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
SG evidence p 44.
ibid, p 47.
SG sub no. 29, p 13.
SG evidence, p 45.
SG sub no. 29, p 12.
ibid, p 15.
ibid, p 14.
ibid
SG evidence, p 135.


'as a minimum, any arrangements which are put in place by employers
before any award provision, should not have to be dismantled';10 and to
allow:
... that if funds become non-complying for technical or other reasons,
that is not held against the employer that has made contributions on a
bona fide basis when, to the best of their knowledge, that fund was
complying11
[to provide] that all consequential legislation and regulations, which cover such
matters as requirements for vesting, preservation solvency and tax treatment of
personal contributions, be tabled now. Failing this, LIFA believes that additional
transitional arrangements must be provided in the first year ...12
to permit a 90-day grace period rather than 28 days13
to increase the threshold to $500 per month14
to 'require employers to specify where the contributions being remitted are
prescribed'15
to reinstate 'the concept of successor schemes for determining the earnings
base'16 and that the definition of salary and wages should exclude
components such as shift allowances17
to allow Australian Taxation Office payments which are paid direct to
members to be classed as eligible termination payments18
to amend s.61 of the Superannuation Guarantee Administration Bill to
require the Commissioner of Taxation to 'pay shortfall amounts to all
retired employees, not just employees under 55 who have retired due to
ill health'19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
SG sub no. 25, p 1.
SG evidence, p 141.
Sub no. 25, p 1.
SG evidence, p 135.
ibid.
ibid
ibid
19
ibid.
SG sub no. 25, p 2.
ibid.


— to permit an allocation from reserves to meet prescribed minimum
contributions, 'provided that they are fully vested from 1 July 1992 and
preserved from 1 July 1993'20
— to exclude independent contractors 'from the scope of the legislation until
the Government determines the treatment of all self-employed persons'21
— to provide for an annual payment in arrears to be allowed where the
payment does not exceed $100 for an employee
• Australian Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
amendments:
— as for LIFA but also:
— in relation to the first year's operations of the SGL, that employers be
permitted to meet their obligations to pay contributions 'only in respect of
the current employees at that time', namely, the end of the year;22 or, to
permit employers 'to be given six months in which to change their deeds
and bring their arrangements into line'23
— to allow 'an adequate arrangement for dealing with small superannuation
contributions ...[in order to avoid] a very real prospect of such
contributions being eaten up by administration costs'. A suitable
arrangement is to allow 'these contributions to be combined with all other
contributions received previously or concurrently'25
— to allow contributions to an accumulation plan to count for SGL purposes
only *where the employer has advised the trustee that the contributions will
be counted for SG purposes'26
— [to allow] ... an exemption for those with vested benefits in excess of the
minimum lump sum Reasonable Benefit Limit... [or] if the approach of a limit
on the earnings base is to be adopted... [then] a cap significantly lower than
$80 000... [be adopted]27
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
SG evidence, p 135.
ibid.
ibid, p 136.
ibid
ibid
SG sub no. 20, p 2.
ibid
ibid, p 3.


NSW Coal Association amendments:
— ... [to provide that] where an employer is contributing to the fund in accordance
with an industrial award or a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or
Territory, then 'notional earnings base', in respect of an employee, means the
earnings of the employee, or the earnings of the employee which equate to a rate
of earnings prescribed under that industrial award or law, by reference to which
the employer contribution is calculated28
— in relation to the transitional provisions for funds created by legislation, amend
the regulation under the Occupational Superannuation Standards Act so that:
a 'public sector scheme' is exempt permanently from minimum
funding requirements and is exempt until 1 July 1993 from full
vesting requirements
or alternatively
a public sector scheme which is not government guaranteed is
exempt from minimum funding and vesting requirements until
1 July 199329
Queensland Mining Council amendment:
... [to provide] for the notional earnings base of a pre-existing industry based
scheme to be adopted by employers whether or not they were contributing to the
scheme prior to 21 August 199130
Retailers Council of Australia amendments:
(i) Amend Section 20(3) and other relevant sections to set a minimum
employer contribution for all employers at three per cent. This would
mean larger employers would not have their contributions increased to
five per cent.
(ii) Amend Section 24(2) in at least one of several ways:
• If an employee's terms and conditions of employment are subject to an award
that, as at 20 August 1991, contained provisions relating to employer funded occupational
superannuation, the eligibility as established by that award will be the eligibility in
relation to that employee for the purposes of the legislation. For an employee, whose
terms and conditions of employment are not subject to an award that as at
20 August 1991 contained provisions relating to occupational superannuation, if that
employee receives from one employer less than $6 000 by way of salary or wages in
respect of the year calculated as commencing on 1 July and concluding on 30 June, the
salary or wages so received in respect of that year will not be taken into account for the
purpose of making a calculation under Sections 18 or 19.
28
SG sub no. 3.
ibid.
29
30
SG sub no. 7, p 3.


[Note: $500 per month could be substituted for the $6 000 per annum as long as
the $500 monthly threshold is calculated over at least a two month period]; OR
• If an employee receives from one employer less than $6 000 by way of salary or
wages in respect of a year, calculated to commence on 1 July and conclude on 30 June
in the following year, the salary or wages so received in respect of that year will not be
taken into account for the purpose of making a calculation under Section 18 or 19; OR
• If an employee receives less than $500 by way of salary or wages in respect of a
31
month,... etc.
• Australian Taxpayers' Associations (Mr Risstrom) amendments:
- the contributions threshold should be increased to $3 000 per annum32
- definition of salary/wages should be explicit33
- the monthly basis for contributions should be rejected but, if pursued, the
following amendment should be made:
The Commissioner of Taxation may issue a certificate to an employer declaring
the monetary extent to which the employer shall be deemed to have complied in
respect of a financial year, and shall have regard to —
(a) the total contributed during the year in respect of an employee, or of a
class of employees,
(b) the dates or dates on which contributions were made during the year,
and
(c) contributions in any prior year, including a period before July 1992,
which have resulted in an entitlement of the employee at the end of the
year of an amount equal to or greater than would have resulted had the
required contributions under this Act been made during —
(i) the year commencing on 1 July 1992, or
(ii) the respective months after June 1993.34
• Alexander Consulting Group amendment:
- to allow employers to meet their obligations by providing a benefit to
employees which may be funded from a surplus in a defined contribution
scheme35
31
SG sub no. 16, p 3.
SG sub no. 2, p 2.
33 ibid.
ibid, p 6.
SG sub no. 14.
35


• Mr Block suggested the following changes:
- the current tax threshold is far too low. We would like to see that threshold
increased36 ... [and] we would like to see the award superannuation and the
SGL being, as it were, merged into one and simplified from the point of view of
employers37
• Australian Council of the Rehabilitation of the Disabled (ACROD) amendment:
- that, if the Commonwealth Government does not provide additional
subsidies to cover the costs to voluntary organisations of complying with
the SGL obligations, 'the levy on voluntary organisations classified as
'public benevolent institutions' should be deferred'38
• Institution of Engineers Australia amendment:
- that provision be made 'to confine the effect of the guarantee scheme to
employees, that is, those persons accepted by the Taxation Office as
employees'39
• Women's Economic Think Tank and Women's Electoral Lobby amendments:
- ... the monthly limit should be set above the tax threshold as this would reduce
the likelihood of employers making use of this to curtail certain limited part time
jobs ... We would propose at least $500 per month;
- the recipient should have the option of receiving a cashed out equivalent of the
SGL if they show income levels up to double the threshold and they have been
at a low income level for the previous year. This will allow low income earners
some choice of savings versus immediate bills and needs;
- the Government should establish a Government Superannuation Fund, similarly
to Medibank, which would offer intermittent workers and others who expected
to have multiple employers, to select this fund. This could offer an administrative
subsidy for contributions, where these would exceed one per cent of the
contribution; and
- employees should have the right to opt to contribute, even where their income
is below the threshold. This is particularly necessary where some people may
have multiple short term jobs, or periods of low activity, but want to continue
paying in.
36
SG evidence, p 81.
37 ibid.
SG sub no. 12, p 2.
SG sub no. 13.
SG sub no. 24, p 5.
40


Pharmacy Guild of Australia amendments:
- the threshold should be raised to $800 000 instead of $ 500 00041
- payments should be made on an annual or biannual basis42
- the legislation should provide that superannuation be calculated on the
basis of an annual not the monthly amount, and 'should be at least $6 000
►43
per annum
• Thompson Douglass Butterell amendment (on behalf of Booz-Allen & Hamilton
(Australia) Limited):
- [that] prescribed employees in the category of exempt employees be extended to
include employees who hold Class 2 temporary entry permits to Australia - Code
414 in terms of Schedule 3 of the Migration Regulations - and who are in
receipt of sufficient employer superannuation support be deemed to satisfy
employer obligations under the Bill44
• Clayton Utz amendment:
- that the legislation be amended to exclude persons who are 'substantially
self-employed ... [ and] who, in addition to any income they receive by way
of self-employment also receive a relatively small non-award salary.'45
• Queensland Branch of the Australian Medical Association amendment, supported
by the Queensland Minister for Health:46
- that provision be made to exclude doctors who are Visiting medical
Officers in public hospitals;47
• Mr P C Turner amendment:
- that the legislation be amended to include 'a clause explicitly prohibiting an
employer from varying an employee's existing renumeration package (with the
intent to 'sidestep [the employer's] contribution under the legislation and pass the
cost of the SGL on to his employees).49
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
SG sub no. 42, p 2.
ibid, p 3.
ibid
SG sub no. 44, p 1.
Sg sub no. 37, p 1.
SG sub no. 49.
SG sub no. 45.
SG sub no. 61, p 1.
ibid.




CHAPTER 10 : RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendations
BILLS TO BE AGREED
Recommendation 1
The Committee recommends to the Senate that the Superannuation Guarantee Charge
Bill 1992, the Superannuation Legislation (Consequential Amendments and Transitional
Provisions) Bill 1992 and the Superannuation Guarantee (Consequential Amendments)
Bill 1992 be agreed to without amendment.
Recommendation 2
The Committee recommends that the Senate agree to the Superannuation Guarantee
(Administration) Bill 1992 as amended in accordance with the points contained in
recommendations 3 to 7.
Recommendation 3
The Committee recommends that the amendments to the Superannuation Guarantee
(Administration) Bill 1992 moved by the Government in the House of Representatives
be agreed to without amendment. These are contained in Appendix E.
Recommendation 4
The Committee recommends that the Government prepare amendments to the
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill 1992:
(i) to ensure that local government councillors who receive salary or wages are
covered by the Superannuation Guarantee, while other local government
councillors, who typically receive a monthly payment for attending
meetings, will not be covered by the Superannuation Guarantee;
(ii) to provide that employer superannuation support for 1993-94 and
subsequent years will be measured on a quarterly basis;
(iii) to increase the $500 000 annual national payroll threshold to $1 million;
(iv) to provide tables of charge percentages for employers with annual national
payrolls of $1 million or less as follows:
Year %
1992- 93 3
1993- 94 3
1994- 95 4


(V)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
1995- 96 5
1996- 97 6
1997- 98 6
1998- 99 7
1999- 2000 7
2000- 01 8
2001-02 8
2002-03 and subsequent years 9
to provide tables of charge percentages for employers with annual national
payrolls exceeding $1 million as follows:
Year %
1/7/92-31/12/92
1/1/93-30/6/93
1993- 94
1994- 95
1995- 96
1996- 97
1997- 98
1998- 99
1999- 2000
2000- 01
2001-02
2002-03 and subsequent years
4
5* Disallowable
5
5
6
6
6
7
7
8
8
9
to provide that the increase to five per cent on 1 January 1993 for
employers with payrolls over $1 million will have force following the
making of a regulation within 28 days of Royal Assent which regulation
may be disallowed* by either House;
to provide that if no such regulation referred to in (vi) is made, or if the
regulation is disallowed no later than two sitting days after
8 December 1992, the increase to five per cent on 1 January 1993 for
employers with payrolls exceeding $1 million will not have effect; and
to provide that, if an employee receives less than $450 by way of salary or
wages in respect of a month, the employee's employer will not be required
to provide superannuation support for that employee for that month.
Technical Aspects
The Government's December 1991 Information Paper indicated that where an employer
company goes into liquidation, the Levy would rank equally with employee entitlements.
The Committee notes that these requirements are not in the Bill.


The Committee also understands that there are technical difficulties with the Bill in
relation to benefit certificates for defined benefit superannuation schemes and the
calculation of the reduction in charge percentages where certain salary or wages are not
to be taken into account for working out a shortfall component. In relation to the first
issue, the difficulties arise from the issue of and the period covered by a certificate and
the method of calculation of the national employer contribution rate. The Committee
understands that Government officials have discussed these aspects of the Bill with
industry representatives.
The second issue concerns the calculation of the actual amount of employer
superannuation support in respect of an employee where for some part of the
contribution period the employee receives salary or wages that do not need to be taken
into account. There is a difficulty with the Bill in that the actual level of superannuation
support calculated under the provisions of the Bill does not correctly take into account
those periods of employment where the employee is receiving salary or wages that do not
need to be taken into account. This difficulty can result in the employer being taken to
have provided a smaller amount of superannuation support than should be the case.
Recommendation 5
The Committee recommends that the Government introduce legislation to cover the
three technical aspects of the superannuation guarantee scheme noted above.
Recommendation 6
The Committee recommends that the Commissioner of Taxation issue a ruling on the
issues of who is an employer and who is an employee as soon as practicable after the
legislation is passed.
Recommendation 7
The Committee recommends that the provisions of the Superannuation Guarantee
(Administration) Bill 1992 should be regarded as a minimum benefit and thus should not
override obligations above that minimum that may arise under an award superannuation
provision. In respect to Recommenation 4(viii), the minimum of $450 should not override
any existing award superannuation provision where that award provision is lower.
OTHER ISSUES
The Committee recommends that the Senate take note of the matters contained in the
following paragraphs and that where appropriate, the Government introduce legislation
before the end of the Budget Sittings 1992. Appendix F, Government response to the
issues raised by the Australian Democrats, provides additional information on these
matters.


Prudential Supervision of Superannuation Funds
The Committee released its report 'Safeguarding Superannuation' on 4 June 1992. Its
recommendations covered a number of matters, including codification of trustees'
responsibilities and the establishment of dispute resolution mechanisms.
On 16 June 1992, the Government released a document 'Government Responses' which,
among other things, provided its approach to the major recommendations which the
Committee made. A precis of the Government's response to the Committee's main
recommendations is below:
The Government accepts the recommendation that the Insurance and
Superannuation Committee (ISC) be the sole regulator and that it liaise and co-
ordinate with the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Australian Securities
Commission.
The Government supports the codification of certain trust law principles for
inclusion in OSSA.
The Government agrees to enhance the regulatory power of the ISC in terms of
instituting penalties for breaches of the OSSA and removing Trustees and
Directors where they have failed to meet fiduciary obligations.
The Government accepts that the current threshold for 200 members, before
equal employer/employee representation is required, ought to be reduced.
The Government agrees that a central fund could be appropriate to reduce costs
faced by individual funds managing inactive accounts.
The Government supports a requirement for members to be consulted before
major changes to their funds are effected. It will also consider questions about the
disposal of funds surplus to needs for defined benefits.
The Government will require that trustees who act as investment managers hold
dealers' licences.
The Government supports efficiency gains through increased competition and will
consider means to support increased competition through new entrants.
The Government is prepared to propose internal and external dispute resolution
mechanisms for the industry.
The Government is examining the basis of its powers in superannuation matters
and will consider widening the basis to include taxation, corporation and pension
powers.
Finally, the Government is considering, in the context of prudential supervision,
the situation where an employee refuses to join a complying fund. It also intends
to propose amendments to OSSA to allow employees to contribute SGL with


respect to former employees, and to ensure, as far as is practicable, that SGL
contributions are not made to non-complying superannuation funds.
The Committee welcomes the preparedness of the Government to respond to the
Committee's recommendations so promptly. It notes that the Government intends to
develop 'a detailed package of measures concerning prudential supervision for
introduction to Parliament in the forthcoming Budget Sittings'.
Superannuation Policy Issues
The Paper 'Government Responses' also outlined a number of issues, and the
Government's approach to them, which it is considering for the Treasurer's foreshadowed
statement on Superannuation Simplification Policies. These are outlined below.
On preservation, the Government intends that, from 1 July 1993, all future
superannuation benefits be preserved to the preservation age; and to consider
increasing the preservation age so that by 2025 virtually all superannuation
benefits are preserved to age 60. The Government indicated some flexibility to
access benefits between age 55 and 60 would also be considered.
The Government intends to announce before 30 June 1992 its plans for an
indexed, fixed cap on the lump sum for reasonable benefits limit purposes.
Linkages Between the SGL and Wage Increases
The Committee received a number of submissions on this important question which
touches on a number of issues fundamental to the SGL (such as timing of introduction;
rate of increase in the SGL requirement; any SGL employment effects; and the
appropriate maximum level of the SGL).
In his statement of 16 June 1992 (Government and Australian Democrats Agree on
Superannuation Guarantee Bills) the Treasurer, the Hon John Dawkins, MP, expanded
on the Government's announced policy that employers' contributions under SGL be taken
into account in future wage decisions.
That statement announced the Government's agreement to an amendment to the
Industrial Relations Act 1986 that would require the Industrial Relations Commission to
take the SGL contributions into account in arriving at national wage case decisions.
SGL Contributions made by Group Training Companies and Community
Services
Group Training Companies
These companies are essentially formed to allow one entity to employ apprentices on
behalf of a number of small businesses. The costs incurred by these companies are


passed on and are ultimately met by those small businesses. The Government considered
the impact of the higher SGL that these companies might be required to meet (compared
to their small business numbers) but indicated it was constrained in differentiating in law
between these Group Training Companies and other like entities. Ultimately, all
employers will face the same SGL rate, irrespective of payroll size, but the Government
indicated it would consider providing grants to the Group Training Companies if that
were necessary to reduce difficulties.
Community Services
Community Services such as HACC and child care may be affected by the provisions of
the legislation. Accordingly, this should be taken into account in relation to the funding
of projects in these programs.


Minority Report - Senators Alston and Watson
MINORITY REPORT - SENATORS ALSTON AND WATSON
With Australia still suffering from the deepest economic recession in 60 years, and with
unemployment over ten per cent, the last thing which business needs is policies which
undermine the capacity of employers to expand their enterprises and increase
employment.
Yet the Government's proposed Superannuation Guarantee Charge, or levy (SGL)
regime will add at least an extra $2 billion a year to labour costs irrespective of the state
of the international or the domestic economy, let alone the plight of individual employers.
Even the hapless John Kerin, when Treasurer, was forced to concede that the
Government's superannuation proposals were "basically an additional cost'.
Even ardent advocates of compulsory superannuation such as National Mutual are
concerned that 'the legislated contribution levels make no allowance for the capacity of
various employers and industry to meet the requirements. The legislated approach
assumes everyone can pay higher rates at the same point in time.'
The impact on small business, where the great bulk of the burden will undoubtedly fall,
is particularly severe. The Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce estimates that
for an average award employee, total on-costs will rise from 31.5 per cent to 37 per cent
of labour costs and even more for many staff not covered by awards.
Like the Training Guarantee Levy (TGL), the SGL is a de facto payroll or employment
tax imposed regardless of profitability but, unlike the TGL, it offers no prospect of
productivity improvements.
Since the SGL is being imposed as a legislative obligation, there will not be any
opportunity for employers to bargain any offsetting productivity increases with their
workforce. At a time of very weak demand, firms will have great difficulty in absorbing
the costs or passing them on.
There can be little doubt that most Australians aspire to a higher level of retirement
income than that enjoyed by the current generation. After eight years in office, the
present Federal Government has finally managed to achieve an age pension equivalent
to 25 per cent of AWE, but the capacity to make significant future improvements will be
critically affected by the health of the national economy. Already more than three-
quarters of persons of age-pension age receive at least a part pension — at a cost to
revenue of approximately $12 billion and this amount will undoubtedly increase with the
ageing of the population, unless there are a number of significant structural changes, such
as the gradual raising of the age-pension age for women, the abolition of compulsory
retirement ages and the easing of pensioner poverty traps.
But the bottom line is that a country simply cannot achieve permanent increases in
national savings and retirement incomes unless they are financed by faster economic


growth, higher levels of productivity and rising levels of disposable income. These are not
simply retirement income issues, they are national economic issues.
Two major arguments constantly advanced by the Government to justify a compulsory
system are the need to boost national savings and the need to curb the rising cost of age
pensions.
Savings
There is undoubtedly an urgent need to boost national savings. Household savings have
more than halved — from a peak of about 15 per cent of disposable income in the mid
1970s to just over six per cent in 1990-91. But it by no means follows that forcing workers
to go without wage increases will help the cause. As overseas experience has shown,
unless there is rising output and productivity, compulsory savings in one form will simply
lead to a run-down in savings elsewhere.
Treasury is particularly conscious of this switching effect — the most that it claims in
favour of the SGL is that:
Higher superannuation savings would not be fully offset by reductions in other savings
because many employees have equivalent levels of non-superannuation savings and
superannuation savings are not a perfect substitute for other savings... Some substitution
... can be expected, however,... there is unlikely to be complete substitution. No estimate
of the likely magnitude of this effect is available.
In other words, there is likely to be a very considerable switching effect, not a perfect
switch by any means but a very high level of switching. Therefore it cannot be said with
any degree of confidence that there will be any particular level of increase in savings as
a result of the SGL regime.
As Paddy McGuinness has cogently argued:
The weight of economic evidence is that imposing compulsory superannuation on
individuals does not increase total savings. It simply causes people to save less of their
residual income, their take home pay.
Or worse still, to go further into debt.
Professor John Freebaim is right:
The key to providing high income in retirement is the pursuit of policies promoting high
economic growth.
Even prominent advocates of government intervention, such as Ray Block, who gave
evidence to the Committee on behalf of Committee for the Economic Development of
Australia (CEDA), admitted that *we realise that the increase in national savings will only
be marginal'.
According to Peter Griffin, Managing Director of Rothschilds, a compulsory system is
unlikely to increase national saving and will lead to lower returns to savers as well as a


big distortion in the allocation of investment capital and the workings of the capital
market.
The key to national savings is to build a sound economy and provide incentives to save.
A leading retirement income commentator, Daryl Dixon, told the Committee the key
to increasing national savings is to give people incentive to save' and Professor Julian
Disney, a member of EPAC, said if one is concerned about national savings, it seems
to me self-evident that the best way of encouraging savings is to provide a savings
incentive for the widest range of purposes.'
Despite being required to make some last minute attempts to conjure up savings
scenarios to repair the political damage to the Government resulting from its professions
of profound ignorance to the Committee, it is clear that Treasury remains deeply
sceptical concerning a proposal about which it was not consulted and to which it had no
policy input. It was simply required to take on board an Accord deal and massage it
through the Parliament. Unfortunately, the Government's strategy backfired when the
nakedness of the policy justification for the legislation became clear.
The crucial issue then is national savings, that is, how much the country as a whole saves,
not the savings of any particular group. The OECD's most recent comparison of savings
patterns shows Australia's national savings averaged 20 per cent of national income
throughout the 1980s, down from around 24 per cent in the 1960s and 1970s. As with
most other industrialised countries, the 1970s decline in national saving in Australia was
due mostly to the deterioration of public sector saving. Australia's performance places
it about mid field in the OECD. The US saves only 16 per cent of national income and
Britain 17 per cent, with Germany, France, Italy, Canada and New Zealand all at similar
levels to Australia. Switzerland, Finland and Norway have higher savings ratios than other
European countries but all are well under 30 per cent. Japan is the OECD exception
with 32 per cent of national income saved.
For many years, Australians have spent more on investment than they have been able
to save (the savings and investment gap). This gap between domestic savings and
investment has meant a heavy dependence on foreign equity and overseas debt to
maintain economic growth. The result has been a large (and at times explosive) growth
in Australia's overseas deficit and foreign debt. Interest payments overseas are now equal
to $1.2 billion per month: Australia needs to spend one-fifth of its export income to
service foreign obligations, thus limiting the growth in national living standards.
Further, Australia's savings problem has been accentuated in recent years by a
combination of structural and cyclical factors. The interaction of high inflation and penal
rates of personal taxation on interest income has eroded the attractiveness of traditional
forms of saving (the structural disincentive to save). The recession has also forced many
Australians, particularly those unemployed, to draw down their savings to maintain their
standard of living (the cyclical disincentive to save). Corporate sector savings and the net
fiscal position of Government have also deteriorated as a result of the recession (an
adverse cyclical impact on saving). A series of tax reforms and the use of tight monetary
policy to squeeze inflation out of the system have failed to offset these structural and
cyclical disincentives to save.


However, there is no evidence that the Government's superannuation initiatives have
produced, or will produce, a large net increase in national savings. Indeed, it is possible
that the Government's initiatives are exacerbating a major shift in savings away from the
traditional retail financial institutions (the substitution effect). This structural shift of
savings from retail financial institutions to superannuation funds will have profound and
largely unforeseen consequences for the composition of investment flows. Compulsory
superannuation would hasten the process. By allowing major taxation concessions for
compulsory superannuation, national savings may actually decline.
Personal retail deposits have traditionally formed the funding base for mortgage loans
for new homes and loans to farmers and small and medium business — the engine of
Australian economic growth and job creation. Superannuation funds, on the other hand,
generate long-term retirement income by placing members' contributions in investments
such as shares in Australia's top 100 companies, government securities, commercial
property and overseas equities. Retail financial institutions can raise deposit rates to
attract savings or gain access to higher cost funds through the commercial market, but
this will mean higher transaction costs and interest rates on loans to their customers:
home owners, farmers and businesses. The commercial market is more volatile than the
retail market and some financial institutions, in particular non-bank financial institutions,
may struggle to attract funds in a tight market.
Given the growing asset base of superannuation funds and capital shortage in key areas
of investment, some may argue for investment controls on superannuation funds. This
would further distort the savings-investment equation, increasing the costs of savings for
all Australians. A better approach would be to provide more equitable tax treatment
(economic efficiency) and thus encourage all forms of savings.
There are no short cuts to economic prosperity. Nor is there any magic retirement
incomes pudding whereby increasing levels of retirement income can be forced on
employees or encouraged by taxpayers irrespective of capacity to pay.
This is recognised by all the major institutions. The National Mutual Life has urged the
government to deregulate the labour market, deregulate and privatise key areas of the
economy, including transportation, communications and government business enterprises,
and direct fiscal stimulus toward encouraging savings and long term private sector
investment.
The Coalition supports, and indeed has made the running on, many of these vital national
reforms.
With the nation experiencing a protracted economic crisis of Argentinian dimensions,
more than ever it is vital to take a leaf out of the Japanese post-war rebuilding book and
start to engender a national savings culture.
This will not come about via a system of compulsory superannuation which pretends to
put all the burden on employers. Inevitably many employees will take the view that their
superannuation needs are being taken care of by others and that there is no need for
them to make any further provision for their retirement. This lowest common
denominator approach is quite the opposite to a savings culture. Indeed, once compulsory


superannuation is firmly entrenched it will not be long before politicians are being urged
to take the view that tax concessions — currently around $3.5 billion and set to at least
double by the turn of the century — could be better used elsewhere. Indeed, there are a
number of senior government figures who already take this view.
Affordability
Perhaps the most damning indictment of the SGL proposals is their impact on
employment. It is quite fatuous, and indeed disingenuous, to pretend, as the
Government’s principal spokesman on superannuation, Senator McMullan did recently
that '... the Levy will not be an additional cost. In the initial stages at least most
[employers] would already pay out the required amount of superannuation ...'.
The legislation does not just tinker around the edges. It will involve substantial cost
increases to provide superannuation cover for:
• possibly 800 000 non-managerial non award private sector wage and salary
earners;
• possibly 50 000-100 000 public sector employees currently lacking effective
coverage, for example due to poor vesting; and
• possibly 650 000 employees of non complying employers (at least 600 000 in the
private sector).
These new recruits constitute 25-30 per cent of private sector employment and around
five per cent in the public sector.
Overwhelmingly, they are in small businesses. Some are young professionals who
consciously prefer not to save via superannuation until much closer to retirement, but the
great bulk are employees earning less than average weekly earnings.
The fact is that many firms are not even paying the first three per cent of award
superannuation. Senator Cook, Minister for Industrial Relations, has estimated that the
outstanding amount is around $700 million a year. The main reason, according to his own
Department, is that most employers simply cannot afford to do so.
As Treasury made clear in its evidence, if the full unit cost impact is to be borne by
employers, there will be up to 45 000 jobs lost over the next two years and up to 100 000
jobs lost over the next five years.
The only way to avoid such an outcome is to discount any wage increases by around
1.5 per cent for the effect of the SGL. But this the Government steadfastly refuses to do.
Instead, it supports an ACTU wages claim for an increase of around 4.5 per cent when
Australia’s underlying inflation rate is almost half that figure, and then piously promises
that if Australia's inflation rate gets significantly out of line with that of our major trading
partners, it will somehow depart from a specified legislated timetable for annual increases
in contributions to the year 2000. In this regard, the following extract from the


Committee's Hansard is most instructive (note that Dr Preston referred to in the
quotation is Deputy Secretary of the Commonwealth Treasury):
At Expense of Wage Increases
Senator Alston: Your submission states: The effect on employers net
savings will be influenced by the extent to which
increases in employer superannuation contributions are
taken into account in wage negotiations. If increases in
contributions do not result in any change in employee's
total remuneration — which you say elsewhere must
include superannuation - employer's net savings
positions should not change significantly.'
In other words the SGL will be at the expense of wage
increases. That is what it is saying, is it not?
Dr Preston: It is saying that wage increases will be lower that they would otherwise have
been.
Senator Alston: And that if it does not involve any net increase in the
cost burden to employers, it must be at the expense of
wage increases, must it not?
Dr Preston: Yes.1
Not only does this defy political reality but it also contains the seeds of an economic and
social disaster waiting to happen. If Australia is to become truly competitive as quickly
as possible, it surely must do everything possible to lower its export cost structure. Once
the fruits of increased exports start to flow through, there will be a sound case for
employees being entitled to share in the increased profits. But to ignore actual costs and
wait perhaps several years at least before making some subjective comparative
judgements about international inflation rates will only ensure that our economic
predicament will worsen.
In addition to the substantial evidence placed before the Committee which indicates that
widespread unemployment will be the result of the SGL, Opposition Senators and
Members have had access to countless individual cases of how small businesses employing
between 40 to 50 people will have no alternative than to reduce staff levels. It is a logical
equation that a three per cent increase in labour costs equals retrenching one worker in
a workplace that employs 30 or so persons.
In recent weeks, the Government has claimed that the economy will be able to afford
both the increased costs of the SGL — at least several billion dollars in the first year —
and a wages claim well in excess of inflation, because the One Nation Statement asserts
that Australia is suddenly poised to achieve unprecedented growth rates and productivity
increases.
SG evidence, p 2102.


These utterly unlikely and intuitively implausible predictions have been greeted with a
great deal of scepticism on all sides and the recent downward revision of the expected
1992-93 growth rate from 4.75 per cent to four per cent by the Government's own
economic adviser, the Joint Economic Forecasters Group, is simply official confirmation
that these targets are absurdly optimistic.
Australian business is in no position to afford a new multi-billion dollar payroll tax,
especially one which is scheduled in most cases to treble or even quadruple within eight
years. Even if existing double-dipping loopholes are closed, it will be of little consolation
to taxpayers if a declining pension bill is more than offset by the rising costs of the
national dole cheque. More importantly, however, the dangers to the social fabric of high
and prolonged unemployment are already apparent world-wide. With unemployment
levels on present policy certain to stay around ten per cent for years to come and even
the Government only claiming a marginal improvement over the next few years, it will
be little short of lunacy to introduce a massive new cost burden on employers - with
unions saying only that the cost will be 'taken into account' in further wage negotiations.
History over the last decade offers no basis for any confidence and any reliance at all
could be placed in such a vague and essentially meaningless formula.
Who Pays?
The Employer
Unlike every other compulsory system in the world, the SGL legislation puts the burden
entirely on employers, many of whom will be expected to find 12 per cent within eight
years. The Government's timetable ostensibly requires employers to pay nine per cent by
the year 2000 but it is clear that they will be expected to pay the last three per cent as
well — the Government has said only that'... it will give consideration to using employee
contributions and tax cuts.'
This 'employer pays' approach will inevitably encourage many employees to take the view
that superannuation is no longer their responsibility, thereby ensuring a lowest common
denominator outcome for retirement incomes.
Even the Australian Chamber of Manufactures, which has been generally supportive of
award superannuation, has argued that '... mandatory employer funded superannuation
in the absence of wage offsets is both inequitable and counter productive'.
Other Wage and Salary Earners
If the Government pursues its pretence that the cost of the SGL will be funded by
general reductions in wage increases, this clearly means that those already in receipt of
the prescribed level of superannuation will be required to go without a wage rise to cross-
subsidise those without superannuation coverage.




Overseas Comparisons
The Committee's background paper Super System Survey revealed that a significant
number of countries maintain a retirement income system which ensures that the
incidence of contribution falls more equitably on both employers and employees than is
proposed under the SGL. The following countries have equal or roughly equal
employer/employee contributions. However, in making comparisons or drawing
conclusions, one should be careful to establish whether the country under survey has an
integrated social security system which may include unemployment, health, aged care and
retirement provisions.
In contrast, the SGL only incorporates a nine per cent employer contribution and does
not guarantee that any employee contribution will be made. As the pronouncement of
the Government clearly indicate that employees willnot forego future wage increases to
reach the final target, one can only conclude that Australia will have a 100 per cent
employer funded SGL system.
Inflation and Unemployment
Access Economics and the CAI have predicted that the Government's proposals will lead
to a five per cent increase in inflation and the loss of at least 60 000 jobs through the 90s.
The Treasury figures make it clear that, if employers bear the full burden, up to 100 000
jobs will be lost over the next five years. The only way such a scheme could possibly
succeed without putting thousands out of work and refuelling inflation would be for the
increases to be at the expense of wage rises. In other words, to require Australian
workers to forego significant wage increases over the next decade in order to disqualify
themselves from the age pension. The more likely outcome is that the cost of
superannuation will be met from funds which would otherwise have been used by
businesses to reinvest, generate new jobs and expand activities.
Some Real Losers
Part-time and Casual Employees
Those who will do worst out of compulsory superannuation are part-time and casual
employees, more than two million of whom are women. Not only will they be effectively
forced to forego very substantial wage rises but the amount set aside for them in the
name of superannuation will be decimated by administration, insurance and taxation
charges, leaving them with a small cash pittance and no retirement income.
The retail industry, which is the largest employer of staff in the private sector, and is
traditionally a major employer of part-time and casual employees, has made it clear that
the legislation will not only be administratively complex but will lead to immediate job
reductions, particularly in the depths of the current recession.
The Retailers Council of Australia is also concerned that to allow the levy to operate in
conjunction with the existing award system will expose employers to a situation of double
jeopardy, particularly because of the vast differences in award superannuation provisions
compared to the standard levy requirement. This is particularly evident with the different


qualifying periods which vary between States, but in most instances, require a person to
be employed for at least six months before payments are made, usually retrospectively.
This contrasts with the SGL legislation, which will require payments for all part-time and
casual employees from day one, even though major retailers such as Woolworths have
a staff turnover of 30 per cent a year.
According to Coles Myer, the country's largest private employer, with 135 000 employees,
of whom 32 per cent are regular casuals under the age of 21:
Not only would there be a significant administration burden for both the company and funds
if such employees are to receive employer funded occupational superannuation, but there
would be no real gain for the individual in terms of retirement income.
Women
As the SGL only applies to those in the paid workforce, some two million non-working
women are denied access to the alleged benefits, despite the fact that they not only live
longer than men but they are particularly financially vulnerable in their retirement years
in the event of early widowhood or divorce.
Timing
From the time the Bills were first introduced into Parliament on 2 April 1992, the
Government has been insisting on a 1 July 1992 start up date. This is despite the fact that
there has been no clamour for such a date from any organisation except the ACTU. On
the contrary, a wide range of community groups and organisations have repeatedly
requested the Government to at least defer the legislation and convene a national
conference to be attended by all interested parties in order to develop a long term viable
and effective retirement incomes policy for Australia. The Coalition would welcome such
an initiative and would be keen to play an active and constructive role in any such
discussions.
Not only have serious administrative deficiencies and technical problems been identified,
but the whole premise of a compulsory superannuation scheme has been severely
undermined by the Government's own financial advisers and the Department of the
Treasury whose senior officials have cast very serious doubts on the likelihood that the
Bill will achieve its professed objectives, particularly:
• the need to boost national savings; and
• the need to arrest the rising cost of age pensions.
During the course of the hearings it became absolutely clear that, whilst it is highly
desirable that a coherent and effective system of superannuation should be in place
sooner rather than later, there is absolutely no magic about a 1 July starting date.
Whilst the Government is to be commended for its willingness to take pre-emptive steps
to avert pressure on the welfare system that may well arise as a result of the post-war
baby boom generation reaching retirement age over the next 15-20 years, the imperative


is to put in place a workable system which enjoys widespread community support, rather
than rush to entrench a flawed system.
The evidence presented to the Committee over recent months makes it plain that the Bill
enjoys support from the ACTU and some elements of the life insurance industry and
superannuation industries. Otherwise it is strenuously opposed by almost every other
major group or organisation in the country, including the business Council of Australia,
the Confederation of Australian Industry, the Australian Small Business Association, the
Retailers Council of Australia, the Australian Council of Social Services, the Australian
Federation of Consumer Organisations and the Womens Economic Think Tank.
It is therefore incomprehensible that, instead of accepting the recommendations of the
IRC in its April 1991 national wage case to convene a national conference on retirement
incomes policy, the Government has steadfastly refused to debate any of the major issues
in the public domain.
It surely recognises that its complex and confusing approach to the tax treatment of
employee contributions is a shambles. It surely knows that its current policy of
encouraging an early retirement age of 55 years is a major reason why more that three-
quarters of persons of age-pension age receive at least a part pension. It must be acutely
aware that unless the preservation age is gradually raised to at least 60 years, double
dipping will undermine any serious attempts to reduce Australia's pension bill.
Even its Accord partner, the ACTU, has acknowledged the regressive nature of the
contributions tax and the need for a universal rebates approach. The mindless
complexities of the reasonable benefits limit are yet another constant source of industry
concern and a major factor in higher than necessary administration charges.
Yet in the face of all these uncertainties and the need for further significant changes, the
Government is blindly determined to impose a whole new layer of compulsion on a
profoundly unstable and ineffective system.
Why is the Government not prepared to wait for community response to its own long
awaited and soon to be released White Paper on Simplification of Superannuation?
After having publicly said that it looks forward to receiving the report of the Senate
Select Committee, why is it not prepared to wait until the final report becomes available
before proceeding with yet more fundamental changes to the system?
Following intense questioning during the later stages of the inquiry, Treasury provided
detailed estimates of the costs and savings of the SGL initiative. These indicated that in
20-30 years time, net savings would begin to accrue on pension outlays. The Committee
has seen neither detailed breakdowns of the new tax regime for superannuation nor has
it had access to the impact of such changes on pension outlays and tax concessions. It
would be prudent under this scenario for the Government to allow the Committee time
to examine these estimates and advise the Senate of the efficacy of these changes in
policy. The lack of information on this aspect of SGL is indeed alarming. Treasury was
unable to give precise details of the cost of tax concessions towards 2000, but it was


broadly agreed that a figure of $7 billion, double that which prevails at present, would
be likely.
Not one witness before the Committee seriously sought to justify the indecent haste of
a July 1 start up date. Even ASFA, which generally supports the thrust of the legislation,
told the Committee:
... there remains in our view a number of significant defects in the legislation and ten of these
are in the paper that I have tabled today. ...As none of these have yet been addressed by the
Government and businesses throughout the country are complaining about the impossibility
of meeting such a tight deadline the Government has no option but to defer the legislation.
Indeed its consultants and industry representative made it plain to the Committee that
with the shape of the final outcome quite uncertain the fate of the Bill as yet unknown
and the Senate debate not scheduled to start until 24 June, a July 1 timetable would
impose impossible compliance obligations on employers.
It is plain therefore that the only explanation for the Government's obsession is its
anxiety to have its Accord deal with the ACTU in place well before the next election.
Such a justification is almost a perversion of the democratic process. When the country
is crying out for a sensible long term approach to retirement incomes policy, the
Government seems determined to honour a back-room deal irrespective of the
consequences and in defiance of overwhelming community opposition. The irony is that
once the workers of Australia become aware that they are at least in theory expected to
forego wage rises and to accept lower standards of living in order to disqualify themselves
from the age pension, they will be most unlikely to show any gratitude to the
Government at the ballot box.
A group of welfare, women's and community groups, including ACOSS, AFCO, ACOTA,
AP&SF, Association of Civilian Widows, WEL and WIN, wrote to the then Treasurer,
Mr Kerin, in October 1991 as follows: 'We would regard it as completely unacceptable
if the major anomalies, inequities and inefficiencies... were not addressed prior to further
entrenching the current system and legislation'.
As the Government has taken no action to address these issues it is clear that it totally
lacks support for pursuing the legislation further at this time.
One cannot help but agree with the BCA, which urged the Government prior to the last
Budget 'to postpone its plans to legislate for superannuation until agreement is reached
by employers, unions and the Government on the future direction of superannuation and
retirement incomes policy.'
It has consistently stressed the need for a 'comprehensive approach to retirement
incomes based on outcomes rather than contributions.'
The small business sector will be particularly effected by the SGL legislation as the bulk
of non-compliance is in this area and most of this comes about through inability rather
than unwillingness to pay, compounded by genuine uncertainties about the appropriate
fund.


According to the VACC, the SGL will have devastating effect in the retail motor
industry: 'Business across all sectors of this industry will face retrenchments, loss of
retained earnings and vulnerability to bankruptcy'.
The arbitrary $ 500 000 dividing line between 3-5 per cent will particularly affect smaller
firms at the margin who will be faced with sudden-death extra costs once their wages bill
exceeds the limit. Small firms, with as few as 10-12 employees, could find at the end of
the year that their total payroll had pushed them into the four or five per cent bracket.
If they have only paid three per cent during the year, then $10 000 could be payable as
a non-deductible fine - yet another massive disincentive to expanding employment.
Small business (those with less that 20 employees) make up 96 per cent of Australian
enterprises.
According to the Victorian Employers Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VECCI) the
cost to the Australian small business sector of providing superannuation already amounts
to $1.14 billion a year — equal to 60 000 jobs for workers on an average weekly wage.
The Australian Chamber of Manufactures is particularly incensed that the Bill deems
independent contractors to be employees.
Consultation
As stated in the Committee's first report, Safeguarding Super, the SGL initiative is the
third attempt since Federation to implement a compulsory system of superannuation
coverage. By any standard, it is a large scale development which has the potential, if not
properly planned and executed, to have horrendous employment and budgetary
outcomes. The Committee heard evidence from a number of employer witnesses that the
Government was unwise in not convening a National Conference of relevant parties as
requested by the AIRC. Their view is that major legislative initiatives, especially those
which will have a deleterious impact on employment and business profitability, should
only be taken after full and proper consultative procedures have been followed.
In this case, such procedures have not been adhered to and so the SGL, especially as it
is employers who will be footing the bill, will always be at risk.
The Government's refusal to consult with community groups and effected parties is quite
extraordinary as the following extracts from the evidence make clear.
One of the best summaries of all the objections to the current legislation was enunciated
by Mr Willis on behalf of the MTLA:
First, that the timing of 1 July 1992 will impose an unsustainable cost burden on industry,
unavoidably resulting in further business closures and job losses. Given the protracted and
the severe recession being experienced and the urgent need to lift business investment to
improve both competitiveness and employment opportunities, this new employment tax is
totally unjustified: second, that the arbitrary timetable for future contribution increases may
also be prejudicial to future economic growth later in the 1990s; third, that the form of the
Bill is unnecessarily complex and costly to administer, fourth, that another tier of legal
compliance for superannuation will compound the problem of excessive regulations rather
than contributing to necessary simplification; fifth, that the many uncertainties of the


proposal, including the extent to which consequential cost increases are to be offset against
future wage claims, may cause significant industrial disputation; sixth, that there is no firm
provision for direct employee contributions and seventh, that the exemption and thresholds
are unrealistically low and will result in a substantial number of costly but ineffectual
benefits.2
Mrs Vilgan:
(Queensland Treasury)
We have received no response to any of the submissions raised. We put submissions in on
the draft White Paper and on the White Paper. We received no comments back and we were
not able to see the legislation in draft form.3
Mr Emery:
(Under Treasurer, South Australian Treasury)
... our Premier wrote on behalf of all Premiers requesting Treasury and other consultation
before the legislation was introduced and that request was simply declined...4
Ms Jane Elix:
(Director, Federation of Consumer Organisations)
The Government has undertaken no consultation with the community at large and absolutely
minimal consultation with the organised community sector.
Les Scott, in the House of Representatives on 5 May, made it quite clear that the
consultative process has occurred between government, business and organised labour ...
... as a result of the last year's lack of demonstrable evidence to support the SGL, and
particularly as a result of the last two weeks' pathetic presentations to this Committee by
Treasury and other Government officials, public credibility for the SGL has been blown
apart.5
Ms Eva Cox:
(Womens' Economic Think Tank)
... this is a deal between the Government and the ACTU about something which has got very
little to do with retirement income and much more to do with the politics of the union
movement and the Government.6
2
SG evidence, p 67.
SG evidence, p 125.
4 ibid.
ibid, p 95.
ibid, p 96.
6


Mr Emery:
(— presenting a unanimous submission on behalf of the State Governments)
... about consultation between the commonwealth and State governments. There has been
virtually none of any significant despite the importance of the topic, despite the fact that
there are about 1.5 million people in State and Territory superannuation schemes and despite
the very long experience of States and Territories in this area.7
Administrative Problems and Transitional Arrangements
The Bills will pose substantial administrative difficulties for employers, many of whom are
likely to find that they have unintentionally failed to comply with its strict requirements
and have thereby incurred on SGL shortfall.
In many instances a significant increase in contributions will be involved simply by virtue
of updating current award obligations. For example, many awards currently specify a
fixed contribution, being three per cent of the appropriate wage when the award was
granted — which may be as long ago as 1986. Thus even three per cent of the current
wage would effectively require an additional 2-3 per cent payment.
Many industrial awards require superannuation contributions to be paid into particular
funds. As a result many employers face considerable administrative difficulties and
increased expenses by being required to pay into a multiplicity of industry funds
nominated by separate awards which do not allow employers and employees to develop
their own superannuation arrangements.
The levy regime perpetuates the continuing lack of freedom for employees to choose
their preferred superannuation fund. This is graphically illustrated in Queensland where
the retail award allows for employee choice and as a result, an overwhelming number of
staff choose to use the company fund instead of REST the industry fund.
The SGL legislation will compound these problems.
Whilst it purports to allow contributions to be made to 'any complying fund' it will not
excuse failure to comply with award obligations. Indeed Treasurer Dawkins has made it
clear that the Government will support ACTU attempts to vary award provisions so as
to absorb the increases in compulsory employer contributions.
As Treasury has recently admitted to the Senate Select Committee, once a compulsory
system is in place, there is no economic or financial justification for the retention of an
award-based system.
In the United States, England and Canada the tax system is structured to allow people
who want to run their own retirement accounts to do so by allowing them to contribute
to the institution or fund of their choice, through the investment vehicle of their choice.
ibid, pp 112-113.


But under the SGL regime this will not be possible, except where employers neglect to
pay their contributions. In this case the SGL will be collected by the ATO and then
invested with the fund of the employee's choice. This illogical outcome offers the only
means by which employers and employees can avoid the tyranny of the award system.
Administrative Costs and Transitional Arrangements
The main administrative cost to employers will be complying with the record keeping
involved to ensure the correct contributions are made. This will become particularly
burdensome after 1992-93, when the monthly contribution period will require individual
calculations each month for each employee.
In addition to the employers' costs of arranging for superannuation contributions, there
will also be the costs associated with directing any amount paid under the SGL to the
individual employee concerned. Where employers have a shortfall in their contributions,
they will be subject to the levy to recover the shortfall, an interest component and an
administrative charge. The charge will initially consist of a flat amount of $50, plus an
amount of $30 for each employee in respect of whom the employer has a superannuation
shortfall.
Another cost of the scheme will be the increased administration charges of
superannuation funds. In cases of low or minimal contributions, it is likely that the
charges will be equal to or exceed, the required contribution.
Many awards currently provide for flat rate contributions but these will not satisfy SGL
requirements. In many instances a change-over to even the minimum percentage
contribution will mean a significant increase in payments.
In addition, the legislation does not sanction a fixed earnings base. As a result, the New
South Wales Coal Association estimates that it will be required to pay a quite
unnecessary additional $12 million a year into what is already a very generous scheme.
In this regard the NSW Coal Association submitted that, whilst its members contribute
an average of 11 per cent of the superannuation earnings base, the SGL will impose a
$50 to $130 million impost on the NSW coal industry.8 The burden arises because, under
an agreement negotiated between employers and unions, with the support of the
Commonwealth and NSW Governments, employers will decrease contributions to the
NSW coal industry statutory superannuation fund, which does not meet vesting and
solvency requirements of the SGL and increase contributions to the award-related
accumulation fund or to a company fund. While the switch between funds will mean that
contributions are made to a complying fund, the Bill does not allow the contributions
basis of the statutory fund (an award-linked reference rate) to be carried over to the
accumulation fund (which has no explicit earnings base). This is contrary to the intent of
government policy. Broader provision is required for retention of the earnings base for
contributions to existing funds.
SG sub no. 3, p 5.


As the Bill does not contain adequate transition provisions, depending on the start-up
date of the new arrangements referred to above, coal industry employers could fail to
meet the five per cent levy for 1992-93 for some employees, even though they would be
paying at a much higher rate into the non-complying statutory fund.
Should the Government not amend the SGL to take account of this anomaly, it places
in jeopardy one of the nation's key export industries.
Further Anomalies
The SGL legislation does not require any levels of contribution for self-employed
persons. If it is so important to insist that the employed workforce should be required to
accept a compulsory regime there is no good reason why the self employed should be
exempt, particularly as are some of the Government's most generous concessions are
directed towards them.
Government Employees
The whole thrust of the SGL legislation is to force private sector employers to fully fund
ever-increasing amount of superannuation. It therefore makes no sense at all that public
sector schemes with current accumulated liabilities of between $80-$100 billion are to be
excused from the discipline of funded arrangements.
Conclusion and Recommendation
The SGL goes to the heart of the debate about superannuation in this country. It is an
Accord solution to an industrial relations problem. It does nothing to address the
fundamental complexities and inequities of the present system but merely seeks to force
an unaffordable timetable on top of the current unfair and inefficient award based
system.
It is for the preceding reasons that we recommend that the Senate not agree to the
Superannuation Guarantee Legislation.




MINORITY REPORT - SENATOR KERNOT
Minority Report — Senator Kemot
Towards a National Retirement Incomes Policy
The superannuation legislation before the Committee has evoked a very strong public
debate and a huge amount of media interest. The Democrats regard this as a very
healthy process and a vindication of the important reviewing role of the Senate.
Although there were a variety of views both for and against the legislation, there is one
common thread binding the evidence given to the Committee. This thread is that all
groups in the community want to have a comprehensive retirement incomes policy agreed
to and enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament. The community is tired of an
environment of uncertainty. People want to be able to plan knowing the rules will not be
constantly changed.
This is a great step forward and offers real hope of a rational and generally accepted
retirement incomes policy.
I wish to stress that the Democrats support a national, portable superannuation
system.We believe that such a system, which is totally integrated with the age pension and
social security system is the superior superannuation model.The system in Singapore is
without parallel in respect of simplicity, flexibility and popularity with its members.
Such a system would simplify greatly the current complexity by ensuring that everybody
was a member of the same fund, that everybody obtained the same benefit for equal
contributions, that superannuation is an addition to a minimum pension benefit, that
employers and employees only have to deal with one organisation on all superannuation
matters, that the exploitation of some superannuation fund members by unscrupulous
people is eliminated, that the total amount of superannuation devoted to administration
and other charges and fees is substantially reduced, that the money invested in
superannuation be used to strengthen local industry and employment, and probably most
importantly that the funds would then be guaranteed by the Government.
Unfortunately, despite repeated attempts to convince the Government and the
Opposition to support such an approach there is no chance of such a national system
being implemented.
Instead the Government has proposed that the Superannuation Guarantee Levy system
be introduced.
The Superannuation Guarantee Levy (SGL) Proposal
The SGL legislation proposes to achieve two distinct objectives: to increase the coverage
of occupational superannuation, and to increase the amount of contributions to a level
adequate to fund a reasonable retirement benefit (nine per cent of salary). It proposes


to do this by compelling employers — via the taxation powers in placitum 51(ii) of the
Constitution — to make contributions on behalf of their employees at the prescribed
rates.
The issue of compulsion has caused a philosophical split between the members of the
Committee. The Opposition states that it is philosophically opposed to the notion of
compulsory savings. The Democrats do not share this view.
In his evidence to the Committee, the Secretary to the Treasury, Mr Tony Cole, showed
that there is a clear market failure in Australia in the self-provision of retirement
incomes. If desired outcomes — that is, higher standards of living in retirement - are to
be achieved, the market failure must be addressed by Government intervention.
The first objective of the SGL — to widen the coverage of occupational superannuation
- is supported by the Democrats.
Since 1983 there has been a massive increase in the proportion of the workforce who are
members of superannuation funds. The Australian Bureau of Statistics has reported that
72 per cent of the total workforce (aged 15-74) were members of superannuation funds
as at November 1991. Some 78 per cent of employees, 52 per cent of employers and 37
per cent of self-employed persons were covered.
This represents a doubling of coverage over the last decade and is largely due to the
introduction of compulsory award superannuation.
Although there has been a dramatic increase in employee coverage there is still a
significant problem of non-compliance with some award conditions. This is despite the
fact that the industrial relations legislation has been amended to assist compliance. As
such, it is reasonable to use the greater resources of the Australian Taxation Office to
assist in protecting the legal rights of employees. What is important is an equitable
outcome, not the particular legislative method which achieves the outcome.
The second objective of the SGL legislation is to provide an adequate level of retirement
benefits. The SGL legislation proposes that by 1 July 2000 all employees will have
contributions to the value of nine per cent of their earnings made on their behalf by their
employers. However, in evidence presented to the Committee, officials from the Treasury
indicated that the Government's interim retirement incomes target by the year 2000 is
in fact 12 per cent, not the nine per cent specified in the legislation.
This 12 per cent target was first stated publicly in a speech given by the Member for
Blaxland, the Hon P J Keating MP, prior to the formal announcement of the SGL in the
1991/92 Budget. The Budget papers stated:
Consideration will be given to ways, using employee contributions and tax cuts, of
increasing the minimum level of superannuation support to 12 per cent by the year
2000.1
1- 1991/92 Budget Paper No 1, p 4.7.


Evidence before the Committee on the level of superannuation contributions which are
necessary to provide adequate retirement incomes confirmed that 12 per cent is a
reasonable target (see particularly Chapter 4 of this report).
Large and Small Employers
The SGL legislation before the Committee proposes a dichotomous contributions system.
Employers with a payroll in excess of $500 000 are considered to be large employers and
are to pay five per cent from 1 July rising to nine per cent by 1 July 2000, whereas
employers with a payroll of $500 000 or lower are considered to be small employers and
will be liable to three per cent from 1 July rising to nine per cent by 1 July 2000. This
dichotomy was not part of the original Accord agreement, but was announced by the
Government in the Budget.
In addition, the original timetable as announced in the Budget is different to that in the
legislation. The legislation allows a slower phase-in for small employers than the original
announcement. Contributions are limited to three per cent until 1 July 1994.
Consequently, there will be no increase in cost for two years for those small businesses
which already pay three per cent to their employees. No employer submission received
by the Committee has acknowledged this important fact.
Relative to the Accord proposals, it represents a concession to small businesses, not a
penalty on larger employers. However, it also introduces a significant discrepancy over
the short-term for employees, that is, people's compulsory superannuation entitlements
vary according to the size of their employer, not their income or their occupation.
Clearly, any reduction in the difference between the two SGL rates will diminish any
competitive distortion which arises from a differential cost structure being imposed on
business, and will reduce the discrepancies between employees of small and large
businesses.
Employment Effects
Each of the employer representatives appearing before the Committee has argued that
the SGL will lead to an increase in costs and that this will therefore have an impact on
employment. It was further argued that the general economic conditions are still very
poor and that this special circumstance must also be taken into account.
Worst case scenario unemployment figures were produced for the Committee by the
Treasury. These have been the subject of political manipulation by some members of the
Committee, but are clearly not a reasonable estimation of the likely effects of the SGL.
The ACTU argued that employers always oppose all wage claims of employees and that
the current position is simply a manifestation of that trend. Further, the ACTU argued
the union movement has specifically stated that increases in the SGL will be 'taken into
account' in future wage negotiations.


The employers countered that if increased superannuation contributions are legislated,
then there is no compulsion for the increased contributions to be taken into account in
future wage outcomes.
Clearly there is merit in both positions.
The SGL legislation arose because of an Accord agreement between the Government
and the ACTU. There is no doubt that at the time the Accord was agreed to, the view
within the Government was that there would not be a severe recession. Subsequently, the
Industrial Relations Commission refused for a variety of reasons to ratify the proposal
to increase award superannuation from three per cent to six per cent at one per cent per
annum. This independent rejection of the proposal on economic grounds also cannot be
ignored.
Recommenda tions:
As noted above, the Government has already altered the implementation
timetable without altering the final target level of contributions. Given the
concerns about the possible short-term employment consequences of the
levy, the implementation schedule should be altered to reduce the proposed
five per cent levy on large employers from 1 July 1992 to four per cent.
In addition, the Democrats consider that raising the threshold from $500
000 to $1 million will mitigate as far as possible any adverse employment
effects in the short-term.
Furthermore, the Democrats insist that the Industrial Relations Act 1988
be amended to make clear that the employers'liability under the SGL must
specifically be taken into account by the Australian Industrial Relations
Commission when making wage decisions.
Equity Problems of the SGL Proposals
The legislation before the Committee proposes that all employees who earn between
$3 000 and $80 000 be recipients of the same percentage of income in the form of
superannuation contributions. ACOSS and other groups have argued that very low
income earners may be worse off if these proposals are implemented.
Certainly for people earning less than the income tax threshold ($5 400) there will be a
disadvantage if future wage increases are taken as superannuation contributions. This
disadvantage arises because superannuation contributions and the fund earnings are taxed
at a rate of 15 per cent. If the money was paid as wages no tax would arise.
The unions and the Government argue that the option of automatic wage rises to very
low income earners is not a realistic option because of the fragmented Federal/State
industrial relations tribunals and the lack of industrial muscle for this section of the
workforce.


In addition, the charges for administration and life insurance premiums are normally
levied on a flat basis and hence impact much more heavily on low income members of
superannuation funds.
These problems are not insurmountable. There could be an exemption to the
contributions tax in respect of low income earners. A low income earner could be defined
as somebody who earns less than a specified amount, say $6 000. This would increase the
complexity of the system, yet it would improve the equity. Such trade-offs are common
and desirable in taxation systems.
The administration and other charges should be limited to a certain percentage, say five
per cent, of a fund member's accumulated benefit or contributions. I favour a limit with
respect to contributions because this exempts people who cease employment and hence
cease contributions. This eliminates the problem for casual or itinerant workers who have
small superannuation benefits eaten up by charges because they have not made any
contributions for long periods of time.
If such exemptions and charge limitation measures were introduced, there does not
appear to be an equity problem in commencing the SGL at $250 per month. The
increase to nine per cent will significantly diminish the relative size of this problem.
Recommendation:
It is recommended that the law governing trustees be amended to make
clear that different rates of administration charges may apply to members
of superannuation funds, and that all such charges be limited to five per
cent of the contributions of low-income earners.
The Democrats are extremely disappointed that despite repeated
negotiations on this point, the Government has refused to agree to such a
proposal.
Wage Settlements
The equity problems referred to above can be more than offset by a situation where the
national wage increase negotiated by unions on behalf of all employees is paid as a flat
rate amount as opposed as a percentge increase.The Democrats support this kind of
arrangement and feel very disappointed that the advantages of this type of arrangement
has been ignored by advocates of the position of low income workers.
Recommendation
The Democrats recommend that the Government support flat rate wage
settlements in submissions to future national wage cases and in negotiating
future wage Accord agreements with the ACTU.


Future supplements to Superannuation
One further issue which has the potential to radically benefit low income earners is the
distribution of the additional three per cent referred to in page 2 of this chapter.That is,
apart from the nine per cent in the SGL legislation, the Govt apparently has an intention
to direct an income tax cut into the superannuation accounts of individual taxpayers.
It is this amount which is without doubt the most crucial when assistance to the lower
paid is concerned.When this amount is distributed, it is essential that it be distributed on
an equal per capita basis.That is, every member of a superannuation fund should obtain
the same amount of the tax cuts. Such an outcome would benefit low income earners and
would massively benefit very low income eamers.Indeed in an extreme case this flat rate
amount could be larger than the nine per cent of their income otherwise payable under
the SGL.
Recommendation
That the Government distribute the 'additional three per cent which is
contained in the Governments interim retirement income target of 12 per
cent by way of a flat rate income tax cut distributed to all members of
superannuation funds so as to further increase the retirement income of low
income earners.
One further matter must be mentioned in any discussion on the equity of the legislation
before the Committee. The major equity problem in the superannuation system concerns
the distributional impact of the $3.5 billion taxation expenditure.
This matter is not dealt with in this legislation, although it will be considered by the
Senate later in the year. The view that the rejection of the SGL legislation would in any
way address the inequities inherent in this system is completely incorrect.
Flat Rate Superannuation Arrangements
The SGL raises a further question of equity.
The reliance on identical percentage-based SGL liabilities across the income range of
$3 000 to $80 000 clearly confers massive benefits on higher income earners relative to
lower paid employees. This is somewhat mitigated by the fact that many highly paid
employees already enjoy substantial superannuation benefits and so may not gain
anything from the legislation.
Apart from the limitation on charges as recommended above, one measure which would
increase the equity of the SGL is to encourage the provision of flat rate superannuation
arrangements whereby all employees obtain the same amount of superannuation benefit
from their employers irrespective of their individual income. Such arrangements already
exist in some industries and have been successful.


It is proposed that an additional category of superannuation arrangements should be
recognised and encouraged by the SGL legislation. This would involve allowing an
employer to extinguish his or her liability to employees by way of a qualifying enterprise
or industry superannuation arrangement. This could be through either an industrial award
or some other type of employment contract.
Under such an arrangement, an employer would be able to satisfy his or her SGL
requirements by providing aggregate superannuation contributions equal to those which
are required under the legislation, even though not all employees are receiving the
required amounts.
Such an arrangement provides flexibility in allocating superannuation benefits. It would
ensure that employers cannot reduce the total amount of SGL liability, although they can
provide additional benefits to lower income earners. Employers are then free to top up
any individual's superannuation benefits as a normal part of salary negotiations.
The ACTU has given evidence to this Committee that it does favour flat rate
superannuation arrangements in certain circumstances. Such arrangements can only
increase the equity of the superannuation system. They would have to be negotiated
between employers and employees, just like all other industrial conditions.
The final benefits provided would not be determined by the salary of an individual
employee but would satisfy a community standard on what constitutes a basic retirement
income — this is basically what the age pension system achieves.
The Committee heard evidence from the NSW Coal Association that it has successfully
managed a flat rate superannuation scheme for many years. The arrangements enjoy
wide support amongst the employees of the industry, especially the lower paid workers.
Recommendation
That the Bills be amended to allow employers to satisfy their SGL liabilities
by making contributions to a 'qualifying enterprise or industry
superannuation arrangement! which provides equal payments to all
employees irrespective of their particular income. Part-time and casual
workers would receive a proportionate payment according to hours worked.
Technical Problems
There is considerable doubt about the technical structure of the legislation.
To avoid having to pay the SGL, an employer has to make a contribution at the
prescribed rates to a complying superannuation fund. This is a defined term in income
tax legislation. A complying fund is one which qualifies for concessional taxation
treatment — that is, is taxed at 15 per cent — and which also adheres to all the other
regulations concerning disclosure, trustee representation, et cetera as specified in the
Occupational Superannuation Standards Act and associated Regulations.


Unfortunately, a fund is not a complying fund unless a certificate of compliance is issued
by the Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner after the end of the financial year.
As such, employers cannot be certain of technically complying with the legislation even
where they have made the appropriate superannuation contributions.
Recommendation
A technical amendment is necessary to deem that a fund which was a
complying fund in the previous year continues to be a complying fund
unless the employer had reasonable grounds to believe that the fund would
not be a complying fund for the year in question.
Another technical matter is the question of the definition of employee. Subclause 12(10)
of the Administration Bill includes a local Government councillor as an employee. This
issue first arose when the Taxation Commissioner ruled that a councillor was an
employee under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 and hence liable to PAYE tax
deductions. This was overturned by a court decision and the Government subsequently
announced its intention to legislate to include local councillors in the definition of
employee. This decision was subsequently reversed.
It is considered reasonable to treat full-time councillors who receive large remuneration
in the same manner as State and Federal members of Parliament. However, because of
the special nature of councillor remuneration — that is, incidental expense
reimbursement — it is not appropriate to deem all councillors to be employees.
Recommendation
That the definition of'employee' be amended to exclude local government
councillors except for those earning full-time salaries in respect of their
duties.
Another technical problem is that of the time and steps necessary to amend trust deeds
so as to ensure that funds meet the prospective standards necessary to qualify as a
complying superannuation fund. The Government correctly argues that there is over a
year for the necessary legal work to be done before any SGL liability arises in respect of
an employee. However, the position for employers in respect of employees who cease
employment after 1 July 1992 but before trust deeds are satisfactorily amended is unfair.
Employers will not be able to make qualifying contributions to the relevant fund. As such,
an employer will incur a non-tax deductible SGL liability for something which is beyond
his or her control.


Recommenda tion
That a transitional provision be enacted to permit tax deductibility for SGL
payments made in respect of1992-93 on behalf of employees who terminate
employment during that period.
One other anomaly in the legislation concerns the situation where an employee refuses
to join a superannuation fund. In such a situation, rare as it is, an employer would incur
a non-deductible SGL charge even though he or she was not responsible for the non-
provision of superannuation contributions.
If the employee had joined the fund, the employer's contributions would have been tax-
deductible. Clearly, this situation is unfair.
Recommendation
That SGL payments made by employers in respect of employees who refuse
to pin a superannuation fund be tax-deductible.
General Reform of the Superannuation System
The legislation before the Committee does not address the fundamental design of the
retirement incomes system. Indeed, from the evidence given by Treasury officials, the
legislation before the Committee does not even seek to fully implement the
Government's interim retirement incomes target of 12 per cent by the year 2000.2
The Government's position is that this legislation simply attempts to create a much larger
pool of retirement savings, and that the fundamental design of the retirement incomes
framework is a separate and distinct issue which must be dealt with in isolation. In other
words, the Government is saying 'pass this legislation and trust us to deal with the other
outstanding issues'.
The Australian Democrats do not agree with this approach. As such, the Government
has provided a written assurance that it will legislate during the Budget session in respect
of the vital area of prudential supervision of superannuation funds.
Furthermore, the questions of fair and responsible taxation arrangements and the
transition to a more realistic preservation age have also been agreed to in principle by
the Government.
The areas which continue to need reform include:
SG evidence, p 10.


• the prudential regulation (that is, the financial supervision) of superannuation
funds to ensure that members' interests are protected;
• the interaction between the superannuation system and the social security system
in such areas as the preservation age, access to age pension fringe benefits for
superannuants and the differential taxation regimes which apply to age pensioners
and self-funded retirees;
• the current income tax concessions which are highly regressive and strongly favour
high income earners;
• the appalling lack of regulation, and disclosure, of the fees and charges which
superannuation funds may impose;
• the complexity and incomprehensibility of the superannuation system to most
ordinary people;
• the appropriate treatment of accrued superannuation benefits on the breakdown
of a marriage;
• the lack of access to superannuation for those not in the workforce;
• the complete lack of regulation of the investment practices of fund managers and
the ignoring of the long term economic needs of Australian industry, particularly
with respect to development capital; and
• the lack of a credible independent low cost non-legalistic disputes resolution
mechanism which will protect the rights of fund members.


APPENDIX A : TERMS OF REFERENCE OF ON-GOING INQUIRY
Appendix A : Terms of Reference of On-going Inquiry
Terms of Reference
On 5 June 1991 the Senate established a Select Committee on Superannuation to inquire
into, and report on, the following matters:
(a) the constitutional arrangements governing superannuation;
(b) the taxation arrangements which apply to superannuation;
(c) the adequacy of prudential control arrangements applying to superannuation
funds;
(d) the implications for the financial system of the expected growth in
superannuation fund assets;
(e) the investment of moneys by superannuation funds;
(f) the ownership of surpluses in defined benefit superannuation funds;
(g) the level and structure of fees and commissions charged in relation to
superannuation fund membership and asset management;
(h) the information available to members of superannuation funds;
(i) the representation of fund members in trustee structures of superannuation
funds;
(j) the dispute resolution mechanisms available to members of superannuation
funds;
(k) the rules applying to contributions and the vesting and preservation of benefits;
(l) the appropriate means of providing adequate superannuation for part time and
casual employees and the feasibility of providing superannuation for people
outside the workforce;
(m) the rate of employer non-compliance with superannuation awards;
(n) the possibilities for simplifying superannuation;
(o) the feasibility of providing improved benefits to superannuation arrangements in
lieu of increased contributions under superannuation awards in appropriate
circumstances;
(p) the need for an appropriate target and timetable for the achievement of adequate
levels of superannuation; and
(q) any other relevant matters, including superannuation arrangements existing in
other countries.




APPENDIX B: LIST OF WITNESSES RE SGL INQUIRY
(listed alphabetically under date of appearance)
Appendix B : List of Witnesses re SGL Inquiry
Wednesday 6 May
Australian Taxation Office
- Mr Brian Nolan, Second Commissioner
- Mr Michael Monahan, Assistant Commissioner, Revenue Collection Systems
- Ms Diedre Gerathy, Assistant Commissioner, Personal Taxation
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
- Mr Ron Dean, Deputy Commissioner for Superannuation
- Mr Nick Stuparich, Assistant Commissioner, Compliance and Reporting
- Ms Wendy Robinson, Compliance and Reporting Branch
- Mr Donald Duval, Australian Government Actuary
Senator the Hon Bob McMullan, Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasurer and Manager
of Government Business in the Senate
Treasury
- Mr Tony Cole, Secretary
- Dr Alan Preston, Deputy Secretary (Structural and Taxation)
- Dr Ken Henry, Principal Adviser (Taxation)
- Mr Alan Oster, Senior Adviser, Economics Division
Friday 8 May
Australian Council of Trade Unions
- Mr Iain Ross, Assistant Secretary
- Mr Mike McKay, Senior Industrial Officer
Business Council of Australia
- Mr Peter Wade, Chairman of BCA's superannuation task force and Managing
Director, North Broken Hill Peko Ltd
- Mr Ray Stevens, Director, Mercer Campbell Cook and Knight
- Mr Clive Speed, Assistant Director, BCA
Confederation of Australian Industry
- Mr Ian Spicer, Chief Executive
- Mr David Nolan, Director
Metal Trades Industry Association
— Mr Grahame Willis, Director, Finance and Administration


Monday 11 May
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
— Mr Brian Scullin, Executive Director
— Mr David Shirlow, Director of Policy Research
Australian Bankers Association
— Mr Vernon Winley, Chairman, Industrial Relations Group, ABA, and Chief
Manager - Employee Relations, Westpac Banking Corporation
— Mr Gordon Joseph, Superannuation Adviser, ABA, and Manager Superannuation
Projects, Westpac Banking Corporation
— Mr Terry Qeal, Director, Industrial Relations, ABA
Australian Council of Social Services
— Ms Alison McClelland, Economic Policy Coordinator
— Mr Julian Disney, Policy Resource Coordinator
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
— Ms Jane Elix, Director
Australian Taxpayers' Associations
— Mr Eric Risstrom, AM
Block, Mr Ray (Convenor, Strategic Issues Forum Working Party Group, Committee for
the Economic Development of Australia)
Coles Myer Ltd
— Ms Elise Callander, General Manager, Employee Relations
Dixon, Mr Daryl
Government of New South Wales
— Mr Ian Neale, Assistant Secretary, NSW Treasury
— Mr David McMahon, Director, Policy, NSW Superannuation Office
Government of Queensland
— Mr Dale Hennessy, Director, Government Superannuation Office, Qld Treasury
— Mrs Rosemary Vilgan, Manager, Research and Policy, Government
Superannuation Office, Qld Treasury
— Mr Ian Macoun, Chief Executive, Qld Investment Corporation
Government of South Australia
— Mr Peter Emery, Chief Executive Officer, SA Treasury
— Mr Dean Prior, Principal Adviser, Superannuation Policy, SA Treasury
Knox, Associate Professor David (Actuarial Studies, Macquarie University)


Life Insurance Federation of Australia
— Mr Darren Davis, Assistant Manager — Operations
— Mr John Maroney, Superannuation Committee Convener
NSW Coal Association
— Mr Frank Topham, Government Affairs Manager
— Mr Denis Porter, Director, Economic Affairs
Piggott, Professor John (Director, Superannuation Economics Research Group, University
of NSW)
Retailers Council of Australia Ltd
— Mr Laurie Eakin, Executive Director
Womens' Economic Think Tank
— Eva Cox, Senior Associate
Wednesday 3 June 1992
Australian Council of Trade Unions
- Mr Iain Ross, Assistant Secretary
Australian Small Business Association
- Mr Peter Boyle, National Director
Business Council of Australia
- Mr Clive Speed, Assistant Director
Confederation of Australian Industry
- Mr David Nolan, Director
- Mr Stephen Kates, Chief Economist
Metal Trades Industry Association
- Mr Grahame Willis, Director, Finance and Administration




APPENDIX C : LIST OF SUBMISSIONS RE SGL INQUIRY
Appendix C: List of Submissions re SGL inquiry
-BY NUMBER
Sub. No.
SG.01
SG.02
SG.03
SG.04
SG.05
SG.06
SG.07
SG.08
SG.09
SG.10
SG.ll
SG.12
SG.13
SG.14
SG.15
SG.16
SG.17
SG.18
SG.19
SG.20
SG.21
SG.22
SG.23
SG.24
SG.25
SG.26
SG.27
SG.28
SG.29
SG.30
SG.31
SG.32
SG.33
SG.34
SG.35
SG.36
SG.37
SG.38
SG.39
Name
Commonwealth Department of the Parliamentary Library, Parliamentary
Research Service, Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill Digest
Australian Taxpayers' Associations
NSW Coal Association
Coles Myer Ltd
Aged Care Australia Incorporated
SA Treasury
Queensland Mining Council
National Association of Personnel Consultants
Mercer Campbell Cook and Knight
Mathews, S
Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia (MTLA)
ACROD Limited
Institute of Engineers Australia
Alexander Consulting Group, The
Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI)
Retailers Council of Australia
State and Territory Governments
Dixon, D
Business Council of Australia (BCA)
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
Business Council of Australia (BCA)
Gallagher, P (Policy Co-ordination Unit)
Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS)
Women's Economic Think Tank & Women's Electoral Lobby
Life Insurance Federation of Australia Incorporated (LIFA)
Piggott, Prof J
Commonwealth Treasurer: Letter to the Australian Taxpayers Association
Queensland Mining Council
Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
Commonwealth Treasury — 1 May 1992
Commonwealth Treasury — 5 May
Commonwealth Treasury — 6 May
Australian Taxation Office — 4 May 1992
Australian Taxation Office - 11 May 1992
Australian Taxation Office — 11 May 1992
Commonweealth Department of Industrial Relations — 4 May 1992
Clayton Utz
Piggott, Prof J (Superannuation Economics Research Group
Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI)


SG.40 Queensland Mining Council
SG.41 Noble Lowndes
SG.42 Pharmacy Guild of Australia, The
SG.43 C S Superannuation Pty Ltd
SG.44 Thompson Douglas Butterell
SG.45 Australian Medical Association - Queensland Branch
SG.46 Australian Bankers Association
SG.47 Commonwealth Treasury — 11 May 1992
SG.48 Commonwealth Treasury — 29 May 1992
SG.49 Queensland Minister for Health
SG.50 Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI)
SG.51 Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
SG.52 Cradle Runways
SG.53 Mahon, M & V
SG.54 Teow, S
SG.55 Mac's Food Centres Pty Ltd
SG.56 Ostro Pty Ltd/Balga Cheap Foods
SG.57 Jenkins, R
SG.58 Supa-Valu
SG.59 Jamieson, L
SG.60 Office of the Treasurer
SG.61 Turner, P


APPENDIX C : LIST OF SUBMISSIONS RE SGL INQUIRY
- BY ALPHABETICAL ORDER
Sub. No. Name
SG.12 ACROD Limited
SG.05 Aged Care Australia Incorporated
SG.14 Alexander Consulting Group, The
SG.20 Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA)
SG.46 Australian Bankers Association
SG.23 Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS)
SG.29 Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
SG.51 Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
SG.45 Australian Medical Association — Queensland Branch
SG.33 Australian Taxation Office — 4 May 1992
SG.34 Australian Taxation Office — 11 May 1992
SG.35 Australian Taxation Office — 11 May 1992
SG.02 Australian Taxpayers' Associations
SG.21 Business Council of Australia (BCA)
SG.19 Business Council of Australia (BCA)
SG.43 C S Superannuation Pty Ltd
SG.37 Clayton Utz
SG.04 Coles Myer Ltd
SG.36 Commonwealth Department of Industrial Relations — 4 May 1992
SG.01 Commonwealth Department of the Parliamentary Library, Parliamentary
Research Service, Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Bill Digest
SG.27 Commonwealth Treasurer: Letter to the Australian Taxpayers Association
SG.32 Commonwealth Treasury — 6 May
SG.31 Commonwealth Treasury - 5 May
SG.47 Commonwealth Treasury — 11 May 1992
SG.30 Commonwealth Treasury - 1 May 1992
SG.48 Commonwealth Treasury - 29 May 1992
SG.15 Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI)
SG.39 Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI)
SG.50 Confederation of Australian Industry (CAI)
SG.52 Cradle Runways
SG.18 Dixon, D
SG.22 Gallagher, P (Policy Co-ordination Unit)
SG.13 Institute of Engineers Australia
SG.59 Jamieson, L
SG.57 Jenkins, R
SG.25 Life Insurance Federation of Australia Incorporated (LIFA)
SG.55 Mac's Food Centres Pty Ltd
SG.53 Mahon, M & V
SG.10 Mathews, S


SG.09 Mercer Campbell Cook and Knight
SG.ll Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia (MTIA)
SG.08 National Association of Personnel Consultants
SG.41 Noble Lowndes
SG.03 NSW Coal Association
SG.60 Office of the Treasurer
SG.56 Ostro Pty Ltd/Balga Cheap Foods
SG.42 Pharmacy Guild of Australia, The
SG.38 Piggott, Prof J (Superannuation Economics Research Group
SG.26 Piggott, Prof J
SG.07 Queensland Mining Council
SG.40 Queensland Mining Council
SG.28 Queensland Mining Council
SG.49 Queensland Minister for Health
SG.16 Retailers Council of Australia
SG.06 SA Treasury
SG.17 State and Territory Governments
SG.58 Supa-Valu
SG.54 Teow, S
SG.44 Thompson Douglas Butterell
SG.61 Turner, P
SG.24 Women's Economic Think Tank & Women's Electoral Lobby


APPENDIX D : LETT OF SUBMISSIONS RE ON-GOING INQUIRY
Appendix D: List of Submissions re On-going Inquiry
-BY NUMBER
Sub.
No. Name
No. 1 Gynn, W J
No. 2 Fisher F
No. 3 Newman, C A
No. 4 Liquor Trades Union, The
No. 5 Perry, K F
No. 6 Walsh, A
No. 7 Buildings Union Superannuation
No. 8 N E Renton & Associates
No. 9 Serendip Publications
No. 10 InterData Pty Ltd
No. 11 [Not a submission]
No. 12 Trau, Dr J
No. 13 McJannet, D
No. 14 Davies, D
No. 15 Garrett, P R
No. 16 Samson, S W
No. 17 Schwarz, D
No. 18 Restuccia, V
No. 19 Downs, B
No. 20 Clayton Utz
No. 21 Adams, G
No. 22 Lucas, J M
No. 23 Cartledge, O
No. 24 Hearn, G
No. 25 Foley, E
No. 26 Civil Service Association of WA
No. 27 E S Owens & Co
No. 28 Independent Schools Superannuation Trust
No. 29 Bums, W G
No. 30 In camera
No. 31 ACT Council of Social Service Inc
No. 32 Hughes, D
No. 33 Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
No. 34 Australian Salaried Medical Officer
No. 35 Australian Council of Social Service
No. 36 Belshaw, W J
No. 37 Smith, B
No. 38 Boffa, G
No. 39 Arthur Andersen & Co


No. 40 Williams, T
No. 41 Prudential Life Underwriters Association (NSW)
No. 42 Nipper, M R G and Weeks, P L
No. 43 Prudential Assurance Company Ltd
No. 44 Retired Associate Members' Branch Public Service Association of NSW
No. 45 Myuna Pty Ltd
No. 46 du Cros, N
No. 47 Fisk, B
No. 48 Trustee Companies Association
No. 49 Australian Lifewriters Association
No. 50 Australian Small Business Association
No. 51 Long, P D
No. 52 Knox, Professor D
No. 53 Tribunal on Homosexuals and Discrimination
No. 54 Chamen, P
No. 55 Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia
No. 56 National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
No. 57 Duesburys
No. 58 Morgan Stockbroking Ltd
No. 59 IOOF Australia
No. 60 Non-Government Schools Superannuation Fund
No. 61 Alexander Consulting Group, The
No. 62 Metal Manufacturers Limited
No. 63 National Australia Bank
No. 64 Women's Action Alliance (Australia)
No. 65 Chamber of Commerce & Industry of WA
No. 66 Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works (MMBW) Employees'
Superannuation Fund
No. 67 Yann, R N
No. 68 Secondary Colleges Staff Association
No. 69 Ulverstone Chamber of Commerce
No. 70 Belshaw, M
No. 71 Wilson, The Hon Ian, MP
No. 72 Crouch, W G
No. 73 ANZ Bank
No. 74 Independent Insurance & Superannuation Agencies
No. 75 Cooley, L M
No. 76 Australian Finance Conference
No. 77 Northern Territory Superannuation Office
No. 78 Lee, W A
No. 79 Mercer Campbell Cook & Knight Inc
No. 80 Noble Lowndes
No. 81 Commonwealth Department of Industrial Relations
No. 82 Klumpes, Dr P J M
No. 83 National Farmers Federation
No. 84 WA Government Employees Superannuation Board
No. 85 Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
No. 86 Smith, A W J
No. 87 Turner, M


No. 88
No. 89
No. 90
No. 91
No. 92
No. 93
No. 94
No. 95
No. 96
No. 97
No. 98
No. 99
No. 100
No. 101
No. 102
No. 103
No. 104
No. 105
No. 106
No. 107
No. 108
No. 109
No. 110
No. Ill
No. 112
No. 113
No. 114
No. 115
No. 117
No. 118
No. 119
No. 120
No. 121
No. 122
No. 123
No. 124
No. 125
No. 126
No. 127
No. 128
No. 129
No. 130
No. 131
No. 132
No. 133
No. 134
No. 135
No. 136
White, B
Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd, The
Jacques Martin
CSA Consulting Group
Mansfield, G
Civic Securities Pty Ltd
Australian Retirement Fund
Australian Chamber of Manufactures
AM Corporation Ltd
Taxpayers' Association of Tasmania, The
County NatWest
In camera
National Mutual
Chifley Superannuation Services
Commonwealth Funds Management Ltd
Coles Myer Ltd
National Association of Personnel Consultants Ltd
Bankers Trust Australia Limited
Australian Council of Trade Unions
Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department
Institute of Actuaries of Australia, The
Retirement Benefits Office
Motor Inn & Motel Association of Australia, The
Langley-Bates, D
NSW Farmers' Association
Motor Trades Assocation of Australia (MTAA) Superannuation Fund
Life Insurance Federation of Australia Inc
WA Minister for Productivity and Labour Relations
Metway Corporation
NSW Minister for Industrial Relations
Australian Society of Certified Practicing Accountants
AMP
Hanson, Mr J H
SA Minister of Finance
Moon, G
Taxation Institute of Australia, The
Australian Pensioners & Superannuants Federation and Combined
Pensioners & Superannuants Association of NSW
Women's Economic Think Tank
Commonwealth Department of Social Security
Qld Director-General, Office of the Cabinet
Davey & Associates
Women's Electoral Lobby Australia Inc
de Visser, L
Westpac Banking Corporation
Griffin, P
Australian International Pilots Association
State Insurance Office of Victoria (SIO) Consumer Appeals Centre
Australian Friendly Societies Association


No. 137
No. 138
No. 139
No. 140
No. 141
No. 142
No. 143
No. 144
No. 145
No. 146
No. 147
No. 148
No. 149
No. 150
No. 151
No. 152
No. 153
No. 154
No. 155
No. 156
No. 157
No. 158
No. 159
No. 160
No. 161
No. 162
No. 163
No. 164
No. 165
No. 166
No. 167
No. 168
No. 169
No. 170
No. 171
No. 172
No. 173
No. 174
No. 175
No. 176
No. 177
No. 178
No. 179
No. 180
No. 181
No. 182
No. 183
No. 184
No. 185
Whittimore-Hull, J
Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia
Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Rothschild Australia Asset Management Limited
Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia
Jacques Martin - Reply to Tasmanian Taxpayers
National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
Trade Practices Commission
Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
Smith, Dr G F
Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
Docker, A R
University of NSW Superannuation Economics Research Group
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
Commonwealth Department of Community Services & Health
Crawford, G J
Investment Funds Association of Australia Limited
Australian Taxation Office, Commissioner of Taxation
Langfield-Smith, I
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia
National Mutual - Nexis Proprietary Limited
Weijers, A J
Foster, W
Gierczycki, L M
Ramakrishnan, H
Permanent Trustee Company Limited
Industry Research and Development Board
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia Ltd (HEST)
Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
Unity Action Group for Retired Persons
Crome, I
Campbell, B G
Knight, Dr J
Australian Council on Smoking and Health
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Clothier, D P
Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
In camera
Selstay Pty Ltd
J G Mulhallen & Sons (Vic) Pty Ltd
Armstrong, W J
Rutter, A
Australian Workers' Union
Sly and Weigall
In camera
In camera
SA Employers' Federation


No. 186
No. 187
No. 188
No. 189
No. 190
No. 191
No. 192
No. 193
No. 194
No. 195
No. 196
No. 197
No. 198
No. 199
No. 200
No. 201
No. 202
No. 203
No. 204
No. 205
No. 206
No. 207
No. 208
No. 209
No. 210
No. 211
No. 212
No. 213
No. 214
No. 215
Australian Securities Commission
Grey, P
Pacific Industrial Investments
CIG Employees' Superannuation Fund
Reserve Bank
Aitkin, J
Harrower E
Grace E
University of Melbourne
Commonwealth Treasury
SBC Dominguez Barry Ltd
Financial Planning Association of Australia
Commercial and International Finance Consultants Pty Ltd
Australian Eagle Superannuation
Ellis, M
Moore, E J
Morley, B
Tindal, B
Shell Australia Limited
Tasmania Treasury
Mathews, S R
In camera
Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission
In camera
Colonial Mutual Investment Management
Pollard, D
Advance Bank
Blanchard, W
Moore, A
Wilson, R


APPENDIX D : LIST OF SUBMISSIONS RE ON-GOING INQUIRY
- BY ALPHABETICAL ORDER
Sub.
No. Name
No. 31 ACT Council of Social Service Inc
No. 21 Adams, G
No. 212 Advance Bank
No. 191 Aitkin, J
No. 61 Alexander Consulting Group, The
No. 96 AM Corporation Ltd
No. 120 AMP
No. 73 ANZ Bank
No. 179 Armstrong, W J
No. 39 Axthur Andersen & Co
No. 89 Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Ltd, The
No. 148 Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies
No. 95 Australian Chamber of Manufactures
No. 35 Australian Council of Social Service
No. 106 Australian Council of Trade Unions
No. 172 Australian Council on Smoking and Health
No. 199 Australian Eagle Superannuation
No. 139 Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations
No. 76 Australian Finance Conference
No. 136 Australian Friendly Societies Association
No. 85 Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
No. 175 Australian Government Employees Superannuation Trust
No. 134 Australian International Pilots Association
No. 49 Australian Lifewriters Association
No. 125 Australian Pensioners & Superannuants Federation and Combined
Pensioners & Superannuants Association of NSW
No. 94 Australian Retirement Fund
No. 34 Australian Salaried Medical Officer
No. 186 Australian Securities Commission
No. 50 Australian Small Business Association
No. 119 Australian Society of Certified Practicing Accountants
No. 155 Australian Taxation Office, Commissioner of Taxation
No. 181 Australian Workers' Union
No. 105 Bankers Trust Australia Limited
No. 70 Belshaw, M
No. 36 Belshaw, W J
No. 213 Blanchard, W
No. 38 Boffa, G
No. 7 Buildings Union Superannuation


No. 29
No. 170
No. 23
No. 65
No. 54
No. 101
No. 189
No. 93
No. 26
No. 20
No. 174
No. 103
No. 210
No. 198
No. 107
No. 173
No. 152
No. 81
No. 127
No. 102
No. 195
No. 75
No. 98
No. 153
No. 169
No. 72
No. 91
No. 129
No. 14
No. 131
No. 149
No. 19
No. 46
No. 57
No. 200
No. 142
No. 197
No. 2
No. 47
No. 25
No. 160
No. 15
No. 161
No. 193
No. 187
No. 133
No. 1
No. 121
No. 192
Bums, W G
Campbell, B G
Cartledge, O
Chamber of Commerce & Industry of WA
Chamen, P
Chifley Superannuation Services
CIG Employees' Superannuation Fund
Civic Securities Pty Ltd
Civil Service Association of WA
Clayton Utz
Clothier, D P
Coles Myer Ltd
Colonial Mutual Investment Management
Commercial and International Finance Consultants Pty Ltd
Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Commonwealth Department of Community Services & Health
Commonwealth Department of Industrial Relations
Commonwealth Department of Social Security
Commonwealth Funds Management Ltd
Commonwealth Treasury
Cooley, L M
County NatWest
Crawford, G J
Crome, I
Crouch, W G
CSA Consulting Group
Davey & Associates
Davies, D
de Visser, L
Docker, A R
Downs, B
du Cros, N
Duesburys
Ellis, M
Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia
Financial Planning Association of Australia
Fisher F
Fisk, B
Foley, E
Foster, W
Garrett, P R
Gierczycki, L M
Grace E
Grey, P
Griffin, P
Gynn, W J
Hanson, Mr J H
Harrower E


No. 157
No. 165
No. 24
No. 32
No. 208
No. 176
No. 99
No. 30
No. 207
No. 184
No. 209
No. 183
No. 74
No. 28
No. 164
No. 108
No. 151
No. 10
No. 154
No. 59
No. 90
No. 143
No. 82
No. 171
No. 52
No. 156
No. Ill
No. 78
No. 114
No. 4
No. 51
No. 22
No. 92
No. 206
No. 13
No. 66
No. 79
No. 62
No. 55
No. 117
No. 123
No. 214
No. 201
No. 58
No. 202
No. 110
No. 113
No. 178
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia Ltd (HEST)
Health Employees Superannuation Trust Australia Ltd
Hearn, G
Hughes, D
Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission
In camera
In camera
In camera
In camera
In camera
In camera
In camera
Independent Insurance & Superannuation Agencies
Independent Schools Superannuation Trust
Industry Research and Development Board
Institute of Actuaries of Australia, The
Insurance and Superannuation Commission
InterData Pty Ltd
Investment Funds Association of Australia Limited
IOOF Australia
Jacques Martin
Jacques Martin - Reply to Tasmanian Taxpayers
Klumpes, Dr P J M
Knight, Dr J
Knox, Professor D
Langfield-Smith, I
Langley-Bates, D
Lee, W A
Life Insurance Federation of Australia Inc
Liquor Trades Union, The
Long, P D
Lucas, J M
Mansfield, G
Mathews, S R
McJannet, D
Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works (MMBW) Employees'
Superannuation Fund
Mercer Campbell Cook & Knight Inc
Metal Manufacturers Limited
Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia
Metway Corporation
Moon, G
Moore, A
Moore, E J
Morgan Stockbroking Ltd
Morley, B
Motor Inn & Motel Association of Australia, The
Motor Trades Assocation of Australia (MTAA) Superannuation Fund
Mulhallen, J G, & Sons (Vic) Pty Ltd


No. 45 Myuna Pty Ltd
No. 56 National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
No. 144 National Association of Nursing Homes & Private Hospitals Inc
No. 104 National Association of Personnel Consultants Ltd
No. 63 National Australia Bank
No. 83 National Farmers Federation
No. 100 National Mutual
No. 158 National Mutual - Nexis Proprietary Limited
No. 3 Newman, C A
No. 42 Nipper, MRG and Weeks, P L
No. 80 Noble Lowndes
No. 60 Non-Government Schools Superannuation Fund
No. 77 Northern Territory Superannuation Office
No. 112 NSW Farmers' Association
No. 118 NSW Minister for Industrial Relations
No. 27 Owens & Co, E S
No. 188 Pacific Industrial Investments
No. 163 Permanent Trustee Company Limited
No. 5 Perry, K F
No. 211 Pollard, D
No. 43 Prudential Assurance Company Ltd
No. 41 Prudential Life Underwriters Association (NSW)
No. 128 Qld Director-General, Office of the Cabinet
No. 162 Ramakrishnan, H
No. 8 Renton & Associates, N E
No. 190 Reserve Bank
No. 18 Restuccia, V
No. 44 Retired Associate Members' Branch Public Service Association of NSW
No. 109 Retirement Benefits Office
No. 141 Rothschild Australia Asset Management Limited
No. 180 Rutter, A
No. 185 SA Employers' Federation
No. 122 SA Minister of Finance
No. 16 Samson, S W
No. 196 SBC Dominguez Barry Ltd
No. 17 Schwarz, D
No. 68 Secondary Colleges Staff Association
No. 177 Selstay Pty Ltd
No. 9 Serendip Publications
No. 167 Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
No. 146 Shell Australia Contributory Pension Fund
No. 204 Shell Australia Limited
No. 166 Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
No. 33 Shell Superannuation Rights Committee
No. 182 Sly and Weigall
No. 86 Smith, A W J
No. 37 Smith, B
No. 147 Smith, Dr G F
No. 135 State Insurance Office of Victoria (SIO) Consumer Appeals Centre


No. 205 Tasmania Treasury
No. 124 Taxation Institute of Australia, The
No. 97 Taxpayers' Association of Tasmania, The
No. 203 Tindal, B
No. 145 Trade Practices Commission
No. 138 Trades and Labor Council of Western Australia
No. 12 Trau, Dr J
No. 53 Tribunal on Homosexuals and Discrimination
No. 48 Trustee Companies Association
No. 87 Turner, M
No. 69 Ulverstone Chamber of Commerce
No. 168 Unity Action Group for Retired Persons
No. 194 University of Melbourne
No. 150 University of NSW Superannuation Economics Research Group
No. 140 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce
No. 84 WA Government Employees Superannuation Board
No. 115 WA Minister for Productivity and Labour Relations
No. 6 Walsh, A
No. 159 Weijers, A J
No. 132 Westpac Banking Corporation
No. 88 White, B
No. 137 Whittimore-Hull, J
No. 40 Williams, T
No. 215 Wilson, R
No. 71 Wilson, The Hon Ian, MP,
No. 64 Women's Action Alliance (Australia)
No. 126 Women's Economic Think Tank
No. 130 Women's Electoral Lobby Australia Inc
No. 67 Yann, R N
No. 11 [Not a submission]


APPENDIX E : GOVERNMENT AMENDMENTS AS MOVED IN THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES
Government Amendments as Moved in the House of Representatives
(1) Clause 6, page 3, subclause (1), definition of 'defined benefit superannuation
scheme', line 32, omit 'superannuation' (where last occurring).
(2) Clause 6, page 4, subclause (1), definition of 'ordinary time earnings', lines 34 to
38, omit the definition, substitute the following definition:
'ordinary time earnings', in relation to an employee, means:
(a) the total of:
(i) earnings in respect of ordinary hours of work; and
(ii) earnings consisting of over-award payments, shift-
loading or commission; or
(b) if the total ascertained in accordance with paragraph (a) would be
greater than the maximum contribution base for the contribution
period — the maximum contribution base.
(3) Clause 6, page 5, subclause (1), definition of 'public sector scheme', line 1, omit
'superannuation scheme', substitute 'scheme of superannuation'.
(4) Clause 6, page 5, subclause (1), definition of 'superannuation scheme', lines 22 to
24, omit paragraphs (a) and (b), substitute the following paragraphs:
'(a) a defined benefit superannuation scheme whether or not embodied
in the governing rules of a superannuation fund; or
(b) any other scheme embodied in the governing rules of a
superannuation fund.'
(5) Clause 6, page 6, at the end of the clause add the following subclause:
'(3) For the purposes of this Act, a reference to salary or wages paid by
an employer to an employee includes a reference to a payment made on behalf
of the employer.'
(6) Clause 13, page 10, subclause (3), lines 8 to 11, omit the subclause, substitute the
following subclause:
'(3) If an employee's notional earnings base ascertained in accordance
with subsection (2) in relation to a contribution period would be an amount


greater than the maximum contribution base for that period, the employee's
notional earnings base is the maximum contribution base.'
(7) Clause 14, page 11, subclause (4), lines 8 to 11, omit the subclause, substitute the
following subclause:
'(4) If an employee's notional earnings base ascertained in accordance
with subsection (2) in relation to a contribution period would be an amount
greater than the maximum contribution base for that period, the employee's
notional earnings base is the maximum contribution base.'
(8) Clause 23, page 18, subclause (6), line 29, omit 'Subject to subsection (8), a
contribution to a', substitute 'A contribution to a complying'.
(9) Clause 23, page 18, lines 35 to 43 and page 19, lines 1 and 2, omit subclauses (7)
and (8), insert the following subclauses:
'(7) A contribution to a complying superannuation fund made by an
employer for the benefit of an employee may be taken into account under this
section as if it had been made during a particular contribution period commencing
after 30 June 1993 if the contribution is made:
(a) not more than 12 months before the beginning of the contribution
period; or
(b) not more than 28 days after the end of the contribution period.
(8) A contribution to a superannuation fund made by an employer for
the benefit of an employee that is taken into account under this section in relation
to a contribution period is not to be taken into account under this section in
relation to any other contribution period.'
(10) Qause 24, page 19, at the end of subclause (1) add the following paragraph:
'(d) salary or wages paid to an employee who is a prescribed employee
for the purposes of this paragraph.'
(11) After clause 62, page 37, insert the following new clause:
'Payment not subject to taxation
'62A An amount paid under section 61 or 62 is not subject to
taxation under a law of the Commonwealth.'


APPENDIX F : GOVERNMENT RESPONSES TO THE ISSUES RAISED BY
THE AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS
Government Responses to Issues Raised by Australian Democrats
1.
GENERAL
1.1 Prudential supervision: The Australian Democrats request a clear and specific
commitment from the Government on the Senate Select Committee Report on
Safeguarding Superannuation
Government Response
The Government on 4 June 1992 welcomed the Committee's report and announced its
intention to develop a detailed package of measures concerning prudential supervision
for introduction to Parliament in the forthcoming Budget Sittings. It is important in
developing that package that the Government be able to consult with the industry, and
bodies such as the Institute of Actuaries of Australia, so that a balance is achieved
between the costs and benefits to contributors of enhanced prudential supervision. The
Government is also required to consider other important reports (such as those of the
Industry Commission and the Australian Law Reform Commission) which have made
recommendations on matters canvassed in the Senate Select Committee's report.
But the Government is able to indicate the direction it wishes to follow in considering the
recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation report
Safeguarding Superannuation, released on 4 June 1992.
The Committee recommends that the ISC become the sole regulator of superannuation
products, but that it liaise and co-ordinate with the RBA, ASC and TPC.
This recommendation accords with the Government's announcement in the 1991-92
Budget on the role of the ISC and with the Treasurer's announcement of 5 June 1992,
on the Government's response to the Martin Committee, that a Council of Financial
Supervisors would be established to improve the consultative links between financial
supervisors. This Council would comprise officers of the RBA, ISC and ASC, and would
meet at least biannually and would be chaired by the RBA.
The Committee recommends that the main duties and responsibilities of trustees and
directors of corporate trustees be clearly spelt out in the Occupational Superannuation
Standards Act (OSSA).
The Government supports the codification of certain trust law principles for inclusion in
that Act. Detailed proposals on this are being developed for the Government's
consideration.
An industry fidelity fund be established to protect members in the event of fraud.


The Government is considering the issue of fidelity funds; the feasible coverage of such
funds; whether industry coverage should be voluntary or compulsory; the likely costs and
benefits of such funds; and the changed expectation and behaviour which might result
from such funds. It is not yet in a position to respond to this recommendation.
The OSSA be altered so that
(i) the ISC can impose civil and criminal penalties;
(ii) trustees and directors can be removed where they are not fulfilling
fiduciary obligations;
(iii) civil proceedings can be instituted by the ISC against trustees on behalf of
members.
Recommendations (i) and (ii) are consistent with the Committee's recommendation on
codification (see above) which the Government supports. The precise nature and extent
of the enhanced powers to be proposed for the ISC would need to minimize the prospect
of subjective action by the ISC and to reduce intrusion by the ISC on the normal
responsibilities of members towards their trustees and directors. Recommendation (iii)
does affect these responsibilities and the Government would wish to consider that issue
further and in the context of the powers and duties of other regulators, such as the TPC.
The Committee recommends that the requirement for equal employer/employee
representation should apply to all funds with 5 or more members (cf the current
threshhold of 200 members or more).
The Government agrees to the appropriateness of a lower threshhold for equal
representation — or the appointment of an independent trustee. It will examine such a
lower threshhold in terms of its practicalities and costs for members.
The Committee recommends that a central fund be established for unclaimed benefit
funds (or inactive accounts) with its administration tendered out by the Government on
a fee for service basis.
The Government agrees that a central fund could be appropriate to reduce the costs
faced by individual funds in managing inactive accounts. It proposes to consider detailed
arrangements for such a fund.
The Committee recommends:
(i) that members approve a repatriation of a surplus in a defined benefit
scheme to the employer;
(ii) various rules be applied to defined benefit funds regarding, for example,
the maximum size of a surplus and a minimum ratio of assets to liabilities.
These recommendations require detailed consideration eg. as to the liability of employers
for defined benefits; the role of any employee contributions in meeting defined benefits;


and the appropriateness of a minimum funding standard. A Government response to the
recommendations would need to be informed by these technical considerations. In
general, however, the Government can support a requirement that members be consulted
before major changes to their funds are effected, eg. as to the disposition of any
surpluses.
The Committee recommends that the funds maximum investment in in-house assets be
reduced from ten per cent to five per cent.
The Government supports the basis of the Committee's recommendation and has asked
that detailed proposals to improve the integrity of the in-house assets rule be developed
for its consideration.
The Committee recommends that trustees who act as investment managers of
superannuation funds be required to hold dealers' licences.
The Government accepts that such trustees should be treated consistently with the
treatment of other investment managers who are required to hold a dealers' licence.
The Committee's majority recommendations in the investment area are that:
(i) no investment controls be placed on superannuation fund investments
(ii) the matter be re-examined within three years.
Its minority recommendation is that a National Development Fund be established with
one per cent of superannuation fund assets for directed investment for the development
of new technology and for patient development capital for smaller firms and that no
more than 20 per cent of assets of superannuation funds be invested off-shore.
The Government announced in 'One Nation' in February 1992 the establishment of
programs for the development of new technology and for patient capital. In particular,
the pooled development fund initiative is specifically directed at the sorts of investment
of concern in the minority recommendation. In designing this measure, the Government
has deliberately set up a mechanism that will encourage superannuation gunds to invest
in these areas. The Government is willing to consider further refinements to the pooled
development funds measure if necessary. Consistent with its earlier statements, the
Government prefers to use incentives for these purposes rather than directing members'
funds in order to support the broader goals of society. Any such direction would give rise
to claims that members' funds are not being maximised for their intended purposes —
members' retirement incomes — and/or are being subjected to unduly high risk.
The Committee's main recommendation on the scope of the superannuation industry is
that the Government support increased competition by supporting new entrants.
The Government supports increasing efficiency through increased competition and is
considering the role of bank account superannuation and superannuation savings
accounts in this context.


The Committee recommends that:
(i) all funds formalise internal dispute resolution mechanisms;
(ii) the establishment of an external dispute resolution mechanism.
Proposals are being developed in response to the Government's intention (announced in
the 1991-92 Budget) and the Committees' recommendations on this matter. The
Government then intends to consult with industry on a proposed approach to dispute
resolution.
The Committee recommends that the Government seek wider powers over
superannuation and legislate relying on a combination of taxation, corporation and
pension powers.
This recommendation is in accord with the Government's 1991-92 Budget announcement.
The Government is obtaining legal advice on the matter and will respond after that
advice has been considered.
1.2 Preservation age: The Australian Democrats propose setting the preservation age at 60,
except for occupations with a lower statutory retirement age. The Australian Democrats
suggest that the preservation age could be phased in over, say, 15 years.
Government Response
The Government intends to replace the current preservation arrangements with
provisions requiring all future superannuation benefits to be preserved to the
preservation age after 1 July 1993
• this measure will increase substantially the proportion of superannuation savings
that are subject to preservation.
The Government is also willing to consider increasing the preservation age, so that by
2025 virtually all superannuation benefits will be preserved to age 60
• some flexibility in the access to superannuation benefits allowed between the ages
of 55 and 60 would also be considered.
1.3 Taxation of lump sums: The Australian Democrats propose setting a maximum (indexed)
lump sum amount.
Government Response
The Government proposes to announce in its Superannuation Simplification Policy new
arrangements for reasonable benefits limits. These arrangements will include an indexed
fixed dollar cap on the lump sum RBL, together with transitional arrangements.


1.4 Taxation of contributions: The Australian Democrats propose taxing contributions at
different rates depending on the income of the member. In particular, they propose
exempting low income earners' contributions and applying higher rates of tax to higher
income earners' contributions.
Government Response
The Government considers that it would be extremely difficult to administer a system of
varying rates of tax on employer contributions, depending on the income of the
employees on whose behalf the contributions were made. Such a system would add
significantly to the administrative and compliance costs of the SGC, which would result
in lower retirement incomes. Moreover, differences in tax rates applied to employer
contributions would open avenues for tax avoidance.
The Government is, however, willing to consider other ways to ameliorate the impact of
fund charges and taxes on small contributions. For example, the Government will
consider measuring compliance with the SGC on a quarterly basis and lifting the income
threshhold from $250/month.
1.5 The Australian Democrats propose that the Government should address the alleged bias
against self-funded retirees in respect of income tax and fringe benefits.
Government Response
The income tax system is not biased against self-funded retirees. Indeed, self-funded
retirees have often benefited from substantial tax concessions during the period that they
have accumulated their retirement savings.
The Government is examining a range of issues that relate to the tax and social security
treatment of retired persons in the Budget context.
2. SGC SPECIFIC
2.1 Impact on employment: Senator Kemot requests answers to questions, on the impact of
introducing the SGC at the rate of 4 per cent for large businesses and on changing the
small business threshhold to $1 million or $1.5 million, she asked in the Senate Select
Committee’s hearings.
Government Response
The answers to Senator Kemot's questions will be provided to the Senate Select
Committee's Secretariat on 15 June 1992.


2.2 The Australian Democrats propose moving the system from a monthly basis to a quarterly
basis from 1 July 1993.
Government Response
The Government is willing to adopt a quarterly system for the SGC from the 1993-94
year. Under this system, employer superannuation support would be measured on a
quarterly basis. The employer would be expected to provide the prescribed minimum
level of superannuation support during the quarter or within 28 days of the end of the
quarter
• this system would not override monthly compliance obligations that may arise
under an award superannuation provision.
2.3 The Australian Democrats think that the exemption threshhold ($250/month) can stay if:
there is a limit placed on the administration fees funds can charge;
insurance is made voluntary, and
contributions are exempt where they are made on behalf of low income earners.
Government Response
The Government is not attracted to requiring superannuation funds to cross subsidise
members according to their incomes by placing a cap on administration fees.
The SGC does not require insurance. The Government understands that insurance is
voluntary in some funds.
The Government believes that it would be administratively complex to apply different
rates of tax to employer contributions depending on the incomes of the employees on
whose behalf the contributions are made. Moreover, multiple rates of tax would open up
avenues for tax avoidance. For these reasons, the Government is not attracted to
exempting contributions made on behalf of low income earners.
In these circumstances, the Government believes that a more appropriate method of
addressing the concerns raised by the Australian Democrats would be to consider lifting
the exemption threshhold to $450/month.
2.4 The Australian Democrats propose that the SGC legislation be amended in order that
flat rate enterprise (or industry) superannuation awards be allowed to override the
requirement that the superannuation guarantee percentage be contributed for each
individual employee. This would only apply where the employer's total contributions are
larger than or equal to those that would apply under the SGC.


Government Response
It would be extremely difficult to administer a system that allowed flat dollar employer
contributions based on the aggregate SGC obligation across all of an employer's
employees. The Government believes that administrative factors would not permit such
a system.
2.5 The Australian Democrats seek much more clarification on the linkages between
increases in the SGC and future wage negotiations.
Government Response
The Government has previously indicated that, on present information about inflation,
earnings growth and output growth, there would appear to be room for a national wage
increase and the SGC over the course of 1992-93, consistent with its inflation target.
However, the Government has given no commitment on the timing of a national wage
increase or the quantum of such an increase. It observes that the ACTU has not
formulated a claim and there have been no discussions with the Government on timing
or quantum.
The Government has also indicated that the provision of additional superannuation under
a Superannuation Guarantee Charge would be taken into account by the Government
in determining its attitude on a national wage increase. Thus, for example, should a
national wage increase be granted which was inconsistent with the Government's view of
the economy's capacity to absorb that increase, the Government retains the option to ask
the Parliament to legislate more modest SGC provisions than those now planned.
The provision of further details on the linkages must, however, await the formulation of
a proposal which is specific as to the timing and quantum which proposals can be
assessed in light of the Government's relevant economic forecasts.
That assessment would be guided by information already provided to the Australian
Democrats that, on even modest forecasts of productivity growth, the implementation of
the SGC over the decade will equal only one third of expected productivity gains.
Furthermore, on an assumption of a full offset in wages to the SGC, there would be
negligible employment losses with an SGC of 5 per cent.
While employment losses would be encountered on the hypothetical and extreme
assumption that 5 per cent SGC would add fully to unit labour costs, that assumption is
entirely contrary to the Government's stated policy and to the productivity forecasts noted
above.
2.6 The Australian Democrats seek a Government commitment that community services such
as HACC, child care, etc will receive supplementation to cover the SGC, so that services
are not cut


Government Response
Costs such as superannuation contributions are routinely taken into account in examining
the efficiency of programs such as HACC. Supplementation must take into account
productivity and efficiency gains, changes in prices of other inputs, etc. This suggests that
a dollar-for-dollar supplementation is neither feasible nor desirable. Nevertheless, the
total remuneration of employees, including superannuation contributions stemming from
the SGC, will be taken into account in relation to the funding of projects in these
programs.
2.7 The Australian Democrats propose that the SGC, interest and the ATO's administrative
fee be tax deductible in the following circumstances:
(a) where the employee refuses to join a superannuation fund so that the employer
cannot discharge an SGC liability;
(b) where the employee leaves during the first year and the employer cannot
make qualifying contributions for whatever reason; and
(c) where the fund to which contributions have been made is not a
complying fund and the employer could not reasonably know of this -
subject to vesting to protect the employee.
Government Response
(a) Whether or not an employee can in fact refuse to join a fund depends on the
rules of the particular fund. In some cases, where an employer makes
contributions on behalf of an employee, the employee is automatically and
irrevocably a member of the fund. In other cases, employees can refuse to join a
fund, simply by refusing to fill in a form
— in these circumstances, the employer always has the option of making
contributions to another fund.
The Government is examining this issue in the context of prudential supervision
of superannuation funds.
(b) The Government is drafting amendments to the Occupational Superannuation
Standards legislation to enable employers to make contributions on behalf of
former employees
- such contributions would be tax deductible to the employer.
c) The Government is drafting an amendment to the Occupational Superannuation
Standards legislation that will ensure as far as is practical that SGC contributions
will not be made to non-complying superannuation funds


the Insurance and Superannuation Commission will publish a list of
complying funds.
2.8 The Australian Democrats propose that certain companies be treated as small employers,
irrespective of their annual payrolls: for example, group training companies and labour
hire firms.
Government Response
The Government sees no reason to treat labour hire firms differently from other
employers. To provide a special provision for such employers would cut across tax equity
and neutrality objectives and would not sit well with the Government's retirement
incomes policy. Moreover, any such special provision would involve difficult boundary
issues; for example, such a firm could be a part of a larger company group.
It is also aware that, in law, the Government is unable to distinguish between group
training companies and other like companies. The Government would consider providing
grants to reduce any difficulties which affect group training companies.
2.9 The Australian Democrats propose that:
• local government councillors be exempt from the SGC unless they are on normal
salaries; and
• the contractors provision be clarified.
Government Response
Local Government Councillors
The Government intends moving an amendment to the SGC legislation to remove a
technical defect that seemingly brings local councillors automatically within the definition
of 'employee'. The Australian Taxation Office has advised that the word 'payment' in the
relevant clause of the Bill be changed to the word 'remuneration'
• this amendment will result in local councillors who receive salary or wages being
covered by the Superannuation Guarantee. Other local councillors, who typically
receive a monthly payment for attending meetings, will not be covered by the
Superannuation Guarantee.
Contractors
The Commissioner of Taxation will issue a ruling on the whole issue of who is an
employee and who is an employer shortly after the legislation is passed. This ruling
should go a long way to resolving the uncertainties about this matter.


The following comments are offered to assist the Australian Democrats in understanding
the provision.
Background
Clause 12(3) of the Superannuation Guarantee Bill includes as 'employees' persons who
work under contract that is wholly or principally for their labour. The provision is
designed to include a person who may not be an employee in the normal sense but who
is in fact not very distinguishable from an employee.
Under subclauses 11(2) and 12(11) of the Bill, salary or wages paid to a person who
works 30 hours or less per week, where that work is wholly or principally of a domestic
or private nature, is not taken into account for superannuation guarantee scheme
purposes.
Contract
Whether someone is a contractor rather than a common law employee will be a question
of fact. The Commissioner of Taxation's view (see IT 2129) is that a contractor, as
distinct from an employee, is someone who:
• Is contracted to perform a specific task within a specific time for an agreed
amount of money;
• otherwise has freedom in the way the task is performed;
• doesn't have the normal entitlement of employees, such as leave and sick pay;
• normally renders accounts payable by invoice;
• bears the responsibility, and liability, for losses;
• generally is not eligible for workers' compensation from the principal;
• generally will be available to perform services for the public at large.
The mere fact that someone is a contractor does not mean that clause 12(3) will apply.
That will depend on whether all the tests in 12(3) are satisfied (see below).
Wholly or Principally
The Commissioner of Taxation's view is that a contract is principally for labour where the
labour content exceeds 50 per cent of the value of the contract (see IT 2129). The
Commissioner would not simply accept the values the parties to the contract assigned to
each of its elements. Instead, he would use a market based apportionment made in the
context of the contract's overall value.
For Labour


'Labour' is not defined in the Bill. The usual position is that labour means work of a
physical nature. But the courts tend to take a wider view of this context and include work
which is physical, mental or artistic (DFCT v Bolwell (1967) 1 ATR 862).
Whose Labour?
Subclause 12(3) requires the contract to be for the labour of the person who works under
the contract.
In Neale v Atlas Products (Vic) Pty Ltd (1955) 10 ATD 460, the High Court decided
(at p461) that, if the contractor is free to engage others to perform the work for him, the
contract is not for his labour. This is so even if the contractor actually did perform the
work himself and had no intention of doing otherwise.
Amendments have limited the scope of this decision in the PAYE context. But there are
no similar provisions in the Superannuation Guarantee Bill.
Accordingly, subclause 12(3) would apply only where the contract, either expressly or
impliedly, required the work to be done by the party to the contract.
Professionals
Accountants and lawyers are concerned that they may be treated as employees of their
clients for the purposes of the Superannuation Guarantee Legislation.
This concern seems to be unfounded. In Bolwell, the court said that professionals are not
employed under contracts for labour because their efforts result in something of their
own creation, defined and limited according to their talents. People employed under
contracts for labour are those employed to achieve a result determined or defined by
someone else.
Partnerships
Another issue that has been brought to the Government's attention concerns whether a
partner, who performs work under a contract entered into by the partnership, can be said
to be an employee of the other party.
One view is that, because the Bill says that it applies as if a partnership were a legal
person, a fictional entity is inserted between the principal and the partners so that they
cannot be the principal's employees. A consequence of this view would be that forming
'husband and wife' partnerships could become a common avoidance technique. Another
may be that partners would effectively be deemed to be their own employees.
The other view is that the Bill does not say that it applies as if a contract with the
partners were a contract with a separate legal entity. The consequence of this view would
be that a partner who performs work would be treated as an employee of the principal.
This would probably not affect large professional partnerships, because it is difficult to
envisage cases where the work would be required to be done by a particular partner. So
the contract would not usually be one for that partner's labour.


The Australian Taxation Office is examining the issues raised by this debate.
The Pay As You Earn (PAYE) and Prescribed Payments (PPS) Systems
The Superannuation Guarantee Bill generally requires superannuation contributions to
be made for people employed to work under a contract wholly or principally for their
labour.
The PAYE system extends to payments made to a person under a contract principally
for the labour of the person to whom the payments are made unless they are covered by
PPS.
For a person to be covered by PPS, he or she must not be an employee at common law;
must be employed under a contract which in whole or in part involves the performance
of work; and must be in one of nine specified industries.
There may be some people who are not covered by the PAYE system who will be
covered by the Superannuation Guarantee.
Common Law Employees
Many people who describe themselves as 'contractors' are in fact common law employees.
Such people are covered by the Superannuation Guarantee, regardless of the contractors
question.
2.10 The Australian Democrats propose that the large employer threshhold be lifted from
$500 000 annual payroll to $1.5 million annual payroll.
Government Response
The Government sees good reason for the $500 000 large business threshhold: it is
consistent with the Training Guarantee Scheme and is broadly consistent with similar
threshholds in State payroll taxes. Nevertheless, the Government is prepared to consider
lifting the threshhold to $1 million.
2.11 The Australian Democrats propose that the SGC be introduced in 1992/93 at the rates
of 3 per cent for small employers and 4 per cent for large employers.
Government Response
In 'One Nation', the Prime Minister announced an altered SGC implementation schedule
which extended for a further year the 3 per cent rate applicable to small businesses (that
is, those with an annual payroll of $500 000 or less). Whereas it was announced in the
1991-92 Budget that a four per cent rate would be applicable in 1993-94 that has now
been postponed to 1994-95.


While no changes were proposed in 'One Nation' for larger firms, the Government is
prepared to countenance an easing of the transition costs for firms with an annual payroll
of between $500 000 and $1 million. It is prepared to consider raising the small business
threshhold for SGC purposes to $1 million thus allowing those medium sized firms a 3
per cent rate for 1992/93 and 1993/94 in place of the five per cent rate which they
otherwise faced. (This would also allow those firms to meet a lower prescribed rate under
the SGC until 1997/98, when the same rate is to be met by small and large firms.)
The Government considers that this, together with its approach to a national wage
increase, discussed above, would be a sufficient response to the real concerns of
Australian firms.




APPENDIX G : GLOSSARY
Appendix G: Glossary
Accumulation Fund A superannuation plan where the employer and/or
employees contribute a set amount that accumulates and
earns income for the benefit of the members.
Annuity A private pension for a fixed term or for life usually
bought with a member's Eligible Termination Payment
(ETP). An annuity can be bought so that regular
repayments are made back to the member in the form
of a pension.
Award Based Contributions Contributions determined by an Industrial Tribunal paid
(or Award Superannuation) by the employer to a superannuation plan for all eligible
employees.
Commutation Term used to describe the process whereby one type of
superannuation benefit is commuted (changed) to
another type, for example conversion from a pension to
a lump sum.
Defined Benefits Fund A superannuation fund that contracts to pay a member
a fixed or defined amount of money that is linked to the
salary level.
Eligible Termination Payment The lump sum paid to a member on retirement, job
(ETP) termination or death. It includes superannuation
contributions and accrued sick leave, but not holiday pay
or long service leave. ETPs can be rolled over into
approved rollover funds (ADFs and DAFs).
Life Policy A contract of insurance agreed to when a person
purchases life insurance.
Lost Member The classification given to a member of a
superannuation fund whose current postal address is not
available.
Lump Sum Benefit A benefit paid out in a single cash payment.
Occupational Superannuation Pension or retirement benefit arising from an
employment contract.
Portability Allowing a superannuation plan to be transferred from
one fund (or one employer) to another.


Preservation Maintenance of a member's entitlements in a
superannuation fund until a specified minimum age
(usually at least 55).
Prudential Controls The measures instituted to supervise and control
activities in the superannuation industry to ensure the
security of contributor's funds.
Reasonable Benefits Limit The maximum limit on the amount a member can
(RBL) receive from superannuation, ADFs or DAFs, with
preferential taxation treatment. The limit can be
calculated from a member's highest average salary.
Rollovers When a member changes jobs and takes an ETP from
a superannuation fund, ADF or DAF, this lump-sum can
be transferred to other schemes without losing the tax
advantage.
Superannuation Fund Fund designed to produce retirement benefits for
members. To attract tax concessions, it must have these
characteristics: (a) be indefinitely continuing, and (b) be
maintained solely for following purposes: provision of
benefits for fund members, or for dependants of each
member in the event of death, or any other purpose
allowed by the Insurance and Superannuation
Commission in writing.
Unfunded Superannuation A superannuation plan where no fund has been
established but superannuation benefits have been
defined; and the employer meets the costs of benefits as
they arise.
Vesting
The established entitlement of a member to his or her
own contributions to a superannuation fund, the
employer's contributions, and accrued interest.




THE PARLIAMENT OP THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 177 of 1992
ORDERS TO K RUNTED
ISSN 0727*4181
*1 7A0b44 ES23L2
B92/20405 AZ Cat. No. 92 2154 7
