

THE PARLIAMENTARY
CONTRIBUTORY
SUPERANNUATION SCHEME
&
THE JUDGES' PENSION SCHEME
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
25th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Canberra
September 1997




THE PARLIAMENTARY
CONTRIBUTORY
SUPERANNUATION
SCHEME
&
THE JUDGES'
PENSION SCHEME
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
25th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Canberra
September 1997


© Commonwealth of Australia 1997
ISBN 0 642 25139 8
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator the Hon Nick Sherry Deputy Chair
Senator Lyn Allison
Senator Stephen Conroy
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran
Tasmania
Tasmania
Victoria
Victoria
Western Australia
South Australia
Victoria
Secretariat Staff:
Mr Peter Hallahan
Mr Rod Adams
Mr James Greentree
Ms Jade Ricza
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Senior Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Address: The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Telephone: (06) 277 3439
Facsimile: (06) 277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at:
http://www.aph.gov.au/senate/committee/commfp.html




CONTENTS
CONTENTS
in
OVERVIEW.
BACKGROUND TO THE INQUIRY.
The origins.
The reference.
Conduct of the Inquiry.
Issues raised by the Law Reform Commission.
At the outset.
PART A.
CHAPTER 1.
THE PARLIAMENTARY CONTRIBUTORY SUPERANNUATION SCHEME
Establishment and purpose of the scheme.
The history.
Core features of the scheme.
Special Features...
Membership and costs of the PCSS.
Disqualification from entitlements...
Administrative Costs.
The trustee structure.
Other parliamentary schemes..
CHAPTER 2.
APPROPRIATENESS.
Public perceptions of parliamentary superannuation.
Is the scheme trying to do much?.
The tenure of Australian Parliamentarians.
The age of parliamentarians.
The relative benefits to long and short term members.
Superannuation, parliamentarians and the wider community.
The nature of parliamentary life.
Early pensions.
Flexibility, portability and choice.
To be or not be funded.
Conclusion.
CHAPTER 3.
REFORMING THE SCHEME.
The case for reform...
Remuneration and representative government.
Superannuation as part of parliamentary remuneration.
1
.5
.. 5
5
.6
.. 6
.. 7
.9
.9
.9
..9
..9
10
12
. I4
, 16
. 16
. 16
. 17
19
19
. 19
.20
.20
.21
.22
.24
.24
..26
..26
..27
.. 28
.29
.29
..29
..30
..31


CONTENTS
Is an accumulation scheme appropriate?.33
Disadvantages associated with accumulation schemes.38
Preservation to age 55.39
Actuarially reduced pensions.40
Conclusions and recommendations.41
CHAPTER 4. 45
CONSEQUENTIAL REFORM.45
Dislocation benefit.45
Future determination of parliamentary remuneration.48
PART B..51
THE JUDGES' PENSION SCHEME.51
Background.51
PART B.53
CHAPTER 1.53
INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY.53
Judicial independence: what it is and why it matters.53
Mechanisms to support judicial independence.56
A more mobile judiciary?.57
Restraints on judges' financial affairs before and after retirement.58
The National Commission of Audit's contribution to the debate.60
Conclusion.61
CHAPTER 2.63
RECRUITMENT TO THE JUDICIARY.63
Who do we want as judges?.63
The judicial pension scheme as a recruitment tool.64
The effects on judicial recruitment of general changes to superannuation.66
Future changes to the judiciary?.68
CHAPTER 3.71
THE JUDGES' PENSION SCHEME OUTLINED.71
Authority for the scheme.71
Some history of Australia's scheme.71
Features of the Scheme. 73
Funding, costs and employer support.74
A changing judiciary.75
Golden handcuffs?.76
Comparison with other schemes.76
The Canadian scheme.77
In the UK. 78
Lessons from the history.79


CHAPTER 4
81
APPROPRIATENESS OF THE SCHEME.81
Vesting. 81
Death and dependants.82
Recommendation 4.1.82
Commutation and Choice.82
Resolving equity between judges.83
CHAPTERS.85
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.85
Conclusions and Recommendations.85
APPENDIX A. 87
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS.87
APPENDIX B. 91
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS.91
SYDNEY, 1 MAY 1997.91
CANBERRA, 26 MAY 1997.91
CANBERRA, 4 JUNE, 1997.92
APPENDIX ..93
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
.93




OVERVIEW
This report examines two very different schemes, the Parliamentary Contributor)'
Superannuation Scheme and the Judges’ pension scheme. While these schemes have a
number of superficial similarities, they fulfil quite different objectives in respect of the two
classes of public office holders who benefit from them.
The Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme provides for the retirement needs of
former parliamentarians and their dependants. It provides relatively generous benefits by
community standards for those who fulfil the qualifying conditions, regardless of age.
The Judges’ Pension Scheme is quite different. Judges must serve until sixty years of age if
they are to qualify for benefits. There is no payment for those who fail to qualify, so the
incentive for judges to remain in the judiciary until age 60 is strong. This is a deliberate
policy, encouraging judges to view the judiciary as a long term career rather than a short term
option.
The Judges’ Pension Scheme plays a very important role in ensuring judicial independence
and recruiting candidates to the bench from the ranks of the senior legal profession. While the
judges' scheme is sometimes criticised as generous, the reality is that the Commonwealth
pays judges considerably less than they would receive if they continued their careers as senior
barristers in private practice. The Judges' pension scheme partially offsets the considerable
financial sacrifice that senior barristers must make if they accept judicial office.
The Committee encountered only limited criticism of the Judges’ Pension Scheme. Indeed,
much of the evidence supported the scheme, arguing that any alternative, such as a fully
funded accumulation scheme as suggested by the National Commission of Audit, would be
inappropriate. The Committee finds itself in substantial agreement with this view and
recommends that the scheme be retained. The Committee has however recommended a
number of modifications to bring the scheme more into line with modem superannuation
practice.
The Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme attracted comment during the
inquiry from members of the public, recognised superannuation experts and parliamentarians.
Some criticised the scheme as excessively generous and out of step with community
standards. An area singled out for particular attention was the payment of pension benefits to
retiring or defeated parliamentarians before recognised retiring age.
So, is there anything special about political life that justifies special superannuation
provisions for parliamentarians that are different from those applying in the general
community?
Understandably, there are people in the community who resent the superannuation provisions
enjoyed by parliamentarians. The average Australian workplace is now much less stable than
it was and many people face an uncertain and volatile employment market. In many ways, the
rest of the community has caught up with the general lack of stability that has always
characterised political life.


Overview
The media has also contributed to resentment of the parliamentary scheme by highlighting the
substantial benefits that relatively young defeated parliamentarians, particularly former
ministers, are presumed to enjoy. In reality, many parliamentarians do not survive political
life for long enough to enjoy the generous benefits the media is so willing to highlight. The
Committee received evidence that the average tenure of parliamentarians is trending towards
shorter parliamentary careers, for a variety of reasons including a increasingly volatile
electorate. Consequently, fewer parliamentarians will satisfy the criteria for a pension.
The apparent generosity of parliamentary superannuation must also be considered in the
context of overall remuneration. There is adequate evidence that parliamentary remuneration,
particularly at Ministerial level, lags well behind what may be expected for similar levels of
responsibility in the private sector and in some public sector positions.
While there is no apparent difficulty in attracting people to stand for parliament, the
Committee has received evidence that many talented people will not contemplate
parliamentary service because of the relatively low remuneration when compared to other
options available to them. The disruption to established lifestyles and careers offer further
disincentives.
Delicate balances must be maintained in this area. It would be regrettable if people were
attracted to parliamentary office purely for their own financial gain. However, the Committee
considers that, in the interests of representative government, it is desirable that a wide range
of people undertake parliamentary service. While success in business or the professions, with
its attendant high remuneration, is no guarantee of the quality of a parliamentary candidate, it
is undesirable that conditions of service in the parliament be so as to deter such persons.
These issues aside, the question must be asked - is the current Parliamentary Contributory
Superannuation Scheme (PCSS) appropriate? Aside from the comments received about the
generosity of the scheme, the Committee also received evidence that the scheme has a
number of shortcomings.
Witnesses and submissions focussed on a number of issues including:
• a lack of equity between members of the scheme;
• the inflexible nature of the scheme;
• the compulsory nature of members' contributions regardless of their circumstances;
. no portability of entitlements if the member leaves Parliament; and
• inadequate controls over the costs associated with benefits received by the partners
of parliamentarians or ex-parliamentarians when they die.
Several submissions and witnesses suggested that the PCSS should be replaced with a fully
funded accumulation scheme, in line with National Commission of Audit recommendations.
The Committee believes that, while this option has a number of attractions, the parliament
needs to more closely consider issues relating to independence before agreeing to replace the
scheme with an accumulation scheme.


Witnesses regarded the independence issue as being particularly important in respect of
judges. It was surprising that this issue did not receive closer scrutiny in respect to
parliamentarians who are often placed in situations where they have to make decisions on
legislation affecting the whole superannuation system.
The Committee agreed that the scheme has many significant shortcomings. It does not
necessarily serve its members well, may be outdated in some of its provisions and attempts to
achieve too much in relation to what a superannuation scheme can fairly be expected to
provide.
There is also a lack of transparency in parliamentary superannuation that gives rise to much
of the criticism of the PCSS. Further, there is also clearly a negative perception in the mind of
the public about the scheme, and an uneasy relationship between the PCSS and
superannuation in the broader community. In the light of these findings, the Committee
considers that reform is desirable.
The Committee was very conscious about the difficulties associated with a parliamentary
Committee reviewing their own entitlements. Inevitably, charges of conflict of interest will
arise.
All members of the Committee were of the view that the Remuneration Tribunal should play
a greater role in respect of parliamentary superannuation.
However, there were differences of opinion within the Committee about the appropriate
approach to reform and Coalition and Labor Senators express different views within the
report. The Australian Democrat member of the Committee has attached a dissenting report.




BACKGROUND TO THE INQUIRY
What is happening now is that the superannuation scheme we have in place
actually fails the test offairness.1
The origins
1. From time to time, concern is expressed about the Commonwealth Government's liability
for those unfunded defined benefit superannuation funds for which it is responsible. In
addition, 'defined benefit schemes are generally more complex and costly to administer, less
visible and their benefits less transferable between different employers than are comparable
accumulation schemes'.2
2. In its June 1996 report to the Government, the National Commission of Audit made the
following comment in relation to future superannuation arrangements:
The Government should initiate further work to examine the replacement of its current defined
benefit superannuation schemes with accumulation schemes. The objective of this change is to
increase remuneration flexibility rather than to reduce the total cost of overall remuneration
packages/
3. The report went on to recommend that superannuation for parliamentarians and judges
should be similar to 'arrangements for senior executives in the rest of the workforce'. This
meant accumulation benefits and 'the amount of superannuation should be determined by
individuals as part of fixed overall remuneration package'.4
The reference
4. Following a lengthy period on the Notice Paper and a debate in the Senate chamber on
25 November 1996, the following matter was referred to the Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation for inquiry and report:
(1) The appropriateness of current unfunded defined benefit superannuation schemes
application to judges and parliamentarians, including but not limited to:
(a) the equity between members;
(b) the cost to the Commonwealth and members;
(c) the impact of unfunded liabilities on future budgets;
(d) the advantage or otherwise of member choice of fund or investment strategy;
1 Senator Kemot, The Senate, Hansard, 25 November 1996, p. 5905.
2 National Commission of Audit, Report to the Commonwealth Government, June 1996, p. 98.
3 National Commission of Audit, Report to the Commonwealth Government, June 1996, p. 98.
National Commission of Audit, Report to the Commonwealth Government, June 1996, p 99.
4


Background to the Inquiry
(e) the flexibility of existing schemes, including in respect of portability, in the
context of their working arrangements and those applying in the general work force;
(f) the appropriateness of replacing such schemes with a fully-funded accumulation
scheme;
(g) the appropriateness of the application of preservation rules and taxation on
benefits taken prior to age 55 to such schemes;
(h) the capacity for making superannuation arrangements less complex than current
arrangements; and
(i) the administrative costs of such arrangements and their alternatives.
(2) That for the purpose of the inquiry the committee take evidence from the public,
Government agencies and State, Territory and Federal government departments, and
conduct public hearings as appropriate.
Conduct of the Inquiry
5. The Committee contacted a number of organisations inviting submissions, and advertised
the reference in The Australian on 18 December 1996 and nationally in the various State
daily newspapers on 12 February 1997. In response, the Committee received 46 submissions.
Public hearings to hear evidence on the judges' pension scheme were held in Sydney on 1
May 1997 and in Canberra on 26 May 1997. A further public hearing to take evidence on the
parliamentary scheme was held in Canberra on 4 June 1997.
6. A list of those who made submissions is at Appendix A and details of witnesses who
appeared at the public hearings is at Appendix B.
7. The Committee was asked to examine both parliamentary and judicial superannuation. In
the course of its inquiry the Committee found the principles in operation within the two
schemes to be quite different. In particular, the issue of independence was crucial in the
judges' scheme. Accordingly the Committee has divided its report, dealing in Part A with
parliamentary superannuation and with the judges' pension scheme in Part B.
Issues raised by the Law Reform Commission
8. In an Issues Paper published in April 1997, the Australian Law Reform Commission
raised some matters in relation to the structure of the judiciary. The Commission 'has been
asked to look at the advantages and disadvantages of the present adversarial system of
conducting civil, administrative review and family court proceedings before courts and
tribunals exercising federal jurisdiction'.5 The Commission said the composition of the
Australian Law Reform Commission, Issues Paper 20, Review of the adversarial system of litigation,
Rethinking the federal civil litigation system, April 1997, p. 7.


judiciary, in 'largely comprising men of similar ethnic and cultural backgrounds, may reflect a
culture that is not representative of the community at large'.6
9. In its paper the Commission considered the possibility of creating a federal magistracy.
Should such a proposal proceed, an important issue would be the appropriate terms of
appointment and remuneration of magistrates, including their superannuation.7 Also, toward
the end of the Commission's paper, there is a brief discussion on the concept of a career
judiciary which does not exist now.
10. Should there be significant changes in the role of judges as a result of the questions
raised in the Commission's paper, then the Commission says that 'new processes of selection
and appointment may need to be examined'. For example, one objection to the establishment
of a career judiciary relates to the possible problems of promotion within that structure being
determined by the government.8
At the outset
11. In the conduct of its inquiry, the Committee was sensitive to public perceptions of the
two schemes into which it was inquiring, and to parliamentary superannuation in particular.
These perceptions may include:
• over-generosity of these schemes;
. being out of step with the superannuation available to the rest of the community;
• unreasonable early access to full parliamentary pension entitlements;
• the availability of lucrative post-parliamentary employment; and
• the fact that a Committee of parliamentarians was inquiring into their own
scheme.
12. However, the number of submissions received from individuals protesting especially
about the parliamentary scheme was relatively modest (around 20), with the majority of those
attempting to be constructive in their criticism.
13. The Committee expresses its appreciation for the contributions by those individuals, and
by all who made submissions and gave evidence at the public hearings.
6 Australian Law Reform Commission, Issues Paper 20, Review of the adversarial system of litigation,
Rethinking the federal civil litigation system, April 1997, p. 98.
7 Australian Law Reform Commission, Issues Paper 20, Review of the adversarial system of litigation,
Rethinking the federal civil litigation system, April 1997, p. 132.
8 Australian Law Reform Commission, Issues Paper 20, Review of the adversarial system of litigation,
Rethinking the federal civil litigation system, April 1997, p. 135.




PART A
CHAPTER 1
THE PARLIAMENTARY CONTRIBUTORY
SUPERANNUATION SCHEME
In its general purpose the scheme aims to meet the situation, long recognised
by members of all parties, that men or women who serve in parliament often
sacrifice opportunities to provide against the day when their parliamentary
careers come to an end.1
Establishment and purpose of the scheme
1.1 The Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme (PCSS) provides for the
superannuation benefits of Commonwealth parliamentarians.2Authority for the scheme is
provided by the Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Act 1948 as amended.
Membership is compulsory and member contributions are required. Benefits are paid to
former members of Parliament or, on their death, to their surviving spouse or orphan children.
1.2 The scheme is administered by the Department of Finance under the direction ot the
Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust (the Trust). There are five trustees of the I rust - the
Minister for Finance who is the presiding trustee, plus two Senators and two Members ot the
House of Representatives appointed by their respective Houses.
The history
1.3 The PCSS was established in 1948 under the Parliamentary Contributory
Superannuation Act of that year. Reasons for the establishment of the scheme included:
« entering Parliament often meant foregoing potential superannuation payouts
from previous employers due to leaving that employer prior to retirement age;
• electoral and parliamentary demands reduced members' chances to re-establish
careers when their parliamentary term was over; and
• the need to entice people to enter Parliament who would not otherwise come.'
1.4 Originally the scheme was funded to the extent of the member contributions, and was
framed along the lines of the Commonwealth public service superannuation scheme.
1
Mr Chifley, Prime Minister and Treasurer, Second Reading Speech on the Parliamentary Retiring
Allowances Bill 1948, House of Representatives, Hansard, 1 December 1948, p. 3738.
2 This chapter draws principally from the submission from the Department of Finance, JP-46.
Submission No. 46, Department of Finance, Attachment A, p. 1.
3


The Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme
Contributions were three pounds per week (about 10.4 per cent of salary) and a fixed annuity
of eight pounds per week was payable when a member qualified for a pension.
1.5 Between 1948 and 1973, the main amendments to the PCSS were:
• in 1955, the three occasions rule was introduced (see paragraph 1.11);
• from 1959, the age at retirement became a factor in fixing the rate of pension;
• orphan benefits were introduced in 1959; and
• from 1963, pensions changed from a fixed amount to being based on salary.
1.6 In 1973 the scheme underwent major changes. The PCSS fund was abolished and the
assets transferred to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF). Contributions were now paid
into the CRF, out of which benefits were also paid.
1.7 The maximum benefit payable to a member was increased from 50 per cent to 75 per
cent of the parliamentary salary payable, and pensions accrued according to the length of
service rather than age at retirement. Also, the minimum age 40 requirement for the pension
on involuntary retirement was removed, and the minimum age on voluntary retirement was
raised from 40 to 45 years (eventually removed in 1978). Provision for invalidity pensions,
indexation of pensions and recognition of State parliamentary service were introduced.
1.8 Since 1973, various amendments have been made including the introduction of 50 per
cent commutation of pension option in 1978. This was increased to a 100 per cent
commutation option in 1979.
1.9 Further changes in the same period 'to address the public's perception of generosity'
included:4
• reducing the 100 per cent commutation option to 50 per cent in 1983; and
• the provision for reducing a pension, on the basis of the former parliamentarian
receiving remuneration from an Office of Profit under the Crown, was
reintroduced in 1983 (it had been removed in 1973).
Core features of the scheme
Contributions
1.10 Members must contribute at the rate of 11.5 per cent of their Parliamentary
Allowances for the first 18 years of membership and at 5.75 per cent for subsequent
membership. In addition, they must contribute the same percentages of their Additional
Office Holder Allowance if they hold such office (such as ministerial).
4
Submission No. 46, Department of Finance, Attachment A, p. 2.


Qualification, commutation and pension levels
1.11 On retirement from Parliament, a Senator or Member is entitled to a pension if:
(a) 12 or more years service has been completed;
(b) the member has on four occasions ceased to be a member on the dissolution or
expiration of the House of which he or she was a member, or on the expiration
of a term of office; or
(c) retirement is involuntary, and the member has completed not less than eight
years service, or has on three occasions ceased to be a member on the
dissolution of the House of which he or she was then a member, or on the
expiration of term of office.
1.12 The effect of (b) and (c) is that a Senator or Member with less than eight years service
who qualifies is deemed to have completed eight years service.
1.13 The essence of qualification for a pension is 12 years for voluntary retirement and
eight years for those who retire involuntarily. Four and three parliamentary terms respectively
equate to those periods of 12 and eight years.
1.14 While the PCSS is primarily a defined benefit pension scheme, up to 50 per cent of a
pension entitlement can be commuted to a lump sum benefit. The minimum pension is 50 per
cent of backbench salary (based on eight years service), and the maximum is 75 per cent of
backbench salary (after 18 years service).
1.15 There is additional pension payable for any Ministerial and salaried parliamentary
office held during the period of parliamentary service. That additional pension is based on the
additional salary for each office held and period of each office.
Without pension entitlement
1.16 Those retiring members who do not qualify for a pension are entitled to a lump sum
benefit calculated on the basis of contributions made. The Department of Finance suggests
this is similar to an accumulation benefit.'^ The level of benefit in this case depends on
whether the retirement is voluntary or involuntary. The respective benefits are:
• involuntary retirement
refund of all contributions (without interest); plus
a supplement of two and one-third times those contributions.
• voluntary retirement
refund of all contributions (without interest); plus
5
Submission No. 46, Department of Finance, p. 2.


a supplement of one and one-sixth times member contributions
over the last eight years.
1.17 These lump sum benefits, however, will be increased where the minimum level of
superannuation required under the Superannuation Guarantee (SG) legislation has not been
provided by the calculations above. Where the lump sum benefit would be lower than the SG
amount, the SG amount will be payable.
Special Features
1.18 The PCSS provides the highest aggregate benefits to members who retire at a
relatively young age and qualify for a pension. This scenario can be contrasted to the retiree
from a short parliamentary career with no pension and only a lump sum benefit entitlement -
a net benefit significantly lower in relative terms.
Invalidity benefits
1.19 A member may be entitled to a pension on invalidity grounds if the Trust is satisfied
that the member has suffered physical or mental incapacity. There are three classes of
invalidity:
. Class 1 - 60 to 100 per cent incapacity, meaning total, or near total, and
permanent disablement, and unlikely to work in a job for which the member is
reasonably qualified by education, training or experience;
• Class 2 - 30 to 59 per cent incapacity, meaning partial invalidity and unable to
work as a member of Parliament, but capable of performing outside employment
for which the person is reasonably qualified; and
• Class 3 - less than 30 per cent incapacity, meaning the capacity to work as a
member of Parliament is restricted (but could still continue), and capable of
performing outside employment for which the person is reasonably qualified.
1.20 Class 1 and 2 benefits are paid as non-commutable pensions of 50 and 30 per cent of
backbench salary respectively. The Class 3 benefit is the higher of:
• a refund of member contributions plus two and one-third times the member's
own contributions; or
• the SG amount payable.
Where a member's benefit on involuntary retirement is higher than the invalidity benefit, that
higher benefit is payable.6
6 Submission No. 42, Department of Finance, Appendix A, p. 2,


Other benefits payable - to spouses and children
1.21 A pension is payable to a spouse of a member where:
(a) the member dies while in service, irrespective of the length of service of that
member; or
(b) the member dies and was entitled to a pension, and:
(i) the marital relationship commenced before the member's retirement; or
(ii) if the marital relationship commenced after the member's retirement, it
commenced before the member attained age 60 or at least five years
before death.
1.22 The amount of the pension payable to a spouse is five-sixths of the pension that would
have been payable to the member on the date of death. If the member had not completed eight
years service at death, service is deemed as eight years.7 A spouse pension continues to be
payable whether or not the spouse remarries.
1.23 Pensions are payable to any eligible children, including adopted and ex-nuptial
children, of a member who dies:
. while in service; or
. while entitled to a pension,
provided the member is not survived by a spouse who is the natural or adoptive parent ot the
child and who is entitled to a pension.
1.24 A pension is also payable to any eligible children on the death of a spouse who was in
receipt of a pension.
Bene fit payable to the personal representative
1.25 There is a benefit payable on the death of a member who was entitled to a pension,
and who is not survived by a spouse or an orphan who is entitled to a pension. 1 he benefit in
this case is a lump sum payable to the personal representative of the deceased member, to be
dispersed in accordance with the deceased member's will. This lump sum consists of:
• a refund of contributions plus a supplement equal to two and one third times the
contributions paid during the last eight years of service, or
• the superannuation guarantee safety-net amount,
which ever is the higher,
Submission No. 42, Department of Finance, Appendix A, p. 3
7


Less
• the amount of any benefit paid to the former member.
Increases in pensions
1.26 Pensions and additional pension entitlements are expressed as a percentage of the
backbench salary and additional salaries. Accordingly, these pension payments will increase
each time the corresponding salaries increase.
1.27 Spouse pensions will proportionally increase with salaries - that is by five sixths of the
increase that would have applied to the deceased member's pension had the member lived.
Corresponding adjustments will apply to orphans' pensions.
Reduction or suspension of pensions
1.28 Unlike the judges' pension scheme, a parliamentary pension may be reduced if a
recipient is appointed to an office of profit under the Crown. The pension is reduced on the
following basis:
• no reduction unless the salary from the office of profit exceeds 20 per cent of the
annual salary payable to a backbencher (currently 20 per cent of $81,856 =
$16,371);
• for every dollar over the 20 per cent threshold, the pension is reduced by 50
cents; and
• the maximum amount by which the pension is reduced is 50 per cent of the
pension entitlement before commutation - so that someone who does not
commute any of the pension entitlement is not disadvantaged.
Suspension
1.29 Commonwealth parliamentary pensions are suspended where a recipient is elected to
another Australian Parliament. However, a person in receipt of a pension higher than the
salary in the other Parliament would continue to receive the excess.
Membership and costs of the PCSS
1.30 The following table summarises the membership of the PCSS as at 1 July 1996, and
takes account of nine senators leaving the Senate on 30 June and being replaced by nine new
senators on July 1 1996.8
8
Submission No. 46, Department of Finance, Attachment E, p. 4,


1.31 Total pensions payable at 1 July 1996 amounted to $14.3 million per year. Of the 226
ex-contributor pensioners at 1 July 1996, seven had a pension entitlement which had been
suspended due to an office held or membership of a State Parliament. Another seven received
a reduced pension because of an office held.
1.32 The Australian Government Actuary (the Actuary) provided details of the cost to the
Commonwealth of the PCSS. In such a defined benefit scheme, the employer is responsible
for providing the difference between the benefit actually paid and what the member has
contributed toward the benefit. The certainty comes from the fact that the employer is
prepared to accept uncertain cost:
The true cost to the employer can only be determined at the time the benefit is
paid. It is for this reason that defined benefit arrangements have regular
actuarial valuations to estimate the cost of benefits promised and to monitor the
ongoing 'health' of the arrangement.9
1.33 The Actuary last reported to the Department of Finance on the long term cost of
benefits provided under the PCSS in February 1997, based on data as at 30 June 1996. I his
advice is normally provided every three years, which is in accordance with common practice
for superannuation arrangements in the private sector.
1.34 At each of these reviews, the notional employer contribution rate is reported. I his rate
illustrates the effective cost of the PCSS benefits as a percentage of the total salaries of
scheme members, and was 69.1 per cent calculated as at 30 June 1996.
1.35 In the May 1997 Budget, the Government announced that, from 1 July 1999, it would
require preservation of future contributions to superannuation schemes and earnings on those
contributions until age 55.
1.36 These changes will not affect early access to superannuation pensions, as the
Government has announced that early access will still be permitted where the benefits are
taken as a non-commutable life pension or lifetime annuity.11
9 Submission No. 42, Department of Finance, p. 6.
10 Submission No. 42, Department of Finance, p. 12.
11 Savings: Choice and Incentive, Statement by the Hon. Peter Costello, M.P., Treasurer of the
Commonwealth of Australia and Senator the Hon. Jocelyn Newman, Minister for Social Security, 13
May 1997, p. 27.


1.37 The Government's changes to the preservation rules may be expected to produce some
savings in the cost of the parliamentary superannuation scheme as members who do not
qualify for a pension will lose access to their contributions until age 55.
Disqualification from entitlements
1.38 Section 22 of the Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Act 1948 provides for a
refund of personal contributions, and 'no other benefit under this Act', to a member:
• whose place becomes vacant by reasons of that member becoming subject to
any of the disabilities specified in paragraphs 44 (i) and (ii) of the Constitution;
or
. who, by reason of having directly or indirectly taken or agreed to take any fee or
honorarium for services rendered in the Parliament to any person or State within
the meaning of paragraph 45 (iii) of the Constitution.
1.39 One of the disabilities covered in paragraph 44 of the Constitution is being convicted
of'any offence punishable under the law of the Commonwealth or of a State by imprisonment
for one year or longer'.
Administrative Costs
1.40 The full cost of administering the PCSS is borne by the Commonwealth, which also
provides advice to the Minister and the Trust. This administration includes the cost of:
• a small team in the Department of Finance comprising four and one-half staff
years;
• regular actuarial and audit review; and
. the ADP System with its direct linkage to the Commonwealth Payroll System.
The trustee structure
1.41 The current trustee structure comprises the Minister for Finance and four other
parliamentarians. There may be some scope for reviewing these arrangements. The
Department of Finance indicated two possible alternatives - that the Minister be the sole
trustee, or that two of the present trustees could be replaced with independent non-
parliamentary persons which would be 'similar to employer representatives on private sector
superannuation trustee boards'.12
12 Submission No. 46, Department of Finance, p. 6.


Other parliamentary schemes
States and Territories
1.42 Parliamentary superannuation schemes in the States and Territories require
contribution rates and provide benefits similar to the PCSS. Appendix D reproduces a
comparative summary of the Commonwealth, State and Territory schemes which was
provided in the submission by the Department of Finance.13
Canada
1.43 In Canada, pension coverage for Members of the House of Commons is provided by
the Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances Act (MPRAA). This Act was first introduced
in 1952, with the most recent amendment being in 1995. Participation in this scheme is
voluntary.
1.44 The Canadian system has the following features:
(a) members' contributions are 9 per cent of salary;
(b) those members receiving additional salaries for extra duties such as a Minister.
Whip, Parliamentary Secretary and so on have the option to contribute up to 9
per cent on these salaries as well, with the additional contributions being used to
purchase further pensionable service credits and increase the retiring allowance
payable;
(c) a minimum of six years service is needed to qualify for a pension, which is
earned at the rate of four per cent per year of service based on the average of the
best consecutive six years of earnings, with a maximum pension of 75 per cent
after 19 years;
(d) a pension is payable to a former Member at age 55, or earlier if the Member is
disabled;
(e) pensions are increased to reflect increases in the cost of living once the recipient
has reached 60, or earlier if disabled, while pensions paid to a surviving spouse
or child are indexed immediately;
(f) for a person who ceases to be a Member or dies and who has not contributed to
the pension plan for at least six years, there is payable to the person (or estate) a
Withdrawal Allowance as a lump sum, equal to the total amount of the
contributions paid plus interest at 4 per cent;
(g) Survivor's benefits are paid:
(i) to the surviving spouse, an annual allowance equal to 60 per cent ol the
basic allowance;
13 Submission No. 46, Department of Finance, Attachment D.


(ii) to each dependent child, an annual allowance equal to 10 per cent of the
basic allowance or, if there is no surviving spouse, 20 per cent;
but the total amount of the allowances under (ii) shall not exceed 30 per cent
or, if there is no surviving spouse, 80 per cent of the basic allowance;
(h) if a former Member is re-elected then the pension payments are suspended;
(i) retired Members of Parliament who earn more than $5,000 a year from contracts
in the federal public sector after July 13 1995, will have their pensions reduced
by the amount of their earnings; and
(j) pensions paid under the MPRAA may be attached to honour family support
orders, and may be subject to division on marriage breakdown.


CHAPTER 2
APPROPRIATENESS
In the light of the circumstances that applied in 1973, the Scheme design does
not seem unreasonable.1
Public perceptions of parliamentary superannuation
2.1 From time to time there has been expressed criticism of parliamentary superannuation
as being too generous and unrelated to the superannuation entitlements of ordinary people.
Some of the more recent and graphic criticisms were contained in an article in the January
1997 edition of the Reader's Digest,2 and in the resulting letters to the editors of daily
newspapers and several submissions to the Committee.
2.2 The Committee was mindful of the existence of these perceptions and for the need to
test some of them in evidence at the public hearing on parliamentary superannuation held in
Canberra on 4 June 1997. Accordingly, the author of the Reader's Digest article, Mr Paul
Raffaele, was invited to give evidence to the Committee. Mr Peter Szalay, a member of the
public, also gave evidence following a submission made by him to the Committee.
2.3 In submissions received from the public, the following comments are representative ol
the points most often made:
The "one career" path is not to be expected any more. So members of parliament who resign,
do not stand for re-election, or who are not re-elected are now in the same position as all other
people in the workforce ... Hence they should not receive pension benefits in excess of those
provided for government employees.3
Mr Michael Lavarch's $52,000 pa pension for life after only nine years in his job would be
seen by all intelligent taxpayers as obscene.4
Politicians legislate that the rest of the community must wait to 55 years of age before they
have proper access to their superannuation.5
Redundancy payouts should be considered for defeated politicians to tide them over for a few
months as for other members of the community.6
Payments of superannuation benefits for politicians should occur on reaching retirement age,
the same as for the rest of the community.
1 Submission No. 42, Department of Finance, p. 9.
2 Paul Raffaele, Australia's Outrageous Parliamentary Pensions, Reader's Digest, January 1997
3 Submission No. 5, J.H. Jury.
4 Submission No. 7, Mr J. Collins.
5 Submission No. 16, Mr J. Bear.
6 Submission No. 27, Mr & Ms A. & M. Thomson.
7 Submission No. 37, Mr M. Quirk.


A ppropriateness
Whatever rules apply to workers, supervisors and managers in factories and offices should
apply to politicians, in terms of contributions and withdrawals.8
2.4 Evidence presented to the Committee did highlight some anomalies in the
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme (PCSS). However, the Committee
considers there may have been undue attention paid to individual cases in the press which has
exaggerated general perceptions of unreasonableness.
2.5 In the following paragraphs of this chapter, the Committee examines:
. the objectives of the PCSS;
• whether the scheme is operating appropriately for its members; and
• how it compares to superannuation in the wider community.
Is the scheme trying to do much?
2.6 The Committee considers that as a community, we may generally have required too
much of superannuation. At the micro level, this kind of expectation may have manifested
itself in the Parliamentary Scheme. The evidence in support of this view included that from
Dr Vince FitzGerald, who said of the PCSS:
It has got aspects which appear to be covering not only the needs of parliamentarians who go
through to retiring age and then retire, but also to have something of the character of a
severance pay arrangement.9
2.7 Dr FitzGerald suggested that aspects of the scheme could be better handled by
providing assistance in some other way to those members who leave involuntarily, to help
members re-establish themselves 'in some other pursuit and get back to earning an income in
some other way'.10 The issue of a dislocation benefit is considered in Chapter 4.
The tenure of Australian Parliamentarians
2.8 The Committee's secretariat undertook research on the tenure of federal
parliamentarians since the 1940s. This table is a breakdown of the average term in years of
completed service of those parliamentarians elected in the particular decade.
8 Submission No. 38, Mr B. Fernandez.
9 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 153.
10 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 153.


Average Tenure
2.9 While the figures for the 1980s appointees may be statistically skewed downward due
to the omission of those still serving, the Committee is satisfied that the figures do indicate a
trend toward shorter parliamentary careers. The Committee regards this trend as important in
assessing the appropriateness of the current PCSS.
2.10 One implication of this trend is that fewer parliamentarians will reach the criteria to
qualify for a pension. For them, the PCSS becomes purely a compensation or redundancy
scheme. However, the Government-financed element of this benefit is 26.8 per cent of salary
paid during their service, which is considerable. The amount received in this way, or part
thereof, could be applied to superannuation for the former member.
The age of parliamentarians
2.11 The Committee noted the view of the Australian Government Actuary that there has
been a trend toward younger members of Parliament.11 However, the following table is not
necessarily supportive of this view.12
2.12 Perhaps a more relevant table is that following, which details the ages at which and
the periods in which parliamentarians were first elected.
11 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 7.
12 Statistics provided by Parliamentary Library Information Service to the Committee, 28 November I997.
13 Statistics provided by Parliamentary Library Information Service to the Committee, 19 June 1997
incorporating extracts from A Federal Legislature The Australian Commonwealth Parliament
1980, by Joan Ryden, published 1980.


Age at which first elected
2.13 These tables are somewhat difficult to reconcile and, given the limited statistical
analysis available, the Committee is reluctant to draw firm conclusions. However, the
evidence does indicate that there is probably a lowering in the age of initial election to the
Parliament. The consequences are that parliamentarians are becoming eligible for pensions at
a younger age. This factor, plus increases in life expectancy since the turn of the century,
means that the costs, or potential costs, of these pensions is rising because recipients receive
payments for a longer period.
The relative benefits to long and short term members
2.14 In Part B of this Report (the Judges section), the Committee examined the difficult
issue of equity between members. The principles outlined there can be equally considered in
relation to the parliamentary scheme. In that light, the PCSS can be seen as particularly
generous to younger members who leave parliament soon after qualifying for a pension, and
relatively less beneficial to long term members. Also, Mr Daryl Dixon, a superannuation
consultant, found a 'discrimination':
... against people not achieving the required three terms in office and in this context, benefits
provided can not be considered as equitable compared with the treatment of longer serving
members.14
2.15 These perceived inequities are well illustrated in the following graphs submitted the
Government Actuary. The graphs show the actuarial value of benefits, as a multiple of the
Parliamentary Allowance, that are provided to a 32 year-old new entrant to the PCSS. In the
first graph there is no commutation of pension, while the lower graph assumes a 50 per cent
commutation of any pension to a lump sum.1'’
2.16 The spectacular increase in the actuarial value of benefits around the pension
qualifying period is obvious, while actuarial evidence is less necessary to understand that the
longer time a pension is paid, the more overall benefit is received.
14 Submission No. 48, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 2.
15 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 7-8,




2.17 Further evidence on relative benefits was provided by the Parliamentary Retiring
Allowances Trust, the body responsible for the PCSS. The Trust said:
The PCSS is inequitable for short-term members. Whereas it generally caters very well for
young retirees with more than 8 years service who become entitled to a pension, it provides
much lower benefit for short-term members.16
Superannuation, parliamentarians and the wider community
2.18 In the previous chapter, major changes to the PCSS since the establishment of the
scheme were outlined, with the last major changes to the structure being in 1973 (see
paragraphs 1.3 to 1.9). The commutation option was established in 1978-79 (paragraph 1.8),
and the changes since have been less major, and largely restricted to necessity. Examples
include the introduction of the Superannuation Guarantee (SG), and correcting anomalies
such as the 1983 revisions to the commutation percentage and to pensions under the office of
profit provision.
2.19 In Australia over the past 18 years or so, there have been significant changes to the
superannuation environment and in the community's involvement with superannuation. In the
1970's, superannuation was provided to relatively few in the workforce. Where it was
provided, 'it was to look after those who retired after long service with the employer'.17
2.20 This situation fairly reflected, and indeed encouraged (to the limited extent that
superannuation was provided), more stable employment patterns than is the case today.
Generally, those who left employment prior to retirement received little in the way of
employer support. In the case of parliamentarians, this generally meant that their only
superannuation would be a pension under the PCSS.
2.21 Changes in the late 1980's and 1990's especially, have brought about near universal
superannuation coverage for all in the workforce. Through the SG provisions particularly,
much greater levels of employer support are provided for shorter term employees. As
indicated by the Government Actuary, this means current parliamentarians are likely to
receive superannuation benefits from employment before and after parliamentary life.
Therefore, most future members of the PCSS will end up with significantly more
superannuation than in the 1970's, when a parliamentarian was most likely to receive only a
PCSS benefit.18
The nature of parliamentary life
2.22 In considering whether there are special aspects of the life of a federal politician that
particularly affect the matter of superannuation that justify special superannuation provisions
different from those applying in the general community, the Committee regarded the
following factors as relevant:
16 Submission No. 43, Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust, pp. 2-3
17 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 9.
18 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 9.


uncertainty of tenure;
disruption to lifestyle; and
the problems of employment after parliament.
Uncertainty
2.23 Election to Parliament by its very nature implies an uncertain future. Apart from the
particular issues relating to marginal seats and election volatility, there is preselection and all
the other stresses relating to political life. While the Committee fully recognises that many
other occupations involve a greater or lesser degree of volatility, there are characteristics of
parliamentary life that perhaps lead to a shorter and more intense career than many (if not
most) others. This should be fairly reflected in the associated remuneration package.
Disruption
2.24 For many, the decision to seek and achieve parliamentary office involves considerable
disruption to an established lifestyle and career. This point was well made by Mr Robert
McClelland MP:
The decision to terminate my legal career and enter Parliament was one which was not taken
lightly. Obviously a number of factors were considered but paramount was the extent of
disruption which would be caused to my family not only as result of absences but also in
terms of financial security.19
Post-parliamentary employment
2.25 Employment at the end of a parliamentary career is an issue closely related to that of
career disruption on entering parliament. It is true that some former parliamentarians,
particularly those who have held ministerial positions, find that their parliamentary
experience opens up excellent opportunities for employment. For others, however, the
situation is the reverse, and employment opportunities may be limited, especially with regard
to the resumption of a former career.
2.26 Where a person leaves employment to become a member of parliament and
subsequently has to re-establish a career after parliamentary life, Mr Wilson Tuckey MP said:
They have spent a lot of their own money, which is one cost, and they have suffered this
disruption and they have got to relocate themselves in their vocation outside of parliament.
The concern I have is that the longer you are out and the older you get, that is a negative to re-
establishing yourself.20
2.27 Mr McClelland MP also averted to the problem of re-establishment, in his case back
into legal practice:
19 Submission No. 24, Mr Robert McClelland MP.
20 Evidence, Mr Wilson Tuckey MP, p. 149.


For many of us in the parliament it is very difficult to even get accepted back into your old
career structure...
If 1 wanted to go back, I have found that, even after 18 months, 1 am behind the pace in terms
of knowing what the case law is. I would not have funds to buy back into a partnership or to
take up chambers.21
Early pensions
2.28 The availability of an indexed pension at an early age is probably the most criticised
aspect of the PCSS. This is not a benefit provision unique to the PCSS, as other
superannuation schemes also provide for a pension entitlement prior to retirement age.
However, in the private sector, 'pensions tend to be either non-indexed or indexed subject to a
certain cap or qualifier'. The Government Actuary added:
the capacity to take your pension prior to the preservation age for lump sums is something that
is permitted in the private sector but is rare."
2.29 Dr FitzGerald also regarded the giving the same pension to members retiring
regardless of age as 'quite unusual'.23
2.30 Regarding other public sector schemes which provide for early pensions, Mr Daryl
Dixon cited the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme which provides for Commonwealth
public servants. In that scheme, the pension payable is discounted by three per cent a year 'for
every year below the age of 60':
That means at the age of 31 no pension is payable. So if you wanted a comparison between
politicians and Commonwealth public servants, the Commonwealth super scheme is nowhere
near as generous as the politicians' scheme."
2.31 Mr Dixon considers the parliamentary pension should be defined as an age 60
pension, and discounted by an actuarial factor to mean there would be no pension payable at
age 30.2;>
2.32 The Government Actuary provided an estimate of a 20 per cent saving in the cost of
the PCSS for new members if pension benefits were not paid prior to age 55.26
Flexibility, portability and choice
2.33 As with all defined benefit schemes, there is an inherent inflexibility in the PCSS.
Whether this is desirable can be seen in the light of the proposed reforms discussed in the
next chapter. At this stage it is worth noting the inflexibility in contributions. With
21 Evidence, Mr Robert McClelland MP, p. 128.
22 Evidence, Mr Craig Thorbum, p. 126.
23 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 153.
24 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 130.
25 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 132.
26 Supplementary Submission to No. 42, Australian Government Actuary.


membership compulsory, members must contribute at the rate of eleven and one-half per cent
for the first 18 years of membership and at five and three-quarters per cent for subsequent
membership. By comparison, those schemes operating for Commonwealth public servants
have allowed for a flexibility in contribution rates, with benefits varying accordingly.
2.34 The result of the inflexible nature of the PCSS is a lack of choice for individual
parliamentarians. In view of the increasing prospect of new members bringing to their
parliamentary life substantial superannuation as a result of other employment, it seems
inefficient as well as unnecessary to be requiring them to contribute to a scheme which may
result in them exceeding Reasonable Benefit Limits or exceeding their own superannuation
requirements.
2.35 As part of its research on the issue of choice, the Committee examined the report of
the Wallis Report on the Australian financial system. Recommendation 88 of that report said
in part:
Employees should be provided with choice of fund, subject to any constraints necessary to
address concerns about administrative costs and fund liquidity.
2.36 The Committee also recognises the lack of portability involved in the parliamentary
scheme. While it is possible for a member of the PCSS to purchase notional past service
which will be taken into account in determining future entitlements under the PCSS, this
option is generally not taken up. Then, on leaving parliamentary service, there is no
transferability of a PCSS pension entitlement to another scheme.
2.37 One possible solution to these dilemmas is for membership of the PCSS to be
optional, to the extent that every parliamentarian is a member until he or she opts out.
To be or not be funded
2.38 The Government Actuary was equivocal on the issue of whether the PCSS should be
funded. He indicated that to fund the scheme by paying the employer contributions would
increase budget outlays in the first year by 'approximately $12 million':
This increase would decline over a long period and eventually there would be a reduction in
budget outlays.27
2.39 In about 60 years time the cost to the budget of the PCSS would reduce to
approximately $12 million in present day values.'8 To put this into context, net
Commonwealth PCSS benefit expenditure in 1995-96 was $17 million. This was a heavy
expenditure year because of the large turnover of members following the March 1996
election. For comparison the:
... combined annual cash flow requirements for the main Commonwealth civilian and military
superannuation schemes are expected to average about $3 billion per annum in the near future.
27 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 21
28 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 21


Annual cash flow requirements for the old age pension are currently about $15 billion per
29
annum.
2.40 The Government Actuary considered if there were no change to the scheme, that
'PCSS expenditure will not have a material impact on future budgets'/
2.41 Alternatively, the Commonwealth could take the decision to fund the whole unfunded
liability now. That unfunded liability, calculated as part of the 1996 Long Term Cost Report
on the PCSS, was $371 million.31 Since the Government has indicated that it wishes
employers to provide choice, a limited choice should also be provided for parliamentarians.
This will inevitably lead to full funding for parliamentary superannuation.
Conclusion
2.42 The evidence outlined in this chapter indicates that the PCSS:
• does not necessarily serve its members well;
• may be outdated in some of its provisions; and
• attempts to achieve too much in relation to what a superannuation scheme can
fairly be expected to provide.
2.43 There is clearly a negative perception in the mind of the public about the scheme, and
an uneasy relationship between the PCSS and superannuation in the broader community. In
the light of these findings, the next chapter examines suggested reform.
29 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 19.
30 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 19.
31 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 20.


CHAPTER 3
REFORMING THE SCHEME
The case for reform
3.1 The bulk of the evidence received by the Committee, particularly from members of
the public, indicates that the PCSS in its current form is out of step with modern
superannuation practice and is excessively generous. The scheme is also considered by some
to contain inequitable features, such as marked differences in benefits for short and longer
term members. Furthermore, the scheme is criticised as being inflexible, failing to meet the
needs of its members.
3.2 In the May 1997 Budget, the Government announced its intention to require
preservation of future contributions to superannuation schemes until age 55:
The preservation rules will be amended from 1 July 1999 to ensure that all future
superannuation contributions, including personal contributions and earnings, will be preserved
until preservation age, except in exceptional circumstances
... the Government will proceed with a phased increase in the preservation age from 55 to 60
by the year 2025.1
3.3 This decision will impact on Parliamentarians if they leave office prior to age 55
without qualifying for a pension.
3.4 This change alone will require changes to the parliamentary scheme, as currently there
is no provision for interest to be paid on these contributions. Younger members who do not
qualify for pension benefits will be required to preserve their superannuation savings for
many years. Unless the provisions of the scheme are changed, they may find that the value ol
their contributions is substantially eroded by the time they are paid at retirement.
3.5 Additionally, the defacto redundancy provisions that are part of the current scheme,
whereby defeated members are returned a multiple of their own contributions, will be
considerably diminished by the changes to the preservation rules.
3.6 Clearly, some form of reform is inevitable. There are a range of possible changes
available, including modifying the scheme or terminating it for all new members and
introducing an entirely new scheme. While there are a number of possible options available,
each has shortcomings as well as advantages and these need to be carefully considered before
deciding on the most appropriate action.
House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 May 1997, p. 3379.


Reforming the Scheme
Remuneration and representative government
3.7 Remuneration for parliamentarians, of which superannuation is a part, must recognise
that Commonwealth parliamentarians are the nation's elected representatives: they are its
legislators, and they also provide the Cabinet.
3.8 In their submission to the Committee, the Australian Democrats noted that
parliamentary office was usually unpaid until the late nineteenth century, and that this was a
barrier against potential parliamentarians who did not have substantial independent means.2
Support for adequate parliamentary remuneration, as part of a program for improving ethical
standards in government, was 'a key proposal of liberal political reform activists up to the
turn of the century [1900] and after'.'
3.9 If the opportunity of citizens to participate in parliament is not to be restricted, then
parliamentarians should receive remuneration which is adequate, in the sense that people can
serve as parliamentarians without depending on private means. Mr Robert McClelland MP
told the Committee that:
1 think it is part of the democratic process that all Australians should have relatively equal
access in a practical sense to entering parliament, whether they be young parents or whether
they be senior executives.4
3.10 There is adequate evidence that parliamentary remuneration, particularly at Ministerial
level, lags well behind what may be expected for similar levels of responsibility in the private
sector and in some public sector positions. While there is no apparent difficulty in attracting
people to stand for parliament, the Committee has received evidence that many talented
people will not contemplate parliamentary service because of the relatively low remuneration
when compared to other options available to them.
3.11 In relation to the relative attractiveness of parliamentary remuneration, Mr Ray
Stevens, Director, William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, told the Committee that parliamentary salary:
...might look very generous to someone who perhaps was not even in the work force before
they went into parliament, but that salary level would be seen as a disincentive by a senior
executive in a large company.5
3.12 The Committee notes the statement of Mr McClelland MP that:
I think we should look not only at having people in parliament who are representatives of the
community but also at attracting those who can match it in any field ... if you make the
financial recompense too far behind what is available in the private marketplace, you are just
going to wipe out that category of higher wage earners.6
2
Submission No. 40, Australian Democrats, p. 2.
3 Submission No. 40, Australian Democrats, p. 2.
4 Evidence, Mr Robert McClelland MP, p. 142.
5 Evidence, Mr Ray Stevens, p. 160.
Evidence, Mr Robert McClelland MP, p. 141.
6


3.13 The Committee is aware that delicate balances must be maintained in this area. The
Committee shares the view, put to it by Mr McClelland MP, that it would be regrettable if
people were attracted to parliamentary office purely for their own financial gain.7
3.14 Senator Cheryl Kemot identified the difficulties associated with parliamentary
remuneration:
It is a very vexed question for Australia. It is a vicious circle of public condemnation about
the type of people who are politicians, coupled with public condemnation about the level of
remuneration they already get. There are a lot of people who will not consider a political
career, people who have skills which would be valuable to the parliament, and they just will
not consider it.8
3.15 Representative government is an important feature of Australia's democratic society.
All Australians should have equal opportunity to serve as elected representatives. The
Committee considers that, in the interests of representative government, it is desirable that a
wide range of people undertake parliamentary service. While success in business or the
professions, with its attendant high remuneration, is no guarantee of the quality of a
parliamentary candidate, it is undesirable that conditions of service in the parliament be so as
to deter such persons.
3.16 If the superannuation portion of parliamentary remuneration is substantially reduced
without compensation elsewhere in the remuneration package, it is possible that such a
deterrent may become substantial.
Superannuation as part of parliamentary remuneration
3.17 The Terms of Reference for this part of the Committee's inquiry were confined to a
consideration of superannuation of parliamentarians. While superannuation is unquestionably
one part of remuneration, the Committee has no brief to consider the wider question of the
adequacy of parliamentary remuneration and did not take any significant evidence on
elements of parliamentary remuneration other than superannuation.
3.18 The Committee places on record its opposition to one particular concept of "total
remuneration packaging", that is, where people may trade off superannuation for other forms
of remuneration for purposes such as tax minimisation. The Committee believes that
Parliamentarians should set an example for the rest of the community in this regard,
particularly given the compulsory nature of superannuation.
3.19 However, the Committee received evidence that superannuation is best considered as
part of overall remuneration, rather than separately. It was also suggested to the Committee
that parliamentarians' remuneration, including superannuation, should be provided as a "total
remuneration package".
3.20 In the Remuneration Tribunal's view:
7 Evidence, Mr Robert McClelland MP, p. 139.
8 Evidence, Senator Cheryl Kemot, p. 174. Senator Kemot went on to suggest that this might indicate
over-generous remuneration of some private sector executives (Evidence, p. 174).


It is clear that in modem remuneration practice, superannuation is an intrinsic component of
overall remuneration, and not something separated out or put to one side.9
3.21 Similarly, the Australian Government Actuary noted that 'superannuation provision is
a major component of the remuneration package of Members of Parliament'.10
3.22 Several witnesses, with recognised financial sector credentials, also strongly advised
the Committee that any consideration of the type of scheme to be adopted for the Parliament
is incomplete and possibly meaningless unless superannuation is considered in a total
remuneration context.
3.23 Dr Vincent FitzGerald, an economic consultant who appeared in a personal capacity,
suggested that a total remuneration approach should be taken to parliamentary
remuneration.11
3.24 Mr Ray Stevens told the Committee that if a new parliamentary superannuation
scheme were to be developed, then "[i]n conjunction with this, of course, there may be a need
for a review of the overall remuneration package of politicians".12
3.25 Mr Daryl Dixon, an independent superannuation expert, also suggested that
superannuation should be considered in the context of overall remuneration and
parliamentarians' remuneration should be provided as a total remuneration package. He told
the Committee that:
...the basic principles ... are that you cannot look at superannuation other than as a total
remuneration package concept. Any proposals for change done in any other context will
achieve an inappropriate result.1'
3.26 Mr Dixon advised the Committee that the New South Wales public service had
introduced total remuneration package (TRP) arrangements for its Senior Executive Service
(SES) officers.14 Under these arrangements, SES officers are paid an accepted TRP and from
this amount each employee meets the full actuarial cost of remaining in an existing
superannuation fund. TRP arrangements allow for individual flexibility as to the level of
superannuation, while providing the employer with control over the remuneration
expenditure.1?
3.27 However, the Committee notes that the Remuneration Tribunal has expressed
reservations about a total remuneration approach to parliamentary remuneration,
notwithstanding its view ’that the maximum level of flexibility consistent with due
9 Submission No. 45, Remuneration Tribunal, p. 2.
10 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 27.
11 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 155.
12 Evidence, Mr Ray Stevens, p. 162.
13 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 128.
14 On these arrangements see Evidence, pp. 128, 131, 135.
15 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, pp. 128, 131.


The
accountability in the expenditure of public funds should be able to be arrived at'.16
Remuneration Tribunal has stated that:
[Accountability is best served by the public knowing the purpose for which funds are
available to Members [of Parliament], recognising the distinction between provisions directed
to a member's individual benefit and those expenses which are incurred in the discharge of
electorate functions...17
3.28 If TRP arrangements were to be introduced for parliamentarians, this would
necessarily involve a review of remuneration as a whole. Such a review would have to
address the four main elements of parliamentary remuneration:
• salary;
• superannuation;
. electorate allowance; and
• other benefits.18
3.29 The Committee recognises that any suggestion to alter parliamentary remuneration in
order to compensate for changes to superannuation arrangements can of itself be an obstacle
to change. This is particularly the case if salaries are increased to compensate for substantially
reduced superannuation benefits.
3.30 The Committee accepts that superannuation cannot be regarded in isolation from
remuneration generally. This is as true for parliamentarians as it is for the community as a
whole.
Is an accumulation scheme appropriate?
3.31 The terms of reference for this inquiry require the Committee to consider whether it
would be appropriate to replace the parliamentary scheme with a fully funded accumulation
scheme. In the following section, the Committee evaluates this proposition, at the same time
considering options for modifying the existing scheme. These options include:
. Preservation of existing benefits until age 55; and
. Actuarially based reduction of benefits taken prior to 55.
3.32 The majority of superannuation schemes in the private sector today are funded
accumulation schemes. In these schemes, the employer contributes a set percentage ol the
employee's salary to a fund. Under the Superannuation Guarantee (SG), the minimum that
may be contributed is currently 6 per cent, rising to 9 percent in 2002/03.
16 Remuneration Tribunal, Statement: Members of Parliament Allowances and Entitlements (1996), p. 2.
17 Remuneration Tribunal, Statement: Members of Parliament Allowances and Entitlements (1996), p. 2
18 The four elements are identified in Submission 45, Remuneration Tribunal, p. 4. Parliamentarians salary
is presently adjusted under statute by reference to a public service pay level (the current link is with the
bottom point of the Australian Public Service SES Band 2 level). The Remuneration Tribunal deals wit
the electorate allowance and other benefits (including, for example, the charter transport reimbursement
allowance and the travelling allowance). See Submission 45, Remuneration Tribunal, p. 1.


3.33 Employers may contribute in excess of the minimum amount. Superannuation is part
of the salary package for many employees and, particularly at executive levels, employers
may make substantial contributions as part of a salary sacrifice arrangement. The amount that
employers can contribute is effectively restricted by age-based limits for taxation purposes.
The employee may or may not contribute. The final benefit comprises accumulated
contributions, plus interest earned on the investment of these contributions.
3.34 Accumulation funds operate on a completely different basis to defined benefit funds,
like the parliamentary superannuation scheme, which pay a predictable, guaranteed benefit,
independent of contributions or earnings.
3.35 The Committee noted that there is a considerable body of opinion in favour of
replacing the current parliamentary defined benefits scheme (the PCSS) with an accumulation
scheme. For example, Mr Daryl Dixon considered that the current parliamentary scheme
should be closed down to all new members:
Urgent action is required to close down the scheme to all new members and to introduce
measures to ensure the more equitable treatment of individual members of parliament who
wish to retain membership of the current scheme.19
3.36 Mr Dixon considered that parliamentarians should be offered the option of moving to
an accumulation scheme, or if they wished to remain in the old scheme, 'charged the full cost
of continuing membership in the schemes'.20
3.37 Dr FitzGerald also favoured an accumulation scheme over the PCSS' defined benefit
structure. He considered that the defined benefits approach in the PCSS was not in
accordance with current thinking and was very inflexible in terms of the choices and options
available to members of the scheme:
It has got aspects which are out of line with current thinking, for example, because it is a
defined benefit rather than an accumulation scheme, being very inflexible in terms of people's
own choices who are in the scheme— for example, someone who may have good
superannuation provision before coming into the parliament is not given much choice about
taking more of the total remuneration in another way and so on.'1
3.38 Mr Ray Stevens also recommended an accumulation scheme to replace the PCSS. He
considered that a 'radical change to the design', including a shift to an accumulation scheme,
was the only practical method of addressing the inequities between short and long term
members.22
3.39 Senator Brian Gibson, one of the few parliamentarians who expressed a view about
how the parliamentary scheme should operate, also recommended a fully funded
accumulation scheme. He said that the scheme should be operated on a fully funded basis, the
Government, as the employer here, making contributions equivalent to other employer
contributions. These contributions would be set in line with the rates prevailing in private
19 Submission No. 48, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 1.
20 Submission No. 48, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 1.
21 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 155.
22 Evidence, Mr Ray Stevens, p. 163.


sector executive superannuation schemes. Senator Gibson submitted that this was necessary
to:
...make it more equitable for all serving politicians and to ensure that the cost of politicians is
made transparent to those citizens they serve.23
3.40 Senator Gibson considered that the failure to fully fund the scheme and disclose its
on-going cost contributes to the distorted public debate. He contended that there was a focus
on the pension benefits paid to a few former parliamentarians, but not on the fact that most
parliamentarians receive a superannuation return that is 'far from excessive'.24
3.41 Proponents of accumulation schemes claim such schemes have a number of
advantages, including:
. increasing perceived equity between members;
• flexibility, including member choice; and
• better cost control.
Increasing perceived equity between members
3.42 A major disadvantage of defined benefit arrangements was pointed out by the
Australian Government Actuary in his submission - the level of employer support received by
an individual will vary according to his or her individual circumstances. Some will receive
more and some less.23 While implied employer contribution rates may be quite high, this does
not necessarily relate to the level of benefit enjoyed by an individual employee. For example,
a person who enters and leaves parliament at a relatively young age and qualifies for a
pension may be expected to derive considerably greater benefits from the scheme than
someone who enters Parliament late in life or dies shortly after retiring.
3.43 Similarly, a person who does not qualify for a pension at all receives much less than
someone who does. As noted previously in this report, the trend towards shorter terms lor
parliamentarians means that proportionately more people will fall into this latter category.
3.44 Introducing an accumulation scheme would introduce a direct relationship between
the level of benefit that a retiring or defeated parliamentarian receives and his or her length ot
service in the parliament. This arrangement would also avoid the disparity in treatment
between members who qualify for a pension and those who do not. Similarly, very long term
members should not be disadvantaged.
3.45 Whether this would in fact improve equity depends on the interpretation of equity
adopted. As pointed out by the Actuary, equity is a nebulous concept with different meanings
to different people. The nature of defined benefits schemes means that people in different
circumstances will always derive different quantities of benefit. This can be judged
23 Submission, Senator Brian Gibson, p. 1.
24 Submission, Senator Brian Gibson, p. 1.
25 Submission, Australian Government Actuary, p. 3


acceptable if the objectives of the scheme, for example, the provision of retirement security
for former members, is achieved.
3.46 In the Committee's view, the scheme as currently constituted does not meet this
objective, as the scheme only provides income in retirement for those fortunate enough to
qualify for a pension. While the scheme makes payments to non qualifying members, this is
in the form of a lump sum and is effectively a redundancy payment.
3.47 The Committee acknowledges that under the Government's announced changes to the
preservation rules, the proportion of the payment to non-qualifying members which
comprises contributions will be preserved for retirement purposes. However, the difference
between levels of employer support for qualifying and non-qualifying parliamentarians will
remain disproportionate.
Improved choice and flexibility
3.48 In the 1997 budget, the Government announced that, as at 1 July 1998, employees
would be given a choice concerning the superannuation fund or retirement savings account
into which their contributions would be paid.26 The Committee understands that defined
benefits funds may be exempt from these provisions. Nonetheless, it would be in keeping
with government policy and wider community standards in this area if parliamentarians were
given some choice in this regard.
3.49 The Committee has received only limited evidence to indicate whether
parliamentarians regard choice of fund and flexibility as desirable. Evidence given to the
Committee by Mr Wilson Tuckey indicates that this may be an issue to some
parliamentarians. Mr Tuckey advised the Committee that some older parliamentarians will
not recover their contributions back as benefits before they die, particularly if they retire at or
after 60 and choose a pension over a lump sum."7 Nonetheless, these members are compelled
to continue contributing to the scheme.
3.50 Similarly, the submission of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust observed
that some members may wish to provide better cover for spouses and children or other
dependants, or to enhance their benefits by contributing at a higher rate."8 They are unable to
do so within the scheme under current rules.
3.51 Dr Vincent FitzGerald also drew the Committee's attention to anomalous situations
that may arise as a consequence of the current lack of flexibility in the scheme. He noted that
a person who enters the Parliament later in life and who has already accrued a substantial
superannuation benefit from previous employment is none the less required to contribute to
the fund.29
26 House of Representatives, Hansard, 13 May 1997, p. 3379.
27 Submission No. 30, Mr Wilson Tuckey MP, p. 3.
28 Submission No. 43, Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust, p. 3
29 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 156.


3.52 As pointed out by Mr Daryl Dixon, such persons may even fall afoul of reasonable
benefit limits and be subjected to penalty rates of taxation, through no fault of their own.311
3.53 Mr Graham Millar, Assistant Secretary, Commonwealth Superannuation Group,
Department of Finance confirmed that member choice of fund and investment' are not really
practical' under a defined benefit arrangement as currently exists. Mr Millar told the
Committee that, in his opinion, if greater choice of scheme or investment policy is required,
then 'it would seem appropriate to move to a fully funded accumulation scheme'.31
3.54 An accumulation scheme could offer members improved flexibility, within the context
of a total remuneration package arrangement. Under such an arrangement, a parliamentarian
could, as in the private sector, negotiate a total package, including an appropriate level of
superannuation, according to individual requirements. However, such an arrangement is not
currently available to parliamentarians.
Cost control
3.55 In a defined benefit fund, the benefits paid to members and hence the costs of the
benefit, are determined by qualifying conditions rather than accumulated contributions. The
Committee received the following evidence that the cost controls on the PCSS are
inadequate and that the scheme is vulnerable to exploitation.
3.56 Mr Daryl Dixon was highly critical of the lack of controls on the cost of the scheme,
and argued that the failure to examine parliamentary superannuation in the context of the total
remuneration package, but rather as an 'add-on', can lead to 'vast blow outs in cost'.
Basically, it is not equitable, it is too costly, it is inflexible, it is unjust between politicians and
it is not well designed from the aspect of control of government revenue../
3.57 Mr Dixon indicated that he thought that the 'single worst feature' of the scheme was
that there is no adjustment of the level of pension according to the age at which it
commences.
3.58 He also criticised the lack of provisions in the scheme to take account of the age of the
spouse of a parliamentarian, noting that as a result, a parliamentarian who is survived by a
much younger spouse creates a much greater cost to the taxpayer than where the spouse is ot
equivalent age. Mr Dixon said that this was not in accordance with industry practice. He
advised the Committee that if a person buys a pension in the private sector, the age of the
spouse is 'the first thing the insurance company will ask you.33
3.59 Improving cost controls should theoretically be easier to achieve in an accumulation
fund arrangement, if benefits are effectively limited by contributions. However, the
Committee understands that benefits are commonly paid to members of accumulation
30 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 128.
31 Evidence, Mr Grahame Millar, p. 112.
32 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 132.
33 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 135.


schemes in the event of invalidity, or to their spouses or estate in the event of death. These
arrangements are usually provided through insurance cover taken out by the superannuation
fund with an insurance company.
3.60 Similarly, there are no reasons to prevent the imposition of limits on benefits within
defined benefit funds. For example, the Public Service Superannuation scheme includes a
qualifying test based on age of a surviving spouse. Further, that scheme contains a provision
discounting early retirement pensions by 3 per cent for each year before the age of 60.
3.61 Bringing parliamentary superannuation more into line with common private sector
practice by introducing an accumulation scheme may help alleviate adverse public
perceptions of parliamentary superannuation benefits.
Disadvantages associated with accumulation schemes
3.62 Accumulation schemes do however have some disadvantages, including the
following:
• unpredictable benefit levels;
. variable benefit levels at different times, but in like circumstances;
. administration costs; and
. potential for impacts on parliamentary independence.
Unpredictable benefit levels
3.63 In particular, the return paid to accumulation scheme members depends on the
success or otherwise of the investment of the fund. Consequently, it is not possible to predict
in advance the value of employee's benefit, which makes retirement planning more difficult.
Variable benefit levels in like circumstances
3.64 Variations in investment performance can also give rise to differences in benefit levels
for persons in like circumstances. This may be perceived as inequitable. A person who retires
after a period of buoyant investment returns may derive higher benefits than someone who
retires after a time of lower investment success.
Administration costs
3.65 If the Parliament were to establish its own accumulation scheme, this may entail a
higher level of administration costs than is currently the case, because of the need to manage
investments. The consequences may be higher costs to the Commonwealth or lower benefits
for members, depending on the mechanism for allocating the costs associated with
administering the new scheme and managing the investments.
3.66 Alternatively, the Parliament could devolve the scheme to the private sector, either by
allowing existing public offer funds to compete for the Parliament's business or requiring


parliamentarians to nominate the superannuation fund or retirement savings account into
which they required contributions to be paid. This would not necessarily be a lower cost
option to members, as any private fund would impose management fees.
Independence
3.67 In the section of the inquiry that examined the judges' pension scheme, the Committee
received evidence on the need to maintain judicial independence through a range of measures,
including judges being insulated from superannuation fund investments. This was seen as
important in the event that judges might be required to rule on matters in which they had an
interest.
3.68 Somewhat surprisingly, the Committee received very little evidence in this regard
concerning parliamentarians. This must, however, be acknowledged as a factor that should be
considered in any evaluation of whether an accumulation scheme would be appropriate for
the Parliament. The Parliament is regularly required to consider legislation that affects the
superannuation system and potentially, all members of parliament in a funded parliamentary
accumulation superannuation scheme would have a direct interest.
3.69 The Committee does not wish to overemphasise the importance of this potential
disadvantage. There is currently no prohibition on parliamentarians holding investments or
indeed operating businesses, as long as such interests are declared.
3.70 The Committee considers that the eventual transition of the Parliamentary
Contributory Superannuation Scheme to an accumulation scheme offers an alternative for
addressing the problems identified with the current scheme.
3.71 An alternative to introducing an entirely new scheme is to modify the existing PCSS
to address some of the more significant shortcomings identified in this inquiry. I he
Committee has canvassed two options:
• Introducing preservation of pension benefits to age 55; and
• Actuarially reduced pensions
Preservation to age 55
3.72 The first option for reforming the scheme is to increase the age at which pension
benefits can be taken.34 The Committee was advised that Parliamentarians in the USA,
Canada and the UK are not paid benefits until 50, 55 and 65 respectively.
3.73 Preserving benefits to a later age could reduce the cost of the scheme to the taxpayer
by a substantial margin. The Australian Government Actuary, Mr Craig Thorburn, estimated
that the saving could be 20 per cent if the age of access to pensions was increased to 55
35
years.
34 As previously explained, lump sums will be preserved until 55 under the new preservation rules.
35 Evidence, Mr Craig Thorbum, p. 122.


3.74 This option would also be publicly acceptable, as it is more in accordance with private
sector practice where contributions to accumulation funds are generally preserved until a
recognised retirement age.
3.75 Mr Thorbum advised the Committee that making changes to pension preservation
rules may produce unexpected results, including behavioural change. He predicted that
'people would be less likely to retire before 55'.36
3.76 It is also possible that such a change may change the patterns of people entering
Parliament at a relatively young age. Such people may choose to delay their entry into
Parliament until a later age.
3.77 The desirability of this eventuality must be considered, as it has implications for the
concept of representative government. Its importance should not however be overstated, as
there is little current evidence of parliamentarians basing their behaviour around the
possibility of an early lifetime pension. As Mr Thorbum noted:
... parliamentarians are actually serving for what would be other reasons rather than financial
in terms of the benefits of the scheme. If they were behaving financially, you would expect
them to leave at the point they qualified for the pension. They do not. ’7
3.78 The major disadvantages of preserving benefits until age 55 are:
• the perceived inequities between short and longer term members identified in
this report would not be addressed unless other changes such as early vesting
were introduced;
• continued lack of flexibility; and
• potential hardship for those former parliamentarians who experience difficulty
in obtaining employment after they leave parliament.
Actuarially reduced pensions
3.79 A second option is to maintain the scheme essentially in its current form, but pay
pension benefits at a lesser rate if taken before a recognised retirement age. The rate at which
pension is paid would be discounted using actuarial tables taking into account life expectancy
and years of service.
3.80 A similar arrangement is in force in the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme for
retiring or redundant Commonwealth public servants. Mr Daryl Dixon pointed out that in
this scheme, it is possible to take a pension prior to recognised retiring age. However the
pension is discounted by 3 per cent for each year below the age of 60.38
3.81 The Committee found some general support for this proposal throughout the evidence.
36 Evidence, Mr Craig Thorbum, p. 122.
37 Evidence, Mr Craig Thorbum, p. 123.
38 Evidence, Mr Daryl Dixon, p. 130.


3.82 The disadvantages of the proposal are similar to those associated with the previous
proposal. It is possible that as foreshadowed by the Australian Government Actuary, such a
proposal may also produce behavioural changes in parliamentarians and prospective
parliamentarians.
3.83 The proposal has a number of distinct advantages, however. These include:
. reduced potential for impacts on parliamentary independence, when compared
to an external accumulation fund;
• cost savings;
• disincentive to taking early benefits, while preserving safeguards for those
unable to secure employment;
• certainty of benefit levels;
• improved equity between younger and older retiring parliamentarians; and
• improved public perception.
Conclusions and recommendations
3.84 The Committee considers that change to the Parliamentary Contributory
Superannuation Scheme is desirable. The scheme is now out of step with superannuation
practice in the wider community. There is convincing evidence that it is excessively generous
to a small group of retiring parliamentarians.
3.85 The Committee is also conscious of the difficulties associated with a parliamentary
Committee reviewing their own entitlements. Inevitably, charges of conflict of interest will
arise.
3.86 The Committee believes there is a lack of transparency in parliamentary
superannuation, and that this lack of transparency gives rise to much of the criticism of the
PCSS.
3.87 The divergent views of Coalition and Australian Labor Party Senators are expressed in
the following section. The Australian Democrat member, Senator Lyn Allison, has appended
a separate dissent to this report.
Coalition Senators' view - Superannuation and Parliamentary remuneration
3.88 Coalition members of the Committee conclude that the issue of superannuation must
be considered as part of parliamentary remuneration determined by the Remuneration
Tribunal.
3.89 The Coalition Senators consider that the framework and the terms of remuneration
should be determined by the Government of the day, who should give guidance to the
Remuneration Tribunal taking account of the following principles:


• Separation of retirement income and redundancy functions. Coalition
Senators concur with the view put by several witnesses that the PCSS attempts
to fulfil too many functions and considers that the scheme should operate solely
as a method of providing income for retirement.
. Choice and opting out. Coalition Senators consider that new parliamentarians
should be offered the choice of opting out of the PCSS in favour of a fully
funded accumulation scheme or retirement savings account of their choice. This
could become part of the establishment of a fully funded parliamentary scheme.
• Early vesting of benefits. Coalition Senators consider that the current disparity
in benefits between short and longer term members needs to be addressed. The
benefit, as far as practicable, should be proportional to years of service. The
development of the concept of notional employer contributions for
Superannuation Surcharge Tax purposes may be useful for this purpose.
• Optional and variable contributions. Coalition Senators are of the view that
the scheme should be made more responsive to the personal circumstances and
needs of members. However, if parliamentarians elect not to contribute to the
scheme or to contribute at a lower rate, the value of their final benefits should be
discounted accordingly.
3.90 At present the parliamentary scheme provides for the taking of pensions prior to
retirement age. Under the changes to the preservation rules announced in the 1997-98 Budget,
early access to benefits will still be possible 'where the benefits are taken as a non-
commutable life pension or lifetime annuity'.39 While a case may be made for allowing early
access to pensions, this is not consistent with current community standards. Coalition
Senators recommend that future members of parliament should not receive any pension
benefit until age 55.
3.91 For current members, Coalition Senators consider that there is a case for introducing
actuarially discounted benefits if they are taken before age 55. The Australian Government
Actuary should determine the appropriate discount to be applied. However, introduction of
this provision should coincide with the new preservation rules announced in the 1997-98
Budget, that is, to commence from 1 July, 1999.
Australian Labor Party Senators' view* - Superannuation and parliamentary remuneration
3.92 The report refers to the independent Remuneration Tribunal setting the employment
conditions of members of parliament.
3.93 Labor Senators have chosen not to recommend specific changes to the Parliamentary
Contributory Superannuation Scheme but see the Remuneration Tribunal as the appropriate
body to make necessary recommendations for reform in light of its independence, experience
39 Savings: Choice and Incentive, Statement by the Hon. Peter Costello, M.P., Treasurer of the
Commonwealth of Australia and Senator The Hon. Jocelyn Newman, Minister for Social Security, 13
May, 1997, p. 27.


with remuneration matters and its ability to evaluate the totality of the scheme and its
objectives.
3.94 Labor Senators believe there is a case for reviewing the Parliamentary Contributory
Superannuation Scheme and recognise the potential conflict of interest in current
parliamentarians determining changes to the superannuation scheme which affect the
entitlements of current and future parliamentarians.
3.95 Labor Senators recommend that any review of the Parliamentary Contributory
Superannuation Scheme be conducted independently by the Remuneration Tribunal.
Funding
3.96 The Committee has considered whether there is any advantage to be gained through
fully funding the PCSS. The Committee notes the evidence of the Australian Government
Actuary that such a proposal would not produce any savings for many years.
3.97 In the long term the Committee believes that the PCSS should move toward becoming
a fully funded scheme. This would provide for greater transparency of superannuation with
other parliamentary entitlements.
Controls on costs to the Commonwealth
3.98 The Committee notes the evidence that it received that the provision of survivor and
invalidity benefits represent a significant and uncontrolled extra cost. While accepting that
there may be a need to review these provisions, the Committee notes that survivor benefits
are provided in many superannuation arrangements. The Committee considers that such
arrangements are entirely reasonable.
3 .99 The Committee recommends that survivor and invalidity benefits continue to be
paid. However, the rules under which these benefits are paid should be reviewed by the
Remuneration Tribunal, in accordance with standards adopted in other private and public
Interest on contributions
3.100 The new preservation rules announced by the Government apply to contributions by
Parliamentarians to the PCSS. Unless a mechanism is developed for paying interest on these
contributions, the real value of these contributions may be eroded over time.
3.101 The Committee therefore recommends that contributions made by
parliamentarians attract interest in accordance with normal superannuation practice.




CHAPTER 4
CONSEQUENTIAL REFORM
Dislocation benefit
4.1 A parliamentary career can be disruptive to a parliamentarian's working life,
particularly when a parliamentarian has to leave office involuntarily. The Committee was told
that in addition to providing for retirement, the PCSS also makes provision for 'retrenchment'
(leaving office involuntarily, for example by loss of an election or party pre-selection).
4.2 The Committee's suggested reforms should reduce the current potential for inequitable
benefits among members, and should also assist in containing costs. This section considers a
consequential reform to the PCSS should the PCSS be changed so as to focus on retirement
provision: the introduction of a dislocation benefit for parliamentarians.
4.3 The Committee was told that currently the PCSS is attempting to perfomi too many
functions. Dr FitzGerald said that:
It seems to me ... that the scheme is attempting to do too many things. It has got aspects which
appear to be covering not only the needs of parliamentarians who go through to retiring age
and then retire, but also to have something of the character of a severance pay arrangement.
4.4 Dr FitzGerald went on to say that one of the PCSS' costliest features is:
... giving the same pension to a relatively young member ... regardless of age which is quite
unusual. The purpose that aspect appears to be intending to serve [severance payment] might
be better met some other way2
4.5 Mr Ray Stevens also identified the PCSS' multiple objectives as a source of difficulty.
In his view, one of the important original objectives of the PCSS was to make provision for
early loss of office.3 He said:
I think one of the problems, if you like, with the Commonwealth parliamentary scheme is that
its original objective was not restricted to providing for retirement.4
4.6 The issue of a dislocation benefit was raised in submissions. The Parliamentary
Retiring Allowances Trust submitted that consideration should be given, separately to
superannuation, to a benefit for 'short-serving members to re-establish themselves in non-
parliamentary employment on defeat at an election (or in pre-selection)'.
1 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 153.
2 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, pp. 153-154.
3 Evidence, Mr Ray Stevens, pp. 159, 160. On the establishment of the PCSS see paragraph 1.3 above.
4 Evidence, Mr Ray Stevens, p. 159.
Submission No. 43, Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust, p. 4.
5


Consequential Reform
4.7 While appreciating that the risk of loss of office (which follows from electors'
democratic right to choose representatives) is an inevitable aspect of parliamentary life, the
Committee notes the use of redundancy payments in the wider community in respect of
comparable situations. Mr Stevens told the Committee that:
... in the private sector, the problem of somebody appointed for a period losing their job
unexpectedly in the short term would normally be handled by means of a retrenchment
payment.6
4.8 Similarly, Dr FitzGerald advised that the 'standard approach for dealing with that
[unexpected loss of employment] in the rest of the community is redundancy pay
arrangements'.7
4.9 The Committee understands that current severance benefits for Australian Public
Service (APS) officers covered by the APS General Employment Conditions Award (GECA),
which covers officers below the SES levels, are:
• a sum equal to two weeks salary for each completed year of service, plus a pro
rata payment for completed months of service since the last completed year of
service (GECA clause 11.4.7); and
• there is also a notice period, which is frequently taken as payment instead of
notice, of 28 days or (in the case of employees over the age of 45 with at least
five years continuous service) five weeks (see GECA clauses 11.4.4-11.4.6).
4.10 SES officers employed permanently (rather than on a fixed-term basis, see below),
may receive a severance benefit at the discretion of the Public Service Commissioner under
section 76R of the Public Service Act 1922. It is apparently usual for regard to be had to
GECA in determining such a benefit.
4.11 SES officers employed for a fixed term who are made redundant receive may also
receive a severance benefit at the discretion of the Public Service Commissioner under
section 76R of the Public Service Act 1922.
4.12 Both permanent and fixed-term SES officers who are made redundant also receive
financial counselling and out-placement counselling.8 The extent of counselling services
provided to individual officers varies on a case-by-case basis, depending on the officer’s
circumstances, and the practices of different agencies. The Committee understands that
financial counselling and out-placement counselling are widely accepted forms of assistance
to senior public sector executives who are made redundant, and are also used in the private
sector.
4.13 The two parliamentarians who gave oral evidence during the inquiry, Mr Robert
McClelland and Mr Wilson Tuckey, supported the concept of a dislocation payment. On a
6 Evidence, Mr Ray Stevens, p. 160.
7 Evidence, Dr Vincent FitzGerald, p. 157.
8 Out-placement counselling is a service, provided by professional consultants, whereby an employee who
has been made redundant is assisted to find new employment.


personal note, Mr McClelland MP said that the availability of a payment should he lose office
was crucial to his decision to stand for Parliament:
Prior to entering Parliament I was a partner in a legal firm having served in that firm for some
14 years. The decision to terminate my legal career and enter Parliament was one which was
not taken lightly. Obviously a number of factors were considered but paramount was the
extent of disruption which would be caused to my family not only as a result of absences but
also in terms of financial security.... The fact that 1 would have access to at least some funding
[from access to unpreserved parliamentary superannuation] at the end of my Parliamentary
career was therefore crucial in my decision to enter Parliament.9
4.14 As noted at the start of Chapter 3, a portion of the payment to which Mr McClelland
referred will be diminished as a result of the Government's decision to introduce new
preservation rules, if he continues in office after 1 July 1999.
4.15 The Committee notes that the introduction of a dislocation benefit for
parliamentarians is opposed by some people. Mr Peter Szalay, a member of the public, argued
against such a benefit, as follows:
From my perspective as a private citizen and an elector and an employed person, that [the loss
of office in a double dissolution election] is one of the risks I would see associated with a
personal choice [of vocation] made by the member of parliament concerned.10
4.16 It was put to the Committee that there is currently a general degree of uncertainty in
relation to employment, and that therefore parliamentarians did not merit any advantageous
treatment relative to the general community in respect of this uncertainty. It was also argued
that parliamentary office is, in fact, more secure than many or even most forms of
employment.
4.17 Mr Jim Collins, a member of the public, submitted with respect to the justification of
parliamentary superannuation levels on the basis of the uncertainty of parliamentary office,
that:
If such an argument had some credibility in the past, it is most certainly not the case in the
current economical [sic] climate. There would be few, if any, private sector employees who
now enjoy the luxury of guaranteed full time permanent employment, and few, if any, older
employees 50 years and older, who would feel confident of finding employment should they
loose [sic] their job.11
4.18 Mr Don Brown, a member of the public having a background in superannuation and
financial services, said that it was now normal in the general community for people to have
several medium term jobs, or careers, over their worklife.12 Mr Brown submitted that:
...it is no longer valid to provide a pension to a parliamentarian, or any other person, after 8
years of service because of supposed difficulty in finding another role. This is a difficulty
which faces most of the community.13
9 Submission No. 24, Mr McClelland MP, p. 1
10 Evidence, Mr Peter Szalay, p. 190.
11 Submission No. 7, Mr J. Collins, p. 1.
12 Submission No. 11, Mr D. Brown, p. 1.


4.19 Mr Szalay submitted that parliamentary employment is more secure than the
employment of most ordinary employees, as parliamentarians are not subject to 'arbitrary
dismissal or retrenchment at any point in time' unlike ordinary employees.14
4.20 Mr Paul Raffaele, Roving Editor of the Reader's Digest, told the Committee that:
You have got a lot more job security than I have as a freelance journalist.15
4.21 The Committee notes these opposing views and considers that a dislocation benefit,
and financial counselling and out-placement counselling for former parliamentarians, should
be matters for consideration for the Remuneration Tribunal. The Tribunal should take into
account the disruption of involuntary termination to parliamentarians' working lives, and the
fact that that such arrangements are common in the general community. A dislocation benefit
would, as Mr McClelland MP expressed it, 'assist with the transition back into private life'.16
Future determination of parliamentary remuneration
4.22 The question of which body should have responsibility for determining parliamentary
benefits, including the proposed involuntary termination benefit, is important at the current
time, and would have even greater importance if a total remuneration package approach were
to be adopted in the future.
4.23 The Remuneration Tribunal currently deals with the electorate allowance and other
benefits for members and office holders of Parliament. The Remuneration Tribunal does not
deal with parliamentary salary (which is adjusted pursuant to statute by reference to a public
service pay level), nor with parliamentary superannuation (see Chapter 1). However, the
Remuneration Tribunal does have expertise in these fields, as it has in 'the course of carrying
out its duties on remuneration and allowances ... examined and commented on the impact on
remuneration of present superannuation arrangements'.17
4.24 Senator Kemot told the Committee, speaking in relation to the proposed dislocation
benefit, that:
I would be very happy for the Remuneration Tribunal to pick up other areas [in addition to its
current responsibilities].... we need to grapple with the wider issue of appropriate
remuneration overall; that is why the Remuneration Tribunal is better placed to do it.18
4.25 The Committee is of the view that the Remuneration Tribunal may be the most
suitable body to consider the form which a dislocation benefit should take, and to determine
the amount of such a benefit if it is established .
13 Submission No. 11, Mr D. Brown, p. 1.
14 Submission No. 18, Mr Peter Szalay, p. 2.
15 Evidence, Mr Paul Raffaele, p. 106.
16 Evidence, Mr Robert McClelland MP, p. 139.
17 For this quotation, and the foregoing information on the Remuneration Tribunal's functions, see
Submission No. 45, Remuneration Tribunal, p. 1.
18 Evidence, Senator Cheryl Kemot, p. 180.


4.26 Given the suggestions in evidence that there should be no access to benefits before age
55, the Committee believes that the Remuneration Tribunal should consider establishing a
dislocation benefit, independent of the PCSS, for all parliamentarians who retire
involuntarily.
4.27 People can spend a lot of money and time fighting elections. The Committee
considers that there should be a benefit provided for those who enter parliament at an early
age and are subsequently defeated. In particular, the Committee believes there should be
some recognition for those affected by the volatilities of marginal seats, especially as these
people may well be of that special quality which it is clearly in the public interest to attract
into Parliament.




PART B
THE JUDGES' PENSION SCHEME
Background
1. As noted at the beginning of this report, the Committee found that the principles in
operation within the judges' pension scheme are quite different to those within the
parliamentary superannuation scheme. Accordingly, the Committee decided to deal with the
two schemes separately in its report. This part, Part B, examines issues that relate to the
judges' pension scheme.
2. The Committee found that the overarching issue with respect to the judges' pension
scheme is judicial independence. The scheme plays a significant role in ensuring that the
independence of the judiciary is maintained. The judges' pension scheme also plays a
significant role in the recruitment of suitable candidates to serve as judges. These issues are
of paramount importance in any review of the judges' scheme.




PART B
CHAPTER 1
INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY
[TJhe pension is regarded by judges as enormously important. It is not just
remuneration; it forms a part of the structure of the judiciary - the way in
which the judiciary is recruited, how it lives - and part of the principles that
guide life on the bench1
Judicial independence: what it is and why it matters
1.1 The Committee received extensive evidence contending that judicial pensions had
greater significance than simply being part of a remuneration package. This evidence claimed
that a judicial pension scheme was one of the mechanisms for protecting judicial
independence, and that therefore the scheme should not be altered in a way which would
diminish independence.
1.2 The Hon. Justice Daryl Davies of the Federal Court of Australia emphasised the
importance which judges place on pension arrangements, as one of a number of elements
which are essential to judicial independence:
[S]ecurity of tenure, adequacy of stipend and adequacy of pension on retirement are essential
pillars of the independence of the judiciary. The remuneration is directed to assisting judges to
draw apart form the world of moneymaking and to provide the judge with financial
independence, both during his term as a judge and on retirement.2
1.3 Mr Richard Moss, Deputy Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, agreed,
advising the Committee that:
I think it is a well-established proposition that there is or could be a direct relationship
between remuneration and independence, in two senses. Firstly, it is considered appropriate,
and has for a long time, that judges should be paid a remuneration both in respect of their
working lives and their retirement lives which is sufficient to make them independent within
the generally accepted meaning of the word. Secondly, any ability of government to affect
adversely a judge's remuneration - again either during their working life or their retirement -
may be either actually or be perceived to be a means of influencing judges/
1 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 13. His Honour appeared as a representative of a Committee of Judges of the
Federal Court of Australia (referred to hereinafter as the 'Committee of Judges of the Federal Court'),
see Evidence, p. 37.
2 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 14. See also quotation at head of chapter. And see also: Submission No. 1,
Chief Justice Cox of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, p. 1; Submission No. 2, Judicial Remuneration
Coordinating Committee, p. 2.
Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, pp. 64-65.
3


Independence of the Judiciary’
1.4 The views put to the Committee referred to in paragraphs 1.2 and 1.3 above are, as Mr
Moss noted, 'well established'.4 Until the seventeenth century, English judges generally
served at the pleasure of the Crown (durante bene placito, that is, they could be dismissed
without cause). However, after the 'Glorious Revolution' of 1688-89, all English judicial
appointments were made during the judges' good behaviour (quam diu se bene gesserint).
The Act of Settlement 1701 (UK) put this practice on a statutory basis, dealing with judicial
remuneration at the same time, by providing for English judges that:
commissions be made quam diu se bene gesserint, and their salaries ascertained and
established; but upon the address of both houses of Parliament it may be lawful to remove
them'.5
These protections have been carried through into section 72 of the Commonwealth
Constitution (see below paragraph 2.13).
1.5 There is a tradition of bipartisan parliamentary support in Australia for judges'
pensions as a support for judicial independence. In the parliamentary debate on the Judges
Pensions Bill 1948, it was stated that the bill: 'was a contribution towards the independence
and impartiality of the judiciary. Anything that directs itself toward that end is to be
supported'.6 In the parliamentary debate on the Judges Pensions Bill 1968, the point was
made that 'pensions are a necessary ingredient of that feeling of independence which all
judges should feel'.7 It was noted that:
pensions are paid to judges so that in retirement they may enjoy the same dignity and
independence, and be known to enjoy them, as we would insist on them enjoying while they
8
were in service.
1.6 An earlier inquiry, the Connor/Marks Inquiry in Victoria, stated in its Report on
Judicial Conditions of Appointment that a judicial pension scheme is a support for judicial
independence. The report noted that:
[a] judicial pension is not something which a Judge has earned for service but something
which the community, in its own interests, requires a Judge to have.9
4 On the history of judicial independence in common law countries see: M Friedland, A Place Apart:
Judicial Independence and Accountability in Canada (1995), pp. 3-6; J Quick and R.R. Garran, The
Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth (1901), pp. 728-729.
5 The phrase 'English judges' has been used because the practice of judges serving at pleasure continued in
the colonies until much later. The Act of Settlement addressed the issue of salaries. In relation to judicial
pensions in England, it remained the case until 1799 that the Crown had a complete discretion as to
whether to grant a pension to a retired judge (M Friedland, A Place Apart: Judicial Independence and
Accountability in Canada (1995), p. 3).
6 The Hon. P.C. Spender K.C., House of Representatives, Hansard, 30 November 1948, p. 3624. See also
the Hon. E.J. Holloway, House of Representatives, Hansard, 17 November 1948, p. 3071.
7 Mr E.G. Whitlam QC, House of Representatives, Hansard, 14 November 1968, p. 2899.
8 Mr E.G. Whitlam QC, House of Representatives, Hansard, 14 November 1968, p. 2899.
9 Victoria, X Connor QC and F. Marks QC, Report on Judicial Conditions of Appointment (1992), p. 165.


1.7 An underlying reason for judicial independence is to guarantee the impartiality of the
judiciary. This was stated by the Supreme Court of Victoria, as follows:
Public confidence in the impartial administration of justice can be maintained only if it is clear
that cases are decided according to law without regard to whether the decision may have some
effect to the advantage or disadvantage of the judge concerned.10
1.8 The connection between independence and impartiality has been recognised
internationally. As Chief Justice Antonio Lamer of the Canadian Supreme Court has stated:
Judicial independence is, at its root, concerned with impartiality, in appearance and in fact.
And these, of course, are elements essential to an effective judiciary. Independence is not a
perk of judicial office. It is a guarantee of the institutional conditions of impartiality.1'
1.9 The importance of the matters which the judiciary decides serves to underline the need
for impartiality. Federal judges make decisions which affect the respective positions of the
federal and State/Territory governments in our federation, and which affect the rights of
individuals.12
1.10 Federalism involves a managed distribution of power between central (federal) and
regional (State/Territory) governments. The federal judiciary is the umpire in the legal
contests between the different levels of government. It has been said that federal
constitutional arrangements 'could not be carried into practical effect' without the judiciary’
having the role of deciding on the constitutional validity of government actions (described as
"judicial review").13 The Privy Council has stated that:
[I]n a federal system the absolute independence of the judiciary is the bulwark of the
constitution against encroachment whether by the legislature or by the executive. To vest in
the same body executive and judicial power is to remove a vital constitutional safeguard.
1.11 The judiciary is also the umpire in legal disputes relating to the rights of individual
citizens, both in relation to other citizens, and in relation to government. The independence ol
the judiciary protects individual rights, by providing that 'the life, liberty, and property of the
subject [is not] in the hands of arbitrary judges, whose decisions [are] then regulated only by
their own opinions, and not by any fundamental principles of law'.15
10 Submission No. 35, Supreme Court of Victoria, p. 3.
11 Speech at the Annual Meeting of the Canadian Bar Association in Toronto, 20 August 1994, p.4, quoted
in M. Friedland, A Place Apart: Judicial Independence and Accountability in Canada (1995), p. 1.
12 This was submitted to the Committee by the Remuneration Tribunal, Submission No. 45, p. 3.
13 R v Kirby; Ex p Boilermakers’ Society of Australia (the Boilermakers' case) (1956) 94 CLR 254 at 267-
268 per Dixon C.J., McTieman, Fullagar and Kitto J.J. (High Court).
14 Attorney-General (Cth) v The Queen (the Boilermakers’ case) (1957) 95 CLR 529 at 540-541 (Privy
Council); see also the preceding High Court stage of the case, the Boilermakers' case (1956) 94 CLR 254
at 276 per Dixon C.J., McTieman, Fullagar and Kitto J.J. (High Court). Cf A.V. Dicey, Introduction to
the Study of the Law of the Constitution (10th ed 1959) at 175-176.
15 Blackstone (Commentaries (17th ed 1830) Vol 1 at 269), quoted in: Polyukhovich v The Commonwealth
(1991) 172 CLR 501 at 606 per Deane J; and Huddart, Parker & Co Pty Ltd v Moorehead (1909) 8 CLR
330 at 382-383 per Isaacs J.


Mechanisms to support judicial independence
1.12 Section 72 of the Constitution provides for certain matters which have been seen
traditionally as important for the protection of judicial independence. These are security of:
. tenure; and
• remuneration.
1.13 As noted above in paragraph 2.4, Section 72's protections can be traced back to the
Act of Settlement 1701 (UK). In respect of security of tenure, section 72 provides that federal
judges shall hold office until retirement age,16 unless they are removed following an address
from both Houses of Parliament on 'the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity'.
1.14 In respect of security of remuneration, section 72 provides that:
The Justices of the High Court and the other courts created by the Parliament: ...
(iii) shall receive such remuneration as the Parliament may fix; but the remuneration shall not
be diminished during their continuance in office.
1.15 Judicial independence also has wider significance as a matter of principle or policy
which goes beyond the specific requirements of constitutional law. Governments may
exercise restraint in taking decisions which, although constitutionally valid, could
nevertheless be regarded as diminishing judicial independence.
1.16 The design of the judicial pension scheme is entwined with the principle of judicial
independence in two ways: the scheme, being part of remuneration, could not be altered in a
way that would be contrary to section 72 (see paragraphs 1.17-1.19); and the scheme's
features do reflect its role in supporting judicial independence (see paragraphs 1.21-1.26).
1.17 The Committee of Judges of the Federal Court argued that the requirement of section
72(iii) of the Constitution that judges' remuneration be fixed by Parliament, would preclude
remuneration arrangements being made contractually between the Commonwealth and
individual judges.17 As the Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia stated:
The words 'receive such remuneration as the Parliament may fix' [in section 72(iii) of the
Constitution] are not apposite to encompass remuneration arrangements of the type entered
into by senior executives in the work force.18
1.18 The Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia also stated that section
72(iii) of the Constitution 'seems to imply that Parliament will fix the remuneration of the
16 Before an amendment to the Constitution in 1977, federal judges were appointed for life. The current
retirement age for High Court judges is set in the Constitution as 70; for other federal courts the
retirement age is set by specific legislation (but cannot be higher than 70). The current retirement age of
Federal Court and Family Court judges is 70. Federal judges who were appointed before the 1977
constitutional amendment retained their lifetime appointment.
17 Submission No. 8, Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia, p. 8.
18 Submission No. 8, Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia, p. 7.


judges of the court as a whole, rather than fixing differing remunerations for individual
judges all of whom perform the same function'.
1.19 The Attorney-General's Department, however, was of the view that^ it is
constitutionally possible for judges to have different levels of remuneration.20 The
significance of this point is that, unless this were the case, it is hard to envisage how the
judicial pension scheme could ever be diminished. Professor George Winterton also queried
the argument of Committee of Judges of the Federal Court, noting changes to judicial pension
schemes overseas:
As a matter of fact, in Canada and New Zealand it does happen [that judges have different
levels of remuneration] because of changes to the pension scheme that judges of the same
court appointed before a certain date and after a certain date are on different pension
arrangements. So there are precedents for it.21
1.20 The Committee acknowledges that there is legal debate regarding the requirements of
section 72 of the Constitution. However, it is questionable whether the section would
preclude judges receiving different levels of remuneration. Clearly, however, it would not be
permissible to reduce the remuneration of current judges.
A more mobile judiciary?
1.21 The Hon. Chief Justice Alastair Nicholson, AO RFD, of the Family Court of Australia
recognised that the current structure of the judicial pension scheme encouraged judges to
remain in service by being a 'golden chain', but stated that this had undesirable side-effects.
[A] judge would really feel, even though they might want to retire and perhaps should retire,
that they cannot afford to retire until the age of 60. They may well have given 20 years
service.... It seems to us that this is an inequitable system and it is not a desirable system from
the point of view of the public. In effect, the golden chain of superannuation is used to tie
them into a position.22
1.22 A scheme which encouraged early retirement of judges could be seen as a threat to
judicial independence in that younger judges may have greater interest in pursuing post-
judicial employment.
1.23 Several witnesses said the judicial pension scheme should not encourage early
retirement. The Supreme Court of Victoria stated:
On no view, however, should the scheme for judges' retirement benefits encourage judges to
seek other employment after retirement and on no view should the scheme discourage judges
from serving in office for as long as they are able to do so."
19 Submission No. 8, Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia, pp. 11-12.
20 Evidence, Mr George Witynski, p. 72.
21 Evidence, Professor George Winterton, p. 52.
22 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 44.
23 Submission No. 35, Supreme Court of Victoria, p. 5.


1.24 On the topic of commutation of judicial pensions, Justice Davies stated:
We would not like to see any arrangements which encourage early retirement.... We like
judges to go on knowing they are giving up their practice at the bar, they are taking a judicial
office and they are going to stay through until the end.24
1.25 Ms Renee Leon, Assistant Secretary, Courts, Tribunals and Administrative Law
Branch, Attorney-General's Department stated:
I think there is still much to be said for seeing the bench as a place to which one gives long
and dedicated service rather than simply a staging post.25
1.26 The Committee considers that judicial office should be seen as a long-term career
commitment, and agrees that the judges' pension scheme should not encourage early
retirement. However, this is not necessarily inconsistent with a greater flexibility in the
scheme than currently exists.
Restraints on judges’ financial affairs before and after retirement
1.27 Judges operate under a range of restraints, set both by law and by convention, which
limit their behaviour, particularly in relation to financial matters. It was explained to the
Committee that judges had a role in setting examples in behaviour:
It is a not unreasonable public expectation that judges will set an example be exhibiting a high
order of behaviour in both their public and private lives. There are many forms of activity
which, in practical terms, are not considered appropriate, lest they be seen to compromise the
individual judicial officer.-6
1.28 In relation to financial matters, there 'is a tradition of freedom from business
connections ... this is a cornerstone of judicial conduct'.27 The Committee was told that:
Judges, in effect, have to withdraw from commercial investments other than perhaps real
estate and shares in public companies. Even that may be constrained to some degree by the
nature of the work that the judges are doing or the companies concerned.-8
1.29 In relation to post-retirement financial activities, Mrs Maggie Jackson, Deputy
Government Counsel, Civil Law Division, Attorney-General's Department, informed the
Committee that:
[I]f the judiciary were to become merely a stepping stone in a person's career, there is a risk
that judicial independence would be infringed because of a concern that people are, perhaps,
24 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 17.
25 Evidence, Ms Renee Leon, p. 83.
26 Submission No. 1, Judicial Remuneration Co-ordinating Committee, p. 3.
27 J.B. Thomas, Judicial Ethics in Australia (1988), p. 45, and see generally at pp. 45-49.
28 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 43.


making decisions which are favourable to their future career prospects in business, in industry,
as politicians or whatever.29
1.30 The areas where retired judges would appear most likely to work after judicial service
are:
• for government (including Royal Commissions and similar inquiries); and
• in the private sector, either in alternative dispute resolution or as a barrister.
1.31 The Attorney-General's Department told the Committee that there is no reduction or
suspension of the judicial pension on the ground that the retired judge is receiving any
income from any other source, including employment (whether in the public or private
sectors).30
1.32 Ms Leon explained to the Committee that government post-retirement employment of
judges should not be discouraged:
Quite often judges are highly skilled individuals who have a wealth of experience and
knowledge to offer. Indeed, governments from time to time seek to take advantage of that skill
and knowledge by, for example, using retired judges on royal commissions and similar
inquiries. I would think we would not wish to discourage the use of judges for that particular
skill.3'
1.33 In relation to retired judges working in alternative dispute resolution as arbitrators and
mediators, Mr Moss of the Attorney-General's Department noted that several retired judges
undertook this work, and said
1 think our view, and the general view, of that would be that it is entirely unobjectionable and
that there is no problem with it'.32
1.34 In relation to working as a barrister, the Committee was informed that the individual
bars had varying rules preventing retired judges from appearing as counsel before the
particular courts in which they had been judges for certain periods after retirement.
However, a retired judge would be able to appear as counsel in a different court from that ^in
which they had served as a judge, or to write legal opinions in respect of matters generally.
29 Evidence, Ms Maggie Jackson, p. 68. See also Submission No. 35, Supreme Court of Victoria, p. 5. And
see also Professor Winterton, Evidence, p. 55.
30 Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, pp. 76-77.
31 Evidence, Ms Renee Leon, p. 78.
32 Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, p. 68.
33 Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, p. 68.
34 JB Thomas, Judicial Ethics in Australia (1988), p. 68.


The National Commission of Audit's contribution to the debate
1.35 Debate on judicial superannuation has been stimulated by the following
recommendation of the National Commission of Audit (NCOA):
Superannuation for Parliamentarians and Judges should be structured in a similar way to
arrangements for senior executives in the rest of the workforce. That is, superannuation should
be paid through accumulation benefit arrangements and the amount of superannuation should
be determined by individuals as part of a fixed overall remuneration package. ’5
1.36 However, the Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia stated that 'few
persons would think that the appointment of a judge was equivalent to the taking of
appointment as a senior executive in commercial enterprise'.36 The Judges and Masters of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia pointed to the issue of judicial independence, as making
judges different from senior executives in the private sector:
In the event that Judges were placed upon the same basis as 'senior executives' and able to
make individual contractual arrangements, particularly in relation to obtaining tax advantages,
there could be a real danger that judicial independence could be compromised or that there
would be a perception of such compromise/7
1.37 One particular area where the proposal for an accumulation scheme for judges raises
concern is in relation to judicial decisions which affect the economy (and therefore affect the
benefits paid by accumulation funds). Under the current judicial pension scheme, a retired
judge is paid a defined benefit (which is a fixed amount of money linked to salary level).
1.38 The submission of Mr Peter Szalay, which was in accord with the recommendation of
the NCOA on this point, suggested that the present judicial and parliamentary superannuation
arrangements should be replaced by a fully funded accumulation scheme.38 One of the
reasons which he gave for this was that:
... the performance of the MP's scheme becomes linked to the performance of the Australian
economy, thus giving MP's/Judge's [sic] a very significant interest in ensuring the
performance of the economy.j9
1.39 However, as judicial decisions can affect whole sectors of the economy, it was put to
the Committee by the Supreme Court of Victoria that:
[I]f retirement benefits for judges are made to depend upon the investment performance of
some pooled or individual market linked fund, it will be said that the decisions in some cases
35 National Commission of Audit, Report to the Commonwealth Government (1996), recommendation 5.7,
p. 99.
36 Submission No. 8, Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia, p. 5. See also Submission No.
8B, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 1.
37 Submission No. 29, Judges and Masters of the Supreme Court of Western Australia, pp. 4-5.
38 Submission No. 18, Mr Peter Szalay, p. 2.
39 Submission No. 18, Mr Peter Szalay, p. 2.


or kinds of case have been affected by the commercial interest of the judges in their retirement
benefits.40
1.40 The Supreme Court of Victoria believes that the problem of public perception of a
loss of judicial independence would still continue, even if there was a 'blind trust' (that is,
judges were unable to know where there superannuation moneys were invested). The Court
believed that allegations 'will too readily be made' that judicial decisions were influenced by
the effect of market performance on judicial superannuation benefits.41
1.41 The Committee is of the view that the NCOA's recommendation quoted above would
give rise to complicated issues in terms of guaranteeing judicial independence, were the
recommendation to be considered for implementation.
1.42 More specifically perhaps, the Committee does not consider the NCOA's view
(outlined in paragraph 1.35 above) as relevant to judges. The position of judges is unlike the
occupations cited by the Commission.
Conclusion
1.43 The Committee takes the view, on the evidence it has received, that the judicial
pension scheme does indeed have a greater role than just being part of a remuneration
package. The Committee recognises that judicial independence is a guarantee of the
impartiality of the judiciary, which underpins the federal nature of the Commonwealth, and
the protection of individual rights. The Committee shares the widespread view that secure and
adequate judicial remuneration, during retirement as well as during service, is essential to
judicial independence.
40 Submission No. 35, Supreme Court of Victoria, p. 3
41 Submission No. 35, Supreme Court of Victoria, p. 3




CHAPTER 2
RECRUITMENT TO THE JUDICIARY
2.1 The judicial pension scheme is an important element in attracting appointees to
judicial office. This is because there is a significant gap between the salary paid to judges
compared to that of the highest paid members of the private sector legal profession.
Underlying the issue of the attractiveness of judicial remuneration compared to remuneration
in other positions is the issue of what sort of people should be appointed as judges. That is to
say: to what extent should the Commonwealth be attempting to make judicial office attractive
to senior private sector lawyers?
Who do we want as judges?
2.2 There is a widespread view that the primary source for members of the judiciary
should be senior barristers, for reasons of experience. Mr Justice Davies stressed the
importance of experience forjudges of the Federal Court of Australia, saying that 'judges are
at their best in their late 50s, 60s and even the exceptional one in their early 70s.
2.3 Chief Justice Nicholson of the Family Court of Australia told the Committee that he
was of the view that the mid-40s range was an appropriate time to appoint judges. He went on
to say that, in the Family Court, judges should 'not only have legal skills but also have human
skills and human experience'. He was of the view that 'the main source of judicial appointees
ought to come from the practising profession at this stage'.2
2.4 Professor George Winterton of the University of New South Wales told the
Committee that, although one would hope that the judiciary would become more diverse (and
thus would include persons who had lower remuneration expectations than leading barristers),
'the leaders of the bar will inevitably be the primary source of list for the higher judiciary. I
think that is what the community would want'.3
2.5 The consequence for judicial pension arrangements of having senior barristers as the
primary recruitment source for the judiciary was stated simply by Professor Winterton:
Therefore, the reality is that the level of remuneration, including the pension and the
superannuation which are part of the package, will have to be high enough to attract them
[leading barristers].4
1 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 39. Before an amendment to the Constitution in 1977, federal judges were
appointed for life. The current retirement age for High Court judges is set in the Constitution as 70. For
other federal courts the retirement age is set by specific legislation (but cannot be higher than 70). The
current retirement age of Federal Court and Family Court judges is 70. Federal judges who were
appointed before the 1977 constitutional amendment retained their lifetime appointment.
2 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, pp. 45, 46, 48.
3 Evidence, Professor George Winterton, p. 50.
4 Evidence, Professor George Winterton, p. 51.


Recruitment to the Judiciary
The judicial pension scheme as a recruitment tool
2.6 The Committee received evidence which highlighted the role of the judicial pension
scheme as a recruitment tool, particularly for attracting senior private sector lawyers.
2.7 The Judicial Remuneration Co-ordinating Committee, a committee representing the
majority of the South Australian judiciary in relation to remuneration and related issues,
submitted to the Committee that 'leaders of the bar and successful senior legal practitioners
earn remuneration grossly in excess of prevailing judicial salaries' and that they 'have access
to a variety of mechanisms for tax minimisation' which are not available to judges.5 The
Supreme Court of Victoria submitted that for practising lawyers appointed to the judiciary:
[t]heir income as a judge is almost always less than they would have been able to earn in
private practice'.6
2.8 Justice Davies told the Committee that judges of the Federal Court are chosen for
being leading lawyers with proven ability in the court's work, and that such lawyers tended to
have high incomes: He said the 'government simply cannot afford to pay judges what they
can earn at the bar'.7 He emphasised that:
We do not seek to attract the average of the 400 senior barristers. The Federal Court of
Australia is looking for the very top people'.8
2.9 The President of the New South Wales Bar Association, Mr David Bennett, submitted
that 'judicial salaries have declined very significantly in real terms since the 1970s', having
been eroded during the high inflationary periods of the 1970s and 1980s.9 Mr Bennett wrote
that, in his experience of leading barristers:
the major disincentive affecting such people when they consider judicial appointment is the
very substantial reduction in income'.
2.10 The Attorney-General's Department referred to a 1992-1993 Australian Bureau of
Statistics survey which indicated that there were 400 barristers who were principals of
practices with an operating profit over $300,000 per annum, at an average operating profit for
each barrister of $435,000." This compares with a judicial remuneration package for Federal
Court judges of $270,237 (calculated by the Remuneration Tribunal in 1993).12 The
5 Submission No. 2, Judicial Remuneration Co-ordinating Committee, p. 4.
6 Submission No. 35, Supreme Court of Victoria, p. 5.
7 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 15.
8 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 15.
9 Submission No. 49, NSW Bar Association, pp. 1-2.
10 Submission No. 49, NSW Bar Association, p. 2.
11 Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 6.
12 Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 6.


Attorney-General's Department noted that while the data is 'now several years old, there is no
reason to suggest that there has been a marked change in relativity'.13
2.11 The Committee accepts that judicial remuneration is appreciably less than that
received by leading private sector lawyers. However, the Committee does not express a view
as to whether such a difference in remuneration is any more of an issue for judicial
recruitment now than it has been in the past.
2.12 There was a divergence of views put to the Committee as to whether it is becoming
harder to attract suitable appointees to the judiciary. Mr Richard Moss, Deputy Secretary of
the Attorney-General's Department, said that he did not have any personal evidence that it is
becoming harder.14 However, Chief Justice Nicholson said:
It varies a little from state to state, but we have been having more difficulty recently in finding
suitable appointees, certainly from the bar, than was the case in the past. 1 do not say that it is
necessarily a bad thing, because we have got some very good appointees from elsewhere, but I
still agree that the main source of judicial appointees ought to come from the practising
profession at this stage. And the less attractive the remuneration is, both in terms of salary and
retirement benefits, then the more difficult it becomes to attract those people.15
2.13 The issue for the Commonwealth in recruiting judges was neatly set out by the
Attorney-General's Department as follows:
While the Commonwealth Government cannot hope to match the highest levels of private
sector remuneration, it must ensure that the degree of salary sacrifice involved in accepting
judicial office is not such as to unacceptably discourage appointment by persons of the
necessary calibre. It must also ensure that it is able to compete with the State and Territory
Governments in relation to judicial remuneration, otherwise candidates for federal
appointment may prefer to accept appointment to State or Territory courts.
2.14 Given the gap which exists between judicial remuneration and the remuneration ot
leading private sector lawyers, the judicial pension has taken on particular significance in
attracting suitable appointees to the judiciary. Mr Moss told the Committee that:
Traditionally, in that context [of a very great gap between earnings as a judge or as a private
sector lawyer], the pension entitlement has been a significant amelioration of that problem'.
2.15 Justice Davies said that the judicial pension scheme was an important recruiting tool:
All courts other than the High Court of Australia have difficulty, from time to time, in
attracting members of the quality they wish. The pension has been a recruiting tool. The Chief
Justice has informed me how he considers this to be absolutely vital. He knows the difference
13 Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 6,
14 Evidence, p. 66.
15 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 48.
16 Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 5.
17 Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, p. 66.


it makes when he is trying to attract someone to the bench when he can say, 'You have got this
security. It is there. That is what you have got on retirement whatever happens.'18
2.16 The Hon. Justice J. B. Thomas of the Supreme Court of Queensland submitted that:
[t]he pension scheme has for many generations been an important incentive in inducing
talented persons who would otherwise earn considerably more than judicial salary, to accept
judicial appointment.19
2.17 A personal view of the factors which influence a person to accept judicial office was
given by The Hon. Justice Graham Mullane of the Family Court. He said that he took account
of the judicial pension scheme's benefits for dependants:
It was quite an attraction to know that your spouse and children would be well taken care of if
you died during your service.20
2.18 Justice Mullane also told the Committee that the 'pension is attractive to potential
appointees, particularly someone who is over 50'.21
2.19 The Committee notes that the certainty offered by the judicial pension scheme is an
attractive feature for potential judicial appointees, particularly for those leading private sector
lawyers who would receive appreciably higher remuneration than that of judges.
The effects on judicial recruitment of general changes to superannuation
2.20 The Committee received evidence that two generally applicable changes to
superannuation law - the introduction of the superannuation surcharge,22 and the application
of Reasonable Benefits Limits (RBLs)23 - would have particular effects on the attractiveness
of judicial office.
2.21 Although the superannuation surcharge does not apply to already serving federal
judges, it will apply to new appointees. The Parliamentary Secretary (Cabinet) to the Prime
Minister, the Hon Chris Miles MP, explained in the second reading speech on the
Superannuation Contributions Surcharge (Application to the Commonwealth - Reduction of
Benefits) Bill 1997 that:
18 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 16.
19 Submission No. 17, Justice Thomas, p. 1.
20 Evidence, Justice Mullane, p. 11.
21 Evidence, Justice Mullane, p. 10.
22 On the superannuation surcharge generally, see this Committee's earlier report: Australia, Parliament of
the Commonwealth of Australia, Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Report 23,
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (1997).
23 The RBL is the maximum limit on the amount that a member can receive with preferential taxation
treatment from superannuation, approved deposit funds or deferred annuity funds.


The remuneration of a current judge is protected under the Constitution from reduction during
his or her continuation in office. This Bill ensures that new appointees are subject to the
surcharge.24
2.22 A group of prominent Family Court judges, including Chief Justice Nicholson, have
expressed strong concern that general changes to the superannuation regime, particularly the
superannuation surcharge, are substantially eroding the remuneration of judges compared to
the private legal profession, and that this is likely to lead to a decline in the quality of
appointments to the judiciary.23 The Family Court judges also submitted that the effect of the
surcharge would be that new federal judges would have a loss of pension entitlement of at
least 10%.26
2.23 In relation to the effect of the superannuation surcharge, Justice Mullane said:
I would think that because the overall remuneration has been reduced by the proposed
surcharge that would lessen the attraction of the appointment'.27
2.24 The Committee was informed that there was uncertainty as to whether the
superannuation surcharge would apply to State judges. This is because some, if not all. State
judges' pensions are provided by 'constitutionally protected schemes' on which surcharge
cannot be levied by the Commonwealth."8 Surcharge will not be levied on such schemes
until, and unless, the States enact complementary legislation. As the Attorney-General's
Department noted, the application of surcharge to State judges is unclear at this stage. The
view was expressed that discrimination between federal and State/Territory judges would be
unconscionable.30
2.25 Regarding the effect of surcharge, Mr Moss of the Attorney-General's Department,
while acknowledging that the pension would become less attractive, said:
I think the effect on the overall ability to attract suitable people remains to be seen' 1
2.26 In relation to the application of RBLs, the Committee was told:
Government has a responsibility to ensure that those who have been hit by "friendly fire", in
this case the judiciary, do not suffer as a result.'2
24 House of Representatives, Hansard, 6 March 1997, p. 2166..
25 Submission No. 47, Nicholson CJ, Frederico, Buckley and O'Ryan JJ, p. 3.
26 Submission No. 47, Nicholson CJ, Frederico, Buckley and O'Ryan JJ, p. 2.
27 Evidence, Justice Mullane, p. 6.
28 See Australia, Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, Senate Select Committee on
Superannuation, Report 23, Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (1997), pp. 21-22.
29 Evidence, Mr George Witynski, p. 62.
30 Submission No. 47, Nicholson CJ, Frederico, Buckley and O'Ryan JJ, p. 2.
31 Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, pp. 66-67.
32 Submission No. 47, Nicholson CJ, Frederico, Buckley and O'Ryan JJ, p. 3.


2.27 The "friendly fire" effect is that, in order to calculate whether the RBL is exceeded
(thus giving rise to a higher rate of taxation on the amount of superannuation above the RBL),
the judicial pension is added to any pre-existing superannuation acquired before entering the
judiciary. However, unlike other taxpayers, judges have not received any taxation advantage
in relation to the judicial pension.33
2.28 RBLs are designed to limit the amount of concessionally taxed superannuation
available to individuals. If the judges' pension scheme is to be regarded as superannuation
then the fact that no taxation concession has been enjoyed by judges would seem to make the
application of RBLs unreasonable.
Future changes to the judiciary?
2.29 As previously noted, the Australian Law Reform Commission (ALRC) has raised for
discussion a range of possible changes to the federal civil litigation system, so as to diminish
its adversarial emphasis, with a view to reducing delay, cost and unfairness. One of the issues
raised by the ALRC is that the reluctance of judges to take a more active role in managing
litigation may be a barrier to reform.34 The ALRC calls into question whether the current
emphasis on appointing judges from among senior barristers is appropriate.
2.30 The ALRC suggested that the current adversarial emphasis in the federal civil
litigation system may be caused, in part, by 'appointing judges from the ranks of practising
lawyers with significant litigation experience'.3? The ALRC noted:
While judges are usually drawn from the ranks of lawyers and are well versed in the litigation
process the lack of emphasis on adjudication skills may mean that judges are less prepared to
adjudicate disputes. '6
2.31 Given these concerns, the ALRC has invited comment on whether Australia should
change the current processes of appointing judges, and on whether Australia should develop a
career judiciary.37
2.32 Justice Mullane said that inequities in the current judicial pension scheme are relevant
to career decisions in relation to judicial office. He said that the current pension qualifying
requirements served as a disincentive to people outside the traditional area for judicial
recruitment:
33 Submission No. 47, Nicholson CJ, Frederico, Buckley and O'Ryan JJ, p. 2-3.
34 Australia, Australian Law Reform Commission (ALRC), Issues Paper 20, Review of the Adversarial
System of Litigation: rethinking the federal civil litigation system {'Review of the Adversarial System of
Litigation') (1997), p. 97.
35 Australia, ALRC, Review of the Adversarial System of Litigation, p. 97.
36 Australia, ALRC, Review of the Adversarial System of Litigation, p. 135.
37 A career judiciary, such as exists in European civil law countries such as France, is one where many
judges would begin their judicial career immediately following legal studies. Judges commence at lower
level offices and are promoted to higher positions over their life as a judge, thus developing special skills
in adjudication. Australia, ALRC, Review of the Adversarial System of Litigation, p. 135.


It is true that the Australian judiciary largely comprises white men of middle or upper class
background with private school educations who were at the time of appointment likely to be
aged 50 years or over and working as senior barristers.
... if a government wants to encourage some appointments of younger people and of people of
more diverse backgrounds one thing that would provide greater attraction to those people
would be the knowledge that if retirement occurred before entitlement to a pension ... there
would be some entitlement to another appropriate benefit. '8
2.33 However, as noted above at paragraphs 2.2-2.4, the widespread view is that judges
should be drawn primarily from the bar. Chief Justice Nicholson said that he personally was
of the view that the mid-40s age range was an appropriate time to appoint judges, and that:
I differ with any comments that the Law Reform Commission may have made in their
discussion paper [Review of the Adversarial System of Litigation] about the desirability of
appointing judges at an earlier age.39
2.34 Justice Davies told the Committee that he did not expect any change to the Federal
Court's recruitment base.40
2.35 Another issue was raised by the Hon. Justice Kirby AC CMG of the High Court ol
Australia in a public address commenting on the issues raised by the Australian Law Reform
Commission (see paragraphs 2.29-2.30 above). He said:
[Appointing judges, as we generally do, from the private sector legal profession in middle-
age, means that the appointees bring with them attitudes of independence. They do not see
themselves as public servants for they have never been so'.
2.36 The Committee is of the view that, although there are arguments for the
diversification of recruitment to the judiciary, senior barristers will remain the primary source
of recruitment to the judiciary, at least for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, for the
foreseeable future, judicial remuneration, including the pension scheme, will have to be such
as not to unacceptably discourage senior barristers from accepting appointment to the
judiciary. However, if the basis of recruitment to the judiciary were to be significantly
changed, then the Government may need to re-examine the remuneration of judges, including
the pension scheme.
38 Evidence, Justice Mullane, pp. 4, 5.
39 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 45.
40 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 39.
The Hon Justice Kirby AC CMG, Changing the Legal Vocation?, 13 May 1997, p. 12
41




CHAPTER 3
THE JUDGES’ PENSION SCHEME OUTLINED
We are of the view that a judicial pension scheme should not he seen as having
as its primary object enrichment of judges but rather as part of the
constitutional apparatus for supporting judicial independence.
Authority for the scheme
3.1 The Judges' Pensions Act 1968 (the Pensions Act) provides for the payment of
pensions to members of the federal judiciary. The Pensions Act is administered by the
Attorney-General and payments under the scheme are processed by the Attorney-General's
Department.
3.2 The Pensions Act provides pensions for "judges". A judge is defined as a Justice or
judge of a federal court and a person who has the same status as a Justice or judge of a federal
court.2 Federal courts include the High Court, the Federal Court itself, the Family Court ol
Australia and the Industrial Court.
3.3 Coverage of the Act also extends to a small number of statutory office holders such
as:
. a Presidential Member of the Industrial Relations Commission;
• the Solicitor-General (with modifications as to entitlement); and ^
• a full-time tenured Deputy President of the Administrative Appeals 1 ribunal.
Some history of Australia's scheme
3.4 In 1948 the then Labor Government introduced the Judges' Pensions Bill (the
forerunner to the current Judges' Pensions Act). As described in the second reading speech,
this was not the first legislation covering the provision of pensions to retiring judges of
Commonwealth courts, as provision for pensions had been made in the Commonwealth
Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1926 for judges of the Arbitration Court. The second
reading speech on the 1948 Bill continued:
This was followed by a similar provision in the Judiciary Act of the same year to grant
pensions to justices of the High Court. In 1930 a pension on similar terms was provided for
the judge of the Bankruptcy Court, and in 1945 for the judge of the Supreme Court of the
Australian Capital Territory. The most recent legislation to provide such pensions was passed
in 1947 and covered judges of the Federal Court of Claims ...
1
Submission No. 1, The Hon. Chief Justice W.J.E. Cox, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
P-1-
2 Section 4(1)
Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p 1.
3


The Judges' Pension Scheme Outlined
It is not proposed to disturb the present rights of pensions of sitting justices or judges except
with their concurrence.4
3.5 So there had been a lengthy history of judges' pensions even before 1948. The 1948
Bill effectively offered an extension of benefits to Federal judges, especially in the provision
for widows and children. The Government considered that preserving the independence and
the 'high status' of a judge as a member of a Commonwealth court 'warrants a pension
provision which is complete and adequate'.5
3.6 It is interesting to note the features of the scheme as proposed in the Bill:
. an age pension payable at age 60;
• after ten years service, 27.5 per cent of salary increasing by 2.5 per cent for each
additional year up to a maximum of 40 per cent of salary at retirement;
• a pension on account of permanent disability or infirmity (of which the
Attorney-General certifies) of 15 per cent of salary up to five years service,
rising by 2.5 per cent for each additional year up to a maximum of 40 per cent;
. a pension to the widow of a judge who dies in service or after retirement, equal
to half that payable to the judge;
• an allowance of one pound a week for each child under 16; and
. the option for judges to adopt these provisions or adhere to the pensions
provisions of existing legislation, but all new appointees subject to the new
schemed
3.7 Of course there have been changes to the scheme over the years. Probably the most
significant changes occurred after a review in of the 1948 Act as amended, and the
introduction of the Bill which became the Judges' Pensions Act 1968. In the second reading
speech on that Bill, the then Attorney-General listed the features of the Bill as:
• the pension on permanent disability or infirmity to be increased to 40 per cent of
salary on retirement, plus two per cent of salary for each completed year of
service for each year in excess of five years, with a maximum of 50 per cent;
• the widow of a judge or retired judge to receive five-eighths of the pension the
judge would have received;
• several changes to the provision for children; and
• counting judicial service in a State or Territory for the purposes of the Act.7
4
Second reading speech, House of Representatives, Hansard, 17 November 1948, p. 3071.
5 Second reading speech, House of Representatives, Hansard, 17 November 1948, p. 3071.
6 House of Representatives, Hansard, 17 November 1948, p. 3071-2.
House of Representatives, Hansard, 16 May 1968, p. 1539.
7


3.8 In 1973 the Parliamentary and Judicial Retiring Allowances Act increased the basic
pension level to 60 per cent. That is the most significant of the changes that has occurred
since 1968.
Features of the Scheme
Core benefits
3.9 This is a very simple scheme in concept. It involves the payment of pensions to:
. qualifying judges on retirement;
. qualifying judges in the event of incapacity; or
• the surviving family on death of the judge.
3.10 The level of pension is directly proportional to the level of judicial salary and
conditions of payment are set out below.
3.11 The central benefit is for a judge who retires and is at least 60 years of age and has
served as a judge for not less than 10 years. In that case the pension payable is 60 per cent of
the 'appropriate current judicial salary'.8
3.12 The scheme is non-contributory and commutation of benefits is not permitted.
Benefits are provided for by section 6 of the Pensions Act.
3.13 Federal judges appointed after Constitutional amendment in 1977 are appointed until
age 70. A pro-rata formula applies forjudges who cease to hold office by reason of attaining
a particular age and who have served at least six years but less than 10:
In that case, the pension payable is at the rate of 0.5% of salary for each month of service. For
example, a judge whose appointment expires at age 70 and who has 8 years and 6 months
service is entitled to a pension of 51% of the appropriate current judicial salary (ie. 102
months x 0.5%).9
On resignation
3.14 A judge is not eligible for a pension if he or she retires:
(a) before age 60; or
(b) after that age but before completing 10 years service.
Nor, under these circumstances, are any benefits accrued for preservation until retirement or
transfer to another superannuation scheme.
8 The salary that a retired judge would receive if still serving as a judge.
Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 2.
9


3.15 However, from 1 July 1992 the superannuation guarantee minimum benefits payable
to Commonwealth employees under the Superannuation (Productivity Benefit) Act 1988 are
payable to judges who have no entitlement to a pension under the Pensions Act.10
On invalidity
3.16 Pensions of 60 per cent of the appropriate judicial salary are also payable on the
grounds of invalidity, if the Attorney-General certifies that a judge's retirement is due to
permanent disability or infirmity.11
Death benefits - to dependents
3.17 Where a judge dies in office, a surviving spouse (including a de facto spouse) is
entitled to a pension of 62.5 per cent of 60 per cent of the appropriate judicial salary. The
spouse is also entitled to additional benefits for eligible children. The rate of additional
pension is 12.5 per cent per child (up to a maximum of 37.5 per cent) of 60 per cent of the
appropriate judicial salary.12
3.18 A spouse of a retired judge who dies is entitled to a pension of 62.5 per cent of the
pension that was payable to that judge if he or she had not died.13
3.19 Finally, sections 10, 11 and 12 of the Pensions Act provide for the payment of
pensions in respect of children of a judge in the event of that judge's death before or after
retirement.
Funding, costs and employer support
3.20 Judges' pensions are appropriated and paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.14
The cost for 1995-96 was $6.88 million.15
3.21 The latest report by the Australian Government Actuary to the Attorney-General's
Department on the benefits to judges under the Pensions Act was provided in February 1994,
based on data as at 30 June 1993. This report identified that the cost of benefits varied,
'depending on the period of service and the age of a judge on exit from judicial service':
For Judges who exit prior to age 60 or with less than 10 years judicial service the annual rate
of employer support was estimated to vary between 5% and 20% of salary. For Judges with at
least 10 years of judicial service and who retire on or after age 60 a range of values between
30% and 120% was reported.Ib
10 Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 2.
11 Judges' Pensions Act 1968, s 6(2).
12 Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 3.
13 Judges' Pensions Act 1968, s 8.
14 Judges' Pensions Act 1968, s 14.
15 Submission No. 41, Attorney-General's Department, p. 3.
16 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 13


3.22 The Committee also noted the comments by the Australian Government Actuary that
actuarial analysis is mainly an exercise in financial control. Actual experience will differ from
the assumptions made to reflect long term expectations. Also, the cost of the scheme to the
Commonwealth will vary for different individuals.
As a result, the estimated actuarial contribution rates reported should not be taken as the
actual cost of the scheme but as an estimate of the cost.'17
3.23 Administrative costs of the judges' scheme are not significant, being largely absorbed
by the policy and administrative function in the Attorney-General's Department.
A changing judiciary
3.24 The Australian Government Actuary said the benefit structure of the judges' pension
scheme 'was designed at a time when it was expected that Judges would always serve through
to at least age 60'.18
3.25 With the greater flexibility in modem work practices, and movement within and
between the professions and other employment, there is no reason to expect that judges will
not be part of this movement. It may not be to the extent of some other occupations, but with
the age of judicial appointment tending downward in some jurisdictions at least, there is a
reasonable expectation that not all judges will accept appointment in the expectation of
lifetime service to the judiciary.
3.26 On the matter of age, Justice Mullane of the Family Court said he had confirmed with
six judges of that court that they were appointed before age 40:
The youngest among them was 36 years of age. One was appointed at 38 and four were
appointed at 39. There are also four fairly recent appointees who I suspect were also under 40
years of age. They were all ladies and 1 have not had the time or courage to attempt to have
them confirm their age at appointment.
All of the people appointed before age 40 have to serve more than 20 years before they
become entitled to any retirement benefit under the Judges' Pensions Act.
3.27 The Attorney-General's Department, however, was more supportive of stability in the
judiciary and less enamoured with the flexibility view. They thought there was a risk that
independence could be at risk if the judiciary were seen as 'merely a stepping stone in a
person's career'.20 Also, it would seem undesirable to encourage active and able judges to
retire earlier than they do now, 'when the aim of the government clearly would be to keep
experienced, able and active judges on the bench for as long as possible'. Mr Moss told the
Committee that:
17 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 12.
18 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 11.
19 Evidence, Justice Mullane, p. 4.
20 Evidence, Mrs Maggie Jackson, p. 68.
21 Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, p. 68.


In general - although of course there are occasional exceptions - a judicial career should be
seen as the pinnacle and the end of the career, with a guaranteed retirement income after that,
so that there can be no question of there being any lack of independence.22
Golden handcuffs?
3.28 The Committee noted a perceived problem of judges being effectively restrained in
their retirement plans. While the majority of the population enjoys access to benefits on
retirement at age 55, judges cannot access their retirement benefits until age 60.
3.29 The effect was described by Chief Justice Nicholson of the Family Court as judges
being 'chained to the job until they reach the age of 60, unless they are particularly wealthy or
have some other lucrative offer which they cannot refuse'. He said:
in the normal course of events, a judge would really feel, even though they might want to
retire and perhaps should retire, that they cannot afford to retire until the age of 60. They may
well have given 20 years service.2’
3.30 The Chief Justice also indicated this was not a desirable outcome from the public's
point of view in that 'the golden chain of superannuation is used to tie them into a position'.24
3.31 Justice Davies of the Federal Court had a different view, at least in regard to his court.
While he indicated that courts did differ in relation to their needs, he said of the Federal Court
Judges:
Those who have been appointed will certainly go through to age 60, and we would hope that
they would stay longer. But we would not want on the Federal Court judges appointed at age
45 and leaving at age 55.25
3.32 The Committee considered this question further in Chapter 2 in relation to the
recruitment of judges.
Comparison with other schemes
3.33 The provisions of the Federal judicial pension scheme correspond closely with judicial
pension schemes operating in the states (see table below~6).
22 Evidence, Mr Richard Moss, p. 69.
23 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 44.
24 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 44.
25 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 39.
26 Submission No. 42, Chief Justice Cox, p. 11.


3.34 The qualification for a pension is generally attaining 60 years of age and ten years
service, except for Tasmania where it is 15 years service.27
3.35 It is clear from the above that there is significant consistency between the schemes for
Federal and State judges.
The Canadian scheme
3.36 The Committee regards Canada as a suitable country with which to compare
Australia's judicial pension scheme.28
3.37 Section 42 of the Canadian Judges Act provides for the granting of a pension equal to
two-thirds of the salary of the office of a judge at the time of his or her resignation, removal
or ceasing to hold office, to a judge who:
(a) has continued in office for 15 years and has attained the age of 65, if he or she
resigns his or her office;
(b) has continued in office for 15 years but has not attained the age of 65, if his or
her resignation is conducive to the better administration of justice or is in the
national interest;
(c) resigns or is removed as a result of becoming afflicted with a permanent
disability preventing him or her from executing his or her office; or
(d) has reached the mandatory retirement age of 75, if he or she has held office for
at least 10 years.
3.38 If a judge reaches the mandatory retirement age without having served for 10 years,
the pension entitlement is based on years of completed service as a proportion of 10.
27 Submission No. 42, Chief Justice Cox, p. 11.
28 Details taken from the Report and Recommendations of the 1992 Commission on Judges Salaries and
Benefits, March 31,1993.


3.39 Prior to 1975, federally appointed judges made no contribution toward their pensions.
In 1975 the Judges Act was amended to require contributions of 1.5 per cent of salary for
judges appointed before February 17, 1975. Judges appointed on or after this date must
contribute at a rate of 6 per cent of salary.
3.40 In a report of the 1992 Commission on Judges Salaries and Benefits, the Commission
supported judges' contributions. They noted that 'even at the current rates of contribution, the
judges are actually paying for about one-fifth of the overall cost of their pensions. About 80%
of the cost is born by Canadian taxpayers.'29
In the UK
3.41 The Judicial Pensions and Retirement Act 1993 (UK) governs the payment of
pensions to judges in the United Kingdom.30 A life time pension is paid to a judge who has
retired on or after age 65 and completed at least five years service. An actuarially reduced
pension is paid to a judge retiring after age 60 but before 65, and has at least five years
service. A judge who retires before 65 (on completion of five years service) because of
infirmity of mind or body, is entitled to a pension without reduction.
3.42 The rate of pension payable depends on length of service. Where a judge has
completed 20 years service the appropriate rate is 50 per cent of the pensionable pay. For less
than 20 years service, the appropriate rate is two and one-half per cent for each year (or part)
of service.
Lump sum payments
3.43 On retirement, a judge is entitled to a lump sum payment of two and one-quarter times
the annual rate of pension in addition to the pension the judge would normally receive.
3.44 If a retired judge should die so soon after commencement that the aggregate of the
lump sum paid or payable, and the sums paid or payable under the pension, is less than five
times salary before death, the legal representative will be entitled to a lump sum equal to the
deficiency.
3.45 Where a judge dies while in service, a lump sum equal to twice pensionable pay is
payable to a person nominated by the judge or, in default, to the legal representative.
Spouses and children's pensions
3.46 A surviving spouse is entitled to 50 per cent of the judicial pension. The marriage
must have taken place before the judge retired. If the surviving spouse remarries, the Treasury
may direct that the pension cease.
29 Report and Recommendations of the 1992 Commission on Judges Salaries and Benefits, March 31,1993
30 Information about the UK system is drawn from a submission by The Hon. Justice Stephen O'Ryan,
Submission No. 47 Supp.


3.47 There are various provisions for children's pensions, the rates depending on the
number of children and whether there is or is not a surviving spouse.
Contributions and other matters
3.48 The Regulations may prescribe the level of contributions to be made which shall be
deducted from judicial salaries. Additional voluntary contributions may also be provided for
in the Regulations.
3.49 A judge may elect not to have the judicial pension scheme apply, but instead arrange
to have a personal pension scheme. That election is irrevocable, except where the judge gives
written notice to the appropriate Minister of a desire to again be covered by the scheme's
provisions. Service during the period of membership of the personal pension scheme is not
counted for purposes of the Pensions Act.
3.50 Judges are entitled to a benefit from only one judicial pension scheme, but this does
not prejudice any entitlements a judge may have under any other retirement arrangements.
3.51 Any entitlements accrued under any other judicial pension scheme can be transferred
to the scheme provided for under this Act. In that case the judge's benefit under this Act will
be determined having regard to the amount transferred and the service period that represents.
Lessons from the history
3.52 The Committee found that the historic trend has been to increase the generosity of the
pension scheme for judges. However, evidence to the Committee in this inquiry has not
generally sought greater generosity.
3.53 The Committee noted in particular the pension provision in the 1948 Bill which
provided for a pension after ten years service of 27.5 per cent of salary, increasing by 2.5 per
cent for each additional year up to a maximum of 40 per cent of salary at retirement.
3.54 The Committee submits that some consideration could be given to an increased
pension in the current scheme for those judges who continue in service beyond the age of 60.
This would provide an incentive forjudges to remain on the bench beyond the age when the
pension first becomes available, and be consistent with the proposition that the Federal
judiciary be encouraged to be a long term career.
3.55 There is also the a question of discounted pensions in the event of retirement prior to
the age of 60, but with the requisite 10 years service. In this regard, the Committee takes a
lead from the British scheme to make the following recommendation.
Recommendation 3.1
The Committee recommends that the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 be amended to provide for
an actuarially reduced life pension to be paid to a judge who retires under age 60 after ten or
more years service, but who has attained the age of 55.




CHAPTER 4
APPROPRIATENESS OF THE SCHEME
I suppose one of the considerations for the government is the purpose of the
pension scheme. It may be that the way to handle it is to have a
superannuation scheme rather than a pension scheme and to have it preserved
for example to a particular age but to accumulate entitlements during service.1
Vesting
4.1 The Judges' Pension Scheme has no vesting provisions. This was seen as a weakness
by several judges. For example, Chief Justice Nicholson of the Family Court regarded it as
'unsatisfactory':
...that there is no vested entitlement to anything until the expiration of 10 years and reaching
the age of 60.
If I were to compare it with work in any other area of the community, there would at least be
some benefit available in respect of the years of work that had been carried out.2
4.2 The judges' scheme is non-contributory and it is difficult to find a suitable comparison
among other occupations. Justice Mullane of the Family Court cited an actual example of a
colleague who 'retired for personal reasons after more than 10 years of service but before age
60' and was therefore not entitled to any benefit.3 Justice Mullane continued:
There is a clear inequity in that, for example, someone who resigns at 60 after 10 years service
will receive a full pension until death: whereas someone who resigns at 59 after 22 years
service will not receive any benefit at all.4
4.3 While recognising these seeming anomalies, the Committee does not necessarily find
them inequitable in the sense that conditions of the pension have been set when a judge is
appointed. The conditions of that pension are fully recognised as part of the remuneration
attaching to the appointment and are the same for every federal judge.
4.4 Whether they are inappropriate is another question. Western Australia provides for a
lesser pension entitlement for early retirement from age 55. Whether there should be a
discounted pension for federal judges in the event of their retiring before 60 (or with less than
10 years of service), is really a value judgement. The Committee considers this for the
Government to decide in the light of the Government's decision to raise, from 55 to 60, the
age when superannuation benefits become available generally in the community.
1
Evidence, Justice Mullane, p. 11.
2 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 43.
3 Apart from the superannuation guarantee minimum benefits (see para 2.6?)
Submission No. 4, Justice Mullane, p. 1.
4


Appropriateness of the Scheme
4.5 Perhaps a more "unjust" situation is that of the long serving judge who may work until
compulsory retiring age, yet receive the same pension as one who has retired at 60 and, other
things equal, served for a shorter time.
Death and dependants
4.6 At present, death benefits under the judges' scheme are only payable to spouses or
dependant children. Such a restriction is general in superannuation. This Committee, in its
Seventeenth Report, Super and Broken Work Patterns, offered a solution to the
discrimination against those members of superannuation funds not in a" recognised
relationship. The Committee said:
... fund members without a spouse or dependant as presently defined should be able to
nominate a beneficiary for their superannuation entitlements to whom the fund would pay
those benefits currently available only to a spouse or dependant.5
4.7 The Committee again puts this forward as a general proposition without making a
recommendation, because the Committee does not regard the judges' pensions scheme, as it is
currently structured, as appropriate for such a provision. (However, should
Recommendation 4.2 below be adopted, then the general proposition above may be regarded
as appropriate to enable the payment of the commuted amount to the nominated beneficiary
of a judge.)
4.8 In paragraph 3.93 of Part A of this report, the Committee addressed the issue of the
cost of survivor benefits in respect of the parliamentary scheme. The Committee
recommended that survivor and invalidity benefits continue to be paid. However, the
Committee considered that the rules under which these benefits are paid should be reviewed
to ensure they are in accordance with standards adopted in other private and public sector
schemes.
Recommendation 4.1
; ...
.... , ■ .. . ..". .,.. . ■ ■ • ... ,
The Committee recommends that survivor and invalidity benefits continue to be paid to
beneficiaries of the judges' pension scheme. However, as in the case of the parliamentary
scheme, the Committee considers that the rules under which these benefits are paid should be
reviewed to ensure they are in accordance with community standards.
Commutation and Choice
4.9 Under the judges' pension scheme, commutation to a lump sum is not permitted. In
this context, Chief Justice Nicholson looked at the issue of estate and retirement planning of
judges:
Most judges - many when they are appointed at least - have a young family and have to
continue to maintain term and/or life insurance so that they have a capital sum which they
5
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation, Super and Broken Work Patterns, 1995, para. 14.44.


could provide to their family in the event of death or incapacity because of the complete
absence of any lump sum benefit in the existing scheme.6
4.10 Chief Justice Nicholson compared this situation with the United Kingdom provision
of'a retirement or death benefit equivalent to twice the pension':
As their pension is 50 per cent, it is in effect, a retirement or death benefit of a year's salary. It
is not a huge amount, but it is better than what we have.7
4.11 The Committee believes that such a provision is appropriate to the judges' pension
scheme in Australia, but not so as to increase the overall value of benefits payable.
Recommendation 4.2
The Committee recommends that the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 be amended to provide for
an option for a judge to elect to have his or her pension commuted on retirement, or on death
before or after retirement, to the extent that would provide a lump sum equal to one year of
the yearly pension to which the judge was entitled at the date of the retirement or death.
If such an election is made, any pension subsequently payable to the judge, spouse or
dependant, is actuarially reduced by the value of the commutation so that the total value of
benefits paid is the same as if there had been no election.
4.12 The Committee considers this recommendation, if implemented, also addresses the
issue of lack of flexibility in the scheme, and recognises that a lump sum benefit in
circumstances of death or retirement is often needed.
4.13 Greater choice forjudges in their superannuation arrangements was also considered by
the Committee. It found that, beyond recommendation 4.1 above, no greater range of choice
was appropriate if the integrity of the scheme was to be maintained.
Resolving equity between judges
4.14 The rather vexed concept of equity was canvassed in the submission from the
Australian Government Actuary, and the Committee found the following comments helpful:
Equity is generally understood to reflect a degree of fairness. The trouble is that equity means
many things to many people in many different situations. It is not unknown for a situation to
be viewed as equitable by one person yet viewed as inequitable by a different person.
In the context of superannuation schemes probably the best concept of equity is that in similar
circumstances, similar benefits are provided ...
An alternative concept of equity in the context of a superannuation scheme is that there should
be no significant 'financial bias' for a particular group ...
As equity is such a nebulous concept in the context of a superannuation scheme no further
attempt has been made to define what is equity.8
6 Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 42,
Evidence, Chief Justice Nicholson, p. 43,
7


4.15 Justice Mullane's example in paragraph 5.2 above is a good example of a "relative
fairness" issue.
4.16 The Government Actuary's submission described the main 'perceived inequities' in the
judges' pension scheme as:
• the fact that those who do qualify for a pension clearly receive a much
greater level of employer support than those who do not qualify; and
• judges over age 60 who have at least 10 years service and have attained
the 60 per cent pension receive no additional benefit if they continue as a
judge.9
4.17 The Committee makes no further comment on these perceived inequities as they go to
the very core of the scheme, and the Committee will not be making any recommendations at
the core level. The integrity of the scheme needs to be maintained and, in the light of the
issues considered in the earlier chapters, no major change is considered appropriate.
8 Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 14.
Submission No. 42, Australian Government Actuary, p. 16,
9


CHAPTER 5
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
It is clear enough from what the chief justices have written that they think
pensions are one of the pillars of independence of the judiciary.1
5.1 The Committee considers that the Commonwealth Judges' Pension Scheme has a
greater role than just being part of a remuneration package for judges. The pension scheme
assists in the underpinning of judicial independence. The Committee believes that secure and
adequate judicial remuneration, during retirement as well as during service, is essential to
judicial independence.
5.2 In the recruitment of judges, the pension scheme plays an important role. While
remuneration is only one factor in a prospective judge's decision about whether to accept an
appointment, it is true that, for many, judicial appointment entails a considerable financial
sacrifice.
5.3 The Committee considers that senior barristers will remain the primary source of
recruitment to the judiciary, at least for the foreseeable future. While the Commonwealth
cannot match remuneration levels common at senior levels of the bar, the judges' pension
scheme clearly assists in making judicial appointment more attractive.
5.4 In relation to the unfunded nature of the scheme, the Committee accepts the Australian
Government Actuary's view that the relatively small size of the scheme means that it is not
necessary to make the scheme fully funded.2 The Committee is simply not persuaded that
funding is an important issue, or necessarily relevant, in relation to this scheme.
5.5 Nor does the Committee consider appropriate the replacement of the scheme with an
accumulation style superannuation fund. This would give rise to sensitive issues, such as the
investment of judges' superannuation monies, which might be perceived to affect the
independence of judges in deciding cases having economic consequences.
5.6 Clearly , the scheme is not ideal for all judges in all situations. What scheme possibly
could be? However, the Committee is satisfied overall that the scheme is appropriate, and that
no major transformation is warranted.
Conclusions and Recommendations
Conclusion 5.7:
. 1 ' * b \ ’ ' 1 Ife <’ 1W *,[
#
The Committee concludes that the judges' pension scheme should be retained, with minor
amendments as recommended below.
1 Evidence, Justice Davies, p. 39.
2 The Actuary noted that the costs of the judges' pension scheme "actually is of no great financial
consequence in the context of the Commonwealth's revenue" (Evidence, p. 86).


Conclusions and Recommendations
Conclusion 1.43:
The Committee takes the view, on the evidence it has received, that the judicial pension
scheme does indeed have a greater role than just being part of a remuneration package. The
Committee recognises that judicial independence is a guarantee of the impartiality of the
judiciary, which underpins the federal nature of the Commonwealth, and the protection of
individual rights. The Committee shares the widespread view that secure and adequate
judicial remuneration, during retirement as well as during service, is essential to judicial
independence.
Recommendation 3.1
The Committee recommends that the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 be amended to provide for
an actuarially reduced life pension to be paid to a judge who retires under age 60 after ten or
more years service, but who has attained the age of 55.
Recommendation 4.1
The Committee recommends that survivor and invalidity benefits continue to be paid to
beneficiaries of the judges' pension scheme. However, as in the case of the parliamentary
scheme, the Committee considers that the rules under which these benefits are paid should be
reviewed to ensure they are in accordance with community standards.
Recommendation 4.2
The Committee recommends that the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 be amended to provide for
an option for a judge to elect to have his or her pension commuted on retirement, or on death
before or after retirement, to the extent that would provide a lump sum equal to one year of
the yearly pension to which the judge was entitled at the date of the retirement or death.
If such an election is made, any pension subsequently payable to the judge, spouse or
dependant, is actuarially reduced by the value of the commutation so that the total value of
benefits paid is the same as if there had been no election.
Senator John Watson
Chairman


DISSENTING REPORT
SENATOR LYN ALLISON




DISSENTING REPORT
SENATOR LYN ALLISON
This dissenting report expresses the firm view of the Democrats that the Parliamentary
Contributory Superannuation Scheme (PCSS) is too generous and is in urgent need of reform.
The majority report goes some way to acknowledge the criticisms of the PCSS and explores
the inequities inherent in the scheme between members of parliament whose terms of office
and retirement ages vary widely. But, the report fails to tackle the more substantive issues to
do with the level of public subsidy to the scheme as it was expected to do in its terms of
reference. Furthermore, it shirks from what we acknowledge is the difficult but important task
of bringing the scheme much more into line with community standards, while having proper
regard to the usual nature of parliamentary life. In effect, the majority report refers that task
back to the Government and the Remuneration Tribunal. In our view, this is unlikely to result
in significant change in the absence of firm recommendation from the Committee as to the
direction that reform of the scheme needs to take.
It is fair to say that this Inquiry was not welcomed by the major parties, and our
recommendations, insofar as they would reduce, to varying degrees, the entitlements of
parliamentarians, are unlikely to be popular with all of our colleagues. However, the evidence
to the Committee, was, in our view, compelling in making the case for such a direction in
reforming the PCSS.
The Inquiry was established as a result of a reference moved by the Leader of the Australian
Democrats, Senator Cheryl Kemot. Introducing the reference, Senator Kernot told the Senate:
"The terms of references show that we seek to look at the fairness of the schemes,
particularly in relation to the cost to the public purse and in relation to the benefits
received by other citizens.What is happening now is that the scheme we have in place
actually fails the test of fairness."1
The terms of reference are reprinted in the majority report. It is our view that the absence of
concrete recommendations for reform of the scheme in the majority report has resulted in the
report not fully addressing the terms of reference, even though the Committee had before it
substantial evidence supporting the case for reform of the scheme.
A. LEVEL OF PUBLIC SUBSIDY TO THE PARLIAMENTARY SCHEME
The need for this Inquiry was amplified by the material contained in detailed media reports
on the scheme - notably Inside Canberra and the Reader's Digest - highlighting the very
high level of publicly funded benefits received by some former members of the PCSS. The
Inside Canberra article alleged that some recently retired parliamentarians had received
benefits with a capital value of over $2 million having made contributions of just $100,000 to
$130,000 throughout their Parliamentary life.2 While in many respects these figures are an
exaggeration and somewhat distorted, they added to the already high level of public concern
that the scheme was excessively generous, a view amplified in submissions to the Committee.
1 Senate Hansard 25 November 1996
2 Inside Canberra August 16 1996


The public, in our view, has a legitimate right to be concerned by outcomes such as the fact
that, over the last two elections, as many as five members of Parliament left office aged 40
years or less with an entitlement of a pension for life of between $40,000 and $52,000.3
Because the PCSS is an unfunded defined benefits scheme, and because the benefit varies
dependent on the years of service of the parliamentarian, it is extremely difficult to estimate
the exact level of public subsidy for the retirement benefits of superannuation. The
Government Actuary has reported that the "notional employer contribution" as 69.1 per cent
as at 30 June 19964. The Actuary calculated this notional contribution as the effective cost of
the PCSS benefits as a percentage of the total salaries of scheme members. As such, the
figures does not strictly represent the level of subsidy for each individual members'
superannuation, which varies dependent on the years of service of the member at retirement.
The Actuary also provided the Committee with an estimate of the actuarial value of benefits
for a notional male member at age 325. These varied markedly with years of service.
Assuming the benefit is taken fully as a pension, it varies between 16 -20 times parliamentary
salary for a member retiring involuntarily with 8 -25 years service. However, the Actuary did
not calculate how much of this was funded by the parliamentarian's own contributions and
how much was funded by public subsidies.
Senator Kemot, in her evidence to the Committee6, tabled some estimated calculations of
public subsidy for parliamentarians retiring involuntarily with different years of sendee. The
calculations, prepared by her office, sought to calculate the ratio of "public" or "employer"
contributions to parliamentarian's contributions. It should be emphasised that such an exercise
is sensitive to the assumptions used, however, it did illustrate the heavily subsidised nature of
the scheme:
Estimates of Employer Contributions to the PCSS
Source: Office of Senator Kemot
Given that parliamentarians contribute about 11.5 per cent of salary, a ratio of 8.16 times
employee contributions represents an average notional employer contribution of around 94
per cent of salary for a parliamentarian involuntarily retiring after eight years service. The
report concludes:
"By any measure, these are excessive subsidies. It also fails the test of equity between
fund parliamentarians - shorter periods of service obtain bigger benefits."
3 Material tabled by Senator Kemot, public hearings, June 4 1997
4 Submission No. 42, Department of Finance, p. 12
5 Submission No. 42 Australian Government Actuary, p.7-8
6 Evidence June 4 1997


The Australian Democrat senators, in their submission to the Committee also recommended
that the employer contribution needed to be set at "at a rate substantially less than at
present,"7 as did many of the submissions from the public to the Committee.
The Democrats believe that the evidence of the level of hidden public subsidies to the scheme
being excessive is compelling, and the Majority Report erred in making no recommendation
about the appropriateness of the level of public funding as outlined in its terms of reference.
However, the Democrats share the Majority Report's concern about politicians voting on their
own remuneration. For that reason, the Democrats support the view of the Majority Report
that it would be appropriate for the Remuneration Tribunal to determine a fair level of
superannuation benefits for parliamentarians. However, this review should occur in the
context of a clear direction from the parliament that the level of superannuation benefits
should be reduced.
Recommendation No. 1:
That the level of public subsidy to the PCSS is excessive and needs to be substantially
reduced.
Recommendation No. 2:
That the Remuneration Tribunal should be asked to determine an appropriate, reduced
level of superannuation benefits for parliamentarians, taking into account standards
prevailing in the community at large and the unusual nature of parliamentary life.
B. SHOULD PARLIAMENTARIANS BE COMPENSATED FOR A REDUCTION IN
SUPERANNUATION?
The Democrats strongly disagree with the view that superannuation should be considered as
part of the total remuneration package (TRP)for parliamentarians, with the implicit view that
any reduction in superannuation should be offset by some increase in some other component
of the package. As noted by the Majority Report, the Remuneration Tribunal has expressed
reservations about the TRP approach to salaries, arguing that:
"Accountability is best served by the public knowing the purpose for which funds are
available to Parliamentarians, recognising the distinction between provisions directed to
a parliamentarian's individual benefit and those expenses which are incurred in the
discharge of electorate functions..."8
A TRP approach to parliamentarians' remuneration would allow parliamentarians to arrange
their remuneration to best suit their individual needs, which for some could mean minimising
their tax obligations. It must be seriously questioned whether is appropriate to consider TRP
for parliamentarians at a time when the Government, through the Australian Taxation Office,
is trying to crack down on abuse of salary packaging arrangements in the private and public
7 Submission No. 40 Australian Democrats p. 4
8 Remuneration Tribunal, Statement: Members of Parliament Allowances and Entitlements (1996) p.2


sectors. 9 In particular, should parliamentarians be seeking to move their remuneration out of
superannuation into other forms of remuneration when parliament has put in place laws
making it mandatory for all workers to be members of superannuation schemes.10 In short,
there are very strong arguments for rejecting the TRP approach for parliamentarians'
remuneration, and for maintaining the current arrangements whereby each component of
remuneration should be separately determined as appropriate for its purpose.
The Majority Report expressed concern that if superannuation were reduced without
compensation elsewhere in the remuneration package, it could become a substantial deterrent
to quality candidates entering Parliament. The Democrats do not think that this concern was
well founded on the basis of the evidence. The PCSS only delivers very substantial benefits
to parliamentarians after they qualify for a pension i.e. after three terms of the House of
Representatives. The Democrats frankly doubt whether it is reasonable to conclude that the
aggregate level of pension they may or may not have if they survive three elections would be
a major consideration on the part of would-be members of Parliament. Given the vagaries of
the electoral process and even the preselection process, it is simply too speculative to argue
that changes to the aggregate level of a benefit which they may be entitled to if they survive
three terms would act as the "substantial deterrent" as argued by the Majority Report.
Remuneration is obviously a consideration for serious candidates for election. The
availability of a generous pension after a certain period of service, the absolute level of the
salary available and the immediate value of allowances would clearly be a relevant
consideration. The Democrats would argue that changes in particular to the level of salary or
the general availability of a superannuation scheme could act as a substantial deterrent, but
that the absolute level of a possible future superannuation benefit would be a very marginal
consideration. While the current salary payable to parliamentarians are generous in
comparison with average weekly earnings, it should be noted that the level is set well below
the earnings level of many senior professionals and businesspeople who would find the salary
would mean a significant cut in their living standards.
It is relevant to note that the number of candidates nominating for office at Federal elections
rose from 868 in 1987 to 1163 in 1996, a 34 per cent rise.11 This hardly suggests that the
current remuneration levels are inadequate. It would be extremely hard to justify an increase
in parliamentarians' salaries and allowances even if superannuation were reduced.
The Australian Democrats senators submission to the Committee recognised that the
remuneration arrangements for parliamentarians needed to balance several considerations:
• the need for office holders to be able to live appropriately but not ostentatiously, while
holding office without the need for an independent income;
• the removal of any financial need of illicit income from misuse of office;
9 Treasury evidence to Senate Estimates Committee 18 August 1997
10 Submission 40, Australian Democrats p. 6
11 Australian Electoral Commission, Electoral Pocket Book


• the need for remuneration to be sufficiently attractive to provide an adequate consideration
for qualified citizens to leave the private sector to enter parliament;
• the need to be sufficiently modest to ensure that offices for not become a source of money
making, and that the public has confidence that the remuneration levels are appropriate.12
Based on these criteria, and the evidence presented to the Committee, there is a strong and
compelling case for retaining a parliamentary superannuation scheme. The longer a
parliamentarian is in office, the more distant, in most cases they become from the profession
or occupation from which they came, making it difficult for them to return successfully to
their former occupation. Against this, it should be noted that parliamentarians, particularly
those who take up senior Ministerial office, are able to develop new skills and contacts which
could result in new career paths. But, most parliamentarians do not move into higher office.
In the absence of a retirement savings scheme, a parliamentarian while in office, losing the
relevance of their occupational skills, could feel compelled to use other means to "save" for a
post-parliamentary career. This could involve outside work or illegal use of office. The
establishment of a generous superannuation scheme eliminates such a need. It becomes a
matter of judgement at which point a generous superannuation scheme ceases to act as a
bulwark against the need for supplementary income, and becomes an excessive benefit in its
own right. It is the view of the Australian Democrats that the balance has shifted too far to
the latter, and that a new, more appropriate balance needs to be set by the Remuneration
Tribunal.
Recent media reports have noted that a number of former parliamentarians are still
unemployed some 18 months after losing office. The Majority Report has canvassed the need
for a dislocation allowance to assist former parliamentarians in the transition from parliament
back into the workforce. The Australian Democrats support the establishment of a dislocation
allowance13. Such an allowance should also be read in the context of the strong support given
by the Coalition Senators to preservation of benefits to age 55, requiring former
parliamentarians to wait until age 55 to commence a pension along with the rest of the
community. It is a well recognised industrial principle that employees who lose their
positions are paid a retrenchment or redundancy benefit. This need is currently partly filled
by the superannuation scheme, and it would be appropriate to use the time at which the
benefits payable under the scheme are reduced to introduce a modest and appropriate
dislocation allowance to provide some transitional assistance to former parliamentarians.
Recommendation No 3:
That salary packaging and total remuneration packaging approaches be rejected for
parliamentarians' remuneration, with each element of remuneration being separately
assessed as being appropriate and fair for its relevant purpose.
Recommendation No 4:
Submission no.40, Australian Democrats p. 2
' ’ Submission no. 40, Australian Democrats p.5


That the PCSS be confined in scope to providing an adequate post age 55 retirement
income for former parliamentarians, taking into account the unusual nature of
parliamentary life.
Recommendation No. 5:
That in restricting the PCSS to retirement income purposes and reducing the level of
public subsidy, there should be introduced a separate and additional dislocation
allowance to assist former parliamentarians in transition from office to the workforce.
Such an allowance should be set by the Remuneration Tribunal taking into account
community standards in the area and the unusual nature of parliamentary life.
C. OTHER DESIGN ISSUES IN RELATION TO THE PCSS
The Majority Report has made a number of comments about the design of PCSS, and has
correctly identified the important issues raised from the evidence. The Australian Democrats
concur with the broad recommendation of the Majority Report that the Remuneration
Tribunal should be requested to review the terms and conditions of the scheme. However, the
Tribunal should not be asked to do this in a vacuum. It is our view that the Committee should
provide more detailed guidelines to the Tribunal on the general direction of reform. Nor do
the Democrats agree with the all of the principles on the issues reached by the Coalition
Senators at the end of Chapter Three, given the opposition of the Democrats to a salary
packaging or TRP approach to parliamentarians' remuneration.
Recommendation No. 6:
That, in redesigning the PCSS, the Remuneration Tribunal be asked to:
a. Restructure the scheme as a fully vested accumulation scheme with the level of public
subsidy being substantially reduced, and with the Government contribution becoming
an appropriate multiple of the parliamentarians' 11.5 per cent contribution;
b. That the redundancy function be separated from the retirement function;
c. That, the Government contribution should cease after 18 years, and parliamentarians
be permitted to reduce their contributions to 5.75 per cent after 18 years service as at
present;
d. That membership of the scheme remain compulsory, but where a member can satisfy
the trustees that they have adequate retirement savings already, they may opt out of the
scheme, thereby forfeiting the benefit of the Government contribution;
e. That the rules for survivor and invalidity benefits be reviewed;
f. That parliamentarians be able to make additional contributions if they so opt and be
paid interest on those contributions;


g. That benefits under the scheme be paid as a pension, actuarially determined based
on the value of the accumulated benefit when the parliamentarian retires or turns 55
(which ever is later), with the parliamentarian able to commute up to 50 per cent of
their pension to a lump sum as at present.
Given the overwhelming evidence that the public subsidy of the scheme is excessive, the
Democrats believe that it would be not appropriate for any reform to apply only to new
parliamentarians, with current parliamentarians "grandfathered" into arrangements based on
the existing scheme. Such an arrangement would see parliamentarians working side by side
receiving different remuneration in respect of the same periods of service. It is our view that
the current scheme should be closed down, with benefits determined for existing members as
at the date of the closure. All subsequent service would be remunerated in accordance with
the new scheme, with the Remuneration Tribunal determining the transitional arrangement.
Recommendation No 7:
That the new scheme apply equally to new and current parliamentarians in respect of
future service. The entitlements of existing members should be determined under the
current scheme as at the date of the closure of the existing scheme, with the
Remuneration Tribunal determining appropriate transitional arrangements.
PART D: JUDGES SCHEME
The Australian Democrats generally support the analysis, conclusions and recommendations
of the Majority Report in respect of the Judges' scheme.
Australian Democrats member




APPENDIX A
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
No
1 Chief Justice WJE Cox TAS
2 Judicial Remuneration Co-ordinating Committee SA
3 William Handlin NSW
4 Justice G Mullane NSW
5 J H Jury NSW
6 Confidential
7 Jim Collins NSW
8 Committee of Judges of the Federal Court of Australia C'wlth
8A Presidential Members of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal NSW
8B The Honourable Chief Justice Alastair Nicholson, AO RFD VIC
9 Andrew Humpherson MP NSW
10 Noel Land ^T
11 Don Brown NSW
12 Richard & Christine Moseby ^A
13 Senator Jim McKieman WA
14 E J Hughes NSW
15 John Herring
16 John E Bear NSW
17 Hon Justice J B Thomas QLD
18 Peter Szalay
19 Christine & Walter McLean


Appendix A
20 C W den Ronden QLD
21 A Stoner SA
22 Elaine Braams SA
23 Graham McPherson WA
24 Robert McClelland MP C'wlth
25 Senator Brian Gibson C'wlth
26 V & P Fairweather SA
27 Margaret & Andrew Thomson WA
28 Norma McCarthy SA
29 Judges & Masters of the Supreme Court of WA WA
30 Wilson Tuckey MP C'wlth
31 T R N & E V Lothian SA
32 R Reu SA
33 The Victorian Magistrates' Association VIC
34 Paul Johnson WA
35 Supreme Court of Victoria VIC
36 Richard Weate SA
37 Maxwell T Quirk NSW
38 Bryan Fernandez SA
39 John E Kneen QLD
40 Australian Democrats C'wlth
41 Attorney-General's Department C'wlth
42 & Australian Government Actuary C'wlth
42 Supp


43 Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust C'wlth
44 John J J Wade WA
45 Remuneration Tribunal C'wlth
46 Department of Finance C'wlth
47 The Chief Justice, the Deputy Chief Justice C'wlth
and Justices Fredericko, Buckley & O'Ryan of the
Family Court of Australia
47 Supp Justice S O'Ryan C'wlth
48 Daryl Dixon ACT
49
President of the NSW Bar Association
C'wlth




APPENDIX B
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARINGS
SYDNEY, 1 MAY 1997
The Hon Justice Daryl Davies, Judge of the Court, a Committee of Judges of the
Federal Court of Australia
Mr Alan Dawson, Deputy Registrar, Federal Court of Australia
Mrs Maggie Jackson, Deputy Government Counsel, Civil Law Division, Attorney-
General's Department
Mr Richard Moss, Deputy Secretary, Attorney-General's Department
The Honourable Justice Graham Mullane, Family Court of Australia
Chief Justice Alastair Nicholson, Family Court of Australia
Justice Stephen O'Ryan, Family Court of Australia
Professor George Winterton
Mr George Witynski, Acting Chief General Counsel, Attorney-General's Department.
CANBERRA, 26 MAY 1997
Ms Renee Leon, Assistant Secretary, Courts, Tribunals and Administrative Law
Branch, Attorney-General's Department
Mr Richard Moss, Deputy Secretary, Attorney-General's Department
Mr Craig Thorbum, Australian Government Actuary.


Appendix B
CANBERRA, 4 JUNE, 1997
Mr Daryl Dixon
Dr Vincent FitzGerald
Senator Cheryl Kemot, Leader, Australian Democrats
Mr John Larkin, Assistant Commissioner (Policy), Insurance and Superannuation
Commission
Mr Robert McClelland MP
Mr Graham Millar, Assistant Secretary, Commonwealth Superannuation Group;
Department of Finance
Mr Paul Raffaele, Roving Editor, Reader's Digest
Mr Raymond Stevens, Director, William M Mercer Pty Ltd
Mr Peter Szalay
Mr Craig Thorbum, Australian Government Actuary
Mr Wilson Tuckey MP


APPENDIX C
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees,
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)


APPENDIX C
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Matter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)
A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
-Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers ’ Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of the
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill 1996
- Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Schedules 1,
9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)


Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges' Pension Scheme
(September 1997)


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 140 of 1997
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
