

30th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Workplace Relations
Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill
1997
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
May 1998




30th Report of the
Senate Select Committee on Superannuation
Workplace Relations
Amendment
(Superannuation) Bill
1997
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
Canberra
May 1998


© Commonwealth of Australia 1998
Print ISBN 0 642 25178 9
This document was produced from camera-ready copy prepared by the Senate Select
Committee on Superannuation Secretariat, and printed by the Senate Printing Unit,
Parliament House, Canberra.


MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
Senator John Watson Chair
Senator Lyn Allison
Senator Stephen Conroy
Senator Chris Evans
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran
Senator the Hon Nick Sherry
Tasmania
Victoria
Victoria
Western Australia
South Australia
Victoria
Tasmania
Secretariat Staff:
Secretary:
Principal Research Officer:
Executive Assistant:
Address:
Telephone:
Facsimile:
Mr Peter Hallahan
Ms Celia Tancred
Ms Jade Ricza
The Senate
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
(02) 6277 3439
(02) 6277 5719
This report is also available on the Internet at:
http://www.aDh.gov.au/senate




CONTENTS
PREFACE
1
CHAPTER 1
Background..
Origin of the reference.3
Conduct of the inquiry.3
CHAPTER 2.5
The Bill. 5
Provisions and objectives.5
The issues.6
CHAPTER 3.9
Current arrangements.9
Introduction.9
CHAPTER 4.13
Issues of Concern.......13
Introduction.13
Loss of entitlements.13
Frequency of payments.16
The AIRC and dispute resolution.19
Inconsistency between federal and state industrial jurisdictions.21
Timing of implementation.23
CHAPTERS.25
Government Senators' View_...........25
CHAPTER 6.27
Labor Senators' View......27
Loss of entitlements.27
Frequency of payments.28
Dispute resolution.28
Inconsistencies between federal and state industrial jurisdictions.28
Timing of legislation.29
Recommendation.29
CHAPTER 7.31
Comments from the Australian Democrats
31


APPENDIX A
33
List of Written Submissions
33
APPENDIX B.;.35
List of Witnesses at Public Hearing_______35
Sydney, 27 April 1998.35
APPENDIX C.37
List of Committee Reports.....................................37
APPENDIX D.41
Institute of Actuaries of Australia.„.41
Effect of Monthly Versus Annual Contributions.41


PREFACE
This report on the Workplace Relations Amendment (Superannuation)
Bill 1997 sets out the Government's reasons for introducing the bill
and summarises the range of views expressed by witnesses during the
inquiry.
The Committee is anxious to ensure that readers in the wider
community understand the Committee's approach in structuring this
report.
In the initial chapters, the Committee has sought to present and
analyse the evidence in a balanced, constructive manner. The
concluding three chapters outline the different approaches adopted by
the major political parties towards the proposed legislation. The
different approaches often reflect the parties' positions prior to
consideration of the detailed arguments on the Bill in the Senate. The
matters raised may subsequently lead some, or all of the parties to
amend their previous positions.
The Committee expresses its appreciation to those who made
submissions and gave evidence as witnesses. Preparation of
submissions takes time and effort, and appearing as a witness requires
a considerable sacrifice of time and resources. The value of the
Committee's report and ongoing work is enhanced by the quality of
the material presented to it. Without doubt, the superannuation
industry and wider community are similarly grateful for the
contributions made by all concerned to this and previous inquiries.




CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND
Origin of the reference
1.1 On 25 March 1998, the Selection of Bills Standing Committee resolved that the
Workplace Relations Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1997 be referred to the Select
Committee on Superannuation for inquiry and report by 8 April 1998.
1.2 The Committee subsequently sought and was granted two extensions of time, until
14 May 1998 and subsequently to 26 May 1998, to report on this Bill.
Conduct of the inquiry
1.3 Several submissions to the Committee's preceding inquiry into Choice of Fund1 also
addressed the provisions of this Bill. The Committee wrote to the organisations that made
these submissions seeking their agreement that they be considered as submissions to this
inquiry. The Committee also wrote to a number of other organisations, including the Business
Council of Australia and the Metal Trades Industry Association, inviting them to participate
in the inquiry.
1.4 The Committee conducted a public hearing in Sydney on Monday 27 April 1998.
The names of those who gave evidence at the public hearing are listed in Appendix B.
1 Twenty-eighth report, Choice of Fund, tabled March 1998.




CHAPTER 2
THE BILL
Provisions and objectives
2.1 This is a very brief Bill, containing two amendments to the Workplace Relations
Act 1996.
2.2 The first clause of the Bill repeals paragraph 89A(2)(s) of the Workplace Relations
Act 1996. This amendment removes superannuation from the list of allowable award matters
set out in the Act.
2.3 Removing superannuation from the allowable award matters list means that the
Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC) will no longer be able to deal with
disputes about superannuation by arbitration. The commission will not be able to prevent or
settle disputes about superannuation by making awards or orders or maintain the settlement of
such disputes by varying awards or orders. 1
2.4 The second clause of the Bill amends Subsection 89A(7) of the Act by inserting the
words 'the matter is not superannuation and’ before the words 'the Commission is1. This
amendment removes the AIRC’s power to make "exceptional matters’’ orders about
superannuation, including but not limited to choice of fund, types of employees to be covered,
rate of contribution and employees' ability to access entitlements.2
2.5 The amendments will also have the effect of removing superannuation provisions
from existing federal awards.2 It has no effect on state awards where superannuation remains
an industrial matter,
2.6 Currently, businesses must comply both with award provisions and with the
obligations imposed by the Superannuation Guarantee (SG) legislation. In his second reading
speech, the Minister for Workplace Relations and Small Business, the Hon. Peter Reith,
explained that this Bill will simplify the superannuation arrangements with which businesses
must comply:
The bill will ensure that businesses will no longer have to meet the complex and
confusing standards imposed by the current regime which requires them to comply
with award superannuation obligations on top of another set of requirements
provided for in the superannuation guarantee legislation.4
1 Second reading speech, p. 1.
2 Explanatory memorandum.
3 Second reading speech, p. 1.
4 Second reading speech, p. 1.


2.7 The result of amending the legislation will be that a single set of superannuation
requirements, imposed by the SG legislation, will be in force. The Government considers that
this will be simpler for businesses to administer.
2.8 In his second reading speech, the Minister also reminded the House of
Representatives that when the Workplace Relations Bill was originally introduced into the
Parliament, the allowable award matters list did not include superannuation. Amendments,
subsequently agreed with the Australian Democrats, added superannuation to the list of
allowable award matters.
2.9 The Minister stated that it was always intended as part of that agreement that this
would only be a temporary measure, and that superannuation would be removed from the
allowable award matters as part of the 'Choice of Fund' legislative package.5 The nature of
the agreement was set out in a letter dated 18 October 1996 from the Leader of the Australian
Democrats, Senator Cheryl Kemot, to the Minister for Industrial Relations, the Hon. Peter
Reith, MP. In that letter, Senator Kemot stated that the foreshadowed choice of fund
legislation 'must ensure their workers are not made worse off as a result of any overriding or
repeal of award superannuation clauses'. Senator Kemot advised the Minister that if
agreement were reached on the choice of fund legislation, the Democrats would then be
prepared to support repealing award coverage of superannuation. She concluded :
However, until that legislative package is finalised, we believe that it would be
premature to repeal superannuation coverage by awards.
2.10 The Minister also foreshadowed that the government will introduce provisions to
enable employers to continue to use existing earnings bases following the removal of
superannuation as an allowable matter under federal awards.6
The issues
2.11 Essentially, the issues associated with this bill centre on whether the process of
simplifying employers' superannuation obligations to their employees by removing
superannuation from the federal awards system will unduly affect the current entitlements
and protections afforded to employees by awards. The awards system also provides a dispute
resolution procedure through the AIRC.
2.12 The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) agreed with the
Government’s view that current arrangements under which employers have to satisfy
obligations under both the awards system and SG are excessively complex. The ACCI
considers that there is a need to simplify employers’ superannuation obligations.
2.13 Other employer organisations invited to give evidence, the Business Council of
Australia, the Victorian Employers' Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Metal
Trades Industry Association, declined the Committee's invitation to present their views.
The choice of fund legislation is contained in schedule 5 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No.7)
1997, which, at the time of preparing this report, was still before the Senate.
Second reading speech, p. 1.
6


2.14 Trade union representatives strongly opposed the bill, advising the Committee that
removing superannuation from the allowable award matters list and the jurisdiction of the
AIRC would considerably disadvantage workers.
2.15 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) also expressed
concern about aspects of the proposal.
2.16 In evidence, Trade Union representatives and ASFA identified a range of reasons
why they thought superannuation should remain in the allowable award matters list. The
major concerns identified fall into several broad areas.
• First, persons who currently receive superannuation under award provisions may lose
this and other entitlements if SG becomes the only obligation on employers.
• Secondly, SG imposes less stringent obligations on employers in respect of frequency
of payment of contributions. This may have implications for insurance coverage and the
rate at which contributions accumulate interest.
• Thirdly, there is concern that if the AIRC loses jurisdiction over superannuation
matters, there will be no dispute resolution mechanism available if disputes arise
between employers and employees in respect of superannuation.
• Fourthly, inconsistencies will arise between employees who are covered by federal
jurisdictions and state industrial tribunals where superannuation will remain an
industrial matter.
• Finally, there is a possible issue of timing in respect of implementation with the Choice
of Fund legislation.




CHAPTER 3
CURRENT ARRANGEMENTS
Introduction
3.1 Superannuation first entered federal industrial awards in 1986, as part of a national
wage case. It was introduced on a case by case basis and accordingly, varies considerably
between awards. The introduction of the SG legislation in 1992 greatly increased coverage,
extending it to employees who did not previously benefit from award superannuation.
3.2 The SG legislation requires employers to make superannuation contributions where
an employee’s wages exceed $450 per month. This threshold was originally introduced
because of concerns about the cost of managing small superannuation contributions and
balances.
3.3 Following SG's introduction, employers were (and are) still obliged to also fulfill
award obligations. In some cases, different coverage rules applied which meant that people
who might not have been eligible for contributions under SG were entitled to receive them
under the relevant award. For example, coverage rules in awards based on entitlement
through length of service are different to those under SG (which is based on the amount
earned) and may entitle employees to receive payments where monthly wages are less than
the $450 SG minimum. Differing arrangements were negotiated and agreed to suit the
differing circumstances of particular industries and workplaces.
3.4 The Government considers that the multiple obligations imposed on employers by
both the awards system and SG are excessively complex and add to employers' administrative
burdens. The Minister for Workplace Relations, the Hon. Peter Reith MP made the
Government's intentions clear in the second reading speech on the bill:
The removal of superannuation provisions will remove a layer of complex detail
from awards and relieve employers of the burden of complying with an extra set of
obligations which have done nothing more than add to the complexity of
superannuation administration.1
3.5 Mr Mark Paterson, the Chief Executive of the ACCI, agreed with the Government's
assessment. He advised the Committee that ACCI considers there is 'strong potential for
inconsistency in the proper application of superannuation entitlements for employees' if the
current arrangements were permitted to continue in respect of awards and the impending
Choice of Fund obligations.2
3.6 Mr Paterson told the Committee that the ACCI's views were longstanding:
...we have indicated for a long period of time that there are overlapping and, in
some cases, inconsistent sets of obligations under the superannuation guarantee
1 Second reading speech, p. 1.
2 Evidence, p. 34.


charge provisions and award provisions, and we have argued for a long time that
there ought to be a consistent and single set of obligations in this area, preferring
that superannuation be removed from awards.3
3.7 Mr Paterson concluded that the ACCI's objectives were to ensure that employers
have a clear understanding of the nature of their obligations. He was of the view that the bill
would help clarify the nature of those obligations and remove some element of complexity
which exists at the present time:
I am saying that there will be a reduced potential compliance burden and
complexity for employers if superannuation is removed from the award in the
environment of a choice of fund that is being proposed...they will not have an
overlapping sense of obligations with an employer trying to resolve which set of
obligations it is required to meet.4
3.8 Evidence provided by Mr Philip Drever, Assistant Secretary, Legislation and Policy
Services Branch, Department of Workplace Relations and Small Business, showed that while
the SG applies a single set of rules to all members, the award system applies standards that
vary greatly and lack consistency with SG requirements. In some cases, award provisions are
inferior to SG requirements. For example, some awards specify a three per cent contribution
rate, whereas the SG requirement is currently six per cent of gross wages.5
3.9 Mr Drever also described a range of other areas in which there are significant
differences including:
• choice of fund;
• thresholds (amounts above which contributions are required);
• qualifying periods for entitlement (for example, no payment for first six months);
• membership requirements; and
• payment intervals.6
3.10 Mr Steve Partridge, giving evidence to the Choice of Fund inquiry on behalf of
William M. Mercer Pty Ltd, also supported removing superannuation from the awards
system. Mr Partridge, while conscious that there might be some disadvantage to some groups
as a result of this initiative, considered that the advantages outweighed the disadvantages:
Our primary reason for supporting the removal from awards was to simplify the
whole regime so that you do not have this layer of award requirements overlaid on
the choice of fund requirements. It was simply that. We are conscious of the fact
that it has a few adverse side effects as well, but we think that reason outweighs the
others.7
3 Evidence, p. 34.
4 Evidence, p. 48.
See for example Evidence, p. 51.
6 Evidence, 49-50.
Evidence to Choice of Fund inquiry, p. 160.
7


3.11 However Ms Philippa Smith, the Chief Executive Officer of ASFA, was less certain
about whether there was any significant simplification of administration as a result of
removing superannuation from the awards system:
I think that the answer is that superficially it might look to be simpler, but in the
day to day operations of employers - and you will need to ask them -1 am not sure
that it is simpler. Simplification really has to be weighed against the practical
implications of coverage, equity and having practical systems there.8
3.12 Representatives of the trade unions argued that from an employee perspective,
awards are easier for employees to understand than the SG legislation. Mr Joe de Bruvn,
National Secretary/Treasurer of the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employee's Association
(SDA) told the Committee that awards provide an easy and ready access for any employee to
their superannuation entitlements:
If superannuation was to be limited to the superannuation guarantee legislation,
accessibility by employees to the precise terms of their entitlements would be
significantly reduced. An ordinary worker would find greater difficulty in
comprehending the terms set out in that legislation compared to the easy to read
English which is now used in award provisions.9
8 Evidence, p. 31.
9 Evidence, p. 3.




CHAPTER 4
ISSUES OF CONCERN
Introduction
4.1 As noted in Chapter 2 of the report, the SDA, ACTU and ASFA raised a number of
issues of concern about the implications of removing superannuation from the awards system.
In brief, these issues related to:
• loss of entitlements - persons who currently receive superannuation under award
provisions may lose this and other entitlements if SG becomes the only obligation
on employers;
• frequency of payment - SG imposes less stringent obligations on employers in
respect of frequency of payment of contributions. This may have implications for
insurance coverage and the rate at which contributions accumulate interest;
• dispute resolution - the bill removes the AIRC's power to arbitrate in respect of
superannuation matters;
• inconsistency between federal and state industrial jurisdictions; and
• timing of implementation - there is a possible issue of timing in respect of
implementation with the choice of fund legislation.
Loss of entitlements
4.2 As noted previously, the SG legislation requires employers to make superannuation
contributions in respect of employees who earn in excess of S450 per month. However, some
awards specify lower eligibility thresholds. These thresholds may be based on periods of
service or dollar amounts. For example, the Vehicle Industry - Repair, Services and Retail
Award specifies that casual employees earning more than $200 per month are eligible for
superannuation after six consecutive weeks of service.1
4.3 Witnesses, including the ACTU and SDA, told the Committee that removing
superannuation from awards meant that workers whose employers currently make
superannuation contributions because of awards and who are paid less than the SG threshold
of $450 per month would lose their entitlement.
4.4 The SDA and others pointed out that in addition to losing entitlements to
superannuation contributions, other entitlements would be lost such as death and disability
insurance associated with superannuation, and continuation of contributions when a worker is
injured and receiving workers' compensation.
1
SDA Submission to Choice of Fund inquiry, Appendix B.


4.5 The SDA argued that the loss of such superannuation benefits for these workers
would break the Government's election promise that 'no worker will be worse off under the
coalition's policies'.2
4.6 The SDA and ACTU also contended that the loss of benefits would unduly affect
women, a higher proportion of whom are engaged in part-time work. These groups were of
the view that the changes discriminated against part-time workers. Ms Linda Rubinstein saw
this as being particularly unfair to women, and contrary to the government’s commitments to
promote part time work:
This impacts on part time workers, a disproportionate number of whom are women
who are working part-time in many cases so that they can combine paid
employment with family responsibilities. To be able to carry out this dual role, they
accept that they will have to accept lower pay than would be the case if they
worked full time. To also discriminate against them in respect of their part time
earnings seems particularly unfair and onerous. In fact, discrimination against part
time workers runs against the government’s stated commitment to promote regular
part-time work which offers all full-time conditions on a pro rata basis.3
4.7 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia also expressed concern about
the potential loss of entitlements for persons earning less than $450 per month. Ms Philippa
Smith, ASFA’s Chief Executive Officer, considered that the change would give rise to
significant questions of equity:
I think that is a significant thing because it really goes to the heart of the equity
issues involved in terms of the lowest paid members of the work force currently
receiving superannuation who will be losing out because of that. That section of the
work force traditionally consists of women and migrant employees with a low
skills base and minimal education who are in casual, part-time or intermittent
work.4
4.8 Mr Mark Paterson of the ACCI held the view that the potential problem associated
with loss of entitlements was overstated:
....1 believe we are dealing with a very minor set of circumstances in this area and,
in those circumstances, we are also dealing with very minor contributions being
made in relation to superannuation.5
4.9 Mr Paterson reminded the Committee that the reason for introducing the $450
threshold was because of problems associated with small contributions and balances. He said
that the cost of maintaining small balances in some cases exceeded the balances, and that
other members of the fund had to bear the cost involved:
Clearly there are economies of scale with respect to contributions that are being
made to superannuation funds. There was even with the $450 limit a perceived
need by those in government at the time to introduce protection of small
2
Evidence, p. 3.
3 Evidence, p. 17.
4 Evidence, p. 26.
Evidence, p. 43
5


contributions. So even with the $450 limit they needed to move to introduce
protection for those contributions because the cost of maintaining the funds or the
member accounts in some cases exceeded the level of contributions that were being
made. If you remove that limit, you exacerbate the problem, and with member
protection, all you do is pass the cost of maintaining those accounts on to the other
members thereby diminishing the returns to all members of the fund.6
4.10 Mr Paterson advised that many groups, including the ACCI, considered that the
current $450 SG threshold is too low and should be raised. He said that the ACCI and others
had been very concerned about the impact of small payments in relation to superannuation
funds.7
4.11 However, the Committee is aware of concerns that the $450 SG threshold may make
manipulation of employees' hours a more attractive proposition as a mechanism to reduce
costs by avoiding the requirement to make SG payments. The Committee explores this issue
in the following section.
The threshold and SG obligations
4.12 The Committee sought information about whether the $450 SG threshold increased
the possibility that employers might increase the numbers of part time employees earning less
than $450 per month in order to decrease their labour costs. This could theoretically be
achieved by employing extra staff and ensuring that none worked sufficient hours to exceed
the SG threshold amount of $450. The proposition is less attractive where awards require
contributions at a lower threshold.
4.13 Mr Joe de Bruyn of the SDA commented that this is a possibility in some industries:
I think that some employers would be tempted to do that because, as
superannuation guarantee rises to nine per cent, they would see that as being an
opportunity for significant saving. Because there is already so much part-time and
casual employment within the retail and fast food industries, it is not difficult to
reduce peoples’ hours to keep them below that $450 and just employ one or two
extra people and get the same work done.8
4.14 Ms Linda Rubinstein, an industrial officer with the ACTU, advised that some
employers, particularly those with valued employees, would take the view that the extra
administrative effort would not justify the possible saving that such an action might achieve.
However she confirmed that there are circumstances where employers might consider such an
option:
Where there is not a strong relationship with a particular individual and there is a
saving by doing that, some employers, particularly in labour intensive industries
where margins are very tight, will look to do that. There is no doubt about it.
6
7
Evidence, p. 44.
Evidence, p. 42.
8 Evidence, p. 10.
Evidence, p. 21.
9


4.15 The ACCI representative, Mr Paterson, discounted the likelihood of employers
manipulating employees’ hours to evade SG contributions. In his view, such activities would
not be cost effective:
I am sure that the resources that would be required by an employer to come up with
a roster that resulted in that style of outcome would probably cost them more than
the contribution would be worth. I do not envisage that people would manipulate
shifts to avoid it.
4.16 Mr Paterson also emphasised that employers should treat employees equitably, and
the ACCI would not condone such activities.10
4.17 The Committee sought information about the extent of the problem from
representatives of the Department of Workplace Relations and Small Business. Mr Philip
Drever, Assistant Secretary, Labour Relations Policy Branch, advised that the Department
had surveyed approximately 150 awards, of which 85 included superannuation provisions. Of
these, only seven awards had lower thresholds than the superannuation guarantee.
4.18 In the case of at least one of those awards, the threshold has been recently raised.
Mr Drever informed the Committee that the hospitality award has been raised from $250 to
$350, following a consent application by the employer and union.11
4.19 However, some of those awards are significant in terms of the numbers of persons
employed. Mr Drever stated that it is very difficult to determine the actual number of
employees affected as there are no statistics available.12
Frequency of payments
4.20 Under SG, employers may opt to pay superannuation contributions annually, in
arrears. This is a lesser standard than commonly applies within the award system. Witnesses
expressed concern that less frequent payments have a number of disadvantages for
employees:
• lower retirement benefits;
• greater enforcement difficulties; and
• possible loss of insurance cover.
Frequency of payment and benefit levels
4.21 Mr Joe de Bruyn of the SDA advised the Committee that award superannuation
could include provisions for monthly payment of superannuation contributions. He said that
10 Evidence, p. 44.
11 Evidence, p. 56.
12 Evidence, p. 56.


this is in the interests of the employee because the contributions commence earning interest
for the employee earlier than if the employer contributed annually.13
4.22 During the Choice of Fund inquiry, the Committee sought information from the
Institute of Actuaries about the effect on fund earnings of delayed payments. The Institute
provided the Committee with a table showing that amounts accumulated in members'
accounts are approximately 3.5 to 4 per cent higher over the members' working life when the
payments are made on a monthly rather than yearly basis.14 The table appears at Appendix D
of this report.
Frequency of payment and enforcement
4.23 Mr de Bruyn also considered that annual payments result in significant enforcement
and compliance problems. He said that where payments are made annually, the time lapse in
reporting to members makes it much more difficult for a worker to establish whether the
employer has paid the full entitlement.
4.24 Mr de Bruyn illustrated his case by referring to SG reporting requirements for
1997/98. SG requires that contributions for the 1997/98 financial year be made by the end of
July 1998. Funds generally report to members in regard to financial years, so contributions
made in respect of the current year are not reported until the following financial year.
Consequently, employees may not receive any statement of contributions made on their
behalf for 1997/98 until the second half of 1999.15
Frequency of payment and insurance cover
4.25 Death and disability insurance cover associated with superannuation is relatively
common. Evidence received during the Choice of Fund inquiry indicates that this is often the
only cover that lower income people have, is highly valued and, in the case of high risk
occupations, may be more valuable to the employee than the superannuation contributions
with which it is associated.
4.26 ASFA submitted to the Committee that in industry sectors such as manufacturing,
textile clothing and footwear, and hospitality industries, insurance is essential:
The incidence of accidents and deaths in the workplace is quite high in these
industries, as compared to other industry sectors. In the event of a low income
employee having no insurance cover, it is most likely that the financial burden will
fall to either the spouse or other dependants. The loss of these benefits will
adversely affect the lowest paid members of the Australian community and the
employees least able to make their own arrangements for retirement.
13 Evidence,^. 4.
14 Correspondence dated 9 March 1998 from Institute of Actuaries to the Chairman of the Committee,
Senator John Watson.
15 Evidence, p. 4.
16 Submission, p. 3.


4.27 Insurance cover is dependent upon the payment of premiums. Mr de Bruyn of the
SDA advised that where an employee elects for cover, he or she may not be covered until
contributions are made. Where employers may make contributions up to twelve months in
arrears, as is permissible under SG, the employee may have no cover in the period between
the date of first employment and the date of the first employer contribution.
4.28 Further, the employee may have no means of knowing whether the employer has
remitted the contributions and accordingly, whether he or she is covered by insurance. Ms
Linda Rubinstein advised that this is already a significant problem in some industry sectors:
There have been a number of cases where insurance has been claimed on behalf of
members and it has been found that, because the employer did not pay in the
contributions, that person is not insured.17
Employers' view
4.29 Employers do not share concerns expressed by other witnesses about payment
frequency. Mr Mark Paterson of ACCI was of the view that most employers were unlikely to
change their current contribution patterns. He stated that employers who contributed under
SG already had the option of annual payment for that portion of SG that is in excess of an
award, but he did not think there had been any significant shift towards using this option.18
4.30 Mr Paterson also advised the Committee that, although it is often asserted that award
provisions determine frequency of payment, the timing of payments to superannuation funds
is generally determined by the employer deed signed by the employer. This deed specifies the
frequency of payment. He said that this was unlikely to change:
You will find in many cases that employees are employed under an award, which
envisages either weekly or fortnightly payment of other entitlements, but monthly
payment of superannuation contributions is made. That does not normally align
with a strict weekly or fortnightly payment regime. In most cases, the contributions
are made on the pay periods falling within a month, and that is often governed by
the deed that the employer signs. There is no reason on the face of it why that
situation would necessarily change.19
4.31 The Committee questioned Mr Paterson about whether the advent of choice of fund
might lead to fund managers seeking to induce employers to select their fund on the basis that
annual payments may be made instead of more stringent requirements in their current fund.
4.32 Mr Paterson pointed out while such an option might appeal to some, employers are
required to give key features statements (KFS) to their employees when offering them a fund
under the choice of fund requirements. He advocated including information about frequency
of payment on the KFS.20
17 Evidence, p. 17.
18 Evidence, p. 35.
19 Evidence, p. 34.
20 Evidence, p.36.


The AIRC and dispute resolution
4.33 This legislation removes the Australian Industrial Relations Commission's (AIRC)
arbitration powers in respect of superannuation. The commission will not be able to prevent or
settle disputes about superannuation by making awards or orders or maintain the settlement of
such disputes by varying awards or orders.21 The bill also removes the AIRC's power to make
"exceptional matters" orders about superannuation.22
4.34 The SDA and other witnesses expressed concern that, if the AIRC is prevented from
arbitrating disputes about superannuation, employees will have no other avenues of appeal.
Mr de Bruyn advised that disputes could arise concerning eligibility, fund to which payments
should be made, frequency of payments and other matters.23
4.35 In his view, the advantage of the AIRC is that it is readily accessible and
independent. Further, its decisions are enforceable at law.24
4.36 Ms Linda Rubinstein of the ACTU also addressed the exclusion of superannuation
from being the subject of an exceptional matters order. She said that this was 'really quite
extraordinary' as this would be the only specific exclusion in the Workplace Relations Act."
4.37 Ms Rubinstein said that there were some sound reasons for retaining the AIRC as a
dispute resolution body. She said that the Commission had considerable 'deep corporate'
expertise in handling workplace issues and resolving disputes. She told the Committee that:
The commission works as a cheap, accessible avenue where, not to put too fine a
point on it, it is skilled in, where possible, knocking heads together and saying,
'You sort this out.’ It has a very good record of achieving negotiated settlements
and quick arbitrations where that is necessary. I do not know of any other tribunal
in this country that is capable of doing that with specifically workplace issues.
4.38 Ms Philippa Smith of ASFA considered that the AIRC had played a ’very significant
role’ in resolving superannuation disputes between employers and employees. She thought
that there were a number of reasons for this:
In part, it is because of the nature of the superannuation guarantee itself. As a result
of the way in which the guarantee is administered, disputes between the employer
and the employee are quite different from disputes between the employer and the
Commonwealth for failure to meet a taxation obligation, for example. It is
important to comprehend that the guarantee is not an entitlement but rather a
penalty imposed by the Commonwealth in the event of the employer failing to meet
their obligations.26
4.39 Ms Smith concluded that the AIRC should retain its dispute resolution powers:
21 Second reading speech, p. 1.
22 Explanatory memorandum.
23 Evidence, p. 3.
24 Evidence, p. 3.
25 Evidence, p. 18.
26 Evidence, p. 27.


Our bottom line is that we believe that the role of the AIRC should be retained as
the most effective dispute mechanism that is there at the moment. Certainly, we
remain to be convinced that an alternative body can be found to resolve or deal
with those types of disputes.
...the Industrial Commission has proven itself to be a relatively quick and effective
mechanism for dealing with these sorts of complaints, so we are hesitant about
throwing it out when there does not seem to be another option available.27
4.40 Two alternative options for resolving disputes were canvassed during the hearing.
These were to allocate the task to a reconstituted Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (SCT),
or to allow the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) to fulfil the role.
4.41 All witnesses considered that this was not an appropriate role for the SCT, as that
organisation's dispute resolution functions are confined to resolving disputes between funds
and members rather than employers and employees.
4.42 Ms Rubinstein questioned whether it would be practical for the SCT to fulfil the
role. She said that superannuation disputes were frequently part of wider industrial disputes,
and it would be impractical to divide dispute resolution between more than one body:
...disputes about superannuation are often related to other industrial disputes, so a
union will have a number of matters over which it is in dispute with the employer,
one of which would be superannuation. So to hive that one off, again, would be
costly and difficult for the employer and would also mitigate against a settlement of
a package, which is often the way in which industrial disputes are resolved so a
whole series of things are settled.
4.43 Ms Philippa Smith advised that ASFA did not consider the ATO to be a suitable
mechanism for dealing with employee/employer complaints. She said that the ATO does not
have the 'scope, focus or certifiable mechanisms' for dealing with complaints.29
4.44 Mr Mark Paterson of the ACCI told the Committee that disputes in relation to
superannuation between employers and employees are 'rare and infrequent'. He
acknowledged that there had been a history of disputation in this area but 'I think we are
working in a different environment'.30
4.45 Mr Paterson considered that under the Workplace Relations Act, the focus was now
on resolving disputes at an enterprise level. He said that he did not believe that the retention
of superannuation as an allowable matter within awards could be justified on the basis of
retaining powers to resolve the 'potential occasional dispute'31:
27 Evidence, p. 28.
28 Evidence, p. 20.
29 Evidence, p. 28.
30 Evidence, p. 40.
31 Evidence, p. 40.


We do not believe that we have to establish entities to deal with every potential
, form of difference that might exist within the community. I do not believe that
there is justification, given the regime that is being proposed and the opportunities
for individual or collective agreements to also deal with this issue, and that we then
need to give power to yet another body to try to resolve issues.32
4.46 Ms Kerry Ann Rehn, Assistant Secretary, Legislation Policy and Services Branch,
Department of Workplace Relations and Small Business, confirmed that the AIRC would
lose its arbitration powers but could still fulfil a conciliation role:
The removal of superannuation ffom the allowable award matters means that
superannuation cannot be the subject of an industrial dispute for the purposes of
exercising arbitral powers or settling disputes by an award or order. The
Commission could still exercise conciliation powers in relation to a matter
considering superannuation and in the exercise of those powers could convene
compulsory conferences. So parties could be compelled to attend conferences
before the Commission. Penalties apply for failure to attend such conferences.33
Inconsistency between federal and state industrial jurisdictions
4.47 This legislation will not affect state industrial awards or the jurisdiction of state
industrial commissions and employees whose superannuation entitlements are determined
under state awards will continue to receive them as before. Federal award employees'
superannuation entitlements will, however, be determined by the SG legislation.
4.48 People who have more than one job may be employed under both State and Federal
awards. Companies may also employ some categories of employees under federal awards and
others under state awards. The Committee questioned witnesses about whether removing
superannuation from federal awards and the associated introduction of choice of fund created
scope for confusion among employers and employees.
4.49 Mr Joe de Bruyn of the SDA agreed that there is scope for confusion. He advised
that part time or casual employees may be particularly affected:
If a part-timer or a casual worker is not getting enough hours with one employer,
they will try to get the number of hours they need to meet their weekly income
expectations by having another part-time or casual job with a different employer.
So they could be in this position: partly covered by a state award and partly
covered by a federal award.
4.50 Mr de Bruyn advised that typically, workers in the retail industry were unaware of
whether a state or federal award covers them.34 Accordingly, it may be expected that some
employees on State awards will be confused about their entitlements. This is particularly the
32 Evidence, p. 41.
33 Evidence, p. 52.
34 Evidence, p. 11.


case in respect of the impending choice of fund legislation, as only federal award workers
will be offered choice under that legislation.35
4.51 Mr Mark Paterson of the ACCI agreed that there is scope for confusion. However,
he considered that this confusion should not be compounded at the federal level. He
emphasised that employers sought clarity in relation to their obligations to their employees,
and removal of inconsistencies between the federal and state systems:
You do not address that confusing situation by making it more confusing at a
federal level. You seek to minimise the level of confusion where there is a
constitutional opportunity to do so. If you are asking us if we would prefer there to
be less confusion between state and federal industrial arrangements and a
harmonised system around the country, then our answer would be yes, but that is
not on offer at the present time.36
Clearly we would want clarity in relation to all employment entitlements, but we
have had a perpetuation of inconsistencies between state and federal. We have been
on the record for a long period of time arguing for a harmonised system and a
consistent set of entitlements3'
4.52 Differences between the state and federal award systems also have implications for
dispute resolution in workforces where there is a mixture of state and federal award
employment. Such disputes can currently be resolved through joint sittings of the federal and
state industrial relations commissions. The Committee questioned representatives of the
Department of Workplace Relations and Small Business about the effect of removing the
AIRC’s arbitration powers.
4.53 Ms Kerry Rehn confirmed that following passage of the legislation, it would be
possible to have binding arbitration concerning such disputes in respect of the state awards
but not in respect of workers covered by federal awards.38 Accordingly, the ability to seek
arbitration in respect of the entire workforce where there is a mixture of state and federal
award employees would be lost.
4.54 Mr Philip Drever advised, however, that the Government had been conducting
discussions with the states with a view to harmonising industrial relations systems and that
one aspect of those discussions related to superannuation.39 He was unable to advise the
Committee about when harmonisation might occur.
4.55 The Committee sought information from Mr Drever about whether the situation for
employers covered by both state and federal jurisdictions would become more complex
35
State employees may, where State governments have introduced their own choice of fund legislation, be
offered or already have a form of choice of fund.
36 Evidence, p. 38-9.
37 Evidence, p. 44.
38 Evidence, p. 54.
39 Evidence, p. 55.


following passage of the legislation. He disagreed with this view, stating that 'It goes from
three sets of obligations down to two.'40
Timing of implementation
4.56 In his second reading speech, the Minister stated that the agreement with the
Australian Democrats to retain superannuation as an allowable award matter was only
intended to have effect until choice is implemented. However, due to delays in the passage of
the choice of fund legislation, the Government has announced that it will delay
implementation of choice of fund for new employees until 1 July 1999, and 1 July 2000 for
existing employees. Several witnesses pointed out that enacting this legislation prior to the
implementation of the Government's choice of fund legislation may have unintended
consequences.
4.57 ASFA advised the Committee that if this legislation were enacted prior to
implementation of choice of fund, this would have the effect of introducing fund choice now,
ahead of the intended date.41
4.58 The ACTU made a similar observation. Ms Rubinstein was of the opinion that
passage of the bill prior to implementing choice of fund meant that award provisions would
become unenforceable, effectively giving employers the absolute right to determine the fund
to which employees' contributions would be paid.42
40 Evidence, p. 60.
41 Evidence, p. 28. See also Submission, p. 3.
42 Evidence, p. 16.




CHAPTER 5
GOVERNMENT SENATORS' VIEW
5.1 A comparative examination of federal award provisions concerning superannuation
and the SG requirements shows a distinct lack of compatibility between the two systems.
5.2 Government Senators are of the view that there is scope for confusion amongst
employers as to what their obligations are and which obligation should prevail - SG or the
award. This is particularly so for those with employees on a range of awards. ft is therefore
difficult to escape the conclusion that there is a need to simplify these provisions.
5.3 It is possible that in some limited situations, simplification may disadvantage some
people who currently enjoy greater benefits of superannuation by virtue of some awards.
5.4 Some employees may be disadvantaged to some extent if superannuation is removed
from the awards system. The size of this group is difficult to determine. Further, there are
very limited options available for compensating for this disadvantage.
5.5 In many awards, the contributions required have not been updated in line with
increases in SG (currently 6 per cent, rising to 7 per cent on 1 July 1998). Commonly, the
contribution required is 3 per cent. Where an individual is earning less than $450 per month
and is only entitled to the three percent specified in the award, the contributions involved are
small. Indeed, it must be asked whether the same arguments advanced in respect of
implementing a $450 SG threshold should not apply to these amounts.
5.6 However, at the low income levels in question, the amounts forgone may still be
considered significant. The loss is not necessarily confined to superannuation contributions
but may also include insurance cover associated with the superannuation fund membership.
5.7 One mechanism for compensating for the loss of contributions might be to cash out
the lost benefits. However, both ASFA and the employee representatives indicated their
opposition to making a cash top-up for those employees affected. It is probable that
employers would also oppose such a move. This solution could also encounter difficulties in
respect of AIRC orders.
5.8 A further option would be to lower the SG threshold to a level more in line with
prevailing awards. While this option is superficially attractive, Government Senators do not
consider there has been sufficient consideration of the issues associated with lowering the
threshold for it to make a recommendation.
5.9 Government Senators consider there is also a case for requiring SG payments to be
made quarterly. While this may inconvenience a small group of employers, the evidence
available suggests that the impact should be minimal, as frequency of payment is generally
determined by other factors such as employer-fund deeds, which require payment on a
quarterly or monthly basis.
5.10 These proposed solutions have some shortcomings as they may increase the
administrative burden on those employers currently required to make contributions under SG
only. There are, however, compensating factors. The trade-off is that employers should no
longer be required to meet the compliance costs associated with award superannuation


obligations. For many employers with significant numbers of award employees in high
turnover industries, this initiative would simplify their administrative burden considerably.
5.11 While small amounts involved in quarterly payments may increase costs, it must be
remembered that most small employers are required in any case to remit group tax payments
quarterly. Government Senators consider that costs of making small contributions may be
reduced through electronic funds transfer, and funds and financial institutions should
investigate methods of facilitating such transfers.
5.12 Government Senators do not accept arguments that the award system is conceptually
simpler than SG. While employees may well understand their award entitlements, they also
have entitlements under SG, which they also need to be aware of and understand. In many
cases, particularly the level of payment, SG provides a superior benefit as many awards have
not been updated and reflect a lower level of contributions than required under SG.
5.13 Consequently, removing superannuation from the awards system may well have the
effect of making superannuation entitlements easier for employees to understand as well as
simplifying administrative complexity for employers.
5.14 Government Senators are, however, concerned that there will be no effective dispute
resolution mechanism available to employees in respect of disputes with employers about
superannuation. While such disputes will hopefully be rare and resolved at the workplace
level, a fallback dispute resolution mechanism may be needed. Government Senators suggest
that the Government closely monitor whether there will be a future need for such a dispute
resolution mechanism.
Recommendation
5.15 Government Senators recommend that the bill be passed, to take effect
following implementation of the Government's Choice of Fund legislation.
5.16 Government Senators further recommend that the Government give
consideration to introducing a requirement that SG contributions be remitted on not
less than a quarterly basis.
5.17 Government Senators further recommend that the Government give
consideration to introducing a dispute resolution mechanism, within a reconstituted
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal or other body, to deal with potential disputes
concerning superannuation between employers and employees.
Senator John Watson
Chairman
Senator Alan Ferguson
Senator Julian McGauran


CHAPTER 6
LABOR SENATORS’ VIEW
6.1 Labor Senators do not support the removal of superannuation from the list of allowable
award matters. Such a removal is not just to the disadvantage of employees but also to
employers.
6.2 The Prime Minister, Mr Howard, gave a 'rock solid' guarantee to employees prior to the
last election that 'not one Australian worker would be worse off as a result of the Coalition's
industrial relations policy. This promise will be broken as a result of this Bill.
6.3 Superannuation belongs to employees, it is part of their retirement income, and the
employees' interests must always be paramount. Any changes to the system must ensure that
returns are maximised, costs minimised and protection enhanced.
6.4 Not only is the "rock solid" guarantee of the Prime Minister, Mr Howard, yet again being
broken, it is clear that this legislation fails to meet the standard set by the Australian
Democrats in their letter of agreement as part of the negotiated settlement to allow the
passage of the Workplace Relations Act in 1996 when they set a benchmark that the
legislation 'must ensure their workers are not made worse off as a result of any overriding or
repeal of superannuation clauses'.
6.5 This bill clearly fails to meet the undertakings given by the Coalition government in a
number of ways including;
• loss of entitlements - many persons who currently receive superannuation under award
entitlements wall lose;
• frequency of payments - employers will move to less frequent payments of
contributions;
• dispute resolution - the bill removes the AIRC’s power to arbitrate in disputes;
• inconsistency between federal and state industrial jurisdictions; and
• timing of implementation - conflicts with new dates for 'choice'.
Loss of entitlements
6.6 Loss of entitlements will clearly result. Many awards set a variety of minimum
standards below that provided for in SG legislation. These standards in industries such as
hospitality and retail were negotiated to suit the particular circumstances of the industry and
workplace. Removal of these lower minima will exclude hundreds of thousands of workers
from superannuation and associated insurance coverage. Whilst many of the payments are
small, they have assumed greater significance with the increase in the SG from 3 per cent to
currently 6 per cent and 9 per cent by the year 2001/2002. In addition, employee balances are
now protected and cannot be eroded by fees and charges.


6.7 It is clear that high minimum cut-offs for superannuation payment will provide an
opportunity for some unscrupulous employers to manipulate the hours of work of employees
to avoid paying superannuation at all. Alarmingly, this has recently been admitted publicly
by a representative of a hospitality industry employer group, Restaurant and Catering
Australia.1
Frequency of payments
6.8 Less frequent payments, from monthly to half yearly or yearly, clearly reduces the end
benefit to employees between 3.5 per cent to 4 per cent. This is well illustrated in the table in
Appendix D. In addition, less frequent payments will cause insurance cover to. lapse,
removing a significant benefit from many employees.
Dispute resolution
6.9 The AIRC has been an effective, timely and knowledgable arbiter of disputes. No
witness could provide a mechanism for settling disputes other than bland assertions that the
'culture of the workplace has changed', in other words, all is peace and harmony. Labor
Senators are sceptical that this is the case. Disputes will arise, particularly given the
increasing SG contributions and balances in accounts. Employees and employers are entitled
to know who will arbitrate when circumstances require it.
Inconsistencies between federal and state industrial jurisdictions
6.10 It is incredible that the Minister for Workplace Relations and Small Business can assert
that this bill allows the superannuation system to be simplified when in fact a further layer of
complexity and confusion will result due to differing federal and state industrial legislation.
More complexity and confusion to create simplified administration! There will be great
confusion amongst employees and employers where workforces at the one workplace are
covered by state and federal awards - a not uncommon situation.
6.11 Furthermore, as employees change employment from one employer to another and
consequently move between state and federal industrial awards, the differing legislative
requirements will greatly confuse employees and add to the costs of superannuation.
6.12 Hundreds and thousands of employees have two or more jobs. Many of these
employees will have superannuation provisions in both federal and state jurisdictions at the
same time. The potential for confusion and chaos is considerable.
6.13 Assurances from the Government about administrative simplicity when the evidence is
to the contrary and set against the confusion, chaos and complexity that has resulted from
changes in other areas of superannuation such as the tax-surcharge debacle do not assist in
building confidence in our retirement system.
I
Financial Review, 5 May 1998, p. 36.


Timing of legislation
6.14 It is clearly ridiculous that different operative dates apply to this legislation from that
relating to 'choice of fund'.
Recommendation
The bill is neither in the best interests of employees nor employers and should be
rejected.
./I
Senator Nick Sherry
Deputy Chairman
\
Senator Chris Evans




CHAPTER 7
COMMENTS FROM THE AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS
7.1 The Australian Democrats do not support this bill for similar reasons to those expressed by
the Labor senators. Superannuation is an essential part of remuneration arrangements, and has
been recognised as an industrial matter in several landmark High Court cases dating back for
more than a decade.
7.2 In our agreement with the Commonwealth Government prior to the passage of the
Workplace Relations Act, we made it clear that we would review the continuation of
superannuation as an allowable matter when the Government’s choice legislation was released. In
particular, we foreshadowed we would seek to ensure that workers are not made worse off as a
result of any overriding or repeal of award superannuation clauses.
7.3 The evidence to this committee in this inquiry and its previous inquiry on choice of fund
have failed to satisfy us that workers would not be made worse off as a result of these legislation.
Therefore, we will not support the repeal of superannuation as an allowable award matter.
7.4 However, the Democrats believe that more choice should be provided for employees within
award clauses. While industry funds provide by and large a superior product to master trust funds
and many other superannuation products, the Democrats do believe that workers should have the
choice of exiting a fund which is not performing to their satisfaction. Many award clauses already
provide this by allowing for choice between more than one fund within the award clause.
However, many do not.
7.5 The Democrats, in the Committee stage, will move to require the Australian Industrial
Relations Commission to review all awards by July 1 2000 to ensure that they provide workers
with a choice of at least two industry-based superannuation funds. Such a choice will retain the
benefits of industry based superannuation provision, while also giving employees the option of
exiting funds which are not performing in a “managed choice” regime.
7.6 The Democrats have also moved amendments to the choice regime to allow workers moving
between employers to retain membership of an industry fund which they are happy with. The
Workplace Relations Act may also need to be amended to ensure that such flexibility in
interpretation of award clauses can be allowed.
The Democrats recommend:
That superannuation be retained as an allowable award matter.
That the Act be amended to require the Commission to review all award superannuation
clauses by July 1 2000 to ensure that employees are given a choice of at least two industry
based superannuation funds.
That the Act be amended if necessary to ensure that workers moving between employers
have the option of retaining membership of their former superannuation scheme if the
employer consents.
Senator Lyn Allison




APPENDIX A
LIST OF WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS
1 Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees’ Association (SDA)
VIC
2 Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU)
VIC
3 The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia Limited (ASFA) NSW




APPENDIX B
LIST OF WITNESSES AT PUBLIC HEARING
Sydney, 27 April 1998
Miss Sue-Anne Burnley, Industrial Officer, Shop Distributive and Allied Employees
Association
Mr Joseph de Bruyn, National Secretary-Treasurer, Shop Distributive and Allied
Employees Association
Mr Philip Drever, Assistant Secretary, Labour Relations Policy Branch, Department
of Workplace Relations and Small Business
Ms Naomi Knight, Adviser, Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia
Mr Mark Paterson, Chief Executive, ACCI
Ms Kerry Rehn, Assistant Secretary, Legislation Policy and Services Branch,
Departmenr of Workplace Relations and Small Business
Ms Linda Rubinstein, Senior Industrial Officer, ACTU
Ms Philippa Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Association of Superannuation Funds of
Australia




APPENDIX C
LIST OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
Super System Survey - A Background Paper on Retirement Income Arrangements in
Twenty-one Countries (December 1991)
Papers relating to the Bymwood Ltd, WA Superannuation Scheme (March 1992)
Interim Report on Fees, Charges and Commissions in the Life Insurance Industry
(June 1992)
First Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Safeguarding Super -
the Regulation of Superannuation (June 1992)
Second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
Bills (June 1992)
Super Charges - An Issues Paper on Fees, Commissions, Charges and Disclosure in the
Superannuation Industry (August 1992)
Third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and the
Financial System (October 1992)
Proceedings of the Super Consumer Seminar, 4 November 1992 (4 November 1992)
Fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fiscal and
Social Links (December 1992)
Fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervisory
Levy (May 1993)
Sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super - Fees.
Charges and Commissions (June 1993)
Seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Inquiry
Overview (June 1993)
Eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Inquiry into the
Queensland Professional Officers Association Superannuation Fund (August 1993)
Ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Supervision
Bills (October 1993)
Tenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Complaints
Tribunal (December 1993)
Eleventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Privilege Flatter
Involving Mr Kevin Lindeberg and Mr Des O'Neill (December 1993)


A Preliminary Paper Prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation for
the Minister for Social Security, Options for Allocated Pensions Within the Retirement
Incomes System (March 1994)
Twelfth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super for Housing
(May 1994)
Thirteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs I
(August 1994)
Fourteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Regs II
(November 1994)
Fifteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super Guarantee
- Its Track Record (February 1995)
Sixteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Allocated
Pensions (June 1995)
Seventeenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super and
Broken Work Patterns (November 1995)
Eighteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Review of the
Superannuation Complaints Tribunal (April 1996)
Nineteenth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Reserve Bank
Officers' Super Fund (June 1996)
Twentieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Provisions of
the Social Security Legislation Amendment (Further Budget and Other Measures) Bill
1996 - Schedule 1 (November 1996)
Twenty-first Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Investment of
Australia's Superannuation Savings (December 1996)
Twenty-second Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Retirement
Savings Accounts Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-third Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Surcharge Legislation (March 1997)
Twenty-fourth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Schedules
1, 9 & 10 of Taxation Laws Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1997 (June 1997)
Twenty-fifth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - The
Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Scheme & the Judges' Pension Scheme
(September 1997)
Twenty-sixth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Super -
Restrictions on Early Access: Small Superannuation Accounts Amendment Bill 1997
and related terms of reference. (September 1997)


Twenty-seventh Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Contributions Tax Amendment Bills. (November 1997)
Super Taxing - An information paper on the Taxation of Superannuation and related
matters. (February 1998)
Twenty-eighth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Choice of
Fund. (March 1998)
Twenty-ninth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation -
Superannuation Legislation (Commonwealth Employment) Repeal and Amendment Bill
1997, Commonwealth Superannuation Board Bill 1997, Superannuation Legislation
(Commonwealth Employment - Saving and Transitional Provisions) Bill 1997. (April
1998)
Thirtieth Report of the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation - Workplace
Relations Amendment (Superannuation) Bill 1997. (May 1998)




APPENDIX D
INSTITUTE OF ACTUARIES OF AUSTRALIA
Effect of Monthly Versus Annual Contributions
The amounts in the table represent the amount accumulated at the end of the period shown
using the following assumptions:
• Contributions of $100 per month (at the end of each month) or $1200 per year (at the end
of each year)
• Interest rates of 9% or 8% as indicated.
In each case the accumulated amount based on monthly contributions is approximately 3.5%
or 4% higher than the accumulated amount based on annual contributions after ail time
periods.


THE PARLIAMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENTARY
PAPER
No. 94 of 1998
ORDERED TO BE PRINTED
ISSN 0727-4181
