

WS. THIRTY-EIGHTH REPORT
OP THE
NEW SOUTH WM I, E. S
AUXILIARY
BIBLE SOCIETY,
p. - -
M THE YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1854.
OSm *•
.'iCwl *
®ml), 1817.
itpnt:—CORNER OF SJNC AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY.
" THE BIBLE, THE WHOLE BiBLE, AND NOTHING BUT THE BIBLE.”




pr J 2275 b
OF THE
NEW SOUTH WALES
AUXILIARY
THE YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1854.
gg.uclj, 1617,
“ THE BIBLE, THE WHOLE BIBLE, AND NOTHING BUT THE BIBLE.”
iiliumj:
PRINTED BY D. L, WELCH,
MDCCCLV.
THIRTY-EIGHTH REPORT
BIBLE SOCIETY,
IRptCORNER OF KING AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY.
ATLAS OFFICE, (NEXT DOOR TO PIDDINGTON’s,) GEORGE STREET.




mysy f b
2k*
RESOLUTION
The Thirty-eighth Annual Meeting of the New South Wales Auxiliary
Bible Society was held in the Congregational Church, Pitt Street, on Monday
the 29th January, 1855, the President of the Society, George Allen, Esa-,
M.L.C., in the Chair.*
Moved by the Rev. Mr. Hull,
Seconded by A. Bonar, Esa.
I.—That the Report now read be adopted, and, together with the Treasurer’s
Account and List of Subscribers, be printed and circulated under the di-
rection of the Committee.
Moved by the Rev. John West, from Launceston,
Seconded by James Barker, Esa.
2.—That this Meeting greatly rejoices in the continual prosperity of this Auxili-
ary, and in the spirit of liberality manifested toward it by the Christian
public of New South Wales throughout the past year; that it gladly ac-
knowledges the good hand of God in these renewed tokens of his favour,
and desires thus publicly to offer up humble and devout thanksgiving.
Moved by the Rev. Mr. Buddle, from New Zealand,
Seconded by the Rev. W. B. Boyce.
3.—That the continued beneficial effects of Colportage in this Colony call forth
the gratitude, and ought to enlist the sympathy and steady support of the
Christian community in its behalf. That this Meeting gratefully acknow-
ledges the liberality with which the British and Foreign Bible Society has
come forth to the assistance of this Auxiliary, to enable it to increase the
number of its Colporteurs ; and desires to rejoice in the increased usefulness
of that great institution in all parts of the world, and in the munificence of
the recent contributions towards its funds.
Moved by John Campbell, Esa.,
Seconded by W. S. Moutry, Esa.
4. —That the following be the Office-bearers for the present year: President,
George Allen, Esq., M.L.C.; Vice-Presidents, The Venerable Archdeacon
Cowper, D.D.; the Rev. Robert Ross, M.D.; Treasurer, George W. Allen ;
Secretary, James Comrie. And that the following names lie added to the
Committee instead of those who retire under the Sixth Rule.—The Rev.
George King, the Rev, J. Elder, the Rev. W. Lumsdaine, Professor Smith,
M.D., A. Bonar, Esq.
Moved by John Fairfax, Esa ,
Seconded by the Rev, Benjamin Hurst, of Goulburn.
s.—That the thanks of this Meeting be given to George Allen, Esq., M.L.C., for
his kindness in presiding on this occasion.
* For a full Report of the interesting ami eloquent speeches delivered on the occasion, see
Appendix.


NOTICE.
King Streets, Sydney.
A great variety of Bibles and Testaments in plain
and elegant bindings, at very low prices, always
on hand, at the Depository, corner of Pitt and


RULES
THE NEW SOUTH WALES AUXILIARY BIBLE SOCIETY.
I.— This Society shall be designated The Auxiliary Bible Society of New
South Wales.
It.—The object of this Society shall be to co-operate with the British and
Foreign Bible Society in promoting the distribution of the Holy Scriptures with-
out note or comment.
lll.—Each Subscriber of One Pound sterling annually shall be a Member ; and
each Benefactor of Ten Pounds sterling shall be a Life Member.
IV.—The business of the Society shall be conducted by a President, one or
more Vice-Presidents, a Treasurer, one or more Secretaries, and a Committee
(being Members of the Society) of not less than ten —any three of whom shall
form a quorum.
V.—The Committee on discovering what families or individuals residing in the
various districts of the Colony are in want of Bibles or Testaments, shall be at
liberty to furnish the applicants therewith at cost prices, reduced prices, or gratis,
according to their circumstances ; and all Subscribers of One Pound sterling an-
nually shall be allowed to purchase Bibles and Testaments within the current
year to the amount of Five Pounds sterling, or in proportion to any additional
sum subscribed, at a reduction of 15 per Cent.
Vl.—One-fourth of the Old Committee, being those who have attended least
frequently during the year, shall retire annually, but be eligible for re-election.
Vll.—That a Depositary be appointed to take charge of the Bibles and Testa-
ments and to dispose of them under the direction of the Committee.
VIII.—The Committee shall meet once a month for the dispatch of business, at
such time and place as they may find most convenient.
IX.—The Annual Meeting of the Society shall be held on such day in the month
of January in each year as the Committee shall determine, when the Accounts,
duly audited by two of the Committee, shall be presented, the proceedings of the
past year shall be reported, and the Office-bearers and Committee be elected.
X. —A Report, with the account of Receipts and Disbursements, shall be pub-
lished annually.


OFFICE BEARERS & COMMITTEE.
f Etrnu:
lIIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR GENERAL.
atrnu:
f raiimit:
GEORGE ALLEN, Esa., M.L.C.
Bicc-fiTsiiunite
THE VENERABLE ARCHDEACON COWPER, D.D.
THE .REVEREND DR, ROSS.
tom:
GEORGE WIGRAM ALLEN.
imuhirij
JAMES COM
COMRIE,
CmrnnitteF
Rev. JOSEPH BEAZLEY,
Messrs. JAMES BARKER,
W. B. BOYCE,
J. ELDER,
A. BONAR,
u GEORGE KING,
« R. L. KING,
W. LUMSDAINE,
F. RABONE,
THOMAS HOGG,
n DAVID JONES,
„ A. SALMON,
„ J. VOLLER,
/< Principal WOOLLEY, D.D.
Professor SMITH, M.D.,
W. S. MOUTRY,
GEORGE REES,
G. C. TUTING.
Mr. JOHN ALEXANDER,
igi'irts nf llip |nmtg;
SAMUEL GOOLD, Depositary ane Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Depositary.
WILLIAM HEWITT, Colporteur.
WILLIAM WILLETTS, Ditto.
THE RIGHT REVEREND THE LORD BISHOP OF SYDNEY.
« JOHN CAMPBELL,
n JOHN CALDWELL,
n JOHN FAIRFAX,
FRANCIS MITCHELL


REPORT.
The period has again come round when the Committee of the
New South Wales Auxiliary Bible Society, are accus-
tomed to render to the Subscribers an account of their steward-
ship for the year.
The continued prosperity of the Auxiliary calls for con~
tinued thankfulness and increased exertion. Difficulties are
still encountered it is true, and the great enterprize in which
we are embarked has not been brought to its present state of
efficiency and extensive operation, without involving your
Committee in some trouble, and occasionally in much anxiety.
But when they look back upon the past, and compare it with
the present —when they think of the success which has now
crowned the patient toil and laborious efforts of many years,
they are encouraged to face firmly the difficulties which may
yet lie in the way of still more extended operations, and cheer-
fully to combine their increased exertions in trying to scatter
broadcast through the land the pure and precious seed of God’s
life-giving word.
The past year has been an eventful period in many depart-
ments of the world’s history. But we are not called upon to
record here the strife of nations, the devastations of pestilence,
or the bloody carnage of a destructive war.
Ours is the more pleasing task to relate the peaceful pro-
gress of a Society whose grand object is to carry to every man
in his own tongue, that precious book on whose sacred pages
are inscribed the grand proclamation which resounds from the
plains of Bethlehem, reverberates among the everlasting hills,
and falls in silvery echoes on every human ear. <{ Glory to
God in the highest, peace on earth, and goodwill to men!”'


The business transacted at the Depot of your Auxiliary
during the past year, although retarded by changes in the
management, has upon the whole, been of a most satisfactory
and encouraging kind. The late Depositary, after a long pe-
riod of faithful service, having determined to commence busi-
ness in Sydney on his own account, sent in his resignation to
the Committee in the month of August last, which was ac-
cepted with regret. The present Depositary, who was shortly
afterwards appointed by a large majority of the Committee,
has, for some time back, been in such bad health, as to induce
him to intimate to the Secretary his intention of immediately
resigning the office. Your Committee will lose no time in en-
deavouring to get this important post filled by an able and ef-
ficient officer.
The lease of the premises in King and Pitt Streets, where
the Depot is situated, having expired during the past year,
arrangements were immediately entered into for a lease of the
whole building for three years (should the present proprietress
live so long,) at a rental of £4OO per annum —the responsibi-
lity is shared between this Society and the Tract and Book
Society, while a large portion of the building is sub-let at a
rental which reduces considerably the share in the expense to
be borne by this Society.
Since we last met together the system of Colportage has
been carried out on an extensive scale, and in a very effective
manner. At the commencement of 1854 your Committee had
the pleasure of announcing no less than six Colporteurs in the
field. Shortly after, one of them was compelled to resign the
work, and during the remainder of the year, five have been ac-
tively engaged in exploring the interior, and circulating the
Scriptures. Two of these have just sent in their resignation
in consequence of their intention to enter into the married
state, and owing to the difficulty of obtaining men who are
adapted to the work, their places have not yet been filled up.
The continuance of this effective mode of circulating the


Bible extensively throughout the Colony—especially j n
more remote districts where so many lonely dwellers live,
scattered far apart from each other, uncared for and unvisited
by any one concerned for their immortal interests—becomes a
subject of growing importance, and has for some time past
been a cause of considerable anxiety to your Committee.
The spiritual destitution of the distant parts of the interior
calls loudly for the periodical visits of your Agents. This in-
volves a great amount of toil and a large expenditure of money
—while at the same time the amount realised from the sale of
Bibles and Testaments is much smaller than in the more
populous districts, where the sales are not only comparatively
large, but the expenses are much less, and the habitations of
the people far more easy of access.
You are aware that, hitherto, the expense of supporting
these Agents has been shared equally between this Society and
the Australian Religious Tract and Book Society—the time of
the Colporteurs being devoted equally to the disposal of Bibles
and Testaments, and to the works of the Tract and Book So-
ciety. It has been recently deemed expedient by the Com-
mittee to alter this arrangement, and they have determined
that, so soon as the alteration can be safely effected, the Col-
porteurs belonging to your Auxiliary shall sell nothing but the
Bibles and Testaments of the British and Foreign Bible So-
ciety. One immediate consequence of this change will be,
that the whole expense attendant upon this agency will fall
upon your Society. The increased expenditure during the
past year, has entirely absorbed the Colporteur Fund collected
during the previous year; and, had it not been for the gene-
rosity of the Parent Society in presenting your Committee with
a donation of £4OO towards this special object, your staff of
Agents must not only have been immediately reduced, but
shortly set aside altogether. Your Committee have a pleasant
and grateful recollection of the prompt and liberal manner in
which you cheerfully responded to their last appeal on behalf
of the Colporteur Fund, and they trust that you will not now


be found indifferent to the strong - claims which this important
agency has upon your cordial sympathy and substantial support.
Your Committee will now proceed to give you some idea of
the labours of these self-denying men, who, during the past
year, have been travelling throughout the interior as the agents
of the Bible Society.
In consequence of the express wish of some of the inhabi-
tants of the Moreton Bay District, one of your Colporteurs
was despatched early last year to Brisbane, with a large stock
of Bibles and Testaments. After remaining some time in
Brisbane, and supplying the demands for the Word of God,
he proceeded to visit Ipswich, Warwick, and Drayton, can-
vassing thoroughly the intervening country, and penetrating
the interior, northward and westward, for three or four hun-
dred miles. This was a journey of great fatigue, attended
with apparently very small results. The stations were so far
apart that it sometimes took him a whole day to go from one
to another, and then he usually found that at the principal
stations, where the proprietor himself resided, there was no
lack of Bibles and Testaments. But on visiting the out-
stations and conversing with the shepherds and hutkeepers, he
found that, with very few exceptions, indifference to religion,
ignorance of its most elementary truths, and spiritual desti-
tution of the worst kinds, prevailed to a fearful extent. Some
of these lonely dwellers in the bush had not been within a
place of worship, nor seen a minister of the Gospel for periods
of eight, ten, and twelve years. Religion and the Sabbath
were not recognised. The Bible was an unknown, or, at best,
an unread book; and the immortality and future welfare of the
soul seemed to give not the least concern. To such the visit
of your Colporteur was a memorable event. The neglected
Bible was opened and read, and from many of these remote and
solitary huts the voice of praise and prayer was heard for the
first time to resound ; for your Colporteurs are most particular
in always trying to be allowed to have family prayer wherever
they may pass the night, should the head of the household not


be in the habit of observing that duty himself. After travelling
several thousand miles in this way, he turned to the southward,
and retraced his steps by another route, with the intention of
coming down to Sydney overland. By late letters we find he
had reached the Clarence River, where a fresh supply of Bibles
and Testaments have been forwarded to him, and wdiere he is
now faithfully and zealously performing the honourable and
arduous duties of his mission.
Another of these labourers gives the following extracts from
his journal:—
“ 10th January, 1854. Left Sydney with a large supply of
Bibles and Testaments for Raymond Terrace. Afterwards
visited the upper and lower Williams River, visited Bandon
Grove, crossed the mountains to the Alleyne River, and after
a careful visitation of all the dwellings along its banks, I re-
traced my steps and returned to Newcastle, where I remained
for some time, and thoroughly canvassed the whole neigh-
bouring country, selling Bibles and Testaments wherever I
could. I then started for New England, sending forward a
good supply of the Word of Life to the various townships on
the road. Spent a few days at Singleton, Muswellbrook, and
Scone, where I met with great kindness and encouragement
from the clergyman and several of the leading men of the
place. I remained here a month, journeying into the neigh-
bouring country, and sold the whole of my stock, and received
several Subscriptions and Donations on behalf of the Society.
I then left for Murrurundi, and proceeded on to Tamworth,
visiting all the stations on the road and selling a good many
Bibles by the way.
“ From Tamworth, where I received great kindness from
the clergymen, I proceeded to the Hanging Rock Diggings,
where I sold a good many Bibles and Testaments. From
there I went on my way to Armidale, a distance of 185 miles,
calling at all the stations on the road, and selling Bibles. On
my arrival at Armidale, I met with great kindness and at-


tention from the Rev. Mr. Maxwell, who rendered me every
assistance in his power, and provided me with letters of intro-
duction to the principal settlers in the Wellingrove District,
to which place I next directed my steps. This is about 80
miles further, and is a very neglected place; they have no
minister, and no school. I penetrated the interior from here
for 100 miles to the east and west, and found great spiritual
destitution wherever I went. In some places they have not
seen a minister for eight or ten years ; no one to bury their
dead or baptise their children ; few Bibles or good books of
any kind among them, and consequently much indifference to
religion is manifested. I also penetrated the bush for 108
miles to the north of Wellingrove, and found the people in the
same neglected state. While travelling in these parts. I was
sent for three times to bury the dead. In one of the townships
the magistrates asked me to read prayers to the people in the
Court-house on the Sabbath; this I agreed to do, and 64 per-
sons attended. Shortly after, when stopping for a night at a
house in the neighbourhood, the people of the house told me
that the sermon I had read at the Court-house on the Sabbath
about family prayers had had such an effect upon them, that,
with God’s help, there should now be prayers in their houses
morning and evening. I met a Chinaman here also, to whom
I had given a Testament in Maitland last year, and was sur-
prised at the knowledge he had obtained of the Christian re-
ligion. He expressed a great wish to be baptized, and the
people told me he was very devout, and would not sit down to
his meals without first asking a blessing.
“ I visited the banks of the Severn, and found that one of
the Colporteurs from the Moreton Bay district had been there
a short time before ; he had travelled about 600 miles from
south to north, and I had travelled about 600 miles from north
to south. He had from thence diverged to the Clarence River,
and I returned by another route to Wellingrove and Armi-
dale. Returning to Sydney by way, of the diggings, I found
much drunkenness among the people, and, after taking the
pledge myself for the sake of example, I administered it to


nine others. Daring these journeys I travelled about three
thousand miles.”
Here follow particulars of the journeys of the other three
Colporteurs.
You will be able to glean from these particulars sufficient
proof of the interesting and important nature of the agency
known by the name of “ Bible Colportage/’ and its peculiar
adaptation to the scattered population and spiritual destitution
of the interior of Australia. We now leave the matter in your
hands, with the confident conviction that you will not suffer
such a system of usefulness to droop or die for want of that
pecuniary support you are so well able, and have been hitherto
so willing to afford.
During the past year, the sales at the Depot have been 2738
Bibles and Testaments, producing the sum of £485 11s. 3d.,
and the sales by the Colporteurs have been 2990 Bibles and
Testaments, producing the sum of £317 4s. 4d. The entire
sales throughout the year have been 5728 Bibles and Testa-
ments, producing the sum of £BO2 15s. 3d.
Grants of 120 Bibles and 274 Testaments in English and
Foreign languages, have been made during the year to Sab-
bath Schools belonging to various denominations, to mission-
aries, to sailors, and to several public institutions.
The entire issues from your Depot throughout the year
1854 have amounted to 6122 copies of the sacred Scriptures,
which shows a considerable increase over the issues of the pre-
vious year, and which, added to the entire issues from the
Depot of your Auxiliary, since its establishment in 1817,
makes a grand total of 45,410 copies of the Word of God sent
forth and scattered in every corner of the colony by means of
your agency. W T ho can tell the leavening, life-giving influ-
ence which this silent perennial stream may have had upon
the Colony at large ?—restraining from lawlessness and crime,


inspiring and keeping alive the firm resolve to do justly, to
love mercy, and to walk humbly with the Lord God of the
Bible; warning the careless, soothing the penitent, comforting
the mourner, guiding the young, supporting the aged, and filling
the departing soul with bright anticipations of that glorious
state where sin and sorrow are unknown.
The Cash receipts during the year show upon the whole a
very satisfactory result.
It will be recollected, that at the last Annual Meeting it was
resolved to raise a fund for the purpose of erecting in Sydney
a Bible Hall, in commemoration of the Jubilee year of the
Parent Society. Several handsome Donations were then
given towards this object, and the sum of £365 Os. 9d. paid in
to the Treasurer. That sum has lately been increased to
£lOO9 by the personal endeavours of one of the Members of
your Committee, whose unwearied efforts on behalf of this and
the general objects of the Auxiliary, they have much pleasure
thus publicly acknowledging.
The Jubilee Fund for building purposes now amounts, there-
fore, to £lOO9. The sum of £365 Os. 9d. has been already paid
into the hands of the Treasurer, and the remainder is available
when required.
Much interest having been expressed by many persons in
the Colony in behalf of the funds which the Parent Society
had undertaken to raise, for the purpose of sending a million
copies of the New Testament, and fifty thousand copies of the
Bible to be circulated in China, your Committee determined
to afford the colonists an opportunity of subscribing to such a
noble object; and they therefore issued a circular on the sub-
ject, in the names of the President and Secretary, addressed
to Ministers, Sabbath School Teachers, Sabbath Scholars, and
others.
Your Committee have great pleasure in announcing that this


appeal was warmly received, and liberally responded to, espe-
cially by the teachers and children of the various Sabbath
Schools in the Colony. Contributions still continue to be re-
ceived towards the Fund, which at present amounts to the
large sum of £352 Os. 9d. The importance of- this large con-
tribution will be better estimated when it is considered that it
is chiefly made up of the pence of a portion of the Sabbath
scholars of New South Wales. It affords a pleasing proof
that a large proportion of the rising race are being trained in
the truths and precepts of the Bible, and that their young
hearts are imbued with the generous impulses which the glad
news of the sacred volume inspire. The thanks of your Com-
mittee are due to the Ministers, the Teachers, and the Scholars
who have thus responded to the appeal.
In addition to these three sources of income during the past
year, contributions towards the general purposes of the Auxili-
ary have been received, amounting to £Bl3 75., making, with
the Donations received from the Parent Society towards Col-
portage, and the balance in hand from last year, a grand total
of £2746 15s. 9d.
In addition to the circulation of the Bible by means of Col-
porteurs, your Committee have recently opened branch Depots
at Parramatta, Maitland, Brisbane, and Goulburn, where a
Ladies’ Bible Association has for some time been in active
operation, and has paid in during the past year the sum of
£76 7s. 6d. Mr. Hewlett, of Wollongong, has also collected
£27 towards the funds of the Society during the past year.
Your Committee have much pleasure in offering their cordial
thanks to all these kind and gratuitous labourers in the good
cause.
Your Depot has been replenished during tne year by several
large supplies of Bibles and Testaments from the Parent So-
ciety, and remittances have been made during the same period
on purchase account amounting to £lOOO.


It is delightful to find that that great institution, the British
and Foreign Bible Society of London, continues to flourish
with undiminished vigour.
Its financial history during the past year is one of the won-
ders of the age, and is perhaps without a parallel in the history
of religious institutions.
The income of the Society for the year ending in March,
1854, amounted to nearly a quarter of a million sterling; the
Jubilee Fund being £66,000; the China Fund, £30,000;
and the Fund for general purposes, £125,000 —being £16,000
more than in the preceding year, and £BOOO more than in any
former year.
The issues of Bibles and Testaments for the year had**
amounted to 1,367,528, making a total issue since the com-
mencement of the Society, in 1804, of 27,938,631-
A portion of the Jubilee Fund has been set aside for the
purpose of extending the system of Colportage in these colo-
nies, and to defray the expense of sending out a deputation to
assist in advancing the interests of the Society in Australia.
Your Committee have pleasure in announcing that these gen-
tlemen—the Rev. M. H. Beecher, M.A., rector of Barnoldby-
le-Beck, Lincolnshire, and Thomas Charles, Esq., of London,
grandson of the celebrated Rev. Thomas Charles of Bala, the
great father and founder of the Bible Society—have arrived in
this Colony, and after conference with the Committee have
proceeded to visit the neighbouring colonies of Victoria and
Tasmania. On their return, in the course of two or three
months, your Committee hope to have the pleasure of intro-
ducing them to the Christian public of Sydney at a Special
Meeting to be convened for that purpose, when, no doubt they
will receive a hearty welcome.
Owing to the very extended operations of your Auxiliary,


and the large increase of clerical business attached thereto, the
Honorary Secretary deemed it advisable at the end of the year
to place his resignation in the hands of your Committee. At
their request, and ou their assurance of providing the services
of an Assistant Secretary, he has been induced to continue in
office for another year.
Your Committee cannot close this imperfect outline of their
operations during the past year, without urging upon every
lover of the Bible to step forth and render what assistance is in
his power, to help on the good work in which they are en-
gaged. Let the Bible be only extensively circulated, and as
extensively read and studied throughout the land, and we have
little to fear for the future empire whose cradle we are now so
anxiously and watchfully tending. Reared on this firm foun-
dation, we may joyfully predict for it a great, glorious, and
useful future,
This is firm footing : this is solid rock :
This can sustain us : all is sea besides !
LIFE MEMBERS.
BY THE DONATION OF TEN POUNDS AND UPWARDS.
Messrs. George Aluen, M.L.C.
G. Wigram Allen,
John Alexander,
J. Bardwell,
James Barker,
Thomas Barker, M.L.C.
A. Berry, M.L.C.,
A. Cameron,
Rev. W. R. Cartwright,
Messrs. Samuel Elyard,
John Fairfax,
Alfred Fairfax,
Ambrose Foss,
John Gilchrist,
A. Hargrave,
Rev. Thomas Hassall,
Messrs. Thomas Holt, Jun.,
Edward Hunt,
Clark Irving,
David Jones,
Richard Keyes,
Edward Knox,
G. A. Lloyd,
A. M‘Arthur,
Lawrence Miles,
Francis Mitchell,
Robert Scott, Ross,
E. M. Sayers,
T. W. Smart, M.L.C.
John Thompson,
G. C. Tuting,
J. C. Williams.


SUBSCRIPTIONS AND DONATIONS
TO THE
His Excellency Sir Charles Augustus Fitz Roy, Go\ernor
Admirer of the Gospel on the
conversion of King George
Tabou, per Rev. S. Rabone 10 10 0
Alexander, John., J.P 2 2 0
Allen, G., M.L.C 1 1 0
Allen, G. W 1 ] 0
Baker, Annidale ........ 1 1 0
Berry, A., M.L.C 10 0 0
Blanchard, M 1 1 0
Bond, H 1 0 0
Boyce, Rev. W. B 1 1 0
Breillatt, T. C 1 1 0
Buyers, W 1 1 0
Cameron, A., Hinton 10 0 0
Cameron, A 1 0 0
Cameron, G. W .1 1 0
Caldwell, John 1 1 0
Campbell, John, J.P 5 0 0
Castle 10 0
Chisholm, G 1 0 0
Clark, F. W 2 2 0
Clergy man, A, per Mr.Comrie 110
Colyer, Mr. & Mrs 2 0 0
Corarie, James, J.P 1 1 0
Cotter, Capt., per Dr. Charles 2 0 0
Cowper, Rev. Archdeacon.. 10 0
„ for last year 10 0
Cowper, Mrs 1 0 0
Dare 1 1 0
Devlin, H 5 0 0
Dixon.. 1 10 0
Dumaresq, W 2 0 0
Everett, G. T., New England 3 0 0
Ford, F 1 1 0
Ford, R. T 1 1 0
Foss, A 1 1 0
Friend, A 3 0 0
lO 0
„ per Mrs. Rees .. 2 0 0
„ per Mr. Sutton .10 0
F.P 1 0 0
Gunther, Rev. James 1 1 0
Hassal, Rev. T 1 0 0
Hebblewhite, S 1 1 0
Church, collected
BIBLE SOCIETY FOR THE YEAR 1854.
£ s. d.
General.... 110
Hogg, Thomas 1 0 0
How, R 1 1 0
Hyndes, Thomas 1 1 0
Ingelow 1 1 0
Johnston, Mrs. E - 10 0
Johnson, W., per Mr. Hewitt 10 0
Jones, D., J.P 1 1 0
Keyes, Master, Muswell 8.. 10 0
Keyes, R 10 0 0
Kilpatrick, Mrs 3 0 0
King, Rev, R. L 2 0 0
Lady, A 1 0 0
Laughton, Rev. J. B 1 0 0
Layton 1 0 0
Lloyd, G. A., J.P I 1 0
Mackie, Rev. Mr 1 0 0
Mansfield, Rev. R 1 1 0
Maxwell, Rev. A 1 0 0
at Armidale 5 15 0
Mcßane 0 12 6
Mcßoberts, E 1 0 0
Mitchell, Stanley 1 1 0
Moore, Miss .. 1 1 0
Mort, Henry, Moreton Bay. 110
Moutry, W. S 1 1 0
Newton, Brothers 1 1 0
Nightingale, C 1 0 0
Norton, James, Senr 1 0 0
Norton, James, Jun 1 0 0
Palmer 1 0 0
Parkes, H 1 0 0
Parsons, F 1 0 0
Pemell, J 1 1 0
Pratt 0 15 0
Rees, G 1 0 0
Rees, Mrs 1 1 0
Robertson, J 1 0 0
Robinson 0 10 0
Roche 10 0
Ross, Rev. Dr 1 0 0
Rowe, Edward 0 10 0
Rowland, Mrs 0 10 O
Sadleir, R 1 0 O


£ s. d.
Salmon, Rev. A 1 0 0
S.L 0 10 0
Smith, Dr 1 0 0
Smith, J., Scone 1 1 0
Smith and Campbell 2 2 0
Smith and Croft I 1 0
Sparke, A. B 1 1 0
Squatter, A, Tentham .... 10 0 0
Symraons 1 1 0
Sheriff, Rev. A 2 0 0
Thompson, J., Sent 2 2 0
Thompson, S 1 0 0
Thompson,Miss 1 1 0
Thorne, G 1 1 0
Threlkeld, Rev. L. E 110
Towns, Capt 1 0 0
Unknown Donor, per Mr.
Comrie-. 5 0 0
Walker, J. 110
Watson 1 0 0
Waugh, James 3 3 0
Welch 1 0 0
Welch, Mrs 0 10 0
Whitty, J.C 2 0 0
Williams, Mrs. E 1 0 0
Wrixon 0 5 0
Richmond,
Elder, Rev. J 1 1 0
~ Collected by, in
sums of Id. per week .. 5 0 0
Goulburn Ladies’ Asso-
ciation.
Sums collected by this Asso-
ciation as under
Collected by Mrs. Craig ;
Craig, R. ~., .. 1 0 0
Craig, Mrs 0 12 6
Grant, Mrs, .... 0 5 0
Kadwell, Mrs.., 0 7 6
McKay, Mrs.... 0 5 0
Patterson, D. .. 0 5 0
Small Sums.... 240
4 19 0
Collected by Mrs. Hurst;
Brown, Mr 0 5 0
Blackmore, Mr.. 10 0
Crawford,Rev. J.,
Gunning 0 10 0
Evans, Mrs 0 5 0
Ford, Mrs 0 10 0
Fraser, Mrs 0 10 0
Gale, Rev. J,,Ber-
rima 0 10 0
Harris, Mr 0 10 0
Hillyar, Rev. W.
and Mrs 0 10 0
Hollis, Mrs. H.. 0 5 0
Hurst, Rev. 8... 10 0 0
Jacobs, Mrs.... 0 10 0
Friend, by Mrs.
Lord 0 5 0
Macarthur, F. .. 1 0 0
Mack, Rev. Hans,
Braidwood .. 010 0
Roncliffe, E .... 0 5 0
Sands, W 0 10 0
Sindle, Mr 0 10 0
Sindle, Mrs 0 10 0
Slatterie, Mr. .. 110
Somerville, Rev.
J., Broulee .. 0 10 0
Webb, Mr 0 10 0
Weaver, Mr., by
Mrs. Lord .. 10 0
Williams, Mr.
Tiranna .... 0 5 0
Small Sums.... 126
Collected by Miss King-
hornb, Kippelau :
Chisholm, Mr... 10 0
Chisholm, W. .. 0 10 0
Chisholm, W..» 0 8 0
Churchill, Mr... 0 8 0
Cameron, A,. .. 0 8 0
Griffiths, Mr.... 0 5 0
Kinghorne, J. K. 0 10 0
Nosworthy, P... 0 5 0
Nosworthy, W. .050
Nosworthy, R... 0 5 0
Nosworthy,Thos. 0 5 0
Scott, Robert .. 0 10 0
Stanbury, Mr.., 0 10 0
Collected by Miss Me-
George
Ayling, Mr 0 5 0
Clonet, Mrs .. .. 0 5 0
Cox, Mr 0 10 0
Green, Mr 0 5 0
Phillips, Mrs, .. 010 0
Renton, Mr .... 050
Smith, Mrs 0 5 0
Shearman, Mr .. 0 5 0
Wiggins, Mrs. .. 0 5 0
Small Suras.... I 9 0
4
Collectedby Miss Sowerby:
Elliott, Mr 0 5 0
Kinsell, Mr .. .. 0 10 0
King, Mr 0 5 0
Newman, Mr. .. 0 10 0
Sindel, Mr 0 5 0
Sowerby, Miss.. 0 5 0
Sowerby, Miss C. 0 =5 0
Three Friends .. 2 0 0
Small Sums.... 019 6


Collected by Miss Jacob
for Mrs. Ross :
Bull, Mr 1 0 0
Deneigh, Mrs .. 0 10 0
Forster, Mrs.... 0 5 0
Furner, Mr 0 5 0
Haywood, Mr .. 0 5 0
Jacobs, Mr 0 5 0
Macfarlane, Mrs. 0 10 0
Matthews, Mr.. 0 5 0
Mearns, Mr .... 0 5 0
Miles, Mr 0 10 0
Menifey, Mr,... 0 5 0
Konsel, Mr 0 7 6
Taylor, Mrs .... 050
Woodward,Mr.. 110
Williams, Mrs .. 0 6 0
Small Sums.... 017 6
Collected by Miss Simp-
Butler, Mr 10 0
McKellar, Mrs, .110
Ross, Mrs. F.. .. 010 6
Simpson, Miss.. 010 0
Small Sums .... 13 0
Collected by Mrs. Walsh
Chatfield, Mrs,, 10 0
Gerard, Dr 1 0 0
Oakes, F 1 1 0
Sidengham, Miss 0 10 0
Walsh, Mr 1 1 0
Small Sums.... 0 2 0
Collected by Miss Waugh
and Miss Jacob :
Bell, Mrs 0 12 0
Blatchford,Mr.. 0 10 6
Blatchford, Mrs. 0 10 6
Collins, Mr 0 5 0
Davis, Mr. 5.... 10 0
Downey, Mr. .. 0 5 0
Emanuel, S 0 5 0
Fletcher, Mr. .. 0 10 0
Ferguson, Mr. .. 010 o
Gillard, Mrs.... 0 5 0
Gould, Mrs .... 0 5 0
Greig, Mr 0 10 0
Hollis, Mrs 0 5 0
Hotton, Mr.... 0 10 0
Hurst, Mrs 1 1 0
Jones, Mrs 0 4 0
Jones, Mrs 0 S 0
Jones, Mr 0 10 0
Johnston, Mrs.. 0 9 0
Ludlow, Mr.... 0 5 0
Ludwig, Mr.. .. 0 5 0
Ludwig, Mrs. ~ 0 5 0
Marks, Mr 0 10 0
Mason, Mrs .... 0 5 0
Moore, Mr 0 5 0
Musgrsve, Mr... 0 5 0
McGeorge, Mrs. .060
Oliver, Mrs 0 5 0
Ragan, Mrs .... 050
Reed, Mr 0 5 0
Reed, Mr. O. .. 0 5 0
Smith, Mrs 0 5 0
Steer, Mr 0 5 0
Solomon, Mr. P. 10 0
Townsend, Mr.. 0 5 0
Trenery, Mr.. .. 0 5 0
Webster, Mrs, .. 0 10 0
Webster, Mrs. .. 10 0
Walker, Mr .... 0 5 0
Wakefield, Mrs.. 0 10 0
Waugh, Mrs.... 0 10 0
Wilson, Mrs.... 0 5 0
Small Sums.... 016 0
£ s. d.
17 17 6
Balance of sums collected in
1853, particulars in last
Report 2 3 0
Wollongong :
Collected by Mr. Hewlett:
Allen, J....: 0 5 0
Bowen, G. M.C 10 0
Black, James... 10 0
Collie, John 0 5 0
Clarke, J. J 0 5 0
Clymo 0 5 0
Davis, John 1 0 0
Dawson, Mrs. Robt., Senr. .10 0
Dawson, Mr. Robt., Senr .. 10 0
Davison, Mrs. Robert .... 010 0
Evans,Daniel 1 0 0
Fairs, Charles, J,P 0 10 6
Graham, John 0 10 0
Geard, Edmund 1 0 0
Horner, Henry 1 1 0
Hewlett, George 1 1 0
Hale, Thomas 1 0 0
Hayles, Mrs. R. T 0 5 0
Herd, Andrew 0 5 0
Hicks, James 1 0 0
Irving, D. W., J.P 1 1 0
Kinnear, J. D., M.D 1 1 0
Keene, 0 10 0
Legg, George 1 1 0
Marshall, Robert 0 10 0
McKee, Mary 0 2 6
Musgrave, John 10 0
McKail, Mrs 0 10 0
Osborne, Mr. Robert 0 10 6
Osborne, John 1 1 0


£ s. d.
Parsons Reuben 0 5 0
Russell, Samuel 0 10 0
Somerville, Robert 10 0
Somerville, George 1 0 0
Snell 0 15 0
Tindell, Charles 0 10 0
White, Miss 0 10 6
Waldron, George ........ 0 5 0
£ s. d.
Waldron, Hubert 0 5 0
Waldron, Miss E 0 10 0
Sundry Subscriptions by Mr.
Goold in February 6 11 0
Do. by Mr. Fearnley in May. 3 5 0
£313 7 0
COLPORTEUR FUND.
Balance of sums collected in 1.853, particulars in last Report ...... 4 2 0
Rev. J. Hassall 1 0 0
George Rees 5 0 0
Donation from British and Foreign Bible Society 400 0 0
£4lO 2 0
BUILDING FUND.
£ s, d.
Abbott, Mr. 5 0 0
Allen, G., M.L.C 50 0 0
Allen, G. W 50 0 0
Alexander, Mrs. Collected by 6 10
Barker, James 3 3 0
Caldwell, J 25 0 0
Cameron 0 10 0
Catt, Mrs 1 0 0
Cuthill, A 20 0 0
Collection at Public Meeting 50 13 3
Goold, S 1 0 0
Hogg, Miss 0 10 0
Johnson, E 2 2 0
£ s. d.
Josepbson, J. F., J.P 50 0 0
Love, William 10 0 0
Moutry, W. S 52 10 0
Ryrie, Mrs,, Collected by ~15 1 6
Smith, Professor 5 0 0
Stack, E. R 1 0 0
Terrey, William 10 0 0
Watson 1 0 0
Williams, John 5 0 0
Wyatt 0 10 0
£365 0 9
MILLION TESTAMENTS FOR CHINA FUND.
LIST OF SUBSCRIPTIONS
RECEIVED BY THE
TREASURER,
Mr. G. WIGRAM ALLEN.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
Aird, Mrs 0 10 0
Bowyer, Mrs 0 10 0
Allen, G., M.L.C 3 0 0
Byram, Mrs 0 10 0
Anguin, Rev. T 0 5 0
Cameron, G. W 2 2 0
Armstrong, W. W., Rylstone 10 0
Atkinson, Mrs 0 10 0
Campbell, John, J.P 5 0 0
Challirtor, Mr. 3 3 0
Atkinson, Miss 0 16 8
Clark, Walter 10 0
Billerwetl, Collected by.. .. 0 4 6
Clergyman, A Country .... 2 0 0


£ s. d.
Curtis, James 1 0 U
Curtis, J., Junr 0 5 0
D'Albedyhll, C 2 2 0
E.C.B 0 2 6
Faithful, W. P., J.P 1 1 0
Free Presbyterian Church,
Richmond Collection.,.. 4 16 4
Friend, A 0 2 6
Friends, per Mr. Blair .... 015 0
Friend, per Miss Atkinson .026
Friend, A 0 0 3
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 2 6
0 2 6
... i o o
Friends, a Few 0 5 0
F.W.M.P 1 0 0
£ s. (1
Church of England, St.,
Philip’s 11 0 0
Free Presbyterian, Kiama 13 5 0
Ditto, Prince-st... 5 12 9
Ditto, Maitland... 4 3 4
Ditto, Wollongong 17 17 0
Presbyterian, Pitt-5t.... 4 0 0
Ditto Richmond .268
J. S. Adam 1 8 4
Mr. Barr, Murrurundi .. 15 0
Rev. J. Hassall, Narellan 5 0 0
Providence Chapel 8 13 4
Wesleyan, Balmain .... 11 13 4
Ditto, Chippendale.. 16 13 4
.Ditto, York-st., Syd-
ney 17 0 0
Ditto, Bolwarra.... 52 16 8
Ditto, West Maitland 43 7 6
Gale, Rev. Mr 0 5 0 Ditto, East Maitland. 4 0 0
Garrett, Miss, pupils of 2 2 0 Ditto, Windsor .... 22 9 0
Girl, A Little 0 0 6 Ditto, Hay-st. Sydney 5 0 0
Glasson, John, J.P 1 0 0 Ditto, Braidwood .. 2 0 0
Hall, William, Bathurst ..110 j Ditto, Castlereagh ~ 18 11 9
Hall, Sundries by 0 15 6 Ditto, Surry Hills .. 16 13 4
Hall, Mrs 110 Ditto, Parramatta .. 25 17 2
Hall, Walter 1 0 0 Saker, G. W 010 0
D.J.G 0 5 0 Scott, Mrs 2 0 0
Hughes, J., paid Rev. W. ; S.G 5 0 0
Kelynack 1 1 0 Short, John 0 5 0
Hull, Rev. T. T. N 110 Simmons, Mr 2 2 0
Hurst, Rev. B. 5 0 0 Smith, Professor 1 1 0
J-C 0 2 0 Spence, Miss 010 0
Infant School, Mrs. Earl .. 15 0 Sunday Scholars 0 5 6
Jackson, Mr 10 0 Sundry persons at Sugar Loaf 0 8 0
Johnson, R., King-st 1 1 0 Sundry other Collections
Johnson, Mrs., Senr 0 5 6 paid Mr. Blair 3 10 0
Johnson, Collected by .... 0 3 9
Ladies, A few young 0 9 6
Layton, John 2 0 0
M 0 5 0
Martyn, Master W 0 5 0
Mclntyre, Miss 1 0 0
Miller, W. G 1 0 0
Moutry, W. S 1 1 0
Mein, C., Collected by .... 293
Mulholland, Mr.,Children of 0 5 0
Packer, Mr 10 0
Palmer, Mr 1 0 0
Parker, Mr., Bathust 1 0 0
Pemel, James 5 0 0
Rowland, Mrs 1 0 0
Sabbath Schools,
Baptist Chapel,Bathurst-st 17 2 6
Congregational Church
Pitt-5t.......; 20 0 0
Ditto, Maitland 1 12 4
Ditto, Ipswich .10 0
Sweetnam, paid Rev. W.
Kelynack 1 1 0
Thompson, Mr,, paid J.
Jackson 1 0 0
Vanderkiste, Rev, Mr .... 0 10 T)
W.H.L.G 5 0 0
Whitty, J. C 3 0 0
£446 14 1
To Expenses of Collecting,
Cards, &c., at Maitland.. 212 0
£442 2 1
N.B.—Of the above Amount the sum
of £352 os. 9d. only was received by
the Treasurer previous to closing his
Account, the remainder having been
paid in since.


The Treasurer in Account with THE NEW SUIT II BALES AUXILIARY BIBLE SOCIETY,
St. ft-
1854. £ s. d.
Jan. 1. To Balance as per last Report— £ s d.
General Fund 206 18 6
Colporteur ditto 296 11 6
503 10 0
Dec.— „ Cash for sale of Bibles and Testaments—
At Depot 485 11 3
By Colporteurs 317 4 0
802 15 3
u Subscriptions and Donations for general
1854. £ s. d.
Dec. —• By Remittances to Parent Society 1000 0 0
// Exchange on drafts 27 0 0
a Rent and taxes .... 53 18 7
a Printing, Postage and Stationery .... 91 6 4
n Expenses of Colportage 328 0 10
a Commission on Sales and Subscriptions 55 4 3
n Repairs and new Fittings 14 8 3
>i Insurances, Freight and Incidental ex-
h Subscriptions to Building Fund, paid to
Treasurer 365 0 9
« China Testament Fund 352 0 9
u Donations to Colporteur Fund 410 2 0
ii Balance— £ s. d.
Building Fund 365 0 9
China Fund 352 0 9
Colportage Fund...... 378 12 8
General Fund 26 7 2
1122 1 4
£2746 15 9
£2746 15 9
G. WIGRAM ALLEN, treasurer.
Sydney, 31s< Dec., 1854.
We have audited the above Accounts, examined the Vouchers and find the same correct. G ''c "t UTINg! 1 'SuUttotS.


APPENDIX.
PROCEEDINGS
At the Annual Meeting of the New South Wales Auxiliary
Bible Society, held in the Congregational Churchy Pitt
Street, on the evening of Monday, January, 29, 1855.
The Chair having been taken by the President, George Allen, Esq.,
M.L.C., the Secretary read the Report for the past year, and the
Abstract of the Treasurer’s Accounts for the same period, when the
following addresses were delivered;—
The Rev. W. Hull moved the first resolution as follows, “ That the Re-
port now read be adopted, and, together with the Treasurer’s Account and
List of Subscribers, be printed and circulated under the direction of the
Committee.” He had been called upon to move this resolution, but he had
scarcely ever felt more painfully and oppressively the position in which he
was placed this evening, tie wished to do his duty, he wished to conform to
the feelings of those who had placed this resolution in his hands ; but he
must say, since he met many of those he saw around him in that building,
he had been undergoing what seemed to be a process of gradual dissolution.
The heat had been so intense that it acted on his cranium to such an extent
that he actually thought it must have resulted in a softening of the brain.
He certainly had never felt so entirely paralysed in taking part in the proceed-
ings of any public meeting before, and he knew he was not competent to
perform the duly successfully which had been assigned to him. He was,
however, in a great measure relieved from his responsibility by the admirable
character of the Report they had just heard read. In the character of her
reports of Institutions like these, Sydney could certainly outvie her sister
colonies. But, although to-night the meeting was a numerous and respect-
able one, he did not think it would stand a comparison with those that he had
seen in other colonies. In other colonies their appeared to be a greater
fervour, a greater excitement, and consequently meetings of this description
were more numerously attended. It must be expected, however, that every
community should have its peculiar characteristics. Each had its difference
of character and perhaps the community of New South Wales, being an older
and more settled one than those of the neighbouring colonies, had become
more staid in their habits, and did not give way to the fervour and impulse
which operated on younger societies on occasions like these. But the Report
which had been read to them did at least prove one thing. It proved that in
this community a deep and earnest interest was felt in the promotion of God’s
holy word, by the dissemination of the Bible. He bad always thought that
the British and Foreign Bible Society was one of the noblest institutions of
their Fatherland, and he trusted he should not be treading on forbidden


ground, if he ventured to state his regret that the deputation from the Society
at home was not present on this occasion. Perhaps they knew best how to
perform the mission on which they were sent, but although he was not behind
the green curtain of the council, which governed these proceedings, he did
think, in spite of any other influence, they ought to have been present at
this their ordinary annual meeting. Whatever influence some parties might
have, he was one of those persons who had a dogged sort of determination to
think for himself, and to decide for himself, in a matter of this kind ; and he
believed that as the Bible was destined to be for the benefit of all mankind,
no sectarian influence ought to be regarded, in respect to its dissemination.
It was, perhaps, a natural trait for a Briton to maintain his own opinions,
and he believed, with respect to the Bible Society, every Briton was entitled
to do this. He believed it to be the most unsectarian Society, the most loyal
and noble in its objects, of any which adorned the annals of the History
of England, and he believed that the foundation and growth of this Society
would shine in the history of the world at large, intended as it was for all
countries and for all people. The Bible Society was one which belonged to
mankind, not to countries—much less to sects, ft was not the Society of
the Episcopalian, because the Bible was not his alone. The Independent
could not claim it as his own book. The Wesleyan Church could put forth
no claim to it, beyond that which every living man had to it. It was the
book of universal wisdom, of universal knowledge, wherever Christianity
existed, and whenever in the Christian world the Bible was mentioned, its
sacred and holy name awoke in the hearts of Britons similar emotions to
their God and Saviour, as the striking up of the National Anthem did to
their Queen. The Bible, through the means of the Society of which they
were an humble auxiliary, had become a part of the constitution of this
country —a part of the great religious constitution of the world. In this
Society, all men were found engaged in promoting the dissemination of the
Word of God ; it enlisted all countries who would co-operate in this great
work, and it was this that invested the Society with a moral grandeur which
no other institution could aspire to. It was the great principle of this
Society to disseminate the Sacred Scriptures to all nations, and this made it
in one light the sacred depository of the oracles of God, to those regions
which the light of Christianity had not visited. It was this principle which
had originated this Society, and it was this desire to disseminate the Bible
which had formed the peculiar glory of their own land. He could not help
alluding to that part of the Report which alluded to the difficulties which
had been experienced by the New South Wales Auxiliary Society in
carrying out its high and noble objects. He must say, that after all the
professions that had been made, there did not seem to be that disposition to
exist here for the promotion of religion which ought to prevail. There did
not appear to exist the desire to give full dissemination to those truths of God’s
holy word, which could alone give light to the understanding and appetite
for those walks of life, and which were so much less regarded here, than the
care of those interests connected with this transitory and fleeting life. It
was said they had difficulties to contend with, and the assertion was doubt-
less too true. But what were these difficulties compared with those which
their ancestors in the same great cause had to meet. He found in an ex-
tract from a statute passed in the year 1536, at the time of the Reformation
—the time in which the dawning of the effulgence of that glorious day
which they now witnessed took place ; an enactment which would tend to
show them how the light of the gospel truth had been put down from its high
vocation in the civilization of the world. (The reverend gentleman here
read the clause in the statute of Henry VIII,, enacting that one copy of (he
Sacred Scriptures in English, and one copy in Latin, should be chained to the


quire table of every such parish church, for the information and reference
of the parishoners.) What must have been the state of religion at that
period when there was only one Bible which could he referred to by a whole
community ; and that Bible chained to a table in the parish church ? The
Word of God, written for man’s guidance, given for man’s instruction, was
limited in its operation in this way. What had it become now ? As they
had heard from the Report which had just been read to them, the Bible So-
ciety had of itself been the means of distributing twenty-five millions of copies
of the Holy Scriptures for every man’s use and benefit. Had kings and
princes had a similar view of the value of this precious book, every man
and every child would have had it in their hands. But the restrictions
which had formerly been put upon the circulation of the Holy Scriptures,
were now at an end. The moral and religious depreciation to which men were
then subjected were now passed away. But what must have been the state of
the Christian world then, when the only Bible that could be referred to was
to be found chained to the table of the parish church. What a change
had taken place now! In England, now, instead of a monarchallowing
one Bible to be read, they had a gracious Qaieen, who was not only earnest
in her endeavours to disseminate the Sacred Scriptures throughout her
land, but who was anxious to give freedom to every thought by which
religious freedom might be realised. There was a light dawned after this
law was passed, and it made the Scriptures still more patent to the
people. It, too, was a law of Henry the VIII., and it provided that with
the permission of the monarch, the Scriptures should be disseminated after
a certain fashion. Now he would ask them in this present day, what would
they think of any community who would go to the Q,ueen to ask for permission
to circulate the Bible, But at that time the sovereign had this power in
his own hands—the power to repress that knowledge which was essential
to the Christian civilization of the world. The Bible was the light of all
true good people on earth, and hereafter. As the sun was the source of
all light and heat in the material world, and its influence extended to the
uttermost parts of the earth, so with the Bible, it was the sun which gave
light and warmth to religion, to that pure Christianity which only was re-
ligion all over the globe. He had had an opportunity of labouring in the
cause of the Bible Society in Gibraltar, and he must say that by the aid of
this noble Society in Spain, the Holy Scriptures had commenced to be cir-
culated. In that great country, noble in its rise and progress, great in its
recollections of past achievements, rich in associations of chivalry and devo-
tion, and of high-spirited loyalty, decay had commenced and had been going
on, because that country in its pride and superstition had rejected the coun-
cil of God against itself. It was delightful to think, however, that under
the enlightened government of Espartero, there were signs of regeneration
for Spain, and that in the course of a very few days 800 copies of the Sacred
Scriptures had been forwarded into the interior of that country. In thinking
of the fate of that great nation, while the politician had his projects, while
the man of science had his schemes, destined to promote the physical com-
fort of the human race, the Christian looked still further and deeper. He
looked for the coming of the time when the knowledge of the Lord Jesus
should prevail—when the valleys should be filled up, and the mountains
laid low—when drawbridges should be erected over old prejudices and old
differences, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding should be
the rule and order of the world. He trusted the time was not far distant
when the whole globe would be encircled with institutions like this glorious
one of their Fatherland. He recollected a little anecdote which occurred
to him at Malta, some years ago—a soldier who was appointed a sentinel,
slept on his post, and was imprisoned ; it had been his good fortune during


his imprisonment to put into his hand a little tract, entitled the ‘‘Roll Call.”
Now the roll call, practically, amongst soldiers was well understood ; it was
known by soldiers that they had to appear when called on by their officers
and at their appointed limes; but this tract pointed out that a final day of
reckoning was at hand, and that all who were prepared to be there must
give an answer and a reason for it. The tract took effect on this soldier,
and from becoming a ringleader among the dissipated men of the regiment,
he became an effective teacher of all that was good. When he (Mr. Hull)
returned to England, he happened one evening to be in company at a tea
party with a lady, whose name would be familiar to most of them, Char-
lotte Elizabeth ; she asked him whether he had ever known of any bene-
ficial results arising from tracts, he mentioned this instance, and he saw
tears rolling down her cheeks, and he was somewhat surprised, although
well aware that she was of an excitable temperament, but he was after-
wards informed by a clergyman of the Church of England, that she was
the authoress of the tract, and her emotion was easily accounted for. It
was sufficient to fill the heart with gratitude, and he trusted that all who
participated in the work of spreading the Word of God, would have like
cause of self-congratulation.
Mr. A. Bona a seconded the resolution. He was glad to see so numerous
an assemblage upon so important an occasion, and he was also glad to learn
from the Report that the funds of the institution were in so prosperous a
cbndition. He would urge those who were the more immediate sustainers
of the Society to additional efforts themselves, while, at the same time, they
should endeavour to enlist the sympathies of others who at present stood
aloof. He could not understand how it was possible that those people who
regularly attended the churches, and listened to the Word of God, and ex-
perienced the blessings that flow therefrom, could be inactive in the cause of
God. There were no difficulties that could not be overcome where the heart
was willing and ready to take advantage of the smallest opportunity that
presented itself for doing good. The man in the Scriptures that received
from his Lord one talent, and thinking it was not sufficient wherewith to do
his Lord’s bidding, buried it in the ground, was condemned out of his own
mouth when called upon to give an account of his stewardship. So will it
be with those who neglect the opportunities which from time to time present
themselves. The Israelitish maid, though a captive in the land of Assyria,
embraced the opportunity of testifying to her master the power of the God
that she worshipped ; and he, though a great captain, believed the word of
his captive maid, and was converted. To all he would say, “ Try ; ” —none
knew what he could do till he tried. (Applause.) He had great pleasure
in seconding the resolution. Carried unanimously.
The Rev. J. West moved the following resolution:—“ That this Meeting
greatly rejoices in the continual prosperity of (his Auxiliary, and in the
spirit of liberality manifested toward it by the Christian public of New
South Wales throughout the past year; that it gladly acknowledges the
good hand of God in these renewed tokens of his favour, and desires thus
publicly to offer up humble and devout thanksgiving.” He said, the last
time he appeared on that platform be did so as a delegate to plead the cause
of Tasmania. It would, perhaps, be recollected by some that on that
occasion there was a large and excited congregation, throughout which per-
vaded a spirit of perfect unanimity. He adverted to the circumstance as
a remarkable instance of co-operation. Not only were there Protestant
ministers of every denomination on the platform, but there were also Roman
Catholic priests. All concurred in opinion in reference to the desirability of
carrying out the object they then had at heart, and they united in order to
promote it. Throughout the length and breadth of Tasmania—among the


religious people who dwelt there—the accomplishment of the important
object to which he had referred was hailed with delight, and thanksgivings
were offered up publicly, in the cathedral as well as the humblest church
in the territory. We had seen the effects of co-operation in this as in
thousands of other instances. The Bible Society comprehended men ani-
mated by one feeling of love to that holy book—an unanimous desire to
spread divine truth over the entire world, and one feeling of confidence in
its infinite value. Christians of all Protestant denominations, whatever
might be their differences with respect to minor points, might unite to-
gether for the spread of the Holy Scriptures, and they might rest assured
that God would not leave them without His smile and His blessing. He
thought it a privilege to see the grandson of that venerable man Charles of
Bala, upon whose first movement the British and Foreign Bible Society was
established, and he recalled to mind the venerable countenance of Mr.
Hughes, whom he had heard in his youth, and by whose happy suggestion
that which was intended originally to be a local and temporary effort for
the diffusion of the word of God, was made to extend to Great Britain and
the whole world. He, like Mr. Hull, who had preceded him, would have
been glad if the deputation from the British and Foreign Bible Society had
been present. There would be an honourable record in the Temple of Fame
of those men who had stood the brunt of the battle, who had maintained
the freedom of their country, who had accomplished great social revolutions;
but when by the standard of Divine Truth, the efforts of man to promote
the welfare of his fellow man should be fully estimated, then those who had
successfully laboured for the promotion of the cause of the Bible, and who
had originated and carried on that Society, should not take their places
beside heroes, warriors, and statesmen, but above them ; numbered among
the saints of the people, whose venerated names should thrill every- heart,
and be the theme of every tongue, to the latest generation. He was present
last evening there, when he heard his Rev. friend, Mr. Hull, give an account
of the little Israelitish maid, the reflex action of whose pious labour was
perhaps the means of the temporal salvation of Israel. Although he had
frequently heard the sentiments announced which had been set forth by his
Rev. friend, he had rarely heard the subject treated with so much energy
and eloquence. The Bible—meaning Christianity—-was not only calculated
to promote the spiritual intererts of men individually, but it tended to the
national salvation of the people by whom it was received. It was quite
true —we all felt it, and gloried in the fact —that if England was distin-
guished among the nations —if the loyalty of the people to the throne was
founded on the dignity of a manly conviction—if there was a spirit of emu-
lation throughout the British empire, and throughout all ranks, to maintain
the right cause in a right spirit, and to seek peace even in war—we owe this
feeling to the Bible. If ever, throwing aside the Bible, the people of
England talk of the rights of man—if, throwing aside the glorious charter
of our salvation, they talk only of the Magna Charter and the Bill of Rights
—if the glory and power of the nation were founded upon anything to the
abandonment of the Word of God, —then would Great Britain exhibit, as
other nations had exhibited, a spectacle of wreck and ruin. (Loud Cheers.)
The Bible was the only hope of the world. It was their wish that victory
might attend our army, and that victory might soon be followed by peace.
But it was not the balance of empires, the overthrow of the autocrat of
Russia, nor the protection of the Turkish dominions that was to give peace
to the world, but the penetration of the light which emanates from the
Bible into those regions, which were once trodden by the Saviour’s feet,
where once his voice was heard—then men will no longer seek the living
among the dead, looking for the light of immortality in that tomb which


the risen Redeemer had forsaken. The universal diffusion of the Word of
God was the only means by which peace could be ultimately established
upon the earth, and those glorious visions depicted in the prophecies of Holy
Writ to be completed in a joyful hereafter. (Loud Cheers.) It had afforded
him very great pleasure, in another part of these colonies, to assist in pro-
moting the means adopted for the purpose of bringing out the New
Testament in the Chinese language. It had been seen with what warmth
and ardour that undertaking had been participated in by the children, who
were extremely anxious to present the children of China with copies of the
Holy Scriptures. Looking at the last accounts from that vast empire, it was
evident that there was nothing to save the Chinese from the prevalence of
a gross and miserable superstition, and a dreadful perversion of God’s
holy law T , but the powerful diffusion of that silent witness, for God
which they were enabled to read, and which alone could guide them into
all truth. It was a remarkable fact that, wherevet the Word of God
prevailed, although there might be varieties in the religious belief of
men, the great fundamental principles of Christianity were held by the
mass of mankind. Although he was told of the prevalence of this and that
system, it would be seen, by observing the census of America, that ninety-
nine out of every hundred, received the Bible as the guide to heaven and
the way of salvation. What was the general condition of those who received
those monstrous systems which shock our common sense? Were they those
who received the Word of God as their guide? Far from it; they were
generally ignorant of the contents of that sacred book. If, however, he had
no faith in the Bible, he should have no hope for the world. Without its
influence men would become worshippers of Mammon ; their passions would
be excited by enmity; the world would be deluged by vice, and the achieve-
ments of human science would be turned to the purposes of more deadly
war, and more wide-spread destruction.
Mr. James Barker seconded the motion. He considered the Bible the
greatest boon the Almighty had given to the world. He set so great a value
upon it, that if he possessed the only copy he would not exchange it for all the
books in the world. A large amount of good had been effected through the
instrumentality of the Colporteurs, and the Society was one in every point
of view worthy of the hearty support and co-operation of Christians of all
denominations; and many poor sinners through its instrumentality and the
blessing of God, might be led to a knowledge of the truth, hold fast the
blessed hope of everlasting life, and at last be received into the glory of the
Lord.
The Rev. Mr. Buddle (from New Zealand) was called on to move the
next resolution, as follows:—“That the continued beneficial effects of Col-
portage in this colony call forth the gratitude, and ought to enlist the sym-
pathy and steady support of the Christian community in its behalf. That
this Meeting gratefully acknowledges the liberality with which the British
and Foreign Bible Society has come forth to the assistance of this Auxiliary,
to enable it to increase the number of its Colporteurs; and desires to rejoice
in the increased usefulness of that great Institution in all parts of the world,
and in the munificence of the recent contributions towards its funds.” He
had been introduced amongst them as a stranger, and for many years he had
been resident in that temperate and salubrious climate which New Zealand
could boast of. His friend, the Rev. Mr. Hull, had complained only of
gradual dissolution, but the effect of the last few days upon himself was to
convince him that he was rapidly melting away. There were some points in
the Report to which he was unable justly to speak; such, for instance, as
regarded the labours of the Colporteurs. But on those portions of the Re-
port which related to the labours of the home Society, he could cordially


agree. The noble and godlike spirit of the Society breathed in the Report
which had been read to them, and which must have convinced them that
the genius of this Society and its objects were those of the Lord Jesus, to
raise up those who were fallen—to save those who were lost, —that the great
end it aimed at was to save the perishing sons of man, and to spread the
knowledge of God all over the world. He should not detain the Meeting
very long, but should invite them in preference to anything he could say
with regard to the working of the Society in this colony, to embark with him
in his little skiff and survey the good which had been effected by Bible
teaching in New Zealand. In New Zealand the Bible was widely circu-
lated in the language of the natives; and what had been the results of it?
A community which once was cannibal was now Christian. Thousands of
copies of the New Testament were now in circulation in New Zealand.
But the whole Bible was not yet translated and published, and there were
many difficulties in the way of doing so. For instance,he had found that when
he had been engaged in taking his part in the work, he had frequently been
called into the kitchen to cook his dinner and to perform other domestic offices.
But the imperfect translation which had already been distributed among
the New Zealanders had brought about glorious results. It had, in fact,
entirely changed the religion of the New Zealanders. When the Bible was
first introduced into New Zealand, the religion that prevailed there was a re-
ligion of cruelty. They had their gods of cruelty. They had their principal god
whom they worshipped as having fished up the islands in the same way as
we worship God who has created our world. Then they had the god of war,
and another god, a sort of amphibious being, who had his life and dominion
on land and on water, over all things evil, was regarded as the author of all
calamities which could befal the island. The introduction of the Gospel
put down these idolatries, and eventually had established an almost uni-
versal belief in the one God and of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
When the Gospel first visited New Zealand, the ignorant native was wholly
unacquainted with the redeeming blood of Christ. He had not yet been
brought into bonds of unity with that “ Lamb of God who taketh away the
sins of the world.” It found him destitute of rules of moral government, it
found him destitute of Sabbath observance. Let them look upon New
Zealand now, and he would venture to say, there was no community in the
world in which the Sabbath was more scrupulously respected than in New
Zealand. The New Zealander, on a Saturday night, had his wood cut, and
even his potatoes scraped, in order that he might not infringe upon the
Sabbath. [The Rev. gentleman here related several anecdotes, showing
very strongly the disposition of the natives of New Zealand to observe the
seventh day as one of rest.] There was another characteristic in the New
Zealander, which the Bible had done much to abolish. It was a super-
stitious belief in witchcraft. He remembered an occasion when on going
into a hut, he had seen by the side of the corpse of a child, a canoe, a
paddle, and a small basket of food. On asking what was the meaning of
this ceremony, he was informed that the child had gone across the river.
On remarking that the food and canoe had not been touched, and therefore
could not have been of service to the child, he was told that the spirit of
the child alone had departed, and that the food and canoe had in a spiritual
acceptation only been required by it. When, however, gospel truth was
introduced amongst them, these superstitions soon gave way. There was a
celebrated chief in the Waikato district, as it was called, who was about to
start on an expedition to revenge the death of one of his tribe, slain by one
of a neighbouring tribe. A Missionary met them and reasoned with them.
They said it was only right that justice should be done, and that vengeance
should be taken on those who had slain their countryman. The Missionary


told them that it was not for them to take justice into their hands, but that
a day was coming when God would do justice, and judge all acts upon
earth, —that there was a great day coming when all things would be put
right. This idea got hold of the chief, who, turning to his tribe, said, “do
you hear; this man tells us if we wait, a day will come when we shall have
justice, when all matters between us shall be set right.” They refrained from
their expedition, and the chief and his tribe embraced Christianity, and that
chief was baptized bj the name of William Naylor, a man who had since
done much to propagate the Gospel amongst his countrymen. (The reverend
gentleman here narrated several anecdotes, showing that a belief in witch-
craft strongly existed in the country, and that the Bible had been the means
of dispersing such superstition.) The Bible, amongst other beneficial influ-
ences which it had exercised in New Zealand, had done much to mitigate
the errors of popery. The priests of the Church of Rome went to New
Zealand, but the Bible was there before them. Great social changes had
been effected, changes which but for the Bible would never have taken
place. But for the Bible he believed New Zealand would never have been
colonized at all. It was the Bible that had given to the natives their own
laws and own institutions, and it was the Bible only that had made them
truly members of a British community. It was the Bible that had made a
people, who formerly lived by war and rapine, an honest and honourable
community. When he resided down in New Zealand he never so much as
thought of locking his door. He regretted to say that since civilized Euro-
peans had come to reside among them they had no such liberty. It was the
influence of the Bible moreover which had enabled the English to maintain
their position in the islands. They had all heard, no doubt, of a chief of
the name of Walker, who took a most active part in the northern wars,
which disturbed the colony a few years ago ; and had it not been for him
and his noble band, there was little doubt but that the British authority
would have been subverted in New Zealand. When Heki and Kawiti
sacked Kororarikai, their intention doubtless was to have attacked Auckland.
It happened, however, that to do so, they would have had to pass through
the districts occupied by many other tribes, amongst which was the tribe
over which Walker presided. A bag of bullets was sent to him with a
letter intimating that they were seed to be sown in the land, but through the
friendly interposition of the tribes information was forwarded to Governor
Filz Roy, and Auckland was spared. After some few other anecdotes, illus-
trative of the benefit the Bible had worked in New Zealand, the Rev. gen-
tleman moved the resolution.
The Rev. W. B. Boyce seconded the resolution. Carried unanimously.
Mr. John Campbell moved, —“ That the Venerable Archdeacon Cowper,
D.D., and the Rev. Dr. Ross be Vice-Presidents of this Society; that George
Wigram Allen, Esq., be Honorary Treasurer; that James Comrie, Esq., be
Honorary Secretary for the current year; and that the following names be
added to the Committee, instead of those who retire under the sixth rule :
The Rev. George King, the Rev. J. Elder, the Rev. W. Lumsdaine, Professor
Smith, M.D., A. Bonar, Esq.”
Mr. W. S. Mouthy seconded the motion. Carried unanimously,
Mr. J. Fairfax moved that Mr, Allen leave the Chair, and that it be
taken by the Rev. Mr. Voller. The motion was seconded and unanimously
carried.
Mr. Fairfax, before moving the vote of thanks to the Chairman, wished
to say a word or two respecting the fund which was being raised for the
purpose of building premises for the Bible Society. He had the privilege at
the last anniversary day of proposing that such a fund should be raised, and
he was truly delighted to be able to announce that the sum already accu-


smo
piiz 13 b
umlated, amounted to £IOOO. It would be a source of great pleasure to
him if the friends of the Bible Society, no matter to what denomination they
belonged, not only throughout Sydney, but throughout the entire colony,
would put their shoulder to the wheel and determine that in a short time
there should be a Hall for the Bible Society in the City of Sydney, it re-
quired but a strong and a united effort to accomplish so desirable an ob-
ject. He merely mentioned the subject incidentally, and no doubt it would
receive such consideration as it deserved. He had great pleasure in moving
“ That the thanks of the Meeting are due to George Allen, Esq., for his
kindness in presiding on the present occasion.”
The Rev. B. Hurst of Goulburn, in rising to second the resolution, said it
would have given him very great satisfaction to have made a few remarks
with reference to the very important matter which had been under conside-
ration, as well as in reference to the resolution he was called upon to second.
If, at that advanced hour, however, he were to attempt to make a speech,
he felt convinced that it would be a very moving one, for he thought it more
than probable that a considerable number of the congregation would have
moved out of the chapel before he sat down. Under those circumstances he
would only say a few words. The Bible Society was one of the most impor-
tant institutions connected with the progress of Christianity, and the ad-
vancement of the knowledge of the Redeemer’s name among the nations of
the world, and every individual who identified himself with this institution,
did honour to himself thereby ; and every one who contributed his aid to the
furtherance of the objects of this institution was at the same time promoting
his own interest, and bringing down the Divine blessing, both upon himself
and on his fellow-man. It was evident, therefore, in proportion as we were
interested in our own welfare, and in proportion as we love the cause of
the Lord Jesus Christ, and were wishful to ameliorate the moral condition
of our fellow-men, we should be disposed to aid such an important so-
ciety as the Bible Society. He had very great pleasure in seconding the
resolution.
Mr. Allen, M.L.C., said he acknowledged the honour which had been
conferred upon him in presenting him with a vote of thanks, and also in ac-
cepting him as the President for the ensuing year, He could only say, if
there was an office, the duties of which he felt proud to discharge, it was that
of President of the Auxiliary Bible Society of New South Wales. He had
been connected with the Institution nearly thirty-three years, for many years
one of its Secretaries, and on the death of Mr. Alexander Macleay, he was
elected President, which office he still continued to hold.
The benediction was then pronounced, and the collection made, which
amounted to nearly £5O.




