

RARJAI
No.
16
NEW POEMS by
SHIRLEY REYNOLDS
EDGAR CASTLE
THEA ASTLEY
ROBERT EDGLBY
MARY WILKINSON
GRAHAME HARRISON
CECEL KNOPKB
AND OTHERS
SHORT STORY by
THELMA FORSHAW
THE YOUTH LITERARY MAGAZINE
1/3


0 An attempt is being made, .in the, pages of this magazine
to present Youth’s, statement of ils'reaotions to Life....
-The main reason for the publication of this- magazine is, to
• ♦ - . . i. ' • • . •*, '-.v- *
bring Youth into contact with the awakening of Australian
"‘Literature-now taking place, and so - strengthen'and -.con«
tinue the ..cultural development of this country./...
Although primarily a literary magazine, BAEJAI also
Youth to write on art, musie, broad social
issues, and- ahyother subjects that are likely to forward
cultural activity,
0 BAEJAI is published every two months.
Annual subscription: 7/6 a year (post free).
Single copies: 1/3 (plus penny postage).
0 Address correspondence, subscriptions, contributions, and
donations to —
The Editors,
BAEJAI,
Box 1773 W, .G.P.0.,
Brisbane,/Qld.
0 BAEJAI is the aboriginal word for “meeting-place”
0 We gratefully acknowledge generous donations from Mrs.
Horn, of Brisbane, and I. McDowell, A.I.F.


BARJAI
No* 16
A MEETING PLACE FOR YOUTH
Editors:
LAURENCE COLLINSON BARRIE Gr. REID
Sub-Editors:
CECEL KNOPKE THEA ASTLEY
Secretary:
ANTHONY BEALE
BARJAI PUBLISHING SERVICE
BRISBANE
SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1944
EDITORIAL
THERE are three points to be stressed.
We deplore the dearth of good books of Australian literary
criticism. What criticism there is seems to be mainly confined
to newspapers and periodicals, the critics of which, for the most
part, review books according to the policy of the journal they
represent. This is generally very biassed, and no criterion of the
worth of the books mentioned. The critic is, in some respects, like
the pruner of trees who- outs away the dead branches so that
the new may grow. If young writers were able to read good
criticism, they could consider their own work more critically. With
the road behind made clear and definite, they could go onwards
to newer horizons.
Technically, most of the poems we receive are quite good:
the rime rimes, the metre scans. Even some of the thought
behind the poems is all right, though often rather too conventional.
But it is in the expression of that thought that the writers fall
down. Twentieth century ideas simply can’t be expressed in
18th and 19th century language. “Thee,” “thou,” and “thy”
sound hollow and forced in most contexts; epithets such as
“stilly” are now non-existent; and if the writer does feel about
nature the way Tennyson did, it’s no use writing about it in a
Tennysonian manner because (1) Tennyson has already done so,
and (2) written to-day it is artificial and stilted.
Finally, BAEJAI is published by the Editors, and has
received no support of any kind from any organisation, including
the Education Departments and the Universities. It is non-
political, though it welcomes significant discussion on the social
1


problems of our day, a subject in which young ‘writers seem to
be afraid to come forward. And we welcome any fair criticism
that neither condescends to be kind because of the youth of the
contributors, nor finds the magazine "unhealthy” because of
the so-called absence of "Truth” and "Beauty” within its pages.
LAURENCE COLLINSON
Brisbane
FOUR-SONNET SEQUENCE
MORNING
INTO the gutters gushed the tedious rain
and overflowed on to his step-worn shoes.
He trod the puddled cobbles of the lane:
discomfort emphasised the tawdry views
of blustering shirts on lines, and garbage cans
with lids upthrust by swollen refuse and
newspaper wrappings, and broken pots and pans,
andj fences come unstuck from sodden land.
He crouched beside a sheltering iron wall
andj looked out on the roadway pierced by drops.
The heavy clouds around him seemed to fall,
the thunder flattened sadly on housetops.
He thought how much he’d like a change of scene
and watched a lady in a limousine.
EVENING
The water swilled the streets and swelled the drains
of the city where he wandered in the night.
Across the sky the black clouds where the stains
that evil made: the stars were put to flight.
And by the great hotels and dining rooms
he stood to watch' the Lovely Lady pass
with men upon her arms, and eyes like tombs
with which she gazed into the looking-glass.
But he, entranced, saw not the death-like smile
she gave herself, nor heard the decadence
in her soft voice.
So, plodding on a while,
from riches he returned to the present tense.
That night he thought how much he’d like to keep
a palace, and so thinking, fell asleep.
2


DREAM
He entered in a rounded hollow room
flesh-coloured, with diamonds hanging on one wall.
He walked forward, and knew that this was Doom,
but in an instant, gloom commenced to pall.
For the Lovely Lady stood upon some stairs
and beckoned with her pointed finger-nails.
He walked across the floor as one who dares
be happy though he knows what death entails.
But as he touched her arm, she disappeared
into a mist. The room burst open wide.
He knew the frustration that he had feared
from the very start had come to pass.
He sighed
but decided quickly it was all a joke,
and thinking thus, he quietly awoke,
MORNING
The rain, like diamonds was falling still
when he moved out into the misty day.
He walked around a haughty middle-class hill
and gazed at smooth stone villas on his way.
He bought some food with what few pence he had,
then wandered back into the dingy street.
He knew that elsewhere life was not so bad.
(And all the while the rain kept up its beat.)
He wished he owned a little piece of land,
he wished he owned a house with servants ten,
he wished he owned a streamlined auto, and
he wished he owned a Lovely Lady.
Then
he thought how much he’d like a change of scene
and watched a lady in a limousine.
3


ALEX LIRE
Bockhampton
POEM
WHEN I build a house
to shelter my pain
I will build tin rooves
to broadcast the rain.
There then will be,
hidden from harm,
I in my narrow bed,
silent and warm.
SHIRLEY REYNOLDS
Melbourne
DAY OF EEVIVAL....
DAY of revival
and the dead still cling.
Under our nails,
deep in our unhealed skin,
they lie.
Cynics born of vanity,
we are the doubtful race.
And our survival
will be a small thing
in future histories.
The dreams of the dead
will be our salvation,
salvation
only for another sleep.
O day of revival!
And the dead still cling.
0 The Australia-English Association informs us that their
magazine ‘ ‘ Southerly, ’ ’ containing prose, verse, and criticism
from all over Australia, will now be published four times a
year by Angus and Eobertson Ltd., Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The journal has been increased to 64 pages, the cost of a copy
now being 2/-, plus postage, and the annual subscription 8/6,
including postage.
4


THEA ASTLEY
Brisbane
POEM
BEYOND the sleeping and the wake,
Beyond the dying and the birth
Of light and dark where small things take
To slender wings from shadowed earth;
Where shade and substance part—
There goes the heart.
To the dreaming I confide
As little towns are merged with dusk,
The pulsing of my heart’s red tide
Dissevered from a withered husk.
But where the flesh and sorrow meet —
There run my feet.
IDIOT
HE picked a. rose,
And cupping thin young hands
Crooned over it with littlef laughing cries,
Pressed with hyperbolic gesture
The bright thing to his mouth,
And brushed its softness slowly on closed eyes.
The great ones laughed.
Red anger coiled his heart.
He tore the petals, stripped the green stalk bare,
And crushed them red beneath Ms heel....
Then stricken raised his head,
And smiled a vacant smile to the soft air.
q We suggest that BAEJAI readers subscribe to the following
Australian literary periodicals:
Meanjin Papers, edited by C. B. Christesen.
Poetry, edited by Plexmore Hudson.
A Comment, edited by Cecily Crozier.
Angry Penguins, edited by Max Harris and John Reed.
5


GRAHAME HARRISON
Newcastle
SPANISH OVEETUEE, 1936
FLY with the winds.
Wrapped in a northern gale,
Sheathed in darkness,
The four dread horsemen
Thunder over the plains.
Death in their stony faces,
Galloping thundering,
Eacing on to the town.
They shriek to the icy moon,
And the jackals howl in the desert.
The thundering and the demon screams,
Eing through the empty rooks,
As the four lone horsemen spur madly on
With a mission for Destiny.
There is no sound in the city streets,
But the townsman groans uneasily in his sleep.
BEAUTY IS SO EAEE A THING
IF the silken throats
And wildly beautiful
Purple music of nightingales,
Froze to barren ice in city slums,
Would the successful business man
Call it lack of enterprise?
BERYL LEAVER
POEM
SOMETHING, you know not what
Urges you to pick the
Quiet flower —you hesitate
And feel you should not—
But you do pick it;
Ponder for a moment on
Your action —contemplate
Its beauty and the miracle
Of its creation, then toss
It from you with the ghost
Of a sigh and feel
A slight melancholy
Which leaves you
With just another
Of life’s sensations.
6


BETTY MCFARLANE
Sydney
MARS
I HAVE come from mist to mist and seen the beauty
Harrow and plough by silent night;
I have come from under the stars and glory
Shining white and mystical light;
From among the leaning she-oaks pointed,
Sudden stumps and barbed wire fence,
These have I seen under the blazing moon’s aurora,
Coming from where and going whence?
Over the rounded lapstones by the lapping waters,
Plain plank bridge by silent night,
Foamy shiny river gurgling into the blackness;
But the mountain’s base is misty white,
And its peaks are graceful in form and line.-
Day time tree's matted with stars,
Walking alone at the midnight hour the beauty
piercing pain,
For the red tinged one is Mars!
ANN POWER
W.A.A.A.F.
IN THE NIGHT
A LITTLE tired forgotten pain
came back to-nigkt
with the wind and the rain.
Like the sighing of trees in the night,
in the whispering of rain on the roofs,
it crept through the quiet.
So long ago this weeping fairy-
shed its sorrow in my heart,
yet I soon laughed again, remembered not
the hurt —
(Youth is sweet—I thought I had forgot.)
But to-night
that little tired forgotten pain,
through the silence of trees,
came back again.
7


EDGAR CASTLE
R.A.N.
POEM
After T. S. Eliot.
I HAVE unfolded Time,
and seen the comforting Lie
dissolve and vanish:
I have penetrated Knowledge,
Clutched Wisdom in the mind’s prehensile reach,
And I have seen the image sharpen;
the shadows fade.
Yes, I have achieved the ultimate goal—
Perfection and a shattered dream.
RAYMOND WALTERS
Newcastle
VACANT SHUTTLES
I AM weary of expectancy:
one cannot live on spectacle forever,
avidly awaiting the week’s end
to wallow in channels of emotional release.
“ Sullen and confused we grope in a grey mist
of the grey indefinite downpour, clinging
to the old crimes with the faded passion of inf ant-joy.... ”
Let me away from this, these petty passions,
these vain ecstasies, this tomb....
DAVID BEARD
Sydney
POEM
YOU moved
in tlie strange pleasure of the night;
I awoke;
we together saw tall poplars
pointing cultured fingers to the sky.
the moon
gently with pale paint
upon her face
gave chills to a scene of silence.
And you,
beside me breathing,
became the ecstasy of night.
8


ROSALIE ELMIGER
Melbourne
DEPARTURE
WITH defiance,
I shan’t come back,
Bow-legged at the
Cross roads of decision.
Lips phrasing
I’d rather starve —
Sarah Bernhardt
In typical pose,
Dark tragedy
Knotting her hair:
Determination arching
The slenderness
Of writhing hips
That emphasize
The spoken no.
The eyes lashed with tears
Fought for control so that
Eemindful of the Neitzsche cant
Tears must not show —
Wisdom decamping noisily
Sucking marshmallows,
Arm in arm with reality,
And youth taking charge,
Very shakily
But with (confidence growing)
At least the knowledge
Of book-imagery and
Extravagant phrases
To patch the holes
Inexperience has, with
Knobbly elbows, shoved
Through the too-short-in-the-wrist
Coat, youth wears —
One last posed look,
The room fell silent
After the plaster had
Stopped falling from
The impact of the slammed door.
Mr. Sid Everett, assisted by Grace Perry and Patricia Lax-
ton of the Sydney BABJAI Group, recently made a broadcast
of a selection of work by members of that group.
9


BARRIE G. REID
Brisbane
THE TOWN
WHEN he entered there the town was sleeping
sunk in sunlight, a flower
held by the great hills’ cruel hands.
The crop being dust the sower
was bountiful. Dust rose in smoke
and wreaths, challenging in fright
this sunshine-drunken lad
but he, heart-heavy and head light,
held himself as proud as a victor.
“Hullo!” he shouted, young heart throbbing,
and the streets stirred easily
and smiled in their sleeping.
THE MYSTERY
BECAUSE in each of us there is a mystery
men move strangely, without speech, men move
in long voyages. Hearts, are never still.
Lonely travellers, we grasp at love.
So he moved aimlessly as the slow swallows
forward with the wind. 0 hist heart
was burdened with deep unknown agonies
and he became a quiet man. He would start
at the sound of his laughter. He would stop
in his journey down the lonely day
to cry to all the vast uncaring earth.
I cannot cast my mystery away.
THE ACHING
THE earth has hands. They fashioned him
slowly into a man who was strong
as his cattle and quiet. The sun that had staggered
down his blood and flung swift fires along
his veins had left warm tears. There still
was a hope that was bursting and aching,
that throbbed in his ears and said “Swiftly,”
that forced him in wonder to swing
the land about his eyes, made him assent as
when failing to clasp him to her brown breast
the river had said in wonder and anger
“You are without rest.”
10


MARY WILKINSON
Sydney
MYSTERY
YOU are mysterious,
but I do not know why I cannot tear
the mystery from your eyes;
delve the dark depths of your solitude
as I have delved your body.
Why do you turn your head? Draw that shivering hand
across my lips?
There is not one grain of love I w'ould not give you.
Nothing to hold us from the white-hot truth
except your eyes,
my darling.
In the darkness they mock me. . ..
and close over secrets that I do not know.
ROBERT EDGLEY
A.I.F.
CATHARSIS
IN the day there is one fear;
in the day of coming.. . .
The night.
Eight through pre-history,
history, historic future, we amass
in a clogged mind the fear
of night which is now present.
The day was short when we had
no fear....
We filled ourselves with
living in a semi-slumbering mode,
never waking enough
to fear; to hear the warning.
You! singing, jazzing,
trumpets razzing,
enjoying the surge of emotions....
Tact never, love ever,
whether the saneness present or not.
But you did not sec —
(your hand was on her knee)
that thing that might have led
from daylight into day;
you did not see the sun
setting in symbolistic red.
11


You, running madly,
gladly hurrying away
while the day lasts,
ignored the whisper.
The delicate ear withdraws
into its shell. . . .
Or is it that the brain
does not record?
Freud’s umbrella was your symbol.
I could place your wisdom
in my Aunt Lottie’s thimble!
But to what use?....
You have not heard
the wild geese in their flight;
You would not listen,
and now flows still
the night.
I saw them come —saw* them,
steel heel-plates, steel toe-caps,
steel bayonets flashing
and an idealistic banner
in their eyes’ steel glint.
They passed in the sunlight
of darkness....
hearken to the beat;
the pound of blood —the flood
of nothing over nothing,
the empty space.
Lace tight your belts
against the shadows
but do not ask
the whens? the whys?
do not search the jungle depths
for fireflies’ light.
There is no light, no brightness
for the missing day.
I watched them sink.
Olympian, ever seeing,
seeking the latest communique
I, the watcher, saw....
Yet I heard nothing
but the rushing torrent
of b100d... .blood after the day.
The way was not clear for them;
the same clouds obscured,


the same ideals endured,
outlasted the whipoorwill
and the summer days. ...
The haze did not lift.
But do not forget,
you w-ill yet be the chosen.
Aet again, the tablets move aside,
the beam will glide towards you
through the smoked glass
that you call the uncertain future.
There will be light rising
from the well, falling
from the cloud, bringing
reason....
Or perhaps
a longer night.
CECEL KNOPKE
SCENE
(From a Sequence of Love Poems.)
A WANDERING mist
shadowing tears
lingers in a forest glade of sighs
and listless voices murmuring.
And the daylight sadly loiters
though the sipping waters
reflect of silver evening,
half reluctant —half asleep.
And here you wanderer must gaze
sighing deep on entering
despondent and alone,
and list to the whispering voices
calling in silent mist
love-sick as evening falls.
And misty curtains yield—
reveal a flight of swans
at dusk, now winding wearily
in a red sky—descending.
The evening breathes a sigh
and then is silent.
A haunting theme
this languid breath
this air of gloom and death
like Juliet’s tomb
in a mystic dream.
13


Shadows the forest gloom
the trees afraid
the tall branch quivering
in a hushed breath,
the voice of death,
the sign of doom;
the young leaf shivering
clings in a mourning wreath,
with the chill wind sighing
ominous, crying
Stranger, the blood-red sky
warning and bold
is a sign of doom
and a darkness looms
while you die
to an earthy mould.
Stranger, the voice of death
beckons and calls,
and you in answering doom your soul
to the forest gloom
like the leaf that falls
to the earthy mould.
A haunting theme
this languid breath
this air of gloom and death
like Juliet’s tomb
in a mystic dream.
BOOKS RECEIVED
“SECOND SUMMAEY,” Harry Eoskolenko, and “NIGHT-
FLIGHT AND SUNEISE,” by Geoffrey Dutton (from Eeed and
Harris); “THINGS YOU SEE WHEN YOU HAVEN’T A GUN,”
by Harry Hooton (Lyle and Cremin); “LETTEES, A LITBEAEY
QUAETEELY” (Wellington: The Handcraft Press); “ON THE
BAEEIOADES” by Eobort Greacen, Bruce Williamson, and
Valentin Iremonger (Dublin: New Frontiers Press); “lEISH
VOICES,” folios edited by Eoy McFadden and Eobert Greacen;
“A COMMENT, No. 20,” edited by Cecily Grozier (Melbourne).
14


COMPETITIONS
The poetry competition announced in BAEJAI No. 15 has
closed. The results will be published in BAEJAI No. 17 or 18.
We now announce a new competition.
We will award a prize of one guinea, kindly donated by Mr.
Henry Schoenheimer of Brisbane, for the best piece of original
writing on a post-war subject.
The word ‘ ‘ post-war ’ ’ suggests so many ideas that there should
be plenty of scope for the young writer anxious to express himself.
The competitor may use any form he wishes: poem, essay, short
story, one-act play, etc.
Mr. Schoenheimer himself will be the judge, and the work will
be considered according to the significance of the ideas expressed,
the literary worth of the form used, and the age of the competitor,
who must be under 22.
The entries must reach BAEJAI, Box 1773 W, G.P.0., Bris-
bane, by January 30th, 1945.
The envelope sent must be marked “Competition,” and should
contain the entry with a nom-de-plume attached, and a separate
piece of paper with the name, age, address, and nom-de-plume of
the competitor on it.
Any number of entries may be sent (there is no entry fee),
but they should, if possible, be typewritten.
The winning entry will be published as soon as possible after
the judging.
REVIEWS
EXCELLENT STEANGEE, ALISTBE KEESHAW
THE last thing we ought to expect from poetry is spontaneity.
It is a great distinction of Mr. Kershaw’s poetry that he
is never spontaneous. Or very rarely. The exact balance between
Platonic mania and Pound’s glass case, skilled workmanship is
difficult to hold. There is no special reason why this should
be poetry:
THE BOMBER PILOT MISSING.
“Not marshalling, your fellow victims, the hours,
Not, past the skull, the shrill derisive air
Shadows you, counterfeit in havoc and in space.
Cold conquest, then: who bursts from ferocious dusk,
Quells, with intolerable law of hands, the radiant fear;
Bleeps in the sour trial and sequence of the tides.”
I merely suggest that it is. At any rate it is obvious that Mr.
15


Kershaw is quite clear about what he wants to do. The rhythm
in the first three lines is a special instance. The hazard of the
metrical undertaking is relieved by a gradual relaxation towards
the end. Where craftsmanship and control are apparent criticism
should be humble. But I think these lines are slightly unworthy
of the poem containing them;
“ Love in the sinew’s magic
And the weather in the trees,
The faint code of stars. ’ ’
precisely because they lack any particular craftsmanship and
control. Such lapses are peculiarly infrequent in Mr. Kershaw’s
work. I agree, however, with Wilenski that the; honest competent
artist is the only valid critic of his own work and the final
arbiter must be Mr. Kershaw himself. The tone of calm assur-
ance through the main body of the poems would make it appear
that he has made a favourable decision.
MART WILLIAMS.
AN UNTITLED BROCHURE, No. 2, 1944. A. D. HOPE, HARRY
HOOTON, O. M. SOMERVILLE.
I BEAD somewhere that we are returning once more, in poetry,
to romanticism. I know that using such a word as
“romanticism” is against all the laws of semantics, but if it
conveys to the reader the idea of Truth and Beauty and Ideal
Love, all equally obscure terms, that is sufficient. The poets
in the above book are quite definitely against romanticism. And
why shouldn’t they be when the romantic notion of Truth—
philosophic drivel about God and the Universe —hides the real
truth about war, and slums, and the evils that appear from every
corner; -when the romantic notion of Beauty—platitudes about the
sun, moon, stars, birds, clouds, trees, etc., etc. —hides the fact
that a good percentage of city-dwellers are unable to afford to
take their children on a holiday to the seaside; and when the
romantic notion of Love is so absurd as to hide the fact that
man has any sexual passion at all?
My first feelings after I had finished reading the work con-
tained in this brochure were those of pleasure. That was some
time ago, but my feelings are unchanged; and a re-reading of
it (it is little more than a brochure, though it deserves to be
published in a better form) have made them only more intense.
The work in the book is intelligible, of social significance in that
it is against the ignorance and stupidities and badness that go to
form much of modern life, witty, and sincere.
Mr. Hope and Mr. Somerville have both read Auden (although
that, according to the younger “romantics” is rather a crime
nowadays) and their poetry is, in consequence, all the more out-
spoken and truthfully ironic, Mr. Hooton’s word-playing is superb
—I have read nothing in this line as funny, even in; Joyce. I feel
that the brochure contains some of the best satire ever written
in Australia.
LAURENCE COLLINSON.
16


ANTHONY BEALE
Brisbane
CHARLES BAUDELAIRE
(The following essay is condensed from a BABJAI Group talk.)
CHARLES Baudelaire was born at Paris on April 9th, 182.1,
and enjoyed a happy early childhood. Monsieur Francois
Baudelaire was the tutor of the Due de Choiseul-Praslin family
—thus his son was ‘ ‘ a man of property, ’ ’ well dressed, and pos-
sessing excellent manners. His father whom he idolised gave him
all these, yet being an elderly man, it was not long before he
died and passed out of Charles’ life. Caroline, his mother, had
these affections transferred to her, but they soon ceased as she
married General Aupick within a year. Charles thought that his
mother was betraying him, and never fully forgave her for this
desertion. It prejudiced him against the General from the begin-
ning. There were constant scenes at home even in front of
the guests. On one occasion when Charles was eighteen he
threatened to throttle his step-father. This settled it! He was
to leave immediately on a voyage for India to cure him of his
unruly ideas and behaviour. The General also wanted to rid him
of the thought of taking up literature as a profession, for he
despised a literary career, and he hoped that Charles would fill
his shoes on bis retirement.
Under the care of a captain, Charles made the journey in
the most trying conditions; they were shipwrecked, and his inspir-
ing coolness earned for him the admiration of the crew. In the
tropics he suffered severely from melancholia, and would brood
for hours at a. time; he merely existed —that was all.
This voyage had two important results: first, Charles stored
in his subconscious mind all the colours of the places he had
visited, and later employed them in his poetry. And second, that
although the sight of half-naked negresses with their swaying hips
did not excite him, he remembered having seen one flogged in
Mauritius for some petty theft. The indecency and cruelty of the
act tortured and repulsed him; from that time an insatiable lust
was born.
This was satisfied some time later when, at a theatre in
Paris, his attention was riveted on a half-caste actress who had
a small part in the play. Baudelaire searched feverishly through
his programme to find her name —Jeanne Duval. Something
in the lines of her body, her movements, and her eyes fascinated
him. But to others she was ugly; indeed, the description of her
hair gives us an idea of her appearance; it fell, in spite of hair-
pins, in furious wisps, like a writhing bunch of snakes. The poet
was pursued by this creature’s voice with its hoarse inflections
bestially caressing.
One evening he accompanied her home.... and from then on
invisible bonds, strong as an iron chain, bound him to this savage
17


Venus. Yet this primitive creature was the motive for many of
his poems which would probably never have been written but for
this strange relationship. Notice these lines from one of his
sonnets which I have translated. It is called “La Fontaine de
Sang” (The Fountain of Blood):
I have sought in love a forgotten sleep;
Yet love is not for me a bed of pearls
But made to give drink to these cruel girls!
They were written later in Baudelaire ’s' life when Jeanne, fat,
old, uglier still, and a hopeless drunkard, kept hounding him for
money.
This great French poet’s life was one of excesses, worries,
intrigues, and disappointments. To alleviate the ill-health which
these produced, he began taking hashish and opium, but as the
doses proved ineffective after a while, he increased them. Lot
us hope that these brief joys gave him consolation, for they cer-
tainly hastened to bring about his death.
Apart from Jeanne as an influence, Edgar Allan Poe was the
only other, as Baudelaire put it, “disturbing” person in his life.
Baudelaire learned English especially so that he could translate
the works of this man whom he regarded as a long-lost brother.
Indeed, Poe actually improved with Baudelaire’s translation, a
fact which is easy to understand when we realise the similarity
in the nature of the two men. Baudelaire was in reality re-
writing his own thoughts and ideas.
About 1830 however, he frequently complained of fits of
depression which destroyed his will. He pondered too much
on death, one of his obsessions; suicide, as a relief from his tor-
ment, often swam before his eyes. When partly recovered, he
sought distraction in transitory love-affairs, but these brief in-
toxications soon left him remorseful and disgusted. The last verse
from “To a Madonna” is typical of this period: (translation by
F. P. Sturm).
At last, to make thy drama all complete,
That love and cruelty may mix and meet,
I, thy remorseful torturer, will take
All the Seven Deadly Sins, and from them make
In darkest joy, Seven Knives, cruel-edged and keen,
And like a juggler choosing, O my Queen,
That spot profound whence love and mercy start,
I’ll plunge them all within my panting heart!
This state of health went on for a long time and culminated in
a stroke in 1860. He recovered, but general paralysis had set
in, and he was already on the downward trend of his life. He
became more cynical as his manuscripts were returned time and
time again. Ever since he had published his first “Salon” in
1845 he had been greeted with adverse criticisms. Asked once
what he was doing at one of the low dancing halls, he replied:
“I am watching death’s heads go by!”
18


Representing this dejection and bitter helplessness is his
sonnet ‘‘Recueillemont” (Meditation). Here is my translation:
Be wise, 0 my Sorrow, be more easy,
You implore Night to fall, and it is there:
A veiled atmosphere obscures the city;
To some it carries peace, to others, care.
And while the mortals of this vile race,
Lashed by the whip of Pleasure —without will
To free themselves —Joy’s harvests leave their trace....
My Sorrow, O your hand, come here; lie still—
Away from them. Bow to the diseased years,
Draped in tattered robes soaked with your tears.
From waters deep Regret smiles like a beast....
The dying sun soon sleeps under an arch;
And, like a long shroud dragging in the East,
Know, my dear, that gentle Night will march.
Early in 1863 Baudelaire wrote in his note-book: “I have
experienced a singular warning; I have felt the wind from the
wings of idiocy pass over me.” Now, three years later, he was
being driven by this wind; powerless, mercilessly tortured along
the downward path. Sometimes the wind would abate and an
extraordinary joy would flood his heart; he would dream vaguely
of his beloved mother and indistinctly of Jeanne; it was like
universal absolution. On one of these occasions he wrote: "Is
my phase of egotism at an end? —My humiliations have been God’s
grace. —Without charity I am only a tinkling cymbal.” The poet
was forty-five now, yet his features belied his age; his eyes were
deep furrows ploughed by the wheels of passion; he had that con-
traction of the lips which was evidence of the ashes that he was
accustomed to tasting; and dominating all was the intensity of
his eyes which seemed to issue a bitter challenge to his fate.
Feeling better, he decided to take a walk one day to visit
some friends, but as he mounted the steps he fell. Next day he
showed signs of mental confusion; his right side was paralysed,
and his speech muddled. They took him to Brussels where his
mother, seventy-three years of age, came to see him. Through
her tears she managed to say: ‘‘How good he is! This young
man must have a beautiful soul.”
For several months the disease remained stationary, and the
poet was able to go for drives in a carriage, but he mentally was
dead. After the spring of 1867 the invalid never left his bed.
Then the inevitable crisis came; for a few hours his face was
seen purified, triumphant, and at peace; and then, frothing at
the mouth, this pitiable rag of humanity breathed his last.
19


THELMA FORSHAW
Sydney
TRANSMIGRATION
(This is the second of the prize-winning stories in the
BAEJAI short story competition).
SHE felt something within that was like a clashing of
scimitars; the clangor of her soul gathering its power; the
swirl and lash of might that is making ready to burst its swelling
bud in fierce precipitate blossom.
She imagined it —the petals bridling and ruffling into
savage florescence, like, the throat feathers of an eagle. She saw
this power within her, poised on the topmost crag of her soul,
ready for flight, one claw curled about ledge—the wind
sending shimmering waves along its back. Soon now, its wings
would gust out in the birth of flight and it would soar upward
with a drum-beat of brandishing pinions.
His voice came, sleepily impatient... .petulant.
“How much longer are you going to sit there, staring out of
that window? You’ve been there since dawn. You know you
need to rest more, Lee.”
She said dreamily, “Have you ever seen moonlight
filtered through white chiffon? Look at it. It soaks through
gradually and spills all over you.”
His breath whipped out in a little gust of irritation.
“My dear, for God’s sake come to bed and behave like a
normal human being. ’ ’
She stood up sharply and turned to him, her face in shadow.
Her lips twitched. “That’s just it,” she said, “I’m not. What’s
the good of trying to be when I KNOW that I’m not? There
is something inside —that tells me to do the things I do.”
He laughed—unsympathetic.
“Like, for instance, getting up at dawn and sitting in the
moonlight staring through the window —at God knows what. Is
that what you mean?”
The sleeve of her gown swished softly as she gestured.
‘ ‘ It was a; mistake—my marrying you. It was a terrible mis-
take. I should never have married. SHE didn’t.”
“She —who?” His voice was strange. “What are you talk-
ing about?”
He threw back the covers and felt for the lamp switch. Light
slipped into the dark places of the room. Then he came over
to her —something frightened in his eyes. He grasped her shoulders
and shook her.
“I think you’re just sleepy,” he said with relief, searching
her face. Her eyes—phantasmic —elusive —slid away, inward. He
put his arm about her, trying to make her aware of him. She
leaned back. He was angry and tightened his grip.
20


“Don’t,” he muttered, leaning his face to hers. “What’s
the matter with you, Lee? Kiss me.”
He tried to force her and cried out when she bit him savagely
on the cheek. He put up his hand. Drops of blood. There was
a cold terror in his eyes.
“Why?” he begged, “What’s the matter with you, lately?”
She stepped back and leaned against the wall, looking at him
remotely.
“I should never have married, I told you. I had a career.
I gave it up for you. It was a mistake.”
“What a time to think of that,” he said bitterly. “Three
o’clock in the morning, and YOU sit up brooding over your
career. Is there any reason why you should not go on with it,
in spite of marriage?”
Her eyes challenged his.
“I don’t want to be married any more,” she said, her
voice throbbing a little. “I don’t want to go on living with you.
I need; all my feeling and emotion for my career. I want you to
leave me alone, do you hear? Leave me alone!”
“You mean —” he said slowly. “You mean —”
“I want you to leave me alone,” she repeated. “I
don’t want to be married any more, you understand?”
“Yes,” he said, “I see.” He looked at her. “You’d better
get some sleep darling.” His tone was quiet, careful —almost
tender.
‘‘ I will write very great things, ’ ’ she told him, ‘ ‘ Things that
will live—like HEEB.”
“Yes, darling,” he said. “Of course, darling—”
In the morning, over their breakfast, he leaned forward and
said gently: “Lee—l want you to come with me to-day and talk
to someone. Will you do that!”
“Who?” she said suspiciously.
‘‘ Avery clever man who will be able to help you. ’ ’
She looked at him —cold and aware. “Help me?” she re-
peated. “You mean a psychiatrist, don’t you! You think there
is something'wrong with me. Don’t you? DON’T YOU? Answer
me! ’ ’
He flushed a little —breathless. Before he could answer she
went on: “You are wasting your time —and your money too.
Nobody can do anything for me. SHE knows and I know —that
is all. We have known for quite a long time.”
He smiled coaxingly —his eyes anxious.
1 ‘ This woman, dear. This—SHE you are always speaking
about. Who is it?”
“Just a minute,” she said, rising, “I’ll just show you some-
thing.” She left the table and went inside, returning with' a
flat sheaf of papers. She handed them t,o him,
“Now—will you read that?”
21


He looked through them carefully—frowning. Then he lifted
his head, his mouth trembling a little.
“Oh! Lee —why do you go on writing this —this —”
She sat down. “I told you. That is what I want you to
understand. SHE guides me. She doesn’t want me to be married.
I must do as she wishes. Do you see?
He came over to her, and sitting on a corner of the little
table he leaned over and put his arm about her. “Nobody is
going to stop you doing as you want, dear. Believe me. Now,
I’ll run along. I shall only be a. little while.”
She smiled knowingly, but there was a crackle of anger in
her voice.
“It is no good your seeing that man,” she said, shaking her
head, “Tou are just wasting your time. He can do nothing for
me.”
When he had gone, she left her housework, and after lacing
her walking shoes, shut the front door and strode off along the
dusty country road.
She passed neighbours without glance, staring straight ahead
and covering the road with swift, tireless strides. She watched
everything covertly, seeming to fix her eyes on a point in the
distance to the exclusion of everything else. But there was
nothing she missed.
The country leapt before her —green, with misted hills. She
climbed rapidly, high up where the air was cool and full of a
fine, balanced sunlight. Then she slipped into the wind-shaken
grass and lay there, looking down on the cluster of the valley.
She lay there and thought with an intensity that shut out
everything. Her eyes wandered away from things material. She
pitied those who had no joy in their innerness—no uplifts and
ecstasies, caused, perhaps, by something beyond a feeling ex-
perienced—something finer and subtler than a feeling. No joy
in sights of people walking, clustering, sorting themselves, settling
in groups—seeing the groups break from tight, little buds and
flowering wide in farewell then windblown —gone; leaving just
the calyx of their conversation in the air where they’d stood,
and the air creeping into the vacuums they had filled with their
bodies, the fine, invisible dust of the pavement holding their
traceless footprints.
Feelings beyond feelings—the echoes, shadows of sensation.
That’s all —but filling one’s mind and being with richness and
experience, as light, rainbowed mist fills and makes beautiful the
mountain- valleys.
Her murmur was whisked away by swift, restless air.
“Each day you grow stronger within me. Each day I feel
your power mounting.”
She dug her fingers into the flaky, suncrisp soil that broke
away in thin, dark wafers. And within her, she felt that there
was a little flame crushed between walls of ice, It was a fierce
22


little flame and even through the ice thicknesses seeped its dim
effulgence. She felt that its eternal heat would slowly melt down
the ice walls that crushed it away from sight; slowly, slowly melt
them down to a last thin trickle that would dry away in its
free, abandoned fire. Then it would blaze up within her, strong
and steady, suffuse her through and through with its fierce glow,
—shining through her, so that its warmth touched her eyes and
burned on her thawed lips and streams of it flashed in her
laughter —be felt in her touch. She prayed for it and heard
within her, the grinding of the ice against itself and the small,
soft whisper of the flame, deep down.
She stayed there on the hill until late noon, looking at the
white rustle of the creek below. She did not realise he was
there till she felt his hand on her shoulder.
“Lee,” said his voice, as though he had repeated it many
times, and always with that inexpressible gentleness as if she
were very sick and must not be disturbed.
“I knew I should find you here,” he told her, sitting with
his fingers linked about his knees. “They told me down there,”
he jerked his head a little, “that you come here often.”
He took her hands and held them against his chest. His
eyes searched hers.
“Now tell me,” he insisted, “Who is this woman!”
Something like a whimper quivered between them. She freed
one hand and pressed it against her mouth a moment. Then she
looked away, anguished.
“You couldn’t understand —you COULDN’T.”
He stared at her —strained and deeply hurt. He looked as if
something in him had died at the exultant pain in her face.
“But Lee:” he muttered, “How can you say 1 that? How can
you expect me to understand when you talk like that?”
Anger narrowed her eyes. She drew away from him, quiver-
ing, almost snake-like in her recoil.
“YOU!” she said contemptuously. “If you only knew how
much more she possesses me than you d0....h0w much more she
is with me ”
His whole attitude and expression changed to one of quiet —
almost humility. It was like a complete subsiding, as if some-
thing had gone out of him.
“Lee,” he said softly. “I understand. Come here.”
She hesitated, watching him carefully. Something in his face
seemed to satisfy her, and she let him take her hands again.
“You do believe me?” she asked, suddenly shy. “You believe
that she has come back —in me?”
He nodded.
“How long have you known, Lee? I mean how long has —
SHE been with you?”
“It sounds so incredible, doesn’t it?” she asked him matter-
of-factly. Startled, he looked at her. She was even smiling a
little. A wild hope flared in him.
23


“Yes,” he said, but warily, “a little.”
She held her hands below her breast.
“It’s here,” she said. ‘‘This is where I feel her. home-
times. it is unbearable until I have done as she wishes. I just go
—and write till it is gone. At first, when I used to read back
what I had written, it frightened me terribly because I could not
understand how I could have written such things—things I never
knew of, thought of, ever before. So you see —I know that she
is with me.”
He sat quiet, not looking at her wild, flickering expressions.
‘‘Lee, darling. You studied very hard before we were married.
So hard, that you—lost yourself for a while and had to rest.
Eemember?”
‘‘Yes,” she answered calmly, ‘‘l broke down for a while,
but I got better. You know that. You think that the effect
of that illness is coming back, don’t you?”
Her cold frankness and practicality startled him again.
‘‘Yes. Don’t you think that might have a lot to do with
it? You have tried to go too deep, Lee, and you are paying for
it. Let me take you away and make you happy and well again.
Forget your career.”
He was pleading: ‘.‘Will you do that?”
She drew away, her eyes cold and locked against him.
‘‘l am staying here,” she said.
‘‘PLEASE, darling.”
She did not answer, staring ahead with a lost dreaminess
chat frightened him. Part of her was absent all the time,
travelling away on its own, without the other. Watching her
haunted stare, he felt that she was only half in the world —the
world he knew, that is. Something was drawing her away—
possessing her, taking her from him.
‘‘Lee,” he said in a strangled voice, trying to bring her
back. ‘‘Lee—don’t!”
She stood up, her dress blowing in thq wind, then she started
to run down the hill with light, flying strides, her hair writhing
loose from its coil.
He sat there on the hill and watched her run across the
valley. She crossed the creek, jumping from stone to stone —
silent, but with a silence so harsh with feeling, with a vigour
so lit-up and powerful, that it rang across his mind like a shout.
He knew then, that he did not matter to her... .that he was
just part of the environment in which she lived. He struggled awhile
and then it was over. He would stay, spending his life shielding
her from the curious eyes of others. He would lose himself,
keeping the world from her, here in these lonely hills. His
holocaust.
Somewhere a little pulse of sadness beat in him —low and
muffled, but insistent—aching.
24


♦ -F r ofti .youth all over Australia we accept poems,
essays, short stories, .plays, etc.
Work is considered according to age as well as
Jiterary standards.
Manuscripts must be-accompanied by a stamped
and addressed envelope, otherwise they cannot
be returned.
The age of the contributor must be given with
every manuscript;'
' regretted that at present, no payments
■ can be made to, contributors.
9 Contributors', to.. this issue' are ■ between the ages
of 16 and 21.
