

MEETING
PLACE
FOR
YOUTH
Jfl2


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
The_Editors wish to acknowledge the help given them in
producing this first printed issue of BABJAI by Mr. F. F.
Howland, our first subscriber and critic; Mr. and Mrs. C. B.
Christcsen; Mr. Flexmore Hudson; Dr. J. V. Duhig; Mr,
James Davenport; and Miss Warham.
0 BAEJAI is published every two months
0 Subscription rates: 7/6 per year
J/3 per copy
• Address correspondence to Box 1773 W, G.P.0., Brisbane
% The cover design is by Miss Beryl Leaver
Q BABJAI is the aboriginal word for "meeting place ”


BARJAI
No. 12
A MEETING PLACE FOR YOUTH
A bi-monthly magazine designed to further cultural activity
among the youth of to-day
Editors:
LAURENCE COLLINSON
BARRIE G. REID
Sub-Editors:
CECEL E KNOPKE
BERYL 'LEAVER
BARJAI PUBLISHING SERVICE
BRISBANE
JANUARY, 1944


The old wisdom falters; what is the vision of youth f
Frederick T. Macartney


Editorial
AN attempt is being made in the pages of this magazine to
present Youth’s statement of its reactions to life. An
analysis of Australian literature to-day will show that more
creative work is being produced in this country than ever before.
Whether this is merely due to the fact that we are living in
abnormal times, or whether it is the beginning of a nation-wide
literary revival, we do not know; but the main reason for the
publication of this magazine is to bring Youth into contact with
this awakening and so strengthen and continue the cultural
development of this country.
In these pages will be seen the outstanding poetry and prose-
of Australian Youth. Work will be judged on literary quality
alone. Neither flag-waving pseudo-patriotism nor muddled
dadaism will be accepted as poetry. A true love of country is.
desirable, but our nationalism must be neither false nor
We will accept any type of poetry whether it be experimental or
traditional, provided only that the technique is good and the
thought sincere.
Although primarily a literary magazine, BAEJAI also
encourages Youth to write on art, music, broad social issues, and
any other subjects that are likely to forward cultural activity.
BARJAI will not apologise for the youth of its writers, but will
encourage them to alter the conception of Youth in the average
adult mind by producing writing in an integrated, informed, and
vigorous style.
The critic will find in these pages little of that humour and
carefree exuberance of spirit so often attributed to Youth. Per-
haps this is regrettable, but there can be little humour left in
minds born during depression and growing to maturity in war.
But Youth has never lost enthusiasm and still retains an
energy that is forthright and dynamic; and if optimism is hidden
beneath the strain of war it will break through and become the
driving force of to-morrow.
3


COMPETITIONS
0 BAEJAI wishes to announce three literary competitions.
0 The first for poetry, with a prize of one guinea donated by Mr.
James Devaney, well-known poet and critic.
The judge will be Mr. C. B_ Christesen.
A prize of half-a-guinea, donated by Miss Lorna Mathewson, will
be awarded for a short story.
0 A prize-of half-a-guinea, donated anonymously, will be awarded for
an essay.
CONDITIONS:
1. Entrants must be tw T enty-one or under.
2. Entries must reach BAEJAI by the thirtieth of March, 1944.
3. No entries will be rcturned_
4. Entries will become the property of BAEJAI to be used as the
Editors see fit.
5. Entries, accompanied by the age of the writer, must be original and
unpublished.
6. There are no restrictions as to subject matter.
7. The judges’ decision will be final.
Mark entries “COMPETITIONS,”
and send to — The Editors,
BAEJAI,
Box 1773 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, Q.
Eesults will be published in BAEJAI No. 14.
GRACE PERRY (16)
MARIGOLD
PETALS of prisoned sunlight
Gilt with sunset gold,
Yours is the smiling glory,
Yours id the tale untold—
Story of lovely gardens,
Of power to woo a breeze
Away from the lips of roses,
Away from the emerald seas.
Will you not share your secret f
Give me your golden light —
That I may know your magic
Deep in the dreary night_
4


LAURENCE COLLINSON (18)
SONG OF YOUTH
WE shall find refuge in the foolish,
A sad slow smile in the idiotic.
A reluctance besets us: a reluctance to laugh.
We must have laughter,
Life must flow by with laughter.
Shadows of events have gone before:
Now they themselves are here and cold.
This is the time for laughter:
Not for a moan and the beating of breasts,
Not for a sigh and the falling of tears,
Not for the dead and the dying.
We are weary of the future
Knowing what must come must come;
We are tired of the past
Knowing what was was foredoomed.
Do not consider our hearts as engine-throbs
Throbbing to the rhythm of destiny
And the energy of time
And the clamour of battle_
We travel in the ferries of life.
Misshapen, the tentaeled bridge guards us
Constantly, the grey clouds skirl the brown waters
Menacingly, the rain pelts the canvas roof
Insistently, the blurred people sit and stare
Implacably, the river rises and ebbs
Continually, we plough the water back and forth and back
Monotonously.
We are possessed by a consciousness of futility.
The world sways back and forth and back
Monotonously alternating
Between peace yielding depression
And war yielding dead heroes hard-price-paid.
We think too much,
We question too much,
We refuse to hear the insane orator-shouts,
We refuse to read the pointing-finger headlines.
Our logic is too sharp and too cynical,
Our introspection is too deep;
We shall not make good citizens.
We travel in the ferries) of life;
We are the new passengers.
We heed the sharp siren of reason,
We know' the thick fog of shame,
We watch the light of ambition
Glowing dimly ahead in the mist.
5


(Bo you remember summer and the glinting salt drops on
your bare skin,
Summer, and the immutable mountains and the gay valley
pool?
Do you remember winter and the art-galleries and the masses
of violet blossoms,
Winter, and the garden walks and the crossings on the ferry?)
The seasons sway back and forth,
And summer following
And winter following
We must learn to laugh.
JAMES DAVENPORT (18)
POST-WAE SOCIETY
ANY plans for the construction of a satisfactory post-war society
must have as their basis practical suggestions to prevent another
.global war. In ordei; to remove war it is first necessary to destroy the
roots from which war grows. Wars, from the earliest tribal conflicts to
the modern world struggles, have economic roots which are firmly
■cmeshed in the economic life of every race. Superficially, it would
seem that this war is due to the fanaticism of a minority of the German
people who constitute the active members of the Naional Socialist party.
But this party arose on an economic basis, taking advantage of economic
opportunity. To go deeper than the superficial cause of this war we
must ask ourselves three questions:
1. Why was this party formed?
3. How did it come to power?
3. What force has kept it active for the last decade?
The first two questions may be answered by a consideration of the
economic condition of Germany during the past twenty-five years. Prior
to the world depression Germany commenced to regain her national spirit
and the raw wounds of the last war commenced to heal. This brief
period of hope for the German people was rudely ended by the advent
of the depression. Again the ombitterment and frustration entered into
the national spirit. This gavq the National Socialists their opportunity.
They came forward with a vigorous and constructive policy firing the
German people with new hope and enthusiasm. Blinded by the fresh
vigour of the Nazi philosophy they were easily led along any paths the
Nazis chose. Another' factor which turned the Germans towards Nazism
was the denial of markets for German products and easy access to food
for the German people because of the foolish policy of the victor nations.
Given her rights as a nation, given a “fair deal,” Germany to-day would
have been a force for good rather than evil.
The last question has its answer in a different sphere of human
activity. The Nazi party was kept active partly by fear, but) mostly by
playing upon the nationalism of the German people. This nationalism
was never weak, and hence, by propaganda and glorification of Nordic
ideals, the German people were raised to a high pitch of National
fervour. This made them passionate workers for their country and
their party, and made possible the great industrial programme which
placed Germany on a war footing. The contrast between this spirit, and
that of frustration before 1933 is nothing short of amazing.
6


The course of the war itself, and all its ramifications, do not con-
cern us here. The only fact of importance that becomes every day more
apparent is the ultimate victory of the Allies. If, strangely, this is not
so, the following discussion will be quite pointless, so we will assume
that victory will be ours.
Most people in authority and many men in the street are allowing
ideas for a post-war world to become part of their thoughts. The
experience of the last war has taught us that to win a war is futile if
steps are not taken in the peace to insure that war shall not occur again.
To date it been our duty to wage war to the utmost of our effort.
In peace it will be our duty to expend all our effort and enthusiasm in
the building of a satisfactory post-war society. The most striking, per-
haps, if not the most promising statement on a post-war world, was the
joint declaration of President Koosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill,
known as the Atlantic Charter. Its four salient points were the four
freedoms:
1. Freedom from want,
2. Freedom from fear.
3. Freedom of speech.
4. Freedom of religion.
I think that we may assume that these freedoms will apply to all man-
kind, victor, vanquished, and neutral alike. There is a certain section
who believe that Germany should be ruthlessly exterminated, that she
should be crushed, and her spirit broken. Such action is too much a
replica of the Nazis’ own methods. If we fight for our principles we
must have the moral courage to apply them. Such an action as an
attempt to exterminate the German people speaks of a barbarism of
which, after our statements of war and peace aims, we should be
ashamed. The war is definitely not the fault of the German people, and
any such action would brand us as mentally and, morally decrepit, apart
from the fact that a much more satisfactory basis can be laid down for
world peace.
This brings us back to the causes of war. These, as we have seen,
are economic. If a country is denied food and markets for its goods,
it has no alternative but to take them by force. We must, therefore,
give Germany, economically, a “fair deal”. Her people must be fed
and her internal structure placed on a sound basis. Then a heartened
and enlightened German people will be a powerful factor in the forming
of a sound world society. War is kept going by the nationalism of the
various countries concerned. Thus our national outlook must be drastic-
ally changed, so that the peoples of the world will realise that they must
work together for the advancement of the human race. The advances
of modern science such as transport, communication, medicine, sociology,
and of scientific thought such as evolution, will make the world one
unit; its people are one species. Hence, the ultimate federation of the
world is inevitable and nationalism is doomed.
One of the first tasks of the Allies, in order to avoid a bitterness
similar to that existing after the last war, will be the enlightenment of
the German people on the Allies’ point of view of the war. Also, a
re-education of German youth could be undertaken, but this’ must be
done cautiously for it is not our right to impose our ideas on others.
Rather they must be given the opportunity of acquiring a knowledge
of all types readily and easily.
Now it must be apparent that the construction of a satisfactory
society is as important as the winning of the war; the one merely pre-
cedes the other; the two are complementary. I would therefore make
the following suggestions:
7


1. The nations of the world must all co-operate. A body, similar
to the League of Nations, but with certain definite powers, should be sot
up. Each country could send delegates in proportion to its population.
Such a body could control world trade, world production, maintenance
of peace, and the like. It could also employ experts to direct the work
to be done in each sphere.
2. Courts of International Law should be established.
3. Each nation should contribute armed forces in proportion to its
population to constitute an international police force—the instrument of
the International Law Courts.
4. Each nation should contribute workers to reconstruct the coun-
tries devastated by war. Here, not only population, but also war-guilt,
could be taken into account in deciding the number of workers.
5. A governing body should be employed to exercise control over
world production in order to prevent such anomalies as. the dumping of
foodstuffs to maintain prices while people starve.
6_ That, apart from any way in which they might interfere with
reconstructional work, the four freedoms be put into effect. This would
demand vast changes in the economic system to which we have been
accustomed.
7. That steps be immediately taken to break down national barriers
and weld the nations into a world-wide' community. This would involve
the overhauling of educational systems, the fostering of world travel,
and, above all, the establishment of an international language for dis-
cussing international affairs.
These 'are merely tentative suggestions. But on whatever basis we
plan our peace, it is imperative that we do not fall into the same errors
that were fallen into at the end oftho last war. There are many points
that can be raised against these suggestions. The chief one is, I think,
the apathy of the world. Will it be prepared to make the sacrifices
necessary for the success of such a scheme? If it is not, there is little
hope. Another war to make us wearier still will be our lot. Let us
hope that, though w T eary of destruction, the world will bo prepared to
give its energy and enthusiasm to construction.
I have here dealt only with international matters. Much work
needs to be done within the nations themselves. Government, education,
economic structure, religion, etc., will all have to be drastically revised.
The future calls, for work, energy, enthusiasm, thought, planning, a
sense of responsibility, and, above all, sacrifice. We must hope that
the youth of to-day and the adult of to-morrow will attempt to attain
all these qualities. This is a crucial time for world civilisation: the
future of society hangs in the balance, and the ordinary man may place
it on a firm foundation or send it hurtling to destruction^
0 BARJAI suggests that its readers subscribe to the following
publications:—
MEAN",TIN PAPERS. A Quarterly of New Writing. Edited by
C. B Christesen. 10/- per year; single copies 3/-. Address: Box
1871 W, G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
POETRY. A Quarterly of Contemporaneous Australian and
New Zealand Verse. Edited by Plexmore Hudson. Annual Sub-
scription 4/6; single copies 1/6. Address: Lucindale, South
Australia.
ANGRY PENGUINS. Edited by Max Harris and John Reed.
Address: 20 Edward Street, Glendorc, Adelaide, South Australia.
8


BARRIE G. REID (17)
STRUGGLE
BLACK robes are on analysis
as a cloud-mist facing the moon,
and I must find reality in death
with roses for omens:—
the bursting, the laughing, the shedding,
the folding to barren earth.
I shall hide my head with thunders
frightened of hearing
the tap of Death’s stick
the snap of Life’s bread.
These are the thoughts, that come icing the brain.
Comes recognition
that the oxen of fate are ours
and death is but absence of life.
Petals, a, delicate shading,
a laughing through tresses of sun
and a rose.
The rose partakes of beauty’s form
and the sense presents to us
the recognition of the rose.
But who ever saw the rose in itself?
But plainly with' no illusions
comes the tap of Death’s stick,
the snap of Life’s brcad_
The nothing more of fears.
I have a space to fill
and laughter flows easily.
What use the midget moaning
the willing weakness of women
in crying and kicking the rocks.
In the depths of thought
are ever shades of sadness.
I see with the heart’s eye, the clear eye,
I build for the beauty.
Insincerely you sing.
The world’s on the wing
to the shadows.
Comes these thoughts
like the old women aged and mad
crying fool on my footsteps.
The thinkers bred by ages are unfathomed
but this is shallow.
As any ocean
that laughs on the breasts of a land.
9


Lot me go mad
and tear my throat
and yell
and holler
and cry_
Come let me hang my maddened neck
upon the maddened trees.
Too lovely the neck and thei trees.
Let the plains of laughter slip under eagle feet
and see the trees
and the eager necks of women
as long as I shall become reality.
I shall be strong with beauty.
Come break the body.
The flowers breath-bursting,
the trees so smug with worldly mystery,
the pride of the sun and the calmness of stars,
impress with insignificance.
Protesting madness, I guard my sanity.
What use the madness makes
of trees and children
and fine rain,
the pride of the sun and the calmness of stars.
Come laughter and surge the sea of mo.
BARRIE G. REID
POEM.
I AM absolved from bitterness,
the momentary pang, the dark illusion of futility.
All this is past.
The crying out, the raising of helpless wrists
shall be no more.
There is a strong man
with iron in his shoulders,
felling the forest
blocking the way of the road
which shall be concrete) and sure
with the revelation of half-heard desires.
This tree-faller is known to all the wise men.
They call him Seasonable Love.
10


BERYL LEAVER (18)
CRITICISM OF ART STANDARDS.
WHEN referring to art in this summary of ideas, I am thinking
primarily of the art of painting, but I think it will be found
that the assertions made affect the arts generally. In all cases, my
statements refer to the majority, though I by no means overlook the
exceptions.
The greatest art has been used by the ruling classes as an instrument
of propaganda and repression (the artist often being unconscious of
this), or by new classes rising into power, as a weapon of attack.
To-day, conceptions of beauty and dignity are utterly false and
vicious and perverted. Except when deliberately representing abstract
ideas, the artist, in eliminating all suggestion of pain, failure, and base-
ness of life (i.e., idealising) becomes a liar and pretender destroying
the value of truth; and a coward also, because he is afraid of public
opinion should be express in stark reality what he sees.
By this I do not infer that beauty should not be represented, but
that we should not shrink from reality and create snobbery and sub-
servience, timidity and worship of tradition, thus producing a great
number of people who paint a thing as they think other people ought
to think it to be.
You will notice that the successful artists of any period are those
in sympathy with the ruling classes of that time, and who voice the
interests and ideals of that class. The others live in poverty and only
become recognised years after their death. These latter have, of course,
been glorified by the ruling class —a clever piece of propaganda.
In any society that is not stagnant, there are two definite types
of art: (1) that of artists patronised by the ruling class which shows
rest and serenity and clarity of form, as the artist has had time to study
technique and knows in a calculating way just what he wants to do;
(2) the rebel artists who fail to serve their masters and pay the penalty.
Their work is crude and instinctive, full of surging, half-expressed, half-
realised emotion; it is full of action and power.
Look at the work of Raphael. Do you see any of the blood and
sweat and tears of the Italian peasantry of his day reflected in his
madonnas, etc.? No. He flattered ruling class Italy by painting its
physical beauty and material luxury in the form of demi-gods of
Catholic mythology.
As a contrast, we see Michelangelo living a life of futile and
agonised revolt, producing magnificent and terrible art. We find no
more tragic illustration of the waste wrought in the life of a genius
by the powers of greed.
ALEX LIRE (16)
POEM TO JOHN (II)
I WANDERED alone to the dawning,
The streets were still heavy with sleep,
And I saw the red lips of the morning
On the breasts of the mountains sweep.
I saw the city open her trap
And I saw all her rabbits run:
Oh I ached for mirth and I threw my cap
At the burning boomerang sun.
11


GRACE PERRY
LOVE’S COMING
'-pHE air was hushed with voiceless loveliness
That trembled on the crystal brink of song,
While waiting flowers drooped their heads in prayer.
The fading sunlight tarried then along
The smiling lawns, and lingeringly kissed
The listening trees. Vague shadows loitering
Within the darkening vale delayed the mist
So they might see love come to me....
HAZEL ROBINSON (16)
SILENCE
SILENCE. And a great grey calm;
A listless dying in the air.
Silence is the birth of thought,
Thought upon thought, care upon care
Crowd into the brain, and swarm,
And break the horror of the calm
Stillness
(Jostling thoughts in a throbbing mind
Eevolve and twist against the will;
Come... .and go, at last confined;
To silence, by the awful still,
Dispelling torture of the brain;
A numbness settles, and again—
Silence....
12


LAURENCE COLLINSON
letters TO MODERN POETS (1)
T. S. ELIOT
Dear Mr. Eliot,
Since first I began to read modern poetry, you have been the poet in
whom I have become most interested. I have coveted your work more than
thati of any other poet, laying hands on what anthologies I could find, seizing
books beolnging to someone else, buying your works, doing anything to obtain
a glimpse of one of your poems I had not read. And until I found a copy
of COLLECTED POEMS 1909-1935, I felt not at all satisfied.
I first met with your writing in Anne Eidlor’s excellent little anthology
for which you had written a preface. You said then, “Every age gets the art
it deserves, and every age must accept the art it gets”, a sentence I have
never forgotten. I read, in that anthology, THE HOLLOW MEN, from which,
at that time, all I gained was the knowledge that modern poets were not at
all like those we had to study at school, especially when they wrote lines like:
For thine is
Life is
For thine is the
and:
This is the way the world ends
This is the way the world ends
This is the way the world ends
Not with a bang but a whimper.
I was induced to read more of you, so I turned back to GEEONTION where
I read:
Here I am, an old man in a dry month,
Being read to by a boy, waiting for rain,
and though I as yet understood little of your poetry, there was a sensuousness
about your style that impressed me and made me desire more.
I can’t remember exactly what next I read of yours, but about six months
later, I came across a poem in an Everyman anthology that affected me
tremendously. Mainly, I suppose, because you wrote it at twenty-one o»
thereabouts, an age near to mine. Besides, it was without that symbolism
which so puzzles me. You have, no doubt, guessed that the poem to which
I refer is POETEAIT OF A LADY. Those lines:
Now that lilacs are in bloom
She has a bowl of lilacs in her room
And twists one in her fingers while she talks,
‘ Ah, my* friend, you do not know, you do not know
What life is, you who hold it in your hands';
(Slowly twisting the lilac stalks)
* You let it flow from you, you let it flow,
And youth is cruel, and has no remorse
And smiles at situations which it cannot see.’
I smile, of course,
And go on drinking tea.
remain in my memory.
When I read the work of your predecessors in poetry, and then your work,
I realise how immeasurably and how irrevocably you have changed my ideas
about poetry. I didn’t quite understand that poem you wrote which is con-
sidered one of the greatest of modern poems, THE WASTE LAND, I like its
rhythms, and the feelings it induces, but I imagine I shall have to wait a year
or two before I understand it fully, just as I shall havel to wait to understand
LITTLE GIDDING or any of the other poems from FOUR QUARTETS.
13


I have learnt such a lot about you: I know that you are about fifty-six,
that you signed a petition protesting against the pirating of Joyce’s ULYSSES,
that you were born in America and have become a naturalised Englishman, that
you are a director of Faber’s, that you were influenced by Browning and the
French Symbolists, that you have become an Anglo-Catholic, (by the way, I
wouldn’t care in the least what religion you were except that, had you not
been converted, I don’t think you would have written the reverberating
choruses from THE EOCK, or MUEDEE IN THE CATHEDEAL), but I don’t
care if I never learn another thing about your life; I like your poetry: that
is enough.
I am looking for A FAMILY EEUNION, and then I am going to start
on your prose. But the books I want are so difficult to obtain in wartime,
especially in Australia.
L.C.
P.S.—Have just come across ELIZABETHAN ESSAYS. Looking forward
to some enjoyable evenings with it.
BRIAN MEDLIN (15)
THE SCHOOLBOY
COME to the plains, cries the wind;
Come to the shores, cries the sea;
Come to the hills, cries the rain,
And my soul cries, Let me he free.
And the swallows skim over the fields
While the butcher-bird swoops on his prey;
The frost shines white on the grass
As it slowly melts away;
The waves are dancing with light,
And the breakers crash on the shore;
And bright anemones cling
Tor life to the rocky floor;
And the wattle trees bloom in the scrub
And the gums perfume the air;
The wind and the sea and the rain
Call me to follow them there.
And I alone remain
Though all the while I dream
Of running by the sea
Or lying by the stream.
Come to the plains, cries the wind;
Come to the shores, cries the sea;
Come to the hills, cries the rain;
And my soul cries, Let me be free.
14


CECEL KNOPKE (18)
A SPIRIT FLOWN
THEY are memories of early summer mornings
When, glancing out, I would see her busily
Pottering with her flowers, cheerfully,
As eager for the sunshine and the air
As the pinks and marigolds she tended there.
I would have found it strange early mornings
Not to have seen the old straw hat bobbing along
Behind the tall green hedge of jessamine,
And hear the busy snipping of her shears
That would accompany her careless song.
It is strange that sweet remembrances bring tears
When the painful ones have been forgotten long.
And in the morning room I’d sit and read
When in she’d burst upon my solemn thoughts
With sunshine and laughter, and the scent
Of marigolds she carried in her arms.
She’d laugh: “They’re beautiful, these marigolds I bought
As tiny seedlings just before we went
On holidays. I’m saving some of the best for seed.
But, my dear boy, sunshine is what you need,
Shut up in here when it’s so bright outside.”
And then she’d sigh and throw the windows wide,
And that unexpected breath of wind
Would blow my pages over, vexing me,
And the ruffled, filmy curtains would flutter teasingly.
And she would sit beside me in the sun
And say, “You know, my* boy, you’re very old—
As old as I, for I’ve never yet begun
To think half as profoundly as you do.
Sometimes your soberness quite worries me.”
(I know I never was as young as she,
Nor half as pleasant as she would have me be.)
And then her smilesi would fade into a look of care,
And gravely—very gravely she would stare
Across the room, to where a print of Corot hung,
“You know, he’s quite a genius, this Corot,
With his old twisted trees and morning mists,
And the golden, hair tossing in the wind.
Those are the things which many poets borrow
To sing the mystery that Coleridge sang.
I’ve often gazed upon that old oak tree,
Feeling the deepest reverence for its age,
(I'm old, you know, quite old, but my few years must be
Mere days, contrasted with the centuries of this old sage.)
And I think of all the ones that must have sat
Beneath its boughs as those two are doing.
(They’re lovers, you observe, and it’s early spring.)
It is a thought that seems to come with age:
How full the book of life must be, could we turn back a page.
I’ve nothing much, you know, for looking back upon;
My life has not been an eventful one,
And much more sorrow than happiness, I think.
Perhaps that’s why I snatch at happiness now.”
(Her lips would quiver, and the tears would blink,
And she’d push away the lock upon her brow.)
15


“It’s been mostly happy though',
With all you children and the friends I knew,
But you can’t imagine with what pangs of sorrow —
With what regretfulness I’ve watched my children go.
None of you are close to me now I’m growing old;
Perhaps it’s better I should be alone —
Almost alone, when the end is drawing near;
Perhaps I’d feel it more with you young children here.
Perhaps I haven’t pondered quite enough
Upon my lot, for life goes so very fast
When one is ever striving for the youth
That one never quite obtained when young 4
You know, with me my youth was past
So prematurely—so soon the cares of life were mine—
So soon I had to grow mature, and leave my youth behind.
You’d think I felt regret for being no longer young;
There’s no regret, for age is reverend and kind.
But life is hard —so very, very hard —
So very difficult to understand.
I do not think you realise what life is.”
(And, from behind, the flimsy chintzes fanned
And nodded, as if confirming what she said,
And the strands of hair chased across her head.)
“You have not learned to know the life you live;
You need to travel—you must go abroad
When it is possible. I can’t afford
Such things these days, you, know. ” (She sighs,
And the vacant stare is once more in her eyes.)
“It’s difficult —so very difficult to tell
The creed of life to one as young as you.
It is a thing that travel teaches well,
And you must see the world, and learn it too.
She laugh's:
We heard from Rosalind to-day—
She’s very happy, but she says she me_
But she’s a woman now, and must learn to be
Quite content with thq little life will give.
Elisc and Margaret write less frequently,
But I suppose they have new lives to live
Now that they have gone so far away.
You know, this always makes mo feel
Like an old rook, with' all her nestlings flown,
As here in my old nest I’m left alone.”
And she’d rise and laugh and leave mo pondering.
And here, as summer comes, again I’m, wondering
How she is, and if she has any flowers there—
She never was without them when at home.
Summer will be strange if she’s not here—
If I cannot hear her laugh and shed a tear.
But they say she doesn’t laugh these days;
They say she’s lost her pretty, flustering ways;
They say her face is old —her hair is grey,
But, if it is, I’ll like it still that way.
It would be sorrowful if there were none
Of the old spirit left—if all were gone.
16
