

BARJAI
No.
15
NEW POEMS by
THELMA FORSHAW
LAURENCE COLLINSON
SHIRLEY REYNOLDS
ANTHONY BEALE
GRACE PERRY
DAVID SANDERSON
BETTY McFARLANE
AND OTHERS
COMPETITION RESULTS
PS
m
5s
n
era
pa
S
m
1/3


0 An attempt is being made in .the pages of this magazine
to present Youth’s statement of its reactions to Life....
The main reason for the publication- of this magazine is to
bring Youth into contact with the awakening of Australian
Literature now taking place, and so strengthen and coni
tinue the cultural development of this country....
Although primarily a literary magazine, BAHJAI also
encourages Youth to write on art, music, broad social
issues, and any other subjects that are likely to forward
cultural activity.
0 BABJAI is published every two months.
Annual subscription: 7/6 a year (post free).
Single copies: 1/3 (plus penny postage).
0 Address correspondence, subscriptions, contributions, and
donations to —
The Editors,
Box 1773 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, Qld.
0 BABJAI is the aboriginal word for “meeting-place”.
0 Wc gratefully acknowledge a generous donation from Mrs.
Frank Santler of Brisbane.


BARJAI
No. IS
A MEETING PLACE FOR YOUTH
Editors:
LAURENCE COLLINSON BAERIE G. REID
Sab-Editors;
CECEL KNOPKE THEA ASTLEY
Secretary:
ANTHONY BEALE
BARJAI PUBLISHING SERVICE
BRISBANE
JULY 1944
EDITORIAL
THE adult writers are asking themselves, with Nicholas Moore,
“ Are we not guilty too
That we not died to keep them from the tomb,
That we not spoke to keep them from the bomb,
That we did nothing?”
We who are growing to maturity in war must not likewise
refuse our challenge. This time is crisis. Either we can allow
our world to go from crisis to chaos, or we can struggle to
achieve a new world and regain for it a new moral sense.
We can show that young people to-day still hold steadily
to high concepts of truth and beauty. Never again shall the
world’s moral standards be allowed to become so degraded. We
can show that we will not tolerate systems to come into being
that murder such men as Lorca and Holland, that hound such
men as Freud and Stefan Zweig. The opportunity is here. Can
we build cleanly and well? Can wa
“Show an affirming flame?”
1


FLOWER.
Linocut by Laurence Collinson
2


AGAINST OBLIVION
‘‘We are not suddenly going to turn a new page with the
cessation of this fratricidal war. Another wretched peace will be
made and there will be another breathing spell of ten or twenty
years, and then we shall go to war again. And the next war will
also be regarded as a jusß and holy war, as this one now.”
—Henry Miller ‘‘Of Art and the Future”.
DESOLATION, hunger, pain, death. Is it I they say shall live
for this? But I am young.
Can we then accept the statement? It is our future, it is
our days, our laughter, that is in question. Shall we not, then,
fight for our right to live?
All those who wish the world to know a lasting peace must
now be alert. The laughter is cynical. Already man is coming
to accept war as his daily lot. Is it so ridiculous, so preposterous,
to. desire that man no more murder his fellow.
I had thought that a young man’s death was tragedy. To-day
it is ordinary. Death has entered polite society and is spoken of
between the coffee and the evening cigarette.
The people of this world have a disease called hate. Hate
has many mothers. One is propaganda, another grief. Can we,
who are young, rid our living place of this foul contagion?
We, the heirs of C'h'atterton, Eimbaud, Keats, Hofmannsthal,
must now struggle for not only opr culture, but our lives.
No more the retreat to our books. Our words can no longer
hide behind hedges. They must come out into the open and
declare our desires clearly. Boldness is wisdom, now.
Henry Miller’s words must be proven liars. There can -be
man-made war so powerful that it cannot be stopped by man.
I, passionately concerned with my immediate future, refuse to
be fed to the cannon by future warmongers. The young peoples
of this world, by their wrath', by their concerted and individual
efforts, can stop future murder.
The struggle will not be over with the defeat of the fascist
mobs! Every man who, when for a time the slaughter is stilled,
settles down to the old complacency, is a potential fascist.
By clear thinking, by refusal.to accept the appeal to baser
emotions made by nationalist propagandsts, the people of this
earth’ can form a front against oblivion.
BARBIE G, REID.
3


LOUIS H. CLARK
A.I.F.
THIS PEACE?
YOU bray of Peace my friend, who know it not;
When shall it comet to-dayt next month! next year!
Your figures prove Victr’y is very near;
Carry your nought and place your decimal dot,
Then to your easy chair, and lager beer—
O world, poor world, you seething melting pot,
Oiled words shall never wash the new ore clear.
Vict’ry without a lasting Peace is War;
A germ filled sore that poisons up again,
Once more its core, its cancerous filthy core,
Is but one thing—the distrusting of menl
O sign your brittle pact and tinsel law,
And may the Future’s blood be on your pen;
Unless the nations meet, true heart to heart,
As children do, aye, trusting as children
“War to end war”, will mean what it meant then!
EDGAR CASTLE
B.A.N.
TIME
{(TT will not be long,” you said: But since then, the centuries
-1- have passed, and I am afraid and alone, and a10ne....
“It will not be for long,” you said, and I thought then how
we had made time stand still.
I remembered how we had run out of the dawn and across
th'e hills, and the sharp exhilaration of the wind, and the crisp
grass. And I remembered the sea, and the cool dry sand. I
remembered how we ran through the surf, the shallow waves
making Mercury wings for our bare feet. We laughed, and our
bodies were quick with the sun, and with the resurgence of
spirit. I had no fears then, the wind, the water and the cool sand
were part of us; and we of them.
“It will not be for long,” you said. But here I have learnt
to hate the sun and now the wind is for others but me.
“It will not be long,” you said:. But since then, the cen-
turies hare passed, and I am afraid and alone, and a10ne....
4


VIDA SMITH
Brisbane
AEACHNE
'
HEEE at the loom of my thoughts
I am weaving you a cloak
Of whitei petunias under a moonless sky,
Of the little grasses whose names you always knew.
I made of my love a cloak
To shield you from the winds of the world,
But you will not choose to wear it.
Here the key to a room
That only you may enter;
Where, if you’d come, you’d find
Love on a rainy afternoon,
Love in a ghost petunia.
Here is the key to a room
That you will never choose to enter
Lest you should find me
At my pitiable weaving.
ANTHONY BEALE
Brisbane
SONNET
TELL me the man who asks and who receives
An answer to Life’s question, wrapped in crude
Garments of Time, and I shall eat the food
Of) him who leaves his scraps to me and breathes
His sigh of sad content. To him I turn
My begging palms and plead and cry for more
Of the choice fruit fall’n rotten to the floor
With others that had gone to seed. I yearn
To beg or steal these rich and priceless gems
Within my eager reach. Yet when I know
This man’s answer, I’ll be at the hems
Of Life’s long and patched robe—and O
I hope the end will not be hard to earn
Or sorrows cross my path where some may spurn.
5


ALEX LIRE
Rockhampton
TO JOHN (IU)
ONE day I laughed by a careless stream
And felt the birds in my heart,
The beauty was that of a witch’s dream,
A cloud, a wind, a part
Of the sun that then fell on my face.
But seeing the shrugs and the painful moan
And the hopeless feet in the hopeless race
The birds have flown.
MARIE HORN
Brisbane.
POEM
I STOOD last night and looked up at the stars,
and gazing thought, And all this came to pass
an untold ago ago.
And what is Earth?
A star like all the rest,
'a fragment whirling in the timeless universe,
and we are atoms on it, blessed
with that still hidden miracle called Life
yet we, poor fools, must toss our little earth
with all the noise and thunder of our wars,
unthinking. Fools, let us clear our brains,
and live the life that stirs within our breasts.
Live and love and feel the passions smouldering,
and satisfy the wild desires that sweep.
Our life is but a flame that’s easily snuffed,
and insignificant.
So let us live, nor seek to kill,
and look up sometimes at the stars
remembering they are mightier far than we.
6


GRAHAME HARRISON
Newcastle
PRELUDE
<<\X7E have seen the old and broken
VV Pass like shadows on our blinds—
Like unreal things.
We have hugged the warm air,
And felt our bodies glow
With wine and heat.
(And yet we shivered.)
We linked our wealth with golden chains,
And pulled them tight around those throats
That cried of suffocation.
Our lives were poured from champagne bottles.
(Alas, they are all empty now.)
Our dress immaculate as election slogans,
We spoke politely,
And our arguments followed like well-fed bishops. ..
“ Gentlemen. Cease from your drinking.
Bar up the doors and windows.
Babylon is fallen....is fallen.
Babylon the Great is fallen.”
BRIAN MEDLIN
Adelaide
ME
I AM one of many:
idly but thoroughly
whittling my dreams,
my love, my hatred, desires
on the stick which is yet to be me.
7


THELMA FORSHAW
Sydney
CUBIST
'VT’EARS that, divide into coldly-dripping cubes;
Picasso-like, my life spreads out before me—
A coloured canvas split with writhing forms
That know no real shape nor real name,
Only the inwardness of the painter’s mind—
Only the scum scraped off his soul’s dark pool,
He calls it Cubism. I—l call it Doom.
If I sat there and let empathy take me,
I could seep into it myself and die in it....
Wallow and. ehoke in the scum that soaked me through.
Cubism. On canvas it knows no realisation,
But men’s lives—it wreathes them about.
Taken from off the canvas’ hard facade
And set among the lives of men at work,
At death, at birth—it knows fruition.
Life IS cubist. Complex and insolvable,
Inescapable. (Oh, adjectives illimitable
Could I use to mould it into utterness of meaning.)
Superimposition of sensation upon dream, it is.
Playing at life, we creep a little closer death,
Foisting it off on to the other one.
“Not for md is death. I’m young—too young for it.
Take it you old, you ill, you mindless.
It is for you. YOU—it should take first.
What have I to do with death f I have a life
Rich with the promise of power within.
I’ll live and you can die and go rot
For all I care.’’ Let—let me live
Among my cubes, lost and loathing
In my Picasso-labyrinth.
8


GECEL KNOPKE
Brisbane
PICTURES AND EXHIBITIONS:
DO you remember
the walks of yesterday!
And do you remember
the warm conversations
of trees and of parks,
of French and of books,
of violins and Beethoven,
of Bernard Shaw and theatres,
of Gounod, Bach, and operas,
and great celebrities!
Do you remember
the pale blue jacaranda,
and the pale blue ground beneath!
Do you remember
the coldness of winter,
the light and shade of summer,
with art galleries and gardens,
afternoons and exhibitions,
towers, views, and roof-gardens,
and weary journeys home!
Do you remember
concerts and choirs,
pianists and orchestras,
coloured lights and plays!
Do you remember
Shakespeare and Milton,
Wordsworth and Browning,
Bacon, Lamb, and birrelling,
Dickens, Scott, and all the rest,
and the Great God Pan!
Do you femember
the Blessed Damozel
with a lily in her hand!
You remember Lotus Land,
and Christobel, and night winds,
and a pale shrouded moon.
You remember Eliot—;
a portrait—
a lady
with lilacs in her hand.
Do you remember
I found lilacs too!
It was - our life.
9


BETTY McFARLANE
Sydney
MAEOUBBA
JAZZ band rattle by the roaring sea,
Thud, thud and shuffle of feet.
Crooning of a latest heart throb honey,
Shudder where the sea and a jazz band meet.
Screeching, syncopated dance floor, sweaty and perfumed.
Aching of ecstasy, jig jogging along,
Ready made tin can “blues” for the doomed....
But ’the ocean roars its archaic song.
ROBERT S. EDGLEY
A.I.F.
POEM
TF I ask
-L as 1 bask;
What is
the envy of Sisyphisf
You smile
a mile
of teeth,
flash, smash
my ideas.
Two beers.
This is
Sisyphis.
RONA REID
Brisbane
JITTERBUGS
WHEN day is done
and their bodies
should be at rest
their skeletons play around
at the night clubs.
10


SHIRLEY REYNOLDS
Melbourne
70EM
BEEPING your life through’
In the writhing bellies of caterpillars,
You are the carefully-watched, and the looker-on,
The philosopher, though naive in your approach.
You watch without subtlety.
No veneer of boredom shines in your eyes—
See life, the drunks, the pregnant
The disease, the aristocracy, the poverty of wit.
You can see—thrust before you—
The tired babies struggling for something they cannot see,
Touching the fingers of genius, perhaps,
With your* own genius for understatement.
You are the true philosopher, the seventh child, clairvoyant.
How else I
No wonder the caterpillars cling stubbornly to their tracks.
They bare invaluable cargoes.
But with an inch of dynamite,
A sweet, swift, dull explosion,
You would be the wreck—
No longer the foundation—of society.
O truly great philosopher,
Cover your stark intelligence with your hand,
Best the traveller sees murder in your eyes,
And solemnly refuses to pay his fare.
11


THEA ASTLEY
Brisbane
POEM
H I OOK!” sang the boy,
A pillar burning white
With sculptured flowers at its head,
Pregnant omens of the dead
Scentless in the night! ’ ’
“ Look!” called the girl,
“ A lily pale in flame,
Its silver flesh a quivering spire
Transitioned from cold clay to fire,
As subtle darkness came!”
“ Look!” they all cried,
” A crumbling mast of stone,
A withered flower upon the grass,
A lifeless moon and stars of glass
And coldness in the bone.”
‘‘ No!” cried the boy.
“No!” sang the girl.
‘‘ See the shadows hurled
With windy cloaks like swelling waves
About us —we, at midnight, slaves,
Chained to a'tottering world!”
12


LAURENCE COLLINSON
Brisbane
COMMENTARY
LET’S talk about each other and our absent friends,
Continuing the dull routine on which our life depends:
Walk through the gardens, gaze distastefully at drunks,
Admire the birds and flowers, eat our rolls in hunks,
Ignore' the loving couples oblivious on the grass,
At every unconventional sight make a quick by-pass,
Stroll along the main street arm in arm with wife or mistress
And remark that beggars shouldn’t make so public their
distress,
Enter the theatre and look around to see who’s there
Of slight on groat importance in this day-by-day affair,
Gaze manfully at cowboys shooting from their strong
screen hips,
Have surreptitious guffaws at uncensored smutty quips,
Sit and read the latest armchair magazines at home,
Or enjoy polite pornography from a private library tome,
On Sundays Only, pray to God that He will be kind to US,
Regard the Church and newspapers as making too much'
fuss.
Make love in what we term a truly civilised manner,
Forget that one day very soon we’ll be carrying death’s
banner,
Confine our whole attention to unnecessary things
In trying not to think of what to-morrow always brings.
DAWN
CRUSH out the night
with the hand of light;
let the buildings pierce
the malevolent and fierce
moon, and the mystery
(supposed of night) be
sneered at in day
by a grinning ray
of the sun in flight
who, preying on new lands,
crushes out the night
with bloodstained hands.
13


GRACE PERRY
Sydney
DISILLUSIONED
I AM a child no longer....
I have left the luscious arbours
Of early youth; and the rosy glow
Has fled from smiling sky.
From lonely heights I gaze on crowds below,
And feel the sighs and tears of centuries
Borne upward to me....
Down in the dust lie sixteen years:
Silent the voice of sixteen springs.
I tear the fevered noise of centuries
As hollow whispers of a long-dead tge.
I see no willow flowering
Where the lazy river flows,
No violins in moonlit gardens play;
For these were the illusion of a dream
And I have done with mazy vagueness
And futile phantasies....
The gleaming stars are faded, in the dawn,
The slumber songs have melted it the stream:
But still I tremble
On the threshold of the morning
For I have torn
The shining substance of a dream....
COMPETITION
This issue, we have a new POETEY COMPETITION, We
will award a prize of one guinea, kindly donated by Mr.
Flexmore Hudson of Adelaide, for the best poem written by
a young person (preferably under 22). Mr. Eex Ingamells of
Adelaide will be the judge. There are only three things to
remember: —
(1) The entries must reach BAEJAI, Box 1773 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, by September 30, 1944.
(2) Mark the entries “COMPETITION”.
(3) The age of the competitor jnust accompany every entry.
The winning poem will be published in BAEJAI No.
17 or 18. The Editors reserve the right to use the re-
maining poems as they think fit.
14


BARRIE G. REID
Brisbane
SHORT STORY
I ACK Reeves left home at the fifteenth anger
went out west with cattle.
Proud with the pride of his sixteen years
he rode where the dust is on the wattle.
All the suburb’s talk swelled fast about her
but his mother was still as a stone.
His father cursed once and was then silent
and the house huddled up all alone.
All the street pointed, whispered, gave opinion,
and his Grandfather Dan began a wild' carouse
but I have never known a silence
like the silence on that house.
MAN PROUD
TVT O stone, no sky, no rock, nor earth
’*■ monarch me buti are anxious players
effecting my peace or the body cry
of rain or sleep with the sun.
What mountains blood climbs; what plains,
what burning earth travelled the heart,
old voyager! Flesh is proud.
Bock holds no monarchy nor sky nor plain
(rings round the throne of End). Sands
grow from cities, floods from sands
and clay this flesh. End is alone secure.
I do not cry out. No I do not cry,
seeing end at hand, see the good. Every
star, earth, bends. Bend easily also lovers
and paint the pattern with your living hands.
15


COMPETITION RESULTS
The prize of one guinea (donated by Mr. James Devancy)
for a poem has been awarded to Thea Astley (18) of Brisbane
for her poem “Creation”. The judge was Mr. C. B. Christesen.
The poem which almost “made it”, is “O Lonely Heart” by
David Sanderson (18). Both poems are printed below. See opposite
page for Mr. Christesen’s comments.
Because no essays worth publishing were received, it was
decided to add the 10/6 prize money to the short story award.
s'
The prize of one guinea for a short story has been equally
divided between Mary Wilkinson (18) for “Sunday Afternoon”
and Thelma Forshaw (20) for “Transmigration”. Miss Wilkin-
son’s story is on page 20, and Miss Forshaw’s story will appear in
BAEJAI No. 16.
THEA ASTLEY
CREATION
THIS must be part of my making—
The loneliness—no love! no love!
For all thoughts find their waking
Mere abstractions, passionless, above
The vibrant strings of human dreams —
With no song breaking.
And I have learned a language of the stars,
And found a truer note in life awaking.
But there will be a breaking
Of cold steel cords. A sudden fire
Will brush my heart and cheek;
A white carved spire
Of pale ideals will crumble down. I seek
The warmth. And true humanity
Will come, a sleepy sun with heat in waking,
Tempering the steel....
And I I am become a man!
But O God! the pain in the making!
16


DAVID SANDERSON
O LONELY HEART
O LONELY heart
of this lonely night
yearning, yearning
for beauty and life,
what can you wish
in your wildest dreams
that leap and flit
in unknown worlds?
But listen....
in the midnight breeze
the loaves scatter
in soulful mystery,
the trees whisper
in wistful beauty,
the gum sighs out
its wonderful destiny.
Simply they sing
but flaming they grow
warming the heart
of this black night,
yielding, yielding
to beauty and life
breaking no paths
to unknown worlds.
NOTE ON BARJAI POETRY COMPETITION BY THE JUDGE,
Mr. C. B. CHRISTESEN.
POETRY' can never be ‘‘pure ’’ art in the sense that music
is. Its medium is language, and language, besides being
the medium of poetry, is the medium of all general communication
between human beings. Hence poetry is indissolubly alloyed with
the matter of life. No one expects music—except martial and
such' music—to have a “social” use. But while you do not ask
Shaw Neilson’s The Orange Tree to bear fruit, or Keats’ Grecian
Unt to hold water, the poet cannot divorce himself from society.
He has always had a social function, “to lift the hearts and soothe
the cares of men”, and surely the need was never more urgent
than to-day.
When examining the poems submitted in the BARJAI corns
petition, I looked for that note of “social consciousness”:—and
17


was disappointed to find it almost completely absent. In this
period of social revolution, I should like to urge BAEJAI writers
to strive, as did Bomain Holland, towards “art that inspires
action”.
The first aim of the reader in examining a poem is to sense
the mood which dominates it, and then to explore the means by
which the poet has given body 'and outline' to that attitude. The
th'eme and the mood of the poem are revealed and interpreted
in the pattern. This is not merely a decorative and harmonious
arrangement? it is a structural directive.
Most of the poems paid scant attention to form. And most
were as thickly sprinkled with pCetie cliches and figures as a
pudding (pre-war) with currants. “Free” verse can be very
finely wrought, but only a skilled player can play tennis without
the net!
I have Chosen Thea Astley’s Creation as the most successful
of the poems submitted. Allowing for its structural faults, I was
impressed with its sincerity, its validity. Most of the poems were
far too loose in form, lacking in emotional and mental content
and discipline. David Sanderson’s O Lonely Heart ran Creation
a close second.
LAURENCE COLLINSON
LULLABY
I LULLABY you in my arms, my love,
And softly sweep my lips across your brow.
Then down, like sleepy doves, your eyelids move.
O we have never known love until now—
And shall the future years this song disprove?
Come closer to my breast and let your hair
Slide silk 'against the harshness of my flesh.
There is no need to hope here or despair,
For while we love, time leave no strife. We mesh
Our breaths: the only rustle in the air.
18


GARDEN FANTASY
Linocut by Cecel Knopke
19


MARY WILKINSON
Sydney
SUNDAY AFTERNOON
garden!” said Mrs. Wilson. ‘‘Oh, you haven’t seen
J- the garden yet!” And she drew young Mrs. Clarke and
old Mrs. Eawson past the tennis court to where beans and cabbages
and strawberries proclaimed her husband’s industry. ‘‘George
absolutely lives in it,” she said, her voice pitched high and pos-
sessive. ‘‘Look at those tomatoes, will you? You’ll all have to
take some home. I tell him he ought to buy a barrow and sell
them in Martin Place.”
‘‘.l think it’s lovely of him,” murmured young Mrs. Clarke.
‘‘l |Wish Herb would take it up, but he’s too big and lazy.”
“What’s that?” boomed Herb, coming off the court and
startling them all. He was a fattish young man in flannels with
the annoying habit of banging at things with his tennis racquet.
“Dulce running me down again, eh?” ho laughed. “There’s
family loyalty for you.”
Miss Root, a spinster in a deckchair, giggled. The other
players, flushed and panting, came off the( court and made for the
iced water on the table. There was Mr. Wilson, the host and life of
the party, young Margaret, his niece, in white shorts and with
straight fair hair, and Mrs. Harper, a jolly thirty-year-old with
quite a pretty face, arrayed in a pink frock that unfortunately
dragged across the bust.
“Mr. Wilson!” she was crying hysterically. “You are a
one!” This on account of her host’s animated attempt to leap
the net.
It was Sunday afternoon.... a perfectly beautiful day. The
day to jump in the air and pull down a fistful of blossoms from
the jacaranda tree, to go running over the rooftops of the staid
suburban homes, to. be up in an aeroplane, miles above the earth,
leaning out to feel the wind scoop back your hair.
The ladies had returned from the garden and plopped down
into the cane chairs scattered across the lawn. It wasn’t a very
big place... .just room for the red-brick home, the tennis court
and the garden. The ladies drew out their knitting from felt
bags and began discussing pattern books and examining wool most
professionally. They were deliberately excluding the men, wrap-
ping themselves in their superior feminine world.
“Here now!” exclaimed Mr. Wilson. “This won’t do.” He
ran bright eyes over the group. “We want another set on!”
he announced. He was not happy idle. He picked out a ladies’
20


doubles then ran up to the house to fetch ice cubes from the
refrigerator. A business man all the week, on Sundays he felt
the need of violent but innocuous exercise. “All work and no
play,” he loved to quote, “makes Jack a dull boy.”
Young Herb Clarke picked up his wife’s knitting and tucked
it under the seat. His eyes fell upon Margaret, curled up on the
lawn. Last time he’d seen her she’d been a real kid, lanky and
formless. Now she had the pleasing roundness of sixteen, and
the innocence, too. Mild obscenities swam across the surface of
his mind like oil on water, dissolving into the realisation that to-
day was Sunday. Herb was a great one for propriety. He was
the sort of man who would send his children to Sunday School
though he, of course, didn’t believe in God.
Mrs. Harper, in the pink frock, was discussing guest houses
with old Mrs. Rawson. “Of course,” she chuckled, “I’m not the
sort for a hectic time now. Getting old, you know. So long
as there’s pretty scenery and good food, I’m satisfied. Wouldn’t
care if nothing happened there at nights.”
No, thought Miss Root. But you’re married. She gazed
defiantly round at the group, shocked at her own thoughts. What
more can we say about her? She has already fulfilled her pur-
pose, which was mere contrast, so let us move on.
Margaret lay down with her head on her arms, chewing grass.
Her eyes, a defenceless blue, were dreaming the sweet daydreams
of sixteen. In another' year she will have changed beyond recog-
nition. The idea of being naive at all will fill her with dry
ampsement, and she will doubt if it really was her, back on this
lawn, composing a poem to Sir Lancelot, her hero. She will laugh,
yes, but will feel beneath her laughter the sudden acute agony
of growing up.
But something is happening to the garden as we write. Let
us look up and see.
A big black cloud, rimmed with light, is stretching like a
hand across the rooftops. Other clouds, baby ones, cluster round
it and .swell and push each other over the edge, like kittens
scrambling in a basket. A wind rushes suddenly past, whipping
the tablecloth against the shining cups and saucers, bringing dis-
tressed moans from the ladies in white skirts. Doors in the red-
brick house slam shut of their own accord.
The players on the tennis court paused and regarded the
scene.
“Perhaps,” said young Mrs. Clarke anxiously, patting her
newly-waved red hair.
“Boy, what a storm!” Mr. Wilson struck his forehead. “And
my strawberries just in!”
21


The first big drops fell wide apart on to the earth. There
was a concentrated rush for the deckchairs, the remains of cakes,
and tennis racquets. An ominous rumbling of thunder hurried
them up, and before the clouds broke the whole party was safely
indoors.
Then the rain began to fall, kissing the earth with a slow
rhythmic beat. The wind soared high along the telephone wires,
producing a shrill scream of delight. The jacar'anda blossoms
glowed palely and luminously in the darkness.
Inside, lights were switched on, and sandshoes pattered across
the shining linoleum kitchen. The men dispersed into the lounge
room, lighting big cigars, talking of stocks and shares, while the
women grouped in the bedrooms to repair their make-up.
“Oh dear,” cried Mrs. Wilson. “Why does it always rain
on a Sunday?”
“I don’t think it will last,” consoled old Mrs. Eawson,
“Look, it’s breaking over there already.”
Margaret stood by the wire door, feeling the spray on her
face like tears, longing to be out in it. As soon as it stops, she
thought, she’d put on her gumboots and splash round in all the
puddles.
Outside a forgotten blazer lay prostrated on the ground, bat-
tered to death completely. Would it ever rise again, and live
to walk above a pair of trousers? The wind had taken the
jacaranda tree and strewn its blossoms all over the court.
“I told George he should never have planted that tree!”
wailed Mrs. Wilson.
“I think it looks kind of pretty,” said Miss Root gently.
“Like confetti.”
But the storm was disappearing as quickly as it had come.
Wrapping its robes around it, it passed on in splendour.
The vegetable garden quivered and dared to breathe again;
the roots of green grass were already sucking greedily at the loamy
wetness; Mrs. Wilson came out with a broom and swept away the
water from the back of the verandah.
“The court takes hours to dry,” she said resentfully. “We’ll
have to play Bridge, that’s all.” She propped the broom against
the wall and went inside.
A silence, which was the silence that follows death, descended
on the little garden.
22


POPULAR POET POLL
The results were:—
1. Christopher Brennan.
2. P. B. Shelley.
3. Eobert Browning.
Also polling excellently were these poets named in order of
vote: —Shakespeare and Byron together; Keats; Francis Thompson;
T. S. Eliot;, Wordsworth and Tennyson; Brooke, Dylan Thomas,.
D. H. Lawrence and Shaw Neilson, all together; Ingamells, Long-
fellow, Binyon, Housmanj and Emily Bronte.
'Polling for Milton, Dante, Whitman, and Auden was poor.
Some of the major poets not mentioned were Chaucer, Spenser,
Dryden, Pope, Blake, and Baylebridge.
“My greatest desire Is to take part, however humbly,
in the resurrection and growth of a truly international
literature—an approach to writing which exceeds national
limitations, both in manner and mentality.”
Frederic Prokosch.
OCCURRENCES
9 We are pleased to announce that Thea Astley, the winner of
the poetry competition, is to be the new sub-editor of BABJAI.
Thea replaces Beryl Leaver, who has gone to New Caledonia
with the American Bed Cross. BABJAI hopes to print more
of Beryl's work soon.
Anthony Beale, a regular contributor, is now BABJAI's.
secretary. This has taken much work from the editors’ grates
ful shoulders.
Vol. 3., No. 1, the latest issue of Meanjin Papers (ed.
C. B. Christesen), contains a noteworthy article entitled
23


“Australia —an International Unit” by Nettie Palmer, and
excellent poems by William Hart-Smith and the English poet
Alex Comfort. Copies (3/- each) may be obtained through
BARJAI. Also to be obtained through BARJAI are copies
of “T?h'e Merciless Beauty” (5/-), poems by Ernest Briggs;
and “The White Hind” (3/6) and “The Blue Gazinta”
(2/6), both books of poems by Mary'Williams.
It is interesting to note how the Australian literary
renaissance is affecting the youth of this country. Since the
last number of BARJAI, “Grist” (ed. in Adelaide by D. A.
Dunstan) has been started to publish the work of senior
students. No. 1 contains an introduction by Prof. J. M.
Stewart, a short comment by Mr. Allen, Superintendent,
Secondary Education, South Australia, and an article on
Private Enterprise or Monopoly by Mr. Ramsay of the S.A.
Housing Trust. There is also some promising work by young
people.
As well, there will soon appear in Adelaide an anthology
of school art and literature, “Scourge No. 1”, to be edited
by Mary Williams of 17 Grenfell St., Kent Town, Adelaide.
Miss Williams is seeking contributions from all over Aus-
tralia by young people at school, or those who left last year.
0 BARJAI groups have been started in most of the states. The
members meet at specified times to discuss art, literature,
and music, original work, etc. For further particulars, enquire
in Brisbane from the Editors, BARJAI, Box 1773 W, G.P.0.;
and in Sydney from Miss Grace Perry, 37 Langlee Avenue,
Waverley. Contact Miss Shirley Reynolds of 273 Domain Rd.,
8. Yarra, in Melbourne; and Brian Medlin of 30 Beauchamp
St., Kurralta Pk., in Adelaide.
£ One of the literary events of the year will, be the publication
by Robertson and Mullens of “Selected Poems” by Flexmore
Hudson, who is well-known as the editor of “Poetry —a
quarterly of Australian and New Zealand Verse” (1/6 a copy,
4/6 a year). The book will appear about September. Mr.
Hudson’s address is Lucindale, S.A.
Reed and Harris are soon to publish a 1 new book of poems
by Alister Kershaw, “Excellent Stranger”, which should 'be
most interesting to readers of contemporary writing.
24


q From youth all over Australia we accept poems,
essays, short stories, plays, etc.
Manuscripts must be accompanied by a stamped
and addressed envelope, otherwise they cannot
bo returned.
The age of the contributor must be given with
every manuscript.
It is regretted that at present, no payments
can be made to contributors.
If a pseudonym is to be used the correct name
must also be given.
£ Contributors to this issue are between the ages
of 1G and 21.


John Mill* hlmMlf. Prlutor.
