

BARJAI
hjO. rv
A
MIII fa !MJ E PLACE
p it Pi
V (ft O T HI
jj 'vhi-- and ■* U


"BARJA"
EDITORIAL.
Ho.lo.
BARJAI was born in time of war. When every effort is
required of a nation to save itself there is littlo time to devote
culture. Most people lay aside their books, store their musical
instruments, forget their art shows. This is perhaps not very dangerous
for the adult. He can always return to these things. But what of the
youth? Growing up in time of war he loams little of culture. That is
why BARJAI is published. So many of us are growing up without an
appreciation of beauty. This is understandable. There is little beauty
loft in a city goarod for war. But we must not forget beauty, we must
not forget culture. These are the things our soldiers do battle for.
BiSRJM is a literary forum for youth. It is the only one of
its kind here. Hero tho youth of today may express their thoughts,
their desires, their feelings. Its policy is clear. It is non-sectarian,
non-political. It aims at providing a meeting place for youth. Because
we believe that an interest in political systems and religion is desir-
able, articles on these subjects, howovor controversial they may bo,
will not be rejected providing the articles have a high enough literary
standard.
BARJAI, perhaps, will produce little significant literary
material but the medium by which it may be expressed is horo for it, if
it is written.
For that alone BARJ/l is worthy of your commendation and
support.
THE EDITORS.
B/iRJAI is aboriginal for "meeting place."
Address Correspondence tog
BARJi'J,
c/- Post Office,
Chemside,
Brisbane. £.
1


SIX SENSES
Do I see lust?
Gnawing at crumbling bones,
Staring through evil eyes,
And are there sickening moans
And tear-filled sighs?
Do I taste fear?
Bitter as foul flesh
Devoured in hunger?
Am I fast in this nerve quiv’ring mesh,
Death-monger?
Do I hear hate?
Shuddering shapes that moan;
Tense with sick greed
Through the hate-driven world in its gloom,
In its need?
Do I smell death?
Such a sweet smell
Like decayed blossoms once red ....
There’s the tolling of the sad echoing bell
For the dead.
Do I feel sorrow?
Yes, and a little fear,
And a little hate,
And I see Death on a bier,
And lust ■'with a mate.
Do I know good
Yes, there is good,
And there is bad
But if I search for good as I should
I will go mad.
LAURENCE COLLINSON
2


MUSIC.
A SEVENTEENTH CENTURY PRODUCT.
There are many kinds of handles, door handles, axe handles,
pick handles, but perhaps the most useful and famous is the George
Frederick Handel, a seventeenth century product of musical Germany.
Perhaps the only time this Handel turned, however, was when his
celebrated "Largo" was swung and he had then been long in his
grave!
Handel (1685-1789) was a man of character and high intelligence
and his interest was not like that of too many musicians, confined to
his own art exclusively. He appreciated the society of politicians and
litterateurs and was a keen collector of pictures. His power for work
was enormousmand the list of his works would fill many pages. They
belong to all branches of music from the simple air to the opera and
oratorio, His most important works are "Messiah", "Te Deum",
"Water Music", "Theodora" and "Triumph of Time and Truth". .Among the
contrapuntists of his time Handel had but one equal, Bach. But he
was also a master of the orchestra and what is more possessed the
rare gift of genuine melody. He worked with extraordinary rapidity
and when his own ideas failed him he helped himself to those of others
without the slightest compunction. He was a master plagiarist fre-
quently stealing entire movements?
"The Messiah" has the distinction of being the only musical
work played regularly in Queensland. The world nearly lost this
masterpiece. Handel became engaged in a duel with another composer
which would have ended fatally for him had not a largo button on
his coat intercepted his adversary’s sword.
GEORGE PANTLUS.
3


SHORT STORY.
THESE ARE MY PEOPLE.
"Take it off, take it off , cry the boys from the rear
"Take it off,take it off, that is all you can hear...."
lie old man said afterwards that you could hoar tho row wo woro
kicking up right down the lane. You see young Clarice was
having her birthday party and I was singing in this room with
a lot of other people. It was a hot night and I remember
watching the perspiration soak the girls’ dresses. Wo all
had some weed and the room was blue with smoke. Clarice's
mothor was thumping a piano* Tho piano was now. So was
Clarice's mothor. I think her real mother had died round
about 1932 when we was just kids. Clarice's old man earns
good money down at the wharves and we' had piled the kitchen
tablo with food. It was a ripper party. The boys had brought
a case of booze and everybody was having a good time, a hell
of a good tino. All except Ivlr. Brisson. Mr. Brisson sat on
the floor. Clarice's new blonde old woman was riled. I
heard her say to Mrs. Davies "After all we only asked *im
because ’o novor goes anywhere. And what does the big blob
do but sit on the floor and get drunk. *E can play his
blasted fiddle all the other bloomin' nights but 'o can't
give me a 'and with tho dam pooanor the big souse."
We weren't bothering about old Brisson though. The
mob had started to jitterbug out on the back verandah. I saw
Clarice out on tho back verandah with her boy friond. There
aren’t any lights out there and nobody minds if the drain
smells a bit.
A few of the older people stopped inside and finished
offthe booze. You're lucky to get it these days but all our
lane are earning plenty of money.
I saw Mr. Brisson sitting on the floor mumbling. His
greyish hair flopped over his funny bulging forehead and his
shirt was open and wot with beer. Every now and then he'd
takw a swig at the bottle beside Mm. I knew that he was
getting drunk because beer somehow blinds him. Ho told me
all about it one night over at our place. I asked him why he
got drunk all day and he said "Well son getting drunk is one
way of getting blinded and I see too clearly and I see too far
ahead." Thems his exact words. He's a queer customer all
right.
4


The mob started to walk down to the tram stop but I stayed
behind to take home some cake for my sisters* Mr* Brisson was still
mumbling. I listened for a while and he was saying something queer
about us being his people. Ho was saying "Those are my people. Oh my
God what about them? These are my people. Oh my God " He
was saying it over and over. I helped Clarice's mother throw him out.
He was as light as a feather.
But gee it was a ripper party l I'm going to have one soon.
But I wont ask Mr. Brisson.
BARRIE G. REID.
BOCK REVIEW.
I LIVE A LIFE OF DREAMS.
I can agree with Mr. R. G. Howorth and all the other critics
who have reviewed the small books of verse by Grace Perry that she is
a singor with a pure lyrical note; there can be no denial of that.
There can, unfortunately, be no denial either, of the fact that Grace
Perry is conventional in her thoughts and images. Lines such as these
display that truths-
"So brightly like a beacon gleaming through the fading years,
I see those eyes ashining."
and
"Now the moonlight bathes the lily and the dew is on the rose
.And drowsy poppies droop their heads and nod in calm repose.”
Her poems, with, of course, a few exceptions are vory
beautiful in this conventional and though I do not believe
that a poet should be so unconventional as to be ridiculous, I do
believe that once Grace Perry thinks her own thoughts and form them
into original poetry, she vdll make a great Australian poet.
GRACE PERRY.
5
SHORT STORY. (Gont'd)


VISION ...?
I met her outside the theatre after seeing "Mary Rose"
so I can hardly he blamed for believing the whole adventure a
result of my overwhelmed imagination? and yet, I was left
with such a feeling of indescribable sadness that I must write
down an account of it to relieve my mind.
As I walked out of the foyer ’wrapping my overcoat
about myself and sniffing the night air - you know how good
the fresh air smells after a couple of hours in a crowded hall
- I saw her. She was standing in the light of a white neon
advertisement; and her gold hair was aglow, her wide eyes
were shining, her face was a delicate pink, and her red lips
. ..ohI And there was a mysterious aura around her of some
mysterious substance which I am sure nobody save myself noticed
for the crowd jostled her almost as if unaware of her presence;
and I might add that it seemed to me as if one or two people
went right through her. I wanted her at once, but she appear-
ed so fragile that I feared to touch her lest she break.
She beckoned to me and I followed. I don't know what
kept my conscience quiet when it came to this part of the
business, but I knew, somehow, that she would have the aid
of a supernatural power if over she needed protection.
She led me - I don't know hoi/ far, it must have been
at least five miles - out into open country; and I had no
feeling of tiredness, only an exhilaration that helped speed
mo along gaily behind her. The moon was brilliant and the
countryside was drenched with frost-like light. She stopped
and sank down under a eucalypt in a field covered with thick
yielding grass. I stopped also and sat down beside her.
, And then I saw she had wingss soft thin wings that
had been dipped in a rainbow. I couldn't help raising my eye-
brows - almost as if I disapproved of her having wings, which
I didn't at all - and when she saw the movement she laughed
sweetly.
"Are you a fairy," I asked stupidly, for it was quite
apparent that she was*
"Yes", she answered lightly, and sprang to her feet.
"But that's impossible."
"Thy?"
6
SHORT STORY.


"Well," I muttered, ’"there simply aren't such things in Australia."
"Aren't there?"
"No," I snapped, almost annoyed. "You belong to England and
Shakespeare's forests and things like that."
"How ridiculous", she tinkled. "It's obvious you know nothing what-
ever about fairios."
I realized the truth of her statement and felt sulky.
"Oh, it doesn't matter anyway," she said. "Let's forget all about
it, eh?"
"That would bo best."
As she lay there smiling at something about which she knew nothing,
I was suddenly struck with an idea.
"Can you fly?" I asked.
"Naturally," and she rose, skipped about in the air, and then flew
swiftly along, her gold hair streaming behind, until she was almost out
of sight.
"Come back.*" I cried.
She came a little closer.
"¥hy?"
"I want to love you."
"Do you?" She was tantalizing. "Gome live with me and be my love
and we will all the pleasures prove."
I was triumphant. "There, I knew you came from Elizabethan England"
"How silly. If you wish, I'll quote you Ezra Pound, or, if he's
more to your taste, Shaw Neilson,"
I felt exceedingly foolish.
"Just the same, please come back to me."
I was horribly in earnest. I wanted this beautiful creature
and there she was, flying far away from me.
"No, I don't think I shall." And she turned again and disappeared
towards --a star leaving me to trudge all the way back to the city.
LAURENCE COLLINSON.
Because there is only a limited number of copies issued each
week, we advise readers to make certain of a magazine by sending a
subscription.
Single copies are sixpence. Posted sevenponco.
A three month's subscription costs only three shillings and
sixpence.
Send your subscription, together with your name and address
to BARJ At,
c/- Post Office, Chermside, Brisbane.
7


A GARDEN FANTASY
Whoopi said Theresa, laughing loudly -
Laughing badly; shrill and long
Like a rhinoceros in convulsions.
And the echo travelled back from the small old shack
In the garden.
And in the bushes the -.vise owl blinked,
And the flowers nodded, and wo nodded,
And the blinking cigarettes were lost in darkness,
And the wise owl turned the other way -
And we knew.
Like a rhinoceros, expectantly
Theresa giggled, and the flowers shivered -
I know they shivered, for we shivered ,
And the cigarette smoke no longer curled above the glow
For there wasn’t one.
And Theresa giggled naughtily
As a rhinoceros would never do,
For they are good, As all girls start.
But even good girls soon must fall -
¥e all do.
Whoop* said Theresa, immorally,
And the flowers blushed, and the daisies hid,
And the wise owl flew to another tree,
And the echo came back from the small old shack,
Tolling us ......
CEGEL KNOPKE
8


THE ROYAL ART SOCIETY’S EXHIBITION.
Tho exhibition held by the Royal Art Society at the Canberra
Hotel was indeed an excellent one, and one of 1310 best and most exten-
sive displays that I have seen for many months* Indeed, it is a great
pity that there are not many more such displays, and that they are not
more publicly attended. But it is no wonder that those exhibitions of
art are not visited by the general public, for tho study and apprecia-
tion of art is so thoroughly neglected in the curriculum of every school.
Perhaps there are not more of such displays because there is so little
to displays we have only a few good artists, this being the consequence
as I have already said, of the lack, no, tho absence of education in
art.
Of coarse, the best of tho exhibits were the works of W,
Bustard, but that would be so at almost any Queensland exhibition.
I liked particularly his "Parly Morning" and "Woodmiller Valley" two
splendid watox-colours, with a very delicate lighting effect. An artist
I admire for his almost sombre affect of lighting is Roy Parkinson, two
of whose paintings: "The Early Morning" and "Tho Bridge, Sydney" wore
greatly enhanced by this particular treatment. Next were splendid still
life portraits in watercolour by Vida Lahey, and Marjorie Jones, and
excellent landscapes by Hobday. The watercolour section was tho most
pleasing.
Some of the worst, and some of the best paintings were in the
oils section. The best, I thought, wore those by Frank Payne, all
splendid figure portraits, and excellent still life portraits by Vera
Leichney. Here too, was a splendid oil by Bustard. I suppose that I
am expected to mention tho paintings of Dalgamo, because many admire
him on the grounds that he is not afraid to use colour, but I should
never want to mention tho man until he cultivates a little medosty in
his use of colour. Much contrasting in effect were works by Frank
Kane and Linda Wohlson and the greatest harmony of colour was predomina-
ting in the painting "Sorono Beauty” by Dorothy Coleman.
The black and white section was the most disappointing, and
there was nothing worthy of mention except for some very splendid
pencil sketches by Percy Eagles. Some good inks wore done by Maria
Corrio.
But disappointment will sometimes turn almost to disgust, and
this was the case when I viewed some of tho oils. I refer to those,-
1 suppose you would call them "toad paintings"'* for they soom to bo dono
9


with large quantities of coloured muds. Perhaps I do not
understand this particular form of art, but I aa sure that
I have seen better stamped out in the wet clays beside
the roadside culverts, by cows and horses. ¥.G. Grant
seems to have an ample supply of this coloured mud. But
much worse was "A Rustic Corner" by ¥. K. Bryning, which
seemed to suggest to me that an artist, appalled with the
dreadful mediocrity of his work, had smeared it over with
yellow daubs of the mud of which I speak. Truly it is
art carried to an extreme.
CEGSL KNOFKE.
10


THE SOUL
The soul, mightiest of all supreme forces; master of nervss,
brain and limbs - warped, unnatural, literally dead are all actions
without it.
In the soul is the spirit of living; without it living becomes
a mechanism instead of a fine art. T/Jhen it is gone, the mere animal
senses are all powerful; there is no desire, no ambition, only a
dogged urge to live and feed on others. A great percentage of
humans are living without the soul or leading force; the soul has
been crushed by continuous self denial and the horror of circumstances
repulsive to the natural spirit.
Those born with the intense desire to do all that is cultural,
refined and artistic are thrown by fate into surroundings that demand
denial of all such desires. They fight with their soul; they fight
with the people; it is a losing battle from the start, they are
crushed by one or the other. If they kill the soul to satisfy the
desires of the people, they are literally dead. If they refuse to
give in to the people, then these same have the power to moke them
outcasts, starving wretches, who in spits of an indomitable spirit
have not the substance to uphold the human form - they die conquering
and yet conquered, unknown and yet heroes of an unknown page.
There is a middle path, but like all half measures, it is to
be despised. Those taking this code are tortured cruelly for their
inability to stand the hard but sincere road. They devote a small
part of their lives to the things their soul is continually burning
for they find some content in this, but it acts only as an irritant,
giving a view to what could be the beauty of a complete fulfillment
of these desires. They spend the greater part of their time among
those ignorant of that which is superior to all - the appreciation
of the qualities that lie in all refined arts; these beings give
employment sufficient to keep the miserable flesh fed with necessary
nourishment and supply healthy living for a few. These laugh,
abuse and make use of the things held highest to them. The spirit
is continually being whipped and tortured by looking upon this and
taking a part in it. They have to humble their spirit to these
miserable wretches who should be grovelling at their feet in the
impure atmosphere they live, but instead they cover to their soul
in repentance for what they are doing-; they continually suffer with
it in its tortured lamentations. This cannot go on forever, the
human form begins to suffer for the abuse of nerves, mind and the all
powerful spirxt. Eventually the sense becomes numb to these strong
emotions and life is only led in a stupour.
11


Tho inevitable.outcome is the degradation of this
part of mankind. The worth of living has boon crushed,
principles bocomo an unknown codo and tho sooking of distraction
follows. Thoy livo for none othor than satisfaction of tho
flosh, the soul is dead, therefore, all desire for higher
refinement is absent and only worldly pleasures remain.
All pastime is spent in a chaso for idle ploasuro and
never any thought of an advancement of tho mind or purifica-
tion of the spirit, the chains of a civilisation that has
not yet learned the true value of lifo and soul
BERYL LEAVER.
This completes issue Ton of BARJAI.
A Literary magazine for YOUTH.
12
