

BARJAI
No.
17
NEW POEMS by
VIDA SMITH
BRIAN MEDLIN
GRACE PERRY
LOUIS CLARK
BETTY McFARLANE
GAVIN GREENLEES
and others
SHORT STORY by
LAURENCE COLLINSON
THE YOUTH LITERARY MAGAZINE
1/3


0 An attempt is being made in the pages of this magazine
to present Yonth’s statement of its reactions to Life.... ,
The main reason for the publication of this magazine is to
bring Youth into contact with the awakening of Australian
Literature now taking place, and so strengthen and con-
tinue the cultural development of this country....
Although primarily a literary magazine, BARJAI also
encourages Youth to write on art, music, broad social
issues, and any other subjects that are likely to forward
cultural activity.
0 'BARJAI is published every two months.
Annual subscription: 7/6 a year (post free).
Single copies; 1/3 (plus penny postage).
0 Address correspondence, subscriptions, contributions, and
donations to—
The Editors,
BARJAI,
Box 1773 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, Qld.
0 BARJAI is the aboriginal word for “meeting-place”.
0 We gratefully acknowledge a generous donation from Miss
Mary Williams.


BARJAI
No* 17
A MEETING PLACE FOR YOUTH
Editors:
LAUEENCE COLLINSON BAEEIE G. EETT)
Committee;
T.HEA ASTLEY ANTHONY BEALE
CECEL KNOPKE YIDA SMITH
BARJAI PUBLISHING SERVICE
BRISBANE
NOVEMBEE-DECEMBEE 1944


EDITORIAL
LOOKING- back over our first year as a printed journal, we
have tried to discover what has been achieved, if any-
thing. We have, certainly, been almost wholly ignored in those
avenues we thought were sure to open up for us: the Education
Departments, the Universities, the High Schools. A great deal of
criticism has been patronising, rarely constructive, when we have
needed constructive criticism very badly. Yet BAEJAI has pub-
lished much verse of a good standard and perhaps, now and then,
has published poetry. Some of the work, we feel, could compare
with the best published in any Australian literary journal: for
example, this stanza by Moriet D’Ombrain:
Only the wild seabirds, and they not caring,
Only the ocean, ageless and aloof,
And one lone eagle in his high wayfaring
Under the blue inunenseness of his roof.
or Brian Medlin’s poem, War Veterans:
In our voices
The singing of mountain creeks:
On our lips
The smiling of summer wheat:
In our wrists
The strength of green-hide thongs:
And in our thighs
The swiftness of forest-fire.
But what of your hearts?
O in our hearts
A great, bitter emptiness.
But more than this, BAEJAI has kept cultural values before
some young people (admittedly a minority) by encouraging them
to read and to write at a time when culture is largely neglected
and even deplored. BAEJAI has shown that, in spite of the
present educational yoke, young creative writers can be produced.
Most of the time, when trying to convince people of the value
of a progressive, vital poetry, we have been knocking our heads
against a stone wall. Yet we continue in the hope that we may
make some impression, that we may even, in places, break the
wall down.
2


SHIRLEY REYNOLDS
STRUGGLE
on a daffodil,
And a slow waltz theme.
Shadow across the sea
Explodes the dream.
All that I once loved
Now turns with hard eyes
To watch the world die.
I cannot sympathise.
O, young life, having seen
The whole world sleeping,
Know that, before the sun,
We ourselves shall be weeping.
The dead see no sky.
There is no laughter.
But the future’s embryo
Will thank us, long after.
Melbourne
3


EDGAR CASTLE
Melbourne
BOMB DAMAGE, LONDON
Comment on a theme by Grahame Sutherland.
T T OW can tongueless iron aspire
To such eloquence; how record,
Though rustfrozen, the man-made
Torture of a night’s undying fire?
O why should grotesque twisted steel
Confound the subtle logic of
A nation’s mind; and need base metal
Tell us what we cannot feel?
BRIAN MEDLIN
Adelaide
M.R.M.
T ET the cool moss of evening
' surround your rocky care,
and let soft dreams beset you
to smooth' your saddened hair,
to calm away your weeping
and fill your eyes with sleeping.
May the bright stream of daybreak
flow through you like a song
the red galah of sunrise
scream hopes to make you strong,
shrill that a joy to-morrow
shall atone for all your sorrow.
4


VIDA SMITH
Brisbane
UNDER A FLOWERING TREE.
I UST for a moment, Ariadne,
I saw your face against the dark arch of the sky.
In the frailty of white flowers
On the butterfly-tree, I saw your cold beauty.
(I stood under a flowering tree . . .
Cotton-wool flowers on a deserted Christmas tree,
White paper butterflies, poised in endless flight
Between the cold grey pavement
And the dark beauty of the night.)
Your face is paler than the flowers,
White Ariadne.
Just for a moment, Ariadne,
I heard your voice,
Soft undertone of the sad night breeze,.
Wind, stirring the green-black branches
On the straight palm trees,
Cry suddenly above the crying 1 of the breeze . . .
(Wind, wind tossing the flowers.)
Your voice calls, you whom the night brings to me,
Sad Ariadne.
5


ROBERT EDG-LEY
A.I.F.
QUADRILIONEM
13 Y the park bench,
•*“* into the deep blackout,
The shadows of the period,
the inquisitive fingers
passed in silent search.
The texture of the evening
wore on from aperitif
to aphrodisiac.
Homer laughed as the cripple
hobbled down the path and fell.
Pelleas and Melis'ande returned
their various ways,
and then the tolling of the bell.
GRAHAME HARRISON
Newcastle
A MADMAN
T T IS eyes were signal lights,
Blazing wildly
Out of control,
That madness revolting
Had captured his brain,
And twisted his thoughts
With' deft iron fingers
To shapes fantastic;
Tormenting his mind
With dreams of Hell,
That horrored him into
A flaming inferno,
Smoking of fear
And a raving disaster.
6


BETTY McFARLANE
Sydney
ALTERCATION.
NOW the eool wind of remembrance
Has come flooding across the dark abyss,
Now at last a light flickers dimly;
Burn brighter, light, flicker less,
Let me see the clarity of the dawn.
The brightness of the recollection dims my eyes,
I have come from the dark immediacy squinting,
And without understanding; the light splutters
But I cannot feel a stir in the laden air.
The heavy fogged, inaudible air
Beats dumbly on my unreceptive brain.
The round gold flame sways, and coils, ■
Flashes, and fades, twists and turns
Like a flame coloured dancer
In the bright spot-light of attention,
Seeing the dark face-filled space before.
But I am one of those faces in the dimness
The flame will not cease to sway.
I am shut out from the happening
I want to close the door on remembrance.
The house is still like death at daybreak
But the light is faint. If only for a brief
tense time it would stand immovable erect,
like a beacon, like a home window
winding down the road, seen in the dark.
Then might we go toward it head erect
Then would my feet need no known way,
No oft trodden path of conventional goings,
Then could my head be among the stars
My eyes on the mountain line and my fingers
firm in yours
But it is not to be so. We are blind
Or there is nothing to see. Or it is hidden.
Or mine eyes are preserved for greatness
that is not to be mutual.
Drop fingers limp, halt one brief second
Turn without an empty inane word —go
You will find a "way. I shall walk on in darkness,
For Day breaks inevitably.
7


RAYMOND WALTERS
Newcastle
DESERTED BEACH
THE sands regard me with a pale virgin-stare,
injured, resentful of my intrusion here;
the hills insensate with pleasures of wind and rain,
scorn defiantly my insignificance
and guard the low path downwards.
Wild shrieks of sea-birds chorus inanely,
taunting with discord the sad, endless
music of the sea. The wind grows strong;
flowers blow and whimper, twisting grotesquely,
sensitively fingering the wind.
It is no use; I cannot stay.
Turning aside, guiltily choking my sensations,
I leave the place.
DAVID SANDERSON
Brisbane
SEND NOW
SEND me your sweet love
On the wings of the eagle now.
The sun may cast long shadows on the grass,
fingers of light may find the shade,
flowers may bloom,
air may be dusty and windy,
air may be laden with perfume,
yet time is going.
The young ram’s blood is flowing
to dry on sad old sacrificial stone.
Then send now!
with never a parting sigh.
8


THEA ASTLEY
Brisbane
FOR THE PLEASURE OF LAURIE
\ X f HEN I am dead and little blades of grass
Lap round my grave as in a shallow sea,
You will know the sorrow of the years
Because of me.
And though the flesh be parted from the flesh,
The future is predestined and you must
8hed a tear or two, and haunted see
Seven lilies blooming from my dust.
SONNET
I ) BYOND this year—the unknown corridor,
" The years ahead. Beyond this heart —the place
Where still the heart will go —and there the face
That smiles now at my own. O I implore
The obliviscence of to-day—no more
Than that, but that my feet will always race
Your shadow, and your shadow find no trace,
But hear the closing of a distant door.
There Where the doubtings of this comic hour
Are swept into the dust-bin of forced laughter,
I hope to banish you till years devour
Your image, and love cuts its little whips,
Yet who knows but I shall pause as you run after,
To know the sudden terror of your lips.
9


GRACE PERRY
NAMELESS FEAR
I AM afraid —
A nameless fear
Annoys my mind
When you are near ... .
I am afraid —
A cruel cloud
Enfolds my brain
In sombre shroud . . .
I am afraid—
To close the door.
The more we love,
My dear, the more
I am afraid.
BARBARA PATTERSON
CRISIS
TOO tall the timbers grow —too tall;
the waters run too deep:
the candle falters, dims, and dies,
and there is nothing clear.
And I am left to meditate
and weep unheard
and raise my plaintive hand unseen,
and cry with voiceless lips unrecognised....
There is no escape: .1 crave no more—
only the embers of the white fire within me
smoulder, move and turn
in pitiable uneomprehended pleas for life:
the miserable vision sinks,
my tears turn eold> dry, lose their sting,
the bitter sob, the last despairing gasp....
And then there is no more: the pain has passed,
and life will breathe in me again.
10


CECEL KNOPKE
LOVE SONG
0 WANS sing
a parting song
a dying song
they say
that must bring
for loving long
a sorrowing
the bitter way.
Swans sing
sorrow’s song—
oh, magic one
dare I to say
that this the tone
of love divine
a wordless lay
is lovers ’ wine.
Swans sing
in plaintive tone
but hear the song
1 sing to thee —
idolatrous
in sweet design;
impassioned sing
in sad repine—
My life
is thine.
11


GAVIN GREENLEES
Melbourne
LIFE AND LOVES OF A CITY BUILDING
A SCREAM is white, relentless and shell-like when considered
from the throats of these folk who never reveal themselves.
Tiny grey caps tied underground, they present to our gaze the
most militant aspects of timidity.
Harpstrings grace the movement of the dunes.
A calm geometry of knitted points reveals the essential
solidity of the office. The flower-pots and conventional ornaments
are always the same in number, even when some are taken outside
the office limits.
An enormous rock guards the entrance to a domain only
perhaps, problematical. The sun is low down, square, and moves
within itself.
The elephants breed green seeds in the corners of their eyes.
Conference of the animals, hippos tied to the ground, giraffes
tied to a high tree, toads tied to the grace of moving stumps.
They waltz, they emerge from the rounded corners of home-shaped
mud-flats.
A prehistoric delirium has shaped the rocks in this forsaken
area of my mind. The species continuing merely as an eye in the
wood for thousands of years, now shows itself in the form of a
most high summer virulence.
Tuberculosis destroys the crops.
The sticky black ball of a summer night stripes itself with
milky violence.
High up in the tower, fixed, absolute, the evening star vibrates
in his tiny binnacle. Little things hurt, stop dropping that
stationery!.
The points of a pencil dream are thinly joined.
12


MARIE HORN
Brisbane
SONNET
WHILE I can gaze upon each distant star,
And feel the questions that have fretted men of old,
And let my unchained thoughts thus wander far,
Can I indeed feel disillusioned, cold
To all the beauty in the world around?
Our world to-day is chaos, sorrow, pain,
But these will pass, and there will be refound
Dear Nature’s loveliness. Ah, not again
Must trees and flowers and sunshine lose their grace ,
And we turn all to gloom and fear and hate.
Life should be sweet—its briefness holds no space
Eor tears; we cannot guess the plans of Fate,
So let us live and love and laugh while still we can
Nor cry that tumult is the doom of Man.
ANTHONY BEALE
Brisbane
MOOD SONNET
PALE green and yellow sunlight lights the land
And trees breathe with relief that night will soon
Enshroud their leaves. But can you understand
The peace 1 that dwells in my full heart? The moon
Of hate is rising—let me be! The sun
Has fallen on the windows of the church,
And what a ghastly colour they have won
Erom the dying embers! Now with a lurch
A sullen cloud obscures the furtive ray
Of light, and through a pale blue haze of smoke
The swaying branches settle in the bay
Of evening. The proud hills seem to choke
Their dying whisper forth; but then the sky
Is cold, unfeeling, now that Night draws nigh.
13


LOUIS H. CLARK
A.I.F.
DAPPLED SPARROWS—BIRDS OP PARADISE
7\ SPARROW perched upon the dust-bin lid;
"*■ A The Dreamer painted, fingers linked to heart;
He robed no ragged prince in silk, nor hid
The squalor, of which he also was part.
He heard the yell of some newspaper kid;
The squealing of his loaded soap-box cart.
He heard a woman’s voice rise, loud and coarse;
(Child-scolding of a bitter old-young wife);
Slum-music, poignant as the vain remorse
That splashes on the jealous lover’s knife—
“The world must hear this song;’’ his voice grew hoarse
With penty emotion. Prom that muck and strife
The Dreamer plucked a chord, and called it “Life.'’
Tlis neighbours looked and listened; “Aye ’tis true;
“Thus have we seen and heard.’’ They hailed the youth;
Then came the white-haired critic, One Who Knew;
“Your dappled sparrow? That? —Young Songs? Uncouth!’’
“Perhaps ” agreed the world; the Dreamer threw
His wilting garlands on the Shrine of Truth
“But we have seen and heard such things as these;”
The people rose; “The mighty critic lies;”
And so they sought the Dreamer, (on the breeze
A white dove winged through Heaven’s dark’ning skies);
And lo! his simple songs were symphonies;
His dappled sparrows, Birds of Paradise
They hailed him; but the Night was in his eyes.
14


ALEX LIRE
Brisbane
POEM
J CANNOT see a golden child
on a winged horse in the sun
but a drunken pain and a wild
dark road for the searching one.
I shall then seek my private sun
in my foreign sky and shall bring
all its warm rays to the prisoned one
and bid him sing.
We suggest readers subscribe to the following literary-
periodicals:
A Comment, quarterly, 6/- a year. 42 Burke Road, 5.E.5,
Victoria.
Angry Penguins, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Meanjin Papers, quarterly, 10/- a year. Box 1871 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Poetry, quarterly, 7/3 a year. Lucindale, South Australia.
Southerly, quarterly, 8/6 a year. Angus & Robertson, Castie-
reagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
15


BARRIE G. REID
Brisbane
PERSONAL PROGRAMME
I. —PROLOGUE.
HE way is clear. For men is become known,
the road now rising from our grief the stone.
The mind exploring found but misery,
now has no use if we want mastery.
Courage and laughter guide our eyes in this,
the brief unknown movement, the careless kiss.
II. —VOYAGE.
Around me the womb and the tombstone,
0 far ones, these must be buti resting places.
Courage now.
Men leave me alone a little space.
1 must dream on this.
Courage, but the tomb is
large in my eyes and friendly, terrible
more than my fellow flesh.
It is the image in my nights and days.
I dreamt once that my death
insisted, that it was
the final flower for my eager love.
Dreams find the world for me,
assure my place,
and suddenly now in the world’s centre,
my own destiny, is a lighted face.
The, eyes in the face of the wind
are terrible (yes
it is the wind who comes unbidden).
The world has gathered up all winds
for these the eyes now mine
as I begin a journey when still in sleep
the unknown boy is hidden.
I in these grave arms with these great eyes
am by my will as a wind forced to this high journey.
16


Now over continents to-day;
and unloved women worry in their sleep:
what if the fire caught our beds
when we were dreaming? The rich man
prays that all his neighbours keep
out of his money. A child laughs
in an alley. The world moves on.
I see now all my dark ancestry
moving in the pattern of the years
and there a smile, there a mystery
enter the highway of my blood and bone;
live in my life, breathe fast in my breath.
There is decision in the slow procession
all men are making onwards out of death.
Stumbled on these living smiles and sorrows and
these dead, I see with cruel eyes a patterned beauty.
Silently, softly, as a sure dreamer
the world wings on its way
and who can say
that her lovely path be known?
(would it be lovely known?)
And I, so sure and high, see her
here lonely but not alone.
Here the heavens are moving around me,
changing and changeless and sure
in a pattern begun
in no time by no law
of man or his dream though the sun,
the stars and the childless moon
move deep in our personal storms.
No hero but a common man, can I
snatch this, their harmony, out of the proud heavens?
111. —EPILOGUE.
There is the pattern. On all time we trace
our destiny as art. The life of grace
moves. I, the certain pilgrim, now must move
forward from the unfound lips of love,
challenge the womb, renew the usual birth,
that my dust be content: air, flowers, earth,
17


COMPETITIONS
We will award a prize of one guinea, kindly donated by Mr.
Henry Schoenheimer of Brisbane, for the best piece of original
writing on a post-war subject.
The word “post-war” suggests so many ideas that there should
be plenty of scope for the young writer anxious to express himself.
The competitor may use any form he wishes: poem, essay, short
story, one-act paly, etc.
Mr. Schoenheimer himself will be the judge, and the work will
be considered according t othe significance of the ideas expressed,
the literary worth of the form used, and the ago of the competitor,
who must be under 22.
The entries must reach BARJAI, Box 1773 W, G.P.0., Bris-
bane, by January 30th, 1945.
The envelope sent must be marked “Competition,” r.nd should
contain the entry with a nom-de-plumc attached, and a separate
piece of paper with the name, age, address, and nom-de-plume of
the competitor on it.
Any number of entries may be sent (there is no entry fee),
but they should, if possible, be typewritten.
The winning entry will be published as soon as possible after
the judging.
POETRY COMPETITION
The first prize of one guinea, donated by Mr. Flexmore Hud-
son, has been awarded by the judge, Mr. Rex Ingamells, to
Rosalie Elmiger (19), of Melbourne, for her poem Trisagion. A
second prize of ten shillings, donated by Mr. Louis Clark, has
been awarded to Brian Medlin (16), of Adelaide. Mr. Irgamells
mada the following comments:
“My placing of the poems is as follows:
1. Trisagion Rosalie B. Elmiger.
2. Poem Brian Medlin.
3. To Beauty Florence Berry.
4. Surrender Shirley Keith.
The other entries are definitely behird these, and so I have
not placed them.
I overcame an inclination to give the prize to Medlin. on the
strength of his th'enie and the really superb image of the wind
as “drover of the dust.” His “Poem,” for unified perception
and sustained level,' must take second place to “Trisagion.”
Both Florence Berry and Shirley Keith have promise on the
strength of “To Beauty” and “Surrender.” Neither of these
are in any real way good poems, but Florence Berry has lyricism
which she may develop; and Shirley Keith has a simplicity which
requires either feeling to make it delicate, or strong ideas to
work on —and these may come.”
18


ROSALIE ELMIGER
TRISAGION
sang—
She in rich, thick German
Her white throat forming
The sincerity of a Schubert serenade,
And it was youth in the quiet notes
That made
The night
And two others
Applaud with silent hands.
He, one of the others, sang
In English, rounded and real
With' constant usage,
And it was love in the smooth words
That gave
Color to' the darkness
And lifted the melody
From mediocrity
To somewhere above the willow trees.
Lastly, in husky Hungarian
He —the other sang,
And, as Danube rhymes
Eipple with roll
Wave with wind —
So boat-like
The song, sad with' retrospect,
Slid crying through the night
Until, sad also—the river
Buried the harmony
In its waters, deeper than sympathy.
19


BRIAN MEDLIN
POEM
T AM the drought that blisters the throats
"*■ of dying sheep; I am the dry wind,
drover of dust.
Do not grieve, my darling,
that I have not spoken my love.
Would you hear songs of mirages on my plain*?
or come with me to the land of gleaming bones?
Nor mourn I have not tried
to tell of ferns and little creeks
or capture the sunset on the parrot’s breast.
Dor h am a wild range, now tamed and tilled,
heart drifted into the sea.
It is too late in the day, however, to believe that any restric-
tion can be placed on the scope of poetry Poetry can embrace
anything that life can embrace.
—William Baylebridge—The Vital Flesh.
20


WILLIAM BAYLEBRIDGE
(December 1883-May 1942).
‘ ‘ Who makes little of! to-day, to-morrow makes little
of him. The season of the great reaches summer on that
side of the flesh.”—Life’s Testament.
I.—His Books:
I SUPPOSE no other poet of recent times, almost certainly no
other in Australia, has been so neglected as William Bayle-
bridge. Yet his first book was published iq 1908. Since then his
critics have been few and incompetent indeed: the literary his-
torians who are facile, a Sydney group who, I suspect, liked the
poetry less, the philosophy more, a Brisbane journalist who hit the
mark only once for every two serious' misses, and Mr. Kellow and
Mr. Moore. These last named are by far the best yet. Mr.
Moore’s essay must be read. Not that it says the last word on
Baylebridge, but it is the first sincere attempt to evaluate all of
his poetry, and there is a great deal. My essay may be regarded
as an introduction to this criticism of Mr. Moore’s, an attempt
to interest young readers ini, a poet of stature.
Baylebridge’s first book, “Songs O’ The South,” contains
sonnets and songs all of which echo the work of others. It is
interesting to note, though, that the admiration for strength and
power evident in his later work is here also in such poems as
“The Black Horseman,” “Song of the Storm King,” and “Battle
Song.” There is a stilted poem on Australia’s destiny and
another to Brisbane to show that even then, away in England, he
wrote as an Australian. The next books, “A Northern Trail”
and “Moreton Miles,” contain lyrics of no great distinction though
they are often good. He returned to Australia in 1919 and pub-
lished “Selected Poems.” This contains, with selections from
his early work, a free verse poem, “Australia’s Dead,” selections
from “Love Redeemed,” and “Life’s Testament.” The choice
from his early work is a discerning one.
The “New Life,” a volume of philosophical and political
verse seldom rising into poetry, had previously been published.
“Love Redeemed” was not published in its entirety until 1934.
Though I have only slender justification I should like to treat
“Love Redeemed” as being written over a longish period, after
the early poems and before or at much the same time as “Life’s
Testament.” This latter was written, the poet says, in 1913.
The story contained in this sequence of 123 sonnets is at first
that of th'd usual love triangle. But it goes further. The beloved
is desired and possessed; h© takes her with him, she dies, and the
21


last twenty sonnets are a passionate mourning of an ethereal
being. The tenth sonnet explains the title. It refers to the
Greek fable of Andromeda, ‘ ‘ the maid whom Cepheus sired, ’ ’ who
was rescued by Perseus from the rock where she awaited in bonds
the coming of a monster. The bonds in this case are those of
matrimony, and Baylebridge is pleased to see the husband as the
monster. It has been suggested that the poet was not actually
involved in such an affair but that a relation was and that he
was dramatising himself into her story. This is an intelligent
theory because it would explain why, in the later sonnets, the
poet seems not in love with his mistress but withllove as an ideal.
But there is an early poem which shows he was engaged in some
unorthodox love affair:
Por my religion, Love, they rolled
Great stones on top of me;
For my religion, as my life,
Alone was loving thee.
Also it must be remembered that Baylebridge was a great
egoist and would look for some image of himself in his beloved;
also, I am told, the people concerned went outside their own
country for their divorce. The story, however, is almost as vague
as that in Shakespeare’s sonnets and all is shadowy, nothing is
sure.
“Life’s Testament” opens with an account of creation, and
shows how man came to life and how life persists. The poem
closes with some fine prose lyrics.
In 1939 Baylebridge published his “Sextains.” These poems
are wonderfully compressed pieces. The sixth line contains only
two accents and is handled with much artistry to make the ending
seem effortless and inevitable.
That then is the quantity of Baylebridge’s poetry; a large
amount indeed. I have not yet spoken of its quality.
II. —The Poetry:
I serving art, see life in terms of it.
“Love Redeemed.”
Baylebridge began as a lyric poet and though sometimes there
are crudities;
Indeed! ‘By heaven, my ears do ache!
What’s all this windy stir you make?
there is also much worth keeping. I found a strength in some
which contrasted strangely with the verse form:
A fair girl’s breast I gazed upon
Meseemed a holy fane,
Whose sacrificial fires took on
By turns, my peace and pain.
The affinity to early seventeenth century lyrists is very
noticeable and I shall illustrate later. These early poems, then,
are the product of an original if immature mind struggling in the
22


styles of others. By the time the selected poems were published
the poetry had greatly improved. The sonnets in “A Wreath,”
his war poem, show he had been steeping himself in Shakespeare.
The free verse, “Australia’s Dead,” is fairly successful:
What then of thee, Australia?
The skies fed fire into thy sons;
Thy plains starved their fool,
Put manhood upon them.
But the lines which Mr. Moore quotes with approval are, I
think, bathetic. The poet speaks of death as a “magnanimous
purchase.”
Baylebridge’s great artistry is revealed in all its subtlety in
‘ ‘ Love Redeemed. ’ ’ I feel when reading the sonnets that the
art is too subtle for me to interpret; I mean I may be able to
explain only a little of that art. It seems there are four great
groups: that of the praising, desiring lover who is seemingly
encouraged by her and who attacks her husband, that of the
accepted lover (but he will not have her called his mistress!),
that of the curt mourner, and finally that of the idealist. Yet
there are more groups; some sonnets stand aside and make com-
ment. Also Baylebridge praises his love in death so that a paral-
lelism is suggested. The way, perhaps, how Petrach celebrates
Laura in life and in death. The language of the sonnets seems
archaic. There are words such as “hap,” “e’en,” “charactered,”
etc., but his use of them is so much a recreating of the terms
that the sonnets appear not old-fashioned at all but startlingly new
and powerful. Baylebridge’s modern use of a word often differs
from the old meaning. Yet in some extracts from the poems,
not so much the words as the thoughts themselves seem straight
from Shakespeare. On thd whole, however, the thoughts and their
expressions are his own. He brings a new use of symbolism to
poetry by taking his symbols from the Australian scene. Thus
the great sonnet beginning:
The fires, like hounds thati slip the unloosened yoke,
Run roaring on the wind....
and which seems descriptive of a bush fire, is expressive of the
poet’s high anger. The best sonnets are distinguished by their
assured beginnings, the vowels are heavy and impressive as if
setting the stage for great drama:
Hard from the west the inexorable wind
Drives the dissension 0n....
again:
Heavy with revelation is this hour;
By some immortal memory....
Just as it is wrong to deny the poem its sincerity and art as
some have done, it would be blind to overlook the faults which
are not few. Sometimes the opening obviously intended to be
dramatic, is just silly:
By blood faints, She is ill —we fear the worst,
23


and there are grammatical errors and all sorts of twisted expressions-
Yet “Love Redeemed” remains a splendid achievement, one of the
greatest poems in our Australian literature, and ranking as a
sonnet sequence near to Shakespeare’s. I do not think lam being
extravagant. I can find sonnets in “Love Redeemed” to nearly
equal the majestic .organ note of “Devouring Time, blunt thou
the Lyons pawes, ’ ’ though admittedly, there are none with the
grace of “Shall I compare thee to a Summer’s day.” Baylebridge
is awkwardly great.
The poet of a dramatic love treats in “Life’s Testament”
the drama of thq Life Force. It was mainly this poem that gave
Baylebridge the undiscriminating title of the poet of vitalism.
lam concerned here with the style. It ranges from a sinewy
lyricism to a prosyness as bad as Wordsworth’s. These prosaic
passages like:
The present is the epitome
Of the past,
The surviving, the waking dream
Of all antecedent time,
occur when the poet loses poetry in philosophy. The two great
poems of the book are the opening one dealing with the poet’s
idea of creation, and the better known “Revelation.” In the
first poem Baylebridge is n master of a strong and powerful verse
suited to its immense theme:
From universal throes immense
Past the acoompt of reeling sense,
By primal forces space that cleave
In their ungripped velocities.
Through cataclysmic gurge and heave
Outmatching Chaos, through vast seas
Of fire, through transformations blind,
Abysmal, to unjoint the mind,
The earth was hurled, its charge begun,
Into the harness of the sun....
The harsh' warring syllables employed show a sensitive appre-
ciation of language. A more lyrical poem is “Revelation” which
I quote in full:
I worshipped, when my veins were fresh,
A glorious fabric of this flesh,
Where all her skill in living lines
And: colour (that its form enshrines)
Nature had lavished: in that guess
She had gathered up all loveliness.
All beauty of flesh, and blood, and bone
I saw there; ay, by impulse 1 known,
All the miracle, the power,
Of being had come there to flower.
24


Each part was perfect in the whole;
The body was one with the soul;
And heedful not, nor having art,
To see them in a several part,
I fell before the flesh, and knew
All spirit in terms of that flesh too.
But blood must wither like the rose:
’Tis wasting as the minute goes;
And flesh, whose shows were wonders high,
Looks piteous when it puts them by.
The shape I had so oft embraced
Was sealed up, and in earth was placed—
And yet not so; for, hovering free,
Some wraith of it remained with me:
Some subtle influence that brings
A new breathj to all beautous things,
Some sense that in my marrow stirs
To make things mute its ministers.
I fall before the spirit so,
And flesh in terms of spirit know- —
The Holy Ghost, the truth that stands
When turned to dust are lips and hands.
I have already mentioned Baylebridge’s affinity to
the early seventeenth century poets. This poem is, I believe, a
peculiarly close approximation to the poetry of Thomas Carew.
It is a greater poem than any of Carew’s perhaps, but very like
some of them. The movement of such a poem as Carew’s
“Epitaph” is much the same as that of “Revelation”:
The purest soul that e’er was sent
Into a clayey tenement
Informed this dust; but the weak mould
Could the great guest no longer hold:
The substance was too pure, the flame
Too glorious that thither came....
Mr. Moore suggests Baylebridge is like Donne, and certainly
his lines are as packed and compressed as Donne’s, but his dic-
tion and rhythms in this and other pieces are, I think, derived
from Carew’s. I have no space to quote more but to prove that
this is not a solitary instance, readers can examine poems VII and
XI to name but a few. The style of the whole of “Life’s
Testament” varies considerably from the tight, strongly knit
opening poem to the lyrical, laxer prose poems differing exceed-
ingly, from “The Illuminations” but yet with much of Eimbaud’s
art.
If Shakespeare and Milton influenced the sonnets and if
Donne and Carew influenced many lyrics then the ‘ ‘ Sextains ’ ’ are
curiously his own. These short crystalline expressions were his
25


last published work and in them Baylebridge the lyrist and Baylc-
bridge the thinker seem to merge without quarrel. The result is
a consummate performance indeed. Perhaps one of the best of
the sextains, and certainly the most attractive to me, is the
mystical “Fulfilment”:
Foiled was the way and long, with foot austere
I stepped where flower was nor exulting birds;
For more than life I held the issue dear.
And lo! I faced the Troop that Victory girds
And caught in wonder the auspicious words:
‘So, thou art here!’
The diction has a splendid, strong simplicity and the only
peculiarly used expression is “girds” which I take to mean
“invests.” The poem seems to sum up the poet’s life and to
state that after a long and hard struggle he has achieved victory
in life. But in this austere, flowerless, birdless place who are
the Troop? The poem affords no evidence. I have little adverse
criticism to make of these sextains. They are the fruit of a
very distinguished career.
I had previously mentioned Baylebridge’s lack of grace in
many poems—l do not mean of metre always, for here he is
often accomplished,—but of thought. Perhaps when a powerful
thought demanded expression his words stumbled and were embar-
rassed; I do not know. But often ho is ungainly. There is a
second and a greater fault. With all his concern about life with
capital letters, with the Force, there is so very litlc humaniy.
Y»s he is human enough to exalt and exult in the surging
tides of love, to wield the fists of his anger and whips of scorn,
yet there is no pity (he would call it womanish) and there is little
laughter (he would call it the fool’s relief). Is there another
person in his important poems beside himself, his mistress who
was part of him, and his rival who was created by his anger?
There is so much talk of Life, of Flesh and Blood, yet so few
sincere portrayals of flesh and blood in life. I can but think this
important. Baylebridge is only the gaunt and lovely steel; he
needed the warm brown stone of a complete man and he needed
people to inhabit his house.
(Part Three of this essay, on Baylebridge’s philosophy and
prose works and a bibliography, will be published in the next
issue. I wish now to thank Miss Warham (Oxley Library) and
Mr. Martin Haley for their courteous and kindly help.)
BAEEIE G. EEID.
26


LAURENCE COLLINSON
Brisbane
THE MIRACLE
MOST of you will recall the name of Wanagool: the township
about a hundred miles from Sydney. It was headline news
not so very long ago when a miracle took place there.
It has grown at a terrific fate since then, and now possesses
seven public houses and a sewerage system. But before the miracle
bceurred, it was what might be called a typical bush town; that
is, it had something of all the elements attributed to bush towns
by articles in the Bulletin, by Lawson and his contemporaries, and
by thousands of city dwellers who have never seen a bush town.
Sunday was, in the time before the miracle, a rather dull
day. One visitor actually described Wanagool on that day as
being a “dead dump.’’ This description is accurate in that the
only signs of life were a few people going to and from the
Church. The Church (of course it has been modernised now)
looked much like the school; both' were buildings of dirty yellow
wood, white window-sills, and grey stilts, but the Church had the
noteworthy addition of a board of black timber, behind the front
fence, on which was inscribed at irregular intervals such notices
as REPENT AND YE SHALL BE SAVED and DEAD FLIES
CAUSE THE OINTMENT OF THE APOTHECARY TO SEND
FORTH A STINKING SAVOUR; SO DOTH A LITTLE FOLLY
HIM THAT IS IN REPUTATION FOR WISDOM AND HONOUR
with indications beneath as to their positions in the Bible.
The miracle took place on a Sunday—in broad daylight, just
as the congregation, slightly tired from the service but ready to
brighten up and converse going home, emerged from the Church.
Small Johnny Fingler saw it first. He was watching some
birds with his little fingers clutched achingly around the catapult
in his pocket, when his attention was drawn to a remarkable colour
transformation taking place in the sky overhead. The heavens
were, at first, their natural blue with a few small clouds floating
around, but suddenly the clouds disappeared, and there was a
blur of colours—orange, red, green, and brown —swirling around,
as if a film that had not quite got the correct focus was being
projected on to the sky. Johnny stared and stared, and it was
not long before everybody else was staring too. Then there came
a sound like thunder which made them all shiver. Immediately
after this, the vision became clehr, and the spectators at the
Church' saw five angels complete with wings and flowing robes
holding hands and dancing in a ring, a gaunt naked Christ on a
Cross, and the words THOU SHALT BELIEVE in scarlet letters.
The sight sank into the minds of the watchers only after several
minutes, but at the end of that time, a man and two women
27


(one of whom had shrieked “God help us’’) fell to the grass
in a faint, and the rest were extremely hysterical.
At this juncture the minister, Mr. Anderson, came out on to
the verandah of the Church. He was a tall gentleman with
glasses and a drooping face who had won great, favour among his
parishioners because he did nothing of which they might dis-
approve. He often seethed inside as a result, but was not fully
frustrated, because he took out his repressions on his wife and
three children. Ho despised his flock because it would not recog-
nise his immense superiority over everybody in the township in
education and talent, and treated him merely as if he were a good
friend and neighbour, and sometimes not evem that.
When Mr. Anderson observed the miracle, he gave a faint
gasp of surprise; and it seemed to the watchers he struggled hard
to hold back the emotion within him. He stood quite still for
exactly two minutes and a half, and at the end of this time the
vision commenced to fade and quickly disappeared. He was gazed
at steadfastly. The watchers were not quite sure whether he
would burst into an ecstatic frenzy, beat his chest, and shout the
praises of the Lord, or whether he would silently sink to his
knees and pray. But he did neither thing; he merely looked down
at his congregation and said “Do not be frightened, my children.
There is sure to be some scientific explanation for it.” Then he
went down the few steps to the street and walked slowly to his
home next door.
It took the good people some few minutes to get over this
pronouncement, but when they did, there was an uproar. They
were amazed and indignant: they could not believe their ears.
That their spiritual leader should treat such an occurrence so
lightly —almost contemptuously, in fact —was monstrous; and there
was a clamorous discussion as to whether or not he had been
corrupted by the Powers of Evil.
There was. an even more clamorous discussion as to what they
should do about it. At last Mr. Smythe, the owner of the flour
factory, who had found that church attendance advanced the
interests of his mill, conceived the idea of getting Miss Miggs,
the post mistress, to send a telegram to the Archbishop in Sydney
containing an account of the miracle and signed by the important
churchgoers of Wanagool so that he would not think it a hoax.
So they all trooped a hundred yards down the street to where the
Post Office was situated between the. two hotels and opposite the
Commonwealth Bank. Miss Miggs, when awakened from her Sun-
day slumber (she lived on the premises) expressed disbelief re-
garding the miracle, but was finally forced by the weight of
opinion to send the telegram.
Mr. Anderson, when he left the Church, felt extremely
bewildered. Entering his front door, he ignored the greeting of
his wife, who had stopped home because of an indisposition and a
28


torn dress, and went straight to his study and pondered. He
pondered long and deeply. He went through' torments trying to
decide whether or not he had seen a real miracle. He took down
a Bible and glanced through it for help, but he could find no
hint of what to do in such an unfortunate hour. Then he took
down all his theological books, both modern and Victorian, but
in not one could he find anything to aid him in his problem.
All his education told him there was no such thing as a
modern miracle. Bible miracles, yes —plenty of those and to spare,
and all probably true, or at least with a firm foundation. But
to-day! And in Wanagool! If there had been a miracle, it was
most inconvenient, and neither tactful nor considerate of the
Lord. He felt that) there was some sort of understanding between
God and the World that there should be no miracles in the
twentieth century. And now God seemed to have broken the
agreement. How ever could he explain it to his flock if it were
true? He wiped the sweat from his brow and shook his head.
Or would be explain it at all? Ah' now! that’s a solution.
The vision that his congregation had seen—what was it? Was
it not, say, merely an arrangement of particles in the upper layers
of the air, a colourful mist that might perhaps seem to be, to
profoundly religious persons just coming from Church, a he.avenly
picture, a miracle? That was definitely it. He had, naturally,
been quite right when he had told them that there must be some
scientific explanation for wh'at they had seen. They were just
a lot of 5i11y.... no, overzealous. ... people who were quite pre-
pared to see anything in anything. And so they had seen a vision
in a dust haze. What more simple? He sighed with relief. He
sighed with relief right up to his bedtime, and then fell asleep
with' h smile on his face.... but his dreams were uncomfortable.
The next morning, he was even more uncomfortable. A noise
awoke him that sounded like the buzzing of) bees. On opening his
eyes, he found his wife telling him to get up and go to the window
to see what was the matter. Hazily he did so after he had groped
round for his dressing gown and slippers. The window of their
bedroom overlooked the front garden, and although it was barely
six o’clock, the minister found his whole congregation standing
there. This was indeed peculiar.
Because of the noise they were making, it took time for him
to discover just why they were gathered round his rosebushes.
Eventually he found that they were dissatisfied with the explana-
tion he had given of the miracle at Church the previous day.
They had held several meetings and were convinced a miracle had
occurred. That fact was quite settled. But they were grieved
at the behaviour of their spiritual leader in the face of the event.
They considered he had acted disgracefully, not at all in keeping
with the cloth he wore, and were prepared to go to any lengths
to let him know their opinion. He muttered under his breath
29


that if they continued to behave in such an absurd manner, they
would soon know his. They added that they had decided, much
against their wills, not to work to-day, but to discuss the matter
with their clergyman, and the Archbishop when he arrived.
Practically the whole township had, by this time, been in-
formed of the miracle; and the number of people who had seen
it take place had increased proportionately as the story got round.
There was, however, some discrepancy in the different accounts
of what had been seen. A few people had seen neither Christ nor
the scarlet sentence, but they distinctly remembered three or four
pretty little cherubs flying above the head of a Virgin and
Child. Others had seen the Saviour patting the head of a small
child. Three elderly gentlemen had seen Christ talking to the
Apostles. No single description tallied exactly with any other
account. Mrs. Higgins, the old lady who ran the Grocery, although
she had looked up at the correct time, had seen nothing, but had
an intense remembrance of a chorus of angel voices singing The
Lord’s Prayer or God Save the King, she was not sure which.
Many attributed this to her well-known clairvoyancy.
After debating the matter with himself for a couple of hours,
Mr. Anderson decided that there was nothing he could do except
call a meeting at the Church Hall in the presence of His Grace,
the Archbishop, who had wired he would arrive in Wanagool that
day.
When the time came, Mr. Anderson mounted the platform at
the end of the hall and looked coldly upon his congregation. The
place was crowded. The Archbishop sat in a front seat, but Mr.
Anderson had decided that what he had to say was not going to
be affected by the presence of His Grace. Por the twelve years
he had preached at Wanagool he had turned the other' cheek in an
endeavour to ignore the obvious stupidity and lack of spiritual
devotion of his flock. That was now to end. He was their leader:
either they would be led by him in the future and follow his
precepts, or they would have to travel the path of all sinners
....without him. And not only had he determined on that, but
he had decided that all the talk of a miracle w r as rubbish and
he would not give credence to wdiat he considered an absurd
mass-hallucination.
Up to the moment of his starting to speak, his congregation
had always thought him a mild man. ltd opinion swiftly changed.
As soon as he opened his mouth, abuse and invective leapt out.
His listeners commenced to look pale and worried. He whispered
to them, and no wdiisper could have been more sinister; he spoke
calmly to them, but no tongue could) have been more vituperative;
he shouted at them, and they cringed in the seats. He asked them
why, after twelve years, they had decided utterly to ignore him;
but there was no ignoring him now, and they cringed all the more.
And having asked the question, he answered it. He told them
that they were stupid, mundane, unholy beings with contempt
30


both for God and His Servants. Suddenly he stopped and sank
trembling into a chair. The Archbishop, who had been convinced
by the large number of people who had seen it that a miracle, or
something approaching a miracle, had occurred, and was pleased
it had taken place in Australia, thought Mr. Anderson a fine
speaker, but a little hasty in expressing his opinion.
When the congregation had hurried out of the Hall, the Arch-
bishop 1 walked up to Mr. Anderson and sat down beside him. What
was said is not known, but it must be assumed that the Arch-
bishop stressed two main points: firstly, the advisability of not
incurring the wrath of the congregation, and secondly, the benefits
that would undoubtedly accrue to Wanagool if it was known that
a miracle had taken place there. Of course, there would have
to be a thorough investigation before anything was said, but from
what His Grace had already been told, there was little doubt
that an uncommon event had occurred.
But the story got out before any investigation, and by mid-
week had travelled far and wide. Some hundreds of visitors, in-
cluding many reporters, camd from all over the State, and further,
to see the town wherein the miracle had reputedly happened. A
film company made a short travelogue of the district emphasising
the inherent religious nature of the inhabitants. Wanagool, which
had never known more than two visitors at a time, except when
a circus had once come there by mistake, was enriched both by
fame and money. One city visitor, who fell by accident into a
dirty little billabong from which stray cows drank, declared her-
self cured of her rheumatism when she emerged. This event did
not benefit the town because the following day, a gentleman
from Newcastle who heard of this woman’s experience, endeavoured
to cure himself of a fondness for strong drink in the same manner,
but he had had a few whiskies; so he drowned in three feet of
stagnant water.
While Wanagool was becoming! famous, its spiritual leader sat
miserably in his study. All reporters and visitors seeking a
statement from him clamoured in vain at his door. He did not
know what to do. He had either to confirm or deny the miracle.
If he confirmed it, everyone would be pleased except himself; if
he denied it, the towsfolk and the Archbishop had vaguely threat-
ened all sorts of dire things. He pondered. Perhaps he had seen
a miracle. No, that was ridiculous, he know perfectly well he
had not seen any such thing. But everyone else was sure it
had taken place. Perhaps it had. . . He rested his head wearily
on his arms.
The following Sunday, Mr .Anderson stood in his pulpit to
give Ms sermon. Everyone was in Church—townsfolk, visitors,
reporters, and the Archbishop. But Mr. Anderson was not afraid.
He had seen the light. “My friends,” he commenced, “with
regard to the glorious miracle that we saw from this Church last
week....”
31


OCCURRENCES
The publishers of “Angry Penguins” have been fined for
printing matter which the magistrate found to be indecent. We
protest against it. There was nohing in the journal to offend its
readers, who are mainlyf people of some culture. It was not likely
to be bought by the general public. We also remind those in
authority that one of the most distinguished modern novels,
“Ulysses” is still banned in this country.
A contributor states his views on censorship:
If the time has come when judgment can be passed on
the literary value of any given work in court of law, then
we are living in a barbaric age indeed. The artist, of course,
must concern himself with values that are universal in respect
of time and place; the law courts can only concern themselves
with purely local and temporal affairs. That much is a
platitude but it has yet to gain acceptance among sections
of Australia’s people.
Edgar Castle, E.A.N.
We congratulate Georgian House, publishers of “Selected
Poems” by Bex Ingamells on the paper and general set-up of
the book. The publishers state that they hope to print a series
of representative modern Australian poetry. We hope the series
will be truly representative. If Georgian House can disregard the
perpetual gang-warfare among Australian poets, if they can be
tolerant enough to select the poets for nothing but their poetry,
the series will be a notable achievement. We watch with) interest.
The poems of Edgar Castle and Graharae Harrison in, our last
issue were especially praised by a reviewer on a National station.
32


q From youth all over Australia we accept poems,
essays, short stories, plays, etc.
Work is considered according to age as well as
literary' standards.
Manuscripts must be accompanied by a stamped
and addressed envelope, otherwise they cannot
bo returned.
The ago of the contributor must be given with
every manuscript.
It is regretted that at present, no payments
can be made to contributors.
0 Contributors to this issue arc between the ages
of 14 and 21.
