

BARJAI
No.
14
NEW POEMS by
SHIRLEY REYNOLDS
ALEX LIRE
THEA ASTLEY
BRIAN MEDLIN
MORIET D’OMBRAIN
CECEL KNOPKE
MARY WILKINSON
SHORT STORY by
LAURENCE COLLINSON
NEW COMPETITION
THE YOUTH LITERARY MAGAZINE
1/3


0 An attempt is being made in the pages of this magazine
to present Youth’s statement of its reactions to Life....
The main reason for the publication of this magazine is to
bring Youth into contact with the awakening of Australian
Literature now taking place, and so strengthen and con-
tinue the cultural development of this country....
Although primarily a literary magazine, BAEJAI also
encourages Youth to write on art, music, broad social
issues, and any other subjects that are likely to forward
cultural activity.
0 BAEJAI is published every two months.
Annual subscription: 7/6 a year (post free)'.
Single copies: 1/3 (plus penny postage).
0 Address correspondence, subscriptions, contributions, and
donations to—
The Editors,
Box 1773 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, Qld.
0 BAEJAI is the aboriginal word for “meeting-place”
0 We gratefully acknowledge a generous donation from Mr.
H. Collinson of Sydney.


BARJAI
No* 14
THE YOUTH LITERARY MAGAZINE
Editors:
LAURENCE COLLINSON BARRIE G. REID
Sub-Editors;
CECEL KNOPKE BERYL LEAVER
BARJAI PUBLISHING SERVICE
BRISBANE
MAY 1944
EDITORIAL
AT the present time many nationalist propagandists are
writing verse. This editorial was meant to be a
protest and a warning; a protest against the assertion made
by these nationalist poets that the only Australian poetry
to be taken seriously was nationalist poetry, and a warning
to those younger writers might, because of a deep love
for nature, be swayed into writing propaganda. All this we
found saidf so much better by Goldsmith. He stated: —
“Should it be alleged in defence of national prejudice
that it is the natural and necessary grow'th of love to our
country, and that therefore the former cannot be destroyed
without hurting the latter, I answer, that this is a gross
fallacy and delusion.
“Is it not possible that I may love my own country
without hating the natives of other countries? that I may
exert the most heroic bravery, the most undaunted resolution,
in defending its laws and liberty, without despising the rest
of the world as cowards and poltroons? Most certainly it
is; and if it were not —But why need I suppose what is
absolutely impossible?—But if it were not, I must own, I
should prefer the title of the ancient philosopher, viz., a
citizen of the world, to that of an Englishman, a Frenchman,
a European, or to any other appellation wdiatever. ”
1


CECEL KNOPKE
OF MYSELF
IVI O one can doubt it
for I am most talented,
my wit is most excellent,
my knowledge profound;
I am well-dressed,
and keep good society,
am poiseful and handsome,
most cultivated
and brilliant,
noble
and virtuous,
honourable,
truthful,
and pure.
And the paradox is
that no one can be
less conscious of this
than I.
I think it a pity
that my extreme modesty
will not allow
for my talents’ display.
I think it a shame
that I am not recognised
as the incarnation
of everything beautiful.
Indeed, I am tempted
to study Divinity,
to enter the Church,
and from that high place,
with opportunity ample,
let my virtues be known.
I could look down upon Man,
exacting from him
admiration profound.
2


THEA ASTLEY
Brisbane
TO H.
ONLY an hour or so, my friend, then pass
Me quickly the hot wine of your thoughts. The glass
Ho tilted to my lips is sweet,
And I am drunk with song upon your tongue —
But wings are on your feet.
Flood the brief pulsing minutes with the throb
Of sharply carvcn joys and shaded tears. The sob
Of memory is in my heart.
But sec how swiftly time’s two fingers stir —
Move us, like them, apart!
SATURDAY NIGHT
THE crowded trams go past,
The faces bright and painted—all the same;
No joy to last!
Last! you fools!
A bit of dazzle came before the claim
Of cold eternity.
But 1 would be a fool
If being such meant but an hour of joy,
Of laughter and the dazzle of the night—
An hour become for me
Eternity.
Cold winds toss the sky
Into a jumbled- maze of star and cloud,
The trams go by—
A rustling in the trees—and I alone
With loneliness upon me like a shroud.
O aching scar!
I sit and long for life—
And pen a sick love poem to a star!
3


NORMA GRAFF
Brisbane
DESIRE
T WANT a wind that’s cold and strong,
A I want a sea-shore, curving, long,
With' waves that thunder, shells that fly,
Sighing sand tossed to the sky.
I want a storm that’s free and wild
With cloud on cloud of blackness piled,
And rain that lash'es through the trees,
And stings the whine of wind-blown seas.
In the heavens lightning blue
Would slash the downpour through and through!
On the brown earth pools would eddy—
Stalwart gums stand gleaming, steady.
I want the perfume of a fire
(Smothered, as the red flames tire,
Into fragments grey and warm),
The smell of ashes in the storm.
I want my nigh't of rain and sea,
I want to feel that I am free
To walk and run and stand and stare,
And hear and smell and feel the air;
To sing and dance, and leap and cry,
To laugh and lift my head on high,
To pray that I shall never fear;
To thank my God that I am here.
4


MORIET D’OMBRAIN
WHO HAS SEEN?
\JC7HO has seen
Green footprints of the wind
On morning’s blue water?
Who has been
Awake and aware of the sound
As he walks on the water?
“We have seen”
Say the mullet, leaping silver
Out of the green
Trail on the blue shimmer,
“His grey robes flutter
As he w r alks in the dawn with a song
And a lute in his hand.
We have been
Awake and aware of the sound.’’
The gumtrees mutter
On slopes by the shore
Where water darkens under the rocky ledges
And anemones pale and glow
With recoil and wash of the ripples,
“He has stirred us w r ith song,
Stepping out between our trunks
(Cream flushed rose from caresses)
And passing down
The slope to the rocky shore
To walk with a lute-held song
On, the still hush of the water.’’
These have seen
The wind in his grey robe going,
And his green footprints left
On morning’s blue water.
5


ALEX LIRE
Rockhamptoa
POEM
PEACE is a deep place,
the depths of your hair.
Peace slowly deepening
envelops your care.
Living is a shallow lie
that trembles from your breath
but peace is a deep place
as the speech of death.
DAVID SANDERSON
Brisbane
POEM
STILLNESS, and no relief in light
That' hangs yellow and sick;
Stillness, darkness do I insist
To live the melancholy magic of the somnambulist.
Strange scenes shadow my eyes
And wish on my lips! Before I die
I wish to live, *
To live the hardly dared dreams,
The visions of those rare moments,
To have this lustre of a man possessed
By the spirit of life!
But under suffocating light
That should be life itself,
The youthful fierceness of dreams melt.
O this young heart beating
For the accomplishment of the gods!
6


LAURENCE COLLINSON
FOB THE AMUSEMENT OF MABOAEET
YOU raise your handsome brows, then wink,
Your lips are red, your flesh is pink,
My lady.
Your eyes are blue and coy, and part
Of your attraction is how smart,
My lady,
You wear your clothes. And then the flair
You have for talk makes you more fair,
My lady.
And the subtle fascination
Of your hair adorned by a carnation,
My lady,
Endears you to nearly all. I know
You would like to love mo, so,
My lady,
I must tell you here and now
That I love a country maid. I bow,
My lady,
And take my leave. I go to see
My simple maid who prefers tea,
My lady,
To cocktails, and asks no fee.
Please forgive me for not permitting you to be
My lady.
THE YOUNG LADY AND THE OEDIPUS COMPLEX
IF I did not bother
To whip and stab my mother,
Would the followers of Freud
J3e exceedingly annoyed?
7


BRIAN MEDLIN
Adelaide
WAR VETERANS
IN our voices
The singing of mountain creeks:
On our lips
The smiling of summer wheat:
In our wrists
The strength of green-hide thongs:
And in our thighs
The swiftness of forest-fire.
But what of your hearts 1
O in our hearts
A great, bitter emptiness.
R. A. S. BEALE
Brisbane
SOMETHING—WHAT?
NESTLED in an easy nook, apparently
Asleep, lies something—whatl
I can’t make out —a bush obscures my vision free:
Come on, I want to see —I wonder whatt
I make no noise—l’m almost sure of that—
To see this something—whatl
The light is dim: my shoeless feet tread flat
Across the dry and uncommunicatc Earth.
I stop and pause, impatient grow
To solve this mystery —whatl
But ah! there goes the frightened thing! I know
I’ll miss it! At least I glimpse this something—whatl
8


BRIAN MEDLIN
OFF DAY
day shall be eternity:
Let us forget tomorrow
shall draw us again to pavements,
and do not think th'e time is soon
for us to leave the sunshine.
This hour I am a young god:
all the magic of the trees,
the creek, the fierce-haired yaccas
flows from my fingertips.
I must not remember tomorrow
when I go deep again
down through the slums of my shame.
But we shall linger here
on the uncombed head of the hill,
your fingers tight on my elbow,
the wind beating the half-bright sun
into our faces, not hearing
th’e sobbing of the far-off city,
but tumbling the birds’ cries
against the cliff-face.
And tonight I shall reach up my hands
to clasp down the moon
as the stars flow quietly by.
I shall hear the wind croon wonder
at him so bold
to take this great warm jewel for his own.
And surely from this
exultant volcano will issue
more than vaporous dreaming.
9


BETTY McFARLANE
Sydney
REALITY
LET not this bitterness eat out the heart
Nor tear the tissues of my kindness.
Let it not make jagged edges on my charity
Nor soil my noble deeds however few,
Nor cancer-like becomei a growth
Clinging to my soul’s one-time goodness
And overgrowing all loveliness and beauty—
’Till my eyes see not the mountains nor the
Limpid streams or the young calves blinking eyes
And the unstable legs of a young foal,
Or the blue freshness in the sunshine after rain,
Or the fairy clouds of mist floating on the mountain top.
&ee nothing but the bitterness,
The hard callousness of things, the biting,
Piercing, hurting of it all, and feel only the sting
Of penetrating unkind words
Which fill my soul with hatefulness.
PATRICIA M. LAXTON
Sydney
THE MASTER’S MUSIC
OFT,, when music plays some lilting, transient melody,
When sighing sounds of rhapsodies having played;
Their memory, haunting, straying, lingers in thel still air.
Music, crashing chords of symphony and sound,
Lilting strains plucked from the heartstrings of a soul,
A wealth of sound is everywhere,
And poignant grief have I
For this world of hate, aggression and sin,
As once again in my awakening soul
The voices triumphant, glad and joyous ring,
My heartstrings plucked by some great, sad song
And once again I hear, the Master’s violin.
10


SHIRLEY REYNOLDS
Melbourne
THE ABDICATION
''V r OUE mind was wrapped too tight in its binder, my friend,
-*■ when you were young.
The keeper turned to the convict in his coll,
He smiled, unamused, and said
You should have broken the threads that bound you,
Seen greater things than your back-yard and the old bath where
your mother kept her coal.
Did you think the wire canary in its box was the world?
That the white bread you ate, fresh or stale, was food for the
earth ?
You missed the bus. You sank too soon.
Ah well, too late now ....
And he jingled his keys, an authoritative swagger as he swung
his serge hips.
Food soon. Smiled again, unamused.
The convict lay on his colorless bed with his death sentence
beside him,
And grinned loudly at the keeper.
Was your back-yard such a playground after all?
Mine had enough sky for my life,
And enough broken china for two tea-sets.
Mine was a fine back-yard.
Mine was a good life. And it lasted long enough for me.
There was a remote goodness that I was conscious of.
I have never lost, still have, memories of subtle speed, women's
frightened eyes.
And I cleaned my nails with a dagger happily,
Sitting on monuments to kings.
The inconsistent, the brave, the bitter contrasts,
The quaint, the callous, the never-still, N were mine.
I didn’t miss your bus. I watched it go.
And though perhaps my mind was bound with a too-tight binder,
At least it wasn’t soaked in chloroform.
11


MARY WILKINSON
Sydney
AQUARIUM
T~> AUER than death the fishes swim
In endless circles, out and in
The mazing tunnels and the caverns deep,
Remote as stars and quiet as sleep.
Curving in motion with the swaying reeds,
Flicking red fins against the grey-green weeds,
They catch the gleam of far-off silvered light
But spend their’ lifetime in eternal night.
A noise startles; and they form a class
To press loose flaccid mouths against the glass;
Poor fools! We dream of freedom, vainly grin,
Unconscious of the worlds that hem us in.
ALEX LIRE
TO PALLADAS
'\J r OUR bitter song all living as my smile
with Death the judge puts man on trial.
But you who wrote the tortured word
are trampled dust under Death’s herd.
12


. . to press loose flaccid months against the glass . . .
Linocut by Laurence Collinson.
13


Now at the crossroads and it is winter . . .
Linocut by Laurence Collinson.
14


BARRIE G. REID
Brisbane
POEM IN SEABCH
I.
IVT OW at the crossroads and it is winter;
■*" *■ all its cold calls capture on my heart,
the late bird, but yet is not. I stand
unsteady, clasp doubt’s skeleton,
and am uncertain in the passage of the year.
Have you seen Death? He walks these roads
to play his melodrama on the eyes
of crumbling men or reap his crops of steel.
Evil is close, and war, and I. Death wraps us fast
brings a cold handshake from a shell-shocked ghost.
O who shall climb the new ungentle hill,
sudden upon my left, bearing truth’s temple?
O darling in the darkness smile and show
where is my strength that I still clasp
my doubt as dry old men their earth.
15


11.
DAWN after metal dawn
doubt builds its barricades
around the reaching hill
and also bars this courage
from my ruined timid heart.
O all your scarlet pain
O all that holy face
can bring no guns, my dear,
in truth to bring me peace.
Where is this truth? I search
the alleys walking late
and find a bin of sorrow’s dust.
O who will tell me where
I may finally release
the cold kiss in deliberate joy,
forever then know peace.
Truth is elusive, wraps
on any finger its sunlight,
but slips into shadow.
You, tree on the crossroads, why
mockery on your branches,
a black errant bird?
Is there no truth? Why
do you turn from me tree?
O will we live to see
another season turn
to blow the ashes of
this insolent terrible winter?
16


111.
Tj'VEN this Ironbark sheds his leaves in sorrow.
See how the men with their scribbling hands
trample the beauty -of this treasured earth,
how the sold body bruises love’s laughter.
See the children with the pale begging palms.
O swiftly, my darling, take my lips
serving heart’s sentence for their knife thrust
through you and through me. Come, lips
still love though this sunlight be stale
and the world rot before our helpless terror.
Come we have suffered the stone
of unreason as lover and lover,
our blood is together in fright. I, Death,
and you on the crossroads, and life
suspicious at our twisted backs.
17


LAURENCE COLLINSON
DEATH DREAM
’YOU take much interest in psychology? Or psycho-analysis?
I don’t suppose you do. Not many people take an interest
in things like that... .except professors and.... 0, people who
sometimes need it in business. Of course, everybody’s heard
about Adler....and Jung.... and they know the Nazis chased
Freud out of Germany. A few people connect Freud with sex
—and make him out a dirty old man—which' of course he isn ’t,
except to prurients. Occasionally, there’s something about psy-
chology in the newspapers, but that’s as far as most people get
with it. It’s very interesting, you know. People do this and
that, and you’re watching them all the time, and you can guess
what they’re going to do next. I dabble in it. Not much good
at it really, haven’t had enough experience—if I’d had the oppor-
tunity, I’d have taken it up seriously. I could now that I’ve
made my bit of money, but I think I’m getting too old to start
studying. Did I tell you my birthday’s tomorrow? You must
come. I’ll be sixty-one. Giving a bit of a do.
Well, I wanted to tell you about the adventure I got into
over my preoccupation with psycho-analysis. D’you remember
Temple? —Harry Temple... .you know, the big business fellow
who used to live next door to me in Simpson Square. O, you
know, he was about forty, rather skinny for that age, with a
moustache, and wide blue eyes, and brown hair—l think it was
brown —that was always all over the place. Sometimes he wore
glasses. I’d always thought of him as a nice chap. I think you
did too. He’s dead n0w....1’m glad in a way ...died two days
ago.
18


Yes, I know it seems strange. He was never ill* even though
he looked pretty fragile. I was over at his place a few evenings
ag0....1 often went there two bachelors sitting in front of
the fire talking... pleasant... .quite alone, the servants were
upstairs. He seemed rather nervous... .as a matter of fact, he
had seemed nervous for the last week or 50.... he let fall that
his business was not doing too good. .. .don’t know what it was:
something in the city....! didn’t take much notice of what he
was saying, then. I tried to cure his nervousne-5... .said as a joke
I’d psycho-analyse him. Of course, I hardly know a thing about
psycho-analysis. .. started off in as amusing a way as possible —
asked him what he had dreamt the previous night... .never
expected him to answer, but he did....said he dreamt a close
friend died.
I laughed and said “Who?”. He replied abstractedly that
ho had not been able to make out who it was, though he was
certain it was a close friend.... couldn’t have been a relation,
because ho had no close relations, and his distant ones really were
distant —in South America... .but whoever it was had my eyes.
I don’t think I helped him with my psycho-analysis. I dropped
the subject after a short time. It wasn’t a very interesting
evening: he seemed too morose to make good conversation. But
before I left, he asked me to lend him £5,000. I refused.
I had £5,000, and more, as a matter! of fact. He knew it, but
I couldn’t lend it to him. After all, I’d only known him for
eight or nine months —which isn’t much when you’re asked to
lend £5,000.
I didn’t think about his request again that night... .though
I suppose I had it in my subconscious mind all the time. It
came to the surface the following night, though. I thought, all
of a sudden, that Freud, or someone, had said —how can I put
it?—that when a person dreams of the death of someone else,
the person dreaming has had, at some time or other, a desire to
kill the person dreamed of, and suppressed his wish because of
its anti-social implications.
19


Now whom had Henry Temple dreamed of? Who else but me
....ME? “Someone with my eyes.” Of course, in dreams
people got, jumbled up, but this person had MY EYES. Who else
could it be but me? He was to ask me to lend him the money,
and if I refused —he would kill me. He would murder me and
then steal the money. Foolishly, very foolishly, I had told him
I kept most of my money locked away in a simple safe in my
library. Quite simple for him. What about the police? you
say. Not an impossibility to avoid their suspicion. It had been
don© before. He would have it all planned.
What could I do? If I went to the police, they would laugh
at me. If I left the house, I would have to return sooner or
later.
About 9 o’clock the ’phone rang. When I answered, it was
Temple ringing from next door. He wanted me to come over
and spend the evening with him. He sounded calm enough. I
tried to excuse myself by pleading a cold, but he would not
listen. He asked if I had a fire, and when, without considering
his motive, I replied in the negative, he said: “Well, come over
here to the warmth, it’ll do you good.” I had to say “Yes”,
and told him I would be over in a few minutes.
Here was a new problem. I felt it would be absurd not to
go —I was assuredly mistaken about him... .been reading too
much psychology. .. .but, just the same... How would he kill me?
I wondered. By a knife, cold and sharp, slipped cleanly between
my ribs. Or a revolver with a silencer attachment? Would he
strangle me with' a rope or his bare hands? Or would he suavely
offer me poisoned coffee? I was trembling and could hardly
walk. I didn’t want to g 0... but at least the evening would, in
some way or other, offer relief from the tension.
I went out into the night, practising a few sniffs to prove I
had a cold. I rang his doorbell, and one of the servants let me
in. I went through the hall and dining room to the lounge where
we usually sat. The door was half-open, and I could see the fire
blazing away. I knocked, but there was no answer... .evidently
20


he wasn’t there....and walked in. He was there. He was lean-
ing back in a broad armchair with a hole in his head. A gun,
complete with silencer, had apparently fallen from his outstretched
hand. I was amazed, sorry, and relieved. I was not the unlucky
one. There was a note on the occasional table in my way near
the door. It was addressed to me, and I stopped to read it. 1
can’t remember the exact words, but this is the gist of it. He
wrote: “I rang you because I wanted you to get here before any-
one. I don’t want you to blame yourself for this. The £5,000
would not have been enough in any case. I embezzled such large
sums in the city I doubt if there 1 is any other way out. For
several months now, since I saw my business on the downgrade,
I have been wondering what to do. The past week I have been
contemplating suicide. I could not sleep because of it. Death
would solve my problems as it has so many others. The thought
preyed on me terribly the last couple of days.. .”
I ’phoned the police and reported a suicide.
0 . BARJAI readers will be pleased to know that three BARJAI
writers have been asked by the Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission to present their own verse on the poetry session,
“New Australian Voices,” heard every Sunday night over the
National Stations at 10.15 p.m.
The first' BARJAI writer is Grace Perry, whose broadcast
was heard several weeks ago. The other two are Laurence
Collinson and Barrio Reid, whose sessions will be heard on
June 18th and June 25th respectively.
21


COMPETITIONS
The competitions, first announced in BAEJAI No. 12, are
now closed, and the results will appear in BARJAI No. 15.
This issue, we have a new POETRY COMPETITION. We
wiil award a prize of one guinea, kindly donated by Mr.
Flcxraore Hudson of Adelaide, for the best poem written by
a young person (preferably under 22). Mr. Rex Ingamells of
Adelaide will be the judge. There are only three things to
remember:—
(1) The entries must reach BARJAI, Box 1773 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, by September 30, 1944.
(2) Mark the entries “COMPETITION”.
(3) The age of the competitor must accompany every entry.
The winning poem will be published in BARJAI No.
17 or 18. The Editors reserve the right to use the re-
maining poems as they think fit.
WHO IS YOUR FAVOURITE POET?
This is a nation-wide voting contest to decide who Aus-
tralian youth to-day considers the moat popular poet. It does
not matter whether your favourite poet is contemporary, or
one of he great, or less great, names in the history of poets
writing in English. All that it is necessary for you to do
is write his or her name on a sheet of paper with No. 1
beside it. Then write down the names of two other poets in
the order you favour them. Send with your name, address,
and age, to—
“ Popular Poet Poll,”
BARJAI,
Box 1773 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, Qld.
This is NOT a competition.
Results will be made known in BARJAI No. 15.
22


0. BARJAI suggests its readers subscribe to the following
publications:—
MBANJIN PAPERS. Quarterly, edited by C. B. Christesen,
Single copy, 3/-; Annual subscription, 10/-. Address: Box
1871 W, G.P.0., Brisbane.
POETRY. Quarterly, edited by Flexraore Hudson. Single
copy, 1/6; Annual subscription, 4/6. Address: Lucindale,
South Australia.
ANGRY PENGUINS. Edited by Max Harris and John
Reed. Per copy, 2/6. Address: 20 Edward Street, Glendore,
Adelaide.
SOUTHERLY. Three times a year. Edited by R. G.
Howarth. Single copy, 1/6; Annual subscription, 4/6. Address:
University of Sydney.
A COMMENT. Quarterly, edited by Cecily Crozier. Single
copy, 1/6; Annual subscription, 6/-. Address: 42 Burke Road,
Melbourne.
BAKJAI BOOK BULLETIN
The Editors will only place on this list books that they
consider it imperative youth read: —
COLLECTED ESSAYS IN LITERARY CRITICISM by
Herbert Read.
THEJ CHILD DISCOVERS POETRY by Plexmore Hudson.
THE BANNED BOOKS OF ENGLAND by Alee Craig.
PSYCHOLOGY OF SEX by Havelock Ellis.
Any suggestions for books to be placed on this list will
be considered by the Editors.
23


CONTRIBUTORS to Nos. 12, 13, and 14
THEA ASTLEY —IS year old Queensland schoolteacher. Second
year Arts Student.
R. A. S. BEAL—IB year old Brisbane student.
LAURENCE COLLINSON—Born in. England nearly 19 years ago.
Travelled in N.Z. and Australia. Art student at Technical
School in Brisbane. Has contributed to various literary
periodicals. Founder and co-editor of BARJAI.
JAMES'DAVENPORT —IB year old Science student at Queensland
University.
MORIET D’OMBRAIN —20 year old Sydney poetess.
NOR'MA GRAFF—IB year old Arts student at Queensland
University;
MARIE HORN —18 year old Medical student at Queensland
University.
CECEL KNOPKE—IB year oid Science student at Queensland
University. Sub-Editor of BARJAI. Art student.
PATRICIA LAXTON—IS year old Sydney student.
BERYL LEAVER —Brisbane artist. Sub-editor of BARJAI.
ALEX LIRE—I 6 year old writer of Rockhampton.
BRIAN MEDLIN —16 year old Adelaide student.
BETTY MeFARLANE—2O year old Sydney school-teacher.
PAT O’TOOLE —18 year old Science student at Queensland
University.
GRACE PERRY —17 year old A.T.C.L. of Sydney. Has published
two books of poetry: “Staring at the Stars” and “I Live
a Life of Dreams”.
SHIRLEY REYNOLDS—IB year old Melbourne writer.
HAZEL ROBINSON—I 6 year old Brisbane student.
DAVID SANDERSON —18 year old Brisbane student.
MARY WILKINSON —18 year old Art student at Sydney Tech.
Professional short story writer.
24


From youth all over Australia we accept poems,
essays, short stories, plays, etc.
Manuscripts must be accompanied by a stamped'
and addressed envelope, otherwise they cannot
be returned.
The age of the contributor must be given with
every manuscript.
It is regretted that at present, no payments
can be made to .contributors.
9 Contributors to this issue are between the ages
of 16 and 20.
