

BARJAI
A
MiSTOMS P LAE E
f &
• J/Z v.;„ : l~? r -f - i
YSOTTH


"BARJAI"
EDITORIAL:
No« H •
I have heard it said that not more than five per cent of
the population of Australia have received the benefits of anything that
might be called an education. I have heard Australians say it, and
it seems to be the general opinion of all foreigners. Australians
are not noted for their intellectuality; indeed, not many years ago
the majority of the European people were of the opinion that Australia’s
population ms black I Englishmen regard the average Australian as
being uneducated, and the pity - no, the crime of it, is that the
Englishman should be correct.
And the fault lies in the shabby educational system under
•which the brilliant Australian genius is permitted to struggle to a
stunted maturity. It is the fault of the shabby beards that pour
complacently over the educational mill - for indeed, it is a mill,
where bright young Australian intellect is grinded away to make the
finished product. And what a product to issue from any mill or
factoryl The average Australian has never read Dickens, Thackeray, or
Hugo, or even heard of Spenser, Pope, and Dryden; be knows nothing of
Rembrant, Rossetti, and Sir Joshua Reynolds; he could never succeed
in naming more than five really great composers. Even the Australian
who is supposed to be educated has been taught nothing of Art and
Music, and very little of Literature; I say that they should form an
essential part of every school curriculum.
And it is the duty of us, the Youth of the community to
remedy this shameful state of things. It is up to us to pull the
beards of some of those old complacents. Until something is done
there can never be an Australian culture.
Address correspondence tos-
BARJAI
c/- Post Office,
GHERMSIDS,
BRISBANE.
1


ROADS.
The assistant in the worldla-,.warehouse
Unrolled his roll of roads
And spread it in all directions;
Gut a length and placed it in Bombay,
Another length he spread across the Blue Mountains,
Another Spanned a river in Canada
And the prairie wheat was given a quicker passage.
, v 33oiBjr sir," (pointing to the black)
"Is rather cheap. .
" Uiia^ ■(pointing to the white)
"Is more expensive, but wears better,
You may have it in any length you require.
We have various designs?
You may have it dotted with trees, or shrubs,
And designed by the Great Designer,
Oriyou'may"have flower-bordered cottages,
Or slunr_ dwellings (a particularly cheap. line),
Or thJsi%' beautifully rich colour:
The blood of-slain soldiers.
We hays a few stained remnants
Which we can let you have cheaply ;
One, with.a car accident
And'two lovers dead,
Another stained with thwarted passions,
Another with spent desires.
These fabrics took much work to manufacture,
Each thread is drawn tightly
Each pattern is remarkably clear,
Each colour is guaranteed
Not to fade."
LAURENCE COLLINSON (18)
2


YOUTH CONFERENCE HELD IN ROCKHAMPTON.
On the 16th and 17th of October a Youth Conference was held
in Ebu Park, Rockhampton. Never before was a conference of this
kind held in the city. The conference was extraordinarily well
attended, by people conscious of tho fact that Youth ought to bo
givon its hearing. Youth was given its say, and many vo t ry important
things woro brought forward.
A notable speaker was Eddie Barker, the former Vice President
of the South Brisbane Eureka Youth Club. Ha is one of the best
Youth workers of the district, and is at present forming a Youth
Club in Gladstone. Let us hope that the adults of Gladstone will
be not only tolerant, but also helpful, and that Youth will be given
its say.
BARJAI GOES INTO PRINT?
The editor# are grateful to all who have supported Barjai
through its first eleven issues, whose support, in spite of bad
printing, bad paper, and the mistakes with which they had to con-
tend, has enabled Barjai to go at last into print*
The new Barjai will be issued bi-monthly(that is, every two
months) and will be about three times the size of the previous issues.
Copies will be sold at one shilling each. A year's subscription will
cost six shillings and six pence (posted). Postal notes aw preferred.
All contributions are encouraged, and will be judged on
literary quality and nothing else. Poems, short stories, and essays
may be sent, but the names and ages of the writers must accompany
the contributions.
All subscriptions, contributions, and correspondence should
then be sent to
BARJAI
c/- P.O.
GffiSRlBE5]S»
3


HOPE.
POEM by J. TONKIN
-Amongst us men are toiling, sweating, weeping,
And there are those for whom the stars are dark
The moon too limpid, all too drear;
And then, through mists of darkness thick
Comes one whose voice the whole world knows.
"A peace to strife, a moment, listen, now
I bring a shaft from heaven's airy sphere
And with it, pierce away the gloom
For I am Hope, and with the eternal sun
I light away the dark, dispel the doubt.
Hake way for Faith - and then the gentle Peace."
The tiEult dies, the world so hushed is listening
For Hope's glad voice is heard whispering.
"fthy is your faith so weak - so faint?
?7hy God has given alls the grass
Emerald in the dawn, the clouds like raiment figures
Clutching at the azure blue, and yet ye weep.
A work of dismal, doubting hearts who ever need
His guidance thus to reach their end.
But courage, do not falter; Han is proud
But not too proud to seek a trusty friend,
For if you trust in me, you yet shall win."
The voice is gone; alone stands Han amazed
At sounds so unusual, but yet so marvellous.
Then suddenly the clear, bright truth
Erases all his doubts, and Han has hope.
4


CONTEMPORARY MUSIC -AND ITS RECEPTION
by Donald Munro.
Throughout the last few centuries there has existed in other-
wise well-informed musical circles, a stubborn intolerencerfor con-
temporary music. The works of some of the finest Eighteenth Century
composers were subjected to violent and prejudiced attacks by critics
and musicians alike? quite a long period elapsed before the undoubted
quality of these works was acclaimed. This is true of Vagner's
"Tanhhauser", Bizet’s "Carmen", and St. Saen’s "Samson and Delilah"
and of Handel’s glorious "Messiah."
Today people are beginning to take a little more interest in the
music of their own time. Ms is pleasing to note, for there are many
really excellent modern works; works of Sibelius, Elgar, and Britten,
aIJ. of which will live for posterity. But still there remains a
remnant of the old spirit of intolerance, largely among people who are
musically ignorant, and glad to be able to criticise works that have
not yet stood the test of time.
But nearly all of the great composers have been European; it
seems strange that outside nations should have,so little to show for
their great and colourful histories. Anerlca, in her four hundred
years of civilisation, has produced very little work worthy of
mention among the great. Its only two well-known composers are
MaoDowell and Gershwin, and the latter wrote only little serious
work., all of which is pervaded by a jazy element. Ihe only groat
work that claims to bo Aaerican, the "New World Symphony” was,
ironical as it nay seem, written by a foreign visitor.
' But small young Australia has made admirable progress musically.
Both at home and abroad Australians have written very noteworthy
concert overtures, symphonies, tone poems, and concertoes. We are by
no means backward in this branch of art. But if we are to havo a
rich musical background we must encourage our musicians, and the
intolerant attitude towards contemporary music must vanish. I
think, happily, that this is happening.
5


THE DOUBT.
By Barrie G. Reid.
Of course there was a doubt -
I wanted you
And you had flamed towards me
Quivering acquiescence
But the doubt slipped like a tangible shadow.
Between our lips,
Drawing from the cesspool of old time
The loves, the silly adorations of a past
You raised your lips to take my kiss
(Lips like live and leaping flames)
But you were chained
As I was chained
By memory
Curse that mocker
Painting of lewd rave slings
On the canvas of our present faces.
All our life was pictured there)
Of courso there was a doubt -
Mockod by its fancies
¥o lost our prosont.
YOUTH TO AGE.
BARRIE G. REID
Oh yes! We are a smouldering nob with a few feeble flames.
Of course they are quenched by Age minds water-walled.
Oh yes we are a sober nob with nearly nice names.
Of course there are dangerous those with hearts clear-called.
Thus can you blame us
When you can*t name us
The great, the good or the fine?
Unclaimed by fame, thus
Age fears to neoe us
'Mongst the great, the good or the fine.
Oh yes I You are jealous of our many merry morrows
Of course you are fearful of your grin grave.
Oh yes you stop home with the sad-sighing sorrows.
Of course we march fighting brightly - brave.
6


ON CHINAMSEN.
By R. Anderson.
For deep friendship the Chinese set us the example. I often
wonder at the Chinaman, for he seems to rise on another mountain
higher than that of the ordinary European. His mountain is accessable
only by one path - the path of long, deep friendship and gratitude.
His undying fidelity causes him to abide always in the land of the
ancestors, rather than betray a trust.
A friend told me of an incident which I shall always remember.
As a boy he lived several miles from a country town, but further away
still, lived several Chinese cultivators. -.The Chinese would, on their
way to market, leave a large basket of vegetables hanging on the gate.
My friend would,in return, fill the basket with eggs. The. Chinamen
would always include my friend in their feastings, and was sometimes
taken to town on the backs of these willing friends.
One day, when bush-fires were raging for miles around, the
Chinese left their own homes to go and fight for the homes of these,
their white friends. They fought for days and nights, till at last
they had saved the homestead, while their own dwellings were burnt to
the ground. The impassive Chinese regretted nothing, but set quietly
about re-building their ‘homes.
Once a friend always a friend is the basis of every Chinese
friendship.
THE SYMPHONY CONCERT OF OCTOBER 23rd.
The performance was of a high standard and the choir, though
apparently sorely depleted in numbers, was highly satisfactory. The
exarpts from Coleridge - Taylor’s "Hiawatha" Cantata were well per-
formed, and the finale left me quite elated.
The Symphony, the "New World", was unexpected and enjoyable,
but I do not think that it ought to have been performed twice in one
season. Besides this, it is broadcast from the National stations
on an average of once a fortnight. I think it would have been
better to hear the whole of "Hiawatha,".
C.E. KNOPKE
7


BOOK REVIEW
AUSTRALIAN POETRY
I have just finished reading "POETRY NO.8" a quarterly
of Australian and New Zealand'Verse edited by Flexnore Hudson.
In a vigorous editorial Hudson hits hard at surrealist poets
and others who purposely make their poetry obscure. Anyhow
the surrealists are dying out (all kinds of extreme literary
fads die out when confronted by the powerful emotional impact
of war) and the editorial while not unnecessary would have been
better a year ago. Most states are represented and the standard
is high. The majority of tho poets reveal awareness of the war
in a way that has more than present value. The established poets
Mann, Vrepont, and Ingamells have characteristic contributions.
One of the Brisbane writers represented in "POETRY", Paul
Grano, has issued "QUEST" a selection of his poems. There are
some notable verses. Grano is a true poet if not at times an
inspired one. He can write as badly as this
"Of the daily tiring round
Mary has her own task found"
However this is. more than compensated for by such gems as
"Down through the township and up the raped ranges
(The road like a dark lash scars their bare shoulders)
¥e walked, and below us the tamed land, and sowings
Like drawings in chalk by crude colourful fingers."
INTOLERANCE AGAIN.
Extract from Annual Report of Principal Nudgee College.
" the only mention of religion and religious schools
was made by a youthful tyro who with the milk of his aimer
mater scarcely dry on his lips advocated their abolition."
Ever since Norman Hunter made his speech at the Youth Conference
of The New Education Fellowship he has been unc anprondsingly
attacked. ¥e do not wish to enter into a discussion of the
merits or demerits of Hunter's speech but we do wish to see clean
fighting. Not once have these oitics criticised Hunter's
suggestions. Not once have they attempted to prove them wrong.
No, all these so called upholders of the right can do is to call
attention to Hunter's youths this seemingly explaining everything.
To be youthful in the eyes of these critics seems to mean to be
incompetent and incapable of thinking worthwhile thoughts to be
(over)
8


i*iable to perform worthwhile actions. Tte wonder if these critics
of youth would change their opinions if told how many boys under
twenty one fought on KokodaTrail.
"THE YEARS CONDEMN"
"Age shall not weary them or the years condemn".
This line was written during the press and turmoil of the last
war and it had then a significance and a meaning. Then people looked
forward with hope to the future. Dreamers and realists alike had
faith in a warloss world of the future. But the intervening years
have given them the lie. Stringent poverty and (bbated) wealth,
depressions and industrial unrest, ignorance and intolerance, mad
fanaticism and dangerous apathy - all these have gone to form the
dung heap of the years and now the crowning glory the fat bloated
toad of war sits on the top evilly leering at our misplaced idealism.
Yes the years have condemned their memory, their death was futile.
Binyon was not the only poet who made us feel sentimental about
these youngmen - there is Brooke and Grenfell, to mention only a
couple. The realists like Sassom and Owen were not wanted but their
message was not constructive. Stewart gives us something better.
"That is the man they told to go and die for them
In all the old wars. He hates to hoar the old stories
He did the fighting, the bleeding, suffering and dying
And the light in him lived for ever. His name is Kan,"
And what about the remedy - well that is not for me to see.
That, youth must think and work out for itself.
J DAVEN POKT
9
INTOLERANCE AGAIN (CONT'D)
