

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ non TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA YOTA.’’
Vol. I. No. 3.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1844.
[Price -id.
LITERARY CENSORSHIP.
The following Essay, from Blackwood's Magazine , so
completely expresses our opinions on the subject of
Criticism, that we shall make no apology for its inser-
tion. To those who have sent us complaints of the
paucity of original pieces in our Miscellany, we must
plead the difficulty of readily procuring for a new
publication all those advantages of which it may be
possessed hereafter. Whilst, however, we earnestly
desire to secure a body of able Contributors to our
pages, from among our Colonial friends, and believe
that we are gradually attaining that our sincere wish,
—thanks to those kind friends who have stepped
thus early forward—we unhesitatingly avow our equal
admiration of suitable extracts from writers of sterling
w'orth and value, acknowledged as the ornament of
their age and nation ; and we cannot but feel con-
vinced that the majority of our readers will agree with
us in our admiration of such extracts as will continue
to be occasionally inserted in the Colonial Literary
Journal.
“ I propose
To erect one board for verse, and one for prose.”
Frere.
The pleasure of communicating to others what fills
our own breast, impels youth to write. The dawning
of thoughts and feelings, in the spirit of youth, seems
to have all the beauty and all the glowing life of
genius. To those who behold it, it is beautiful. What
wonder then, that it should deceive him who feels it,
into the belief that something stirs within him of the
power which gives birth to new creations. The power
of. conception the mind’s own delight—may well
exist without the faculty that can make them avail-
able for the general benefit. Why then should the
censors of literature cry out upon those who have too
lashly trusted to their own impulses, and have stepped
out from their obscurity to offer to the public the pro-
ductions of their teeming minds ? There seems to
be no necessity calling on these functionaries to ad-
minister chastisement upon those whose sole error
has been to listen too fondly to the suggestion of their
hearts, and to believe that they could render some
service, or impart some pleasure, to mankind. To
defend either the constituted or the innate laws of
man against assailants, able or unable, is an act that
speaks its own vindication; but to protect, with the
same seventy of warfare, the time and patience of the
public, against the foolish, ignorant, and dull, is an
avocation not so. self-evidently meritorious. Neglect
and oblivion are sufficient punishment for such offences
—for, after all, the trespass on every man’s time and
patience is of his own making. Pain, thoughtfully
inflicted with bitterness and scorn, might well be
reserved, one would think, for offenders against the
well-being of society.
It seems difficult to justify, or in any way account
for, such retributions on the self-injuring weaknesses
of men innocently self-deceived.
How far the existence of self-erected literary tri-
bunals is, in any way, serviceable to the cause -.of
literature, still remains to be made out. The arena
of literature is open to all: and if any writer throw's
down his gauntlet to challenge the opinions, the
belief, the laws that are recognised in the country, it
is open for the champion to take it up, and meet the
challenger in the lists. But a self-incorporated body
of champions, to come forth on every deficiency, seems
something monstrous in literary chivalry. Are they
judges, accusers, or pleaders ? They are one and all.
They have, in truth, no definite character —no con-
sistent purpose. Or have they been simply so good
as to undertake the instruction of the public upon all
subjects which the occurrences of the times, or the
course of literature itself, may happen to bring before
them ?
The literature of a country is an important object,
no doubt; but its excellency does not depend on
tribunals of criticism : it depends on the spirit of the
people. It is the state of the mind of the wdiole
nation that must determine the character of its lite-
rature. If that be sound, strong, aspiring, and
enlightened, there will need no such small helps as
these to keep its literature from weakness, taint, or
degradation. The strength of a nation’s mind cannot
depend upon the ephemeral instructions of works that
start up and float away with the current of the times,
but upon men’s serious studies—upon studies pur-
sued, with toilsome .application, by men v/hose choice
or whose avocations have given up their life to high
sources of intellectual labour. It depends too, in a
less degree, upon the studies of more ordinary minds,
who are led by a dignified nature to dignified plea-
sures ; and who, without any regular system of
thought, apply themselves desultorily, though con-
sistently, to the study of the standard works of lite-
rature and philosophy.
It is the necessary tendency of periodical criticism
to limit the number of such men, and consequently to
control the march of knowdedge.
The present and. proceeding literature of a country
is as important to its character as that which is past.


For living writers have far more powerful hold on the
minds of men, than those of a former time. Not only
does the work itself awaken a more vivid interest, but
the mind of the contemporary writer becomes more
an object of admiration, and does, in the eyes of every
one, raise up the generation itself to which he belongs.
His contemporaries feel themselves raised while they
know he is among them. Men measure their own
character and their condition of being by no absolute
standard. But if, when they look around, the highest
on whom their eyes can rest are low, they feel in
themselves the general degradation : while they can
fix their regard on lofty heads, they share in the ex-
ultation, and derive to their own bosoms an elated
consciousness of existence.
If we are to form wishes for the literature of our
country, we must desire to see writers of genius and
power perfectly bold and free —submissive, indeed,
where all minds should submit—but within that cir-
cumscription, uncontrolled, impetuous, trusting to their
own spirit, and by that light fearlessly exploring and
fearlessly creating. A literature, generous and aspiring,
yet guarded alike by wisdom and reverence from all
transgression, is alone worthy of a nation blest with
free institutions. Such a literature is not, in any way,
to be advanced by the limited discussions and paltry
feelings of tribunals of criticism. The fountains that
water its roots must be deep, and flow silently through
the heart of the noblest of her children. The best we
can expect from criticism, is a refreshing shower, or a
stirring breeze.
It is the strong and genuine spirit of a people, then,
that can alone give birth to a high literature. But
we may do much to assist it, by a kind and loving
welcome of all works of genius—by a friendly re-
gard to the efforts of every warm and aspiring mind,
that would impart to others its own treasures. We
should encourage power. It is not by repelling ..the
weak, that we shall make way for the strong. The
strong are weak in their birth, and it is the indulgence
of the elements that must nurse their first growth.
They will soon make their own way. It is the sun
and the gentle rain that lifts up the young oak from
the earth, and wooes him to unfold his stately strength.
We cannot make power; but we can cherish and
invite its natural growth —or v r e can repress it.
If a nation wills to be misled, injured, and cor-
rupted, there is no protection for it. But if a pure
and upright sense is strong in their hearts, they will
defend themselves. Aggression on those principles,
of which they recognise the authority and momentous
importance, will call up from the bosom of the nation
prompt and powerful defenders. That is the con-
tention a great nation would wish to see. It does not
fear even lawless genius and destructive power. Even
in the fields of literature there are combats on which
a nation may fix its eyes. But examine the case nar-
rowly, and it will be found that the idea of protection,
in any kind, to those great causes which may be con-
sidered as at stake in the literature of a people, by a
Board of Criticism, is as repugnant to sense as their
protection by a legal censorship. Such a Board, self-
constituted, obtains authority (no matter how) over
the general mind : it protects or assails by force of
that authority, and not by the real power of thought
and knowledge which it brings to each question; In-
asmuch as such authority is excited, there is a false
and unnatural, substituted for a genuine, power. There
is a reverse of that effect which literature intends ;
there is a repression and subjugation, instead of an
awakening of the nation’s mind. To be strong in
their freedom, is the character of a great nation in
their literature, as well as in their polity.
The very nature of these temporary ephemeral dis-
cussions is against the nature of thoughtful inquiry.
Questions of great magnitude—of deep investigation—
of serious study—are of necessity thrown into a slighter
form. They are worked up into palatable enter-
tainment. Instead of sending the mind into the depths
of thought, that it may return with strength and ac-
quisition, they must comprise a whole question within
small and convenient limits, and satisfy their reader
that he now knows all that can possibly be said upon
a subject, where a wise instructor would have told
him that he could give him but the beginning and
first suggestion of knowledge, which he must ascer-
tain for himself, in years of after-thought, and in
still-extending investigation. A Literary Intelligencer
is an unpretending, moderately interesting, moderately
useful, but a consistent and a natural character, which
works of the class of which we are speaking have
sometimes been contented to bear. The character of
a Literary Tribunal is arrogant, useless, injurious, and
has never been consistently maintained. Those who
have assumed the character have made themselves
interesting indeed, but too often destructive to the
public, by masking under it the office of political
partizans.
THE APOTHECARY.
[Abridged from the “ Book of Trades.”]
The office of an Apothecary is to attend on sick persons, and
to prepare and give them medicines, either on his own judg-
ment, or according to the prescription of the Physician.
It is well known that the word Apotheca , signified originally
any kind of store, magazine, or warehouse; and that the pro-
prietor or keeper of such a store was called Apothecarius. We
must not, therefore, understand by the word, when mentioned
in writings two or three hundred years old, apothecaries such
as ours are at present.
At those periods, persons were often called apothecaries,
who, at court, and in the houses of great people, prepared for
the table various preserves, particularly fruit incrusted with
sugar, and who, on that account, may be considered as con-
fectioners. Hence, perhaps, we see the reason why Apothe-
caries were in England combined with the grocers till the reign
of James the I. They were then separated, and the apothe-
caries were incorporated as a company: the reason assigned
for this was, that medicines might be better prepared, and that
unwholesome remedies might not be imposed on the sick.
From this period, apothecaries were distinguished for selling
drugs used in medicine, and preparing from them different
compounds, according to the prescription given by physicians
and others.
Prior to this, it is probable, physicians usually prepared
their own medicines; and it has been thought that they gra-
dually became accustomed to employ apothecaries for their
own convenience, when they found, in their neighbourhood, a
druggist in whose skill they could confide, and whose interest
they wished to promote, by resigning in his favour that part of
the occupation.
The business of an apothecary is however mentioned at a
much earlier period in English history; for it is related, that
King Edward the Third gave a pension of sixpence a day to
Coursus de Gangeland, an apothecary in London, for attend-
ing his Majesty during his illness in Scotland ; and this is the
first mention of an apothecary.
In the year 1712, the importance of this profession was
acknowledged by an act of parliament, which exempted apo-
thecaries from serving the offices of constable, scavenger, and
other ward and parish offices.
The apothecaries, as a body, have a hall in London, where
there are magnificent laboratories, out of which medicines are
supplied to the Surgeons for the British Navy. Here also,


drugs of all sorts are sold to the public, which may be depended
upon as pure and unadulterated. Apothecaries are obliged
to make up their medicines according to the formulas pres-
cribed in the dispensary of the Royal College of Physicians,
and are liable to have their shops visited by the Censors of the
College, who are employed to destroy such medicines as they
think not good. But, as almost all persons who practice in
this profession are men of liberal education, and acquainted
with the theory and practice of chemistry, there are many who
prepare their own drugs, either wholly or in part.
In many places, and particularly in opulent cities, the first
apothecaries’ shops were established at the public expense,
and belonged, in fact, to the magistrates. A particular garden
also was appropriated to the use of the apothecary, in order
that he might rear in it the necessary plants, and which was
therefore called the Apothecaries’ garden. In conformity to
this principle, Sir Hans Sloane, in the year 1721, presented the
Apothecaries’ company with a spacious piece of ground at
Chelsea, for a physic-garden, on condition of their paying the
small ground rent of £5 per annum ; of continuing it always
as a physic-garden—and presenting to the Royal Society
fifty samples of different sorts of plants grown there, ’till they
amounted to two thousand. The latter of these conditions
has been long since more than completed. In this garden
there are two very magnificent cedars, which were planted in
1683, and were then about three feet in height. The pine-
tree, the coffee-tree, the tea-shrub, and sugar-cane, are amongst
the curiosities which may be seen at this place.
This is a very genteel business : a youth intended to be
an apothecary should be a good scholar, at least he should
be able to read the best Latin writers on the various
sciences connected with medicine. It is also necessary
for a person to be well acquainted with Botany, the Materia
Medica, Chemistry, Anatomy, and the outlines of Medicine.
A court of examiners is appointed by the apothecaries’ com-
pany to examine into the qualification of every person apply-
ing for a certificate to practise as an Apothecary. All persons
applying for a certificate to practise as an Apothecary, must
produce testimonials of having served at least five years
apprenticeship to an Apothecary; and, in general, five years
is the usual time for which apprentices are bound. The pre-
mium,* is very various: sometimes two hundred guineas have
been given.
The principal expence in establishing a young as an Apo-
thecary, is his education and certificate. His whole stock in
trade, exclusive of books, does not often exceed the value of
one hundred pounds.
There is also a numerous class of medical men, the members
of which take the title of Surgeon and Apothecary, to which is
commonly added the designation of Accoucheur ; and to such
persons, in the country more especially, are the lives and
health of the greater part of the community intrusted, by
those whose finances will not enable them to consult a regular
Physician. These, of course, must undergo an examination
not only at Apothecaries’ Hall,bat at the College of 'urgeons.
It is said that in China they have this singular mode of
dispensing their medicines. In the public squares of their
cities, there is a very high stone pillar, on which are engraven
the names of all sorts of medicines, with the price of each ;
and when the poor stand in need of such assistance, they o-o
to the treasury, where they receive the price each
rated at.
* In this colony, we believe that premiums ore seldom
required; but, on the contrary, salaries are given to youths
learning this trade.
ON POETICAL AND MUSICAL EAR.
Some years ago a controversy was carried on in a
periodical publication upon this question—“ Whether
there was a necessity of a musical ear for an orator'?”
Both parties, as usual, were obstinate in their respec-
tive opinions. Let us examine them.
Those that hold a musical ear to be necessary for
an orator, support their opinion in this manner. Every
voice has its proper key, from which, though the
speaker may wander for the sake of expression, yet
he must return to it again. The different modu-
lations of the voice must be either a little above,
or a little below the key, in which it should always
close. Anything out of the key of the voice offends
as much in speaking as in singing. Music, besides
time, having rythmus, so there is a measure in
oratory, which we cannot falsify without offending
the ear. As there are rests in music, so there are
pauses in speaking. From all these considerations,
it is evident, that a good ear is equally necessary for
an orator and for a musician.
To this the other party replies—
As all persons speak, but as all have not a musical
ear, it is evident, that if the latter were necessary for
the well-doing of the former, those who have no ear
would speak in a manner peculiar and disagreeable.
If the assertor say, that it is not in common speaking,
but in oratory, that a musical ear is requisite, the
other answers —That as oratory is but the perfection
of speaking, there is nothing in oratory that has not
its foundation in common speech.
But, the fact is, that the tone of the voice in
speaking, and the tone of the voice in singing, bear
not the least resemblance to each other—they are
formed upon principles directly opposite.* The dif-
ferent inflections of the voice in speaking, are not
musical intervals—in singing they are, or should be,
nothing but musical intervals. If we feel the outside
of the throat while speaking, and then change from
speaking to singing, it will be perceived that the
arrangement within which produced speaking, must
be changed before we can form a musical sound.
Recitative is that species of music which bears the
nearest resemblance to speaking—and speaking it is,
in musical sounds; but this, as far as time is con-
cerned, is more removed from common speaking than
from singing, because the intervals are tones, semi-
tones, &c.
Pope, though so musical a poet, had no ear for
music ; the same thing is reported of Swift. One of
the most agreeable speakers I ever knew, had no ear ;
and the same may be said of some of the first orators
in both houses of Parliament; but the strongest in-
stance is found in Garrick —it is an undoubted fact
that he had no ear. This seems to decide the ques-
tion at once, for it was universally allowed that no
one ever possessed the tones of speaking in a superior
degree to this incomparable actor.
Many illustrious living instances could be advanced
in favor of my argument, but I am content to let my
proof rest on Garrick, in whom could never be dis-
covered any defect of tones appropriated to the various
passions, in the many characters he so successfully
represented.
Perhaps the mistake may have arisen from using
the same terms, in poetry, oratory, and music—as
ear, that is, the discrimination of intervals, is abso-
lutely necessary in music, so it has also been sup-
posed essential to poetry, and oratory ; and this is
not the only instance of confusion arising from a
wrong application of terms. — Jackson's Essays.
FAITH, HOPE, AND CHARITY.
A COLLEGIATE PARANOMASIA.
Quid est Fides ?
Quid est Spes ?
Quid est Charitas ?
Quod non yides.
Quod non habes.
Id est raritas.
* To a person of real musical feeling, there is nothing more
disagreeably dissonant than the sounds occasioned by speaking
during the performance of music.


History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION I.
[From Tytier’s Elements of General History.]
EARLIEST AUTHENTIC ACCOUNTS OF THE HISTORY OF
THE WORLD.
It is a difficult task to delineate the state of mankind
in the earliest ages of the world. We want infor-
mation sufficient to give us positive ideas on the
subject; but as man advances in civilization, and in
proportion as history becomes useful and important,
its certainty increases, and its materials are more
abundant.
Various notions have been formed with respect to
the population of the antediluvian world and its
physical appearance; but as these are rather matters
of theory than of fact, they scarcely fall within the
province of history; and they are of the less con-
sequence, that we are certain the state of those ante-
diluvian ages could have had no material influence
on the times which succeeded them.
The Hebrew text of the sacred writings informs us
that a period of 1656 years elapsed between the
creation of the world and the deluge.
The books of Moses afford the earliest and only
authentic history of the ages immediately following
the deluge.
About 150 years after that event, Nimrod (the
Belus of profane historians), the grandson of Ham,
the son of Noah, built Babylon, on the river Euphrates;
and Assur, the son of Shem, and grandson of Noah,
built the city of Nineveh, on the river Tigris, which
became the capital of the Assyrian empire.
Ninus, the sen of Belus, and his queen Semiramis,
are said to have raised the empire of Assyria to a
higher degree of splendour.
From the death of Ninias, the son of Ninus and
Semiramis, down to the revolt of the Medes under
Sardanapalus, a period of 800 years, there is a chasm
in the history of Assyria and Babylon. This is to
be supplied only from conjecture.
The earliest periods of the Egyptian history are
equally uncertain with those of the Assyrian. Menes
is supposed to be the first king of Egypt; probably the
Misraim of the Holy Scriptures, the grandson of
Noah, or, as others conjecture, the Osiris of Egypt,
the inventor of Arts, and the civilizer of a great part
of the Eastern world.
After Menes or Osiris, Egypt appears to have been
divided into four dynasties, Thebes, Thin, Mem-
phis, and Tanis, and the people to have attained a
considerable degree of civilization : but a period of
barbarism succeeded under the Shepherd-kings, a
body of marauders from Ethiopia, who invaded and
conquered the country, and divided it amongst their
chiefs, each governing independently a separate pro-
vince. The dominion of these chiefs is said to have
subsisted for 259 years, when they were expelled by
Aonosis, a prince of Upper Egypt, and forced to
retreat into Syria and Palestine. But what time
elapsed until the final termination of their dominion
by the famous Sesostris is uncertain. Sesostris is
supposed to have lived about 1650 years a. c., and
to have united the separate principalities into one
kingdom, regulated its policy with admirable skill,
and distinguished himself equally by his foreign
conquests, and by his domestic administration.
As a note to the above, we insert the following,
from a late English paper:—
Egypt—Most Important Discovery. —We rejoice .to an-/
nounce the most important discovery which lias probably ever
yet been made in the records and literature of ancient Egypt.
Every reader is acquainted with the history of the celebrated
Rosetta stone, and the happy surmise of Dr. Young, that the
trilingual inscriptions on that interesting monument were three
versions of the same subject. Following out this idea, mutila-
ted as all the Egyptian part of the stone io, he found that what
remained and could be deciphered, was identical with the
Greek text. Hence our grand key to the translation of the
hieroglyphic characters and hieratic writings found among the
relics of Egypt, on rocks, on the walls of buildings of every
kind, on mummy cases, and on papyri j and it is evident
that whatever could extend or gdd to this key must be of
the utmost vaiue. It was interpreted that the Rosetta inscrip-
tion had also been set up in other temples; and the learned
expressed a hope that in the course of time one or more of
them might reward the research of zealous antiquaries.
That has been fulfilled. Dr. Lepsius has discovered another
copy of the Rosetta inscription at Meroe!! The hieroglyphic
portion is unusually perfect, and so we are informed is the
other Egyptian writing. Now, then, the three legends may be
compared throughout; and we hesitate not to say that it is
likely to create a great revolution, by a vast accession to our
means of knowledge, in the literature and history of the coun-
try so truly called the cradle of mankind. It is a gratifying
circumstance that the noble expedition of the King of Prussia
should have met with this return. Copies of the inscription
have, we understand, been made for Berlin ; but the main facr
was communicated by letter to his Excellency the Chevalier
Bunsen, the Prussian minister in London. We believe that
Dr. Lepsius is directed completely to explore all this upper
division of the country, and will not revisit Cairo till that is
accomplished, probably about April. After some repose the
expedition will proceed to Syria to examine the Egyptian
inscriptions there; and from what has already transpired,
there can be no doubt but that an extraordinary new light
will be thrown over the old world by this royally liberal,
auspicious, and fortunate effort.
ETYMOLOGICUM PARVUM.
Including Derivations and Affinities, Coincidences and
Conjectures.
No. I.
Allegory, s. a\\y ayoptvu, Gr. (aliter loquor) i. e. to speak
otherwise than is meant.
All my eye and Betty Martin, phrase: O, mihi beate
Martine, &c. Lat. An invocation to St. Martin, in the
Popish ritual.
Alone, a. and ad. all one, Engl, a l’un, Fr.
Anecdote, s. avkudorov, (a and ticdorov,) Gr. a thing un-
published. N.B. A story, once published, is no longer an
anecdote!
Apollyon, s. ’ AttoWvuv, Gr. destroying.
Atone, v. at one, Engl, to bring together, make “ one
un- ite.
Botheration, s. both ear[s], Engl, quasi at t( both ears ” of a
man. See one of Hogarth’s pictures.
Bulwark, s. boulevard, Fr. [unless we reverse cause and
effect.]
Bull and Mouth, sign: Boulogne Mouth, a harbour in
France.
Cadaver, (Lat.) s . ca[ro] da[ta] ver[mibus]> Lat. flesh
given to worms. But qucere ; because of the short ain data.
Carfax, s. qua[r]tre voies, Fr. four ways.
Carnival, s. carni vale, Lat. good bye to [eating] flesh.
Cat and Wheel, sign: [St.] Catherine [on the] wheel,
[or rack,] a Christian female martyr.
Charity, s, charitas, Lat. love. Charity, then, is not mere
alms-giving.
Boniface, s. bona faciens, Lat. a benefactor, or host :
lodger of Christians : now, innkeeper.
Church, s. Kup ictia), Gr. the Lord’s [house].
Country-dance, s. contre-danse, Fr. a dance of persons in
opposite rows.
Devil and bag of nails, sign: Satyr and Bacchanals.


THE TWO EMILIES.
A TALE OF LOVE AND PERPLEXITY.
“ Well ! this is sufficiently tantalizing,” exclaimed
young Harry Ponsonby, as he sat at his solitary
breakfast, sipping a cup of very indifferent tea, and
perusing a letter which had just been brought him.
“ Now, here have I been for this month past, thinking,
dreaming, and talking of nothing else than my
expected meeting with my dear little Emily; and at
the very moment I am going to set off post on this
delightful errand, comes this confounded letter, to
quash all my hopes ! Deuce take me if I go at all,”
said the impatient youth, tossing the unwelcome
epistle from him to the furthest corner of the room.
The letter which called forth this burst of im-
patience from the youthful lover, was from his guar-
dian, Mr. Devereux, and we shall give its purport, in
his own words, as follows: —“ Dear Harry—We are
rejoiced to hear of your success at Cambridge, and at
the near prospect of seeing you here. Had your little
mistress been with us at present, we should no doubt
have had mighty preparations for your reception at
Stokely, and you might have had the satisfaction of
throwing yourself and your laurels at the young
lady’s feet in the true heroic style. But joking apart,
my dear Harry, though sorry for your disappoint-
ment, I think it may be just as well that my ward
and you- should not be thrown together until the
childish impressions received when you were last here
shall have undergone the test of time, and till the
influence of society, and the attractions of others may
have had free scope to act upon the unfettered hearts
of both. You no doubt thought me a surly fellow,
when I forbade all childish promises ; but you may
live to thank me for my obduracy, and mean time
you must console yourself as best you can, or if much
at a loss, may practise pretty speeches at the expence
of my Emily, who, though perhaps not so gay as her
lively cousin, is very much what her father could
wish her to be ; and who, together jvith Mrs. Betty
and myself, will be delighted to see you at Stokely
Priory,” &c. &c.
“Well! perhaps Mr. Devereux was right, and I
was wrong after all,” said Ponsonby, as after another
perusal, he crumbled the letter into his pocket, and
threw himself into the carriage which had been in
waiting for some time. “ But unfortunately the pro-
mise was given before I was aware of his intentions,
or at least before I had done more than half suspect
them. And now, what if Emily should have grown
up coarse !—but surely that is impossible ; —she was
so pretty and so playful.—Let me see, it is just five
years since since I saw her last—she was then but
thirteen; and now she is eighteen—what a charming
age !”—and in contemplation of that golden age, and
on the change which five years must have made upon
his Emily—the hours rolled on, and so did the car-
riage until he arrived at Stokely Priory.
It was a bitter sharp evening in the end of Febru-
ary ; the ground was covered with snow, and the
sound of the carriage wheels was scarcely to be heard
as it swept round the‘ circle, and stopped at the door
of his guardian’s mansion.
Ponsonby was one of those youths who delight in
surprises, and who love to throw the whole precise
arrangements of a quiet family into confusion. He
congratulated himself, therefore, that no one appeared
at the door to receive him, except the old butler, a
favourite domestic of the family, and was still better
pleased, when old John assured him, that he might,
if desirous of so doing, steal upon the family quite
unawares ; “ for,” added he, “ master always makes
Miss Emily sing to him after dinner until the candles
come, while he sits listening with his eyes shut in one
arm-chair, and Mrs. Betty is sleeping in t’other ; so
if you go in by the anteroom, sir, you may hear Miss
Emily sing, and she be never the wiser ; but you know
sir, it’s not your Miss—l mean, sir, that it’s t’other
Miss Emily, master’s daughter, that’s at home now.”
“ I know, I know, John ; I shall be very happy to
see Miss Devereux, and to make acquaintance with
her.”—So saying, Harry stept lightly up the staircase,
and softly opening the door of the apartment which
led to the drawing-room, he stopped for a moment,
lest the noise of his footsteps should arrest the sweet
sounds which met his ear from thence. Oh, what a
voice w r as that! so soft, so full, so sweet! —but it was
not fo'sEmily who sang, and a pang of disappointment
thrilled through his breast.
Harry w r as passionately fond of music, and he stood
chained to the spot, drinking in the rich melody
which seemed formed to penetrate his soul. The air
was one he well knew—it was a beautiful French air
from the opera of Joconde —“ Dans un delire ex-
treme.” There was something in the tenderness with
which the words
“ Et Ton revient toujours, toujours,
A ses premieres amours !”
were breathed, which thrilled through his hefrrl. —
Had it been his Emily who sung, what a moment
of delight would this have been ! But he had no
time to sigh or to think about the matter, for old
John entered the room with candles, and at this mo-
ment an exclamation of surprise, and, as Harry fancied
of pleasure, escaped the lips of the lovely songstress —
for lovely she indeed appeared, as she started from
the instrument, her cheek suffused with the brightest
blushes, while she hastily extended, and as hastily
drew back, the prettiest little hand in the world.—
“ Papa, it is Mr. Ponsonby,” said Emily, (t and I
have almost introduced myself to him.” Mr. Deve-
reux rose to welcome Harry, and complete the ini re-
duction, while Mrs. Betty rubbed her eyes, and,
putting on her spectacles, exclaimed, “ Bless me !
Master Harry ! —it surely can’t be ; —why, he is a
finer man than his father was, and that I thought
hardly possible.”—“ Do spare my blushes, dear Mrs.
Elizabeth,” said Ponsonby, grasping the old lady’s
hand with much kindness; “ you know I was always
a modest youth, and I would not have my fair cousin
think me otherwise now, although I have been so bold
as to steal upon you unannounced—but the tempta-
tion old John held out was not to be resisted, and the
sounds I have heard not easily to be forgotten.” —
“ What, Mr. Ponsonby, and you have been a listener,”
said the blushing Emily ; “well, my cousin Emily
told me many of your faults, but she did not give me
reason to believe you were so very unprincipled.”—
“ Did Emily speak of me to you enquired Harry
with eagerness ; “ and what did she say ?—You must
tell me what faults she said I had, that I may set
about reforming them.”—■“ Come, come,” said Mr.
Devereux, “ we shall not enter upon so ample a field
at present; see, the urn is smoking on the table, and
no tea in yet. Why, Emily, you are getting as giddy
as your cousin; and I have been telling Harry here,


that you are a paragon of steadiness and regularity.”
An arch smile played for a moment around the rosy
lips of Emily, as, without farther reply, she rose and
began to busy herself in the duties of the tea-table. —
Harry and his guardian talked about his Cambridge
studies and future views; and thus, between the
grave and gay, the evening quickly passed in pleasant
conversation,
When Ponsonby had retired at night to his old
quarters in the blue room, he cast around him a glance
of cheerful recognition upon every familiar thing,
grown dear from the recollections and associations of
childhood. <( W r ell,” said he mentally, were my
little Emily hut here, I should feel just as I used to
do, and we might be as happy as possible.” But
Harry Avas at that moment aware that in truth he did
not just feel as he used, or as he ought to have done.
The beauty and attractions of the present Emily had
filled his heart Avith a troubled delight, and he felt
the necessity of Avishing for the presence of his absent
Emily, to protect his plighted faith. “ Then this
Emily is so like her cousin,” reasoned he Avith his
oAvn conscience, “ that I almost forgot myself in her
presence; and yet she is different too—more grave
more thoughtful. My Emily’s face Avas ever speak-
ing, even Avhen her tongue was silent.” Thus making
ing out a catalogue of his little Emily’s charms, and
confusing them gradually Avith those of her lovely
cousin, the bewildered Ponsonby fell asleep.
A Aveek had passed aAvay, and Ponsonby Avas forced
to acknoAvledge that his uncle’s acquaintance Avith the
human heart was greater than his oavu, and that it
Avould have been far better for himself had he sub-
mitted to be governed by it But the fault of Harry
Ponsonby had ever been impetuosity, and it required
all the generosity of his disposition, and all his high
sense of honour, to atone for the imprudences Avhich
he so often committed.
Little Emily, as she had ahvays been called, to
distinguish her from her cousin, who Avas a few months
older, and formed upon a larger scale, Avas the orphan
daughter of a younger brother of Mr. Devereux. He
had filled a high station in India, and upon the death
of his Avife, sent home his only child to he educated
Avith her cousin. His OAvn death quickly folloAved,
and Emily’s recollections of her parents and of India
were but as a dream, Avhile all the bright realities of
youth were connected Avith Stokely Priory, and the
kind friends she had found there. Mr. Devereux Avas
a widower, but the two Emilies passed their earlier
years under the tuition of an excellent governess, be-
tween whose attentive solicitude, and the caresses of
good aunt Betty, the loss of a mother Avas never felt.
Mrs. Elizabeth Devereux was an unmarried sister of
Mr. Devereux’s father, and consequently grand-aunt
to the children. She Avas the kindest of women, and
the sweetest of old maids. She did not attempt, Avith
her old-fashioned habits and ideas, to reform the Avays
and manners of the young ; hut she entered into their
tastes, and made allowance for their feelings and their
manners, for which she Avas repaid by the tenderest
affection and the most watchful care.
As the cousins grew out ot childhood, Mr. Deve-
reux found it necessary to alter his plan of educating
them together. Their governess had accepted an ad-
vantageous offer of superintending a limited establish-
ment for young ladies; and the increasing infirmities
of his aunt, made Mr. Devereux unwilling to deprive
her of the society of both the little girls at once. A
plan was therefore arranged, that the cousins should
each alternately be for a year with their former go-
verness, Mrs. Hartley, and with their grand-aunt at
Stokely, until their education should be completed.—
Thus it happened, that during the twelve months
which Harry had passed with his guardian, previous
to his quitting him for college, the younger Emily
had been his only companion, and the natural conse-
quences of their thus being thrown together, was a
growing affection for each other. Ponsonby then
thought that his love for Emily was the sweetest, and
■would be the most enduring, feeling of his existence ;
he had cherished it during five long years of absence,
and had been proud to feel that it never was stronger
than at the moment \Vhen he expected to be restored
to her. All this Avas true—and even now he felt that
sweet and young affection warm at his heart: —but it
was not love ! —ah no !—how different from this was
the wild tumultous feeling which now swelled his
breast, and beat in every pulse, as woman, lovely, full-
grown woman, asserted her sway, and burst upon him
in all her charms !
But not unchecked did young Ponsonby permit
himself to indulge in this sweet intoxication •, severely
did he take himself to task, and yet he scarce could
say whence the blame had arisen. He had come pre-
pared to love his own long cherished mistress, yet ere
one wandering thought had sprung within his breast,
he had listened to that voice which could never be
forgotten, and gazed on those bewitching eyes which
still would follow him ■where’er he w r ent. Yet was
it long before the youth would admit the painful,
humiliating truth, that his first love was extinguished,
or had never deserved the name of that omnipotent
passion. His upright honourable heart turned with
pain from the possibility of such unfaithfulness, and
he shut his eyes to the danger, and resolved to struggle
with it, if it indeed existed.
Thus passed tflh time away, and Ponsonby felt his
task becoming more difficult every hour, nor did
Emily appear to aid him in it. It was true, she
rather encouraged than checked him in any allusion
to his youthful attachment ; nay, she dwelt with
emphasis upon the minutest circumstances regarding
it, which had been confided to her by her artless
cousin ; and Harry thought she almost took a mali-
cious pleasure in attaching importance to them, at the
very time when he was wincing under the recollection
of his fetters. Yet it was difficult to reconcile this
mischievous triumph with the deep blush of pleasure
which Avould suffuse her cheek when she herself was
the exclusive object of his attention. Thus, as the
conduct of Emily became every day a greater enigma
to Ponsonby, and consequently fixed more of his
observation, his heart became more and more filled
with her image. He tried to satisfy himself as to the
state of her feelings, but his efforts were in vain.
Her character was much too open, and her disposition
too generous to admit the imputation of coquetry,
and yet at times her conduct w r as inconsistent —almost
capricious. Puzzled with Emily, and dissatisfied
with himself, Ponsonby resolved to turn from the
dangerous contemplation. He would busy himself
with books —he would only make his appearance
when the assembled family party would render the
meeting less dangerous to him.


It was after having thus absented himself for some
days, that he chanced to meet with Emily on her
return from an early walk, and though he had re-
solved on striking into an opposite path, such is the
weakness of a lover’s forbearance, that hisfresolution
failed him at the moment, and he could not resist
joining the enchantress. He even induced her to
prolong her walk, by observing that the day w'as too
inviting to allow of her returning to the house, and
requested permission to accompany her. But no
sooner had he made the request than he repented of
it, for it seemed as if the lady was more disposed to
resent his unlooked for attention than to accept it.—-
“ Pray, Mr, Ponsonby,” said the provoking girl, “ to
what am I indebted for this unusual piece of gallan-
try ? I rather think the sun has shone quite as
brightly for this week past, but neither it nor any
thing else has been able to draw you from your room.
I hope my absent cousin has had more of your
thoughts of late than we of your company, or I fear
she may have reason to repent of her early preference.
Does Mr. Ponsonby avoid thinking of the absent, as
studiously as he does talking of them '?”—“ What can
you mean, Emily'? Surely I have never avoided
talking of your cousin w ? hen an opportunity has
offered.”—“ But you have avoided the opportunity,”
said the saucy girl, “ which comes much to the same
thing.—Poor little Emily ! I fear she runs much risk
of being forgotten altogether ; and yet it is no fault
of mine, for I am sure when we were together, I re-
minded you of her daily, hourly—did I not, Harry ?”
“ Oh, Emily !” exclaimed the agitated Ponsonby,
grasping her hand, “ you do indeed remind me of
her, and that so powerfully, that at times I scarce
know which Emily I am thinking of or speaking to.
I look on you as 1 should look on her ! I think of you
when I should think of her, and wish, and wish—-
what is impossible—that there was but one Emily in
the world for me, and she was—”—“ Oh, do not say
it, Harry !” exclaimed the now trembling girl, plac-
ing her hand upon his lips, as if to stop the words she
dared not hear. “ Come, come, I must not listen to
this nonsense.—l shall go to Mrs. Hartley’s and send
Emily to you, and then you will have your wish,
and I shall have mine; for believe me, dear Harry,
there is nothing I desire so earnestly as that you should
continue true to your first affection.” With these
w °rds Emily returned to the house, leaving Ponsonby
more bewildered than ever. “ Nothing that she de -
sires so much as that I should be true to my first
affection ! repeated Harry. —“ Strange, unaccount-
able girl! But be it so.—The task becomes easier
now that I know she does not love me. And now I i
have but to school my own heart, and avoid the dan- j
gerous pleasure of being alone with this bewitching
creature while she remains here.”
But this schooling of the heart, Ponsonby found no
easy task. Every member of the family appeared to
have a plot to bring this unfortunate couple together.
Even good Mrs. Elizabeth innocently lent her aid
she could not make out her evening walk unless sup-
ported by an arm of each ; and when she had reached
her accustomed distance, she would urge Harry and
Emily to continue their way a little farther, giving
them frequently some commission of benevolence to
perform, which she herself was unable to accom-
plish.
(To be concluded in our next.) I
THE MARRIAGE CEREMONY OF GREECE.
[An Extract.]
We passed the whole day in witnessing the nuptials
of the young Syrian Greek. The ceremony began by
! a long procession of Greek, Arab, and Syrian w omen :
j some having arrived on horse-back, others on foot,
j through the paths of aloes and mulberry trees, to
| attend the bride through this fatiguing performance,
j For many days and nights past, a certain number of
these women have never left the house of Habib, and
are unceasing in their cries, their songs, their piercing
and lengthened lamentations, which resemble the bois-
terous noise made by vintagers and hay-makers, on the
hills of our native country during the harvest time.
These conventional clamours, wailings, tears, and
joys, must deprive the bride of her rest for many
nights previous to the wedding. On the other hand,
the old and young members of the husband’s familv
enact the same part, and scarcely allow him a mo-
ment’s rest for a whole week. We are at a loss to
understand the grounds of such a custom.
These women, being admitted into the gardens of
Habib’s dwelling, were ushered into the interior of
the divan, to compliment the young maiden, to admire
her dress, and to witness the ceremonies. We were
left in the court-yard, or admitted into an inferior
divan. Here a table was spread in the European
style, with a profusion of preserved fruit, of honied or
sweetened pastry, of liqueurs and sherbets ; and the
repast was renewed during the evening, as often as
the numerous guests had exhausted the former supply.
I succeeded, through an exception made in my favour,
in procuring admission to the divan where the women
were assembled, at the moment when the Greek arch
bishop was giving the nuptial benediction. The
youthful maiden was standing by the side of the
bridegroom, and covered from head to foot with a
veil of red gauze, embroidered with gold. The priest
removed the veil for an instant, and the bridegroom
had thus a first view of the object to whom he was
uniting himself for life ; she was exquisitely beautiful.
The paleness spread over her face from the effects of
fatigue and emotion ; a paleness, heightened by the
reflection of a red veil, by the countless ornaments of
gold, silver, pearls and diamonds, with which she was
bespangled, by the long plaits of her dark hair falling
in all directions round her waist, her eye-brows, eye-
lashes, painted black, as well as the border of her
skin near the eyes, the tip of her fingers and nails
painted red with henna, her hands lined with com-
partments and Moorish designs—every thing stamped
her ravishing beauty with a character of novelty
and of solemnity which created a deep impression
upon our minds. Her husband had scarcely a
moment allowed him to cast a look at his bride.—
He appeared exhausted and ready to drop from
the constant night-watching and fatigue occasioned
by these fantastic customs, calculated to damp the
most ardent love.
The bishop took from the hands of one of his priests
a crow r n of real flowers, fixed it on the maiden’s head,
removed, and laid it on the head of the bridegroom,
withdrew it again, and placed it on the bride’s veil,
and thus repeatedly transferred it from head to head'
Rings were then alternately placed on each others’
fingers. They next broke the same bread, and drank
consecrated wine out of the same cup. The young
bride was afterwards led to apartments where women


alone could accompany her, to make another change
in her dress. The father and friends of the husband
brought him away to the garden, and he was made
to sit down at the foot of a tree, surrounded by all the
men of the family. The musicians and dancers now
made their appearance, and continued until sunset
their wild symphonies, their piercing cries, and their
contortions, round the young man, who had fallen
asleep at the foot of the tree, and whose friends in
vain attempted at every moment to awaken him from
his slumbers.
When night had set in, he was led alone in proces-
cession to his father’s house. It is only after the lapse
of eight days that the bridegroom is allowed to come
back for his bride, and take her to his home.
The women who filled Habib’s house with their
wailings withdrew a little later. Nothing can be con-
ceived more picturesque than this immense procession
of women and young girls, in the most singular and
splendid costumes, covered with sparkling jewels, and
each of them surrounded by their attendants and slaves,
bearing torches of resinous fir to light them on the
way, and thus lengthening their luminous train
through narrow paths, shaded with aloes and orange
trees, along the sea shore *. at one time maintaining a
deep silence, at another uttering loud cries, which
resounded on the waves, or under the broad plantains
at the foot of Lebanon. We returned to our dwelling
which adjoins Habib’s country house, where we still
heard the sounds of conversation kept up by the
females of the family; we ascended our terraces, and
watched for a long time those flitting fires which were
moving in p,ll directions through the trees growing
on the plain.
Varieties.
/l dancer said to a Spartan, “ You cannot stand on one
leg so long as I can.” “ Perhaps not,” said the Spartan,
“ but any goose can.”
Emphasize your words correctly.— “ Boy, go in and
ask how old Mrs. Jenkins is.” “Yes, ma’am.” The boy
returns with the answer—“ The lady says she don’t know
how old she is, ma’am.”
Merely a Suggestion The boarders of a tavern in
Georgia were annoyed by flies in their butter. Judge Dooly
took the tavern-keeper aside, and remarked to him, in a pri-
vate way, that some of the friends thought it would be best for
him to put the butter on one plate and the flies on another,
and let the people mix them to suit themselves. He merely
suggested it for consideration.— American paper.
Salutations Extraordinary. —ln some countries they rub
noses; in others they pull one another’s ears ; the Franks
plucked out a hair, and presented it ; the Japanese take off
their slippers when they meet. In some of the South Sea
Islands they spit in their hands, and then rub face for
you ; in others, it is the height of politeness to fling a jar of
water over your friend.
Three Good Things. —A celebrated preacher once said
that there were three companions with whom you should
al ways keep on good terms Ist, your wife ; 2d, your stomach
drd, your conscience. :
“ Cut and come again,” as the old woman’s corns said to
the penknife.
Presence of Mind. —lf you should happen to meet with an
accident at table, endeavour to preserve your composure, and
do not add to the discomfort you have created, by making an
unnecessary fuss about it. I remember hearing it told of a
very accomplished gentleman, that, when carving a tough
goose, he had the misfortune to send it entirely out of the dish,
and into the lap of the lady next to him ; on which he very
coolly looked her full in the face, and said, “ Ma’am, I will
thank you for that goose.” This manner of bearing such a
mortifying accident gained him more credit than he lost by his
awkward carving.
Woman’s Love. —A friend of our own sex cannot pass
through the ordeal of attendance on a sick couch. Friends
shrink from the trial ; they wiHJ share danger—nay, more,
their purse; they gladly give their counsel and their pity;
but they cannot sympathise with one in sorrow or sickness.
No ! it is the woman who loves ; she alone can sooth, watch
with exhaustless patience and affection, endure the wayward-
ness of mind, and the vexatious absurdity which arise from
sickness or sorrow! Can the friendship of man, however
ardent and sincere, be compared to the idolatry with which
woman gives up body and soul to the man consecrated by
their virgin affections ? Friendship is founded on necessity
and interest: it must be planted and cultivated with care ;
it flourishes only in particular soils, while Love is indigenous
throughout the world. Friendship, like bread, is the staff of
our existence ; but love is the origin and perpetuation of
existence itself.
When Sir Thomas Moore was prisoner in the tower, they
took from him all his books ; vvliereuppon bee shutt up his
windows, and being askt why, he answered, “ It was time to
shut up shop when all the ware is gone.”— Diary of Rev. J.
Ward.
Manly Friendship. —Friendship between men, when it
deserves the name, is the slow growth of mutual respect —is
ot a nature calm and simple, possesses nothing, and exacts
nothing - ; is, above all, careful to be considerate in its expec-
tation, and to keep at a distance from the romantic, the
visionary, and the impossible. The torrid zone, with its
heats and its tempests, is left to the inexperience of youth ;
the temperate with its sunshine and its zephyrs, cheerful noon
and calm evening, is the proper, and the only region of manly
friendship . Smytli .
If so much profit be not reaped in the study of letters,
and if pleasure only be found ; yet, in my opinion, this re-
laxation of the mind should be esteemed most humane and
ingenuous. Other things are not for all ages, places, and
seasons. These studies form youth, delight old age, adorn
prosperity, and soften, or even remove adversity, entertain
at home, are no hindrance abroad ; do not leave us at night,
and keep us company on the road, and in the country. — Tally.
W'hat essence is most pleasant to a gentleman popping the
question ? Why, acqui-essence.
“ I’m done brown,” as the plum cake said to the oven.
“Josh,” says a stumpy bullet-headed black to a molasses-
dipped companion, on crossing the draw-bridge—“ Josh, pay
me dat dare fip vat you borrowed o’ me.” “ Golla mighty, vat
you mean ! to ax a man for money these times; don’t you sec
all de merchants breakin ? How you spec me to pay? I’se
spended payment too.”
A Greek Pun. — Neither Toddy nor Tallow.—Pro-
fessor Parr, the eminent Greek scholar, was fond of indulging
in a glass of toddy —alias whisky and water. Having fallen
asleep one night in his chair, with his glass before him, as
usual, he awoke in darkness, the candles having burnt out.
Feeling first the glass, and then the candlestick—both now
reduced to a state of vacuity—he was heard to exclaim, OMe
rods — oiidk raXXo, (literally, neither this nor that.)
A RECEIPT.
In Europe, the Russian pork bears a high price, and its
quality is supposed to be owing to the pickle in which it is
preserved. This is called the “ Empress of Russia’s brine,
and is prepared as follows ; —Boil together, over a gentle th e
six pounds of common salt (that in most common use in Russia
is rock salt) two pounds of powdered loaf sugar, two ounces of
saltpetre, and three gallons of spring or pure water. Skim it
while boiling, and when quite cold pour it over the meat,
every part of which must be covered with the brine. Small
pork will be sufficiently cured in four or five days; hams in-
tended for drying, two weeks, unless they are very large.
This pickle may be used again and again, if it be fresh boiled
up with a small addition to the ingredients. Before putting
the meat into the brine, wash it in water, press out the blood,
and wipe it clean. Pickling tubs should be larger at the
bottom than at the top, by which means, when well packed,
the pork will retain its place until the last layer is exhausted
When the pork is cool, it may be cut up, the hams and
shoulders reserved for bacon, and the remainder salted.
Cover the bottom of the tub or barrel with rock salt, and on it
place a layer of meat, and so on till the tub is filled. Use the
salt liberally, and fill the barrel with strong brine, boiled and
then cooled down,


The Moralist.
APPLICATION.
Since the days that are past are gone for ever, and those that
are to come may not come to thee; it behoveth thee, O man !
to employ the present time, without regretting the loss of that
which is past, or too much depending on that which is to come.
This instant is thine : the next is in the womb of futurity,
and thou knowest not what it may bring forth.
Whatsoever thou resolvest to do, do quickly. Defer not till
the evening what the morning may accomplish.
Idleness is the parent of want and of pain; but the labour
of virtue bringeth forth pleasure.
The hand of diligence defeateth want; prosperity and suc-
cess are the industrious man’s attendants.
Who is he that hath acquired wealth, that hath risen to
power, that hath clothed himself with honour, that is spoken of
in the city with praise, and that standeth before the king in his
council ? even he that hath shut out Idleness from his house ;
and hath said unto Sloth, Thou art mine enemy.
He riseth up early, and lieth down late; he exerciseth his
mind with contemplation, and his body with action, and pre-
serveth the health of both.
The slothful man is a burden to himself; his hours hang
heavy on his head : he loitereth about, and knoweth not
what he would do.
His days pass away like the shadow of a cloud, and he
leaveth behind him no mark for remembrance
His body is diseased for want of exercise ; he wisheth for
action but hath not power to move ; his mind is in darkness ;
his thoughts are confused ; he longeth for knowledge, but hath
no application
He would eat the almond, but hateth the trouble of breaking
its shell.
His house is in disorder, his servants are wasteful and riot-
ous, and he runneth on towards ruin ; he seeth it with his
eyes, he heareth it with his ears, he shaketh his head, and
wisheth, but hath no resolution; till ruin cometh upon him
like a whirlwind, and shame and repentance descend with him
to the grave.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 3.
Add not trouble to the grief-worn heart.
A desire for admiration is the offspring of vanity.
A diligent man can always find leisure—a lazy man, never.
Admiration accompanies respect; hatred, fear.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
Adversity flattereth no man.
Adversity, successfully overcome, is the highest glory.
Adversity, willingly undergone, is the greatest virtue.
Advice is thrown away where the case admits of no counsel.
Advise not what is most pleasant, hut what is most useful.
A faithful friend is a strong defence.
A faithful friend is the medicine of life.
Wiiat a blessing it is that Mementos are valuable—not
from any intrinsic worth, butfrom the thoughts and associations
which they are able to call up ; and that those
“ Beads of Mem’ry’s rosarie,
Whereon she reckons kind remembrances
Of friends and old affections,”
are not estimated according to their being pearls, or glass , but
according to their being strung by a hand we love, and offered
by a heart which we can feel to be true!— A Dreamer .
There is no saying shocks me so much, as that which I hear
very often, that a man does not know how to pass his time.—
It would have been but ill spoken by Methuselah, in the nine
hundred and sixty-ninth year of his life.— Coivley.
Men are so employed about themselves, that they have not
leisure to distinguish and penetrate into others ; which is the
cause why a great merit, joined to a great modesty, may be a
long time before it is discovered.— La Bruyere.
liie highest point of good breeding (if any one can hit it)
is to shew a very nice regard to your own dignity, and with
that in your heart, express your value for the man above
you.— Taller.
The ready path to good fortune is to believe there is no
such thing.— lbid.
The seat of solid honor is in a man’s own bosom.— lbid,
Select Poetry.
BLESSINGS OF INSTRUCTION.
Hast thou e’er seen a garden clad
In all the robes that Eden had;
Or vale o’erspread with streams and trees,
A paradise of mysteries ;
Plains with green hills adorning them,
Like jewels in a.diadem?
These gardens, vales, and plains and hills,
Which beauty gilds and music fills,
Were once but deserts. Culture’s hand
Has scattered verdure o’er the land ;
And smiles and fragrance rule serene,
Where barren wilds usurped the scene.
And such is man—a soil which breeds,
Or sweetest flowers, or vilest weeds :
Flowers lovely as the morning light,
Weeds deadly as an aconite ;
Just as his heart is trained to hear
The poisonous weed, or flow’ret fair.
BOWRING.
WRITTEN AT SEA, BY MOONLIGHT.
Sweet Moon, if like Crotona’s sage,
By any spell my hand could dare
To make thy disk its ample page,
And write its thoughts its wishes there;
How many a friend, whose careless eye
Now wanders o’er that starry sky,
Should smile upon thy orb to meet
The recollection kind and sweet,
The reveries of fond regret,
The promise never to forget; «
And all my heart and soul would send
To many a dear-loved distant friend !
E’en now, delusive hope will steal
Amid the dark regrets I feel,
Soothing, as yonder placid beam
Pursues the murmurs of the deep,
And lights them with consoling gleam,
And smiles them into tranquil sleep.
Oh ! such a blessed night as this,
I often think, if friends were near,
How we should feel, and gaze with bliss
Upon the moon-bright scenery here !
HEMANS.
A MOTHER TO HER NEW-BORN CHILD.
Sweet cry ! as sacred as the blessed Hymn
Sung at Christ’s birth by joyful Seraphim !
Exhausted nigh to death by that dread pain,
That voice salutes me to dear life again.
Ah, God ! my child! my first, my living child !
I have been dreaming of a thing like thee
Ere since, a babe, upon the mountains wild,
I nursed my mimic babe upon my knee.
In girlhood I had visions of thee ; love
Came to my riper youth, and still I clove
Unto thine image, born within my brain ;
So like ! as even there thy germ had lain !
My blood ! my voice! my thought ! my dream
achieved!
O, till this double life I have not lived !
WADE.
PATIENCE.
Patience ! why, ’tis the soul of peace ;
Of all the virtues, ’tis nearest him to lieav’n;
It makes men look like gods. The best of men
That e’er wore earth about him was a sufferer,
A soft, meek, patient, humhle, tranquil spirit,
The first true gentleman that ever breathed.
DECKEE.


WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
THE LITERARY INSTITUTIONS OF THE
COLONY.
[Continued from our last.]
There are none of our literary institutions more
deserving of an extended patronage than the Mechanics’
School of Arts, it is here the philanthropist takes
his stand; and casting a glance around him far and
wide, he beholds the mighty conquests of art over
nature —conquests which have been achieved by men
cradled and nursed within the bosom of institutions
of a similar nature—by men, who, although origi-
nally from the more humble walks of life, have
bounded forward, as it were, in many a mighty leap,
levelling the obstructions of nature, and carrying
captive at the chariot-wheels of their comprehensive
genius, those obstacles which had retarded the pro-
gress of civilization and science over the whole face
of the habitable globe. Let us take an instance of
this from our own birth-place, hallowed as it is in
our mind with many a youthful recollection. How
often, when overtaken by the gusty and boisterous
gales which drive with such fearful and desolating
rapidity adown the British Channel, has some
“ Tall, labouring, bark,”
staggered into the Sound of Plymouth, to seek pro-
tection from the ravages of the storm. And how
many a prayer that has tremblingly ascended in the
midst of tempests, has been heard and answered, when
the friendly break-water received the dismantled
ship within its placid basin; opposing its massy
granite to the spiteful rage of the tempest, and laugh-
ing—
“ If aught inanimate e’er laughs,”—
at the vain and impotent assaults of the wave ; for its
foundations were deep—deep in the secret places of
the sea, and held their friendly intercourse with the
slimy inhabitants that dwell below ! This is but one
of the achievements of art —but such an achievement!
The name of Birkbeck, should be a household
word in the family of every mechanic ; for by found-
ing the first institution w r here popular instruction
could be derived by the artisan, he has laid the ground
work of many a successful effort hereafter to be made ;
has afforded the materials by w'hich the ardent and
untiring mind may learn to grapple with the difficulties
of his profession, and to work the crude designs of his
brain into a symmetry and beauty as yet unrivalled;
adding one and another to the many glorious wonders
which art has already achieved over masses of inert
matter. In a youthful colony such as this, institu-
tions similar to our Mechanics’ Institute, are capable
of conferring many and great advantages upon those
portions of our community, more especially, who
occupy the loAver and middle walks of society : but
we regret to say, that notwithstanding the means
placed at the disposal of persons so situated—which
is far more extensive than is generally supposed—we
do not believe that any benefits have as yet resulted
from the Institution, excepting, of course, the negative
one w r hich is inseparable from its privileges. And
we are not at a great loss to account, in some manner,
for this. The apparatus belonging to the Society, is
kept too much upon the principle of the dog in the
manger. Either a careless indifference on the part
of the members, or a reprehensible disinclination on
that of the directors of the Institution, prevents the
employment of this most prominent advantage, which
naturally springs from a connexion with the Society.
While no one will deny that lectures on the Arts
and Sciences are prolific of much good to those who
are in the habit of attending upon their delivery, and
who, at the same time, follow out the subject of the
lecture in their profession ; still, as a means of impart-
ing sound practical knowledge—such knowledge as
can be grafted in, and made subservient to the wants
of our daily avocations—it falls far short of that
sterling character by Avhich it should be marked.
We have had occasion to remark before, that while
lectures may impart some shallow knowledge of the
rudiments of the subject upon which they treat, they
are totally incapable of extending that knowledge to
the details. No man can acquire a mastery over any
art merely by the information he may derive from
popular lectures : and it is for this reason we are
anxious that a more easy access to the apparatus of
the Society should be attainable by those who are
members of the Institution. We would suggest,
therefore, to the Committee of the School of Arts, that
a larger amount of privilege in this respect, should
be extended to those who are desirous of acquiring a
proficiency in any branch of the mechanical art.
This might be done, w T e are confident, without injur-
ing the property of the Institution to so serious an
extent as it at present suffers from neglect and idleness.
Nay, we are not very sure, whether by permitting
experiments to be made—of course under proper re-
strictions and limitations—the mechanical apparatus
would not be improved, rather than injured.
The absence of classes in connexion with the School
of Arts is much to be deplored. We are at a loss to
account for the signal failure, which, hitherto, has
attended every effort made for the establishment of
classes. If our memory does not deceive us, there have
been various classes formed, all of which, after a ques-
tionable prosperity of a few weeks, have sunk into a dis-
graceful and dishonorable grave. This ought not to be ;
and we would strongly recommend the Committee to
bring all their efforts to bear upon the subject, and
extend the usefulness and importance of the Institu-
tion by discovering and counteracting, if possible,
this grievous and unprecedented indifference on the
part of the members. There have been, to our
knowledge, writing, music, and debating classes,
instituted, all of which have alike signally failed—
and for w 7 hy ? With the exception of the debating
society —which, by the way, was severed from the
parent stem, in the very height of its blossom—
neither of these classes reached any thing like matu-
rity. They were all, by some strange and unac-
countable fatality, blighted as it were in the bud, and
—perished.
A prospectus has lately been published by the
Committee, for the formation of classes, in connexion
with the Institution, marshalled, we believe, by the
Rev. Mr. Carmichael, M.A., under whose direction
and management they are to be conducted. In
another portion of this week’s issue, we have inserted
the prospectus at length, and w r e invite the attention
of those parties who are acquainted with the forma-
tion of similar classes to the subject, in the hope, that
by bringing the advantages of such an institution as
the one contemplated prominently before the public
mind, the Committee will be enabled, by observations


which may be elicited, to strike out some plan whereby
the abrupt and speedy exit of its predecessors may be
avoided.
In addition to the before-mentioned advantages,
which result from a connexion with the School of
Arts, there is another of much importance, although
undoubtedly inferior to those to which allusion has
been made. Of such a nature is the libraiy. Ihis
branch of the Society is of more value to those who
are presumed to belong to such an Institution —and,
indeed, for whom principally it was instituted—than
is generally credited. There are many persons who
belong to the Society purely in consequence of the
advantages derivable from the library, and it is not
to be wondered at, that such persons should loudly
murmur of the paucity of all works of fiction which
its shelves display. A sprinkling of light reading is
requisite. The mind cannot always successfully
grapple w ith the severe requirements of study. But
we are rather pleased than otherwise, that in lieu of
romance, the Committee of tne Institution have been
more anxious to stock the shelves of the library with
valuable works on the arts, sciences, biography, his-
tory, and such like. It is a shame and a sin that
such an institution should not be supported. The
charge for membership adapts itself to the most
limited means; and now that we have some reason
to hope our calamities are passing aw 7 ay, we shall
be grieved and disheartened if we do not find a cor-
responding revival of the members of this—and, in-
deed, of all our literary institutions.
( To be continued.)
ON THE PROSPECTS AND RESOURCES OF
THE COLONY.
[Continued from our last.]
The two gases which form pure air are oxygen and
nitrogen. In 100 measures of air, 20 parts are found
to be oxygen and the other 80 parts nitrogen, but
while nitrogen thus occupies more space, it is lighter
than oxygen.
The frequent impurities which arise, and the changes
which take place in the atmosphere, are owing to the
constant and varied succession of vapours which are
extended from the earth ; near its surface the atmos-
phere is a mass of gaseous matter, of a dense and
heavy nature, which serves as a foundation or resting
place for the lighter portions. This dense body con-
sists chiefly of another gas known by the name of
carbonic acid gas, which is exhaled by the respira-
tion of mankind and all other animals ; it is formed
in great abundance by the burning of those substances
which contain carbon, such as coal, w r ood, candles,
and oil ; it is also produced by the changes which
take place in the bodies of dead animals and vegeta-
bles. In proportion to the quantity of carbonic acid
gas in the air w 7 e breathe, so is it more or less delete-
rious to the constitution of man and animals. Every
breath we exhale is partly carbonic acid, which is a
noxious vapour ; and unless the foul air is by some
means wafted from our presence, we must necessarily
inhale it again—hence it is usual to have our doors
and windows frequently opened, that the foul air may
escape. The air which escapes us in breathing is
hotter, and therefore lighter than the air which sur-
rounds us ; in our dwellings this ascends by means of
the chimneys, while on opening the doors or windows
a denser but purer air will enter the room, ibis
process is called ventilation. All public assemblies
are for the time deleterious, for on such occasions no
room can be sufficiently ventilated to prevent persons
from breathing the air which has passed from the
lungs of others. It is the foul air in these places
which causes many people to feel sleepy and some-
times to faint, and if the confinement weie very long
continued, the consequences would be serious to all
assembled. The respiration of air from a sick room
is one of the causes of contagion.
We might from what has been said imagine that
the inhabitants of those countries where there are
frequent volcanic eruptions, would suffer from an
abundance of carbonic acid : but it is not so, for
though there are in those places very large quantities
of similar vapours thrown up into the air, yet the
altitude of the mountains, and the projectile force by
which the burning materials are ejected, causes them
to ascend with so much rapidity that they are soon
lost in the upper regions of the atmosphere, and
no trace remains of their impurities. The air is
only found in its pure state in the uppermost strata
where the vapours of the earth do not ascend, or
where those vapours are so collected into masses
as to float on the tw r o named gases. It is not,
however, for those upper strata and that pure air
that man is formed, for those travellers who have
ascended to the tops of very high mountains have
experienced great inconvenience from the rarity of
the air—it was not found sufficiently dense for them
to inhale, while the denser air already occupying a
place in their bodies, has shewn such a tendency to
expand, that sometimes bursting of the blood-vessels
of the nose and ears has occurred. This effect upon
the system is thus accounted for •, the blood-vessels
become distended, because they are not pressed upon
by so weighty an atmosphere as heretofore, and the
parts where the skin is least tenacious and most
tender will give way, and the blood escapes. It is
not, therefore, the lightest or the dryest air that is
most conducive to the health of man. God has made
him of the earth, earthly ; and for him the dew rises
and the rain falls. Air is an elastic fluid, and
wherever man stands or walks, he displaces a portion
of air, which is instantly filled up again as he moves
forward ; although it is invisible, we are at all times
conscious of its presence around us ; if you take a
stick, and move it violently backwards and forwards,
you will become sensible of its elasticity —you will
feel it strike on some thing which yields to its pres-
sure and you will hear a sound as of motion. Now,
although the air possesses this tendency of yielding
to pressure, it is so weighty a substance, that a man
of ordinary stature is said to sustain around his
person the enormous weight of fifteen tons ; this
could not be endured, were it not for the equal pres-
sure on all sides. The word atmosphere, is of Grecian
derivation, and signifies vapour surrounding the earth.
The word air, is the same as is used in the Hebrew
for spirit, <l The spirit of God moved upon the face
of the waters and “ God breathed into man’s nostrils
the breath of life.” The atmosphere is supposed to
extend to forty-five miles above us, and it also enters
into the deepest caverns of the earth. The vapours
which rise from the earth first exist in it, as moisture
or water ; when the earth receives any increase of
heat, the vapours expand and become lighter, their


decrease in weight causes them to ascend; and in
the proportion that the vapours are acted upon by the
heat of the atmosphere, will they become more rarified,
and continue to ascend until they reach a position
where the air is of equal weight with themselves, with
which they mingle. Other portions of a more dense
nature will ascend and unite, forming clouds, and
descend again in the form of rain. The atmosphere
owes its heat entirely to the earth, for the rays of the
sun pass through the air and reach the earth ; it is
therefore that the atmosphere nearest the earth is
much warmer than in the upper regions.
[We insert this according to promise, but we would recom-
mend to our correspondent a closer visible connection, in his
succeeding portions, with the heading of the article.— Ed.
C. L. J.J
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE.
PROTECTION.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
S IR The truism, that all governments whether in the
monarchal, aristocratical or republican form, have for
their declared end “ the greatest possible amount of
good to the greatest possible number,” is, what no
one will, I think be inclined to question. If they
have ever swerved from this line of duty, it has gene-
rally been that the false reasonings of interested
parties have misled them, and these reasonings cloaked
under the guise of a national benefit being conferred
by a compliance with their peculiar wishes. " But those
instances where the interest of the majority is sacri-
ficed to that of the minority can form no argument
against the position laid down, that the true and only
end of government is the enforcement of whatever
tends to increase and preserve the greatest amount of
comfort and happiness among the bulk of its people.
No government or laws recognise in a class possessed
of wealth or power, those who in consequence of that
alone, are entitled to greater consideration than any
other larger class. That any particular body should
h Y have its wishes studied at the expence of
another more numerous, is what the common sense
and feeling of all mankind would instantly condemn.
When we know of any tiling of the sort having hap-
pened, we feel as if an outrage had been committed,
and strongly wish it redressed. No axiom can rest
on surer basis, or be more self-evident than this—that
in proportion as the interest of the majority of any
people is studied, so is that of the whole empire.
“ Protection” in its very name implies something
to be guarded against—something positively hurtful.
When any body of men pray that by force of legist
tive enactments they may be allowed the full scope of
the home market for the disposal of some particular
commodity which they wish to produce, they directly
acknowledge that the competition of the foreigner is
an evil. But the question may be asked, “ To°whom
is it an evil ?” If it be one affecting the majority of
the people in the empire, it is, all must allow, one, to
be at once and for ever got rid of ; and if laws will
accomplish that, let them if they will, deal the severest
punishment, and t death to the violaters thereof. If
it affects only the minority, the few who wish to pro-
duce that article—if it be an evil to them only, while
to the majority, it is a decided good—why, I ask is
the benefit of the many to be sacrificed for the sake of
the few ?
In 1831 the number of males above 20 years of
age directly or indirectly employed in agriculture in
Great Britain and Ireland, was 2,371,111. Of these
282,414 were occupiers of land employing labourers,
733,089 were occupiers not employing labourers, and
1,355,608 labourers, making in all the number above
mentioned Now supposing that on an average, these
males had each three dependants, a liberal allowance,
the number of those interested in the retaining of the
corn law monopoly would amount to 9,484,444 per-
sons. At that time, the population of the whole
empire was, 24,410,429. It is, of course, the interest
of the rest of the population to procure their food as
well as every thing else, at as cheap a rate as possible,
and we have thus the comfort and happiness in a
greater or less degree, of 14,925,985 persons disre-
garded, sacrificed in short for the benefit of 9,484,444.
This latter body form the most numerous of those who
enjoy a monopoly, and if it be wrong in their case,
it must as a matter of eourse, be wrong in every other.
Those employed in the silk manufacture amount only
to a million at the utmost, and yet they enjoy a mo-
nopoly at the expense of upwards of 23 millions of
people.
And so it is, in the whole train of monopoly. The
interest of the consumers is set at noughtin comparison
to that of the producers—the many succumb to the
few. And yet, if the principle of protection is a sound
one ; if it be productive only of good in these and other
instances, why is it not carried out to its full extent —
to increase the well being of society in an immeasur-
able degree. Why is it England does not produce her
own wine, her own sugar, indigo or cotton ? If that
principle be sound in one matter, it must be of benefit
in all; if it would be only destructive in these latter
instances, it must be so in a greater or less extent
wherever it strikes its roots.
I have alk>wed that it is really the interest of those
for whom the home market is specially set apart, to
sustain these enactments; but no one who has tho-
roughly studied the subject will altogether agree that
it is. In case of the corn laws especially, every un-
prejudiced enquirer knows that the tremendous vicissi-
tudes to which prices are subjected in consequence of
these laws, are only productive of evil, even to those
who apparently benefit by them.
All I have said will be met, I am well aware, with
the one exclamation, “ By these enactments home
production is encouraged, employment is given to our
own people in preference to foreigners, we are only
making ourselves independent of other nations.”—
To this I may again perhaps give a passing thought,
and in the mean time, am, your most obedient servant,
Horace.
[lt will gratify us to reeeive occasional communi-
cations from Horace. If we might suggest so far,
however, we would recommend our correspondent to
write on subjects of more Colonial interest-— Ed.
C.L.J.]
RAPID AND COMPENDIOUS WRITING.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
S iß —ln the history of Stenography there is little to
excite interest. If we examine the voluminous matter
contained in various authors upon the subject, we find
nothing but a disgusting detail of long and tedious
names, such as stenography, braehygraphy, crypto


graphy, leitography, semigraphy, and all the other
ioraphies, which frighten the majority from ever
regarding their productions with, the slightest compla-
cency. In endeavouring to trace its history, (which
is doubtful,) we are carried, of course, in the first place
to that exclusive place China, from thence'to Egypt,
then to Greece, and lastly to Rome ; where having
arrived, we find that we are as much in the dark as
ever concerning the place of its birth.
Ainsworth satisfies us of the somewhat extensive
abbreviations used by the Romans, but does not vouch
for its origin there. Now we turn from speculation to
matter of fact, and we unhesitatingly ascribe to Timothy
Bright, who flourished in the reign of good Queen
Bess, the honor of being the first inventor of a steno-
graphic alphabet; which was further improved by
succeeding stenographers, and finally, so simplified
by Mavor, that every person can become a compen-
dious writer, without any difficulty than what can be
surmounted by application.
No person would question for more than a moment
the utility of the study of short-hand, both in its
tendency to cultivate that noble faculty the memory,
and train the mind to a concise arrangements of ideas.
It is not difficult of attainment to any who have ac-
quired a knowledge of the ordinary hand, and if this
be the case, no person having leisure should allow
himself to be deficient in such a useful acquisition,
and no youth should call his education completed till
he could note down, and follow with ease, the most
rapid speaker. To do this, it must of necessity form
a part of his daily study, and why should it not ?
Why should it not form part and parcel of his daily
training, when so great an advantage must accrue to
him, both in the cultivation of his memory, and as
affording hereafter a means by which he can further
increase his stores of knowledge, “ like a bee,” dis-
tilling honey from every speaker.
T. L. D.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
WEEKLY ABSTRACT.
WEDNESDAY.
Mr. Lowe brought under the"' consideration of the
House, a breach committed against the privileges of
the House, arising from the construction which Mr.
Alderman Macdermott had put upon an expression
said to have been used by Mr. Lowe during a debate
in that House, and the insulting behaviour of Mr.
Macdermott thereupon. A very lengthened discussion
then arose, which terminated by the matter being
referred to the inquiry of a select committee forthwith
then appointed.
A bill to amend the present jury laws was intro-
duced by Mr. Windeyer, and read a first time.
THURSDAY.
A petition from Mr. Nathan, professor of music,
presented by Mr. Lowe, on the subject of the bill to
amend the law relating to apprentices in this Colony,
was read and received.
The Colonial Secretary laid on the table
the returns moved for relative to the Government
Printing Establishment, and also returns of the
amounts of money voted towards public works in the
Colony, during 1840, 1841, 1842, and 1843.
On the motion of The Attorney-General, the
bill to amend the law of apprentices in this colony,
was read a second time. The House then went into
committee and adopted the first eight clauses. The
ninth w r as withdrawn and the consideration of the
tenth postponed.
FRIDAY.
<3 # .
The Speaker laid before the council the commis-
sion issued by his Excellency the Governor, appoint-
ing John Stirling, Esq., to be Sergeant-at-Arms.
The Commission having been read, the usual oaths
of office were administered to Mr. Stirling.
After some notices of motion, Mr. Cowper moved,
Ist. —For copies of instructions given to the Surveyor
General’s Department, relative to the upset price of
land, up to the present time. 2nd. —A copy of cor-
respondence between the Colonial government and
the Commissioners of Crown Lands, relative to the
depasturing regulations up to the present period.
The Collector of Customs moved the second
reading of the Customs’ bill, which being done, the
Council resolved itself into committee for the consi-
deration of the bill, and the Chairman after partial
consideration, having reported progress, obtained
leave to sit again on the Wednesday following.
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE.
At a meeting of the General Committee of the School
of Arts, held on Monday evening, July Ist, the
following Proposal was laid before the Committee.
When it was unanimously deemed proper to take the
subject under consideration, with a view to the future
benefit of the public, and to the efficient working of
the School of Arts as a public Institution
PROPOSAL
TO THE COMMITTEE OF THE MECHANICS* SCHOOL OF ARTS.
1. It is advisable that there shall be a regular Course of
Elementary Instruction established, in connexion with the
Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts, to be under the direction
and supervision of the committee.
2. That this Course shall extend over three years; the
session of each year being six months, and commencing with
the first day of May in each year.
3. That this Course shall consist of—
FVv f I* A Junior Mathematical Class.
For the first year |H. A Composition, or Logic Class.
-r, . i fI. A Senior Mathematical Class.
For the second year { „. A Political Economy class .
For the third year {* * “
4. That each Class shall meet once a week during the con-
tinuance of the session.
5. That for each Class there shall be a small fee for the
session.
6. That attendance on any two Classes shall entitle the
student to the use of the Library.
7. That a student paying fifteen shillings, may attend any
or all of the classes during any one session; and shall enjoy,
besides, all the privileges of membership, excepting those of
voting at general meetings, and holding office.
8. That although it shall be optional for students to attend
what classes they please, it is recommended that they attend the
classes according to the rotation of study laid down by the
committee.
9. That those students who attend the course regularly,
shall be eligible to become Life Members of the Institution
by merit, under the condition hereafter specified.
10. That, to this end, an examination of the students of
each class shall take place at the end of each session; when
all those who shall have given to the Committee of Examina-
of not less than three of the General Com-
mittee-satisfactory proof of their proficiency in the studies of
their respective classes—shall receive certificates to that effect.
11. That every student who can, at the conclusion of three
years’ attendance, produce certificates of proficiency from all
the classes, shall receive a testimonial of scholarship, as an
eleve of the Sydney School of Arts.


12. That such testimonial shall entitle the holder of it for
Life to all the privileges of membership : provided he pay
yearly the sum of five shillings to the class fund of the Institu-
tion,
13. That, in the event ofsuch privileged eleVe of the School
of Arts, omitting for two successive years to pay the sum of
five shillings to the Class Fund, he shall be deemed as having
forfeited the privileges thus held out, and shall caase to be a
member.
14. That the monies thus derived shall form a fund, which
shall be appropriated to defray the expences of the class
arrangements.
The above Proposal is grounded on the outline of a Course
of Instruction, drawn up by the Directors of the -Edinburgh
School of Arts, and published in their Twelfth Report of the
yearly progress of that Institution.
Biographical Sketches. —We purpose publishing
slight biographical sketches of the different members
of our City Corporation. With this view, we have
applied to the Mayor as princeps, and have been very
kindly promised, his assistance. Memoirs of the
Mayor’s Life will appear in our next number ; and
we trust to receive the assistance of the different
members of the Corporation towards the continuance
and completion of our design.
Mr. Carmichael’s Lecture. —We have been
favoured with a copy of the Rev. Mr. Carmichael’s
Introductory Lecture, delivered on the third of June
last, at the opening of the twelfth session of the
Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts. Mr. Carmichael
deserves much praise for this well-written discourse.
Those who had the real misfortune to be absent from
its delivery, may now, in a great measure, repair
their loss by obtaining a copy (price—Sixpence.)
It gives us great pleasure to know that we possess so
capable an advoeate for National Education. Mr.
Carmichael’s views of this all-important subject are,
with one single exception, most enlightened. While
we admire his views of the Educational office, no
language can convince us of the expediency, much
less, the propriety, of excluding religion from a
prominent place in the daily studies of youth.
Mr. S. P. Hill’s first lecture on the Art of Oratory,
was delivered at the School of Arts, on Monday
evening last. A respectable audience assembled,
and listened with attention to an elaborate and interest-
ing discourse, interspersed with illustrations, princi-
pally from the Greek and Roman Orators. Mr.
Hill’s second and concluding lecture on Oratory, will
take place on Monday evening next, when he will
proceed to treat on “ The Conduct of an Oration,” with
quotations from Modern Writers.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
The Markets generally are languid, and commercial trans-
actions of the past week do not call for any particular com-
ment. In the absence of speculation, sales are limited to
immediate requirements, and confined principally to cash
payments. Prices of most articles continue firm.
Tea and Sugar markets remain steady at former prices.
In Colonial Produce a slight improvement is visible.
Wheat.' —Good samples of Colonial growth are in demand,
and will sell readily from 3s. 9d. to 4s. per bushel.
Holders of Derwent wheat are firm for an advanced.price.
Flour,— The Millers still quote former prices ; an advance
however may be shortly expected.
Maize. —The Market is well supplied coastwise ; it may be
quoted at Is. 3d. per bushel, with a tendency to rise.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
July 10th, 1814.
EXTRACTS.
Rational Substitute for Duelling. —A bill has
been brought forward in the upper chamber of the
Duchy of Baden, demanding the institution of “Courts
of Honor,” which are to decide on those delicate
questions, the nature of which does not qualify them
for the decision of the ordinary judges, and which
hitherto were generally decided by means of duelling.
Activity of the London Press. —The speech of
the King of the French, which was delivered on the
27th of December, arrived at Boulogne at midnight;
was thence sent by the packet to Folkestone, and
and from thence by the Dover railway to London,
where it arrived at ten o’clock on the morning of the
28th. It was printed in the London journals, and
copies of them were received in Boulgone a long time
before the Paris journals which contained the speech
arrived at that place.
Arabian Fable. —ln men there is a lump upon the
windpipe, formed by the thyroid cartilage, which is
not to be seen in women ; an Arabian Fable says
that this is a part of the original apple that has stuck
in the man’s throat by the way, but that the woman
swallowed her part of it down.
The Difference between Anybody, Somebody,
and Nobody. —“Mamma,” said Miss Juliana Selina
Carolina Languish, “ who are those Middletons, are
they anybody?" “ Why my dear, young Middleton
joined the hunt last week, and was introduced at the
last ball, and he keeps a tiger, so you know he must
be somebody." “ Yes mamma, but I can’t help
thinking that they are only retired —very good sort
of people, no doubt, and all that sort of thing, but
there is something about them that makes me think
that they are nobody after all.” “My dear, they must
be somehodij" “ No, mamma, they want to pass for
somebody, but as everybody knows, there is always
something which tells you directly whether anybody
is anybody, and it is not a bit of use for anybody who
is nobody to pretend to be somebody."
American Newspaper Wit. —“ Hallo, boy, ain’t
you got a daddy living?” “'No, but my brothers
have!” “What’s their names?” “ Why r , they’re
both named Bill, except Sam, and his name’s Bob!
My name’s Booze, but they calls me Boozy for short.
Anything more to ax?”
Drinking Winf. at Dinner. —In high life, the
practice of asking another “ to drink wine with you.”
is quite worn out. It is only followed by the inferior
order of persons in provincial towns, who are not yet
aware that the change has taken place. The custom
at first-rate tables has for some time been that which
is followed on the continent; every one takes what he
or she likes, without bothering neighbours. A ser-
vant usually hands round liquors. It is gratifying to
observe that by this mode few take any wine,or at most
only make a kind of sham of drinking. The use of
intoxicating liquors at table is obviously declining in
the best circles of society, and is kept up by the mid-
dle classes, not from vicious taste, but from a wish to
show off, and an idea of being hospitable. The
sooner these ridiculous notions are corrected, the
better.
The Royal Court of Paris has decided that East
Indian slaves, as well as other slaves, recover their
liberty the moment they set their foot on the territory
of France.


The neav Silver Coinage. —The workmen at the
Royal Mint are daily at Avork in striking off the new
silver coinage, a considerable amount of which has
been sent to the Bank of England within the last few
days. The panic respecting the light gold currency
having subsided, the Governor and Company of the
Bank of England will shortly gi\ r e notice that they
will issue the new silver coinage at the bullion-office
in exchange for the old coinage of George 111.,
George IV., and William IV.. Avhich are so defaced
from wear and tear, and deficient in weight. The
public will not in any way he losers by the calling in
of the old silver, arrangements having been made
betAveen the Government and the bank to that effect.
A very large quantity of the new coinage has been
sent off by railway to the different branch banks in
the manufacturing and agricultural districts of England,
Wales, and Scotland. As the bank receives it, the
clerks will have it so defaced as not to be re-issued,
and it will be remelted at the mint. The quantity of
bullion at present in the bank is nearly £16,000,000
sterling amount than for many years.
The neV ßoyal Exchange. —The large trian-
gular block of buildings facing Cornhill and Thread-
needle-street is announced to be sold by auction, by
direction of the committee superintending the erection
of the new Royal Exchange, and is to be taken down
for the purpose of forming the western approach to the
neAV Exchange and the site for the Wellington statue.
It is fully expected the new Exchange will be opened
in June.
The House of the Rothschilds. —The Augsburg
Gazette contains the following spicy remarks on the
deserts of the above family to the gratitude of pos-
terity. The only family with Avhich the above can
be compared in modern times were the Fuggers, of
Augsburg, whose riches were so great that Charles V.
Avas obliged to mortgage with them the kingdom of
Venezuela. Their patronage of arts and sciences,
however, was of an equal regal character; and even
their philanthropy and charity so great that they
built a large district of the above city, where indigent
citizens were then lodged (and are so even now) at
a moderate rate. The article alluded to draws no
further inference—but we shall, by merely exclaiming,
“ How have times changed with us !”
Singular Ploughing Match. —Mr. Cousins, of
Terling, Essex, has lately given a challenge, to the
effect that he and his six sons would plough against
any other farmer and his six sons for £lOO. Mr.
Allen, of Foulness, has accepted the challenge ; he
has seven sons, and says, that with six chosen, he
Avould make a match for any sum of money, to
plough, shoot, swim, or play at cricket.
A portable cast-iron house, Avhich was constructed
by Messrs. Scott and Sinclair, Greenock, has been
finished. It is for Lady Noel Byron, the Avife of the
celebratad poet, and is to be used by her as a school-
house for children. It is said that this kind of build -
ing is much cheaper and much more convenient than
those of stone and lime, especially in districts where
those commodities are scarce.
Love and Wedlock.—The chain of love is made of
fading flowers, but that of wedlock of gold—lasting
as Avell as beautiful. Some people think it more
lasting than beautiful.
Why is an auctioneer like a man with an ugly
countenance'? Because he is alrvays for-bidding.
The Water-Glass in Athens.—The Athenians
were not fond of long speeches ; and therefore, to pre-
vent the parties from saying more than Avas necessary,
they timed them by a glass, in Avhich Avater trickled
through a narroAv tube, like sand in one of our minute
glasses. The measure of water Avas not always the
same, and varied according to the importance of
the cause. Mention is made of a certain quantity of
Avater being alloAved in certain causes ; but this gives
us no idea of the length of time, as Ave do not know
the construction of the glass. Our best evidence of
this is the length of the speeches Avhich have come
doAvn to us. Each party was commonly alloAved two
speeches, the defendant having the last reply ; and
the second speech might be half as long as the first.—
If either got a friend to plead for him he gave up
so much of his oavii time as the friend’s speech
would occupy. The admeasurement of the Avater,
like other details, Avas seen to by the superintending
magistrate. An officer of the court stood by the glass,
and stopped it whenever a Avitness Avas called, or a
laAv or other document Avas read to the jury. In
allusion to this custom, there was a joke against the
sobriety of Demosthenes, “that other men spoke by
the water, but he composed by it. — Kennedy's De-
mosthenes.
St. Isaac’s Church, Petersburg!!.— This build-
ing, is probably the largest Avhich modern Europe
has seen arise ; and Avill long continue an object of
Avonder to strangers. Imagine a mass of architecture
340 English feet in height, entirely of marble and
of metal, decorated outside Avith 112 columns of red
granite, each consisting only of one piece. The
marble dome, surrounded by a colonnade, is 109 feet
in diameter, and around it rise four steeples intended
for bells. The Avhole forms a monument to be com-
pared only with colossal Avorks of India and Egypt.
The 24 columns which support the dome are each 42
feet high, of a single piece, and from the same quar-
ries in Finland which furnished the Alexander
column. Each weighs 200,000 pounds ; the machi-
nery by Avhich they were raised to a height of 200
feet, and fixed in their respective places, is in itself
deserving of Avonder and admiration.
Fine Arts.— A letter from Leyden states, that in
the garrets of the Hotel de Ville of that city, several
paintings by the great masters, some paintings on glass
by the celebrated Crabet, and some rich tapestry , had
been discovered. A professor of the university had
also found, in looking through the archives, a diploma
of the fifteenth century, Avhich secured to the city of
Leyden an interest in the third part of the lake of
Haarlem.— Galignani.
The Life of a Rich Old Bachelor (says a
SAvedish novel writer) is a splendid breakfast, a
tolerably flat dinner, and a most miserable supper.
hotter to ©omspontonts.
An anonymous correspondent is informed, that his double
translation of the Sonnet fiom the German, will appear in
our next.
Mr. Grayling’s Lectures on Chemistry : —Our notice of Mr.
Grayling’s last lecture is unavoidably omitted in this week’s
publication.
for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Winds Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway,'


pipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
July 4.—The steamer William, the Fourth, 52 tons, Captain
Wiseman, from the Clarence River the 2nd instant, with 15
bales of wool, &c.
July 4.—The steamer Maitland, .103 tons, Captain Parsons
from Port Macquarie the 3rd instant, with grain, &c.
July 4. —The schooner Waterlily, 155 tons, Captain Hayle,
from Newcastle, with 100 tons coals.
July 6.—The barque Nelson, 246 tons, Captain Rogers, from
the Whale Fishery, having left Sydney the 4th September, 1842,
with 580 barrels of sperm oil.
July 7.—The barque Avon, 264 tons, Captain Jones, from a
coasting voyage,—put in for repairs.
July B.—Tho brig Dorset, 82 tons, Captain Walsh, from
Adelaide 6th and Port Phillip 27th June, with sundries.
July 9.—The brig Christina 126 tons, Captain Pearce, from
Port Phillip, the Ist instant, with sundries.
DEPARTURES.
July 4.—H.M.S. Hazard, 18 guns, Captain Bell, for Auck-
land.
July 4.—The brig William , Captain Thom, for Launceston
via Twofold Bay, with sundries.
July 4.—The schooner Abercrombie, Captain Peteley, for
Kamtschatka, with sundries.
July 4.—The steamer Sovereign Captain Cape, for Moreton
Bay, with sundries.
July 6.—The ship Equestrian, Captain Cromarty, for Mad-
ras, with horses, &c.
July 6. —H.M.S. North Star, Sir Everard Home, for the
South Sea Islands
July 6.—The barque Regia, Captain Morrison, for the
Mauritius, with sundries.
July s.—The schooner Harlequin, Captain Cooney, for the
Bay of Islands and Tahiti, with sundries.
July 6.—The brig Emma, Captain Fox, for Adelaide, with
sundries.
July 9. —The schooner Waterlily, Captain Hayle, for Hobart
Town, with sundries.
* 33trtf)S.
At Port Macquarie, on the 25th June, Mrs. William
Parsons, of a daughter.
At her'residence, Chippendale, on Wednesday, 3rd instant,
Mrs. J. Willoughby, of a son.
At Goulburn, on the 28th June, Mrs. Woodward, of a son.
At Mary vale, Liverpool on the 2nd instant, the lady of
Colonel Gwynne, of a son.
At Enmore, Newtown, on the 6th instant, Mrs. J. F.
Josephson, of twin daughters.
At No. 226, Elizabeth-street North, on the 7th instant, Mrs.
Notman, of a son.
At Parramatta, on the Bth instant, Mrs. Woolls, of a son.
JJ^tamage.
On Sunday July 7th, at St. James’ Church, Mr. James Teare
of Pitt-street Sydney, to Miss Cordelia Hind, grand daughter
of the late Mr. Wheeler, baker, Pitt-street.
Bratus.
On the sth July, Mary the wife of W. G. A. Fitzhardinge,
solicitor.
On the 4th instant, at his residence, Smith-street, Wollon-
gong, William Cuninghame Naldane, Esq., of Lainshaw, Vale
of Clwyd.
At her residence, on the 7th instant, after a severe and pro-
tracted illness, Mrs Hannah Jane Britten, wife of Mr. Thomas
Britten, bookseller, Pitt-street. aged 39 years.
On the Bth instant, Sarah, the infant daughter of Mrs.
Stephen Butts, Elizabeth-street South.
MSBALS.
JUST RECEIVED, ex Hindoo, a large assortment of
Repeal, Temperance, Confirmation, Nelson, and Tunnel
Medals, with Cathedral and others of a very beautiful descrip-
tion, adapted for presents.
The attention of Temperance Societies is especially invited
to five hundred beautiful Temperance Medals, which will be
sold cheap.
Specimens may be seen at Mr- Reading's Printing Office,
133, King-street East.
Colonial fttterarg journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in.every case ,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements: —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be- received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications mut be addressed to The Editor
of the Colonial Literary Journal , General Printing Office,
133, King-street East,” (post paid.)
ADVESTI3SBKEST .
EDWARD WALKER still continues to manufacture the
Farinaceous Food, Prepared Barley, and Patent Groats,
and returns many thanks to the public for the encouragement
he has met with in the sale of the above nutritious articles
of diet.
E. W. feels much indebted to the Faculty for the pains they
have taken in ihe examination of these articles as regards
their purity and quality, which the flattering testimonials
enclosed in the packages certify, and are as follows:
Sydney, Feb. 23d, 1844.
I certify that having carefully examined the Patent Groats
and prepared Barley, manufactured by Mr. Edward Walker, I
find the former of an excellent quality, well prepared, and free
from all acidity ; it can therefore, be strongly recommended as
a valuable article of Diet for Children and Invalids, and supe-
rior to any of the imported kinds I have yet seen.
The prepared Barley, is also of a superior quality, and may
likewise be highly recommended either for culinary purposes,
or as a nutritious and agreeable beverage for invalids.
GEORGE BENNETT, Surgeon.
I certify that I have carefully examined and tested the
Patent Groats and prepared Barley, manufactured in this
Colony by Mr. Edward Walker, and I find them superior to
any imported article of the same description I have as yet seen.
The Patent Groats prepared by Mr.*E. Walker, can be safely
warranted as free from that acidity or sourness which is so
frequently the case with the imported article, and from the
superior quality of the grain, and care which has been taken
in the preparation of the sample I have seen, I feel great
satisfaction in stating it to be, as far as I can judge, an excel-
lent article of Diet for the Invalid, as well as a highly nutri-
tious and digestible food for Infants.
The prepared Barley cannot be too strongly recommended as
an article for culinary use, or for making a cooling and nutri-
tious drink for Invalids.
FREDERICK MACKELLAR, M. D.
Surgeon to the Sydney Dispensary.
Sydney, Feb. 15th, 1844.
I have examined specimens of Groats and Barley, prepared
by Mr. E. Walker, of Sydney, both of which articles are espe-
cially adapted for the Diet of Invalids and Children.
Mr. Walker has been successful in depriving his Patent
Groats of that tendency to acescence, which that grain in its
unprepared state, is liable to in the stomach of the Invalid —
a matter of consequence in the Diet of Children for whom
wholesome food is so necessary.
Walker’s Patent Barley is valuable in the domestic manage-
ment of the sick—forming extemporaneously Barley Water ;
and in convalescence, it is particularly valuable, as it adds a
very safe article to the necessarily scanty dietary of the con-
valescent.
I have much pleasure in giving my testimony in favour of
these articles, satisfied, that the Patentee will find it his in-
terest, as well as his duty, to continue to prepare them from
sound materials.
Ist Feb. 1844. J. MacFARLANE, M. D.
03= Manufactory Old Botany Road, late of Parramatta-street,
