

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 39.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1845.
[Price 4d.
THE CONSCIENTIOUS FULFILMENT OF
MINOR DUTIES.
It is exceedingly common to hear well-disposed per-
sons say, that they would willingly do good, if they
had but the talents and abilities for doing it; they,
however, can only lament that they have them not,
and that therefore it is useless for them to attempt
what they cannot succeed in. This excuse, with ex-
ceedingly few exceptions, though it has a great shew
of humility, has nothing more than the shew of it;
there is real vanity of heart lurking under it. It is
easy to see that the secret motive by which such are
actuated is this—they do not choose to improve the
one talent, because they have not been honoured with
the many ; their pride is hurt, because they think that
others have been more favoured than themselves; for,
in truth, it is not usefulness they aim at, but dis-
tinction, if it be not profit.
■lt must be remembered, that every one has, or is
endowed with, some talent, or peculiar ability, com-
mitted to his care; and whether it be much or little,
he is expected to make a suitable improvement of it.
Great talents, while they excite the envy and admi-
ration of mankind, often prove a snare to their pos-
sessor ; for the very applause which they call forth
is calculated to inflate the vanity of the human heart,
and consequently it requires no ordinary degree of
mental discipline to preserve, under such circum-
stances, a disposition of humility and thankfulness.
Hence it is to be feared, that those duties, which serve
to display talent, are sometimes ably performed from
motives which w T ould not bear a close inspection. On
the other hand, those ordinary, retired, out important
duties, which all are bound to discharge, according to
their respective spheres, are free from such snares,
because, far from attracting general attention, they
command no applause, save that of an approving con-
science ; and for that very reason they are apt to be
undervalued and neglected ; and for that very reason,
too, they are the best tests of value of character,
because they are the most likely to be performed
solely on the most truly valuable principles.
Some there are who neglect ordinary duties, because
they have a conceit that they are destined to greater
things ; and they confidently anticipate that a time
will come when they shall be placed in a situation to
display their superior abilities. Vain delusion ! as if
a change of situation would necessarily produce a
change of disposition ; as if character were formed in
a moment, instead of being the result of ac-
quired habits. Many, who have neglected the duties
of a humble situation, have lived to see the fallacy of
their expectations of performing great things in a
higher one ; for, when at length they have attained it,
they have found, that though their circumstances are
altered, the state of their mind is the same ; and as
they formerly neglected to improve the few talents, so
now (even if their abilities are not injured by the rust
of sloth) do they neglect to ifnprove the many. If
any one really feels that he is not as useful as he
might be in his present station, how shall he dare to
repine at not being placed in a higher station, when
it is evident, from his remissness in inferior duties,
that he is unfit for it. Rather let him call himself to
account for not improving the various opportunities of
doing good Within his reach : nor let him rest satisfied
with simply acknowledging that he has been faulty
in this matter, or that he will, at some future time,
alter his course ; but let him now, at once, in his
present situation, however humble it may be, do alt
the good in his power, and he will soon find his
means and opportunities of doing it much greater,
and more extensive, than he supposed.
Of the various considerations in favour of the con-
scientious performance of our ordinary duties, we will
adduce, first, the fact that they are most frequent in
their recurrence, for they occur every day of our lives.
If we wait till we have an opportunity of doing some
great action before we care to exert ourselves, we may
wait all our life long without a single opportunity
offering itself; but if we resolve to attend conscien-
tiously to common duties, not a day will pass, not a
circumstance will happen, without presenting innu-
merable opportunities of doing good. To him who
faithfully improves these opportunities, how conso-
latory will be the reflection, so soothing when all other
comforts fail, of having frequently benefitted both
himself and others: on the other hand, how heavily
will the sense of innumerable sins of omission press
upon him who habitually neglects them ! We may
also add, that it must have a highly dangerous effect
upon our moral constitution to be continually resisting
the dictates of conscience, 'which we must do if we
despise ordinary duties; for as there can be no doubt
that they ought to be performed,—if they are neglected,
they must be so against the clearest conviction of
their obligatory nature. Thus, to resist conscience,
is doing it a most fatal injury ; for it will at length
totally paralyse its controlling power.
The second inducement is, that ordinary duties are
the most urgent in their claims upon us. The duties,
for instance, of affectionate, attention to our relatives,
of benevolent kindness to our fellow-creatures, and
of fidelity in the common concerns of life, press in


cessantly upon us —they make immediate and unre-
mitted calls upon our attention ; and though most of
these calls may be trifling in themselves, they are con-
siderable and important in the aggregate. It has
sometimes happened, that persons engaged in the
duties of public life have overlooked those which they
owe to their families, their attention has been drawn
away from them ; in point of fact, they have preferred
the more remote to the more immediate duties ; and
what has been the consequence? Such families have
•often been a disgrace to the parent, whose public
virtues have attracted public admiration. The urgent
claim which these duties have upon us is indeed
shewn most strikingly bv the fact, that if they are
neglected, even under the most excusable circum-
stances, they bring with them their own punishment.
The last consideration we will notice is, these duties
are the most conducive to our immediate happiness,
for there are no others which so directly carry their
own reward with them. That reward, certainly, is
not of the splendid and imposing kind, which is
usually bestowed upon great actions; but w'e believe
that it is far more productive of lasting satisfaction :
the one is a blaze of glory, which suddenly breaks
forth, and as suddenly expires; the other is a genial
warmth, which continually administers to our comfort:
the former, indeed, may be more coveted; but the
latter will be more enjoyed. The man who lays him-
self out, in a benevolent spirit, to do good to those
around him, must be a happy man ; for happiness,
like light, increases by diffusion. Hence, a good man
feels his own comforts enhanced by contributing to
those of others; for he as it were partakes of them
again, in sympathising in the enjoyments of those
whom he has made happy.
No one will deny that it is within our own circle,
amongst our own families and friends, we first and
most naturally seek for happiness; and since this is
the case, it follows that a conscientious discharge of
our duties towards them is the most certain means of
producing it —for kindness begets kindness ; and where
persons are so closely connected together, opportunities
of expressing reciprocal good-w r ill are sure to be
numerous, and consequently may be made to con-
tribute, both largely and directly, to the sum of
earthly happiness.
Let not, however, these remarks be misconceived.
In urging the practice of the minor duties, we have
aimed at shewing that no one should despise them
it should be added also that no one ought to confine
himself to them. An external morality, and a general
benevolence, is not all that is required of us.
But here the present writer brings to remembrance
—-what he is occasionally apt to forget—that, beyond
every due expression of sincere reverence for other
more momentous and primary duties, an extended
consideration of them would not so consistently,
perhaps, agree with the general complexion of the
present publication.
PALMYRA.
Perhaps no sight in the world is so instructive and interest-
ing as the ruins of celebrated cities. By their site and present
condition; how much light is shed on the page of history ! how
much evidence is given of the customs, modes of life, and
opulence of those by whom they were inhabited ! What a
solemn warning voice issues from their mouldering heaps, bid-
ding after-ages beware of the luxury and splendour which
tempted the spoiler, and rendered them an easy prey to the
hand of rapine and violence ! Often, too, the veracity of the
inspired writings may receive farther proof, by the condition
in which they are now found. Especially is this the case with
the once busy and magnificent cities of the east.
The ruins of Palmyra are among the most wonderful and
interesting of these records of past ages. Like a widowed
beauty, abandoned in the desert, Palmyra still seems to weep
over the memory of her fallen grandeur. Time and conquest
have united their efforts to humble her pride, and their tro -
phies are scattered over an expanse of several miles, literally
strewed with the mighty yet graceful productions of ancient
genius.
Palmyra is generally acknowledged to be identical with the
Tadmor, built by Solomon, b.c. 992. The ruins now in exist-
ence are not, however, supposed to bear so early a date, as the
architecture is referrible to the age of the Seleucidae. Its
locality was well chosen ; about one-third of the way be-
tween the Persian Gulf and the Mediterranean; thus afford-
ing a convenient halting place for the caravans, conveying to
the nations of Europe the rich commodities of India. The
situation is peculiarly beautiful. It is built on one of those
fair oiises, which lift their ever-verdant bosoms above the dead
level of the sandy oceans of Arabia and Egypt. As its name
indicates, numbers of palm-trees flourished on the spot;
pure perennial springs gushed copiously forth in all direc-
tions ; the air was temperate and salubrious; and the soil
richly rewarded culture, by golden harvests and delicious fruits*
We have little or no records of the earlier history of Pal-
myra, but it is probable that, soon after its foundation, it
passed from the Jewish to the Babylonian power, and subse-
quently submitted to the Persian and Macedonian monarchies.
It is first mentioned by Roman historians, as forming a
little free state, and maintaining a strict neutrality between
the Romans and Parthians; which, however, did not save it
from an attempt at plunder, on the part of M. Antony, b.c.
40. Adrian exhibited a lively interest in Palmyra ; conferred
many benefits on the people, and erected some stately edifices,
imperishable monuments of his magnificence and generosity.
From Adrian to Aurelian, (140 years,) Palmyra steadily
advanced in commercial importance, opulence, and luxury ;
till, on the death of Odenatus, his queen, Zenobia, broke her
alliance with Rome, and made herself sole mistress of Syria
and Mesopotamia. Her martial and undaunted spirit im-
pelled her to grasp at power which she could not long retain;
and after a short siege of the city, which the warlike queen
defended with personal prowess, she was captured, together
with her secretary, the famous Longinus, and led in triumph
through the streets of Rome, at the chariot wheels of Aure-
lian, a.d. 273. The city was at first preserved from spolia-
tion, but a revolt occurring soon afterwards, it was sacked and
partially demolished, and the inhabitants massacred with
atrocious cruelty and violence. It was afterwards restored to
a certain extent; but was finally destroyed by an army of Sa-
racens, a.d. 744. From that date until the visit of two
English travellers, (Dawkins and Wood,) about eighty years
since, the existence of Palmyra was unknown to Europe.
Many adventurers have since explored its ruins, from whom
we learn, that the city presents traces of its former magnifi-
cence, even in the wildness of desolation and decay. The size
of the oasis is much diminished by the encroachments of
sand, which is often scattered by the desert blasts over the
verdant palm groves of the deserted capital. Thirty or forty
poor Syrian families inhabit the ruins, the possession of
which they dispute with all unclean and hateful animals, who
seek an abode amidst the remains of fallen greatness. What
a mournful contrast does this present to the condition of Pal-
myra in the third century, as described by Piso, a noble Ro-
man, who visited the place. The vast temple of the sun was


then rearing towards heaven its thousand columns of polished
marble, its matchless beauty casting into shade every other
work of art of which the world could boast. Even the Par-
thenon, with all its magnitude and splendour, was eclipsed by
the mightier proportions, and yet more perfect grace, of this
crown of the eastern capital. The regal palaces were seen
around, built of the most costly materials, and richly sculp-
tured, and decorated with all that was indicative of oriental
magnificence, corrected by the purer Grecian taste. Beyond,
in apparently endless perspective, were lofty arches, obelisks,
domes, colonnades, and fountains ; and amongst them, at in-
tervals, rose the slender steins of the palm trees ; their wide-
spreading and feathery tops waving over the lower buildings, and
their soft, unfading verdure contrasting pleasingly with the daz-
zling radiance of the white, or riclily-veined marble. Through
the streets of the city poured the full tide of a busy, wealthy,
population; “her merchants were princes;” and the descrip-
tion of the commercial glory of Tyrus (Ezekiel xxvii.) was
equally applicable to Palmyra. Her bazaars displayed the
rich stuffs of India; the jewels of Golconda glittered on her
fair daughters ; the perfumes of Arabia smoked on every
altar, and the spices of the far eastern isles were r wafted on
every breeze. Caravans perpetually wound through her
streets, paying toll for their passage, purchasing provisions of
the inhabitants, and offering for their choice the most rare
and valuable merchandise. There were united in Palmyra
with the wealth and pomp of the east, the refinement, civiliza-
tion, and arts of the west. A large and well-disciplined army
preserved the independence and peace of the state, and fur-
nished the young nobles with a school wherein to make such
proficiencies in the art of war, as should prepare them by arms
to maintain the independence of their country, and acquire
such habits of order and due subordination, as were necessary
for the well-being and safety of the state.
Zenobia put the finishing stroke to the proud fabric of Pal-
myra’s glory, which, however, was tottering to its foundation
even while the superstructure was receiving the last polish
and highest decoration of which it was susceptible. The pre-
sence arid influence of Longinus at court had the effect of
drawing thither many philosophers, and of bringing science
and literature into higher repute among the courtiers ; and
although the ardent and ambitious spirit of his mistress indis-
posed her to contemplative study, she was his disciple and
companion in many branches of learning.
Such was Palmyra, the gem of the desert; the mart of na-
tions ; the seat of power, learning, wealth, and civilisation.
But the tide of Roman conquest swept over her; and, in its
reflux, left nothing but silence, desolation, and death.—
Ward’s Miscellany.
THE MIDDLE WAY NOT ALWAYS BEST.
The safety of taking the middle way is evident, when
we are assailed by disputants, each violent in his cause
—it is the most secure path while we journey through
life, where the difficulty lies in steering between ex-
tremes that are equally hurtful —and this maxim may
be generally applied to morals, philosophy, and even
to religion itself: in all which, violence and coolness
are equally to be avoided. But in the imitative arts,
as they are called, the reverse of this maxim is our
rule and guide, as appears by an examination of its
effects in painting, music, and poetry.
When we would strike the imagination, which is
the end of all the arts, it must be by something that
operates instantly, and with precision—this effect
cannot be produced by mediocrity.
In a picture, the subject must be told with some
degree of violence to arrest the attention. If it be
historical, the figures must be eagerly engaged, or
they will not seem to be engaged at all. Strong men
must be very strong —beautiful women, supremely so.
In landscape, it is not such an assemblage of objects
as we do see, but such as we wish to see —every thing
must have a brilliancy and agitation beyond nature,
if we are to think it a representation of nature.
It is this principle which has established fiery in-
stead of warm colouring—that makes the heightening
touches of trees red or yellow instead of light green* —
that makes grey hills, blue—that makes a front and
side light in the same picture, and other extravagances.
As our endeavour to give a just representation of
nature generally fails of effect, we try to impose on
the imagination, by substituting an exaggerated
resemblance.
Not only in the subject, drawing, and colouring of
a picture we consider the middle path as dangerous,
but there must also be a boldness in the touch of the
pencil, or all our other elevations above mediocrity
will be of no avail. The very essence of drawings
depends upon effects suddenly produced by broad and
full touches.
In music, quick and slow movements are distinctly
marked, but what is between both seems uncharac-
teristic, and though it often has the power to please,
it seldom possesses sufficient force to affect us. This
remark may be extended to the effect of the piano and
forte, and even to the manner of performance.
Poetry, in its very nature, possesses an energy
superior to prose—in thought and language it must
scorn the safety of the middle path, and find one more
elevated, or perish in the attempt! If it be dramatic,
the characters must have a degree of extravagance in
language and sentiment much beyond common nature.
The dresses of the actors, and their painted faces, are
equally necessary, for without all these exaggerations
upon the sobriety of nature, we should be too feebly
touched to be affected.
In epic poetry, the characters must be like the
figures in historical painting : the men should be either
young and strong, or old and feeble. The middle-
aged man, if absolutely necessary for the story, must
of course be introduced ; but at the time of life when
youth is lost, and old-age not attained, the character
is unpicturesque and unaffecting. It is so in common
portraits : none have a worse effect than those of
middle age.
Perhaps it may be urged against the truth of the
maxim I would establish ; that there are in music,
many movements in moderate time ; that there are
many landscapes of simple nature, and many cha-
racters in dramatic, and other poetry, which are
excellent, although of that middle class which I seem
to reprobate.
I can only answer, that there is nothing beyond the
power of genius ; and it is never so evident, as in
producing effect where circumstances are unfavorable.
Perhaps it is the consciousness of this difficulty
being vanquished, that adds to the pleasure we receive
from such instances, and raises our feelings so far
above mediocrity, that the sensation is as much ele-
vated as if produced by violence. For one musician
who can make a simple tune, there are five hundred
who can compose a noisy symphony. There is no
subject so easy for a landscape-painter as a warm
evening—it requires but little skill to imitate Claude,
it is the first effort of the smatterer in landscape


painting ; but no one ventures on Ruysdale’s green
banks, roads and puddles of water. There will be a
thousand successful imitations of Raffaele before
another Hogarth will arise. Our present historical
painters are much nearer their prototype, than any of
the burlesque caricature designers are to their great
original. —Jackson of Exeter.
A BUSH STORY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
In one of the northern counties of New South Wales there lived
a respectable family, consisting of parents with two sons and
a daughter. They had arrived in the Colony at a period when
it was said that people lived, not that they simply existed in
the place; when land was bestowed and cultured, and money
was thought to be plentiful, and credit substantial. Thisfamily
of whom I shall speak were upright, noble characters. They
claimed not nobility from ancestral dignity, but from honour-
able minds and pure principles. The capital brought out was
wisely employed, flocks and herds were purchased, wool was
sold, and this family though living in comparative solitude
were not completely shut out from beholding the human face
divine.
Mr. Egerton was an erudite man, and both his sons and his
daughter had received the education of true gentility, a deco-
rum, a savoir faire, a courtesy, a philanthropy, and added to all
these, they were devotedly attached to each other. Several
miles divided them from the next settler, who was also in a
flourishing state in reference to monetary aggrandisement.
This family, whose name was Westmeath, consisted of three
daughters and a son, at whose fire side the following colloquy
took place on the morning our story commences.
** Charles, where have you been ever since yesterday morn-
ing, out all night, and we wondering if bushrangers had
murdered you, or blacks had kidnapped and eaten you ?”
“ Why, Mary, you do not look as if you had been very sad,”
said Charles, “ and there are evidences of joy or at least of
pleasure and amusement in the best i*oorr, you must have had
visitors to a late hour; there are cards and music books lying
about, and the piano open. You were too tired, at least, to
arrange even the chairs before you went to rest, you must have
been merry.”
“ Come brother,” said Susan, “ now do tell us what kept
you, for you never stoptat the Egerton’s before.”
“ I stayed because I was cordially invited, and had been
hospitably received, and as soon as I had settled father’s busi-
ness with Mr. Egerton, and was thinking of my return, his
two sons entered, and were introduced to me. Mother, they
are the finest youths I have seen in the colony, and Mrs.
Egerton is quite a lady.”
“ Well my dear,” said the good natured Mrs. Westmeath,
“ you have seen so few ladies amongst our female society
lately, that I am glad you availed yourself of the opportunity
of indulging your fancy for an evening.”
“ And 1 think,” said his father, “ that you found Mr. Eger-
ton a man of business, aye, and a man of the world too.”
“ I found him to be a gentleman, who knew how to transact
business with punctuality, but as I know very little of the
colonial world, I cannot answer for him in that particular, but
if the English world alone possesses such characters as are
represented in him, then shall England be my dwelling place
and my home, when I have wherewith to make it so. I have
been so confined to this spot that I have almost forgotten
good-breeding, until I saw it so resplendently exhibited at
Lovegrace cottage.”
“ But, my dear Charles,” said his mother, “ why does not
your correct opinion of this good family, for I know them well,
produce in your mind more pleasing sensations than you are
at present manifesting? You appear irritable and displeased
with us.”
“ Mother, I am never displeased with you, for you are all
kindness, all courtesies, and all that I can wish in my mother,
you only lack one thing in my eyes, namely, that you do not
teach, or you do not make my sisters to be like you.”
“ My dear son, true gentility is not to be taught, true good-
ness is gentility. There is no need to go to polished courts
to learn good manners, where the heart is set to do well and
kindly; where self is at least sometimes forgotten, in the wish
to please others, it is an evidence of good sense and urbane
principle, which example cannot give, and precept cannot
impart, it is not confined to place or to circumstance, it rises
spontaneously and it flows freely.”
j “ Dear, dearest mother, you have pourtraved yourself and
j the whole family from whence I have returned.”
“ Then, dear Charles, if my sentiments are echoed in your
breast, the root of them must also be there, nourish the seed
and it will bring forth good fruit.”
“ La, mama,” said the little Ann, “ now twelve years of
age, you speak like poetry, how I love to hear you talk when
it is not about house business.”
“ Mary,” said Susan, “ you and I had better look for some
occupation, and leave these sentimental people to themselves.”
“ Father,” said Charles, “ Mr. Egerton is coming over this
morning to sign the papers with you.”
“Indeed! then girls we must have all the nonsense put
away in the best room.”
“ Oh yes, Mr. Charles,” said Mary, “ I suppose your very
genteel friend must not see our drawing-room in dishabille
though it is so very early.”
“ Mary, there was not any thing in dishabille at Mr. Eger-
ton’s, and although I was there by ten o’clock in the morning,
both Mrs. and Miss Egerton were as neat and well dressed as
if they expected company.”
“ Oh, oh! Charles,” she answered, “ I have found you out,
a lady in the case, a young lady, heart-smitten, Charles, how I
will tease you.”
These parties now separated each to their own avocations,
and we will return to the family first mentioned.
“ I am sorry ” said Mr. Egerton, “that I could not accom-
pany young Westmeath, lam rather pleased with him, he
seems to possess t .lent for business, and politeness of man-
ners; indeed I think he is altogether a superior youth.”
“ A youth! papa,” said Miss Egerton, 1 think he is a full
grown man, and much older than either of my brothers, al-
though he seems to enter into all their pastimes with so much
glee. Mama and I were also much taken with him, and from
the high estimation in which he regards and speaks of his own
mother, she must also be a very superior person ; and, if after
you have seen the family, and do not disapprove, it is our in-
tention to make them a neighbourly visit; he has three sisters,
and we might form a nice coterie .”
“Well, my dear,” said Mr. Egerton, “we shall see, I must
now away, you know business first, amusement afterwards, I
will tell you all about them on my return.”
Upon the arrival of Mr. Egerton at Mr. Westmeath’s cot-
tage, he was ushered into the best room , where was seated Mrs.
Westmeath and her daughter Anne, the two elder sisters not
being sufficiently arrange for so early a visitor. After the
customary salutations, and a slight refreshment, Mr. Egerton
walked and rede over the settlement with Mr. Westmeath ;it
consisted of many thousand acres, numerous flocks and herds,
several dairies, numerous bark huts, and several pretty cottages.
All appealed well preserved, corn and fruit were in abundance,
and the hand of diligence was manifested around. The whole
of the land was examined, nothing was unobserved, and Mr.
Egerton was of opinion, that to himsell it would be a lucrative
bargain if he purchased the station, and as he had a good
offer from another colonist for his own, which was considerably
smaller, he might venture to sell his own, and with the cash
united to the bank stock in hand, take immediate possession
of Grey-lands, as Westmeath’s settlement was called.
“ And so you are going to turn operative,” said Mr. Egerton,
as they rode into the grounds surrounding the dwelling”
“ Yes sir, yes sir,” answered Mr. Westmeath, “ but that is
for your private ear, for if it were known that the land I
speak of contains the precious metal, I might be forestalled
you see, I must go quietly to work, I have a partner in the
affair, and we mean to bind our labourers under oath, and pay
them high wages to secure their secrecy.”
“ Well, Mr. Westmeath, the old adage, ‘ a bird in the hand
you know.’ ” .
“ Aye, but Mr. Egerton, mine will be gold in my hand, and
I leave the bush to you.”
“ You are facetious, Mr. Westmeath.”
“ Why sir, when I think of the money lam like to make, I
am naturally pleased you know.”
They entered the house where dinner was prepared, and
Mr. Westmeath said, as he entered, “ now take your time, Mr.
Egerton, we will do nothing to night, you must sleep upon it,
I give you the first offer, because I know the land is worth the
sum I ask, and you are a neighbour, besides which it saves
money and time and trouble to make the matter a private one.
My wife was for having it advertised, but then you see, I must
give my reason, and I might lose as I told you before.”
Dinner was now served, and the daughters being introduced,
they sat down without ceremony. Mrs. Westmeath, who was a
sensible and lady-like woman, was the only one of the party who


conversed, she expressed her regret at leaving the station, she
epoke with deep melancholy, she loved not change, she feared
the natives, in fact she felt a solemn sadness which she could
not shake off, and she felt exceedingly, for her son, who
Was also much grieved at leaving the station. Mr. Egerton
said little, but he was not unobservant, he pondered over the
circumstances, the characters and the manners ot all, he
thought them a most singular family. They retired early, and
on the morrow after the breakfast the two settlers sat down in
private, when after having placed the writing materials and
some papers on the table, Mr. Westmeath remarked, “you
will commend my prudence Mr. Egerton, I have caused my
lawyer to send me down the copy of my purchase of these
lands, rather than the original, fearing that serious loss might
be sustained if they were lost or stolen.”
“ I have seen the deed itself,” said Mr. Egerton, “for I am
well acquainted with the party who passed the station to you,
and that part of the matter is all right, and I presume there is
no mortgage.”
“ Mortgage, Mr. Egerton, sure you are too near a neighbour
not to have seen the products of my farm and wool, there is not
a tradesman in Sydney nor a labourer on my grounds, to whom
I owe a shilling.”
“ Excuse me, Mr. Westmeath, this also I have examined
into, and I am perfectly satisfied on that point likewise.”
“ Well then,” said Mr. Westmeath, “ all other things are
duly prepared, 1 worked very hard when I was last in Sydney
to hasten my preparations for the great affair I have in view.
Every day is immense loss to me, and whilst you are reading
these preliminaries, l will call in my overseer to witness.”
** Do so,” said Mr. Egerton, “and 1 will take your son for
mine if he will be so kind,” and he rose as he spoke, saying,
“ I see him advancing.”
Mr. Westmeath had left the room, and as Charles entered,
Mr. Egerton said, “ Well Mr. Charles, will you sign a paper
for the delivery of your father’s lands into my care? ’
“Surely I will” said Charles, “and fortunate do I consider
my father in having such a tenant as yourself, sir: may I en-
quire for what period you are to be encumbered with it ?”
“Encumbered, why for ever and ever, that is as long as I
live. Do you not think it will be a profitable undertaking ?
Charles answered hastily, “ Oh, ’tis an excellent station, my
father has made much by it, I am only surprised, and indeed
so are we all, at his letting it to you or to any other person.”
Before Mr. Egerton could explain, Mr. Westmeath and his
chief man entered.
“Can you read?” said Mr. Egerton to the man.
“ I can sir,” he answered.
“ Read the paper before you sign it.”
After he had looked it over from beginningto end, he signed
his name very legibly, and the paper was passed to Charles
for his signature, which he immediately affixed. The dupli-
cates were then signed and the affair was thus tar concluded.
Upon Mr. Egerton’s arrival at home, the eyes of all his
family were asking questions.
“ I have bought the station “said he, “and the overseer
and labourers remain.”
“Where are the family going to reside,” said Miss Egerton,
“ and how do you like them ? I hope they will live near to us.”
“Come in, come in, father,” said the boys, “and tell us”
said Henry the eldest, “of all the advantages we are to derive
that may compensate us for leaving this happy home.”
Mr. Egerton was not long in disencumbering himself of his
travelling dress, and soon appeared in his loose robe and
slippers, and all were comfortably seated before a substantial
th 6 a la fourchette, as the dinner hour was long passed,
though none had dined. The meal was soon ended, and the
affectionate little party prepared to listen to their father’s
detail of events ; who thus commenced.
“ Laura, your nice coterie will not be established, the West-
meath family leave the place directly, and we take possession.”
“ Then, my dear, you have really purchased the estate,” said
Mrs. Egerton.
“ Yes, I really have, Martha, and I am sure you will be de-
lighted with it, and we shall all find it an advantageous bar-
gain. 1 am fully aware my dear boys, how your toil has been
rewarded in this small portion of land which we now inhabit,
but it has not been like our own since we contemplated selling
it; and we were ever subject to a removal, and it seemed as if
we were always working for others. Now you will be sure of
the reward of your labours, we shall all feel our own interest
in the concern, and as soon as I am in possession I shall di-
vide each their portion, for it is a very large station, and then
I shall do what I have long considered a neglected duty, make
a will and divide it among you. Do not look sad Martha, 1
shall not die the sooner for making a will, but I shall be hap-
pier. It is scarcely necessary to say anything of the family, as
they leave directly, whither bound is at present unknown,
Westmeath thinks he has found the philosopher’s stone, or some-
thing very near to it. Himself as a companion you know I
never liked, but he is exceedingly acute after business. The
whole settlement in every department is cleverly arranged and
nicely ordered, The labourers are all married, it is Ins rule,
he thinks it renders them more stationary, they are paid in
money, and when the wool is sent to Sydney, each gives a
written list of articles which are bought accordingly, and a
written document from every trader as to the amount paid. It
is to this principle, and to the scarcity of single men, that the
work has hitherto been so flourishing, and I am sure that no-
thing but the prospect of greater gain could induce him to
leave the place. Mrs. Westmeath, my dear Martha,is a cha
racter I cannot at all understand, she appears more like a de-
solated, bereaved, heart-broken woman, than the wife of so
jolly a being as her husband, not that I think he is unkind to
her, but I cannot express myself; her melancholy is of a most
peculiar cast, beyond my ability to fathom, and her amiable
son is in some degree touched with the same complaint, if
complaint it may be called, the youngest daughter Anne is a
lovely child, the image of her mother in all but her sadness.
It would pain me to describe the two grown-up daughters, they
are any thing but agreeable, any thing but amiable, any thing
but comely.” , , ...
“But papa,” said Laura, “you were much pleased with
young Mr. Westmeath when he was here, I hope he has not
fallen in your estimation.”
“No, no, indeed he has not, hut in his own house 1 can
find no sentiment for either him or his mother but pity, they
have, I am sure, one common sorrow.”
Many minute enquiries were now made by the sons of Mr.
Egerton, Henry and James, concerning the farm, its produc-
tions, its discipline, its locality, its neighbourhood, &c., &c.,
and the conversation thus lasted until bed time.
Every one has surely felt that that there have been moments
in his existence, not moments of peculiarly important events,
but, on the contrary, of comparative insignificance, which have
left very strong impressions on the mind, such were the im-
pressions left on the mind of Mr. Egerton as he brought to his
recollection again and again, the words of Mr. Westmeath,
“ Mine will be gold in my hand, I leave the bush to you,”
these words were last on his mind when he went to rest, and
the first on the moment of his awakening. As soon as they had
breakfasted, he desired his two sons to ride over to Greyland
farm, to view the place, and examine into the proceedings with
young Westmeath. An hour’s ride brought them there, when
they found that Mr. Westmeath, the elder, was gone out early
to some distance, and was not expected to return for several
days. He had, however, left orders that part of the house
should be prepared for the entire use of the Egerton family,
and that the packing of his family goods should commence
immediately, that they might be ready to follow him at a very
early notice. Mr. Charles then went with the young men over
the farms, and introduced them to the shepherds, stock-
keepers, &c. The overseer was gone with Mr. Westmeath,
but was to return on due notice it Mr. Egerton desired it,
many hands both male and female were assisting the household
packing, which was to consist only of necessary wearing ap
parel and light articles, the whoie of the furniture might be
sold by Charles, or reserved for his own private use, as it was
his father’s wish that he should remain at Greyland for a time
to give the Egertons a complete insight into all the peculia-
rities and customs of the place. However, as there appeared
so much bustle, the young men looked lightly over the farm,
and returned to Lovegrace Cottage in the evening. On their
arrival they found their father had received a letter from Mr.
Westmeath, requesting that the cash left due to him on the
bargain, which was not to be paid until Mr. Egerton had
received the same from the party who was in treaty for Love-
grace Cottage, should be passed into the hands of a certain
money dealer, whose address he gave, and who had advanced
him the same on the w'ell known and well credited signature
of Mr. Egerton. The next morning Mr. Egerton wrote to the
gentleman on treaty with him, and informed him of his readi-
ness to conclude the bargain and give him up possession. At
the same time all now became bustleand motion, Mr. Egerton
being very desirous to close with Westmeath. At length all
was concluded, and the family soon became settled and at home
at Greyland farm Mrs. Westmeath and family, had left for
Sydney, where they w’ere to take lodgings For a time, and
Charles remained with the Egertons. A settled quietude was
| soon established and a perfect unity appeared to reign around,


and all but Charles seemed to be content with their occupation
and happy in each other. In vain did each and all seek his
confidence, or offer companionship; he would walk over the
grounds, he would see that all were working in the several
departments, each in their own avocation ; but he himself
neither laboured, nor sought amusement in any way, neither
was a book ever seen in his hands. One day, when the hour
ot noon had passed, and some grand massive clouds, heavy and
detached in the broad expanse of blue, were floating over the
sun, and gave a coolness to the air, Charles was to be seen
fying on his back, his face partially concealed and shrouded
with his broad brimmed straw hat; conscious that no human
ear was nigh, he gave utterance to the following ejaculations :
I have seen the smile of love, in a lovely creature, but not
for me, I have seen the acts of love in the character of a
daughter and a sister ; what would I not reject for such a
sister, such a friend to contemplate and listen to. I think of
her incessantly, but with what feelings of anxiety and agitation.
I cannot explain them. Yes, yes, here is my evil destiny, I
love her, but she will never love me, there is no similarity
between her and me, she is all happiness and smiles, 1 am
dejected, sad, and shall henceforth be miserable ; true, she is
to me all frankness, easy, unruffled, unembarrassed, ah, it is
therefore that she convinces me she sees not my love, her open
conduct towards me manifests that she does not even suspect
it. But, my sister Mary is gone, she said she would tease me,
she would indeed have made my deep-wrought passion as the
folly of an idiot, she would have laughed when I sighed, she
would have ridiculed me when silent, and though I am spared
the introduction of such an angel to such a father, and such
sisters as mine ; yet I cannot rejoice at their absence, for my
mother, my dear mother, and sweet little Ann, are gone too,
gone, and I only left, knowing naught of the affairs, gone to
Sydney, from thence to England ! ‘ keep it to yourself!’ Is
this the confidence my father puts in his only son? It may be,
I am left to keep watch over these lands of my father, but why
not tell me so. It may be I may never see my mother again,
and I have taken no leave of her, received no favourable
blessing. Oh! how my thoughts wander, how they are
divided between my family and Laura ; but I am not
yet a captive, I will feel my ground, I will not be refused, she
will, she must with her penetration discern my love, and she
is too tender, too upright, to treat itliglitly. I will try and hope,
but I cannot smile, I cannot feel happy, I cannot dissemble,
I am wretched. Laura, thy loveliness is surpassing, thy
manners soft and easy, gay without being noisy, serious without
being sad, and thy presence is to me like the light of the sun.
Strange and fearful presentiments are, however, hovering
around me, and I feel that her destiny is some way linked with
mine, while at the same time, in my own mind, her portion is
in our common lot as unhappiness.” Then, as if he had for
the first time given a thought to the subject, he started on his
feet, exclaiming. “ Why should my mother and sister* go to
England when my father is to work mines of gold here?”
“ Ha, ha,” said a voice, which, on turning, Charles found to
be Henry Egerton’s, “you have asked a question Mr. Charles
of some airy inhabitant I presume, seeing you are alone, and I
am not the light-winged, but the heavy-shod Mercury to
you an answer; here is a letter from Sydney for you, and I
have been over hill and dale, and literally beating about the
bush to find out the cause of your desertion, you will make
me believe for the future in guardian angels as well as swift
winged messengers, I have come so apropos for your question.
1 am going to call at Hensons hut, and when you have read
your letter, you can overtake me, and we will ride home toge-
ther, your horse is feeding very quietly here, just by yon
bee hive.”
Charles walked slowly on, reading his letter and meditating
on its contents, until he again joined Henry Egerton.
“ Good news, Mr. Charles, all right; mine sprung?”
“ Your questions follow too closely, and I am not very
loquacious, but will you tell me who brought the letter ?”
“ A gentleman who sent in his card as Mr. Wilson, 1 did
not see him as my father rather hurried me in search of you.
He waits to see you, and perhaps will dine if he does not stay
longer. We will now make our best speed home again.”
(To be continued.)
Varieties.
Latest from America. —“ Did you present your account
to the defendant?” inquired a lawyer of his client, “ I did,
your honour” “ And what did he say ?” “He told me to <r o
to the devil.” “ And what did you do then ?” “ Why, then
I came to you.”
Etiquette.— The improvement which has of late years
taken place in the tone of general society is fast abolishing
mere etiquette. What is now aimed at is a pervading polite
ness founded on benevolence, and which persons of normally
constituted feelings readily acquire amongst well-bred friends
It is something materially different from mere etiquette and
in many instances opposed to it. It enables us to perform
the little courtesies of life easily and naturally, without that
kind of flourish and formality which a strict adherence to the
rules of etiquette produces. Byron’s dictum is more effica-
cious than all the rules and regulations that ever were im-
posed ; it is, that those persons only are truly agreeable and
popular in society, who are
“ at ease,
And being natural, naturally please.”
It is that effort and hypocrisy exhibited by individuals who
aim at manners which are not the result of general habit
which is real vulgarity. A clown in the most refined society
is not really vulgar, be he ever so clownish; it is only when
he tries to become genteel that he is so.
How many Wives does it take to make a Gentleman *
llus question has been settled by a chieftain of one of the
African tribes, who, on being asked to take some interest in
the Colony of Liberia, could not, he said, for the reason that
he was not a gentleman. Why not a gentleman, he was asked
Because, he said, I have only two wives. How many wives
does it take to make a gentleman ? Six, was the answer; with
six wives the chieftain could have enjoyed a perfect otium cum
dignitate. With two he was only one-third a gentleman.
Heretofore it has been a disputed point, who is a gentleman,
but the problem is now solved, and with us, of course, there
are no gentlemen,
Norman Beggars. —The beggar-lad seeks himself a lass of
his own caste, and merely asks if she is willing to be his
helpmate. If she consents, the business is settled, and they
proceed to the solemn ceremony of marriage. A fowl, the
produce of their fishery, is put into an earthen pot and boiled.
As soon as it is done, the bridegroom takes up his stick and
strikes the pot with it. The marriage is valid for so many
years as there are pieces.— Excursions in Normandy
Early Tuition. —lt is astonishing how much the nature
and disposition of a child may be altered by early tuition.
Let a child be always with its nurse, even under the guidance
of a mother, regularly brought up as children usually are, it
will continue to be a child, and even childish after childhood
is gone. But take the same child, put it by degrees in situa-
tions of peril, requiring thought and observation beyond its
years, accustom it to nightly vigils, and to watching, and to
hold its tongue, and it is astonishing how the mind of that
child, however much its body may suffer, will develop itself ao
as to meet the demand upon it.
Love and Friendsaip. —Love seizes on us suddenly with-
out giving warning, and our disposition or our weakness
favours the surprise. One look, one glance from the fair,
fixes and determines. Friendship, on the contrary, is a long
time in forming ; it is of slow growth through many trials and
months of familiarity. How much wit, good nature, indul-
gence, how many good offices and civilities are required
among friends to accomplish in some years what a lovely face
does in a minute !
INDEX VERBORUM VITANDORUM.
Or, a list of Words, Phrases, &c., to be avoided by all correct
Readers, Spellers, Speakers, and Writers.
No. IV.
APOCOPE.
Apocope cuts off the final letter,
Or syllable, from what, before, was better.
Error. Correction.
a humble, an humble,
brimston, brimstone,
endiff, endine.
fift, fift/i.
gi’ me, gine me.
Gil Bla, Gil Bias,
girt, girtft.
near upset, near/?/ upset,
po’ chai, pos£ chaise,
scarce ever, scare ely ever,
sixt, sixtft.'
twelft, twelt^.
whetstun, whetstone.


The Moralist.
THE INSUFFICIENCY OF KNOWLEDGE.
If there is any thing lovely, if there is any thing desirable, if
there is any thing within the reach of man worthy of praise, is
it not knowledge ? and yet who is he that attaineth unto it ?
The statesman proclaimeth that he hath it; the ruler of the
people claimeth the praise of it; but findeth the subject that
he possesseth it ?
Evil is not requisite to man ; neither can vice be necessary
to be tolerated : yet how many evils are permitted under the
connivance of the laws? liow many crimes committed by the
decrees of the council ?
But be wise, O ruler! and learn, O thou that art to com-
mand the nations ! one crime authorized by thee, is worse than
the escape of ten from punishment.
When thy people are numerous, when thy sons increase
about thy table ; sendest thou them not out to slay the innocent,
and to fall before the sword of him whom they have not offended ?
If the object of thy desires demandeth the lives of a thou-
sand, savest thou not, I will have it ? surely thou forgettest
that he who created thee, created also these ; and that the.r
blood is as rich as thine.
Thou who flatterest with false hopes the criminal, that he
may confess his guilt; art not thou unto him a criminal? or
is thy guilt the less, because be cannot punish it ?
When thou commandest to the torture him who is but sus-
pected of ill, darest thou to remember that thou mayest rack
the innocent ?
Is thy purpose answered by the event ? is thy soul satisfied
with his confession; pain will enforce him to say what is not,
as easy as what is; and anguish hath caused innocence to ac-
cuse herself.
That thou mayest not kill him without a cause, thou dost
worse than kill him : that thou mayest prove if he be guilty,
thou destroyest him innocent.
O blindness to all truth ! O insufficiency of the wisdom of
the wise! know when thy Judge shall bid thee account for
this, thou shalt wish ten thousand guilty to have gone free,
rather than one innocent then to stand forth against thee.
Insufficient as thou art to the maintenance of justice, how
shalt tliou arrive at the knowledge of truth ? how shalt thou
ascend to the footstep of her throne ?
As the owl is blinded by the radiance of the sun, so shall
the brightness of her countenance dazzle thee in thy approaches.
If thou wouldst mount up into her throne first bow thyself
at her footstool: if thou wouldst arrive at the knowledge of
her, first inform thyself of thine own ignorance.
More worth is she than pearls, therefore seek her carefully :
the emerald, and the sapphire, and the ruby, are as dirt beneath
her feet ; therefore pursue her manfully.
The way to her is labour; attention is the pilot that must
conduct thee into her ports. But weary not in the way ; for
when thou art arrived at her, the toil shall be to thee for
pleasure.
Say not unto thyself, Behold, truth breedeth hatred, and I
will avoid it; dissimulation raiseth friends and I will follow it.
Are not the enemies made by truth, better than the friends
obtained by flattery ?
Naturally doth man desire the truth, yet when it is before
him, he will not apprehend it; and if it force itself upon him,
is he not offended at it ?
The fault is not in truth, for that is amiable ; but the weak-
ness of man beareth not its splendor.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 39.
Contempt of a man is the sharpest reproof.
Contempt of injurious words stifles them ; resentment re-
vives them.
Contend not with thy friend, lest thou make him an enemy.
Content can only be purchased by a virtuous life.
Content, in the humblest dwelling, is better than care in
the most splendid palace.
Contention comes by pride, and is supported by envy.
Content is the true philosopher’s stone.
Contentment is of so great value that it can never be dearly
purchased.
Contentment is only to be found within ourselves.
Contentment is to the mind as light to the eye.
Contracts should never be undertaken unless they can be
strictly performed.
Contracts, to be binding, should be mutually advantageous.
Select Poetry.
TO A CHILD.
Whose imp art thou, with dimpled cheek,
And curly pate, and merry eye,
And arms and shoulders round and sleek,
And soft and fair, thou urchin sly ?
What boots it who, with sweet caresses,
First called thee his, or squire or hind ?
For thou in every wight that passes
Dost now a friendly playmate find !
Thy downcast glances, grave but cunning,
As fringed eyelids rise and fall,
Thy shyness, swiftly from me running,
’Tis infantine coquetry all!
But far afield thou hast not flown,
With mocks and threats half-lisp’d, half-spoken,
I feel thee pulling at my gown,
Of right goodwill thy simple token!
And thou must laugh and wrestle too,
A mimic warfare with me waging,
To make, as wily lovers do,
Thy after kindness more engaging !
The wilding rose, sweet as thyself
And new-cropp’d daisies, are thy treasure .
I’d gladly part with worldly pelf,
To taste again thy youthful pleasure !
But yet, for all thy merry look,
Thy frisks and wiles, the time is coming,
When thou shah sit in cheerless nook,
The weary spell or hornbook thumbing t
Well ; let it be ! through weal or woe,
Thou know’st not now thy future range ;
Life is a motley, shifting show,
And thou a thing of hope and change 1
JOANNA BAILLIE.
THE MOSQUITO’S SONG.
In the dreamy hour of night I’ll hie,
When the hum is hushed of the weary fly,
Whep the lamps are lit, and the curtains drawn,
And sport on my wings till the morning dawn,
In the festive hall where all is joy,
In the chamber hushed where the sleepers lie ;
In the garden bower where the primrose smiles.
And the chirping cricket the hour beguiles :
In these I’ll sport through the summer night,
And mortals to vex, I’ll bite, I’ll bite.
There's one I view with an evil eye;
A flame of pride in his breast I spy :
He breathes in a lute with a master's skill,
And listening souls the rich strains fill
With the rapturous thrill of melody ;
But he carries his head so haughtily,
I’ll play him a trick—in his happiest swell,
When the lingering trill, with a magic spell,
Holds all entranced, I’ll wing my flight.
And pop on his nose, and I’ll bite, I’ll bite.
There’s a poet, I know —in the still midnight
He plies the pen by the taper’s light,
And wearied of earth, in a world all his own,
With fancy he rambles, where flowers are strewn
Of fadeless hue, and he images there
A creation of beauty in the pure still air.
With the wo Id around from his sense shut out,
He heeds not the buzz of my round-about;
But when a new image has broke on his sight,
Ere he gives it existence, I’ll bite, I’ll bite.
And the long-courted vision shall vanish—while I,
In a snug little corner, shall watch him, so shy,
As he thumps his brow in a burning rage,
And dashes his pen o’er the well-filled page.
I see a young maid in her chamber napping,
And I know that love at her heart is tapping ;
She dreams of a youth, and smiles in bliss, °
As she pouts out her lips to receive a kiss.
But she shall not taste the gentle delight,
For I’ll light on her lips, and-I’ll bite, I’ll bite.
—From a Netvspaper.


our Subscribers.
The Subscribers to the Colonial Literary Journal are respect-
fully informed, that, the present lovj rate of subscription beina
found inadequate for the defraying of the actual necessary
expenses oj the publication of the work, it is the intention of the
Publishers, at the end of the present quarter, to make a slight
addition to the amount of the quarterly subscription ; which
will, they trust, enable them still to continue their endeavours to
the satisfaction, and for the gratification, of the numerous body
of their friends and supporters. The rate of quarterly sub-
scription, therefore, pfter the present quarter, will be—to Sub-
scribers in Sydney, 4s. 6d.—to Country Subscribers, ss.
This notice is given thus early tq allow those Subscribers, who do
not wish to continue their subscription, to send a written notice
to that effect to the Office, accompanied with the amount of
am-ears, before the 31s£ instant.
CATALLACTICS.
Before in unclear’d land to work you go,
With cross-cut saw, and ax, and break-up hoe,
The nature of the place turn in your mind,
The site, the aspect, the prevailing wind.
This clime in vines, and that in cereal grasses,
A third in trees, miscarries or surpasses.
Bach district doth its own by-law obey—
A part of nature’s fixed enduring sway.
[Virg. Geo. I. 50.] — G. G.’s Translation.
Wf. trust that we have by our free quotations fami-
liarised the attentive reader with the four great
elements —not fire, air, earth and water, as the
ancients taught—but carbon, oxygen, hydrogen
and nitrogen, which form the bulk of the substance
of every organic structure. We have copied out a
good deal respecting the last named element, nitrogen,
but it will precede more naturally what we have to ex-
tract relative to the inorganic constituents which are
contained in soils and manures, and which distinguish
by minuter but important differences the various
Kinds of crops adapted to different soils, promoted by
different manures, and occupying different places in
a judicious rotation. Our present observations shall
be confined in a great measure to the former three,
which are derived in certain varying proportions from
the atmosphere, according to the nature of the climate.
The climate of this colony of New South Wales, so
far as yet settled, is noted for its aridity. This year
indeed has been not only rainy, but the air has been
saturated with moisture, when there was no rain
actually falling; and at different former intervals
(which do not seem to have occurred so regularly as
to warrant us in conceiving a meteorological cycle)
there have occurred seasons of still greater humidity.
Of these, and of the heavy rains which occasionally
occur in ordinary seasons, we may feelingly say,
“ Pity ’tis so much good water should be lost ! Can
nothing be done to prevent it running at once into
the sea where certainly it is not much wanted?”
But to return, the climate is decidedly arid—in
respect that generally there are no particles of mois-
ture diffused amongst the atoms of the atmospheric
fluid. Personal feeling convinces us of this—that
the air is remarkably pure—and so do philosophical
observations. The watery mists refuse to mix with
the common air—the clouds soar above us defined in
their outlines, and rarely exhibit any sympathy with
our thirsty earth. Yet in particular months and hours,
heavy dews are shed upon the leaves and pour doivn
about the stalks to the roots of plants, and are greedily
absorbed if these superterranean and underground
organs have been developed. Still the general rule
is aridity,—that nobody can deny.
We have shown that there are three great classes
(quoad their prime constituent elements) of plants :
those in which the oxygen is in greater proportion
than water, or in equal , or in less. This general
division indicates, acid, neutral, and inflammable
vegetables. Ihe first, where the acids prevail, com-
prises those products in which the characteristic is
acetic, oxalic, citric, tartaric, tannic, benzoic, cam-
phoric, gallic, malic, succinic, kinic and the like
acids, in considerable proportion. Those products
are such as rhubarb, tamarinds, grapes, mulberries,
oranges, lemons, onions, apples, cherries, oaks, elms,
balsamic trees, laurel-leaves, peach-blossoms and
kernels, barley, oats, and so on. As these thrive
best where the oxygen may be most readily absorbed
and assimilated, and require but a moderate portion
of hydrogen, their acidiferous characteristics are most
abundantly evolved in cold dry climates, or in the
colder altitudes of the temperate zones. Thus they
will grow luxuriantly in climates where they will not
ripen. But very few of these productions are desired
merely on account of the acids generated in them—the
oak is perhaps the only exception—man requires for
his purposes that a certain portion of saccharine matter
should arise—that they should sweeten and ripen,
lo attain this end a favourable exposure to the sun is
required at the latter stages of growth, and a freer
absorption and more abundant supply of hydrogen.
In effect they then come under either of the classes in
which the oxygen is in less proportion than in water,
or in equal. The second class, the neutral products,
those in which the oxygen exists in equal proportion
as in water, are such as are chiefly composed of
woody fibre, sugar, starch, gum. Of these, woody
fibre requires least, and sugar most, hydrogen ; but
all require for their prosperous nurture and deve-
lopement more hydrogen than the first class, the
acidiferous. Wheat, both straw and grain, various
woods, as acacias and eucalypti, our favourite flax, as
regards stalk, potatoes, which ought to be starchy,
maize, and most of those which we have enumerated
in the first class, grow, in proper situations in tem-
perate or warm and dry climates, to great advantage.
\\ hatever failure takes place, (and we do not deny
that 15 bushels of wheat to the acre, or grapes that
will not convert into a keeping wine, are a failure,)
is owing not to the aridity of the climate, but to the
unsuitableness of the soil. If the same acres are
cropped for several seasons with wheat and maize,
receiving no manure except from the burning of the
stubble or an occasional inundation, the alkalies and
phosphates requisite for the sustenance of wheat grain
become deficient, and though good wheat straw and
good maize giain may be had, the quantity of wheat
grain will yearly diminish. In like manner good
eating grapes, or grapes fitted for the making of
certain luscious wines, may grow abundantly on
many soils, unadapted for producing a keeping wine,
a wine that will undergo the processes of deposition
and decomposition in a satisfactory manner. To
attain the latter a soil naturally calcareous, or a
supply of calcareous manure must be had. But of
soils and manures we do not now' treat. The third
class of vegetables is those in which hydrogen is in
excess. All the plants valued for their oleaginous
and resinous qualities are ranged here. And there-
fore it is we fear that the olive, if grown in this
country, may not be found very abundant in oil, and
possibly many other plants lately recommended for
culture on account of their unctuous and inflammable


principles may not succeed. Our scepticism is how-
ever by no means indomitable, because we are sure a
good choice of situation, irrigation and the heavy
dews we spoke of, are sufficient materially to com-
pensate for general dryness.
It is obvious then that so far as climate is concerned,
the colony of New South Wales possesses many ad-
vantages, is capable of growing many plants of value
either for the internal consumption of the colonists,
or for mercantile exchange. That it will grow the
sugar cane cheap, we have no hope unless we go
farther north, where we. may enjoy some of the
hydrogenic luxuries of the tropicks at the same time
cane sugar requires less of this than the oily plants
do. In considering these matters theoretically we
have a difficulty in combining all the circumstances
of temperature, and moisture, which influence the
growth of plants, until by actual experiment, and
with due regard to the soil and inorganic constituents
thence derived, (as also of the nitrogen or azotised
ingredients,) the results are brought distinctly and
indisputably before our observation. For example a
large leaved plant, the superior and external organs
of which had been nourished and enlarged by a wet
spring, may thrive in a dry summer, while a small
leaved plant, or the same plant developed later, would
starve. Thus also we may have good grain and little
straw, or the contrary, —much and good linseed oil
and but little flaxen fibre or the reverse, according as
the early or the latter stage of its growth wanted, or
received moisture—many vine twigs and foliage and
a light vintage, by similar causes. Perhaps we have
pursued these illustrations too far. The sum of the
matter is, “ Let us choose our plant by an examina-
tion of its primary constituents—for high situations
and cold exposures let it be of the first class where
oxygen predominates—for warmer situations of the
second and only try the third in peculiar circum-
stances and seasons—then let us adapt these to such
soils, or such conveniences for manure, as will furnish
the nitrogen and other ingredients.
Nitrogen will be our next subject from Liebio- bv
and bye. ° J
GAFFER GRAY.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
CONTINUATION OF VEGETABLE CHEMISTRY ON DYEING.
Ihe colours afforded by plants and vegetables, as
used for dyeing, is by no means their least important
pioperty. Dyeing is a most decided chemical process,
for there is no probable cause by which any colouring
matter can adhere to cloth except an attraction sub-
sisting between the two substances. Although the
colours in the meadows and the gardens of nature,
appear to us various as beautiful, it is a well known
fact, that the colours red, yellow, blue, and green, are
-ound to be the sources of them all. It is these colours
alone, varied by shades, which constitute the body,
as is seen in tne rainbows. The art of dyeing was
known in the earliest ages, Moses speaks of raiment
dyed blue, and purple, and scarlet, and sheep skins
dyed red.
The colouring matter is found in the plants mixed
with mucilage and resinous substances, the presence
of which render the parts more soluble and there-
fore easily extracted by the application of hot water.
As this colouring matter is easily decomposed by the
sun’s rays or moisture, it is essential to a dyer that
he should be acquainted with such ingredients as
will establish his tints permanently. Alkalies and
acids will change many colours, and by their combina-
tions new ones are frequently formed. An attraction is
found to exist between metallic oxides and colouring-
matter, which when combined are considered perma-
nent and fixed. These colours thus fixed are called
mordants. The mordants most in use, are alum, and
sulphate of iron. The article to be dyed is sometimes
plunged into a solution of alum, or the alum may be
dissolved with the colouring matter. There is gene-
rally no security for a permanent dye without a
mordant.
The number of plants from which we derive our
colours for dyeing is so numerous that a few instances
must suffice for general information. A plant called
madder, cultivated in Holland, supplies a red, as also
the safflower of Spain from which orange is made.
The Brazil wood gives tints of pink and red, logwood
gives a purple red. Chica red is used by the Ame-
rican Indians to colour their skin. Turmeric root
affords yellow, it is used in cookery to give yellow
tints, and is an ingredient of curry power. The
fustic imparts a beautiful amber colour, it is much
esteemed, and may be found in some abundance in
parts of this colony. The most important blue colour
is obtained from the substance called indigo. This
invaluable blue dye, for which no substitute has ever
yet been found of equal value, first came into use in
modern times in Italy. It comes to market in cakes
or in cubes of three inches. It is extracted from the
plant, either by the fermentation of the fresh leaves
and stems, or the maceration of the dried leaves. It
is cultivated in Bengal, Malabar, East and West
Indies, America, Madagascar, and the Mauritius, and
why not in this colony ? It requires a soil neither
too hot nor too dry, a light mould, and occasional
clear sunshine w'ith light showers.
Every material used in dyeing is necessarily pre-
pared by chemical laws, from the known properties
and combinations of the mineral and vegetable
colouring. Before any article is dyed, it is fir°st well
cleaned and freed from all colour by bleaching: if
the absence of colour cannot be obtained by that
process, then the material is only subjected to the
colour which will amalgamate with that already
existing. The bleaching is performed by the opera-
tion of chlorine, or if that is not required, it is
subjected only to the influence of air, light, and water.
There are two reasons for these preparatives, first to
render the article as clean as possible, that the fluid
dye when applied may find an entrance into the
minutest parts of its fibres. The second is, that the
whiter the object, the more capable it is of reflecting
light, and consequently the colouring matter exhibits
more brilliant tints. It is also necessary that the dye
shall be very clear and limpid, for if we were, for
instance, to attempt to dye apiece of cotton black by
immersing it in ink, the colour would be neither good
nor durable, the particles w'ould be too gross to enter
the cotton or to adhere to it with any tenacity.
Much depends on the nature of substances in their
reception of a good dye, wool appears to have the
greatest attraction for colouring matter, silk comes
next to wool, and leather also, as being an animal
substance ; then cotton, and lastly flax. Very few
colours will remain as a permanent dve, without the
base or mordant. Salts of iron, salts of lead, and
alum are generally used. There has not hitherto
been found any thing in plants that will form a black


dye ; it is still made from the same ingredients as
the writing ink, which consists of oxides of iron
dissolved by sulphuric acid, and then brought into
combination with an infusion of gallic acid. This
forms the black dye and the black ink in common use.
Gum arabic is added for ink, to prevent too great
fluidity in the writing, as well as to preserve it from
decomposition. Bad paper, made from inferior rags,
and bleached by an excess of chlorine, will cause the
best ink to become discoloured.
The ink used for marking linen is composed of
nitrate of silver mixed with gum arabic, Indian ink
and distilled water.
Indian ink is composed of lamp black and animal
glue, to which is added a peculiar Indian perfume,
not essential to its quality as an ink.
Printing ink is a very different material to other
inks. It is an oily composition of the consistence of
an ointment. For its composition, linseed oil must
be boiled in an iron or copper vessel : when it boils
strongly, and emits a black smoke, the oil should be
set on fire with a piece of paper and the vessel taken
off the fire. The oil must burn only for a minute,
and be extinguished by covering the vessel ; when it
is partially cooled, black rosin and hard soap cut in
slices is added. This mixture is again set on the fire,
and when the ingredients are thus thoroughly melted,
lamp black w r ell strained through a lawn sieve must
he stirred into the mixture. If a small portion of
white wine, not sufficient to lessen its consistency, is
added, the ink w r ill have a greater blackness : some-
times vinegar is used for this purpose, as in common
writing ink.
The above is not the only method of making
printer’s ink, but is decidedly considered the best, by
modern chemists and artizans.
B.
A FRAGMENT.
[From the Memoirs of Abdallah el Aretz, the Dervish of
Bussora.]
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
“ Between Bagdad and Bussora, a traffick is driven in gums
and spices, and silks and damasks, and all that is calculated
to administer to the gratification of taste, and to throw a
charm over the seeming enjoyments of social and domestic
life. Bussora stands midway between the Persian Gulf and
the confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates—rivers as old as
the Garden of Eden; and is well fitted, by its position, for
being the mart of the commerce of the Eastern World. Bag-
dad, the romantic city of fiction, which is situate several
degrees to the north/differs much from that city of palaces
which is conjured up by the imagination, when revelling
amidst the splendid descriptions of eastern story. Portions,
indeed, of the city are at the same time magnificent and sub-
stantial ; and one division of it is inhabited in a style of much
chasteness and grandeur, by the tribes and kindred—-the
countless cousins of the ancient Caliphs of the land. But it is
best known by the truckster habits of the jews and pedlars
who have appropriated the remains of the ancient city to
themselves. Caravans of these are incessantly passing be-
tween Bagdad and Bussora, and conveying to the former city
the varied productions of the world.
“ Bagdad was the scene of some of my youthful adventures;
and may, for aught I know to the contrary, have many more
claims to my regard than I care now-a-days to acknowledge:
for some of my kindred used to pride themselves upon tracing
their descent to a certain family of strolling pedlars, who at
one time settled among the crowded habitations of the southern
division of that far-famed city; and I have heard it insinuated
by some of the duennas who were the guardians of my
motions in infancy and early life, that there was more of the
restless blood of Bagdad in my veins than my puny and
peevish frame was ever likely to indicate. For myself, I
cared not a straw about the composition of my blood, and far
less about the dignified alliance which was thus at my
adoption. In as far as those immediately around me were
concerned in the comparison, I laboured under an aberration
of mind. And as the mind wonderful influence over the
body, I hence became, in early life, a sort of locomotive
machine. The particular spot where I happened first to
vegetate had no peculiar charms in n y estimation; and
I therefore set out on the voyage of life, trusting altoge-
ther to circumstances to determine the locality of my final
position. The scenes which, in consequence, passed under
my review, were as varied as could well fall to the lot of
humanity. Nevertheless, I profited little from the variety.
The doings of men attracted not my regard. My mind was a
sort of vacancy—filled, to be sure, with its own imaginings,
but empty, in as far as a knowledge of human life was con-
cerned ; and I roamed about, in consequence, with the un-
defined anticipation of intellectual enjoyment. \ isions of
perfection were ever flitting before my eyes—ever to be chased
away by the cruel realities of ordinary intercourse : till my
mind became at length imbued with the belief that all per-
fection is unattainable on earth, and in the agony of incessant
disappointment, I was at times driven to_ the verge of resolves,
which I now shudder to reflect cn.
“ Experience had been for years endeavouring to fix his
secure chain round my heart, when it was ray fortune to
sojourn for a season at Bussora. My position led me to
mingle but little with the people of the city, being myself
placed in retirement, and my avocations, moreover, being
more of a domestic and studious nature than connected with
the business of the world. Yet was I occasionally led to see
a little of society—if such it might be called which consisted
in the formal meetings of a few Dervishes, who were more
eager to discuss the merits of the viands they partook of, than
to talk over matters connected with the general interests of
society ; or which was more frequently made up of the chat-
tering of children ; for such may they be esteemed who talk
without thought, or who magnify into matter of endless aston-
ishment every little incident which happens not to square
with their preconceived notions of things, simply because tne
experience from which these notions are derived has been
limited, or encountered in vain. In the course of this occa-
sional association with the people of Bussora, I frequently
came in contact with the natives of Bagdad; and from the
fame of their city, and the note which their habits of entei-
terprise had acquired—more perhaps than from the relation-
ship of my earlier days—l have suffered myself to form an
estimate of their character as a people. From partial know-
ledge of individuals, it is by no means fair to pass judgment
on the mass; yet the truth, in cases of this kind, can be
obtained only by a comparison of individual statements. Foi
this reason, I think it right that every traveller, like myself,
should put on record his opinion of the people he chances to
meet with in the course of his pilgrimage, however partial his
experience may be, and however erroneous in the end his
opinion may turn out to be.
“ Like all the offspring of our father Adam, evil is largely
mingled with good in the composition of the denizens of
Bagdad. Yet are they comparatively a blameless race, ihey
are humble and lowly, and diffident and meek, where pride or
self-confidence is not called into exercise. Innocent are they
as new-born babes ; unless, indeed, the wiles of the heart be
allowed to lurk in some corner of the countenance. Bold are
they, withal, as bulls of Bashan, save in cases where success
may be doubtful. The feeling, moreover, which predominates
in all their actions is love. Love is the mainspring o. all
their movements—pure extatic love. Ceaseless, indeed,_ are
their efforts to gratify the darling of their fondest affections.
Each is a lover of himself alone : and sooner than lo*e sight
of the object which is dearest to his heart, he will patiently
suffer insult and indignity-the loss of reputatmn, and the risk
of life. Yet is the pedlar of Bagdad high-minded to a fault
The honour of his country is the cynosure to which the
compass of his conversation ever points. Patriotism is in Ins
bosom a living and abiding principle: an.d sooner' ana low
a slur to be cast, in his hearing, on the feats or matures of hi
beloved father-land, he will stand stoutly forth as the de-
fender of what he well knows to be indefensible. With the
most amiable and edifying partiality lie wdi expatiate on the
matchless comforts of his native dwelling, and will enumerate
among its inmat. the pelican of the wilderness, and the wild
ass of the desart. His praises of the beauties of Bagdad are lo g
and redolent, like the beard of Aboul-Housan. Its narrowes
streets, and least frequented alleys, are ever fragrant w: ith
the unctuous odour of [f ]rank incense and myrrh [irare?], and
its parades may be traversed, in daylight, without dangerYr
those loathsome annoyances which are the pest of less perfect


cities. Its places of public resort, too, afford to the enchanted
loiterer an endless fund of grateful amusement. They who
are lovers of music, on the ong hand, may be charmed into
absence of every sensation, saving that of sound, by the nobly
swelling notes of the Bag-(dad) pipe ; and they, on the other
hand, who are fond of pleasures purely intellectual, may
listen to public disputations at the corner of every street.
Nay, the very pavement of their highways justly affords
matter of modest congratulation to their men of speculation ;
and the inhabitants of Bussora are often compelled to own
fhac they owe the firmness of their footing to the rocky re-
sources of Bagdad. The love of the people, however, as has
been already noted, is their distinguishing attribute. They
are ‘kindly affectioned one towards another.’ Nor are their
feelings of affection extended towards their own fellow-citizens
alone. I have witnessed in Bussora manifold instances of the
wonderful sweetness of their dispositions, wh?n sojourning in
a strange land and amidst the repulsive manners of an alien
people. Scarcely, indeed, have they entered fairly under the
roof of the strange*, ere their artless affability places them on
terms of familiarity with their casual host, as cordial as might
well be expected to result from years of acquaintanceship.
The people of Bagdad, too, are a religious race. Yet is their
devotion mingled largely with idolatry. Some there are who
are the true children of the Prophet, who perform, in secret,
then* morning and their evening orisons, and whose sole
object in their worship it is to be approved as the devoted
servants of Allah on high. But those who frequent Bussora
are prone to superstition. Mammon is the god of their idol-
atry—his they are and him they serve. At the door of their
hearts never does he knock unnoticed; —he is omnipresent to
their imaginations to him are their mid-day thoughts— to
him their midnight dreams devoted. Their feet are ev*er tend-
lng to his temple; their hands ever busied with the utensils
of his worship. The taste of their palate is determined by a I
sense of his presence, and the savour of their nostrils is sub-
servient to his will. His image dances ever on their enrap-
tured vision, as they open their eyelids to the light of heaven •
and on their ears is ever tinkling the enlivening chime of his
golden serviture.
“O my soul! come not thou into their secret: into their
assembly, mine honour, be not thou united !”
Original Poetry.
PASSING THOUGHTS.
A SERIES OF SONNETS : BY CHARLES HARPUR.
[Note. —In the following Sonnets, the arrangement of the
rhymes is somewhat peculiar. In departing from the Italian
model in this respect, the author feels conscious of not being
induced thereto by a desire merely to innovate. But carefully
trying the form he has here chosen, not to say invented by
his own ear, he ventures to believe that it fits the English
sonnet—or rather, the sonnet in English-more agreeably
than the adopted one above referred to.]
THE POVERTY OF GREATNESS.
Ah me, I know not why it should be so,
But the most rarely mental of menkind
Are seldom prosperous in life; as though
High heaven, severe in simple good, designed—
Denying thus to majesty of mind
All accidental blazonry—to show
That lasting glory thence alone can flow,
"And that the favor of the world is blind.
The seers of old were poor in all but style ;
Nay, even Jesus for a price was sold,
And lived and died a Child of Scorn, the while
Herod could buy supremacy with gold,
A dotard Rome’s almighty empire hold,
And even Barabbas, liberated, smile.
TRUE AND FALSE GLORY.
How long shall splendid guilt mankind deceive?
See conqueror after conqueror furious sweep
Across the past! ambitious each to achieve
Time’s most unrighteous victory, and so reap
Unequalled sway, and make their age one heap
Of bloody marvels for slave-bards to weave
Into loud verse; and finally, so leave
To glory names that she should blush to keep’
How greater they, who tyrants did debel,
And yet all public dignities disown
But such as were the means to serving well ?
Compare an Alexander’s wild renown
With the immaculate memories which crown
The souls of Hampden, Washington, and Tell!
OUTWARD SHOW.
For outward show we barter competence,
Family comfort, credit, friendship’s ties,
And even love’s own dreamy Eden, whence
The beautifullest flowers of life arise
To breathe a soul-sweet incense to the skies !
This social envy—this most prurient sense
Of self-display, grows daily more intense,
Infecting even the wisdom of the wise.
Children are pincht with want and early woe,
That she who bore them, Fashion’s fribble slave, *
To church or theatre full-drest may go ;
Sires, husbands, fops, all itch alike, and so
Risk station and woo ruin, to o’er brave
Some rival in the court of outward show.
POESIE.
Rising and setting suns of liberty;
Mountainous exploits; and the wrecks thick strewn
By stormy passions o’er life’s treacherous sea ;
Relieved by shores of green delight, and boon
And starry dreams, and the serene pale moon
Of pathos ;—these, with all of which they be
Idealisms, are of poesie
lhe bodily temple, into fitness hewn.
And for its soul : —all that the mind can seize
Of beauty, harmonising with the might
Of natural ties and social sympathies,
And that deep spirit of piety, whose flight
Is strongest and most heavenward ’midst the blight
Of mortal misery—its soul are these.
BEAUTY.
First in the human form and face so fair,
Tis seen, an( * shapes of animal being ;
Also in things inanimate if rare:
In blending colors next, and sounds agreeing •
W 1 thought grow gifted with that inward seeing
W Inch finds it in the mind beyond compare,
And in the infinite combinations there
Of memory or knowledge, fixt or fleeing
The inmost spirit of all truth, it hues
The countenance of science; throbs like thought
In every star of heaven; and embues
A 1 the moon looks on ; to the heart is brought
Alive in every sunbeam, if, love taught,
Such bright communion it would not refuse.
ANDREW MARVELL.
Spirit, that lookest from the starry fold
Of truth’s white flock, next to thy Milton there
Accept my reverence, though feebly told !
And oh, my heart, from thy example rare,
Henceforth its being for worthiest ends would bear '
I by thoughts and deeds were towering all and bold
And like the steadfast columns that uphold
Some awful temple, to thy duty were !
How much thy story has enlarged my ken
Of human greatness ! Of mere heroes I
With indignation ever read—but when
Of Thee, as lifted into Virtue’s sky,
I feel how nobly all may live and die,
And glory in my brotherhood with men.
RAISING THE PRICE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
? n I r R ’J~T OUr Jo JJ rna1 ’. 1 c ? n tell you, for your comfort, is looked
puncr„ t a IKe,LtT 1 Ke, LtTt bUt
SU fIT c accustomed to suppress my emotion*
do cast a frequent glance along the hall floor for the purpose
of ascertaimng the presence of the interesting instructor Jt
is only, however, at the titles of the several articles that I
len f a " Ce V f ° r bus,ness must be attended to, particularly
w Thursday is discount day, and there mav be bits of paper


to prepare, to slip into the slits by eleven. Ihese are things
we cannot carry on without in the wool-shipping season. Lo
a man immersed in the daily cares of business, ever recurring
and frequently attended with unpleasing circumstances, arising
from the irregularities, carelessness, dishonesty, and pettish-
ness of those with whom we come in contact, or from the
difficulty of accomplishing one’s purposes occasioned by a
limited capital and cautiousness enlarged by sad experience,
to such a one your Journal is a very pleasant evening re-
laxation. Amidst occupations like those 1 have described,
one is not much disposed to apply to volumes of weight and
bulk for the customarv modicum of literary nourishment.
Even three volumes of fiction the jaded and clogged mind is
unwilling to encounter; to say nothing of the other branches
of learning to which a man must continue to give his attention
if he would not have the rest of the intelligent world get
ahead of him. The same observations apply pretty nearly to
the rest of my familymy wife being a diligent housekeeper,
and beincr when she is at leisure obliged perhaps to pay a
visit or two, or to go a shopping, (the latter of which I never
like to hear of, though no doubt very necessary,) and my
daughters having to practice their music, or darn their own
socks and mine, and my boys having lots ot botheration with
Valpy and Magnall, and the other classic authors, 1 say,
these things being so, we all find your publication, in
which a variety of philosophical, funny, and sentimental
things are dealt in moderate doses, a very relieving substitute
for the royal octavos and three-fold duodecimos of the Austra-
lian Subscription Library. To those also vyho live out ot
town, or to whom, for other reasons, the books of a libraiy
are not accessible, it should be felt as a still greater benefit,
because 1 perceive that to the extent of your limited space
you republish pieces more or less abridged, or give original
articles, really instructive and amusing, and which being
scattered in publications not usually to be obtained, might by
a few only of the people of this colony ever be met with.
It appears to me. setting so high a value on your Journal,
as a work adapted to families, adapted particularly to a popu-
lation having scarcely a source of literary information except
the newspapers, and calculated to sustain and encourage
literary taste and literary merit in this place, that your publi-
cation ought to have had a much more extensive circulation
than I fear it has. But I think you have not taken the usual
means to a sufficient extent of making it known. The first
ereat error you committed was, I think, striking too levy in
vour price—it was impossible that it could pay at three
shillings a quarter, for this simple reason, that such a price
did not enable you sufficiently to advertise, or gratuitously
distribute early numbers, so as to bring it under the notice
of the general public, and therefore the general circula-
tion which alone would make amends for lowness of price
could not be obtained. 1 was therefore not at all aston-
ished at your notification in last week’s issue of your in-
tention to raise your price. I was sure J ®
that you must do so, or discontinue publishing , and for
mv own part I must not withhold my opinion, that the latter
result would be a calamity and a disgrace to Sydney: a dis-
grace, because it would prove the utter des t l t^ oftasteand
liberal cultivation ; a calamity, because it would be thedestruc
ti Q n of the only means of the kind which haspar ally
promised to be successful in preserving and reviving tliesa
inteUectual qualities. Now, for a considerable time past I
have been glad to hope that the downward motion of the
colony in intellectuals and morals was arrested when the
downward motion in mercantile and monetary and physma
matters had acquired decided momentum, even as a coal-
waggon descending an inclined plane will draw up another
from the pitmouth by the counterbalancing weight and velocity.
A great many valuable extracts from English publications do
indeed appear in the Colonial newspapers; but one thin
to be observed, that if these broad sheets are not read when
they first come out, they cannot well he beyond the one day on
table, and much therefore of their literary va ue
wastes its fragrance on the desert air. One may not be the
humourmi fhursday night to read a finesonneeroma,
tale, or chemical digest, winch next night would be quite to
one’s mind—but the broad sheet is dispatched, posted to
Eng anT torn up by the children or undergoing cur ous
inspection in the kitchen. Not so with the Colonial Lite ry
Journal,” it lies the week out before our eyes ever meet ig
them at our leisure hours ; and if it has a fa “£» the
does not last the whole week through. Peihaps on the
Tuesday or Wednesday we will even look at the sb W n Sl
of the advertisements, and we proceed to co 1 , j
lines and half-lines might be saved by Cobbett s plan of
“paragraphing,” and by omitting the double lines betwixt
articles.
But then the afflicting thought occurs, It we will have more
matter to read, we must pay more money. And now I come
t () the point. Raising the price I admit to be absolutely
necessary. After all it is cheap—if the quality and quantity
of matter be considered. To compare it with the other journals
in the latter respect is not invidious. The columns ot tie
broad-sheets are usually occupied with editorial matter
original correspondence —local information — and a heavy
mass of reporters’ matter ; while the columns of the Colonial
Literary Journal” are devoted more especially to subjects ot a
useful, instructive, and entertertaining character, composing a
publication at once decidedly unique and of permanent value.
You are, without doubt, accompanied with the best wishes
of the great body of vour subscribers, and, that every suc-
cess may attend your labours, is desired by none more than
by Sir, yours, &c.,
Q. E. D.
Sydney, March 18, 1845.
A HINT TO IMPROVERS.
[From Mr. and Mrs. Hall's work on Ireland.]
« AN English lady of our acquaintance, who had
married an Irish gentleman possessed of a good pro-
perty in his own country, went over to Ireland with
her head full of all sorts of plans for the improvement
of his tenantry in education, cleanliness, industry,
and every comfort; her husband assured her she
might work away until she was tired, at what she
pleased, so she did not worry him.’ Our kind friend
in a month after her arrival, wrote to us that she was
charmed with the people. Such an account as she
gave of their reception—such bonfires blazed such
shouts rent the air-such hundreds bade them welcome
—such a warm-hearted country she had neier ex
PC Distressed*with the sad spectacle of the wretched
huts in which the people lived, “ she built eight pretty
cottages with a porch and four rooms, and a back-
door and a piggery, and nailed juvenile honeysuckles
up the walls, and sowed with her own fair hands
mignionetle in the borders of a little failed-m front
warden ; and the persons (and she chose the b )
whom she put in these cottages—built on an approved
English model —had never been 0/ the of .»
one-roomed cabin, until, at once, she therein
this (to them uncomfortable) paiadise. They
cheerful, grateful, honest creatures, but her wishes
could not suddenly transform the unlearned into the
learned. It was in vain the friends who understood
the character of the people assured her that improve
ment-Xe evidence h e'ducation-must progress no
leap to a conclusion ; that women, who had never
trodden upon a boarded floor could no l imme-
diately expected to keep it clean, and that the first
step J such a luxury was one composed of,beaten
me sand and earth . that while they would appre-
ciate’the comfort of a two-roomed house, four rooms
would be beyond their powers of management .that
the culture of simple vegetables should precede the
care of flowers ; that more time and more means vv oul
be renhired fo keep it, as the lady desired it should be
kept ’than at) Irish cotter could possibly bestow ; that,
in P fact a peasant’s dwelling should be of no moie
than tw o principal rooms at first, built upon a plan
which Admitted of additions as they were tequired ,
and that one addilion made at the suggestion or by
the hand of the humble tenant himself, is worth fca f
“ score of those performed by the landlord All
these protests were useless, the lady had made, up her
mind to turn, as it were, a potato-pit into a pine y.


She filled her cottages with willing tenants, who pro-
mised, and at the time intended , to do everything
“ her honour” desired, though they did not under-
stand one-fourth of her instructions. And having
been absent in England about four months, early on
the morning after her return, she went to visit her
tenants, full of hopes, and quite prepared for the anti-
cipated blessings of grateful hearts in comfortable
houses. The first she entered was pretty Avell outside
to be sure one of Mogue Colfer’s stockings was thrust
into the window, where one of the panes had been
broken out, and a very audible battle was going for-
ward within, between Ally, Mogue’s wife, and the
pig, who having enjoyed the freedom of the dwell-
ing during the absence of the lady, did not see why
he should all at once resign it.
‘ Yer honour’s welcome, kindly welcome, my lady.
Hourish out, ye dirty baste, saving yer presence,
ma’am, the pig that got in it in spite of me, and
wants the run of the house, which he was used to ;
oh, murder, if it isn’t under the bed he’s getting, at
the potatoes —oh, my grief!’
‘ And why do you keep your potatoes under the
bed,’ said poor Mrs. , looking about in vain for
a seat to sit on.
‘ Sure, yer honour forbid us to keep them in the
kitchen, so we put ’em under the bed in the little
room, to plase yer ladyship, where ye wouldn’t see
them only for the pig, bad cess to him for turning
them out.’ The lady sighed— ‘ I wished you to keep
them in the house provided for them.’
' Oh, ma’am, is it outside ?—the potatoes! sure it’s
bit by the frost they’d be. Molly, take the i ron pot
off the chair, and wdpe it down for her ladyship.’
‘ And why was it on the chair V inquired Mrs. ;
* why, that is the great thing you boil your potatoes
in.’
‘ Thrue for ye ; see that now, how her darling
ladyship knew that ! —-it was Mogue’s shirt, and my
own bits of rags, and the childre’s, I was washing, to
go clane and dacent before yer ladyship.’
‘ And where’s your nice little washing-tub V
Is it the tub ? Oh, bedad, I’d be sorry to put a
present of yer ladyship’s to such a dirty use.'
1 But where is it?’
‘ Why, then, it’s God’s truth I’ll tell ye, mee lady,’
said Ally, taking up the corner of her apron, that she
might have something to fidget with while she spoke ;
the little girl left it outside, and the sun (whenever
it does shine, it’s to take the shine out of us,) the sun,
plase yer honour, split it into smithereens.’
‘ where are the smithe—what you call them ?’
Ah then, sure,’ she said, lifted up the corner of
her apron to her eyes ; ‘ ah then, sure, it’s Mogue that
said don’t be vexing her honour with the sight of the
staves, but put them out of her sight; and so we did,
plase yer honour—we burnt them !’
‘ And now, through your own carelessness, you
have nothing to wash your clothes in ?’
‘ f °h yes, my lady, thank ye kindly, we have :we
don t want anything that way : we’ve what we’re used
to, and what’s used to it, plase yer honour—the iron
pot, ma am, always handy, and without any trouble.’
The lady seeing the litter, and dirt, and careless-
nesL in the cottage where she had expected so much
that w r as clean and comfortable—annoyed by the
Avoman s readiness as much as her untidiness—and
pained at the blight of her first hope, turned to leave
the dwelling without saying a word ; but with so
much evident disgust * that the quick feelings of the
Irish-woman were wounded ; rushing forward with
all her national energy, she fell upon her knees
before her,
Ah then, sure, it’s not going out of the place angry,
that yer honour would be 1 ? I see it in ye, my lady,
about the tub, and the potatoes, and the pig. Och,
murder, sure I’d lay my hands under the soles of yer
feet any day, and travel the country all hours of the
night to serve yer ladyship, and fear neither wind
nor rain for yer honour ; and good right there’s for
it; it was you that took me and mine from the height
of misery, and settled us here, where, to be sure, we
might be like queens and kings of the earth, if we
could only plase yer ladyship, and hadn’t so much to
do, taking care of the convayniances yer goodness cave
vs. Sure we do our best according to our under-
standings, and will get more into the way of it afther
a while. Sure, my heart’s splitting at this very
minute into two halves to strive to plase yer honour,
and to do everything to plase ye, and yer ladyship
not plased afther all !’
The lady was touched at first by the quaintness
and tenderness of poor Ally, for she was neither
heartless nor capricious; but her sense of justice re-
volted against the idea of the woman supposing she
wished her to serve her when she wanted her to serve
herself; she replied, that she was only anxious for
the improvement of the people for their own sakes,
and that it was very provoking to have what had been
done destroyed by wilful neglect.
‘ I ax yer honour’s pardon,’ answered the cotter’s
wife ; £ but it's holy truth I’m telling—l’ve no wilful
neglect to answer yer honour for ; on the conthrary’
—and she burst into tears— £ I have no pace night or
day striving to keep things the way you’d like, and
to remember the uses of the things you gave us for
convayniance ; and if your ladyship had just given us
the half of them, we’d have more understanding;
only the iron pot yer honour’s looking at, it’s handy,
as I lould ye, for everything ; so that, barring the tub
that went to pieces with the druth , everything else is
spick and span new to show yer honour—all put up
out of the way of the childre, on the loft, my lady,
and that’s the reason there’s nothing on the shelves.
God knows, ma’am, -while you wern’t in it, it’s half-
starved we war between the seasons ; the old potatoes
going out, and the new ones not in ; and yet the
Lord he knows I kep’ the bits of curosities yer honour
gave us for convayniance, safe, and would die rather
than part them !’
Mrs. was too much disappointed, to appre-
ciate fully this strange mixture of right feeling and
old habits. She never dreamed of blaming herself
for expecting a poor uninstructed woman—whose
cabin six months before had contained the obnoxious
iron pot, a chest, two stools and a boss, a broken
dresser, a couple of noggins, a kish and potato-bas-
ket. a bed, a cracked looking-glass, some remnants
of plates and pitchers, and a portrait of a saint in a
black frame—to remember the names, much less the
uses, of all the things in a well-furnished cottage, in
little more than a quarter of a year, to undo the habits
of thirty years in four months. So she turned to the
next this was worse. She was obliged to step across
a pool of stagnant water to get into the door.
• It s the ducks, my lady,’ said a round-faced placid
woman, who evinced habitual industry by keeping on
at her knitting with great rapidity while she curtsied


and spoke ; t it’s the ducks, ma’am, that your honour
was so good as to give me, and I’m sure you’ll be
plased to see how I’ve as good as reared seven young
ones; and they’d go blind for want of a sup of
water and —’
‘ But surely one of your boys could drive them to
t\e pond V
‘ Bedad, he could, ma’am, and would ax no better
divarshun ; but what call for the bother of that, when
all we had to do was to scrape out a bit there, and
have the little craythurs safe under our eyes 1 I said
yer ladyship would be delighted to see how they
throve.’ This interview sadly disappointed both par-
ties ; the poor woman really deserved praise for her
industrious habits. She was greatly improved, but
her patroness was so disgusted with the mud pool
where she had planted a woodbine, that she left that
poor woman also in tears.
One virago, when ‘ her ladyship’ found just fault
not only wdth the carelessness, but the w r anton de-
struction of her cottage, w T here the floor had been ac-
tually lowered to admit of the action of the flail, so
as to enable the grain to be thrashed in the kitchen,
upbraided her with her having been the cause of her
‘ catching her death of could for want of the smoke ;’
and to remedy this, she had placed a flag on the top
of the chimney, and had blocked up the back-door,
* because none but an informer would come in at it.’
This was a solitary instance of ingratitude —all the
rest were eager to please ; but the veil had been rudely
torn from the lady’s eyes. It was a damp October
morning, and this added to the neglected look of the
dwellings, which four short, short months before, had
been fit to illustrate a page on rural beauty. The
people lost interest in her eyes, though they were
exactly the same people who had at first excited it.
The truth was, the lady lacked the three grand re-
quisites for those who seek to improve Ireland. The
first is patience ; the second is patience ; the third is
patience. The people were not incapable of improve-
ment : with the exception of the virago, they were
all willing to learn, and were learning ; but the sys-
tem they were taught upon w'as wrong—as though
you put a book into a child’s hand, and bade it read
before it knew its letters ! but like many others, Mrs.
lacked patience, and, alas, abandoned the
country /”
Shipping EntelKgencr.
ARRIVALS.
March 12. — I The steamer James Watt, Taggart, from Hobart
Town the 6th instant. —The steamer Sovereign, Cape, from
Moreton Bay the Bth instant.
March 13.—The barque Kestrel , Beauvis, from Macao the
9 th January.
March 14.—The barque Eliza, Vairent, from Liverpool the
20th October.
March 18 —The brig Scamander, Nixon, from the Whaling
Grounds. —The ship British Sovereign, Cooper, from the
Whaling Grounds.
DEPARTURES.
March 12.—The schooner Velocity, Truscot, for Auckland.
March 14.—The steamer Sovereign, Cape, for Moreton Bay.
March 16.—The steamer Shamrock, Gilmore, for Boyd Town,
Port Phillip, and Launceston.—The ship Sir Robert Peel,
Champion, for London. —The brig Christina, Saunders* for
Port Phillip.
March 18.—The steamer James Watt, Taggart, for Wol-
longong, Kiama, Jervis Bay, Twofold Bay, and Hobart Town.
—The barque Terror, Swindells, for the Whaling Grounds.
TJOTICE.
THE departure of Dr. WALLACE having been delayed
for a short time, the lists for subscription to the Testi-
monial of regard to be presented to him will be kept open
until Monday, the 31st instant, when the Committee are
requested to meet at the Office of the Right Worshipful the
Mayor, in Elizabeth-street, at 2 p.m.
STUART A. DONALDSON,
Honorary Secretary.
BXR JAMES StSURSJAY’S
CONDENSED SOLUTION OF FLUID MAGNESIA.
THE following is the character given of the Solution of
Magnesia by Dr. Comins, Inspector of Army Hospitals,
after twenty years’ experience, in 1826 :
“ Belfast, October, 1826.
“ Murray’s Solution of Magnesia is found particularly bene-
ficial as a pleasing sedative and aperient in all cases of irri-
tation, or acidity of the stomach, particularly during pregnancy,
febrile complaints, infantile disorders, or sea-sickness.
“ An ounce or two'of the solution speedily removes heart-
burn, acid eructations, sourness, or irregular digestion of
females and children.
“ In the army, and at sea, it has been found to compose the
stomach in a few minutes after excesses or hard drinking.
“ The solution, of itself, is an agreeable aperient; but its
laxative properties can be much augmented by taking with it,
or directly after it, a little lemon juice, mixed with sugar and
water, or even cream of tartar tea. In this manner, a very
agreeable effervescing draught can be safely taken at any time,
during fever or thirst.
“ The antiseptic qualities of this solution, owing to the pre-
sence of so much carbonic acid, have been found very valuable,
in putrid and other fevers. As a lotion for the mouth, it
sweetens the breath, and the magnesia clears the teeth from
tartar. After acid fruit, it saves the lime of the teeth from
being softened. # .
“ For preventing the evolution or deposition of uric acid in
gout or gravel, the efficiency of the dissolved magnesia was
long since authenticated by Drs. M‘Donnell and Richardson.
“ The solution has almost invariably succeeded in removing
the fits, spasms, head-aches, and gastric coughs, to which
delicate persons are subject, from acids and crudities of the
stomach and bowels.
H William Comins, M.D.
“ To Dr. J. Murray.”
The President and meeting at the Royal College of Surgeons,
in December, 1838, unanimously approved of the Concen-
trated Solution of Magnesia, whereby infants, females,
and others, can be instantly relieved of acidities by a tea-
spoonful or two of this mild antacid.
The undersigned having received a large supply of the
genuine Murray’s Fluid Magnesia, will sell it at the home
prices, as under :
£ s. d.
Half-gallon bottles 011 0
Quarts 0 5 6
One and a half pints 0 3 6
Pints 0 2 6
Half-pints 0 1 0
SIR JAMES MURRAY'S ACIDULATED SYRUP.
One circumstance is felt as particularly favourable to the
general adoption of Fluid Magnesia: when alkaline treat-
ment is not required, or when aperient or effervescent drinks
are more indicated, the Fluid Magnesia is the most eligible,
because the Acidulated Syrup, being separate, may be
added to the Solution of Magnesia, in any desirable propor-
tion, so that either the acid or the alkaline qualities may be
left to prevail, according to age and circumstances.
When taken with a small proportion of Acidulated Syrup,
the solution still contains a sufficient quantity of magnesia to
correct such acids as may be met with in the animal ceconomy.
The brisk effervescence directly settles the stomach: and
thousands of letters might be adduced to authenticate this
remedial property in cases of fever, nausea, or sea-sickness.
Sir James Murray’s Acidulated Syrup, in bottles, at 2s.
each * C. M. PENNY,
558, George-street, Sydney.
Z WAIKSS’S 2’iLZ£IKr.&CEOTi-S POOD
IS particularly adapted for sick children, and recommended
by the faculty in cases of dysentery. Sold by all the
Druggists and Grocers.
February Bth, 1845.


BUS HXV3 £STAB3.ISHM£IfT,
Nos. 272, 274, 276, and 278, Pitt-street , (nearly opposite the
Victoria Theatre.)
CHRISTOPHER NEWTON AND BROTHER, in
again introducing themselves to the notice of their cus-
tomers and friends, beg respectfully to draw attention to their
list of goods as undermentioned, all of which will be found of
the very best quality, the greater portion being a new con-
signment.
C. N., and Brother, further beg to assure the public that it
is their intention to adhere strictly to the terms of their last
advertisement, viz., to sell
TEN PER CENT.,
Under any other house in town, for
Cash only, and no abatement;”
And it is upon these terms that C. N. and Brother are deter-
mined to conduct their business ; by which means, they can
and are enabled to sell lower than any other Draper in the
Colony.
The immense business daify transacted at the Bee-Hive, is
the surest guarantee the public can have of the quality of their
goods and the reasonableness of their prices; and the proprietors
have now no hesitation in recommending their immense
Stock of Drapery to the notice of Country Dealers, Store-
keepers, and Settlers, assuring them that they may rely with
the greatest confidence upon C. N. and Brother for the quality
of their supplies.
Amongst the stock, which contains in large quantities everv
manufacture suitable for household or family use, a few lead-
ing articles are here quoted :
500 Pieces of stout super calicos, at 3£d. per yard
800 Pieces of Horrock’s wire thread long-cloth, 4£d. per yard
JUST OPENED THIS DAY,
15 Bales containing 1500 pieces of Couper, Maitland, andCo.’s
gold end long-cloths, 3G in. wide, 4£d.
Ditto ditto ditto .*3B in. s£d.
This make of long-cloth is highly recommended, and much
used in the mother-country.
Stout brown calicos, from 3£d. upwards
Stout brown 8-4 and 10-4 sheetings, from B£d.
Cotton ticks from 4£-d.
Linen ditto 9d.
Stout Osnaburgh, 27 inches wide, from 3d. upwards
Stout Forfars, 36 and 40 inches, 4|d.
Dressed and undressed brown hollands, from B£d.
Damask tablecloths, 8-4, 10-4, from 3s. lid. upwards
Magnificent ditto, four yards long, 12s. 6d. each
Dinner napkins made to match, Bs. the dozen
Irish cambric handkerchiefs, equal to the finest French, 10s.
per dozen
Scotch ditto, from ss. upwards
Diaper and huckaback towels, from 4s. 6d. per dozen
Rich chintz print dresses from 3s. 6d. upwards
Navy blue prints, per piece of 28 yards* 12s. 6d.
Pink, blue, and lilac plate prints 11s. 6d.
Rich chintz prints, 12s. 6d. upwards
French and Swiss ginghams, 9-8 wide, 9W. upwards
Printed furniture chintz, from 6d. per yard
White furniture dimities, to be sold a decided bargain, com-
mencing at 6d. per yard
Coloured counterpanes, from 2s. 6d. each upwards
White ditto ditto, from 3s. 9d. each upwards
White Marsella and summer quilts, at 7s. each upwards
SLOPS.
Ten cases of moleskin trousers, best quality, 71s. per dozen,
or ss. lid. per pair, worth 7s.
Men’s strong waistcoats, sleeved or unsleeved, 2s. 6d. upwards
Men’s pilot cloth coats, from 14s. 6d. upwards
Shepherds’ coats, equally cheap
Flushing monkey jackets, 7s. 6d. each
Real bargains in strong blue cloth
Jackets and trousers, from 4s. 6d. each, cost in London 7s. 3d.
Men’s striped cotton shirts, I6s. 6d. per dozen
Men’s regatta shirts, 18s. per dozen
Men’s white striped Guernsey frocks, 28s. per dozen
Men’s merino and Scotch lamb’s wool shirts, from 30s. per
dozen 1
Men’s blue serge shires, from 4s. 6d.
Men’s blue baize shirts, from 2s. 6d. to 3s.
Six cases of gentlemen’s super longcloth shirts, with lawn or
linen fronts, cottars, and wrists, commencing at 2s. Gd. to
the very finest quality
The above shirts for quality and size, for neatness of sew-
ing, excellence of material, and elegance of fit, cannot be ex-
celled.
Men’s white cotton and India rubber braces, at exceedingly
low prices
Gent’s silk and satin stocks, opera ties
Kid and silk, cotton and thread gloves, in endless variety.
HATS! HATS!! HATS!!!
WARRANTED AT HALF COST PRICE.
Black beaver hats, from ss. 6d. each
Ditto ditto ditto, superior quality, 16s. each
Ditto ditto ditto, very best quality, 20s. each
The stock of ready-made clothing is well worthy the inspec-
tion of Gentlemen
Taglioni, Chesterfield, and D’Orsay coats, 14s. 6d.
Colonial tweed coats, 21s. to 255.
Colonial tweed trousers, 12s. 6d. per pair
Gambroon arid drill trousers, 4s. 6d. per pair
300 pairs of doeskin and kerseymere trousers, considerably
under English cost, commencing at 12s. 6d. pair
Superfine cloth dress coats, 255.
Ditto ditto frock ditto, 30s. #
Ditto ditto trousers, 14s. 6d.
BLANKETS ! BLANKETS !!
Just landed, 26 bales of Witney blankets, commencing at
Bs. 9d. per pair
150 pieces of fancy cantoons, from per yard
Stockmen’s boots, 4s. 6d. per pair
The attention of the ladies is particularly solicited to their
stock of fancy silk shawls, ribbons, stays, &c.
By the late arrivals, the bonnet rooms have been replen-
ished with the most fashionable shapes, in Rice, Rutland,
Dunstable, Tuscan, and Leghorn bonnets.
It will be seen on a fair perusal of the above list of goods,
that they are of the very best quality, and when buyers con-
sider the very reduced prices at which they will be sold, it is
manifestly to their interest to purchase at the BEE-HIVE.
More than this, every article connected with the trade may be
had at this establishment, of which a good and well-assorted
stock is always kept on hand.
This is an advantage (which cannot be secured at all houses
in the trade) particularly to up-country people, as they may
be supplied with all the articles they require, without the
usual trouble of running to nearly all the shops in town before
they can obtain the necessary supplies to suit the immediate
demands. This is a fact which should be particularly borne
in mind by “ Up-country Settlers,” as from not being enabled
to procure their supplies of goods at a short notice, they are
obliged to remain in Sydney for a longer time than under
other circumstances, they would do, and by which their affairs
are very often seriously neglected, owing to their length of
absence from home.
It will also be apparent to parties residing in town, that
in order to complete their family supplies, they cannot do bet-
ter than pay a visit to the BEE-HIVE, where every attention
will be strictly paid to their demands, and where they may de-
pend upon the articles purchased being of first-rate quality,
and of real good value.
Observe the Address—
CHRISTOPHER NEWTON AND BROTHER,
Bee-hive, Pitt-street.
N.B.—-C. N. and Brother having taken stock of their para-
sols, have re-marked them at a considerably reduced price, a
list of which appears in this day’s paper. One case being
slightly damaged, all have been reduced to 4s. 6d. each, some
were invoiced from London at 14s. 6d. each.
E’ASHSOrtfiLBZ.B 3DAKfCj£KTG.
MR. J. CLARK has this day re-opened, at his New
Rooms, Mr. Mackay’s Australian Inn, Parramatta, for
the Tuition of DANCING, in all its various branches, and the
most modern style, viz Quadrilles, Sixdrills, Gallopades,
Mazourkas, Waltzes, Circassian Circles, &c.
Terms—One Guinea per Quarter, One lesson in each week.
Hours of attendance from Seven till Nine o’clock in the
evening.
Those Parents and Guardians who may honour him with
the tuition of their Children, may depend upon the strictest
attention being paid to their genteel carriage and deportment.
Private instruction to these who may not wish to join the
Classes, on moderate term:', at their residences, or at his
rooms.
Families and Schools punctually attended to.
Entrance to the Rooms by a private door in Church-street.
Fees paid in advance if required.


TO THE LADIES.
(4 IIB.ISTOPHER NEWTON AND BROTHER beg; most
J respectfully to apprise the ladies of this city and its
environs, that, owing to the advanced period of the season,
they have re-marked the whole of their
STOCK OF PARASOLS,
at a reduction of from twenty-five to thirty per cent., a correct
list of which is annexed :
47 Brown Silk Parasols, marked at 2s. 6d.. reduced to Is. 10^d.
One trunk —being more or less slightly damaged—all have
been reduced to 4s. fid.; some previously marked as high as
16s, 6d.
An inspection of the above will justify the highest recom-
mendation.
Bee Hive, Pitt-street, March 10.
AT
FUNERALS FURNISHED,
33 IT JOHN HXIjTj, JTTN ,
HIS FURNISHING ESTABLISHMENT,
No. —; King-street, Sydney.
To the Mechanics and Poorer Class of people of the City of
Sydnev.
JOHN HILL, JUN 7 ., begs to inform the above-mentioned
body of people, that in consequence of the reduced state
of times, he will conduct FUNERALS at the following low
rates, where everv attention will respectfully be paid.
Full-mounted Coffin, with use of Hearse £ 2 0 0
Child’s Coffin, with use of Mourning Coach 1 10 u
NSW
stationehn establishment,
476, GEORGE-STREET.
rp HE undersigned having this day opened, in connexion
with their present Engraving, Copperplate, and Letter-
press Printing Office, a Shop for the sale of every description
of fancy and useful Stationery, beg the favour of a visit from
their friends and patrons, and assure the ladies, gentry, and
tradespeople of Sydney, with regard to the present addition
to their Establishment, that their expectations will be fully
realised if the same portion of public favour is shown upon
the Stationery, as upon the Printing Department, which they
have enjoyed for the last two years.
Double and single demy paper
Grocers’ and wrapping paper
Every description of Gillott’s genuine steel pens
Wedding cards Bill heads
Visiting ditto Bank cheques
Business ditto Promissory notes
Invitation ditto Imports
Address ditto Exports
Bills of lading Invoices <*•
Bills of Exchange Cargo books
Together with every description of printed forms.
N.B.—A few numbers of Norie’s Epitome yet for sale.
Country orders punctually attended to.
J. T. & A. GROCOTT,
Engravers, Printers, and Stationers.
Phoenix Printing Office,
476, George-street, Sydney.
A C ABB.
A PERSON of steady habits, who has four or five hours to
spare daily, wants employment as Office keeper, Mes-
senger, or light Porter : he can also keep plain accounts. ,
Apply at the Office of this Paper.
316, PITT STREET.
THE GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE
AND
Office of the “Colonial Literary Journal.”
BOOK-WORK and PAMPHLETS to any extent; also,
Posting-bills, Hand-bills, Circulars, Cards, Orders,
Receipts, Invoice Heads, Labels, Law Forms, Nautical Forms,
and any other description of Letter-press Printing, executed
on the shortest notice, and at reasonable charges, by
J. READING.
PETERSHAM RACES.
SECOND MEETING.
EASTER MONDAY, 24th MARCH, 1845.
FIRST race.
rpHE PETERSHAM PURSE of Thirty Sovereigns, for
JL all horses, weight for age; heats twice round; entrance
two sovereigns; three entrances or no race. The winner not
to be allowed to run in the following races. Weights—two
years old, ost. 21bs.; three ditto, 7st. 61bs.; four ditto, Bst.
41 bs.; five ditto, Bst. 121b5.; six and aged, 9st. 61bs. Mares
and geldings allowed 3lbs.
SECOND RACE.
THE WOOLPACK PURSE of Twenty Sovereigns, for
all horses, weight for age; heats once round; entrance one
pound ten shillings. Conditions and weights the same as for
the Petersham Purse.
THIRD RACE.
THE LADIES’ PURSE of Ten Sovereigns, for horses
not exceeding fourteen hands; entrance one pound; heats
once round ; three entrances or no race. Weights—two years
old, 6st.; three ditto, 6st. 71bs.; four ditto, 7st.; five ditto,
7st. 61bs.; six and aged, Bst. Mares and geldings allowed 31bs.
FOURTH RACE.
THE BEATEN PURSE of Five Sovereigns, with the
entrances added, for the beaten horses, to be handicapped by
the Stewards. Post entrance, half-a-guinea. Once round.
In all the races the second horse is to receive back his
entrance.
All horses must be entered at the Committee-room, at Mr.
James Oatley’s, the “ Sportsman’s Inn,” corner of Pitt and
Goulburn streets, between the ho rs of seven and ten, on the
ev.ening of Thursday, the 20th March next ensuing, when the
colours of the riders must be declared ; and any rider changing
his colours shall pay a fine of one sovereign before starting.
No person shall be allowed to enter a horse who is not a
subscriber to the amount of £l.
The decisions of the Stewards to be final.
Admission to the Course will be allowed only through the
gate opposite Mr. Shaw’s, “ Woolpack Inn.” Terms—four-
wheel vehicles, Is. fid.; two-wheel, Is.; saddle horses, fid.
each.
N. B.—All dogs found on the Course to be destroyed.
Judge—Mr. T. May.
Stewards— Mr. C. Roberts, Mr. E. Raper, and Mr.
J. Kettle.
Treasurer and Secretary—R. Goodall.
Clerk of the Course— R. Cullen.
Committee-room, February 13, 1845.
Agents for tliis Journal.
Collector for Sydney . . . . .. Mt. Francis Wye
Sudneu , Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Mr Tret"
Bathurst JJr. * ie * s -
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden , Campbelltown , Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning JJr. Hawthorne.
“ M po"ce.
