

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 24.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1844.
[Price 4d.
SELF-SUFFICIENCY.
There is scarcely a greater obstacle to advancement
in life than the feeling of self-sufficiency, so commonly
entertained by the young ; and, as there is no surer
antidote to this fallacy than experience, so do we find,
generally speaking, a very striking diversity (arising
from either the possession of, or deficiency in*, expe-
perience) between the aged and the youthful members
of society.
The innumerable occurrences of every man’s life
naturally bring experience to the old. They have
been taught to know and feel that there are certain
fixed principles of the social economy that must not
be controverted—that there are certain prejudices and
prepossessions, held by mankind in general, that must
not be hastily withstood. They have lived thoroughly
to discern the value of the flighty and extravagant
schemes of youth. They have learnt the folly of
attempting with the wings of a wren to soar the
eagle’s flight. They remember the advantages lost
by precipitancy, and the hinderances occasioned by the
simultaneous advance of others. And they can shew
the advantages they gained by a prudent and patient
line of conduct. They can describe how that, by the
due control of their desires, their anxious struggles
and virtuous endeavours were at length crowned with
success.
The young, on the other hand, can boast of but
a very inconsiderable degree of actual experience ;
which is, however, in their own eyes, counterbalanced
by the superiority of their ideas, and the superior
manner in which they attempt to develop them. They
start in the race of life with the most transcendant
notions of their own importance and abilities. Deaf
to the advice of friends, careless of the earnest admo-
nitions of, perhaps, an aged parent, they follow up
their, own crude conceptions—their day-dreams of
imagination. They believe not that the plans which
ensured success in their fathers’ time can be attended
with similar success to them. No ! times are altered,
and other measures (their own of course) are now
required. They do not consider, though art is
improved, and science more evenly regulated, year by
that still the most brilliant discoveries and im-
provements but tend to render more palpable and
distinct the broad path of sound sense, apart from the
winding track of fanciful imagination.
By and bye, however, the young man begins to
suspect that he may have been erroneous in his cal-
culations,- and that the world is no! so easily moulded
to his purpose as he supposed. He finds that his
schemes are unsubstantial —airy visions, that tend to
nothing more than the unproductive absorption of his
means. He at length makfes the notable discovery
that other people are are as wise and as clever as
himself. Thus, every succeeding year of his life, the
young man thinks less and less of his own abilities.
He learns, by dreary experience, that, after all, mode-
rate abilities, conjoined with prudence, accomplish
more than impetuous, heedless talent. Above all, he
finds that there is no possibility of attaining any great
and profitable end without accommodating himself to
a thousand petty circumstances that occur—without
ministering to the prejudices and prepossessions of
others—without submitting, perhaps, to much sup-
posed contumely and neglect—without manfully op-
posing every succeeding wave of adversity that threatens
to overwhelm him.
If it had been possible that each generation should
start with the full advantage of the experience of the
one which preceded it, it is impossible to conceive
the degree of knowledge, happiness, and prosperity, to
which mankind might already have attained ; but, as
with the body—so is it with the mind ; neither are
formed complete. As the body gains strength by
degrees, so must the mind advance gradually towards
perfection. We occasionally observe young men who
are less head-strong at the commencement of their
career than those already adverted to. A chosen few
seem to be possessed, intuitively, as it were, of the
sagacity of the aged ; and, in proportion as their con-
duct is regulated by maxims of prudence, so do we
see them prosper. Possessed of a proper degree of
modest assurance, they engage in the business of life
with coolness and deliberation, never losing ground
by ill-timed levity, nor missing the many opportu-
nities afforded them by superior ingenuity or the
false steps of others. Looking forward to the object
of their ambition, whether it be wealth, or fame,
(while the greater proportion of those who commenced
the ascent with them—the young and thoughtless, are
gradually dropping aside out of the ranks, and the
aged are naturally disappearing from amongst them,)
these few, animated by the honesty of their endea-
vours, are steadily pursuing their way, avoiding the
allurements that beset them, disowning the false
friendship of the vicious or the giddy, and guarding
against, perhaps, the enticement of their own appetites
and passions. Steadfast in this course, by the time
they attain to mature manhood, they find themselves
already possessed of those comforts, and that honour-
able station, that are justly the reward of virtue,


Nor is it necessary to dwell in a desponding manner
upon the case of the former class, namely, those who
refuse to be guided by the admonitions of their pre-
decessors. There is at least one form in which good
counsel presents itself without any untoward circum-
stances that can predispose men to despise it, and that
is the monuments of past ages, the writings of the
good and great, which, by the industry and learning of
ages, have now very largely accumulated, and are
becoming universally diffused by the art of print-
ing. It is from the magic efforts of that mighty
engine, the press, that we must principally look for
improvement in the tempers and in the manners of
the people. In proportion as the young indulge in
judicious reading, will they learn to reflect soundly—
to perceive the absurdity of closing their understandings
against the deductions drawn from familiar examples
of ruin produced by self-conceit and heedless impa-
tience. They will thus, to a certain extent, acquire
that which will serve them in the stead of experience
in life —a dependence on the experience of those who
have gone before them. By the same means, by
becoming more extensively aware of the abilities of
others —the attainments of their predecessors as well
as of their neighbours —they will be brought to think
far less of their own acquirements, and learn to place
considerably less value on their own capabilities.
Biography.
SHAKSPEARE.
{Compiled for the Colonial Literary Journal from various sources.)
William Shakspeare, the Father of the English theatre,
the great poet of nature, and the glory of the British nation,
was descended of a reputable family at Stratford-upon-Avon.
His father, John, was in the wool trade, and dealt considerably
that way: he had ten children, of whom our immortal poet
was the eldest, and was born on the 23rd April, 1564. At a
proper age he was sent to the free-school in Stratford, where
he acquired the rudiments of learning, with a slight knowledge
of Latin. His father, however, had no design to make a
scholar of him; on the contrary, he was taken early from
school to attend his father’s business, in which, however, he
did not long continue, at least under control, for at seventeen
years of age he married, became master of a family, and a
parent, before he was out of his minority. His wife was the
daughter of one Hatchway, said to have been a substantial
yeoman in the neighbourhood of Stratford.
He is now supposed to have settled in business for himself,
and to have had no other thought than of pursuing the wool
trade; when, happening to become acquainted with some per-
sons who followed the practice of deer-stealing, he was pre-
vailed upon to engage with them in robbing Sir Thomas
Lucy’s park, near Stratford. The injury being repeated more
than once, that gentleman was provoked to enter a prosecu-
tion against the delinquents; and Shakspeare, in revenge,
made him the subject of a ballad-—probably the first essay of
his poetry —which was pointed with so much bitterness, that
it became unsafe for the author to stay any longer in the
country. To escape the law, he was obliged to leave his busi-
ness and family for some time, and to seek for employment in
London, which, as might be expected from a man of wit and
humour in his circumstances, he sought among the players.
Shakspeare, it is said, driven to the last extremity, at first
attended at the doors of the theatres, to find a pittance by
taking care of the horses of the gentry. In this capacity lie
became so well known, that the lads who followed his example,
bore, for some time afterwards, the name of Shakspeare’s boys.
His first admission into the playhouse was suitable to bis
appearance; a stranger, and ignorant of the art, he was glad
to be taken into the company in a very mean rank; nor did
his performance recommend him to any distinguished notice;
and it appears that the most considerable part he ever per-
formed, was the Ghost, in his own historical tragedy of Hamlet.
The part of an under actor neither engaged nor deserved
the attention of our poet; it was far from filling, or being
adequate to, the powers of his mind, and therefore he turned
the advantage which that situation afforded him to a higher
and nobler use. Having, by practice and observation, ac-
quainted himself with the mechanical economy of the theatre,
bis native genius supplied the rest: but the whole view of his
first attempts in stage poetry being to procure a subsistence,
he directed his endeavours solely to hit the taste and humour
that then prevailed among the meaner sort of people, of whom
his audience was generally composed; and therefore his images
of life were drawn from those of an inferior rank. But when
his performances had merited the protection of his Prince, and
the encouragement of the court had succeeded to that of the
town, the works of his riper years were manifestly raised above
the level of his former productions. How long he acted, has not
been discovered, nor what was the first poetical essay of his
immense genius; but he continued to write till the year 1614.
It is said that Queen Elizabeth was so much pleased with
the delightful character of Sir John Falstaff, in the two parts
of Henry the Fourth , that she commanded the author to con-
tinue it for one play more, and to shew the knight in love;
which he executed inimitably, in the Merry Wives of Windsor.
The names of his patrons are now unknown, except that of the
Earl of Southampton, who is particularly honored by him in
the dedication of two poems, Venus and Adonis , and the Rape
of Lucrece. In the beginning of King James I.’s reign, if not
sooner, he was one of the principal managers of the playhouse,
and continued in it several years afterwards.
What particular friendships Shakspeare contracted with pri-
vate men, we cannot at this time know, more than that every
one that had a true taste for merit, and could distinguish men,
had generally a just value and esteem for him. Besides the
advantage which he had over all men in the article of wit, he
was of a sweet, gentle, amiable disposition, and was a most
agreeable companion, by which he endeared himself to all
who knew him, both as a friend and as a poet; so that he was
introduced into the best company, and conversed with the
finest characters of his time. His uncommon candour and
good nature must certainly have inclined all the gentler part
of the world to love him, as the power of his wit obliged men of
the most refined knowledge and polite learning to admire him.
The latter part of Shakspeare’s life was spent in ease, re-
tirement, and the conversation of his friends. He had ac-
cumulated considerable property, which is stated to have
amounted to between two and three hundred pounds per
annum —a very considerable sum in those days; and it is sup-
posed that he might have derived two hundred pounds per
annum from the theatre while he continued to act. He re-
tired, some years before his death, to a handsome house which
he had purchased in his native town, Stratford-upon-Avon,
where his pleasant wit and good nature gained for him the
acquaintance and friendship of the gentlemen of the neigh-
bourhood.
He died on his birthday, Tuesday, April 23, 1616, when he
had exactly completed his fifty-second year; and was interred
among his ancestors on the north side of the chancel, in the
great church of Stratford, where there is a handsome monument
to his memory, inscribed with the following elegiac distich:
Judicio Pylium, genio Socratem, arte Maronem,
Terra tegit, Populus moeret, Olympus habet.


“ The first syllable in Socratem,” says Mr. Steevens, “ is
here made short, which cannot be allowed. Perhaps we should
read Sophoclem. Shakspeare is then appositely compared
with a dramatic author among the ancients; but still it should
be remembered that the eulogium is lessened while the metre
is reformed ; and it is well known that some of our early
writers of Latin poetry were uncommonly negligent in their
prosody, especially in proper names.”
To this Latin inscription on Shakspeare may be added the
lines which are found underneath it on his monument:
Stay, passenger, why dost thou go so fast?
Read, if thou canst, whom envious Death hath plac’d
Within this monument; Shakspeare, with whom
Quick Nature dy’d; whose name doth deck the tomb
Far more than cost; since all that he hath writ
Leaves living art but page to serve his wit.
Obiit Ano Dni. 1616. set. 53, die 23 Apri.
On his grave-stone underneath are these lines, in an un-
couth mixture of small and capital letters :
Good Frend for lesus SAKE forbeare
To diGG T-E Dust EncloAsed HERe
Blese be T-E Man £ spares T-Es Stones
And curst be He moves my bones.
In 1740, another very noble monument was raised to his
memory, at the public expence, in Westminster Abbey.
The family of Shakspeare consisted of two daughters, and a
son named Hamnet, who died in the twelfth year of his age.
The two daughters married respectably, but the family became
extinct in the third generation. His widow survived him
seven years.
(To be continued.)
CREDULITY OF READERS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
It is but too common for persons, especially the
young, to place implicit reliance in statements and
principles which they find in print; to receive as true,
without consideration, what they should first question
and even doubt, until fully satisfied, after close in-
vestigation, of its claim to belief. In reading works
where opposite principles are advocated, this has a
most ludicrous effect. These superficial devourers of
books—who skim over the surface of pages, but never
dive into the depths of study ; who read a book as a
loitering schoolboy gazes on the pictures in shop |
windows ; who are satisfied with believing what they 1
read, without taking the trouble to think for them-
selves—regard the arguments they first meet with as
incontrovertible, till they peruse those in reply, when
a corresponding change takes place in their sentiments,
so that they always believe the last who speaks. One
would suppose that they must feel a little awkward at
thus being compelled to change their opinions so often;
but, the fact is, they fancy that they are making won-
derful advances towards the truth, when, in reality, they
continue at the same point at which they set out. Their
situation puts one in mind of the country justice, who
never liked to hear more than one side of a question ;
being asked the reason, he replied, with the utmost
simplicity, “ When I hear one side of a question, I
have no difficulty in coming to a decision ; but when
both sides are heard, one is apt to be bamboozled.”
Orators skilled in human nature, are aware of this
failing in the generality of mankind, and often take
advantage of it, knowing well that he who speaks last
has the most influence over his hearers. The minds
of the mass of mankind are like wax— they retain the
last impression alone: it is only for him who is pos-
sessed of a master mind to investigate statements and
arguments ; to compare facts, and draw his own con-
clusions from them before he comes to a decision;
and which has caused it with truth to be said, that it
is better to doubt everything we hear, till we have
examined for ourselves. It is this failing in human
nature that has caused infidel works to be so per-
nicious, many only reading them from curiosity, who
are ultimately deceived by the specious arguments
employed, and the seductive eloquence of the writers,
and become the victims of an unfortunate tendency to
be acted upon by recent impressions, without the
power to study for themselves both sides of the
question.
These thoughts were elicited by the perusal of a
very excellent article in last week’s publication of the
Colonial Literary Journal , entitled reward. With
the greater part of the writer’s remarks, I agree ; but I
most decidedly differ with one of the principles he has
advocated, namely, that no charitable action is done
without a motive of reward. I will allow that the
great proportion of the actions in the world which
appear to be benevolent, result from ostentation and
selfishness : I will allow that what is often called bene-
volence has no right to the name; but I never will
allow that principles so degrading to our human
nature are true. I shall always set up a most decided
opposition to a doctrine which at once bursts asunder
the ties which bind society in affection together; which
annihilates that affection, and treats it as a chimera of
the imagination ; which makes the heart of man one
mass of nought but selfishness, the world a desert,
and love but a name. Will you tell the mourning
friend who sympathizes over the death-bed of one dear
unto him as his own soul, that his compassion is
selfish ? or will you tell the sufferer himself that the
tears which fall from the eyes of his weeping friends
who hang over his couch in the heart’s solicitude, flow
from a motive of reward? What a soothing belief
to him ! How must it lessen the pains, the anguish,
that torture him—how must it disarm death of his
; terrors, and smooth the gloomy path! What say you
| to the agonized mother weeping over her dying
j child ? Can you dare pronounce that selfishness is the
prompter of these throbs of agony that none but a
mother can feel for her offspring ? Behold him who
has just laid his youthful partner in the dust, her who
was the bright dream of his life, who he fondly
imagined would still live to bless him, till they should
both in honoured age go down to the narrow house
together—insult his sacred grief by the mention of
selfishness, and would not each burning tear, be-
speaking the ardent affection of a bleeding heart, blot
out the impious word, and condemn the degrading
thought.
Yes, says the sophist, who will agree with the
cold-hearted Locke, these emotions all spring from
selfishness. It was not compassipn for the departed
or the dying that actuated their breasts ; —it was the
thought that the death of those dear to them would
be injurious to their own happiness. Benevolence, if
not prompted by a spirit of ostentation, to take the
mildest view of the matter, is the result of a motive
of reward in the consciousness of having done a kind
action, or in the words of the author of the article
alluded to, is prompted by this love of those plea-
surable sensations which are the sure reward of good


actions! Now', it must be evident to all that the I
benevolence does not consist in the action itself —for I
similar actions may be done with any but benevolent '
motives—but consists in the motive or impulse to do j
this action. Then if we say that this motive or im- j
pulse arises from the love of those “ pleasurable sen- !
sations which are the sure reward of good actions,” it !
is evident that there is nothing of what is properly J
called benevolence in the case ; and if we admit the j
principle that all good actions are the result of this
motive of reward, we admit that no such thing as I
benevolence exists at all—that the term is but a \
coinage of the brain of those who wish to rescue our
degraded humanity from the despicable situation in
which it is really placed. But I admit no such doc-
trine : I am inclined to give my fellow-creatures credit
for more of the divine similitude than do they wdio
hold such an opinion. I do not arrogate to myself
the possession of more of the milk of human kindness
than those around, me ; but I am conscious of pos-
sessing in my mind an impulse to do good actions —
not the result of any external motive whatever, but
the workings of an instinct which the Divine Creator
has endowed me with. I allow that this impulse
seldom acts singly, but I contend that it may and
does do so. I shall take an example to illustrate my
position, an extreme one perhaps, but in extremes we
find right or wrong principles most developed. Suppose
I saw a child playing in the street, and in imminent
danger of being run over by a cart, would the light-
ning impulse that would instantaneously cause me to
spring forward to save the child from destruction be
the result of a motive of reward of any sort what-
soever ? Assuredly not! and I am sure the reader
must agree with me in my opinion. That there is a
never-failing reward in the consciousness of having
done a benevolent action, I most unhesitatingly avow ;
but it must be apparent to all that this reward is the
result of the benevolent impulse—is in fact the effect,
while the impulse is the cause; and till I can be con-
vinced that effect precedes and causes cause, so to
speak, I must and will ever hold the gratifying belief,
that man has been endowed by his beneficent Creator
with an instinctive impulse to do good—with that
spirit of charity that looketh not to reward.
ÆNEAS.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXIII.
OF THE GREEK PHILOSOPHERS.
1. After the time of Homer and Hesiod, the increasing
relish for poetical composition gave rise to a set of
men termed Rhapsodists, whose employment was to
recite at the games and festivals, the compositions of
the older poets, and to comment on their merits and
explain their doctrines. Some of these founding
schools of instruction, were dignified by their pupils
with the epithet of Sophists, or teachers of wisdom.
2. The most ancient school of philosophy w r as that
founded by Thales, of Miletus, 640 b. c., and termed
the lonic sect, from the country of the founder. Thales
is celebrated for his knowledge both in geometry and
astronomy. His metaphysical doctrines are but im-
perfectly know. He taught the belief of a First
Cause, and an over-ruling Providence ; but supposed
the Divinity to animate the universe, as the soul does
tile body. The moral doctrines of the lonic school
were pure and rational. The most eminent of the dis-
ciples of Thales were Anaximander and Anaxagoras.
3. Soon after the lonic, arose the Italian sect, so
termed from the country where Pythagoras, its founder,
is said to have first taught. Pythagoras is generally
believed to have been a native of Samos, and to have
been born about 58G b. c. He is supposed to have
derived much of his knowledge from Egypt; and he
had, like the Egyptian priests, a public doctrine for
the people, and a private for his disciples; the
former a good system of morals, the latter probably
unintelligible mystery. His notions of the Divinity
| were akin to those of Thales • but he believed in the
eternity of the universe, and its coexistence with the
Deity. He taught the transmigration of the soul
through different bodies. His disciples lived in
common ; they abstained rigorously from the flesh of
animals ; they held music in high estimation, as a
; corrective of the passions. Pythagoras believed the
j earth to be a sphere, the planets to be inhabited, and
j the fixed stars to be the suns and centres of other
I systems. His most eminent followers were Empe-
| docles, Epicharmus, Ocellus Lucanus, Timseus,
Archytas.
4. The Eleatic sect of philosophy, believed to have
sprung from the Pythagorean or Italic, was founded
by Xenophanes, about 500 b. c. Its chief supporters
were Parmenides, Zeno, and Leucippus, natives of
Elea, from which city the sect took its name. The
metaphysical notions of this sect were utterly unin-
telligible. They maintained, that things had neither
beginning, end, nor any change ; and that all the
changes we perceive are in our own senses. Yet
Leucippus taught the doctrine of atoms, from whence
he supposed all material substances to be formed. Of
this sect were Democritus and Heraclitus.
5. The Socratic school arose from the lonic.
Socrates died 401 b. c., the wisest, the most virtuous
of the Greeks. He exploded the futile logic of the
Sophists, which consisted of a set of general arguments
applicable to all manner of questions, and by which
they could, with an appearance of plausibility, main-
tain either side of any proposition. Socrates always
brought his antagonist to particulars ; beginning with
a simple and undeniable position, which being granted,
another followed equally undeniable, till the disputant
was conducted step by step, by his own concessions,
to that side of the question on which lay the truth.
His rivals lost all credit as philosophers, but had
influence to procure the destruction of the man who
had exposed them. The doctrines of Socrates are to
be learned from Plato and Xenophon. He taught
the belief of a first cause, whose beneficence is equal
to hispporer,w r er, the Creator and Ruler of the Universe.
He inculcated the moral agency of man, the im-
mortality of the soul, and a future state of reward
and punishment, He exploded the Polytheistic super-
stitions of his country, and thence became the victim
of an accusation of impiety. (See Section XIII. § 5.)
The most eminent of the disciples of Socrates were
Plato and Xenophon.
6. The morality of Socrates w r as successfully culti-
vated by the Cyrenaic sect, but was pushed the length
of extravagance by the Cynics. The founder of this
sect was Antisthenes, a pupil of Socrates. Virtue, in
their opinion, consisted in renouncing all the con-
veniences of life. They clothed themselves in rags,


slept and eat in the streets, or wandered about the
country with a stick and a knapsack. They con-
demned all knowledge as useless. They associated
impudence with ignorance, and indulged themselves
in scurrility and invective without restraint. The
most eminent of this sect was Diogenes.
7. The Megarean sect was founded by Euclid, not
the mathematician, and were the happy inventors of
logical syllogism, or the art of quibbling. The most
eminent were Eubulides, Alexinus Eleensis, Diodorus
and Stilpo.
8. The Academic sect had Plato for its founder, a
native of iEgina, and thus by his country an Athenian;
he was born about 430, b. c.; a philosopher, whose
doctrines have had a more extensive and more lasting
empire over the minds of mankind than those perhaps
of any other among the ancients. This is in part
owing to their intrinsic merit, and in part to the
eloquence with which they have been propounded.
Plato had the most sublime ideas of the Divinity and
his attributes. He taught that the human soul was a
portion of the Divinity, and that this alliance with
the eternal mind might be improved into actual inter-
course with the Supreme Being, by abstracting the
soul from all the corruptions it derives from the body ;
a doctrine highly flattering to the pride of man, and
generating that mystical enthusiasm which has the
most powerful empire over a warm imagination.
Some of the most eminent men of Greece were his
disciples—Demosthenes, Isocrates, and Aristotle.
9. The Platonic philosophy found its chief oppo-
nents in four remarkable sects —those of Aristotle,
of Pyrrho, of Zeno, and Epicurus ; in other words, the
Peripatetic, the Sceptic, the Stoic, and the Epicurean.
10. Aristotle, the founder of the Peripatetic sect,
was born at Stagyra, in Thrace, a city then under
the dominion of Macedonia. He was the tutor of
Alexander the Great, and established his school in
the Lyceum at Athens; a philosopher, whose tenets
have found more zealous partisans, and more ranco-
rous opponents, than those of any other. It w r as his
custom to discourse to his disciples in walking, and
hence his philosophy w r as termed peripatetic. His
Metaphysics, from the sententious brevity of his
expression, are extremely obscure, and have given
rise to numberless commentaries. The best analysis
of his logic is given by Dr. Reid, in Lord Karnes’s
Sketches of the History of Man. llis physical works
are the result of great observation and acquaintance
with nature; and his critical writings, as his Poetics
and Art of Rhetoric, display both taste and judg-
ment. It is the latter works that will ever continue
to be most valued. The peculiar passion of Aristotle
was that of classifying, arranging, and combining the
objects of his knowledge so as to reduce all to a few
principles; a dangerous propensity in philosophy,
and repressive of improvement in science.
11. The Sceptical sect was founded by Pyrrho, a
native of Elea. They formed no systems of their
own, but endeavoured to weaken the foundations of
those of all others. They inculcated universal doubt
as the only true wisdom. There was, in their opinion,
no essential difference between vice and virtue,
farther than as human compact had discriminated
them. Tranquillity of mind they supposed to be the
state of the greatest happiness, and this was to be
attained by absolute indifference to ail dogmas or
opinions.
12. The Stoics, proposing to themselves the same
end, tranquillity of mind, took a nobler path to arrive
at it. They endeavoured to raise themselves above al L
the passions and feelings of humanity. They believed
all nature, and God himself the soul of the universe,
to be regulated by fixed and immutable laws. The
human soul being a portion of the Divinity, man
cannot complain of being actuated by that necessity
which actuates the Divinity himself. His pains and
his pleasures are determined by the same laws whicli
determine his existence. Virtue consists in accom-
modating the disposition of the mind to the immutable
laws of nature ; vice in opposing those laws ; vice
therefore is folly, and virtue the only true wisdom.
A beautiful picture of the Stoical philosophy is found
in the Enchiridion of Epictetus, and in the meditations
of M. Aurelius Antoninus, The founder of this sect
was Zeno, a native of Cyprus, and disciple of Crates
the Cynic.
13. Epicurus taught that man’s supreme happiness
consisted in pleasure. He himself limited the term
so as to make it mean only the practice of virtue.
But if pleasure is allowed to be the object, every man
will draw it from those sources which he finds can
best supply it. It might have been the pleasure o f
Epicurus to be chaste and temperate. We are told it
was so ; but others find their pleasure in intemperance
and luxury ; and such w r as the taste of his principal
followers. Epicurus held that the Deity was indifferent
to all the actions of man. They therefore had no
other counsellor than their own conscience, and no
other guide than the instinctive desire of their own
happiness.
14. The Greek philosophy, on the whole, affords
little else than a picture of the imbecility and caprice
of the human mind. Its teachers, instead of experi-
ment and observation, satisfied themselves with con-
structing theories; and these, wanting fact for their
basis, have only served to perplex the understanding,
and retard equally the advancement of sound morality
and the progress of useful knowledge.
FORTUNES OF A COUNTRY GIRL.
[From Chambers' J»urnal.~\
One day, I will not say how many years ago —for I
intend to be very mysterious for a time with my
readers —a young woman stepped from a country
waggon that had just arrived at the yard gate of the
famous Chelsea inn, the Goat and Compasses, a name
formed by corrupting time out of the pious original,
“ God encompasseth us.” The young woman seemed
about the age of eighteen, and was decently dressed,
though in the very plainest rustic fashion of the times.
She was well formed and well looking, both form and
looks giving indications of the ruddy health conse-
quent upon exposure to sun and air in the country.
After stepping from the waggon, which the driver
immediately led into the court-yard, the girl stood
for a moment in apparent uncertainty whither to go,
when the mistress of the inn, who had come to the
door, observed her hesitation, and asked her to enter
and take a rest. The young woman readily obeyed
the invitation, and soon, by the kindness of the land-
lady, found herself by the fireside of a nicely sanded
parlour, with wherewithal before her to refresh herself
after her long and tedious journey.
“ And so, my poor girl,” said the landlady, after
having heard, in return for her kindness, the whole


particulars of the young woman’s situation and history,
“ so thou hast come all this way to seek service, and
hast no friend but John Hodge, the waggoner 1 ?
Truly, he is like to give thee but small help, wench,
towards getting a place.” “Is service, then, difficult
to be had'?” asked the young woman, sadly. “ Ay,
marry, good situations, at least, are somewhat hard
to find. But have a good heart, child,” said the
landlady, and, as she continued, she looked round
her with an air of pride and dignity ; “ thou see’st
what I have come to, myself; and I left the country
a young thing, just like thyself, with as little to look
to. But ’tis’nt every one, for certain, that must look
for such a fortune, and, in any case, it must first be
wrought for. I showed myself a good servant, before
my poor old Jacob, heaven rest his soul, made me
mistress of the Goat and Compasses. So mind thee,
girl .” The landlady’s speech might have gone
on a long way, for the dame loved well the sound of
her own tongue, but for the interruption occasioned
by the entrance of a gentleman, whom the landlady
rose and welcomed heartily. “Ha ! dame,” said the
new 7 comer, who was a stout respectably attired person
of middle age, “ how sells the good ale ? Scarcely
a drop left in thy cellars, I hope ?” “ Enough left
to give your w r orship a draught after your long walk,”
said the landlady, as she rose to fulfil the promise
implied in her words. “ I walked not,” was the
gentleman’s return, “ but took a pair of oars, dame,
down the river. Thou know’st I always come to
Chelsea myself to see if thou lackest any thing.”
“ Ay, sir,” replied the landlady, “ and it is by that
way of doing business that you have made yourself,
as all the city says, the richest man in the Brewers’
Corporation, if not in all London itself.” “Well,
dame, the better for me if it is so,” said the brewer,
with a smile ; “ but let us have thy mug, and this
quiet pretty friend of thine shall pleasure us, mayhap,
by tasting with us.”
The landlady was not long in producing a stoup of
ale, knowing that her visitor never set an example
hurtful to his own interests by countenancing the
consumption of foreign spirits. “ Right, hostess,”
said the brewer, when he had tasted it, “ well made
and w 7 ell kept, and that is giving both thee and me
our dues. Now, pretty one,” said he, filling one of
the measures or glasses which had been placed beside
the stoup, “ wilt thou drink this to thy sweetheart’s
health'?” The poor country girl to whom this w r as
addressed declined the proffer civilly, and with a
blush ; but the landlady exclaimed, “ Come, silly
wench, drink his worship’s health ; he is more likely
to do thee a service, if it so please him, than John
waggoner. The girl has come many a mile,” con-
tinued the hostess, “ to seek a place in towrn, that she
may burden her family no more at home.” “To
seek service !” exclaimed the brewer ; “ why, then, it is
perhaps well met with us. Has she brought a character
with her, or can you speak for her, dame '?” “ She
has never yet been from home, sir, but her face is
her character,” said the kind-hearted landlady ; “I
warrant me she will be a diligent and trusty one.”
“ Upon thy prophecy, hostess, will I take her into
my own service ; for but yesterday w 7 as my house-
keeper complaining of the want of help, since this
deputyship brought me more into the way of enter-
taining the people of the ward.”
Ere the wealthy brewer and deputy left the Goat
and Compasses, arrangements were made for sending
the country girl to his house in the city on the follow-
ing day. Proud of having done a kind action, the
garrulous hostess took advantage of the circumstance
to deliver an immensely long harangue to the young
woman on her new duties, and on the dangers to which
youth is exposed in large cities. The girl heard her
benefactor with modest thankfulness, hut a more
minute observer than the good landlady might have
seen in the eye and countenance of the girl a quiet
firmness of expression, such as might have induced
the cutting short of the lecture. However, the land-
lady’s lecture did end, and towards the evening of the
day following her arrival at the Goat and Compasses,
the youthful rustic found herself installed as house-
maid in the dwelling of the rich brewer.
The fortunes of this girl it is our purpose to follow.
The first change in her condition which took place
subsequent to that related, was her elevation to the
vacated post of housekeeper in the brewer’s family.
In this situation she was brought more than formerly
into contact with her master, who found ample grounds
for admiring her propriety of conduct, as well as her
skilful economy of management. By degrees he began
to find her presence necessary to his happiness ; and
being a man both of honourable and independent
mind, he at length offered her his hand. It was ac-
cepted ; and she, who but four or five years before had
left her country home barefooted, became the wife of
one of the richest citizens of London.
For many years, Mr. Aylesbury, for such was the
name of the brewer, and his wife, lived in happiness
and comfort together. He was a man of good family
and connections, and consequently of higher breeding
than his wife could boast of, hut on no occasion had
he ever to blush for the partner whom he had chosen.
Her calm, inborn strength, if not dignity, of cha-
racter, conjoined with an extreme quickness of
perception, made her fill her place at her husband’s
table with as much grace and credit as if she had
been born to the station. And, as time ran on, the
respectability of Mr. Aylesbury’s position received a
gradual increase. He became an alderman, and,
subsequently, a sheriff of the city, and in consequence
of the latter elevation, was knighted. Afterwards —
and now a part of the mystery projected at the com-
mencement of this story, must be broken in upon, in
as far as time is concerned—afterwards, the important
place which the wealthy brewer filled in the city,
called down upon him the attention and favour of the
king, Charles 1., then anxious to conciliate the good-
will of the citizens, and the city knight received the
farther honour of a baronetcy.
Lady Aylesbury, in the first years of her married
life, gave birth to a daughter, who proved an only
child, and around whom, as w 7 as natural, all the hopes
and wishes of the parents entwined themselves. This
daughter had only reached the age of seventeen when
her father died, leaving an immense fortune behind
him. It was at first thought that the widow and her
daughter would become inheritors of this without
the shadow of a dispute. But it proved otherwise.
Certain relatives of the deceased brewer set up a plea
upon the foundation of a will made in their favour
before the deceased had become married. With her
wonted firmness, Lady Aylesbury immediately took
steps for the vindication of her own and her child’s
rights. A young lawyer, w'ho had been a frequent


guest at her husband’s table, and of whose abilities
she had formed a high opinion, was the person whom
she fixed upon as the legal assertor of her cause.
Edward Hyde was, indeed, a youth of great ability.
Though only twenty-four years of age at the period
referred to, and though he had spent much of his
youthful time in the society of the gay and fashionable
of the day, he had not neglected the pursuits to which
his family’s wash, as well as his own tastes, had de-
voted him. But it was with considerable hesitation,
and with a feeling of anxious diffidence, that he con-
sented to undertake the charge of Lady Aylesbury’s
case ; for certain strong, though unseen and unac-
knowledged sensations, were at work in his bosom, to
make him fearful of the responsibility, and anxious
about the result.
The young lawyer, however, became counsel for
the brewer’s widow and daughter, and, by a striking
exertion of eloquence, and display of legal ability,
gained their suit. Two days afterwards, the success-
ful pleader was seated beside his two clients. Lady
Aylesbury’s usual manner was quiet and composed,
but she now spoke warmly of her gratitude to the
preserver of her daughter from want, and also ten-
dered a fee—a payment munificent, indeed, for the
occasion. The young barrister did not seem at ease
during Lady Aylesbury’s expression of her feelings.
He shifted upon his chair, changed colour, looked to
Miss Aylesbury, played with the purse before him,
tried to speak, but stopped short, and changed colour
again. Thinking only of best expressing her own
gratitude, Lady Aylesbury appeared not to observe
her visitor’s confusion, but rose, saying, " In token
that I hold your services above compensation in the
way of money, I wish also to give you a memorial
of my gratitude in another shape.” As she spoke
thus, she drew a bunch, of keys from the pocket
which every lady carried in those days, and left the
room.
What passed during her absence between the par-
ties whom she left together, will be best shown by the
result. When Lady Aylesbury returned, she found
her daughter standing with averted eyes, but with
her hand in that of Edward Hyde, who knelt on the
mother’s entrance and besought her consent to their
union. Explanation of the feelings which the parties
entertained for each other, ensued, and Lady Ayles-
bury was not long in giving the desired consent.
“ Give me leave, however,” said she to the lover, “to
place around your neck the memorial which I in-
tended for you. The chain” —it was a superb gold !
one—■“ was a token of gratitude, from the ward in
which he lived, to my dear husband.” Lady Ayles-
bury’s calm serious eyes were filled with tears as she
threw the chain round Edward’s neck, saying, “These
links were borne on the neck of a worthy and an
honoured man. May thou, my beloved son, attain to
still higher honours.”
The wish was fulfilled, though not until danger
and suffering had tried severely the parties concerned.
The son-in-law of Lady Aylesbury became aneminent
member of the English bar, and also an important
speaker in parliament. When Oliver Cromwell
brought the king to the scaffold, and established the
Commonwealth, Sir Edward Hyde —for he had held
a government post, and had been knighted—was too
prominent a member of the royalist party to escape
the enmity of the new rulers, and was obliged to
reside upon the continent till the Restoration. While
abroad, he was so much esteemed by the exiled prince
(afterwards Charles II.) as to be appointed Lord
High Chancellor of England, which appointment was
confirmed when the king was restored to his throne.
Some years afterwards, Hyde was elevated to the
peerage, first in the rank of a baron, and subsequently
as Earl of Clarendon, a title which he made famous
in English history.
These events, so briefly narrated, occupied a large
space of time, during which Lady Aylesbury passed
her days in quiet and retirement. She had now the
gratification of beholding her daughter Countess of
Clarendon, and of seeing the grandchildren who had
been born to her, mingling as equals with the noblest
in the land. But a still more exalted fate awaited
the descendants of the poor friendless girl who had
come to London, in search of service, in a waggoner’s
van. Her grandaughter, Anne Hyde, a young lady
of spirit, wit, and beauty, had been appointed, while
her family staid abroad, one of the maids of honour
to the Princess of Orange, and in that situation had
attracted so strongly the regards of James, Duke of
York, and brother of Charles 11., that he contracted
a private marriage with her. The birth of a child
forced on a public announcement of this contract, and
ere long, the grandaughter of Lady Aylesbury was
openly received by the royal family, and the people
of England, as Duchess of York, and sister-in-law of
the sovereign.
Lady Aylesbury did not long survive this event.
But ere she dropped into the grave, at a ripe old age,
she saw her descendants heirs-presumptive of the
British crown. King Charles had married, but had
no legitimate issue, and, accordingly, his brother’s
family had the prospect and the right of succession.
And, in reality, two immediate descendants of the
barefooted country girl did ultimately fill the throne
—Mary (wife of William III.), and Queen Anne,
princesses both of illustrious memory.
Such were the fortunes of the young woman whom
the worthy landlady of the Goat and Compasses was
fearful of encouraging to rash hopes by a reference to
the lofty position which it had been her own fate to
attain in life. In one assertion, at least, the hostess
was undoubtedly right—that success in life must be
laboured for in some way or other. Without the
prudence and propriety of conduct which won the
esteem and love of the brewer, the sequel of the coun-
try girl’s history could not have been such as it was.
THE ART OF PRINTING.
(Continued from page 315.)
Towards the conclusion of the preceding article on this sub-
ject, it was mentioned, that although the art of stamping words
or sentences, by means of small blocks or signets, was known
and practised in very early times, especially by the Chinese,
y< t such a modification of the craft of printing had no connexion
with the modern invention, which is now to be noticed. The
discovery of the art of printing with moveable types, which
took place in the fifteenth century in Germany, was consider-
ably aided by a fashion, which had been some time prevalent,
of cutting blocks of wood into pictures, or representations of
scenes illustrative of Scriptural history, and printing them on
paper, simply by the pressure of the hand, a brush, or a cushion
behind. One of the very earliest of these wood-cuts is still
extant, and represents the creation*of man, as detailed in the
Book of Genesis. In the centre of the picture stands a figure,
intended for the Divinity, having the appearance of an old
man with flowing garments, a venerable beard, and rays pro-
ceeding from his head ; on the ground before him lies a human


being, intended for Adam, fast asleep, and from au opening in
his side is seen proceeding the slender figure of a female,
meaning Eve, who is taken by the hand of God, and is
apparently receiving His blessing. The execution of this, and
other cuts of a similar nature, is of the rudest description, and
is a striking testimony of the low scale of art at the time.
Pictures of this nature, which were bound up into books,
nevertheless, were the immediate forerunners of the great
invention itself. Books of prints, it will naturally be imagined,
would soon be found imperfect, for want of descriptive text;
this, therefore, urged on the discovery. The manufacturers of
the books at first cut single sentences, or words, and had them
stamped below the pictures ; but this not conveying a sufficient
idea of the story represented, an anxiety arose to give a
1 mgthened description on the opposite pages. This, it seems,
was at length accomplished ; still the sentences were all cut in
a piece, and the notion of having separate letters, so as to orm
words, was still in abeyance.
The person on whom history correctly places the honour ot
being the earliest discoverer of the art of printing by means o
moveable letters, or types, was John Guttenberg, a citizen of
Mayence, or Mentz, who flourished from the year 1430 to 146 ,
in therein of Frederick 111, of Germany. The ingenious
Guttenberg is supposed to have been born in Mayence in the
beginning of the fifteenth century, and to have settled at
Strasburg about the year 1424, or, perhaps, rather earlier. In
1435, he entered into partnership with Andrew Drozhenms
(or Dritzehen), John Riff, and Andrew Heelman, citizens of
Strasburg, binding himself thereby to disclose to them some
important secrets, by which they should make their fortunes.
The workshop was'in the house of Andrew Dritzehen, who
dying, Guttenberg immediately sent Ins servant, Lawrence
Beildich, to Nicholas, the brother of the deceased, and requested
that no person might be admitted into the workshop, lest the
secret should be discovered, and the forms (or fastened-togedier
types) stolen. But they had already disappeared ; and this
fraud, as well as the claims of Nicholas Dritzehen to succeed
to his brother’s share, produced a law-suit among the
surviving partners. Five witnesses were examined , anc *om
the evidence of Beildich, Guttenberg’s servant, it was mcon-
trovertibly proved that Guttenberg was the first who practised
the art of printing with moveable types ; and that on the
death of Andrew Dritzehen he had expressly ordered the forms
to be broken up, and the characters dispersed, lest any one
should discover his secret. The words given in his order,
which were established by documentary evidence, were these
“ Go, take the component parts of the press, and pull them to
pieces; then no one will understand what they mean. In
the same document, mention is made oi four forms, kept
together by two screws, or press spindles , and of letters and
pages being cut up and destroyed. The result of this law-suit,
which occurred in 1439, was a dissolution of P ar \ r ‘
Guttenberg, after having exhausted lus means in the effort,
proceeded°in 1445-6 to his native city of Mentz, where lie
resumed his typographic labours. Being ambmous of makmg
his extraordinary invention known, and of value to .himself,
but being at the same time deficient in the means, he opened
his mind to a wealthy goldsmith and worker in preciousimetals,
named John Fust, or Faust, and prevailed on him to adduce
laro-e sums of money in order to make further and more complete
trials of the art. Guttenberg being thus associated with l ust,
the first regular printing establishment was begun, and the
business of°printing carried on in a style corresponding to the
hffancy of the art. After many smaller essays in trying he
capabilities of these and moveable types, Guttenberg had the
hardihood to print an edition of the Bible, which he succeeded
in printing complete, between the years 1400 and 1455. Hus
celebrated Bible, which was the first important specimen of the
art of printing, and which, judging from what it has led to, ws
should certain y esteem as the most extraordinary and praise-
should certainy ductions was executed with cut-metal
types sbt hundred and thirty-seven leaves ; and, from a
types, on S - j the Royal Library of Berlin, some of
printed on ve.lum. The work was
printed in the Latin first inted Bible-which has
S^rmcidemtota^ou^^^eiahoram
.SSSS3 a°lso a e p C S , cfThc a ?a a ;"ml h .'h m a; had been advlcech
This suit was followed by a dissolution of partnership ; and the
whole of Guttenberg’s apparatus fell into the hands of John
Fust, who, from being the ostensible agent in the business of
printing, and from the wonder expressed by the vulgar in
seeing printed sheets, soon acquired the name of a magician,
or one in compact with the devil; and, under this character,
with the appellation of Dr. Faustus, he has for ages enjoyed
an evil notoriety.
Besides the above-mentioned Bible, some other specimens
of the work of Guttenberg have been discovered to be in ex-
istence. One in particular, which is worthy of notice, was
found some years ago among a bundle of old papers in the
archives of Mayence. It is an almanack for the year, 1457,
which served as wrapper for a register of accounts of that year.
This, says Hansard, would most likely be printed towards the
close of 1456, and may consequently be deemed the most
ancient specimen of typographic printing extant with a certain
date. Antiquaries and Bibliomaniacs have found considerable
difficulty in ascertaining by what process Guttenberg manu-
factured his types; but it seems the prevalent opinion that
those which he first used were individually cut by the hand ;
and being all made as near a height and thickness as possible,
they were thus put together in the forms. It appears, how-
ever, that this skilful man soon discovered the mode of casting
his types by means of moulds ; lor without this great accessory
to the art of printing, he would perceive it was next to im-
possible to carry on his trade. The art of founding metal
characters is therefore given to John Guttenberg, as well as
that of printing although it is but justice to state, that the
nlan of striking the moulds with punches was a subsequent
invention of his successor, Peter Scliceffer. That Guttenberg
was a person of a refined taste in the execution of his works,
is sufficiently obvious. Adopting a very ancient custom,
common in the written copies of the Scriptures and the missals
of the church, he used a large ornamental letter at the com-
mencement of books and chapters, finely embellished and
surrounded with a variety of figures, as in a frame, lhe
initial letter of the first psalm thus forms a beautiful specimen
of the art of printing in its early progress. It is richly
ornamented with foliage, flowers, a bird, and a greyhound, and
is still more beautiful from being printed in a pa.e olue coloui,
while the embellishments are red, and of a transparent
appearance. What became of Guttenberg immediately after
the unsuccessful termination of his law suit with Fust, is not
well known. Like the illustrious discoverer of the great
Western Continent, he seems to have retired almost bior>en-
hearted from the service of an ungrateful world, and to have
spent most of the remainder of his days in obscurity. It is
ascertained that in 1465 he received an annual pension from
the Elector Adolphus, but that he only enjoyed tlm small
compensation for his extraordinary invention a period oi three
years, and died iu February, 1468.
(To be continued.)
Varieties.
Making the most of a Criticism.— lt is common in the
advertisements of books to add a line or two of eulogy from
some of the newspaper reviews of it; the ingenuity displaye
in this wav is extraordinary. In one instance otmte occur-
rence a daily paper cut up a certain book mereness y, co -
eluding thus—“ He (the writer) concludes by saying his book
will probably pass quietly down to oblivion—the author is
decidedly in the right.” The last seven worus alone were
extracted, and prefixed to an advertisement which appeared
in the very iournal that had published the criticism.
AFFECTioN—There is nothing in this world so sens Hive as
affection. It feels its own happiness too much not to tremble
for its reality ; and starts, ever and anon fron V* s d *
consciousness, to ask, Is it not, indeed, a dream? A word
and a look are enough either to repress or to encourage.
Bribery in Russia.— Bribery is said to be almost universal
amono- the inferior officers of the Russian government, and
a s or y . 0 f a Frenchman in Russia which illustrates
the system He had an office, of which the salary was
small that he could not live upon it. At first e wou
take bribes, but stern necessity drove him to• it, an
about it, he did the thing handsomely. Having over
reached the mark, and being guilty of beingdetge , Jew
and con-
lnddel’ts h o/TmVeUn the Russian and
Turkish Empires.


The Moralist.
JUSTICE.
The peace of society dependeth on justice ; the happiness of
individuals, on the safe enjoyment of all their possessions.
Keep the desires of thy heart, therefore, within the bounds
of moderation : let the hand of justice lead them aright.
Cast not an evil eye on the goods of thy neighbour ; let
whatever is his property be sacred from thy touch.
Let not temptation allure thee, nor any provocation excite
thee, to lift up thy hand to the hazard of his life.
Defame him not in his character; bear no false witness
against him. , , . , ,
Corrupt not his servant to cheat or forsake him ; and the
wife of his bosom, O tempt not to sin.
It will be a grief to his heart, which thou canst not relieve ;
an injury to his life, which no reparation can atone for.
In thy dealings with men, be impartial and just: and do
unto them as thou wouldst they should do unto thee.
Be faithful to thy trust, and deceive not the man who
relieth upon thee ; be assured it is less evil in the sight of God
to steal, than to betray.
Oppress not the poor, and defraud not of his hire the labour-
ing man.
When thou sellest for gain, hear the whisperings of con-
science, and be satisfied with moderation; nor from the
ignorance of the buyer make any advantage.
Pay the debts which thou owest, for he who gave thee credit,
relied upon thine honour : and to withhold from him his due,
is both mean and unjust.
Finally, O son of society! examine thy heart, call remem-
brance to thy aid; and if in any of these things thou findest
thou hast, transgressed, take sorrow and shame to thyself, and
make speedy reparation to the utmost of thy power.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 24.
Be good betimes, lest repentance come too late.
Be just, buttrust not every one.
Believe after trial, and judge before friendship.
Believe not all you hear, and report not all you believe.
Be mindful of things past, and provident of things 10 come.
Benefits grow old betimes, but injuries are long livers.
Be not a baker if your head be of butter.
Be not a figure among ciphers.
Be not too hasty to outbid another.
Be patient in adversity, and humble in prosperity.
Be ready to hear, careful to contrive, and slow to advise.
Be slow in chusing a friend, but slower in changing.
Vice and Virtue. —He that can apprehend and consider
Vice, with all her baits and seeming pleasures, and yet abstain,
and yet distinguish, and yet prefer that which is. truly better,
he is the true wayfaring Christian. I cannot praise a fugitive
and cloistered Virtue, unexercised and unbreathed, that never
sallies out and sees her adversary, but slinks out of the race
where that immortal garland is to be run for, not without dust
and heat.— Milton.
Confidence is not always the growth of time. There are
minds that meet each other with a species of affinity that
resembles the cohesive properties of matter, and with a
promptitude and faith that only belongs to the purer essence
of which they are composed.
Female Influence. —Unless our women be brought up in
modesty, and with industrious and religious habits, it is in vain
that we educate the men. It is they who keep the character
of men at its proper elevation. — Fellenburg.
Occupation. —Whenever you have nothing else to do—in
other words, whenever you have no particular object in view,
of pleasure or profit, of immediate or remote good—set your-
self to do good in some shape or other ; —to men, to sensitive
beings, rational or irrational; to one or to many; to some
individual, or to the whole race.— Bentham.
Secrets of Comfort. —Though sometimes small evils, like
invisible insects, inflict pain, and a simple hair may stop a
vast machine, yet, the chief secret of comfort lies in not suf-
fering trifles to vex one, and in prudently cultivating an
under-growth of small pleasures, since very few great ones,
alas ! are let on long leases.— Sharp.
Is there a God to swear by, and is there none to believe in,
none to trust to ?
A RHOMBOIDAL DIRGE.
Ah me!
Am I the swain,
That late, from sorrow free,
Did all the cares on earth disdain ?
And still untouch’d, as at some safer games,
Play’d with the burning coals of love and beauty’s flames ?
Was’t I, could dive, and sound each passion’s secret depth at will,
And from those huge o’erwhelmings rise by help of reason still ?
And am I now, O heavens! for trying this in vain,
So sunk, that I shall never rise again?
Then, let despair set sorrow’s string
For strains that dolefull’st be,
And I will sing
Ah me !
But why,
O fatal time,
Dost thou constrain, that I
Should perish in my youth’s sweet prime ?
I, but a while ago, you cruel powers,
In spite of fortune cropt contentment’s sweetest flowers!
And yet unscorned serve a gentle nymph, the fairest she
That ever was belov’d of man, or eyes did ever see.
Yea, one whose tender heart would rue for my distress :
Yet I, poor I, must perish ne’ertheless;
And, which much more augments my care,
Unmoaned I must die,
And no man e’er
Know why !
Thy leave,
My dying song,
Yet take, ere grief bereave
The breath which I enjoy too long !
, Tell thou that fair one this : my soul prefers
Her love above my life; and that I died hers.
And let him be for evermore to her remembrance dear,
Who lov’d the very thought of her, whilst he remained here.
And now farewell, thou place of my unhappy birth,
Where once I breath’d the sweetest air on earth.
Since me my wonted joys forsake,
And all my trust deceive,
Of all I take
My leave.
Farewell,
Sweet groves, to you !
You hills that highest dwell,
And all you humble vales adieu !
You wanton brooks, and solitary rocks ;
My dear companions all, and you my tender flocks!
Farewell,my pipe,&all those pleasing songs whose moving strains
Delighted once the fairest nymphs that dance upon the plains.
You discontents, whose deep and over-deadly smart
Have without pity broke the truest heart,
Sighs, tears, and every sad annoy,
That erst did with me dwell,
And others joy,
Farewell !
Adieu,
Fair shepherdesses!
Let garlands of sad yew
Adorn your dainty golden tresses.
I, that lov’d you, and often with my quill
Made music that delighted fountain, grove, and hill,
I, whom you loved so, and with a sweet and chaste embrace,
Yea, with a thousand rarer favours would vouchsafe to grace,
I now must leave you all alone of love to plain ;
And never pipe, nor never sing again.
I must, for evermore, be gone,
And therefore bid I you,
And every one
Adieu !
I die!
For, oh ! I feel
Death’s horrors drawing nigh,
And all this frame of nature reel.
My hopeless heart, despairing of relief,
Sinks underneath the heavy weight of saddest grief,
Which hath so ruthless torn, so rack’d, so tortur’d every vein;
All comfort comes too late to have it ever cur’d again.
My swimming head begins to datice death’s giddy round;
A shuddering chillness doth each sense confound:
Benumb’d is my cold-sweating brow ;
A dimness shuts my eye !
And now, oh now,
a. d. 1620.]
I die!
GEORGE WITHER.


iHoticc.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
i£ottc* to ©omspontrents.
“ Frederick’s” second article we trust to be able to insert before
the commencement of another Quarter , together with his con-
cluding essay, if sent us sufficiently early.
Our Correspondents are requested to observe that the Colonial
Literary Journal Office is now removed fo No. 316, Pitt-
street North, (opposite A. Foss' Chemical Drug, and Grocery
Establishment) where all communications to the Editor may be
forwarded (post paid).
CATALLACTICS.
[continued.]
So familiar and lively is our manner of instruction,
and so clear and simple therefore is your appre-
hension of the weighty truths we teach, that we fear
very few of you suspect us to be the dungeon of
wisdom that we really are. No matter. Our wish is
to make you understand the condition of the colony,
and to direct you to the line of true economy and
social improvement; and therefore we use no hard
words but the one we set out with, and which, by
particular request, we now explain to be a concoction,
either of Whately or Whewell, signifying the science
which relates to the changes, exchangeable relations,
reciprocations and convertibilities of mundane and
human things: a very ample term, substituted for
political economy, which is neither ample, precise,
nor convenient. You wfill see that these lectures treat
of Exchanges, Exports and Imports, the absorption
and reproduction of profits, the conversion of cir-
culating into fixed capital, the due supplying, em-
ploying, assorting, and proportioning of land, labour,
and capital, as conjoint agents of social civilization
and individual happiness.
By the last periodical Bank Abstracts, there is
upwards of one million of money unemployed. One-
third of this amount is actually in the Bank chests
idle ; the other two thirds are not indeed yet in the
colony, (unless the returns be fallacious,) but that
circumstance only makes the matter worse. It is
capital paid up for the purpose of being employed
here, and lies, we presume, in England, as a credit to
be drawn upon, and therefore coming into compe-
tition in the Exchange market with our wool re-
mittances. Pity enough it were that it should be
here unuseable, but greater still is the detriment if it
must be brought here at a time when there is no de-
mand for bills on England. Of the unemployed
deposits, a great portion, we believe, belongs to in-
solvent estates, and is thus virtually locked up, but
must, ere long, come into the circulation. Not that
. it will remain in circulation unless it find adequate
employment; and coming out gradually, it will not
perceptibly influence either the internal or external
relations of the community. The circulation must
be looked upon as a mere index or instrument, any
attempt to influence which, one way or other, will
prove deceptious or mischievous.
We have already stated our opinion to be that the
quantity of male effective labour has for some years
been diminishing, and has still, and will for many
years to come have, a tendency to diminish. The
derangement of our internal condition, and occasional
importations of labour, have impaired our perception
of this material fact. But if we consider the dispro-
portion in excess of adult males over persons of other
ages, which existed at the taking of the last census,
we will soon see that it must be so.
Of the ages under
Seven, there were . 10,340
From 7t014 . . . 6,306
From 14 to 21 . . . 6,045
From 21 to 45 (the
effective period) 53,381
From 45 & upwards 9,096
Total males . . 85,168
The natural proportions are
nearly
Under 7 10,340
From 7to 14 ... 6,306
From 14 to 21 ... 6,045
From 21 to 45 (the
effective period) 16,000
From 45 & upwards 9,096
Total males . . 47,787
The unnatural, and therefore doubtless the tem-
porary, excess of male effective labour, was, in 1841,
upwards of 37,000 persons, a superaddition or ex-
crescence, on the then natural or duly assorted popu-
lation 93,000 of 40 per cent. Even now it is about
28 per cent.
These two great facts in course of accomplishment,
(a progiessive accumulation of floating capital, and a
progressive decrescence of efficient labour,) are coun-
teractive of each other as regards the improvement of
our territory. For it is evident that the facility of
converting circulating capital into fixed—the in-
ducement to the possessor of land and capital to make
such a conversion—the prospect and amount of ad-
vantages derivable from the conversion, are lessened
by the deficiency and price of labour. Exuberance
of money may, indeed, as within these few years past
it has done, over-excite the propensity to improve,
which is natural and commendable in intelligent
men, and which has led so many through miscal-
culations into ruin. But disasters of recent experience
have, we think, unduly tamed and rendered inert this
propensity; and we fear that the scarcity of labour
will soon, by becoming apparent, prove decisive in
the general opinion against all expenditure conducive
to permanent improvement. The obvious remedy is
a resumption of immigration.
We are not ignorant that an impression prevails
that the colony has no natural resources, except its
pastures, adequate to remunerate the outlay of capital
iu the employment of labour even at its present low
price. We confess we despair of removing this im-
pression by reasoning. Most people’s ideas run in
ruts, until, once in a generation, one of less slavish
genius successfully drives his wheel over a new track.
We are persuaded that if Mr. John Macarthur had
not had it in his power to exhibit his six fleeces of
fine wool, and the account of their sale, he might
have written letters in newspapers from 1803 to 1845
without avail•, wool would have been still unknown
in New South Wales.
The remedy we would suggest for this unreadiness
to try the capabilities of the country, is the formation
of an Agricultural Society, with ramifications all
through the country, and not excluding any indi-
vidual of decent character.
We suggest also, in regard to the landed properties
of insolvents, when they happen to be mortgaged,
particularly if several properties be included in one
mortgage, and so bound for the entire sum lent, that
it should be imperative on the mortgagee to release
each portion separately on receiving a corresponding
portion of his claim. Nay, we do not think it would
be any unfair interference with the sacred rights of


property, if all mortgagees desiring to foreclose should
be compellable to do the like. Many excellent pro-
perties might thus be redeemed from waste.
We speak thus, more with a view to the expected
disposition and ability to buy, than to any at present
existing. We allow for the remaining impoverish-
ment and dejection, but look hopefully to the early
future.
Hence, loathed melancholy!
Of damned debt and broken promise born,
In discount den forlorn,
Midst bills and bonds and all the brood of folly.
Seek out some hut unholy,
Some sly-grog-shop, which shingle-splitters use,
Or fencers even while jolly—
But now unwitting of the means to boose.
But come, thou tight and tidy maiden,
With garment kilted to the knee,
Lap with sheaves and clusters laden,
Known on earth as Industry!—
What thy name in heav’nly Greek,
Let more learned poet speak!
Come with me, my nut-brown maid—
Charming, cheering, chosen one,
When I seek the greenwood glade
Alone a banish’d man.
GAFFER GRAY.
MATHEMATICS.
No. X.
Thales (640 b. c.) merits the honour of having in-
troduced astronomy into Greece. He taught his
disciples that the earth was globular, and divided its
surface into zones. Of this philosopher the following
anecdote is related: we do not mention it for its
importance, but rather as in connection with an im-
portant personage : While (in Egypt) intently
observing the heavens through a tube, to bound his
vision, and stepping backwards in order to take fresh
stars into the field of his tube, he inadvertently placed
one foot over the opening of a deep dry well, and, as
a natural consequence from such a position, the other
followed, and our astronomer was precipitated, rather
unexpectedly, to the bottom. But we do not vouch
for the tradition. This great man, Lucian informs
us, lived to the age of 100 years.
His immediate successors were, Anaximander,
Anaximenes, and Anaxagoras. The first, treading
in the steps of Thales, enriched and improved the
science materially. Anaxagoras also contributed
largely to it: he was the first to observe that Venus
was both the evening and morning star. Yet these
two men, in their wisdom, invented and adopted the
most absurd doctrines imaginable : the following is a
specimen. They conceived the sun to be a ball of
fire, and that between it and the earth was some very
opaque substance having in it a big circular hole,
through which the luminary of day was seen ; they
also held that eclipses were produced by the accidental
stoppage of this opening by some opaque substance.
Pythagoras, the pupil of one of these great philo-
sophers, far outstript his master in his conceptions,
and obscured his fame. Ardent in the pursuit of
knowledge, he spared no pains in its acquisition ;
spending twenty-two years in eager research, untir-
ingly gathering information in all the then most
enlightened parts of the world. He at length settled
in the south of Italy, and there founded a school,
afterwards justly celebrated for the eminent men it
produced. Pythagoras taught that the sun was the
centre of this system, that the planets were round
worlds as well as this, that comets were wandering
stars or planets, and that the milky way was white
from the light of innumerable minute stars, and many
other truths since indubitably proved. We cannot
refrain from expressing admiration at the correct
reasonings and deductions of this great philosopher.
Others were led away by their imaginations on this
subject, he drew right conclusions, because he applied
his reasoning powers coolly to judge and argue upon
probabilities ; for we must bear in mind the disad-
vantages under which he laboured as an astronomer.
Many other astronomers succeeded this great man,
improving and adding fresh stores of scientific know-
ledge as they rose ; but no new theory was advanced
till the time of Ptolemy of Alexandria, the last and
greatest astronomer of the Greek school. His system
was as follows :—He supposed the earth to be stati-
onary, and central to the rest; —beyond the region of
the earth arose seven crystalline spheres, each having a
luminary attached to it; the first was that of the
moon i ,to enable it to perform its monthly revolutions,
the second that of Mercury $ , third Venus 9, fourth
Sun 0, whose complete revolution measured the
year ; fifth Mars $ , sixth Jupiter X, seventh Saturn
; each having its peculiar orbit ; beyond this was
the firmament or fixed stars, which formed the boun-
dary of the planets ; above this still, were two solid
crystalline heavens, to which the fixed stars were
subjoined.
This beautiful and truly poetical canopy he en-
closed by a primum mobile, or grand mover, which,
turning round once in twenty-four hours, carried the
whole universe with it, en masse. Carrying this
theory still farther in imagination, he supposed that
beyond the primum mobile was situated elysium or
heaven. This laborious but beautiful theory he
preferred to that taught in the Pythagorean school,
which was simple and consonant with reason —but so
it is, our vanity often carries us farther than nature
sanctions.
From the Greeks we naturally turn to the Romans,
who advanced materially the arrangement of time by
means of astronomical observations. Romulus divided
the year into ten months and intercalary days ; his
months were, Martins, March ; Aprilis, April; Maia,
May; Junius, June; Quintilis , afterwards Julius ,
July; Sextilis, afterwards Augustus, August; Sep-
tember, October, November ; which names we have
retained with but very little variation. Numa’s
additions were, Januarius, January ; Februarius,
February ; which were his first and last months, and
were made up of Romulus’ intercalary days ; but his
year was also imperfect, till further corrected by
Julius C»sar, whose year was only sh. 48m. 48s. short
of the truth. He also arranged that the calends of
March should be called twice every fourth year,
named by the Latins “ bis sextilis ,” and by us, leap
year, because the dominical letter in which the year
begins is changed or leaped over after the 29th
February.
The solar calendar, as arranged by Julius Caesar,
differs from the truth one whole day in one hundred
years, for which discovery and correction of it we are
indebted to Pope Gregory, XIII. Hence, an act of
parliament was passed in Britain in 1752, decreeing
the Gregorian calendar should be thenceforth adopted,
and that what was then counted the third of September,
should be reckoned the 14th. This alteration is


known under the name of “ new style” by which also
every 400th year is to he leap year, and the interven-
ing, common years; hence 1600 was leap, while 1700,
1800, were common years, as 1900 will also be. By
this correction it will be seen that we were in our
dates eleven days in error.
During a long period, from about 800 a. d. to
1400, barbarism and rank superstition clouded Europe
with mental darkness, a darkness which Avas decidedly
felt ; the melancholy consequences of Avhich were that
during the space of 600 years ignorance reigned
triumphant, and man was nearly allied to the brute
creation—a creature of impulse and fanatic supersti-
tion, as his fathers were before him ; hut genius at
length made an effort, and a better and more glorious
impulse was given to guide man’s erring judgment ;
science came to his aid, and science has made him
what he is : what he will be, by the aid of science,
time alone can tell.
Meanwhile the Arabians and Persians were laying
up stores of astronomical knowledge against the
revival of the arts in Europe, which may be said to
have partially commenced in the 13th century, under
Frederick 11. of Austria.
T. L. D.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir. —The article entitled “ reward,” in the last number of
your Journal, contains certain opinions which appear to me to
. be erroneous, or, to say the least, highly questionable, I shall
therefore feel obliged by your giving insertion in your next
number to the following remarks thereon, unless some other
and abler hand, shall have rendered them unnecessary.
The writer of that article sets out with the assertion that
selfishness is an essential principle of the human soul, “ that
no matter how pure, or virtuous, or philanthropic, our actions
may be,” “ we hold that selfishness is the originator and pro-
peller” of them all; and that it “ instigates to the performance
of acts of generosity and benevolence, which without such
incentive, would probably never be undertaken.”
How acts which are originated and propelled by selfishness
can be either generous, philanthropic or benevolent, I am at
a loss to conceive, perhaps your correspondent on some future
occasion will afford the necessary explanation.
The inference which naturally follows, on reading the lan-
guage above quoted, is, that charity, benevolence, generosity,
philanthropy and friendship, are mere chimeras, that those
excellent and ennobling elements of character, which we have
been accustomed to admire, and which we have regarded as
affording some glimpses of what was man’s original nature,
when he came fresh from the hands of his Creator, and before
selfishness had marr’d his moral beauty, are hut the results of
a low and sordid selfishness—that Howard’s philanthropic
labours in the cause of degraded and suffering humanity were
the offspring of selfishness—that Clarkson’s and Wilberforce’s
benevolent and noble exertions in behalf of the enslaved Negro,
were originated and sustained by selfishness—that the martyrs
who have laid down their lives, as a testimony to the truth of
the gospel and of their love to their Saviour, have suffered and
died victims to their own selfishness, or to “ those pleasurable
sensations” which their contemplations on a violent death would
create in their minds—that the self denying missionary, who
leaves the comforts and enjoyments of civilized society, and
spends his days among a barbarous and untutored race, in the
service of his divine master, first sits down and estimates the
amount of “ pleasurable sensations” which such an occupation
will afford him, and the degree of flattery which his “ self love”
will receive from such an employment, and is zealous in his
sacred calling in proportion to the anticipated reward, arising
out of the extent, and intensity, of those sensations. The
apostle Paul entertained different views on this subject:
Instead of saying that his Maker, “knowing well that he
required some reward as an inducement to the performance of
goed actions, had wisely imbued him with those feelings which
might be looked upon in the light of a remuneration,” or, in
otner words, bad furnished him with selfishness as a motive to
action, he exclaims “ the love of Christ constrained us ; because
we thus judge, that if one died for all, then were all dead • and
that he died for all; that they which live, should not hence-
forth live unto themselves ; but unto him that died for them
and rose again.”
Leaving generalities, I come to the principle laid down by
the writer, viz : that selfishness is an essential principle of the
human soul. In reply to this I contend, that, taking into con-
sideration its divine origin, the human soul is not necessarily
and essentially selfish, that on the contrary, benevolence was
originally its predominant principle, and, that it was not till
sin had acquired dominion in the heart, that selfishness obtained
an influence there; hence it is that we continue to perforin acts
of generosity, benevolence and c tarity, not because we are
instigated thereto by selfishness, but because selfishness has
not been able wholly to efface those high and noble lineaments
of character with which our Maker originally endowed us,
The following extract is so fully to the point that I make no
apology for introducing it. “We learn from an authority
which cannot err, that “ God created man in his own image."
There are but two senses in which this expression can be
understood ; either in his external figure, or in his moral hnage :
it certainly cannot apply in the first sense. We may describe
an image of any object We behold. We may speak of it as
occupying so much space, as being of such and such a colour,
shape, texture, and so on: but who can conceive, who shall
dare to describe an image, or external representation of the
Invisible God ? We can no more assign shape, or form, or
figure, to God who is a spirit, than we can assign a shape to
boundless space, to truth, justice, purity, or eternity. Where
there is image, there is boundary ; where there is boundary,
there are limits; that which has limits, is finite; and that
vvnich is finite, cannot be God. We must therefore understand
that God made man in his own moral image ; and if God be
pure benevolence, be could not have created man a selfish
being. Man was formed benevolent, and had he not fallen,
benevolence would have been a leading feature in his character,
selfishness would have been altogether unknown, and earth
would have borne a near resemblance to heaven.”
In conclusion, I may observe that wherever Christianity,
which is a religion of pure benevolence, and whose design is,
to restore to the human mind that moral excellence with which
it was created—wherever, I say, this religion enters the
mind, it commences a fierce assault upon the selfish principles
of our nature, and it is only as these principles are subdued,
and give place to the pure and holy religion of Jesus, that the
mind becomes embued with, and is enabled to manifest, that
genuine benevolence, the result of the entire feelings and
affections of the heart being subjected to its beneficent and
supreme control.
Apologizing for the length of this epistle, I am, &c.
AMICUS.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Comes up a fop (I knew him but by name,)
And seized my hand, and called me by name,
My dear ! how do’st ?
Sir —lt is a notorious fact, that there exists in this town, at
the present moment, a numerous and powerful tribe of those
ha!f-dvessed, half-bred fellows, with big looks and little sense,
whose age or occupation it would be equally impossible to
imagine or describe ; and whose sole temporal effects may
consist in a “ dingy fop case,” a pair of fashionable boots, a
walking cane, and a change of new linen, and who saunter up
and down our streets with an impertinent leer of the eye at
every person they meet, of whatever sex or age. If you happen
to encounter one of this class alone, he gazes on you so in-
tently as you approach, that, if you are not exceedingly sharp-
sighted, you will imagine yourself about to be clasped in the
tender embrace of some dear half-forgotten friend whom you
once travelled with on Mount Blanc, or had met at Grand
Cairo. If there should be a company of two or more of these
gentlemen together, you are insulted as you pass, by some
impertinent observation, made among themselves in a tone
sufficiently loud to reach your ears, and spoken in that bar-
barous idiom termed “fashionable slang,” so much practiced
and admired by our colonial aristocrats. These remarks are
generally touching some irregularity in your person or ap-
pearance, especially if you happen to be a little man ; for these
Knights of the Cane are invariably fellow's of six feet high, or
five feet ten at least. There are, indeed, a few of lower statue
who aspire to belong to this class, and by the aid of art in the


shape of fashionable hoot heel, endeavour to make amends for
the illiberality of nature in their construction. But 1 have
been given to understand that these pretenders are not
acknowledged as brethren by the undoubted Knights of the
Order, but, on the contrary, are regarded as aliens, and looked on
with contempt and derision ; it having been sagely adjudged
by the “ canes,” that “ leather though useful for many pur-
poses is not equivalent to that quantity of unblushing effrontery
alleged as wanting to the foreheads of the said pretenders.”
This decision I am informed is likely to lead to the formation
of a new order among the rejected claimants, but which it is
hoped the Legislature will take immediate steps to prevent.
Indeed, if they do not instantly move in this matter so as to
suppress effectually the rising combination, we m :y without
loss of time arm upon the defensive, not ourselves, but our
wives and daughters, either in “complete steel,” or at least
with substantial iron masks when they intend to walk abroad.
As a public person, and one who may be supposed to have the
public weal at heart, this is the only course I can at present
suggest as being at all adequate to the importance of the
danger we apprehend, and I may not be thought to superero-
gate if I venture again to urge the necessity of eventually
adopting this alternative. Here, some well-meaning friend may
be inclined to suggest to the fair sex the free use of their
parasoles when in danger of being stared out of countenance ;
to which I would reply, The device, notwithstanding certain
disadvantages, would be a good one, and very ingenious, were
it not that these incorrigibles have lately adopted a most
effectual stratagem for defeating it.
I was the other evening walking down George-street, when
I observed a “Cane” strutting along on the opposite side, and
at the same time I observed a lady approaching in the con-
trary direction, who, when she had arrived within a few paces
of him, lowered her parasole so as to escape his gaze. The
“ Cane” immediately affected to be looking another way, stand-
ing directly in the lady’s path, who, half-blinded by her
parasole, of course walked strait upon him, and a violent
collision ensued; the parasole was instantly stove in; the
fellow just then, letting fall his cane at the lady’s feet to
increase the confusion, and detaining her while he took it up,
next proceeded to apologize for the unfortunate accident, &c.
This he did, commencing in an impudent strain, of which I
only overheard the words, —“ fascinating eyes,”—“ Cupid’s
arrows,” —“irresistible Venus,” —and so on, till he wound up
with, —“chains and goddesses,”—“Cleopatra again,”—“All
for love and the world well lost,” —and then suffered the lady
to proceed.
But there is another and a somewhat different species of
these gentry, and to which my motto does more particularly
apply. I mean those bold forward people who would force an
acquaintance with you on the slightest possible grounds. Such,
for instance, as having been crushed together at the theatre,
dined with them at the same inn when travelling in the
country, or accidently journeyed together in the same coach ;
any of these is considered a-sufficient reason for your enduring
a thousand annoyances, not one of which it is in your power to
avoid. One will call when he arrives in town to thank you
for having shared your travelling store with him on the road,
introducing his wife or sister at the same time, who, of course
prevails on your wife to repay the visit. Another fellow, whose
acquaintance would be intolerable, perhaps ruinous to your
character, salutes you every time you walk abroad, particularly
when you are in the most respectable company; and another
will join you in the gardens when you are walking with your
mistress. But the most unwarrantable of all such impgftinence,
is that to which the superior and more intelligible part of the
fair sex are sometimes subjected by these insignificant people.
Last Sunday, as I was walking in the domain, I observed a tall
young fellow with a most unutterable countenance, suddenly
step out from among a few others with whom he had been
in conversation, and, taking off his hat, bow in the most
awkward manner imaginable to a young lady then passing in
company with a number of friends. I have since learned that
this fellow had once met the lady at a public party, when the
like impertinence induced him to offer her a glass of wine,
though she had been supplied with one by her lover imme-
diately before.
But there is yet another, and a distinct class from any of the
foregoing : these are the fashionable rakes who frequent cigar-
divans, coffee-houses, respectable hotels, and the like places,
for the special purpose of annoying the bar-maids, and other
females of the establishment, whose situation may expose them
to the rude, and sometimes highly improper language in which
these pleasant gentlemen choose to indulge, quite indifferent
to the feelings of those poor creatures who are compelled to
submit to their brutal insolence. Nay, some of them will take
the most exquisite pleasure in thus torturing their helpless
victim, and account it good sport if she break a glass or let
fall a tray in her confusion.
I must not forget the “exquisites” who visit the milliners
several times a week, to spy their full length figure in the
pierglass, with one or two other classes almost analogous with
them. But, Sir, I fear I have already exceeded the bounds
of discretion in trespassing so far upon your valuable columns,
and, humbly apologizing for this want of courtesy, I shall now
conclude by laying before feu the copy of a letter from a lady
complaining of one of the above abuses, and addressed to the
party offending.
“Sir—You w T ere pleased, a few unday’s ago, when in St.
Philip’s, to return me my fan after it had fallen over into your
-pew, for which 1 thanked you at the time in such manner as
the nature of the place would admit. But, Sir, since then, you
have nearly a score of time nodded at me in church, and thrice
taken off your hat to me in the street, which is more than I
can silently endure. Though 1 was, perhaps, guilty of a little
pardonable vanity in graciously returning your looks at first,
yet I must now assure you I am a married woman.
“ Good Sir, pray consider this, and keep your hat on your
head when you meet me in future; and in church, let your
eyes be turned in the opposite direction, for should you nod at
me again, my husband has vowed he will positively move to
the next parish, or join the dissenters.
“ Pray observe particularly my last injunction, which you
may do with perhaps less compunction when I inform you,
that I admire the back much more than the front of your
head.
“ Yours at a distance,
“ Lydia.”
This, S ir, is but a single instance out of the many thousand,
who suffer from these, and similar abuses. 1 shall, however,
with your permission revert again to this subject; and since I
have thus espoused the cause of the fair sex, will in the mean
time be unremitting in my exertions to collect information
relating thereto.
I am, Sir, your most obedient servant,
DUSTERERASTUS.
LATEST ENGLISH NEWS.
The Queen. —On Tuesday, Gtli August, Her Majesty was
safely delivered of a Prince; and is reported, together with the
young Prince, to be doing as well as could be desired.
Parliament, — It was expected that the House of Commons
would be adjourned on the 9th August, but parliament would
not be prorogued until judgment had been delivered by the
House of Lords on the State Trials.
Tahiti. —The outrages of the French were obtaining the
prompt attention of both Houses of Parliament. The British
Consul, Mr. Pritchard, who had been placed under arrest by the
French authorities on the island, had reached London. Imme-
diate steps had been taken, by communication with the French
Government, to demand ample reparation for the indignity.
A speedy and satisfactory reply was expected. In both countries
the subject was attracting the greatest interest. A ship of
the line, it was expected, would be ordered direct for Tahiti, by
which Mr. Pritchard would return to resume the duties of his
office.
Philadelphia had been again disturbed by fresh riots,
occasioned by the proceedings of the Roman Catholics.
Prussia. —The King of Prussia had escaped an attempt
made to assassinate him, by a shot fired at him as he was
entering his carriage. His Majesty was very slightly wounded.
Morocco.— Here, affairs had become very serious, the
i rince de Joinville having proceeded to Tangier prepared for
the most vigorous measures. The mediation of Great Britain
had been rejected by the Emperor.
Wool. —There was still an upward tendency in the wool
market.
Trade continued brisk.
Judge Willis —A petition was presented by Lord Brougham
on the Ist August, praying for inquiry into the causes of the
removal of Judge Willis.
Captain Warner’s destructive Marine Invention.
An experiment illustrative of the powers of this invention was
exhibited off Brighton, on 20th July. The vessel selected for
the experiment was a stout merchant-ship of 800 tons


measurement, liberally presented for the occasion by Mr.
Somes, the eminent shipowner. The signal having been
given (we proceed to quote from an account in an English
paper) “the instrument of destruction, whatever it was,
seemed to strike the vessel midships, for from that point a
huge column of water, in which was intermingled some of the
shingle of which her ballast was composed, shot up perpen-
dicularly into the air higher than her highest topmast; her
mizen went by the board; her mainmast, a new one, was shot
clean out of her like a rocket; she heeled over to port to an
angle of 45 degrees, and her main hatchway being open, day-
light was visible through her bottom timbers on her starboard
side, and probably her larboard also, having been blown away,
and she seemed to part asunder as she went down, leaving no-
thing perceptible but the top of her foremast. The time which
passed from her being struck and her sinking could not have
exceeded two minutes and a half. Some few of the more en-
thusiastic spectators, chiefly professional men, raised a cheer,
but with the mass all was mute astonishment. The eyes were
rivetted on the last observable fragment of the large object that
but the moment before floated gallantly on the waters “ like a
thing of life.” The expressions on the countenances of the
multitude generally seemed to say—What was it ? An
illusion ? A dream ? A magical trick ? A work of destruc-
tion so sudden, so frightful, so stupendous, appeared impossible
for a moment even to the thousands, and tens of thousands
that witnessed it. It was like an awful mystery. There were
none of the ordinary circumstances which accompany similar
catastrophes. There was no smoke, there was no fire, there
was no noise save the low groan of the rending timbers, the
succeeding hush of the waters as they rolled over the instan-
taneous wreck, and then arose a melancholy feeling, for it was
impossible to prevent the imagination depicting the terrific
effects of such an explosion upon a peopled ship thus suddenly
and silently perishing. To convey the effect in words is
difficult—extremely difficult. Language is inadequate for this
description. It cannot flow fast enough, and a single sentence
is too long to tell the tale. It was like a dissolving view. At
one instant you see the tall ship riding proudly on the waves ;
in the next she is enveloped in the elements of her perdition ;
another moment only, and her shattered limbs are engulfed in
the deep.”
Original Poetry.
THE BRICKFIELDER: SYDNEY.
A Brickfielder? Ay, ay,—
I thought ’twould blow a brickfielder :
All day, and all along the sky,
The clouds lay pil’d up thick and high,
As by a leg’lar rick-builder.
Hot, heavy, and unmoving
And muggy was the atmosphere ;
With odour, like a baker’s oven
Or pasty (by young folks approven),
Or Thunder (which is what-most-fear.)
One universal cloud
Of thick dust rolls o’er all-the-town ;
From basement to storm windows proud
The startled shutters slam aloud,
And sashes smart girls haul-’em-down.
Thus (I remember dimly)
Off th’ English coast twelve years-ago,
The spray and fog in volumes grimly
Involv’d the lab’ring steamer’s chimney,
And all on board had fears-I-know.
White shirts on clothes’ lines, gleaming
Toss’d all aloft and tangled-are ;
The laundress, mis’rablest of women,
On sudden from the suds flie3 screaming,
Her pieces lapp’d and mangled-are.
Agh, faugh ! how nasty ’tis,
When one is else so bother’d-too,
To trudge on afternoon like this
From Dawes’ point to the post office
With notice of bill over due!
These blasts are wont to blow
About an hour before-dinner ;
I know not whence they rise nor how,
But like my rhymes their force (I know)
And sound ar« most extr’ordinar’ !
E S.
ON WATCHING THE SUN SETTING.
I sat upon a sunny bank,
And watched the golden rays
Of the broad sun, which parting sank
In glory’s brightest blaze
Amid the Ocean’s sparkling blue,
In rich resplendent majesty,
Which tinged my soul with its bright hue,
And woke the sleep of memory.
I thought upon the days of youth,
When every summer’s sun
Did seem the very soul of truth,
It smiled so sweet—and won
Th’ affections of the guileless mind
To present golden hours alone,
Ne’er dreaming they would leave behind
Sad thoughts on youth’s sweet vision gone.
As each bright ripple bears a ray
That for an instant gleams,
Which the next ripple sweeps away,
Yet still unchanging seems;
And smiling cheats sweet Fancy’s eye,
Charming the raptured gazer’s soul,
While it is quickly stealing bye,
Towards its dark and cheerless goal.
And in the beateous west, as these
Pure sparkling gems of light
Melt into rich eternities,
Then fade to blackest night.
On memory then sinks the scene
In chaos, darkness, and in nought;
Bright, as it had e’er been seen
In heaven’s ethereal vault.
So youth and beauty’s sun recedes,
As age matures the frame ;
And grief and darkness supersedes
E’en manhood’s blaze of fame.
’Tis thus we see earth’s sweetest vision
Still passing from our lingering view,
Still leaving us o’er past Elysium
To weep and think it was not true.
Then, what is left but deep reflection
On things we’ve loved, but now forgetting, —
To sit and watch, in sad dejection,
Each joy of youth, for ever setting.
To watch alas! the spec’tral gleams
Of many a happy day departed,
Appearing in our waking dreams,
In mockery to the broken hearted.
JUVENIS.
THOUGHTS ON A SICK BED.
And must I die ! and leave behind
This world, and all its numerous pleasures,
The schemes I hoarded in my mind
As misers will their golden treasures !
My future path of life was drawn
By youthful, hopeful, joyous fancy,
As flowery as the verdant lawn,
Bespangled with the fragrant pansy.
And must I die, and leave behind
My youth’s fond hope, all dearest ties—
No more to meet those friends so kind,
Till on that awful day we rise;
What mighty awe is thus conveyed
Within this faint and feeble frame ;
Though flushed my cheek, ’twill quickly fade,
When thoughts like these flit o’er my brain.
And must I die, although so young,
Ere youth is gone, (and time flies fast,)
And make my dwelling place among
The souls who wait till time is past!
Still come what may, I have my trust
In Him above; —my prayers are given
To Him, who form’d us out of dust,
And wafts, when dead, our souls to heaven!
J. P. W.


Wall’s New South Wales Almanac for 1845.—This
is an addition to the usual annual publications of this nature.
Considerable information is afforded for the low price of three-
pence plain, or fourpence coloured.
Eolian Sea Signals. —Another method of applying the
waves of the sea has been recently contrived, which promises
more practical results than the propelling scheme. The
object is to make the breakers on a dangerous coast to serve
as their own warning signals to sailors. T he inventor proposes
to have hollow buoys moored near the dangerous coast or
sand bank, to which buoys with pipes, somewhat like organ
pipes, are to be affixed. Tongues, on the principles of
accordians, are to be fitted to the pipes, so that when the
buoys are tossed up and down by the breakers the air may be
forced through, and cause them to utter warning sounds
which would become louder and louder as the sea raged more
fiercely and the danger increased.
Shipping EnUlligencc.
ARRIVALS.
November 29. —The schooner Star of China, 100 tons, Cap-
tain Tinley, from Port Nelson the Isth instant.
November 29.—The steamer William the Fourth, 53 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence River the 27th instant,
with wool, &c.
November 30. —Tbe schooner Terror, 107 tons, Captain
Dunning, from Auckland the 4th, and Kawau the 13th inst.
December I.—The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, 81 tons,
Captain Devlin, from Port Phillip the 24th ultimo.
December 2.—The cutter Jane and Emma, 33 tons, Captain
Irvine, from Launceston the 6th, and the River Mersey the
22nd ultimo.
December 2.—The schooner Mariner, 46 tons, Captain
Ford, from Western Point the 26th ultimo.
December 3.—The barque Lord Auckland, 528 tons, Cap-
tain Brown, from Hobart Town, the 26th ultimo, with Govern-
ment stores.
DEPARTURES.
November 28.—The schooner Edivard, Captain Tallan, for
Boyd Town, Twofold Bay.
November 29.—The brig Tobago, Captain Purcell, for Port
Phillip and Launceston.
December 4.—The brig Christina, Captain Saunders, for
Port Phillip, with sundries.
ÜBeatfys.
On the 29th ult., suddenly, at his residence, Jamison-street,
Charles Frederick Robinson, Esq., surgeon,
r On the Ist instant, at Balmain, Mary, the beloved wife of
the Rev. J. C. S. Handt, late of the Church Missionary
Society, and eldest daughter of the Rev. W. P. Crook.
On the 2nd instant, from an attack of croup, at No. 10,
Bridge-street, Arthur Lloyd, only son of Mr. and Mrs. A.
Gravely, aged eleven months and fourteen days.
HAMILTON AND SHIEL,
TAILORS,
No. 12, COLONNADE, BRIDGE STREET,
RESPECTFULLY solicit an inspection of their Goods and
prices from those who are desirous of having a good article
at a diminished charge : they being both Tailors who have had
much successful experience in London, therefore can fit correctly ;
they being both operatives, therefore will be satisfied with a small
profit; they being both attentive, therefore may be depended
upon; with these characteristics, the truth of which they are
anxious to manifest, they earnestly urge a trial, and submit a
sample of prices for cash only.
£ S. d.
Very best superfine black dress coat complete 3 3 0
Coat, vest and trousers, colonial tweed 2 10 0
White drill trousers, from Bs. to 17 0
A FIRST FLOOR TO LET at a very moderate rent.
ORDSa
POUND.
OUR Collector found, on Saturday last, an Order on Captain
Fotheringham, payable to Bearer. The owner can have
it returned to him, by calling at this Office, and paying the
expence of this advertisement.
November 27th, 1844,
COhOKZ&Z,
LITSKARY JOORWAI.
BINDING.
THE Publishers have been requested by several subscribers
to make arrangements for the binding of the first Vol.
of the Colonial Literary Journal , which will be completed with
the Twenty-seventh Number. Subscribers are informed that
the Publishers wii : he ready to receive copies to be bound to
order, by which, from the number already engaged for, a con-
siderable saving will be effected to each individual.
FOITIfB,
YESTERDAY Morning, Six Silver Tea Spoons, in Liver-
pool-street, Sydney. The Owner may have them by
giving a proper description of them, and paying the expenses
incurred, on application at this Office, 316, Pitt-street.
TO X.ET,
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a central part of the street, and
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars may be known on application at this Office*
or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.
PUNCH; or, the London Charivari. Vol. YI.
Punch’s Letters to his Son, by Douglas Jerrold.
The Story of a Feather, by Douglas Jerrold
The Man at Arms, a Romance, by G. P. R. James
The World of London, by John Fisher Murray
Lardner’s Cyclopaedia, vol. cxxxi.: —Electricity, Magnetism
and Meteorology, vol. ii.
Spenser’s Works, complete in one volume
Chalmer’s (Dr.) on the Civic Economy of large Towns, 3 vols.
Chalmer’s (Dr.) on Christian Revelation
“ Sermons preached in the Tron Church
“ Lectures on National Churches
“ Sermons preached in St. John’s Church
“ Political Economy
New Sporting Magazine, vols. i. to vi., new series
Sequel to Don Juan, with portraits
Dewar (Dr.) on the Nature and Obligations of Personal and
Familyßeligion
Rodwell’s (Mrs.) First Step to English History
And many others.
COLMAN (late Tegg,)
Bookseller and Stationer,
485, George-street, opposite the Military Barracks.
GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE,
No. 316, Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE above Office having been removed from 133, King-
street, to those commodious premises, No. 316, PITT
STREET, (opposite Mr. Foss' Drug and Grocery Establishment)
arrangements are completed for the quick and accurate per-
formance of Book Work and Job PRINTING, in all its
branches, and to any extent.
J. Reading respectfully solicits a continuance of those
favours which have been extended to him during the last four
years.
©olontal fttterara journal,
and
Weekly miscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every cast,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings ; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Cloek on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine (/Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 316,
Pitt-street,’’ (post paid.)


cox.oariA:L wiue.
rpnE undersigned has pleasure in announcing to his con-
nexion, and the Australian public, that he is now prepared
to supply them with the
PURE C A MD'E N WINE,
from the well known Vineyard of Messrs. James and William
Mactirthur.
This being the first announcement for sale of this valuable
produce of Australia, the advertiser would call attention to the
fact, that it is only as the inhabitants of this colony turn their
attention to the produce of their own country, to the exclusion
of foreign importation, that they can ever successfully avoid
the misery and ruin too long consequent on the opposite
course. That wine will eventually form an important article
of export from these shores, no doubt can be entertained; nor
is it to be overlooked, that its being a wine-growing country,
will, whatever may be advanced to the contrary, tend to our
advancement in a moral, social, and political view.
The tfine is warranted the pure juice of the grape, and can
be had at 15s. per dozen, or by the cask at the rate of 6s. per
imperial gallon. The advertiser with confidence looks to the
public for support, and in conclusion requests the wavering to
call and judge for themselves.
ROBERT PORTER.
City Tea Warehouse, 424, George-street.
TO PERSONS AmiCTED WITH Z>S £LT JWE3S.
ON SALE, at J. J. COHEN’S, Silversmith, &c., Temple of
Fashion, 479, George-street, 40 per cent, under invoice
price, a few very neat Patent Elastic Voice Conductors, by
which the slightest sound may be distinctly heard.
An early call will be to the advantage of those requir-
ing them.
TABLE D’HOTE,
Tavistock Hotel, corner l»f Sling- and ITork Streets,
BY JOSEPH SIMMONS
V
AS commenced an ORDINARY, to be followed every
n day (Sundays excepted), from one to three o’clock.
The charge will be for dinner, with ale or porter included—
One Shilling!
Gentlemen not wishing to join the public table, may be
accommodated in the private boxes at the same price.
Luncheons always on table during the morning, consisting
of cold round of beef, sandwiches, cheese, &c., with ale or
porter included —Sixpence !
*** Settlers and others visiting Sydney are requested to
observe that the Bed-rooms and other accommodations are
first-raffe, and the charges in accordance with the pressure of
the times.
dJSgr Rooms for private breakfast or dinner parties always
ready.
imRZVASiX.2!> SPZiEiVZ)SD TBiIVELIING.
PARRAMATTA AND SYDNEY.
AGE,
FOUR-HORSE COACH.
AT the particular wish and suggestion of numerous friends
and the public, the proprietor intends running the
AGE
Coach to Parramatta every morning , at 9 o’clock, leaving Par*
ramatta every afternoon at half-past 4 o’clock precisely.
Fares. —lnside, 25.; outside, Is. 6d.; on Sundays, 2s. each.
From the under-mentioned Booking Offices every morning.
SYDNEY,
At half-past 8 o’clock,
Davies’s Australian Hotel, Lower George-street.
At 9 o’clock precisely,
Sparke’s Royal Hotel, George-street.
Coles’s St. Patrick Inn, Brickfield-hill.
PARRAMATTA,
Every afternoon at half-past 4 o’clock.
Nash’s Woolpack Inn,
Smith’s White Horse Cellar, and
Livingston’s Glasgow Arms.
Performed bv
LEWIS ALEXANDER,
City Repository, Pitt-street, Sydney.
(FUST PUBXsISHSB, 3f?IiXCSS THSIS-PSHCB,
.nd to be had at the Queen’s Printing Office, 91, York-
street, (three doors south from King-street), at Mr. Jones’s
Bookseller, Brickfield Hill, and of the various Vendors
throughout the Colony,
ALL’S NEW SOUTH WALES ALMANAC,
for 1815.
Contents. —Corrected Signals used at Port Jackson—
Eclipses of the Sun and Moon visible in Australia—Governors
of New South Wales from the establishment of the Colony,
and duration of their Government —Police Office and Market
Fees, Rules, Regulations, &c. —Calendar containing the Moon’s
age—rising and setting of the Sun, holidays, remarkable events,
&c, —Table shewing the different Country Post Towns,
distances from Sydney, and rates of Postage and Communi-
cation—Law Intelligence—Members of the City Council—
Gardener’s Table, &c., &c., &c.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
TB&G'S COMMB2CSAL SHBST ill.rvli’OTilC,
FOR 1845,
CONTAINING the usual amount of information calculated
for the counting house and private families,
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
W. A. COLMAN,
Bookseller and Stationer,
485, George-street, opposite the Military Barracks.
IMPORTANT.
ALL sorts of Brass Castings supplied at Is. per pound,
Cash ; if booked Is. 3d. per pound. Patterns, if made,
charged for.
C. M. CRIGHTON,
* Kent and Clarence Streets.
KS2S-G- STREET FURNTTiraE WAREHOUSE.
J HILL begs to call the attention of the public to his
• extensive stock of Furniture, the whole of which has
been manufactured under his personal superintendence, and
is of the best materials and workmanship
In purchasing at the Establishment of J. 11., parties can
depend on being supplied with decent and durable Articles,
at THE LOWEST PRICES Ijf THE CITY.
COZ.OXSXA.Zi ILITESARV JOURNAL.
SIXPENCE each will he given for clean Copies of the
)0 FIRST NUMBER of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Apply at the Office, 316, Pitt-street.
TO 3.8 T.
APARTMENTS suitable for Offices, together with Stable
and Gig House, if required, situate in a central part of
Pitt-street, near King-street, for particulars apply at the Office
of this Journal.
November 6th, 1844.
Colonial Xiiterary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay their last quarter's subscription, together with the
present one in advance, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for tills Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-bill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway;
Camden, Camphelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
