

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON tua te moveant, sed publica vota.”
Vol. I. No. 7.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 1844.
[Price 4d.
UTILITY AND BEAUTY.
SPIRIT OF THE FINE ARTS.
The Fme Arts are generally understood to comprehend
those productions of human genius and skill, which
are more or less addressed to the sentiment of taste.
They are first employed in embellishing objects of mere
utility, but their highest office is to meet our im-
pression of beauty, or sublimity, however acquired,
by imitative or adequate representation. The capacity
of the human mind for receiving such impressions,
whether directly from Nature or through the medium
of the Arts, depends greatly on civilization, and that
leisure which supposes that first wants are satisfied;
but there exists no state of society, however ignorant,
in which some symptoms of taste and some attempts
to arrest the beautiful are not to be met with ; the
difference between such efforts and the most refined
productions is a difference only in degree ; the fact of
the existence of the Arts in some form may be always
taken for granted, and it would only remain to regu-
late their influence and direct their capabilities aright.
The Arts are peculiarly interesting as human crea-
tions. They are composed of Nature operating on
human sympathies, and reflected through a human
medium ; and as nations, like individuals, present ever-
varying modification, so the free growth of the Fine
Arts partakes of all their varieties, and may be com-
pared to the bloom of a plant, true to its developing
causes, whatever they may be, and nurtured in the
first instance by the soil from which it springs. In
barbarous or degenerate nations, the sentiment of the
beautiful has ever been obtained only in the lowest
degree, while a false excitement, founded on a sup-
pression of the feeling of Nature, may be said to have
usurped the place of the sublime. We smile at the
simple attempt of the savage to excite admiration by
the gaudiness of his attire ; but we should shudder to
contemplate the scenes which his fortitude or obduracy
can invest with the attributes of sublimity. The iust
value of life, the characteristic of that civilization which
reduces the defensive passions to their due limits, at
the same time naturally elevates the sources of grati-
fication by pointing out the pleasures of the mind as
distinguished from those of the sense; and the per-
ception of the beautiful is in its turn the cause, as it is
of JT degree rGSUIt ’ ° f the rational en j°yment
The great use of the Arts is thus to humanise and
refine, to purify enjoyment, and, when duly appre-
mted t 0 C o nn ect the perception of physical beauty
with that of moral excellence ; but it will at once be
seen that this idea of usefulness is in a great measure
distinct from the ordinary meaning of the term as
applicable to the production of human ingenuity. A
positive use results, indeed, indirectly from the culti-
vation of the formative Arts, precisely in proportion
as their highest powers are developed: for it will be
found that at all times when the grandest style of
design has been practised with success, and particularly
when the human figure has been duly studied, the
taste thus acquired from the source of the beautiful
has gradually influenced all kinds of manufactures.
Again, as illustrating Science, the Fine Arts may be
directly useful in the stricter sense; but this is not
the application which best displays their nature and
value. The essence of the Fine Arts begins, where
utility in its narrower acceptation ends. The abstract
character of ornament is to be useless. That this
principle exists in nature we immediately feel in calling
to mind the merely beautiful appearances of the visible
world, and particularly the colours of flowers. In
every case in nature, where fitness or utility can be
traced, the characteristic quality or relative beauty of
the object is found to be identified with that fitness :
a union imitated as far as possible in the less decora-
tive part of architecture, furniture, &c. ; but where no
utility, save that of conveying delight (perhaps the
highest of all) exists, we recognise the principle of
absolute beauty. The Fine Arts in general may be
considered the human reproduction of this principle.
The question of their utility, therefore, resolves itself
into an inquiry as to the intention of the beauties of
nature. The agreeable facts of the external world
have not only the general effect of adding a charm to
existence, but they appeal to those susceptibilities
which are particularly human, and it becomes neces-
sary to separate the instinctive feelings which we
possess in common with the rest of the creation, from
that undefinable union of sensibility and reflection
which constitutes taste, and which, while it enlists
the imagination as the auxiliary of beauty, is, in its
highest influence, less allied to love than admiration.
It is this last feeling which the noblest efforts of the
Arts aspire to kindle, which not only elevates the
beautiful, but reduces ideas of fear and danger to the
lofty sentiment of the sublime, which, as its objects
become worthier, is the link between matter and mind,
and which tends to ennoble sympathy and encrease
self-respect.
With regard to the classification of the Arts, those
are generally considered the most worthy in which the
mental labour employed and the mental pleasure pro*


dueed are the greatest, and in which the manual labour
or labour of any kind is least apparent. This test
would justly place poetry first; but the criterion should
not be incautiously applied ; for in architecture, where
human ingenuity is most apparent, and even where
the design is very simple, a powerful impression on
the imagination may be excited from magnitude, pro-
portion, or other causes. In such cases, however, it
will still be evident, that we lose sight of the laborious
means in the absorbing impression of the effect, and
the art thus regains its dignity. It would be an invi-
dious as well as a difficult task to assign the precise
order in which painting, architecture, sculpture, and
music, would follow poetry and its sister, eloquence ;
but it may be remarked, that the union of the Arts is
a hazardous experiment, and is often destructive of
their effect. The drama itself, which unites poetry
with many characteristics of the formative Arts, and
with music, is in constant danger of violating the first
principle of style, viz., the consistency of its conven-
tions, and in the more intimate union of poetry and
music, the latter, though the inferior art, is too inde-
pendent and too attractive to be a mere vehicle, and
accordingly usurps the first place.
Boigraphy.
CHAUCER.
[From various sources.]
Geoffrey Ciiaucer, the father of English Poetry, was born
in London, in the year 1328, apparently of a gentleman’s
family. He was educated at Cambridge, where he resided in
his eighteenth year when he wrote 44 The Court of Love,” and
some other pieces. His distinguished accomplishments, both
of body and mind, gained him the friendship of many persons
of distinction, by whom he was drawn to the court of Edward
t’ie Third ; and in 1368. be was made gentleman of the King’s
privy chamber.
This distinguished poet married a sister of Catherine Svvyn-
ford, mistress, and afterwards wife, to the King’s son, John of
Gaunt; and was employed in court offices, and in a mission to
Italy, where he is supposed to have had an interview with
Petrarch.
In the subsequent reign, Chaucer fell into trouble, owing to
his connexion with John of Gaunt’s party, and having given
offence to the clergy by adopting many of Wickliffe’s tenets.—
He was obliged to quit the kingdom, and in Hainault, France
and Zealand, he wrote most of his works. His necessities
forcing him to return to England, he was discovered and seized,
but after an imprisonment of three years, he was set at liberty,
on condition of giving up the designs of his associates; a blot
on the memory of this apparently otherwise amiable and ex-
cellent man, which he has excused as well as he could, by
alledging that they treated him ill, and would have plundered
and starved him. To give vent to his sorrow at this time, he
wrote his “Testament of Love,” in imitation of “Boetius’
Consolations of Philosophy,” and not long after, his admirable
“ Treatise on the Astrolabe.”
In conversation he was modest, and of few words. He was
so fond of reading, that, as he says, he took heed of nothing in
comparison, and would sit at his books till he dimmed his eyes
with it. The only thing that took him from them was a walk
in the fields.
The following brief critique will explain the nature and
quality of his poetry: —•
44 Chaucer, (with Spenser, Shakspeare, and Milton,) is one of
the Four Great English Poets ; and it is with double justice that
he is called the Father of English Poetry, for, as Dante did
with Italian, he helped to form its very language. Nay, it
burst into luxuriance in his hands, like a sudden month of
May. Instead of giving the reader the idea of an “ old” poet,
in the sense which the word commonly acquires, there is no
one, upon acquaintance, who seems so young, consistently with
maturity of mind. His poetry rises in the land like a clear
morning, in which everything is distinctly seen with a rare
and crystal distinctness, from the mountain to the minutest
flower—towns, solitudes, human beings—open doors, shewing
the interior of cottages and of palaces—fancies in the clouds,
fairy rings in the grass ; and in the midst of all sits the mild
poet, alone, his eyes (as was his habit) on the ground, yet with
his heart full of everything round him, beating, perhaps, with
the bosoms of a whole city, whose multitudes are sharing his
thoughts with the daisy. His nature is the greatest poet’s
nature, omitting nothing in its sympathy (in which respect he
is nearer to Shakspeare than either of their two illustrious
brethren) ; and he combines an epic power of grand, compre-
hensive, and primitive imagery, with that of being contented
with the smallest matter of fact near him, and of luxuriating in
pure vague animal spirits, like a dozer in a field. His gaiety
is equal to his gravity, and his sincerity to both. His word
could as little be doubted as the point of the pen that wrote it.
It cuts as clear and sharp into you, as the pen on the paper.—
His belief in the good and beautiful is child-like ; as Shak-
speare’s is that of everlasting and manly youth. Spenser’s
and Milton’s are more scholarly and formal. Chaucer excels
in pathos, in humour, in satire, character, and description. —
■ His graphic faculty, and healthy sense of the material, strongly
ally him to the painter; and perhaps a better idea could not
be given of his universality than by saying, that he was at once
the Italian and the Flemish painter of his time, and exhibited
the pure expression of Raphael, the devotional intensity of
Domenechino, the colour and corporeal fire of Titian, the
manners of Hogarth, and the homely domesticities of Ostade
and Teniers ! His faults are coarseness, which was that of his
age—and in some of his poems, tediousness, which is to be
attributed to the same cause—and a book being a book in those
days, written by few, and when it was written, tempting the
author to cram into it everything that he had learn'., in default
of there being any encyclopaedias. That tediousness was no
innate fault of the poet’s, is strikingly manifest, not only from
the nature of his genius, but from the fact of his throwing it
aside as he grew older and more confident, and spoke in his
own person. The ‘ Canterbury Tales,’ his last and greatest
work, is almost entirely free from it, except where he gives us
a long prose discourse, after the fashion of the day ; and in no
respect is his 4 Palamon and Arche’ more remarkable, than in
the exquisite judgment with which he has omitted everything
superfluous in his prolix original, ‘ The Teseide’ of Boccaccio.
Several of Chaucer’s best poems are translations from the
Italian and French, but of so exquisite a kind, so improved in
character, enlivened with fresh natural touches and freed from
comparative (and in some instances from all) superfluity, that
they justly take the rank of originals. The Chaucer is not
only a smooth but a powerful and various versifier, is among
the wonders of his advance beyond his age; but it is still
doubtful, whether his prosody was always correct in the
modern sense—that is to say, whether all his lines contain the
regulated number of syllables, or whether he does not some-
times make time stand for number ; or, in other words, a
strong and hearty emphasis on one syllable perform the part
of two.”
Chaucer died on 25th October, in the year 1400, and was
buried in Westminster Abbey, close to where he had once a
house, on the site where Henry the Seventh’s Chapel now
stands.


INTEMPERANCE.
“ The hand of God, in every page of His book, has written
the lesson of moderation. Our physical well-being, our moral
worth, our social happiness, our political tranquillity, all
depend on that control of our appetites and passions,
which the ancients designed by the cardinal virtue of Tem-
perance.”—Burke.
Of all the evils, which, in modern times, have desolated the
world, perhaps none has been more destructive than that of
Intemperance. Exciting the fiercest passions of the human
breast, and engendering a spirit of restlessness and turbulence,
it has disseminated, far and wide, mourning, lamentation, and
woe. And not confining its baneful influence to the perishable
bodies of men, intemperance has unfurled the standard of
victory even in the empire of the mind, and has subjugated the
intellectual faculties to the sway of passion. The flowery path
of literature, the exalted pursuit of science, the peaceful way of
righteousness, each, in its turn, has experienced the morbid
ascendancy of sensual indulgence; while men of noble parts
and promising talents, who appeared to be destined, by an
over-ruling Providence, for the loftiest stations of human
ambition, have fallen from their high estate, and drowned all
the energies of their minds in the fascinating cup of intoxica-
tion. Tlius man, the lord of this lower world, who was intended
by his beneficent Creator to have dominion over the beasts of
the field, and to participate in the pleasures of immortal glory,
has relinquished the elevated position in which he was
placed, and has voluntarily subjected himself to the wrath
of heaven.
To enumerate a few of the calamitous effects which are to
be attributed to this prolific cause, may not prove an unprofit-
able task, inasmuch as the exposure ofvice is found to exercise
a salutary effect on the public mind. It may be remarked, in
the first place, that the proneness to intemperance which has
prevailed amongst many individuals, moving in what are termed
respectable circles of society, has tended to prejudice the lite-
rature of the day, and to induce a fondness for that species ol
composition which is light and trifling. Incapacitating tlie
mind for the consideration of deep and abstruse enquiries, and
occasioning a spirit of apathy and indifference in the cultivation
of moral and religious subjects, it has allured the giddy multi-
tude to a vain and desultory course of reading which can neither
edify nor profit. The mind, unable to endure continued ap-
plication and serious study, has turned with avidity to mere
works of imagination, revelling luxuriously in fictitious scenes,
and creating for itself a delusive happiness which like a splendid
phantasm, eludes the grasp. The entertaining and highly-
finished productions, which were calculated to beguile an idle
hour, and to afford a temporary relaxation from the profitable
occupations of life, have been made the objects of daily medi-
tation ; while the instructive history, the moral essay, as well
as the scientific disquisition, have been passed over as too dry
and uninteresting for consideration. Thus an effectual barrier
has been raised against that progress of useful knowledge
which might promote intellectual enjoyment, and tend to dis-
sipate an increasing desire for sensual gratifications. That this
is a course usually pursued by intemperate persons, experience
demonstrates, for, though some dazzling exceptions may be
found to the prostration of intellect which unrestrained indul-
gence induces, yet, generally speaking, men who acquire a
taste for drinking, gradually forsake the higher branches of
learning, and fly to the novel and the romance. Too many,
however, do not stop here. They descend to works of an
immoral and profane character—such works as are calculated
to inflame the passions, and to minister fuel to the depraved
appetite which rages within them. Thus we shall find that the
songs, which charm the drunkard, are of the lowest description,
and the memment, which delights his vacant hours, is usually
enjoyed at the expense of virtue and decorum. No longer in-
fluenced by those feelings of propriety which stimulated him to
pei severe in a course of morality, and no longer restrained by
the judicious advice of sorrowing friends, he becomes blind to
the best interests of mankind, and regardless of his own character
and reputation : the fumes of the fatal poison have deadened
the faculties of the soul, and the obscene language of the tavern
is pre,erred to the wisdom of the age. In such a state of de-
clension from the paths of rectitude, the serious exhortations
° le upright, the entreaties of the anxious relatives, and the
rebukes of the faithful pastor, are heard with impatience.—
and !v T e, t i per ! aF ,’ the y ma y produce feelings of remorse,
and excite the slumbers of that inward monitor, which, until
fla.flened by continued depravity, bears testimony against
vice ; but as the victim hurries forward in his mad career, the
e ln ? s remorse subside, the voice of conscience is heard
but faintly, and entreaties and exhortations are uttered m
vain.
Unable to bear contradiction, and entertaining prejudiced
views, the man who gives way to excess, is unhappy in himself
and a burden to all around h'rn. A spirit of restlessness is
generated in his breast, and he loses that self-government
which is so essential to promote peace and good-will: now
rushing heedlessly into crimes which render him obnoxious to
the laws of God and man, and now revelling in folly and mis-
chief. A stranger to tranquillity of disposition, subjects of
political interest are contemplated by him with a jaundiced
eye, and he utters his biassed opinion with noise and vocife-
ration. Passion, prejudice, and momentary excitement, direct
his judgment; and he stigmatizes, with opprobious epithets,
all those who differ from him in sentiment. Such a character
—under whatever government he may live—becomes the crea-
ture of a party, and the promoter of discord, sowing the seeds
of dissension among his fellow-men, and producing riot and
insubordination.
If we were to trace to their source many of the disturbances,
whether of a private or public nature, which agitate society,
we should find that they originate in houses of dissipation.—
There, nnder the influence of inebriety, the coward becomes
the brave man ; the weak, the strong ; the mean, the liberal;
and suffering themselves to be led by the artful and insidious
demagogue, they sally forth in tumultuous disorder to spread
terror and devastation. But, frequently, the victim of intem-
perance is carried on slowly and almost imperceptibly. Without
leading him to perpetrate acts of violence, or indeed, in any
way, to inflict serious injury upon others, the delusive vice,
silently and unobtrusively, undermines each virtuous principle,
ruins a robust constitution, impairs the intellect, and finally,
reduces him to penury. Many a promising man, entering upon
the busy scenes of life with every prospect of success, has been
ruined by intemperance. Fostered, perhaps, by pious parents,
and trained by kind and affectionate relatives, he has been the
''friend and admirer of virtue, the advocate of peace and har-
mony, and the pattern of purity in his life and conversation.
As years roll on, he engages in commercial speculations, and
enlarges the circle of his acquaintance—many of whom, the
peculiar circumstances in which he is placed, render absolutely
necessary to him. Few, very few, indeed, are remarkable for
their virtuous conduct ; while many a man has completely
abandoned the restraints of early education, and launched into
scenes of profligacy, spending evening after evening with his
riotous associates, utterly regardless of a wife and family at
home. For a short period, he looks with abhorrence upon
men of such reckless habits, and he cautiously avoids an inti-
mate connexion with them. Time, however, and the pleasing
manners of what are termed good companions, induce him to
view them in a more favourable light, and, step by step, he
recedes from his distant behaviour, until at length'—having in
a great measure, obliterated the effects of youthful education—
he joins heart and soul in a round of dissipation. Thus, in
him, is verified the saying of the poet —
“ Vice is a monster of so frightful mien*
As to be hated, needs but to be seen ;
Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face,
We first endure, then pity, then embrace
The necessary consequences of having tolerated, pitied, and
embraced vice, soon are manifested. His pecuniary affairs,
which, under judicious management, were flourishing, now are
embarrassed ; his established name for integrity flies from him ;
while, to calm the anguish of his thoughts, plunging deeply in
intoxication, he becomes the instrument of his own destruction.
And now picture to the imagination the care-worn countenance,
the slovenly appearance, the diseased frame of such a man. No
longer surrounded by crowds of parasites and multitudes of
attendants, who, in the shunshine of his prosperity, inflamed
his passions, and ministered to his luxury, he appears desolate
and forsaken. Without a friend to console him in his distress,
without a hope to regain his former station in the community,
he flies to the institution of charity. There a few short years
pass over his head, and he dies unknown and unlamented.
The fearful end to which a life of vicious indulgence leads,
is confined to no rank in society. Wherever dissipation is
encouraged, there vve find concomitant misery.
Another important topic for our consideration, in connexion
with this melancholy subject, is the lamentable effect which it
produces in disabling the mind to perceive truth. That calm
and peaceful disposition, which the best and wisest of men have
considered indispensably necessary to a right and impartial
investigation of truth, is quite beyond the reach of the in-
temperate. The mind of man appears to be so peculiarly


constituted, as to require deep and intense attention in order
to distinguish between truth and falsehood, and to analyze the (
artful reasoning of designing men. It not unfrequently j
happens, indeed, that erroneous views and fallacious state-
ments are drawn up with so much care and diligence, and so
specious a show of argument, that it is exceedingly difficult to
detect their sophistry. Even a clear and unclouded un-
derstanding, which is capable of appreciating the merits of
composition, and of deciding with general accuracy on ques-
tions of importance, is not always able to discover error. And,
surely, if such a mind cannot attain a complete knowledge of
truth, how shall the man of dissolute habits presume to decide
—the man whose intellectual vision is distorted, and whose in-
clination, in many instances, urges him to oppose the conclu-
sion to which examination leads ? But, even supposing him
to be capable of investigating without prejudice, the effects of
intemperance will deprive him of that habit of steady and con-
tinous attention, which would enable him to direct his mind to
any subject before it, so as fully to contemplate its elements
and relations. A late writer on the mind says : “ This is
necessary for the due exercise of every other mental process,
and is the foundation of all improvement of character, both in-
tellectual and moral.” “ There is,” continues the same
learned person, “every reason to believe, that the diversities
in the power of judging, in different individuals, are much less
than we are apt to imagine ; and that the remarkable differ-
ences, observed in the act of judging, are rather to be ascribed
to the manner in which the mind is previously directed to the
facts on which the judgement is exercised. It is related of
Sir Isaac Newton, that, when he was questioned respecting the
mental qualities which formed the peculiarity of his character,
lie referred it entirely to the power which he had acquired of
continuous attention.” If then the improvement in moral and
scientific pursuits is, in a great measure, to be attributed to
attention and deep study, it is utterly impossible that he shall
be enabled to investigate abstruse points, whose habits indis-
pose him for continuous application, and whose imagination
wanders from theme to theme with ceaseless frivolity. The in-
temperate man, therefore, not being able to abstract himself
from the grossness of sensual indulgence, and being agitated
by feelings of never-failing excitement, must, iu the nature of
things, sink lower and lower in the scale of rational beings His
opinions, are taken up at the spur of the moment, and his
judgments are formed with haste and precipitation. Truth,
therefore, is frequently disregarded, and error is maintained
with invincible obstinacy. The suggestions of reason, through
the sad degeneracy of the mental powers, are proposed to him
in vain, and those conclusions, which rest on secure premises,
are despised and ridiculed. And this state of mind does not
always appear to proceed from a wilful spirit of inattention.
The'unfortunate man may, perhaps, use his utmost efforts to
judge correctly, but the course of his life has perverted his
noblest faculties, and, a$ it were, delivered him over bound
hand and foot “to believe a lie.”
Thus we see a few of the evils which intemperance occasions
—in vitiating the taste for refined literature —in producing a
spirit of restlessness —in injuring the moral character —and in
incapacitating the mind for the investigation of truth. So
great is the extent of the evil committed, that it is difficult to
contemplate the subject without feelings of horror. And yet,
strange to say, man —-foolish, and inconsiderate man—heedless
cf the voice of conscience, deaf to the suggestions of reason,
and careless of futurity, transgresses the bounds of moderation,
and destroys his own peace and happiness. It is in vain that
he beholds unnumbered victims snatchei away in the bloom of
vouth : it is in vain that he sees the empire of the mind deli-
vered over to its enemies: it is in vain that he hears of the
wars and rumours of wars, which unrestrained appetite induces.
In too many instances, the awful warnings, which sudden cala-
mity and premature death afford, are observed with silent
apathy and unconcern ; while the fearful visions, the spectral
illusions, and qualms of in s ifled conscience, which one would
imagine are calculated to awaken the most obdurate—tend only
to increase the vicious propensity. Vain, deluded, infatuated
creature—what will arrest thy progress? What will save thee
from destruction? Shall the beast of the field, and the fowls
of the air—beings far inferior to thee —teach thee wisdom ?
Or shall the reptile of the earth rise up and reason with thee?
Go —degenerate man—and ere yet- the sun of existence set,
and thy spirit wander through unknown regions, survey the
scene of moral desolation around thee! Walk over the
mouldering grave of thy departed associate, ponder on the
fate of youth and beauty cut off in the spring of life—consider
and be wise— From “ Wooll’s Miscellanies-,” an excellent little
Colonial publication.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY SECTION V.
THE HISTORY OF GREECE.
1. Greece being indebted for the first rudiments of
civilization to the Egyptians and Phoenicians, its
history is properly introduced by an account of those
more ancient nations ; which has been done.
2. The early antiquities of this country are dis-
guised by fable ; but from the time when it becomes
important, it has been treated of by eminent writers.
3. The ancient inhabitants of Greece, the Pelasgi,
Hiantes, Leleges, were extremely barbarous; but a
dawning of civilization arose under the Titans, a
Phoenician or Egyptian colony, who settled in the
country about the time of Moses.—The Titans gave
the Greeks the first ideas of religion, and introduced
the worship of their own gods, Saturn, Jupiter, Ceres,
&c., who were nothing more than deified heroes ; and,
by a progress of ideas not unnatural, this rude people
confounded in after times their gods with the Titans
who introduced them, and hence sprung the number-
less fables respecting their gods and demi-gods.
4. Inachus, the last of the Titans, founded the
kingdom of Argos, 1856 b.c. —And Egialeus, one of
his sons, the kingdom of Sicyon.
5. In the following century happened the deluge
or inundation of Oxyges, 1796 b.c. —Then followed a
period of barbarism for above 200 years, during
which period history is silent.
6. Cecrops, the leader of another colony from Egypt,
landed in Attica, 1582 b.c., and, connecting himself
with the last king (Acteus), by marrying his daugh-
ter, succeeded on his death to the sovereignty. He
built twelve cities, Athens amongst others, originally
called after himself Cecropia, and was eminent both
as a lawgiver and politician.
7. The Grecian History derives some authenticity
at this period from the chronicle of Paros, preserved
among the Arundelian Marbles at Oxford. —The
authority of this chronicle has been questioned of
late, and many arguments adduced, presumptive of
its being a forgery; but on a review of the whole
controversy, we judge the arguments for its authenti-
city to preponderate. It fixes the dates of the most
remarkable events in the history of Greece, from the
time of Cecrops down to the age of Alexander the
Great.
8. Cecrops died childless, and was succeeded by
Cranaus, in whose time happened two remarkable
events recorded in the chronicle of Paros ; the judg-
ment of the Areopagus between Mars and Neptune,
two princes of Thessaly ; and the deluge of Deucalion.
The court of Areopagus, at Athens, was instituted
by Cecrops. The number of its judges varied at
different periods from nine to fifty-one. They were
chosen from among the wisest and most respectable
of the citizens, and, in the latter times, consisted
principally of such as had filled the highest dignities.
They held their meetings in the open air, and deter-
mined all causes during the night.—The deluge of
Deucalion, magnified and disguised by the poets, was
probably only a partial inundation.
9. Amphictyon, the contemporary of Cranaus, the
founder of the Amphictyonic council, must have
possessed extensive views of policy.—This council,
from a league of twelve cities, became a representa-
tive assembly of the states of Greece, and had the


most admirable political effects .in uniting the nation,
and giving it a common interest. The states united
in this general council Avere the lonians., among
Avhom were comprehended the Athenians ; the Dori-
ans ; the Perhtebians ; the Boeotians; Magnesians ;
Achseans ; Pythians ; Melians ! Dolopians ; ,/Enia-
nians ; Delphians ; and Phocians. They met tAvice
in the year at Thermopylae, and afterwards at Delphi;
two deputies attending from each state, and in their
deliberations and resolutions all were on a footing of
equality.
10. Cadmus, about 1519 b.c., introduced alpha-
betic Avriting into Greece from Phoenicia. The
alphabet then had only sixteen letters, and the ancient
Greeks had no more for many centuries afterwards ;
and the mode of Avriting (termed Boustrophedon, from
its resemblance to the furrows described in ploughing
a field) was alternately from left to light, and right
to left, from this period the Greeks made rapid
advances in civilization.
THE MURDER HOLE.
AN ANCIENT LEGEND.
“ All, frantic Fear !
\ T see, I see thee near ;
J know thy hurried step, thy haggard eye!
Like thee I start, like thee disorder’d fly !
Collins.
In a remote district of country belonging to Lord
Cassillis, between Ayrshire and Galloway, about
thiee hundred years ago, a moor of apparently bound-
less extent stretched several miles along the road,
and wearied the eye of the traveller by the sameness
and desolation of its appearance ; not a tree varied the
prospect—not a shrub enlivened the eye by its fresh-
ness nor a native flower bloomed to adorn this un-
gonial soil. One “ lonesome desert ” reached the
horizon on every side, with nothing to mark that any
mortal had ever visited the scene before, except a few
rude huts that were scattered near its centre ; and a
road, or rather pathway, for those whom business or
necessity obliged to pass in that direction. At length
deserted as this wild region had always been, it
became still more gloomy. Strange rumours arose,
that the pain of unwary travellers had been beset on
this blasted heath,” and that treachery and murder
had intercepted the solitary stranger as he traversed
its dreary extent. When several persons, who were
known to have passed that way, mysteriously dis-
appeared, the inquiries of their relatives led to a strict
and anxious investigation ; but though the officers of
justice were sent to scour the country, and examine
the inhabitants, not a trace could be obtained of the
peisons in question, nor of any place of concealment
w ic i could be a refuge for the lawless or desperate
to horde in. Yet, as inquiry became stricter, and the
isappearance of individuals more frequent, the simple
habitants of the neighbouring hamlet were agitated
that 'th^^fl'Ti 111 apprehensions - S °™e declared
that the death-like stillness of the night was often
mteriupted by sudden and preternatural cries of more
than mortal anguish, which seemed to arise in the
istance ; and a shepherd one evening, who had lost
ns way on the moor, declared he had approached
mes > who seemed struggling
ga nst each other with supernatural energy, till at
sir,;:
Gradually the inhabitants deserted their dwellings
on the heath, and settled in distant quarters, till at
length but one of the cottages continued to be in-
habited by an old woman and her two sons, who
loudly lamented that poverty chained them to this
solitary and mysterious spot. Travellers who fre-
quented this road now generally did so in groups to
protect each other ; and if night overtook them, they
usually stopped at the humble cottage of the old
woman and her sons, where cleanliness compensated
for the want of luxury, and where, over a blazing
fire of peat, the bolder spirits smiled at the imaginary
terrors of the road, and the more timid trembled as
they listened to the tales of terror and affright with
which their hosts entertained them.
One gloomy and tempestuous night in November,
a pedlar-hoy hastily traversed the moor. Terrified
to find himself involved in darkness amidst its bound-
less wastes, a thousand frightful traditions, connected
with this dreary scene, darted across his mind—■
every blast, as it swept in hollow gusts over the heath,
seemed to teem with the sighs of departed spirits
and the birds, as they winged their way above his
head, appeared, with loud and shrill cries, to warn
him of approaching danger. The whistle with which
he usually beguiled his weary pilgrimage died awav
into silence, and he groped along with trembling and
uncertain steps, which sounded too loudly in his ears.
The promise of Scripture occurred to his memory,
and revived his courage. “ I will be unto thee as a
rock in the desert, and as an hiding-place in the
storm.” Surely , thought he, though alone , lam not for-
saken ; and a prayer for assistance hovered on his lips.
A light now glimmered in the distance which
would lead him, he conjectured, to the cottage of the
old woman ; and towards that he eagerly bent his
way, remembering as he hastened along, that when
he had visited it the year before, it was in company
with a large party of travellers, who had beguiled the
evening with those tales of mystery which had so
lately filled his brain with images of terror. lie
recollected, too, how anxiously the old woman and
her sons had endeavoured to detain him when the
other travellers were departing; and, now\ therefore,
he confidently anticipated a cordial and cheering re-
ception. His first call for admission obtained no
visible marks of attention, but instantly the greatest
noise and confusion prevailed W'ithin the cottage.
Ihey think it is one of the supernatural visitants
of whom the old lady talks so much,” thought the
boy, approaching a windowq where the light within
shewed him all the inhabitants at their several occu-
pations : the old woman was hastily scrubbing the
stone floor, and strewing it thickly over with sand,
while her two sons seemed with equal haste to be
thrusting something large and heavy into an immense
chest, which they carefully locked. The boy, in a
frolicsome mood, thoughtlessly tapped at the window,
w'hen they all instantly started up with consternation
so strongly depicted on their countenances, that he
shrunk back involuntarily with an und<hied feeling
of apprehension ; but before he had time to reflect a
moment longer, one of the men suddenly darted out
at the door, and seizing the boy roughly by the
shoulder, dragged him violently into the cottage.
“ I am not what you take me for,” said the boy,
attempting to laugh, “ but only the poor pedlar who
visited you last year.”


“ Are you alone ? ” inquired the old woman, in a
harsh deep tone, which made his heart thrill with
apprehension.
“Yes,” said the hoy, “I am alone here; and
alas !” he added, with a burst of uncontrollable feel-
ing, “I am alone in the wide -world also! Not a
person exists who would assist me in distress, or shed
a single tear if I died this very night.”
“ Then you are welcome!” said one of the men
with a sneer, while he cast a glance of peculiar ex-
pression at the other inhabitants of the cottage.
It was with a shiver of apprehension, rather than
of cold, that the boy drew towards the fire, and the
loots which the old woman and her sons exchanged,
made him wish that he had preferred the shelter of
any one of the roofless cottages which -were scattered
near, rather than trust himself among persons of such
dubious aspect. Dreadful surmises flitted across his
brain ; and terrors which he could neither combat nor
examine imperceptibly stole into his mind : but alone,
and beyond the reach of assistance, he resolved to
smother his suspicions, or at least not increase the
danger by revealing them. The room to which he
retired for the night had a confused and desolate
aspect; the curtains seemed to have been violently
torn down from the bed, and still hung in tatters
around it 5 the table seemed to have been broken by
some violent concussion, and the fragments of various
pieces of furniture lay scattered upon the floor. The
boy begged that a light might burn in his apartment
till he Avas asleep, and anxiously examined the
fastenings of the door ; but they seemed to have been
wrenched asunder on some former occasion, and were
still left rusty and broken.
It was long ere the pedlar attempted to compose his
agitated nerves to rest; but at length his senses began
to “ steep themselves in forgetfulness,” though his
imagination remained painfully active, and presented
new scenes of terror to his mind, with all the vividness
of reality. He fancied himself again wandering on
the heath, which appeared to be peopled with spectres,
who all beckoned to him not to enter the cottage, and
as he approached it, they vanished with a hollow and
despairing cry. The scene then changed, and he
found himself again seated by the fire, where the
countenances of the men scowled upon him with the
most terrifying malignity, and he thought the old
woman suddenly seized him by the arms, and pinioned
them to his side. Suddenly the boy ay as startled from
these agitated slumbers, by what sounded to him like
a cry of distress ; he Avas broad arvake in a moment,
and sat up in bed ; but the noise Avas not repeated,
and he endeavoured to persuade himself it had only
been a continuation of the fearful images which had
disturbed his rest, Avhen, on glancing at the door, he
observed underneath it a broad red stream of blood
silently stealing its course along the floor. Frantic
with alarm, it was but the Avork of a moment to
spring from his bed, and rush to the door, through a
chink of Avhich, his eye nearly dimmed with aifright,
he could watch unsuspected whatever might be done
in the adjoining room.
His fear vanished instantly Avhen he perceived that
it was only a goat that they had been slaughtering;
and he was about to steal into his bed again, ashamed
of his groundless apprehensions, when his ear was
arrested by a conversation Avhich transfixed him aghast
Avith terror to the spot.
“ This is an easier job than you had yesterday,”
said the man who held the goat. “ I wish all the
throats we’ve cut were as easily and quietly done.
Did you ever hear such a noise as the old gentleman
made last night! It was well he had no neighbour
within a dozen of miles, or they must have heard
his cries for help and mercy.”
“ Don’t speak of it,” replied the other ; “ I was
never fond of bloodshed.”
Ha ! ha !” said the other with a sneer ; “ you say
so, do you'?”
“ I do,” answered the first gloomily ; “ the Murder
Hole is the thing for me— that tells no tales—a single
scuffle—a single plunge —and the fellow’s dead and
buried to your hand in a moment. I would defy all
the officers in Christendom to discover any mischief
there”
“ Ay, Nature did us a good turn when she con-
trived such a place as that. Who that saw a hole in
the heath, filled with clear water, and so small that
the long grass meets over the top of it, would suppose
that the depth is unfathomable, and that it conceals
more than forty people who have met their deaths
there ?—it sucks them in like a leech !”
“ How do you mean to dispatch the lad in the next
room'?” asked the old woman in an under tone.
The elder son made her a sign to be silent, and
pointed towards the door where their trembling auditor
was concealed; while the other, with an expression
of brutal ferocity, passed his bloody knife across
his throat.
The pedlar boy possessed a bold and daring spirit,
which was now roused to desperation ; but in any
open resistance the odds were so completely against
him, that flight seemed his best resource. He gently
stole to the window, and having by one desperate
effort broke the rusty bolt by which the casement had
been fastened, he let himself down without noise or
difficulty. “ This betokens good,” thought he, pausing
an instant in dreadful hesitation what direction to
take. This momentary deliberation was fearfully in-
terrupted by the hoarse voice of the men calling
aloud, “ The hoy has fled —let loose the blood-hound !
These words sunk like a death-knell on his heart,
for escape appeared now impossible, and his nerves
seemed to melt away like wax in a furnace. 1 Shall
I perish without a struggle!” thought he, rousing
himself to exertion, and, helpless and terrified as a
hare pursued by its ruthless hunters, he fled across
the heath. Soon the baying of the blood-hound broke
the stillness of the night, and the voice of its masters
sounded through the moor, as they endeavoured to
accelerate its speed; panting and breathless the boy
pursued his hopeless career, but every moment his
pursuers seemed to gain upon his failing steps. The
hound was unimpeded by the darkness which was to
him so impenetrable, and its noise rung louder and
deeper on his ear; while the lanterns which were
carried by the men gleamed near and distinct upon
his vision.
At his fullest speed, the terrified boy fell with
violence over a heap of stones, and having nothing on
but his shirt, he was severely cut in every limb. With
one w ild cry to Heaven for assistance, he continued
prostrate on the earth, bleeding, and nearly insensible.
The hoarse voices of the men, and the still louder
baying of the dog, were now so near, that instant
destruction seemed inevitable ; already he felt himself


in their fangs, and the bloody knife of the assassin
appeared to gleam before his eyes; despair renewed
his energy, and once more, in an agony of affright
that seemed verging towards madness, he rushed for-
ward so rapidly that terror seemed to have given
wings to his feet. A loud cry near the spot he had
left arose on his ears without suspending his flight.
The hound had stopped at the place where the pedlar’s
wounds bled so profusely, and deeming the chase now
over, it lay down there, and could not be induced
to proceed; in vain tire men beat it with frantic
violence, and tried again to put the hound on the
scent; the sight of blood had satisfied the animal that
its work was done, and with dogged resolution it re-
sisted every inducement to pursue the same scent a
second time. The pedlar boy in the meantime paused
not in his flight till morning dawned: and still as he
fled, the noise of steps seemed to pursue him, and the
•cry of his assassins still sounded in the distance. Ten
miles off he reached a village, and spread instant
alarm throughout the neighbourhood ; the inhabitants
were aroused with one accord into a tumult of indig-
nation ; several of them had lost sons, brothers, or
friends on the heath, and all united in proceeding
instantly to seize the old woman and her sons, who
were nearly torn to pieces by their violence. Three
gibbets were immediately raised on the moor, and the
wretched culprits confessed before their execution to
the destruction of nearly fifty victims in the Murder
Hole, which they pointed out, and near which they
suffered the penalty of their crimes. The bones of
several murdered persons were with difficulty brought
up from the abyss into which they had been thrust ■
but so narrow is the aperture, and so extraordinary
the depth, that all who see it are inclined to coincide
in the traditions of the country people that it is
unfathomable.
The scene of these events still continues nearly as
at was three hundred years ago. The remains of the
old cottage, with its blackened walls, (haunted of
course by a thousand evil spirits,) and the extensive
moor, on which a modern inn (if it can be dignified
with such an epithet) resembles its predecessor in
everything but the character of its inhabitants : the
landlord is deformed, but possesses extraordinary
genius; he has himself manufactured a violin, on
which he plays with untaught skill ; and if any dis-
cord oe heard in the house, or any murder committed
in it, this is his only instrument. His daughter (who
has never travelled beyond the heath) has inherited
ner father s talent, and learnt all his tales of terror
and superstition, which she relates with infinite spirit;
but when you are led by her across the heath to drop
a stone into that deep and narrow gulf to which our
s ory rexates when you stand on its slippery edge,
anc (parting the long grass with which it is covered)
Sa !u m .y stei ; ious depths—-when she describes,
wi i all the animation of an eye-witness, the struggle
ol the victims grasping the grass as a last hope of pre-
serva ion, and trying to drag in their assassin as an
expiring effort of vengeance—when you are told that
toi thiee hundred years the clear waters in this dia-
mond of the desert have remained untasted by mortal
lips, and that the solitary traveller is still pursued
at night by the howling of the blood-hound—it is
then only that it is possible fully to appreciate the
terrors of the murder hole !
Varieties.
Popping the Question in the American Style.— The
love-sick swain advances, with an imploring look, and,
accosting the idol of his heart, he says, “ Will you, my dear,
underwally yourself so much as to overwally me so much as to
keep company with me ?” 'lf the nymph approves, the reply
is, “ No underwallyment at all, sir.”
Teetotal Intelligence.— Father Mathew is about to
visit Sicily, for the purpose of putting a stop to the ravages of
the “ Crater.”
“ Stirring times,” as the hasty pudding said to the spoon.
Anecdote of Lord Eardley. —During breakfast one day,
Lord Eardley was informed that a person had applied for a
footman’s place, then vacant. He was ordered into the room,
and a double refined specimen of the genus so detested by his
lordship made his appearance. The manner of the man was
extremely affected and consequential, and it was evident that
my lord understood him at a glance : moreover, it was as
evident that he determined to lower him a peg or two. “ Well,
my good fellow,” said he, “what, you want a lackey’s place,
do you ?” “ I came about an upper footman’s situation, my
lord,” said the gentleman bridling up his head. “Oh, do ye,
do ye ?” replied Lord Eardley; *“ I keep nG upper servants;
all alike—all alike here.” “ Indeed, my lord !” exclaimed the
hireling, with an air of shocked dignity. “ What department,
then, am Ito consider myself expected to fill ?” “Depart-
ment! department!” quoth my lord in a tone like inquiry.
“ What capacity, my lord?” My lord repeated the word
capacity, as if not understanding its application to the present
subject. “ I mean, my lord,” explained, the man, « what
shall I be expected to do if I take the situation ?” “ Oh,
you mean if you take the place; I understand you now,’*
rejoined my lord ; “ why you’re to do every thing but sweep
the chimneys and clean the pig-styes, and those I do myself.”
The gentleman stared, scarcely knowing what to make of this,
and seemed to wish himself out of the room ; he however
grinned a ghastly smile, and, after a short pause, inquired what
salary his lordship gave. “Salary! salary!” reiterated his
incorrigible lordship; “don’t know tire word—don’t know
the word—my good man.” Again the gentleman explained,
—“I mean what wages ?” “Oh, wages!” echoed my lord;
“ what d’ye ask ?—what d’ye ask?” Trip regained his self-
possession at this question, which looked like business, and
considering for a few moments, answered—first stipulating to
be found in hair-powder, and (on state occasions) silk stock-
ings, gloves, kegs, and bouquets—that he should expect thirty
pounds a-year. “How much, how much?” demanded my
lord rapidly. “ Thirty pounds, my lord.” “Thirty pounds !’’
exclaimed lord Eardley in affected amazement. “ Make it
guineas, and I’ll live with you! ’ Then, ringing the bell,
said to the servant who answered it, “Here, let out this
gentleman! he’s too good for me —too good forme; and,
turning to Mr. Mathews, who was much amused, said, as the
man made his exit, “Conceited, impudent, scoundrel! soon
sent him off, soon sent him off, Master Mathews l”—Mathews’
Memoirs.
HUNTINGDON JURY, IGI9.
Judge Doddridge having blamed the Sheriff, the year before,
for impannelling unqualified men, the next assizes these’weie
chosen.
Ma(xi)milian, King of Tozland.
Henry, Prince of Godmanchester.
George, Duke of Somersham.
William, Duke of Weston.
William, Marquis of Stukely.
Edward, Earl of Hartford.
Robert, Lord of Warsley.
Richard, Baron of Bythorpe.
Robert, Baron of Wynwich.
Edmund, Knight of St. Neots.
Peter, Esquire of Euston.
George, Gentleman of Spaldwick.
Robert, Yeoman of Barham.
Stephen, Pope of Weston.
Humphrey, Cardinal of Kimbolton.
William, Bishop of Bugden.
John, Archdeacon of Paxton.
John, Abbott of Stukeley.
Richard, Friar of Ellington.
Henry, Monk of Stukeley.
Edward, Priest of Graffham.
Richard, Deacon of Caslworth.


Select Poetry.
OUR NATIVE HOME.
Dear Native Regions, I foretell,
From what I feel at this farewell,
That whereso’er my steps shall tend,
And whenso’er my course shall end,
If in that hour a single tie
Survive of local sympathy,
My soul will cast the backward view,
The longing look alone on yc-u.
Thus, when the sun prepared for rest,
Hath gained the precincts of the West,
Though his departing radiance fail
To illuminate the hollow vale,
A lingering look he fondly throws
On the dear mountain tops where first he rose.
WORDSWORTH.
BUBBLES.
Hast thou seen with flash incessant,
Bubbles gliding under ice,
Bodied forth and evanescent,
No one knows by what device?
Such are thoughts ! —A wind-spread meadow
Mimicking a troubled sea,
Such is life ; and Death a shadow
From the lvock Eternity!
Ibid.
THE SEA.
Beautiful, sublime, and glorious ;
Mild, majestic, foaming, free—
Over time itself victorious,
Image of Eternity.
Sun and moon and stars shine o’er thee,
See thy surface ebb and flow ;
Yet attempt not to explore thee
In thy soundless depths below.
Whether morning’s splendours steep thee
With the rainbow’s glowing grace,
Tempests rouse or navies sweep thee,
’Tis but for a moment’s space.
Earth —her vallies and her mountains,
Mortal man’s behests obey,
Thy unfathomable fountains
Scoff’ his search and seorn his sway.
Such art thou—stupendous ocean !
But, if overwhelmed by thee,
Can we think without emotion,
What must thy Creator be ?
BARTON.
A REPLY TO “SOLITUDE.”
But art thou thus indeed alone?
Quite unbefriended? all unknown?
And hast thou then his name forgot,
Who formed thy frame, and fixed thy lot ?
Is not His voice in evening’s gale ?
Beams not with Him the star so pale ?
There’s not a leaf can fade or die —
Unnoticed by His watchful eye !
Each fluttering hope, each anxious fear,
Each lonely wish, each silent tear.
To thine Almighty Friend arc unknown !
And say’st thou thou art all alone ?
J. CONDER.
The Moralist.
CONTENTMENT.
Forget not, O, man! that thy station on earth is appointed
by the wisdom of the Eternal: who knoweth thy heart, who
seeth the vanity of all thy wishes, and who often, in mercy,
denieth thy requests.
Yet for all reasonable desires, for all honest endeavours, his
benevolence hath established, in the nature of things, a proba-
bility of success
The uneasiness thou feelest, the misfortunes thou bewailest,
behold the root from whence they spring! even thine own
folly, thine own pride, thine own distempered fancy.
Murmur not therefore at the dispensations of God, but cor-
rect thine own heart: neither say within thyself, If I had
wealth, or power, or leisure, I should be happy; for know,
tliey all hring to their several possessors their peculiar incon-
veniences.
The poor man seeth not the vexations and anxieties of the
rich, he feeleth not the difficulties and perplexities of power,
neither knoweth he the wearisomeness of leisure; and there-r
fore it is that he repineth at his own lot.
But envy not the appearance of happiness in any man, for
thou knowest not his secret griefs.
To be satisfied with a little is the greatest wisdom ; and he
that increaseth his riches, increaseth his cares ; but a contented
mind is a hidden treasure, and trouble findeth it not.
Yet if thou suffereth not the allurements of fortune to rob
thee of justice, or temperance, or charity, or modesty, even
riches themselves shall not make thee unhappy.
But hence sbalt thou learn, that the cup of felicity, pure and
unmixed, is by no means a draught for mortal man.
Virtue is the race which God hath set him to run, and hap-
piness the goal, which none can arrive at till he hath finished
his course, and received his crown in the mansions of eternity.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 7.
A good tale may be spoiled in the telling.
A good word, for a bad one, is worth much, and costs little.
A good word is as soon said as an ill one.
A goose’s quill is more dangerous than a lion’s claw.
A great fortune, in the hands of a fool, is a great misfortune''
A great fortune is a great slavery.
A great man will neither trample on a worm, nor sneak to
a king.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A handsome hostess is bad for the purse.
A hasty man never wants woe.
A hog that is bemired, never rests till he has bemired others.
A horse is neither better nor worse for his trappings.
Writers. —lf the desire to maximise good were present to
the minds of public writei's —if it were ever less their purpose
to give pain to some object of individual hostility, than to fur-
ther the great ends of popular felicity, the atmosphere of
opinion would soon become bright and-clear .—Bentham.
Self-conceit and malice are needed to discover or to
imagine faults, and it is much easier for an ill-natured man
than for a good-natured man to be smart and witty. — Sharp.
Genius and Talent. —Genius must have talent as its com-
plement and implement, just as in like manner imagination
must have fancy. In short, the higher intellectual powers can
only act through a corresponding energy of the lower.
Contentment is a blessing not to be slighted; itgoesbefore
the one that possesses it, a very harbinger of peace; and, in
this way, it may be likened to the Baptist in its ministry, for
it makes the crooked paths of life straight, and its rough
places smooth. True! the wailing cry of the melancholy-
loving poet ascends continually, echoing that there is naught
of happiness in this, cur nether world. Thanks be to God!
she does abide here. Ours is a glorious world, fallen and
sin-stained though it be : the declaration of the self-satisfied
Creator, that all was “ very good,” is not effaced, though at
times it be dimmed and indistinct. And to prove this, we
have only to refer to the brightness of the scenery of our globe,
to her lovely glens and sunny mountains, her tinkling stream -
lets and her stupendous ocean. All, all these assure us
that joy and peace are her proper tenants, and that it is a
perversion of feeling and an unhealthy fancy which would
crown Melancholy, the uncertain, queen, the imperious
mistress of a world so bright and so beauteous ! —A Dreamer.


Notice to ©orrespontrents.
“ Papers of an Old Man.”— We must request our Correspondent
to forward us an additional chapter of the above, in order that
we may more clearly understand the nature of his proposed
contribution.
It tvill gratify us to receive Poetical Extracts, when chosen with
iaste. We have proved this in our present number., by the
insertion of three Extracts from Wordsworth and Barton,
sent us by one kind Correspondent; with another by Conder,
from B. S. L.
We by no means ivish indiscriminately to deny insertion to the
productions of our Poetical Correspondents; but as our plans
ivill not admit the insertion of more than a limited quantity,
we must refuse to gratify many of our kind Correspondents at
the risk of being thought to do them injustice by the occasional
insertion of others of not perhaps superior merit.
We have received the expostulation of “ Censor Morum” as to
the moral tendency of the Tale in our last No. —“ The Young
Philanthropist and the Old Brute.” We are sorry to have
occasioned such a remark as “ the tendency of this extract is
positively bad,” and we cannot but consider the assertion as
captious and unnecessarily severe ; in tvhich opinion we Are
confirmed by the positive and unasked-for commendation (of
this very Tale) of a lady, the mother of a family, with various
other of our Subscribers. The moral tendency of the Narrative
in question is plain and decided; and, if there is any portion
of it which can be objected to, “ children”— to whom “ Censor
Morum ’ alludes—should be taught to remember that, “ to
the pure of heart all things are pure ; ivhilst, to the impure,
nothing is pure.”
We shall be glad to hear again from our Correspondent
“ Horace.”
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East,” (post paid.)
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions
and assertions contained in the Correspondence and Contri-
butions inserted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to (Eountru Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, we can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
THE PROSPECTS AND RESOURCES OF THE
COLONY.
ON THE PROPERTIES AND APPLICATIONS OF HEAT.
Heat is known and acknowledged to be a foundation
principle and chief agent in all material action and
change, but is not yet perfectly understood in refer-
ence to its essence or nature. Heat is supposed by
some philosophers to be a light invisible fluid, the
particles of which are minutely small, and found to
exist in every substance in nature. By others it is
considered to be nothing in itself, but a change of
state produced in the various portions of matte°r by
motion ; this idea is founded on the well known facts,
that all motion and all friction produce heat more
°r less. As the earth is in constant motion, every
substance which dwells in, or rests on it, must con.
tains a measure of heat.
We are sensible that we have always a portion of
heat in our bodies, we may sometimes feel exceedingly
cold, but we are,never without a portion of inward
heat, and that a fixed and definite portion : for the
degree of heat in the human blood is the same in an
equatorial latitude as on the confines of Siberia ; the
variations of bodily heat depending entirely on the
state of the surrounding atmosphere. Our bodies
are heated by our own warm blood, and would be
always warm if protected from the abstraction of
heat. Experience has taught us that we are much
warmer when clothed with furs or woollen materials,
but we do n®t use furs and flannels because they have
any power to impart heat to us, but because they
prevent the heat of the body from being carried otf
by the cold air. The openness of their texture per-
mits the air to enter, and involve itself so completely
among the parts of which they consist, that the escape
of the natural warmth of the body is prevented. We
are therefore kept warm by their use, but no heat is
conducted into our system through their means.
They are non-conductors of heat. The beasts of the
field and the birds of the air are thus protected
against inclement weather, for the feathers of birds,
the furs of animals, as also the human hair, are all-
composed of the same ingredients, and all benevo-
lently given for the same purpose—that of preserving
the internal warmth.
To distinguish the latent heat which pervades all
nature from any of the numerous applications or
effects of heat, it is chemically called Caloric, from the
Latin word Color , heat. There are many methods
of imparting heat from one substance to another, each
of which has its own peculiar term. The process of
receiving heat from the sun, or from the fire in a
room, is called Radiation , for the particles of heat
which are expelled from these luminaries, do not
issue forth in confused order, but in direct and
straight lines, forming one continued stream or ray
of heat which goes on until it reaches some material,
and is received into its substance. Rays of heat pass
from a fire in every direction, and are so numerous
and so closely situated, that there is no space around
the fire which has not rays emitted from it, and no
part of the room where the fire is burning that does
not receive some heat. When heat is radiated from
a fire towards us, we receive it into our system, and
retain it for a time, we do not cast it off directly, for
our bodies being of a porous nature give easy access
to the particles of heat which become involved in us,
and are gradually given out again to any person or
thing we approach that is colder than ourselves. The
receiving and retaining of heat is called the Absorp-
tion of Heat. The earth receives and absorbs heat from
the sun, which aids greatly in nourishing the vegetation
on its surface, but at night when it is turned away from
its source of radiation, it gives out the heat which it
absorbed during the day, therefore we have our nights
colder than our days. Heat is also communicated
from a hot body to others which are colder by ap-
proaching in direct contact. The hot body touches a
cold one and the heat passes directly from one into the
other, as when iron is put into a fire, or the hand
plunged into hot water. Metals and Fluids are both
Conductors of Heat , but Metals are a much more
powerful medium. Metals are also Reflectors of
Heat; Gold, Silver, Tin and Brass, when very smooth
and highly polished, are powerful reflectors of heat.
Exercise is another method of introducing heat
into the system, and even in cold weather perspiration
on the skin will be perceptible as its effect. Perspi-
ration is a watery vapour from the blood, which has


become expanded by the heat, and issues forth from
the blood-vessels through the skin. This is also a
kind provision of nature to ease us of an excessive
degree of heat, which would otherwise produce fever.
Working men could not endure the heat engendered
within them, were it not for the perspiration which
always accompanies it.
The important agency and utility of heat is not
confined to chemical pursuits, its presence is found to
be necessary in the manufacture and adjustment of
every thing we make and use. We are so much ac-
customed to find every article of our sustenance and
convenience placed before us in a state of ready pre-
paration, that we frequently overlook or pass them
by without any reflection on the sources from whence
they have been derived, or the agency by which they
have been thus prepared for us. If we examine only
our simple meal of breakfast, we shall find that every
material of which it is composed is the result of one
or other chemical process wherein heat has been the
chief agent. The water for our tea must be boiled,
the bread which we eat must be baked, but before we
can obtain boiled water or baked bread, we must pro-
duce Heat. For our household fires we choose wood
and coal, because these are very combustible and
easily ignited. They have in their composition Car-
bon, Hydrogen, and Oxygen ; these substances we
light with matches, which are slips of wood that have
been dipped into a fluid composed of sulphur or
brimstone and a chemical substance called phosphorus .
When the coal and wood are heated they attract an
increase of oxygen from the air which combines with
them. All substances burn with a less or greater
heat in proportion to their affinity or attraction for
oxygen. Coal and wood are porous bodies, therefore
the oxygen enters very minutely and progressively
into those parts which have become partially separated
by the heat which has already been applied. Now though
oxygen is not in itself a hot body, yet its combination
with any heated substance renders that substance hotter
by the excitement of its presence, the inflamable parts
become lighted, when both gases and heat escape, dif-
fusing themselves to all surrounding objects. The oxy-
gen thus attracted continues the heat which has already
been applied and is therefore called a supporter of
combustion. When we see the coals in a common fire
glowing at a dull red heat, they are not hot enough
to inflame the gas and vapour which surrounds them,
but by stirring the fire, or putting in paper, the air of
the room is Avafted into the vapour and the additional
oxygen thus imparted causes it immediately to become
inflamed. All flame is lighted gas or vapour, but in
the case of fire and candles it is not the vapour alone
that is lighted. In the flame of tallow, wax, oil and
coal, the brilliancy of the light is chiefly owing to
very finely divided particles of the substance burning
which are blended with and burned in the flame.
If there is too large a quantity of these particles there
will be an appearance of smoke. The process of
boiling water for domestic purposes is similar to that
already described as producing steam. Our bread is
baked and our meat is roasted by the joint offices
of radiation and reflection of heat. Our Tea is a
Chinese plant w T hich has been dried by the Sun’s heat,
when we pour the boiling water over it, the odori-
ferous parts and the colouring matter of the plant
combine w ith the water, producing in it the flavour we
so much esteem. This process is called an Infusion.
Query—Why is the Tea tree not cultivated for
use in this Colony “? There are some good specimens
of it in Shephard’s nursery. The Tea-tree grows
equally in mountainous and level districts, but prefers
a light and rocky soil. It is sown by putting seven or
eight seeds in a hole, two or three of which only spring
up, and these are afterwards transplanted into rows.
They begin to yield leaves three years after being-
planted, but require to be renewed every five or six
years, as the leaves then begin to grow hard and
harsh.
Besides the relative duties we have to perform as
inhabitants of a great Colony, we have duties of a
similar nature which we owe to neighbours. Those
persons -who have removed into new countries, and
dwell in solitary abodes, should not lose the senti-
ment of neighbourhood. In general, as every one
lives in a locality more or less peopled, he can promote
his own happiness and that of those around him by a
reciprocity of good feeling ; and though their prin-
cipal amusement would be the interchange of thoughts
by speech, their association might be profitable and
pleasing. An intelligent person can always make a
conversation or give it a direction, he can impart
something that others want to hear, he can canvass
the merits or demerits of public action, and give an
opinion on popular subjects. Under favourable cir-
cumstances, and among persons who know how to
train a conversation, there are few r if any amusements
more grateful to the human heart. Conversation well
used, and wisely applied, is an estimable blessing ;
ill used, it is the corrupting demon of social life.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. IV.
The characters of the French and English are essen-
tially different from each other ; that of the French
possessing less solidity and weight, with greater
sprightliness and lively fancy. Upon examining the
developement of the skulls of each, w r e shall find the
English possessed of superior reflective faculties, and
greater Firmness, which imparts energy and decision
to the character ; and also of a less sanguine or ex-
citable temperament; the consequence of which is, a
grave, serious, and reflective cast of character. The
skull of the English also in regard to the absolute
size, is much larger than the French. On the other
hand, the French cranium with large Hope, Ideality
and Wit, presents but an inferior developement of the
reflective faculties, with defective Firmness —the tem-
perament of the French is also of the very liveliest
sort: the consequence of which combination* is a cha-
racter in the very last degree vivacious and thoughtless,
prone to indulge in the most dreamy anticipations,
and to look only at the bright side of things. Ano-
ther characteristic of the French is, their extreme
and engrossing Vanity, with an inferior developement
of Self-Esteem. The English present a perfectly
different formation of character. Their Self-Conceit
is proverbial among other nations, and their national
songs illustrate very pointedly this distinguishing
characteristic. We need hardly mention the songs of
“ Rule Britannia” and “ Come cheer up my lads,” to
show how far the Self-Esteem of the English carries
them.
Love of Approbation which is not largely developed


in the English, is very prominent in the French, and
accounts for their vanity. The courage of the soldiers
of each nation also exhibits the same characteristic
difference. The French soldier with a powerful
Combativeness and sanguine temperament, rushes to
the combat with a seemingly invincible courage, but
lacks the persevering energy to support it ; the Eng-
lishman with that intrepidity, which is the result of
courage guided by reflection, and supported by the
most inflexible pertinacity and confidence in himself,
brings to battle a moral and physical energy which is
irresistible, and which eventually triumphs over all
opposition. The truth of these remarks may be easily
perceived by reference to the records of the late wars
between England and France, the result of the des-
potism of Napoleon ; or to the Avars in France in the
times of Edward 111, and Henry Y. Another faculty
very prominent in the French head, and easily distin-
guished in their character, is Wonder. One of the
results of a large developement of this organ, is an
insatiable thirst for novelty in whatever manner it can
be gratified, and it is Avell knoivn lioav famous the
French nation is for this manifestation of character.
The Irish character and formation of head bear in
many points a great resemblance to those of the French,
particularly in that brilliancy of thought and aptitude
of Avit, Avhich along Avith a Avoeful Avant of foresight,
seems to be the inheritance of the light-hearted
Patlander. Sir Walter Scott, in his Don Roderick,
in the description of the English in Portugal, has very
happily characterised the Irish portion of the army of
Wellington—
Hark ! from yon stately ranks what laughter rings,
Mingling wild mirth with war’s stern minstrelsy,
His jest while each blithe comrade round him flings
And moves to death with military glee:
Boast, Erin, boast them ! tameless, frank, and free,
In kindness warm, and fierce in danger known
Rough Nature’s children, humorous as she ;
And He, ynn Chieftain—strike the proudest tone
Of thy bold harp, green Isle! —the Hero is thine own.
The Aiolent extremes of character in the Irish are
well knoAvn. Flospitable and kind-hearted in the
last degree, they yet manifest a vindictiveness of dis-
position for the very slightest reasons, and a fiery
haste of temper, that goes far to neutralise their good
qualities. The combatLe disposition of the Irish
has passed into a proverb. A curious story is related
of an Irish gentleman illustrating this trait of their
national character. He had gone on a tour through
France, and happening to pass through a village where
the inhabitants Avere amusing themselves in breaking
each others heads, in one of those skirmishes very
frequent at that time in country places, in the ardour of
excitement to join the melee he leaped from the roof
of the stage-coach in which he was travelling, and
joined the party Avhich he thought Avas getting the
Avorst of the day. The side he espoused, however,
Avas defeated, and he himself left on the field of battle
Avith as many broken bones as would have cured any
other but an Irishman of his pugnacious propensities,
at least for some time. HoAvever, after having been
conveyed to an inn, and his Avounds properly attended
to, he Avas heard remarking to his host, that it was
the best bit of fun he had seen since he left Ireland.
In the Irish cast of skull, the passions are all deve-
loped in a very strong degree, and excited by a most
inflammable and hasty temperament ; and violence
in both their attachments and dislikes is their distin-
guishing characteristic. In the commencement of the
friendship between Lord Byron and Thomas Moore,
the latter whites—“ We Irishmen, in business of this
kind, seldom know any medium between decided
hostility and decided friendship.” Were the Irish
nation released from its trammels—blinded and mis-
guided by its priesthood and political agitators—
there is every reason to suppose that it would become
one of the first nations in the world, as it is now one
of the least.
ÆNEAS.
MATHEMATICS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. 11.
Having considered the utility and importance of our
subject, we now propose to glance at its divisions or
subdivisions, and take a passing notice of them united,
and of a few separately. The term Mathematics
a s now received, bears a different signi-
fication to that of the original one, namely, to that
conveyed by the Latin version of the Avord disciplitia,
which refers strictly to the discipline of the mental
powers and their extension, with regard to their appli-
cation as well as the corrective knowledge obtained
as an immediate result. Whereas, whatever refers to
the properties of space or number, is now considered
as a portion of mathematics. In the Platonic school,
Ave find the term used as relating to that disciplina of
the mind solely, which, consisted in pure reasoning
from self-evident principles ; which restricted mean-
ing has gradually become more extensive in its
signification ; till under the two divisions, pure and
mixed, it embraces every matter which may be con-
sidered as in any way appertaining to the discipline
of the mind.
The ultimate divisions of Mathematics into pure and
mixed, we find very convenient : they may be con-
sidered as follows
Pure as referring to magnitudes generally, simple
and abstract, and as determining the properties and
relations of quantities and magnitudes considered
purely as such.
It includes Arithmetic as part of Algebra, and
Algebra itself ; w r ith Pure Geometry or the science of
local extension, after the manner of Euclid.
Application also of Algebra to Geometry, where the
method of Euclid is no longer adhered to.
It also includes Trigonometry, and all parts of
Geometry numerically solved, and one or two addi-
tional divisions not necessary to enumerate; our
intention being, as before stated, to give a brief sketch
of the portions named, and of their peculiar applica-
tions, together with a slight reference to the principal
contributors of each —but, to return —Pure Mathe-
matics, so called, as resting solely on such self-evident
principles that they admit of no dispute, being clear
and satisfactory ; and to which alone they are indebted
for the great value attached to them.
By the term Mixed , we understand the application
of the above to the sciences which have substance
matter for their subject, e. g. mechanics, optics,
chemistry, and others of a similar nature. In fine,
it may be considered as the application of Pure to the
explanation or advancement of Natural Philosophy.
We now turn to the consideration of the sub-divi-
sions of our subject commencing with Arithmetic as


introductory to Algebra, the difference existing is as
follows:—In the first we make use of the common
numerical characters, termed digits to express quan-
tities, while in the latter, w T e use letters and symbols
to represent unknown quantities, by means of which
we discover the required ones ; here, Arithmetic, so
called, is of little benefit: w r e therefore carry on our
calculations by means of Algebra ; the following
illustration will probably be found more satisfactory.
Were we asked how far a thousand pounds would
extend, supposing each pound to be placed a yard
asunder, we would answer by common Arithmetic.
But if w r e were asked to divide the same amount
between three persons A, B, C, so that A shall have
£72 more than B ; and C £lOO more than A ; to find
their shares we have recourse to Algebra, e. g.
Let x represent A’s share,
Then x —72=B’s share,
And x -f 100r=C’s share,
But the sum of all is,£l,ooo,
Therefore 3 x +2B—looo,
Which is equal to 3 x =972,
Or x the unknown quantity is equal to £324 which
is A’s share, one of the required ones; from which the
others aie easily found. We have given the above
simple example to further explain the difference
between the two, namely between Arithmetic and
Algebra.
It w T ould be superfluous to enter into a long detail
on a subject so generally, and so well understood as
Arithmetic ; and a detail of its history would not be
particularly interesting ; suffice it to say, that the
original standard of all Arithmetical science has been
universally considered to be the fingers ; all nations in
their primitive state confining their calculations for
the most part wholly to these members, w r hile others
add their toes, and feel confused if they endeavour
to advance further without the aid of a notched stick,
such as the Aborigines of this Colony. Leaving the
primitive, w r e glance at a more civilized age, and we
perceive how very slowly the science has progressed.
If we look at the Greeks, with all their acquired and
great natural abilities, we find that they had recourse
to abstract reasoning, being puzzled by the complexity
of their alphabet as numerical characters. The Ro-
mans are still far inferior ; while the characters or
digits, (from a Latin word, signifying finger,) w-hich
we have in use, and derived from the Arabians, are
simple, and admit of such modifications as to be uni-
versal in their application, it seems only astonishing
that so long a time could have elapsed before their
discovery and use ; for it proceeds on a principle
extremely simple, and one which has been employed,
as I have before observed, by nations or rather people
in their primitive state, I mean the act of enumerating
by a show of tens.
T. L. D.
VIRGIL ON THE VINE.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. I.
I need offer no apology for sending you a trans-
lation from so classic a poet as Virgil, especially on
a subject in which w r e are considerably interested. I
only regret that it is impossible to convey in a trans-
lation —which must to a certain extent be literal
the chaste elegance of the poet; yet as far as prose
will bear us, we will convey the poet’s ideas on this
subject, which is decidedly important to us as a
community ; for most probably the vine will be at
some future period (aided by legislative enactments)
as fruitful a source of wealth as the fleece itself.
One thousand and some odd years have elapsed
since the Homan poet gave forth, at the request of his
patron, those precepts on husbandry which even yet
are applicable, not only to his own, but even to other
climes, and perhaps have been followed too closely
in some matters by European farmers. Be that as it
may, Italy prospered under his tutelage, and became
celebrated for the excellence of its grape. I do not
nevertheless infer that his directions aie exactly suit-
able, but rather that the subject may be interesting,
and. moreover, a few useful hints may be gathered
from a perusal of the modest Mantuan’s treatise, who
thus humbly speaks for himself—
“ Mantua me genuit ; Calabri rapuere ; tenet nunc
Parthenope : cecini pascua, rura, duces.”
“ I sang flocks, tillage, heroes ; Mantua gave,'
Me life, Brundusium death, Naples a grave.”
Virgil in his treatise first informs us what descrip-
tion of soil is suitable for the vine, and says that, that
land which exhales thin mists and flying smoke, and
which drinks in the moisture of the atmosphere and
emits it at pleasure, which aßvays clothes itself with
verdant grass, nor hurts the share with scurf, nor
causes to concrete upon it either salt or rust —such land
will entwine your elms with joyous vines. He fur-
ther adds, loose crumbly soils are best adapted for the
vine, (vide Georgic second, lines 217 to 221—229,
262 and 3.
It must be borne in mind that the Homans at that
time trained their vines, not on palisading, but up lofty
trees, such as the elm and holm oak.
With these preliminary remarks, I will close the
present brief communication, hoping that it may be
acceptable, as introductory to the matter I have in
view r , which commences at line 272 of the second
Georgic, and concludes at the 419th.
T. L. D.
THE RELATIYE DUTIES OF PARENTS AND
CHILDREN.
[Extracted from Blackstone.]
Providence has implanted in the breast of every parent that
natural, or insuperable degree of affection, which not even the
wickedness, ingratitude, and rebellion of children, can totally
suppress or extinguish.—p. 447.
No person is bound to provide a maintenance for his issue,
unless where the children are impotent and unable to work,
either through infancy, disease, or accident; and then is only
obliged to find them necessaries.—p. 448.
A parent may lawfully correct a child, being under age, in a
reasonable manner; for this is for the benefit of educa-
tion. —p. 452.
The duties of parents to children; principally consist in
three particulars; their maintenance, their protection, and
their education. —p. 446.
A parent may have the benefit of his children’s labour while
they live with him, and are maintained by him, in the same
way that he is entitled to from his apprentices or servants.—
p. 452.
The duties of children to their parents arise from a principle
of natural justice and retribution. For to those who gave us
existence we naturally owe subjection and obedience during
our minority, and honour and reverence ever after, and are
equally compellable, if of sufficient ability, to maintain and
provide for a wicked and unnatural progenitor, as for one who
has shown the greatest tenderness and parental piety.—p< 455.


Original Poetry.
LINES
On a perilous attempt to beat up from North Harbour, across
the Heads, against a strong southerly gale, and a boisterous
sea, in a small pleasure-boat.
Drear, dark, and gloomy, is the sky,
And black is the heaving main,
Swift skirr the clouds in whirlwinds by,
Our little bark struggles in vain !
Bleak North Head sits with a sullen frown,
In a gossamer shroud of haze ;
Its bold high front on the sea looks down
With a stern contemptuous gaze,
While against its base the mountain wave
With a hurricane shock is driven,
And the surf with a ceaseless roar does rave,
Like the thunder deep of heaven.
’Tis raving storm to the searching eye,
As far as the sight extends,
And where rolling ocean meets the sky,
One wild confusion blends
The tumbling waves of sable hue
With their snowy crests of foam,
And the brooding clouds of livid blile
With their low’ring looks of gloom.
Furiously blows the howling breeze,
And the tott’ring hark does shake ;
Madly she plunges down the seas,
With terror our faint hearts quake.
Still blacker the breeze is on the wave—
More boisterous heaves the flood,
And danger appals the hearts most brave,
And freezes our curdling blood.
Death tbreat’ning strides on each raving blast,
And poises his fatal dart;
The chilly sprays o’erwhelm us fast,
And the bitter dread impart.
Oh, God ! ’tis a fearful tiling to die
In life’s morning, and its bloom,
When the heart with its hopes and its joys heats higli,
To go down to the joyless tomb.
Oh, God! ’tis a fearful thing to die—
To sink ’neatli the choaking foam,
When in the throes of the last agony,
Our thoughts turn to those at home.
But more dreadful still it is to die,
And the soul from sin uncleans’d ;
To meet our Creator’s awful eye,
With eternal wrath incens’d.
But glory to Him who rules the storm,
Who hath rescued us from death:
At His altar our heart’s incense warm
Shall ascend with our latest breath.
ÆNEAS.
[SEIECT.]
THE STAR OF AUSTRALIA.
I saw a glorious land afar—a land of beauty rise,
High temples from its soil sprung up, aspiring to the skies;
I heard its marts, where once was waste, with busy voices
teem, —
d wonder’d where the savage dwelt, and pictur’d all a
dream.
The purple robe of Luxury its lordly merchants wore ;
In rich profusion Plenty lay, reclining on the shore.
A thousand freighted vessels rear’d their spiral masts on
high,
Whose pennons flouted in their pride the soft lonian sky.
Each gladsome face, with smiles bedeck’d, passed cheerfully
along,
For Fortune gaily caroll’d forth the burden of her song;
Yet griping Usury lurk’d there to play his hungry part,
His venom’d shafts to shoot around, and pierce the mer-
chant’s heart.
Then suddenly the sky reveal’d, a meteor pale and wan,
Its beams on each revolving night with greater lustre
shone;
It mounted thro’ the star-lit waste, impatient of delay,
But when it seem’d exalted most, its glory died away.
I look’d upon that land again when summers twain had
roll’d,
But Ruin’s fingers had effaced the produce of its gold,
Dark Poverty had reach’d the shore, and held its pinching
sway,
So Fortune plum’d her treacherous wings, and scornful flew
away.
Too like that comet in its pride burst forth thy glorious
fame,
Too like its faint and waning beam thine hour of trouble
came ;
Whilst upwards soaring to the clouds, dark vapours dimm’d
thy light.
And wrapt thee in one foul eclipse-—a Spectre of the Night.
S. P. HILL.
GENERAL MAXIMS FOR HEALTH.
[From “ The Frugal Housewife.”]
Rise early ; eat simple food. Take plenty of exer*
cise. Never fear a little fatigue. Let not children
be dressed in tight clothes; it is necessary that their
limbs and muscles should have full play, if you wish
for either health or beauty.
Avoid the necessity of a physician, if you can, for
careful attention to your diet. Eat what best agree 3
with your system, and absolutely abstain from what
hurts you, however well you may like it. A few
days abstinence, and cold water for a beverage, has
driven off many an approaching disease.
If you find yourself really ill, send for a good
physician. Have nothing to do with quacks: and do
not tamper with quack medicines. You do not know
what they are ; and what security have you that they
know what they are.
Wear shoes that are large enough : the contrary
not only produces corns, but makes the feet mishapen
and cramps them.
Wash very often, and rub the skin thoroughly with
a hard brush.
Let tho3e who wish to be invalids drink strong
green tea, eat pickles, preserves, and rich pastry. As
far as possible, eat and sleep at regular hours.
Wash the eyes thoroughly in cold water every
morning. Do not read or sew at twilight, or by too
dazzling a light. If far-sighted, read with rather
less light, and with the book somewhat nearer to the
eye than you desire. If near-sighted, read with a
book as far off as possible. Both these imperfections
may be diminished in this way.
Clean your teeth in pure water two or three times
a day ; but, above all, be sure you have them clean
before you go to bed.
Have your bed-chamber well aired ; and have fresh
bed linen every week. Never have the wind blowing
directly upon you through open windows during the
night. It is not heallhy to sleep in heated rooms.
Let children have their bread and milk before they
have been long up. Cold water and a run in the fresh
air before breakfast.
Too frequent use of an ivory comb injures the hair.
Thorough combing, washing in suds, or rum, and
thorough brushing, will keep it in order; and the
washing does not injure the hair, as is generally sup-
posed. Keep children’s hair cut close until ten or
twelve years of age ; it is better for health and the
beauty of the hair. Do not sleep with hair frizzled
or braided. Do not make children cross-eyed, by
having hair hanging about their foreheads, where they
see it continually.


LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
WEEKLY ABSTRACT.
WEDNESDAY.
The Speaker suggested to the Council the propriety
of adopting a resolution instructing him to retain
Messrs. Foster and Windeyer to assist the Attorney
General in the prosecution of Messrs. Macdermott,
Macfarlane and Moore, as there appeared to be some
delicacy on the part of these gentlemen in acting
without such instructions being given.
The Attorney-General saw no reason for such
hesitation ; he had consented to act in the case not in
his capacity of Attorney-General, or of Member of
this House, but as a barrister, and he saw no obstacle
to the learned gentlemen accepting retainers if offered ;
he did not think the House should interfere in any
way with the usual practice of the profession. After
some further debate, the subject w as dismissed without
any step being taken by the House.
After the presentation of several petitions and
notices of motion, the Governor’s Message to the
Legislative Council accompanying the Estimates for
1845 was read.
The Colonial Treasurer having moved that the
Message be now taken into consideration, Mr. Went-
worth proceeded to point out the benefit which had
arisen from the system of retrenchment carried out
by honourable members during the past year. He
also drew the attention of the House to the Squatting
Act, the Border Police and other portions of the
message.
After a lengthened reply from the Colonial Secre-
tary, with some further irregular discussion, the
House adjourned.
THURSDAY.
Leave was granted to Mr. Lord to bring in a Bill
to extend the £3O jurisdiction of Courts of Requests
to the towns of Bathurst, Maitland, and Berrima, and
to provide for the office of Commissioner of such Court
being filled by the Chairman of Quarter Sessions for
the time being. The Bill w r as read a first time.
On the motion of the Colonial Secretary, the
Speaker was requested to communicate to Mr. Elwin
the thanks of the House for the able and satisfactory
manner in which he had performed the duties of hono-
rary Chairman of the Committees of the w T hole
House.
The Colonial Secretary moved that a salary of
£250 per annum be attached to the office of Chairman
of the General Committees, and that the Governor
be requested to place a sum upon the Estimates to
meet that salary. The motion was put and carried.
The House then resolved itself into Committee on
the Supplementary Estimates, Mr. Cowper in the
Chair.
The sum of £lOO 16s. was voted to meet the expense
of erecting a reporter’s gallery, and the sum of £lOO
to meet the expense of introducing the Bude light into
the Council Chamber.
The sum of £l2B 13s. lOd. to meet the expense
incurred in the establishment of a branch of the Cus-
toms at Port Albert, and £35 to meet the expense
iftc.urred for a similar purpose at Port Fairy.
T-He sum of £32 os. 6d. to meet the increased pay
of the messenger of the Insolvent Court, Sydney.
The sum of £6OO was voted to defray the salary of
the Crown Prosecutor in the Court of Quarter Sessions,
after a lengthy discussion, by a majority of 16 to 10.
The sum of £225 was voted to defray the expenses
of purchasing bedsteads for the Gaols at Sydney and
Parramatta.
The sum of £59 4s. 6d. for the expenses of an ad-
ditional turnkey at Berrima Gaol.
The sum of £53 6s. Bd. for a medical atttendant,
at 5040 a year, for the Bathurst Gaol, from the Ist of
September, 1842.
A further sum of £2OO towards the completion of
the Breakwater at Wollongong.
*• A further sum of £l5OO towards the completion
of the New Gaol at Darlinghurst; also £250 for sup-
plying the Gaol with water.
For erecting a Warehouse, adjoining the New
Custom House, Sydney, £l5OO.
For building a Cook-house and Out-offices to the
New Gaol, at Goulburn, and enclosing the building,
£2OOO.
For completing the prison building of the New
Gaol, Bathurst, and erecting Cook-house and Offices,
£2OOO.
In aid of the Sydney Dispensary, an equal amount
having been raised by private subscriptions in 1843,
£202 19s.
Allowances to Parties for acting as Firemen, from
Ist July, to 30th September, 1843, £24.
Gratuities to Firemen for being first in attendance
at Fires in September and October, 1843, £lO 10s.
The House then resumed, and the Chairman having
reported progress, obtained leave to sit again on Wed-
nesday (yesterday.)
The Bill for altering the law relating to appren-
tices was read a third time and passed.
The Catarrh in sheep Bill was read a third time
and passed.
FRIDAY.
A Message was received from the Governor, inti-
mating that he would, as desired, place the sum of
£250 upon the Estimates to defray the salary of
Chairman of Committees.
Mr. Bland obtained leave to bring in a Bill to
reduce the qualification of voters in the City from
£25 to £lO. The Bill was read a first time.
Mr. Cowper moved that Charles Nicholson, Esquire,
be appointed Chairman of Committees of the whole
House, for the remainder of the session.
Mr. Bland moved as an amendment the appoint-
ment of Major D’Arcy Wentworth.
The House then divided and Dr. Nicholson was
elected by a majority of 14 to 12.
The third reading of the Jury Law r s Amendment
Bill was then moved. Motions of amendment for its
postponement by the Attorney-General and Mr.
Wentworth having been negatived, the Bill was read
a third time and passed.
The House then went into Committee on the Customs
Bill, Dr. Nicholson in the chair.
Upon arriving at the 95th clause the further consi-
deration of the bill was postponed until Friday next.
The House having resumed, adjourned till Wed-
nesday (yesterday.)


COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
By tlfe St. Vincent some favourable advices as to the prospect
of the Oil Market in London have been received, and a conse-
quent firmness in this important article of Colonial Export has
to be reported. Sperm Oil may be quoted at £55 per tun
10 tuns Cocoanut Oil, Ex Sir John Byng have been disposed
of at £23 per tun (casks to be returned). The Account Sales
of Tallow just received are also satisfactory, and a correspond-
ing firmness appears in this market. In the Import Market
very little activity has appeared during the week, and general
complaints are made as to the stagnation in the chief branches
of trade. Fine Manila Sugar is scarce ; the ordinary quantities
remain as before, from £l9 to £2l per ton ; a few tons of a
superior sample, the produce of the Sandwich Islands, have
arrived per Sir John Byng, for which the holders are asking
£25 per ton.
Wheat. —This Market remains steady. Cash sales have
been effected of Launceston Wheat, at 4s. 3d. per bushel, and
the stock on hand for sale is very limited.
Flour. —The Millers manifest a desire to effect sales, and
fine Flour may be quoted at £lO per ton.
Maize is selling at 14d. per bushel, or 13d. by the cargo.
Hay.—-The sale of Hay has been limited, with a market
over-stocked, causing a decline in price.
Butter is in great demand, and scarce, sales are easily
effected at advanced prices.
Tobacco. —The supply continues much greater than the
demand, and sales are limited; the preference is given to
Boydell’s brand.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
August 7th, 1844.
Privilege Question. —On Tuesday evening a
public meeting, called by the Mayor in pursuance to
a requisition numerously signed, was held in the
Mechanics’ School of Arts, with a view to elicit the
opinion of the public relative to the proposed prosecu-
tion of Messrs. Macdermott, Macfarlane, and Moore ;
and alsa to adopt a petition to the Governor, request-
ing him not to place any sum upon the estimates for
the purpose of paying the expenses of that prosecution.
The meeting was numerous to excess, and, though
orderly upon the whole, exhibited much popular feeling
on the subject. The following were movers of resolu-
tions and addressed the meeting •. —Messrs. G. R.
Nichols ; C. H. Chambers ; Thurlow ; J. J. Cohen ;
R-. Johnson; Alderman Flood; Rennie, sen.; Hipkiss;
Dr. Tierney ; and Coyle.
New Caledonia.'— From news brought by the
Thomas Lord , it appears that the French have taken
possession of these beautiful islands. It has been noto-
riously the fate of the French to be ultimately defeated
in their efforts at establishing a colonial empire ; as, in
the event of a war with Great Britain,—which, however
strongly to be deprecated, it is possible their late
rapacious attempts in these seas may occasion,—their
colonial possessions must be wrested from them by the
stronger maritime forces of the English. It is, there-
fore, to be regretted that these islands should be sub-
jected to the operation of measures, which, in all
human probability, will not continue in force for a very
lengthened series of years.
Another Pro Tem. Judge.— The last Government
zette notifies the temporary appointment of S. F
Milford, Esq., to be Commissary of the Vice Admiralty
Court of New South Wales.
EXTRACTS.
Digesting Knowledge. —During the rehearsal at
the Royal Amphitheatre, of the ‘ £ Elephant of Siam,”
the well known elephant from the Zoological Gardens
was brought on the stage to perform his part. After
having done this, he espied tho. prompter’s book on
the table, and began to read, mark, and learn its
contents ; but thinking it better inwardly to digest the
whole, in order, no doubt, to be complete master ofhis
part, to the no small astonishment of Mr. Neville and
his assistants, he at once swallowed the book.—Liver-
pool Telegraph
Fair Play.' —Mr. Curran, who was a very small
man, having a dispute with a brother council, who
was a very stout one, in which words ran high on
both sides, called him out. The other, however,
objected; ‘for,’ said he, ‘ you are so little, that I
might fire at you a dozen times without hitting ;
whereas the chance is, that you shoot me at the first
fire.’ ‘ Upon my conscience, that’s true/cried Curran.
• But to convince you I don’t wish to take any ad-
vantage, you shall chalk my size upon your body, and
all hits out of the ring shall go for nothing !’
Sfnpptng Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
August I.—The schooner I Don't Know, Captain Phelps,
from the Bay of Islands 11th ultimo, with oil, &c.
Augvst 2.—The ship Sydney, 345 tons, Captain White,
from Auckland the 16th and the Bay of Islands the 19th July,
in ballast.
August 3.—The schooner Phoebe, 90 tons, Captain Bennett,
from Honolulu, Sandwich Islands, 22nd May, with sugar.
August 3.—The schooner Jane, Captain Steel, from Moreton
Bay, with cedar.
August 5.-—The brig Sir John Byng, 167 tons, Captain Meg-
get from Tahiti 7th April, Sandwich Islands 3rd June, and the
Navigator Islands 9th July, with sugar, &c.
Augurt 6.—The schooner Thomas Lord, 70 tons, Captain
Brown, from Auckland the 6th and the Bay of Islands the 18th
July, with sperm oil,
August 7.—The barque Greenlaw, Captain Edgar, 480 tons,
from Hobart Town.
DEPARTURES.
August 2. —The schooner Marian Watson, Captain Taggart,
for Hobart Town, with sundries.
August 2.—The brig Louisa, Captain Tucker, for Hobart
Town, with sundries.
August 3.—The brig Caroline, Captain Loten, for Hobart
Town, with sundries.
August 3.—The barque Mary Sharp, Captain Mills, for
London, with colonial prodnee.
Angust s.—The ship Sydney, Captain White, for the Bay of
Islands, in ballast,
August 7. — The schooner Eagle, Captain Hodges, for
Launceston.
On the 24th July, at her residence, George-strcet South,
Mrs. Frederick Oatley, of a son.
On the 30th ultimo, at the Royal Hotel, Goulburn, Mrs, S,
Moses, of a son.
On 14th July, at her residence, Queen-street, Surry Hills,
Mrs. J. R. Morris, of a daughter.
JHarrtage.
On the 30th July, by special license, at Trinity Church,
Bathurst, R. G. Cousins, Esq., to Sarah Mary Kite.
Bcatfts.
On the 30th July, at Hunter’s River, Robert Scott, Esq.
On the 26th July, at Parramatta, Mrs. Ann Josepha King,
widow of the late Captain Phillip G. King, R.N. formerly
Governor of New South Wales, aged 80 years.


ik CH &KIEROE,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE 'WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export —not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the-artificial culture
which causes So much moisture in the farina -of ’the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and,for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label—
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
J. THOMAS’S
London and Manchester Military and Naval Hat and Cap
Establishment, corner of George and Bridge-streets.
J THOM AS, in returning thanks for the continued run of
. patronage he has So long enjoyed under public favour,
begs permission to inform his friends and the public, both in
town and country, that he has received some very heavy con-
signments of Goods by recent arrivals, which enables him to
sell a superior and more fashionable Article than has hitherto
been sported in this Colony, and at remarkable Low Prices.
G. & L.—The usual variety of Gentlemen’s and Ladies’
Beaver Riding Hats, of the best quality, and to every
one’s taste and shape, is always on hand.
*** His Young Ladies’ and Children’s Beaver Bon-
nets are also becoming much worn.
M. & N. —Military and Naval Uniform Hats, and Regulation
Caps, are supplied at a very small advance on the
Bond-street prices.
£3=. —The Lamb’s Wool Travelling or Bush Hats and
Caps are peculiarly recommended for the winter season
now fairly set in.
Youths’ and Boys Caps and Hats, suited for every age, and
and for the supply of schools, are in large quantities
*** Livery servants’ Hats, trimmed in Lace or Corded, on
the shortest notice, and at the correct figure.
APARTMENTS TO LET.
P. S.—Mr. J. Thomas is willing to let his four splendid
rooms, first floor, to a respectable family, on fair terms. The
double frontage room, with balcony in front, is 22 feet square,
and the others are three rooms proportionably suitable. The
use of the kitchen and back yard will be included in the
letting.
THE CITIT DEPOT,
CORNER OF KING AND GEORGE' STREETS.
HENRY FISHER, begs to remind the public he has
always on hand,
West India Rum, in or out of bond, 2 gallons and upwards
Fine Cogniac Brandy, ditto ditto
Schedam Gin, ditto ditto
Wines, Port, Sherry, Marsala, &c., &c., by the dozen
Tea, in chests and half-chests, ex Trinidad
Sugar, bright Mauritius
Dunbar's and Byass’ Ale and Porter
Segars, best Manilla, No. 4 and s’s
Taylor’s Porter
Allsopp’s Ale, in bhds. and barrels
Scotch Ale, in bottle
Tobacco, Negrohead and Colonial
Bacon, Hams, ( heese, &c., &c. .
Van Diemen’s Land Flour
And a variety of other Articles too numerous to particularize.
Ist August, 1844. HENRY FISHER.
mes&i&s,
TUST RECEIVED, ex Hindoo, a large assortnif*it ot
•i Repeal, Temperance, Confirmation, Nelson, and Tunnel
Medals, with Cathedral and others of a very beautiful des<*?ip.
tion, adapted for presents.
The attention of Temperance Societies is especially invited
to five hundred beautiful Temperance Medals, which will be
sold cheap.
Specimens may be seen at Mr. Reading’s Printing Office,
133, King-street East.
THE Undersigned begs to return tbanks to his friends aqd
the public for the liberal support he has received
during the last eight years, and to inform them that, in conse-
quence of ill health, he has disposed of the whole of his interest
in the business lately carried on by him, as Bookseller and
Stationer, together with the Stock-in-trade, to his late assis-
tant, Mr. W. A. Colman, for whom he solicits the same
patronage so liberally bestowed upon himself; feeling assured
that Mr. C. will, by strict attention to business, and keeping a
constant supply of the best articles, do everything in his power
to merit their support.
JAMES TEGG.
George-street, Sydney, July 8.
WA. COLMAN announces to his friends and the inha-
« bitants of the Australian colonies, that he has pur-
chased the entire Stock-in-trade of Mr. James Tegg, Bookseller
and Stationer, (opposite the Barrack-gate) Sydney, and hopes,
by strict attention to their orders, keeping a well-selected
stock, and moderate charges, to merit a continuance of the fa-
vours bestowed upon his predecessor.
W. A. C* feels confident that an experience gained in one of
the first wholesale houses in London, together with the
knowledge of the-colonial business, (acquired during the period
of six years at the head of Mr. Tegg’s establishment) combined
with the opportunities which he has of importing at the lowest
price, will enable him to keep up such a regular supply of
Books and Stationery, as to justify his hopes of giving satisfac-
to all who may honour him with a portion of their patronage.
Sydney, 485, George-street,
Opposite the Barrack-gate,
J uly 23.
GMomal 3L(terarjj Journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements: —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal, are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor.., Mr. Walker.’
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway;
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
