

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVE ANT, SE D FUBEICA VOTA,’*
Vol. 11. No. 37.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1845.
[Price 44.
DECISION OF CHARACTER.
111.
We cannot better conclude the few cursory remarks we
have been enabled to make on this subject, than by
placing before our readers the following passage from
Foster's Essay on Decision of Character, a production
very deservedly in considerable estimation :—-
“ There is no man (says he) so irresolute as not to
act with determination in many single cases, wdiere the
motive is powerful and simple, and where there is no
need of plan and perseverance ; but this gives no claim
to the term character , which expresses the habitual
tenour of a man’s active being, The character may
be displayed in the successive unconnected under-
takings, which are each of limited extent, and end
with the attainment of their objects. But it is seen
to the greatest advantage in those grand schemes of
action, which have no necessary point of conclusion,
which continue on through successive years, and ex-
tend even to that dark period when the agent himself
is withdrawn from human sight,
Revenge has produced wonderful examples of un-
remitting constancy to a purpose. Zanga is a well-
supported illustration. And you may have read a real
instance of a Spaniard, who, being injured by another
inhabitant of the same town, resolved to destroy him :
the other was apprised of this, and removed with the
utmost secrecy, as he thought, to another tow r n at a
considerable distance, where, however, he had not
been more than a day or two, before he found that his
enemy was arrived there, He removed in the same
manner to several parts of the kingdom, remote from
each other; but in every place quickly perceived that
his deadly pursuer was near him. At last he went to
South America, where he had enjoyed his security but
a very short time, before his unrelenting enemy came
up with him, and effected his purpose.
You may recollect the mention, in one of our con-
versations, of a young man, who wasted in two or
three years a large patrimony in profligate revels with
a number of worthless associates, who called them-
selves his friends, and who, when his last means were
exhausted, treated him of course with neglect, or con-
tempt. Reduced to absolute want, he one day went
out of the house with an intention to put an end to
his life ; but wandering awhile almost unconsciously,
he came to the brow of an eminence which overlooked
what were lately his estates, Here he sat down, and
remained fixed in thought a number of hours, at the
end of which he sprang from the ground with a vehe-
ment exulting emotion. He had formed his resolution,
which was, that all these estates should be his again ;
he had formed his plan too, which he instantly began
to execute. He walked hastily forward, determined
to seize the very first opportunity, of however humble
a kind, to gain any money, though it were ever so
despicable a trifle, and resolved absolutely not to
spend, if he could help it, a farthing of whatever he
might obtain. The first thing that drew his attention
was a heap of coals shot out of carts on the pavement
before a house. He offered himself to shovel or wheel
them into the place where they were to be laid, and
was employed. He received a few pence for the
labour ; and then, in pursuance of the saving part of
his plan, requested some small gratuity of meat and
drink, which was given him, He then looked out for
the next thing that might chance to offer, and went,
with indefatigable industry, through a succession of
servile employments, in different places, of longer and
shorter duration, still scrupulously avoiding, as far as
possible, the expense of a penny. He promptly
seized every opportunity which could advance his
design, without regarding the meanness of occupation
or appearance, By this method he had gained, after
a considerable time, money enough to purchase, in
order to sell again, a few cattle, of which he had taken
pains to understand the value, He speedily but can-?
tiously turned his first gains into second advantages;
retained without a single deviation his extreme parsi-
mony ; and thus advanced by degrees into larger
transactions and incipient wealth, I did not hear, or
have forgotten, the continued course of his life ; but
the final result was, that he more than recovered his
lost possessions, and died an inveterate miser, worth
£60,000. I have always recollected this as a signal
instance, though in an unfortunate and ignoble direc-;
tion, of decisive character, and of the extraordinary
effect , which according to general laws belongs to the
strongest form of such a character.
But not less decision has been displayed by men
of virtue. In this distinction no man ever succeeded,
for instance, or ever will exceed, the late illustrious
Howard.
I now proceed to specify Courage as an essential
part of the decisive character, An intelligent man,
adventurous only in thought, may sketch the most
excellent scheme, and after duly admiring it, and
himself as its author, may be reduced to say, What a
noble spirit that would be which should dare to realise
this! A noble spirit f—is it I ? And his heart may
answer in the negative, while he glances a mortified
thought of inquiry round to recollect persons who
would venture what he dares not, and almost hopes


not to find them. Or if by extreme effort he has
brought himself to a resolution of braving the diffi-
culty, he is compelled to execrate the timid lingerings
that still keep him back from the trial. A man en-
dowed with the complete character, says, with a sober
consciousness as remote from the spirit of bravado as
it is from timidity, Thus, and thus,'is my conviction
and my determination ; now for the phantoms of fear ;
let me look them in the face ; they will find I am not
made of trembling materials : * I dare do all that may
become a man.’ I shall firmly confront every thing
that threatens me in the proseeution of my purpose,
and I am prepared to meet the consequences of it when
it is accomplished.
As the conduct of a decisive man is always indivi-
dual, and often singular, he may expect some serious
trials of courage. For one thing, he may be encoun-
tered by the strongest disapprobation of many of his
connections, and the censure of the greater part of the
society where he is known. In this case, it is not a
man of common spirit that can show himself just as at
other times, and meet their anger in the same undis-
turbed manner as he would meet some ordinary in-
clemency of the weather ; that can, without harshness
or violence, continue to effect every moment some part
of his design, coolly replying to each ungracious look
and indignant voice, I am sorry to oppose you; I am
not unfriendly to you, while thus persisting in what
excites your displeasure ; it would please me to have
your approbation and concurrence, and I think I
should have them if you would seriously consider my
reasons ; but meanwhile, I am superior to opinion ; I
am not to be intimidated by reproaches, nor would
your favour and applause be any reward for the sa-
crifice of my object. As you can do without my
approbation, I can certainly do without yours ; it is
enough that I can approve myself, it is enough that I
can appeal to the last authority in the creation. Amuse
yourselves, as you may, by continuing to censure or
to rail; / must continue to act.
The attack of contempt and ridicule is perhaps a
still greater trial of courage. It is felt by all to be an
admirable thing, when it can in no degree be ascribed
to the hardness of either stupidity or confirmed de-
pravity, to sustain for a considerable time, or in nume-
rous instances, the looks of scorn, or an unrestrained
shower of taunts and jeers, with a perfect composure,
which shall immediately after, or even at the time,
proceed on the business that provokes all this ridicule.
This invincibility of temper will often make even the
scoffers themselves tired of the sport: they begin to
feel that against such a man it is a poor sort of hos-
tility to laugh. There is nothing that people are more
mortified to spend in vain than their scorn. Till,
however, a man becomes a veteran, he must reckon
on sometimes meeting this trial; and I instantly know
—if I hear him anxiously reply, to an important sug-
gestion of any measure to be adopted, But will they
not laugh at me ? I know—that he is not the person
whom this essay attempts to describe. A man of the
right kind would say, They will smile, they will laugh,
will they ? Much good may it do them. I have
something else to do than to trouble myself about their
mirth. I do not care if the whole neighbourhood
were to laugh in a chorus. I should indeed be sorry
to see or hear such a number of fools, but pleased
enough to find that they did not consider me as one
of their stamp. The good to result from my project
will not be less, because Vain and shallow minds that
cannot understand it, are diverted at it and at me.
What should I think of my pursuits, if every trivial
thoughtless being could comprehend or would ap-
plaud them, and of myself, if my courage needed
levity and ignorance for their allies, or could shrink at
their sneers.”
Biography.
CHARLES MATHEWS.
(From Chambers' Journal.)
The qualifications required of a good actor are of a very liigli
and varied order. The artist who can accurately dissemble
the gestures, tones of voice, and expressions of countenance
which different men betray in giving vent to, or in subduing
their emotions and passions, must have been a close observer
of human nature, to be able to conceive the characters he
wishes to represent; whilst to convey those conceptions to an
audience, he must possess a high amount of purely artistic
skill. The feelings which agitate the human mind, either
with pain or pleasure, are few in number, and betray them-
selves with sufficient distinctness to render a mere mimicry
of their broad characteristics easy enough ; but no two persons
express the same passions or sensations in the same manner,
and nice discrimination in a dramatic artist is essential, that
his delineation of each emotion may be in harmony with the
being he represents. It was said of Garrick, the great trage-
dian of the last century, that while studying the character of
Lear, he visited Bedlam to copy the madness of the old
monarch from nature; but this was afterwards justly denied ;
“ the excellence of Garrick’s Lear was not that it represented
ordinary madness, but the madness of a dethroned king.”
We drop these hints with the intention of claiming some con-
sideration for an art which, because of the incorrect conduct
of some of its professors, is, as an art, too frequently under-
rated. To the subject of our present biography, however, no
objections whatever can be taken; he was eminent for private
worth, as well as for unrivalled professional genius.
Charles Matiiews was born on the 28th June, 1776, at
No. 18 Strand, London, where his father carried on business
as a bookseller. It was predicted by neighbouring gossips,
that he was destined to make himself famous, for he happened
to be the seventh son of a seventh son. Almost all Charles
Mathews’ brothers and sisters died, however, in early life.
The elder Mathews was a man of strictly religious habits, and
preached every Sunday in a chapel at Whetstone, a little vil-
lage about eight miles north of London,, where lie bad a
suburban cottage. He was of the sect established by Lady
Huntingdon, and respected by all who knew him, bis shop in
the Strand being the resort of many eminent persons. On
one occasion, Miss Hannah More and Garrick being there,
saw little Charles, then only three years old; and Garrick,
taking him in his arms, burst into a fit of laughter, exclaiming,
“ Why, his face laughs all over ; but certainly on the wrong
side of his mouth!” This conveys an excellent notion of
Mathews, even m after-life ; though his mouth was distorted
slightly to one side, his laugh was perfectly joyous. The
embryo comedian’s education commenced at St. Martin’s free
school, and the period of his attendance at it is selected for
that invariable anecdote of early manifestations of after-
genius, which few “ Memoirs” are without. There was a
man who hawked eels ♦for sale in a drawling guttural voice,
with which, as Mathews tells us, he elongated the word
e—e —e —e —els, from one street to another, “ till people
cried, What a long eel!” The young mimic imitated him too
well to please the original; and one unlucky day he was
caught in the act, hunted into his father’s shop, and felled
with a blow from the insulted hawker. “ Next time,” said


the perambulating fishmonger, “ as you twists your little wry
mouth about, and cuts your mugs at a respectable tradesman
I’ll skin you like an e—e —” and snatching up his
basket, finished the monosyllable about nine doors off.
At the age of ten, young Mathews was removed from St.
Martin s to Merchant Tailor’s school; and after remaining
there several years, he was allowed to leave early on four
evenings of each week to learn French at a school kept by a
Madame CottereJ, in Bedford-street, Strand. Amongst his
fellow pupils he found many congenial tastes; a mania for
private theatricals raging very strongly throughout the entire
school. With the permission of the mistress, several plays
were performed, in all which Mathews, and his friend Robert
William Elliston (afterwards equally celebrated as an actor),
took principal parts, though the former had never been in a
theatre. This treat was afforded him for the first time in the
autumn of 1790; and his thirst for dramatic fame was excited
to more fervency than ever. To indulge it more effectually,
he and his friend Elliston became members of a private
theatre—a name by which a loft over a stable in Short’s
Gardens, Drury Lane, was dignified. Here, besides per-
forming a character in a farce, he gave .imitations of the pecu-
liar styles of several then popular performers in a manner
which was pronounced to be excellent. This success gave an
impulse to the youthful aspirant’s ambition, which carried
him the length of applying to the managers of Covent Garden
theatre for a situation then vacant, to fill which adequately,
demanded qualifications necessary to the performance of prin-
cipal characters! At the time of making this modest appli-
cation. Mathews was not quite fifteen years old.
It may be easily conceived, that the line of life which was
the youth’s own choice did not accord with the views of his
father, whose opinion of the stage was far less tolerant than
those of persons not so strict in religious observances. Hence
on leaving Merchant Tailor’s school, Charles was bound ap-
prentice to the bookselling business, and placed behind bis
father’s own counter. The duties demanded of him were so
irksome, that he determined to take an early opportunity of
quitting the shop for the theatre, and at length actually car-
ried that intention into effect. The excellent and kind-hearted
father, seeing all efforts unavailing to deter his son from his
purpose, gave him a little money, to which more was added,
with many tears, by bis mother; and at the end of May, 1794,’
Charles Mathews departed for Dublin, to fulfil an engagement
he had entered into with a theatrical manager of that city.
On arriving, he made a successful appearance, and his
stipend was fixed at a guinea per week; that is to say, nomi-
nally, for the fulfilment of such agreements too often depends
less upon the honour of the manager than upon the success of
the theatre, so that the poor actors do not always get paid.
Charles soon began to taste the bitters of the line of life he
had chosen. He had not been long in Dublin before his
scanty salary fell into arrear, and he was obliged on more than
one occasion to go to the theatre at night without bavin*
tasted anything since a meagre breakfast. These are some of
the hardships inseparable from a profession which entirely
depends upon the caprice of public favour, and should be
taken as a warning by all stage-struck aspirants. There is
however, a secret compensation in the lives of actors, which is
well explained in one passage of the “ Memoirs of Charles
Matnews,” namely, the gaiety and lightness of heart under
the most harassing distress, for which they are celebrated.
Often, says his biographer, Charles Mathews joined his com-
panions, determined not to go on the stage till lie got bis
money, and almost fainting for lack of food. “ When, how-
ever, he entered the green-room, his spirits were so cheered
by the attention of his brethren, and the eclat he met with
among them whenever he put forth his powers of amusement,
added to the gaiety of the scene altogether, that his fainting
resolution was restored, all his discontent utterly banished for
the time, and he was again reconciled to starvation; nay, he
even felt afraid of offending the unfeeling manager, and re-
turned home silent upon the subject of his claims.” To so
severe a state of privation was Mathews at length reduced,
that he sometimes fasted two whole days, wandering about the
streets of Dublin to beguile his distresses, Meantime, he
became deeply indebted to bis landlord; and after many pro-
mises of payment, which he was unable to fulfil, he one night
returned late from the theatre penniless and supperless. lie
knocked at the door of his lodging, but in vain. His inex-
orable creditor refused to admit him, unless he paid the
arrears of rent on the spot. The unfortunate lodger would
have been driven to spend the night in the open air but for
the hospitality of his laundress, the wife of a barber who lived
in the neighbourhood. With the feeling of a person who,
having brought his poverty on himself, was determined to
suffer it in silence, Mathews made every attempt to conceal
it, not only from his friends in London, but from those by
whom he was surrounded. It did not, however, entirely
escape observation, and a benevolent member of the same
company offered to advance sufficient funds to enable him to
return to London. The offer was gladly accepted; for Mathews,
weakened in constitution by want, and depressed in spirits by
disappointment and despair, determined to return to his
parents, and to spend the rest of his days according to his
father’s wishes, as a tradesman.
But it was ordered otherwise. In their way to London,
the two actors stopped at Swansea, and were pressed by the
manager of the theatre to act for one night. There Mathews’
success was so great, that, forgetting all his former woes, he
accepted an offcfr to become a regular member of the com-
pany, and despatched a letter to his father expressing his
altered intention. In the summer of 1797, Mathews, then
one-and-twenty years old, met with a young schoolmistress,
the story of whose helpless youth and early struggles im-
pressed him deeply in her favour. She was the orphan
daughter of a physician of Exeter, left almost in penury, but
with an excellent education. Though herself without a six-
pence, and though the young actor’s salary was just twelve
shillings a week, he became her affianced husband, and wrote
to his father for consent to the match. The answer, which
abounded in good sense and feeling, was construed into a full
approbation of the marriage, and the union accordingly took
place. All farther idea of abandoning the stage was now given
up, and Mathews, having a several months’ interval between
the end of his engagement at Swansea, and the commence-
ment of a new one at York, spent the interim with his parents
in London. He and his clever, amiable wife were welcomed
with as much fondness as if no disobedience had separated
the son from his parents, who would listen to his songs and
mimicry with a degree of merriment which astonished even
the cause of it.
(To be concluded in our next.)
BOOKS.
“’ T were wen with most, if books, that could engage
1 heii childhood, pleased them at a riper ;
The man approving what had charmed the°boy,
Would die at last in comfort, peace, and joy ;
And not with curses on his art, who stole
The gem of truth from his unguarded soul.”
If there be one word in our language, beyond all
others, teeming with delightful associations, “ books"
is that word. At that magic name what vivid retro-
spections of bygone times, what summer days of un-
alloyed happiness, “ when life was new,” rush on the
memory ! even now the spell retains its power to


charm : the beloved of my youth is the solace of my
declining years : such is the enduring nature of an
early attachment to literature.
The first book that inspired me with a taste for
reading, was “ Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress never
shall I forget the intense emotion with which I perused
this pious and interesting fiction; the picturesque de-
scriptions and quaint moralities blended with this fine
allegory, heightened the enchantment, and which, to
a youthful and fervid imagination, “unsated yet with
garbage,” was complete. Prom henceforward my
bias was determined ; the passion grew with my
growth, and strengthened with my strength; and I
devoured all the books that fell in my way, as if “ ap-
petite increased by what it fed on.” My next step
was, I commenced collector. Smile, if you will, rea-
der, but admire the benevolence of creative wisdom,
by which the means of happiness are so nicely ad-
justedto the capacity for enjoyment-: for, slender as
in those days were my finances, I much doubt if the
noble possessor of the unique edition of Boccaccio,
marched off with his envied prize, at the cost of two
thousand five hundred pounds, more triumphantly
than I did with my sixpenny pamphlet, or dog-
eared volume, destined to form the nucleus of my
future library.
The moral advantages arising out of the love of
books are so obvious, that to enlarge upon such a topic
might be deemed a gratuitous parade of truisms; I
shall therefore proceed to offer a few observations as to
the modes of deriving both pleasure and improvement
from this most fascinating and intellectual of all pur-
suits. Lord Bacon says with his usual discrimina-
tion, “ some books are to be tasted, others to be
swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested;
this short sentence comprises the whole practical wis-
dom of the subject, and in like manner, by an exten-
sion of the principle, the choice of a library must be
regulated. “ Few books, well selected, are best,” is a
maxim useful to all,, but more especially to young
collectors : for let it be remembered, that economy in
our pleasures invariably tends to enlarge the sphere
of our enjoyments. Fuller remarks, “ that it is a
vanity to persuade the world one hath much learning
by getting a great libraryand the supposition is
equally erroneous, that a large collection necessarily
implies a good one. The truth is, were we to discard all
the works of a mere temporary interest, and of solemn
trifling, that encumber the fields of literature, the
magnitude of numerous vast libraries would suddenly
shrink,into most diminutive dimensions, for the num-
ber of good original authors is comparatively few;
study therefore quality rather than quantity in the
selection of your books. As regards the luxuries of
the library, keep a rigid watch upon your inclina-
tions ; for though it must not be denied that there is
a rational pleasure in seeing a favourite author ele-
gantly attired, nothing is more ridiculous than this
taste pushed' to the extreme; for then this refined
pursuit degenerates into a mere hobby horse, and
once fairly mounted, good bye to prudence and com-
mon sense! The Bibliomaniac is thus pleasantly
satirised by an old poet in the “ Shyp of Fooles.”
“ Styll am I besy bok assemblynge,
For to have plenty it is a pleasant thynge
In my conceit, and to have them ay in hand,
But wliat they mene do I not understande r
When we survey our well-furnished book-shelves,
the first thought that suggests itself is, the immortality
of intellect. Here repose the living monuments of
those master-spirits destined to sway the empire of
mind; the historian, the philosopher, and the poet,
“ of imagination all compact!” and while the deeds
of mighty conquerors hurry down the stream of obli-
vion, the works of these men survive to after-ages,,
are enshrined in the memories of a grateful posterity,,
and finally stamp upon national character the perma-
nent impress of their genius,.
Happy we who are early taught to cherish the so-
ciety of these silent friends,, ever ready to amuse
without importunity, and instruct without the aus-
terity of reproof. Let us rest assured that it is
“ mind that- makes the body rich,” and that in the
cultivations of our. intellect, we secure an inexhaus-
tible store of present gratification, and a source of
pleasurable recollections which will never fail to cheer
the evening of life.— Ward's Miscellany .
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY.—SECTION XXXIV.
PROGRESS* OF THE CIVIL WARS—SECOND TRIUMVIRATE —AND *
FALL OF THE REPUBLIC,
1. The ambition of Caesar and of Pompey had now evidently
the same object; and it seemed to be the only question in
those degenerate times, to which of these aspiring leaders the
republic should surrender its liberties. The term of Caesar’s-
government was near expiring; but to secure himself against
a deprivation ,of;pawer, he procured a proposal to be made in
the senate by one of his partizans, which bore the appearance
of great moderation, namely, that Caesar and Pompey should'
either both continue in their governments, or both be deprived i
of them, as they were equally capable of endangering the
public liberty by an abuse of power. The motion passed ; and
Caesar immediately offered to resign, on condition that his.
rival should do so; but Pompey rejected the accommodation ;
the term of his government had yet several'years duration,_
and he suspected the proposal' to be a snare laid for him by,
Caesar, He resolved to maintain his right by force of arms,
and a civil war was the neeessary consequence. The consuls-
and a great part of the senate were friends of Pompey. Caesar
had on his sid6 a victorious army, consisting of ten legions,
and the body of the Rbman citizens whom he had won by Ins
liberality. Mark Antony and Cassius, at that time tribunes-
of the people, left Rome, and repaired to Caesar’s camp.
2. The senate, apprehensive of his designs, pronounced a
decree, branding with the crime of parricide any commander
who should dare to pass the Rubicon (a small river which
formed the boundary between Italy and Cisalpine Gaul) with
a single cohort, without their permission. Caesar, after much
hesitation, infringed the prohibition, and marched straight to
Rome, Pompey, to whom the senate committed* the defence
of the state, had neglected to assemble an army. He quitted
Rome, followed by the consuls and-part of the senate, and
endeavoured hastily to levy troops over all'ltaly and Greece ;
while Caesar triumphantly entered the city amidst the accla-
mations of the people, seized the public treasury, and posses-
sed himself of the supreme authority without opposition.
Having secured the capital of the empire, he set out to take
the field against his enemies. When he drew near to Brun-
dusium, Pompey and his friends passed over into Greece.
Afranius- and Petreius, the lieutenants of Pompey, had pos-
session of Spain. Caesar marched thither, and subdued the
whole country in the space of forty days. He returned vic-
torious to Rome, where, in his absence, he had been nomi-
nated dictator, In the succeeding election of magistrates he
was chosen consul, and thus invested, by a double title, he had
now that legal right of acting in the name of the republic


which he had hitherto wanted. Pompey had by this time raised
a numerous army in Greece, Macedonia, and Epirus, and had
drawn large supplies from the sovereigns of the East, whom
he had formerly conquered. Caesar, anxious to bring him to a
general engagement, embarked his army at Brundusium, and
'landed at Dyrrhachium, in Illyria, and the first conflict was
of doubtful issue; but leading on his army to Macedonia,
where they found a large reinforcement, he gave battle to
’Pompey in the field of Pharsalia, and entirely defeated him.
Fifteen thousand were slain, and 24,000 surrendered them-
selves prisoners to the victor (a.u.g. 705, b.c. 49). Caesar
found in the camp of Pompey all his letters and papers, and
with the greatest magninimity ordered them to be burned
without their being read; declaring, that he wished rather to
be ignorant who were Ins'enemies-than to be obliged to punish
any one.
3. The fate ef Pompey Was miserable in the extreme. With
his wife Cornelia, the companion of his misfortunes, he fled
to Egypt in a single ship, trusting to the protection of Ptolemy,
•whose father had owed to him his settlement on the throne.
'But the ministers of this young prince, dreading the power of
Caesar, basely courted his farvour by the murder of his rival.
Brought ashore in a small boat by the guards of the king, a
Homan centurion, who had fought under his own banners,
stabbed him, even in the sight of Cornelia, and cutting off his
; head, threw the body naked on the sands, where it was in-
debted for funeral honours to the gratitude and-humanity of
an old Roman soldier, who, in the silence of night, with the
fragments of a boat made a funeral pile, burned the body, and
carried the ashes to Cornelia. - Caesar pursued Pompey to
Alexandria, where the head of that unhappy man, pre-
sented as a grateful offering, gave him the first intelligence
of his fate. He wept, and turned with horror from the sight.
He caused every honour to>be pdid to his memory, and from
that time showed the'Utmost beneficence to the partisans of
his unfortunate rival.
4. The sovereignty of Egypt was la dispute between
Ptolemy and his sister Cleopatra. The latter, though married
to her brother, and joint heir by their father’s will, was ambi-
tious of undivided authority ; and Caesar, captivated by her
charms, decided the contest in favour of the beauteous queen.
A war ensued, in which Ptolemy was killed, and Egypt sub-
dued by the Roman arms. In this war the famous library of
Alexandria was burnt to ashes (b c. 48). A revolt of the
Asiatic provinces, under Phafnaces the son of Mithridates, was
signally chastised, and the report conveyed by Caesar to the
Roman senate in three Words, Veni, vidi, vici. The conqueror
returned to Rome, where he was elected consul and dictator
for the third time. Rome needed his presence; for Italy was
divided, and the partizans of Pompey were yet extremely for-
midable. His two sons, with Cato and Scipio, were in arms
in Africa, and powerfully supported by Juba, king of Mauri-
tania. Caesar followed them thither, and, proceeding with
caution till secure of his advantage, defeated them in a deci-
sive engagement at Thapsus. Scipio perished in his passage
to Spain. Cato, shutting himself up in Utica, meditated a
brave resistance ; but finally, seeing no hope of success, he
determined not to survive the liberties of his country, and fell
deliberately by his own hand. Juba was now driven from his
kingdom, Mauritania was added to the number of the Roman
provinces, and Caesar returned to Rome absolute master of the
empire. He was decreed a splendid triumph, which lasted
four days, and on that occasion he gratified the people with the
most magnificent games and entertainments, and they in re-
turn conferred upon him all the titles and dignities of the
state.
5. From that moment his attention was directed solely to
the prosperity and happiness of the Roman people. He re-
membered no longer that there had been opposite parties ;
beneficent alike to the friends of Pompey as to his own. He
laboured to reform every species of abuse or grievance. He
introduced order into every department of the state, defining
the separate rights of all its magistrates, and extending' his
care to the regulation of its most distant provinces. The re-
formation of the calendar, the draining the marshes of Italy,
the navigation of the Tiber, the embellishment of Rome, the
complete survey and delineation of the empire, alternately
employed his liberal and capacious mind. Returning from the
final overthrow of Pompey’s party in Spain, he was hailed the
Father of his Country, was created consul for ten years, and
perpetual dictator. His person was declared sacred, his title
henceforth Imperator (a.u.c. 709, b.c.’45.)
GREEN STOCKINGS.
[by the author of “selwyn.”]
Thßre exists an ancient usage in the northern part of
England, whether extending to the south, I am un-
able to decide—by Which'the younger daughters of a
family, on marrying, are entitled to inflict upon such
elder sisters as happen to be still spinsters, the playful
insult of a pair of Green Stockings. This, it may be
readily imagined, becomes either a good or bad joke,
I according to the disposition and character of the parties
j —the degree of sisterly feeling which subsists among
them—or the chance the elder branches enjoy of a
prompt retaliation in the shape of wedding favours.
Be this as it may, this old custom has seldom, I be-
lieve, been more honoured by observance than in
'the family of my cousins, the Claverings.
Anne Clavering was the eldest of five sisters, of whom
Emma was a wit,“Fanny a beauty, Laura a poetess, and
Cecilia a musician ; while poor Anne was only —
Miss Clavering! They had lost their mother early,
and Anne had been old enough to appreciate the loss,
and to feel that it imposed on her a high responsibility,
and premature steadiness of character ; while the
others had been emancipated from maternal control,
just in time to add to naturally high spiiits no small
degree of wilfulness and self-confidence. Anne did
her best by her calm, composed, dignified example to
shame or restrain those exuberances ; but she was only
—Anne ; and destined, moreover, by her ominous love
of order, and pretty shade.of precision—to be infalli-
bly an old maid!
To avert this consummation in their own persons,
all her juniors had strenuously resolved. It has
been doubted, I know, whether the vi et armis system
of making conquests is uniformly the most success-
ful ; but opinions are so divided, and the show of hands
(if not of hearts) in my cousins’ family so decidedly
in favour of a, coup de main , that as the means of
achieving mere matrimony abstractedly considered—
I have no hesitation in recommending it. It has
always appeared to me, that there exists a happy and
mysterious equilibrium of numbers between the few
men capable of resisting a siege, and the few women
incapable of laying one. Let these be kept hors de
combat , and give the residue erf the sexes a fair field
and no favour.
Fanny Clavering’s beauty was of so decided and
consummate a character, that it never occurred to any
one to question its power of enslaving. Its aptness to
retain was, indeed, quite another affair, and Fanny
had seen adorersof various calibres find, in prolonged
acquaintance, an antidote to the poison of her eye,
There were not wanting Strephons of a more con


stant and enduring description, but their ardour being
somewhat damped by Fanny's avowed ultimatum
of four horses and the privilege of franking—such of
them as were not at first annihilated by a refusal
shrank into ornamental and profitless danglers.
The indispensable requisites were at length found
in the person of a Mr. John Hanbury, the happy
possessor of two hundred thousand pounds hard cash,
and four of the finest blood greys such ample means
could command. To these, and still more to the ca-
balistic letters M.P., after his name, (which certain
small wits have insisted on translating into “ mar-
vellous puppy”) Mr. John Hanbury was in due time
indebted for the hand of the fair Fanny, and her re-
luctant resignation in favour of St. Stephen’s in pos-
session, of sundry floating peerages in prospect. Most
of her female acquaintance thought it an excellent
match. As for me —I know lam apt to be rather
fastidious —I only thought the bridegroom ugly, vul-
gar, conceited, purse-proud, illiterate, a,nd insuffera-
ble : voila tout.
My witty cousin Emma was very much of my opin-
ion in the matter, with this difference, that she published
hers, and I kept mine to myself —and that she nearly
forfeited for ever the eclat of her sister’s barouche
and four, and the convenience of her brother-in-law’s
mystical scrawls, by an epithalamium which she
dropped on the stairs. However, John stood too
much in awe of her to quarrel outright, and they
continued to make “ free with” and for each other —
till Hymen removed her into another circle.
Fanny had lived too much in an atmosphere of
practical jokes, not to make a point of keeping up the
old custom of the Green Stockings. Their delicate
texture was duly bespoken at Norwich—the not very
remote connection of the bridegroom with which seat
of industry was not lost upon sister proficients in the
noble art of quizzing—and made their appearance,
according to ancient usage, at the wedding dinner.
I sat next Anne on the occasion, and had the honour
to cut up the identical pasty, under whose capacious
roof reposed the ominous lower integuments; certain
nameless appendages to which had, however, been
replaced by the ostentatious gallantry of the bride-
groom with a pair of the most costly bracelets.
“ When the pie was opened,” as the old song says, I
watched Anne’s countenance, and can testify that no
heightened colour flushed her delicately tinged cheek
at the roughness of the jest, and no latent sparkle
illuminated her soft gray eye at the munificence of the
present. She only smiled —and what Anne Claver-
ing’s smile said, I leave to be interpreted by those
who have seen it!
Her next sister Emma’s satirical propensities
would have rendered her marrying within the six
adjoining parishes a matter of serious surprise to me.
But a fortunate trip to Harrogate threw within the
fire of her batteries, a young Irish baronet, of more
bog than brains, who admired the whiteness of her
teeth too much to dread their power to wound. Sir
Phelim was too soft to understand, and consequently
to suffer as much as others from her jokes. He only
saw that they made every body round her (their ob-
ject excepted) laugh: and naturally concluded that
so lively a partner would render his handsome table,
well-stocked cellar, and ample stud, more perma-
nently attractive than he had ever yet been able to
make them to his brother sportsmen of the higher
class. He chose, therefore, a piquant wife on exactly
the same principle of general utility -which had lately
guided him in the choice of a 'piquant cook—both
having been recommended to him by the same cele-
brated modish oracle, who was heard, however, to say,
sotto voce , that he himself would as soon have hired the
gout as the one, and married the devil as the other !
Anne was again to have “ Green Stockings;” but
this time they were baked into the beau milieu of the
bride-cake, and some fragments of their mutilated
debris having chanced to be conveyed in the portions
assigned to sundry far more cross and involuntary
spinsters than poor Anne, Emma had the rare and
characteristic satisfaction of giving more offence at
her wedding than any bride of her acquaintance.
Anne, this time did not smile —she nearly cried ; and
I believe, would rather have swallowed the obnoxious
garments whole herself, than that they should have
been so vexatiously distributed.
It w r as some time before her temper was put to ano-
ther matrimonial test. I ought perhaps sooner to
have mentioned that my cousin Clavering, a man of
quiet and unostentatious, but sterling talents for
business, had been left by his schoolfellow and steady
friend, the Earl of G , the principal guardian of
his son and heir. From this control (which his mild
and inoffensive character rendered a merely nominal
one) the young lord had been long emancipated, but
feelings of real good-will tow'ards his “ own and his
father’s friend” had always remained ; though they
had not, from distance and other circumstances, led
to intimacy with the junior branches of Mr. Claver-
ing’s family.
It can hardly, however, be supposed, that votaries
of Hymen so determined as most of my cousins,
were disposed to forego all chance of a coronet, in
which they felt, as it were, a sort of hereditary and
reversional interest. They were girls too fertile
in resources to find an invitation to the races of his
lordship’s county an achievement beyond their diplo-
matic powers ; and thither the beauteous Fanny and
lively Emma proceeded, prepared to hear the enam-
oured youth sing in soft perplexity, “ How happy
could I be with either!”
But Lord G , amiable in disposition and re-
spectable in talent, was unfortunately very shy ; and
though longing to pay proper attention to the daugh-
ters of his late guardian, was soon awed into distance
by the beauty and the airs of Fanny; while the bare
rumour of Emma’s wit forbade him to approach her
at all. The wary dowager (his mother) whose eyes
were ever about her when her son was concerned —
rejoiced in his escape from such a pair of decided and
dangerous damsels; and judging from these of the
rest of the family, naturally resolved to eschew with
redoubled care all that might bring her son and them
into contact.
The following spring, however, brought both fami-
lies unexpectedly to town ; and the obnoxious daugh-
ters being disposed of, the countess felt the less
objection to take a step she could not well and
call upon the Claverings. Laura was too deep in
romance to be often visible in the morning, while
Cecilia devoted hers to private practice for the even-
ing’s exhibition, so that Lady G— saw only Anne
and such was the unexpected effect produced by her
pleasing countenance and the undisguising elegance
of her manners, that ere long she had received an
invitation to pass part of the following summer with
the countess in Shropshire.


To this, which would have turned the heads of
half her acquaintance, Anne gave a quiet and half
reluctant assent, as to one of those undesirable duties
of society which regard for worthy people and respect
for old ties sometimes impose. Anne did not see (as
most misses would have done) the countess through
the medium of her son, nor the earl through that of j
his estate and title. The former, she could not help
seeing, was a stiff though well-meaning personage ;
the latter she had never seen, and thought very little
about, but took him on report as a good but common-
place young man. Dear, strange, primitive Anne !
—how could you discover dulness in a countess, or so
much as dream of a humdrum peer of the realm of j
ffve-and-twenty, with an equal number of thousands j
a year.
In the meantime Cupid—having been left quite
out of the question by the two other sisters, and
foreseeing little chance of making a fool of Anne—
was indemnifying himself by a furious attack on the
sentimental Laura. She, as I have said, was a de-
vourer of poetry; nay, even a poetess of that good
old nonsensical Rosa Matilda school, which it was
rank murder in the Anti-jacobin to put out with his
broad extinguisher. It is a pity so few women who
write verses are pretty ! [*?] I dont know why it
should be so, but so it has been from Sappho down
to my cousin Laura, who being distanced by her
sister for the palm of beauty, resolved to make a
strong push for that of talent.
There was at this time in London a certain Mr.
Stapylton, who said or sung his own indifferent lays
to private audiences, less lucrative than those drawn
by his brother performers on a more public theatre,
though nearly as crowded. We have all heard of the
king-making Earl of Warwick ; but the privilege of
creating “ lions” is one vested (to adopt a favourite
modern expression) in a few “ Exclusives” of ton.
One of these happened to be in want of a “ subject”
(as professors of the sister art of resurrectioning
call it) on whom to exercise her lionizing powers,
and a fortunate sonnet from Mr. Orlando Stapylton
on the death of his cockatoo, decided her ladyship’s
election.
The said Orlando did not discredit her choice. He
was furnished by nature with the requisites of a fine,
though effeminate person : a white hand—a musical
voice in reading, and a facility in reading music—a
gentle flow of small talk, and last not least, the in-
valuable and crowning quality of thinking well of
himself so judiciously, that he took in half the draw-
ing-room population of London to do the same.
Never had male or female quack (since the days of
Cagliostro) more decided succes than Mr. Orlando
Stapylton ! If three dinner invitations per day, and
conversaziones ten deep—if a life passed in lighted
saloons, all redolent with otto, and ices, and parfait
amour , and flattery more odoriferous still—could
satisfy a man, Orlando might have revelled in the
present and defied the future. But Mr. Stapylton,
though a small wit, and a great coxcomb, was no
fool. He had seen “lions” of “greater mark and
likelihood,” dwindle into mice often within the scope
of his experience. He knew that as it is said of
women and nations—they “ fall to rise no more”
and the very taste for luxuries, which he was not
slow in appreciating, led him to anticipate a time
when they might be disagreeably exchanged for the
vulgar realities of a sonnetteer’s life, arid the anti-
aristocratic accommodations of Grub-street. Mr.
Orlando had no mind to dig, and to beg (except
for subscriptions) he was ashamed ; so he began to
think of turning his lionship to permanent account
by marriage,
Now poetry, per se, coupled as it usually is (pro-
bably for alliteration’s sake) with poverty, is not a
particularly saleable article in the matrimonial
market ; and the conquests achieved by sonnets have
generally been more distinguished for romance than
solidity. But a rare union of both presented itself
to the fortunate Orlando in the person of my cousin
Laura, who, alone of all the family, boasted a pretty
independent little fortune, bequeathed to her by an
aunt as romantic as herself, whose name and predi-
lections she inherited as well as her money.
As Laura —who had raved about the divine Or-
lando from the day she first heard his improvisations
to the lyre (as he called his guitar)—never dreamt of
asking if so gifted a genius had any other sublunary
possession than the lyre itself ; she never could ima-
gine him to be a whit more inquisitive on a subject
so far beneath the attention of poets as pounds, shil-
lings and pence. When, therefore, in an elegy in
the manner of Tibullus—her hand as well as heart
was solicited by the reigning poetaster —the idea that
her purse should have any share in the inspiration
would have appeared to her rank heresy against the
etheriality of the muse. Some hints to that effect
were thrown out by persons of more terrestrial con-
ceptions, but in vain ; and Laura (whom Petrarch
| had long been exhausted to propitiate) took it all
i for gospel, as it was “ writ in choice Italian,” and
; unlike her cruel namesake signified her acceptance in
| a Sapphic ode of some thirty-six stanzas, or more.
Orlando was not ignorant that so common-place
j a step as marriage was a virtual abdication. But in
this there is always a certain dignity ; and if, as the
proverb says, even a “ living dog is better than a dead
lion,” so surely must a substantial householder, living
on his means with ten thousand pounds in the three
per cents, surpass a ci-devant wit—living on his wits
—up three pair of stairs. His fashionable soirees
had therefore all the dignified eclat of the parting
bow of some favourite performer; and the “ last lays”
of Mr. Orlando Stapylton rivalled in patho*s and
effect the “ dernier chant de Corinne .” By some
Laura was envied—by some pitied—by others laughed
at : but she was far too completely enveloped in a
bright halo of romance to know or care any thing
about the matter.
The vulgar taunt of the “ Green Stockings” would
never have occurred to Laura’s poetical mind ; but
being forced on her by the example and instigations
of her other sisters, she determined to administer it in
a novel and characteristic form. The verdant appen-
dages of celibacy, twisted out of all their native
vulgarity of shape, were made the connecting link of
a mingled wreath of myrtle and laurel ; accompanied
with a joint ode of mock condolence from the bride
and bridegroom. Anne laughed heartily at the in-
genuity of the device, and hung both garland and
poem in the most conspicuous place she could think
of; that all who ran might read, if they pleased,
the terrible fact, that she had three younger sisters
married !
She was, ere long, alas ! to have four ! It is re-
marked that marriages, like misfortunes, seldom
come single ; and if one of a family chances to go off,


the frolic is sure to go round. Chance sent home
during this dull season, which my cousins had for
many years spent in town, an old companion and
schoolfellow (though by a few years his junior) of
Mr. Clavering’s—a Mr. Richard Horner, who, re-
turning from India with all the abundance of lacs,
and lack of experience common to a thirty years’ so-
journer in the east, was too happy to profit in his
multifarious transactions of finance and revenue, by
the well-remembered tact and good nature of his chum
Jack Clavfering.
Jack welcomed his old friend Dick Horner heartily
on his return to old England ; and as there was no
luxury in the boasted land of enjoyment which had
half so much delighted him as being “Dick” once
more to any one, after thirty years’ dull senatorial
state among black servants and white ants, the good
little nabob spent all his spare time (and that was a
good deal) at Jack Clavering’s. His first serious
resolve, after his ecstacy of boyish enjoyment sub-
sided, was to marry one of Jack’s twd remaining
daughters; and that we may form an idea of his
chances of success, (which, worthy man ! it never
occurred to him to consider doubtful,) let us enume-
rate his attractions.
Mr. Horner was a neat, dapper little man, w ithered
by a tropical sun into the genuine well-wearing
mummy consistency, on which bile seems to have
done its worst, and given Up the attack in despair. He
was a living personification of jaundice —golden as
bis guineas—looking as if he had bathed habitually
in Pactolus itself: yet withal upright, alert, quick-
witted and quick-eyed; the only symptom of fifty-four
which his constitution exhibited being excessive and
incurable deafness, contracted, he said, by indiscreet
snipe-shooting in a morass, some five-and-twenty
years before.
Mr. Horner, thus qualified, having determined on
marrying one of the Miss Claverings, and his eyes
being, as w'C have said, excellent, (whatever might be
the deficiency in his ears,) naturally made his first
offer to Anne, for she was very pretty, and Cecilia
decidedly plain ; besides, the latter’s Whole heavy
ordnance of Beethoven, and light artillery of Rosini,
was, of course, entirely thrown away on a deaf Nabob,
insensible to the charms of music. Not that because
Mr. Horner had no music in his soul, or rather in
his ears —we mean to insinuate that he shared more
deeply than others in the “treasons, stratagems and
spoils ” for which our Indian possessions were then
famous; though his enormous collection of shawls,
pearls, and precious stones, might perhaps adnßt of
so uncharitable an inference.
Be this as it may, shawls, pearls, and diamonds
Were aimed in vain at Anne. She could not marry
Mr. Horner ; and she told him so directly, with her
usual indiscreet frankness, without even suffering him
to hang on long enough for her to enjoy the credit of
having refused him. Poor dear matter-of-fact Anne!
When I taxed her w'ith her simplicity, she said, quite
in earnest, that she believed old gentlemen did not
like it to be known they were refused ; and that, as he
evidently meant to transfer his suit to Cecilia, perhaps
she might not like to appear to succeed to her sister’s
rejected admirer ! To such antediluvian reasoning as
this, what answer could possibly be made?
But if Cecilia was the second choice of Mr. Horner,
neither was Mr. Horner the first love of Cecilia,
devotee to her musical patron saint had been
during all the winter playing duets with a handsome
young Pole, called Sonatowsky, in the regular “cres-
cendo” style, from “ piacevolmente" at the beginning,
to “ molfo expressivo ” by degrees, and, finally, “ con
fuoco ” on both sides. But, as the young foreigner’s
notes were only good at the piano-forte, while Mr.
Horner’s were good at the bank ; and as music, how-
ever proverbially the u food of love,” is reckoned thin
diet for Hymen—Cecilia soon determined to bring
her long movement “a la Polacca to a “ finale.”
She took leave of Sonatovvsky s ecundem ariem , in a
{ ‘ Polonaise ’ of soul-subduing power, which, though
not followed up (like the celebrated one of Count
Oginsky) by suicide, was the “prelude” to a step
little less desperate—viz., the marriage of the music-
mad Cecilia with the deaf Mr. Horner !
The “ Green Stockings” were characteristically
bequeathed to Anne on the keys of her sister’s abdi-
cated pianoforte, and found by her, just as the happy
couple drove off, as she good-naturedly opened it to
play a coiintry dance to the bridegroom’s little grand-
nephews and nieces. By these urchins, of course, the
joke was heartily enjoyed. They were drawn off
and on by the whole of the merry group ; and never,
I think, did Anne look better, or more unlike an old
maid (after all she was but five-and-twenty,) than
when opening the juvenile ball with a rogue of six
years old, who footed it away in the obnoxious badges
of old maidism in undissembled glee. This good-
humour of Anne’s, I Verily believe, procured her
within the next month, two opportunities of wiping
off the stain by matrimony, with two old Indian
comrades of the bridegroom, who had been present
at the wedding. But Anne was not fond of old
Indians, and much too fond of an old Englishman*
videlicet her good worthy father, to think of running
away from him just as they were left, for the first
time, comfortably alone !
But this comfort (and thorough comfort it proved)
was not destined to be of long duration. No sooner
did Lord and Lady G— learn that all the beauties*
wits, blue-stockings, and amateurs of the family were
happily disposed of, than the invitation formerly
given to Anne to pass the summer in Shropshire*
was extended to her father ; and with a cordiality of
esteem and gratitude which made it impossible to
refuse.
Mr. Clavering, always fond of the country, was
soon quite in his element, enjoying the improvements
made on his ward’s property by his former judicious
management ; and still more the excellent results of
au education, whose details he had left to others better
qualified, but whose admirable system had been sug-
gested by himself. The young earl, w'ith pleasing
manners and respectable talents, was the best of sons,
the best of masters, and best of landlords ; fond of
domestic society, though disliking large parties, and
gaining hourly upon acquaintance as soon as the
frozen robe of shyness was thawed (as it easily was)
by the gentle breath of friendly intercourse.
Wjhile Mr. Clavering rambled with and gloried in
his pupil, Anne found the countess a much more
agreeable companion than she had anticipated. Anne
was npt one of those who think all the old ladies must
be bores. There are few from whom something may
not be profitably gleaned ; and Anne (always accus-
tomed from the politeness of the heart to cultivate the
elder part of society) knew exactly how to amuse
without fatiguing, a person of different age and habits j


while thie COuntess, long unused to the society of a
lively yet sensible young female, grew absolutely in
love with Anne. Whether any one else did, would
be difficult at this time to decide. If so, it must have
been during the meditations incident to the inter-
minable games which Lord G— (who, like all
taciturn people, was fOnd of chess) played nightly
with Miss Clavering; while the less patient elders
preferred the more rapid evolutions, and cheerful
bustle of backgammon.
As the season advanced, the chess table was dis-
tarded, and replaced by the young people with long
everting, and sometimes even early morning \Valks.
It was on his return from one of the latter, his marily
frame glowing with exercise, and his fine face flushed
(probably with the morning wind,) that Lady G —,
who had for some time been overcoming, in spite of
herself, her lingering sense of disparity in the con-
nexion, said, “ My dear Godfrey, I think you could
not do better than ask that sweet girl, Anne Clavering,
to marry you. You have my free consent to do so.”
“ I have read it in your eyes, mother, for some
time past,” answered her son, absolutely blushing;
“ and so 1 have just been askirig her this morning.”
“ And she has accepted, of course.” “ Not exactly,
rny dear mother, by any means; all I gather and
hope is, that I am not refused. She seemed too much
surprised to give a regular answer, but begged me to
remember the disparity in birth, rank, and such
trifles.” “ Good girl*” said the COuritess, the linger-
ing pride Of aristocracy mantling her cheek ; “ but
the Claverings are of good family, and connected
\vith us already, else I ”
“ Oh, my dear mother, we shall soOri get over
'these little scruples, if, as I trust, there is no serious
objection. She referred me to yourself, her father,
and my own maturer reflections ; and sure I am they
will all speak but one language on the subject.”
“Let me be the first to say, ‘ God speed you’ in
your wOoing, my dear son*” said the countess, laying
aside the curls from her son’s manly brow to give
him a stately but maternal kiss. “ And, now, just
Step into my dressing room and give those stray locks
of your’s a coup de peiyne; for this morning’s agita-
tion has discomposed them a little ; besides, I should
like to see Artne alone, when she first comes down stairs.”
Lord G —- obeyed, glad to escape a moment from
even his mother’s observation ; and soon after, Anne
entered leaning on her father ; the long silken lashes
Lord G had so often admired at chess, beaming
more lustrous from an imperfectly wiped tear* still
resting on their sable fringe.
“ May I be permitted to welcome you as my
daughter?” said the old lady, advancing with un-
wonted alacrity to meet her yortng favourite-, and
holding ortt her hand. “ Is it possible,” cried the
bewildered and agitated girl, “ that you too should
wish it?” “My first and only wish, must be my
son’s happiness,” answered Lady G—-—and in your
keeping I am sure that is safe. But not even love
for him would make me lose sight of yours. A
kinder sort, and master, and landlord does not exist;
and why should he not make the best of husbands ?
This is a mother’s testimony, Anne, and consequently
partial ; but it is founded on near thirty years’ ex-
perience, and therefore true.” “And I believe it,”
whispered the trembling girl.
“ I thank you a thousand times for that,” exclaimed
Lord G ——, who had entered unnoticed amidst the
agitation of the scene. “ Mother, may I hope yoii
have prevailed V' Lady G held out her arms in
a mute appeal to Anne, who hid her answer in a mo-
ther’s joyful bosom. Somehowj&s my cousin after-
wards told me, the frolic went round * and he found
himself, to his own amazement, embracing the stiff
countess, while the yoUng people, he presumed from
analogy* were similarly occupied. So Complete a Sur-
prise had the Whole affair been to honest undesignirtg
Jack* that he Would as soon have expected to salute his
pet Attne, as Empress of Morocco, as CouhteSs of G—.
A lodge in the park is now my old friend’s abode ;
when if the children do not visit grandpapa in the
foienoon, he is sure to stroll up in the afternoon to
inquire the reason. As for the dowager, she says,
and feels that she has Only left her chair at the head
of the table, for one easier and more suited to her
years and infirmities elsewhere.
The gay world, When for a few brief weeks it
caught a glimpse of her, was not backward in be-
stowing, w r ith its proverbial caprice, its unsought
favour on the youthful countess. There W'as a win-
ning sweetness, a native dignity about Anne, which
seemed to speak her born for the station she adorned ;
and if fashion could have gratified her, it Would
have laid all its tinsel laurels at her feet. But she
was still Anne Clavering ; and her husband, her fa-
ther, her mother-in-laW, and children, Were to her a
world of engrossing and unfading interest. The
n Green Stockings” are long since forgotten, and
have never for a moment prevented the countess from
befriending, to the Very Utmost of her ample powers,
her four less fortunate sislerS.
Oil Eatttty, whose husband’s grays sooh came to
the hammer, while his parliamentary privileges alone
kept him from jail, she settled, when she became
early a widow, a competent annuity. She persuaded
the earl to restore, by an opportune trip to Ireland,
and the magic influertce of his name and rank* the
fast waning influence of the high-spirited Emma at
Castle Connor. She sat, though this was the hardest
sacrifice of all, for a print which sold a thousand
copies of the verses with Which her
Orlando, now provided for a numerous and increasing
family ; and as Mr. and Mrs. Horner wanted nothing
from her but countenance and civility, she listened
unreservedly (during their frequent visits) to Cecilia’s
long concertos, and beguiled, with endless games at
chess, the ennui of the deaf old nabob. They have
all, in their turn, learnt to look up to, and admire the
Anne they once thought so insignificant; and as they
successively receive protection, patronage, or sisterly
kindness from the idolized Countess of G—, sometimes
ask each other —“ Can this be the girl we all quizzed
with the * Green Stockings.’ ”
Varieties.
Tea. —Two gentlemen noted for their fondness of exag-
geration were discussing the fare at the different hotels. One
observed that at his hotel he had tea so strong it was necessary
to confine it in an iron vessel. “At mine,’* said the other,
“ it is mad j so weak, it has not strength to rtm out of the
tea-potl”
“DO you understand me, now?” thundered out a hasty
pedagogue to an urchin at whose head he threw an inlc-stand.
—“ I have got an ink- ling of what you mean,” replied the boy
Cure for a Cut Or feußN. One of the most effectual
means for coring a cut, bruise, or burn, is the inside coating of
a nutshell, and of a raw egg ; it adheres of itself, and leaves
no scar, and heals the wound better than any plaster,


The Moralist.
INCONSTANCY.
Nature urgeth thee to inconstancy, O man ! therefore guard
thyself at all times against it.
Thou art from the womb of thy mother various and waver-
ing. From the loins of thy father inheritest thou instability •
how then shalt thou be firm ? ’
Those who gave thee a body, furnished it with weakness;
but he vvho gave thee a soul, armed thee with resolution.
Employ it, and thou art wise; be wise, and thou art happy.
Let him who doeth well, beware how he boasteih of it.
Beware of irresolution in the intent of thy actions, beware
of instability in the execution ; so shalt thou triumph over
two great failings of thy nature.
What reproacheth reason more than to act contrarieties ?
what can suppress the tendencies to these, but firmness of mind ?
The inconstant feeleth that he changeth, but he knoweth
not why; he seeih that he escapeth from himself, but he per-
ceiveth not how. Be thou incapable of change in that which
is right, and men will rely upon thee.
Establish unto thyself principles of action, and see that thou
ever act according to them.
First know that thy principles are just, and then be thou
inflexible in the path of them.
How should his actions be right who hath no rule of life?
nothing can be just which proceedeth not from reason.
The inconstant hath no peace in his soul; neither can any
be at ease whom he concerneth himself with.
His life is unequal; his motions are irregular ; his mind
changeth with the weather.
To-day he loveth thee, to-morrow thou art detested by him :
and why ? himself knoweth not wherefore beloved, or where-
fore he now hateth.
To-day he is the tyrant; tomorrow thy servant is less
humble: and why? he who is arrogant without power, will
be servile where there is no subjection.
To-day he is profuse, to-morrow he grudgeth unto his
mouth that which he should eat. Thus it is with him who
knoweth not moderation.
The happiness of the inconstant is as a palace built on the
surface of the sand : the blowing of the wind carrieth away its
foundation : what wonder then that he falleth ?
But what exalted form is this, that hitherwards directs its
even, its uninterrupted course ? whose foot is on the earth,
whose head is above the clouds ?
On his brow sitteth majesty; steadiness is in his port; and
in his heart reigneth tranquillity.
Though obstacles appear in the way, he deigneth not to
look down upon them ; though heaven and earth oppose his
passage, he proceedeth.
The mountains sink beneath his tread; the waters of the
ocean are dried up under the sole of his foot.
The tiger tliroweth herself across his way in vain ; the spots
of the leopard glow against him unregarded.
He marchcth through the embattled legions ; with his hand
he putteth aside the terrors of death.
Storms roar against his shoulders, but are not able to shake
them; the thunder bursteth over his head in vain; the light-
ning serveth but to show the glories of his countenance.
His name is Resolution ! he cometh from the utmost parts
of the earth ; he seeth happiness afar oft'before him ; his eye
discovereth her temple beyond the limits of the pole.
He walketh up to it, he entereth boldly, and he remaineth
there for ever.
Establish thy heart, O man ! in that which is right; and
then know the greatest of human praise is to be immutable.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETIC ALLY ARRANGED.
No. 37.
Confide not in him who has once deceived you.
Confide without reservation, but confide in few.
Confine your expenses, or they will confine you.
Confine your tongue, lest it confine you.
Consanguinity should be the bond of concord.
Conscience and covetousness can never coalesce.
Conscience is never dilatory in her warnings.
Conscience is not controllable by human laws.
Conscience is the chamber of justice.
Consecrate to God the first fruits of your daily thoughts.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
Consider a business well, and then dispatch it quickly.
Select Poetry.
A DITTY.
[Written by Queen Elizabeth while troubled by the secret fac-
tions in favor of her prisoner, the Queen of Scots.]
The doubt of future foes exiles my present joy,
And wit me warns to shun such snares as threaten mine annov
For falsehood now doth flow, and subject faith doth ebb ; ‘
Which would not be if Reason rul’d, or Wisdom weav’d the web.
But clouds of toys untried do cloak aspiring minds,
Which turn to rain of late repent, by course of changed winds
The top of hope suppos’d the root of ruth will be,
And fruitless all their grafFed guiles, as shortly ye shall see.
Then dazzled eyes with pride, which great ambition blinds,
Shall be unseal’d by worthy wights, whose foresight falsehood
finds.
The daughter of debate, that eke discord doth sow,
Shall reap no gain where former rule hath taught still peace
to flow.
No foreign banish’d wight shall anchor in this port,
Our realm it brooks no strangers’ force, let them elsewhere
resort.
Our rusty sword with rest shall first his edge employ
To poll their tops that seek such change, and gape for joy.
A QUIET CONSCIENCE.
B Y KING CHARLES I.
Close thine eyes, and sleep secure;
Thy soul is safe, thy body sure :
He that guards thee, He that keens,
Never slumbers, never sleeps.
A quiet conscience in the breast
Has only peace, has only rest:
The music and the mirth of kings
Are out of tune, unless she sings.
Then close thine eyes in peace, and sleep secure
No sleep so sweet as thine, no rest so sure.
BREVITY OF LIFE.
FRANCIS QUARLES.
Behold
How short a span
Was long enough, of old,
To measure out the life of man!
In those well temper’d days his time was then
Survey’d, cast up, and found but threescore years and ten.
Alas !
And what is that ?
They come, and slide, and pass,
Before my pen can tell thee what.
The posts of time are swift, which having run
Their sev’n short stages o’er, their short-liv’d task is done
Our days
Begun we lend
To sleep, to antic plays
And toys, until the first stage end :
Twelve waning moons, twice five times told, we give
To unrecovered loss —we rather breathe than live.
Hoiv vain ,
How wretched is
Poor man, that doth remain
A slave to such a state as this!
His days are short, at longest; few, at most ;
They are but bad, at best; yet lavished out or lost.
They be
The secret springs,
That make our minutes flee
On wheels more swift than eagles’ wings ;
Our life’s a clock, and every gasp of breath
Breathes forth a warning grief, till time shall strike a death.
How soon
Our new-born light
Attains to full-aged noon !
And this, how soon to grey-hair’d night!
We spring, we bud, we blossom, and we blast,
Ere we can count our days, our days they flee so fast.
They end
When scarce begun,
And ere we apprehend
That we begin to live, our life is done.
Man 1 count thy days ! and if they fly too fast
For thy dull thoughts to count, count every day thy last.


JtollCC.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
jßotttc to CCorvcspontfcnts.
' A Bush Story” will be inserted, though, from its great length,
at the risk of unduly monopolising our space.
“ Maria.” Our fair correspondent is thanked for her offer, but
circumstances ivill not allow us to accept her conditions.
( ‘A Romance of the City” will be inserted.
“ F” must considerably improve himself in grammatical composi-
tion before he com expect to see his productions in print.
PUBLIC SPIRIT AT A DISCOUNT.
[communicated]
We shall not particularly inquire whether public
spirit was not greatly checked in Sydney at the for-
mation of its Municipal Institutions, by the partially
successful attempt of a base clique to wrest all local
influence from the rest of the community. That
strange combination has now been dissolved. But
unfottunately the quantity of disgust then generated
still remains to a considerable extent to pollute the
air; and its effects are seen in a deadened and dis-
united condition of public feeling. In the November
elections of each year, but especially and conspicu-
ously so in those which occur in March, of civic
officers, there is scarcely any disposition on the part
of electors to ask, or on the part of respectable men
to offer, their services as candidates. Last week
there was no solicitation or preparation either way to
secure good auditors and assessors; even the skit
which appeared in this Journal was ineffectual to
stimulate the ambition of more than one individual
to aspire after public distinction. That individual,
we understand, announced himself at the last hour
from a sense of duty to support institutions which he
thinks unfairly and impoliticly decried and discoun-
tenanced, and to prevent the office of auditor from
going a seeking. But it must certainly be morti-
fying to any feeling mind, that, after the retiring
functionary had in very non-explanatory terms de-
clared his intention not to solicit the votes of the
citizens, their sense of what was due to themselves,
and their sense of what was due to a gentleman every
way competent who had rescued them from a diffi-
culty, were so deficient, that he was chosen by the
beggarly suffrages of not one hundred electors in the
six wards, out of three or four thousand. With
respect to the other gentlemen elected, we may
fairly ask, were any of them previously consulted, —
were they asked if it would be agreeable to them, or
if they would oblige the Corporation by allowing
themselves to be appointed ? On the other hand, were
any of them chosen in consequence of having pre-
viously intimated a wish for the honour, or a desire
to do the city a small service ? Did any such civi-
lities chance to be interchanged'? Was not the whole
chance-work?—a random operation, like sticking a
pin blindfold into High-Low’s directory, and select-
ing the names which it might chance to pierce?
Fortunately the Act will compel these gentlemen to
accept the offices, and perhaps most of them will not
on due consideration, be disposed to grudge the neces-
sary attendances, nor be found wanting in the patience
and judgment required. But what a strange state o
public spirit that no individual, nor committee, coulc
the day before say who were standing! That the
general public were ignorant far on in the day of
election of the names of the nominees ! and that when
the election was ended the number of voters polled
was one-thirtieth of the whole ! It may be thought
that without any stir or unnecessary expenditure of
personal trouble, the end contemplated by the Act is
accomplished. We say it is not; that end is not
served. The auditors and assessors are not intended
to be mere ornamental appendages to the Council,
but to be checks and props and regulators to it, ac-
cording as it may tend to good, to evil, or to uncer-
tain courses. It may chance to be their duty to
maintain some vital principle, to correct some great
irregularity, or to prevent some serious misappro-
priation, in opposition to the other officers of the
Corporation. And those who with ourselves think
that the Council itself is capable of great amendment,
ought the more deeply to feel the necessity of pre-
serving the respectability and influence of the former
classes of officers unimpaired.
How is this to be remedied in future'? Let every
appearance of a return to the cliquism of former
days be carefully avoided. Let the rulers and mem-
bers of existing coteries consider that civic officers
have only civic matters to administer, and that, how-
ever much difference of opinion may exist on other
subjects, on these the interest of all citizens is much
the same. Let them shun the consideration of ulterior
and sinister views, and refuse to minister by side-
winds and indirect means to the ambition and spleen
of individuals in another place, whose interests are
mainly different or adverse to theirs. Let them not
selfishly confine the local rule to their own sets, but
extend it to those whose capability and respectability
entitle them to a share. There is no question at
stake in their limited concerns that requires a col-
lision of principle, much less justifies envy or ex-
clusion. And these exhortations w r e address to all
classes —those who think themselves superior in con-
dition or education commit the same injustice and
imprudence in shutting out poorer or less literate
persons from the management of their common busi-
ness, as has hitherto been attempted by the latter
towards the former. The Australian-born has no more
right to an exclusive authority than the immigrant—
the dependent of the w r oolly interest than of the
agricultural. If any difference be made, it should
be in favour of the family man. But, in truth, all
such distinctions are irrational and reprehensible.
Knowledge, integrity, zeal, independence of spirit,
and evenness of temper, are the true requirements
and sure supports of public rights and prosperity.
A Bourke Ward Man.
CATALLACTICS.
[continued.]
Plants do not exhaust the carbon of a soil in the
normal condition of their growth ; on the contrary,
they add to its quantity. But if it is true that plants
give back more carbon to a soil than they take from
it, it is evident that their growth must depend upon
the reception of nourishment from the atmosphere in
the form of carbonic acid.
Humus does not nourish plants by being taken up
and assimilated in its unaltered state, but by present-
ing a slow and lasting source of carbonic acid, which
is absorbed by the roots, and is the principal nutri-
ment of young plants at a time when, being destitute
of leaves, they are unable to extract food from the
atmosphere.


In former periods of the earth’s history* its surface
was covered with plants, the remains of which are
still found in the coal formations. These plants—
the gigantic monocotyledons, ferns, palms, and reeds
—belong to a class to which nature has given the
power, by means of an immense extension of their
leaves, to dispense with nourishment from the soil.
They resemble in this respect the plants which we
raise from bulbs and tubers, and which live while
young upon the substances contained in their seed,
and require no food from the soil when their exterior
organs of nutrition are formed. This class of plants
is-even at present ranked amongst those which do not
•exhaust the soil.
The necessity of the existence of plants such as
these at the commencement of vegetation, must now
be apparent. Humus is a product of the decay of
vegetable matter, and therefore could not have existed
to supply the first plants with the food necessary for
the development of the more delicate kinds. Hence
the plants capable of flourishing under such circum-
stances could only be those which receive their
nourishment from the air alone. By their decay,
however, the soil in which they grew became supplied
with vegetable matter, and the progress of vegetation
must have furnished to the earth materials adapted
for the development of those plants, which depend
upon the nutriment contained in the soil, until those
organs are formed which are destined for the assump-
tion of nourishment from the atmosphere.
The plants of every former period are distinguished
from those of the present by the inconsiderable deve-
lopment of their roots. Fruit, leaves, seeds, nearly
every part of the plants of a former world, except the
roots, are found in the brown coal formation. The
vascular bundles, and the perishable cellular tissue,
of w r hich their roots consisted, have been the first to
suffer decomposition. But when we examine oaks
and other trees, which in consequence of revolutions
of the same kind occurring in later ages, have under-
gone the same changes, we never find their roots
absent.
The verdant plants of wafm climates are very often
Such as obtain from the soil'only a point of attach-
ment, and are not dependent on it for their growth.
How extremely small are the roots of the cactus ,
sedum, and sempervivum, in proportion to their mass,
and to the surface of their leaves ! Large forests are
often found growing in soils absolutely destitute of
carbonaceous matter ; and the extensive prairies of the
Western Continent show that the carbon necessary for
the sustenance of a plant may be entirely extracted
from the atmosphere. Again, in the most dry and
barren sand, where it is impossible for the nourish-
ment to he obtained through the roots, we see the
milky-juiced plants attain complete perfection. The
moisture necessary for the nutrition of these plants
is derived from the atmosphere, and when assimilated
is secured from evaporation by the nature of the.juice
itself. Caoutchouc and wax, which are formed in
these plants, surround the water, as in oily emulsions,
with an impenetrable envelope by which the fluid is
retained, in the same manner as milk is prevented
from evaporating by the skin which forms upon it.
These plants, therefore, become turgid with their juices.
The atmosphere contains the principal food of plants
in the form of carbonic acid, in the state, therefore,
of an oxide. The solid part of plants (woody fibre)
contains carbon and the constituents of water, or the
elements of carbonic acid, together with a certain
quantity of hydrogen. It has formerly been men-
tioned that water consists of the two gases, oxygen
and hydrogen. The range of affinity possessed by
both these elements is so extensive that numerous
causes occur which effect the decomposition of water.
Each English acre of land, which produces 20001bs.
of carbon, gives annually to the atmosphere 53001b5.
of free oxygen gas.*
Pure woody fibre contains carbon and the compo-
nent parts of water, but ordinary wood contains more
hydrogen than corresponds to this proportion. This
excess is owing to the presence of the green principle
of the leaf, wax, resin, and other bodies rich in hy-
drogen. Water must be decomposed in order to
furnish the excess of this element.
The quantity of oxygen thus set at liberty cannot
be insignificant, for the atmosphere must receive 600
cubic feet of oxygen for every pound of hydrogen
assimilated.
In the formation of woody fibre, two equivalents
of oxygen must be liberated for each equivalent of
carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, contained in it.
From their generating caoutchouc, wax fats, and
volatile oils containing hydrogen in large quantity,
and no oxygen, we may be certain that plants possess
the property of decomposing water, because from no
other body could they obtain the hydrogen of those
matters. It has also been proved by the observations
of Humboldt on the fungi, that water may be decom-
posed without the assimilation of hydrogen.
Most vegetable structures contain hydrogen in the
form of water, which can be separated as such, and
replaced by other bodies; hut the hydrogen which
is essential to their constitution cannot possibly exist
in the state of water.
The process of assimilation, in its most simple
form, consists in the extraction of hydrogen from
water, and carbon from carbonic acid, in consequence
of which, either all the oxygen of the water and car-
bonic acid is separated as in the form of caoutchouc,
the volatile oils which contain no oxygen, and other
similar substances, or only a part of it is exhaled.
The known composition of the organic compounds
most generally present in vegetables, enables us to
state in definite proportions the quantity of oxygen
separated during their formation.
36 eq. carbonic acid, and 22 eq. hydrogen de- } Woody
rived from 22 eq. water, S fibre,
with the separation of 72 eq. oxygen.
36 eq. carbonic acid and 36 eq. hydrogen de- 5 ) Sugar,
rived from 36 eq. water •/
with the separation of 72 eq. oxygen.
36 eq. carbonic acid and 30 eq. hydrogen de-\ s tarc^>
rived from 30 eq. water /
with the separation of 72 eq. oxygen.
36 eq. carbonic acid and 16 eq. hydrogen de-| Tannic
rived from 16 eq. water acld »
with the separation of 64 eq. oxygen.
36 eq. carbonic acid and 18 eq. hydrogen de~| Tartaric
rived from 18 eq. water. ...••/ ac,d >
with the separation of 45 eq. oxygen.
36 eq. -carbonic acid and 18 eq. hydrogen de-\ Malic
rived from 18 eq. water ) acld »
with the separation of 54 eq. oxygen.
36 eq. carbonic acid and 24 eq. hydrogen de-> Oil of
rived from 24 eq. water / Turpentine,
with the separation of 84 eq. oxygen.
It will readily be perceived that the formation of
the acids is accompanied with the smallest separation
* In the numbers in the original there is a mistake ; wh’ch
we have corrected, in changing Hessian acres into English, ana
Hessian pounds into avoirdupois.


of oxygen ; that the amount of oxygen set free in-
creases with the production of the so-named neutral
substances, and reaches its maximum in the formation
of oils. Fruits remain acid in cold summers, while
the most numerous trees under the tropics are those
which produce oils, caoutchouc, and other substances
containing very little oxygen. The action of sun-
shine and influence of heat upon the ripening fruit is
thus, in a certain measure, represented by the numbers
above cited.
The green resinous principle of the leaf diminishes
in quantity, while oxygen is absorbed, when fruits
are ripened in the dark ; red and yellow colouring
matters are formed ; tartaric, citric, and tannic acids
disappear, and are replaced by sugar amylyn, or gum.
Decay has been described above as the great opera-
tion of nature, by which that oxygen, which was
assimilated by plants during life, is again returned
to the atmosphere. During the progress of growth,
plants appropriate carbon in the form of carbonic
acid, and hydrogen from the decomposition of water,
the oxygen of which is set free, together with a part
of all of that contained in the carbonic acid. In the
process of putrefaction, a quantity of water, exactly
corresponding to that of the hydrogen, is again formed
by extraction of oxygen from the air ; while all the
oxygen of the organic matter is returned to the
atmosphere in the form of carbonic acid. Vegetable
matters can emit carbonic acid, during their decay,
only in proportion to the quantity of oxygen which
they contain ; acids, therefore, yield more carbonic
acid than than, neutral compounds ; while fatty acids,
resin, and wax, do not putrify ; they remain in the soil
without any apparent change.
The numerous springs which emit carbonic acid in
the neighbourhood of extinct volcanoes, must be re-
garded as another means of compensating for the
carbonic acid absorbed and retained by plants during
life, and consequently as a source by which oxygen
is supplied to the atmosphere. Bischof calculated
that the springs of carbonic acid in Eifel , (a volcanic
district near Coblenz,) send into the air every day
more than 5& tons of carbonic acid, corresponding to
35 tons of pure oxygen,
GAFFER GRAY.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal,]
NO. XVIII.
The organ of Self-Esteem is very largely developed
in the heads of the horse, the turkey cock, and pea-
cock. This is well known to be in perfect unison
with the dispositions of these animals, and those
horses which evince most spirit, especially war-
horses, are most remarkable for this peculiarity of
developement. The faculty of pride is most ludi-
crously expressed in the language of nature, by the
other two mentioned animals, though the peacock
has got the advantage of his companion in the beauty
which gives an air of grace to his mock dignity. Some
of my readers may smile at what they may call this
trifling, but so long as the cause of truth is served,
no matter how low in the scale of creation we look
for it, I cannot think that these remarks are so in-
significant as to be despised, or so ridiculous as to be
laughed at. The principles of great truths—of im-
portant sciences, are often elucidated by trivial cir-
cumstances. The fall of an apple suggested to Sir
Isaac Newton the law of gravitation—the overboiling
of a kettle, to Watt the immense power of steam, and
the prominence of the eyes of a boy, skilful in lan-
guages, to Gall the doctrine of Phrenology. Then
let us not despise the sources from which we gain
important information : great principles hold true in
great as well as in small things. The fall of an
apple to the ground proceeds from the same principle
which legulates the motion of the stars, and gives
shape to the earth itself. The developement of Self-
esteem in a turkey-cock, producing those laughable
manifestations of pride, which should be a continual
satire on disgusting conceit, illustrates the principles
of a doctrine which has one of the noblest of aims—
to investigate the mind of man, its connection with
its earthly tabernacle, and its division into numerous
faculties.
In most animals, the attachment to their young
forms a striking and most interesting feature of cha-
racter. In no animal is this more strongly manifested
than in the monkey, the developement also being in
accordance with this characteristic. The faculty of
Imitation is also very largely developed in this crea-
ture, and its powers of mimickry are too well known
to require any remarks. Secretiveness is largely de-
veloped in most animals, but chiefly in those of prey.
The cunning of the fox, the insidious advance of the
wolf, and the fatal stealth of the tiger, all result from
largely developed Secretiveness. It might perhaps
be interesting, but it is unnecessary to push these
enquiries any farther. I have adduced proofs suffi-
cient to convince, if conviction is possible; anything
added would be superfluous,
I now beg to intimate to my readers that I have
accomplished the task I allotted to myself —that is,
of pointing out, in as concise a manner as possible, a
few of the most important proofs of the science before
us. In the course of my remarks, I have in some
places, where I felt that I was sufficiently warranted
to do so, trusted to my own observation and study ;
should I, in doing so, have committed any serious
errors, I beg that they will not be remembered to the
prejudice of the science, but will be ascribed to my
own inexperience. I trust, however, that these errors
are few and immaterial. But, for the most part, the
foregoing remarks have been drawn from the most
authentic sources, and sanctioned by the highest
authorities, and can, I think, be in full confidence
depended upon. With such a host of evidence in
favour of Phrenology, evidence,too, of the most direct
and conclusive nature, nodngenious theories trumpeted
forth to dazzle the imagination, and mislead the judg-
ment of readers, but tangible prooofs, the truth or
falsity of which can be perceived at once, being for
the most part under the observation of every indi-
vidual who takes the trouble to enquire for himself,
1 may ask a favourable verdict for the science; or
should any one, sceptical still of the truth of its doc-
trines, take the trouble of stating upon what grounds
he is so, I shall have no abjection to answer, in so
far allies in my power, whatever arguments he may
adduce against, or satisfy whatever doubts he enter-
tains concerning its doctrines. But in so doing I
am perfectly sensible of the almost hopeless task of
convincing men against their will, or of removing
prejudices from their minds having no foundation
whatever in reason—concerning such it may be well
observed,
“And even though vanquished they can argue still;”


and I should never have taken so much upon myself
were I not so thoroughly convinced of the truth of the
science whose cause I advocate. When we doubt the
truth of anything, we should look well that we do so
on proper grounds ; we should come to an unbiassed
decision on the merits of every question ; we should
uproot prejudice, and allow our reason to act free
from the control and influence of our feelings and
passions, being well assured that, to think and judge
rightly of all things is the highest pitch of wisdom,
and that man is a fool more by his own will than by
natural incapacity. One of the objections I have
heard urged against Phrenology was, “ why had man
no more or less than thirty-five faculties'?” Away
with such paltry argument! Did the sage booby who
gave utterance to the above sapient sentence, ever ask
himself the important questions “ why he had ten
toes, five senses, or two-and-thirty teeth'?” How
can one answer such objections'? yet this is but a
specimen, a sample of the senseless objections that are
urged against the science, and supposed to be un-
answerable ! They are, truly, unanswerable. Rut
I trust the day is not far distant when the light of
reason and intellect shall have dispelled the clouds of
ignorance and prejudice which men choose to walk
in, the truth of Phrenology admitted, and its vast
importance, in its application to the purposes of life,
fully felt and duly appreciated. .Already the day
has begun to dawn upon us; scientific men in all
quarters of the world begin to be sensible of the
merits of the science, and it is to be hoped that Aus-
tralia, in her march of improvement, will not direct
her efforts exclusively to the amassing of wealth, but
will afford to this, as well as to other sciences, and to
intellectual improvement in general, that support
which has been too long niggardly withheld, and
which it is the duty of an enlightened and civilized
community to bestow.
ÆNEAS.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir, — I perceive that there has been published by you some
contributions by Mr. James Bat (dictus Noctivagus). Know-
ing James Bat of old, I could explain some of his crazy allu-
sions, but I write this simply to guard your readers against
placing implicit faith in his “sublime philosophy” as he calls
it. Thus, in his notice of the comet recorded by Aristotle,
he has committed a gross anachronism. That comet appeared
in 371 b.c., when Aristotle was only thirteen years old, instead
of shedding “in Athens, the rays of science on young hea-
thens,” and Plato was in full vigour and employment as a
professor, instead of “ waning near the horizon’s rim” as
James Bat describes him. Then, in last number, James
says, “the action of the human ray might take one’s oxygen
away,” when the fact is, that the effects which James Bat him-
self describes, are those which would arise from his inhaling
an excess of oxygen, which could only be counteracted by a
corresponding excess of alcohol. James Bat when lie was ten
years old was distinguished by careless, crazy, dreamy habits.
He used to fancy his sight and his nose to be keener than any
other body’s, and was always perceiving things as stars, ghosts,
smells, musical sounds, that no one else could. In his feel-
ings he was capricious and morbidly sensitive. Though in
some things a quick scholar, he was generally inattentive,
and could never be depended on for facts. He used to deny
himself food, and wander much at nights. I hope this cau-
tion will be well taken. As to his having committed Beg-
bie’s murder, or some other atrocious crime, I believe it to be
wholly imaginary.
JOHN TROTT.
P.S. —James Bat is capable of speaking' great nonsense, but
you have made it worse, by misprinting his two linesending
with “heart and beat,” which ought to follow the two ending
with “ray and away.” How curiously James has confused
the thermometer with the barometer 1
Original Poetry.
THE RISING SUN AT SEA.
The faithful messenger of morn arose,
And brought with him a feeble light, which fell
On nature’s slumbering eyes and broke her sleep.—
Night saw the well-known signal, and prepared
A speedy flight.—Vain morning then herself
B gan to rise from ’neath her coverlet
Of wide, extended waters blue. —Night saw
The coming, steady shade, and, wrapping up
Her rays of dark obscurity, fled back,
And halted not until convexity
Of sea rose up between, and made a flight
Of farther length unnecessary.—From out
The door of day, which fair Aurora yet
Had scarcely ope’d, burst forth dim streaks of light
Which flew with speed of thought across the main,
And laughed to see the consternation of
The flying fugitive.—Then brightness more
Distinct came after hard, as pioneer
Of brightness greater still, that stately walked
Behind with step majestic slow, and pride
Of conscious worth.—Portending great event,
The distant east shed forth a lurid glare
Of deepest, richest yellow hue; —then rose
Resplendently, with glowing lustre full,
The Lord of Day—as rises eloquence,
With calm, serene and heavenly dignity,
To hold discourse before a council of
Assembled gods, —so rose he up : forthwith,
Great floods of light, surpassing all before,
Came pouring down, and towering onwards, high,
August, with royal grace he sat upon
A cloud, which seemed a throne of polished steel,
Edg’d round with rim of burnish’d gold ; —beneath,
A sea like crystal clear stretched far and wide,
Reflecting back his image to himself, —
And bore the impress of the burning king
To depths where none but God himself can see!
The scaly creature there, who dwelt among
His shades, leap’d up to see himself! and down
Again descended quick, —too glorious
He shone for them to look upon.—Fowls, huge
And wild, and white as snow, spread cut their wings.
And flying off the wat’ry element
On which they sail’d with independent mien,
(Whilst from their downy bosoms fell great drops
That shone like sparkling diamonds rare) —gazed up,
And screamed their hymn of morning praise! —
So rose
The sun at sea, and soaring upwards still,
Away he blazed through space ! magnificent
Amidst his own effulgency !
What power
Reins him so steady in his rapid course?
What mighty source exhaustless can supply
Such glory?—None but Deity!—Alone,
Omnipotent.
R.
DISEASE IN SHEEP.
THE TICK, FLY, &C.
Sheep are much exposed to the attack, and suffer much from
the effects, of various insects and vermin. One of the most
common and well-known is the tick, which, though commonly
about the size of a pea, is sometimes much larger. It attaches
itself to the skin by means of sharp claws, at the extremity of
the legs, and pierces the skin with sharp instruments attached
to the head. The tick propagates rapidly, and is often found
in great numbers on a single sheep, selecting the neck and
shoulders in preference to other parts. It may be destroyed
by the application of turpentine, linseed oil, or mercurial
ointment, or dipping in a solution of arsenic. Lice are some-
times a source of much annoyance, but may be destroyed by
mercurial ointment, solution of arsenic, or tobacco-water.
The fly is a still more formidable enemy, causing more irri-
tation, and leaving behind more severe effects. It abounds
mostly in woody localities, and in the month of May deposits
its eggs on the sheep, selecting a sore, if there is any to be
found, which is often the case, particularly about the head.
The maggots being hatched burrow under the skin, causing
severe irritation, and producing frequently extensive and
troublesome wounds. The sheep exhibit much uneasiness


soon after being struck, often stamping, biting themselves,
anti running about the field with much violence. The wounds,
if neglected, soon spread, and I have known thamost severe
and complicated fistulous wounds produced thereby—extend-
ing between the shoulders and becoming incurable. The
most simple preventive to the attack of the fly is the appli-
cation of coarse whale oil to the parts most likely to be
attacked. The fly has such dislike to even the strong smell
of the oil, that it acts as a safe protection, and is much more
simple than the application of a plaster, as sometimes prac-
tised. A striking instance of the effect of the oil is mentioned
by Mr. Hogg, in his “ Shepherd’s Guide.” As a local appli-
cation, immediately after the sheep have been struck by the
fly, white lead is one of the best, and it will also act as a pre-
ventive. It is rendered still more effectual when mixed, as in
the following recipe, and on being scattered over the parts
will speedily destroy the maggots: —
White lead 4 ounces
White arsenic 1 ounce
Sulphur 6 ounces
Cinnabar of antimony ... . 2 „
Each to be finely powdered, and the whole then well mixed.
It may be rendered weaker and perhaps more suitable when
employed as a preventive, by diminishing considerably the
proportion of arsenic. The following is the application used at
Holkam successfully in the flocks of the Earl of Leicester:
White arsenic 1£ oz. to 1 gal. of water
Soap 3 „ ~
Tobacco ...... .2 ~ ~
The arsenic is boiled in a bag, and kept stirred at the time of
boiling. The tobacco is also boiled in the same manner, and
put into the water when cold. The soap is cut into thin
slices, and the whole of the mixture boiled for half an hour.
One pint and a half to be applied to each sheep. Earl
Spencer observes:—“lt is better to dip the lambs imme-
diately after the ewes are shorn than after weaning. The
shearing the ewes destroys or removes the ticks which were
upon them, and the dipping destroys those which were upon
the lambs; whereas if it is postponed till the lambs are
weaned, the wool on the ewes will then have grown long
enough to shelter ticks, which have come upon them from the
lambs after the time of shearing.” If the sore, from inatten-
tion or neglect, has spread, the application of the following
stringent powder will be desirable :
Prepared chalk 6 ounces
Alum 1 ounce
Armenian bole 1 „
White lead 1 „
Chloride of lime 1 drachm.
Each to be finely powdered, and the whole then well mixed
together. —From Spooner's Work on Sheep.
Shipping EntclUgencc.
ARRIVALS.
February 26.—The steamer Maitland, Parsons, from Port
Macquarie, with 62 bales wool, 1500 feet cedar.
February 27.—The schooner Vixen, Winter, from Au:kland
the 3rd, and the Barrier the 7th instant.—The schooner
Waterlily, Ilayle, from Hobart Town the 21st instant.—The
barque Rose, (of Halifax), Creighton, from the Whaling
Grounds.
February 28.—The barque Woodlark, Smith, from the whal-
ing grounds.
March I.—The brigantine Heroine, Mackenzie, from Singa-
pore the 15th November, Balli the Ist December, and Copang
the Ist January.
March 2.—The schooner William, Freeman, from Moreton
Bay, the 7th ultimo.
March 3.—H.M.S. North Star, Sir Everard Home, from
Port Arthur the 23rd ultimo.
March 4.—The barque Louisa, Curry, from the Whale
Fishery.—-The ship Hydrahad, Robertson, from the Downs,
21st October, Cape of Good Hope, 27th December, and
Norfolk Island, 19th February.
DEPARTURES?
February 26.—The yacht Avenger, Gillum, for Moreton
Bay.
February 27.—The brig Sarah Birkett, Proddow, for Liver-
pool.—The brig Benjamin Boyd, Tomkins, for Liverpool.
March 2.—The schooner Mary Anti, Amner, for Launceston.
—The barque Lord Auckland, Brown, for London. The
brig Emma, Fox, for Adelaide.
March 3.—The brig Caroline, Aitken, for London.
KOSEWOOB BKAWXN6-EOOM FURNITURE,
OF THE NEWEST FASHIONS, imported from the
house of Harding and Co., ex Morayshire, from London;
also, Colonial seasoned ditto. A great variety at very re-
duced prices, warranted in character equal to their make of
the last twenty-five years, for sale at
EDWARD HUNT AND CO.’S,
Jamison-street.
T© CHEIVTISTS, SRUCaiSTS, AIMS others.
RECEIVED ex General Hewett, and other late arrivals, a
general assortment of Genuine Drugs and Chemicals,
consisting of— Fine Turkey Gum Arabic, Epsom Salts,
Senna, Calcined Magnesia, Sweet Spirits of Nitre, Essence of
Bergamotte, Carbonate of Soda, Opium, Poppy Heads, Sar
saparilla, Finest Olive Oil in Jars and half Jars,
superior Cold-drawn Castor Oil, llydriodatf. of Potash,
Acetate and Muriate of Morphia, Calomel, Balsam Capaiba,
Bucha Leaves, Turkey and East India Rhubarb, Camomile
Flowers, Cubebs, Corrosive Sublimate, Blue Stone,
Arsenic, Turpentine, &c., &c., &c.
A superior assortment of Hair,Tooth, Nail, Shaving, Flesh,
and Clothes Brushes
Violet Powder, Powder Boxes and Puffs
Ivory and Tortoiseshell Combs
White and brown Windsor Soap, in packets
Cold Cream, Bears’ Grease, &c., &c.
also,
Henry’s Calcined Magnesia, American Soothing Syrup
Beatson’s Ring-worm Lotion, Butler’s and Hocking’*
Seidlitz
Cockle’s and Dixon’s Pills, and Murray’s Fluid Magnesia, in
pint bottles, 2s. each, &c.
A. FOSS,
313, Pitt-street North,
And corner of George and Pitt-streets.
EX “ GEWERAX HEWETT.”
PINT SALAD OILS, in three dozen cases
Spanish and French Olives
Smoked Herrings
Pine Cheese
Herring Paste
Anchovy Paste I These are an excellent break-
Pate de Diable f fast relish.
Gorgona Anchovies. )
From the scarcity and excellent quality of the above selec-
tion, they can be most confidently recommended.
ROBERT PORTER.
City Warehouse, 424, George-street.
SCONE.
TO BE SOLD, by private contract, TWO BUILDING
ALLOTMENTS, in the township of Scone, at the
corner of Liverpool and Wingen streets. For further par-
ticulars, apply (post paid,) to R. Y., at the office of this
Journal.
FUNERALS FURNISHED,
HIT .TOHIM H2X.E, JUN\,
AT HIS FURNISHING ESTABLISHMENT,
No. —, King-street, Sydney.
To the Mechanics and Poorer Class of people of the City of
Sydney.
JOHN HILL, JUN., begs to inform the above-mentioned
body of people, that in consequence of the reduced state
of times, he will conduct FUNERALS at the following low
rates, where every attention will respectfully be paid.
Full-mounted Coffin, with use of Hearse £ 2 0 0
Child’s Coffin, with use of Mourning Coach .... 1 10 0
316, TXTT STREET^
the general printing office
AND
Office of the “Colonial literary Journal.”
BOOK-WORK and PAMPHLETS to any extent; also,
Posting-bills, Hand-bills, Circulars, Cards, Orders,
Receipts, Invoice Heads, Labels, Law Forms, Nautical Forms,
and any other description of Letter-press Printing, executed
on the shortest notice, and at reasonable charges, by
J. READING.


PETEES3AM RACES.
SECOND MEETING,
EASTER MONDAY, 24th MARCH, 1845.
FIRST RACE.
fpHE PETERSHAM PURSE of Thirty Sovereigns, for
L all horses, weight for age; heats twice round; entrance
two sovereigns; three entrances or no race. The winner not
to be allowed to run in the following races. Weights—two
years old, 6st. 2lbs.; three ditto, 7st. Gibs.; four ditto. Bst.
41 bs.; five ditto, Bst. 121b5,; six and aged, 9st, 61bs. Mares
and geldings allowed Slbs,
SECOND RACE.
THE WOOLPACK PURSE of Twenty Sovereigns, for
all horses, weight for age; heats once round; entrance one
pound ten shillings. Conditions and weights the same as for
the Petersham Purse,
THIRD RACE,
THE LADIES’ PURSE of Ten Sovereigns, for horses
not exceeding fourteen hands; entrance one pound; heats
once round ; three entrances or no race. Weights—two years
old, 6st.; three ditto, 6st. 71bs.; four ditto, 7st.; five ditto,
Tst. 61bs,; six and aged, Bst, Mares and geldings allowed 31bs.
FOURTH RACE,
THE BEATEN PURSE of Five Sovereigns, with the
entrances added, for the beaten horses, to be handicapped by
the Stewards, Post entrance, half-a-guinea t Once round.
In all the races the second horse is to receive back his
entrance.
All horses must be entered at the Committee-room, at Mr.
Janies Oatley’s, the “ Sportsman’s Inn,” corner of Pitt and
Goulburn streets, between the ho rs of seven and ten, on the
evening of Thursday, the 20th March next ensuing, when the
colours of the riders must be declared ; and any rider changing
his colours shall pay a fine of one sovereign before starting.
No person shall be allowed to enter a horse who is not a
subscriber to the amount of
The decisions of the Stewards to be final,
Admission to the Course will be allowed only through the
gate opposite Mr. Shaw’s, “ Woolpack Inn.” Terms—four-
wheel vehicles, Is, fid-; two wheel, Is.; saddle horses, 6d.
each.
N, B.- —All dogs found on the Course to. be destroyed,
Judge— Mr. T. May.
Stewards—Mr, C. Roberts, Mr, E, Rapee, and Mr,
J, Kettee,
Treasurer and Secretary —R. Goodall,
Clerk of tbe Course— R. Culeen,
Committee-room, February 13, 1845.
Fetersham races,
SECOND MEETING,
EASTER MONDAY, 24th MARCH, 1845.
TENDERS FOR THE GATE on the above day, will be
received by the Secretary, at tbe Committee-room, Mr.
Oatley’s, “ Sportsman’s Inn,” corner of Pitt and Goulburn
streets, on or before twelve o'clock, on Thursday, the 13th
March next, The Tenders must be delivered sealed, and the
highest to be accepted, The successful party must pay a
deposit of half the amount to the Treasurer at the time of
acceptance, and the remainder on or before seven o’clock,
p.M., on Monday, the 17th March, or the deposit will be for-
feited, and the next highest Tender will he accepted. Terms
of admission, see Race Advertisement,
TENDERS FOR BOOTHS on the Course, must be sent
in sealed, and directed to the Secretary, at the Committee-
room, on or before seven o’clock. r.M., on Monday, the 17th
March next, when the four highest Tenders will be accepted.
All other Booths and Stalls must be applied for to the
Secretary, or Mr. Shaw, who will point out the ground and
agree for the same; and no persons will be allowed to offer
anything fpr sale on the Course, without paying towards the
Race Fund,
No liquor of any kind will he allowed to he sold* except at
the licensed Booths.
R. W. GOODALL,
Treasurer and Secretary.
Committee-room, February }3, 1845<
WA3.3&RRS rAEXNACEOU 5 FOOD
~S particularly adapted for sick children, and recommended
_ by the -foculty in cases of dysentery. Sold by all the
Druggists and Grocers.
February Bth. 1845.
VALUABLE, SAFE, AND LUCRATIVE INVESTMENT,
THE LONDON TAVERW, GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Police Office ,
MR. STUBBS is instructed by Mr. Councillor Wilkie, who
intends resuming his former business, to advertise and
sell by Public Auction,
TO-MORROW, (FRIDAY) the 7th Day of MARCH,
At 12 o’clock precisely,
All that money-making, long-established, and Popular
House and Premises.
‘■THE LONDON TAVERN,”
together with the “License,” “ Good-wil l ,” and “Trade”
thereof. -
The public fame of the “ London Tavern” is known, before
all others, as a place of excellent entertainment and accommo-
dation to every individual ; from the most respectable settler
down to the weary traveller or driver of a wool-team, one and
all resort to it as a place of mutual convenience and appoint-
ment, whilst the ready-money custom of police suitors and
their attendants, give such life and activity to the
BAR AND TAP,
that several drawers are required to serve at the fountain
especially when the rush about noon takes place, It has
“ MADE TIIR FORTUNE”
of every man that has had anything to do with it, and will
make twenty more, but the present worthy proprietor having
other duties, and meaning to take up itls former business*,
retires, for no earthly reason but that the weight and accumu-
lation of the tavern business is. “ too much” for him
The fixtures and stock-in-trade will have to be taken at a-
fair valuation.
Now, as AN INVESTMENT, nothing can be more
safe or certain,
£8 to 4?10 per week, paid
EVERY MONDAY MORNING,
is no ordinary prospect of income to the prudent capitalist,
whose economy in selecting the London Tavern as the best
possible Rental in Sydney, is beyond all manner of doubt,
A WORD MORE
To the respectable innkeeper or tradesman who wishes to con--
duct the business 4 under his own cannot buy the
Tavern too dear, as £2OOO of the purchase money may remain
secured upon the property for an indefinite period,
FOR THE RESIDUE,
One-third cash, on the fall of the hammer
One-third by bill, at four months
One-third by bill, at eight months
During which time he has his £lOO to £2OO per week coming
in, out of the till, to meet the bills at maturity,
It is a fact known in all parts of the world—the importance
entertained of the City of Sydney, as being the * Great Capital'
of the Empire of the South, and" therefore,
THE LONDON TAVERN
must run co-equal with its trade and
persons dropping ip, passing and re-passing its bar-door
daily,
P.S.-—The Tavern and premises are now being surveyed, and
will be duly advertised and described as soon as the plan
and specification of the rooms and property are completed,
* N. 8- A Champagne Lunch,
The TITLE, a Grant from the Crown, and unexceptionable
Agents for this Journal,
Collector for Sydney . , , , , Mr, Francis Wye
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr, Hugh Taylor,
Windsor.., Mr, Walker,
Bathurst f Mr, Tress,
West Maitland * -., Mr, Galloway.'
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool •,,, Mr, C, Lester,
Gunning ~. ,,,,«,,, ? Mr, Hawthorne*
