

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 17.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1844.
[Price 4d.
SELF-DEPENDENCE.
Man, notwithstanding the many ties which connect
him with society, bears largely imprinted on his fore-
head the, original doom, that he must be chiefly de-
pendent on his own labour for subsistence. And it is
an undeniable and well-evidenced fact, that in so far
as a person trusts to his own exertions solely, he will
be apt to flourish ; and in so far as he leans and
depends on others, his lot will be the reverse. Nothing
can give so good a general assurance of well-doing as
the personal activity of the individual, day by day
exerted for his own interest. If, on the contrary, in
the midst of efforts persevered in with diligence and
cheerfulness, a man is surprised with a prospect of
some patronage which seems likely to enrich him, or the
partial possession of the wealth he is struggling for, how
frequently is the philanthropist grieved to see his exer-
tions discontinued, which are, perhaps, still requisite to
preserve him from declining circumstances and total
ruin. The only sure way to make a true and happy
progress through this world, is to proceed in a perse-
vering, pertinacious, pursuit of some one good object,
neither turning to the right nor to the left, making our
business as much as possible our pleasure, and not
permitting ourselves to awake from our dream of ac-
tivity, nor to reflect upon our past diligence, unless as
a spur to further exertion, to end only when we find
ourselves at the gaol of our wishes —when, we find
fortune, even fickle fortune, within our grasp.
A common, but deplorable and unwise impediment
to this safe mode of proceeding, is the searching after
pecuniary favours from friends, whether for the pur-
pose of increasing or improving a good business, or of
re-animating or preserving a bad one from extinction.
All that is obtained in this way is obtained against
the very spirit of correct business, and is likely to be
only mischievous to both parties. In the first place,
it is probable that we shall not make so good a use of
money thus obtained in a lump, without being pains-
fully and gradually won, as of that which is the pro-
duce of our own daily exertions. It is also ever an
impediment to, or presumption against, a man, that he
should require such assistance ; and, accordingly, his
commercial reputation is apt to suffer from every such
request he may make. Next, to consider the case in
reference to the friend upon whom the demand is made,
it is obviously a most unfair thing, that, when men
find it so necessary to be cautious in adventuring
money on unusual risks, even for their own interests,
when they are so strongly called upon and desirous to
make themselves acquainted with every circumstance
of the case before venturing—when, moreover, they
only do so in the prospect of an unusual gain—it is
unfair, we say, that, when they only adventure money
under these circumstances, they should be called upon
to adventure it for the profit of a friend, without know-
ing any thing of the likelihood of its turning out well,
without being able to take any of those expedients
which they would use in their own case for insuring
its eventual re-appearance, without the least chance
of gain to compensate the risk—trusting the whole,
in fact, to the uncertain and hidden sea of another
man’s mind, when perhaps they would not trust it
upon their own, with a full knowledge of soundings,
tide, wind, and pilotage. Men may grant such favours,
from their dislike to express such a want of confidence
in a friend as a refusal is supposed to intimate. But
this proceeds upon the erroneous principle that the
refusal does indicate a want of confidence ; whereas,
in reality, it ought to be held only as indicating a
want of confidence in the particular mode of use in
which it is to be adventured. However much the
man may express himself as certain of being able to
re-produce the money, advanced by his friend, at the
given period—generally speaking, a very unlikely
chance—the person from whom it is demanded is
entitled to take care that the petitioner is not deceiving
himself as well as his succouring friend—causing both,
unwittingly perhaps, to split upon the rock of com-
mercial embarrassment, or to sink into the maelstroom
of bankruptcy. That this is a true picture, will be
confessed by all who consider the common occurrence
of men who originally, or at some period of their lives,
were rich, but have been ruined by “ security”—that
is, by becoming bound to too great an extent for the
engagements of their neighbours.
Far is it from being the wish of the philanthropist
to see men shut up their hearts against each other—
to see each stand, in the panoply of his own resolutions,
steeled against every friendly appeal. Humanity,
kindred, friendship, have many claims which will
always be considered and responded to by a man of
good Feelings, ATI inal'is nere contended for, is the
inconsistency of a system of large accommodations
with just business, as well as with the real interests of
either of the two parties concerned. Upon the whole,
a man will not only be obliging himself in the best
manner, but he will be also obliging society in a
higher degree than he otherwise could do, if he simply
looks well after himself, so that he never requires a
favour ; and if he should be precipitated from fortune
in spite of every honourable exertion to the contrary,


lias lie not some consolation in the reflection that he
has done the best ? But the thoughtless squanderer
of his friend’s substance can have no consolation.
Reflection on the misery caused to his confiding
friend can only but ten-fold embitter the misery re-
sulting to himself from the same adverse circumstances.
Let no one be unduly alarmed if he should incur the
reproach of “ selfishness it is the only principle
which can ever become nearly general, and therefore
the only one which can be equal or impartial in its
action. When this outcry is raised, let the petitioned
party take the trouble to consider whether he, in reality,
is the selfish person—whether the odium of that bad
feeling does not indeed rather lie with the petitioner,
who is content, for the purpose of saving himself some
present inconvenience, or otherwise advantaging him-
self, to bring a portion of his friend’s substance into
hazard—for hazard there must be, whenever money
leaves the possession of its owner, and in hardly any
kind of adventure is it ever in greater peril than when
lent, or engaged for, in this manner, without the
prospect of a profit. It is, in a great measure, a mere
error arising from want of reflection, to suppose that
there can only be inhumanity on the part of the
individual who refuses to lend or become bound.
Inhumanity, of course, there may often be in such
refusals ; but is there to be no sympathy, on the other
hand, for the friend betrayed ? Are we only to have
pity for the man who wants money —no matter through
what causes he w r ants it—in March, and none for him
who is called upon to undertake the risk of having to
pay it in June, to his grievous inconvenience ? Does
pity only acknowledge the present tense, and not the
future ? Is it so silly a passion that it only feels for
the present wants of an individual who seeks assistance
from his friend, and has no regard to the contingent
sorrow's of that friend who, without fault of his own,
but with every merit to the contrary, is beguiled into
ruin he did not purchase, in the ineffectual attempt,
perhaps, to save one who, supposing him to be per-
sonally as worthy, was at least the only person with
whom blame, if blame there be, can in such a case be
said to rest ?
The conclusion we must come to, is that fortune is
most easily and most certainly to be won by a person’s
own unaided exertions. Let every one, therefore,
depend as little as possible upon prospects of advan-
tages from others, all of whom, it will be found, have
enough to do for themselves. Be liberal, affable, and
kind ; but, knowing that we cannot do more injury to
society than by injuring ourselves, let us exercise a
just caution in giving way to the solicitations of friends.
Let us never be too ready to convince ourselves that
it is right to involve ourselves largely, in order to help
any person into a particular station in society ; rather
let him begin at the bottom, and thereby be all the
better fitted for his place, v'hen he reaches it, by
having fought his way up through the lower stages, with
the happy consciousness that his success in life is
.owing to a continued series of endeavours dictated
and perfected solely in a virtuous spirit of self-
dependence.
The Golden Fleece. —Notwithstanding the haughtiness
of knighthood, one of the most celebrated orders took its
name from no chivalric source. The order was instituted by
Phillip, Duke of Burgundy, who named the fraternity the
“ Knights of the Golden Fleece,” in gratitude to the trade in
woollens, by which he and his family had been so much
enriched.
Biography.
SENECA.
The name of Seneca occurs so often throughout the range of
English literature, that those who have not had a classical
education, and have had few opportunities of examining the
translations existing of the ancients, must often have felt de-
sirous of some information relative to his history and works.
The “grave Seneca,” the “moral Seneca,” “ sententious as
Seneca,” are phrases exemplative of the manner in which his
name is commonly mentioned. Nor are these epithets,
taking them in their deepest and best meaning, by any means
misapplied.
Lucius Annaeus Seneca was a Spaniard by birth, his native
place being the city of Cordova, where a Roman colony of
great distinction had been long planted. He was born a few
years before the commencement of the Christian era, and came
to Rome in his childhood with his father (an orator of some
repute) and the rest of the family. In compliance with the
wishes of his father, the early studies of Seneca were directed
chiefly to rhetoric, but his own tastes led him irresistibly towards
philosophical pursuits. He entered the profession of the law,
however, in a regular manner, arid pleaded for some time in
the courts with much success. He afterwards betook himself
to public employments, and obtained successively the offices of
Quaestor and Praetor. It is obvious that he had risen, during
his occupancy of these posts, to considerable eminence, for
the jealousy of some influential parties at the court of the
emperor Claudius fell upon him, and he was banished to
Corsica. The charge made against him was that of being one
of the paramours of Julia, a lady of the imperial family, no-
torious for her incontinence. Seneca passed eight years in
exile, which all his philosophy could not enable him to bear
with patience, notwithstanding that he had, as is generally
believed, the consciousness of innocence to support him in his
calamity.
On the marriage of the emperor Claudius to his second wife
Agrippina, Seneca was called to Rome by the influence of the
new empress, who appointed him preceptor to her son Nero.
The teacher did his duty to his pupil, exerting all his powers
to train the youth to virtue, and fit him for the high station to
which he had been destined. At first, the labours of Seneca
seemed to be productive of the best effects. Both before his
accession to the empire, and during the early years of his
reign, the conduct of Nero was full of flattering promise.
But the darker traits of his character by degrees came into
view. Finding his mother an inconvenient associate in power,
he put her to death, and had the art not only to persuade
Seneca of the necessity of the deed, but to prevail on him to
lend his influence in justifying it to the senate. The precep-
tor’s conduct in this instance is certainly deserving of repro-
bation, but he seems, and not unnaturally, to have long been
unwilling to admit the depravity of his pupil. It broke forth
ultimately in such a torrent as to open the eyes of all men.
Still, though Seneca’s counsels soon lost all their influence,
Nero continued to heap favour after favour upon his old
teacher, giving him villas, lands, and money to the value of
many hundred thousand, pounds, and making him, indeed, one
of the richest men in Rome. This drew down the envy of
the rapacious favourites of the court; on becoming conscious
of which, Seneca offered to refund all that had been bestowed
on him. Nero, who was an adept in dissimulation, would not
permit of the restitution of rewards which he declared to be so
well merited. Now, fully aware of the emperor’s character,
Seneca put little confidence in these plausible words, and
sought safety in retirement, spending his days at his country
villas, in the society of his wife Paulina, and one or two friends.


But Seneca’s name stood too high among the Roman people
for virtue and wisdom, to permit him long to escape the jealous
cruelty of Nero. Poison was first tried against the philosopher,
but without success. Afterwards, Nero, on detecting a con-
spiracy headed by Piso, found also that the latter person had
sent a message to Seneca, complaining of being refused a con-
ference with him, to which the other verbally replied, that a
conference could do no good, hut that he had a great interest
in the welfare of Piso.
The bearer of this verbal message, a man named Natalis,
was the betrayer of it to Nero, who immediately sent a mili-
tary tribune, with a band of soldiers, to the house of Seneca.
The philosopher was found seated at supper with his wife and
one or two friends. The tribune, as commanded, simply asked
him if he recollected what had passed between him and
Natalis. Seneca gave an answer which implied conscious
innocence, and which, in truth, renders it not improbable that
the whole was a fiction of Natalis. The answer was reported
to Nero, but produced no effect. He immediately sent a
command that Seneca should put himself to death, leaving the
choice of the mode to the victim. The sage heard the order
with perfect composure. He requested time to make his
will; but this not being granted to him, he turned to his
friends and said, “ that as he was unable to show his love to
them in any other way, he would leave them the image of his
life as the best memorial of his friendship.” He then took
his wife in his arms, and endeavoured to console her. She,
however, resolutely avowed her intention to die with him, and,
being unable to move her from this determination, he gave his
-consent. Death by bleeding being the mode fixed upon, the
husband and wife sat down together to undergo the operation.
The veins or blood-vessels of the arms of both were opened at
the same time. Seneca, on account of his age, did not bleed
freely, and the veins of his legs were also opened. When far
spent, he desired to be removed to another chamber, that the
composure of himself and his wife might not be disturbed by
the sight of each other’s sufferings. A dose of poison which
was administered, was found inefficient to relieve Seneca from
his lengthened torments ; and, after all, it was necessary to
place him in a warm bath, before the blood would flow so
freely as to extinguish life. Up to the last moment, he con-
tinued calmly to deliver moral reflections to his surrounding
friends. Paulina was not so happy as to die at this time with
her beloved husband. Nero sent orders to prevent her death,
and her wounds were bound up in time to save her. But,
during the few years of her future existence, a sad memorial of
this fatal night was left in the pallor of her cheeks, which never
recovered the hue of life, after the severe drainage which her
veins had undergone.
Seneca died thus, in the twelfth year of Nero’s reign, and
the sixty-fifth year after the birth of Christ. The works com-
posed by him at various periods of his life are numerous, and
treat mostly of the subjects of morals. He was ostensibly an
adherent to the Grecian sect of the Stoics (so called from the
stoa or porch where the founder of the sect taught), and his
principles partake of the unnatural coldness and timidity cha-
racterising the doctrines of that school; yet these peculiarities
were somewhat tempered in Seneca by a warmth of natural
feeling, proper to the individual. It would be impossible to
point out, in all the writings of Greece or Rome, moral doc-
trines of a purer order, generally speaking, than those contained
in Seneca’s treatises on Anger, Consolation, Providence,
Tranquillity of Mind, Philosophical Constancy, Clemency, the
Shortness of Life, a Happy Life, Philosophical Retirement,
and Benefits. The same may be said of the lessons scattered
up and down his Epistles, which amount to one hundred and
twenty-four in number. It has been asserted by some writers
that Seneca did not act up to the principles which he taught;
but the weight of evidence is in his favour, and would lead us
to conclude that his own life exhibited the practical operation
of the precepts which he inculcated on others. A number of
tragedies are extant, which bear the name of Seneca, but it is
doubtful whether they are to be ascribed to him or to another
writer of the same name. It is known, however, that Seneca,
the moralist, did write poetry, and some of these plays resemble
the style of his other productions. They are not of a high
order of dramatic excellence, being mads vehicles for deliver-
ing grave axioms, rather than for pourtraying human characters
and passions.
A few extracts from Seneca’s writings will give the reader
some idea of his general opinions, and the character of his
moral code, which was partly the emanation of his own mind,
and partly a selection from the thoughts of preceding philo-
sophers. The subjoined passage from his treatise on Benefits,
upon the general blindness of man to the advantages which he
enjoys in his position on earth, is equally just in thought and
happy in expression. “We live unthankfully in this world,
and we go struggling and murmuring out of it; dissatisfied
with our lot; whereas we should be grateful for the blessings
we have enjoyed, and account that sufficient which Providence
has provided for us : a little more time may make our lives
longer, but not happier; and whensoever it is the pleasure of
God to call us, we must obey; and yet all this while we go on
quarrelling at the world for what we find in ourselves ; and we
are yet more unthankful to heaven than we are to one another.
What benefit can be great now to that man that despises the
bounties of his Maker? We would be as strong as elephants,
as swift as bucks, as light as birds ; and we complain that we
have not the sagacity of dogs, the sight of eagles, the long life
of ravens, nay, that we are not immortal, and endued with the
knowledge of things to come. Nay, we take it ill that we are
not gods upon earth ; never considering the advantages of our
condition, or the benignity of Providence in the comforts that
we enjoy. We subdue the strongest of creatures, and overtake
the fleetest; we reclaim the fiercest, and outwit the craftiest.
We are within one degree of heaven itself, and yet we are not
satisfied. Since there is not any one creature which we had
rather be, we take it ill that we cannot draw the united excel-
lences of all other creatures into ourselves. Why are we not
rather thankful to that goodness, which has subjected the
whole creation to our use and service 1”
Many authors have written folios to illustrate the duty a
man owes to himself and his fellow-men, but all these bulky
books put together could not place the subject in a clearer light
than the following few sentences, from Seneca, On a Happy
Life. “It is every man’s duty to make himself profitable to
mankind: if he can, to many; if not, to fewer; if not so
neither, to his neighbour ; but, however, to himself. There
are two republics; a great one, which is human nature, and a
less, which is the place where we were born : some serve both
at a time, some only the greater, and some again, only the
less : the greater may be served in privacy, solitude, contem-
plation, and perchance that way better than any other ; but it
was the intent of Nature, however, that we should serve both.
A good man may serve the public, his friend, and himself, in
any station : if he be not for the sword, let him take the gown ;
if the bar does not agree with him, let him try the pulpit: if
he be silenced abroad, let him give council at home, and dis-
charge the part of a faithful friend and a temperate companion.
When he is no longer a citizen, he is yet a man ; but the whole
world is his country, and human nature never wants matter to
work upon : but if nothing will serve a man in the civil govern-
ment unless he be prime minister, or in the field but to command
in chief, it is bis own fault. The common soldier, where he


cannot use liis hands, fights with his looks, his example, his
encouragement, his voice, and stands his ground even when he
has lost his hands, and does service too with his very cla-
mour ; so that, in any condition whatsoever, he still discharges
the duty of a good patriot. Nay, he that spends his time well,
even in a retirement, gives a great example. We may en-
large, indeed, or contract, according to the circumstances of
time, place, or abilities, but above all things, we must be sure
to keep ourselves in action : for he that is slothful is dead even
while he lives.”
The propriety of applying the epithet “sententious” to
Seneca, may be judged of from the fact, that the whole of his
moral treatises are equally full of pithy maxims as the para-
graphs quoted. From every page of his writings, striking
truths, well and briefly expressed, may be gathered. Thus,
opening at random the copy before us (L’Estrange’s Abstract,)
we find, “ The comfort of having- a friend may be taken away,
but not that of having had one.” Again, “No man shall
ever be poor that goes to himself for what he wants ; and that
is the readiest way to riches.” “No man can be poor that has
enough ; nor rich, that covets more than he has.” “ There is
nothing that we can properly call our own but our time, and
yet every one fools us out of it that has a mind to it.” Such
lilo reflections occur in rich abundance in the compositions of
Seneca.— Extracted.
BEHIND THE SCENES.
[Abridged from an excellent article in Chambers' Journal .]
The stage has supplied mankind with this remarkable
proverbial expression. There, the brilliant appear-
ance of the house, under favour of a flood of artificial
light—the natural and borrowed beauty of the human
figure—striking scenery, dresses, and decorations —
and, above all, the mimicry of gaiety in the counte-
nances and conduct of the actors —certainly contrast
in a very uncommon manner with the appearance of
things behind the scenes —the dismal unornamented
walls and passages, the paltry dressing-rooms, the
backs of scenes and curtains, and the distressing cir-
cumstances of most of the odd-looking beings who are
seen wandering about. But in this respect, at least
in some measure, all the world is a stage. Man does
not any where make an effort to keep up appearances
and conceal realities, that is to say, he does not any
where breathe or act, but ground is afforded for a
surmise as to what may be the appearance of things
behind the scenes. The mode of life of every human
being, and the mode of practice of every great human
institution, has its before and behind the scenes. No-
thing into which the human mind enters, seems to be
exempt from this law.
We have often in early life enjoyed what the pretty
picture-books call a visit to the farm. To one much
pent in cities, the rural position, the
messes
Which the neat-handed Phillis dresses,
the fine mixture of business with recreation, and the
opportunities of indulging in healthy and cheerful
sports, all of which are involved in the farmer’s life,
give to that life an appearance the most attractive ima-
ginable. Then there are associations about the far-
mer’s ingle, its ancient repute for hospitality, and its
notableness for droll story-telling. The honest faces
of the good family beam out so heartily in an effort to
make you feel quite at your ease, that you never once
think you can be any thing like a burden to them,
even should you do as they wish, and make the pro-
posed three days three weeks. During your stay, to
whatever length it may extend, you allow' yourself to
expatiate over the fields, enjoying all that you see
without a thought or a care, and bringing home at
least three tremendous appetites per diem, not to speak
of an unreckonable amount of little regalements and
refreshments of all kinds in foreign and domestic pro-
duce. The people, in fact, seem so comfortable and
happy themselves, that you cannot but allow yourself
to be quite comfortable and happy too. And yet here
also there is a behind the scenes. That awful thing
rent —from rend surely it is derived—possibly haunts
the nightly pillow of the worthy pair. Even the chil-
dren have perhaps some faint notions of certain mis-
chiefs to be apprehended from this quarter, and are
secretly unhappy before their time. The goodman
has occasional vexatious mental calculations of crops
and expenses, or looks gloomily towards coming mar-
kets. The goodwife has her struggles, deeply con-
cealed, but not less deeply felt, between her anxiety
to maintain creditable neighbour-like appearances, and
her fears of embarrassment and ruin.
If we return to the city, and enter its places of
business, equally do we find all fair on the outside.
A certain warehouse, laid out in the most tasteful
manner, appears filled with a valuable stock, arguing
large capital on the part of the proprietor. Gentlemen
and ladies are seen going constantly out and in giving
reason to believe that the custom of the place is of no
small amount. If we enter, we see a range of smart
shopmen, headed by the master himself, all braced to
the great duty of endeavouring to dispose of just as
many goods as possible, and all wearing a certain
grave suavity, which seeing so fixed and settled upon
their countenances, that we can scarcely imagine them
ever looking otherwise. One would suppose that all
is right here—an honest man thriving by successful
industry, and nothing to do but to order fresh goods
to replace those which go aw r ay. One would suppose
that those faces, so filled with an awful sense of the
importance of business, never have occasion to express
any other feeling. Yet, if we could follow this trader
behind the scenes, how different would things appear!
There he is, knitting the brow of care over accounts
long overdue, and w'hich he yet cannot press for fear
of offending those tyrant friends who are at once his
support and a source of embarrassment- He turns to
another book, and behold him gloomily reckoning up
a series of engagements, which he fears, too justly, he
will scarcely be able to absolve in proper time. By
way of contrast to the infinite obsequiousness with
which he treats his patrons to their faces, bear him in
confidential discourse with a friend, ridiculing in bit-
terness of heart the caprices which he is hourly obliged
to humour, the unreasonable demands to which he is
compelled to bow, and the immense amount of trouble
which he must needs submit to, in many eases, with
scarcely the shadow of a hope that it will be rewarded
by the purchase of a pennyworth. As to the affluence
which his large and handsome stock w r ould seem to
betoken, it would only be necessary to peep behind
the scenes at one of the neighbouring banking-houses,
and hear a few words of the debate held by the direc-
tors over one of his bills. Such, doubtless, cannot be
true of all tradesmen, for some must really be pros-
perous, and upon the whole as happy in the perfor-
mance of their duties as most of the denizens of this
lower sphere. But we believe it to be the truth in a
vast majority of cases, and always the more likely to
be so, the higher we go in the scale of business. The
public see but front shops : an appeal to back shops
w r ould go nigh to reverse all ordinary impressions.


The banking-house has been alluded to. This
always appears to persons of moderate resources, and
little knowledge of the world, as one of the most im-
pressive of all places. Here is one of the very citadels
of Plutus. No care or annoy can come in here ; for
money, the want of which is the chief or sole cause of
all annoy, is here at all times abundant There is a
studied plainness and modesty about the place—all
seems hard wood and wall, with only a few pens and
ink glasses, here and there, and a few insinuated
shoulders of piles of notes, to feather and soften the
scene ; but this only makes the imagination the more
wanton in surmising hidden glories Great chests of
gold, coined and uncoined, are believed to repose, a
mere army of reserve, in some dark undusted chamber.
The privy council of Croesus could not be a more dig-
nified body than the Directors in their high divan.
How childish is all this ! Even a bank has its seamy
side. The clerks, notwithstanding the cash that flows
through their hands, are no more than ordinary human
clerks after all. Severe labour for moderate pay, and
a constant sighing for promotion that seems receding as
they go, are the fate of both the inferior and the supe-
rior officers. The proprietors or directors themselves
have their own fears and anxieties, as they meet daily
for deliberation. Dishonoured bills, falling stocks,
shaking credit, vary the round of their woes. When
mankind rejoice over the news of some self-emanci-
pated nation, they little reflect on the heart-wreck it
brings to some little knot of once monied men, assem-
bled behind the scenes of some certain banking-house.
Yes, yes, even in a banking-house, all is not gold that
glitters.
When we look to domestic life in cities, we find the
law hold quite as good as in places of business. Let
us suppose a handsome drawing-room, where some
dozen well-bred and well-dressed ladies and gentlemen
have assembled to wait for the commencement of a
luxurious entertainment. All is soft, polite, and agree-
able. Discord and irritation of all kinds have been
banished beyond the very horizon of the imagination.
Yet no one can doubt that a very different state of
things might have been observed behind the scenes an
hour ago —might be observed at this moment —and
might also be witnessed an hour or two hence. The
toilette of the lady is a subject too awful to be ap-
proached. We also overlook the chafings of the
gentleman about many little things, and all his terrors
for the merits of his wine. But suppose that the
lower parts of the establishment could be laid open to
view, servants stewing and roasting both meat and
themselves, hurry-skurrying, fretting, scolding, all
terror for the honour of the house and the table—what
a contrast to the sweet and serene assemblage in front
of the drawing room fire-place ! We wish to observe
a proper delicacy towards the mistress of the house-
hold ; but it is just barely possible, that, demure and
gentle as she now sits, interchanging terms of most
silken civility with her guests, she was three minutes
ago in the thick of the culinary pandemonium, giving
directions, adjusting confusions, and administering
rebukes, which now seem five hundred miles and five
hundred years out of her way. Or suppose, while the
feast is at its height, and the company at the joy-
somest, landlord hospitable, wines excellent, guests
delighted—in short, that luxurious state of things,
which a friend of ours says may generally be recog-
nised by a disposition to begin talking of the distress
of the country ; suppose, just at this time, that we
could catch a glimpse through floor and wall of some
pair of fatigued domestics or their assistants, taking
the first rest they have got for the day, in some ill-
lighted back-kitchen, and making their ungenteel but
not altogether unjust remarks on the tastes and habits
of their betters. In the contrast of this unhandsome
den, its occupants, and their talk, with the agreeable
scene up stairs, there would be something to amuse.
The gentlemen would have famous laughing at the
yawning and sarcastic dowdies. But would it he
altogether a triumph on one side % We suspect, after
all, that the dining-room scene would look scarcely so
consistent ivith the modesty of nature as the scullery
one. The plain unsophisticated aspect of things in
the lower regions, and the justice of even what was
invidious in the conversation there going on, could
not fail to act as something like a rebuke to the so
highly wrought and complacent indulgence and luxury
of the simpering circle. Better on these occasions,
perhaps, that there should be no peep behind the
scenes.
Each person, sensible of his own troubles, is apt,
from the fair and smiling appearance of every thing in
his neighbour’s house, to imagine that he alone is
wretched and dissatisfied. He sees his neighbour’s
wife polite and smooth ; he hears of his grown chil-
dren being cantoned out in good situations ; he finds
him frank and hospitable, and supposes him to be quite
at ease on the subject of income and expenditure;
whereas, if he were vouchsafed a little insight into
what goes on behind the scenes, he would be surprised
to know that matrimonial life has there its storms and
its calms as elsewhere, that youth is youth there as in
his own establishment, and that, beneath the fair show
of hospitality, there lurks many a bitter reflection on
present difficulties, and the prospect of perhaps a
gloomier future. Often we see a man so signalised
by the favours of fortune, so affluent, so blessed with
health, so well circumstanced in his family relations,
that we say, here, surely, is an enviable man ; here is
something like a proof of the reality of that scouted
thing, luck; here we have at least one happy man to
show that this world is not the certain scene of care
and woe which preachers and poets have combined to 4
represent it. And yet, how often before such men J
o'et to the end of their career, do circumstances occur
to assure the world, that, after all, they were the
victims of someone or other of the endless catalogue of
human miseries, and that, while all, like the ivy, was
glossy and bright above, the heart was “ worn and
grey beneath.”
In all public affairs, where pomp, show, and cere-
monial, are employed, we discover the same principle
even more conspicuously. The army in battalion,
with its fine dresses, glittering armour, and stormy
music, has its behind the scenes , in unconfessed ap-
prehensions of defeat, and of general and particular
evils. The gorgeous civic procession, deduced from
old times, and the wonder of all the children within
sight or hearing, has its behind the scenes , in a general
conviction of the actors that they are acting parts only
worthy of the children who are to be the beholders.
The court itself has its behind the scenes ; nothing
more so. In short, from the topmost thing in this
world to tlie humblest, in all affairs of men, whether
as individuals or as bodies, there is invariably a behind
the scenes.


History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XV.
THILIF OF MACEDON.
1. Greece was now in the most abject situation : the
spirit of patriotism appeared utterly extinct, and
military glory at an end. Athens seemed to have
lost all ambition : the pleasures of luxury had en-
tirely supplanted heroic virtue : poets, musicians,
sculptors, and comedians, were now the only great
men of Attica. Sparta, no less changed from the
simplicity of her ancient manners, and her power
abridged by the new independency of the states of
Peloponnesus, was in no capacity to attempt a re-
covery of her former greatness. In this situation,
Philip of Macedon formed the ambitious project of
bringing under his dominion the whole of Greece.
2. He had mounted the throne of Macedon by
popular choice in violation of the natural right of the
nearer heirs to the crown ; and he secured his power
by the success of his arms against the Illyrians,
Paeonians, and Athenians, who espoused the interest
of his competitors. Uniting to great military talents
the most consummate artifice and address, he had his
pensionaries in all the states of Greece, who directed
to his advantage every public measure. The misera-
ble policy of these states, embroiled in perpetual
quarrels, co-operated with his designs. A sacrile-
gious attempt of the Phocians to plunder the temple
of Delphos excited the Sacred War , in which almost
all the republics took a part; and Philip’s aid being
courted by the Thebans and Thessalians, he began
hostilities by invading Phocis, the key to the territory
of Attica. iEschines the orator, bribed to his interest,
attempted to quiet the alarms of the Athenians, by
ascribing to Philip a design only of punishing sacri-
lege, and vindicating the cause of Apollo. Demos-
thenes, with true patriotism, exposed the artful designs
of the invader, and with the most animated eloquence
roused his countrymen to a vigorous effort for the
preservation of the national liberties. But the event
was unsuccessful. The battle of Cheronaea, fought
338 b.c., decided the fate of Greece, and subjected all
her states to the dominion of the king of Macedon.
Pißut it w'as not his policy to treat them as a conquered
people. They retained their separate and indepen-
dent governments, while he controlled and directed
all the national measures. Convoking a general
council of the states, Philip was appointed commander-
in-chief of the forces of Greece ; and he laid before
them his project for the conquest of Persia, appointing
each republic to furnish its proportional subsidies.
3. At this period the Persian monarchy had been
divided by the revolt of many of the provinces, and
Orchis had scarcely brought them into subjection,
when he and all his family, except an infant son,
were poisoned. He was succeeded by Darius, snr-
named Codomannus, who is said to have been the
grandson of Darius Nothus. Such was the state of
Persia when Philip, on the eve of his great enterprise,
was assassinated (336 b.c.) while engaged in celebra-
ting a magnificent festival on the marriage of his
daughter Cleopatra with the king of Epirus. The
assassin was Pausanias, a noble youth and captain of
his guards, who is said to have been influenced by
private revenge. The Athenians, on the death of
Philip, meanly expressed the most tumultuous joy, in
the hope of a recovery of their liberty ; but this
visionary prospect was never realized. The spirit of
the nation was gone; and in their subsequent revolu-
tions they only changed their masters.
THE CARELESS WORD.
[Concluded from our last.]
The evening before Charles had resolved to make his
proposals to Mr. Esdaile, he met Edith as usual.
What an hour of happiness was that! There were
the confiding pair about to make the venture of their
whole stock of human affection, to trust to each other
for the entire wealth of their lives’ happiness, to re-
sign to each other all the hopes, tumultuous wishes,
and thronging interests, that had marked their sepa-
rate state, and to take in exchange one hope, one
wish, one interest, in common. It was a dedication
and blending of hearts. Beautiful season of sun-
shine—the one oasis in the desert of life !
“ I am so happy Edith, that I cannot speak to you.
I am so happy we have made up our minds at last •,
for it would have worn out our spirits to have con-
tinued much longer as we are. To-morrow I will
write to your father—such a long letter. I will call
on him afterwards, before he has time to answer me.
What shall I say ?—l—” tears came into his eyes as
he thought of what he ought to say, but, dashing them
off, he laughed merrily at his own folly.
“ I am sure I do not know what I shall say,”
answered Edith, “ when mamma looks serious about
it, and calls me into her own room to tell me of it.
I think I’ll sink into the ground before her, she’ll
look so awful.”
“ She will not be angry, Edith?”
“ Angry?—no. She will be pleased, and happy.
But then she will look very grave and solemn, and
that is all the same.”
“ If she be pleased, you need not heed her looks.”
Edith sighed ; and Charles, taking her hand, resumed.
“ Edith,” he said, slowly, and perhaps sadly, “ are
you unhappy ? If it be so, tell me !”
Now Edith never was so happy in her life, but it
was a happiness so exquisite that it pained her, and
she might have looked sorrowful unknowingly. Her
mind was so full of delight, that she could scarcely
compose her thoughts into tranquillity. She had a
disturbed air, flushed by her varying emotions; and
Charles, whose love was quick, sensitive, and rash,
saw a strangeness in her which, although very natural
to her at such a time, appeared to him the most ill-
timed and mysterious. His question was not calcu-
lated to produce the effect he anticipated. It sounded
in her ears idle and silly; indeed she scarcely gave
her attention to its purport, for her thoughts were
upon the morrow, and ihe bridal hopes. She heard
it as one would hear a piece of badinage at a moment
when the mind was otherwise engaged ; and she an-
swered it as one w'ould answer such badinage, with the
first word that came. She turned away her head care-
lessly ; and when Charles repeated the question—
“ Are you unhappy ?”
“ Very,” she replied.
A cold dew ran over the frame of the lover. He
ought to have known the raillery intended by that
voice, but he did not. He took the word in its literal
meaning, for such love as his is very jealous, even of
a jest. He paused to collect himself, and then looking
at Edith with a calmness he did not feel, he asked,
“ Shall I postpone my letter?”


Her surprise at this unexpected question was so
great, that she could only ask an explanation by a
look. He resumed, in the same voice of forced calm-
ness, that fell upon her ears like ice—
“ You fear to meet the trial of your mother’s looks ;
and you avow that you are very unhappy. I do not
complain—l have no right to complain—nor have I
any right to precipitate your future misery, because
I happen to be foolish enough to stake all my own
happiness upon this event. But I am as nothing.
Do not think of me. It is of no consequence Avhat I
feel about it. I ask whether I shall postpone my
letter—or,” and he smiled with a death-like ex-
pression as he continued, “ I should rather hav’e asked
Avhetlier I should not withdraw my letter altogether ?”
He spoke this in a low, subdued, and sepulchral
tone. It Avas so solemn and novel, that Edith could
hardly comprehend its meaning.
“ Charles,” she replied, and she tried to speak on,
but she could not, and she looked at his eyes, and
shrank aAvay from their expression.
“ Edith,” he resumed, “ it is now, indeed, a strange
question ! —does the prospect of this union make you
unhappy ?” He believed that, in that question, he
threw open an opportunity for explanation, but the
voice in which it Avas uttered ga\ T e it a fatal turn.
The demon of doubt Avas in his head, and he could
not see or think clearly.
“Unhappy?” she gasped; “unhappy?” and she
in audibly pronounced to herself the name of God.
“ I cannot —I will not—l do not think,” returned
Charles, “ that all that has passed between us Avas
only a delusion. You were happy. You once did
love me, or seemed as if you did.”
“ Charles, Charles,” cried Edith, “ Avhat does this
mean ?”
“ I ask you,” he replied, Avith a coldness that froze
her rushing blood back to its source, “ I ask you
calmly—and answer me, it is all I desire, truly —
am I deceived?”
Poor Edith looked very incredulous at Charles,
and Avas for a moment nearly hysterical; but his face
Avas so cold, and Avan, and fixed, and his attitude so
distant and broken off from her, that her pride, which
had until then slept, Avas touched to the core, and
she made a violent effort to speak sloAvly, and to
appear unmoved.
“ I cannot trust myself to think,” she said, “ that
you intend the question seriously. If you do, I have
too much respect for myself to ans Aver it.”
This Avas a great exertion, but Edith Avent through
it courageously.
“ Ay,” cried Charles, noAv abandoning himself to
the passion that he had hitherto pent up, “ Ay, it is
so. I have been deceived—cruelly—oh, God, Avhat
a thought is that! But I loved you, Edith—wor-
shipped you, and adored you—it Avas a love too deep,
too absorbing for anything human. It was profane,
and I am punished—rightly punished. I confided
all, and I have lost all. Well, well,” he continued,
endeavouring to regain the cold expression he had
before preserved, “ it is but an episode in life, and as
it only concerns one of us, I will not trouble you
with my Aveakness.”
“ I perceive,” said Edith, about to say that she
thought they had both been Avrong, but Charles in-
terrupted her—-
“ I beg, Miss Esdaile,” (poor Edith, lioav that one i
word shook her !) “ that you will not compromise
your self -respect for me. I now see, unfortunately
for the first time, at how wide a distance we are
placed from each other. I never saw it before. I
was blind, or self-willed. It has broken fully upon
me, although suddenly; and I release you —if, in-
deed, you require a release from one whose bonds have
been as water—l release you from all those foolish
and delusive promises that in past hours —no matter—
I—must not withdraw myself at once—because there
are unkind people who would speak harshly, and I
could not bear that you should suffer a syllable of
unkindness on my account; we may meet, therefore,
but do not censure me with entertaining any mean
hopes of realizing that fond dream which is now over
—our meetings will be too few, and, on my-side, too
sad for thoughts of that sort. I cry, God bless you !
from my heart—it is not guilt to love you—but I
may never again repeat it—never, never—from this
hour we are towards each other as if we had never
known that sweet deception—for the last time I pro-
nounce your name —your name—that name I so loved
—God of heaven ! Edith ! Edith !—farewell for ever.”
He gazed upon her for a moment, and covering his
face with his hands, rushed out of the room.
During the whole time he was speaking, Edith,
motionless and pale, sat wdthout appearing to feel the
wrong that she was enduring. But she did feel it
deeply. She felt it so deeply, that it deprived her of
all power to reproach, or to explain, or to assert her
feelings. She was wounded in heart and spirit: and
Avounded too, by the hand that she had only just
before relied upon as her shield against the world.
She was so overwhelmed by her thoughts, that she
was hardly conscious he had left the room ; but when
she ceased to hear his voice, and silence fell like a
heavy weight upon her, she looked round, and per-
ceived that she was alone. Then all disguise was at
an end: then, the pangs she had suppressed broke
forth into sobs and tears; then she gave vent to the
agonies which, in the midst of the dreadful scene
that had occurred, she could hardly allow herself to
believe real.
“ Deceived ?” she exclaimed, “ deceived ? Deceive
Charles? Charles, whom I love ! What is it? Who
has done this? Is it only a jest, or a mistake? /
deceive Charles ? No, no, no ! he does net think so.
It is impossible. He only tries my affection ; but
why so bitter a trial? Was I ever unkind to him ?
Would I have thus stricken him to the heart, as he
has crushed me ? Gracious Heaven ! Wherein have
Iso offended as to deserve this ? He left me, and he
blessed me, and said for ever—but that we should
meet again. Oh! for that word—that one word of
hope, God bless you, Charles! If you could see my
heart—if you could know the love that fills it for
you, and the misery, the great misery you have cast
upon it, Charles! but we shall meet again ; yes! I
rely upon you —I confide in you :it was some strange
passion—some sudden thought that vexed you, my
own Charles ; and lam to blame, not you. You
never spoke cruelly before —it is not in your nature—
thank God ! we meet again. I shall wait; there is
nothing to fear—nothing, nothing, nothing!” and
she dried her eyes, and even smiled through the fast-
falling tears that bathed her cheeks in a flood ; but it
was the smile of anguish—more afflicting to look upon
than even the tears through Avhich it beamed.


And Charles, when he returned home after that
parting, how felt he "? As one who had struggled in
a wreck, and been cast alive on shore beside the dead
bodies of his companions. His mind ran over all the
incidents of his attachment from the very beginning
up to that hour. He thought of her goodness, her
kindness, her vow r s of affection —of the many, many
times she had listened with pleasure to his professions,
and of the beautiful simplicity of heart with which
she was wont to make him repeat his declarations, as
if she would listen to them at each repetition with
renewed delight. And then he thought of his own
devotion, of the strength and constancy of his feelings,
and of the mournful happiness it was even then to
know that she, Edith, no longer his, but still the good
and beautiful Edith, should ever be in his heart the
sole idol. He felt that there was a satisfaction in
believing that he would love her long after hope, and
all idea of their union had expired. It was a soli-
tary and a wretched consolation to exact from his
own heart a vow of changeless love for her who, in
such an unaccountable way, had ceased to entertain
the sentiment towards him. Calm at one moment,
and reasoning deliberately over what had taken place,
he would, in the next, break into a fit of despair, and
wildly accuse himself of some unconscious fault that
must have wrought upon her sensibility.
“ She,” he would exclaim, “ she, Edith, my own
Edith, that was so gentle, so full of pity and tender-
ness, so sweet to look upon and to talk to, whose voice
was soft and melting, and whose thoughts were all
so innocent and guileless. She, Edith! to tell me,
after my long devotion, my sleepless love, that fol-
lowed her like a shadow ; my pledge, my countless
pledges, that are registered in heaven, to tell me, at
the very moment when my prayers were heard arid
accepted, w'hile my faithful heart expanded to receive
its precious reward, to tell me, and to utter it too,
without one single reservation, or without assigning
a cause, that she was unhappy —unhappy to have
reached the summit of all the happiness that I fondly
believed she hoped for on this side the grave —to have
obtained what I have heard her sigh to call her own,
indeed; oh! it is either some terrible mockery, or
she is what I cannot name, and will not dare to
think of. Edith a thing of deceit"? Edith deceitful,
false, artful"? No !in the presence of God I acquit
her. She has no art. She—she—has deceived her-
self—she knows not what she does ; but she has broken
my heart. If I could believe that, for months past,
she had merely played with my feelings, and suffered
me to weave myself so inextricably in the toils,
merely for the sake of witnessing my agonies, and
triumphing in them ! If I could believe her to be
such a creature of selfishness, of guile, it might save
me from myself—it might restore me to peace—it
might awaken my nature to vindicate my insulted
pride. But, my God ! my God ! I have no power to
meet this dreadful stroke. Her word is ringing in
my brain. That one word—that single word—when
I was happy, deliciously happy—it came upon me like
a blast that struck me dead —would it had—would it
had —or that I could blot it out and forget it. But
I will endure it. I will not let her see how much I
suffer —she shall not see how she has unmanned me.”
A false pride took possession of him. He deter-
mined to stay away long enough for Edith to be
convinced that he would not be treated lightly; and
then having exhausted his spirits for one week of
absence—a week of terrible torture and suspense to
Edith—he again presented himself at her house.
There were other persons in the room—faces with
which he was familiar—friends whom he had long
known, and who always welcomed him with kindness.
To them, and not to Edith, did he address himself.
When he entered, her heart throbbed violently, and
if she had perceived the least token of returning ten-
derness, she would have sacrificed all her scruples,
and met him with even a warmer greeting than ever
she had done before. She desired the opportunity to
repose her sorrows, her strange unaccustomed sorrow's,
in his bosom. It would have relieved her had he re-
proached her, had he looked displeased or agitated ;
or had he turned from her in silent anger. But she
read his looks and manner in vain. Her searching
eye —prompt and alive to the inquiry that involved
her happiness—ran over every feature, and noted every
gesture, and traced every alteration of expression with
the most piercing scrutiny —but all was cold and un-
feeling. There was not a single mark of his usual
anxiety, or his recent grief. He did not appear to be
even discomposed by an interview which, to her, was
wretched beyond description, and which must have
been painful to her. His general air was that of
utter indifference. He addressed her friends and re-
lations as usual, and when he approached her he
bowed respectfully: but there Avas not in his w : hole
demeanour a solitary evidence of the heart that was
fainting within. So much mastery did he possess
over his emotions, that he seemed like one who could
not be moved by ordinary sympathies, rather than like
that which he really was —a martyr to them.
The coldness of his gaze, the complete indifference
of his address, and the ease with which he took a share
instantly in the uninteresting conversation of the
group about him, recovered Edith from the trance into
which his presence had thrown her. She felt as all
women feel w'hen they are slighted and treated with
contempt. Her pride w T as as strong as his. She
would have forgiven all, have taken all the censure,
have borne with his waywardness in passive endu-
rance, if he bad shown her the poor mercy of appear-
ing to feel that he Avas suffering. But he was like
lead or stone ; he was dead to his and her secret grief:
if he chanced to look at her, it was as if his eye had
accidentally Avandered in that direction, and passed
over it in vagueness and without a purpose. She
could not endure the heartlessness of that freezing
glance. Her nature revolted at it. Her heart, that
was his wholly, rebelled against him, and she felt
regret and remorse rising Avithin her for ever having
loved him so fondly, so helplessly, as she had done.
It Avas the first time that such a thought had ever
arisen in her mind—the first time that she could have
believed it possible that any circumstances could have
shaken her faith in his character. But the chilling
conviction Avas not to be put aside. It was not of
her seeking. It came unbidden, and every moment
of apathy on his side made it more and more stern.
As he had so openly neglected her, she had no alter-
native but to appear not to feel it. She had her sex’s
privileges to sustain, and, although she Avould haA r e
gladly foregone them all to read one kind look or
a happy expression in his face, she felt she had a
duty to perform to herself, which he, of all men
living, would most have blamed her for neglecting.


The rest of the evening Edith w r as as cold as Charles,
and talked, when she did talk, to everybody but to
him. He, as he began to feel her indifference,
endeavoured to dissipate the uneasiness it caused him
by affecting high spirits and a show of wit. And
Edith’s spirits sank as his seemed to rise ; and by the
time the evening was ended she w r as very ill, and he
retired in an apparent flow of hilarity and excitation.
But it was ill wfith both. They had deceived each
other. Neither of them knew how much agony the
other w'as striving with ; and both believed, from that
evening, that the true love in which they had mutually
placed their reliance had existed only in their cre-
dulous imaginations.
Time passed aw T ay without changing the current of
those sad and self-reproaching feelings. They met
at distant intervals, but never, never, as they had met
before. And when by any chance they were placed
near each other, they acted as if they had been strangers
all their lives ; and the cold and repulsive ceremonies
of etiquette took the place of that interchange of
affectionate confidence w'hich in happier hours made
them look forward to their meetings with thrilling
expectation, and enjoy them with unspeakable delight.
One brief explanation would have dispelled the mist
that covered them ; but who w 7 as to make the advance ?
Which of them was to trust to the result of a con-
fession 1 She could not, and he w ould not.
It would be but a sorry and commonplace account
of the few incidents that followed, to describe how
Edith gradually lost her health, and how Charles,
stung by what he supposed to be a wrong, threw 7 him-
self into society to lose the recollection of that w'hich,
with all his struggles to shake it off, clung to him
the more strongly the more he sought in distance and
absence to release himself from its influence. Edith
w'as ever present to him : sometimes in the pride of
that beauty and love that once made an atmosphere of
joy around him, but oftener in the attitude in which
she sat when she uttered that one w'ord, that fatal,
careless word, that destroyed his peace for ever. Her
image—however it produced but a slight external
change —was impressed so indelibly on his heart, that
in the height of the revel, in solitude, and in w'orldly
pursuits, it would obtrude upon all other thoughts,
and mar them.
Upon Edith the separation—for such it was—pro-
duced different effects. She had surrendered to him
her first affections, and they never could be recalled.
Her young heart had never know'n w'hat it was to love,
or even to fancy that it loved, before, and it could
never feel love or pleasure again. The world was
closed upon her. In society she was a blank. Her
mind seemed to be shaken. She resigned her little
employments and enjoyments one by one, and fled to
solitude. The canker had eaten into the bud. She
W'as no longer a being to create a circle round her,
but faded away into one of the multitude that listened
to others, and helped to make up an audience for the
gay and the admired. The change w r as great and
harrowing, from being the idol of every circle, to
become at last a mere cipher in her own. But it was
so imperceptible, and those who witnessed it were so
constantly with her, that it w'ore off without much
observation, after the early attempts to rally her
had been uselessly repeated. She became, at last, to
be regarded as a quiet, silent girl, in ill-health, in
whom people took an interest on account of her pretty
and pensive looks, and her delicate appearance. Poor
Edith ! how little did the frivolous throng in which
she moved guess that she was broken-hearted.
Some years had now elapsed since the evening
when the unfortunate lovers parted. Charles had
mixed largely in the world; had been abroad ; had
acquired a new stock of ideas : and had learned to
look differently at the events of life; but much as
travel, and bustle, and novelty had changed him, they
could not remove that burden that lay like a spell
upon his mind; they could not drive out from his
memory the sweet and bitter images that he had hived
up in the summer of his youth. Even her tone of
voice haunted him through long years of dissipation.
He could not banish the outlines of her face, which
came upon him like a dizzy figure in a dream, and,
although it waxed less distinct as time rendered him
less sensitive to impressions, he could not banish it
from his thoughts. But he had so outgrown the
visible traces of the feeling, that even those who were
closest in his confidence could not have supposed
that he entertained it; and he at last came to that
frame of forced indifference, that he w'ould have been
ashamed to acknowledge that such a feeling had
maintained such a lasting power over him. Perhaps
he finally persuaded himself that it was altogether a
juvenile romance, and that when he should meet with
a spirit congenial to his own, the whole story of
Edith’s love would have no more pathos for him than
an old legend. It is likely that he was in some such
fallacious mood when he fancied that a new passion
had seized him. How that passion originated it is
scarcely necessary to relate. He thought the object
of it was mistress of a new grace that he had never
witnessed before, and by the aid of that tortuous
sophistry which proves things to be exactly what w T e
wish them to be, he invested her with all other charms
to correspond. The qualities wherein she differed
from Edith, were, strangely enough, the very quali-
ties for which he admired her most. The novelty
was the material of the second love. His tempera-
ment was naturally so ardent, that he could scarcely
fail of success where he earnestly desired it, and the
result of a short, and rapid, and thoughtless court-
ship, w’as a marriage as abrupt as it was ill-starred.
Charles Torrens was married; and so it fell out,
by a curious coincidence, of which he w'as not aware
until the very morning of the bridal, that the day
which united him to Alicia Temple was the same day
of the year upon which he separated, for the first and
last time, in anger from Edith Esdaile. But he was
not superstitious, and he smiled at turning up in an
old paper so odd a reminiscence. He w T as too enthu-
siastic and philosophical to be affected by such an
accident; but it nevertheless sunk into his memory,
and lay there until it was recalled by a coincidence
hardly less strange.
His property, which he had recently inherited by
the death of his father, lay close to Mr. Esdaile’s.
An old friendship had subsisted between the families,
which was in no w'ay compromised by the breaking
off of the engagement between Charles and Edith, for
that engagement had all along been confined to their
own confidence, and afforded, therefore, no ground
for estrangement. After having spent the winter in
London, Charles returned to his estate, carrying his
wife along with him. That he felt a pang as he
passed Esdaile manor-house was visible in the sudden


emotion that crossed his features; but he was now a
married man, had contracted new interests, and for-
feited old claims, and he had no right either to lament
or reflect upon a matter which, for all he knew, was
quite forgotten by others. Besides, a long time had
elapsed, and Edith should be more or less than girls
usually are, if the interval and the marriage had not
completely closed up all the avenues to such a recol-
lection in her breast. He reasoned himself in a few
minutes into an uneasy security—the carriage‘rolled
on —and he speedily arrived at home, where all un-
pleasant thoughts were buried in other objects.
The news of this arrival was soon spread through
that part of the country; and, after a few days had
passed over, the gentry of the neighbourhood called to
pay their visits of welcome and congratulation. The
house of Charles Torrens -was now all gaiety and
splendour. One of the first to whom the intelligence
of his return was communicated was Mr. Esdaile.
During the period of Charles’ stay on the continent,
Mrs. Esdaile had died, and the domestic duties had
devolved upon Edith. But she could do no more than
direct such things; for her health was so broken that
she could not endure the slightest fatigue, especially
such fatigue as harassed her spirits. Mr. Esdaile, on
learning that Charles had arrived, expressed a Avish
to his daughter that she should accompany him to
make a morning visit to the bride, Avhich avouM be
expected at the earliest moment, not only because
their estates lay so close together, but chiefly because
of the ancient friendship that had existed betAveen
the families.
Edith shuddered at the announcement; but she had
long before conquered the painful train of emotions it
would once have caused, or rather these emotions had
conquered her. The thought that she should thus
visit Charles florrens—thus—Avilh his young Avife, in
the bloom of health, with a Avorld of anticipations
before her Avhich were shut upon Edith for ever—
while she, who was once gay and happy, to Avhom
each succeeding day brought a neAv hope, and for
whom that young Avife’s husband Avould have sacri-
ficed all that this Avide Avorld could have brought him,
Avhile she was a melancholy, Avasted thing, to be
looked upon Avith eyes of pity, and tolerated in mere
compassion. Of course, she thought no longer of
Charles Torrens, as she used to do. *He AA T as noAv
irrevocably lost to her. But she prayed to Heaven to
spare her the misery of seeing him as she was noAv
to see him ; for, much as he had Avronged her, and
incurable as was the wound he had inflicted upon
her, she still loved him—if love that can be called that,
like the Greek fire, survives through all the elements
‘ with an intense devotion, of the force of which she
was not aw T are herself. She could have suffered on
in silence, and died Avith thanksgiving and pardon on
her lips, invoking blessings on him and his—but she
knrnv not with Avhat form of speech, Avith what dis-
guise of manner, or pretext of ease, she could meet
him, speak to him, and look at him. Her father's
Avish, hoAveyer, Avas a command, and she prepared the
next day, Avith trembling hands and shattered nerves,
to perform the required act of courtesy.
Charles and his wife were sitting alone Avhen Mr.
and Miss Esdaile w’as announced. He was not so
imperturbable and inflexible as he had all along tried
to believe. Ihe name acted like magic upon him.
For an instant he forgot his wife, and all the inci-
dents that crowded the dreary space between the last
parting from Edith and that moment; the blood
mounted to his forehead, and coursed wildly through
his veins; he gasped for breath, and felt a tightness
oppress his chest; but the suddenness of the necessity,
and the embarrassing circumstances in which he was
placed had their influence, and by the time the old
gentleman and his daughter entered the apartment,
Charles had resumed an appearance of self-possession.
He advanced to meet them. Edith lingered behind
her father. She was dressed in mourning.
“ Mr. Esdaile,” said Charles, “ I am delighted
once more to meet you. Miss Esdaile—” He did
not venture to offer his hand, but boAved slowly; and
she, in silence, returned the recognition. “ Allow
me,” he continued, “ to introduce you—Mrs. Torrens,
Mr. Esdaile. Miss Esdaile, Mrs. Torrens.”
The agony of that meeting was severer than could
be painted in words, or expressed in the living features.
Edith, for the first time, raised her face to look at the
happy bride. God ! what a face was there ! Charles
shrank back, and shook in every limb at that glassy
and death-like gaze. She Avas pallid, and worn to
the bare outline of her once beautiful and animated
countenance ; her eyes were sunk deeply, and had not
a ray of their former brilliancy ; and her whole figure
was attenuated to a thread. She looked at the cheerful
and radiant features of the prosperous bride, and with
some pauses in her voice, expressed the ordinary wel-
come to the country. Charles, who knew every turn
of that voice, and Avho felt it vibrate within the centre
of his heart, felt that Edith was labouring at an exer-
tion beyond her strength. His tenderness for her,
awakened by her desolate looks, rushed back upon
him in a tide of re-created love ; and, forgetful of all
the changes that had taken place, and only remem-
bering the one sweet dream that had filled the years
of his youth, approached her, and gently offering to
lead her to a seat, he said,
“ Edith—dear Edith ”
The words were like the sound of a forgotten song
to the maniac, recalling the long-faded memories of
by-gone time, and restoring the desperate sense to a
full consciousness of wretchedness. She could have
ansAvered, “ Charles, dear Charles !” and cried aloud,
for her heart Avas bursting, but she checked the stifling
sensation, and turning to him with that dear look
rekindled which he never, never forgot, she smiled,
and sunk exhausted into a chair.
The visit was of short duration. Charles watched
every motion of Edith’s, but how gloomy and des-
pairing was that anxiety. She urns an invalid beyond
all hope of recovery : she could not sustain conver-
sation—she did not try —a few efforts overcame her,
and she was suffered to remain at rest. Her rest -was
a flutter of remaining energies—like the flickering
of the dying lamp. In the course of the conversation,
Charles happened to ask Avhat day it was—nobody
knew. Edith smiled; it was a mournful smile; she
turned faintly in her chair, and looking at Charles,
she said, “lam a prompt reckoner of time it is
Wednesday.”
There was something strangely emphatic in her
lone, but none understood its emphasis but Charles,
and even he did not fully comprehend its meaning.
He only felt that it contained a meaning which he
ought to penetrate. He pursued the inquiry, per-
haps to satisfy himself further.


“ What day of the month is it'?” he asked.
“ The 3rd, I believe,” said Mrs. Torrens.
“ I think it is only the 2nd,” said Mr. Esdaile.
“ Wrong again,” said Edith, still more faintly, her
voice sinking as she proceeded, “ it is Wednesday,
the 4th of July.”
Then hurst the full truth upon Charles. It was
the anniversary of his parting from Edith, and of his
marriage. Oh ! what a wreck and ruin had followed
from that day’s double misery. It was the black day
in the calendar to him, from which he dated the
blight that had fallen upon his life. Edith’s memory
served well to recall him to the horrors of disappointed
affection and ill-matched enthusiasm.
The visiters departed. Edith was evidently very
ill. The farewell was as sad as the severing for ever
of two fond and faithful hearts could make it. They
both now saw the full extent of their misfortunes.
They saw that they had mistaken each other, and that
rashness had robbed them of their happiness. They
repented, and would have recalled the past, and
atoned to each other for the sorrows they had mutu-
ally caused, but it was too late. Charles’ life was
fixed, and Edith’s was ended.
The sequel is not startling. It is what must have
been anticipated. Charles called the next day at Mr.
Esdaile’s, and learned that Edith was dead. She had
died in the night. Her life had been rapidly ebbing
away, but the interview with Charles had hurried the
feeble stream quicker from its fountain. What he
felt—what he thought—and what he resolved to do,
are, perhaps, beyond the interest of the narrative. He
was a man upon whom the languor and imbecility of
age fell in a single shock. He entered the army which
was then serving abroad, left his wife upon his pro-
perty at home, and never returned to England.
Varieties.
Characteristics of Woman.— Chief among the charac-
teristics gf woman is that sweet motherly love with which
nature has gifted her; it is wholly removed from all selfish
hope of reward. In every corrupted nation of the earth this
feeling is the same. Climate, which changes everything else,
changes not that. It is only the most corrupting forms of
society which have power gradually to make luxurious vice
sweeter than the tender cares and toil of maternal love. In
Greenland, where the climate affords no nourishment, the
mother nourishes her child up to the fourth year of his life.
She endures from him all the nascent indications of the rude
and domineering spirit of manhood with indulgent all-forgiving
patience. The negress is armed with more than manly strength
when her child is attacked by savage beasts. We read with
astonished admiration the examples of her matchless courage
and contempt of danger. But if death robs that tender mother,
whom we are pleased to call a savage, of her best comfort—
the charm and care of existence —where is the heart that can
conceive her sorrow ?
Bustles were originally invented by a female organ-grinder,
to accommodate her monkey with a place to ride on.
“Stupendous.” There is (at least to my ear) a fine
onomatopeia, arising from its accentuation, in this word, when
applied to a swelling-billow. The unaccentuated first syllable
resembling the gradual rise of the wave ; then follows the
emphatic “ pen ,” to represent its full, towering majesty ; while
its long and foaming burst is well imaged by the closing syl-
lable of this grand word.
There is another fine old English word whose very sound
conveys its sense, and which, to my mind, exactly pictures
that thrilling shudder we experience on listening to the night-
winds moaning through old forest trees —I mean the word
“ Dreary.” Tush! reader, do you not see the great wood
monarchs bending and shivering under that piercing blast ?
and nearer now it howls; and now it hurtles past us—ugh !
I’ll look no more.— A Dreamer.
The Rose. —The Guebers believe, that when Abraham was
thrown into the fire by Nimrod, the flame turned into a bed of
roses. The Turks have an idea that it sprang from the per-
spiration of Mahomet, and they cause a rose to be sculptured
on the monuments of all young women who die unmarried. _
The mythological writers say that Apollo caused Rhodanthe,
Queen of Corinth, in consequence of her extreme beauty, to
be changed into a rose. The first rose is said to have been
given by the God of Love to Harpocrates, the God of Silence,
to engage him to conceal the conduct of his mother Venus,
and hence it was made the symbol of silence. A rose was
always placed above the heads of the guests in the banqueting
hall, to banish restraint, and to denote that nothing said there
should be repeated elsewhere; and hence originated the
saying, sub reset, when a secret was to be kept. Rhodes is
thought to owe its name to the immense quantity of roses
which it produces. At Salreay, in France, a curious festival
is kept up, called the “ festival of roses.” A young girl is
selected from among three of the most distinguished for female
virtues; her name is announced from the pulpit; she is after-
wards conducted to the church to attend the vesper service.
She was formerly accustomed to open the ball at night with
the seigneur; now a present is bestowed upon her, and she is
called La Rosiere, because she is always adorned with roses.
Skating does not seem to have been practised by the
ancients. It is, probably, a modern invention which origin-
ated in Holland, where it was practised, not only as a good
exercise, but as a useful and expeditious mode of travelling in
winter, when the lakes and canals were frozen over. There,
long journeys are made upon skates with ease and expedition ;
but, in general, less attention is paid to graceful and elegant
movements than to the expedition and celerity of what is
called “journey skating.” In England, skating seems to have
been introduced in the twelfth century, for Fitzstephen, who
died in 1191, says, “ It was customary in the winter, when
the ice would bear them, lor the young citizens of London to
fasten the leg bones of animals under their feet by tying them
round the ankles, and then taking a pole shod with iron, into
their hands, they pushed themselves forward by striking it
against the ice, and moved with a celerity equal to a bird
flying through the air, or an arrow from a cross-bow.” As
now practised in England, skating is a most graceful, exhilira-
ting, and healthy amusement. Every muscle of the body
seems concentrated upon the power of motion ; distance is
traversed with a velocity incredible; the skater glides, he
floats, he flies—he pushes through space with the quickness
of thought.
Singular Detection and Frightful Catastrophe.—■
The late Mr. Ford, a gentleman well acquainted with the law,
and the modes of discovering and detecting infamous villains,
was sent for by a foreign minister, to trace a villain who had
forged his name, and drawn large sums out of the hands of his
banker. Mr. Ford, observing that the forged notes were all
spelt according to auricular orthography, instantly conceived
that the forgery was committed by a foreigner; and soon after
strongly suspected the minister’s own secretary (then present)
to be the forger. With the man, however, he was left by the
minister, to consider what were the most prudent steps to be
taken, to make a discovery. After a little conversation between
them, Mr. Ford proposed inserting advertisements in all the
public papers, offering therein a reward to the discoverer; to
which the secretary very readily agreed ; but Mr. Ford, under
the pretence of having left his spectacles at home, desired the
secretary to write, and that he would dictate : and so contrived
it, that he introduced into the advertisements every word
which in the forged draft had been spelt according to auricular
orthography ; and as every word tallied to a tittle, Mr. Ford
retired, satisfied in his own mind that he had discovered the
man. The advertisements were, however, printed in the public
papers; and about a fortnight after, Mr. Ford waited upon
the minister, but found only the secretary at home. After
mutual civilities, Mr. Ford placed himself nearly vis-a-vis to
the secretary, who asked him whether he had discovered the
forger? Mr. Ford, looking the secretary steadfastly in the
face, replied—“ I have.” He then perceived such a sudden
change of countenance, that as soon as the secretary had so far
recovered his alarm, as to ask him, “ Who is the man ?” Mr.
Ford, clappinghis hand violently on the knee of the secretary,
sa id—“ You, sir, are the man !” Conscious guilt struck him to
the soul, and the window being near and open, he instantly
jumped out, and impaled himself upon the iron rails before
the door.
“ I’m down upon you,” as the boy’s beard said to his
chin.


The Moralist.
SON.
From the creatures of God let man learn wisdom, and apply
to himself the instruction they give.
Go to the desert, my son ; observe the young stork of the
wilderness; let him speak to thy heart ; he beareth on his
wings his aged sire, he lodgeth him with safety, and supplied)
him with food.
The piety of a child is sweeter than the incense of Persia
offered to the sun ; yea, more delicious than odours wafted from
a field of Arabian spices by the western gales.
Be grateful then to thy father, for he gave thee life ; and to
thy mother, for she sustained thee.
Hear the words of his mouth, for they are spoken for thy
good ; give ear to his admonition, for it proceeded) from love.
He hath watched for thy welfare, he hath toiled for thy
ease : do honour therefore to his age, and let not his grey hairs
be treated with irreverence.
Forget not thy helpless infancy, nor the frowardness of thy
youth, and indulge the infirmities of thy aged parents : assist
and support them in the decline of life.
So shall their hoary heads go down to the grave in peace;
and thine own children, in reverence of thy example, shall
repay thy piety with filial love.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 17.
As in life, so in study, it is dangerous to do more things than
one at a time.
As is the garden, such is the gardener.
Ask enough: you may lower the price as you please.
A skilful mechanic makes a good pilgrim.
Ask thy purse what thou sliould’st buy.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
A small spark makes a great fire.
A smart reproof is better than smooth deceit.
A smatterer in every thing is generally good for nothing.
“A soft answer turneth away wrath.”
- A soldier, fire, and water, soon make room for themselves.
A sound faith is the best divinity.
Love of having the “Last Word.” —Some men have a
failing which is a source of great annoyance to others, and for
which they pay the penalty by making the conversation less
agreeable, and even at times making the conversation intoler-
able ; it is the habit of stickling for the final word. This
disposition is the out-break of pride in a very offensive shape ;
it is the usurpation of dominion over the self-love of other
men on a ground where men are ordinarily most sensitive. It
is, in fact, a determination to humiliate him with whom you
have been holding intercourse—to humiliate him, not by the
success of an irresistible argument, but by the intrusion of a
tyrannic power. Avoid then the act, lest the act should create
the habit; and if the habit exist, prudence requires that it
should be got rid of. W'atch yourself, and inquire of any
friend on whose sincerity you can rely—inquire, if you are
quite sure that you will not be hurt by his reply, whether
the infirmity is exhibited by, or has been observed in you ; and
if it be, correct the infirmity.— Bentliam.
Familiarity, among the truly well-bred, never gives autho-
rity to trespass upon another in the most minute circumstance;
hut it allows to be kinder than we ought otherwise to presume
to be. Eusebius has wit, humour, and spirit; but there never
was a man in his company who wished he had less ; for he
understands familiarity so well, that he knows how to make
use of it in a way that neither makes himself or his friend con-
temptible ; but if any one is lessened by his freedom it is he
himself, who always likes the place, the diet, and the reception
when he is in the company of his friends. Equality is the life
of conversation ; and he is as much out who assumes to
himself any part above another, as he who considers himself
below the rest of the society. Familiarity in inferiors, is
sauciness ; in superiors, condescension ; neither of which are
to have being among companions, the very word implying that
they are equal. When, therefore, we have abstracted the
company from all considerations of their quality or fortune, it
will immediately appear, that to make it happy and polite,
there must nothing be started which shall discover that our
thoughts run upon any such distinctions. Hence it will arise,
that benevolence must become the rule of society, and he that
is most obliging must be most diverting.— Taller,
Select Poetry.
FAMILY LIKENESSES.
“ Did you ever remark how remarkably old age brings) out
family likenesses—which being kept, as it were, in abeyance
while the passions or the business of the world engrossed the
parties, come forth again in age, (as in infancy), the features
settling into their primary characters—before dissolution ! I
have seen some affecting instances of this—a brother and a
sister, than whom no two persons in middle life could be more
unlike in countenance, or in character, becoming like twins at
last. I now see my father’s lineaments in the looking-glass, where
they never used to appear.”—From a letter of Dr. Southey’s in
the Autobiography of Sir Egerton Brydges.
Beautiful thought and feeling ! And the son
Beheld again the features of his sire,
Saw in himself the long departed one,
The lip’s own make—the eye’s own chastened fire,
And every other lineament was there ;
For son and sire, they seem’d a brother pair !
And as the sage child gaz’d, though now no child,
What touching mystery was his to trace
The father smiling as the offspring smil’d,
And taking every other phase of face—
Showing how Nature plies the painter’s art,
Bidding the dead re-act their human part!
And O ! what bosom recollections came,
To him the living one, as there he stood !
How strong the rife heart swell’d within its frame !
Flow full the tear-sluice labour’d with its flood!
How many were the agencies he felt,
As on that holy picture calm he dwelt!
The seed is like its kind—a duplicate
Of those that went before; and so the glass,
That mystic image- worker, mocks at fate
And shows us in ourselves the face that was!
And this the philosophic poet saw,
With eye intent to trace great Nature’s law.
Again—O blessed witchery ! —he bow’d
In silence, and in meek attention, there ;
And felt all humbled, though of name so proud,
Watch’d by such image of parental care—
Once more the poet liv’d his young days through,
And re-review’d the dream as still it grew !
Thick years had gather’d on him in their flight,
And stole away the freshness of the cheek
The red lip’s roundness—all that can delight,
When the young heart would youthful beauty seek,
—Thick years had wrought the changes he espied,
Yet made him with his father more allied !
Beautiful thought and feeling ! —beautiful !
To see the parent in one’s self again,
And feel within the kindred ties to pull,
Till the charg’d eye can scarce the tear retain :
Sweet Bard and Moralist, then thanks to thee
For wakening up the heart to this rich mystery !
Dover Chronicle.
CHORDS TOUCHED.
Ah, how that plaintive strain recalls
The happy hour I heard it last;
And seems, while on my ear it falls,
A dream-like whisper from the past !
What mingled thoughts of joy and pain
From the same source unbidden flow,
To hear those well-known tones again,
And, oh, to hear them thus—and now !
A voice in every cadence dwells—
In every mournful note a sigh—
Of other, happier days it tells,
Unvalued as they glided by !
Of those I’ve loved, o’er whom the pall
Of funeral darkness seems to be,
And, oh ! of worse than these, than all,
Of buried hope it speaks to me !
Memoriter.


JSottcc.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
JsottC£ to ©omspontrcnts.
We regret being compelled to postpone the insertion of Frederick’s
article “ Stand off the Grass,” to our next publication.
We are likewise compelled to omit, this week, the Essays of our
constant contributors “ B.” and “ T. L. D.”
Our correspondent “ H,” is recommended to observe a greater
condensation of style in his future articles, as some of those
already before us are too lengthy for insertion in our Miscellany.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. XIII.
The celebrated Italian poet, Tasso, possessed an orga-
nization of brain in striking unison with his talents
and disposition. To a high endowment of poetical
genius, he added a mind strangely under the influence
of supernatural hallucination. When this supersti-
tious fit was upon him, he fancied that a spirit was
present with him, and he engaged in an imaginary
conversation with his supernatural visitor, with all
the zeal and animation of reality. In his bust, united
to a very superior cerebral developement, the organs
of Ideality and Wonder are very conspicuous.
Chaucer, the father of English poetry, possessed a
very remarkable developement of Ideality and Wit,
particularly of the latter; and his gross humour
merging often into obscenity, a vitiated taste resulting
from its too large developement, and to be ascribed
in some degree also to the age in which he lived, is
one of his most glaring errors. His writings are full
of Ideality—they teem with the beautiful and sublime,
lavished with prodigal profusion—flowers of all hues
and perfumes strew his fascinating pages—and the
author himself seems to revel in his bed of sweets like
a bee in a honey-flower, or a child in a bed of roses.
Perhaps I have said enough about the developement
of Shakspeare —at any rate, I shall not enlarge upon
the subject at present. Every one that has the least
love for poetry, or the smallest veneration for genius,
must have the image of Shakspeare engraven on his
memory in indelible characters. We need only,
therefore, ask him to call up his image in his mind,
while we point out the principal features in his deve-
lopement, as agreeing with his genius. To large
size of brain he added a well-balanced organization,
and a very favourable temperament; and the origin of
his pre-eminent poetical and dramatic genius may be
referred to his remarkably large organs of Ideality,
Imitation, Wonder, Wit, and Language ; and, com-
bined with these, his very large intellectual develope-
ment sufficiently accounts for that comprehensive,
yet acute, mind, which has been, and ever will be, as
long as taste and discernment exist, the theme of
admiration and applause, and the fountain of never-
failing delight.
A valuable acquisition to the science was made' in
the discovery of the remains of King Robert Bruce,
in the church at Dunfermline, while it was undergo-
ing some alterations —the skull being found to be
quite perfect, having been preserved from decay by
the lead in which the corpse had been enveloped at
his interment. The character of this distinguished
hero was so remarkable, and so well known, that the
discovery of his skull was hailed by all interested in
the advancement of the Science and the cause of
Truth, as a great test of the belief to be placed in its
doctrines. The result was most triumphant for
Phrenology. His cerebral developement was found
to coincide remarkably with his character. The
skull was of the very largest size, which must have
bestowed upon its possessor great energy and distinc-
tion of character, w'hether of a good or bad tendency
—and we know T that force of character was one of the
chief qualities of King Robert Bruce. The organs
most prominent -were Firmness, Hope, Veneration,
Cautiousness, Love of Approbation, Self-esteem,
Secretiveness, Destructiveness and Combativeness;
Conscientiousness was small, and Benevolence rather
small. His insincerity and want of principle,
proceeding from his deficient Conscientiousness, are
sufficiently apparent in the frequent acts of tergiver-
sation of which he was guilty : —swearing oaths of
fealty to Edward, his natural enemy, and bearing
arms against his oppressed native country, then imme-
diately afterwards, as it suited his purpose, without
the least compunction, violating these oaths and
uniting with his countrymen in defence of their
liberty, and that not once, but repeatedly. Of his
large Firmness and Hope, his untiring struggle for the
crown and freedom of Scotland gave ample proof;
his perseverance and expectation of ultimate success
never for an instant forsaking him, when most men
would have given up the contest in despair. It w'ould
be superfluous to show in how many instances his
Destructiveness and Combativeness, essential qualities
in a great warrior, were manifested. His Combative-
ness in particular, was very large) and his bravery
and extraordinary feats of valour resembled those of
a hero of romance. His Destructiveness also was
strikingly manifested in the murder of Comyn in the
church of Dumfries, when the only thing that caused
him to feel horror at the crime he had committed,
was, its being done in a church. We see here com-
bined with the manifestation of Destructiveness, his
small Benevolence and Conscientiousness, no remorse
or pity being expressed for the deed, and his large
Veneration, which inspired the only emotion he felt,
namely,horror at the sacrilege. His large Cautiousness
and Secretiveness were among his most characteristic
qualities. His policy and cunning in concealing his
real intentions whilst at the court of Edward, and in his
raising himself high in the confidence of that monarch,
when he was watching a favourable opportunity to
assert his claim to the Scottish crown, with his cir-
cumspection and cautious deliberation in what he did,
fully illustrate his great Secretiveness and Caution.
His large Love of Approbation and Self-esteem
inspired his ambition ; and the courtesy for wdiich he
was famed is to be attributed to the former faculty,
and perhaps to his crafty policy. His noble presence
and kingly dignity are to be attributed to the latter,
and also to his sense of hereditary rank, which ren-
dered his mien so very imposing, as described in
Scott’s “ Lord of the Isles
“ Proud was his tone, but calm, his eye
Had that compelling dignity,
His mien that bearing haught and high
Which common spirits fear;
Needed nor word nor signal, mere
Nod, wink and laughter, all were o’er ;
Upon each other back they bore,
And gazed like startled deer.”
ÆNEAS.
Erratum. —ln the last article on Phrenology, for Podere
read Fodere.


CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir, —I am a man of fashion about town. With a view to
gentility, 1 reside at respectable lodgings in Macquarie-street.
I am every where regarded as a man of quality, and treated
as such.
But, Sir, I must inform you that my income is by no means
adequate to my present mode of life. I find that all my patri-
mony is barely sufficient to supply my immediate wants in
such requisites as snuff, cigars, cravats, new fronts, and the
like necessaries indispensable to a man of fashion.
Here I wish you to understand, I make this latter statement
merely as an historical fact: I should be, indeed, but a sorry
specimen of my tribe, did I suffer so trifling a matter to
occupy my thoughts further than as a thing of course—a very
common-place contingency —my indifference to which, is my
greatest commendation to the best society. My dear Sir, can
you conceive any thing more contemptible, more degrading,
in tbe character of a gentleman, than that he should suffer his
feelings or his conduct to be influenced by so mean a conside-
ration. For my own part, I can thank my stars I have
effectually overcome this kind of weakness, and I look upon
myself as a benefactor to my species, a champion in the cause
of humanity, in that I have afforded an instance of true noble-
ness of soul, exhibited in my utter disregard and entire self-
denial of those illiberal passions and affections with which our
common nature has been libelled. Nay, the very fact of my
existence stamps the eternal brand of infamy and falsehood on
those bold declaimers who would fain make us believe that all
is vanity and vexation of spirit. I say, Sir, I am a living
monument to the falsity of such absurd doctrines, and will
instantly proceed to convince you of the fact. I must inform
you that for some years past, I have continued to be so happy
in this kind of benevolence, that I long to diffuse a portion of
it to others ; and with that laudable desire 1 have been labour-
ing for a very considerable period, to convince some lady of
fortune of my partiality and attachment to her person ; thereby
at once affording her an opportunity and a motive for the
exercise of that philanthrophy which I so much admire in
myself. I have, with this object, proposed to reform the
debasing notions which this class of persons generally enter-
tain towards handsome young fellows without estates, and to
disclose to the world an instance of the superiority of personal
charms, and a fashionable exterior, to those silly lets and
hinderances, which churlish fathers and stupid guardians,
have from time immemorial taken so much pleasure and delight
in creating.
Would you have thought it, Sir, I have met with no small
degree of hostility in this charitable attempt at reformation !
I have already experienced more defeats than would be now
prudent to disclose; so obstinately do these people maintain
their singular notions as to the indispensability of personal
estate, landed property, bank stock, and the like. Thus, when
I have, perhaps, just begun to fancy myself tolerably advanced
in the good graces of some fair one, I am suddenly accosted
by Papa with a torrent of impertinent interrogations, such as
a poor insolvent might be supposed to endure from some
domineering Commissioner.
On one occasion, a few months since, I was repulsed by an
old gentleman, whose daughter I had undertaken to convert
to my own liberal notions, simply in tbe following manner:—l
must inform you that the gentleman alluded to is an extensive
stock and landed proprietor, and had but recently arrived at his
house in town from the country, where he had been superin-
tending in person one of these steam-boiling establishments.
Of course the old gentleman could talk of nothing separate
from this immense speculation, so that the conversation for
several hours literally consisted in a heterogeneous gabble of
rustic phrases, interspersed perpetually with the ill-omened
sounds of sheep, cattle, raw hides, new clip, and tallow. Such
a purge of business and vulgarity I had never been compelled
to swallow before. I was however labouring to console myself,
and with great good nature had calculated the amount of
favour I was about to bestow on this ignoble creature by an
alliance with his daughter, making out no ordinary balance in
favour of my own philanthrophy and condescension, when I
was interrupted by his enquiring—how many horses I had
sent to India this present year ; how many thousand sheep I
generally committed to the care of each shepherd ? adding, by
way of parenthesis, that a lazy fellow on one of his stations
had absolutely refused to take charge of twelve hundred, for
which offence he had him marched some four score miles to a
Magistrate, a friend of his, where the fellow was treated to
fifty lashes for his contumacy.
He next proceeded to enquire into the manner in which I
conducted my several country establishments—who was my
city agent —at how much per cent. I reckoned my annual
increase of lambs, colts, and calves—’how many head of sheep
I had, and how much did the average fleece in my estimation
amount to? and seemed not a little surprised that I could not
answer him correctly in these particulars. At length, after
having censured, in no very polite terms, my unaccountable
ignorance on matters of such vast importance, he proceeded to
enquire on which principle I had constructed my boiling
pans ! at the same time giving his opinion on several distinct
inventions, the ichnography of which I have no desire to
remember.
Here I was brought to an immediate stand; I had never
approached any tiling so terrible to my imagination before.
The very idea itself, I believed to be strongly impregnated
with tallow, and was not a little happy in the free use of my
pocket handkerchief on the occasion. However, 1 was slow
to confess my total ignorance on the subject, for it was one
that seemed absolutely to have engrossed the old gentleman’s
whole soul, and to have entered into his very existence. I
therefore resolved upon a bold measure, and immediately in-
formed him that the construction of my pans was on altogether
so noyel a principle, that I positively despaired of being able
to describe it to his satisfaction, or in fact to represent it in
any manner that could possibly enter into his unscientific con-
ception. This disclosure inspired him at once with curiosity
and satisfaction.
He shook me by the hand a dozen times during the night;
smiling affectionately on his daughter, and casting occasional
glances towards me full of meaning, and good nature ; and, at
length, in the fulness of his heart, proclaimed his irrevocable
determination of making me his son-in-law before another
week, adding, with his confounded incorrigible propensity, his
"fixed resolution of accompanying me next day to inspect my
newly-invented boiling pans !
My next essay in the cause of philanthrophy, was affection-
ately directed towards a lady, a member of a religious family—
the eldest daughter of a superannuated clergyman. I, of course,
became instantly religious—attended church punctually every
Sabbath, and was frequently heard to bewail the lamentable
dearth of charitable and Christian institutions. %
1 also became a tolerable judge of a sermon, and might have'
rivalled Sacheverel himself at expounding a text or confound-
ing a creed. In short I was esteemed in all respects, by my
religious friends, as a most exemplary character and a marvel-
lously proper man; and had also the advantage of being
considered by the pious old gentleman himself as a person of
strictly orthodox principles. My addresses to the young lady,
too, had been well received, and were considerably progressed,
when the following unlucky accident put a violent termination
to my dream of future happiness.
The old gentleman, one day, observing to me that I had no
stated place of sitting, when I visited St. James’, very kindly
invited me to a seat in his pew ; which I of course accepted,
regarding the circumstance as a very favourable omen to my
future prospects.
On the following Sunday I attended church earlier than
usual, having arrived there a considerable time before my
friends. At length the service had commenced, and soon
afterwards I observed the old gentleman and his family ap-
proaching. I immediately produced a book from my pocket in
order to appear devout; but as I had no desire to accompany
the singers, the chanting also being considerably progressed,
I was content to hold it open in my hand. The family had
already gained their respective seats, the old gentleman
honouring me with a nod of recognition as he passed, when
each proceeded to open their several prayer books.
The young lady, the object of all my solicitude, standing
next to me, at this moment laid her hand softly on my arm,
thereby signifying her desire to be shewn the particular pas-
sage immediately under recital in the choir. I was a little
taken by surprize, but instantly recovering my trepidation,
handed her the book with a very polite bow. She had no
sooner received it, than turning to her father, for whom it was
apparently intended, was in the act of pointing out to him the
passage desired, when to my inexpressible horror I remem-
bered for the first time, that the book was not a prayer book,
but a selection of Tom Moore’s Melodies! that I had been
carrying about in my pocket for the last few days. I shall
never forget the look the old gentleman gave me, as he returned
into my trembling hand, the innocent author of this matrimo


nial suicide. It was evident he regarded me as a kind of
masquerading highwayman in the path of virtue ; and that
while I walked the narrow road to bliss, I was equally willing
to mount a fellow-traveller’s back, or cut his throat if he
refused to accommodate me:
The young lady herself was very apparently astonished
beyond measure: the clear and beautiful colouring of her fine
complexion turned instantly pale as death, and but for the
unsuitableness of the place for such an exhibition, would in
all probability have gone off into hysterics.
As it was, my glass was run, our intimacy from that hour no
longer existed; the old gentleman never again invited me
either to his pew or his house, and if we met in the street a
“ how-d’ye-do” was the utmost that passed between us ; even
this soon dwindled imperceptibly into a stiff bow, a slight
nod: and before three weeks had elapsed, I was, to all appear-
ance, reckoned in my former friend’s estimation as among the
things that were.
This, Sir, is a brief history of my woes.
My object in writing them is two-fold —partly to engage
your sympathy in my behalf; partly to excite compassion in
a quarter where I have opened a fresh campaign. Hoping I
shall not be denied the former, and praying the latter may
succeed, allow me to subscribe myself, Sir, your very humble
and obedient servant,
FRANK MODISH.
THE EDUCATION QUESTION.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal,
Sir, —The question on a General System of Education has
been, and still is, represented to the public with much am-
biguity, in both confounding the use of terms to express the
system intended to be adopted, whether the Irish system, or
a general system, selected from all the known systems at pre-
sent in operation; and likewise in the nature of the proposed
education, whether it is strictly secular, purely religious, or
both combined. There are really but two descriptions of
education, but both are necessary for the well-being of society;
and, whilst perfectly distinct in their nature, neither one pre-
cludes the other—nor is there any necessity that one should
tread in the other’s province; whilst the combination of secular
and religious education in one person is calculated to afford
the highest gratification to the well-taught mind. Religious
being the most important, must take the prece-
dence, because, without it, no moral influence would be
effected to subdue the evil passions of our fallen nature.
Secular education may progress until all become philosophers,
and yet by such wisdom know not God: crime would increase,
though more politely committed than it would be by barba-
rians, yet still it would be crime; and there are those who
would thence infer, though very unjustly, that because many
educated persons have become enrolled in the annals of crime,
therefore education is an evil; whereas it is the want of that
religious education in the truth, as it is in Jesus, so essential
to the happiness of man, both for time and eternity, that can
alone stem the torrent of iniquity, and stay the progress of
crime.
A mistaken idea exists, namely, that to advocate a general
system of secular education, necessarily precludes religious
education. Were this a natural consequence, every pious
person would abhor and justly denounce such a system,
because nothing but true religion can educate man in proper
principles to enable him to pass through a world that lieth
in wickedness, so as to be acceptable in the sight of God and
man—mere secular knowledge being of itself insufficient to
guide the human mind aright. To whom then belongs the
high prerogative of the religious education of the world ?
Does it belong to the British state, the French state, the
Russian state, the Roman state, or any other earthly state ?
No. To the Jews, with whom are the oracles of God, was the
system of religious education entrusted for themselves, their
children, and all who chose to join themselves unto Israel,
until He came who nailed those ordinances to the cross, and
took them away, commanding his followers to teach all nations,
and proselyte every creature unto him. Such is the duty of
Christians, to whom is committed the high, the important, the
momentous trust — the religious education of the world; and
jealous, with a godly jealousy, are they lest the state should
beguile them of their Heaven-born right.
But secular education —the mere instruction in things per-
taining to this life—has no sacred circumscribed channel
through which its pleasing streams must flow ; and though the
Christian will sanctify it to his master’s use, the State bestows
it purely and simply, because it is placed within its province
by the wishes of tiie subjects who form the State, for their
own benefit, and for the mutual advantage of all who chose
to avail themselves of it, without interfering with matters of
religion, leaving religious education in the hands of those
whose duty it is to impart instruction. But some will vilify
the State, and affirm that it is an infidel State—an infidel
scheme of education, and calculated to introduce a spirit of
infidelity! As well might the drawing master be charged .
with infidelity because he does not teach religion with the use
of the pencil; or the mechanic, because theology is not taught
at the bench; or the lawyer, because divinity is not mooted at--
the bar! Talk of infidelity ! Let but the churches of Christ,
by whatsoever denominative term they may choose to be re-
cognised, do their duty in the religious education of children
and adults, without the unhallowed union with the State, and
the cloud of infidelity, supposed or real, would be speedily
dispersed by the glorious light of the sun of righteousness.
Many difficulties would then be overcome—no sacrifice of
conscientious principles would be sacrificed—no amalgamation
of truth and error would exist for the sake of expediency—
the State would know, and do its duty, without interfering
with the province of the churches of Christ, and each re-..;
spective Christian church would conscientiously afford reli-
gious education according to its own honest view of what it
conceives to be the best—the purest system of communicating
divine truth, and urging upon their own members the solemn
duty of supporting the Christian teachers—they would not
then place the state in that infidel position of giving equal
support to truth aud error, as though the State was really in-
different to the progress of either. Let religion plead for
itself! If it is of God, it will stand without the support and
protection of the State; if it be not, not all the concentration
of “ the powers that be,” of this world, though vested in a
triple crown, could save it from its doom.
I am, Sir, yours, &c.,
JERUBBAAL.
LOCAL NEWS.
Adjournment of the Legislative Council. —On Satur-
day last, a debate ensued on the 'motion of Mr. Windeyer,
“that the House at its rising do adjourn to Wednesday, 27th
November next.” The motion was carried on division.
The Education Debate has ended by the adoption of a
mixed system, comprising both the general and the denomina-
tional systems, the Council having determined, by a majority
of one, upon the motion of Mr. Wentworth—“ That it is
advisable to introduce Lord Stanley’s System of National
Education into this colony, with this modification —that
instead of the clergy and patrons of the several denominations
being allowed to impart religious instruction in the schools,
the children be allowed to be absent from school one day in
every week, exclusive of Sunday, for the purpose of receiving
such instruction elsewhere ; but that all denominational schools
now in existence, having school-rooms already built, which
have been, or shall be, within the next twelve months, con-
veyed in trust for the purposes of the school, and having now,
or which shall have within the next twelve months, an average
attendance of fifty scholars, shall be entitled to aid from the
board.”
The New Judge. —Mr. Justice Dickenson, (who arrived
by the Garland Grove, on SundayJ sat in the Criminal Court
on Monday morning, alongside the Chief Justice, for a short
time. We believe His Honor will not formally take his seat
until Monday next, the first day of term.
The Governor. —It is understood that His Excellency the
Governor intends to visit the Hunter’s River district previous
to the re-assembling of the Legislative Council.
The Weather.— Since Friday afternoon we have had, with
little intermission, a continuance of heavy rain. On Tuesday
there was a strong southerly gale which continued all night,
and the streets were flooded to an extent we have never seen
in Sydney before. We trust the rain has been felt in the
interior.
The Crops. —We are sorry to perceive that the blight has
made considerable inroads upon the crops in the vicinity of
Maitland, and from the accounts we have heard from various
gentlemen who have been attending the court of Quarter
Sessions, from different parts of the country, we fear that its
ravages are much worse in the upper districts than in this
neighbourhood ; whole acres, which a few weeks ago looked
quite promising, have been destroyed by the blight, and it is
expected that the harvest will yield next to nothing. —Maitland
Mercury .


COMMERCIAI. REVIEW.
The markets throughout the week have ruled exceedingly
dull, and trade generally has been depressed in consequence
of the inclemency of the weather.
Sugar. —Sales have been effected to some extent, at a
Reduction of £1 per ton on previous rates.
Cigars. —The importation Ex Cheerful, has been disposed of,
it is reported at £4 4s. per thousand, in bond.
In other articles, no alteration has taken place; the manifest
of goods Ex Garland Grove, is very meagre, and scarcely
worthy of note.
B. S. LLOYD,
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
October 16 th, 1844.
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
October 13.—The ship Garland Grove, Captain Robson,
irom the Downs Ist June, with a general cargo.
October 13.—The brig Governor Phillip, Captain Boyle,
from Norfolk Island.
October 14.—The schooner Coolangatta, Captain Napper,
from Auckland, with manganese.
October 15.—The schooner Hawk, Captain Brown, from
Adelaide, with wheat, &c.
DEPARTURES.
October 9.—The barque Ceylon, Captain Beazley, for Lon-
don, with colonial produce.
October 9.—The barque Mary White, Captain Walker, for
Adelaide via Port Phillip.
October 11.—The schooner Star of China, Captain Tivley,
for Port Nicholson, with sundries.
October 11.—The schooner Maid of Athens, Captain Hews,
for Hongkong, with sundries.
.October 11.*—The brig Julia, Captain Robinson, for Tahiti,
with coals, &c.
October 11.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, for
Moreton Bav.
October 11.—'The schooner Piscator, Captain Kemp, for
Nelson via Newcastle,
©oloittal Etttrarg journal,
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street, East,” (post paid.)
CITV ELECTION.
CANDIDATES for the approaching Election are respect-
fully informed that every description of PRINTING
pertaining to Election business, Posting-bills, Hand-bills,
Cards, Envelopes, Voting Papers, &c., may be obtained to
order, at a few hours notice, and at low prices, at J. Reading’s
GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE,
133, King-street East.
TO LET,
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a central part of the street, and
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars may be known on application at 133, King-
street ; or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.
TO THE ELECTORS OF PHILLIP WARD.
GENTLEMEN —In compliance with the wishes of a num-
ber of the Electors of your Ward, I am induced to come
forward as a candidate to represent you in the City Council,
at the ensuing election ; and in the event of being elected, it
will be my anxious desire to discharge my duty faithfully and
honestly,
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
THOMAS MAY.
Parramatta-street, September 4.
ARTISTS’ REPOSITORY.
WFORD having made considerable and recent additions
• to his well selected stock of Artists’ Materials, begs
to invite the attention of the Ladies, Artists, and Amateurs of
Sydney, to the annexed List, feeling sure that he has only to
state that they have been selected and shipped by Messrs.
Ackerman, Mordan, and Reeves, to warrant their being of
the best quality.
Ackerman and Reeves’ superfine water colours
Ackerman’s, Reeves’, and Mordan’s prepared drawing pencils
Ackerman’s sketching pencils—black, brown, grey, neutral
tint
Londoti and Bristol drawing boards
Crayon papers of various colours
Improved solid sketch books, rough and smooth paper
Sketching portfolios, with tin frames
Sable and camelhair brushes
Round and flat brushes, in tin
Prepared mill-boards, for oil painting
Prepared canvas, for artists
Oil colours, prepared in patent air-tight metallic tubes
Dry oil colours, finely ground in spirits, in half ounce and
one ounce packages, viz., ultramarine, French ultra-
marine, carmine, crimson lake, pink and brown madder, and
every colour in use for oil painting.
French hair tools
Poonah brushes—Miniature ivories
Venetian crayons, for drawing in imitation of water colours
Wolf’s CretaLsevi pencils, in cases and sets
Prepared chalks, white and black
Port crayons and stumps for chalks
Cartoon pencils, for drawing after the style of the old masters
Permanent white, flake white, ox gall, and liquid brown
Gold and silver, green and blue saucers
French tracing paper—Gold paper
Perforated card-board
Hand screens, for painting and needlework
Water colour preservative, for giving water colours the dura-
bility of oil, and for rendering them washable with soap
and water 1
Oil, moist, and water colours, in boxes, complete
White wood screens for transfer
Marking ink, requiring no preparation
T squares and parallel rules
Manifold writers—Berlin patterns
Envelope cases, handsomely fitted up
Albums, scrap-books, drawing-books, and portfolios
Ivory tablets, card cases, and pocket books
Drawing-books, and rudiments, in great variety
Lessons and examples in Poonah painting, with formulas, and
directions for their use.
The Student’s Guide, or elements for drawing in perspective
with directions for colouring and sketching.
W. F. has on hand a great variety of School-books, Account-
books, Copy-books, and Stationery of every description.
554, George-street,
Opposite the Bank of Australasia.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.’
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
