

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“non tua te moveant, sed publica vota.”
Vol. I. No. 15.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1844.
[Price 4d.
THE STATE TRIALS.
[The following article, on a subject that has, and is likely
to, engross much of the public attention, is from the pen of a
Correspondent, with whose views, as expressed below, we, in
a general sense, entirely concur.—Ed. C. L. J.]
The political horizon of Britain is again darkened by
one of those portentous events, which, generally
speaking, come upon us fraught with many evils and
fewer blessings. In tracing the progress of those
gigantic revolutions that, at various periods of our
history, have thundered over the nations of the earth,
carrying devastation anci ruin to the remotest limits
of their influence, we are alike appalled and con-
founded. On rising from the contemplation of the
present and similar agitations, almost inclined are we
to believe, that the germs of national disquietude have
their home in our midst —that they are everlasting
springs which defy the littleness of man to stop their
upward career. Like the slumbering embers of a
burning ruin, they moulder on, subject for a time to
their opposing element f but no sooner has this check
been withdrawn than they again sparkle and brighten,
until by strength gathering strength, they once more
extend their withering embrace, and in the maddening
fury of their power, triumph over the contending in-
fluence which had been vainly brought to oppose their
march. Nor is it until after the excitement has sub-
sided that men can calmly view the ruin which may
have been wrought—can dispassionately contemplate
the misery and woe which may have been occasioned.
It is not one of the least of the considerations which
force themselves upon our minds, when reviewing the
effects of these stupendous revolutions, that, however
virtuous and praiseworthy the cause may have been
which led to the adoption of so disastrous aai ex-
pedient as war, in most cases the object has been
miserably frustrated by the very means employed to
compass the end in view. An impolitic peace is gene-
lally preferred to a protracted civil war, for then the
bonds of society are torn asunder—the laws set at
defiance and property dwindles into a mere name.
Far, far be it from us to object to the employment of
any and every just means for the maintenance of our
rights. . We should be unworthy of a name amongst
the nations of the earth, did we tamely submit to
tyranny, let it assume what shape it may. Byron
sang not more sweetly than truly, when he said—
“ Freedom’s battles once begun,
Bequeath’d from bleeding sire to son,
Though baffled oft are ever won.”
\ et it cannot be denied that civil war, just or unjust,
is a national curse, only to be tolerated as a dernier
resort —and seldom, if ever, to be considered as a
necessary and unavoidable evil. Then, and then
only, does it become men to adopt as their motto
the old proverb—in which, by the way, there is far
more poetry than truth—“ Dulce et decorum est pro
patria mori .”
When the royal standard first floated over the walls
of Nottingham, and the people of Britain appeared to
rise en masse to curb the rash and ill-advised measures
of the unfortunate Charles, there were few who could
discern behind the gathering storm the momentous
events which afterwards transpired. The success which
at first attended the arms of Cromwell, required a
continued round of excitement and conquest, in order
to maintain the respect and submission of the nation.
To the horrors of war was added the wild enthusiasm
of fanaticism, bringing our holy religion into disre-
pute, and making it a matter for ridicule and con-
tempt Such a state of affairs, although tolerated
under the administration of Cromwell, was not indi-
genous to the soil of Fngland. A re-action was ex-
pected, and a re-action followed. And is it to the
reign of the Second Charles that we must turn, in
order to discover those happy results which were to
have been effected by the revolution ? Alas ! we may
search in vain. The blood with which the country
had been deluged was spilt to no purpose; for one
absolute monarch suffered that another equally if not
more absolute might succeed him.
There is a stern moral to be learnt from the mise-
rable failure of this and similar revolutions. Where
is the liberty for which France struggled? The
throne of Napoleon was erected upon the tomb of her
bravest sons ; whilst veligion and the Bourbons have
again been established.
Strange as it may appear, these reflections have
been elicited by the contemplation of the events now
transpiring in the mother country. We should be
sorry to indulge in gloomy anticipations, more espe-
cially where they are not warranted by circumstances.
No man is gifted with prescience; and, hence, none
can foretel with certainty the ultimate result of the
present agitation. There are times, however, when
the hue: of events may not be mistaken—when their
shadows travel before them, and warn us of that
which is shortly to be revealed. And although it is
undoubtedly beyond the province of man to predict,
it is not beyond his province to “guess and fear.” *
There are few, we believe, who are visionary
enough to credit the supposition that with the pending
trials will cease the discontent in Ireland. The object
at which that nation at present aims is of too lofty a


character to be so easily set aside: and we are much
mistaken if the wild enthusiasm of the Irish character
is not equally opposed to such a result. Many and
glowing are the eulogies which have been passed upon
the national traits of the Irish ; and well and justly
'have they deserved them.
But to what, we would ask, do they aspire ? An
independent parliament? Such is, indeed, the claim
they make; and were such a scheme practicable, we
would readily exclaim —give it them. If we con-
template, however, the bare possibility of such a step,
we are startled at once by the overpowering conviction,
that however feasible it might at one time have ap-
peared, if conceded now, it would only be the fore-
runner of an entire dismemberment of the empire.
The one naturally follows upon the trail of the other.
Nor can the ignition of so much inflammatory material
have any other effect than turning the minds and
energies of the people to this ultimate consummation.
And who can calmly survey the destruction of that
empire which for so long a period has held superior
sway amongst the nations of the earth ? - It is neither
England, nor Ireland, nor Scotland, that has gained
the laurels entwined around the national name; but
Britain and Ireland united. The rose, and the thistle,
and the harp, which so long have reposed together,
we are now called upon to separate; and, by de-
stroying their union, impair our strength.
If the question be viewed prospectively, the ills
which will befall Ireland are far greater than any
which can overtake her more wealthy and powerful
sister. Leaving her statesmen to establish the some-
what novel creed that it is a benefit to a poor country
to be separated from a wealthy, where, we would
ask, is Ireland to look for protection? Or can she
protect herself from the grasping policy of the powerful
nations on the continent ? Is it to France that she
will thus turn her gaze ? Pomare did so ; and Tahiti
is— 'protected.
Far be it from us to deny that Ireland has been ill-
treated —all parties admit it. We should rejoice ex-
ceedingly to see her just privileges extended to her;
and, doubtless, they will be so. These evils must
necessarily be remedied —they will cure themselves.
The obnoxious acts which excluded Roman Catholics
from their undoubted rights were repealed; and this
is an earnest of the speedy repeal of others equally
bigotted and illiberal. We should grieve to see the
beautiful green hills of Ireland a bone of contention
between the powers of Europe—a mere foot-ball to
be kicked about at the discretion of other nations.
Grattan, and Curran, and Burke, and a host of the
mightiest of Ireland’s mighty sons, would rise up in
judgment against so suicidal a step. It is impossible
to forget the ties which have bound us together —
which have united us in one common family. The
Irish name must ever be associated with the brightest
of Britain’s glories; and we sincerely trust that the
ambition of that extraordinary man who now holds
the destinies of his country, may never separate this
bond of amity and affection, by plunging the nation
into all the horrors of a protracted civil war.
From these general remarks, it will be seen that all
our sympathies are enlisted on the side of the present
ministry; and we shall be prepared to applaud the
most decisive measures rather than consent to the des-
tructive dismemberment of the empire.
* * *
[Since the foregoing article was in type, important
intelligence has been received, via Port Phillip, by the
Abberton, from London to that port. O’Connell,
and the other traversers, were brought up for sentence
on the 30th May. There was a motion made by Mr.
Moore, and supported by Mr. Whiteside, that the
sentence of the Court should commence de futuro,
which motion was strenuously opposed by the Attorney
and Solicitor Generals, on behalf of the Crown. The
application was overruled. Mr. Justice Burton then
passed sentence to the following effect: —That Daniel
O’Connell be imprisoned for the space of twelve
calendar months, and pay a fine of £2000; and that
he enter into securities to be of good behaviour for
seven years, in the sum of £5OOO, and two sureties of
£2500 each. The other traversers were ordered to be
imprisoned for nine months, and each to pay a fine of
£5OO. The sentence caused great sensation. Mr.
O’Connell said that they had in affidavits denied enter-
ing into any conspiracy, and that he was under the
painful conviction that justice had not been done him.
Taking the extreme leniency of the case into con-
sideration, we agree with the Agitator in the above
remark. Mr. O’Connell was permitted to choose the
prison in which he would like to be incarcerated ; and
he named the Penitentiary in the South Circular Road.
There was no objection made on the part of the crown.
An address from the Agitator, or as he styles him-
self, the Liberator, had been circulated, as was ex-
pected, urging the people to keep quiet, and so on.
The Irish, however, did not seem to require an argu-
ment for pursuing such a course. What becomes now
of the Chronicle's empty and impudent boast, that the
Government dared not punish this Arch-Conspirator ?
O’Connell intends to sue out a writ of error.]
* * *
Biography.
SOCRATES.
[Concluded from our last.]
Socrates was distinguished above all the other philosophers
of Greece for the undisturbed serenity of his mind. He
would allow no misfortune to ruffle his temper. His wife,
Xanthippe, was a noted shrew ; yet he was exceedingly kind
to her, tried to soothe the asperities of her disposition, and
when he found all his efforts unavailing, he viewed her only
as an excellent instrument of discipline. He always treated
his body as a servant, and inured it to every privation; so
that moderation to him was an easy virtue, and he retained
in old age his youthful vigour, physical and mental. He also
never shrunk from performing his services as a citizen, how-
ever incompatible with his profession of a public teacher.
Three times he served in the army of his country; the first
time, when he was thirty-nine years of age, at the siege of
Potedsea. Here he excelled his fellow-soldiers in the ease
with which he endured the hardships of a winter campaign,
distinguished himself by his valour, saved the life of his
friend Alcibiades, and resigned to that youth the prize o
honour which was awarded to his own braveiy. Seven years


after this, lie bore arms a second time at Delium, and was the
last to fly. Thus, in aiming to perform all the duties of a
good citizen, he did not refuse to engage in the humblest ser-
vice of his country. His conduct was admirable, when, at
the age of sixty-five years, be became a member of the
Council of Five Hundred, and rose to the dignity of presi-
dent—an office which could only be held for a single day. On
the day which he exercised this onerous function, he had the
influence to procure the acquittal of ten innocent men, falsely
accused by an enraged party of citizens, who clamorously
demanded their execution ; but no menaces of violence were
able to bend the inflexible justice of Socrates.
Valuable as were the services of this great man to the state,
as well as to all classes of men who listened to his public
harangues, he was doomed to feel the heavy burden of national
ingratitude. The last part of his life fell in that unhappy
period when Athens had sunk into anarchy and despotism, in
consequence of the unfortunate result of the Peloponnesian
war a war carried on for twenty-seven years between the
Spartans and Athenians, which ended in almost the total
destruction of Athens as an independent state (b.c. 404).
Morality and justice are always disregarded when the govern-
ment of a state is dissolved. This was the case in Athens,
and amid the general immorality, hatred, envy, and malice,
found opportunities to execute their purposes. A base faction,
headed by one Melitus, who were offended by the freedom
with which Socrates expressed his dislike of the kind of
government they wished to establish, accused him before a
popular tribunal of having introduced new gods, and of de-
nying the ancient divinities of the state, by which, and other
practices, it was alleged he strived to corrupt the minds of
youth. The accusations were supported by perverted state-
ments of the language of Socrates, by expressions detached
from the connection which modified them. Socrates, con-
scious of his moral dignity, disdained to make a laboured
defence of his character. He neither feared death nor re-
spected his judges. Briefly, and with a noble dignity, he
showed the groundlessness of the charges, and noticed his
efforts in favour of the commonwealth. But when did such
a tribunal with such accusers listen to reason ? Several of
his blind and wicked judges took offence, and he was con-
demned by a majority of three voices. But when they left
him to choose the manner in which he should be put to
death, the indignant and oppressed Socrates declared that
instead of deserving death, he merited a place in the Pryta-
neum, as a public benefactor, the furious populace, irritated
by his intrepidity, condemned him to drink poison.
Socrates was now led to prison to wait the day which
should be appointed by his persecutors, on which his death
should take place. Religious and moral feeling, and the
heavenly power of a pure conscience, still triumphed within
him. On the day when he was thrown into prison, the
sacred galley sailed from Athens for the isle of Delos, on
which was the famous temple of Apollo, where religious cere-
monials were performed. In conformity with an ancient law
the execution of the sentence was deferred till the return of
the vessel, an interval of thirty days, which was an important
delay for the philosopher and his disciples. Every morning
his friends assembled in his apartment, and he conversed
with them as he had been wont to do. He encouraged them
m the path of virtue, instructed them in the subjects of his
investigations, and proved to them, by his own example, that
obedience to his precepts produced real happiness. In his
solitary hours, he composed a hymn to Apollo, and versified
several of the fables of There was a striking contrast
between the resignation of Socrates and the grief of his friends
at the thought of their irreparable loss. We may well pardon
them for the projects which they formed for his escape. Sim-
mias of Thebes offered to bribe the keeper; but they could of
course do nothing without the consent of Socrates ; and from
his known principles, it was probable that he would not
listen to their plan. But they determined to make the
attempt. Crito, the old and tried friend of Socrates, under-
took to persuade him to comply with their wishes. Early in
the morning of the last day but one, he visited him for this
purpose. The good man was still asleep. Crito sat down
softly by his bed, and waited till he awoke. He then informed
him of the unanimous request of his friends, urging every
motive which the peculiar circumstances of Socrates suggested,
especially the care of his family, to persuade him, if possible,
to save his life. Socrates permitted his friend to finish, and
thanked him for this proof of his affection, but declared that
flight was wholly irreconcilable with his principles. Plato's
dialogue, entitled Crito, records this conversation, and is one
of the most pleasing performances of that great master. It
inspires the most profound admiration of Socrates, who
adhered to his lofty principles with unshaken firmness on the
brink of the grave, and, notwithstanding the injustice of his
condemnation, could not be persuaded to violate his duties as
a citizen.
At length the fatal day dawned on which Socrates was to
drink the poison. His family and his friends assembled early,
to spend the last hours with him. Xanthippe, his wife, was
much affected, and showed her grief by loud cries. Socrates
made a sign to Crito to have her removed, as he wished to
spend his last moments in tranquillity, He then talked with
his friends first about his poem, then concerning suicide, and
lastly concerning the immortality of the soul. He spent the
greater part of the day in these elevated meditations. He
spoke with much animation of the hopes inspired by his faith,
that his friends almost viewed him as a glorified spirit. The
approach of twilight at length admonished him that the
appointed hour had arrived. He asked for the cup; and
when he took it in his hand, his friends were so overcome
with grief, that they burst into tears and loud lamentations.
Socrates alone was calm. He then drank the hemlock slowly,
and consoled his friends, as he walked up and down the apart-
ment. When it became difficult to walk, he lay down upon
the couch, and, before his heart ceased to beat, exclaimed,
“My friends, we owe acock (the emblem of life) to iEscu-
lapius” thus showing in his last moments that he still wished
to do honour to the religious usages of his country. After he
had said these words, he covered himself with his cloak, and
expired, in the seventieth year of his age (b. c. 400.)
Such was the affecting conclusion of the life of one of the
greatest men, one of the most faultless characters, in ancient
times. Soon after his death, the Athenians acknowledged his
innocence, and regarded the misfortunes of the state as a pun-
ishment for their injustice towards him. They reversed his
sentence, put his accuser, Melitus, to death, banished others
who had conspired to ruin him, and caused a brazen statue
to be erected to his memory.
VENTRILOQUISM.
Some people (saith our authority, an old magazine)
possess the art of speaking inwardly, hawing the power
of forming speech by drawing the air into their lungs,
and of modifying the voice in such a manner as fco
make it seem to proceed from any distance, or in any
direction. This art of vocal deception is called Ven-
triloquism. The public of late years have had their
acquaintance with it renewed by means of the admi


rable entertainments of Mr. Mathews ; but never, we-
believe, were such triumphant exhibitions of it as are
related in the following anecdote, furnished about
sixty years since by the Abbe de la Chappelle, of the
French Academy.
This gentleman having heard many surprising cir-
cumstances related concerning one M. St. Gille, a
grocer at St. Germain-en-Laye, near Paris, whose
astonishing powers as a ventriloquist had given occa-
sion to many singular and diverting scenes, formed
the resolution to see him. Struck by the many mar-
vellous anecdotes related concerning him, the Abbe
judged it necessary to ascertain the truth by the
testimony of his own senses, and then to enquire into
the cause and manner by which the phenomena were
produced.
The Abbe having waited upon M. St. Gille, and
informed him of his design, was very cordially
received. He was conducted into a parlour on the
ground floor, and M. St. Gille and himself sate on the
opposite sides of a small fire, with only a table between
them, the author keeping his eyes fixed on M. St. Gi)le
all the time. Half-an-hour had passed, during which
that gentleman diverted the Abbe with many comic
scenes to which he had given occasion by his talents,
when all of a sudden the Abbe heard himself called
by his name and title, in a voice that seemed to come
from the roof of a house at a distance. He was almost
petrified with astonishment ; but recollecting himself,
and asking M. St. Gille whether he had not given him
a specimen of his art, he was answered only by a
smile. But while the Abbe was pointing to the house
from which the noise had appeared to him to proceed,
his surprise was increased on hearing himself answered
“ it was not from that quarter,” apparently in the same
kind of voice as before, but which now seemed to
issue from the earth, at one of the corners of the
room. In short, this fictitious voice played, as it
were, everywhere about him, and seemed to proceed
from any quarter or distance from which the ventri-
loquist chose to transmit it to him. The illusion was
so very strong, that prepared as the Abbe was for this
kind of conversation, his senses were incapable of un-
deceiving him ; though conscious that the voice pro-
ceeded from the mouth of M. St. Gille, that gentleman
appeared absolutely mute while exercising Ins talent,
nor could the Abbe perceive any change in his coun-
tenance. He observed, however, at this first visit,
that M. St. Gille contrived, but without any affec-
tation, to present only the profile of his face to him
while he was speaking as a ventriloquist.
In consequence of three memoirs presented by the
Abbe to the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, in
which he communicated to them the observations he
had collected upon the subject of ventriloquism in
general, and those he had made on M. St. Gille in par-
ticular, that learned body deputed two of its members,
M. de Forreley and M. le Roi, to accompany him 1o
St. Germain-en-Laye, in order to verify the facts, and
make observation on the nature and causes of this ex-
traordinary faculty. In the course of this enquiry a
very singular plan was laid and executed, to put M.
St. Gfile’s powers of deception to the trial, by engaging
him to exert them in the presence of a large party,
consisting of the commissioners of the academy, and
some persons of the first quality, who were to dine in
the open forest near St. Germain-en-Laye, on a par-
ticular day. All the members of this party were in
tlie secret, except a certain countess, who was pitched
upon as a proper victim to M. St. Gille’s delusive
powers, as she knew nothing even of M. St. Gille, or
of ventriloquism ; and w'e may imagine perhaps in
order to correct her vanity. She had been told in
general terms that this party had been formed in con-
sequence of a report that an aerial spirit had lately
established itself in the forest of St. Germaine-en-
Laye, and that a grand deputation from the academy
were to pass the day there, to enquire into the reality
of the fact.
M. St. Gille was, of course, one of this party. Pre-
viously to his joining the company in the forest, he
completely deceived even one of the commissioners of
the academy, who was then walking from them, and
whom he accidentally met. Just as he was abreast of
him, prepared and guarded as he w r as against a decep-
tion of this kind, he verily believed that he heard his
qssociate, M. de Fouchy, who was then with the com-
pany above one hundred yards distant, calling after
him to return as expeditiously as possible. His valet
too, after repeating to his master the purport of M. de
Fouchy’s supposed exclamation, turned about towards
the company, and with the greatest simplicity ima-
ginable, bawled out as loud as he could in answer to
him, “ Yes, Sir!”
After this successful beginning, the company sate
down to dinner, and the aerial spirit, who had been
previously furnished w r itli proper anecdotes respecting
company, soon began to address the countess, in a
voice that seemed to be in the air over their heads;
sometimes it spoke to her from the tops of the trees
around them, or from the surface of the ground at a
nretty large distance ; and at other times, seemed to
speak from a considerable distance under her feet.
During dinner the spirit seemed to be absolutely in-
exhaustible in the gallantries he addressed to her,
though he sometimes said civil things to another lady.
This kind of conversation lasted about two hours, and
the countess was firmly persuaded, as the rest of the
company affected to be, that this was the voice of an
aerial spirit. Nor w r ould she, as the author affirms,
have been undeceived, had not the rest of the com-
pany, by their unguarded behaviour, at length excited
in her some suspicion. The little plot against her was
then owned, and she acknovdedged herself to be moi-
tified in being waked from a delicious delusion.
Several other instances of M. St. Gille s talents are
related. The Abbe, in his course of inquiries on this
subject, was informed that the Baron de Mengen, a
German nobleman, possessed the same art in a very
high degree. The baron constructed a little puppet or
doll, the lower jaw of which he moved by a particular
contrivance : with this doll he used to hold a spirited
kind of dialogue, in the course of which the little
virao-o became so impertinent, that he was at last
obliged to thrust her into his pocket, where she seemed,
to those present, to grumble and complain of her hard
treatment. . .
The Baron, being at the Court of Bareuth, along
with the Prince of Deux Ponts, and other noblemen,
amused himself with this scene. An Irish officer, then
present, was so firmly persuaded that the Baron s do
was a living animal previously taught by him
repeat these responses, that he watched an opportum y
at the close of the dialogue, and suddenly made
attempt to snatch it from his pocket- The ln.le doll,
as if in danger of being suffocated during the struggle


occasioned by this attempt, called out for help and
screamed incessantly from the pocket, till the officer
desisted. She then became silent, and the Baron was
obliged to take her out, to convince him by handling,
that she w T as a mere piece of wood. —London Journal.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XIII.
AGE OF PERICLES.
1. Republics, equally with monarchies, are generally
regulated by a single-will: only, in the former, there
is a more frequent change of masters.—The death of
Cimon left Pericles for some time without a rival,
and he ruled Athens with little less than arbitrary
sway : and Athens pretended at this time to the com-
mand of Greece. She held the allied states in the
most absolute subjection, and lavished their subsidies,
bestowed for the national defence, in magnificent
buildings, games and festivals, for her own citizens.
The tributary states loudly complained, but durst
not call this domineering republic to account; and
the war of Peloponnesus, dividing the nation into
two great parties, bound the lesser cities to the strict-
est subordination on the predominant powers.
2. Ihe state of Corinth had been included in the last
treaty between Athens and Sparta. The Corinthians
had for some time been at war with the people of
Corcyra, an ancient colony of their own, when both
parties solicited the aid of Athens, who, on the
persuasion of Pericles, took part with the latter ; a
measure which the Corinthians with great justice
complained of, not only as an infraction of the treaty
with Sparta, but as a breach of a general rule of the
national policy, that a foreign power should never
interfere in the disputes between a colony and its
parent state. War was proclaimed on this ground
between Athens and Lacedaemon, each supported by
its respective allies. The detail of the Avar, which
continued for twenty-eight years, with various and
alternate success, is to be found in Thucydides, one
of the best historians as well as the greatest generals
of antiquity. He only lived to complete the history
of the first twenty-one years of this war, but the
transactions of the remaining period are to be found
detailed by Xenophon in his Grecian history. Pericles
died before its termination; a splendid ornament of
his country, but reproached as a corrupter of her
manners, by fostering the spirit of luxury. Alcibiades
ran a similar career, with equal talents, equal ambi-
tion, and still less purity of moral principle. In the
interval of a truce ivith Sparta, he inconsiderately
projected the conquest of Sicily ; and, failing in the
attempt, Avas, on his return to Athens, condemned to
eath for treason. He hesitated not to Avreak his
vengeance against his country, by selling his services,
tirst to Sparta, and afterwards to Persia. Finally, he
purchased his peace with his country, by betraying
a.I P °'!f -T h . ich P rotected him, and returned to
Athens the idol of a populace as versatile as worthless.
3. A fatal defeat of the Athenian fleet at iEgos
Potamos, by Lysander, reduced Athens to the last
extremity; of 300 ships which sailed from the Piraus
only eight returned to the coast of Attica. The
Lacedemonians blockaded the city by land and sea.
and reduced the Athenians to the last extremity.'
After sustaining a blockade of six months the war
was ended by the absolute submission of the Athe- I
nians, who agreed to demolish the fortifications of the
harbour of Piraeus ; to limit their fleet to twelve ships,
and undertake for the future no military enterprise,
but under the command of the Lacedaemonians, 405
b.c. Such was the issue of the famous Peloponnesian
war after a continuance of twenty-seven years, and
with it ceased the dominion of Athens.
4. It is to the same Lysander, who terminated this
destructive war so gloriously for Lacedaemon, that
history ascribes the first great breach of the constitu-
tion of his country, by procuring the abrogation of
that ancient law Avhich prohibited the introduction
of gold into that republic. It was not, however,
allowed a free circulation, but was deposited in the
public treasury, to be employed solely for the uses of
the state. It was declared a capital offence if any
should be found in the possession of a private citizen.
Lysander, after the reduction of Athens, abolished the
popular government in that state, and substituted in
its place an oligarchy of thirty governors (who were
termed tyrants by the Greek historians), whose power
was absolute. He likewise placed a Spartan garrison
in the citadel. It is computed by Xenophon, with
some exaggeration, that a greater number of Athenian
citizens lost their lives by these tyrants, in the short
space of eight months, than had fallen during the
whole of the Peloponnesian war. The people were
awed into silence, and the most eminent of the citizens
left their country in despair ; but a band of patriots,
headed by Thrasybulus, attacked, vanquished, and
expelled the usurpers, and once more re-established
the democracy.
5. One event which happened at this time reflected
more disgrace on the Athenian name than their
national humiliation: this was the persecution and
death of the illustrious Socrates, a philosopher who
was himself the patron of every virtue which he taught.
He had excited the jealousy of the sophists, whose
futile logic he derided and exposed : they represented
him as an enemy to the religion of his country, be-
cause, without regard to the popular superstitions, he
led the mind to the knowledge of a Supreme Being,
the Creator and Ruler of the Universe, and the belief
of a future state of retribution. His defence he made
himself with the manly fortitude of conscious inno-
cence ;* but in vain : his judges were his personal
enemies; and he w r as condemned to die by poison,
397 b. c. (See Section XXIIL § 5.) He drank the
poisoned cup without the smallest emotion ; and in the
agony of death shewed to his friends an example of
tranquillity which their grief denied them all
power of imitating.'!'
6. On the death of Darius Nothus, his eldest son,
Artaxerxes Mnemon, succeeded to the empire of
Persia. His younger brother Cyrus formed the pro-
ject of dethroning him ; and, with the aid of 13,000
Greeks, engaged him at Cunaxa, near Babylon ; but
was defeated and slain ; a just reward for his culpa-
ble enterprise. The remainder of the Grecian army,
to the amount of 10,000, under the command of
Xenophon, made a most amazing retreat, traversing a
hostile country of 1600 miles in extent, from Babylon
* Plato in his Apologia Socratis has given an ample account
of it.
f The narrative of this concluding scene is given by Plato
in his dialogue entitled Phtzdon. It is the noblest specimen of
simple, eloquent, and pathetic deserptidn which is any wheie
to be met with.


to the banks of the Euxine. Xenophon has beautifully
written the history of this expedition ; but has painted
the character of Cyrus in too flattering colours, and
without the smallest censure of his criminal ambition.
7. The Greek cities of Asia had taken part with
Cyrus. Sparta was engaged to defend her country-
men, and consequently was involved in a war with
Persia. Had Athens added her strength, the Greeks
might have once more defied the power of Asia ; but
jealousy kept the states divided, and even hostile to
each other ; and the gold of Artaxerxes excited a
general league in Greece against Lacedaemon. Age-
silaus, king of Sparta, sustained for a considerable
time the honour of his country, and won some impor-
tant battles in Asia ; but others were lost in Greece ;
and a naval defeat near Cnidos utterly destroyed the
Lacedaemonian fleet, and deprived them of the com-
mand of the sea. Finally,to escape total destruction,
the Spartans sued for peace, and obtained it, by the
sacrifice to Persia of all the Asiatic colonies, 387 b.c.
Artaxerxes farther demanded Cyprus and Clazomene,
and obtained for his allies the Athenians, the islands
of Scyros, Lemnos, and Imbros. A disgraceful treaty ;
a mortifying picture of the humiliation of the Greeks,
and of the fatal effects of discord and the want of union
among themselves.
THE GOLDEN PIPPIN.
BY ALFRED CROWQUILL.
“ Au superbe festin tousles dieux invites,
Partageoient le bonlieur des epoux enchantes.
La main dela discorde, entr’ouvrant un nuage,
Dn desordre prochain fait briller le presage :
Elle tient un fruit d’or, ou ces mots sont ecrits;
Lc sort a la plus belle a reserve ce prix.
On sait quel fut le trouble entre les immortelles,
Qui toutes pretendoient a l’empire des belles;
Et qu’enfin Jupiter, qui n’osa les juger,
Fit dependre ce droit de l’arret d’un berger.
LAMOTTE.
Without the walls of the far-famed city of Troy or
Ilium was an extensive forest well stocked with
game. Acteon, who was one of the keenest sports-
men of the period, was abroad at break of aay, and
had already slain many a dappled denizen of the
forest, when Apollo, who was also an early riser,
accidentally met, and thus accosted the hunter—
“ What sport, nry noble buck V 1
11 As for the sport,” replied Acteon, “ ’tis pleasant
enough, for you perceive that I have won the game ;
but as for the title of buck, Master Apollo, I do not
consider myself entitled to it, having, like the rest of
my brothers of the chase, only one horn.
“ A good conceit, by Styx !” exclaimed Apollo,
slapping him on the shoulder. “Well, then, my
unicorn, what game’s a-foot that you are making
such provision ?”
“ I’m astonished !” said Acteon. “ What! have you
not heard that Peleus is about to celebrate his nup-
tials with the lovely Thetis'? Have you really
received no card '?”
“ Not an inch of pasteboard have I seen, I assure
you,” answered Apollo; “nor do I regret it, for
these same weddings are, after all, but melancholy
things, for the bride generally looks as blank and
white as her robe, and the groom as silly as possible.”
“ But this is a love-match, I assure you.”
44 Then, in respect of Peleus, your labours must be
superfluous, for Thetis ought to be too dear , or at
least dear enough without your venison.”
“ Thank’ye, Pol; I owe you one,” cried Acteon,
laughing : 44 but you must come—we shall never be
able to get up a glee without your able assistance.”
44 Well,” said Apollo, evidently flattered by his
compliment, 44 provided I receive a card in due
time ”
44 Oh ! I’ll take care of that,” replied Acteon; 44 in
fact, it must he an oversight of the stewards ; but I’ll
see to it. ’Twill be a 4 crack’ affair, for Bacchus
provides the tipple, and ”
44 I’m glad of it,” said Apollo ; 44 for the last jolli-
fication I was invited to, they pretended to prodigious
gentility, and gave us a villanous imitation of cham-
pagne that played old gooseberry with me ; and as
for the port (black-strap at one-and-eleven-pence-
three-farthings a bottle), it really produced an acidity
that required all the skill and magnesia of iEsculapius
to neutralize.”
After having assured Apollo of the groundlessness
of any such apprehension on the intended celebra-
tion, they parted with the understanding that Apollo
would keep himself disengaged for the occasion.
An invitation was accordingly sent on the follow-
ing morning in due form. In the memory of the
oldest inhabitant there had not been such an assem-
blage of 44 nobs” as honoured the wedding of Thetis.
All the Gods and Goddesses were there, and there
was nothing omitted to give due eclat to the marriage
feast. Gifts, as customary on such occasions, were
presented, and, as usual, received. Pluto gave the
young couple a toasting-fork, and Eolus a pair of
bellows. Minerva proffered a handsome pocket edi-
tion of the fashionaWe novels of the day, superbly
bound. Nothing could excel the good humour and
hilarity of the company. Toasts were drunk, and
compliments flew about like snow-balls.
Upon the removal of the cloth, Apollo arose, and,
accompanied by two of the Muses, sang the following
HYMENEAL CHANT.
Lo ! Hymen of the saffron robe,
Attended by the Graces,
And Love, who governs half the globe,
Appear with shining faces
To bless the happy, happy pair,
And bid to care a truce, Sir.
The bride’s as brisk as bottled beer,
The bridegroom too, is spruce, Sir.
Ri fol de riddle 101,
Tiddy dol de da.
Chorus by the whole company.
Ri fol de riddle 101,
Tiddy dol de.da.
O ! may the link that Hymen lights
To lead ’em to the altar
Burn brightly all their days and nights,
And neither trip nor falter.
Though life is full of bogs and ruts, •
Pit-falls and holes, all sizes,
Yet Love carves out some smoother cuts,
And well Macadamizes.
Ri fol de riddle 101,
Tiddy dol de da.
Chorus —Ri fol de riddle, &c.
Then fill your goblets to the brim,
Reverse them in a twinkling,
A blessing call on her and him,
And give old Earth a sprinkling.
(Here Apollo and the whole company according to custom pouted
a solemn libation.)


May she be fruitful as the earth,
And be a happy mother,
And every little son of mirth
Be followed by another.
Ri fol de riddle 101,
Tiddy dol de da.
Chorus— Ri fol de riddle, &c.
Words are inadequate to describe the loud and en-
thusiastic applause which followed this classically -
beautiful effusion. The harmonious hammering of
pots and glasses upon the table wdiich accompanied
the “ bravoes,” produced altogether an effect so novel
and electrifying that even Jupiter, who had seen a
great deal of “ high” life in his time, emphatically
declared, with his hand upon his heart, that he had
never before witnessed such a scene.
The bride and bridegroom being drank with the
customary honours, Peleus arose :
“ Ladies and gentlemen,” said he, “ it is with
some hesitation I intrude myself upon your notice,
but I should be utterly devoid of feeling Avere I to
pass over in silence the handsome and flattering
manner in which you have condescended to notice
me and mine. On behalf of myself and lady permit
me to return you our most sincere and heartfelt
thanks, and may you all enjoy health, happiness, and
prosperity.”
Symptoms of applause breaking out at this junc-
ture, Peleus remained silent until the peal had burst,
and then continued :—•
“Ladies and gentlemen—With your permission I
will propose a toast. There is a gentleman among
us who is ever ready to add to the harmony of the
company by his vocal abilities. The elegant com-
position which he has just poured forth, no less than
the warm and friendly manner in which you all
joined in the heart-stirring chorus, demands my
gratitude. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg leave to
propose the health of Apollo with nine times nine!”
Apollo was -drank, and rising, placing his right
hand upon the rim of his goblet, bowed with the most
winning grace to the bride and bridegroom, and then
to the guests both right and left.
All Avas hushed in a silence that Avas almost audible,
longing to catch every syllable anticipated from the
lips of the God of Eloquence. Shaking back his
golden locks, and raising his replenished goblet in
his hand, he said:
“ Ladies and gentlemen—l thank you.”
Every head Avas outstretched, every eye Avas in a
moment rivetted upon the youthful orator. Apollo,
with a smile of ineffable sweetness, looked calmly
around, and placing the wine to his lips, quaffed it at
a single draught, and then —seated himself.
For a moment the whole company was lost in sur-
prise ; but mirth soon broke the silence in loud and
repeated shouts of laughter, for they Avere one and all
taken in and tickled by his laconic mode of returning
thanks. The merriment of the jovial party Avas fur-
ther increased by the folloAving comic song, Avhich
Momus gave in his best manner upon the call of
Jupiter for a “ volunteer
THE SONG OF MOMUS.
Miss Syrinx was washing her socks
In Ladon’s meandering stream,
When Pan just peep’d over the rocks
And caused the young lady to scream.
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
Cried Pan in delight, “ Here’s a lass for me !”
She snatch’d up her garments of lawn,
And bundled up quickly her togs,
Then scamper’d away like a fawn
Affrighted at sight of the dogs.
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
Cried Pan, “ Sure the girl can’t be frighten’d at me !”
On ! on ! —and away, like a brook,
She ran o’er the pebbles so fleet:
Cried Pan, “ Though light-heel’d, by my crook!
1 think I can outdo her feat.”
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
“ I think she can’t trot along quicker than me.”
“ I’ll pursue her all day ; for, in truth,
She has a sweet ancle and foot;
And philosophers say that a youth
Ts nothing without a pursuit.
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
A maid that is hunted must surely chased be !”
Away rattled Pan, like a cat
With walnut-shells stuck on her feet ;
His heart beat a strange pit-a-pat,
Like a debtor in sight of—the Fleet V*
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
Cried he, “ She has won and still wins upon me !”
The beauty at last reach’d the plain,
And finding she still was pursued,
She turn’d to the river again,
In terror, less Pan should be rude.
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
Cried she, What can Goatlegs be wanting with me ? ’
“ One good turn another deserves,”
Cried Pan, and whisk’d round with a dash ;
But the river her honour preserves,
She jumps into the stream with a splash.
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
“ What a splash the young lady has cut!” cried he.
He rush’d to the bank, where he found
Miss Syrinx transformed to a reed ;
He thought her sincere, but was bound
To confess she was hollow indeed.
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
Cried Pan, “ I’ll cut her who has surely cut me !
She could not now run from the blade
That cruelly cut her in bits,
Of which Master Pan those pipes made,
Well known to both rustic and cits.
With a harum-scarum, fiddle-de-dee,
Cried Pan, “ This is fair —she once play’d upon me !”
Both wine and wit flowed in sparkling abundance,
and there was every prospect of a happy termination
to the joyful meeting, when Discord, in sheer envy of
their enjoyment, and determined to spite them for
having purposely neglected to send her an invite to
the wedding-feast, concealed herself in the umbra-
geous covert of the trees Avhich formed the leafy walls
of the rural saloon, and, w r atching her opportunity,
threw a Golden Pippin upon the board, whereon
these words were carved —“ For the most beautiful.”
Juno seized the fruit, which was really of surpass-
ing beauty, and observing the although unable
to decipher them (for she was by no means a literary
lady,) she beckoned to Minerva. “ Minny, my love,”
said she, “construe me these pothooks, will you ; for
I must confess they are all Greek to me.”
Minerva took the pippin, and the attention and
curiosity of all the goddesses were aroused. The
Goddess of Wisdom smiled as she read the words
aloud. A pause ensued, which was interrupted by
Momus.
“ I propose,” said he, “ that the pippin be given to
Vulcan !”
A laugh, in which the ill-favoured blacksmith
joined most heartily, followed this proposition.
“ And wherefore'?” demanded Jupiter.


“ In the first place, it will prevent any jealous
feelings on the part of the young ladies ; and secondly.
I think him in justice entitled to it, for in both face and
person, we must acknowledge he is matchless.”
No, no, said Juno, who really felt a longing for
the fruit ;“ it must be intended for a lady. Let
Jupiter award the prize.”
Venus gave Jupiter a look which it was impossible
to misconstrue •, and apprehending either a curtain-
lecture from his spouse, or a tiff with Venus, deter-
mined not to be the arbitrator in this delicate affair.
“ Apple of my eye !” said he, leering tenderly at
Juno, “ I fear I may be deemed too partial if I be-
stow it according to my inclination,” and here he
trod emphatically on the toe of Venus. “ I therefore
refer this momentous affair to the decision of the
equitable and renowned Paris.”
“ Who is Paris ?” whispered the bride timidly to
Minerva.
“ Dear me !” exclaimed Minerva, “ don’t you really
know'—have you never seen him ?”
No, indeed,” replied Thetis.
“ Then pray, child, hold your tongue,” said
Minerva, with the grave authority of a boarding-
school teacher, “ or you’ll expose your ignorance
wofully. Why it is a proverb even among the Gauls,
‘ Qui n’a vu Paris n’a rien vu,’ which, literally trans-
lated according to the Hamiltonian system, means
e Who has not seen Paris has seen nothing.’ ”
They were all eager for the adjudication ; and
Mercury was instantly despatched to request the favour
of the presence of the shepherd-judge. Paris, having
hastily attired himself in his wig and gown, promptly
appeared to answer the flattering summons of Jupiter.
Bowing gracefully to the company, he seated himself
upon a green bank under the shadow of an umbrageous
tree. A circle was formed about him, and he received
the pippin from the hands of Mercury.
“ Open the court,” said he to the winged messenger
of the gods.
“ One would think the court was open enough
already,” said Momus to Apollo.
Mercury stepped fonvard, and, waving his cadu-
ceus, cried aloud,
“ 0 yes ! 0 yes! 0 yes ! By the decree of Jupiter
the wise and renowned Paris is instituted judge. Let
the candidates come forward and listen to his just
award.”
Juno, Venus, and Minerva immediately entered
the circle and preferred their claims to the pippin ;
and no one else appearing, Paris sagely grasped the
contested fruit in his left hand. Regarding the three
beautiful goddesses as they advanced wflth a scrutiny
th:;t made them blush and look more lovely than ever,
Paris seemed doubtful on which of the trio to bestow
the prize. Juno, who had more boldness than dis-
cretion, gracefully approached the judge.
“ Paris,” said she, in a wLisper, “ far be it from
me even to give the remotest hint where or on whom
you shall bestow the fruit. I would not for the world
attempt to influence the decision of one so wise, so
just, so discriminative ; but, I must say, the fame and
admiration of your wisdom long since induced me
to regard you with an eye of favour. Y r ou under-
stand me ?”
She retired, and Minerva, following her example,
advanced with becoming dignity to the bench, and
thus “ ear-vvigged” the puzzled arbitrator.
“ Wisdom is light !” said she.
“ And has great weight with me,” replied Paris,
bowing ; “ and I admire the sage Minerva, from the
beak of her owl to the toe of her blue-stocking.”
“ I have no doubt,” continued the goddess, “ that
that minx, Juno, with her great staring eyes, has
endeavoured to dazzle your judgment with great
promises. But remember, most upright judge, that
knowledge alone is power, and without any wish to
bias your verdict (for I heartily despise so mean and
unwarrantable a tampering,) I promise you—provided
my expectations of your intellectual discrimination
and| probity are confirmed—to bestow on you the.
best quarto edition of the ‘ Statutes at Large’ and
c Burns’ Justice.’ Pauca verba, you know— verbum
sap. —and, winking significantly, she made way
for the enchanting Venus, who, in her turn, tripped
with the most winning grace to the side of Paris.
“ Really, Paris,” said she, smiling archly, “ ’tis a
thousand pities so charming a youth should disguise
himself in that odious gown and wig. They may do
very well to conceal the wrinkles and deformities of
all those babbling old fools whom yonder ‘ blue’ is so
fond of patronising ; but on a proper man like you
they are truly absurd; I know one of the prettiest
women in the world, who, entre nous, would soon
laugh you out of this masquerading, and make you
the happiest man alive. She has charms enough to
set all Troy in flames —she is moreover over head
and ears in love with you already : but I shall have
the pleasure of introducing you, for, as a matter of
course, you will adjudge the golden prize to me ;
justice no less than gallantry demands this at your
hands. Why, a single glance at her bewitching coun-
tenance is worth a bushel of pippins.”
“ Withdraw !” said Paris, sternly, as if indignant
at being so entreated ; and then slowly rising, he
again regarded for a few moments the three goddesses,
who w r ere drawn up in a line before him for his judi-
cial review.
“ Would I had three pippins,” said he, “that I
might grant to each of these fair ladies the desire of
their hearts. When I look upon the .noble and ma-
jestic beauty of the imperial Juno, and the sweet face
of Minerva, beaming bright with the fire of immortal
intellect, the scales of justice waver in my trembling
hand. Their charms are balanced equally ; but when
I turn my eyes upon Venus, I feel that I am mortal
—her beauty is less majestic, less intellectual, but
more earthly—and, as a man, I bow to her influence,
and adjudge her the golden pippin.” And bending
lowly upon his knee, he presented the fruit to the de-
lighted Venus.
“ He’s no judge !” said Minerva, turning away in
a pet.
“ He’s a fool!” said Juno, her fair complexion
growing scarlet w T ith vexation and disappointment.
The bride and bridegroom had stolen away during
the discussion, and the meeting presently broke up in
the most admired disorder, to the infinite pleasure of
the envious Discord.
As they paired off, Mom us said to Apollo, “ What
a precious desert to a wedding-feast ! First, a med-
dler, unknown, provides an apple of contention,
which Venus carries away, making my sweet mistress
Juno and Minerva a melancholy pair —and then
comes the judgment of Master Paris, which I have no
hesitation in saying is nuts to Jupiter!”


“THE KNAVE OF HEARTS.”
[A Review, extracted from an old Periodical.]
Res gestse regumque ducumque et tristia bella
Quo scribi possent numero montravit Homerus.
Horace.
By Homer taught the modern poet sings
In epic strains of heroes wars and kings.
********
It has hitherto been customary for all periodical writers to
take some opportunity, in the course of their labours, to display
their critical abilities, either by making observations on some
popular author, and work of known character, or, by bringing
forth the performances of hidden merit, and throwing light on
genius in obscurity. To the critics of the Spectator, Shake-
speare, and more particularly Milton, are indebted for no
inconsiderable share of the reputation they now so universally
enjoy; and, by their means, were the ruder graces and more
simple beauties of “ Chevy Chase” held up to the public view,
and recommended to general admiration.
I should, probably, be accused of swerving from the imita-
tion of so great an example, were I not to take occasion to
shew, that, I too, am not entirely destitute of abilities of that
kind ; but that by possessing a decent share of critical discern-
ment, and critical jargon, I am capable of becoming a very
tolerable commentator. For proof of which, I shall rather
prefer calling the attention of my readers to an object as yet
untreated of, by any of my immediate predecessors, than
venture to throw in my observations, on any work, which has
before passed the ordeal of frequent examination. And, this
I shall do for two reasons; —partly, because, were I to choose
a field, how fertile soever, of which many others had before
me been reaping the fruits, mine would be, at best, but the
gleanings of criticism ; and, partly, from a more interested
view, from a selfish desire of accumulating praise ; since, by
making a work, as yet almost wholly unknown, the subject of
my consideration, L shall acquire the reputation of taste, as
well as judgement; of judiciousness in selection, as well as
justness of observation ; of propriety in choosing the object, as
well as skill in using the language of commentary.
The Epic Poem, on which I shall ground my present cri-
tique, has, for its chief characteristics, brevity and simplicity.
The author—whose name I lament that I am in some degree
prevented from consecrating to immortal fame by not knowing
what it is—the author, I say, has not branched his poem into
excrescences of episode, or prolixities of digression : it is neither
variegated with diversity of unmeaning similitudes, nor glaring
with the varnish of unnatural metaphor. The whole is plain
and uniform; so much so, indeed, that I should hardly be
surprised, if some morose readers were to conjecture that the
poet had been thus simple, rather from necessity, than choice ;
that he had been restrained, not so much by chastity of judge-
ment, as sterility,#*>f imagination.
Nay, some there may be, perhaps, who will dispute his claim
to the title of an epic poet, and will endeavour to degrade him
even to the rank of a ballad singer. But, I, as his commen-
tator, will contend for the dignity of my author, and will
plainly demonstrate his poem, to be an epic poem, agreeable
to the example of all poets, and the consent of all critics
heretofore.
First, it is universally agreed, that an epic poem should have
three component parts, a beginning, a middle, and an end ;
secondly, it is allowed, that it should have one grand action or
main design, to the forwarding of which, all the parts of it
should directly or indirectly tend, and that this design should
be, in some measure, consistent with, and conducive to, the
purposes of morality; and thirdly, it is indisputably settled
that it should have a hero. I trust that, in none of these
points, the poem before us will be found deficient. There are
other inferior properties which I shall consider in due order.
Not to keep my readers longer in suspense, the subject of
the poem is the “ Reformation of the Knave of Hearts.”
is not improbable that some may object to me that a “ Knave”
is an unworthy hero for an epic poem ; that a hero ought to be
all that is good and great. The objection is frivolous. The
greatest work of this kind, that the world ever produced, has
the Devil for its hero ; and, supported, as my author is, by so
great a precedent, I contend that liis hero is a very decent
hero, and, especially as he has the advantage of Milton’s by
reforming at the end, is evidently entitled to a competent
share of celebrity.
I shall now proceed to the more immediate examination of
the poem in its different parts. The beginning, say the
critics, ought to be plain and simple ; neith r embellished with
the flowers of poetry, nor turgid with pomposity. In this, how
exactly does our author conform to the established opinion !
He begins thus—
The Queen of Hearts
She made some tarts,
Can anything be more clear, more natural, more agreeable to
the true spirit of simplicity. Here are no tropes, no figurative
expressions, not even so much as an invocation to the Muse.
He does not detain his readers by any needless circumlocu-
tion, by unnecessarily informing them what going to
sing, or still more unnecessarily enumerating what he is going
to sing ; but, according to the precepts of Horace,
In medias res
Non secus ac notas auditorem rapit:
That is, he at once introduces us, and sets us on the most
easy and familiar footing imaginable, with her majesty of
hearts, and interests us deeply in domestic concerns. But to
proceed
The Queen of Hearts
She made some tarts,
All on a summer’s day.
Here, indeed, the prospect brightens, and we'are led to expect
some liveliness of imagery, some warmth of poetical coloring;
but here is no such thing. There is no task more difficult to a
poet than rejection. Ovid among the ancients, and Dryden
among the moderns, were, perhaps, the most remarkable for
want of it. The latter, from the haste in which he generally
produced his compositions, seldom paid much attention to the
lima labor, the labor of correction, and seldom therefore rejected
the assistance of any idea that presented itself.
Ovid, not content with catching the leading features of any
scene or character, indulged himself in a thousand minutiae of
description, a thousand puerile prettinesses, which were in
themselves uninteresting, and took off greatly from the effect
of the whole; as the numberless suckers and struggling
branches of a fruit tree, if permitted to shoot out unrestrained,
while they are themselves barren and useless, diminish consi-
derably the vigour of the parent stock. Ovid had more genius,
but less judgement, than Virgil. Dryden, more imagination,
but less correctness, than Pope. Had they not been deficient
in these points, the former, would certainly have equalled—
the latter, infinitely outshone, the merits of his countryman.
Our author was undoubtedly possessed of that power which
they wanted, and was cautious not to indulge, too far, the
sallies of a lively imagination. Omitting, therefore, any men-
tion of “Sultry Sirius”—“Sylvan shade” —“ sequestered
g] a( j e >> —“verdant hills” —purling rills”—“mossy mountains”
—“ gurgling fountains” —&c., &c., he simply tells us that it
was
All on a summer’s day !
For my own part, I confess that I find myself rather flattered


than disappointed, and consider the poet as rather paying a
compliment to the abilities of his readers, than baulking their
expectations. It is certainly a pleasure to see a picture well
painted, but it is a much greater to paint it well oneself. This,
therefore, I look upon as a stroke of excellent management in
the poet. Here, every reader is at liberty to gratify his own
taste, to design for himself just what sort of “ summer's day”
he likes best—to choose his own scenery—dispose his lights
and shades as he pleases—to solace himself with a rivulet, or
a horse-pond—a shower, or a sunbeam—a grove, or a kitchen
garden—according to his fancy. How much more considerate
this, than if the poet had, from an affected accuracy of des-
cription, throw us into an unmannerly position by the heat of
the atmosphere ; forced us into a landscape of his own plan-
ning, with perhaps a paltry good-for-nothing zephyr or two, and
a limited quantity of wood and water. All this Ovid would un-
doubtedly have done. Nay, to use the expression of a learned
brother commentator—quovis pignore decertans—l would
lay any wager, that he would have gone so far as to tell us
what the “ tarts” were made of, and perhaps wandered into
an episode on the art of preserving cherries. But our poet,
above such considerations, leaves every reader to choose his
own ingredients, and sweeten them to his own liking, wisely
foreseeing, no doubt, that the more palatable each had ren-
dered them to his own taste, the more he would be affected at
their approaching loss.
All on a summer’s day.
I cannot leave this without remarking that one of the Scribleri,
a descendant of the famous Martinus, has expressed his sus-
picions of the text being corrupted, and proposes, instead of
“ all on” reading “ alone,” alledging, in favor of the alteration,
the effect of solitude in raising the passions. But Hiccius
Doctius, a high-Dutch commentator—one, nevertheless, well
versed in English literature—in a note of his usual length and
learning, has confuted the arguments of Scriblerus. In support
of the present reading, he quotes a passage from a poem,
written about the same period with our author’s, by the cele-
brated Johannes Pastor, entitled “An Elegiac Epistle to the
Turnkey of Newgate,” wherein the gentleman declares that,
rather indeed in compliance with an old custom, than to gratify
any particular wish of his own, he is going
All hanged for to be
Upon that fatal Tyburn tree.
Now, as nothing throws grea'er light on an author than the
concurrence of a contemporary writer, I’m inclined to be of
Hiccius’ opinion, and to consider the “all” as an elegant
expletive, or as he more aptly phrases it, “ elegans exple-
tivum.” The passage, therefore, must stand thus
The Queen of Hearts
She made some tarts,
All on a summer’s day.
And thus ends the first part or beginning, which is simple and
unembellished—opens the subject in a natural and easy manner
—excites, but does not too far gratify, our curiosity ; for, a
reader of accurate observation may easily discover that the
hero of our poem has not, as yet, made his appearance.
I could not continue my examination at present through
the whole of this poem without far exceeding the limits of a
single paper. I have therefore divided it into two, but shall
not delay the publication of it to another week, as that, besides
breaking the connexion of criticism, would materially inj re
the unities of the poem.
Servetur ad unum
Qualis ab incepto processerit et sibi constet.
Horace.
From his first entrance, to the closing scene,
Let him one equal character maintain.
Part 11.
Having thus gone through the first part or beginning of the
poem, we may, naturally enough, proceed to the consideration
of the second.
The second, or middle, is the proper place for business or
adventure, incident and bustle.
The Knave of Hearts
He stole those tarts,
Here, attention is awakened, and our whole souls are intent
upon the first appearance of the liero. Some readers may
perhaps be offended at his making his entree in so disadvan-
tageous a character as that of a thief. To this I plead pre-
cedent. The hero of the Iliad, is made to lament very
pathetically’that life is not like all other possessions to be
acquired by theft A reflection, in my mind, evidently shew-
ing, that if he did refrain from the practice of this ingenious
art, it was not from want of an inclination that way. We
may remember too, that in Virgil’s poem, almost the first light
in which the pious .Eneas appears to us, is a deer-stealer ;
nor is it much excuse to him that the deer were wandering
without keepers, for, however unable he might have been, from
this circumstance, to ascertain whose property they were, he
might, I think, have been pretty well assured they were not
his own.
Having thus acquitted our hero of misconduct by the
example of his betters, I proceed to what I think the master-
stroke of the poet.
The Knave of Hearts
He stole those tarts,
And—took them—quite away !!!
Here, whoever has an ear for harmony, and a heart for feeling,
must be touched ! There is such a desponding melancholy in
the run of the last line—an air of tender regret in the addition
of “ quite away”—a something so expressive of irrevocable loss
so forcibly intimating the “Ah nunquam reditura!” They
never can return ; in short, such a union of sound and sense
as we rarely, if ever, met with in any author ancient or modern.
Our feelings are all alive ; but the poet, wisely dreading that
our sympathy with the injured Queen might alienate our
affections from his hero, contrives, immediately, to awaken our
fears for him, by telling us that
The King of Hearts
Called for those tarts,
We all are conscious of the faults of our hero, and all tremble
for him—for the punishment which the enraged monarch may
inflict.
And beat the Knave full sore !!
The fatal blow is struck. We cannot but rejoice that guilt is
justly punished, though we sympathise with the guilty object
of punishment. Here, Scriblerus, who, by the bye, is very
fond of making unnecessary alterations, proposes reading
“ score,” meaning, thereby, to particularize that the beating
bestowed by this monarch consisted of twenty stripes ; but this
proceeds from his ignorance of the genius of our language,
which does not admit of such an expression as “ full score,”
but would require the insertion of the particle “a” which
cannot be, on account of the metre. And this is another great
artifice of the poet: by leaving the quantity of beating inde-
terminate, he gives every reader the liberty to administer it in
the exact proportion to the sum of indignation which he may
have conceived against his hero, that, by thus amply satisfying
their resentment, they may be the more easily reconciled to
him afterwards.
The King of Hearts
Called for those tarts,
And beat the Knave full sore !!
Here ends the second part or middle of the poem, in which we


see the character and exploits of the hero pourtrayed with the
hand of a master.
Nothing now remains to be examined but the third part or
end. In the end, it is a rule pretty well established, that the
work should draw towards a conclusion, which our author
manages thus—
The Knave of Hearts
Brought back those tarts,
Here, every thing is settled : the theft is compensated : the
tarts restored to their right owner ; and poetical justice, in
every respect, strictly and impartially administered.
We may observe that there is nothing in which our poet has
better succeeded than in keeping up an unremitting attention
in his readers to the main instrument —the machinery of his
poem, viz. the tarts ; insomuch that, the aforementioned
Scriblerus has sagely observed that he can’t tell, but he doesn’t
know, but the tarts may be reckoned the heroes of the poem.
Scriblerus, though a man of learning, and frequently right in
his opinion, has here certainly hazarded a rash conjecture.
His arguments are overthrown entirely by his great opponent,
Hiccius Doctius, who concludes by triumphantly asking “ Had
the tarts been eaten, how could the poet have compensated for
the loss of his heroes ?”
W r e are now come to the denouement —the setting all to
rights, and our poet, in the management of his moral, is cer-
tainly superior to his ancient predecessors. The moral of their
fables, if any they have, is so interwoven with the main body
of the work, that, in endeavouring to unravel it, we should
tear the whole. Our author has, very properly, preserved his
whole and entire for the end of his poem, where he completes
his main design—the reformation of his hero, thus,
And vowed he’d steal no more ! !!
Having, in the course of his work, shown the bad effects
arising from the theft, he evidently means this last moral
reflection to operate with his readers as a gentle and polite
persuasive from stealing
The Knave of Hearts
Brought back those tarts,
And vowed he’d steal no more.
Thus have 1 industriously gone through the several parts of
this wonderful work, and clearly proved it, in every one of
these parts, and in all of them together, to be a due and proper
epic poem, and to have as good a right to that title from its
adherence to prescribed rules, as any of the celebrated master-
pieces of antiquity. And here I cannot help again lamenting
that by not knowing the name of the author, I am unable to
twine our laurels together,, and transmit to posterity the
mingled praises of genius and judgement; of the poet and his
commentator.”
Varieties.
Young Girls of Fashion.' —We pamper such girls into
hot house flowers; we create around them an artificial atmos-
phere. A young girl of high rank is acquainted but with two
orders of society, her own, and the poorest, lowest of all—on
whom she *is taught to expend her charity, to employ her
beneficence. The wants they can pity, but cannot sympathize
with, are the vulgar wants which vulgar gold can reach ; and
the obvious inferiority is so great, the difference so immeasura-
ble, which separates these fragile elegant beings from the dull,
loutish, dirty, servile, hard working, hard handed, race they
minister to, that if they acknowledge, once a week in church,
the theory of their equality in the sight of God—it is all that
can be expected. With the classes immediately below them in
rank, and on a par with them in mental education, they are
cut off almost wholly—from a wide circle of sympathies ex-
cluded truth, on a large scale, cannot reach them, and if the
knowledge of some of the deeper realities of life come upon
them, it is in general in some most painful and unhealthy
form, and they waken up as from a dream.
Husbands and Wives. — A husband and wife are one in
law ; though there is often anything but unity in pther matters.
A man cannot enter into a legal agreement with his wife, but
they often enter into disagreements which are thoroughly
mutual. If the wife be in debt before marriage, the husband,
in making love to the lady, has been actually courting the
cognovits she may have entered into ; and if the wife is under
an obligation for which she might be legally attached, the
husband finds himself the victim of an unfortunate attachment.
A wife cannot be sued without the husband, unless he is dead
in law ; and law is really enough to be the death of any one.
A husband or a wife cannot be witness for or against one
another, though a wife sometimes gives evidence of the bad
taste of the husband in selecting her. By the old law, a
husband might give his wife moderate correction; but it is
declared in black and white that he may not beat her black
and blue, though the civil law allowed any man on whom a
woman had bestowed her hand, to bestow his fists upon her
at his own discretion. The common people, who are much
attached to the common law, still exert the privilege of beating
tbeir wives; and a woman in the lower ranks of life, if she
falls in love with a man, is liable, after marriage, to be a
good deal struck by him. — Punch.
Puppies. —There is generally a bit of swagger about a
puppy. He seldom goes with his hands in his breeches’
pockets ; but he not unfrequently has them in coat pockets—
spreading the tails of the coat and showing his bustle, with his
hat tilted on one side, slouched over one eye, and his eye glass
stuck in the other —his outer lip pouting upwards—with an
indescribable expression, partly a smile, partly a frown, partly
revealing a feeling of contempt, partly of complaisance, partly
of satiety and ennui, with all the luxuries of life. Then with
a flap of his tails, and a graceful bend of his intelligent head,
he looks down towards his legs—contemplates the attractive-
ness of his understanding, and the elegance of his boots, and
then, like a hen drinking water, looks up to Heaven, as if to
thank his stars that he has been made so fascinating a crea-
ture.
Serpents’ Skins. —Previous to the use of the inner bark
of trees and of reeds, termed papyri, from the plant papyrus,
which abounds on the shores of the river Nile, and other
similar substances, the material adopted to receive inscriptions
was the skins of serpents, collected by ingenious persons as
they were cast off by the creature, or preserved when the
serpent was offered at the altar in the sacrifices. It has,
moreover, been said that the poems of Homer, on their being
collected, possibly at first in detached parts from those who
had committed the incidents to memory, were written on the
skins of serpents —a practice adopted from the ancient
Egyptians.
Thoughts in Bed. —Happy is the man who can say,
“ peace-giving teJ.” For, oh, what a rack to the spirit of
man may be found in goose-down! You are in bed peace-
giving bed, you say; it is deep night, and in that solemn
pause you seem to feel the pulse—to hear the very heart of
time. You try to think of many things, but the spirit or
demon of the bed sets up yourself before yourself—brings up
your doings to the bar of your own conscience ; and what a
set of scurvy gaol-birds may be found among them. They
peep in at your curtains, crowd in at the foot of your bed, and
though you have no rushlight you see their leering, sneaking
faces.— Jerrold.
I’m in a nice mess,” as the fly said to the honey-pot.
Futility of Pride. —Alexander the Great seeing Dioge-
nes looking attentively at a large collection of human bones
piled one upon another, asked the philosopher what he was
looking for. “I am searching,” said Diogenes, “ for the
bones of your father, but I cannot distinguish them from those
of his slaves.”
Poetry. —The apotheosis of sentiment. The art of painting
by words everything that attracts and strikes our eyes. The
natural language of the religion of the heart, whose universal
worship extends to every object that is beautiful in nature, and
bright beyond it; but inordinate devotion borders on idolatry,
and its exaltation is followed by prostration of strength and
spirit.
Old Times and New. —Sully, such is the total change of
manners, appears to have kept up more state in private life,
after his retirement, than a crowned head does at present in
the plentitude of power. Yet I question whether Henry IY.
himself enjoyed half the personal accommodation and real
luxury of a respectable London merchant of this day.—
A Diary.
I speak within bounds,” as Jonah said to the whale.


The Moralist.
HUSBAND.
Take unto thyself a wife, and obey the ordinance of God ;
take unto thyself a wife, and become a faithful member of
society.
But examine with care, and fix not suddenly. On thy
present choice depends thy future happiness.
If much of her time is destroyed in dress and adornments;
if she is enamoured with her own beautv, and delighteth in
her own praise; if she laugheth much, and talketh loud; if
her foot abideth not in her father’s house, and her eyes with
boldness rove on the faces of men: though her beauty were
as the sun in the firmament of heaven, turn thy face from her
charms, turn thy feet from her paths, and suffer not thy soul
to be ensnared by the allurements of imagination.
But when thou findest sensibility of heart joined with soft-
ness of manners; an accomplished mind, with a form agreeable
to thy fancy; take her home to thy house ; she is worthy to
be thy friend, thy companion in life, the wife of thy bosom.
O cherish her as a blessing sent thee from heaven. Let
the kindness of thy behaviour endear thee to her heart.
She is the mistress of thy house; treat her therefore with
respect, that thy servants may obey her.
Oppose not her inclinations without cause ; she is the
partner of thy cares, make her also the companion of thy plea-
sures.
Reprove her faults with gentleness ; exact not her obedience
with rigour.
Trust thy secrets in her breast; her counsels are sincere,
thou shalt not be deceived.
Be thou faithful to her bed ; for she is the mother of thy
children.
When pain and sickness assault her, let thy tenderness
sooth her affliction : a look from thee of pity and love shall
alleviate her grief, or mitigate her pain, and be of more avail
than ten physicians.
Consider the tenderness of her sex, the delicacy of her
frame; and be not severe to her weakness, but remember
thine uwn imperfections.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 15.
A person with his clothes torn never wants a companion in
rags.
A pin a day is a groat a year.
A place at court is a continual bribe.
A pleasure is well paid for that is long expected.
A ploughman on his legs is better than a gentleman on his
knees.
A poor freedom is better than a rich slavery.
A poor man has not many marks for fortune to shoot at.
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
A poor man’s wisdom is like a palace in a wilderness.
Apothecaries would not give pills in sugar unless they were
bitter.
A pot, that belongs to many, is ill s # tirred and worse boiled.
Appetite runs, while reason lags behind.
Woman’s Position. Observe the signification of the
woman Eve being formed from the rib of the man Adam.—
She was not taken from his head, to become superior to him ;
nor from his feet, to be beneath him ; nor from his back, to be
put behind him ; nor yet from his front, to be before him ;
but, from his side, to be equal with him, to be near him ;
from near his heart, to be loved and cherished by him, and to
be one with him ; from under his arm, to be guided and pro-
tected by him. — Memoriter.
Envy is the involuntary acknowledgement of an inferior
mind and of a less desirable disposition.
It is a singular fact, that we never judge of our near kindred
■So well as we judge of others; and, I appeal to any one,
whether, of all people by whom he has been mistaken, he has
not been most often mistaken by those with whom he was
brought up ! — Bulwer.
Good hearts, accompanied with good understandings,
seldom produce, even when mistaken, lasting evil. They
repair and compensate.
Select Poetry.
TO THE FUSCHIA.
[WHEN FIRST PLANTED in ENGLAND.]
Beautiful child of a tropic sun !
How hast thou been from thy far home won
To bloom in our chilly .northern air,
Where the frost may blight, or the wind may tear?
Dost thou not pine for thine own dear land,
For its cloudless skies—for its zephyrs bland,
For its graceful flowers of matchless hues
Bright as the dreams of an eastern muse ?
Dost thou not pine for the perfumed air,
For the gorgeous birds that are hovering there,
For the starry skies, and the silver moon,
And the grass-hopper’s shrill and unchanging tune !
Doth thy modest head as meekly bend
In thy own bright clime—or doth exile lend
To thy fragile stalk its drooping grace,
Like the downcast look of a lovely face ?
No ! thou wouldst murmur, were language thine,
It is not for these I appear to pine ;
Nor for glorious flowers, nor cloudless skies,
Nor yet for the plumage of rainbow dies :
The kindly care I have met with here—
The dew that is soft as affection’s tear,
Would have soothed, if sorrow had bent my head,
And life and vigour around me shed ;
But I do not pine, and I do not grieve,
Why should I mourn for the friends I leave ?
I feel the sun and the gladsome air,
And all places are joyous if they be there.
And thus in the world we may happy be
Not in climate, nor valley, nor islet free,
But wherever the tenderest love in our breast
May have objects around it on which it can rest.
Memoriter.
INSCRIPTION
Proposed for the Monumental Tablet to be erected
for the Marquis of Anglesea’s leg, lost at the
Battle of Waterloo.
[written in 1820.]
Here rests, and let no saucy knave
Presume to sneer or laugh,
To learn, that mouldering in this grave,
Is laid a British calf.
For he who writes these lines, is sure
That those, who read the whole,
Will find such laughter premature,
For here too lies a sole.
And here, five little owes repose,
Twins born with other five,
Unheeded by their brother toes,
Who all are now alive.
A leg and foot, to speak more plain,
Rests here of one commanding,
Who tho’ his wits he might retain,
Lost half his understanding.
Who, when the foes, with murder fraught,
Pour’d bullets thick as hail,
Could only, in this way, be brought
To give the foe leg-bail.
Who, now in England, just as gay,
As in the battle brave,
Goes to a rout, review, or play,
With one foot in the grave.
Fortune, in vain, here shew’d her spite,
For he will still be found,
Should England’s foes engage in fight,
R.esolv’d to stand his ground ;
And, but indulg’d a harmless whim,
Since he could walk with one,
She saw two legs were lost on him,
Who never meant to run. — Ibid.


Notice.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to CDorrcsponbcnts.
We sincerely thank “X.”for belabours in our behalf. AU such
interesting extracts will be duly valued and made use. of.
“ Memor’s” tasty extracts are also acknowledged.
We bee to acknowledge receipt of a Pamphlet on the Education
Question, entitled “ General Education Vindicated. Also a
pamphlet of the “ Rules and Regulations of the Australian
Masonic Benevolent Fund.”
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East," (postpaid.)
Notice to ©ottntrp Subscribers.
Those of our Country Subscribers, who have omitted to pay the
last Quarter’s Subscription, are requested to pay the same to
the nearest Agent of the Colonial Literary Journal. And all
Subscribers are respectfully reminded that the Subscription for
the present Quarter is made payable in advance. Those who
consider the expenses necessarily attendant, during the first few
months, on a publication of this nature, will not hesitate Jo
oblige the publishers in this respect. Remittances by letter'are
requested to be made post-paid, as it will be obvious that the
postage of a letter will cause a serious deduction to the publishers
from the small amount of a'quarterly subscription.
ON THE CHARACTER OF METALS
AND THE METHOD USED TO SEPARATE THEM FROM THE
ORES IN WHICH THEY ARE FOUND.
There ivas a time when the number of metals knoAvn
to us ivas limited to seven; among other important
discoveries, chemical agency will noAv produce forty -
two ; but as nine only of these are familiar to us, Ave
will confine ourselves at present to their examination :
the most ancient and the most valuable of Avhich is
gold.
All metals are found embedded in the earth, most
generally near to mountains, and especially to those
Avhich have been formed by volcanic eruption. They
are spread in the earth in lines or rows, which are
called strata. These strata are also called veins. We
do not, however, find a stratum all gold in one place,
and a stratum all silver in another place, for the
metals in these veins or beds are always found mixed
up Avith earth of different kinds, and very frequently
lavo or three kinds of metals are mixed up in the same
portion of earth. A piece of earth containing metals
is called an ore . Metals are also found in small
round fragments like seeds, amongst the pebbles, near
bodies of Avater. All metals are distinguished as such
by their lustre: every metal Avill admit of being
polished, though in different degrees, which polish
they retain or part Avith according to their attraction
for oxygen, or some impurity of the air. There are
seA r eral methods employed to extract the metals from
the ores in Avhich they are found. Some ores are
subjected to a very strong heat in the open air, that
those parts Avhich are not metal may be reduced by
burning, while the thin and watery portions, called in
Chemistry the volatile parts, will fly off in vapour.
This process is called roasting. The ore is then put
into a furnace, Avhere the metal itself melts, and as
the metal is heavier than the substances Avith which
it is combined, it falls to the loAver part of the vessel,
where there are openings made for it to pass through,
and it is then become a pure metal. This second
process is called smelting. All metals do not pass
through the process of roasting, but such only as are
most hard or tenacious. The method used for sepa-
rating gold and silver from their impurities is not by
roasting.
Gold is found in greater abundance in South
America than in any other land yet known : there are
also good mines in Hungary, and on the eastern side
of the Uralian mountains in Siberia. The southern
part of North America also contains some rich mines
of gold. Gold is sometimes found quite pure, some-
times mixed with other metals, sometimes in a mass,
and sometimes in grain. It is also found in the beds
of large rivers among the sands, having been washed
down from the adjoining rocks, where it was once
embedded. Gold was known and valued in very
ancient times; it was esteemed by the very first race
of men who lived in the eastern parts of the world.
It is said in the Book of Genesis that, 11 In the land
of Havilah there is gold, and the gold of that land
is good.”
Ores containing gold are first broken down into
powder, and then well washed with Avater ; the earthy
parts thus become separated, and the fragments of
gold are then mixed with mercury, and shaken to-
gether, until they become one liquid, for mercury has
the property of dissolving gold and silver Avhen mixed
with either of them : this mixed liquid of gold and
mercury is then put into a leather bag and squeezed,
w'hen the mercury will pass through the pores of the
bag, leaving the gold within it. This process is called
refining by amalgamation —a term which is chemi-
cally used to denote a mixture of mercury with any
other metal.
Gold is justly esteemed as the purest and most
valuable of metals. The ancient alchymists always
represented it in the form used by them—and by us
at this day —to signify the sun or perfection, namely,
the circle thus described 0. Gold is the only metal
of a yellow colour, and may be highly polished,
though it will not receive the brilliancy of either
steel or silver ; it is so extremely malleable that it
may be beaten out with a hammer into leaves so thin
as to be blown away with the breath. One grain of
gold may be extended so as to cover 52 square inches,
and its thickness will not exceed 282,028 th of an
inch. It may also be made into a wire, as thin as
the silk of the silk-Avorm, or the spider’s web. Gold,
when beating, is covered with the finest bladder, and
the hammer is also covered Avith chamois leather, to
prevent any fracture, and to keep it from escaping
by means of any current of air. Gold has no affinity
for oxygen, and therefore does not rust Avhen exposed
to air or damp, but it may be so burnt by electricity
as to reduce it to ashes, which ashes will be a purple
powder, and is supposed to be an oxide.
There cannot be the smallest doubt but that gold
may be discovered in this country. The lowlands of
all mountainous parts are said to contain gold, which
has been w r ashed down by heavy rains similar to
those to Avhich this climate is subjected. Enterprise
and perseverance might be richly repaid. Gold ore
is improperly so called, for it is found chiefly in
veins of silver containing but a small proportion of
gold. The ore which contains these two metals is so
much valued that its other combinations are not re-
garded, and therefore are frequently throAvn aside.
In this poverty-stricken colony this need not be. Let
our adventurers go forth in search, and let our manu-
facturers here, Avho are now for the first time thinking
of turning the bones of animals to profit, commence


making crucibles and cupels for these chemical pur-
poses. It is reported, that a vein of ore containing
mercury has been discovered, but whether or not, the
process of assaying is generally used for gold and
silver in many countries, whereas analysis is the
common method for other metals. The difference
between an assay and an analysis, is that the latter
determines the nature and quantities of all the com-
pounds, whereas the object of the assay consists in
extracting and ascertaining how much of the par-
ticular metal in question may be found in a given
quantity of the material under examination. The
cupels or cups used for the assaying are made of a
clay formed from the residue of bones, burnt to a
white ash, which ash is found to consist chiefly of
lime and phosphoric acid. The metals are put into
these cupels, with a given quantity of lead. The vessel
is exposed to a strong heat, and the lead melts and
mixes with all the impurities, leaving the gold or
silver still mixed, but in a state of purity. The
gold is separated from the silver by putting them in
a solution of aqua regia, which is a mixture of nitric
acid and hydrochloric acid. This having been the
first solvent that was discovered for gold, the king of
metals, was called by this name, signifying the
king’s water.
The fineness of in England is estimated by
reference to a certain standard, being an alloy of 11
parts gold and the 12th half copper half silver.
Mr. Bruce, the famous traveller, says that the gold
of Ophir, mentioned in Scripture, was, as also silver,
found unmixed, and in a pure &tate, lying in globules,
in the southern parts of Abyssinia.
B.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. XII.
Another remarkable instance of the size of brain,
indicating the power of the mind, is observable in the
developement of idiots. The size of their brain is
extremely small in general, but sometimes one or
more of the organs are found peculiarly large, and
exhibited in the active manifestation of the particular
faculty indicated by it. And here we find a very
remarkable proof of the doctrine of plurality of the
faculties of the mind as advanced by Phrenologists,
and a most complete refutation of the doctrine held
by some of the most distinguished metaphysicians—
that the mind is not divided into different faculties,
but that those faculties are only the different ways in
which it manifests itself ; for it is a well-known fact,
that idiots often display great talent in some particular
way. Several persons of this description have dis-
played a musical talent in a remarkable manner ;
others have been noted for their constructive inge-
nuity ; many are found to be possessed of keen wit
and rich drollery ; and not a few gifted with a mad
rhyming genius.
Podere, in his “ Traite du Goitre, et de la Creti-
nisme,” remarks, “ that by an inexplicable singula-
rity, some creatures endowed with weak minds, are
born with a particular talent for copying paintings,
for rhyming, or for music. I have known,” says he,
“ several who taught themselves to play passably on
the organ and clavecin ; others who understood, with-
out ever having had a master, the repairing of watches,
and the construction of some pieces of mechanism.”
It would be tedious, and perhaps uninteresting, to
give even a brief list of such men as possessed a re-
markable developement of brain and talents corres-
ponding ; however, it would prove a very amusing
and instructive task for any person who would take
the trouble to collect all such instances, and I shall
conclude by instancing a few names -.—Buonaparte,
Burns, Shakspeare, Sir W. Scott, Dr. Johnson, Dr!
Chalmers, Knox, Cuvier, Rammohun Roy,* Franklin]
Gall, Spurzheim, Bacon, Luther, Robert Bruce'
Daniel O’Connell, &c. &c.
It would be an endless task, were I only to enume-
rate all the instances in which individual develope-
ment of brain has coincided, and still coincides with
character. I shall merely take a few of the most
striking instances, trusting that these will form proof
sufficient of what I wish to demonstrate, and referring
sceptics and those who are unbelievers still to observa-
tion and study. I have before adverted to the statues
and other representations of great men of ancient
times, and I shall again request the reader to follow
me into the fields of classical research, so often fre-
quented by moderns. The extraordinary develope-
ment of Socrates accorded well with his great mental
endowments; and the almost deformed hugeness of
the anterior department of the skull of Pericles, who
held the reins of government in Athens at a period
the most critical in her affairs, was consonant to that
consummate genius which enabled him to triumph
over all his contemporaries, although these were
among the most distinguished sons of Athens, and
that exalted taste and genius for the fine arts, which
caused Athens under his administration to attain to
her meridian of splendour, and to surpass almost the
whole world in all that dignifies and exalts humanity.
The developements of the poets of Greece too coincided
with their poetical talents, and we have only to refer
to the busts of Sophocles, Eschylus, Anacreon, Pindar,
Homer, &c., for ample confirmation of this. In the
two last mentioned especially, the developement of
Ideality is exceedingly strongly marked. The writer
of those spirited Odes which procured for the author
the name of “ he who rode on wings of fire,” in the
developement of this organ so necessary to a poetical
genius, exceeds, if possible, “ the blind old man of
Scio’s rocky isle,” —him, concerning whom it is suffi-
cient to say, ’twas he who wrote the Iliad. Comparison
and Ideality are the distinguishing features in the
developement of Homer ; and how remarkably does
this agree with the character of his writings! In the
representation of Achilles which is handed down to
us, and whether authentic or not is not known, the
organ of Combativeness is most enormous. If this be
the real likeness of that renowned warrior, how won-
derfully does it agree with his character; if not, we
must marvel at the remarkable coincidence, and can
hardly attribute to chance a developement so consonant
to nature and to truth. The craniological develope-
ment of Demosthenes also, indicated a mind of no
common stamp. The brain is represented as having
been large, and the anterior portion very fully de-
veloped : such a configuration, indeed, as would be
looked for in him who swayed all the councils of the
Athenians, in fact, ruling the state by the power of
* Rammohun Roy was a native of Hindostan, and was
possessed of talents and virtues of the very highest order. He
must ever be remembered with respect, as one who endea-
voured by all the means in his power, to diffuse the blessings
o! - religion and science among his countrymen.


his eloquence, and thwarting the ambitious designs of
the Macedonian prince.
Among the Romans, as well as among the Greeks,
abound numerous examples of developement of brain
agreeing with manifestation of character. I have
already touched slightly upon this topic, and
shall confine myself to a few instances, although very
many might be enumerated. The likenesses of the
Roman poets, particularly of Ovid, display large
developement of Ideality; and among the Roman
Emperors the cerebral developement agrees well with
their character. That monster of wickedness, Nero,
who perpetrated every imaginable crime that human
nature could possibly be guilty of, possessed a very
wretched developement, the moral faculties being
very small, especially Benevolence, which was almost
wanting; and the propensities enormously large,
especially Destructiveness and Amativeness.
ÆNEAS.
DEATH OF HIS HONOUR SIR JAMES DOWLING,
KNIGHT, CHIEF JUSTICE OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
It has become our duty to record the death of The Honourable
Sir James Dowling, which occurred at his residence, Wool
loomooloo, in the afternoon of Friday last.
Our readers will doubtless be aware that, for some time past,
His Honor has been suffering under severe sickness, the ex-
haustion consequent upon which has proved the principal cause
of this melancholy event.
Deprived, by a more than human hand, as the public have
been, of the hoped-for consummation of their desire to intimate
every regard and respect for his person and character, as shewn
in the late complimentary vote of the Legislative Council,
with the assent thereto of his Excellency the Governor, it
only remained that the public sorrow should be shown by the
numerous train attendant upon his interment in the family
vault on Monday last.
His Excellency, and, we believe, the whole of the civil
officers resident in or near Sydney, with a large portion of the
various professional and other inhabitants of the city joined
the funeral procession.
Arrived at the age of fifty-seven, His Honor may be said to
have attained to high and merited eminence in his profession;
and, regretted by all parties and all classes of our colonial com-
munity, his personal and judicial character will long be held
in respectful remembrance.
Original Poetry.
FAMILIAR SKETCHES.
[from a correspondent.]
LEAVING THE HUT.
The morn is come, the night is past,
And we must stir our stumps at last;
The dearest friends must part, tho’ loth,
From brandy and tobacco both :
For when the keg is out, we say
“ Joy is, indeed, a passing ray.”
Then boil your tea and slice your damper—
Every cove must be a tramp er ;
And lead the horses to the door,
And fill the parting cup once more.
Thirty miles we have to ride
Down the scrubby mountain’s side,
Over creeks and water courses,
Where winter rains have spent their forces;
Over grassy forest ground,
Where marsupial tribes abound ;
Then along the sandy beach,
And reedy, splashy, river-reach.—
Thirty miles, ere we attain
Hut or public-house again !
THE CASH SYSTEM.
Drink only of Busby, and wear your old blouses,
For Cash is the rule now with all our great houses,
With all the great houses, and eke with the minors,
Book-customers scorning, they look for the shiners ,
They look for the shiners, or else the bank-notes,
For beef, bread, and sugar, for hats and for coats,
They look for bank-notes, flimsy, dirty and old,
And on red cheques and white cheques they look very cold,
For they’ve found out at length—they’re so wondrously
clever,
The credit’s too long that is pieced out for ever !
THE BANKER’S REGRETS.
Ah me, full heavy is my heart
When thinking of the days of old,
The game in which I play’d a part,
A part both prosperous and bold, —
When I my brother Boardsmen met,
A friendly, chatty, pliant set, —
Oh then the slips we did provide
Eight inch long by three inch wide, —
Promises to pay, perhaps,
When ninety-five days should elapse.
Discount-dealing, dreaming, gambling,
Cutting, shuffling, scheming, scrambling !
FIRST DAY OF TERM.
Now Justice, led in legal chain,
And clad with cumbrous trappings vain,
Renews her feeble, cruel reign,
My Lawyer.
She calls her dark Cimmerian brood,
Come hither, 1 will give you food—
Choice human heart-strings, orphans’ blood,
My Lawyers.
The eager vultures crowd around,
And with a low and humming sound
Their satisfaction they expound,
The Lawyers.
Their crafty and rapacious looks,
Like barbed darts and twisted hooks
Strike horror through my bosom’s nooks,
My Lawyer.
THE PAIL OF WHITING.
[a vision.]
O saw you the seedy, the sad and the needy,
In Hope once again delighting ?
Escaped from the gripe of the cruel and greedy,
As they flock’d to the Pail of Whiting?
And saw you the jolly Commissioner Chief
So kindly the crowd inviting ?
To give them all speedy and lasting relief,
At the sign of the Pail of Whiting!
He dumbfounded the Shylocks, malicious and gloomy,
Their worthless objections slighting !
And he soon fill’d with gladness the passages roomy.
That led to the Pail of Whiting !
He gave them their quittance, with broad seal and witness,
A beautiful bit of writing !
He advis d them to pack, and be sure to come back
No more to the Pail of Whiting !
Now cheer up, my lads, —may better luck follow ye,—
“ You’re clear from the cloud benighting !
“ Be poor, and be prudent,—there’s hope for the Colony,”
Said mine host of the Pail of Whiting !
“ Pot by-ganes be by-ganes,—be honest—shun debt—
“ Work hard,’’ —was the sum of his flyting ;
May all of us worlc hard for what we may get,
But the laird at the Pail of Whiting !
Presbyterian Marriages.— ln the House of Lords,
two of the judges, Lords Lyndhurst and C'ottenham,
have decided against the validity of mixed marriages
celebrated by a Presbyterian minister. This decision,
if not remedied by Parliament, will be attended with
frightful consequences both in Ireland and England.
—English Pager.


COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Business appears to have been steady during the past week,
a fair amount having been transacted. The cargo ex Pactolus
(advertised for sale, by public auction,) has been disposed of
by private contract, the amount has not transpired. A sale
has also been effected of Tobacco ex lanthe at a low figure.
Tea. This market, owing to recent importations, is very
unsettled, sales have been made as low as £3 15s. per chest,
the holders are asking £4 per chest.
Sugar. —This article being in few hands continues firm in
price, £23 per ton.
Wheat. —In the present depressed state of the market very
little is offered for sale. The Wheat ex Giraffe, is being tran-
shipped into the Soundrapoory for the London market.
Flour. —Is without alteration in price.
Hay.—The market has been well supplied during the week,
average price £2 15s. per ton.
Maize. —The recent supply has been chiefly disposed of for
exportation, at an advanced price : the stock to come into the
market is rapidly decreasing, and a rise in price may be an-
ticipated. ,
Tobacco.— The supply continues much greater than the
demand, and prices are only nominal. _ _
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
October 2d, 1844'.
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
September 21.—The barque Barossa, 729 tons, Captain
Austin, from Hobart Town the 21st instant, with troops, &c.
September 28.—The barque Pestonjee Bomaujee, 59 t tons,
Captain Binnie, from Hobart Town, 21st inst. with troops &c.
October I.—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore, from
Port Phillip the 25th ultimo, and Launceston the 29th ultimo,
and Boyd Town the 30th ultimo.
October 2. —The schooner Harelequin, Captain Cooney, from
Bay of Islands, with sundries.
October 2.—The brig Christin, Captain Saunders, from Port
Phillip, with sundries.
DEPARTURES.
September 25.—The barque Corinthian, Captain Easter-
brooks, for the Whale Fishery.
September 29.—'The brig Caroline, Captain Loten, for
Hobart Town, with sundries.
September 29 —The brig Julia, Captain Robinson, for Tahiti,
via Newcastle, with coals, &c.
September 30 —The schooner Thomas Lord, Captain Siiwer-
krop, for Tongataboo via Auckland, with sundries.
October 2—The barque Nelson, Captain Spurling, for the
Whale Fishery.
IStrtljs.
On the 26th instant, at Mount Keara, Mrs James Shoobert,
of a son.
On th 20th ultimo, at the Clarence River, the lady ofC. M.
Wilson, Esq., of a daughter.
JWarriagc.
On the 2nd May, at Bebington Church, Cheshire, near
Liverpool, James Foster Esq., eldest son of the Rev. Henry
Foster, and formerly of this City, to Margaret, second daughter
of the late John Webster, Esq., of Liverpool.
©eat^s.
On the 26th instant, at the residence of his brother (Mr. J.
Sinclair), Mr. P. I. Sinclair, aged 20 years.
On the 27th at his residence, Brougham Lodge, Wool-
loomooloo, the Chief Justice, Sir James Dowling.
CXTV ELBCXION.
CANDIDATES for the approaching Election are respect-
fully informed that every description of PRINTING
pertaining to Election business, Posting-bills, Hand-bills,
Cards, Envelopes, Voting Papers, &c., may be obtained to
order, at a few hours notice, and at low prices, at J. Reading’s
GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE,
133, King-street East.
September 18th, 184*4.
COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly IWiscellany of ITseful Information.
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
PERSONS intending to become Subscribers to the Colonial
Literdry Journal, are requested to signify the same to
the Publishers before the 26th inst., as considerable difficulty
is now found in making up complete sets of the earlier
Numbers ol this Journal, in consequence of the demand haying
increased, since its commencement, beyond the expectations
of the Proprietors.
The Publishers also beg to intimate, that in consequence of
the numerous applications already made for the earlier
Numbers of the Colonial Literary Journal, they will re-print
the whole of the first Thirteen Numbers, as soon as they shall
be required by 500 additional Subscribers.
Terms —THREE SHILLINGS per Quarter; payable, in
each case, in advance.
Notice of declination must be sent, in writing, to the Office,
133, King-street, accompanied with payment of arrears.
September 18th, 1844.
ENGLISH PAPERS.
WANTED, one copy each of the Mark Lane Express, of
the 4th and 18th March last, for which one shilling
each will be given.
Apply to the General Printing Office, 133, King-street.
A CHAI.LENGE,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export—-not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label—
sealed and signed Edward Walker —that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
TO LET,
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a cenlral part of the street, and
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars may be known on application at 133, King-
street ; or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland -.. Mr. Galloway;
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
