

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ non tua te moveant, sed publica vota.”
Vol. 11. No. 32.]
.SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 1845.
[Price 4d.
FLUCTUATIONS OF RANK.
We proceed, in connexion with our last week’s article,
to consider the proper light in which the rise of others
to rank and station should be regarded by those who
remain, from natural and social causes, in indigence
and humble obscurity. In the first place, nothing
should be more gratifying to those who are born in
an humble sphere of life, than the knowledge that
such a change is within their reach, for it may be
justly considered the mark of an ill-regulated state, j
when the humble are prevented, either by fixed rules, j
or by other circumstances, from rising into the more :
eminent situations. As there is evidently a new dis- j
pensation of intellect every generation, it is ineon- .
testibly necessary that provision should be made for
the easy descent of such individuals among the well-
born as are unfitted by nature for maintaining their
original places, and for the easy ascent of those among
the plebeian orders who are qualified to supplant them.
Thus the higher departments of our social system will
always be filled by the properest men, and the great
designs of nature fulfilled.
There are few countries, perhaps, where this per-
petual interchange of relative condition goes on so
smoothly, or to so great an extent, as in Great Britain.
The very highest situations, under the throne, are here
found to be filled with men who have risen, by their
native talent and force of character, from the lowest
walks of life. It is remarked, however, with dis-
satisfaction, that most of these men, on gaining the
ends of their ambition, cease to have any sympathy
with their former equals, and display all the less
amiable characteristics of an aristocracy with even
greater breadth than those who inherit the honours of
many generations. If this be the case, we are in-
clined to attribute it in a great measure to the fault of
those who are left behind. The people in general do
not, we think, treat those who have outstripped them
in the race of fortune, in such a manner as to keep
alive sympathy : the fortunate persons are tempted,
we suspect, to assume as much as possible of the
haughtiness of nobility, in order to confound, both to
themselves and others, the disrespectful.feelings with
which they are conscious they are regarded by those
who were once on their own level. All the lowly are
anxious that channels should be open through which
some of them may attain elevation ; every man is
more or less anxious that he should be one of the
fortunate individuals. Yet, when a certain number
have gained the desired height, they altogether cease
to be considered as a part of the class they lately
belonged to. Their former fellows look upon them
as men fortunate only for themselves —as no better
deserving of their honours than others who could be
pointed out—as guilty, perhaps, of improper arts in
procuring their promotion. Their original condition
is perpetually raked up ; and though many make a
cold profession that the lower the origin the greater
the merit of rising, still it is evident that distinction
in the tenth generation, without merit at all, meets
with more respect from the bulk of the community.
The long-descended honour of a Howard or a Hamilton,
is regarded with complacency, and its pretensions are
at once allowed. But where greatness is borne by a
man who lately was not great, and who is recollected
to have once been as subject to the hardships and con-
tumelies of a humble rank as any of those who are
now considering his history, the deference due to his
titles is yielded more reluctantly. In the former case,
competition is foreclosed : in the latter, it is open, and
every man thinks himself at liberty to call in question
the amount of that merit which has raised another so
much above himself. It is in reality the jealousy, envy,
and detraction, which are brought to bear upon new
greatness, by those who are still humble, that make it
so eager to identify itself with the elder great, and so
ready to cut off all ties with its former associates.
The evil would, doubtless, be greatly lessened, if
the people had more just ideas respecting those who
elevate themselves above their original rank. They
do not sufficiently cogitate the grand truth that the
elements of greatness are born in all ranks alike, and
that its pressing upwards from a mean origin, when
such happens to be its lot, is nothing more than a
process in conformity with the great laws of creation.
Man has in some countries made nobles, who, for the
supposed good of the community, inherit greatness by
descent; but nature has her nobles too, and they are
born sometimes in a cottage, sometimes in a palace,
just as it chances. These individuals are often, by
the pressure of circumstances, confounded all their
lives with the commons of creation. But in other
instances, they burst through all obstructions, and
acquire that superiority over their fellows which
nature, for their own good and that of the commu-
nity, intended. If men were more generally to allow
that this lottery of the human raGe (so to speak) was
just a part of the designs of Nature, they would be
less disposed, we think, to look upon the original con-
dition of the elevated individual as a thing either
increasing or lessening his honour. They would re-
gard both that, and the corresponding declension of
the man who was unfit to retain his original place, as
mere matters of course.


One great cause, we are persuaded, of the unworthy
feelings with which the humble regard the recently
exalted, is, the ignorance in which the most of men
remain, respecting the secret and inner minds of those
who are destined to rise above them. When we recall
our early acquaintance with a man now our superior,
we are apt to recollect only the mean circumstances
with which he had to contend, his common subjec-
tion with ourselves to the ordinary evils of life, and
the common-place behaviour which, like every other
body, he exhibited in common-place affairs. We
think, because he was environed in early life by sordid
cares and paltry necessities, was connected with
humble kinsfolk, and aimed only in the meantime at
common objects of ambition, that he was all along
and natively an ordinary person, and has only been
fortunate in finding openings, to permit of that ad-
vancement which lias been denied to ourselves. Now,
in all probability, if we could have scanned the latent
character of these persons, we should have found the
most of them inspired from the very first with the
sentiments, as they were possessed of the abilities,
which were to raise them above us. Their easy sub-
mission to a mean sphere of exertion, and ready dis-
charge of humble duties, we should have found to be
only a proof of their possessing the materials of
greatness—for by what other means could they have
hoped to achieve their elevation ! There no doubt are
great souls of humble origin, which will not conde-
scend to treat with mean circumstances, and, aspiring
prematurely to the honours they think their due, leave
no possibility of mistake on this point. But are these
the successful men? No —they only excite ridicule,
and obstruct their own advancement. The man truly
designed and qualified to achieve greatness is too
judicious to pretend to that which will not readily be
conceded, too modest to suppose any lawful labour
beneath him, too sensible of the necessity of a gradual
course, to despise any of the steps that lead to fortune.
He is, moreover, too much alive to the ridicule of
assuming a manner above his present station, to dis-
cover those sentiments and aims, those ardent and
lofty aspirations, -which are all the time, perhaps,
burning beneath the common-place of his aspect and
deportment, and render him, even at this moment of
lowly toil,- as worthy of his honours as he will be
when he has gained them.
We are inclined, then, to fix upon superficial ob-
servation, and ignorance of the law 3 of nature, as a
chief cause of the jealousy which is entertained re-
specting the recently exalted, and upon this jealousy
as the principal cause of the excessive haughtiness of
that class of persons. Whatever have been the means
of exaltation—state service, literary glory, scientific
accomplishment—the elevated individual finds such a
disposition among his late compeers to drag him back
again into association with his original humility, and
to hold his honours as cheap and paltry, compared
with those which have been transmitted through a
family, that probably he would give up all the dis-
tinction he has gained, and the merits through which
he has gained it, with the greatest good will, if he
could only make his grandfather a gentleman. It is
not the fault of the parvenu himself, or of the system
of which he becomes a part: it is the s'enseless pro-
pensity of the multitude to prostrate themselves before
inherited, while they depreciate acquired honours,
that causes him to make such haste in neglecting and
despising them. The public, who after all, have the
dispensation of honours in their own hands, since the
title is but little without their respect, have only
themselves to blame, if they find the new illustrious
more replete with all the worse features of the patri-
cian character than the old. When they shall pay an
equally ready respect to him who has d his own
honours, as to his remote descend . . will have
less to complain of in the co* h persons,
besides greatly inereawng iscentirs to exertion
for the public good/®
Biography.
HERSCHEL.
Oke of the very greatest names in the modern history of astro-
nemieal dissovery is that of the late Sir William Herschel; and
he also was self-instructed in the science in which he earned
his high reputation. Herschel was born at Hanover, in 1738,
and was the son of a musician in humble circumstances.
Brought up, as well as his three brothers, to his father’s pro-
fession, for which it has been said that he qualified himself
without much teaching, he was placed, at the age of fourteen,
in the band of the Hanoverian Guards. A detachment of this
regiment having been ordered to England in the year 1757 (or
according to another account, 1759), he and his father accom-
panied it; but the latter returned to Germany in the course of
a few months, and left his son, in conformity with his own
wish, to try his fortune in London. For a long time the
young man had to struggle with many difficulties; and he
passed several years principally in giving lessons in music to
private pupils in the different towns in the north of England.
At last, in 1785, through the interest of a gentleman to whom
his merits had become known, he obtained the situation of
organist at Halifax; and next year, having gone to fulfil an
engagement at Bath, he gave so much satisfaction by his
performances, that he was appointed to the same office in the
Octagon Chapel of that city, upon which he went to reside
there. The place which he now held was one of some value j
and, from the opportunities which he enjoyed, besides, of
adding to its emoluments by engagements afc the rooms, the
theatre, and private concerts, as well as by taking pupils, he
had the certain prospect of deriving a good income from his
profession, if he had made that his only or his chief study.
But long before this his active and aspiring mind had begun
to direct its attention to other pursuits offering a wider seope
for the exercise of its talents. "While yet only an itinerant
teacher of his art in country towns, Herschel had assiduously
devoted his leisure, not only to the making himself mors
completely master of the language of his adopted country, but
also to the acquiring of a knowledge of the Italian, the Latin,
and even the elements of the Greek. At this time, probably,
he looked to these attainments principally with a view to the
advantage he might derive from them in the prosecution of
his professional studies; and it was no doubt with this view
also that he afterwards applied himself to the perusal of Dr.
Robert Smith’s { Treatise on Harmonics’ —one of the most
profound works on the science of music which then existed in
the English language. But the acquaintance he formed with
this work was destined ere long to change altogether the
character of his pursuits. He soon found that it was necessary
to make himself a mathematician, before lie could make much
progress in following Dr. Smith’s demonstrations. He now,
therefore, turned with his characteristic alacrity and resolu-
tion to the new study to which his attention was thus directed ;
and it was not long before he became so attached to it, that
* The present article is intended principally as an abstract
of Chambers’ excellent essay on this subject,


almost all the other pursuits of his leisure hours were laid
aside for its sake.
During his residence in Bath, although greatly occupied
with professional engagements, the time he devoted to his
mathematical studies was rather increased than diminished.
Often, we are told, after a fatiguing day’s work of fourteen or
sixteen hours among his pupils, he would, on his returning
home at night, repair for relaxation to what many would deem
these severe exercises. In this manner, in course of time, he
attained a competent knowledge of geometry, and found him-
self in a condition to proceed to the study of the different
branches of physical science which depend upon the mathe-
matics. Among the first of these latter that attracted his
attention were the kindred departments of astronomy and
optics. It has been stated that Hersehel’s first attempts in
the fabrication of magnifying-glasses were occasioned by his
reading something upon that subject in a copy of Smith’s
optics, which accidentally fell in his way; but this story is
perhaps nothing more than a version of the fact already men-
tioned, that his acquaintance with the mathematics began in
his study of the * Treatise on Harmonics,’ by the writer in
question. Another account of the matter which has been
given is, that having, in the course of his philosophical
studies, applied himself to the sciences of optics and astronomy,
he beeame desirous of beholding with his own eyes those
wonders of the heavens, of which he read so much, and for
that purpose he borrowed from an acquaintance a two-feet
Gregorian telescope. This instrument interested him so
greatly, that he determined to procure one of his own, and
commissioned a friend in London to purchase one for him, of
a somewhat larger size. But he found the price was beyond
what he could afford. To make up for this disappointment
he resolved to attempt to construct a telescope for himself;
and after encountering innumerable difficulties in the progress
of his task, he at last succeeded, in the year 1774, in complet-
ing a five-feet Newtonian reflector. This was the beginning
of a long and brilliant course of triumphs in the same walk of
art, and also in that of astronomical discovery.
Herschel now became so much more ardently attached to
his philosophical pursues, that, regardless of the sacrifice of
emolument he was making, he began gradually to diminish his
professional engagements and the number of his pupils.
Meanwhile he continued to employ his leisure in the fabrica-
tion of still more powerful instruments than the one he had
first constructed ; and in no longer time he produced telescopes
of seven, ten, and even twenty feet focal distance. In fashion- :
ing the mirrors for these instruments his perseverance was !
indefatigable. For his seven-feet reflector, it is asserted that I
he actually finished and made trial of no fewer than two j
hundred mirrors before he found one that satisfied him. j
W hen he sat down to prepare a mirror, his practice was to !
sit down and work at it for twelve or fourteen hours, without'
quitting his occupation for a moment. He would not even !
take his hand from what he was about, to help himself to !
food; and the little that he ate on such occasions was put
into his mouth by feis sister. He gave the mirror its proper
shape,.more by a certain natural tact than by rule ; and when
his hand was once in, as the phrase is, he was afraid that the |
perfection of the finish might be impaired by the least inter- j
mission of his labours.
It was on the 13th of March 1781 that Herschel made the !
discovery to which lie owes, perhaps, most of his popular
reputation. He had been engaged for nearly a year and a
half in making a regular survey of the heavens, when, on the
evening of the day that has been mentioned, having turned his
telescope (an excellent seven-feet reflector, of his otin con-
structing) to a particular part of the sky, he observed among
the other stars one which seemed to shine with a more steady
radiance than those around it; and, on aceount of that, and
some other peculiarities in its appearance, whieh excited his
suspicions, he determined to observe it more narrowly, On
reverting to it after some hours, he was a good deal surprised
to find that it had perceptibly changed its place—a fact which,
the next day, became still more indisputable. At first he was
somewhat in doubt whether or not it was the same star which
he had seen on these different occasions ; but, after continuing
his observations for a few days longer, all unsertainty upon
that head vanished. He now communicated what he had
observed to the astronomer Royal, Dr. Maskelyne, who con-
cluded that the luminary could be nothing else than a new
comet. Continued observation of it, however, for a few
months dissipated this error ; and it became evident that it
was, in reality, a hitherto undiscovered planet. This new
world, so unexpectedly found to form a part of the system to
which our own belongs, received from Herscliel the name of
Georgium Sidus, or Georgian Star, in honor of the King of
England ; but by continental astronomers it has been more
generally called Herscliel, after its discoverer, or Uranus ,
Subsequent observations, made chiefly by Herschel himself,
have ascertained many particulars respecting it, some of which
are well calculated to fill us with astonishment at the powers
of the sublime science which can wing its way so far into the
immensity of space, and bring us back information so precise
and various. In the first place, the diameter of this new globe
has been found to be nearly four and a half times larger than
that of our own, Its size altogether is about eighty times that
of our earth. Its year is as long as eighty-three of ours. Its dis-
tance from the sun is nearly eighteen hundred millions of miles,
or more than nineteen times that of the earth. Its density,
as compared with that of the earth, is nearly as twenty-two to
one hundred ; so that its entire weight is not far from eighteen
times that of our planet. Finally, the force of gravitation
near its surface is such, that falling bodies descend only
through fourteen feet during the first second, instead of thirty-
two feet, as with us. Herschel afterwards discovered, succes-
sively, no fewer than six satellites or moons, belonging to his
new planet.
The announsement of the discovery of the Georgium Sidus
at once made Herschel’s name universally known. In the
course of a few months the king bestowed upon him a pension
of three hundred a-year, that he might be enabled entirely
to relinquish his engagements in Bath ; and upon this 110
came to reside at Slough, near Windsor. He now devoted
himself entirely to science; and the constructing of telescopes,
and observations of the heavens, continued to form the oecupa-
tions of the remainder of his life. Astronomy is indebted to
him for many other most interesting discoveries besides the
celebrated one of which we have just given an account, as well
as for a variety of speculations of the most ingenious, original,
and profound character. But of these we cannot here attempt
any detail. He also introduced some important improvements
into the construction of the reflecting telescope, besides con-
tinuing to fabricate that instrument of dimensions greatly
exceeding any that had been formerly attempted, with powers
surpassing, in nearly a corresponding degree, what had ever
been before obtained, The largest telescope which he ever
made, was his famous one of forty feet long, which he erected
at Slough, for the king. It was begun about the end of the
year 1785, and on the 28th August 1789 the enormous tube
was poised on the complicated, but ingeniously contrived
mechanism by which its movements were to be regulated, and
ready for use. On the same day a new satellite of Saturn was
detected by it, being the sixth which had been observed atten-
dant upon that planet. A seventh w r a9 afterwards discovered
by means of the same instrument. This telescope has since
been taken down, and replaced by another of only one-half


the length, constructed by Mr. J. Hersohel, the distinguished
son of the subject of our present sketch. Herschel himself
eventually became convinced that no telescope could surpass
in magnifying power one of from twenty to twenty-five feet
in length. The French astronomer, Lalande, in his continua-
tion of Montucla’s History of the Mathematics, states, that he
was informed by George 111. himself, that it was at his desire
that Herschel was induced to make the telescope at Slough of
the extraordinary length he did, his own wish being that it
should not be more than thirty feet long.
So extraordinary was the ardour of this great astronomer in
the study of his favourite science, that for many years, it has
been asserted, he never was in bed at any hour during which
the stars were visible. And he made almost all his observa-
tions, whatever was the season of the year, not under cover,
but in his garden, and in the open air—and generally without
an attendant; There was much that was altoge*her peculiar
to himself, not only in the process by which he fabricated his
telescopes, but also in his manner of using them. One of the
attendants in the king’s observatory at Richmond, who had
Veen a workman in Ramsden’s establishment, was forcibly
reminded, on seeing Herschel take an observation, of a remark
which his old master had made. Having just completed one
of his best telescopes, Ramsden, addressing his workmen, said,
“ This, I believe, is the highest degree of perfection that we
opticians by profession will ever arrive at; if any improve-
ment of importance shall ever after this be introduced in the
making of telescopes, it will be by some one who has not been
taught his art by us.”
Some years before his death the degree of Doctor of Laws
was conferred upon Herschel by the University of Oxford ; and
in 1816, the Prince Regent bestowed upon him the Hanoverian
and Guelphic Order of Knighthood. He died on the 23d of
August 1822, when he was within a few months of having
completed his eighty-fourth year. Library of Entertaining
Knowledge.
THE PERCEPTION OF BEAUTY AND NOBLENESS
NOT A MATTER OF RANK.
THOMAS CARLYLE.
Taste, if it mean anything but a paltry eonnoisseur-
skip, must mean a grand susceptibility to truth and
nobleness; a sense to discern, and a heart to love and
reverence all beauty, order, goodness, wheresoever
and in whatsoever forms and accompaniments they
are to be seen. This surely implies, as its chief con-
ditions, not any given external rank or situation, but
a finely gifted mind, purified into harmony with itself,
into keenness and justness of vision ; above all,
kindled into love and generous admiration. Is cul-
ture of this sort found exclusively among the higher
ranks ? We believe it proceeds less from without than
within, in every rank. The charms of nature, the
majesty of man, the infinite loveliness of truth and
virtue, are not hidden from the eye of the poor, but
from the eye of the vain, the corrupted, and self-seek-
ing, be he poor or rich. In the old ages, the humble
minstrel, a mendicant, and lord of nothing but his
harp and his own free soul, had intimations of these
glories, while to the proud baron in his barbaric halls
they were unknown. Nor is there still any aristocra-
tic monopoly of judgment more than of genius. For
as to that Science of Negation which is taught pecu-
liarly by men of professed elegance, we confess we
hold it rather cheap. It is a necessary, but decidedly
a subordinate accomplishment; nay, if it be rated as
the highest, it becomes a ruinous vice. This is an
old truth, yet ever needing new application and en-
forcement. Let us know what to love, and we shall
know also what to reject; what to affirm, and we
shall know what to deny: but it is dangerous to
begin with denial, and fatal to end with it. To deny
is easy ; nothing is sooner learnt, and more generally
practised : as matters go, we need no man of polish
to teach it; but rather, if possible, an hundred men
of wisdom to show us its limits, and teach us its
reverse.
Are the fineness and truth of sense manifested by
the artist, found, in most instances, to be proportion-
ate to his wealth and elevation of acquaintance?
Are they found to have any perceptible relation either
with the one or the other? We imagine not. Whose
taste in painting, for instance, is truer and finer than
Claude Lorraine’s? and was not he a poor colour-
grinder, outwardly the meanest of menials % Where
again, we might ask, lay Shakespeare’s rent-roll; and
what generous peer took him by the hand, and un-
folded to him the “ open secret” of the universe;
teaching him that this was beautiful, and that not sol
Was he not a peasant by birth, and by fortune some-
thing lower! and was it not thought much, even in
the height of his reputation, that Southampton al-
lowed him equal patronage with the zanies, jugglers,
and bearwards of the time'? Yet compare his taste,
even as it respects the negative side of things ; for,
in regard to the positive, and far higher side, it admits
no comparison with any other mortal’s —compare it,
for instance, with the taste of Beaumont and Fletcher,
his cotemporaries, men of rank and education, and of
fine genius like himself. Tried even by the nice,
fastidious, and in great part false, and artificial deli-
cacy of modern times, how stands it with the two par-
ties ; with the gay triumphant men of fashion, and
the poor vagrant link-boy ? Does the latter sin
against, we shall not say taste, but etiquette, as the
former do ? For one line, for one word, which some
Chesterfield might wish blotted from the first, are
there not in the others whole pages and scenes which,
with palpitating heart, he would hurry into deepest
night. This too, observe, respects not their genius,
but their culture ; not their appropriation of beauties,
but their rejection of deformities, —by supposition,
the grand and peculiar result of high-breeding.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXX.
HISTORY OF CARTHAGE.
1. Carthage, according to the most probable accounts, was
founded by a colony of Tyrians, about seventy years before the
building of Rome. The eolony had the same language, the
same or nearly similar laws and constitution, the same
national character, with the parent state. The city of Car-
thage was, at the period of the Punic wars, one of the most
splendid in the universe, containing 700,000 inhabitants, and
had under its dominion 300 of the smaller cities of Africa
bordering on the Mediterannean sea.
2. The constitution of the republic is celebrated by Aris-
totle as one of the most perfeet governments of antiquity; but
we know little more than its general nature from ancient writ-
ers. Two magistrates, named Suffetes, or judges, annually
chosen from the most distinguished families, seem to have
possessed powers akin to those of the Roman consuls; as did
the Carthaginian senate to that of the senate of Rome; with
this remarkable difference, that, in the former, unanimity of
opinion was requisite in all measures of importance. A divided
senate transmitted the business to the assembly of the people ; a


tribunal of 104 Judges took cognizance of military operations
and of the conduct of their generals. A superior council of
five seems to have controlled the decisions of the larger tri-
bunal. Two peculiarities of the Carthaginian policy have been
censured by Aristotle. One was, that the same person might
hold several employments or offices in the state ; the other,
that the poor were debarred from all offices of trust or im-
portance. But the former of these is frequently both expe-
dient and necessary, and the latter agreeable to the soundest
policy; for in offices of trust poverty offers too powerful an
incitement to deviation from duty.
8. The first settlements made by the Carthaginians were
entirely in the way of commerce. Trading to the coast of
Spain for gold, they built Tarthagena and Gades ; and coasting
along the western shore of Africa, they had establishments for
the same purpose as far as the 25th degree of N. latitude.
The Periplus of Hanno affords a proof of ardent enterprise
and policy. Desirous of extending a limited territory, they
armed against the Mauritanians, Numidians, and all the
neighbouring nations; employing mercenary troops, which
they levied, not only in Africa, but in Spain, the Gauls, and
Greece.
4. The annals of the Carthaginian state are but little known
till their wars with the Romans. The first of their wars men-
tioned in history is that with the Greek colonies of Sicily.
Darius courted their alliance when he meditated the conquest
of Greece, and Xerxes renewed that treaty when he followed
out the designs of his father.
SECTION XXXI. —HISTORY OF SICILY.
1. The early periods of the history of Sieily are no less
unknown than those of Carthage. The Phoenicians had sent
colonies thither before the Trojan war. The Greeks, in after
times, made considerable settlements in the island. The
Corinthians founded Syracuse, which became the most illus-
trious of the Greek cities of Sicily ; and from Syracuse arose
afterwards Agrigentum, Acra, Casmene, Camarene, and several
other flourishing towns.
The government of Syracuse was monarchical, and might
long have remained so, had all its sovereigns inherited the
abilities and virtues of Gelon, its first monarch. But his suc-
cessors, exercising the worst of tyranny, compelled their
subjects at length to abolish the regal government; and their
example was speedily followed by all the Grecian states of
Sicily.
8. The monarchy of Syracuse, however, was revived about
sixty years after in the person of Dionysius, a man of obscure
origin, but of signal ability. Twice expelled for a tyrannical
exercise of dominion, he as often found means to overpower
his enemies, and re-establish himself in the throne. At his
death, the crown passed, without opposition, to his son, Diony-
sius the Younger, a weak and capricious tyrant, whom his sub-
jects judging unworthy to reign, dethroned and banished, 357
b.c. The crown was conferred on Dion, his brother-in-law:
but this prince, whose amiable character rendered him the
delight of his people, after a short reign, fell a victim to
treason. Aided by the distractions of Syracuse consequent
on thi3 event, Dionysius remounted the throne ten years
after his expulsion ; but his tyrannical disposition, height-
ened by his misfortunes, became at length so intolerable, that
he was expelled a second time, and banished to Corinth,
where he ended his days in poverty and obscurity. The au-
thor of this revolution was the illustrious Timoleon, to whose
abilities and virtues his country owed equally its liberty and
its subsequent happiness and prosperity, 843 b.c. The Syra-
cusians had not virtue enough to retain their recovered free-
dom. Agathocles, a man of splendid talents, seized the su-1
preme power. Besieged by the Qarthaginians in Syracuse, he
adopted the bold re*olution of carrying the war into Africa, I
and appearing before the walls of Carthage, defeated their
army, and nearly subverted their empire. But suffering a
severe reverse of fortune, he meanly abandoned his army to
the mercy of the enemy, and returned to Sicily, where shortly
after he died from the effect of poison.
4. On the death of Agathocles, Syrasuse fell into confu
sion ; and the Carthaginians, intent on the acquisition of Si-
cily, now invested the city with a large fleet and an army of
50,000 men. The Syracusians, unable to resist this force, In-
vited to their assistance Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, who, as we
have before seen, withdrew his troops from Italy for this pur-
pose. Pyrrhus was for some time successful, but he was at
length overcome by the Carthaginians, and forced to eva-
cuate Sicily. This war involved Carthage in hostilities with
Rome, which immediately led to the first Punic war, and ulti-
mately caused her ruin.
Thb signal opposition of national character between the
Romans and Carthaginians may be easily accounted for, when
we attend to the effects of a commercial life on the genius and
manners of a nation. The vices of a commercial people are
considered to be selfishness, cunning, avarice, with an absence
of every heroic and patriotic virtue.* The favourable effects
of commerce are, industry, frugality, respect to mutual con-
tracts and obligations, general courtesy of manners, the culti-
vation of science, and its application to improvement in the
useful arts. Attending to these consequences of the preva-
lence of the commercial spirit, we shall see the principal fea-
tures of the Carthaginian character opposed to the Roman.
BLANCHE ROSE.
[concluded.]
It was the vigil of the cross; the night was dark
and still upon Toulouse. The quiet streets were si-
lent and empty, and all lights had gone out, except
here and there a red solitary candle shed its long
still pencelle upon the waters of the Garonne. The
black pile of the vast chateau rose like a giant over
the dim town, and within the wide courts were silent
and deserted, and all dark and quiet except the stamp
of a horse that waited beside the postern, and one
still solitary watch-light that shone in an upper tur-
ret. About that light was gathered all the interest
of Toulouse, and perhaps an eye, born upon the
gifted night, [Christmas-eve] might have seen the
dim spirits leaning together over the turret, speaking
the destinies of him, the last of his race, who should
inhabit those towers, and who now stood within that
dim still room.
It was a small dark turret ehamber, hung with
coarse arras, and meanly garnished with such furni-
ture as might become the use of a simple esquire, or
frugal steward, —a low pallet, half concealed by a
curtain of blue sey, filled a small recess beyond the
hearth, and at its head stood a long white wand and
a walking sword in a scabbard of green velvet. A
black carved armoire and oak chest occupied the op-
posite corners, and the remaining space was no more
than sufficient for a tall high-backed chair of black
leather, and a wide olive-wood table, on which a
number of papers, an almoniere, an aunlace, and a
heap of loose gold lay by a wax taper that burned
under the rood suspended against the wall.
* This sentiment may be very safely controverted. Industry
and commerce are the only honest ways in which a nation can
acquire wealth. The wealth acquired by war, however sanc-
tioned, is nothin? but plunder, obtained by robbery and murder
on a large scale.


Earl Raymond stood before the light in his travel-
ling cloak, and his gray seneschal sat in the chair,
his embossed hands rested upon his knees, and his
white bald brow lifted to the face of his master.
“ You know her not,” said the earl, “I, who was
nursed on the same breast, rocked by the same hand,
have grown with her like the twin bud upon the stalk
—1 know her —and God knows her, the bright noble
ladye of the world ; —I loved her, I will not say how
I loved her ; she was very lovely to me but I was
only as a brother to her, how could I he more, and
the glorious beautiful flower of all chivalry sworn to
her service. Alas! that he had been true as I was,
and I would have been a brother to him, as she was
a sister to me ! and since I am the last of my race,
they should have had fair Toulouse and my broad
earldom ; and I would have been the soldier of the
cross, and prayed that they might have been happy.”
“ God he praised, that has given you to he happy
with her yourself,” said the seneschal.
Raymond looked upon him as the spirits may look
on man that cannot read the secret thoughts of the
world above.
“ To-night,” said he, “ I go to the Holy Land"
“ Blessed Saints ! and leave your lady V 9 exclaimed
the seneschal.
The earl’s cheek became white a 3 his tabard, but
his voice did not change : u Be you very true and
gentle to her, as you have ever been to me,” said he:
“ and serve her as if you were horn in her father’s
house, as you were born in mine ; and she shall still
be your lady, and her lonely orpheline shall be your
earl, when I shall come no more.”
“Alas! alas! what is this'?” said the*old man
The earl stood a moment upon his sword “ You
have been young that are now old,” said he, ££ you
shall know that a maiden’s love is like the sunshine
and the sweet moonlight; it must shine in its own
summer and its own still hour, and cannot come
through the cloud when you shall call it. I will never he
the cloud to her face, nor a chain upon the heart,
which I bound to me for its redeeming ; hut she
shall he bright and free to shine like the sun upon
the flower, —and God send a flower to blossom in her
light, and he sweet and bright and grateful to her as
the rose in the morning, when I am —-where the sun
shall never shine again.”
££ And you will not come back !” said the old man.
Raymond laid his hand upon the cross — “Never!"
The old man fell on his knees, and bent his white
head upon his master’s hand, and wept like a child.
For a long time the count held his trembling
hand, and turned away his face, at last, ££ Aymer !”
said he, ££ God reward your true and faithful ser-
vice to me ; I have done with this world ; I was a
solitary tree, without a parent, a brother, a sister, to
fill my heart—the last of my race. She was a very
bright flower to me, the rose to mybborer,w r er, the sun to
my glory, the lamp to my holy shrine ; I am going
__—to die before the cross as your father and mine ;
and we shall meet together ivith them before His glo-
rious throne.”
The old man’s sobs redoubled, and for a long
while he knelt and wept, and the earl said no more.
At length the sobs subsided, the stamp of the horse
came from the gate ; the earl lifted him in silence;
for some moments he wrote upon the papers, and set
his seal and the old man told the gold and put it in
his purge. The knight took off bis hat, and kissed
his furrowed cheek, and laid his hand upon his head,
and for one moment grasped his hands, and looked
upon the cross and turned suddenly to the door. The
old man tottered after with the light; hut Raymond
put him back with his averted hand, and drew' the
cloak about him, and hurried down the stair. The
groom started up in his seat and threw the bridle on
the Arab, and Raymond leaped into the saddle ; the
boy touched his bonnet and said some word, but the
earl gave no answer, and spurring through the gate,
took the street towards the east port.
There is a blank in the chronicle of Toulouse t
who could tell how Earl Raymond turned his back
upon his people—the tower where he was born, the
roof where he was nursed, the field where he had
plucked the flower, and chased the linnet, the garden
where the rose of his love had blown—that rose that
was blighted, and faded, and never should bloom
again—to him !
The monk did not write of it in his book, nor the
troubadour sing of it in his song ; they said only,
u Raymond de Toulouse shaped the cross on his sleeve
and went to Holy Land."
* % & $ $
It was the third evening after the earl and his
company arrived at Acre. The men-at-arms were
busily disembarking their horses to go forward for
Jerusalem, and the knight sat upon a stone by the
beach, looking upon the bright water and the sun
that was going down, red and still, and far away on
France.
| While he yet gazed, a slender boy, in the dress of
a page, came dow r n the sand ; he stopped and hesi-
tated, and looked towards the knight as he ap-
proached, but at last came to his side. Sir Raymond
did not look up, and the boy stood and held his bon-
net and twisted the feather, and the colour went and
came in his face, c£ Sir Earl !" said he, at last.
Raymond started as if one had struck him on the
cheek, and at the sight of his face leaped from the
stone and turned as white as clay. It was a moment
before his look came hack.
" What would you, fair child V* said he, gently.
The tears came into the eyes of the timid boy:
££ Sir !” said he, S£ lam an orphan child. My lord,
that was very kind to me, is dead ; I would serve
you, if it please you.”
The earl’s breast rose, and he turned aw T ay, and
looked upon the sea : at last, “ From what country
—what is your name ?” said he.
“Albert de la feuille morte ,” replied the boy ; ££ my
father was of Provence,” and his breath fluttered as
if the memory of his father and his land rose in his
heart.
“ And have you no friends ?” said Sir Raymond.
“ I had — one," replied the child.
“ And where is he ?” asked the knight.
The hoy turned away, and sat down upon the
grass, and leaned his head upon a stone.
The earl took his dark hand, and the tears came
to his eyes as he looked upon the slender fingers ;
“ Alas! said he, “ this was never meant to burnish
a helm, and hold a black stirrup !”
« I will be very proud to hold the stirrup of a
Knight of Jesu Christ,” said the child.
The earl stood still for a moment, and held his
hand with a g r asp, from which a mailed wrist might
hart shrunk, but the hoy did not shrink nor fiemble.


“God save you, gentle child!” said the earl, at
last, “if you will be pleased to serve me, I will be, not
a master, but a brother to you, while I am in this
world ; and when I am gone, God will be a father.”
The page fell upon his knee and kissed his hand,
and the tears trickled fast to the stone, which was
wet as the dew where his cheek had lain. The earl
did not speak, but raised him gently, and turned to-
wards the town. As they went, he spoke him softly,
and glanced to his dark beautiful features and faded
habit; he looked yet scarce sixteen years, and wove
the simple hose and green kirtle, such as was usually
the dress of pages in the south of France ; but ex-
cept for this, and his accent, his complexion was so
dark, and his short curling hair so raven black, none
had believed that he had ever known another country
than Greece or Syria. The earl discoursed him as
they went, and wondered at his gentilesse and learn-
ing ; and when he came to his inn, bestowed him in
thee special charge of his old minstrel.
“ Here is a flower that I did not think to find in
this desert world,” said he; “ I pray you be very
gentle to him.”
The old man was himself a Provencal, and he laid
his pillow in the alcove, and set his meat as if he
had been his own son, and took his harp and played
to him till he wept himself to sleep like a stilled
infant. “ Certainly,” said he, when the earl asked
about him the next day, u never such a gentle child
served among stern war men !” And in a little time,
“Le 'page noir was the mignon of the court.” Unless
at his service, however, he was always sad and alone,
and never spoke of his native land and former days ;
and if the rude men urged him, he turned away, and
the tears came to his eyes, and he would go to the
sand or the rampart, though the sun was never so hot,
or the wind never so wild.
At length, upon the morrow of St. Turiel, the earl
and all the knights in Acre set out for Jerusalem, on
sudden news that the great assault should be given in
six days. Through all that long and terrible march
Albert rode beside the stirrup of Sir Raymond, and
when the Syrian sun burned at noon, and the “ dead
wind” blew at night, he never eat till he had eaten,
nor drank until h had drunk, and served him at his
board, and watch - ha slept. When
the heart of man k in his hauberk, and
the eye of the m _ , closed under his helmet,
Albert sat beside hn:i, and fanned away the fly from
his cheek, and the mouse from his pillow, and looked
upon his face ; and when his lips shrunk, and his
brow came dark, dropped his beads, and raised his
cross, and said —“ God give thee rest!”
* © * * &
It was the night before the assault. The camp was
still and quiet, and no sound came through the tents
but the fitful stamp of a horse at the picket, or the
distant clank of a hammer at the forge, where some
man-at-arms still waited his armour for the morning.
The stars shone bright upon the dark field, and at
times the watch might hear the nightcall upon Jeru-
salem, and, as he walked before the tent, the whisper
of shift and absolution, where the knights made a
clean breast for the “ battle of God,” and the rest in
which so many should sleep when the night should
come again.
n.aH Raymond lay asleep in his tent, his banner
by his side, and his sword at his head, where he had
knelt before it when the sun went down. Albert sat
by his shoulder, his pale brow fixed upon his face,
and his;still fingers rested on his crucifix, You could
not see the breath come and go upon his lips.
The broad hand of the knight lay unbent upon the
pillow, and his pale face calm, and his dark brow
clear and smooth as a sleeping child. Albert had
never before seen the deep frown relax from his front
in all the nights that he had looked upon it. For a
moment he glanced up, and a flush came to his cheek,
and a light to his eyes ; but all tears were gone, and
they looked full and still as the calm stars that were
above him. For an instant his lips moved, and he
gazed upwards; but again his eyes returned to the
pallet, and his features to their watch.
All night he sat, and by degrees every sound died
away ; the horse was still at his picket, and the sen-
tinel at his post, and for a short while there was a
deep death stillness, and all was hushed in heaven
and on the earth. It was the dead hour—the turning
of tide—when the soul passes, and the spirit in the
grave are loosed—slowly a faint sweet strain of music
came by on the silence, and voices sung in the air—
Blessed is the heart when the sin-stain has gone ;
Blessed is the brow that His light shines upon.
And ever a pale still light shone upon the brow of
Albert, while he sat fixed and quiet as if he heard no
sound, and felt no light; and, whether it was the
monks that sung in the valley, and the meon that
looked into the tent—but never song was so sweet
on earth, and never light shone so fair upon a mortal
brow.
At length a faint stir began to come from the field,
and <-t intervals the jingle of bridles, the stamp of
hoofs, the baying of a hound, and a sudden foot pass-
ing quickly by the tent. In a short while the far cry
of the mollahs could be heard upon the towers, and
the pale gray dawn stole dimly through the curtain
of the tent. Albert sat, and fixed his eyes upon the
light, as now a horse, and now a man came by, and
now could be distinguished the tread of heavy feet
pouring through the sand. Suddenly a trumpet
sounded at a distance, and the page started up, and
laid his hand upon the breast of the earl. Raymond
awoke. “ The first trumpet has sounded,” said the
page.
The knight rose hastily, and put on his helm and
hauberk. Albert laced his casque, and buckled the
spur to his heels, and the broad belt to his side ; and
the earl knelt down before his sword, and dropped
his beads, and looked upon the cross with a look that
made Albert's cheek come pale. In a few moments
he rose and grasped the page’s hand, and laid his
broad mailed glove upon his head, and sat down to
the little table beside the pallet. Albert served his
frugal meal, and took his trencher to sit fey the door ;
but the earl made him sit beside him at the same dish.
“ It is the last that I may eat,” said he. “ There
will be no salt between me and thee where we shall
meet again.”
Albert bent his head over the board, and said no
word; but the large round tear fell upon his plate.
The short meal passed in silence, and the haste of
those who every moment expect to hear the trumpet
sound to arms. As soon as it was ended, the earl
rose up and crossed himself, and gave his hand to the
page, and drank the grace-cup ; and when Albert had
pledged him, he went to his mails, and took, out ?
heavy purse, and loosed from his neck a little white
cross. a Dear and faithful child," said he, " God be


gracious to you, and give you peace.” He put the
purse into his hand —“ When thou and I shall part,
return to thy country, and if thou hast none better—
to mine, where thou shalt find a very gentle mistress,
who will be to thee all that I would be.”
Albert took the purse, and looked calm in his face,
and bowed his head, and said him— (i Yes."
The earl looked on him for a moment, but his eyes
did not change. “ Brave and constant child,” he said
“ God shall not forsake thee ; and now—for none may
know His will to-day —take this little cross that must
not fall among His enemies. If He give us the vic-
tory, thou shalt bury it with me in this holy earth ,
but if in the great press, or the day shall go against
us, and I may not lie found, take it with thee, give it
to my lady, from whom I had it, and say, ‘ Raymond
of Toulouse is gone to his rest.’ ”
Albert had not changed before # but at the sight of
that cross, and the sound of those words, his colour
went out of his face, and the hand that he held out
fell to his side, and he sunk down at the feet of the
earl. Raymond lifted him to the pallet, and snatched
the cruce, and hastened to loose his collar. The hand
of the page closed upon his arm, and he opened his
eyes, and sat upright. For an instant he gazed
half conscious to the light: but there was no tear in
his eyes, and no flutter in his breast, and he rose up
to take the earl’s command.
tl Alas, my child !” said Raymond, “ thou art
spent and overwatched. Thy feeble body is too frail
for thy spirit. Lie down and rest, and fear not—all
will be well.”
He put the cross upon his neck, and made him
lie on the pallet, and covered him with his
cloak, and taking his banner, went out hastily from
the tent.
Albert started up and gazed after him, and looked
upon the cross, and wept, and knelt, and laid it on
his head, and bowed his forehead on the mat that
had been touched by the helmet of the earl. Sud-
denly the trumpet began to sound, the quick clank
of arms, and the deep tramp of horses went past as if
the earth moved around him. Albert dropped the
jewel, and listened and gazed where the heavy sound
went by. The long successive tramp continued
without intermission, till a shock like a clap of thun-
der burst upon the stillness, and a far fearful rolling
surge of shouts went up to heaven like the roar of a
tempest. In another moment the whole camp seemed
to tremble, bolt after bolt shook the walla of the city,
and the mingled cries and shouts, and clash of arms,
spread like a storm from the beach ; and as the tongues
of the hundred nations rose and fell, came suddenly
the faint shout of the French, — “ Mont Joye St.
Dennis !!" Albert started from the ground, and
braced his dagger, and did on his bonnet, and rushed
out from the tent.
The clear day was bright upon the camp, and the
long black lines of men-at-arms were pouring through
the white tents like torrents towards the town, but all
beneath the wall was lost in dust and smoke, through
which the moveable tall black tower of assault rose
almost as high as the ramparts, where the dim gray
battlements could be discerned crowded with men.
Albert stood upon the rock under the standard before
the tent, and watched the black columns pouring into
the cloud, which swallowed them in its darkness.—
As the sun approached, the faint flash of the crescents
and crowded arms could be seen glittering along the
ramparts, and at quick intervals the fearful shock of
the battering rams sent up a cloud of dust from the
wall ; and as it swept off, a deep black gap appeared
in the battlements and glittering line of arms. All
at once the vast dark mighty column of the tower
began to move, and rose slowly out of the smoke till
it looked over the rampart ; a thunder of shouts rolled
up from the host, and suddenly the flash of arms and
banners receded like a bright wave along the wall.
In an instant a little bridge fell from the top of the
turret upon the battlement, and a white knight fol-
lowed by a glittering stream of glaives and lances
rushed over to the rampart. A terrific cry came
from the turret, and re-echoed from the moat —“ Ray-
mond of Thoulouse ! Raymond of Thoulouse !" and
Albert distinguished the glorious figure of his master
and the white cross of France. One moment he gazed,
one moment he knelt upon the rock, one moment
lifted up his cross, and rushed down into the stream
of the assault.
The black terrible tide went on like a torrent into
the moat, and the storm of the escalade thickened
under the breach ; but nothing was visible in the
thick darkness, and the black dense press went on
and disappeared into the cloud, man over man, till it
almost filled up the deep, black, visionless gulf of the
moat which roared round it like the bottomless pit.
At intervals the heavy missiles rebounded on the wall,
and the rolling ruin, and the storm of the defence
rained down fire, and thunder, and battle sleet, through
the black cloud : but the slow, dark, iron tide went
on—and on —and on—over the falling heaps, till
suddenly there was an explosion as if the heaven and
the earth burst amidst the darkness. A moment of
fearful stillness prevailed, the smoke rolled away, and
the breach appeared to the sun, and all the thick
glittering stream of helms and crosses going up over
the ruined wall like a swarm of locusts. Again there
was rescue —again the charge—and as the cloud
opened and shut —now helmets, now turbans glistened
in the breach ; but suddenly a broad bright gleam
broke on the towers, and the white figure of Earl
Raymond appeared on the top turret. A moment he
stood amidst the smoke in the sight of all the hosts,
and suddenly mounting the bartizan, pitched the white
banner in the sun, and began to sing the battle-hymn
of Toulouse. The field—the breach—the crowded
towers sent up a shout like the sea roar, and as the bright
silk flew in the wind,the darts and shot clinked upon
the knight's mail, and glanced through the fluttering
banner like sharp sleet. Raymond stood still amidst
the shower, waving his hand over the assault, and
singing his chorus :
Soli Deo Gloria
Et Saneti Salvatori !
Corona de Victoria
Sub Cruci Vivi mori !
As the coming stream poured up towards him, a
sudden crowding, a dark object appeared upon a tur-
ret, and a cross-bow moved on the wall, and levelled
upon the knight. For an instant it lay upon the
battlement, till suddenly the bright eye of the arrow
looked at him over the stone ; a universal cry and
waving of hands and caps came from the assault, but
Raymond stood still, waving his hand, and singing
the song, till a wild cry, a flying shadow came
through the smoke, and at the moment that the dart
parted from the cord, Albert threw himself upon the
breast of his master, the hissing shaft struck short and


an oven heated by the baker who ceaseth from waking
after he hath kneaded the dough,” and again, “They
have made ready their heart like an oven, their baker
sleepeth all the night, and in the morning it burneth
as a flaming fire.”
The fermentation found in dough, as deseribed, is
caused by the separation which takes place in the
component parts, thus making an entrance for the
oxygen of the air, and causing the evolution of acetous
acid. Every change in the decay of plants is attended
with a fresh attraction of oxygen, which unites with
the plants in their natural state, or with their solu-
tion in an artificial state; which action is always
attended with violent commotion in the substance.
Plants are subjected to four different processes of
fermentation ; the first is called the saccharine, because
the product is sweet; the second is called the vinous,
because the product is wine ; the third is called the
acetous, because it converts the vinous into this acid
the fourth is the putrefactive. Through the agency
of the yarious products of these fermentations, we are
furnished with sugar, wine, beer, spirits, acids, ether,
bread, and lastly manure.
Starch is also made from the dough of wheaten
flour, it is obtained by enclosing the dough in a thin
linen, and pouring water over it, then pressing it
until the liquid passes off quite clear. After it has
stood for some time, a deposit is found in the form of
a white powder, which contracts in drying, and
assumes the shape of small columns as bought in the
shops under the name of starch. Starch is also made
of potatoes, but goods stiffened with potato starch
lose that stiffness in damp weather. A little Prussian
blue is always added in the making of starch to cover
the yellowish hue which would otherwise be present.
Stone blue, used for colouring linen, is also a com-
pound of starch, indigo, and Prussian blue. Starch
is found in a variety of vegetable substances, though
not extracted from them for use. ’ B.
IMPORTANT TO BOILERS DOWN.
It is not generally known that an oil of very superior
burning qualities has been expressed from tallow, by
means of an hydraulic press. This experiment has
been successfully acted upon at Port Phillip, as an-
nounced in one of their papers, and is also practised
by one or two individuals in Sydney. In the present
lack of employment for the middle classes in this
colony, it may be found beneficial to state the process
by which this oil is produced, and the superior com-
position candles which can be made from the material
called stearine, which is the residuary fat or ivax
found after the oil is expressed by the hydraulic
press.
For the conversion of stearine into spermaceti, it
must be strongly boiled for about four hours, with
one-sixth of its weight of recently slaked lime mixed
with water, and strained through a hair sieve for the
removal of gross impurities. After being by this
boiling converted into a soap, it is then to be decom-
posed by means of four parts of concentrated sulphuric
acid to three parts of the lime employed, (the acid
must be previously diluted with thrice its quantity of
water.) The decomposed material is thus become
spermaceti intermixed with sulphate of lime, which
last must be thoroughly washed away by steam, which
must be passed into it through perforated leaden pipes
placed at the bottom of a tub, it being indispensable
that the acid should not be put into ordinary metal
boilers. When sufficiently cleared by one or more
boilings it must be cooled, and shaved by a rotatory
knife, and again submitted to the hydraulic press for
the removal of its remaining oil. Thus by three
methods a lucrative product might be obtained. The
disposal of the oil, or of the spermaceti, or the can-
dles. A very small outlay is sufficient, and it would
not be found a nuisance if worked in the outer pre-
mises of a dwelling house.
B.
Original Poetry
SONNET.
’Tis night, and scarce a sound is to be heard ;
Save when the breeze e'en wafts along
The distant cry, from scar’d nocturnal bird ;
Swelling like chorus to funereal song
Of midnight sprites, who dwell among
The mountain steeps, or neighb’ring hills which gird
This lonely place, where silence reign’d so long.
And still I linger near the spot, where lies
The form of her with whom I fondly thought
To close this fitful life ; oh ! vain surmise,
Which baneful disappointment early taught,
Was bliss that only mock’d me as 'twas sought.
Death ! launch thy dart, nor let me ask in vain
The welcome stroke, which joins us once again.
J. P. W
ON A SMALL WILD FLOWER,
POUND IN THE WILDS OF MANEROO.
[Australian Shepherd.]
There bloom’d amid the wilderness
Of wild wood’s shadowy glade
Earth’s silent child of lowliness,
Of hues—the skies’ own shade.
Alone, with not a mate to cheer,
Without a kindred tie,
'Mid smiles of light it ope’d Its leaves
In meek simplicity.
And yet, its wilder brethren round,
Earth’s sturdy warriors bold,
Their sinewy arms all kindly wound
To screen stern winter’s cold.
Unseen, and free from worldly pride,
It sheds its odours wild
On every passing breeze to heaven—
Fair nature’s grateful child.
E’en thus the meek and lowly heart,
Renew’d through Christ alone,
Pours forth its grateful soul unseen
To God’s eternal throne.
THE LATE MR. CHARLES SMITH.
(From a Correspondent.)
“ A good name is better than riches.”—Solomon.
How great and numerous soever may be the “ grievances”
attributable either to government or to our own vices and
folly, some calamities have recently overtaken us, of a serious
and afflicting nature, arising from a very different source,
under which we must not venture to utter a single word of
complaint, but with patient resignation endeavour to improve
these mournful events by such a train of reflexions as will
best enable us, for our present consolation and future con-
fidence,
“ 1” assert eternal Providence
And justify the ways of God to man.”
Of this description are the losses the colony has sustained
by the removal from amongst us of the lamented Sir James
Dowling, our late Chief Justice, and of Mr.‘Justice
Burton. Their successors in their high offices, and all others
most competent to estimate the amount and the extent of such
a calamity, were the first to acknowledge and deplore it. To
this is now to be added the deeply and universally regretted
death of Mr. Charles Smith.
In whatever community of any civilized portion of the
human family Providence had allotted Mr. Smith to become a


member, he would undoubtedly have proved a blessing. In
proportion as the eircle of society in which he moved had
learnt to appreciate integrity and benevolence, and more
especially as it admired and sympathised with the noblest
traits of the British character, would he have been eminently
respected and esteemed in his life, deeply lamented and highly
honoured in his death. But in this colony , the destined sphere
of the, alas! too “ brief span” of his mortal existence, his
peculiar excellencies shone forth with extraordinary lustre,
and his untiring energies were productive of incalculable
benefit. Whilst at this most critical epoch in our annals, it
is lamentable to add, we were the less prepared to sustain the
loss of his influence and example. In mentioning his name,
we can repeat in honour and with sorrow—
u Nse illiusmodi jam magna nobis civium
Penuria est —homo antiqua virtute ac fide !”
Anxious to put on record a somewhat more ample memo-
rial of such a man than has hitherto appeared, although every
portion of the public press has assured its readers of the
unfeigned concern it has felt in having to announce Mr.
Smith’s decease, we venture to sketch such an outline as will
be recognised by all who knew him with mingled grief and
satisfaction. The lineaments we shall trace have been long
familiar to thousands throughout the length and breadth of
the land. The qualities we shall ascribe to him will be ac-
knowledged to be his by general acclamation.
The life of Mr. Charles Smith does not derive its interest
from the singularity of its events, or the variety of its inci-
dents. Having arrived in this colony in his youth, his course
through the whole period of his manhood has been one even
tenor of unwearied industry, honourable enterprise, and active
unostentatious benevolence, undiversified by any extraordinary
details. It is his personal character which formed its chief
distinction. To that character we will address our brief
remarks.
In his general bearing, Mr. Smith may be said to have
presented an admirable model of what is classically deemed
the pure English character. Plain, simple, straightforward,
indefatigably persevering, patiently after seed-time waiting
for the expected harvest. Confiding and unsuspicious, not
only amongst his friends, but in his public transactions; and
though indignant and fearless when provoked to wrath by
injustice, baseness, or inhumanity, he subsequently treated
even perfidy and ingratitude with a degree of forbearance and
forgiveness that is scarcely credible. Iu all his dealings he
had inspired unbounded confidence in his integrity. “ That
is the man,” it was said of him, “ whom we can trust—on his
word we can depend.” In politics, loeal or general, he was
no officious intermeddler, though for competent knowledge
and soundness of judgment lie far surpassed those public
brawlers who so rashly substitute assertion for argument, or
vague surmises for a well-founded opinion.
Enthusiastically rejoicing in the super-eminent greatness
and glory of his own father land, Mr. Smith was equally con-
cerned for the welfare and prosperity of this his adopted
country, the birth-place of his beloved and exemplary wife,
and of their children. Of the vast services he has rendered to
that country, we must forbear even to allude, so long would
be the catalogue; but let it be recorded, that he numbered
amongst his most intimate friends and associates a large pro-
portion of the natives of the soil, who regarded him with the
warmest affection and esteem.
Above all, the strongest lineament in his character was
kindness of heart.
“ His hand was open as the day to melting charity.”
Or rather it may be said of him in numerous instances,
” Careless their merits or their faults to scan,
His pity gave ere charity began.”
But these great qualities of the lamented friend of whom
we speak, were not the mere result of constitutional tem-
perament, or the impulse of passion. He was firmly imbued
with a sense of duty in all the relations he bore to society.
He acted not only from feeling, but on principle. In this
respect he illustrated in his general conduct the English
character, as we have before hinted, in the same manner as
Nelson is generally deemed to have done in his last signal
before the battle of Trafalgar, the words of which will be
immortal as his own glorious name—
“ England expects every man to do his duty.”
Many there are in this colony of higher rank and station;
many who are glittering away in more glaring ecldt; many
who are conspicuous from their ambitious bearing; but there
are few whom we should have more fervently wished to have
had spared to us a little longer—few who will leave behind
them so fair and respected a name as Mr. Charles Smith.
When ean we hops to “ look upon his like again ?”
In reviewing this sketch, we are conscious that we have
been dwelling on the recollection of virtues which were never
questioned, and uttering praises that every one was ready to
concede. The expressions of regret which are everywhere
heard; the attendance at his funeral on Thursday last, not in
the mere “ pomp and pageantry of woe/’ but when
(l Many a tearful eye did grace his obsequies/’
are the best acknowledgment of his excellence, and we de-
voutly hope will afford much consolation to his bereaved
family.
Sydney Delivered : or the Princely Buccaneer.—
We must call the attention of our laughter-loving fellow-citi-
zens to this most comical burlesque, which, as a colonial pro-
duction, will not do us discredit wherever it may find its
way, either as regards the talent displayed, or the excellence
of the typography. Its humourous satire is exceedingly
palatable to an English reader, and the author’s ludicrous
finale, together with other passages, cannot but be found
amusing.
Newspaper Reporters.- —What most extraordinary men
are these reporters of the English newspapers! Surely if
there be any class of individuals who are entitled to the ap-
pellation of cosmopolites, it is these; who pursue their avoca-
tion in all countries indifferently, and accommodate themselves
at will to the manners of all classes of society: their fluency of
style as writers is only surpassed by their facility of language
in conversation, and their attainments in classical and polite
literature only by their profound knowledge of the world,
acquired by an early introduction into its bustling scenes.
The activity, energy, and courage whieh they occasionally
display in the pursuit of information are truly remarkable.
I saw them, during the three days at Paris, mingled with
canaille and gamins behind the barriers, whilst the raiteaille
was flying in all directions, and the desperate cuirassiers were
dashing their fierce horses against those seemingly feeble bul-
warks. There stood they, dotting down their observations in
their pocket-books as unconcernedly ae if reporting the pro-
ceedings of a reform meeting in Finsbury-square; whilst in
Spain, several of them accompanied the Carlist and Christino
guerillas in some of their most desperate raids, exposing them-
selves to the danger of hostile bullets, the inclemency of
winter, and the fierce heat of the summer sun.
To Remove Stains from Books. —Nearly all the acids
remove spots of ink from paper, but it is important to use
such as attack its texture the least. Spirits of Salts, diluted
into five or six times the quantity of water, may be applied
with success upon the spot, and after a minute or two washing
it off with clear water. A solution of oxalic acid, citric acid, or
tartaric acid is attended with the least risk, and may be applied
upon the paper and plates without fear of damage. These
acids taking out writing ink, and not touching the printing,
can be used for restoring hooks where the margins have b ::3
written upon, without attacking the text. —When the p', -s
disfigured with stains of iron, it may be perfectly restored by
applying a solution of sulphuret of potash, and afterwards one
of oxalic acid. The sulphuret extracts from the iron part of its
oxygen, and renders it soluble in diluted acids. The most
simple, but at the same time very effectual method of raising
spots of grease, wax, oil, or any other fat substance, is by
washing the part with ether, and placing it between white
blotting-paper. Then with a hot iron, press above the part
stained°, and the defect will be speedily removed. In many
cases, where the stains are not had, rectified spirits of wine will
be found to answer the purpose.
The Stomach. — “ I firmly believe that almost every malady
of the human frame is, either by highways or by-ways, con-
nected with the stomach. The woes of every other member
are founded on your belly timber; and I must own, I never
see a fashionable physician mysteriously consulting the pulse
of his patient, but I feel a desire to exclaim —Why not tell the
poor gentleman at once, * Sir, you have eaten too much, you’ve
drunk too much, and you have not taken exercise enough !’
The human frame was not created imperfect; it is we ourselves
who have made it so. There exists no donkey in creation ss
overladen as our stomachs. ''--Babbles from Nassau.


sharp in his back, and he dropped from the bosom of
the knight upon the rampart.
The dart snapped upon the stone, blit the bright
point stood stiff and red through the breast of his
coat; Raymond dropped the banner, and gave a cry
of grief, and drew out the broken wood ; and as the
clear blood gushed after, tore open the breast of the
page to stanch the wound, when, as he undid the
gorget, he discovered, not the dark neck of a sunburnt
boy, but the white snowy throat of a maiden bosom !
She turned her face to the stone—“ Thank God !”
said she, “ I die for you, as you died for me /”
Raymond raised her eagerly in his arms —“ Who !
Who are you V' he exclaimed, looking wildly upon
her dark face and snow-white bosom.
“ I was —Blanche Rose !” whispered the page.
Raymond fell upon her face, and for a moment
held her to his mailed breast as still and silent as
herself ; but suddenly he started up, and rending his
surcoat, bound the fillets round her bleeding breast;
but still as he wound fold over fold with wild eager-
ness, the red blood came through the silk.
“ It is not painful,” said Blanche, “ it will soon be
past!”
Raymond dropped the last bandage, and gazed
upon her with the fixedness of despair, as she lay still
in his arms, her white passive face reclined upon his
breast, and her cold hand resting quiet in his mail
glove. For awhile she lay like one composing into
sleep, at last she lifted her heavy eyes—
“ I am happy ! I die in peace !” she said ; and
turned her face to his bosom like an infant to its rest;
and one long tremulous sigh, and her breast came
still, her hand unclosed, the smile fixed on her white
lip, and the tear in her eye, and she lay calm and
still, and placid, like a child on its parent lap.
*■ s * 0
They buried them together in the valley of Jeho-
saphat, and raised over them a grave of simple turf;
for he said, “ Let our pillow be the earth where He
has trodden, and let His light shine upon us by
day, and His dew come down upon our breast at
night.”
There is a palm-tree at the head of the heap, and
a little well at the foot, and one white rose of Sharon
that blossoms very sweet over the brink, and sheds
the incense of the earth over their breasts who sleep
below. At evening the gazelle comes to feed upon
the green turf, and the bulbul sings on the bough over
bis flower, and the palmer at noon takes his branch
from the tree, and a blossom from the bush, and sits
in the shade, and drinks out of the well, and says,
Illuminat Dominus faciem suum super te
Et det tibi pacem !
Varieties.
Height of Soldiers In consequence of argument 8
respecting the height for soldiers, we have taken some pains*
at various times, to ascertain the relative height of English*
Irish, and Scotch recruits. As far as the line regiments are
concerned, the Irish have a decided advantage in height. It
must be, however, taken into account, that the guards, the
marines, and the majority of the cavalry and artillery, are
English, and the recruits for these are all of superior standard.
It may then be doubted, if an equal number of tall men were
deducted out of the total recruits raised in Ireland, whether
any difference would exist. In weight, the English recruit has
the advantage, the heights being equal. A regiment of the
Line that consists wholly of Englishmen will generally be found
to average shorter than either the Irish, Scotch, dr the mixed
corps. —Naval and Military Gazette.
The wat of thb World. —“ He's dead !” How frequently
is that brief but admonitory sentence uttered without exciting
any but the most transient emotion—without awakening a
deeper or more permanent reflection than the next passing
thought will entirely obliterate from the mind ! Two friends
shall casually meet after a temporary separation, and inquire
after a third and mutual friend. “ He’s dead !” is the melan-
choly and impressive rejoinder. If men of business, perhaps
he also was one who entered largely into their speculations—
all their projects for the advancement of their fortunes—all
their wordly-minded schemes of aggrandisement— yet “ lie’s
dead !” The intelligence is received with an exclamation of
surprise—a significant shake of the head a sensation nearly
allied to pity and regret; but it is not heard “as if an angel
spokeand as time passes, they hurry off without further
comment to their respective counting-houses, where the unex-
pected information of the rise in sugars—the depression of the
money market—the failure of some great house in which they
had placed implicit confidence, or some equally vital and
important affair, demands their immediate attention—totally
absorbs their minds, and they entirely forget that they have
just heard an echo of their own inevitable doom. — Metropolitan
Magazine
Wives. —Women should be acquainted that no beauty has
any charms but the inward one of the mind; and that a grace-
fulness in their manners is much more engaging than that of
their person ; that modesty and meekness are the true and
lasting ornaments; for she that has these is qualified as she
ought to be for the management of a family, for the education
of children, for the affection of her husband, and submitting to
a prudent way of living. These only are the charms that
render wives amiable, and give them the best title to our
respect.
How to get on in Life. —Genius makes its way once in
twenty millions of times; perseverance, after having tried it
through a long life, is still a clerk in a merchant’s office; and
virtue thinks she’ll be obliged to go upon the town for bread
to eat. No, no—a fortunate spec, a lucky hit, habits of saving,
the accumulation of money, a loud tongue, a bold face, and a
good deal of talk about honesty and liberality—these are the
things that get on in London. Look upon everything here as
a matter of barter, and you may do anything that you please.
Be as ostentatious as ever you like, but never be ostentatious
but when it will pay.—Be charitable, and subscribe to all sorts
of institutions : it is buying in the funds of public opinion,
which give better interest than any others that I know of.—
But never think of giving away half-a-crown without there’s
somebody to see it. As a magistrate be as rigid and stern, as
patient and attentive, as considerate and as careful as you like,
when the newspaper reporters are in the justice room ; and as
a politician be as liberal as it is possible to be in public
speeches and declamations—assert the interests of the many,
take up the cause of the oppressed ; but grind your workmen
and your labourers in private, get a per centage off every man,
and if you have once nailed a man to an undertaking or a con-
tract, keep him to it, though it break him and send his wife
and children to the workhouse. No, no, chevalier, you have
not hit it at all. What you mean, is, that any man in England
can get on who has cunning and knowledge of the world, and
may rise from the handles of the barrow to the hand of the
baronet. Then all the people who would have kicked him if
he had said a word to them in his former station, will be glad
to come to a ball like this, and eat his ices, and drink his
champagne. I flatter myself I’ve got all the fashionable people
in London here to-night.— The Commissioner.
Age is the season of Imagination, youth of Passion ; and
having been long young, shall we repine that we are now old ?
They alone are rich who are full of years—the lord* of Time's
treasury are on the staff of Wisdom, their commissions are en-
closed in furrows on their foreheads, and secured to them for
life. Fearless of fate, and far above fortune, they hold their
heritage by the great charter of nature for behoof of all her
children, who have not, like impatient heirs, to wait for their
decease ; for every hour dispenses their wealth, and
bounty is not a late bequest, but a perpetual benefaction.
Death but sanctifies their gifts in gratitude ; and their worth
is more clearly seen and profoundly felt within the solemn
gloom of the grave.— Christopher North.
It is often from the storehouses of imagination that strong
minds draw the rich ore from which they manufacture splendid
realities. Ambition finds there her materials; love his gayest
robes; passion gains there many a choice for his own ends ;
and even science and philosophy have often to thank imagina-
tion for many a grand discovery, for many a bright and happy
suggestion,


The Moralist
THE USE OF THE SENSES.
Vaunt not of thy body, because it was first formed ; nor of
thy brain, because therein thy soul resideth. Is not the
master of the house more honourable than its walls t
The ground must be prepared before corn be planted ; the
potter must build his furnace before he can make his porcelain.
As the breath of Heaven sayeth unto the waters of the deep,
This way shall thy billows roll, and no other ; thus high and
no higher, shall they raise their fury; so let thy spirit, O man,
actuate and direct thy flesh ;so let it repress-its wildness.
Thy soul is the monarch of thy frame; suffer not its subjects
to rebel against it.
Thy body is as the globe of the earth, thy bones the pillars
that sustain it on its basis.
As the ocean giveth rise to springs, whose waters return
again into its bosom through the rivers, so runneth thy life
from thy heart outwards, and so runneth it into its place again.
Do not both retain their course for ever ? behold, the same
God ordaineth them.
Is not thy nose the channel to perfumes ? thy mouth the
path to delicaeies ? yet know thou, that perfumes long smelt
become offensive, that delicacies destroy the appetite they
flatter.
Are not thine eyes the sentinels that watch for thee ? yet
how often are they unable to distinguish truth from error ?
Keep thy soul in moderation, teach thy spirit to be atten-
tive to its good; so shall these its ministers be always open to
the conveyance of truth.
Thine hand is it not a miracle ? is there in creation aught like
unto it ? wherefore was it given thee, but that thou mightest
stretch it out to the assistance of thy brother ?
Why of all things living art thou alone made capable of
blushing ? the world shall read thy shame upon thy face :
therefore do nothing shameful.
Fear and dismay, why rob they the countenance of its ruddy
splendour? Avoid guilt, and thou shale know that fear is
beneath thee ; that dismay is unmanly.
Wherefore to thee alone speak shadows in the visions of
thy pillow ? reverence them, for know, that dreams are from
en high.
Thou man alone canst speak. Wonder at thy glorious
prerogative ; and pay to him who gave it thee a rational and
welcome praise, teaching thy children wisdom, instructing the
offspring ©f thy loins in piety.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 32.
Charity should begin at home, but not end there.
Chasten thy son while there is hope.
Cheap is the service of virtue, and yet how dearly we pay
for vices.
Cheerfulness and good nature are the ornaments of virtue.
Cheerfulness is medicine for the mind.
Cheerfulness is perfectly consistent with piety.
Cheer up, God is where he was.
Cherish the buds of pity, and they will bloom with bene-
volence.
Cherish thy friend, and temperately admonish thy enemy.
Chicanery is the buckler of a rogue.
Chide not severely, nor punish hastily.
Children are certain cares, but very uncertain comforts-
Lawyers. —That lawyer who does not believe in an original
Lawgiver and Judge of the universe, ought by no means to he
entrusted with the cause of a single client. That physician
who doubts whether or no he himself hath a soul, ought not to
have the care of another man’s body. And that clergyman
who, in eating, drinking. &c., does not keep a strict eye on his
body, is most unfit to undertake a cure of souls. — Skelton.
Practice. —I take practice to be the best rhetoric to enforce
practical divinity : and, I am sure, without practice no divinity
ean be effectual to save our souls. —Sir Geo. Wheler.
Talent. —The omnipotency of mere talent is the grand
delusion with which the devil is now deceiving the nations.—
Budd.
Spiritual Pride. — It is easier to take away carpets and
curtains from our drawingrooms, or ornaments from our dress,
than to take away uncharitableness from our spirits, bitterness
from our tempers, censoriousness from our tongues, and, worst
of all, pride, even that most hateful species ef it, spiritual pride,
out of our hearts. — White.
Select Poetry.
THE FRIENDS OF MY YOUTH.
[From u Sacred Lyrics,
by Richard Huie
M.D.
Friends of my youth! Where are ye ? On the strearr
Of joyous life we gaily launch’d together;
Bloom’d then each bank, as in a fairy dream,
Serene the sky, and placid was the weather!
But ye are gone, and have not told me whither'
Alone my bark is drifting down the tide;
Alone she floats, nor one companion with her,
To hail her progress, or her motions guide!
Alone I seem to live, where all is dead beside!
Friends of my youth! Where are ye! On the bank
Scarce here and there the willow branches wave,
To mark the spot where some fair vessel sank
Beneath the billows, to a watery grave!
Ah 1 was there non© for you the storm to brave!
None o’er the deep the friendly line to throw ?
None from oblivion dark your names to save,
Or on the lost one simple stone bestow,
To tell what truth, what worth, what beauty rest below ;
Friends of my youth! Where are ye 1 On the gloom
Of midnight drear I often fix mine eye;
And seem to view, returning from the tomb,
The joys of other moments gliding by!
’Tis then I wipe the tear, and check the sigh,
And bid the hymn replace the plaintive moan;
But morning dawns, the sainted visions fly,
I stretch my arms to grasp them—but they’re gone—
And I am left again—sad —comfortless l —alone!
Friends of my youth! Where are ye ? Lost awhile '.
But not for ever! No 1 The hour shall come,
When I shall meet you with a fairer smile,
And taste the raptures of your heavenly home !
Cheerless, indeed, and lonely here I roam!
But there is One, who is my pilot still;
One, who, amidst the tempest’s thickest foam,
Can grasp the rudder with a master’s skill,
And steer my skiff to land, and safety, if He will!
DEATH.
BY MISS PARDOE.
This is a world of care,
And many thorns upon its pathway lie ;
Weep not then, mothers, for your fond and fair—-
Let the young die 1
Joys are like summer flowers,
And soon the blossoms of their beauty fall;
Clouds gloom o’er both ; brief are of both the hoars—-
Death ends them all!
This is a world of strife,
Of feverish strugglings, and satiety,
And blighted enterprise—what then is life ?
Let the strong die!
All human love is vain,
And human might is but an empty sound;
Power both of mind and body bringeth pah*—
Death is its bound I
This is a world of wo,
Of heaviness, and of anxiety ;
Why cling we then to evils that we know ?
Let the old die!
Wrestlings with fell disease,
Vain lamentations o’er departed years;
It not age rife with these ?
Death dries all tears!
This is a world of pain ;
There is a “ better land ” beyond the sky;
A humble spirit may that portion gain—
Let the just die!
But let those shrink with dread,
Whose days have been of evil, lest they And,
When all their earthly hopes are withered,
Despair behind !
Let them implore for aid,
A fitter recurd of their years to give ;
And lean on Him who mercifully bade
The sinner live!


iSotiu to ©orrcspontjcnts.
“ Tyro” will find that his first tale is capable of great Improve-
ment, if he will afford the necessary “ time to copy” it out
legibly end correctly. Although we are more desirous to receive
tadcs written on Colonial data, we shall willingly insert Cha-
rity after the necessary emendations are made. It is left at
the Office.
11 Australian Fables, No. 3,” is acknowledged, with thanks.
u T, L. D.” We thank our correspondent for his prompt answer
to our appeal; and regret that his present favor reached us too
late for insertion this week.
CATALLACTICS, [mutatas dicere formas.]
AN INTRODUCTION TO NEW SPECULATIONS. [In nova fert
animus]
“In nova fert animus mutatas dicere formas !” How
lucky we did not live in the days of Ovidius Naso !
We should then have been reciting before Augustus
Ctesar “ poetical metamorphoses,” which children
laugh at, instead of publishing to our comprehensive
and cultivated patron, the public in general, Scienti-
fic Catallactics, which men, women, and children,
enjoy, admire, and practise. Whatever portion of
poetry may have been infused in our original com-
position, has been so chastened down by sober thought,
that we fear we could not gravely sit down and tell
you, that Narcissus was metamorphosed into a daffy-
down-dilly, or Niobe transplanted into an acacia
ever-weeping tears of gum-benzoin. No, we should not
have been able in such case to preserve the solem-
nity which distinguishes us.
On the day that we finished our lectures on flax,
we had occasion to go shopping, which is not our
practice, and not a good practice, for the ladies
always make better bargains without us. However,
we did buy a piece of printed cotton that day for
our daughters, and some other things, as striped shirts
for our boys. Under the influence of our late labours,
and the suggestions arising out of Mr. Mitchell’s
display of fresh goods, we are irresistibly led to
compare human nature to a piece of linen or cotton
cloth. When we went first to business, the legal,
that is, the excise denomination of what are now
called printed cottons, was printed linens. There was
then a duty and drawback on them of Sjd. per
square yard, or Bs. 3d. per piece of §8 yards." They
were also called 'plates. But the thought now pre-
dominant in our mind is, (as indicated by the reten-
tion at that time of the term linens) the recentness
of the invention with us of cotton fabrics, for in
India and China they have long existed, —the late
and sudden and opportune rise of the cotton manu-
facture in Great Britain, —and the powerful agency of
minute industry in every important crisis and revo-
lution that has been, recorded as favourable to the
human race.
Allison, in that standard and healthy-toned work,
his “ History of Europe,” says, and our personal
friend, Peter Parley, confirms th@ observation, that
this sudden and opportune rise of the cotton trade
enabled Great Britain to contend with the world in
arms, to maintain that just and necessary, but expen-
sive, and at first, ill-conducted war, which preserved
the liberties and civilization of Europe, and pre-
vented the return of the middle ages in their reverse
form, namely of heterogeneous and mcohesive demo-
cracy, in lieu of baronial oppression and devastation.
Be that as it may, (and we beg you to understand
Peter’s observation was contained in a letter we lately
received not intended for publication) we, Gaffer,
are individually sure that tha cotton manufacture
has conduced in a degree, unexampled except by the
invention of printing itself, towards the dissemination
of knowledge, and the increase of social strength,
wisdom, and happiness. These two inventions have
co-operated,—they have both been providentially
opportune, and rapid in growth ; both distinguished
by the application of minute industry; both incal-
culable in their effects ; and serving purposes which,
from their benignant and indestructible nature, may
fairly be termed sacred. Let us suppose that the in-
crease of the human race to which instruction by the
press is as yet accessible has been sevenfold, and that
instruction itself has been applied in a sevenfold
ratio, during the last century, then fifty times the
quantity of material and philosophical, secular and
religious knowledge, is now administered amongst
these nations than was so done in the year 1745.
That any power, spiritual or temporal, should in the
present state of advancement of education attempt, or
hope to stop its further developement and fertilizing
influence, seems utter madness. Yet there are nu-
merous barbarous hordes, and there are evil-princi-
ples enow alive in the very centres of civilization,
which might concuss and consume this mighty sys-
tem of conjoined mental and physical machinery.
Bern avertai ! We have mentioned the year of the
Scottish rebellion. It suggests the consideration how
many Hielandmen, erst and otherwise breekless, and
delighting in brawls and cattle stealing and cas-
tle burning, are now doctors of medicine, attorneys-
at-law, residents in native courts, charges d’affairs,
and governors in foreign places, explorers in all the
six hemispheres, (for in Thomson’s Atlas there are
no less) Knights Commanders of the Bath, Knights of
the Hanoverian Guelphic, F.R.S., M.L.S., F. G.S.
&€., &c. Think of that one country's case —the “ per*-
fervidum ingenium Scotorum” totally changed by the
force of letters, so that it would be impossible longer to
recognize them by that characteristic. Such is the
power of the press, aided by the quantity and cheap-
ness of cotton rags. Yes, the words and ideas
sound mean, —but they are not the less true and fit.
Some have likened the natural mind to a piece of soft
sealing wax—others to a tabula rasa—others have
spoken of its unstained purity and innocence—but we
say, (refraining to touch lightly on supernal sources
of reparation) that human nature is not at first of
that imagined purity ; it is coloured in its earliest
formation by elements interwoven and inherent in its
fibrous tissue, which must be extracted by careful
processes, before the shining purity, by poetsfabled,and
by fond parents believed, of infancy can be acquired.
Against, and during its acquisition, many antago-
nist influences concur ; —and even if, during the
chaste and secluded nurture of boyhood, in rare cir-
cumstances, the description of Chaucer should be just,
“ A little scholar, scarcely seven years old, —
A simple infant with a ready ear,” —
and again,
“ Sweet is the holiness of youth.”—
and though it is undoubtedly true, on more than hu-
man authority, that the foundation of all future
excellence must be laid in the hearts and understand-
ings of children, rather than those of their parents
already wedded to evil courses, —still all that can
be reasonably expected, when the conflict of life
! begins, is not the preservation of unsullied whiteness,
, but rather the acquisition of secondary qualities,


which will overlay, smooth and brighten both the
original native dimness and the subsequently con-
tracted tarnish.
Oh, barren and inane philosophy, that forced to
acknowledge the incontrovertible truth of hereditary
malformations, and constitutional predispositions and
predominances of particular constituents of cha-
racter, and professing to hold high belief of the per-
fectibility of the human race, yet provides no mo-
tives, no discipline, no system of means, by which to
ensure the desired progression, except such motives,
discipline, and system, as presuppose an already ex-
alted degree of attainment. That system of theism,
which is too abstract to satisfy the human soul until
it has been invaded and overmastered by gross super-
stition, charges the Deity with a strange thing—with
having from the first framed an imperfect moral and
material creation ; with having subjected his crea-
tures to moral laws that are inefficient, and physical
laws that are incontrollable ; both kinds being at the
same time productive of suffering to those who attend
to them, as well as those who do not, as the experience
of thousands of years has demonstrated, for neither
under patriarchal, hieratical, despotic, or demotic
rule, whatever degree of strength, happiness, free-
dom, or intelligence, may have been acquired by com-
munities, can it be truly said that individuals have
attained to conduct at all becoming the ideal dignity
of their nature. The votaries of this rational philo-
sophy despise the creed of those who account for the
present unhappy condition of the race, by denomi-
nating it degeneracy, and by referring it to a mys-
terious law, established at the beginning, and inse-
parably connecting the conduct, spiritual state, and
sentence of the first man with those of his descend-
ants. Yet, does their system avoid the difficulty, when
it recognizes a like transmission to prevail in the subse-
quent divisions of the scale'? or, does it more clearly
solve the question of moral justice and responsibi-
lity, which arises from the fact of such transmission,
with respect to the actions and the sufferings of mor-
bid humanity ? Nay, as it refuses to accept those
means of restoration which depend upon the same
mysterious principle, the connexion constituted be-
tween the race and their representative, it virtually
rejects both responsibility for action and justice in
punishment. Unfortunately also it furnishes, at least
it defines, no means on which we can rely for effect-
ing the gradual improvement of individual man.
Even the improvement of communities —the ame-
lioration of those institutions by which the re-
dress of wrongs betwixt man and man is provided
what dangers are they not subject? Extend-
ing our contemplation beyond this contracted sub-
lunary scene, which this system, in its best form,
does not exclude, the necessity of a restorative in-
fluence, different from, and superior in efficacy to
what by any training can be awakened in the human
mind, will becojne still more manifest. By this sys-
tem we are all the creatures of circumstances and
constitution, but the most favourable external disci-
pline, acting on the most felicitous combination of
natural faculties, cannot be depended on as sufficient
to mould, settle, and unalterably establish in a career
of unswerving progression the being whose attain-
ments on this side of futurity are so far below his
own ideal of the consummate excellence suitable to
his nature. One difficulty stands materially in the
way of every attempt to train the man —that we do
not know the heart, the secret impulses and alms—
and consequently the motives, and other means of
correction of the imagined irregularity, may but in-
crease the disorder and debasement which reallv
exists, while time and opportunities may not be
allowed for varying the application. How frequently,
as youth are circumstanced, it is necessary to put
them forth into the contest of life—to expose them to
its seductions, and charge them with its burdensome
duties, before they have acquired any habits of self-
control, and beyond the control and tuition of others,
before their minds are sufficiently matured to com-
prehend philosophic teaching, and before the exercise
has been commenced of those moral sentiments whose
dictation human laws can after all but clumsily take
down.
But the sure promise, and easy conditions, on
which we are permitted to found our hopes of elevat-
ing permanently the character and condition of our
little ones, are consistent with an early, short, and
otherwise deficient course of education, and if evil
I influences should occur to delay awhile the springing
of the good seed sown, yet, the life-giving power
being present, fruit may appear after many days
GAFFER GRAY.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
CONTINUATION OF VEGETABLE CHEMISTRY
Op the vegetable productions most in use, must be
ranked the various kinds of flour of which bread is
made. Wheat, barley, oats, and sometimes rice and
potatoes, are made into bread. All these materials
can be reduced to a powder or flour, and are therefore
called farinaceous plants, from the Latin word farina,
which signifies flour. The Germans make use of
barley for their common bread, the Scotch use oats,
the Indians rice, but the Americans, the French,
the English, and the southern nations of Europe,
confine their usage entirely to wheat.
All the various kinds of corn used for bread are first
thrashed , to separate them from their outer skin or
rind, and the seed is then ground in a mill. The
flour of wheat is more easily made into paste or dough
than any other corn, on account of its possessing an
adhesive matter called gluten. It is owing to the
greater abundance of gluten in wheat, compared with
other grain, that it is more nutritious. The wheat
grown in the south of Europe is more plentifully sup-
plied with gluten than that of other parts, and is there-
fore more esteemed. It is owing to this condition of
the wheat in those parts, that the manufacture of
macaroni and vermacelli are almost exclusively car-
ried on there.
In the making of wheaten bread the flour is first
mixed with water, when the gluten contained in it
becomes subject to a partial decomposition •, this is
usually accelerated by the addition of yeast, which is
the froth of fermenting beer. In this state the paste
is allowed to remain until the decomposition of the
gluten is so perfected as to have affected the whole
mass of dough, and produced in it the internal motion
called fermentation. At this period of the process
the dough must be very closely attended, for if the
dough be not put into the oven at the exactest time,
the excitement would increase, and the bread would
become acid. The composition of bread with wheaten
flour must have been knowrn in very early ages, for it
is thus spoken of in the book of Hosea, “ They are as


Impeufectness of Humah Knowledge. —The caterpillar,
on being converted into an inert scaly mass, does not appear
to be fitting itself for an inhabitant of the air, and can have no
consciousness of the brilliancy of its future being. We are
masters of the earth, but perhaps we are the slaves of some
great and unknown beings. The fly that we crush with our
finger, or feed with our viands, has no knowledge of man,
and no consciousness of his superiority. We suppose that we
are acquainted with matter and all its elements, yet we
cannot even guess at the cause of electricity, or explain the
laws of the formation of the stones that fall from meteors.
There may bs oeings, thinking beings, near or surrounding us,
which we do not perceive, which we eannot imagine. We
know very little, but in my opinion we know enough to hope
for the immortality, the individual immortality, of the better
part of man. —Sir Humphry Davy.
Knowledge.— Knowledge may be defined to be the pos-
session of truth. Upon the importance of knowledge it is, hap-
pily, in the present age unnecessary to dilate with any great
prolixity. The uses of knowledge are numberless and sub-
lime : confined to no class, peculiar to no country, but inter-
esting to all upon whom the Deity hath bestowed the incom-
parable gift of reason.
Enteilfgauf.
ARRIVALS.
January 25.—The steamer William the Fourth , Wiseman*
from the Clarence River the 23rd instant.
January 26.—The steamer Shamrock, Gilmore, from Port
Phillip the 19th, Launceston the 22nd, and Boyd Town the
25th instant.
January 26.—The steamer Sovereign, Cape, from Moreton
Bav the 23rd instant.
January 26.—The schooner William, Freeman, from More-
ton Bay the 20th instant.
January 27.—The schooner Waterlily, Hayle, from Hobart
Town the 18th instant.
January 28.—The brig Christina, Saunders, from Port Phillip
the 23rd instant.
DEPARTURES.
January 23.—The barque Agincourt, Neatby, for Ceylon.
January 23.—The schooner Edward, Tallan, for Boyd Town
and Twofold Bay.
Jaunary 23.- —The schooner Mary Anne, Amner, for Laun-
ceston.
January 23.—The schooner Clarence, Jacks, for Port Albert.
January 26. —The barque Victor, Morgan, for Manila.
January 28.—The American whaler Levant, Russell, for the
whaling grounds.
JHarrmgcs.
At St. Philip’s Church, by special license, on Saturday, the
25th instant, by the Rev. Dr. Cowper, Mr. Henry Sargeant,
to Charlotte Phoebe Mortimer, youngest daughter of Mr. John
Cadman, Cadman’s Wharf, Sydney.
At Appin, on the 27th instant, by the Rev. H. D. D.
Sparling, B. A., Robert K. Broughton, Esq., of Tumut River,
to Sarah Emma, third daughter of the late Captain Church, of
Sydney, and widow of the late Captain John Stein.
On Tuesday, 28th instant, Mr. Terence of George-
street, Sydney, to Miss Sarah Linden, eldest daughter of Mr.
tl. Linden, of Sussex-street, Sydney.
Ucatf).
On the 27th instant, Robert Liddell, the infant son of the
Rev. R. K. Sconce, incumbent of St. Andrew’s, Sydney.
©ma'Sß.ri.Si psisjtswct offics,
No. 316, Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE above Office having been removed from 133, King"
street, to those commodious premises, No. 316, PITT
STREET, ( opposite Mr. Foss’ Drug and Grocery Establishment)
arrangements are completed for the quick and accurate per-
formance of Book Work and Job PRINTING, in all its
branches, and to any extent.
J. Reading respectfully solicits a continuance of those
favours which have been extended to him during the last four
years.
November 6th. 1844.
2SSSS-© STKBBT W&BEHOUSS,
JHILL begs to call the attention of the public to his
a extensive stock of Furniture, the whole of whieh has
been manufactured under his personal superintendence, and
is of the best materials and workmanship.
In purchasing at the Establishment of J. H., parties can
depend on being supplied with decent and durable Articles,
at THE LOWEST PRICES IN THE CITY.
We must learn to comprehend the essence of art from
admiration of excellence, rather than from detection of error
— Schlegel.
.ALBERT HOUSE, PITT-3TEEET.
JAMES M‘EVOY, in returning thanks to his friends and
patrons for the very liberal patronage bestowed upon him
since his commencement in business, hastens to inform them
that he has just opened, ex Parrock Hall , a splendid description
of goods, consisting of—
First-rate West of England blue and black cloths.
Buckskins, black and white check cassimeres;
The most splendid description of shawl-pattern vestings
Washing satins, and silk velvets,
Figured and plain satins, for scarfs or waistcoats.
Corded silk ditto, buff cassimeres.
An immense assortment of ducks and drills, unequalled in the
colony for strength and durability.
And a most splendid assortment of cloths and trimmings for
ladies' riding habits.
J. M. also begs to inform the aristocracy and gentry of
Australia, that he has in his possession a collection of
LIVERY BUTTONS,
With crests belonging to the leading families in New South
Wales; and being the only holder of the above in Sydney, ha
feels proud in asserting that no other house can furnish them.
He also respectfully offers his services in procuring from
England any crest button which may be attached to a family,
at a very trifling expense.
January 1.
■A 2USW YEAR’S GIFT FOB THE TEAR 1843.
FORGERY.
HC. JERVIS, General and Practical Engraver, and
. Copper-Plate Printer, grateful for the support he has
received during the past year, begs to announce the arrival,
per Sarah Scott, of a very extensive assortment of plain, faney
and enamelled Cards, which will enable him to execute orders
much lower than heretofore; also, the arrival of a unique
machine ; being the latest and most improved invention for the
suppression of FORGERY.
H. C. J. therefore, in offering his services to the Public
generally, states with great confidence that he is now prepared
to execute every description of Ornamental Ground-work and
Bordering, in a manner never yet attempted in the Colony.
Every description of Engraving and Copper-Plate Printing
executed on the premises.
Observe, 332, Pitt-street North,
opposite Dr. Bland’s.
N. B. No connexion with any other person or persons
whatever.
TO EET,
UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS, in a convenient and
quiet neighbourhood, in the City. Rent moderate. For
cards of address apply at the Office of the Colonial Literary
Journal, 316, Pitt-street.
TO LET.
APARTMENTS suitable for Offices, together with Stable
and Gig House, if required, situate in a central part of
Pitt-street, near King-street, for particulars apply at the Office
of this Journal.
COTTAGE WANTED.
WANTED, a small Cottage on the North Shore, or oth
retired situation, with a small paddock or use of was
ground attached. There must be good water on the premise
and the rent not to exceed 6s. or 7s. per week.
Particulars to be sent to R. B. at the Office of this paper
CO2.OTTZ.AX, JOTnaSTAI,.
SIXPENCE each will be given for clean Copies of the
FIRST NUMBER of the Colonial Ititerary Jottrnal.
Apply at the Office, 316, Pitt-*treet.


A SAX.!bt
WILL be held at Mr. Gray’s, Ligiit-house Hotel, Bathurst-
street, To-morrow Evening 1 , January 31st, 1845. It is
requested that ladies and gentlemen intending to appear in
fancy dress, will forthwith give notice to Mr. Gray, as a limited
number of tickets only will be issued. Dancing to commence
at nine o’clock.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Gray, or any of the Stewards.
TO WOOLGSOW£RS AND SETTLERS.
undersigned, feeling grateful for the measure of
f_ support he has hitherto received, begs to acquaint his
country constituents and other friends, that to meet the present
depressed state of the markets, his sale of charges in future,
for the sale of Colonial Produce, will be as ufider:
Wool, per cent.,
Grain, Hay, &c., &c., above £5O, per cent.
Ditto ditto, under £5O, 5 per cent.
Having had considerable experience in the sale of Wool
and Colonial Produce generally, the undersigned pledges him-
self to obtain the highest rates on all consignments entrusted
to him. Account sales rendered promptly, and the nett
proceeds remitted therewith, or appropriated as advised. The
present mode of selling Wool, &c., without reserve by auction,
lias many disadvantages, not unfrequently failing to prove a
fair criterion of the market value, as a combination of the
buyers may take place prejudicial to the interests of the
seller; again it is not generally understood, (or implied by
advertisement), until made manifest in the return of account
sales, that all Wool, &c., sold by public auction is subject to
A DIRECT TAX OF 1£ PER CENT.!
Orphan dues, which with the addition of auctioneer’s com-
mission, advertising charges, &c., makes a clear charge of at
least THREE PER cent. It must therefore be self evident
that the sale of Wool by private contract, through an ex-
perienced agent, is a much safer and cheaper medium to those
parties interested.
B. S. LLOYD.
General Commission Agent,
10, Bridge-street.
Coloured daguerreotypes \ \
49, HUNTER STREET,
(Two doors from O' Connell-street.)
MR. G. B. GOODMAN has great pleasure to announce
to the public, that he has just received from the
Patentee in England, the new process, lately discovered, of
colouring the Dagu6rr6otype Portraits, and having already
executed some very beautiful likenesses in this style, he will
be happy to submit them to the inspection of those who will
favour him with a visit.
It may be as well for general information to observe, that
these Portraits are taken almost instantaneously, and produce
as faithful a representation of the face and figure as is pre-
sented by standing opposite a mirror, being in fact the reflec-
tion itself fixed permanently in the glass or polished surface,
thus producing in effect a “ Second Self."
The pictures effected by this art are superior to the finest
engravings for delicacy of shadowing and minuteness of
delineation, and have hitherto only wanted colour to make
them perfect, which grand desideratum has been at length
achieved, and Mr. G. B. Goodman hastens to apprise the
public of this most important addition.
On account of the depression of the times the price wil
still be limited to one guinea for the coloured likeness, includ-
ing a handsome gilt and morocco case.
Specimens to be seen at Mr. Isaac Levey’s, Draper, George-
street, and Mr. Aldis’s, Tobacconist; the Bank of Australia;
and at the Photographic Gallery, 49, Hunter-street.
Sydney, November 25.
MARSALA WINE.
rpHE Undersigned are still selling the above Wine at £5 per
JL quarter-cask, warranted equal to any sample in the
Colony.
W. DOWSLEY AND CO.,
Wine and Spirit Stores,
318, Pitt-street,
Opposite Jonathan Thorp and Co.
PORTER, 6s, 6d, PER SOZEKT.
ON Sale, at the Stores of the undersigned, 75, King-stree
West, near York-street, London Porter, 6s. Cd. per
dozen, by the single dozen. Warranted equal to Dunbar.
N. B.—Cash returned if not approved of.
TEBBUTT & CO
B
EX MIDLOTHIAN.
EST LONDON
Best glazed Starch
Best Stone Blue
Best Powder Blue
Bottled Fruits
Pickles and Sauces
Imperial Cap Paper
STARCH
Bag Cap
Cartridge
Royal
News
Cap
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
Imported and on Sale by
BENHAM AND CO.,
George-streef.
• • esieoH jo osn qitM ‘utyoQ pajunoui-qnj
01 l
0 0 Z &
•pmd oq Xqnjjoadsaj qiM uopuajje aaoqM ‘sajea
moj Suimo|{oj aqj }B Sl¥H3Nad j’anpuoo qm sq ‘samp jo
9}B]s paonpaj aqj jo oouonbasuoo ui }eqj ‘apload jo p
pauopuaui-OAoqe aqi uijojui oi sSaq ‘TTIH NHO J.
•Xaup^s
jo Arj sq} jo ejdosd jo ssei3 jojooj pue oqi oj.
'foupfig f ‘ — m otf
iNawHsnavisa onihsinhoj sih iv
‘•wnf ‘THH AZHOX AS
'aaHsiNHnd sTV^aNnd
COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country.
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will b@ continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor ot
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 816
Pitt-street,” (post paid.)
Colonial literary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. Ihe
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay the last two quarters ’ subscription, together with the
present one in advance, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for tßis Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland . Mr. Galloway;
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool • • • • Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
