

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SEB PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 14.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1844.
[Price 4d.
ELOQUENCE.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
What is Eloquence? On which side shall we turn
for a reply ? How narrowed and confined are the
ideas and conceptions of many upon this and similar
subjects. If we question the restless demagogue, he
will tell us that it is the method of inducing others to
believe that which we believe not ourselves. The
political man will confine its meaning to the angry
debates of party, and point you to one and to another
whose eloquence had astonished, and surprised, and
conquered, even the stubborn and unyielding hatred of
party opposition. The lawyer reduces its standard to
the pitiful cavillings and captious quibbles of his pro-
fession. Should you tell him that eloquence reigns
beyond the little circle of his own influence, he will
be unable to comprehend you. The divine has more
exalted views. He measures eloquence by the sub-
ject upon which it is employed; arid, in as much as
the interests of eternity are superior to those of time,
in so much do his views surpass the grovelling ideas
of others. What then shall we give as a definition of
■eloquence? Shall we accord our opinions to those
of the worldly man—the demagogue—the statesman
the lawyer or the divine ? If so, eloquence has
no real standard save the fluctuating and evanescent
embodiment with which, as with a garb, men may
adorn it, and which dress must depend upon the ideas
they entertain of its peculiar excellencies as adapted
to the requirements of their own individual pro-
fessions. Shall we then confine our views of this
divine emanation to such grovelling conceptions—or
rather miscpncept^is—as these ? God forbid ! His
own works would iXd up in judgment and condemn
us at every step wg, took in our onward march
through life.
The solitary tear is eloquent as it courses its way
adown the prematurely care-worn cheek of the youthful
orphan, when in silence he begs his way from door to
door receiving with meekness the surly repulse, the
cruel gibe, or the more imperative command of the
haughty and the rich. His cheek is pale, for sickness,
and hunger and nakedness, and disease, have each
left an insidious spot that tells of “ the worm, the
canker and the grief.” Men may not notice that
tear, but it is there, and angels see it—and its simple
eloquence is felt amongst the brightest of Heaven’s
bright spirits. It is the eloquence of the heart that,
disdaining the employment of words, sends forth from
meeTri Wll J g Se . nsib ! ]i ty a tear > the simplest, the
meekest, and only visible representative of its woes
and its sorrows. And, to the keen observer of human
nature, that silent expression of the grief which cannot
be uttered is more truly eloquent than words. To
kindred breasts it speaks with a power not of this
world—its language is the language of the mind—it is
from heaven, heavenly—it lias not been formed by
the ingenuity of man. Yes ! grief is indeed eloquent.
Nor is it only in the silent emotions of the human
heart, oppressed and groaning beneath its thousand
cares, that eloquence reigns supreme. There are other
objects which pour forth floods of eloquence—elo-
quence not the less real because silent. To the mind
of the atheist these charms are a dead letter —an un-
meaning sound. Whilst to others, nature is teeming
with a language whicK the reflecting mind cannot fail
to interpret. That eloquence is alike expressed in
the gentle murmurs of the evening breeze as it whis-
pers its refreshing tale, and in the loud roaring of the
tempest, as it rushes on in its fury, carrying deso-
lation and death in its devastating train. It is alike
heard beneath the pale moonbeams, as they shine
refulgent amidst the silent glory of the night; and
beneath the scorching blaze of the meridian sun,
pouring its fire upon the swarthy slave employed at
his daily toil. It is heard by the gentle and refresh-
ing whispers of the placid stream, when amidst groves
and meadows it steals smoothly on ; and amongst the
loud roarings of the cataract, as it hurls its boiling way
amidst the craggy rocks that rise like giants to oppose
its rage. All nature is eloquent. In the calm and in
the storm in the morning and in the evening—by the
smooth river and the howling abyss—praises arise as
an incense and an offering to that Power which formed
and which sustains them.
Gaze on each or any of the beauties of nature —
allow your mind to recur to their Maker—and, believe
me, they will speak more eloquently than language
can describe—than thought can conceive. Their lan-
guage is not of earth —its origin is heavenly, and the
soul that holds converse with it becomes exalted, and
has a foretaste of those joys which nothing in this
world can ever yield.
How eloquent is silence ! There is no real con-
tradiction in the thought. The men of this world
—busy and bustling as it is—have no inclination
for solitude. Its charms to them are but the vague
and undefined creations of a heated imagination
unreal and visionary—vain and impotent. The
petty cares and anxieties of business are the only
realities with which they are conversant; and the
pleasures and pursuits of a day comprise their onlv


happiness. The lonely hour—the hour of apparent
solitude —has no voice that can commune with their
minds now : by and bye, death and judgment, with
their startling realities, will draw near, and they will
then listen for this voice to cheer them, and to assure
them of peace, but they will find it not—no, no.
There are who can amidst the deep and solemn
silence of the night discover an eloquence breathing
from all the created works of nature.
Though all around seems drear and dark,
Still God himself reigns there.
They muse upon the vast magnitude of those works —
upon the wild waste of waters that roll slumberingly
on, terrible even in its calmness—upon the huge re-
volving world which they inhabit—and upon the starry
architecture of heaven. These breathe a language
which the mind alone can interpret; and they tell of
a Power that sustains as it created them ; of a Power
’ whose attributes are vast, glorious, incomprehensible;
and of whose glory they are but the faint reflection—
the dim and changing shadow. Yes! silence, such as
this, is indeed eloquent.
Biography.
SOCRATES.
In the life of this distinguished man, we find one of the most
noble models of wisdom and virtue in ancient times. Socrates
was a native of Athens in Greece, where he was born, four
hundred and seventy years before the Christian era. His
parents were in humble circumstances ; his father being a
statuary of little reputation, and his mother a midwife. Our
accounts of his youth are very imperfect; but it may be con-
fidently asserted, that, notwithstanding the poverty of his
father, he received a good education, according to the notions
of his age and nation. After receiving the elements of his
education, he was impelled by his genius to acquire informa-
tion on the most important subjects of human knowledge. At
that time the Sophists, a class of teachers of the nature of
mind, matter, the destiny of man, and other abstruse points,
were perverting the heads and corrupting the hearts of the
Grecian youth, and Socrates placed himself under the instruc-
tion of the most celebrated of these blind guides ; but he soon
abandoned the halls of these pretenders, and resolved to obtain
by his own reflection what others were unable to give him, and
to penetrate by patient thought to true knowledge.
While in thi3 frame of mind, Socrates became deeply affected
by reading an inscription on the temple of Apollo at Delphi.
This striking inscription consisted only of two words, Know
Thyself ; but it gave a serious turn to his thoughts. He
began to study himself, to reflect upon the phenomena of his
own mind, to meditate on the destiny of mankind ; and he re-
solved to devote his life to instructing his fellow-citizens in
their highest good, and making them wise, honest, and pious.
It should here be explained, that at this period of Grecian
history it was very common for profound thinking men to
devote themselves to be teachers of all that was then known
of divine and human knowledge. It will be recollected that
as yet there was nothing known definitely or correctly on these
subjects. The whole Grecian people were heathens ; they
worshipped gods of their own imagination or creation ; and
four centuries had yet to elapse before the sun of Christianity
was to rise *o illuminate the moral darkness. Socrates, like
others, was a worshipper, or an honourer, of his country’s
deities ; yet it is learned from authentic record, that he was
also a believer in one great God, the acknowledged creator of
all things. With our present limited extent of information, it
is extremely difficult for us to comprehend how these ideas of
a multiplicity of heathen gods and of one Supreme Being were
compatible ; yet it seems such was the case. It was also cus-
tomary for the kind of teachers we are speaking of, to believe
themselves to be ambassadors sent by God; and by a similar
strange infatuation, Socrates believed himself to be commis-
sioned by the Deity; and to the close of his life adhered to this
extravagant delusion.
Socrates commenced his career as a teacher of mankindin a
character entirely opposed to that of the Sophists. While
they were distinguished by display and wealth, Socrates ap-
peared in a poor cloak, which he wore at all seasons of the
year ; and he even disdained the use of shoes, by which circum-
stance we may form an opinion of the enthusiasm which
affected his actions. In his capacity of an instructor of the
people, he did not confine himself to splendid halls of lecture,
but occupied his time from the dawn of day in seeking persons
whom he might instruct in all that is important to mankind in
general, and to the private circumstances of each. He went to
the public assemblies, and the most crowded streets ; or entered
the workshops of mechanics and artists, conversing with them
on religious duties, on their social and political relations, on
all subjects relating to morals, and even on agriculture, war,
and the arts. He exerted himself particularly in leading
inquisitive young men to the pursuit of truth and the formation
of habits of thought. Wherever he went, he was attended by
a circle of disciples, who caught from him the spirit of free
inquiry, and were inspired with his zeal for the highest good,
for religion, truth, and virtue. The succeeding schools of
philosophy in Greece are therefore justly traced back to him ;
and he is to be regarded as the master who gave philo-
sophical investigation among the Greeks its highest direction.
Among his most distinguished disciples were Alcibiades, Crito,
Xenophon, Aristippus, Phaedon, Cebes, Euclid, and Plato. It
appears that he gave them instructions in politics, rhetoric,
logic, ethics, arithmetic, and geometry; he also read with them
the principal poets, and pointed out their beauties. Hitherto
the Greeks had no correct system of morals, and Socrates was
the first of their teachers who endeavoured to inculcate practical
morality. He showed the difference between religion and
impiety; explained in what the noble and ignoble, justice and
injustice, reason and folly, courage and cowardice, consist;
what constitutes a state, and what a statesman ; spoke of
forms of government, and what qualities are requisite in
a magistrate; besides other subjects, the knowledge of
which he regarded as important to a good man, and of
which none but the mean-spirited are content to remain
ignorant. All his inquiries took a practical turn, and he
valued speculation and theory only as connected with prac-
tice; for the end of all knowledge, he affirmed, is virtue. —
Socrates was fully convinced of the existence of an all-ruling,
almighty, wise, good, and omniscient Being. The system of
nature, and especially the admirable structure of the human
frame, seemed to him a positive proof of a Creator. He
esteemed it rash to speculate upon the substance of this lofty
being, and deemed it sufficient to set in a clear light his spiri-
tual nature. It is evident that he worshipped one God as the
creator of the world and the judge of all mankind ; because
Xenophon represents him as speaking expressly, several times,
of one God only ; although in other places he speaks of gods,
which he seems to have regarded as subordinate to the Supreme
Being. Yet, as we have already said, it is difficult to under-
stand how such a wise man as Socrates should, at one and the
same time, have believed in one God the Creator, and a variety
of petty gods, or rather chiefs, and others who had been deified


by his ig"i • uit countrymen. This is one of those curious
inconsistencies of character which cannot well be accounted
for; although there is reason to suppose that he merely ho-
noured h country’s gods, according to the usages which anti-
quity and custom had consecrated, in order not to offend the
prejudices of his weaker brethren.
(To be continued.)
ET CÆTERA, OR &c.
Wnr.N a public speaker, in some spouting exercise,
becomes tongue-tied, bog-shot, or as some call it,
“ hard up,” i. e., unable to go on, he generally pulls
our his pocket handkerchief, and falls for relief on that
gutteral anti-choke word “ ahem,” —and sometimes
almost splits his thorax with laudable attempts to re-
move the mucous secretion there collected, in order
that his audience may not attribute his stoppage to a
deficiency of matter, but a superfluity of phlegm.
It is surprising that a public monument has never
been erected in remembrance of the important services
rendered by this word “ahem” to the spouting com-
munity, and can only be accounted for, by the fact,
that the services of this gruntal apologist are too well
recollected, and too deeply engraved on the hearts of
public speakers, to need a monumental remembrancer.
Similar obligation is also owed to the word heading
this article “ though with this difference —the
obligation is not confined to one class, but extends to
all. We called it a word, but this is not properly
descriptive, we might rather call it a sentence, for to
imagine that any word, however comprehensive, could
imply as much as this “ does, would be indeed a
mighty triumph of concentrative phraseology. But
insteau of calling it either a word or a sentence, it
would perhaps be more proper to place it among the
pauses, as a fresh stop, and name it “the note of
accommodation,” for it seems to be the great make-
shift of all classes on all occasions.
We can scarcely look at any sign over the shops of
our city but this note of accommodation presents itself
to our view. One styles himself a woollen draper, fyc.
which we are told is the polite way of describing a
tailor—another is a hair-dresser, <§*c, which is the
modest mode of informing by-passers that they may
have their chins polished within ; while a boot and
shoe-maker affixes tyc. to comprehend the cobbling
and patching part of his business. A joiner or car-
penter describes himself as a cabinetmaker, fyc. —and
the aristocratic name of builder or architect, with fyc.
added, is brought to comprehend the whole tribe of
such pro essional artists, as bricklayers, stonemasons,
and plasterers, or indeed any other clod-hopper who
carries a measuring tape, and can use pretty freelv the
words Doric, lonic, Gothic, or such like, if even he
cannot tell the base from the hypothenuse of a triangle;
and if some of these would not be audacious enough
to put such a high-sounding appellation on their signs,
yet most would be highly aggrieved if they were°not
addressed by such apologetic phraseology. There
are, however, some exceptions to this rule, for the
other day having to address some circulars, I sent one i
to a tradesman of my acquaintance who combined in his
“ establishment” draperies, groceries, and some other
trifling branches of business ; so following the spirit of
the times, I directed it to Mr. So-and-so, grocer, See. ;
but finding much shyness in their behaviour afterwards,
1 one day ventured to enquire of my friend what had
occurred, when he told me that his wife was highly
offended at the manner in which I had directed uie
circular, for she said that “ &c” was so comprehensive,
I might as well have at once called him Jack of all
Trades, which she thought I might perhaps mean,
and he himself appeared to have an idea that “ &c.”
was a satirical reference to his varieties of mer-
chandise.
But such uses as these are not the worst part of the
wear and tear of this “ note of accommodation” for
here it has considerable meaning ; but its services are
very frequently called upon when there is absolutely no
need for them whatever, and we find the common-
place talk of some persons so full of etceteras that you
are placed in a situation similar to what I was in, a
few days since, when taking tea at a friend’s house., I
was desirous of tasting some very rich cake which was
on the table, but (as it was so full of fruit) I did not
know whether to call it a plum cake or a cake of
plums—-just so, is the conversation of some people
interlarded and overburdened with etcetera, etcetera,
that we, scarcely can tell whether to call it a chapter
of pauses and periods, or a postscript of incompre-
hensible addenda, as void of meaning, as it is void of
interest.
We must not, however, overlook the great utility
of this note of accommodation to the trading public
in their puffing and advertising departments ; if they
have posters printed, or advertisements inserted, to
make the public acquainted with “ decided bargains,”
“ fresh arrivals,” or “ stock in trade to be sacrificed,”
they wind up their list with one, two, or three, “ &c.” ;
now this not only saves much trouble in the detail,
and is besides a very graphic mode of description, but
it saves considerable expense, and is a vast improve-
ment on the long drawl which some years back would
have finished thus, “ and a variety of articles too
numerous to mention in the limits of a handbill.”
This note of accommodation, is also very useful in
making out their accounts, for it swells the list of
items in a dubious, and yet, most satisfactory manner;
for some of the articles would not half fill a line, and
seem too trivial for the amount charged, if it was not
for the assistance of this incomprehensible note, filling
up the line and swelling out the list.
We must then acknowledge that the services of this
word are very valuable, as it is a most useful “ servant
of all work it serves too, as the flourishing point for
sign-painters, the apology of shamefaced tradesmen,
the winding-up note of puff-printers and bill-makers,
the conversational focus of talkative fools, and the
happy resource of their tongue-tied brethren—it may
be said to embrace the small talk of great men, and
the great talk of little ones—it is the best term pos-
sible for expressing the works of nothingness which
fill up the life time of many persons; and if we were
to gather up into a bundle the worthless horde of
human beings, who never give a thought beyond the
present, we might very properly put them on the shelf,
labelled “ &c.‘”
“ A something, or a nothing,—which you will.”
FREDERICK.
Aids to Anti-working Algebraists. — Q. What are
“Imaginary Quantities?” — A. Pennsylvanian bonds. Q.
What is the negative sign ?— A. A shake of the head. Q.
What is understood by a Radical ?— A. Anything but what he
talks about in public.— Q. What is an “ Impossible expres-
sion ?”— A. To speak of “ unmentionables.” Q. What is a
“significant digit?”— A. The forefinger applied to the nose.
— Punch.


History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XII.
THE WAR BETWEEN GREECE AND I-ERSIA.
1. The ambition of Darius the son of Hystaspes,
heightened by the passion of revenge, gave rise to
the project of that monarch for the invasion of Greece.
The Athenians had aided the lonians, a people of the
Lesser Asia, originally a Greek colony, in an attempt
to throw off the yoke of Persia, and burnt and ravaged
Sardis, the capital of Lydia. Darius speedily reduced
the lonians to submission, and then turned his arms
against the Greeks, their allies ; the exile Hippias
eagerly prompting the expedition.
2. After an insolent demand of submission, which
the Greeks scornfully refused, Darius began a hostile
attack both by sea’and land. The first Persian fleet
of 300 ships was Avrecked in doubling the promontory
of Mount Athos ; a second, of 600 sail, ravaged the
Grecian islands ; while an immense army, landing
in Euboea, poured down with impetuosity on Attica.
The Athenians met them on the plain of Marathon, a
small village near the coast, and within ten miles of
Athens, and, headed by Miltiades, defeated them with
prodigious slaughter, 490 a. c. The Athenian army
amounted to about 10,000 men ; the army of the
Persians consisted of 100,000 foot and 10,000 horse.
The loss of the Persians in this battle was 6,300, and
among these the ignoble Hippias, whose criminal
ambition would have sacrificed and enslaved his
country. The Athenians in this day of glory lost
only 190 men,
3. The merit of Miltiades, signally displayed in
this great battle, was repaid by his country with the
most shocking ingratitude. Accused of treason for
an unsuccessful attack on the isle of Paros, his sen-
tence of death was commuted into a fine of fifty talents
(about £9,4oo,*‘'sterling) ; which being unable to pay,
he was thrown into prison, and there died of his
wounds.
4. The glory of ungrateful Athens Avas yet nobly
sustained in the Persian war by Themistocles and
Aristides. The latter, from a disinterested spirit of
patriotism, and the other, from the ambitious desire
of unrivalled eminence. Darius dying, Avas succeeded
bv his son Xerxes, the heir of his father’s ambition,
but not of his abilities. He armed, as is said by Hero-
dotus, about 5,000,000 of men, (an incredible num-
ber most probably meant by the historian to indicate
a prodigious force) for the conquest of Greece; 1,200
ships of war, and 3,000 ships of burden. Landing in
Thessaly, he proceeded, by rapid marches, towards
the pass of Thermopylae, a very narrow defile on the
Sinus Maliacus (the bay of Malia). The Athenians
and Spartans, aided only by the Corinthians, Thes-
pians, Plataeans, and /Eginetes, determined to Avith-
stand the invader. Leonidas, king of Sparta, was
chosen to defend this important pass with 6,000 men.
Xerxes, after a Aveak attempt to corrupt him, impe-
riously summoned him to lay down his arms. c Let
him come,’ said Leonidas, ‘ and take them.’ For
two days the Persians in vain stroA r e to foice their
way, and were repeatedly repulsed Avith great slaugh-
ter." At length, by the treachery of some of the
Thessalians,°who had sold their services to Xerxes, a
secret and unguarded track Avas pointed out to the
Persians, and through this path a numerous body of
the Persian troops penetrated in the night to the
opposite plain. The defence of the pass then became
a fruitless attempt on the part of the Greeks, and
Leonidas, foreseeing certain destruction, commanded
all to retire but 300 of his countrymen. His motive
was to give the Persians a just idea of the spirit of
that foe whom they vainly hoped to subdue. He,
with his brave Spartans, were all cut off except one
man (480 b. c.), who brought the news to Sparta,
where he was treated with ignominy as a cowardly
fugitive. A monument, erected on the spot, bore this
noble inscription, written by the poet Simonides •. * O
stranger, tell it at Lacedaemon, that we died here in
obedience to her laws.’
5. The Persians poured down upon Attica. The
inhabitants of Athens, after conveying their aged and
infirm, together with the women and children, to the
islands of Salamis and iEgina for security, betook
themselves to their fleet, abandoning the city, which
the Persians pillaged and burnt. The fleet of the
Greeks, consisting of 380 sail, was attacked in the
straits of Salamis, by that of the Persians, amounting
to 1,200 ships. Xerxes himself beheld from an
eminence on the coast the total discomfiture of his
squadron. He then fled with precipitation across the
Hellespont. The following year a second overthrow
awaited his army by land : for Mavdonius, at the head
of 300,000 Persians, was totally defeated and himself
killed at Plateea, by the combined army of the Athe-
nians and Lacedaemonians, under the command of
Pausanias, (479 b.c.) The slaughter was incredible,
as, out of an army of 300,000 men, only 40,000 are
said to have returned to Asia. To complete their
triumph, on the same day the Greeks engaged and
destroyed the remains of the Persian fleet at the pro-
montory of Mycale, in lonia. From that day the
ambitious schemes of Xerxes were at an end : and his
inglorious life was soon after terminated by assassi-
nation. He was succeeded in the throne of Persia by
his son Artaxerxes Longimanus, 464 b. c.
6. At this time the national character of the G reeks
was at its highest elevation. The common danger had
annihilated all partial jealousies between the states,
and given them union as a nation. At the Olympic
games, all the people of Greece rose up to salute
Themistocles. But with the cessation of danger those
jealousies recommenced. Sparta meanly opposed the
rebuilding of deserted Athens. —Athens, rising again
into splendour, saw with pleasure the depopulation
of Sparta by an earthquake, which destroyed about
20,000 of her citizens, and hesitated to give her aid
in that juncture of calamity against a rebellion of
her slaves.
7. Cimon, the son of Miltiades, after expelling the
Persians from Thrace, attacked and destroyed their
fleet on the coast of Pamphylia, and, landing his
troops, gained a signal victory over their army the
same day.— Supplanted in the public favour by the
arts of his rival Pericles, a young man of a noble
family and splendid talents, he suffered a temporary
exile of five years; to return only with higher popu-
larity, and to signalize himself still more in the service
of his ungrateful country. He sailed at the head of
an armament of 200 ships, and attacked and totally
destroyed the Persian fleet of 300 sail in the vicinity
of Cyprus ; and, landing afterwards in Cilicia, com-
pleted his triumph, by defeating 300,000 Persians
under Megabyzes, 460 b. c. Cimon now undertook
and completed the reduction of Cyprus, and added


that island to the dominion of Athens ; but this great
man died in the moment of victory, wasted by disease
and fatigue. The naval and military power of Persia
was completely broken by these repeated defeats ; and
Artaxerxes now had the prudence to sue for peace,
which was granted by the Greeks on terms most
honourable to the nation. They stipulated for the
freedom of all the Grecian cities of Asia, and that the
fleets of Persia should not approach their coasts from
the Euxine to the extreme boundary of Pamphylia.
The last fifty years were the period of the highest
glory of the Greeks ; and they owed their prosperity
entirely to their union. The peace with Persia dis-
solving that connexion, brought back the jealousies
between the predominant states, the intestine disorders
of each, and the national weakness.
8. The martial and the patriotic spirit began visi-
bly to decline in Athens. An acquaintance with
Asia, and an importation of her wealth, introduced a
relish for Asiatic manners and luxuries. With the
Athenians, however, this luxurious spirit was under
the guidance of taste and genius. It led to the culti-
vation of the finer arts ; and the age of Pericles,
though the national glory was in its wane, is the era
of the highest internal splendour and magnificence of
Greece.
THE FIRST AND LAST DINNER.
Twelve friends, much about the same age, and fixed, by their
pursuits, their family connexions, and other local interests, as
permanent inhabitants of the metropolis, agreed, one day when
they were drinking their wine at the Star and Garter at Rich-
mond, to institute an annual dinner among themselves, under
the following regulations:—That they should dine alternately
at each other’s houses on the first and last day of the year;
that the first bottle of wine uncorked at the first dinner, should
be re-corked and put away, to be drunk by him who should be
the last of their number; that they should never admit a new
member; that, when one died, eleven should meet, and when
another died, ten should meet, and so on; and that, when only
one remained, he should, on those two days, dine by himself,
and sit the usual hours at his solitary table; but the/rstf time
he so dined alone, lest it should be the only one, he should
then uncork the/rs* bottle, and, in the first glass, drink to the
memory of all who were gone.
There was something original and whimsical in the idea,
and it was eagerly embraced. They were all in the prime of
life, closely attached by reciprocal friendship, fond of social
enjoyments, and looked forward to their future meetings with
unalloyed anticipations of pleasure. The only thought, in-
deed, that could have darkened those anticipations, was one
not very likely to intrude itself at this moment, that of the
hapless wight who was destined to uncork the first bottle at
his lonely repast.
It was high summer when this frolic compact was entered
into; and as their pleasure-yacht skimmed along the dark
bosom of the Thames, on their return to London, they talked
of nothing but their first and last feasts of ensuing years.
Their imaginations ran riot with a thousand gay predictions of
festive merriment. They wantoned in conjectures of what
changes time w T ould operate; joked each other upon their
appearance, when they should meet —some hobbling upon
crutches after a severe fit of the gout-others poking about
with purblind eyes, which even spectacles could hardly enable
to distinguish the alderman’s walk in a haunch of venison-
some with portly round bellies and tidy little brown wigs, and
others decently dressed out in a new suit of mourning fi r the
death of a great-grand-daughter or a great-great-grand-son.
Palsies, wrinkles, toothless gums, stiff hams, and poker knees,
were bandied about in sallies of exuberant mirth, and appro-
priated, first to one and then to another, as a group of merry
children would have distributed golden palaces, flying chariots,
diamond tables, and chairs of solid peai'l, under the fancied
possession of a magician’s wartd, which cou!d transform plain
brick, and timber, and humble mahogany, into such costly
treasures.
“As for you, George,” exclaimed one of the twelve, ad-
dressing his brother-in-law, “ I expect I shall see you as dry,
withered, and shrunken as an old eel-skin, you mere outside
of a man!” and he accompanied the words with a hearty slap
on the shoulder.
George Fortescue was leaning carelessly over the side of the
yacht, laughing the loudest of any at the conversation which
had been carried on. The sudden manual salutation of his
brother-in-law threw him off his balance, and in a moment
he was overboard. They heard the heavy splash of his fall,
before they could be said to have seen him fall. The yacht
was proceeding swiftly along; but it was instantly stopped.
The utmost consternation now prevailed. It was nearly
dark, but Fortescue was known to be an excellent swimmer,
and startling as the accident was, they felt certain he would
regain the vessel. They could not see him. They listened.
They heard the sound of his hands and feet. They hailed
him. An answer was returned, but in a faint gurgling voice,
and the exclamation “Oh God !” struck upon their ears. In
an instant two or three, who were expert swimmers, plunged
into the river, and swam towards the spot whence the excla-
mation had proceeded. One of them was within an arm’s
length of Fortescue: he saw him; he was struggling and
buffetting the water; before he could be reached, he went
down, and his distracted friend beheld the eddying circles of
the wave just over the spot where he had sunk. °IIe dived
after him, and touched the bottom ; but the tide must have
drifted the body onwards, for it could not be found 1
They proceeded to one of the nearest stations where drags
were kept, and having procured the necessary apparatus, they
returned to the fatal spot. After the lapse of above an hour,
they succeeded in raising the lifeless body of their lost friend.
All the usual remedies were employed for restoring suspended
animation ; but in vain; and they now pursued the remainder
of their course to London, in mournful silence, with the corpse
of him who had commenced the day of pleasure with them in
the fulness of health, of spirits, and of life! Amid their
severer grief, they could not but reflect how soon one of the
joyous twelve had slipped out of the little festive circle.
The months rolled on, and cold December came with all its
cheering round of kindly greetings and merry hospitalities :
and with it came a softened recollection of the fate of poor
Fortescue ; eleven of the twelve assembled on the last day of
the year, and it was impossible not to feel their loss as they
sat down to dinner. The very irregularity of the table, five
on one side, and only four on the other, forced the melancholy
event upon their memory.
There are few sorrows so stubborn as to resist the united
influence of wine, a circle of select friends, and a season of
prescriptive gaiety. Even those pinching troubles of life,
which come home to a man’s own bosom, will light up a smile,
in such moments, at the beaming countenances and jocund
looks of all the rest of the world; while your mere sympathetic
or sentimental distress, gives way, like the inconsolable afflic-
tion of a widow of twenty, closely besieged by a lover of thirty.
A decorous sigh or two, a few becoming ejaculations, and
an instructive observation upon the uncertainty of life, made
up the sum of tender posthumous “ offerings to the manes of


poor George Fortescue,” as they proceeded to discharge the
more important duties for which they had met. By the time
the third glass of champagne had gone round, in addition to
sundry potations of fine old hock, and “ capital madeira,”
they had c/ascd to discover anything so very pathetic in the
inequality of the two sides of the table, or so melancholy in
their crippled number of eleven.
The rest of the evening passed off to their hearts’ content.
Conversation was briskly kept up amid the usual fire of pun,
repartee, anecdote, politics, toasts, healths, jokes, broad
laughter, erudite disquisitions upon the vintage of the wines
they were drinking, and an occasional song. Towards twelve
o’clock, when it might be observed that they emptied their
glasses with less symptoms of palating the quality of what they
quaffed, and filled them again, with less anxiety as to which
bottle or decanter they laid hold of, they gradually waxed
moral and tender; sensibility began to ooze out; “ poor
George Fortescue!” was once more remembered; those who
could count, sighed to think there were only eleven of them ;
ajid those who could see, felt the tears come into their eyes, as
they dimly noted the inequality of the two sides of the table.
They all agreed, at parting, however, that they had never
passed such a happy day, congratulated each other upon
having instituted so delightful a meeting, and promised to be
punctual to their appointment the ensuing evening, when they
were to celebrate the new year, whose entrance they had wel-
comed in bumpers of claret, as the watchman bawled “ past
twelve!” beneath the window.
They met accordingly; and their gaiety was without any
alloy or drawback. It was only the first time of their assem-
bling, after the death of “poor George Fortescue,” that made
the recollection of it painful; for, though but a few hours had
intervened, they now took their seats at the table, as if eleven
had been their original number, and as if all were there that
had been ever expected to be there.
It is thus in every thing. The first time a man enters a
prison—the first book an author writes —the first painting an
artist executes —the first battle a general wins—nay, th e first
time a rogue is hanged, (for a rotten rope may provide a
second performance, even of that ceremony, with all its sin-
gleness of character,) differ inconceivably from their first repe-
tition. There is a charm, a spell, a novelty, a freshness, a
delight, inseparable from th e first experience, (hanging always
excepted, be it remembered,) which no art or circumstance
can impart to the second. And it is the same in all the darker
traits of life. There is a degree of poignancy and anguish in
the first assaults of sorrow, which is never found afterwards.
Ask the weeping widow, who, “ like Niobe, all tears,” follows
her fifth husband to the grave, and she will tell you that the
first time she performed that melancholy office, it was with at
least five times more lamentations than she last discharged it.
In every case, it is simply that the first fine edge of our feel-
ings has been taken off, and that it can never be restored.
Several years had elapsed, and our eleven friends kept up
their double anniversaries, as they might aptly enough be
called, with scarcely any perceptible change. But, alas! there
came one dinner at last, which Was darkened by a calamity
they never expected to witness, for on that very day, their
friend, companion, brother almost, was hanged! Yes! Stephen
Rowland, the wit, the oracle, the life of their little circle, had,
on the morning of that day, forfeited his life upon a public
scaffold, for having made one single stroke of his pen in a
wrong place. In other words, a bill of exchange which passed
into his hands for £7OO, passed out of it for £l7OO ; he having
drawn the important little prefix to the hundreds, and the bill
being paid at the banker’s without examining the words of it.
The forgery was discovered—brought home to Rowland —and
though the greatest interest was used to obtain a remission ol
the fatal penalty, (the particular female favourite of the prime
minister himself interfering,) poor Stephen Rowland was
hanged. Everybody pitied him; and nobody could tell why
he did it. He was not poor ; he was not a gambler ; he was
not a speculator ; but phrenology settled it. The organ of
acquisitiveness was discovered in his head, after his execution,
as large as a pigeon’s egg. He could not help it.
It would be injustice to the ten to say, that even wine,
friendship, and a merry season, could dispel the gloom which
pervaded this dinner. It was agreed beforehand, that they
should not allude to the distressing and melancholy theme;
and having thus interdicted the only thing which really occu-
pied all their thoughts, the natural consequence was, that
silent contemplation took the place of dismal discourse; and
they separated long before midnight. An embarrassing re-
straint, indeed, pervaded the little conversation which grew
up at intervals. The champagne was not in good order, but
no one liked to complain of its being ropy. A beautiful paint-
ing of Vandyke which was in the room, became a topic of dis-
cussion. They who thought it was hung in a bad place, shrunk
from saying so ; and not one ventured to speak of the execution
of that great master. Their host was having the front of his
house repaired, and at any other time he would have cautioned
them, when they went away, as the night was very dark, to
take care of the scaffold ; but no, they might have stumbled
right and left before he would have pronounced that word, or
told them not to break their necks. One, in particular, even
abstained from using his customary phrase, “ this is a drop of
good wine and another forbore to congratulate the friend
who sat next him, and who had been married since he last
saw him, because he was accustomed on such occasions to
employ figurative language, and talk of the holy noose of
wedlock.
Some fifteen years had now glided away since the fate of
poor Rowland, and the ten remained; but the stealing hand
of time had written sundry changes in most legible characters.
Raven locks had become grizzled —two or three heads had not
as many locks altogether as may be reckoned in a walk of lialf-
a-mile along the Regent’s Canal —one was actually covered
with a brown wig—the crow’s feet were visible in the corner
of the eye —good old port and warm madeira carried it against
hock, claret, red burgundy, and champagne—stews, hashes,
and ragouts, grew into favour—crusts were rarely called for to
relish the cheese after dinner—conversation was less bois-
terous, and it turned chiefly upon politics and the state of the
funds, or the value of landed property —apologies were made
for coming in thick shoes and warm stockings the doors and
windows were more carefully provided with list and sand-bags
—the fire more in request —and a quiet game of whist filled
up the hours that were wont to be devoted to drinking, singing,
and riotous merriment. Two rubbers, a cup of coffee, and at
home by eleven o’clock, was the usual cry, when the fifth or
sixth glass had gone round after the removal of the cloth. At
parting, too, there was now a long ceremony in the hall, but-
toning up great-coats, tying on woollen comforters, fixing silk-
handkerchiefs over the mouth and up to the ears, and grasping
sturdy walking-canes to support unsteady feet.
Their fiftieth anniversary came, and death had indeed been
busy. One had been killed by the overturning of the mail, in
which he had taken his place in order to be present at the
dinner, having purchased an estate in Monmouthshire, and
retired thither with his family. Another had undergone the
terrific operation for the stone, and expired beneath the knife;
a third had yielded up a broken spirit two years after the loss
of an only surviving and beloved daughter; a fourth was car
ried off in a few days by cholera morbus ; a fifth had breathei
his last the very morning he obtained a judgment in his favour
by the Lord Chancellor, which had cost him his last shilling


f nearly to get, and which, after a litigation of eighteen years,
declared him the rightful possessor of ten thousand a-year —
ten minutes after he was no more. A sixth had perished by
the hand of a midnight assassin, who broke into his house for
plunder, and sacrificed the owner of it, as he grasped con-
vulsively a bundle of Exchequer bills, which the robber was
drawing from beneath his pillow, where he knew they were
every night placed for better security.
Four little old men, of wichered appearance and decrepit
walk, with cracked voices, and dim, rayless eyes, sat down, by
the mercy of Heaven, (as they themselves tremulously de-
clared,) to celebrate, for the fiftieth time, the first day of the
year; to observe the frolic compact, which, half a century
before, they had entered into at the Star and Garter at Rich-
mond! Eight were in their graves! The four that remained
stood upon its confines. Yef they chirped cheerily over their
glass, though they could scarcely carry it to their lips, if more
than half full; and cracked their jokes, though they articulated
their words with difficulty, and heard each other with still
greater difficulty. They mumbled, they chattered, they laughed*
(if a sort of strangled wheezing might be called a laugh); and
when the wines sent their icy blood in warmer pulse through
their veins, they talked of their past as if it were but a yester-
day that had slipped by them—and of their future, as if it
were a busy century that lay before them.
They were just the number for a quiet rubber of whist; and
for three successive years they sat down to one. The fourth
came, and then their rubber was played with an open dummy;
a fifth, and whist was no longer practicable ; two could play
only at cribbage, and cribbage was the game. But it was
little more than the mockery of play. Their palsied hands
could hardly hold, or their fading sight distinguish, the cards,
while their torpid faculties made them doze between each
deal.
At length came the last dinner; and the survivor of the
twelve, upon whose head four score and ten winters had
showered their snow, ate his solitary meal. It so chanced
that it was in his house, and at his table, they had celebrated
the first. In his cellar, too, had remained, for eight and fifty
years, the bottle they had then uncorked, re-corked, and
which he was that day to uncork again. It stood beside him.
With a feeble and reluctant grasp he took the “ frail memo-
rial ” of a youthful vow; and for a moment memory was
faithful to her office. She threw open the long vista of buried
years ; and his heart travelled through them all. Their lusty
and blithesome spring—their bright and fervid summer—their
ripe and temperate autumn—their chill, but not too frozen,
winter. He saw, as in a mirror, how, one by one, the laugh-
ing companions of that merry hour, at Richmond, had dropped
into eternity. He felt all the loneliness of his condition, (for
he had eschewed marriage, and in the veins of no living crea-
ture ran a drop of blood whose source was in his own); and
as he drained the glass which he had filled, “ to the memory
of those who were gone,” the tears slowlv trickled down the
deep furrows of his aged face.
He had thus fulfilled one part of his vow, and he prepared
himself to discharge the other, by sitting the usual number of
hours at his desolate table. With a heavy heart he resigned
himself to the gloom of his own thoughts— a lethargic sleep
im«l° Ver iT“ hi \ h ead fell upon his bosom-confused
images crowded into his mind—he babbled to himself—was
silent and when his servant entered the room, alarmed by a
noise winch he heard, he found his master stretched upon the
caipet at the foot of the easy-chair, out of which he had slipped
in an apoplectic fit. He never spoke again, nor once opened
ns eyes, though the vital spark was not extinct till the fol-
lowing day. And this was the last dinner '. Blackwood's
Magazine.
A DISPOSITION TO SATIRE.
[An Extract.]
A satirical disposition is one of those errors into
which young persons, more perhaps from thought-
lessness or an unsound state of feeling than ill
nature, are very apt to fall. A literary gentleman
in whom we feel much interested, has acknowledged
to us, that, when a very young man, and just begin-
ning to apply his mind to literature, he was much
addicted to satire, and was constantly burlesquing
individuals and communities either by the tongue or
the pen. He is persuaded that this disposition did
not take its rise in any malignity of nature, but only
in a sense of unimportance and obscurity, and a vain
notion of his being superior in some respects to
others, who from position or seniority, enjoyed more
of the world’s regard. He is now deeply sensible of
the impropriety of such conduct, and advises all
young men who may feel the same tendencies,
whether from the same or from different motives, to
pause before they write or speak satirically, as trans-
gressions of this kind, though gratifying at the
moment, are almost sure, when different circumstances
have brought different feelings, to be a source of
bitter regret.
It would be hard to say whether the most admired
satirical compositions have ever done any good, es-
pecially those which were aimed at individuals ; and
certainly those which deal in personal abuse and
sarcasm, if not provoked by attacks equally personal,
are quite as reprehensible an invasion of the rights
of our fellow-creatures, as assaults upon their persons
or depredations upon their property. But the habit
is particularly to be deplored in young persons, who,
instead of rancour and bitterness, might rather be
expected to display benevolence and mildness, and
whose sense of what is right and wrong in others
cannot be supposed to be very clear. The celebrated
Franklin was in his early years much given to lam-
pooning, but as he grew older, he became aware of
the absurdity and wickedness of his conduct, and, in
his account of his own life, he thus adverts to adult
pasquinaders :—“ In the conduct of my newspaper,
I carefully excluded all libelling aud personal abuse,
which is of late years become so disgraceful to our
country. Whenever I w r as solicited to insert any
thing of that kind, and the ivriters pleaded (as they
generally did) the liberty of the press, and that a
newspaper was like a stage-coach, in which any one
who would pay had a right to a place, my answer
was, that I would print the piece separately, if desired,
and the author might have as many copies as he
pleased to distribute himself, but that I would not
take it upon me to spread his detraction ; and that,
having contracted to furnish my readers with what
might be either useful or entertaining, I could not
fill their papers with altercation in which they had
no concern, without doing them manifest injustice.
This I mention as a caution to young printers, and
that they may be encouraged not to pollute their
presses and disgrace their profession by such infamous
practices, but refuse steadily, as they may see by my
example that such a course of conduct will not, on
the whole, be injurious to themselves.”
The opinion of another great man may be adduced
in reference to satirical habits, and their results.
c< Upon considering,” says Sir Walter Scott, “ the
lives and fortunes of persons who had given them


selves up to literature, or to the task of pleasing the
public, it seemed to me that the circumstances which
chiefly affected their happiness and character were
those from which Horace has bestowed upon authors
the epithet of the Irritable Race. It requires no
depth of philosophic reflection to perceive that the
petty warfare of Pope with the dunces of his period,
could not have been carried on, without his suffering
the most acute torture, such as a man must endure
from mosquitoes, by whose stings he suffers agony,
though he can crush them in his grasp by myriads.
* * I determined that, without shutting my ears
to the voice of true criticism, I would pay no regard
to that which assumes the form of satire. I therefore
resolved to arm myself with the triple brass of
Horace against all the roving warfare of satire, parody,
and sarcasm ; to laugh, if the jest was a good one,
or, if otherwise, to let it hum and buzz itself to
sleep. It is to the observance of these rules (according
to my best belief) that, after a life. of thirty years
engaged in literary labours of various kinds, I at-
tribute my never having been entangled in anv
literary quarrel or controversy ; and, which is "a
more pleasing result, that I have been distinguished
by the personal friendship of my most approved
contemporaries of all parties.”
It is indeed hardly necessary to point out how ap-
plicable to this question are the common maxims as
to the return of kindness for kindness, and the equal
certainty of the sword cutting off those who are in-
clined to live by it. There is enough of the sense of
justice in the world to protect the truly inoffensive
and good from assault, or to revenge it if it should
take place, without their being called on to show a
similar spirit in return. Thus even a casual tempta-
tion into the exercise of this dangerous weapon may
be obviated. But it is much to be feared, that,
whatever may be the apparent superiority of the
satirist over his subject, in position, in intellect, or in
moral worth, there is rarely an exercise of the power
which does not spring from some secret consciousness
of a deficiency or inferiority on the part of him who
uses it.
Varieties.
Women are formed for attachment. Their gratitude is
unimpeachable. Their love is an unceasing fountain of delight
to the man who has once attained it, and knows how to
deserve it. But that very keenness of sensibility, which, if
well cultivated, would prove the source of your highest enjoy-
ment, may grow to bitterness and wormwood if you fail to
attend to it, or abuse it.
Variety of Ugliness. —Ugliness is ever vainer than
beauty, and works much harder to win attention. How
assiduously they play off their artillery of repulsion ! Who
ever saw a man with a nose cut out of a crabstick that did not
perk it out or twist it to and fro, the better to show it off! If
he have an eye which looks best when the lids are closed, and
which nature indeed seems to have given him but to sleep
with, he is sure to ogle with it incessantly ; and if his mouth
be of the frog-fashion, it is widened with a perpetual smile.—
Ainsworth's Magazine.
An Unfortunate Habit. —A story is related of a certain
eminent person, who had the unfortunate habit of uttering his
most secret thoughts aloud, that when an amiable young lady
had charmed him with some expressions of maidenly simpli-
city and affection, he took both her hands, and looking into
her face, thought, but in reality said also, as follows : —“You
are a charming little lady, a dear delightful girl— but exceed-
ingly plain !”
Recipe for a Sore Throat.-— A lady’s sleeve wrapped
round it—with an arm in it.
The Origin of Cards.— lt is generally believed that cards
were invented for the amusement of one of the early Kings of
the line of Bourbons; but this belief is erroneous. Who the
man was that invented these instruments of amusement is not
known, neither can we tell in what age they were first
invented. Our knowledge is limited to the country whence
they came—namely, Egypt. The colours are two, red and
black, which answers to the two Equinoxes. The suits are
four, answering to the four seasons. The emblems formerly
were, and still are in Spain—for the Heart, a cup, the emblem
of winter; the Spade, an acorn, the emblem of autumn; the
Club, a trefoil, the emblem of summer ; the Diamond, a rose,
the emblem of spring. The twelve court cards answer to the
twelve months, and were formerly depicted as the signs of the
zodiac. The fifty two cards answer to the number of weeks in a
year; the thirteen cards in each suite, to the number of weeks
in a lunar quarter. The aggregate of the pips, calculated in
the following manner, amount to the number of days in a
year :
The number in each suite 55
4
The number of all the suites 220
The court cards multiplied by 10 120
The number of court cards 12
The number in each suit 13
365 days.
Jonathan again. — Singular! —An eminent artist lately
painted a snow storm so naturally that he caught a bad cold
by sitting near it with his coat off. He is cousin to the man
who became hoarse on Christmas-day, through meeting a man
in the street, dressed in nankin trousers !
An aristocratic Irishman, speaking of his native country,
said it was an execrable place ; in fact, the only thing worth
owning in it was the whisky. “ You mean to say, then,” said
a waggish friend, “ that, with all her faults, you love her
still.”
Popular Toasts.—The following toasts were lately drunk
at the Printers’ Commemorative Festival, at Boston, United
States: Printers—intellectual smelters, who receive the dross
of their labours, while the world gets the metal. Editors —
the locomotives of society; nothing can go a-head without
them. Bookbinders —the best of executioners, without whose
skill no author’s works w'ould hang together. Newspapers—
the intellectual spring into which every body dips his bucket,
whilst few thank the fountain for its supply.
ETYMOLOGICUM PARVUM.
Including Derivations and Affinities, Coincidences and
Conjectures.
No, 11.
Disaster, s. bvg dor?)p, Gr. ill-star, unfavourable horoscope.
Druid, s. bpvg, vog (et qu. ibog,) Gr. deru, Celt, an oak.
Eagle and Child, sign : aiguille et fil, Fr. needle and thread.
Earwig, s. eruca, Lat.
Easter, s. Eoster (oster) Sax. quasi 7) a%[vpo)v] Tp[irr 7] Gr.
the third day of the feast of unleavened bread.
Flagon, s. lagena, Lat. prefixed by an /, or the JEolic
digamma , or double gamma.
Foot, s. irovg irobog, Gr. b, f, p, and v, are cognate letters.
Fortescue, surname: fortis scutum est, Lat. the hero is [the
king’s] shield ; or, “ forte scutum, salus ducum.”
Goat and Compass, sign : [may] God encompass us! One
of the [im]pious sayings of the Commonwealthsmen, during
the rebellion, regicide, and usurpation, of Cromwell and Ins
crew.
Good Woman, sign: ’AyaQa, Gr. the “good woman,” a
Christian female-martyr, who was beheaded by heathens; and
her decollated person painted on a sign, to invite Christians
to refreshment. She is calendared Feb. s— see Boniface.
N.B. While libertines, rakes, and bad husbands, maintain,
that a woman, to be good, must lose her head; the Christian
husband, father, brother, son, and friend, will not forget, that
“ the woman is the glory of the man.”
Helter-skelter, ad. hilariter celeriter, Lat. merrily and
speedily.
Hocus pocus, s. hoc est corpus [Christi], Lat. part of the
old form of giving the bread, by Roman Catholic priests.
N.B. The priests took \liked~] the cup for themselves! The
early Reformers thus exprest their disbelief of Popery, bv
calling any imposture a “ hocus pocus”— see “All my eye and
Betty Martin.”


The Moralist.
WOMAN.
Give ear, fair daughter of love, to the instructions of prudence,
and let the precepts of truth sink deep in thy heart, so shall
the charms of thy mind add lustre to the elegance of thy form ;
and thy beauty, like the rose it resembleth, shall retain its
sweetness when its bloom is withered.
In the spring of thy youth, in the morning of thy days,
when the eyes of men gaze on thee with delight, and nature
whispereth in thine ear the meaning of their looks: ah ! hear
with caution their seducing words; guard well thy heart, nor
listen to their soft persuasions.
Remember that thou art made man’s reasonable companion,
not the slave of his passion; the end of thy being is not
merely to gratify his loose desire, but assist him in the toils
of life, to sooth him with thy tenderness, and recompense his
care with soft endearments.
Who is she that winneth the heart of man, that subdueth
him to love, and reigneth in his breast ?
Lo! yonder she walketh in maiden sweetness, with inno-
cence in her mind, and modesty on her cheek.
Her hand seeketh employment, her foot delighteth not in
gadding abroad.
She is clothed with neatness, she is fed with temperance;
humility and meekness are as a crown of glory circling her head.
On her tongue dwelleth music, the sweetness of honey
floweth from her lips.
Decency is in all her words, in her answers are mildness
and truth.
Submission and obedience are the lessons of her life, and
peace and happiness are her reward.
Before her steps walketh prudence, and virtue attendeth at
her right hand.
Her eye speaketh softness and love ; but discretion with a
sceptre sitteth on her brow.
The tongue of the licentious is dumb in her presence, the
awe of her virtue keepeth them silent.
When scandal is busy, and the fame of her neighbour is
tossed from tongue to tongue; if charity and good-nature
open not her mouth, the finger of silence resteth on her lip.
Her breast is the mansion of goodness, and therefore she
suspecteth no evil in others.
Happy were the man that should make her his wife ; happy
the child that shall call her mother.
She presideth in the house, and there is peace; she com-
mandeth with judgment, and is obeyed.
She ariseth in the morning, she considereth her affairs, and
appointeth to every one their proper business.
The care of her family is her whole delight, to that alone
she applieth her study ; arid elegance with frugality is seen in
her mansions.
The prudence of her management is an honour to her hus-
band, and he heareth her praise with a secret delight.
She informeth the minds of her children with wisdom ; she
fashioneth their manners from the example of her own
goodness.
The word of her mouth is the law of their youth, the motion
of her eye commandeth their obedience.
She speaketh, and her servants fly ; she pointeth, and the
thing is done: for the law of love is in their hearts, and her
kindness addeth wings to their feet.
In prosperity she is not puffed up; in adversity she healeth
the wounds of fortune with patience.
The troubles of her husband are alleviated by her counsels,
and sweetened by her endearments : he putteth his heart in
her bosom, and receiveth comfort.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 14.
An obstinate heart shall be laden with sorrow.
A nod from a lord is a breakfast for a fool. ’
An old goat is never the more reverend for his beard.
An old knave is no babe.
An old naught will never be aught.
An open countenance, but close thoughts.
An open door will tempt a saint.
Antiquity cannot privilege error, nor novelty prejudice a truth.
An upright judge has more regard to justice than to men.
A passionate man rides a horse.that runs away with him
A passionate man scourgeth himself with his own scorpions.
A penny saved is twice earned.
Select Poetry.
REASON AND LOVE.
Reason and Love, one summer noon,
Went out to rove together ;
The wild birds sang their sweetest tune,
'Twas sparkling sunny weather.
Soon the wild boy began to play
Among the leafy bowers,
While Reason warn’d him not to stray,
And talk’d of darkening hours.
Love laugh’d : he heeded not such things
While all was bright about him ;
But shook the sunshine from his wings,
And dared, the Imp! to flout him.
“ Rash boy !” cried Greybeard ; “ prithee move ;
You see how fast day closes—”—
“ How very glowingly,” smiled Love,
“ The sun sets on the roses
Reason still argued—Love grew warm,
And every caution slighted ;
Till Reason yielding to the charm,
They stay’d and were benighted.
And thus the case will ever prove,—
To doubt the case were treason ;
Reason is oft misled by Love,
Love never yields to Reason !
MISS PARDOE.
MUTABILITY.
I saw two children intertwine
Their arms about each other,
Like the lithe tendrils of a vine
Around its nearest brother;
And ever and anon
As gaily they ran on,
Each look’d into the other’s face
Anticipating an embrace.
I mark’d these two when they were men,
I watch’d them meet one day,
They touch’d each other’s hand, and then
Each went on his own way :
There did not seem a tie
Of love, the lightest chain,
To make them turn a lingering eye
Or press the hand again.
There is a page in our life’s book
We all of us turn o’er ;
The web is rent,
The hour glass spent,
And oh ! the path we once forsook
How seldom we recover!
Our days are broken into parts,
And every fragment has a tale
Of the abandonment of hearts
May make our freshest hopes turn pale :
E’en in the plighting of our troth,
E’en in the passion of our oath,
A cold hard voice may seem to mutter
“We know not what it is we utter.”
Mimorl/er.
HOPE.
What is Hope ?—The beauteous sun
Which colours all it shines upon ;
The beacon of life’s dreary sea,
The star of immortality !
Fountain of feelings young and warm ;
A day-beam bursting through the storm ;
A tone of melody, whose birth
Is, oh ! too sweet, too pure for earth !
A blossom of that radiant tree
Whose fruit the angels only see !
A beauty and a charm, whose power
Is seen—enjoyed—confess’d each hour!
A portion of that world to come,
When earth and ocean meet the last o’erwhelming doom.
Ibid .


j&ottce.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to eCorrcsponbcnts.
“A. C’s.” poetical sketches shall be inserted in an early number.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East," (postpaid.)
ißottce to ©ountrp Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents , inhere no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier bios,
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, tve can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
ON THE CONNEXION BETWEEN LIGHT AND
COLOURS.
Nature is coloured as well as illuminated by the
rays of light. Without light there would be no
colours ; all the colours which we see in the rainbow
are found in every single ray of light. The prevail-
ing opinion was once, and no doubt many persons
who have not considered the subject may be found to
adhere to the same notion—that nature was robed in
her own varied colours, and that we see those colours
when the light shines on them. Light emanating
from the sun appears to be all white, for the colours
are not seen unless the ray is reflected and divided.
We owe the discovery of the property of light to
manifest different colours, to the celebrated Sir Isaac
Newton, and we learn from it, that one ray of light
contains seven colours which are only made visible to
us when the ray is under the influence of double
refraction. The dividing a ray of light so as to shew
the various colours, is called the decomposition of
light. Newton’s discovery of the colours in light
was obtained by darkening the room, as heretofore
mentioned, so as to admit one ray of light only
through a small aperture. When the ray of light
rested on the wall, he interposed a glass prism, hold-
ing it in a position to admit the ray to pass obliquely
through two of its surfaces. The ray being thus
interrupted in its passage to the wall, and having to
pass through a new medium, became refracted. A
piece of white paper was then put upon the w r all in
the direction of the ray of light, when there appeared,
instead of the white light as seen before, a beautiful
and bright representation of all the colours of the
rainbow.
Light is composed of seven colours, but these seven
will admit of so many modifications and so great a
variety of shades, as to afford an immense multiplicity
of colours. The seven are thus named according to
their order of position. Violet, indigo, blue, green,
yellow, orange and red. We see these colours when
the sun shines on a shower of rain, the rays become
refracted owing to the dense medium through which
they have to pass, and the colours are made visible to
us ■. as soon as the rain or mist is dispersed they are
again united and the white light returns.
Colours are conveyed to the objects in nature ac-
cording to their capacity of receiving and absorbing
both light and colour. Some substances will absorb
green, some blue, some yellow, &c. ; and some will
absorb all the colours in the spectrum, and some will
absorb none. I may here observe, that a solar spec-
trum is a ray of light in which all the colours are
seen. Every substance upon which light rests has its
peculiar property either to absorb or reflect it. The
colours •which the object does not absorb, are reflected
back to our sight ; for example, the leaves of plants
absorb every colour but green, the green is therefore
reflected to us. The petals of a flower are so consti-
tuted, that one particle will absorb all but red, and
another particle all but yellow ; but when the light
of day departs from them and us, they and we and
all things have no colour, all is blackness or dark-
ness. Those articles which are presented to us as
black, are, in fact, without colour ; they have ab-
sorbed all the light which fell upon them and they
have nothing to reflect. Snow does not absorb any
portion of colour, but reflects back the whole volume
of light which it receives, and its colour is therefore
to us a pure white. Thus we see that light is com-
posed of colours, there is no light without colours,
there can be no colours without light. We may speak
of darkness as we did of cold, it is a negative term.
There is no darkness, there is only an absence of
light. Light travels with such an inconceivable
swiftness that we can never discern its motion. It is
supposed to be owing to the extreme rapidity with
which light travels, that we do not discern its respec-
tive colours, of which can be given the following
example. If you take a circular card, and paint on
it the seven primary colours, then fix it on a wire or
spindle, and whirl it very rapidly round, you will
not see any of the colours, the whole card will appear
to be white.
Besides the rays of light already mentioned, it has
been discerned that the sun also emits some rays
which are intermingled among the coloured, and are
always invisible to us, being known only by their
effects ; these are found to possess the property of
changing some colours, and are therefore called che-
mical rays. We are not well acquainted with the
manner of the process, but it is an established fact,
that both heat and light will produce a change in
some colours. Some of these rays will destroy all
colours, and it is through their agency that the art of
bleaching is accelerated. It is also the presence of
these chemical rays, that causes a fire to become less
bright when light falls on it, for they withdraw the
oxygen from the burning material.
The blessings and utility of light are not confined
to man and animals, for no vegetation will thrive
without the full enjoyment of solar light. In those
countries which lie in the tropical regions, not only
the vegetation and flow r ers, but insects, birds, and
shells, exhibit more splendid, gaudy, and brighter
colours, than the colder and darker climes. We have
also other evidences under our own immediate obser-
vation of the effects of light upon vegetables. The
shoots of a potato when allowed to germinate in a
cellar, are white, feeble, and quite different from those
w r hich grow in an open field ; also Celery, which we
esteem so much for its whiteness, if suffered to grow
in the ordinary way, would be of a deep green colour,
and have a bitter taste. Celery, as it comes to out
table, has been nurtured under the soil, whereby it
has been deprived of all the influences of light. Ine


heart of a cabbage is white only because its outer
leaves protect it from the light. The importance of
light is Avell known to the chemist, for on its presence
or absence, depends many of his scientific results.
The functions of the body are also greatly influenced
by light. Persons shut up in darkness wfill lose their
florid complexion and become of a pale and squalid
appearance.
Hoav great, how grand, hoAV august an object is the
Avide spreading glorious sun! Can Ave be surprised
that ignorant unlearned human beings shall have
made it a subject of adoration ? Assuredly the sun is
a fit emblem of the Divine Power. The sun like his
Creator is ever Avorking for our benefit and pleasure.
“ He never tires nor stops to rest,” he penetrates into
the deepest cavities of the earth, he lightens our dark-
ness, and softens to our vision by reflection, those
brilliant rays which Ave could not else continually
behold and live. His warmth causes the vegetation
of the earth to groAV and ripen for our sustenance.
The air Ave breathe is cleared and rarified by his
influence, and all the sweet variety of colours pre-
sented to our view, are the effects produced on our
vision by the refraction and decomposition of that
light Avhich emanates from his refulgent sphere.—
Besides all these blessings, Ave are also indebted to
the sun for the production of all chemical changes,
Avhether by heat, by solution, by combustion, or by
light, which are found not only beneficial, but neces-
sary to the cultivation of the arts and sciences. May
Ave not say Avith the Psalmist, “ Lord! Avhat is man
that thou art mindful of him, or the sons of men that
thou so regardest them.” But we are not the only
objects of the beneA 7 olent influences of solar light
and heat; other worlds are seen by our own eyes,
through our transparent atmosphere, which are Avait-
ing on him daily for his cheering properties, and no
doubt myriads of grateful souls are sending forth
their mental orisons to the Creator of the sun, for the
marvellous bounty bestowed on them and us, and all
creation through the medium of the never failing orb
of day.
B.
MATHEMATICS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. VII.
With Archimedes, mechanics began to be considered
theoretically ; by him the principles of the lever,
inclined plane, pulley, and screw Avere first explained ;
after Avhich the science Avas neglected, and seemed
almost to be forgotten, as far as concerned its theory,
till the sixteenth century, when it again revived
under the talent of Stevinus, a Fleming, Avho solved
the true theory of the inclined plane ; he inferred,
that Avhen a body is in equilibrio upon a plane, the
retaining poAver : the Aveight: : the height of the plane
to its length.
This mathematician died about the year 1635,
having elucidated many points in the theory of me-
chanics, and by his attention to it induced others
equally talented to bestoAv theirs to the subject.
It was further improved by Galileo, who directed
his attention to the Avhole of the mechanical poivers,
and determined the laAvs which regulate the movements
of the pendulum, namely, that its oscillations are
in proportion to the square roots of its length ; he
Avas also the first to reduce mechanical proportions to
mathematical formulae.
But the most important of all Galileo’s discoveries
was the law which regulates the gravitation of bodies.
The theory of mechanics afterwards received con-
siderable improvements from the pupils of Galileo.
Torricelli accelerated it towards its climax by
his propositions on projectiles, and his refutation of
the absurd doctrine, that nature abhorred a vacuum ;
he also came to the decision, that it was the pressure
of the atmosphere alone which supported a column of
mercury, and which was the cause of the ascent of
water in pumps. The impulse thus conspicuously
given to the science of these great men drew r others
forth, and induced succeeding philosophers to bestow
that attention to the subject which it so eminently
deserved; the necessary consequence was, that the
theory of mechanics from being confined, now em-
braced a very wide field, which added further impor-
tance to the new science, as it was then termed.
Castelli, another pupil of the “ Tuscan artist,” in
the year 1638, produced a treatise on Hydrodynamics,
which treats on the motion of fluids (non-elastic) and
the force with which they act on bodies, which he
determined to be in proportion to the area and the
velocity of the fluid in motion or set in motion. The
aqueducts of the Romans prove how intimately ac-
quainted they were with the practical part of this
subject. In the seventeenth century, the motions of
bodies along given curves were considered by Huygens,
a Hollander, Avhose father had held the high office of
secretary to three princes of Orange successively.
This celebrated man occupies a high position amongst
the philosophers who have benefited science generally,
and his discoveries may safely be considered as a
connecting link between Galileo’s and Newton’s,
whose theory—when advanced in life—he frankly
received, and immediately acknowledged as indisputa-
bly correct. How great a contrast to the tardy and
unwilling reception given to it by cotemporary French
philosophers, because they were annoyed that such
grand discoveries should emanate from any other
country than France, and as long as possible shut
their eyes to the truth as advanced by the luminous
intellect of an English Newton. But Huygens,
though sixty years old, was not so actuated by jealousy,
he eagerly admitted the reasonings, and rejoiced at the
further elucidation of science ; w r ell might this expe-
rienced and liberal philosopher adopt Solon’s boast,
“se senem fieri, aliquid quotidie addiscentem .” The
year 1695 closed his philosophical career. In 1661,
he, in conjunction with Wallis and Wren, simultane-
ously discovered the true law's of percussion.
From this period, mechanics, in conjunction with
other branches of mathematics, received constant im-
provements by men of great intellect and justly cele-
brated fame.
In 1687, Newton’s Principia appeared, which com-
mences Avith the three Avell known laws that regulate
motion .
First, All bodies possess an innate poAver termed
vis inertice, or tendency to remain in a state of rest;
or, if set in motion, to continue thatmotion perpetually,
unless retarded by some obstruction, and which must
always exist as long as natural laws remain as they
are; hence the fallacy of “perpetual motion” is evident.
Second, Is the foundation of Curvilinear motion,
namely, the change of a state of rest to that motion is
in proportion to the intensity and direction of the
I acting force.


Third, Consists in this, that action is equal to re-
action, for if we strike any object, say with the hand,
the blow received, or rather the resistance of the
object, is equal to the action or force of the blow given.
Of those specially deserving notice after Newton,
Euler, D’Alembert, La Place and Clairnelt are con-
spicuous, who determined the positions of a body
revolving about and attracted by another, and con-
tinually disturbed by a third, which constitute the
basis of the motion of the planetary system.
Thus mechanics carry us from the simple conside-
ration of the power and utility of the lever to the
phenomena of the heavens, nay, of the universe itself,
and bring us to another branch of Mathematics,
namely, Astronomy ; for though a mechanic may be
thoroughly versed in the theoretical laws of his prac-
tice, yet it does not follow that he has had either
time or leisure to become an astronomer, or that he
has had the means to supply himself with the requi-
sites for that study, which are numerous and costly.
T. L. D.
ON THE PRIMUM MOBILE OF THE BLOOD IN
THE LUNGS AT BIRTH;
UTS COMPLETE VITALIZATION OR ANIMALIZATION; AND ITS
SUBSEQUENT CIRCULATION.
BY WILLIAM SHERWIN
M. R C. S., of London.
[Re-printed by permission of the Author.]
REMARKS.
The human body may be represented as composed of innu-
merable pipes and tubes, infinitely minute, and containing
fluid, of small cells and larger cavities, all air-tight; and all
cor; tailed in one great air-tight sac—the skin.
The chest is divided into three air-tight cavities, containing,
in the right and left cavities, the lungs; in the centre cavity,
the heart.
The lungs communicate with, and are distended by, the air
through the wind-pipe, which is composed of incomplete car-
tilaginous rings, united by membrane, always open, and
becomes wholly membraneous and more and more elastic as it
advances and sub-divides in the lungs, until it is so completely
attenuated that it is scarcely visible.
The heart is a hollow* double viscus, has no connection
with the external air, and consists of a right auricle and
ventricle, and a left auricle and ventricle, and each auricle and
ventricle have direct communication with each other by an
aperture.
The lungs, the heart, and the whole of the body, commu-
nicate freely with each other by means of air-tight tubes and
pipes, called blood-vessels.
The blood-vessels consist of arteries and veins.
The arteries are tubes proceeding from the heart to the
capillaries of the lungs and system generally, and have no valves
except at their exit from the heart.
The veins are also tubes, and are supplied with valves
through their whole course; and proceed from the capillaries
of the lungs, and of the system generally, to the heart.
The lungs in the foetus are dense and firm.
The heart in the foetus is single, the auricles being connected
by the foramen ovale, the ventricles by the ductus arteriosus.
Respiration is the act of breathing, commences at birth, and
consists of Inspiration and Expiration.
* The heart, being a hollow muscle, dilates by a peculiar
power dependent on its organic structure, and dilatation may
be only relaxation to such muscles, and the terms dilatation
and relaxations are synonymous when speaking of the heart.
Inspiration (ordinary) is performed principally by the con-
traction of the diaphragm, and the intercostal muscles, which
dilate the chest.
Expiration (ordinary) is performed principally by the re-
laxation of the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles, aided
by the elasticity of the cartilages of the ribs and sternum, and
the elasticity of the lungs, and by contraction of the oblique,
transverse, pyramidal and rectus muscles of the abdomen
which contract the chest,* &c.
THE FIRST INSPIRATION.
When the new-born infant first inspires, air rushes into the
lungs through the windpipe and distends the lungs, producing
a new and increased dreaior the blood, without increasing its
quantity.
expiration.
Expiration follows—the inspired air is pressed out of the
lungs, (these attempt to revert to their collapsed foetal state
indeed, to form a vacuum,) blood rushes into their capillary
vessels through the pulmonaryf artery, (the blood is diverted
from the aorta!; by the suction of the lungs, in their attempt to
collapse) empties the right ventricle,§ (this contracts at the
same moment, excited thereto by the stimulus of the move-
ment of the blood,) the right ventricle by relaxation or dilata-
tion, sucks in the blood from the right auricle,|| the right
auricle by a similar action, takes the blood from the venae
and systemic capillaries—this venous circulation being
further aided by atmospheric pressure.
SECOND INSPIRATION.
Inspiration takes place, the lungs (the capillaries** of
which now possess blood,) are again forcibly distended by air
which mechanically presses the blood out of the pulmonary
* Expiratory muscles aid the abdominal circulation by
pressing on the several abdominal viscera, &c., and contract
when the inspiratory muscles relax—that is, just at the moment
when the right auricle dilates and sucks in the abdominal
venous blood alopg the venas cavae.
f Pulmonary artery supplied with valves to prevent regur-
gitation of blood from the lungs in inspiration, and also to
prevent regurgitation of blood into right ventricle when it
dilates.
X Now the ductus arteriosus closes.
§ Right ventricle supplied with valves to prevent regurgi-
tation of blood into auricle when the ventricle contracts.
|| No valves. The contractile power of the auricles appears
to be very trifling. It may therefore be presumed that they
act as reservoirs to the blood for the ventricles, and also to
receive the retrograde blood when the ventricles contract.—
The reticulations in the right auricle are doubtless to thoroughly
mix the circulating fluid before it is submitted to be oxygenized
in the lungs.
Venae cavae have muscular fibres, probably to counteract
the effect of the atmospheric pressure forcing, and the ventricle
sucking, the blood through the auricle with too great force, or
to resist retrograde motion of blood produced by contraction of
auricle.
** It is not to be understood that the whole of the blood
passes out of the capillaries of the lungs at each inspiration,
but only that proportion of it which has become oxygei ized,
when the same, or about the same, quantity passes through the
systemic capillaries, having been deoxygenized. Nor is it either
to be understood that at the first expiration the whole of the
blood is drawn into the lungs at once, but only gradually, as
the pulmonary capillaries become developed for its reception,
when the quantity of blood in the pulmonary capillaries is
probably the same as in the systemic capillaries ; and it is also
probable that neither of these capillary systems are ever even
nearly emptied, but that they are reservoirs in which the
blood is retarded ; and as no quantity of homogeneous fluid so
circumstanced can be in a state of rest, it follows that every
globule of the circulating fluid is subjected to a particular
action in the capillaries of the lungs, and also in the systemic
capillaries —in the one system (pulmonary) for the purpose of
being oxygenized or vitalized, in the other system (systemic)
to be deoxygenized or to impart nutriment to the several com-
ponent parts of the body—thus the two systems are always
acting in unison—the one receiving, the other distributing.


capillaries along the pulmonary* veins to the left auriclef
(now a distinct cavity by closing of forame novale,%) the blood
is then sucked into the left ventricle by its dilatation, (the
auricle contracts at the same moment,) and is 1 propelled thence
by contraction of left§ ventricle, through the aorta|| to the
systemic capillaries.
RECAPITULATION.
Pulmonary arterial circulation is performed by the contrac-
tion of the right ventricle, and by expiration ; and pulmonary
venous circulation, by inspiration, and by dilatation of the left
auricle and ventricle —and
Systemic arterial circulation, is performed by the contraction
of the left ventricle, and is aided by the increasing area of the
arteries from their origin at the heart to their termination in
the capillaries. Therefore, on opening an artery near the
heart, the blood will pass out by jerks, but as it advances
towards the capillaries, the area at length becomes so much
increased, and the velocity of the blood consequently so much
diminished, that this appearance is no longer perceptible, and
the blood has even been said, (though very erroneously,) to
cease to flow in the capillaries. These vessels, (the systemic
capillaries and arteries,) being full of blood and the valve of
the aorta being closed, prevent the blood from regurgitating
when the atmospheric pressure commences on the capillaries
of the veins—the auricle being at the same time dilated, the
double power of suction of auricle and of atmospheric pressure
is applied to the venous circulation, consequently upon opening
a vein the blood will flow in a continuous stream, and will
increase in velocity the nearer it approaches the heart, the area
of the veins diminishing (being the reverse of the arteries)
from the capillaries to the heart.
The use of the numerous valves in the course of the veins,
and tli£ reason of the superficial position of these vessels, is
now apparent; and the reason of the absence of valves in the
course of the arteries, and their deep seated position, and the
use (though this not the only use) of the valve in the aorta at
its exit from the heart, is not less evident; and the whole of
this wonderful and elaborate system of mechanism is evidence
of design and forethought in suiting the means to the end
intended by our great originator.
The “ Primum Mobile” of the blood in the lungs at birth is,
then, the result of Expiration ; its complete “ Vitalization
Animalization ,” is the effect of Inspiration ; and its “ Circula-
tion,” is the result of the combined actions of Respiration, and
contraction and dilatation or relaxation of the heart, aided by the
circum-ambient pressure of the atmosphere, upon the principles
of Hydrodynamics.
* Pulmonary veins furnished with muscular fibres to pre-
vent too great an influx of blood to the auricle when it dilates
in inspiration, or retrograde motion of blood when the auricle
contracts in expiration.
f Left auricle, no valves.
+ The foramen ovale is closed by its semilunar valve being
pressed down when circulation takes place in the pulmonary
veins, and its floating margin extended by flocculi, as I have
observed in the hearts of lambs, forming two distinct auricles;
the heart becomes two or doubled—the right with its vessels
to propel the blood to, and convey it from, the lungs ; the left
with its vessels to propel the blood to, and convey it from, the
system generally; both auricles continue to contract and dilate
simultaneously (the same of the ventricles) as they did in the
foetal state.
§ Left ventricle supplied with valves to prevent regurgita-
tion of blood into auricle when the ventricle contracts. 0
ll' 4 orta su PPbed with valves to prevent return of blood to
ventricle when it dilates, and to counteract the pressure of the
atmosphere on the systemic capillaries.
If The nervous system of foetuses that have not yet breathed
does not seem sensible to the action of poisons.— (Magendte,
Tv!. or , ve t " e ve bis or arteries at any time any feeling:.
(Bichat, 221, 222, 228.) No organ continues to act without
receiving arterial blood.—(Magendie, 336.) Brain nor nerves
not called into full action till breathing takes place.— Bichat,
221—6. 1 Gen. c. ii, v. 7. and Deuty, c. xii, v. 23,
HISTORY OF SUGAR.
[From Mr. Galt’s Literary Autobiography.]
I was led to investigate the history of Sugar by a
casual remark of the late Sir Joseph Banks, one day
at breakfast. I forget now how the conversation
arose, but he inquired whether I had met with any
remains of the sugar-cane in Sicily, mentioning that
it had been previously produced in the island of Crete,
but the sugar manufactured in that island was more
crystalized than ours, and was called, from the place
where it was boiled, sugar of Candi, otherwise sugar
Candy, and it seems never to have been prepared
better there than in that form.
It is certain, however, that in the year 1148 con-
siderable quantities of the article were produced in
the island of Sicily, and the Venetians traded in it;
but I have met with no evidence to support the Essai
de V Histoire du Commerce, in which the author says
that the Saracens brought the sugar-cane from India
to Sicily.
“ The ancient Greeks and Romans,” says Dr.
William Douglas, “ used honey only for sweetening.”
And Paulus iEgineta, who calls it cane-honey, says
it came originally from China, by the East Indies and
Arabia, into Europe. Salmasius says however, that
it had been used in Arabia nine hundred years
before. But it is certain that sugar was only used in
syrups, conserves, and such like Arabian medicinal
compositions, where it was first introduced into the
West of Europe; but Mr. Wotton, in his * Reflections
upon Ancient and Modern Learning,’ says that the
sugar-cane was not anciently unknown, since it
grows naturally in Arabia and Indostan ; but so little
was the old world acquainted with its delicious juice,
that “ some of the ablest men,” says he, “ doubted
whether it was a dew like manna, or the juice of the
plant itself.” It is, however, certain that raw sugar
was used in Europe before the discovery of America.
Herrera, the ancient historian, observes that sugar
grew formerly in Valencia, brought thither by the
Moors ; from thence it was transmitted to Grenada,
afterwards to the Canary Islands, and lastly, to the
Spanish West Indies.
About the year 1419, the Portuguese planted the
island of Madeira with sugar-canes from Sicily ; and
Giovanni Batero, in an English translation of his book
in 1606, on the ‘Causes of the Magnificence and
Grandeur of Cities,’ mentions the excellence of the
sugar cane of Madeira, from which it was transported
to the West Indies; and there can be no doubt that
Madeira was one of the first islands of the Atlantic
Ocean in which this important article was earliest
manufactured.
In 1503, two ships arrived at Camperre, laden with
sugar from the Canary Islands. As yet, it is said,
no sugar canes were produced in America, but soon
they were transplanted from those islands to the
Brazils.
It was about this time (1503) that the art of refin-
ing sugar was discovered by a Venetian, who is said
to have realised a hundred thousand crowns by the
invention. Our ancestors made use of it as it came
in juice from the canes, but most commonly used
honey in preference.
Prom the Brazils and Canaries sugar canes were
brought and planted in the island of Hispaniola, and
in the same year sugar was brought from the Brazils
into Europe. The commodity was then very dear,


and used only on very rare occasions, honey being
till then the general ingredient for sweetening of
meats and drinks.
When sugar was introduced into England first is
doubtful ; but in 1526 it was imported from St.
Lucar, in Spain, by certain merchants of Bristol, who
bought the article which had been imported there
from the Canary Islands.
In the year 1641, the sugar cane was imported from
the Brazils into Barbadoes, and being found to thrive,
sugar mills were established. A Colonel James Drax,
who began the cultivation with about three hundred
pounds, declared that he would never return to England
till he had made ten thousand a year ; and Colonel
Thomas Modyford was still higher in his expectations.
It was from the island of Barbadoes that the slave
trade began. The first planters, finding such immense
profit, induced the merch; its at home to send ships
with assorted cargoes f he product of the island,
but they found it impossib to manage the cultivation
of sugar by white people in so hot a climate. The
example of the Port agues ; gave birth to the negro
lave trade, and it flourished till abolished by Act ot
Parliament; but in that age it was a most flourishing
Lusinr p. and the ports of London and Bristol had the
main supplv. Barbadoes, in the year 1569, attained
its ulnm * pitch of prosperity. In a pamphlet entitled
* Trade Revived,’ it is spoken of as ‘ having given to
men of low degree vast fortunes, equal to noblemen ;
that upwards of a hundred sail of ships there yearly
find employment, by carrying goods and parser ;us
thither, and bringing thence other commodities,
whereby seamen are bred and custom increased, our
commodities vended, and many thousands employed
therein, and in refining our sugar at home, which we
formerly had from other countries.”
In 1670, our sugar colonies drew the means of
support from what were theu our North American
Colonies, particularly New Y'ork, Pennsylvania, and
the Jerseys ; and the first time that sugar was made
subject to taxation at home, w r as in 1685. Like
other merchandise, it was previously subject to a five
per cent, poundage.
In 1739, the importation of sugar from the West
India Islands was so great, that there was a relaxation
of our colonial policy towards them ; and they were
permitted to carry their sugar to any part south of
Cape Finisterre, without being obliged to land them
first in Great Britain. From this time sugar has con-
tinued to increase, and it is needless to pursue its
history further ; it was then a great article of trade,
and, as an ingredient, the consumption has been con-
tinually increasing. Whether the cultivation has
exceeded the wants of the commercial world, or that
the new colonies have been found more fertile than
the old, I cannot pretend to say ; but at this moment,
[about 1838] the proprietors of the sugar estates are
suffering at all hands, and their greatest calamity is
not the emancipation of their slaves.
ANECDOTE OF MR. COUTTS, THE BANKER.
Mr. Coutts had a temporary residence at Worthing,
and was in the habit of perambulating, early in the
morning, a sequestered road, where, from the fre-
quency of his appearance, and his rather melancholy
aspect, attired in very faded worn-out clothes, he
attracted the attention of a humane and kind-hearted
gentleman, of limited income, but still one of nature’s
noblemen. After having seen Mr. Coutts for several
mornings as usual passing his house, and attentively
surveyed his deportment, he arrived at the conclusion
that he was a gentleman in circumstances of distress
and difficulty ; and, after long discussion with his
family on the subject, he was completely puzzled in
what manner to offer such assistance as he could
afford. To address a stranger, and attempt to offer
an opinion on appearances, or to interrogate him on
the subject of his finances, he justly judged would
be indecorous, and might be considered by a sensitive
mind highly insulting. The benevolence of this
generous man was almost in despair in what manner to
act with effect , when an expedient occurred to him. Mr.
Coutts was accustomed to walk with his hands behind
his back, and was always apparently in deep cogi-
tation. “ The good Samaritan” w 7 as determined,
therefore, to watch the first opportunity, after he de-
cided on his plan of proceeding ; and the following
morning, having observed Mr. Coutts slowly walking
his usual route when he returned and passed the
house, the gentleman issued forth from it, and treading
cautiously and silently he soon overtook Mr. Coutts,
in one of whose hands (as usual behind his back) he
hurriedly placed a guino —on which, instinctively,
it is presumed, the banker's hands closed 1 This move-
ment, and the rapid departure of the man of benevolence,
w’ere instantaneous. Mr. Coutts stood in astonish-
ment: he found in his hand a guinea, and he saw-,
when he turned round, a respectable person making
gigantic strides until he arrived at a house which he
entered. The entire truth of the occurrence instantly
flashed upon his acute mind ; he marked the residence,
and soon after he entered his hotel he had an inquiry
instituted relative to his unexpected benefactor. It w r as
ascertained that he was a retired merchant, who had
secured from the wreck of a large fortune just suffi-
cient to sustain himself in the decline of life, w r ith a
family of a wife Ej,nd daughter. The great banker
was now as much puzzled as his noble-minded bene-
factor had been, in what manner he could and ought
to acknowledge, and, if possible, reward, this singular-
spontaneous beneficence—in what manner to approach
such humanity and delicacy. At length he lesolved
to invite a select few to a dinner party, and to the
“ retired merchant” he sent an invitation requesting
the honour of his company to dinner on a specific
day. The merchant was astounded —it must be a
mistake —he did not know Mr. Coutts —and the invi-
tation must have been intended for some other indi-
vidual, probably of the same cognomen. He en-
deavoured to find if any person of his own name
happened to be in the tow r n, in order to forward Mr.
Coutts’ invitation, if such proved .to be the fact. No
one of the same name could be discovered; the
superscription was carefully examined —the Christian
and surname, and the residence, were accurately
correct —he must, therefore, be the real “ Simon Pare
intended to be invited. But then, why or wherefore ?
How w r as it possible that Mr. Coutts, the great banker,
would invite a man unknow-n to him, w r ith whom he
had no acquaintance, and whom most probably he
had never seen ? Could it be the stupid deception of
some would-be witling, in an attempt to be facetious
by throwing him into an embarrassing position, an
rendering him ridiculous I In this dilemma a con-
fidential friend was consulted, the invitation produce ,
and it was fully explained that to Mr. Coutts he was


a perfect stranger. The result of the consultation
was, that his friend strongly recommended him to
attend the invitation. As to the cause of it, inquiry
was useless. Mr. Coutts might have heard of the
“ retired merchant” from some of his numerous friends,
and being in the town, and in the habit of giving
dinner parties, he might have thought that mode the
shortest and most agreeable introduction. Accord-
ingly, on the appointed day the “ benevolent mer-
chant” arrived at Mr. Coutts’ hotel, for whom he
inquired, announced himself to the servant in at-
tendance, and was ushered into the drawing-room.
On his entrance an old gentleman arose and ap-
proached him, whom he instantly discovered to be the
very individual in whose hand he had deposited a
guinea! He was overwhelmed with confusion. Mr.
Coutts in the kindest manner took him by the hand,
shook it heartily, and said, “ Sir, I am most happy
to see you.” Then turning to his surrounding friends,
said “ Gentlemen, permit me to introduce to you
Mr. , one of the most kind and generous bene-
factors I ever met in the course of my long life : he
imagined he had met a case of distress, and he re-
lieved it with the greatest delicacy.” Then turning
to the stranger, he continued, “ All my friends here,
Mr. M , are in full possession of the facts. I
assure you, my dear sir, I fully appreciate the good-
ness, the generosity, and humanity of your intentions.
I shall not return your benevolent donation, lest it
should offend you. I shall bestow it on some deserv-
ing object. Of this, however, let me assure you, that
as long as Tom Coutts lives, you shall never want a
sincere and ardent friend.” In a short time after
this “ eventful period,” a cadetship was obtained by
Mr. Coutts for the nephew of his benefactor ; and it
is probably unnecessary to add, for the information
of those acquainted with Mr. Coutts’ disposition, that
the donation of one single guinea, dictated by such
disinterested kindness, was afterwards returned a
thousand fold by the munificent bounty of the great
banker. —Memoirs of the Duchess of St. Albans.
THE IDIOT.
The heart, in many instances, is a better judge even
of propriety in manners than the judgment. The
judgment, in cases touching the conduct of indi-
viduals, is perhaps often too severe j for example, we
are apt to regard with equal contempt the behaviour
of the weak and the silly, without considering, that
under the zero of reason there are many degrees before
the human intelligence sinks to that of the animal
instincts. At least it is charitable to believe so, and it
cherishes amiable sentiments to inculcate that doctrine.
Every reader of dramatic history has heard of
Garrick’s contest with Madam Clairon, and the tri-
umph which the English Roscius achieved over the
Siddons of the French stage, by his representation of
the father struck with fatuity on beholding his only
infant child dashed to pieces by leaping in its joy
from his arms. Perhaps the sole remaining conquest
for histrionic tragedy is somewhere in the unexplored
regions of the mind, below the ordinary under-
standing. amidst the gradations of idiocy. The various
shades and degrees of sense and sensibility which lie
there unknown, Genius, in some gifted moment, may
discover. In the meantime, as a small specimen of
its undivulged dramatic treasures, we submit to our
readers the following little anecdote.
A poor widow, in a small town in the north of
England, kept a booth or stall of apples and sweet-
meats. She had an idiot child, so utterly helpless
and dependent, that he did not appear to be ever alive
to anger or self-defence.
I He sat all day at her feet, and seemed to be pos-
sessed of no other sentiment of the human kind than
confidence in his mother’s love, and a dread of the
schoolboys, by whom he was often annoyed. His
whole occupation, as he sat on the ground, was in
swinging backwards and forwards, singing “ pal-lal”
in a low pathetic voice, only interrupted at intervals,
on the appearance of any of his tormentors, w hen he
clung to his mother in alarm.
From morning to evening he sung his plaintive
and aimless ditty ; at night, when his poor mother
gathered up her little wares to return home, so de-
plorable did his defects appear, that while she carried
her table on her head, her stock of little merchandise
in her lap, and her stool in one hand, she was obliged
to lead him by the other. Ever and anon as any of
the schoolboys appeared in view, the harmless thing
clung close to her, and hid his face in her bosom for
protection.
A human creature so far below the standard of
humanity was nowhere ever seen ; he had not even
the shallow/ cunning which is often found among
these unfinished beings; and his simplicity could not
even be measured by the standard we would apply to
the capacity of a lamb. Yet it had a feeling rarely
manifested even in the affectionate dog, and a know -
ledge never shewn by any mere animal.
He was sensible of his mother's kindness, and Low
much he owed to her care. At night, when she
spread his humble pallet, though he knew not prayer,
nor could comprehend the solemnities of worship, he
prostrated himself at her feet, and as he kissed them,
mumbled a kind of mental orison, as if in fond and
holy devotion. In the morning, before she went
abroad to resume her station in the market-place, he
peeped anxiously out to reconnoitre the street, and
as often as he saw any of the schoolboys in the way,
he held her firmly back, and sang his sorrowful
“pal-lal.”
One day the poor woman and her idiot hoy were
missed from the market-place, and the charity of
some of the neighbours induced them to visit her
hovel. They found her dead on her sorry couch, and
the boy sitting beside her, "holding her hand, swinging
and singing his pitiful lay more sorrowfully than he
had ever done before. He could not speak, but only
utter a brutish gabble ; sometimes, however, he
looked as if he comprehended something of what was
said. On this occasion, when the neighbours spoke
to him, he looked up with the tear in his eye, and
clasping the cold hand more tenderly, sunk the
strain of his mournful “pal-lal” into a softer and
sadder key.
The spectators, deeply affected, raised him from
the body, and he surrendered his hold of the earthly
hand without resistance, retiring in silence to an ob-
scure corner of the room. One of them, looking
towards the others, said to them, “ Poor wretch!
what shall we do with him'?” At that moment he
resumed his chaunt, and lifting two handfuls of dust
from the floor, sprinkled it on his head, and sung
with a wild and clear heart-piercing pathos, “ pal-
lal—pal -1 al. ’ ’ — Domenich ino.


COftSaSSRCZAZ. ESVSSW.
The markets generally continue languid, without any prospect
of improvement for some time to come. During the past
week the Sugar ex Thomas Lowry has changed hands, and the
stock on hand increased by other arrivals. In this article spe-
culation is apparent. A decline in price may be also antici-
pated in the Tea market, in consequence of recent importations
ex Maid of Athens, Annie, and Munroe, amounting to upwards
of 6,060 chests.
The Wheat and Flour markets remain without alteration.
Colonial produce the same as former quotations.
B. S. LLOYD,
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
September 25th, 1844.
Shipping Entclligcncc.
ARRIVALS.
September 18.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port Macquarie, the 17th instant, with maize.
September 22.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Cape, from Moreton Bay 20th instant, with wool, &c.
September 22—The schooner Star of China, 112 tons, Cap-
tain Tiniey, from Port Nicholson the Ist, and Port Nelson the
7th September, with oil, wool, flax, &c.
September 23.—The schooner Maid of Athens, 220 tons,
Captain Hews, from Macao the 16th June, and Balli the 31st
July, with tea, sugar, &c.
September 23.—The schooner Waterlily, 155 tons, Captain
Hayle, from Hobart Town the 13th instant, with potatoes, &c.
September 23.—The barque Giraffe, 264 tons, Captain
Grant, from Launceston the 16th instant, with wheat, &c.
September 43.—The brig Annie, 177, Captain Potter, from
Hongkong the 4th July, with tea.
September 24.—The schooner Edward, 87 tons, Captain :
Tallan, from Boyd Town, Twofold Bay, with tallow, wool, &c.
September 24.—The schooner Eagle, 108 tons, Captain
Hodges, from Circular Head, with potatoes.
September 24. —The brig Munro, 225 tons, Captain Balfour,
from Manila the 20th with sugar, tea. &c.
DEPARTURES.
September 18.—'The brig 'Diana, Captain Tullock, for
Launceston, via Port Fairy, with sundries.
September 18.—The schooner Will Watch, Captain Forbes,
for Monteray and the Colombia River, with sundries.
September 20.—The brig Calypso, Captain Harrold, for
Launceston, with sundries.
September 22.—The brig Tryphena, Captain Hindmarsh,
for Auckland, with sundries.
September 2.—The schooner Wanderer, Captain Burns, for
Port Nicholson, via Newcastle, with cattle, &c.
September 23.—The schooner Sultana, Captain Scott, for
Wallis Island, with sundries.
On the 18th instant, at her residence, Woolloomooloo, the
lady of Julien Blanchard, Esq., of a son.
On the 18th instant, at her residence, Bathurst-street, the
lady of G. Rattray, Esq., of a son.
On the 14th instant, at her residence, Queerf Charlotte’s
Vale, Bathurst, the wife of Mr. William Tress, of a son.
On the 17th instant, at Elizabeth Cottage, Parramatta, the
lady of H. W. Parker Esq., of a still-born son,
On the 20th instant, at Spencer Lodge, Sydney, the lady of
W. Chatfield, Esq., of a daughter.
Beatfjs.
On the 17th instant, at Bathurst, Mrs. Kite, wife of Mr.
Thomas Kite, leaving a large family to lament their loss.
On the sth instant, at his seat, Hamilton, Port Macquarie,
William Bell Carlyle, Esq , J. P.
On the 15th of August last, at Bathurst, Eleanor, wife of
Solomon Reedy.
CST-ST E2.ECT2OST.
CANDIDATES for the approaching Election are respect-
) fully informed that every description of PRINTING
pertaining to Election business, Posting-bills, Hand-bills,
Cards, Envelopes, Voting Papers, &c., may be obtained to
order, at a few hours notice, and at low prices, at J. Reading’s
GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE,
133, King-street East.
September 18 th, 1844.
COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly miscellany of Useful Information.
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
PERSONS intending to become Subscribers to the Colonial.
Literary Journal, are requested to signify the same to
the Publishers before the 26th inst., as considerable difficulty
is now found in making up complete sets of the earlier
Numbers of this Journal, in consequence of the demand having
increased, since its commencement, beyond the expectations
of the Proprietors.
The Publishers also beg to intimate, that in-consequence of
the numerous applications already made for the earlier
Numbers of the Colonial Literary Journal, they will re-print
the whole of the first Thirteen Numbers, as soon as they shall
be required by 500 additional Subscribers.
Terms—THREE SHILLINGS per Quarter; payable, in
each case, in advance.
Notice of declination must be sent, in writing, to the Office,
133, King-street, accompanied with payment of arrears.
September 18 th, 1844.
PAPPUS.
WANTED, one copy-each of the Mark Lane Express , of
the 4th and 18th March last, for which one shilling
each will be given.
Apply to the General Printing Office, 133, King-street.
ik CKAiLENGE,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export —not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label—
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany R,oad.
TO LIST,
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a central part of the street, ai\d
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars may be known on application at 133, King-
street ; or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.
.Agents for tills Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith , and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
