

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PTJBEICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 18.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1844.
[Price 4d.
A STATE OF NATURE.
It is a custom with too many members of the social
community to find fault with their state or condition
in life, especially while labouring under the whole-
some and necessary restraints imposed upon them by
the ordinary rules of civilized society. Among this
deluded class may be found some who even wish to
be entirely rid of the trammels of society—to be left
to dwell in peace in some favored spot, where law and
government are alike unknown. Those who indulge
in such feelings, but too often chimerical, forget that
the slight troubles which affect them are the penalties
paid for a state of social freedom, more happy than is
enjoyed by almost any other community. There are
few countries, out of the pale of the British Empire,
in which a virtuous family can sit down securely at
their own fireside, with hearts entirely free from dread
of disturbance or personal molestation. And surely
that man is unwise and short-sighted, who would not,
to enjoy this secure state of happiness, surrender a
small portion of his individual rights and personal
convenience, for the good of the whole. Man is formed
for social life, he naturally and necessarily prefers
society, with all its binding yet salutary conditions, to
a life of solitude. The young and ardent may be
charmed with the natural independence possessed by
Alexander Selkirk ; but, should not the falsity of this
captivating dream become apparent with increasing
years, a trial of this supposed state of peace and en-
joyment would assuredly deprive it of its fancied
allurements. The dismal quietness that would prevail,
the difficulties of gaining a rude subsistence, the fear
of wild beasts or venomous reptiles, the frightful idea
of lying in a helpless state of disease, if not of dying
unheeded and uncared for, all these, and other inci-
dents to be expected, form no pleasing prospect. Still
more irksome and fatal would a state of natural inde-
pendence among fellow-men prove, for then the strong
would overpower the weak, and the artful, with im-
punity, would deceive the unsuspecting. All this
makes it absolutely necessary that order and law
should exist and operate. “ A state of nature (says
Doctor Wade in his history of the middle and working
classes) is a state of great inequality ; as much so as
men’s abilities and physical power. It follows that it
is civil, not natural liberty, which introduces equity
among mankind, by making the law, not force, the
shield and arbiter of right.
The natural right of a man to do as he desires, and
can, supposes the same right in every other person ;
but the exertion of so many independent rights would
often cause them to clash and destroy each other. A
law that would restrain all, might be beneficial to all;
because each might gain more by the limitation of the
freedom of others, than he lost by the curtailment of
his own. Natural liberty is the right of every one to
go where he lists, without regard to his neighbour ;
civil liberty compels him to go on the public road,
which is most convenient to himself, consistently with
the enjoyment of the same convenience by other per-
sons. The establishment of civil liberty is the enclo-
sure of the waste, by which each surrenders his right
of common, for the quiet possession and culture of a
separate allotment.
The transition from the natural to the civil state,
subjects man to responsibilities to which he was not
before liable. In the former, he indulges his appe-
tites, solely with reference to himself; in the latter,
he can only indulge them, with reference to the so-
ciety of which he is a member : and this he is bound
to do, first, by the criminal restraint which the law
imposes on actions of importance ; and, secondly, by
the moral restraint, which public opinion imposes on
those of lesser degree.
As the natural was the first state of man, it may be
inferred that this state would have continued, had not
a persuasion arisen that social order would be more
conducive to happiness. As the public good was the
motive, so it must continue the end of civil society ;
and for this reason, that there is no obligation imposed
on mankind, save their advantage, to maintain the
social in preference to the individual stale of existence.
And upon this principle the laws of a free people are
founded, namely, that they shall impose no restraints
on the acts of individuals, which do not conduce in a
greater degree to the general good.
Whether man has benefited by the introduction
of civil society, is a moral problem, which, like other
problems not mathematical, can only be solved by in-
ferential testimony. Two reasons make strongly, and,
I think, decisively in favour of the affirmative con-
clusion. First, mankind had their choice, and it is
contrary to human nature to suppose that they would
voluntarily have left the natural state, had not expe-
rience shown them that the social was better, Se-
condly, by the surrender of a portion of his natural
freedom, man appears to have been well compensated
by civil enjoyment. Civilization only divests man of
a fraction, not the whole of his primitive liberty : all
those acts that are personal to himself, he may con-
tinue to indulge in as freely as the savage, subject to
no other control than public opinion, which he may


defy if he pleases. The law restrains public deeds,
and this it does because they are hurtful to others,
not to the perpetrator only. Such restraint is civil
liberty, and he who seeks greater licence, can neither
be just. nor rational; he can scarcely be a man, but
something worse.
The establishment of civil rights entirely supersedes
the operation of the natural rights, which previously
governed the relation of individuals. The right of
revenge, of the strong to oppress the weak, and of all
those powers which are supposed to appertain to the
wild justice of nature, are abrogated by the institution
of society. The law is then supreme arbiter : it may
be a bad law, but while it continues unrepealed, it is
tlm sole rule, the only tribunal of resort to establish a
claim, or redress an injury.
It is unnecessary to illustrate further the distinc-
tion between natural and civil liberty. The first is
a chimeia, like the points and lines of mathematicians :
but, like them, it serves as a basis for reasoning, and
enables us to deduce the real from the abstract. Alex-
ander Selkirk might possess his natural rights in Juan
Fernandez, but nobody else. Two men could not live
a day on a desolate island—they could not meet at the
fountain for a pitcher of water, without settling the
question whether age, strength, or first comer, should
have precedency ; and the termination of the dispute
would be the establishment of civil order between
them.”
THE BOOK-BINDER.
Book-binding is the art of sewing together the sheets of a
book, and securing them with a back and side boards. Bind
jng is distinguished from stitching, which is merely sewing-
leaves, without bands or backs ; and from half-binding, which
consists in securing the back only with leather, the paste-
board sides being covered with blue or marbled paper; whereas
in binding, both back and sides are covered with leather. *
At what time the art of book-binding was first invented it
is impossible to ascertain ; but Phillatius, a learned Athenian
was the first who pointed out the use of a particular kind of
glue for fastenmg the leaves of a book together ; an invention
which his countrymen thought of such importance as to entitle
him to a statue. The most ancient mode of binding consisted
in gluing the different leaves together and attaching them to
cylinders of wood, round which they were rolled. This is
called Egyptian binding; and continued to be practised
after the age of Augustus. It is now wholly disused, except
in oriental countries, and in Jewish Synagogues, where thev
still continue to write books of the law on slips of vellum
sewed together so as to form only one long page, with a roller
at each extremity, furnished with clasps of gold or silver. The
square form of binding which is now universally practised at
least in Europe, is said to have been first invented by one of
the kings of Pergamus, the same to whom we owe the inven-
tion of parchment.
Modern or square binding is of two kinds ; the one particu-
larly adapted to printed books where leather forms the general
covering, and the other more immediately applied to account
booKs, where parchment or vellum is made use of as the outside
covering.
In this business the first operation is to fold the sheets ac-
cording to the proper form ; that is, folios into two leaves
quartos into four, octavos into eight, and so on ; this is usually
the work of women, who perform it with a slip of ivorv or
box-wood, called a folding stick : in this they are directed bv
the catch-words and signatures, which are the letters with th*e
numbers annexed to them, at the bottom of the pages of the
first one or more leaves in each sheet.
The leaves thus folded and laid over each other in the order
of the signatures, are beaten on a stone with a heavy hammer,
to make them solid and smooth, and then they are pressed!
I bus prepared, they are sewed in a sewing-press, upon pack-
threads or cords, which are called bands, at a proper distance
from each other ; which is done by drawing a thread through
the middle of each sheet, and giving a turn round each band,
beginning with the first, and proceeding to the last. The
a“»r" In
places for the bands, which are sunk into the n f ’ *° ma , '°
the back of the book, when h*^* o ** IX’wTtW
any appearance of bands. After this the hacks are glued die
ends of the bands being opened with a knife fm* tiro ’
venien. fixing of the pasteboard , 111 S’ik tuZed wifi’.
a ,Sr r i’ the K bo f klng , fixed in a press between boarf?
called backing boards, m order to make a grove for admitting the
pasteboards. The boards being then applied, boles are made
for drawing the bands through, the superfluous ends being cut
off, and the parts hammered smooth. The book is then pressed
in order for cutting, which is performed by a machine called a
plough. After this the book is put into a press, called the
cutting-press betwixt two boards, the one lying even with the
press, for the knife to run upon, the other above, for the knife
to cut against.
The book being cut, the pasteboards are squared with a
proper pair of iron shears, and it is then ready for sprinkling
gilding, blacking, or marbling the leaves. If the leaves are to
be gdt, the book is put between two boards into a press, and
when the leaves are rendered very smooth, they are rubbed
over with size-water, the gold leaf is then laid on, dried by a
fire, ana burnished off. ;
The head-band is now to be added, which is an ornament of
thread or silk, placed at the extremities of the book across the
leaves, and woven or twisted about a roll of paper.
The book is now fit for covering: calf-skin is the most usual
cover ; this is moistened in water, and cut to the size of the
book; the edges are then pared off on a marble stone. The
cover is next smeared over with paste, then stretched over the
pasteboard on the outside, and doubled over the edges within-
side. The book-binder then fixes it firmly between two boards
to make the cover stick the stronger to the pasteboards
and the back ; on the exact performance of which depends the
neatness of the book. The back is now to be warmed by the
fire to soften the glue, and the leather of the back is rubbed
down with a folding-stick or bodkin, to fix it close to the back
of the book. After this, it is washed over with a little paste
and water ; two blank leaves on each side are then to be
pasted down to the cover, and when dry, the leaves are bur-
nished in the press, and the cover rolled on the edges. The
cover is now glazed with the white of an egg, and then polished
with a polishing iron. If the book is to be lettered, a piece
or pieces of morocco are pasted between the bands, to receive
the title, &c. in gold letters.
The letters or other ornaments are made with gilding-tools,
engraved in relievo, either on the points of puncheons, or a
round little cylinder of brass. The puncheons make their im-
pressions by being pressed flat down, and the cylinders by
being rolled along by a handle, to which they are fitted on an
iron stay, or axis.
To apply the gold, the binders glaze the parts of the leather
with a liquor made of the white of eggs diluted with water, by
means of a bit of sponge; and when nearly dry, they slightly
oil them and then lay on pieces of gold leaf; and on these they
apply the tools, having first warmed them in a charcoal fire.
When the gilding is finished, they rub off the superfluous gold,
and polish the whole.
The business of the book-binder, in general, requires no
great ingenuity, nor any considerable strength of body.—
Journeymen can earn thirty shillings a week; and much more
if they are good workmen, and are intrusted with very fine
work. Formerly book-binding was not a separate trade, but
it was united with that of the stationer; it is now, however,
often carried on alone, and book-binders are generally em-
ployed constantly throughout the year.
All stationery work is sewed with strong waxfd thread, and
as the vellum of parchment is never attached to the back like
leather, but lies hollow and loose, when the book is open, it
cannot, of course, afford that security to the back which lea-
ther does; it is therefore common to line the back, between the
slips, with coarse convass or slips of leather, letting them come
as much over the sides, as to paste down with the boards and
slips. The boards for stationery are not so thick in proportion
as for printed work, and when put on, are placed at least half
an inch from the back, on each side of the parchment slips
which books are sewed upon: you must cut with scissors, a
very narrow strip, which is not to be pasted down, but left for
the purpose of drawing through the parchment when the cover
is applied, serving to attach the cover, before it is pasted to
the boards. Parchment or vellum covers should always be
lined before they are put on, and applied before they are
quite dry.


Different‘kinds of bindings are distinguished by different
names, such as law binding, marble binding , French binding,
Dutch binding, &c. In Dutch binding, the backs are of vellum.
In French binding, a slip of parchment is applied over the
back between each band, and the ends are pasted on the inside
of each pasteboard. This indorsing, as it is called, is peculiar
to the French binders; who are enjoined, by special ordinance,
to back their books with parchment. The parchment is ap-
plied in the press,“after the back has been grated to make the
paste take hold. The Italians still bind in a coarse thick
paper, and this they call binding alia rustica. It is extremely
inconvenient, as it is liable to wear without particular care.
The price of binding is regulated by certain printed lists
agreed on between the bookseller and the bookbinder.
In London, the business of gilding the leaves of books is a
separate employment, and it is done before the boards of the
book are covered with the leather.
“KEEP OFF THE GRASS.”
“ The rising generation,” both vegetable and human,
appears at present to be a most interesting subject,
and one on which much anxiety is evinced both by
senator and soldier; for while our Legislature have
been debating, our military have been acting, and the
result of their acting may be plainly seen in the
printed boards placed at the Barrack-gates of our city,
commanding the public to “ keep off the grass !” It
is an old and well-accredited proverb, that neither
“ good nor bad luck ever come single;” and it is
supported by an inspired writer, when he tells us
“ all things are double, one against anotherthis we
often find true, and seldom are these proverbs more
strikingly supported than in the present movement
concerning “the rising generation.” There are the
Educational Reformers, the Stanley systemites, who
have suddenly discovered that the young of the colony
are receiving great injury, and the country running
to ruin, because ministers of religion have too much
to do in our schools,—and that these “ messengers of
mercy” are moreover very improper persons “ to teach
the young idea how to shoothence they wish to
banish them from our schools, nearly, if not entirely,
and at most permit them to exert their influence only
“ once a week.” It was really interesting to see
these Reformers holding their meetings at the first
mooting of the subject; at first, the addresses of their
titled advocates were stopped by the stupid din of
illiberal and ignorant opponents, but, alas ! at future
meetings some of these same titled defenders were
again incapable of proceeding—not this time from
clamour of the mob, but from clamour of the mind—
apparently unconvinced themselves of the superiority
and worth of their scheme, they were unable to con-
vince others, and being unwilling to abandon a scheme
they had so ardently espoused, from argument they
changed to invective, assertion and command, and
were loud and determined in their charge to the
ministers of religion to “ Keep off the grass.” Yes !
thought they,—here are the youth of our colony
springing up: verdant and green is this field of human
nature , and the catechists, and Bible-teacliers, and
ministers of religion, are treading down this fine
herbage; and the Bible is too heavy—a volume of
too great weight, to be allowed to be carried over this
verdant crop. Yes ! ministers of grace “ keep off the
grass.” Away with you and your Bible—human
nature will spring up heavenward without your train-
ing ; we will have a general system, and an unbiassed
population, and an unreligionized community : and
thus, more liberal to the children than to their parents,
they thought it would be right of the Legislature to
force their system on the people—and not content
with thinking, they said so too! so that with un-
paralleled effrontery they were themselves trampling
down the ripe herbage, shouting at the same time to
the ministers of the people—“ keep off the grass!”
The people knew that the young herbage was their
own property, that the ministers of religion were
training masters authorised by themselves; while the
senators, who owe to them their place and power, are
the stewards who are expected in that capacity to see
the wishes of their constituents carried out in the
most effective manner; and the majority of the people
feeling indignant at these their stewards attempting
to frighten them from employing whoever they chose
to cultivate their soil—and writhing under such un-
warrantable audacity, declared their will by sheets
on sheets, and signatures after signatures, until
their number almost outstript the arithmetical powers
of the Council. What! said the people and then-
ministers, will you have the effrontery to turn us out
of our own field ? the herbage is of our own sowing,
and our own seed, and do you our stewards turn on
your employers, and tell us to “ keep off the grass !”
will you prevent us from cultivating our own soil,
and weeding our own crop, and watering our own
field, and training our own herbage? And what said
the senators —the stewards, in reply ? Oh ! answered
they, “ you may send who you choose on your field
‘ once a week,’ but petitioning and grumbling are of
no use, for we have the power in our hands, and
though we are your representatives we will for once
represent ourselves!” so they ordered a bill to be
drawn up, carrying out their original command—
“ keep off the grass !” and for want of better paper,
it was drawn out on some of the Wentworth manu-
facture, which is well known to be of so rotten a
fabric that it is questionable whether it will bear the
rough handling it will get before it is done with : the
bill was written too with ink manufactured for the
occasion, and composed of the tears of the people,
and the venom of their rulers ; and the bill thus drawn
up they are going to send to Sir George for his
endorsement, so that we may expect it to be shortly
brought into force, and then, with the exception of
those already there, or who may have the luck to
scramble on before twelve months’ elapse—yes ! with
these exceptions, men of Australia ! —free-willed, well-
informed, honest-hearted fellow-countrymen, away you
must go off your own lands, driven by your own
stewards, who audaciously command “ the lords of
the soil ”to “ keep off the grass and according to
intended arrangements—lest the public should become
incensed, and still determined to -walk in their own
meadows—a number of curs are to be appointed in
the form of an Educational Board, who are required
to prevent intrusion by yelping and bow-wow-ing to
the original tune —“ keep off the grass !”
After such proceedings as these, it was not so sur-
prising that the military should follow the example of
the senate ; and that from the Council-room the subject
should find its way to the Barracks, where the men of
power determined to carry out their affection for the
“ rising generation” a little further, as they extended
their care to the vegetable world, for want of a better
sphere, and had the command painted in conspicuous
situations, that henceforth the public must “ keep off
the grass.” Like Lord Stanley’s system, however,
which allows ministers to tread the grass “ once


a-week,” so likewise the military band are to be per-
mitted to trample the greensward of the Barrack-
square, just as often, though we are not quite sure
whether on these occasions they will be allowed to
wear their shoes. And, moreover, as the Stanley
systemites have arranged for the assistance of curs as
an Educational Board, so also the military have ap-
pointed a like committee for the same purpose.
Since, then, it appears, that the military have an
excuse for their narrow-minded despotism, their
penny-wise and pound-foolish grass-growing reform,
in the example of the senate, who were first in
raising the cry of “ keep off the grass,” we will be
lenient in our remarks, knowing the force of bad
example, and how prone men are to do what their
betters do, with the idea that in apeing their superiors,
they are showing their own power. We should not
wonder that when this grass-protecting mania is
known, there will he a considerable rise in the price
of “ green stuff.”
FREDERICK.
BARNY O’REIRDON THE NAVIGATOR.
BY SAMUEL LOVER
Esq.
Barny O’Reirdon was a fisherman of Kinsale, and a heartier
fellow never hauled a net nor cast a line into deep water : in-
deed, Barny, independently of being a merry boy among his
companions, a lover of good fun and good whisky, was looked
up to, rather, by his brother fishermen as an intelligent fellow,
and few boats brought more fish to market than Barny O’Reir-
don’s; his opinion on certain points in the craft was con-
sidered law; and in short, in his own little community, Barny
was what is commonly called a leading man.
Seated one night at a public-house, the common resort of
Barny and other marine curiosities, our hero got entangled
in debate with what lie called a strange sail—that is to sav, a
man he had never met before, and whom he was inclined to
treat rather magisterially upon nautical subjects, at the same
time that the stranger was equally inclined to assume the high
hand over him, till at last the new comer made a regular out-
break by exclaiming, “ Ah, lave aff your balderdash, and
maybe I don’t know you and your’s as well as the mother that
bore you, ay, in throth; and shore I know the very thoughts
o’ you as well as if I was inside o’ you, Barny O’Reirdon.”
“ Thin you know better thoughts than your own, Mr. Whip-
per-snapper, if that’s the name you go by.”
“ No, its not the name Igo by; I’ve as good a name as
your own, Mr. O’Reirdon, for want of a betther, and that’s
O’Sullivan.”
“ Throth there’s more than there’s good o’ them,” said
Barny.
“ Good or bad, I’m a cousin o’ your own, twice removed by
the mother’s side.”
“ And is it the Widda O’Sullivan’s boy you’d be that’s left
this come Candlemas four years ?”
“ The same.”
“ Throth thin you might know betther manners to your
eldhers, though I’m glad to see you, anyhow, agin; but a
little thravellin’ puts us bevant ourselves sometimes,” said
Barny, rather contemptuously.
“Throth I niver bragged out o’ myself yit, and its what I
say, that a man that’s only a fishin’ aff the land all his life
has no business to compare wid a man that has sailed to
Fingal.”
This silenced any further argument on Barny’s part. Where
Fingal lay was all Greek to him; but unwilling to admit his
ignorance, he covered his retreat with the usual address of his
countrymen, and turned the bitterness of debate into the cor-
dial flow of congratulation at seeing his cousin again.
The liquor was freely circulated, and the conversation
began to take a different turn, in order to lead from that
which had nearly ended in quarrel between O’Reirdou and
his relation.
After the introduction of the liquor, it would not be an easy
matter to pursue the conversation that followed. Let us,
therefore, transfer our story to the succeeding morning, when
Barny O’Reirdon strolled forth from his cottage, rather later
than usual, with his eyes bearing eye-witness to the carouse
of the preceding night. lie sauntered about in the sun, at
which he often looked up, under the shelter of compressed
bushy brows and long-lashed eyelids, and a shadowing hand
across his forehead, to see “ what time o’ day” it was, and
from the frequency of this action it was evident the day was
hanging heavily with Barny. He retired at last to a sunny
nook in a neighbouring field ; and stretching lnmseli at full
length, he basked in the sun, and began “to chew the cud of
sweet and bitter thought.” He first reflected on his own
undoubted weight in his little community, but still he could
not get over the annoyance of the preceding night, arising
from his being silenced by O’Sullivan, “ a chap,” as he said
himself, “ that lift the place four years agon, a brat iv a boy,
and to think iv his cornin’ back and outdoin’ his eldhers, that
saw him runnin’ about the place, a gassoon, that one could
tache a few months before;” ’twas too bad. Barny saw his
reputation was in a ticklish position, and began to consider
how his disgrace could be retrieved. The very name of
Fingal was hateful to him; it was a plague-spot on his peace
that festered there incurably. He first thought of leaving
Kinsale altogether; but flight implied so much of defeat, that
he did not long indulge in that notion. No; he would stay
“ in spite of all the O’Sullivans, kith and kin, breed, seed,
and generation.” But, at the same time, he knew he should
never hear the end of that hateful place, Fingal; and if Barny
had had the power, he would have enacted a penal statute,
making it death to name the accursed spot, wherever it was;
but not being gifted with such legislative authority, he felt
Kinsale was no place for him,, if he would not submit to be
flouted every hour out of the four-and-twenty, by man, woman,
and child that wished to annoy him. What was to be done?
He was in the perplexing situation, to use his own words,
of the cat in the thripe shop;” he didn’t know which way to
choose. At last, after turning himself over in the sun several
times, a new idea struck him. Couldn’t he go to Fingal him-
self? and then he’d be equal to that upstart, O’Sullivan.
No sooner was the thought engendered than Barny sprang to
his feet a new man ; his eye brightened, his step became once
more elastic, he walked erect, and felt himself to be all over
Barny O’Reirdon once more. “ Richard was himself again.”
But where was Fingal ?—there was the rub. That was a
profound mystery to Barny, which, until discovered, must
hold him in the vile bondage of inferiority. The plain-dealing
reader will say, “couldn’t he ask?” No, no; that would
never do for Barny—that would be an open admission of
ignorance his soul was above, and, consequently, Barny set
his brains to work, to devise measures of coming at the hidden
knowledge by some circuitous route, that would not betray
the end he was working for. To this purpose, fifty stratagems
were raised and demolished in half as many minutes, in the
fertile brain of Barny, afe he strided along the shore, and as he
was working hard at the fifty-first, it was knocked all to
pieces by his jostling against some one who he never per-
ceived was approaching him, so immersed was he in his
speculations, and, on Talking up, who should it prove to be
but his fiiend, “the long sailor from the Aysthern Injees.’
This was quite a god-send to Barny, and much beyond what
he could have hoped for. Of all the men under the sun, the
long sailor was the man in a million for Barny’s net at that
minute, and, accordingly, he made a haul of him, and thought
it the greatest catch he ever made in his life.
Barny and the long sailor were in close companionship for
the remainder of the day, which was closed, as the preceding
one, in a carouse ; but on this occasion there was only a duet
performance in honour of the jolly god, and the treat was at
Barny’s expense. What the nature of their conversation
during the period was, we will not dilate on—we will keep it
as profound a secret as Barny himself did, and content our-
selves with saying, that Barny looked a much happier man
the next day. It was in this agreeable spirit that Barny bent
his course to the house of Peter Kelly, in order to put in
practice a plan he had formed for the fulfilment of his deter-
mination of rivalling O’Sullivan.
As the Irish saying is, “to make a long story short, Barny
prevailed on Peter Kelly to make an export, but in the nature
of the venture they did not agree. Barny had proposed pota-
toes; Peter said there were enough of them already where ne
was going, and Barny rejoined that “ praties were so good in
themselves, there never could be too much o tnim a y
where.” But Peter being a “ knowledgeable man, and up to
all the saycrets o’ the airth, and understanding the tne-o-ry
and the che-mis-thery,” overruled Barny’s proposition, and
determined upon a cargo of scnlpeens (which name yg
to pickled mackerel), as a preferable merchandise, quite tor


getting that Dublin Bay herrings were a much better and as
cheap a commodity, at the command of the Fingalians. But
by many similar mistakes, the ingenious Mr. Kelly has been
paralleled by other speculators. But that is neither here nor
there, and it was all one to Barny whether his boat was
freighted with potatoes or scalpeens, so long as he had the
honour and glory of becoming a navigator, and being as good
as O’Sullivan.
Accordingly, the boat was laden, and all got in readiness
for putting to sea, and nothing was now wanting but Barny’s
orders to haul up the gaff and shake out the jib of his hooker.
The next day passed without the hooker sailing, and Barny
gave a most sufficient reason for the delay, by declaring thttt
he had a warnin’ given him in a dhrame, and that it was given
to him to undherstand that it wouldn’t be looky that day.
Well, the next day was Friday, and Barny, of course, would
not sail any more than any other who could help it on this
unpropitious day. On Saturday, however, he came running
in a great hurry down to the shore, and, jumping on board, he
gave orders to make all sail, and taking the helm of the
hooker, he turned her head to the sea, and soon the boat was
cleaving the blue waters with a velocity seldom witnessed in
so small a craft, and scarcely conceivable to those who have
not seen the speed of a Kinsale hooker.
“ Well,” said one of Barny’s companions, for there were
but two with him in the boat, “ I was thinkin’ myself, as well
as Jimmy, that we lost two fine days for nothin’, and we’d be
there a’most, maybe, now, if we sail’d three days agon. What
course are you gping to steer i”
“ You’ll find out soon enough when we get there—and so
I bid you agin’ lay me alone —just keep your toe in your pump.
Sure I’m here at the helm, and a woight an my mind, and its
fitter for you, Jim, to mind your own business, and lay me to
mind mine; away wid you there, and be handy; haul taught
that foresheet there ; we must run close an the wind ; be handy,
boys; make everything dhraw.”
These orders were obeyed, and the hooker soon passed to
windward of a ship that left the harbour before her, but could
not hold on a wind with the same tenacity as the honker, whose
qualities in this peculiarity render them particularly suitable
tor the purposes to which they are applied, namely, pilot and
fishing-boats.
We have said a ship left the harbour before the hooker had
set sail, and it is now fitting to inform the reader that Barny
had contrived, in the course of his last meeting with the
“ long sailor,” to ascertain that this ship, then iying in the
harbour, was going to the very place Barny wanted to reach.
Barpy’s plan of action was decided upon in a moment: he
had- now nothing to do but to watch the sailing of the ship,
ancßfollow in her course. Here was, at once, a new mode of
navigation discovered.
For this purpose he went to windward of the ship, and
then fell off again, allowing her to pass him, as he did not
wish even those on board the ship to suppose he was fol-
lowing in their wake; for Barny, like all people that are quite
full of one scheme, and fancy everybody is watching them,
dreaded lest any one should fathom his motives. All that
day, Barny held on the same course as his leader, keeping at
a respectful distance, however, “ for fear ’twould look like
dodging her,” as he said to himself; but as night closed in, so
closed in Barny with the ship, and kept a sharp look-out that
she should not give him the slip in the dark. The next
morning dawned, and found the hooker and ship companions
still; and thus matters proceeded for four days, during the
entire of which time they had not seen land since their first
losing sight of it, although the weather was clear.
“ ,e channel,” thought Barny, “ must be mighty wide in
tnese parts, and, for the last day or so, we’ve been goin’ purty
tree with a flowin’ sheet, and I wondher we arn’t closin’ in
wid the shore by this time; or maybe it’s farther aff than I
thought it was.” His companions, too, began to question
Barny on the subject, but to their queries he presented an
impenetrable front of composure, and said, “it was always the
. ui?st P lan , t 0 kee P a good bowld offin’.” In two days more,
however, the weather began to be sensibly warmer, and Barny
ana ins companions remarked that it was “ goin’ to be the
finest say son—God bless it—that ever kern out o’ the skies
for many a long year, and maybe its the whate wouldn’t be
beautiful, and a great plenty of it.” It was at the end of a
week, that the ship which Barny had hitherto kept a-bead of
nm, showed symptoms of bearing down upon him, as he
thought, and, sure she did, and Barny began to con-
jecture what the deuce the ship could want "with him, and
commenced inventing ansvrers to the questions he thought it
possible might be put to him it) case the ship spoke him. He
was soon put out of suspense by being hailed and ordered to
run under her lee, and the captain, looking over the quarter,
asked Barny where he was going ?
“ Faith, then, I’m goin’ an my business,” said Barny.”
“ But where ?” said the captain.
“ Why, sure an it’s no matther where a poor man like me
id be goin’,” said Barny.
“Only I’m curious to know what the deuce you’ve been
following my ship for, for the last week?”
“ Follyin’ your ship!—Why, thin, do you think it’s fol-
ly in’ yiz I am ?”
“ It’s very like it,” said the captain.
“ Why, did two people niver thravel the same road before?”
“I don’t say they didn’t; but there’s a great difference
between a ship of 700 tons, and a hooker.”
“ Oh, as for that matther,” said Barny, “ the same high
road sarves a coach and four, and a low-back car; the
thravellin’ tinker, an’ a lord a horseback. Don’t you know
that sometimes vessels is bound to sail undher saycret
ordhers?” said Barny, endeavouring to foil the question by
badinage.
There was a universal laugh from the deck of the ship, at
the idea of a fishing-boat sailing under secret orders; for by
this time the whole broadside of the vessel was crowded with
grinning mouths and wondering eyes at Barny and his boat.
“ Oh, its a thrifle makes fools laugh,” said Barny.
“ Take care, my fine fellow, that you don’t be laughing at
the wrong side of your mouth before long, for I’ve a notion
that you’re cursedly in the wrong box, as cunning a fellow as
you think yourself. Confound your stupid head, can’t you
tell what brings you here ?”—and so the ship proceeded in
its course.
In four days more, however, the provisions in the hooker
began to fail, and they were obliged to have recourse to the
scalpeens for sustenance; and Barny then got seriously uneasy
at the length of the voyage, and the still likely greater length,
for anything he could see to the contrary, and, urged at last
by his own alarms and those of his companions, he was
enabled, as the wind was light, to gain on the ship; and when
he found himself alongside, he demanded a parley with the
captain.
The captain, on hearing that the “ hardy hooker,” as she
got christened, was under his lee, came on deck; and, as soon
as he appeared, Barny cried out —
“ Why, thin, captain dear, do you expec’ to bt there soon ?”
“ Where?” said the captain.
“ Oh, you know yourself,” said Barny.
“ It’s well for me I do,” said the captain.
“ Thrue for you, indeed, your honour,” said Barny, in his
most insinuating tone; “but whin will you be at the ind o’
your voyage, captain jewel ?”
“ I dare say in about three months,” said the captain.
“Oh, Holy Mother!” ejaculated Barny; “three months !
arrah, it’s jokin’ you are, captain dear, and only want to
freken me.”
“ How should I frighten you?” asked the captain.
“ Why, thin, your honour, to tell God’s thruth, I heerd you
wor goin’ there , and as I wanted to go there too, I thought I
couldn’t do better nor to folly a knowledgeable grntleman like
yourself, and save myself the tlnouble iv findin’ it out.”
“ And where do you think I am going?” said the captain.
“ Why, thin,” said Barny, “isn’t it to Fingal ?”
“ No,” said the captain ; “ ’tis to Bengal.”
“ Oh !” said Barny, “ what’ll 1 do now, at all at all ?”
The captain ordered Barny on deck, as he wished to have
some conversation with him on what he, very naturally, con-
sidered a most extraordinary adventure. Heaven help the
captain! he knew little of Irishmen, or he would not have
been so astonished. Barny made his appearance. Puzzling
question, and more puzzling answer, followed in quick suc-
cession between the commander and Barny, who, in the midst
of his dilemma, stamped about, thumped his head, squeezed
his caubeen into all manner of shapes, and vented his despair
anathematically—
“ Oh ! my heavy hathred to you, you tarnal thief iv a long
sailor—its a purty scrape yiv led me into. I thought it was
Fingal he said, and now I hear it is Bingal. Oh! the divil
sweep you for navigation, why did I meddle or make wid you
at all at all! and my curse light on you, Terry O’Sullivan,
why did I iver come acrass you, you onlooky vagabonde, to
put sitch thoughts in my head? An so its Blttgal, and not
Fingal, you’re goin’ to, captain?”
“ Yes indeed, Paddy.”


“ An might I be so bowld to ax, captain, is Bingal much
farther nor Fingal?”
“ A trifle or so, Paddy.”
“ Och, thin, millia murther, weirasthru, how ’ll I iver get
there at all at all?” roared out poor Barny.
“ By turning about, and getting back the road you’ve come
as fast as you can.”
“Is it back? Oh! Queen iv Heaven! an how will I iver
get back?” said the bewildered Barny.
“ Then you don’t know your course, it appears ?”
“ Oh, faix, I knew it iligant as long as your honour was
before me.”
“ But you don’t know your course back?”
“ Why, indeed, not to say rightly all out, your honour.’
“ Can’t you steer?” said the captain.
“ The divil a betther hand at the tiller in all Kinsale,” said
Barny, with his usual brag.
“ Well, so far so good,” said the captain ; “ and you know
the points of the compass—you have a compass, I suppose?”
“ A compass ! by my sowl an it’s not let alone a compass,
but a pair o’ compasses I have, that my brother, the car-
pinthir, left me for a keepsake whin he wint abroad; but,
indeed, as for the points o’ tliim, I can’t say much, for the
the childher spylt tliim intirely, rootin’ holes in the flure.”
“Confound your thick head!” said the captain. “Why,
what an ignoramus ycu must be, not to know what a compass
is, and you at sea all your life ? Do you even know the car-
dinal points ?”
“ The Cardinals! faix an it’s a great respect I have for them,
your honour. Sure, ar’n’t they belongin’ to the Pope?”
“ Confound you, you blockhead!’* roared the captain, in a
rage—•“ ’twould take the patience of the Pope and the car-
dinals, and the cardinal virtues into the bargain, to keep one’s
temper with you. Do you know the four points of the wind ?”
“ I do, and more.”
“ Well, never mind more, but let us stick to four. You’re
sure you know the four points of the wind ?”
“ By dad, it would be a quare thing if a sayfarin’ man didn’t
know somethin’ about the wind, any bow.”
“ Well, Paddy,” said the captain, after trying to persuade
him to come along with the ship, “ as you are determined to
go back, in spite of all I can say, you must attend to me while
I give you as simple instructions as I can. You say you
know the four points of the wind, North, South, East, and
West?”
“ Yis, Sir.”
“ How do you know them ; for I must see that you are not
likely to make a mistake. How do you know the points?”
“ Why, you see, Sir, the sun —God bless it—rises in the
aist, and sets in the west, which stands to raison ; and whin
you stand bechuxt the aist and the west, the north is forninst
you.”
“ And when the north is forninst you, as you say, is the
east on your right, or your left hand ?”
“ On the right hand, your honour,”
“ Well, I see you know that much, however. Now,” said
the captain, “ the moment you leave the ship, you must steer
a nor-east course, and you will make some land, near home,
in about a week, if the wind holds as it is now, and it is likely
to do so; hut, mind me, if you turn out of your course in the
smallest degree, you are a lost man.”
“ Many thanks to your honour!”
“ And how are you off for provisions?”
“ Why, thin, indeed, in the regard o’ that same, we are in
the heighth o’ disthress, for, exceptin’ the scalpeens, sorra
tasfe passed our lips for these four days.”
“ Oh! you poor devils!” said the commander, in a tone of
sii cere commiseration, “ I’ll order you some provisions on
btard before you start.”
“ Long life to your honour! and I'd like to drink the health
of so noble a jintieman.”
“ I understand you, Paddy; you shall have grog too.”
“ Musha, the heavens shower blessins an you, I pray the
Virgin Mary and the twelve Apostles, Matthew, Mark, Luke,
and John, not forgettin’ St. Pathrick.”
“Thank you, Paddy; but keep all your prayers for your-
self, for you need them all to help you home again.”
“ Oh! never fear, whin the thing is to be done, I’ll do it,
by dad, wid a heart and a half.”
“ Now then, Barny, the sooner you turn your face towards
home, the better,” said the captain; “ since you will go, there
is no need in losing more time. Are you sure you remember
my directions ?”
“ Throth an I’ll niver forget them to the day o’ my death,
and is bound to pray, more b token, for you and yours.”
“ Don’t mind praying for me till you get home, Barny ; but
answer me - how are you to steer when you shall leave me ?”
“The nor-aist coorse, your honour; that’s the coorse asrin
the world.”
“ Remember that! never alter that course till you see land-
let nothing make you turn out of a nor-east course.”
“ Throth an that id be the dirty turn, seein’ that it was
yourself that ordered it. Oh, no, I’ll depend my life an the
nor-aist coorse, and the Saints help any one that comes betune
me an’ it—l’d run him down if he was my father.”
“ Well, good bye, Barny.”
“ Good bye, and God bless you, your honour, and send you
safe.”
“ That’s a wish you want more for yourself, Barny—never
fear for me, but mind yourself well.”
“ Oh, sure I’m good as at home wanst 1 know the way,
barrin the wind is contlirary ; sure the nor-aist coorse ’ill do
the business complate.” And so saying, Barny descended the
ship’s side, and once more assumed the helm of the “ hardy
hooker.”
The two vessels now separated on their opposite courses.
What a contrast their relative situations afforded. Proudly
the ship bore away under her lofty and spreading canvass,
cleaving-the billows before her, manned by an able crew, and
under the guidance of experienced officers—the finger of
science to point the course of her progress, the faithful chart
to warn her of the hidden rock and the shoal, the log-line and
the quadrant to measure her march and prove her position.
The poor little hooker cleft not the billows, each wave lifted
her on its crest like a sea bird ; but three inexperienced fisher-
men to manage her; no certain means to guide them over the
vast ocean they had to traverse, and* the holding of the “ fickle
wind” the only chance of their escape from perishing in the
wilderness of waters. By the one, the feeling excited is
supremely that of man’s power. By the other, of his utter
helplessness. To the one, the expanse of ocean could scarcely
be considered “ trackless.” To the other, it was a waste
indeed.
Yet the cheer that burst from the ship at parting was
answered as gaily from the hooker as though the odds had not
been so fearfully against her, and no blither heart beat on
board the ship than that of Barny O’Reirdon.
Happy light-heartedness of my poor countrymen ! they have
often need of all their buoyant spirits! How kindly have*they
been fortified by nature against the assaults of adversity ; and
j if they blindly rush into danger, they cannot be denied the
possession of gallant hearts to fight their way out of it if
they can.
But each hurrah became less audible. By degrees the
cheers dwindled into faintness, and, finally, were lost in the
eddies of the breeze.
The sense of utter loneliness and desolation had not come
upon Barny until now; but he put bis trust in the goodness
of Providence, and in a fervent inward outpouring of prayer,
resigned himself to the care of his Creator.
The night fell, and Barny stuck to the helm as long as
nature could sustain want of rest, and then left it in charge of
one of his companions, with particular directions how to
steer, and ordered, if any change in wind occurred, that they
should instantly awake him. He could not sleep long, how-
ever ; the fever of anxiety was upon him, and the morning
had not long dawned when he awoke. He had not well
rubbed his eyes, and looked about him, when he thought he
saw a ship in the distance approaching them. As the haze
cleared away, she showed distinctly bearing down towards the
booker. On board the ship, the hooker, in such a sea, caused
surprise as before, and in about an hour she was so close as to
hail, and order the hooker to run under her lee.
“ The divil a taste,” said Barny, “ I’ll not quit my nor-aist
coorse for the kir r of Ingland, nor Bonyparty into the bar-
gain. Bad cess to you, do you think I’ve nothin’ to do but
to plaze you ?” , ...
Again be was bailed, and fired at, but he preserved Ins
course, and got clear off. .
The third day Barny’s fears for the continuity of bis nor-
aist coorse were excited, as a larger brig hove in sight, and the
nearer she approached, the more directly she came athwait
Baray’s course. . ,
“ May the divil sweep you,” said Barny, “ and will nothin
else sarve you than cornin’ forninst me that-a-way. Brig
a-hoy there !!” shouted Barny, giving the tiller to one of his
messmates, and standing at the bow of his boat. “ Brig a-hoy
there t_bad luck to you ; go ’long out o’ my nor-aist coorse.
The brig, instead of obeying his mandate, hove to, and lay


right ahead of the hooker. “Oh look at this!” shouted
Barny, and be stamped on the deck with rage—“ look at the
blackguards where they’re stayin’, just a-purpose to ruin an
unfort’nate man like me. My heavy hathred to you ; quit
this minit, or I’ll run down an yes! ar.d if we go to the bottom,
we’ll bant you for ever more—go ’long out o’ that, I tell you.
The curse o’ Crummil an you, you stupid vagabones, that
wont go out iv a man’s nor-aist coorse !!”
The brig was immoveable, and Barny gave up in despair,
having cursed and prayed himself hoarse, and finished with a
duet volley of prayers and curses together, apostrophising the
hard case of a man being “ done out of his nor-aist coorse
“ A-hoy there! !” shouted a voice from the brig: “ You’re
a small craft to be so far at sea. I suppose you have pro-
vision on board ?”
“ To be sure we have ; throth if we hadn’t, this id be a bad
place to go a beggin’.”
“ What, have you eatables ?”
“ The finest o’ scalpeens.”
“ What are scalpeens?”
“ Why you’re mighty ignorant intirely,” said Barny ; “ why,
scalpeens is pickled mackarel.”
“ Then you must give us some, for we have been out of
everything eatable these three days; and even pickled fish.is
better than nothing.”
It chanced that the brig was a West India trader; that
unfavourable winds had delayed much beyond the expected
period of time on her voyage, and though her water had not
failed, everything eatable had been consumed, and the'crew
reduced almost to helplessness. In such a strait, the arrival
of Barny O’Reirdon and his scalpeens was a most providential
succour to them, and a lucky chance for Barny, for he got in
exchange for his pickled fish a handsome return of rum and
sugar, much more than equivalent to their value. Barny
lamented much, however, that the brig was not bound for
Ireland, that he might practise his own peculiar system of
navigation ; but as staying with the brig could do no good, he
got himself put into his nor-aist coorse once more, and p'oughed
away towards home.
The disposal of his cargo was great good luck to Barns in
more ways than one. In the first place, he found the most
profitable market he could have had ; and, secondly, it enabled
him to cover bis retreat from the difficulty which still was
before him, of not getting to Fingal after all his dangers, and,
consequently, being open to discovery and disgrace. All
these beneficial results were not thrown away upon one of
Barny’s readiness to avail himself of every point in his favour;
and, accordingly, when they left the brig, Barny said to his
companions, “ why thin boys, ’pon my conscience but I’m as
proud as a horse wid a wooden leg this minit, that we met
them poor unfort’nate craythers this blessed day, and was
enabled to extind our chanty to them. Sure an’ it’s lost
they’d be. only for our cornin’ acrass them, and we, through
the blessin’ o’ God, enabled to do an act of marcy, that is,
feedin’ the hungry; and sure every good work we do here is
before uz in heaven—and that’s a comfort any how. To be
sure, now that the scalpeens is sowld, there’s no use in goin’
to Fingal, and we may as well jist go home.—To the divil
now wid Terry O’Sullivan, what does he know what’s an
iligant place ? What knowledge lias be of iligance? I’ll go
bail he never was ifalf as far a navigatin’ as we—he wint the
short cut I go bail, and never daar’d for to vinture the round
as I did.”
Nothing particular occurred for the two succeeding days,
during which time Barny most religiously pursued his nor-aist
but the third day produced a new and important event.
A sail was discovered on the horizon, and in the direction
Barny was steering, and a couple of hours made him tolerably
certain that the vessel in sight was an American ; for though
it is needless to say he was not very conversant in such
matters, yet from the frequency of his seeing Americans
tiading to Ireland, his eye had become sufficiently accustomed
to their lofty and tapering spars, and peculiar smartness of
to satisfy him that the ship before him was of transatlantic
bund: nor was he wrong in his conjecture.
Barny now determined on a manoeuvre, classing him
amongst the first tacticians at securing a good retreat! He
calculated the American was bound for Ireland, and as she
Jay almost as directly in the way of his « nor*aist coorse,” as
the West Indian brig, he bore up to and spoke her.
He was ansvvered by a shrewd Yankee captain.
“ Faix an it’s glad I am to see your honour again,” said
Barny. °
The Yankee had never been to Ireland, and told Barnv so,
and that a pilot was wanted for Cove.
“ You know Cove?” said the American,
“ Is it the Cove o’ Cork, why?”
“ Yes.”
“ I was bred an’ born there, and pilots as many ships into
Cove as any other two min out of it.”
Barny thus sheltered his falsehood under the idiom of his
language.
“ But what brought you so far out to sea?” asked the captain.
“ We wor lyin’ out lookin’ for ships that wanted pilots, and
there kem an the terriblest gale o’ wind aff the land, an’ blew
us out to say intirely, an’ that’s the way iv it, your honour.”
“ I calculate we got a share of the same gale; ’tvvas from
the nor-east.”
“Oh, directly!” said Barny; faith you’re right enough—
’twas the nor-aist coorse we wor an sure enough ; but no
matther now that we’ve met wid you —sure we’ll have a job
home any how.”
“ Well, get aboard then,” said the American.
“ I will in a minit, your honour, whin I jist spake a word to
my comrades here.”
“ Why sure it’s not goin’ to turn pilot you are ?” said
Jsmmy, in his simplicity of heart.
“Whisht, you omadhaun!” said Barny, “or I’ll cut the
tongue out o’ you. Now, mind me, Pether; you don’t un-
dherstan’ navigashin’ and the various branches o’ knowledge,
an’ so all you have to do is to follow the ship when I get into
her, an’ I’ll show you the way home.”
Barny then got aboard the American vessel, and begged of
the captain, that as Le had been out at sea so long, and had
gone through “ a power o’ hardship intirely,” that he would
be permitted to go below and turn in to take a sleep, “ for, in
throth, its myself and sleep that is sthrayngers for some time,”
said Barny;” an’ if your honour ’ll be plazed, I’ll be thankful
if you won’t let them disturb me until Pm wanted—for sure,
till you see the land, there’s no use forme in life,, an’ throth
I want a sleep sorely.”
BarUv’s request was granted, and it will not be wondered
at, that*after so much fatigue of mind and body, he slept pro-
foundly for four-and-twenty hours. He then was called, for
land sight; and when he came on deck, the captain
rallied him upon the potency of his somniferous qualities,
and V calculated” he had never met any one who could sleep
“ four-and-twenty hours on a stretch, before.”
“ Oh, Sir,” said Barny, rubbing his eyes, which were still a
little hazy, “ whiniver / go to sleep, 1 pay attintion to it.”
The land was soon neared, and Barny put in charge of the
ship, when he ascertained the first land mark he was ac-
quainted with; but as soon as the Head of Kinsale hove in
sight, Barny gave a “ whoo,” and cut a caper that astonished
the Yankees, and was quite inexplicable to them, though, we
flatter ourselves, it is not to those who do Barny the favour of
reading his adventures.
“ Oh! there you are, my darlint ould head! an’ where’s the
head like you! throth its little I thought I’d ever set eyes an
your good-looking faytures again.”
In such half-muttered exclamations did Barny apostrophise
each well-known point of his native shore, and, when opposite
the harbour of Kinsale, he spoke the hooker, that was some-
what astern, and ordered Jemmy and Peter to put in there,
and tell Molly immediately that he was come back, and
would be with her as soon as he could after piloting the ship
into Cove.
The hooker put into Kinsale, and Barny sailed the ship
into Cove. It was the first ship he ever had acted the pilot
for, and his old luck attended him ; no accident befel his
charge, and, what was stiM more extraordinary, he made the
American believe he was absolutely the most skilful pilot on
the station. So Barny pocketed his pilot’s fee, swore the
\ ankee was a gentleman, for which the republican did not
thank him, wished him good bye, and then pushed his way
home with what Barny swore was the easiest made money he
ever had in his life. So Barny got himself paid for piloting
the ship that showed him the way home. .-' t .
In Hazmtt’s “ Conversations in Switzerland,” as de-
scribed in Frazer’s Magazine, there is the following ludicrous
passage:—“You know Kenny. Coming upon him unex-
pectedly one day, I found him on the flat of his back, kicking
at a prodigious rate, ar.d apparently in strong convulsions. I
ran up to him in order to assist and raise him, but his malady
was an obstetrical one : be was in all the agonies of a faussc
couche. ‘ What is the matter, Kenny? said I. ‘ Oh, my deai
Hazlitt,’ he said, with tears in his eyes, ‘ I have been for three
hours labouring hard to get out an idea to finish a scene ; but
it won’t —it won’t come.’ ”


Biography.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XVI.
ALEXANDER THE GREAT.
L Alexander, the son of Philip, succeeded at the
age of twenty to the throne of Macedon, (b. c. 337.)
He had been educated by Aristotle, and his extra-
ordinary natural endowments sedulously cultivated.
This prince possessed military abilities of the highest
order, and had given proof from his earliest years of
that singular heroism, Avhich afterwards distinguished
him. On the death of his father, the states of Greece
attempted to regain their natural independence, but
after being defeated in several battles, they submitted
to him the command of Greece. Assembling the
deputies of the nation at Corinth, he communicated
to them his resolution of prosecuting the designs of
his father for the conquest of Persia, and called upon
them for the contingents they had voted for that pur-
pose.
2. With an army of 30,000 foot, and 5,000 horse,
the sum of seventy talents, and provisions only for a
single month, he crossed the Hellespont, and in
traversing Phrygia, visited the tomb of Achilles,
(b.c. 334.) Darius Codomannus, resolving to crush
at once this inconsiderate youth, met him on the
banks of the Granicus Avith 100,000 foot and 10,000
horse. The Greeks swam the river, their king lead-
ing the van, and attacking the astonished Persians,
left 20,000 dead upon the field, and put to flight
their Avhole army. The loss of the Greeks amounted
only to eighty-five horsemen and thirty infantry.
Drawing from his first success a presage of continued
victory, Alexander now sent home his fleet, leaving
to his army the sole alternative, that they must subdue
Asia or perish. Prosecuting their course for some
time Avithout resistance, the Greeks were attacked by
the Persians in a narrow valley of Cilicia, near the
town of Issus, (b. c. 333.) The Persian host
amounted to 400,000 ; but their situation Avas such
that only a small part could come into action, and
they Avere defeated with prodigious slaughter. The
loss of the Persians in this battle Avas 110,000 ; that
of Greeks (according to Q. Curtius) only 450.
3. The history of Alexander by Quintus Curtius,
though a most elegant composition, is extremely sus-
picious on the score of authentic information. Arrian
is the best authority.
4. The generosity of Alexander was displayed
after the battle of Issus, in .his attention to his noble
prisoners, the mother, the Avife, and family of Darius,
a conduct Avhich made a deep impression on the
mind of that generous and ill-fated prince. To the I
credit of Alexander, it must be OAvned that humanity,
however overpowered and at times extinguished in the I
heat of his passions, certainly formed a part of his I
natural character.
5. The consequence of the battle of Issus was the j
submission of all Syria. Damascus, where Darius j
had deposited his chief treasures, Avas betrayed and
given up by its governor. The Phoenicians were
pleased to see themselves thus avenged for the oppres- \
sion they had suffered under the yoke of Persia.
6. Alexander had hitherto borne his good fortune
Avith moderation: ‘Felix,’ says Curtius, ‘si hac con-
tinentia ad ultimum vitae perseverare potuisset ; sed
nondum Fortuna se animo ejus infuderat.’ He
directed his course towards Tyre, and desired admit-
tance to perform a sacrifice to Hercules. The Tyrians
sent him a golden crown as a token of their respect
and amity, but refused his request, and shut their
gates. They maintained for seven months a noble
defence. The city Avas at length taken by storm v
and the victor, incensed at the opposition he had met
with, glutted his revenge by the inhuman massacre of
8,000 of the inhabitants, and the rest, to the number
of 30,000, were sold as slaves (b. c. 332). The fate
of Gaza, gloriously defended by Bsetis, was equally
deplorable to its citizens, and more disgraceful to the
conqueror. Ten thousand of the former were sold
into slavery, and its brave defender was dragged round
the walls of thecity at the wheelsof the victor’s chariot :
‘ Gloriante rege, Achillem, a quo genus ipse deduceret,
imitatum se esse, poena in hostem capienda.’ Curt.
7. The taking of Gaza opened Egypt to Alexan-
der, and the whole country submitted without oppo-
sition. Amidst the most incredible fatigues, he now
led his army through the deserts of Lybia, to visit
the temple of his father, Jupiter Ammon. On his
return he built Alexandria, at the mouth of the Nile,
a situation so happily chosen, that in twenty years it
rose to great wealth and consequence, and afterwards
became the capital of the Lower Egypt, and has ever
since been one of the most flourishing cities in the
Avorld. Twenty other cities of the same name were
reared by him in the course of his conquests. It is
such Avorks as these that justly entitle the Macedonian
to the epithet of Great. By rearing in the midst of
deserts those nurseries of population and of industry,
he repaired the waste and havoc of his conquests.
But for those monuments of his real glory, he Avould
have merited from posterity no other epithet than
that assigned him by the Brahmins of India, ‘ The
Mighty Murderer.’
8. Returning from Egypt, Alexander traversed
Assyria, and was met at Arbela by Darius, at the
head of 700,000 men. The Persian had proffered*
peace, consenting to yield the Avhole country from the
Euphrates to the‘ Hellespont, to give Alexander his
daughter in marriage, and the immense sum of 10,000
talents. But 1 hese terms Avere haughtily rejected, and
peace refused, but upon the unqualified submission of
his enemy. But these terms were haughtily rejected,
and peace refused, but upon the unqualified submis-
sion of his enemy. The Macedonian army did not
| exceed 40,000 men. The Persians were defeated at
Arbela (b. c. 331), with the loss of 300,000 men,
while the loss of the Macedonians is estimated by
Arrian at not more than 1,200. Darius fled from
province to province. At length, betrayed by Bessus,
one of his OAvn satraps, he was cruelly murdered ; and
the Persian empire, which had subsisted for 206 years
from the time of Cyrus the Great, submitted to the
conqueror, 330 b.c.
9. Alexander norv projected the conquest of India,
firmly persuaded that the gods had decreed him the
soA 7 ereignty of the whole habitable globe. He pene-
trated to the Ganges, and would have advanced to
the Eastern Occean, had the spirit of his army kept
pace Avith his ambition. But his troops, seeing no
end to their toils, refused to proceed. He returned
to the Indus, from whence, sending round his fleet to
the Persian Gulf under Nearchus, he marched his
army across the desert to Persepolis.
10. Indignant that he had found a limit to his


conquests, he abandoned himself to every excess of
luxury and debauchery. The arrogance of his nature,
and the ardour of his passions, heightened by con-
tinual intemperance, broke out into the most out-
rageous excesses of cruelty, for which, in the few
intervals of sober reflection, his ingenuous mind suf-
fered the keenest remorse. From Persepolis he re-
turned to Babylon, and there died in a fit of debauch,
in the thirty-third year of his age, and thirteenth of
his reign, 324 b.c.
11. Of the character of Alexander the most oppo-
site and contradictory estimates have been formed.
While by some he is esteemed nothing better than a
fortunate madman, he is by others celebrated for the
grandeur, wisdom, and solidity of his political views.
Truth- is rarely to be found in extreme censure or
applause. We may allow to Alexander the spirit and
the talents of a great military genius, without com-
bining with these the sober plans of a profound
politician. His great object seems to have been the
establishment of one great and permanent empire, of
which the different parts would be united by mutual,
political, and commercial advantages ; and for this
purpose he sought to do away with all national pre-
judices. But his early death frustrated all these
great projects, and the ambition of his generals over-
turned the fabric he was erecting. In a moral view
of his character, we see an excellent and ingenuous
nature corrupted at length by an unvarying current
of success, and a striking example of the fatal violence
of the passions, when eminence of fortune removes all
restraint, and flattery stimulates to their uncontrolled
indulgence.
Variettes.
Bad Translations : —Madame de la Fayette (authoress of
some of the French Fairy tales) used to compare a bad transla-
tion to a footman sent with a compliment from his mistress ;
what she had directed him to say in the most polite terms, he
quite murders by his bungling rusticity in delivering it ; and
the more delicate the message is, the more it is sure to suffer
from the ignorance of such a messenger. 4
Laughter. —Man is the only animal with the powers of
laughing, a privilege which was not bestowed upon him for
nothing. Let us then laugh while we may, no matter how
broad the laugh may be, short of a lock-jaw, and despite of
what the poet says about “ the loud laugh that speaks the
vacant mind.” The mind should occasionally be vacant as
the land should sometimes be fallow ; and for precisely the
same reason.— The Melange.
An Enthusiastic Bareer. —“Was he in the easy shaving
way, Sir,” inquired Mr. Slithers, “ or in the cutting and curl-
ing line ?”—“ Both,” replied Sam; easy shavin’ was his natur,
and cuttin’ and curlin’ was his pride and glory. His whole
delight was in his trade. His spent all his money in bears,
and run in debt for ’em besides, and there they wos a growling
avay down in the front cellar all day long, and ineffectooally
gnashing their teeth, vile the grease o’ their relations and
friends vos being retailed in gallipots in the shop above, and
the first floor winder was ornamented vith their heads ; not to
speak of the dreadful aggrawation it must have been to ’em
to see a man alvavs a valkin’ up and down the pavement out-
side, vith the portrait of a bear in his last agonies, and under-
neath, in large letters, ‘ Another fine animal wos slaughtered
yesterday, at Jinkinson’s!’ Hows’ever, there they wos, and
there Jinkinson wos, till he wos took wery ill, with some in’ard
disorder, lost the use of his legs, and wos confined to his bed
vere he laid a wery long time ; but, sich wos his pride in his
profession, even then, that, whenever he wos worse than usual,
the doctor used to go down sta’rs and say, ‘Jinkinson’s wery
low this mornin’, we must give the bears a stir ; and, as sure
as ever they stirred ’em up a bit, and made ’em roar, Jinkinson
opens his eyes, if he wos ever so bad, and calls out. * There’s
the bears !’ and rewives again,”— Humphrey's Clock, No. IX
Rising in the World. —The only way to rise in the world,
even for the prosperous man, is to cultivate his mind and
manners, and educate his family. It is not to set up his
carriage, though this may be perfectly allowable, if he can
afford it. It is not to resort to this or that watering place,
though there is no objection to his doing that, if he pleases.
It is to raise himself and family in the scale of moral and
intellectual Icings. It is not to bring up his sons in idleness,
under the preposterous notion of making them gentlemen, and,
in so doing, making them fops and dandies, instead of men,
and thus prepare them for squandering his estate much faster
than he amassed it. It is not to educate his daughters with
merely showy accomplishments, and with the expectation, that
this world is to be a show, and life a holiday. The best
symptom of rising in the world that he can give is, to despite
the follies of society, to set at naught the despotism of fashion,
to perceive and resist the absurdity of a business community,
following in the footsteps of the aristocracy of Europe. It
would shew hopeful signs of rising above the vulgar, both
great and small, if he should refuse to countenance the
nonsence of turning night into day, and day into night.—
Bur nap.
Table Hydrophobia. —Peirese, dining at London with
several literary persons, could not be exempted from drinking
a health (proposed by Dr. Thorius, a German) in a glass of
frightful capaciousness. Peirese alleged freedom, civility,
decency, health, and a thousand other reasons, but to no pur •
pose ; the glass must be drank off to that health ; but befora
he consented to it, he required a promise that this Bacchana-
lian doctor should also drink his toast; then having, with
much ado, finished such a copious draught, he drank a health
in the same glass filled with water. Thorius appeared quite
thunder-struck, and, after many a heavy sigh, put the glass to
his mouth, but quickly drew it back ; and though he fortified
himself with all the Greek and Latin Apopthegms on thwart-
ing the senses, he was an hour before he emptied his glass, to
the great diversion of the company, and his own advantage ;
for afterwards he never broke in upon any one’s temperance.
An unsuccessful Lover was asked by what means he lost
his fair. “Alas!” cried he, “ 1 flattered her, until she got too
proud to speak to me.”
Love of Power. —ln man’s impatience under suffering, is
there not something of that sense of superiority which was the
origin of the slavish state in which woman has existed for ages,
and to which she is still doomed in many parts of the world ?
When exposed to the same trials, do we not often see the
wjtr.cn enduring with a quiet patience, a cheerful courage ;
while lordly man either submits with a cold and haughty calm-
ness, or fiercely resists and complains, as if his chartered rights
were infringed? This gives rise to a fault in woman, which
deserves still be reprobated ; it is that of flattering this
weakness in man, and, by that means, gaining by art that
ascendancy over him which he finds so much self-complacency
in thinking he possesses over her by nature. In both sexes
it is an unrighteous love of dominion. Amy equally de-
tested any approach to the character of tyrant or slave.
She would neither flatter nor be flattered. It was this noble
independence of soul that first attracted Edward; and, although
his self-love was sometimes tried by it, yet did he always love
and honour her the more for her faithful allegiance to his as
well as her own principle of action.— Mrs. Follen's Sketches of
Married Life. J
Ihe Press. In 1598, the first printing press was erected
in Manchester; in 1844 there are, there, It is estimated, up-
wards of 500 ! The press may indeed be well named the fourth
estate.
Prudent Sensibility.— The relations of a Dutch heiress,
who had run away with an Englishman, addressed an adver-
tisement to her in the papers, requesting that if she would not
return to her disconsolate parents, she would at least send
back the key of the tea-chest which she had taken away
with her. 1
Leap Year. —The following is extracted from an old
volume, printed 1606, entitled, “ Courtship, Love, and Matri-
monie” : —“ Albeit it is nowe become a part of the common
lawe, in regard to social relations of life, that, as often as every
bissextile year doth return, the ladyes have the sole privilege,
duriug the time it continueth, of making love unto the men]
which they doe either by wordes or lookes, as unto them it
seemeth proper ; and moreover, no man will be entitled to the
benefite of clergy who dothe refuse to accept the offeres of a
ladye, or who dothe in any wise treate her proposal wutie
slight or contumely.”


The Moralist.
BROTHERS.
Ye are the children of one father, provided for by his care ;
and the breast of one mother hath given you suck.
Let the bonds of affection, therefore, unite you, that peace
and happiness may dwell in your father’s house.
And when ye separate in the world, remember the relation
that bindeth you to love and unity ; and prefer not a stranger
to your own blood.
If thy brother is in adversity, assist him ; if thy sister is in
trouble forsake her not.
So shall the fortunes of thy father contribute to the support
of his whole race ; and his care be continued to you all in
your love to each other.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 18.
As the bell is, so is the clapper.
As the crow is, the egg will be.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A stumble-may prevent a fall.
As you salute, you will be saluted.
As you sow, so you shall reap.
At a great bargain, pause awhile.
A tale out of season, is as music in mourning.
A thousand pounds, and a bottle of hay, are all one at
doomsday.
A thousand probabilities will not make one truth.
A thread-bare coat is armour-proof against an highway-man.
A truly-great man borrows no lustre from splendid ancestry.
Dictatorial Manners. —ln the too frequent way of
communicating even useful counsel, there is almost invariably
something to vex, often to insult, and almost always the
arrogance whbh assumes authority, and exercises a species of
despotism. Now, if men were as willing, and as ready to give
reasons as they are to give rules, much mischief might be
prevented, and some good might be done. Pride is undoubtedly
gratified by being enabled to deal out its animadversions, and
self-regard is flattered, but at a terrible expense,—a great
sacrifice of benevolence. Yet, it is no small part cf good
breeding and good morals to give appropriate advice appro-
priately.—Bentham.
A Remark well worthy Universal Attention. — If
mourning were altogether out of use, a vast mass of suffering
would be prevented from coming into existence. — Ibid.
Trifles. —Those persons who cannot find pleasure in trifles
are generally wise in their own opinion, and fools in the opinion
of the wise ; they neglect the opportunity of amusement, with-
out which the rugged road of life would be insupportably
tedious. I think the French are the best philosophers, who
make the most they can of the pleasures, and the least they can
of the pains of life ; and are ever strewing flowers among the
thorns all mortals are obliged to walk through ; whereas, by
much reflection, the English contrive to feel and see the thorns
double, and never see the flowers at all, but to despise them ;
expecting their happiness from things more solid and durable,
as they imagine : but how seldom do they find them ! — Lady
Luxborough.
The Passions are in some degree at the mercy of the
thoughts, as are the thoughts of the passions. It is a moral
duty therefore to endeavour to think rightly.— Brydges.
Admiration and Contempt. —Of unwise admiration much
may be hoped, for much good is really in it; but unwise con-
tempt is itself a negation; nothing comes of it, for it is
nothing.— Carlyle.
Friendship consists properly in mutual offices, and a
generous strife in alternate-acts of kindness. But he who does
a kindness to an ungrateful person, sets his seal to a flint, and
sows his seed upon the sand: upon the former he makes no
impression, and from the latter he finds no production.— Dr.
South.
Love Labour : for if thou dost not want it for food, thou
mayest for physic. It is wholesome for the body, and good for
thy mind. It prevents the fruits of idleness, which many
times come of nothing to do, and leads too many to do what
is worse than nothing.— Penn.
Acquaintances. —When an acquaintanceship happens be-
tween two persons, and either of them finds himself deceived
in the other, he should at once act as St. Paul did with the
viper—shake him off.— Gale.
Select Poetry.
THE SOUL’S DEFIANCE.
I said to Sorrow’s awful storm,
That beat against my breast,
“ Rage on ! thou may’st destroy this form,
And lay it low at rest;
Eut’still the spirit, that now brooks
Thy tempest raging high,
Undaunted, on its fury looks
With steadfast eye.”
I said to Penury’s meagre train,
“ Come on ! your threats I brave ;
My last, poor life-drop you may drain,
And crush me to the grave ;
Yet still the spirit, that endures,
Shall mock your force the while,
And meet each cold, cold grasp of yours
With bitter smile.”
I said to cold Neglect and Scorn,
“ Pass on! I heed you not;
Ye may pursue me till my form
And being are forgot;
Yet still the spirit, which you see
Undaunted by your wiles,
Draws from its own nobility
Its high-born smiles.”
I said to Friendship’s menaced blow,
“Strike deep ; my heart shall bear ;
Thou canst but add one bitter woe
To those already there ;
Yet still the spirit, that sustains
This last severe distress,
Shall smile upon its keenest pains
And scorn redress.”
I said to Death’s uplifted dart,
“ Aim sure ! oh, why delay ?
Thou wilt not find a fearful heart—
A weak, reluctant prey ;
For still the spirit, firm and free,
Triumphant in the last dismay,
Wrapt in its own eternity,
Shall smiling pass away,”
■ —Anonymous
FOOLS THE BEST LOVERS.
This, too, observe—that men of sense, in love,
Dupes more complete than fools and blockheads prove ;
For all that knowledge lent them as a guide,
Goes off entirely to the lady’s side ;
Whereas' the blockhead rather sees the more,
And gains perception that he lack’d before.
His honest passion blinds the man of sense,
While want of feeling is the fool’s defence ;
And with insensibility he comes,
When more repell’d, he but the more assumes,
And thus succeeds where fails the man of wit;
For where we cannot conquer, we submit.
CRABBE.
EDUCATION.
A child is born—now take the germ, and make it
A bud of moral beauty. Let the dews
Of knowledge, and the light of virtue, wake it
In richest fragrance and in purest hues;
When passion’s gust, and sorrow’s tempest shake it,
The shelter of affection ne’er refuse,
For soon the gathering hand of death will break it
From its weak stem of life —and it shall lose
All power to charm ; but if that lovely flower
Hath swell’d one pleasure, or subdued one pain,
O who shall say that it has lived in vain,
However fugitive its breathing hour?
For virtue leaves its sweets wherever tasted,
And scattered truth is never never wasted.
BOWRING.


Jiottce.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Jlottcc to (<romsparrt?cni;3.
Our correspondent H” is desired to\ call at tne Office, wheie a
parcel aioaits him.
We do not thinlc it advisable to act upon] the suggestion of the
writer from Newcastle. His letter willffie inserted.
“An Observer” is informed that we are unwilling to enter upon
so directly controversial a subject as that on which his letter
treats. We may be glad to hear from him hereafter.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 1-33,
King-street East," (postpaid.)
METALS AND THEIR, PROPERTIES.
[Continued.]
Copper is a metal that has been known from the
remotest period of scripture record, it is there spoken
of as brass, and as the brass of the present day has all
the characters and properties mentioned in the past,
Ave must suppose either, that copper and zinc Avere
found as natural combinations, or that the Israelites
made use of those two metals, and by their combina-
tion, formed the brass and brazen utensils employed
by them in the preparation of their sacrifices. The
fusion of the metals Avas a constant practice, for it is
ahvays spoken of as molten brass •. its brilliant polish
is sheAvn by the production of the Egyptian mirrors,
Avhich it is said were of molten brass. Native copper
occurs in a variety of forms, and is found in England,
Siberia, SAA'eden, America, and other temperate cli-
mates. Copper is of a red colour, and exhales a
peculiar smell Avhen rubbed or Avarmed, it can be
obtained pure after roasting by dissolving it in nitric
acid diluted Avith sulphuric acid. It is also malle-
able Avhen fused, and is next to iron in strength and
tenacity. It is very sonorous and much used for
bells. It will tarnish even in a dry atmosphere, and
if exposed to moisture the surface will be covered
with a green substance called verdigris. Verdigris
is made artificially by the combination of acetic acid
or vinegar, and is used as a green paint. Mixtures
of metals are called alloys. One of the most impor-
tant alloys in the arts, is that of copper and zinc,
Avhich constitutes brass. Copper and tin form
bronze. Copper and nickel form the German silver.
Zinc Avas not know to us until the sixteenth cen-
tury. It is much in use at present where lead Avas
formerly employed, its properties being of a more
tenacious and durable character. It is very malleable,
and is beaten out into sheets for some purposes and
rolled into pipes for others. In China and India,
zinc has been knoAvn from time immemorial, and is
to be seen inlaid Avith other metals and ivory in
many of their curious manufactures. Zinc is gene-
rally found in the earth mixed Avith several other
metals, but very seldom pure. Like other metals it
is first roasted, but it undergoes a different pro-
cess afterAvards. The furnace for purifying zinc is
closed at the top, and a tube is fixed at the bottom,
through Avhich the vapours of the zinc descend and
fall into a vessel of Avater, where it cools and con-
denses, it is never quite pure but by distillation.
The ore frequently contains charcoal, sulphur, cad-
mium, arsenic, lead, copper and iron, the last is
ahvays present. One of the most valuable properties
of this metal is, that if plates of hot iron be dipped
into it while melted, they will have the appearance of
tin plates, and the zinced iron is prevented from rust-
ing, and if covered with a coat of paint it will he
found extremely durable. All out-of-door ironwork,
as well as locks, hinges, bolts, and other implements,
used in this country, where the dews are so heavy,
and all ironwork employed in the contact of water,
may be thus defended.
Tin is another metal -which was known in the ear-
liest ages. It was used by the Egyptians and Greeks
under the name of white lead. Cornwall has been
for many centuries celebrated for its tin mines. The
ore is generally extracted from veins, and from beds
of earth where it has been deposited by the action of
water, and is found in the form of rounded grains; in
the mines it is found in square massive blocks or as
they are sometimes called ingotts. The grains are
called stream tin or grain tin, and are of the purest
kind. The usual combinations in tin ore are iron,
copper, and arsenic. Tin is not injured by exposure
to the air even in a moist state, but it will attract the
oxygen from Avater to such a degree as to render it
useless. It is very malleable and may be beaten into
leaves so thin as not to exceed the I,oooth part of
an inch. Leaves of tin are called tin foil. Most of
the vessels which we use for domestic purposes, sup-
posed to be tin, are in reality thin iron, plated with
tin, which renders the iron more durable, but utensils
made of tin alone aie quickly bent or broken.—
Tradesmen are in the habit of calling iron covered or
coated with tin, block tin. Tin is very easily melted,
and is therefore employed as a solder to unite or
repair any fracture in leaden materials. An amalgam
of tin and mercury is employed for covering mirrors,
melted mercury is poured upon tin foil, and the glass
is pressed upon it by Aveights for a feAV hours, Avhen
it is found to adhere. Tin and zinc are the chief
components of pewter. Oxide of tin commonly called
'putty poivder, is used for polishing glass and metals,
and makes a most valuable tooth-poAvder.
Mercury or quicksilver bears also a very ancient
date in its discovery. It is chiefly found in India
and Spain, sometimes in its native state Avhich is in
liquid globules, and sometimes mixed Avith sulphur.
I have seen a good specimen of the latter discovered
in this country. To extract the mercury from sulphur
it is heated Avith lime or iron filings, Avhen the mer-
cury will arise in vapour, and it is collected and
condensed in Avater. At the common temperature of
the atmosphere mercury is ahvays in the liquid form,
and becomes solid only at 39° or 40° beloAv zero. It
is often frozen by artificial cold. Muriate of mercury
called coirosive sublimate is one of the most violent
poisons known. Submuriate of mercury or calomel,
is a well known medicine. Mercury forms a fulmi-
natory poAvder of peculiar properties and great
strength when dissolved by nitric acid, and poured
upon alcohol in given quantity. This poAvder struck
on an anvil Avith a hammer, explodes instantly, with
a stunning and unpleasant sound, when both hammer
and anvil are found indented. Mercury is a great
exciter of electricity, and Avas thought by the alche-
mists to have been the derivative cause of this
phenomenon.
Another metal of recent discovery is found to be of
great value and very scarce, it is called platinum.
It is found among the gold ores in South America,
and also in Peru. It is in the form of small grains


or scales. This metal is of a Avhite colour without
the brilliancy of silver; it is the heaviest body known,
and like iron may be softened by heat and Avelded.
Platinum is infusible in the strongest furnace heat,
in fact it is a unchangeable metal. It is a valuable
discovery to chemists on account of the remarkable
property it possesses of attracting both oxygen and
hydrogen gases, which thus become combined and are
immediately set on fire. A very small point of pla-
tinum is sufficient to set fire to these tAvo gases,
whereby heat is quickly produced for many chemical
purposes and experiments. Its uses have been chiefly
confined to this science on account of its scarcity.
Its price is nearly equal to gold.
B.
MATHEMATICS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. VIII.
“ Studia adolescentiam alunt, senectutem oblectant; se-
cundas res ornant, adversis perfugium ac solatium prsebent;
delectant domi, not impediunt foris, pernoctant nobiscum,
perigrinantur, rusticantur.”— Cicero.
Without knowledge, youth is but a blank: with no-
thing to direct the mind, nothing to guide and control
the senses, he has had no mental nourishment—no
correct discipline—and consequently, unless highly
endowed with the moral faculties, he is borne riot-
ously along into the vortex of dissipation, and per-
haps crime. What prospect, then, has he of enjoying
a happy old age ? truly none •. when time and Satiety
shall have worn away his animal excitements, this
earth affords no delights to him, and the gift of
memory is torture. How different is the position of
him, who in advanced life has resources within him-
self, whose youth has been profitably and advantage-
ously directed; when science has nourished the twig,
directed the sapling, strengthened the tree, and stayed
it in its decline ; and his mind, unenervated, beholds
with calm philosophy his transition from the study
of nature’s laws to the presence of nature’s God.
Surely “ studia oblectant senectutem.”
What ornament to society is the uncultivated mind?
“ Prosperity” to it is a curse, it enlarges its sphere of
action, and dazzles many till they are also whelmed
in that maelstroom of mental destruction —dissipation.
The cultivated mind “adorns prosperity, and affords
a refuge and a solace in adversity.”
In the family circle, the knowledge of the one is
brought beneficially to bear both by instruction and
example, while the other is incapable of rendering
either to advantage ; deficient himself, the branches
will be partakers of the same nourishment as the parent
stock. The man who has enriched his mind enjoys
his rural rambles, and thought is still busy rendering
him least solitary when alone.
The man of an uncultivated mind, if he have time
on his hands, is a prey to ennui, and never enjoys
himself but when under some animal excitement.
The man whose mind is cultivated, brings his stores
of knowledge to occupy and delight his waking
thoughts—when sleep deserts his pillow, his know-
ledge relieves him from lassitude, and his mind enjoys
every thinking moment.
The man whose education has been neglected,
whose life has been a succession of sensual gratifica-
tion, whose whole pleasures have been animal not
mental, shuns solitude as his curse, and abhors what
the former delights in.
This is certainly a very free and rather extensive
translation of the above quotation ; butThe*'parellel
may he useful, and if the attention of "even one of
our readers be drawn to consider the importance of
the subject, there will be sufficient excuse for these
prefatory lines
portant branch of mathematical science, namely,
Astronomy. As the subject has been already under
our consideration, it will be only necessary to copy
from the compilation alluded to, previously saying
a few words of its importance as a mental disci-
pline. The word astronomy is derived from tw r o
Greek words, signifying the laws of the stars. As a
science it stands pre-eminent for the sublimity of its
pursuits, and the utility of its application to the pur-
poses of man. It comprises the whole universe in its
embrace, its object being the starry heavens—an
object magnificent in itself, and which cannot fail to
elevate and expand the mind even though we content
ourselves with a casual glance.
Although few are gifted with the penetration, judg-
ment, and application, necessary to perfect a science,
difficult as the one before us, yet most persons have
sufficient of these ingredients to proceed by the means
of the clue afforded (by loftier geniuses) gradually,
link by link, till they connect the cause with the
effect, even the most remote, and thus arrive slowly
but securely at the extremity of that chair of pheno-
mena, which commences (to us) with our earth and
terminates but in the immensity of space.
It is not, therefore, surprising that this science
should have withdrawn many a lofty intellect from
the contemplation of the busy walks of life, to the
paths of the celestial spheres. Anaxagoras considered
that this was the sole purpose for which man wats sent
into the Avorld ; and Plato, that eyes were not given to
man for aught else than to scan the heavens; but I
dare say our philosopher found them also beneficial
for more lowly purposes.
Its application divides time into seasons and pe-
riods, for we learn the heavenly luminaries were
designed at the creation, to be, as the omnipotent dis-
penser of all good was pleased to appoint, as signs
and seasons, thus expressed by our immortal bard
Milton—
“ Let there be lights
High in the expanse of heavens to divide
The day from night! and let them be for signs
For seasons and for circling years.”
Even were w r e not induced to contemplate them on
the score of utility, man, being endowed with an in-
vestigating and reasoning spirit, could not rest satis-
fied with a mere casual glance at the brilliancy of a
starry sky, but would rather devote his mind to con-
sider the why and wherefore of their formation ; the
laws which regulate their motions, and the end to be
attained, “ for nothing has been made in vain and
all this would he do for mental gratification alone as
Cicero well observes.
“ Whereas nature itself has implanted in man a
desire for finding out the truth, Avhich is evidently
apparent in the fact that, when free from care, he is
anxious to know what is passing in the heavens.” —
Glorious and sublime study ! how well calculated
to excite man s flagging zeal towards the mighty pro-
jector of the whole.
The first division of astronomical labour com-
mences in the observatory, and consists in observing


and remarking the positions of heavenly bodies. The
second appertains to the mathematician. The third
requires a more extensive knowledge of mathematics,
and the deepest exercise of thought to perfect this
arduous branch. But not so to comprehend it when
brought to maturity; to bring the science to a state
of maturity required a Newton, as plane geometry
did a Euclid ; but as a child can take in and adopt his
reasonings without much difficulty, so may we take
in and adopt the reasonings of a Newton.
While reverting to these reasonings, it may not
perhaps be amiss to anticipate the question—How
are these deductions arrived at ? I doubt the ability
of any man to carry calculations to the extent al-
luded to !
T. L. D.
PAPERS ON GHOSTS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. I.
“ Black spirits and white,
Bed spirits and grey ;
Mingle, mingle, mingle,
You that mingle may.”
MACBETH.
It would be doing despite to our own feelings were
we even to hint at the bare possibility of this inter-
esting race having become extinct. The properties
which belong to them are peculiar to themselves, no
other class ever having, to our knowledge, arrogated
their attributes. There are numerous different com-
plexions under which, at various times, they appear ;
and, as we have just stated, although there is no
class in the creation, at all anxious to possess the
varied acquirements of this interesting and night-
pervading species, it is a fact equally palpable, that
they, less fastidious in such matters, often assume the
shape and appearance of many an unfortunate son and
daughter of humanity, against whose existence, per-
chance, the red-hand of murder had been successfully
raised. Here then a wide field is thrown open for
much interesting speculation ; the contemplation of
which may be profitable to us all. Let us then turn
our attention to the subject; premising our remarks,
however, with the statement, that under our present
title we include all the species however varied their
shape and appellation—whether they appear in the
form of monkeys or monarchs—whether their name
be ghost or hob-goblin, fetch or elf, bogle or Will-o’-
th’-wisp, truepenny, or any of the various significa-
tions or appendages which, according to circumstances,
they may adopt for any specific and premeditated
appearance.
If we credit tradition, it may be justly said of this
race, that they were co-existent with our great proge-
nitor Adam himself. There have been many very
interesting and highly instructive illustrations of this
fact handed down to us from time immemorial ; and
which, from their antiquity alone, are deserving of
our serious and undivided attention. Let us examine
one specimen as an illustration of what we have
advanced.
The spectre to which we shall allude was not by
any means prepossessing; nay, its appearance, we
have every reason to believe, was repulsive in the
extreme. From its reputed bearing and peculiar pro-
perties it evidently was none of the human species;
besides, its visit having been made to Noah during the
flood, at which time the whole world was in soak—
that is, immersed in water —it becomes a matter of
certainty that it could not, by any possibility, have
been a descendant of Adam. To set all manner of
doubt and distrust for ever at rest, it may not be
amiss to state, that this strange visitor who thus ranged
alone, and in gloom, over the troubled surface of the
waters, was in undisputed possession of certain pecu-
liarities usually found in connexion with the brute
creation only. The head, as well as other portions
of the body, were in this manner deformed; and,
hence, it is evident, that if it were man at all, he must
have been strangely metamorphosed during his im-
mersion. It would appear that the ark was adorned
with balconies in order to permit Noah and his inter-
esting family the enjoyment of that exercise which is
rendered absolutely necessary in order to regulate the
circulation of the blood. This undeniably estab-
lishes the fact, that, even in the remote age to which
we allude, man had an eye at all times to his own
comfort—or, in other words, entertained a parti-
ality for number one : —an antiquarian discovery
for which we are entitled to considerable praise. It
was during one of these perambulations that the
spirit or ghost in question approached the ark. His
—or rather, its —for w r e cannot speak with any
degree of certainty touching its gender—its appear-
ance, although repulsive in the highest degree, as
we have already stated, was obsequious to a fault
■—there was an evident straining after effect—a wish
to appear conciliatory, coupled with an expectation
of any thing but a favourable reception. A kind of
“ how-d'ye-do-my-dear-fellow" expression lurked
around his ill-favored mouth, as he strode boldly on
across the rude waste of waters. We are inclined to
believe that it belonged to that class over which
Hotspur had power, and which he declared himself
capable of—
“ Calling from the vasty deep.”
In a voice, the peculiarities of which we have not
been able to ascertain correctly, but which is des-
cribed as sounding
“ Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh
he thus accosted the astonished patriarch :
“ Good morning, Mr. Noah ! Good morning, Mr.
Noah ! Hazy morning Mr. Noah !”
Disgusted with this impertinent familiarity, we are
told that Noah muttered between his teeth, as with
honest indignation he retired within the ark, —
“You be —: Shut the door Japhet.”
The antediluvian pointedness of both the salutation
and the reply, as well as the language employed,
must strongly convince the minds of our readers of
the truth and genuine character of this antiquarian
gem For our own part, we are willing to stake our
literary reputation—-which is pretty considerable—
that the leading features of this anecdote are correct ;
although we do not pledge ourselves for the manner
in which it has been filled up in every particular.
Thus then we have shewn that ghosts are an extremely
ancient race ; and having established this important
fact; we now proceed to view them during more
modern times, where we shall find that they differ
considerably from what they formerly were.
The visitations of this interesting and ephemeral spe-
cieshavebeen of far morefrequentoccurrence duringthe
last six or seven centuries than at any previous period
of history. From the time of the “ iron barons” in


King John’s reign, down to the present hour, they
have flourished inßritain; nor did Magna Charta affect |
therrvin the slightest degree. They are found, perhaps, j
in greater variety on the continent—among the fast-
nesses of brigands, and in the condemned cells of
innocent culprits—than in Britain. Their habits are
undeniably migratory (a very indifferent specimen
having been found in New South Wales) which will i
account, in some measure, for the vast amount of varied !
information they generally possess. Harmless as doves
—with one or two lamentable exceptions-—they have
always appeared. These exceptions may be occasi-
oned, perhaps, by the peculiarities of soil, climate,
phrenological development, [Note: Ash /Eneas'] and
many other similar and natural causes.
The Will-o’-th’-wisp is one of these exceptions. S
It is generally found inhabiting marshy ground : but
of its peculiarities, as opposed to other portions of
the species, little at present is known. It may be
cited as one class which has been notorious for having
occasioned many an unpleasant and disastrous catas-
trophe. The Will-o’-th’-wisp with great propriety
may be termed Scotch to the backbone —if it has a
backbone at all —for in Scotland it most delights to
appear. From this fact we infer that it exists by some
self-sustaining power of which we know nothing at
present. Certes, no spirit that
“ mounch’d chesnuts”
would pay a second visit to those bleak, inhospitable,
and parsimonious regions of
“ brownheath and shaggy wood.”
The emotions produced in the mind on first beholding
this extraordinary and whimsical visitor, are chiefly
gratitude and praise. It is often seen when night,
arrayed in her gloomy vest, rises from the east to
snuff out the daylight; and to the weary traveller,
who, by mistaking its appearance, conjures up glow-
ing imagery of blazing fires and smiling faces ; of hot
supper and Avarm beds ; it is often a source of pure
ecstasy. In the agonies of his rapture, he exclaims
Avith the unfortunate master of the Edward Loombe,
Avhen, amidst the darkness of the tempest, he beheld
South Head lighthouse :
“ A light! A light! I see a light ahead.”
No sooner, hoAvever, had he exclaimed thus, than his
vessel, to employ the beautiful metaphor of one of our
Australian poets —
“ Rush'd upon the rock,”
or of another—
“ Queen-like she stood in the sun’s dying light,
But she struck on a reef and went down in the night /”
And, in like manner, the traveller has scarcely given
utterance to the intoxicating exclamation, than to
employ language equally sublime and pathetic, he
tumbles head over heels into a ditch. Should he die
there, it is probable that he may, like Banquo, be in-
fused with a ghostly spirit, and
“ Rise with twenty mortal murders on his crown,
To shove us from our stools.”
We have a considerable quantity of valuable matter
to lay before our readers upon this subjeet ; much of
which being colonial will, we have no doubt, be
greatly and deservedly prized by them. The subject
is curious, and replete Avith interest; and as Ave intend
by-and-bye to draw important deductions from this
valuable mass of matter, we trust we shall be read
Avith much attention, amusement, and profit.
Original Poetry.
DON’T LET NOTHING DAUNT YE!
There dwells a wight in Sydney town
So degagee and jaunty,
And his maxim is, Sing derry, derry, down,
And don’t let nothing daunt ye !
He has no cattle, horses, farms,
No sheep—(the more’s the pity,)
No ships in port or ’mongst the isles,
No houses in the city—
He has no credit, (wants it not,)
No cash—(a fault, I grant ye)-
But his maxim is, Sing derry, derry, down,
And don’t let nothing daurrt ye !
He ev’ry plan for sudden wealth
Pronounces an abortion ;
But if the Colony comes round
He hopes he’ll have his portion.
Meantime he gives the world a shove,
Content on pittance scanty —
And his maxim is, Sing derry, derrv, down,
And don’t let nothing daunt ye !
No grievances, nor nuisances,
Give him dissatisfaction;
The Governor is nought to him
Nor any man nor faction—
He keeps the laws and loves the Queen,
And prays for peace and plenty—
And his maxim is, Sing derry, derry, down,
And don’t let nothing daunt ye !
As soon as morning fogs disperse
From the Botanic garden,
He takes his walk there, though he cares
For Bot’ny not one farthing ;
No gard’ners latin uses he
Nor airs of cognoscenti—
But his maxim is, Sing derry, derry, down,
And don’t let nothing daunt ye!
Along the points and winding walks,
Trim borders, bow’rs so shady,
Whence gliding pleasure boats are seen
And good ships anchor’d steady,
He saunters in the afternoon
Or squires the dames gallantly,
And his maxim is, Sing derry, derry, down,
And don’t let nothing daunt ye !
’Tis good to have a charming wife,
And lots of lovely children ;
But frocks, and shoes, and spelling books,
Are subjects quite bewild’ring—
In lodgings, therefore, and unwed
Lives this poco curante,
And his maxim is, Sing derry, derry, down,
And don’t let nothing daunt ye !
But still he makes no firm resolve,
Nor solemn oath has taken,
That lady fair and well-to-do
Shall ne’er his passion waken —
He waits his time this happy wight,
Con dolce fqr niente,
For his maxim is, Sing derry, derry, down,
And don’t let nothing daunt ye !
E. S.
LINES TO M. A. E.
Now day defining in the West,
And night’s shades creeping on,
With sparkling eye and gladsome breast,
With lightsome step, I eager haste
To meet my Mary Anne.
Soft is the airy rosy hue
The evening cloud upon,
But on the blooming cheek you view,
A softer tinge, a richer hue, —
Of lovely Mary Anue.


Fragrant and sweet the zephyr air,
The evening flow’rs that fan, —
Yet though so sweet, it can’t compare
With tli’ od’rous breath, so fresh, so pure,—
Of blooming Mary Anne.
And like twin rosebuds, blushing red,
Which eve’s dew falls upon,—
Tbe lips, with wreathing smiles bespread,
Where rapturous kisses oft I’ve laid, —
Of tempting Mary Anne.
The sparkling gems that stud the skies,
’Tis sweet to gaze upon ;
But dearer far the radiant eyes,
In whose soft azure gladness lies, —
Of charming Mary Anne.
Silvery sweet, her gentle voice
Thrills in my every vein ;
The music on the tongue that lies,
More than all melody I prize,—
Of witching Mary Anne.
Sunny the face, whose dimpling smiles
I love to think upon,
Whose radiant blissfulness beguiles
Me, when midst troubles cares and toils,
I dream of Mary Anne.
Sylph-like her beauteous, fairy, form,
From Nature’s neatest plan ;
Such graceful mien, such peerless charm,
The heart of anchorite might warm
To love sweet Mary Anne !
Many the winsome, lovely, fair,
The roving eye may scan ;
But none in winning grace and air,
In modest worth, and beauty rare,
Can match with Mary Anne.
Lock’d in love’s rapturous, fond embrace,
Our souls in being one, —
Where look for greater happiness ?
Where to my heart a fonder press
Than peerless Mary Anne ?
The dullest soul would rapturous rise,
Her charms to gaze upon,—
1 view thee, sweet, with heavenly joys,
Catch inspiration from thine eyes,
My beauteous Mary Anne!
As long as worth, love, beauty bright,
And all that’s dear to man,
Can fire this bosom with delight,
A vow of endless love I plight
To thee, dear Mary Anne !
ÆNEAS.
HOPE DEPARTED.
Come back—come back—fond spell of childhood’s days,
Hush tbe rude waves that darkly o’er me roll.
Hope ! strike once more thy sweet —thy former—lays,—
Breathe calm and smoothness on my troubled soul.
Alas - t " ou tremblest and would’st fain away;
uWii’vW do® l sigh, and start, and struggle thus?
Wl tS! 66 thlS fear f ul n^ht seems glorious day—
Thunder and lightnings— tempests—harm not us.
Hark to the minute-gun ! It chides the gale ;
Its boom is answer’d by the boiling spray.
Succour will come—mock not our plaintive wail—
y ear > dwtonfib h °pe ! Why would’st thou flee away ?
Behold my Child —he trembles not with fear,
Oh ! canst thou leave him in his youth to die 7
Thou canst ?—then pray, my boy ! thy Saviour’s near—
L .Faith- will be true—tho’ Hope from danger fly.
r es VA 1 w n s true ; a shriek ran £ through the air—
u , eath s fiery darts flash’d onwards fast and fell ;
Hark to her cry—nor blame her brief despair.—
Lost, lost, my child ! We'U meet in Heaven— farewell.
LOCAL NEWS.
Monday last being the first day of term, their Honors
Alfred Stephen, Esq., Chief Justice, and John Nodes
Dickenson, and William a’Beckett, Esqrs., Puisne Judges,
took their seats upon the Bench in full judicial costume. The
Eastern Court Room, which was occupied by their Honors,
has been much ornamented, during the vacation, by tbe addi-
tion of a handsome canopy over the Bench, which was covered
with black, as a mark of respect for the late Sir James
Dowling. Their Honors severally proceeded to produce their
Commissions, and took and subscribed the usual oaths of
office. Tbe Court was crowded to witness this imposing
spectacle, rendered singular, as regards the installation of the
whole judicial Bench, at one and the same period
Appoinment. —His Excellency the Governor has appointed
Rowland John Traill, Esq., of the Clarence River, to be a
Magistrate of the territory and its dependencies.
Military Appointments. —His Grace the Duke of Wel-
lington, Commander-in-Chief, has approved of the appoint-
ment of Captain E. M. O’Connell, 99th Regiment, to be
Major of Brigade in New South Wales, vice Brevet Major
Hunter, 28th Regiment. The Lieutenant General Command-
ing the Forces has made the following appointments, viz.:—
Lieutenant W. B. J. O’Connell, 73rd Regiment, to be As-
sistant Military Secretary, vice Captain M. C. O’Connell
resigned, and Ensign C. O’Connell, 51st Light Infantry, to be
Aide-de-Camp to His Excellency.
Fuller’s Earth. —Our colonial cloth manufacturers and
wool washers have all along experienced the want of this useful
mineral in aid of their operations, soap having hitherto been
used in its stead, the caustic alkali of which unavoidably affects
the agreeable softness of the fibre, if not its very durability, and
utterly destroys almost every delicate dye that may be em-
ployed ; this inconvenient want will no longer be experienced,
a bed of superior fullers' earth, having lately been discovered
at Trrawang, near Raymond Terrace, a sample (which we have
seen) has just been received by Mr. Coates, of the Staffordshire
Warehouse, George-street. To the extensive use of fullers’
earth, by all our English cloth manufacturers, the vast supe-
riority of English cloth has been ascribed by some authors, and
as there is now considerable competition for superiority among
our colonial cloth manufacturers, they will consequently avail
themselves of the aid of this valuable discovery.— Herald.
Labour. —A correspondent, under date Yass, October 12th,
says, “ In consequence of the rainy weather sheep-washing is
suspended for the present, but we are all ready to begin the
moment it clears up. I wish you could by your arguments
induce some hundreds of the idle and said-to-be-starving men
about Sydney to come up here and assist us in the labours of
shearing and harvest; you would render an essential service
not only to us but to them, and in fact to the colony at large,
by enabling us to preserve the wool from grass-seeds, and to
secure the wheat crops, a portion of which, I fear, will be lost
from want of labour.— -Ibid.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
During the past week, a limited amount of business has been
transacted, and the sales affected do not call for any particular
comment, the re-shipment to England, per Eweretta, of a
large quantity of brandy will tend to improve the spirit market.
Sugar.' The importation ex Cheerful has been purchased
by the trade from £23 to £23 10s. per ton. The arrival this
day of the ship Chance from Manila, with a cargo of sugar (400
tons) will come into the hands of the principal holders, and
consequently cannot affect the market, which is apparently
EAT ’ market continues depressed, sales of im-
ported wheat have been of small extent, not exceeding in price
4s. per bushel. The Calypso from Launceston brings nearly
3000 bushels.
Flour. —This article is without any alteration in price or
sign of improvement visible.
Maize. —The quantity received during the week has been
very small, and the stock to come into market is rapidly de-
creasing, several coasters not succeeding in procuring cargo
have been removed from the trade, consequently a rise in price
may be anticipated.
In other articles cf colonial produce no alteration in price
has occurred; r
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street,
October 23rd, 1844.


pipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
Octob v 17. —The brig Louisa, Captain Tucker, from
Hobart Town the 11th instant, with sundries.
October 17 —The barque Jane, Captain Fairweather, from
the Whale Fishery.
October 18.—The brig Emma, Captain Fox, from Adelaide,
with wheat, &c.
October 18. —The steamer Maitland, Captain Parsons, from
Port \‘acquarie.
October 19.—The barque Lady Blackwood, Captain Butcher,
from the Whaling Grounds.
October 21. —The steamer William the Fourth, Captain
Wiseman, from the Clarence River, with wool, tallow, &c.
October 20. —The schooner Columbine, Captain Straton,
from Tahiti, Varra, and the Fegee Islands, with yams, &c.
October 22 —The brig Calypso, Captain Harrold, from
Launceston, with grain, &c.
DEPARTURES.
October 17 —The schooner Wave, Captain Birkir.shaw, for
Port Phillip, with sundries.
October 17. —The barque Barossa, CaptaTn Austin, for Lima,
October 17. —The schooner Vanguard, Captain Pilfold, for
New Zealand.
October 17.—The brig William, Captain Thom for Laun-
ceston.
October 19.—The barque Giraffe, Captain Harvey, for
Launceston.
October 20.—The brig Soundraporvy, Captain Rogers, for
London, with wheat, &c.
October 20.—The schooner Edward, Captain Tallan, for
Boyd Town.
October 20.—The brig Dorset, Captain Walsh, for Adelaide.
October 20.—The brig Munro, Captain Harvey, for Laun-
ceston.
93trtf)S.
On the 15th instant, at her residence, in Harrington-stree*
the lady of Captain Cape, of a daughter.
On the 17th instant, at 427, George-street, Mrs. R. M.
Robey, of a son.
On the 21st instant, at Cockenzie Bank. Windsor, Mrs.
Thomas Cadell, jun., of a son.
Jttarrtagcs.
On the 19th instant, by special license, at St. Lawrence’s
Church, by the Rev. W. H. Walsh, Charles Hunt, youngest
son of the late Samuel Symonds, Esq., Surgeon R.N., to Eller,
fourth daughter of the late William Price, Esq., of Stroud-
water, Gloucestershire.
On the 19th instant, by special license, at the Church of the
Holy Trinity, by the Rev. Mr. Grylls, Mr. Harpur Hemy
Soulby, of Sydney, to Miss Emma Elizabeth Woon, late of
Hobart Town.
On the 14th instant, at Caleula, Wellington, Eliza Mary,
the daughter of Henry H. Kater, Esq., aged two months.
©olotttal Utorarg journal,
AND
Weekly of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION 7 to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings ; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
coumermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street, East,” (post paid.)
TO THU SSSSCTOKS OF £>HZX.2>jIF WARD,
ENTLEMEN —In compliance with the wishes of a num-
J her of the Electors of your Ward, lam induced to come
forward as a candidate to represent you in the City Council,
at the ensuing election ; and in the event of being elected, it
will be my anxious desire to discharge my duty faithfully and
honestly,
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
THOMAS MAY,
Parramatta-street, September 4. .
ASTSSTS’ REPOSITORY.
TTT FORD having made considerable and recent additions
* \ a to his well selected stock of Artists’ Materials, begs
to invite the attention of the Ladies, Artists, and Amateurs of
Sydney, to the annexed List, feeling sure that he has only to
state that they have been selected and shipped by Messrs.
Ackerman, Mordan, and Reeves, to warrant their being of
the best quality.
Ackerman and Reeves’ superfine water colours
Ackerman’s, Reeves’, and Mordan’s prepared drawing pencils
Ackerman’s sketching pencils—black, brown, grey, neutral
tint
London and Bristol drawing boards
Crayon papers of various colours
Improved solid sketch books, rough and smooth paper
Sketching portfolios, with tin frames
Sable and camelhair brushes
Round and flat brushes, in tin
Prepared mill-boards, for oil painting
Prepared canvas, for artists
Oil colours, prepared in patent air-tight metallic tubes
Dry oil colours, finely ground in spirits, in half ounce and
one ounce packages, viz., ultramarine, French ultra-
marine, carmine, crimson lake, pink and brown madder, and
every colour in use for oil painting.
French hair tools
Poonah brushes —Miniature ivories
Venetian crayons, for drawing in imitation of water colours
Wolf’s CretaLaevi pencils, in cases and sets
Prepared chalks, white and black
Port crayons and stumps for chalks
Cartoon pencils, for drawing after the style of the old masters
Permanent white, flake white, ox gall, and liquid brown
Gold and silver; green and blue saucers
French tracing paper —Gold paper
Perforated card-board
Hand screens, for painting and needlework
Water colour preservative, for giving water colours the dura-
bility of oil, and for rendering them washable with soap
and water
Oil, moist, and water colours, in boxes, complete
White wood screens for transfer
Marking ink, requiring no preparation
T squares and parallel rules
Manifold writers —Berlin patterns
Envelope cases, handsomely fitted up
Albums, scrap-books, drawing-books, and portfolios
Ivory tablets, card cases, and pocket books
Drawing-books, and rudiments, in great variety
Lessons and examples in Poonah painting, with formulas, and
directions for their use.
The Student’s Guide, or elements for drawing in perspective,
with directions for colouring and sketching.
W. F. has on hand a great variety of School-books, Account-
books, Copy-books, and Stationery of every description.
554, George-street,
Opposite the Bank of Australasia.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.'
Camden, Campbelltoivn, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
